Return this book on or before the
of%\ Latest Date stamped below. A
0f charge is made on all overdue 4

m:m.

books.

University of Illinois Library

m -L

BASIL LYNDHURST

ROSA XOUCHETTE CAREY

AUTHOR OF

Nellie MEMORIES,' ' NOT LIKE OTHER GIRLS,' 'OxNLY THE GOVERNESS,

ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

LONDON

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

|)ubUsIuvs in Qrbinari) to )er tajcstu the Cucen



[A// rights reserved]



Chapter

I THE PROEM
II. THE LADIES AT THE HALL

III. AUNT CATHERINE

IV, AN EVENING AT FIRCROFT

V. ' SHALL YOU LET ME GO, MOTHER ?'
VI. ' THE lady's WALK '
VII. UNLOCKING PANDORA's BOX

VIII. Virginia's story

IX. ' HE WAS so PRETTY, OLGA

X. A FAIRY GODMOTHER AND A PRINCE

XL LA MAISONNETTE

XII. A Middle-aged ROMANCE

XIII. THE PAVILION IN THE GARDEN

XIV. A BUTTERFLY HUNT
XV. A FRIEND IN NEED

XVI. THE LITTLE HOUSE ON THE CLIFF

PAGE






















SEARCH FOR BASIL LYNDHURST

OLGA'S STORY.

VOL. I.

THE PROEM.

A man only understands that of which he has already the
beginnings in himself.'  Amiel's Journal.

I SUPPOSE If one were to look back over
one's past life that special days and hours
would glide out of the darkness and stand
out with almost mirage-like brightness against
the dusky background, where all manner of
confused childish fancies are hopelessly mingled
together ; that In our sober-eyed maturity we
should be at times startled by the ghost of our
child-life looking at us across the years with
a tender pathos and pity that would appeal
strongly to our inner consciousness.,

There Is something touching, even to a
commonplace mind, in. the memory of one's
childhood. Once upon a time we lived upon
enchanted ground ; we skimmed across our
own little plot of earth with irresponsible, birds

 2

like motion ; we were as giddy as insects in
the sunshine ; our world was peopled with
fairies ; all sorts of delightful miracles took
place before our eyes. True, the grown-up
people were a little tiresome  they invented
strange laws : to go to bed when one was not
sleepy, for example  but perhaps it was their
nature to be tiresome.

How well I remember a lite scene painted
on my memory in indelible colours ! I can
see it all so vividly  the brown wainscoted
parlour, bright with firelight ; outside, the snow
falling, a noiseless white shower. The rest of
the family had gone to church, grumbling and
protesting against the weather, and we two
children had been left to amuse each other,
Jem proud of being left in charge of his little
sister.

We were sitting huddled up together on the
low window-seat, with Fox's 'Book of Martyrs'
between us, and Jem was gloating over the
horribly realistic pictures with the relish of
boyish curiosity.

'Jem,' I exclaimed suddenly, 'when I grow
up I mean to be a martyr !'

Don't be a goose, Olga ! Look at this
fellow on the rack ; he must be a plucky one,
1 should say.'

'Don't show me any more pictures, please,*

I pleaded ; ' they make me feel bad. I am
thinking of that poor lady at the stake, and
how brave she was. Mother says it is a
grand thing to die for one's religion ; I heard
her say so to Hubert. When I am quite
grown up and as tall as mother I mean to bea
martyr.'

Oh, you silly !' and here Jem looked at me
with lofty contempt. * As though people were
burnt now !'

No, not here  not in England ; but among
the savages, Jem.'

Oh, oh ! it is a female missionary you would
be ! What a baby you are, Olga ! Why, you
cannot bear the least little bit of pain ! You
cried when your finger was pinched in the door
the other day. Hallo ! what are you about ?'
in an astonished voice. ' Oh, you ninny !'

But here Jem broke off to watch my proceedings
with breathless interest. Stung by
his boyish derision, and elevated by my vague
longing for martyrdom, I walked up to the
grate and thrust a small finger into the ruddy
flame.

Shall I ever forget the fierce smart, the hot,
throbbing anguish of the next moment ?

Oh, Jem, it hurts ! oh, I can't bear it!' and,
throwing myself on the rug. I burst into heartbroken
sobs.

It was long before Jem could comfort me ;
the smart of my scorched finger had entered
my childish soul. 1 had no longer any hope of
belonging to the company of celestial maidens
who had won their crowns. The desire was
there, but the pain was too terrible ; and there
was Jem wiping away my tears, and every
now and then breaking into a shout of boyish
laughter.

What a queer little thiner you are, Olga ! I
don't believe another child would have done it.'

'Don't tell Hubert,' I whispered, for Jem
was cuddling me so nicely that I was in a fairway
to be comforted.

I did not mind Jem laughing one bit while
his eyes looked so kind ; but if Hubert should
hear it ! Why did we always say that ? and
yet there were but three of us  Hubert and
Jem and I !

I wonder if the grown-up (Juga is so much
wiser than the child Olga, who scorched her
chubby finger in the desire to prove herself
strong enough for martyrdom. Sometimes
even now I have had wild dreams of self-sacrifice,
and then have shrunk back at the
mere thought of testing them. 'Oh, Jem, it
hurts; I cannot bear it!' I seem to hear the
old childish note of pain ringing in my ears
now. ' Olga, you are a dreamer of dreams,'

Hubert has said to me more than once, and
has quoted Kingsley's beautiful words, ' Do
noble things, not dream them all day long.'
Indeed, he recited the whole poem one day
to Kitty and me. Kitty sighed and said it
was very true, but I held my peace ; I loved
that little poem so. Jem and I knew it by
heart ; and Hubert had spoiled it by repeating
it in that measured voice. I never liked
Hubert to read poetry to me.

Jem often told me that I was unjust to
Hubert; that I did not make allowances for a
slow, quiet nature. I dare say he was right ;
but though I was fond of Hubert as an elder
brother, and tried to do my duty to him, and to
bear with Kitty for his sake, I could not love
him as I did Jem.

Hubert was a oreat deal older than either of
us ; he was a full-grown man when Jem was a
raw schoolboy. Several brothers and sisters
had come between us and had died in infancy.
On his deathbed my father had made Hubert
our guardian ; and when my mother died, and
Hubert married Kitty, he brought us to his
house. I remembered how Jem and I begged
to be allowed to live together, and how Hubert
pooh-poohed the notion in that grand way of
his.

Who ever heard of a couple of children

keeping house together ! Please don't cry
about it, Olga. Kitty and I hope to make
you very comfortable ; and there is the baby
to amuse you when Jem goes to Oxford.'

I am sure now that Hubert meant to be
kind, and that in his heart he was very sorry
for us. Neither then nor afterwards did he complain
of his added responsibilities ; he made
every possible arrangement for our comfort,
and I am bound to say that Kitty seconded
him. They both welcomed us in the kindest
manner, and took pains to show us that we
were not in the way ; indeed, Kitty tried very
hard to be a sister to me.

Six years had passed since Jem and I said
good-bye to our dear old home and went to
live at Fircroft. Things had changed much
since then. Kitty had ceased to be the Kitty
of old ; the dark-eyed, high-spirited girl who
had welcomed us with girlish good-nature had
developed into a pale, fretful Kitty, who had
lost all her kittenish roundness, and the bright
winning ways that had first won Hubert's heart.
Perhaps the cares of motherhood oppressed her,
or the children came too fast for her strength,
or the monotonous routine of domestic life
hardly suited her pleasure-loving nature ; but
as the years went on Kitty grew careworn
and peevish. Her very love for her husband

and children developed into fretful anxiety for
their well-beings. She toiled early and late in
their service, with no thought for her own
comfort, taking all her husband's kindly attentions
with a martyr-like meekness which at once
puzzled and distressed him.

Ever since his marriage Hubert had added
private tuition to his curate's work. He had
three or four pupils living with him  young
men who were backward, or in delicate health,
or who wanted the services of a private tutor.
Jem stepped into one of these vacancies, and
worked under Hubert until he went up to
Oxford. We were not utterly dependent on
Hubert, which made things easier for us ; for,
with a generosity for which we would not have
given him credit, Hubert only repaid himself
for our bare maintenance, and so made it possible
for Jem to realize his ambition of going to
Oxford. The Rector of Brookfield was in bad
health, and compelled to live abroad for a year
or two, so Hubert was practically curate-charge,
and his parochial duties, combined with
his pupils, kept him fully employed.

I was very happy at Fircroft when Jem was
with me, for he was always ready to listen to
my grievances, and sympathize with my disappointments
; but his first term at Oxford was a
severe ordeal for me. The pupils did not

interest me. Kitty was too much engrossed
with her domestic duties, and too over-weighted
altogether to be a companion to a girl of nineteen
; and if it had not been for the ladies at the
Hall -and especially Aunt Catherine, as Jem
and 1 called her  I should have had rather a
dull life ; and yet I tried to do my duty to Kitty
and the children, and kept all my discontent to
myself.

Why is it, I wonder, that we are so dependent
on our environment ? that we are so
clogged by circumstance ? that we are unable to
rise above the low level of every-day life ?
Why did Hubert's commonplaces and dry
matter-of-fact reduce me to indignant silence,
while Jem's mockery and masculine disdain of
sentiment only stimulated and amused me ?
Why did Kitty plaintive goodness try me
more than downright selfishness would have
done? Why was I so critical of my belongings,
so observant of their short-comings ? Why,
indeed !

One day I read a passage in a book of Aunt
Catherine's that struck me greatly. It was
written by a man who had let all his opportunities
slip, and whose life was a failure. And
yet this Amiel was a kindly, gifted creature, with
noble impulses and a warm heart, and a lofty
intellect ; but intense timidity and distrust, and

an unwholesome habit of introspection and
subtle self-criticism spoiled his life-work. ' The
man who insists upon seeing with perfect clearness
before he decides, never decides,' as he
himself truly says ; ' accept life, and you accept
regret

But the passage that touched me most was
this : ' Recognise your place ; let the living
live ; and you, gather together your thoughts ;
leave behind you a legacy of feelings and ideas.
You will be most useful so. Renounce yourself;
accept the cup given you, with its honey
and its gall, as it comes.'

Gather together your thoughts ; leave behind
you a legacy of feelings and ideas. You
will be most useful so.' I cannot tell why the
words haunted me. Could a girl's thoughts and
feelings benefit any human being } Is there
anything in my small experience that could
interest or encourage a fellow-creature ? That
is what I want to knows ; that Is why I am ransacking
the past in the hope of finding a stray
pearl or two of wisdom. The child Olga
scorched her finger in the presumptuous search
for martyrdom. Perhaps, after all, the girl
Olga was no wiser.

I was sitting in the garden one afternoon
overlooking the children at their play. Kitty

was mending, as usual, in the great empty
dining-room ; her head ached, and her voice
had been more plaintive than usual, as she
reluctantly yielded to my request for work.

There is no need for you to slave, too, Olga
she said, with a certain thinness and acerbity of
tone that she always used when she was cross,
poor little soul ! * Of course it is my duty ; but,
as Jem said yesterday, you were not to be made
a drudge.'

So that speech had rankled. It was only
one of Jem's foolish blunders. Jem had been
put out because I stayed to help Kitty in the
nursery, instead of going down to the Hall
garden with him to hear the nightingales. It
was just a fit of boyish impatience that meant
nothing. But Kitty had fretted over it in
tearful fashion all the evening, and here it was
turning up again, as such ill-favoured weeds of
speech have a knack of doing.

Please let me have Wilfred's tunic to finish,'
I returned quickly, ' for I never care to be idle ;'
and I stretched out my hand for the work  for
it was no use arguing with Kitty when she was
in this mood  and carried it off in triumph.
But before I was half-way down the lawn my
conscience began to prick me : why could I not
have said something kind to cheer her for the
rest of the afternoon ? Kitty always looked

happier if Jem or I said a kind word to her.
And here again a speech of my favourite Amiel
seemed to prick me with fine needle-like sharpness,
for it was so true : ' Oh 1 let us not wait to
be just, or pitiful, or demonstrative towards
those we love until they or we are struck down
by illness or threatened with death ! Life is
short, and we have never too much time for
gladdening the hearts of those who are travelling
the dark journey with us. Oh, be swift to
love ; make haste to be kind !' With a sudden
impulse I went back through the dining-room
window just as Hubert entered it by the door.

My dear, are you very busy ?' with a rueful
glance at his wife's overflowing work-basket.

1 am always busy, Hubert,' returned Kitty
rather severely; 'but of course if you want
me '

'It is only those letters ; they must be
answered before post-time, and I have to go
down to the schools ; but you seem rather overwhelmed,
so perhaps Olga might help me,'
looking at me rather beseechingly.

No, no,' replied Kitty hastily ; ' give them
to me, Hubert. It was only last night that Jem
complained that we had turned Olga into a
perfect drudge, and that she never had time for
anything. I would rather slave night and day
than hear Jem say that again.'

My dear, what can you mean ?' and Hubert
looked at us both in solemn disapproval.
Kitty's sharp little speeches always took him by
surprise ; he had a habit of laboriously picking
them to pieces to find out their meaning, which
was just going on the wrong tack with Kitty,
for when people say more than they mean, it is
never well to take them literally ; but Hubert
was literal and exact by nature.

Kitty is talking nonsense,' I interposed.
Jem meant nothing by his speech ; he does
not really think I am put upon, for he knows i
like to be useful. If you want me to write your
letters, Hubert, you must say so quickly, as the
children are waiting for me in the garden.'

I always write Hubert's letters,' replied
Kitty with dignity, for she was not above
jealousy, and on certain occasions would stand
on her wifely rights. * Put them down beside
me, Hubert, and they shall be ready by post-time.
And you may say what you like, Olga,
for )0u always take Jem's part, but he really
meant what he said  that we take advantage
of you. It is not the first time Jem has made
these speeches.'

Well, well, have your own way, Kitty,' I
said wearily, for I found the discussion fatiguing.
I left Hubert to hear the remainder, and to
groan in spirit over Jem's selfishness. Somehow

my afternoon's enjoyment was spoiled  human
misunderstanding had thrown a shadow over the
sunshine. But I was rather taken aback when
I heard Hubert's footsteps following me.

You are too quick, Olga,' he said reproachfully.
' I wanted to ask you a question. Is it
Kitty's fancy, or does Jem really think we put
upon you ?'

You had better ask him,' I returned scornfully.
And then I relented at the sight of his
evident perplexity. ' Oh no, Hubert ; Jem
never meant it at all. He was only cross for
the moment because I could not attend to him.
Why will Kitty make a fuss over every little
word ?'

She is very sensitive. Jem knows that,
and ought to be more careful.'

You cannot expect a young man always to
measure his words, Hubert. Jem is far too
kind-hearted to give pain consciously. Kitty
is too exacting.'

You must not find fault with her to her
husband, Olga;' and I knew by Hubert's voice
that he was much displeased. ' Kitty has far
too much to do, and she is not as strong as she
ought to be. I think you and Jem might
make allowances for slight irritability, if not for
Kitty's, at least for my sake.'

I liked Hubert all the better for standing up

for his wife. If I had a husband I would not
allow anyone to find fault with him, I am quite
sure of that. But, all the same, 1 was bound
to defend Jem, and it seemed to me as though
Hubert was attacking me personally.

I am always ready to help Kitty,' I returned
in an injured tone ; ' neither you nor
she has any cause to complain of my conduct.
It is not quite fair to speak to me in that way.'

Hubert looked a little taken aback by this ;
he was a quiet, even-tempered man, and was
for peace at any price.

Well, well, don't put yourself out, Olga.
Of course, Kitty and I know we have no right
to turn you into a household drudge, and, of
course, we are very grateful for your assistance.
You have always acted kindly by us, but as
Kitty felt herself aggrieved by Jem's unlucky
speech, I thought I must put matters right. 1
am not the least offended with you.'

I would much rather you were offended
with me than with Jem.'

How you do spoil that boy !' And here
Hubert looked at me reproachfully. ' Nothing
Jem says or does is wrong.'

Nonsense, Hubert !' But all the same he
was right. I never could blame the dear
fellow. I was a little touched when Hubert
looked at me in that melancholy fashion, and

Stroked his coat-sleeve penitently. I believe
he had a fatherly fondness for us both.
Could it be possible that he was just a trite
jealous of Jem ?  that he thought his only
sister should be more to him  was that the
reason of his sad look ? ' Don't talk any more,
Hubert,' I said, dismissing him with a smile ;
I want to finish Wilfred's tunic. Go back to
Kitty, and cheer her up a little.'

No ; I must go to the schools.'

But he took my hint, and walked off. I
watched him across the lawn. Many people
admired Hubert ; Kitty did with all her heart.
He was a fair, gentlemanly-looking man, and
his beard and spectacles were imposing. He
was slightly bald, too, which gave him a patriarchal
appearance ; but to me his face was like
his sermons  heavy, sensible, and wanting inanimation.
Hubert had one very tiresome fault
he could not understand a joke. Jem and I
puzzled him dreadfully at times. He would look
at us and shake his head, and then go on with
some learned disquisition intended for our edification.
1 am afraid the pupils took advantage
of this want of humour, Mr. Vivian especially.

The children were playing under the big
mulberry tree, Hugh in charge of the twins as
usual, and Girlie-ga  as baby called herself 
toddling over the grass, hand in hand with

VOL. I. 2

Wilfred. She screamed with delight and
dropped Wilfred's hand at the sight of me.
Her big white sun-bonnet had tumbled off, and
the rough yellowish curls shone like gold in the
sunlight, as she stumped up to me on her little
fat legs, and emptied her pinafore into my lap
with the lavish generosity of infancy flinging
its all with both hands. ' Oo's dot 'em now,'
she said, looking lovingly at the cropped daisies
and languishing buttercups. How easy to
forget one's grievances in the sunshine! As I sat
with the children playing round me, I felt that
it was a lovely world after all.

The white butterflies were skimming over
the flower-beds, and the great brown bees
were humming secrets among the hives.
Hugh's fantail pigeons were strutting about the
roof, and the deep cawing of rooks sounded
from the Hall grounds. Some thrushes were
singing in the shrubbery, and a pair of linnets
were twittering in their nest above us. The
freshness and sweetness of early summer were
over everything. They would soon be making
hay in the Hall meadows. Fircroft was a
rambling old house without any pretension to
beauty, but the garden was delightful. A tennis-lawn
lay before the drawing-room windows,
closed round by shrubberies. This led to the
Surprise, as the children called a small inner



lawn, with a mulberry-tree and a medlar, and
surrounded by beds of old-fashioned flowers
which bloomed in their season : bushes of spiky
lavender and tall gleaming lilies, and lady's lilies
and St. John's, spicy carnations and humbler
pinks, lupins and hollyhocks, and quaint old
monk's-hood ; even the much-despised London-pride
and sweet-william kept company with
sweet peas and nasturtiums  a veritable wilderness
of sweets, very different to the stiff beds
of geraniums and verbena which were Hubert's
special pride. The Surprise was the children's
play-ground ; here on summer afternoons the
twins sat in the low branches of the medlar-tree
with their favourite dolls, and the black
and white kitten, Smut, while Hugh and Wilfred
worked in their gardens, and I sat reading or
working with dear old Rollo at my feet.

Rollo was my dog. Mr. Vivian had given
him to me when he was only a puppy ; he was
a splendid black retriever with a beautiful head,
and was my constant friend and companion.
When Jem went to Oxford, Rollo quite seemed
to understand that I was in need of sympathy. I
have seen him look at me  well, not with actual
tears in his eyes, though I do believe dogs cry
sometimes, but with such a pathetic expression
in them, as though he were sorry for me, and
wanted to comfort me in his doggish fashion.

2  2

THE LADIES AT THE HALL.

'What deep interest there would be in the most commonplace
society if we could associate with human beings in this
wondering, inquiring way, exactly as the chemist interrogates
every new subject by innumerable tests, until he has discovered
its properties and affinities' Rev. Frederick Robertson.

An hour afterwards a light, springy step sounded
on the gravel path behind me, and a rough
tweed coat-sleeve was Interposed between me
and my work.

No, Jem, I am not a bit startled !' I returned,
coolly keeping the big brown hand
prisoner; and then I drew him down beside me
with a welcoming smile.

I am afraid It would not be right to call Jem
handsome. He was very big, and strong, and
brown ; but he had not a fine profile like
Hubert, and his features were blunt and
irregular. But I liked his honest eyes, and his

bright smile, and the merry laugh that always
seemed to lighten one's heart, and I think I
was even more proud than Jem himself of the
dear little budding moustache that looked so
fine and silky. ' As though it matters whether
a man is handsome or not,' as I would say to
Kitty, when she vaunted of Hubert's good
looks, and wondered why Jem was so different
to his brother. In my heart I admired Jem
excessively, and thought I had never seen a
liner young fellow. I liked his strength and
his skill in athletic sports. He was a fine
cricketer and a good oarsman, and he could
swim, and shoot, and ride, so it was no wonder
that he did not work quite as hard as other
men ; besides which, he was so popular at
Oxford that one need not be surprised if he
were just a little bit spoilt.

What have you been doing all the afternoon,
Jem ?'

Oh, Vivian and Campbell and I started for
Drayton, but there was something wrong with
my bicycle, so I had to come back  and a precious
long walk I had ; and just by the Hall I
met Aunt Catherine, and she asked if you would
come up to tea, and so I said I would bring
you : but it seems that would not do  Mrs.
Lyndhurst is not so well as usual, and poor
Aunt Catherine looked a bit worried.'

Do you really think she wants me,
Jem ?'

I suppose so,' flinging up his straw hat and
catching it again, for Jem could not be still a
moment. ' She said, " Olga has not been here
for a week, and I am sure Virginia misses her ;"
the meaning of that is pretty evident.'

Yes,' hesitating a little ; ' but I don't want
to tell Aunt Catherine why I kept away. I
think Kitty is a little hurt that they never ask
her now  she says it is such a slight, and she
complained to Hubert about it : but how can I
help it if they like me best.''

Kitty is a humbug,' returned Jem, in a disgusted
tone; * as though she, and Hubert too,
do not know what you and Aunt Catherine are
to each other !'

Yes, indeed. I have always loved her so,'
with tears in my voice. * I can never forget
how kind she was to us both when we first
came to Fircroft : she made our life ever so
much happier.'

Of course, she is a trump ; I always told you
so. I wish she were our real aunt  don't you,
Olga ? I should not mind being her favourite
nephew.'

You mercenary boy ! but there is Mrs.
Lyndhurst to consider  the Hall really belongs
to her. Aunt Catherine is not such a rich

woman, after all ; at least, her sister seems to
have the lion's share.'

Indeed, you are wrong ; they are co-heiresses.
But I believe the old squire left in
his will, that if either of his daughters had a
son, the Hall was to go to him when he came
of age. I don't know how they will arrange
matters now ; perhaps there may be a chance
for me, after all. I shall not a bit mind taking
the name of Seton that is only a detail ; and
then you can come and live with me, and lord
it over Kitty.'

No ; nonsense, Jem ! how you talk ! but I
can't stop to listen to you. I shall go across in
my garden-hat, and you shall tell Kitty that
Aunt Catherine sent me a message ; if I go
back to the house there will be another discussion
and more grumbling. Oh, Jem, if I were
only as free as air !' stretching my arms over
my head, and drinking in a deep draught of the
sweet summer air.

Jem looked at me with full understanding
and sympathy, and then whistled to Rollo.
Nurse had just come in search of the children,
so I folded up my work and gave it to her, and
then we sauntered down the kitchen-garden,
between apple and cherry trees, until we reached
a door in the wall. This opened into a green
paddock, where our one cow. Ruddy, was

feeding. She was a pretty creature, with a soft,
tawny coat and great wondering eyes, full of
unconscious wisdom, that reminded me of Aunt
Catherine's. Ruddy was quite a pet ; she followed
us all down the paddock in spite of Rollo,
and when I turned to stroke her she thrust her
cold, wet nose into my hand, and rubbed her
horns gently against me.

If you are late I shall come and fetch you,'
were Jem's parting words, as he let me through
the gate ; and then he leant over it and watched
me until I turned the corner, and I could hear
him singing the Eton boating song at the top
of his voice, as I walked down the elm avenue
that led to the Hall.

Brookfield Hall was a gray old house, hardly
as pretentious as its name ; It had no special
beauty of architecture, but it had a staid, venerable
look, as though its gray roof had sheltered
generation after generation ; for even as far
back as the time of the blessed martyr Charles,
whose memory I secretly worshipped  many
a fair Seton dame had strolled down the elm
avenue and listened to the same cawing of
rooks, or had diverted herself with pulling
posies in the stiff old garden, where peaches
and nectarines still grew against the sunny
walls, and where many a generation of peacocks
had perched on the mossy sundial.

How Jem and I loved that garden!  though
I have heard people call it old-fashioned and
out of date, and marvel openly at Miss Seton's
preference for homely flowers. But to Aunt
Catherine it was full of historic interest. She
loved the smooth grassy terrace, planted with
elms, that lay on one side, where a certain
Gwendoline Seton used to meet her Puritan
lover. The story ran that the poor young man
was killed at Naseby by one of her brothers,
Hugh Seton. Anyhow, he never came again
to the terrace. And Gwendoline watched for
him evening after evening ; and the rooks
cawed, and the peacocks screamed from the
sundial, and the nightingales sang in the
shrubberies, and still she watched for him in the
summer moonlight, or when the winter snow
lay on the Hall garden, and if anyone crossed
her path she asked them the same question,
Have you seen Ralph Annersley, whom they
call Ralph the Iron Heart, for methinks he is
long in coming this evening ?' For you see
she was mad, this poor Gwendoline  crazy
with long waiting, and I could not have borne
to have listened so often to her story but for
the comfort of the end. For joy came to heron
her dying bed, when she was an old woman
with hair white as the winter snows ; for, as
they were praying beside her, she suddenly

looked at them, and there was a wonderful
light in her eyes, and she ceased her aimless
muttering, and said, in the clearest possible
voice, ' Yea, for is it not written, '' Heaviness
may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the
morning "? For truly I shall meet my beloved
again  my Ralph of the Iron Heart  in the
world where none shall ever say farewell !'

Ah, well ! they are re-united now. But how
pitiful to think of that long life, filled with one
maddening thought, one long waiting for the
impossible, the whole of God's fair creation
walled up and stifled in one crushed brain ! If
one were to love like that  God forbid !  it
were better to taste death at once. But Gwendoline's
story had ever haunted me ; and,
though I loved the terrace on a fine summer's
morning or in the full glory of the afternoon,
twilight always banished me from the spot. I
could not have paced under those dark trees
alone without fancying I heard a soft footfall
behind me ; and though I have no abject belief
in ghosts, still, if a white figure were suddenly
to start up and wring its hands, I

Dreaming as usual, Olga ?'

Aunt Catherine,' in a confused voice, for
there was Miss Seton standing in my path,
and I could see the amused look in her eyes,
I was thinking of the Lady Gwendoline,' I

blurted out. ' What put her into my head, I
wonder ?' And then Miss Seton laughed as
she kissed me.

I think Mr. Leigh is right. You are an
inveterate dreamer, Olga. We shall have to
cure you  Jem and I. But how late you are,
my dear ; they are bringing tea, and Virginia
has been in the drawing-room for the last hour.
Look at these lovely roses. I have been
gathering them from my favourite tree. You
shall have one of them to enliven your sombre
gown. Never mind, it is a very pretty gown '
with an approving smile  ' though it is a
little too dark to suit you, Olga. But then,
you know, I like young people to be gay.'

Jem asked me the other day why you
always wore black, Aunt Catherine,' I observed
rather wickedly, as I took the spray of roses
from her hand.

Because a plain, middle-aged woman always
looks best in black,' was the imperturbable response.
'Now, Olga'  as I was inclined to
contradict this blunt statement  ' don't argue
on such an uninteresting subject. When I was
your age I remember fretting for a good hour
because I had overheard some ill-conditioned
visitor speak of me as the plain Miss Seton,
and I bemoaned myself bitterly because I was
not as handsome as Virginia. But, my dear,

age offers us delicate compensations. We outlive
our morbid griefs and youthful ambitions.
I should feel no special pang now if anyone
called me the plain Miss Seton. I have buried
all that,' finished Aunt Catherine quaintly, with
the smile that was her great charm, for she knew
that Jem and I admired her with all our hearts,
with that finest admiration that is born of love.

She has such a dear face,' as I said once to
Jem.

Yes, awfully jolly, don't you know,' was
Jem's answer.

But it was quite true that Aunt Catherine
had been no beauty in her youth  one understood
that in a moment ; but she had a pleasant,
thoughtful face, and eyes that were wonderfully
young and clear, and her brown hair was
just threaded here and there with gray. In
spite of her forty-five years. Aunt Catherine
was slow in growing old. Her youth lingered
strangely ; her figure was still almost girlish in
its willowy grace ; she had not forgotten how
to blush at times when she was pleased or
excited. There would be a vividness, a depth
in her gray eyes that took one by surprise.
Now and then there would be bursts of eloquence
 picturesque, unrestrained, disjointed 
as though something in her nature had been
repressed and must find vent.

This made Aunt Catherine so interesting :
she had no cut-and-dried formulas of actions ;
no middle-aged mannerisms  she was so unlike
other people. So few persons nowadays dare
to assert any special individuality ; they prefer
a polite, discreet, mummy-like swathing. Now
Aunt Catherine was a real, imperfect woman,
true to the core, simply because she was herself.

Mrs. Lyndhurst is not so well to-day, Jem
tells me,' I observed as I followed Miss Seton
into the big square hall, somewhat dimly lighted
by a large stained window, the handsome oak
furniture making it still darker. But I had an
odd sort of reverence for those carved cabinets ;
and what talks Aunt Catherine and I had had
on that oak-settle that stood before the great
fireplace, now full of fir-cones! In winter a
glorious fire was always burning, before which
Mrs. Lyndhurst's favourite pug, Nix, loved to
bask, curled up on the tiger-skin.

Aunt Catherine shook her head rather sadly
at my question.

 She is never well ; I think she grows more
restless every day. She has much to bear 
more than most of us ;' and then she threw
down her garden-hat and gloves, and, still
carrying her roses, led the way to the drawing-room.


Olga is here,' she observed in a very different

voice, Into which a Httle cheerfulness was
evidently forced. ' I hope we have not kept
you waiting for your tea, Virginia ?'

What does It matter, Catherine !' was the
indifferent reply, as Mrs. Lyndhurst put down
her knitting and held out her hand to me with
her usual gentle smile. ' How are you, my
dear ? I am glad to see you. You have not
been near us for a week, Olga  a whole week ;
but I suppose you find us dull company ?'

I laughingly disclaimed this speech, and sat
down by Mrs. Lyndhurst. I was very fond of
her, and very sorry for her ; but I did not love
her as I did our dear Aunt Catherine. Her
nature was a depressing one, especially to young
people  trouble had aggravated a naturally low
and morbid temperament  and in spite of her
gentleness and a sort of attractive softness that
was very winning to strangers, I often found
Mrs. Lyndhurst exceedingly trying. Diseased
sensibility, unhealthy views of life, and the
incessant brooding of self-consciousness are
singularly repellent to youth. i\t times I felt
a sense of Impatience, of critical disapproval.
Why had Mrs. Lyndhurst weakly succumbed
to her troubles ? Why had she suffered them
to overmaster and crush her, instead of over-living
them as other women did ? Why did
she burthen Aunt Catherine with this weary

charge  the responsibility which the strong-er
and more helpless nature always takes upon
itself? Aunt Catherine never spoke of her
sisters trouble  never mentioned her except
in a tone of divine pity, such as one might
use to a sick child. ' Virginia had so much
to bear ;' and yet the little Brookfield knew of
her story hardly accounted for a melancholy
that at times bordered on despair. Unhappy
marriages have never been rare in England.
Many a woman has found wedlock not the
state of bliss she imagined it, and has dragged
on a miserable and disappointed life ; and Mrs.
Lyndhurst's married life had been a brief one.

Hubert had told me the little I knew on the
subject ; but I had no idea how he had gained
his information.

The old squire had been a hard-natured man,
with an obstinate temper, and a most exaggerated
notion of his own importance and dignity.
His wife and daughters had been greatly in
awe of him, and even Mrs. Lyndhurst, who
had been his favourite, had not dared openly to
contest his will.

During a winter spent in Rome, a young
artist, Paul Lyndhurst by name, had been
much in their company, and a secret attachment
between him and Virginia had been the
result. The only one who was cognizant of

the State of affairs was Aunt Catherine, and
she pleaded vainly and with tears that her
sister should give him up.

'It is an infatuation,' she said over andover
again. ' He is not a good man. He is
terribly handsome. He has fascinated you
with his good looks and cleverness ; but I
distrust him, and father will never permit you
to marry a poor artist.'

I will never give him up.' had been Virginians
answer ; ' I love him so that I am ready to die
for him.' And, alas ! she made up her mind to
live for him. The very day before they left
Rome there was a secret marriage, and after a
terrible scene, during which JMr. Seton lashed
himself into a state of fury, and forbade his
daughter ever to enter his house again, Paul
Lyndhurst took his wife away, and for months
they did not hear a word of poor Virginia.
But one day  about two years after the unlucky
marriage, a few months after Mrs. Seton
had died of a lingering disease  Virginia
suddenly and unexpectedly made her appearance
at the Hall. Hubert could tell me no
particulars of that return, or by what means the
father's wrath was appeased. Her husband
was still living, but she had left him for ever.
She looked ill and altered ; indeed, her health
seemed permanently broken. Perhaps his wife's

death had softened the father's heart, for he
did not refuse to take his child back ; and during
the last year of his life Virginia was his favourite
companion.

This was all I knew, and Aunt Catherine
never spoke of the past. From the first she
had accepted the sacred charge of her sister's infirmities,
and had shaped her own life to meet
her sister's requirements.

I looked at Mrs. Lyndhurst as she rose to
lay aside her work. She always walked feebly
and slowly, as though she were tired to death ;
her graceful figure seemed to droop with
fatigue. There was something pathetic in her
appearance. She always wore a black gown that
was almost widow-like in its straight, severe
folds ; but there were no delicate white finishes
to the neck and cuffs. Instead of that relief she
generally wore a black lace scarf wound loosely
round her slim throat ; this gave a strange
contrast to her pale, sad face and silvery hair.
Her eyes were dark and soft, and would have
been beautiful except for their restful look.

Mrs. Lyndhurst always looks as though she
has lost something,' Kitty once said in her
shrewd way.

I was foolish enough to repeat this speech to
Aunt Catherine. I noticed that she coloured,
as though the remark did not please her.

VOL. I. 3

'She has lost her life's happiness,' she returned
gently. 'Mrs. Leigh is right; but there are
some losses that cannot be made up in this world
my poor Virginia's is one of these.

The drawing-room at the Hall was a charming
room, with three windows opening on
the Italian garden, as it was called  a straight
stone terrace, with antique vases, leading down
by steps to a long gravel walk bordered by gay
flower-beds : this led to the Lady's Walk. On
the other side was the old Elizabethan garden,
with the sunny south wall where the peaches
grew, and where the peacock plumed himself on
the sundial : this was Aunt Catherine's special
garden. Mrs. Lyndhurst, who had no love for
flowers, preferred the elm avenue and the
terrace where her unhappy ancestress had
walked. 1 thought Mrs. Lyndhurst looked
unusually ill this evening : her eyes were bright
and feverish. She seemed disposed to be talkative.
Aunt Catherine, on the contrary, was
somewhat silent.

You are looking very well, Olga.'
I am perfectly well, thank you  in a state of
rude health, as Jem expresses it.'
I hope Mrs. Leigh is well also ?'
Kitty is only so-so ; she is rather thin, and
does far too much, and then Hubert worries
himself about her. It is such a pity people

cannot be sensible, Mrs. Lyndhurst, but that
they will always attempt the proverbial last
straw  Kitty always does.'

She has an anxious mind, I suppose ;' but
evidently Mrs. Lyndhurst had not listened to
my little tirade ; she was following out some
thought of her own, for she spoke absently.

Olga she continued in a different tone, ' do
you think your sister-in-law could spare you?
We have such a nice plan in our heads, Catherine
and I. May I tell Olga about it, Catherine ?'

I thought Aunt Catherine seemed a little
startled at the question.

There is no hurry, is there, dear ?' she returned
gently. ' I never thought you meant to
speak to the child this evening.'

No hurry !' repeated Mrs. Lyndhurst irritably
; ' that is what you always say, Catherine 
next week, next month, a year hence, what does
it matter to you ?' with a singular inflection on
the last word ; ' and yet you told Dr. Bingham
yesterday that it was all arranged.'

And so it is arranged. Please do not excite
yourself, Virginia. Have I ever gone from my
word yet ? Olga,' turning to me with the
worried look I knew so well, that always told
me so plainly that Mrs. Lyndhurst had been unusually
exigeante, 'my sister wants me to tell you
about our plan. I have to go abroad next month

32

on business  a little family matter that has to be
settled,' and Aunt Catherine spoke somewhat
nervously. ' Virginia does not like me to go
alone, and St. Croix is a very pretty place.
You have always wanted to see something of
foreign life  do you think your mother and Mrs.
Leigh could spare you ? It shall be no expense
to you, 1 can promise you that, and I shall be
very glad of your companionship ;' and here
she paused and looked at me inquiringly, and
I suppose my face was sufficient answer. ' You
would like it, Olga ?'

To shake off Brookfield dust for once in
my life I Oh, if only Jem were here now !
To go to St. Croix  with you  you ! Oh,
I must kiss you, Aunt Catherine ! You are
such a dear, you know ! If only It is not too
good to be true I'

Mrs. Lyndhurst smiled benevolently over
my girlish rhapsodies ; but why did Aunt
Catherine look so grave  she who loved to
give young people pleasure ? She even drew
back, in a pained sort of way, when I kissed
her.

I am going on business, Olga ; you must
understand that.'

As though that matters to Olga,' interposed
Mrs. Lyndhurst anxiously; 'there is nothing
to prevent her amusing herself. Strange to say,

my dear,' addressing herself to me, ' we have
some English friends Having at St. Croix, and
they have agreed to let us have their house.
Mrs. Milner's father, a clergyman in Liverpool,
is ill  dying, they fear  and they wish to come
to England The house is ours for three
months if we like.'

But surely you are not going to St. Croix
for three months, Aunt Catherine !' I exclaimed.

I should think not. I have fixed no time ;
perhaps a week or two may settle my business.
I should not care to leave Virginia longer than
I could help. If I could only have persuaded
her to come, too !' and here Aunt Catherine
looked wistfully at her sister.

Mrs. Lyndhurst's pale face grew paler than
ever at this appeal.

What do you mean, Catherine ?' she said,
in an alarmed voice ; ' have we not talked overall
that  you and I ? Do you not know me
better than to propose it ? Do you think I have
strength for such a journey ?'

Dr. Langham has always recommended a
sea voyage. It is only twelve hours, Virginia.'

It would kill me  I tell you it would kill
me ! You are cruel, Catherine, to agitate mein
this way. Nothing will induce me to leave
the Hall. If you do not wish to go, say so.
I have no right to over burthen you. But the

child will be disappointed, and the Miners
too, for they thought everything was settled.'

And so it is settled, my dear Virginia.
What can you mean ? Have I not promised
you solemnly to settle this business as well
as I can ? Perhaps you could have made it
easier for me, if you could have overcome
your nervous dread of the journey ; but we
will not say any more about that. Olga, when
you go home, perhaps you will speak to your
brother and Mrs. Leigh about this. Or shall I
call and ask them myself'* You are not of
age yet, you know,' with a faint smile  why
was Aunt Catherine so unlike herself ?  ' and
then there is Jem to consider.'

Jem has a tutorship,' I replied quickly.
He leaves Fircrofc next week.'

And most likely I shall start the week after.
Well, settle it as you like, my dear ; but I will
undertake to talk over your brother, and if
Mrs. Leigh should be obdurate, you must send
for me.'

And then Aunt Catherine got up in a hurry,
and said she must put her roses in water ; but
I think she wanted to end the conversation, so
I took the hint, and observed that Jem would
be waiting for me. And then Aunt Catherine
said that if I would wait a few minutes she
would walk down the avenue with me.

AUNT CATHERINE

Like alone acts upon like. Therefore do not amend by
reasoning, but by example ; approach feeling by feeling ; do
not hope to excite love except by love. Be what you wish
others to become. Let yourself, and not your words, preach'
Amiel's Journal.

I THOUGHT Mrs. Lyndhurst looked uneasy at
this proposition, but she said nothing until Aunt
Catherine had carried away her flowers ; when
the door closed she beckoned me to her.

You are pleased with my little plan, Olga ?'
Is it your plan, Mrs. Lyndhurst ? Oh yes,
I am delighted ! I shall not be able to sleep tonight
; but are you sure Aunt Catherine wants
me to go ?'

I think, after all, it was she who proposed
it. We were talking over Mrs. Milner's letter
with Dr. Langham. Women cannot do without
a man to advise them, and Dr. Langham has
always been our confidant. He was laying

down the law to us after this usual fashion.
Catherine must not o alone  she would be
dull, and all that sort of think ; she must have
someone to make things cheerful for her. And
then Catherine said, "Very well, I will ask
Olga to oo. She has never been out of iMiiland,
and the chaise will do her good ;*' and Dr.
Langham gave a hearty assent, for you are a
great favourite of his, my dear. Indeed, if he

were only a little younger ' and then she

looked at mv. meaningly, and of course I laughed,
for this was an old joke a very old joke indeed.
Poor Mrs. Land hurst ! as though Jem and
1 did not know better than that. Why, lrook-
fKld was of a far different opinion ; it privately
held the notion that if the doctor had been a
bolder man he would willingly have aspired to
one of the ladies of the Hall, and that he was
not indifferent to Miss Seton's middle-aged
comeliness. Now I cannot vouch for the
truth of this ; it might only be village gossip
after all. Brookfield, like most villages, was a
scandalous little place, and made very free with
its neighbour's namci. Dr. Langham and Aunt
Catherine were the best of friends. I think
she had a sort of kindly feeling for him, and
compassionate him for his bachelor loneliness;
but as for any other thought, I am sure such a
notion would never have entered her head.

It was profanity to imagine it. Aunt Catherine
was the sort of woman one would never dare
to question on such subjects. Mrs. Lyndhurst
would have her feeble little jokes ; but I never
heard Aunt Catherine talk about love or lovers,
except in a very staid, sober way  only something
in her manner, in her very avoidance of
such topics, made me think she held very
solemn views on the subject. Any light talk
on such matters displeased her. ' We ought not
to joke on sacred things,' I heard her say once;
surely love  real love, I mean  is sacred.'

I was not ever likely to know if popular
gossip were correct in crediting Dr. Langham
with any special tenderness for Aunt Catherine ;
but he certainly respected and liked her more
than any other woman, and was always ready
to help her to the best of his powers. As for
Aunt Catherine, she looked on him as a trusted
friend, and always consulted him on all difficulties
; besides which, he was the guardian of
her sister's health and well-being, and I always
suspected that he was deep in their confidence.


People are afraid of growing old,' she once
said to me  ' they fear the loss of many of their
pleasures ; but I always maintain that every
age has its compensation. What can be better,
for example, than to watch new friendships grow

Stronger as we get older, to feel how they ripen
and mature with the years ? We no longer fear
that the friends of a lifetime will grow weary of
us and change ; we have proved them. Don't
you recollect, Olga, what your favourite Amiel
wrote ? " To know how to grow old is the
master-work of wisdom, and one of the most
difficult chapters in the great art of living."
And then again, and this well applies to the
same subject, that hackneyed subject of growing
old : " Do not despise your situation ; in it
you must act, suffer, and conquer. From ever)-
point on earth we are equally near to heaven
and to the Infinite." I wish we discontented
middle-aged people would take that to heart.'

How 1 loved the way Aunt Catherine talked !
It was generally when we two were together
that she would break out into one of these
eloquent little monologues. In mixed company
she was rarely talkative; the light coinage of
conventional intercourse never seemed to elicit
much response. With me she was often grave ;
she liked to give me her views on life, books,
duty, or any abstract subject. She called it
working off steam.' ' My mind is too closely
packed,' she said once. ' I have crammed it
with miscellaneous reading, and can only
assimilate a certain amount of intellectual
nourishment. The other day I was very

much struck by a remark Robertson made in
one of his letters. I have copied it out for you,
Olga. He says, " Multifarious reading weakens
the mind more than doing nothing, for it becomes
a necessity at last, like smoking, and is
an excuse to the mind to lie dormant ; whilst
thought is poured in, and runs through, a clear
stream, over unproductive gravel, on which not
even mosses grow. It is the idlest of all idleness,
and has more of impotency than any
other'"

Aunt Catherine was certainly not in one of
her talking moods when, after a brief delay, she
joined me in the avenue ; for though she took my
arm in her old way, she did not once break the
silence until the road was in sight, and then my
impatience was not to be repressed any longer.

Aunt Catherine,' I burst out in a tone of
mingled affection and vexation, ' I do wish you
would tell me what is troubling you ; you are
not a bit like yourself this evening. I am sure
that you are not going to St. Croix for your
pleasure or convenience ; someone is putting
some troublesome business on your shoulders,
and you are too kind to refuse to help. That
is always the way ; you never think of your
own comfort.'

I think I told you that I was not going to
St. Croix for pleasure, Olga.'

But can no one else do the business ?'
Only Virginia, and you can see for yourself
how the mere idea harasses her. She has never
slept out of the Hall for a single night these last
five-and-twenty years ; it is one of her unhealthy
fancies that any change would be bad for her.
I think I love my home as much as anyone,
but I like to go away sometimes, if only for the
pleasure of coming back. One has such a
luxurious feeling of home-sickness towards the
last, and that makes the welcome all the sweeter.
I do not think any sound is more melodious tome
than the cawing of our own rooks on the
first evening of my return, after I have been
away a week or two.'

How can you help loving such a beautiful
home ? I wish I could feel as much affection for
Fircroft. I am far too glad to leave it. Aunt
Catherine, are you sure that I shall be any
comfort to you ; that there is no one else whose
company you would prefer ?'

No ; you suit me exactly  how often have I
told you that, Olga I'

'It is very strange,' I returned musingly;
I often wonder how you can find pleasure in the
society of an insignificant girl  a clever womanlike
you!' and then Aunt Catherine did summon
up a smile.

 You are not insignificant, Olga ; the word

does not suit you in the least, you have far too
much individuality. Liking becomes a habit, I
believe, and I have grown to love you as my
own child. This sort of adoption is very sweet.
Single women are often lonely ; but I have
come to think that it is their own fault. With a
world full of human beings, there must be some
whom they can love and take into their
life !'

I know I owe all my happiness to you I
returned gratefully. We had retraced our steps,
and were still walking over the crisp, short turf
under the elms. ' I should have had such a
different life without you. Think what it would
be if the Hall and you and Mrs. Lyndhurst
were effaced from my existence ! How meagre
and unsatisfactory everything would be ! Only
Hubert and Kitty and the children ; just dull
prose  not a bit of poetry ! Oh, the treats you
have given us ! Jem and I count them up
sometimes. Do you recollect those weeks at
Hastings ?'

To be sure I do ; you and Jem behaved like
a couple of babies.'

We were children let out of school. Oh,
what fun we had ! And then last summer, when
you and I stayed at the Randolph, was not that
a glorious time ? If I live to a hundred I do
not think I shall ever forget the quadrangle at

Magdalen, with the moonlight silvering everything
; and that afternoon in Addison's Walk !
And do you recollect how we came back to
Jem's room to tea, and the dark young man,
whom they called the Atheist, dropped in, and
he was not an Atheist at all  not even an
Agnostic  though he had some queer ideas of
his own. All Jem's friends fell in love with
you, Aunt Catherine ; they could not help
themselves. I was just nobody  only Leigh's
sister ; that was what they called me  Leigh's
sister. It was Miss Seton round whom they
crowded, even the Atheist ; but as for poor
little me, I was just Leigh's sister  that was
all.'

This sort of talk was doing Aunt Catherine
good ; to certain fine natures nothing gives
greater pleasure than to be reminded that their
very existence creates joy for some lives. Aunt
Catherine was never satisfied with purely personal
enjoyment ; she was essentially a lady in
its old-fashioned, Saxon meaning  the Hlaf-
weardige, the bread-keeper  only she liked to
break her loaf with others, to be perpetually
dispensing largesse. I have often heard her
groan over the burden of her own wealth.
There is too much,' she would say piteously,
there is far too much for Virginia and me to
spend on our two selves. We have neither of us

any luxurious tastes  Virginia does not understand
art, neither do I. We have no kin  what
is the use of filing the Hall with beautiful
things just for us to enjoy, when we do not

know who is to succeed us. If ' but here

her face clouded, and a sort of wistful look
came into her eyes, but she did not finish her
sentence  ' If she had married and had children,'
is that what she would have said ?

Aunt Catherine had resumed her natural
manner now, she even volunteered to be more
explicit.

I know you think me unsatisfactory this
evening, Olga,' she observed by-and-by, when
we had reached the Hall for the second time ;
but the fact is I am very much worried.
Virginia, poor dear, is a little unpractical. She
and Dr. Langham insist on my having a companion
during my stay at St. Croix, and without
a moment's hesitation I fixed on you ; and now-virginia
is unwilling that you should be told
the object of our journey. Perhaps, in my heart,
I am as unwilling as she ; but how are you to be
any help or comfort to me if I may not repose
confidence in you ? You will go your way and I
shall go mine, and there will be no question of
pleasure for either of us ; when you see me
worried you will not venture to question me,
and as for me, my lips will be closed. " Why

need we tell anyone ?" that is all she says  you
know Virginia's way.'

I must confess I was somewhat hurt at this.
They were so much to me, these two dear
women, and 1 was so much to them ; and now
Mrs. Lyndhurst had judged me to be unworthy
of their confidence. I was only a girl, only
Olga ; it was safer to be silent !

Aunt Catherine looked in my face, and read
my thoughts.

No, you are not unworthy of our confidence,'
she said quickly ; ' if you are young you are
reliable. Virginia knows that as well as I do.
But there are difficulties, complications : it is a
troublesome sort of business  you must let me
think over it quietly. If I make up my mind
that it is necessary to tell you, Virginia will
have to yield, for I shall go only on my own
terms. I think, after all, the chief difficulty
consists in my own reluctance to tell a painful
story.'

Of course, after this there was nothing more
to be said, and I was ready to go to St. Croix
in passive ignorance if she wished it. Nothing
could really cloud the pleasure of our intercourse.
I was not particularly curious by nature,
or given to meddle in other folk's business,
whatever Jem might insinuate to the contrary ;
so I only begged Aunt Catherine not to disturb

herself. ' Whatever you decide will be right,' I
observed conclusively, when at last I bade her
good-bye.

I wanted Jem to be the first to hear my
wonderful piece of news, but to my disappointment
he was playing tennis with Hubert, and
Kitty was sitting in her long cane chair outside
the drawing-room window watching them.
She was wrapped in her favourite gray woollen
shawl, and looked very tired and bored. I
knew just as well as though I had heard him,
that Hubert had coaxed her to put away her
work and rest a little  he had made her believe
that he would enjoy his game all the more if she
were looking on, and it was not in her wifely
soul to refuse compliance with his request after
such a compliment.

Forty  love,' shouted Jem, for he always
beat Hubert, and then he waved to me with his
racquet, and Kitty looked up at me with a
dubious sort of smile.

You might have told me you were going to
the Hall,' were her first words as I sat down
beside her.

Mights ' and ' oughts ' made up a great part
of Kitty's conversation.

I was in the Surprise when Jem brought
me Aunt Catherine's message,' was my suave
answer, for I could afford to be good-natured

VOL. I. 4

this evening, * and it was too much trouble to
come up to the house. Jem told you where I
was gone ?'

Yes, Jem told me when I was tired of
wondering why you did not come in to tea.
Of course, you are your own mistress, Olga '
(I wish I were); ' but you might have thought
1 should like to send a message.' (A second
might,' now for an ' ought') ' I wish you were
more thoughtful in little things.'

I took no notice of this dignified rebuke,
which meant that Kitty would have liked an
invitation too.

It is such a warm evening,' I observed carelessly,
' how can you muffle yourself in that
shawl ?'

I am never warm now,' she replied, and
she actually shivered as she spoke. ' Hubert
wanted me to sit out here ; but I would much
rather go in  I have not half finished my
work ;' but here she caught Hubert's eye, or,
more truly, the gleam of his eyes through his
spectacles, and nodded and smiled at him in
her old sprightly way.

What a pretty creature she had been when
Hubert first brought her home ! Even now,
when anything pleased her and she looked
bright and animated, and the colour came to
her face, and her eyes got dark, and big, she

reminded me of the Kitty of old. I do not
believe Hubert noticed the change in her ; he
admired her as much as ever in his simple,
honest way. I have seen him gazing at her
through his spectacles in the most lover-like
manner ; and, to do her justice, she admired
him just as much in return.

I wish Hubert played as well as Jem,' she
said rather disconsolately, as another ' fifteen 
thirty ' reached our ears. ' Jem has been beating
him all the time, and yet Hubert is so fond
of the game.'

I don't believe Hubert minds being beaten.
He knows Jem is a crack player, as Harry
calls him. He should not play single against
Jem ; they are not evenly matched. Mr. Cunningham
is a better opponent for Hubert.'

I should like him to win one game,' returned
Kitty rather pathetically, as her eyes followed
the two players. ' I dare say you think me
foolish, but you will understand it yourself, one
day, how one likes one's husband to win.'

Even in a game,' rather sarcastically, for I
thought pathos a little out of place here.

To bring strong feelings into the trifling
amusements of life seemed to me as wise as
children playing at soldiers with real swords ;
we should be sure to cut and wound each
-other all day long. But, then, Kitty never

42

liked Jem to excel in anything. It was my
private opinion that she shut her eyes wilfully
to Hubert's slowness, and that she 'made
believe,' as children say, that he was the wisest
and cleverest of men.

I thought it better to change the subject,
for really Jem was playing splendidly. His lithe,
agile figure seemed literally to bound over the
grass ; he never seemed to miss a ball. Hubert
was blundering more than usual ; so I distracted
Kitty's attention by telling her of Aunt
Catherine's proposition.

She listened to me in silence.

You are a very fortunate girl, Olga,' she
said, when I had finished my recital ; ' people
always seem to take a fancy to you ;' and here
she paused and looked at me in a critical sort
of way.

I wonder why people take a fancy to you ?'
was evidently her unuttered thought.

 I am sure I don't know,' was my careless
answer ; but Kitty started and coloured as
though I had read her truly.

Of course, you are very nice, dear,' she went
on, with ready repentance. ' When 1 was a girl
people took a fancy to me too ; but that is so
long ago.'

You were so pretty that people could not
help falling in love with you.'

'Well, I suppose not,' was her candid answer;
for, with all her faults, Kitty was singularly devoid
of vanity. She liked Hubert to admire
her, but, with that exception, she cared little
for compliments. ' But many people think you
are nice-looking, too, Olga  that is, when you
take pains with yourself.'

Thank you, Kitty,' I returned gratefully, for
I knew that she had done her utmost for me in
that sentence. My glass had long ago told me
that I was no beauty, and Jem's brotherly frankness
had not left room for doubts.

Hubert is the only good-looking one of the
family,' he said once ; ' for a girl you are very
so-so ; your complexion is all right, but your
upper lip is too long, and your nose is just what
a nose ought not be, and your forehead is too
high. I like a forehead to be like Clyde s, low
and broad. Yes, your eyes are nice  but there,
what does it matter ? we are all as fond of you
as though you were a daughter of Venus,' and
after this speech I had no farther illusions on
the subject of my personal beauty.

Aunt Catherine is anxious to know if you
can spare me,' I went on, for Kitty seemed in
such a comfortable frame of mind. Unfortunately
this seemingly harmless remark grazed
her sensibilities too closely. I knew by the
way she pursed up her pretty little mouth 

Kitty had such a pretty mouth  that she was
thinking of Jem's unlucky speech.

Do you think I should allow my selfish considerations
to stand in your way, Riga ? I
wonder what Jem would say if I deprived you
of such a treat ; all the same,' relenting visibly,
 I shall miss you dreadfully, and so will the
poor children. I think you have spoilt us by
being so crowd to us.'

Could I believe my ears ?

Do you really mean that you will miss me,
Kitty ? that sounds almost too nice to be
true.'

Have I been such an unkind sister that you
do not believe in my affection ? I did not think
you would have misunderstood a few sharp
speeches,' and here there were actually tears in
her eyes. * I have always been fond of you,
Olga  always ; you have such nice ways with
the children, and you never seem to think anything
a trouble. Of course it is very dull for
you here  Hubert says so sometimes. You are
clever, and I am not a companion for you ; but
I want to do my best for you, and so does
Hubert, and he is goodness itself, although he
is not Jem.'

Now what could I do but kiss her and tell
her that she was a dear little soul, and that of
course I was as fond of her as possible ? and so

I was, though she never gave me any real
comfort. Very sensitive people always remind
me of a hedgehog : there is no going near
them without pricking one's self against their
bristles.

'What has become of Hugh ?' I exclaimed,
after we had gone through this little scene
of reconciliation. I always thought Kitty loved
scenes.

He is learning his imposition in the schoolroom.
He did his lessons very badly this afternoon,
and so Hubert kept him in.'

I sighed ; poor little Hugh was so often kept
in  he had inherited his father's slowness.
Hubert had been stupid as a child. I wonder
why the parents did not remember this ; kind
as they were to all their children, they were
disposed to be hard on Hugh. He was my
favourite. Wilfred was a dear little fellow, and
the twins, Jessie and Nlab, were bright, pretty
little girls, but none of them came up to Hugh
in my estimation. He was such an unselfish,
tender-hearted boy, so devoted to his parents
and to his brother and sisters. I have known
him go without things  his share of fruit or
sweets  that the twins might have more ;
perhaps he was not clever, but he was the most
perfect little gentleman  no one ever heard him
say a rough word ; all the pupils were fond of

him, because he was always ready to do them a
service ; in his childish way, for he was only
nine, Hugh had a passion for service.

Poor Hugh shed many tears over his own
stupidity. He could not learn as quickly as other
boys of his age, and I used to fancy that Hubert
was a little exacting ; his boy's lack of brains
seemed a reproach to himself. I used to speak
to Kitty sometimes on the subject, but I never
could get her to see with my eyes. In the first
place, she would have to blame Hubert, a piece
of presumption that never entered her head ;
and in the second place, she would have to take
her son's part against his father  an equally
impossible proceeding ; so she always silenced
me with the same speech : ' Hubert knows best ;
it is not for me to interfere with my husband.'
For Kitty always got the best of an argument:
when every means failed, she rolled herself
round in certain stereotyped feminine
aphorisms, much as the hedgehog afore-mentioned
transforms himself into a dust-coloured,
spiky ball ; and ' Hubert knows best ' clinched
the most obstinate discussion.

AN Evening AT FIRCROFT.

I do believe that there ought to be more interest in humanity,
and more power of throwing one's self into the mind of everyone,
so that no visit should appear dull'

Rev. Frederick Robertson.

Just at this moment Hubert threw up his
racket with a despairing groan, but Jem
promptly and figuratively patted him on the
back.

Cheer up, old man ; you will do better next
time. You did not play so badly last set.'

It is no use playing against this fellow
observed Hubert ruefully ; ' he has beaten me
hollow, as usual. Never mind, I will have my
revenge yet.'

'AH right,' returned Jem cheerfully, as he
threw himself down on the grass by my side,
looking quite cool and fresh in comparison with
Hubert's flushed face. ' Well, what have you

two young women been talking about all this
time ?'

I was just going to ask the same question,'
put in Hubert, who had taken possession of the
sole remaining chair.

Now we were both of us longing to tell the
same story. I  because it was my own peculiar
and legitimate piece of property  being both eye
and ear witness of the whole affair ; and Kitty 
because she always liked to monopolize Hubert's
attention  and to be the channel through which
he should receive all interesting communications.

o

Knowing this peculiarity of Kitty, and being
bent on being the spokeswoman on the present
occasion, I commenced at racing speed ; notwithstanding
which, Kitty's Interpolations
tripped me up every minute much as follows :

Oh, Hubert, I have such a delightful piece
of news to tell you ! Do listen, Jem, and don't
tear my new print gown with your clumsy
foot.'

Yes, indeed, I call it a piece of good fortune,
Hubert,' from Kitty.

Aunt Catherine is going to St. Croix on
business '

Most important business,' corrected Kitty.

And she has asked me to accompany her.'

And Olga will not have a farthing of
expense. Think of that, dear !'

'Some friends of theirs, the Milners, have let
their house to Aunt Catherine for three
months.'

But we could not spare Olga all that time,
could we ? and, indeed, Miss Seton would not
require her nearly so long,' from the irrepressible
Kitty.

But I frowned her down, and went on :

St. Croix is a lovely place, about two miles
from the town of St. Genette, and the house is
delightfully situated ; but Aunt Catherine would
not describe it to me. And there are several nice
English families, only Aunt Catherine says she
will have no time for visiting, and she has particularly
desired the Milners not to ask their
friends to call.'

I am afraid that will be a lite dull for
Olga ; she does so love society.'

Aunt Catherine purposes to start early next
month, and I am to get my things ready ; and
she hopes, Hubert '

Of course you can have no objection, dear ?
Olga is her own mistress, and it will be such a
nice change for her.'

Dear me, Kitty, I think you had better
finish yourself, for Hubert is staring at us both
as though he were utterly bewildered,' which
was the fact  he was looking at us blankly
through his spectacles ; his slow comprehension

had evidently not groped its way to a full
understanding.

I think if you were to talk one at a time '

he said helplessly.

And then Jem gave me such a look! He once
observed, rather profanely, in my hearing, that
he wondered Hubert had been ordained at the
usual age, as he must have been twice as long
as other men in making up his mind about the
Articles of the Christian Faith, ' though I will
say this for him,' finished the irreverent boy,
that when he had once settled what to believe,
he would stick to it for the rest of his life.'

Poor old duffer !' Jem's look said so plainly
that I burst out laughing, and Kitty looked a
little offended. I knew by the way she bridled
her neck and elevated her little white chin, that
no amount of pressure would induce her to say
another word on the subject ; so, as Jem afterwards
remarked, I had my innings, and could
put the whole matter plainly before Hubert.
He was very much pleased when he fully understood
it all, and expressed himself as being very
grateful to Aunt Catherine for her kindness
to me.

She is a good creature,' he observed feelingly,
* and I am very much obliged to her.'

She is a darling !' ejaculated Jem, under his
breath.

I think we ought to call at the Hall and
thank her, Kitty, Will you go with me tomorrow
afternoon, my dear, and then we can
inquire after Mrs. Lyndhurst ?'

I think you had better go alone, Hubert,'
returned Kitty, with a touch of her old plaintiveness.
' I am afraid I am out of favour at the
Hall, for they never ask me now. The only
one they want is Olga  they make that very
evident.'

Stuff  nonsense !' broke from Jem's lips.
He was never tolerant of Kitty's morbid fancies.
You are a pretty sort of clergyman's wife,
Kitty, to let your husband pay all his pastoral
visits alone. I thought a clergyman advocated
charity, and all that sort of thing, and here you
are harassing the curate-in-charge with doubts
about his parishioners. I will wager my best
hat that Miss Seton, and Mrs. Lyndhurst, too,
will be delighted to see you tomorrow. If I
were you, Hubert, I would make her go. What
is the good of being a husband if one can't
order one's wife about?'

Strange to say, Kitty did not take umbrage
at this plain speech, though Hubert looked
alarmed at Jem's audacity.

Of course I shall go if Hubert wishes it,'
was all she said ; and Hubert looked as
delighted as though she had paid him the

choicest compliment. It was such a pity
Hubert had so little tact. He did not in
the least understand how to manage Kitty.
In spite of her little tempers and tiresome
ways, she was a good little creature at the
bottom. Jem would have made her a much
better husband ; he would have tyrannized over
her in a good-natured way, and rooted out all
her fancies, and dominated her for her own
good, and there would have been an end of
all these weary discussions and misunderstandings.



The gong sounded as we reached this point
in our conversation, and we could hear the
young men racing down the passages on their
way to their rooms.

'We must go and change, Jem.' and Hubert
started up, and Kitty and I followed them more
leisurely.

But I had not forgotten poor little Hugh,
and I hurried up to the schoolroom to see how
he was getting on with his imposition. Contrary
to my expectations, I heard voices, and on
opening the door I was surprised to see Harry
Vivian sitting on the schoolroom table with
Hugh's slate in his hand, and Hugh standing
beside him with a radiant face.

Oh, thank you so much, Mr. Vivian ; I quite
understand it now.'

'All right, little 'un; now go and show it to
your governor.'

And then he caught sight of me, and jumped
up with a boyish blush on his face, as though
he had been discovered in some wrong-doing.

Have you been helping Hugh, Mr. Vivian ?
That is very good of you.'

Yes ; isn't he awfully kind, auntie ? He has
been here ever so long showing me how to do
my lesson.'

'Well, it was hard lines on him, poor little
chap, being mewed up on such a lovely evening.
Now, do as I tell you, Hugh : go and show your
imposition to Mr. Leigh, and then run out in
the garden.'

And Hugh, with a grateful look at his friend,
tucked his books under his arm, and ran downstairs
to his father's dressing-room.

I wish Mr. Leigh were not quite so strict
with the little fellow,' observed Mr. Vivian, as
soon as he found himself alone with me. ' I
beg your pardon if I am saying too much, but
I always think both he and Mrs. Leigh are
rather hard on the boy ; they don't give him
credit for his good intentions. He does his
work to the best of his ability, and we are
not all blessed with the same amount of
brains.'

I agree with you,' I assented warmly; ' thank

you SO much for helping the poor child. I am
quite as grateful to you as he is

Nonsense ; I liked doing it, don't you know.
I have not forgotten how a boy feels under these
circumstances. Must you go. Miss Leigh ?
What have you been doing all the afternoon 
taking a walk with Rollo ?'

I am going to leave Rollo in a week or two ;
will you be very good to him in my absence ?'
and I gave Mr. Vivian a hasty sketch of my
plans. His face fell at once.

'You are going away, Miss Leigh, and we do
not break up until the second of August  nearly
a whole month without you ; what will Rollo
and I do ?'

You will do excellently well,' was my unfeeling
reply. ' Rollo will miss me, of course  dear
old fellow  because he is myconstantcompanion;
but, now I come to think of it, why should I not
take him with me ? Miss Seton will not mind.
Yes, Rollo shall go too ; he shall take his first
sea-voyage, and see foreign life with his mistress.
Oh, how delightful !' and I clapped my hands in
pure girlish glee.

You care more about that dog than you do
for the whole of us put together,' returned Mr.
Vivian reproachfully. ' You are so different
to other girls ; one cannot make the least impression
on you.'

Au revoir, monsieur,' I replied lightly, making
him a profound curtsey, and the next
minute I was in the passage.

We all liked Harry' Vivian, he was such a
nice, gentlemanly boy  young man, I suppose I
ought to say, for he was twenty. He had been
in bad health for some years, and this had retarded
his education ; but since his recovery
had made up for lost time, and was now working
to some purpose. Hubert was in hope that he
would be ready for his matriculation in a few-months.
He and Jem were great friends ; they
had the same tastes and opinions. I liked him
immensely ; indeed, I preferred him to the other
two pupils. Mr. Campbell was handsome, but
he was decidedly stupid ; and Mr. Cunningham
was unpleasantly rich, and thought too much of
himself in consequence ; but Harry  I called
him Harry' to Jem  was always nice and good-natured
and ready to do kind things, and if
only he would not tr}- to make pretty speeches ;
but that was so like a boy, and I suppose he
could not help his nature  only it sometimes
gave me a good deal of trouble to keep him in
proper order. I could not help laughing, as I
dressed myself, at the remembrance of his long
face. ' Nearly a whole month without you !' Poor
bov ! I am the only sfirl about, so he thinks he
is obliged to fall in love with me. How Jem
VOL. I. 5

would chaff him if he knew ; but he is too nice
a boy, and I will keep his lite secret for him.
Why, Kitty had half a dozen lovers before she
was eighteen, and I am a whole year older, and,
with the exception of Harry Vivian, no one has
ever paid me a single compliment ; but ' when a
person has too long an under lip and a nose that
is everything a nose ought not to be,' recalling
Jem's severe criticism, ' that fact need excite no
special wonder ;' and in this philosophic frame
of mind I finished my toilet.

The dinner-hour at Fircroft was always the
most wearisome to me in the twenty-four.
Hubert's bland conversation, somewhat tinged
with pomposity, seemed to cast a dead-weight
over everything. His twofold character of pastor
and master invested him with added dignity ;
and with Kitty in her pretty evening dress at
the other end of the table, drinking in his words
of wisdom as though he were Solon and Solomon
combined, no wonder he seemed to expand
with mingled importance and benevolence.
I always sat between Hubert and Mr. Cunningham
 a position I hated. If Hubert's rounded
sentences were not to my taste, Mr. Cunningham's
remarks were even less so. I never
knew a young man so entirely satisfied with
himself. He ought to have married Miss
Kilmanseg with her golden leg, for every

word related directly or indirectly to what regenerate
souls term filthy lucre. Egotism eked
out with a stammer and an eye-glass had little
attraction for me.

Have you heard from home lately, ]mr.
Cunningham ?' 1 would remark, with an attempt
to be gracious.

Yes  my  my  father wrote. He  he 
has had a stroke of luck  made a pot of m-m-
money lately ;' and thereupon would follow
some stuttering account of speculations or investments
which I did not pretend to understand,
or anecdotes of 'my hunter, my dogs, my
people.'

I never knew anyone so fond of the possessive
pronoun. When Jem was at home things
were far better. He always sat opposite tome,
and when Hubert was unusually prosy we
would telegraph our amusement to each other,
or Jem would strike into the conversation ; he
was the only one who dared to contradict the
master of the house.

Come, come, we have had enough of these
Greek fellows,' he would say ; ' they were
precious ruffians, I can tell you. It is too bad
to talk shop and hinder our digestion. Did
you see Roberts, of merton, has distinguished
himself ? He was always a plucky one.'
actually the audacious boy would change the

conversation after this fashion. Or he and Harry
Vivian, who always followed his lead, would
begin a sparring match ; witticism would follow
witticism. It was droll to see how Hubert
looked through his spectacles trying to understand
them.

What do you two fellows mean ?' he would
ask helplessly. ' I wish you would talk sense,
Jem.'

Only clever people can talk nonsense,' Jem
retorted once. ' If you would only try your
hand at it for half an hour, Hubert, it would
do you a world of good.'

You have forgotten, then, the great Roman
warn in Of : " Nescio vox missa revert "  that
means, Olga,' with explanatory courtesy, ' that
a word once uttered is irrevocable.'

Jem shook his head sorrowfully.

You are crushing butterflies with a garden-roller.
Can't you find a lighter implement to
brush the powder off our gauzy wings ? Vivian
looks quite depressed ; he is choking with conscious
guilt. " Nescio vox missa revert." My
poor Harry ! what is to become of all thy
breezy jokes ?'

'Really, Jem,' and Hubert drew himself up
in an offended manner, ' there are limits to
everything  even to jesting ;' for his feelings
were hurt on perceiving his quotation had

failed to make its mark. But Jem contrived
to soothe him. The brothers were really
attached to each other ; but Jem could not
always forbear a joke at Hubert's expense. I
am afraid he and Harry delighted in getting a
rise ' out of him, as they called it ; and really, to
watch his puzzled expression over one of Jem's
ridiculous jokes, was enough to make one die
with laughing. No, the dinner-hour was never
dull when Jem was at Fircroft.

It was our habit  Jem's and mine, I mean 
to escape the tedium of the drawing-room circle
as often as we could, and retire to the garden,
where Harry would join us.

Hubert and Mr. Campbell generally played
chess  a game of which they were both passionately
fond ; but Hubert, who was a strict
disciplinarian even in trifles, had laid down
the law that music was a necessary part of
every evening's entertainment. Mr. Cunningham
played the flute atrociously, and Harry
had lately taken lessons on the violin ; so Kitty
or I were in requisition as accompanies to these
misguided young men. To add to our misery,
Mr. Campbell had recently discovered he had
a fine bass voice. The adjective ' fine ' was
dubious ; but, alas ! the voice was undeniable,
and the game of chess was often curtailed in

order that Mr. Campbell's sonorous notes might
be heard and admired.

Now, a musical evening made to order, and
with indifferent musicians, has always been my
abomination of abominations; and yet I protest,
by the shades of Beethoven and Handel, that
I am a devout lover of music ; but a cut-untried
routine of badly-executed pieces, wherein
the same faults recur every evening, was enough
to sicken anyone. Kitty was far more patient
under the ordeal.

That's right, Kitty, my dear; you and Cunningham
played that last piece very well. Bravo,
Cunningham ! that does you credit, really ;' and
Hubert, who had not the least ear for music,
and whose nervous system was proof against
any amount of diabolic squeaks and quavers,
though even Rollo protested against them in
his doggish way, would beam on the complacent
youth who had just distinguished himself.

I make a point of encouraging my pupils'
musical tastes,' I heard Hubert once say to an
anxious parent. * Nothing harmonizes young
men more, or better disposes them to domesticity.
My wife and sister are accomplished pianists '
(oh, Hubert, what a fib! though certainly Kitty
had a pretty touch), 'and our evenings are delightful.
We have the flute, the violin  quite
an orchestra.'

Who ever heard a flute in an orchestra, you
silly fellow ?

I was bent on making my escape this evening,
so I whispered to Jem as he opened the door
for us after dinner :

Get rid of Harry ; I want you all to myself;'
and he nodded in his quick way.

Jem always understood me in a moment. I
found him waiting for me in the hall a minute
later.

Don't go in the garden, Olga,' he said ;
Campbell and Vivian are smoking their cigarettes
out there. Let us take a turn in the Elm
Avenue instead; no one will find us there ;' and
of course I consented to his proposition.

We had so much to talk about that I am
sure we walked miles before we had half exhausted
the subject. Jem was full of my projected
journey to St. Croix  he always took an
interest in my smallest concerns  and he wanted
me to tell him everything Aunt Catherine had
said.

I was so full of my recital, and Jem was so
nice and sympathetic, that I took no notice of
where we were going ; but all of a sudden I
awoke to full consciousness. The elms, with
the slumbering rooks, were no longer over our
heads ; we were walking down a side-path in
the Italian garden, and just before us was the

Lady s Walk, looking more sombre and mysterious
than ever In the moonlight.

Jem,' I remonstrated, ' why have you brought
me here ? You know nothing on earth will
induce me to enter the Lady Gwendoline's
Walk.'

What nonsense, Olga ! Do you mean you
are afraid to go there with me ?' And Jem's
voice had a touch of scorn that nettled me in
spite of my nervousness.

I would rather not. Don't be tiresome ;
Everyone has his or her special fancy. I
cannot bear that ghostly terrace. I always
imagine Oh, Jem  Jem! what Is that?'

And I pinched his arm In my agitation, for,
as though my nervousness had found its actual
embodiment, a white figure glided from behind
the dark trees. Was It Lady Gwendoline
waiting for her Puritan lover, Ralph of the
Iron-Heart ? ' Oh, Jem !'

'Hush, Olga! don't be a fool.' Jem was
just a little rough with me because my paleness
alarmed him. ' What a goose you are ! don't
you see it Is Mrs. Lyndhurst ?'

Mrs. Lyndhurst ! I recovered in a moment.
Of course it was she, only she looked so strange
and unlike herself Her black gown was hidden
under a loose white burnous, and she had
drawn its hood over her gray hair, so that she

/3

really looked ghost-like in the moonlight. The
next minute 1 begged Jem in a whisper to come
away.

Do come, dear ! She will be so vexed if
she thinks she is watched. Aunt Catherine
has told me so. She often takes solitary walks,
and nothing annoys her more than for anyone
to follow and speak to her. You knows she is
odd in her ways. She is coming towards us
now ; what shall we do ?'

But Jem, with ready presence of mind, drew
me behind a great flowering shrub, that completely
hid us, though we could just see through
the branches.

How I wished we were safe in our own
Surprise ! It was so uncanny to be hiding
there in the moonlight. Mrs. Lyndhurst was
coming towards us with a soft, gliding motion
that conveyed no sound ; her pale face was paler
than ever, and there was a fixed look upon it,
as though some sad thought dominated her.
Just as she was opposite to us  opposite our
hiding-place, I mean  she suddenly stopped
and wrung her hands, as though with involuntary
pain.

Oh, my sin !' we heard her say  ' will it
never be condoned in this world ? Will there
never be an end of all this suspense and
misery ? Only God knows !'

And then she turned away, and we heard
such a heart-broken sigh.

Now we can go,' whispered Jem eagerly ;
quick, Olga, before she turns.' And, holding
my arm tightly, we ran Lightly down the
garden-paths and gained the avenue ; but we
neither of us spoke until the Hall was out of
sight.

Oh, Jem ! what does it mean ?'

That is not for us to inquire,' was the
unexpected response. ' Poor woman, I always
guessed that her life had an unhappy secret in
it. I never saw sorrow more legibly written on
any human countenance.'

I knew her husband was a bad man.'

Yes, we all know as much as that ; but, Olga,
we must forget what has just passed. We
must not even let our thoughts dwell on it.
Mrs. Lyndhurst imagined that she was alone 
you must remember that.'

But I can never forget her words, Jem.'

Perhaps not ; but I do not mean to think
about them. If I can, I will wipe them out of
my memory. They shall be to me as though
they had not been spoken.'

I knew Jem had a keen sense of honour,
but I never felt before how much he was above
me in that respect. I am afraid women are
often faulty in this respect. I do not mean by

this that they would Hasten at doors, or voluntarily
intrude into other folk's conversation,
but they are often wanting in the finer points
of honour. I do not fancy a man, for example,
would criticise his visitor as soon as the outer
door closed on him, and yet I heard ladies
discuss their friends in the most heartless way,
and indulge in innuendoes at their expense.

Poor dear woman ! Yes, we will forget all
about it, Olga,' repeated Jem decisively, as
we reached Fircroft.

But though I tried hard to follow this advice,
I found it impossible. All that night, waking
or dreaming, the words seemed to haunt me :
Oh, my sin ! will it never be condoned in this
world ? Will there never be an end of this
suspense and misery ?' and ' only God knows !'
seemed to echo and re-echo through my brain.

SHALL YOU LET ME GO, MOTHER ?'

In no relation does woman exercise so deep an influence,
both immediately and prospectively, as in that of mother.'

Carter.

Human nature is exceeding complex ; it is
many-sided and Proteus-like in its shifting
transformations. There is something mysterious,
almost baffling, in seeing anyone we
know intimately under an entirely new aspect
the sudden metamorphosis stares and alarms
our inner consciousness in much the same way
that a flash of lightning dazzles our outward
vision. The arrowy brightness of electricity
illuminates the darkness, bringing sombre depths
and unknown objects into strange significance ;
but before we can grasp the meaning of the
spectacle the weird effect is swallowed up in the
blackness of vacancy.

In the same way human nature suddenly

reveals itself; in a moment some unseen force
or agency, some combination of circumstance
at once grotesque and terrible, asserts its power ;
with a shock, an upheaval as of an earthquake,
our foregone conclusions tumble about our ears,
our preconceived opinions are thwarted 
strangled. Nothing is the same, there is confusion,
chaos, the old order changes ; then the
turmoil subsides  there is quiet, a cessation of
strife ; but to us the calmness is ominous  what
has been may be again !

It was in this way that I thought of Mrs.
Lyndhurst the next morning on waking ; my
girlish faith had sustained a shock. Jem
would have scoffed at the idea of a few wild
words altering my estimation of a person, but I
could not take them lightly ; to me they where
pregnant with mysterious meaning  they hinted
at something chaotic, terrible. If only I could
have talked it over comfortably with Jem ; if
he could have reasoned my doubts away  but
no, there was his sense of honour warning me
off forbidden ground. On certain points Jem
was inexorable. I knew him too well ever to
hope that his reserve would yield to curiosity ;
it was no affair of his or mine ; we had been
innocent eavesdroppers, that was all. Jem
would have cried shame on me for letting my
truant imaginations play about a neighbour's

secret. ' Have you no sense of honour ?' he
would have said, with crushing sternness, if I
had weakly applied to him for a solution.
There was no comfort to be got out of Jem on
these sort of emergencies. If only I could follow
his creditable example, and wipe out the
memory of those words ; but to me it was impossible.
All the world knew that Mrs. Lynd-
hurst was an unsatisfied, unhappy woman, but
that she had sinned  no, impossible. It was
that word  sin ' that haunted me, and the despairing
tone in which it had been uttered.

I felt I could not go up to the Hall ; my looks
would have betrayed my inward uneasiness. I
was a bad actor ; Jem always told me so. I
should have felt like a culprit before Mrs.
Lyndhurst, and should have stammered over
the simplest sentence ; and in spite of her
gentleness Mrs. Lyndhurst was very clear-eyed
and observant. She was by no means indifferent
to people's good opinion ; she liked to stand well
with her friends ; any want of respect or consideration
would have hurt her grievously.

I suppose I had better not go to the Hall
this afternoon,' I said rather tentatively to Jem,
when I encountered him in the garden ; but
Jem refused to see the feeble bait I flung out
to him.

I suppose not, as Hubert and Kitty are

going,' he replied drily ; ' there is no need for
the whole family to show up, is there ?' and he
went off without another word, the tiresome
boy. Of course, he saw from my face that I
was dying to talk to him, but I might as well
have attracted a whale with a gaudy fly ! such
is masculine human nature and the manners of
brothers, that I believe Jem thoroughly enjoyed
disappointing me.

But my morbid curiosity was not to be repressed,
and on Kitty's return I followed her
upstairs on some pretence or other. Kitty was
not averse to my company, and she chatted
comfortably about her visit, as she smoothed
out the fingers of her gloves, so skilfully that
they looked like new. It was a sort of education
to watch Kitty at her toilet ; she had
wonderfully methodical little ways. She had
lost her parents when she was a child, and had
been brought up by her grandmother ; all
Kitty's prim habits had been inculcated by her
aged relative. Kitty's room, her drawers, were
models of tidiness ; she often volunteered to
turn out my drawers and boxes, and reduce
their chaotic contents to the same state of
elaborate neatness  her lectures to me on this
point were highly edifying and amusing.

'Well, it is a shame for girls to be untidy,'
Jem once said when I retailed part of Kitty s

lecture, giving it a humorous meaning. ' Kitty
is quite right, and you ought to turn over a new
leaf. A pretty sort of wife you will make, Olga !
I quite pity the poor fellow who ever aspires to
be my brother-inlaw which was rude of Jem,
and a cowardly going over to the enemy.

Did you see the ladies, Kitty ?' for, in common
with the whole of the village, we always called
them ' the ladies.'

'Yes; and Miss Seton insisted on our remaining
to tea. They were nicer than usual, very
kind and friendly, only Mrs. Lyndhurst looked
dreadfully ill. I never saw her face so pinched
and white. Hubert noticed it ; he spoke to me
directly we left the Hall. '' How wretched
Mrs. Lyndhurst looks !" that was what he said.'

'You and Hubert generally think alike, do
you not ?' But there was no sarcastic meaning
in my question.

Kitty took it seriously, as usual.

When I first married I thought husbands
and wives were bound to think alike,' she said
quietly, as she tried to smooth her dark, curly
hair. Kitty's hair would ripple into soft little
curls and waves above her forehead, though she
vainly tried to repress them ; but she might as
well have tried to straighten Girlie-gar's curly
crop. ' I was so young, you know, Olga, and
so dreadfully inexperienced. Why, I was only

twenty when dear little Cecil died,' for Kitty
had lost her first baby, and it had been a great
sorrow to her. ' I remember how hard I tried
to agree with everything Hubert said; but it
was no use, one must have one's own opinions,
so I gave it up.'

I am glad you were so sensible.'

I did not become so for a long time,' with a
faint sigh ; 'girls are dreadfully silly. Hubert
cured me at last, but I am not going to tell you
how; you will find it out for yourself some day,
when you are married. I think I like disagreeing
with Hubert now and then, because
he takes so much trouble to bring me round to
his opinion, and there is the pleasure of giving
in at the end.'

And it would be too matter-of-fact to think
alike on every point ?'

Of course '  with a knowing nod  * too
humdrum altogether ; I am afraid '  penitently
' I often give Hubert a great deal of trouble
with my little tempers ; but he is so dear and
patient that it makes me love him all the
better.'

1 pondered over this wifely speech, which
Kitty made with a good deal of feeling ; then I
shook my head.

If I had a husband,' I remarked, ' I should
wish to be perfect in his eyes. I should not

VOL. I. 6

allow him to see my faults more than I could
help.'

That sounds rather fatiguing, Olga, as
though one were to be in permanent full-dress.
One could not keep that up, you know ; there
would be a break-down soon.'

Do you think so ?' doubtfully.

I am sure of it. Why, my dear, two people
cannot live together without a good deal of
friction, without rubbing against each other's
angles. Men are so dreadfully tiresome, you
see; they are obtuse, and do not notice little
things, and that aggravates a woman. They
want you to think them perfect ; and if you
point out a defect, well, they are as hurt as
possible, and yet they will lecture you for half
an hour at a time, and tell you not to do this
and how to do that ; and they expect you to
listen with a smile on your face, and if you turn
the least bit cross they are off in a moment,
and think you unreasonable and ill-tempered.'

I am sure Hubert is not one of those
men.'

How do you know ?' turning on me quite
sharply; 'he has his little faults like other people;
he can be dense, too, and misunderstand one.
Not that I have not often given him a bit to
bear,' with another sigh, ' and of course it was
oftener my fault than his. I know that as well

as you do, Olga ; for I quite understand what
your hint impHes, and what you and Jem think
that I have never been good enough for
Hubert;

Oh, good gracious ! I was in for it now ;
but fortunately Kitty only grazed the dangerous
points and went off at a tangent.

I dare say you are both of you right, and I
am an uncomfortable sort of person to live with ;
but I cannot help my nature, and Hubert seems
happy enough. Well, we won't talk about that
any more, though I do wish I were different, for
all your sakes.'

My dear Kitty, I don't believe Hubert
wants you to be different ; he is far too fond of
you.'

She broke into a little smile at this.

Hubert is my husband, so of course he is
good to me ; but, Olga,' looking at me wistfully,
I wish you and Jem understood me better.
You don't know,' her voice trembling, ' how
hard it is never to feel well, or as strong as
other people. It makes me fanciful. I remember
when I never ailed anything  when
life was just beautiful to me. I never thought
then that I should ever come to feel as I do
now.'

'Are you feeling worse than usual, Kitty ?' I
asked, somewhat troubled at this.

62

No ; I am neither better nor worse. It is
the same every day. Dr. Langham says it is
want of vitality. I suppose he is right. I try
not to trouble Hubert more than I can help. I
do not like him to know how tired and 
I am ; he has enough on his mind
without that.'

I ought to help you more,' I began, feeling
rather conscience-stricken ; but Kitty would not
allow me to go on.

You do help me, Olga, and I would not
willingly monopolize your time. This is your
season of pleasure,' looking at me kindly ; * I
have had my time. Yes, indeed, I have much
to be thankful for. Hubert is good to me, and
I have the children. Perhaps if I were stronger
I should enjoy my life more, but we are not
sent into the world for our own enjoyment,'
finished Kitty, with vivid recollection of last
Sunday's sermon.

We had wandered far away from Mrs. Lynd-
hurst, and I dare not return to the subject,
especially as Kitty seemed disposed to moralize ;
but all at once she changed the subject somewhat
abruptly.

We have settled about your trip, Olga. Miss
Seton wants you to get your things ready at
once. I suppose you will require a new dress ;
your summer tweed is rather shabby.'

I am not sure that I shall buy anything,'
rather dubiously. ' I have spent my quarter's
allowance already.'

What a pity !' Kitty had quite recovered
herself now. ' If only my things would fit you!
Hubert made me get that gray gown and
jacket, and I have not worn them more than
three times ; but you are too tall,' regarding me
ruefully, for Kitty was one of the most generous
of beings, and would have stripped herself of her
pretty things willingly. ' So it is no good thinking
about that ; you must just ask Hubert for a
cheque ; tell him from me, if you like, that you
must have a new tweed dress and jacket and a
hat to match. Miss Seton must not be disgraced
by your shabbiness. He is in his study
now. Why don't you go to him and get it over,
and then wee can buy the dress tomorrow ?'

This was sensible advice, and after a minute's
hesitation I resolved to follow it. Perhaps
Kitty saw the reluctance with which I made up
my mind, for she patted me on the shoulder
kindly and said :

You need not be afraid ; Hubert is sure to
give you what you want ; he is always generous.'

Perhaps it was my pride ; but I did so hate to
ask for money. So I marched into the study in
rather a shamefaced way. To add to my embarrassment,
Hubert was making up parish

accounts, and looked up with rather an annoyed
air at the interruption.

What do you want, my dear ? This is Friday
evening, and I am extremely busy  will not the
business keep until another time ?'

Oh yes, of course, Hubert, only Kitty
wanted me to come. It is about money ; but I
can wait very well until tomorrow.'

No, no ; perhaps you had better tell me
now,' he returned fussily; ' but Kitty might have
remembered ; it is rather inconsiderate to interrupt
me just now,' and then he leant back in his
chair and took off his spectacles and regarded
me in a reproachful way as I stammered out my
request. He was still shaking his head over
Kitty's want of consideration as he wrote out
the cheque and handed it to me. ' Another
time please do not choose Friday evening he
said with mild insistence.

I had gained my point ; but, in spite of his
rebuke, I lingered a moment to ask after Hugh,
who had been missing all the afternoon.

Do you know where he is, Hubert ?' I ventured.


Hubert's fussiness vanished, and he put on at
once his stern schoolmaster s air at the mention
of Hugh's name.

'He is in his own room. I sent him there a
couple of hours ago. He had to do his sums

over again. His work has been disgraceful this
week  absolutely disgraceful ! I am beginning
to think he needs competition. We seem at a
dead-lock at present. He must go to school.
Vivian thinks so too ; only Kitty is so against
it ; but it has come to this  that I cannot teach
him any longer.'

Hubert was walking about the room as he
spoke. In mentioning Hugh's name I was
touching on a very sore point. His boy's slow
perception was a bitter humiliation to him. His
parental pride suffered a martyrdom. I felt for
him ; but, all the same, he was too hard on
Hugh.

'Oh, Hubert,' I exclaimed, 'do try him a
little longer. You have no idea how hard he
really works ; only lessons are not so easy to
him as to other boys. I think it will break his
heart to send him to school.'

He is breaking mine with his stupidity !' returned
Hubert, so bitterly that I stood aghast to
hear him. Hubert rarely spoke strongly about
anything. ' I can do nothing with him. I
talked to him yesterday for nearly half an hour
about his bad preparation, and he promised todo
better; and this morning his lessons were
worse than ever, and his only excuse was, one
of his rabbits had died and put everything out
of his head.'

I half smiled. Hugh was very babyish for
his age, but I knew he was devoted to his pets ;
but Hubert's sternness did not relax.

He is my greatest trial. It is hard to be
punished in one's children. I thought I should
have been so proud of Hugh  he was such a
bright lite fellow once ; but he must go to
school  I have made up my mind on that point.
Where is Kitty ? I want to talk to her. These

accounts must keep ' and Hubert stalked

off, grim and melancholy, to find his wife. How
I wished I had not mentioned Hugh ! Now he
would make Kitty miserable for the rest of the
evenings.

I hesitated for a long time before I ventured
to go in search of the culprit. When Hubert
was in one of these moods it was dangerous to
go against him ; even Kitty did not dare to
oppose him. Slow-natured men like Hubert let
their wrath smoulder unperceived for a longtime
; but when they are once at white heat,
they are not easily mollified. His very love
added fuel to his anger. Hugh's punishment
was likely to be commensurate with his father's
disappointment. After a time I took courage
and crept up to Hugh's room. I could hear the
click of spoons and cups in the schoolroom as I
passed  the children were having tea. I wondered
if nurse had remembered Hugh. The

room felt hot and close as I entered it, and
Hugh was stooping over his books in the hottest
corner. He looked up at me piteously as I
entered, and then put down his head on the
table and sobbed.

Oh, Aunt Olga, I cannot do my sums! My
head is so hot, and all the figures dance about
so. I have been trying for hours, and they will

not come right, and father says Oh dear !

oh dear ! what shall I do ?' and the poor little
fellow cried as though his heart would break.

Have you had your tea, Huo-h ?'

No  o ; father said I was to stop here until
I had finished my sums.'

I glanced at the hopeless array of figures and
at the dog's-eared book, and then spoke with
decision :

Don't cry any more, Hugh ; it is babyish.
Boys ought not to cry. Go and wash your face;
sponge it well, and brush your hair ; and I will
bring you some tea. Why don't you open your
window wide ? there, the room will be fresher so.
Now do as I tell you, and I will be back
directly ;' and I nodded cheerfully and vanished.
Hugh was a great favourite with nurse, so she
willingly supplied me with all I wanted, and
even cut an extra large slice of cake.

Hugh had finished his ablutions when I returned
; but he could not call up a smile even

at the sight of the cake. Still, he was very
glad of the refreshing cup of tea, and I coaxed
him to eat by telling him an amusing story of
adventure that I had just read. It was deliciously
horrible  just what boys love, and the
anxious puckers in his face relaxed involuntarily
as he listened.

What a wonderful man he must have been,
Aunt Olcra ! I should like to be a traveller
when I grow up. Father says I shall never
make a clergyman, because I can't do my Latin,
and this morning he said I should not even do
for a business man,' and here his chest heaved
ominously. * I know I did my lesson badly ;
but I had to bury poor little Cuddy  you know
Cuddy, the white rabbit you liked so. He was
such a pretty little fellow. Something poisoned
him, and I found him dead this morning, and
Mr. Vivian made a coffin for him, and we had a
funeral, and the old gray rabbit had a crape

bow, and ' but I sternly checked these

reminiscences.

'We will talk by-and-by, Hugh; but it is
getting late, and I want to help you with those
sums  at least, I will explain the principle, and
you must work them out yourself.'

Hugh nodded, and sat staring at me with his
beautiful eyes, trying with all his might to understand
my instruction ; but it was hard work. I

could comprehend Hubert's fit of disgust and
impatience. Hugh was dreadfully slow. We
succeeded at last, but not before Hugh complained
that his headache had returned ; so I
persuaded him to go to bed.

I will put the books in your father's study,'
I said ; ' but there is no need for you to come
downstairs. You have worried yourself into a
fever. You see, the sums were not so difficult
after all.'

You made it all so easy. You explain
things so nicely, auntie. Oh, if I were only as
clever as you and mother ! I wonder what
makes me so stupid ? Do you think I was born
so ? It is not really naughtiness, as father
thinks ; it is not, really, Aunt Olga.'

I told him that I was sure of that, and he
looked a little happier at this assurance, and just
at this minute Kitty interrupted us. She was
dressed for dinner ; but I could see from her
eyes that she had been crying.

Hugh has done his sums,' I observed hastily ;
but his head aches, and I persuaded him to goto
bed.'

My head does really ache, mother,' added
Hugh anxiously.

Kitty went up to him without a word and
felt his forehead and hands ; then she glanced at
the empty tray ; finally she sat down by his bed.

Hugh, who adored his mother, threw his
arms round her.

Are you going to stop with me a little ?' he
said joyfully. ' Aunt Olga has been so kind.
She showed me how to do my sums. I did try
so hard, mother, only father will not believe it.*

Are you sure you tried, Hugh ?' And then she
continued sadly, ' You are making your father
and me very unhappy. I don't think father has
ever been so angry with you before. He says
he cannot teach you any longer  that you must
2fo to school.'

The boy's arms fell away from her neck in a
moment. He seemed to shrink into himself at
this announcement.

Oh, mother!' was all he said; but his tone
touched Kitty's motherly heart. She was very
tender with her children.

Father has tried his very best,' she said
softly ; ' but he feels it is all no use  that a
stranger will teach you better. He has been
talking to me about it, and I can see he means
what he says !'

Shall you let me go, mother?' in a reproachful
voice.

I must let you go,' she replied quietly ; ' you
are father's boy as well as mine, and he knows
what is best for you. I don't want to part with
you, my darling,' as the boy lay shaking with

sobs, and she stooped over and kissed him very
lovingly ; ' but I must help father to do his
duty. He is not sending you away because he
does not love you ; but because he knows it will
be best for you to learn with other boys.'

The gong sounded at this moment, and I was
obliged to go ; but I left Hugh more comfortably.
I knew Kitty would not leave him
until she had drawn the sting from his pain.
Her maternal instinct was very strong. She
was always at her best with her children.

When I had finished dressing I stole to the
half-opened door and peeped in. Kitty was on
her knees beside the bed. She seemed speaking
very solemnly, though I could not hear the
words. When she had finished, Huo;h said :

Mother dear, won't you say another prayer,
asking that I may be a clever boy ? I often
do.'

I don't think those sort of prayers help us,
dear,' she returned gently. ' Perhaps it is God's
will that you are not as quick as other boys ot
your age. It may be your trial ; we all have
our trials, Hugh. Only try to believe that
father loves you as much as he does Wilfred
and the twins, and that we are only sending
you away for your own good ; and ask God to
make you brave, and more willing to go  that
is a much better prayer.'

Very well, mother. Now you must go
down to dinner ; I must not keep you any
longer.'

Good-night, then, my dearest boy !'

What put it into Kitty's mind to say that ?
Was he, after all, her dearest, although at times
she had seemed hard to him ? I could fancy
the happy smile on Hugh's face. The boy
doted on his parents. If he could only bring
himself to believe that he was as dear to them
as their clever, sprightly Wilfred, he would bea
far happier boy.

I drew back from the door as Kitty came
out ; but I could not help kissing her for being
so nice to Hugh. There was a wonderfully
gentle expression on her face as she smiled
back at me ; but she did not speak, neither
did I.

THE lady's walk.'

'Tis life whereof our nerves are scant ;
More life and fuller that we want.
No heart in which was healthful breath
Has ever truly longed for death.'

Wordsworth.

Hugh's childish griefs had banished the tragical
recollections of last night from my memory, but
they revived with added intensity when, later
in the evening, a note arrived from the Hall.
Aunt Catherine was going to London on business
the next morning, and would be away the
whole day. Mrs. Lyndhurst was more unwell
than usual, and  here the words were underlined
 would I take my work and spend the
afternoon with her, and so shorten the hours of
her loneliness ?

There could be only one response to this.
I was accustomed to these friendly demands ;
it was quite a usual thing for me to sit with

Mrs. Lyndhurst during her sister's brief absences
in town ; nevertheless, for the first time
I was unwilling to obey the summons. When
I passed the note to Jem I looked at him
meaningly and shrugged my shoulders, but his
sole answer was a blank stare. This vexed
me, and I said with some degree of pettishness
:

These visits to town are endless just now ;
it is rather a bore leaving home so much during
your last week  don't you think so ?'

If Aunt Catherine wants you, I don't think
we ought to consider ourselves,' he replied in
the most indifferent voice. That was the worst
of Jem  he never would encourage what he
called sentimentality ; with all his affection forme
 and I believe he felt far more than he
expressed  he always damped anything like
effusion ; lingering leavetakings, terms of endearment,
or unnecessary caresses were abhorrent
to his somewhat stoical nature.

This little appeal that vaguely implied a
necessity for his presence did not touch him in
the least, and when I begged him rather
urgently to keep himself free for the following
afternoon, that we might have a nice long walk
together, he returned dryly that Vivian had
already booked him for a bicycle trip.

This was too much for my philosophy.

Oh, Jem, and we shall only have two whole
days together after that!'

Jem put down his carving tools ; he was
making a bracket for Kitty, and looked at me
with profound anxiety.

Do you feel ill, Olga ? This is the first I
have heard about it, but '  with a glance at
the timepiece  ' it is not so very late, scarcely
half-past nine, so I can easily go down for Dr.
Langham.'

What do you mean ?" I returned, utterly
bewildered.

Had Jem taken leave of his senses ? he was
actually holding my hand and fumbling at my
pulse ; but I wrenched it from him quite crossly.

I thought you were going to die or do something
equally disagreeable, as we had only two
whole days before us ; it made me feel quite
bad for a moment ;' and the tiresome boy sighed
heavily, and took up his tools again. And then
what did he do but paraphrase Airs. Hemans's
exquisite lite lament : * Oh, call my sister back
to me ! I cannot play alone;' but I would not
listen to him.

I am afraid I was decidedly cross with Jem
that night  as though he cared ! I heard him
laughing as I left the room. I would not say
good-night to him. Yes, 1 made up my mind
that that would be a fitting punishment for his

VOL. I. 7

hard-heartiness and want of feeling. I knew
the resolution would cost me a good cry, for I
was so fond of Jem that I could not bear to
be angry with him for a moment, and I very
seldom was ; but his manner was decidedly
trying this evening ; and he must be taught
that a sister had feelings. As I was still in the
same humour half an hour afterwards, I went
up to my room, taking no notice of Jem, who was
still busy with his bracket ; but a short time
afterwards there was a great flap against my
door. It was a sound I knew well, most likely
Rollo wanted some water ; but when I opened
it there was Rollo wagging his huge tail with
an air of immense satisfaction, and holding a
brown-paper parcel in his mouth, which he
dropped at once at my feet. I eyed it gingerly.
Could Harry have dared ? I was quite afraid
to touch it; it was so unpleasant giving back

presents, and yet if I kept it but I was too

sensible to think of doings such a things. I
hesitated so long that Rollo whined and scratched
at the parcel with his clumsy paw, as much as
to say, ' Why don't you open it ?' So, to keep
him quiet, I untied the string.

But to my delight it was not from Harry at all;
it was actually from Jem. Oh, the dear fellow !
it was his own handiwork, a pretty little carved
box with a lock and key, that he had made to

surprise me, most likely  his parting gift ! 1 1
was quite empty. No, there was a folded paper
inside. I opened it eagerly  a copy of verses !
Oh, Jem, how delicious !

Oh ! call my brother back to me,
But do not call too loud.
Poor chap ! alas, I warrant thee
He lies within his shroud !'

and so on.

At this moment I heard a low whistle.
Rollo heard it, too, for he pricked up his glossy
ears and vanished. I followed and peeped
over the banisters. Jem was coming lazily
upstairs with his candle, but he suddenly thought
better of it, and deliberately sat down on the
staircase, while Rollo squatted on his haunches
beside him. In this position the most remarkable
colloquy ensued.

I say, Rollo, old fellow, what's up with Olga?
Tell us, there's a good chappie.'

Don't be vulgar, Jem,' in a hoarse voice ;
'* chappie's " low, dear boy.'

Oh, shut up ! none of that.'

Well,' still more hoarsely, ' mind your
manners then ; but I am sorry to tell you the
missis is horribly cross.'

No, you don't say so.'

*In a regular passion. "Rollo," says she,
'' where's that rude, unfeeling boy, Jem ?" says

72

she. '' Talk of brothers, he's a regular bad one,"
says she, '' and I should like to box his ears ; but
as I shall only have a brother for two whole
days " and here she fetches out her handkerchief
and cries awful.'

Awfully, Rollo, awfully !' but here I came
upon Jem like a whirlwind ; and if, as he said
afterwards, he had not had the presence of mind
to blow out the candle, nobody would have
known what might or might not have happened,
for he was in imminent danger of strangulation.

But in spite of his struggles and Rollo's wild
barks of joy I managed to thank him my own
way.

He was quite limp and melancholy when I
got him into my room at last, and looked at
Rollo in a very feeling manner.

 What a pity our nice little tete-astute was interrupted,'
he observed sadly ; ' my peculiar
nature needs sympathy and plenty of it'' what
I takes I takes strong," as the charwoman observed
when the cabman pressed her to take
a glass of something 'ot  that's the way the
lower orders talk ; *' but, old chappie," says
she '

Now, Jem, I will not have it  not a word
more ; it is no use your pretending to be vulgar
of course I understand what your ridiculous
remarks meant.'

Indeed !' and Jem looked at me stolidly 
such an absence of expression I never saw in
any human face.

 Yes, you wanted me to understand that
these little matters of detail do not matter a bit ;
that I have got you, and you have got me '

Observe how exquisitely worded,' groaned
the incorrigible Jem ; * go ahead, Olga  you
have got me and I have got you ; all right,
what comes next ?'

This ;' and then I did actually box Jem's
ears, and he called out and Rollo barked
furiously, and Hubert's voice was heard in the
distance asking what on earth was the matter 
were we going to wake the children ? And
then Jem gave me a hasty kiss and fled. How
I laughed when Rollo and I were left alone !
Jem could be ridiculous when he liked, but
all the same he meant to teach me a little
lesson.

This absurd scene had refreshed me, and I
set off for the Hall the next day in much better
spirits. I found Mrs. Lyndhurst in her private
sitting-room, a small room on the first floor,
with a window overlooking the Elm Avenue.
It was not so handsomely furnished as the
library, which was Aunt Catherine's special
sanctum, but it was a pleasant room nevertheless
; the furniture was old-fashioned, and the

walls were covered with family portraits, but
there was an air of cosiness about it. Mrs.
Lyndhurst was lying back in a low cushioned
chair that she used as a lounge. As I entered
she held out her hand to me with a beseeching
look ; It was a look that seemed to say a good
deal  to claim, in a dumb sort of way, a large
portion of forbearance and sympathy. I never
knew eyes to express so much ; to-day they
reminded me of some animal in pain ; for the
first time I felt confused as I met them.

You are very good to come so early, Olga,'
she said, without noticing my embarrassment ;
will you take off your hat ? I see you have
brought your work ; that is nice. I have not
been feeling myself for some days, so Catherine
thought your company would be soothing.
You see I am so used to you,' with an affectionate
smile ; ' the society of some young
people would make me restless, but I never
feel so with you.'

This little compliment touched me.

I always like coming here,' 1 returned
graciously. ' Jem walked with me to the door ;
he sent his love to you ; he was so sorry that
you were not well enough to see him. Bennett
told us so.'

I thought Mrs. Lyndhurst looked disturbed ;
her face clouded.

Quite right ; Bennett knew that 1 was not fit
to talk to young men. Jem is a nice boy  a
very nice boy ; Catherine is exceedingly fond of
him. But no, I could not see him ; it would
have troubled me  it '

She passed her hand over her forehead as
though she were tired or harassed ; a sort of
feebleness came into her face. I do not know
how to describe the expression, but it always
distressed me when she looked like that, so I
hastened to set her mind at ease.

Jem quite understands  he never minds
being sent away. Perhaps you may be well
enough in a day or two to bid him good-bye 
he is going back to Oxford on Tuesday ; oh, I
am so sorry ! Fircroft is never the same without
Jem ; he is so full of life, he energizes so,
he puts spirit into one's daily existence  oh, I
do not know how to express it, but he seems to
pervade the whole house.'

The other young men will be still there,
will they not ?' she said, smiling a little at my
enthusiasm.

Yes, but they are just young men ; nobody
wants them. They are often in the way ;
young men are so stupid. Perhaps Mr. Vivian
is an exception. He is really nice ; not at all
insipid or slow, like the others ; but he is not
Jem.'

Jem will not always be the first, Olga.'

Yes, indeed he will,' rather vehemently, for
though of course I knew what Mrs. Lyndhurst
meant  and why will middle-aged people always
hint at these sort of things ?  I felt confident
in my own mind that no one but Harry
would ever think me attractive, or want to make
love to me, and I should certainly never listen to
him. Harry would never be anything but a nice
boy to me.

Well, well, we shall see. Now, Olga, do
you feel inclined to read to me ? The box has
come down from Muche's, and there are some
nice new books. You can choose any you
like.'

This was an unexpected treat. Mrs. Lynd-
hurst did not often ask me to read to her ; but
she seemed too fatigued to talk much, so I
made my selection and read aloud with the
greatest enjoyment to myself, and, I hope, to
her, until Mrs. Lyndhurst's maid brought up
the tea. Marsden was a kind-hearted creature,
and devoted to her mistress, and she always
seemed pleased to see me. She smiled as she
placed the low table beside me and arranged
the cups and saucers.

I am glad you are able to come, ma'am,'
she said pleasantly, ' for my mistress seems a
little low to-day.'

That is no new thing, Martens returned
Mrs. Lvndhurst, who had overheard this.

It is none the better for being old, is it,
ma'am ? and I am sure Miss Olga's company is
always good for you. Young folk have cheerful
ways with them. Will you ring for anything
you want, ma'am ?'

And Marsden, with another benevolent look
at us both, withdrew.

Making tea at the Hall was one of my minor
luxuries ; it was a pleasure to me to handle the
beautiful Worcester cups, while the mere sight
of the little melon-shaped silver teapot, with its
rich chasing, and the quaint dumpy cream-jug,
eave me a feeling of satisfaction. I was, like
other girls, very partial to pretty things. It
was so peaceful at the Hall this afternoon ;
only the hoarse cawing of the rooks broke the
stillness. The avenue looked as quiet as
though it were a glade in an enchanted forest ;
patches of sunlight were chequered by faint
purple shadows, while a zigzag of golden mist,
shot through with radiant colour, seemed to
stretch between the tree-boles like a fairy-ladder,
all vaporous brightness. We talked
for a little while, and then I took up the book
again ; and so the time passed, until Marsden
came to warn her mistress that it was time to
dress for dinner. I rose to take my leave, but,

to my surprise, Mrs. Lyndhurst refused to part
with me. I had done her good, she said, and,
as Catherine would be late, I might stay and
keep her company. My white dress was quite
nice enough for anything, and Bennett should
send a message to Fircroft ; and, as Marsden
looked at me rather wistfully, as though she
would beg me not to refuse her mistress, I consented
to remain.

So it was settled, and Mrs. Lyndhurst and I
dined in state in the big dining-room, waited
upon by Bennett, the white-haired butler, and
his subordinate, Reynolds. Mrs. Lyndhurst
hardly spoke, and ate very little, and the
silence was only broken by the servants' quiet
movements about the room. Now and then I
looked up, and saw the whole scene reproduced
in a long mirror that hung opposite to me.
The sad, pathetic-looking woman, in her black
draperies, sitting silently at the head of the
table, and facing her a slim girl in a white
gown, with smooth brown hair, and large
questioning eyes that seemed to appeal against
the dulness. I think Bennett felt for me, for
he handed me everything himself without
waiting for Reynolds ; and there was something
persuasive in his tone as he named the various
dainties, as though he feared a refusal. Bennett
and I were on excellent terms. At the Hall

I was generally Miss Olga to the servants,
never Miss Leigh.

Mrs. Lyndhurst proposed a turn in the
garden after dinner, and to this I willingly
assented. The long sitting had cramped my
young limbs. I felt restless, as though I
wanted to run, to laugh, to do anything, in fact,
but accommodate my steps to Mrs. Lyndhurst's
languid pace ; but she took my arm, and leant
rather heavily on it, as though she were weary.
As usual, she led the way to the Lady's Walk,
and I dared not remonstrate. The sun was
setting, but under the thick shade of trees it
was already twilight, and the old eerie feeling
crept over me.

Mrs. Lyndhurst did not seem to notice my
uneasiness. The soft evening air refreshed
her, and she began talking in her ordinary
way :

You have done me good, Olga. I am glad
Catherine proposed sending for you ; but it has
been a long dull day for you, my dear.'

Not at all,' I interposed hastily.

It is kind of you to say so ; but I am not an
amusing person. Catherine is used to me, and
so she puts up with all my odd ways. After all,
there is nothing like a sister. Catherine has
been far too good to me all her life. I am a
great trouble to her, but she never wall own it.'

I knew the sisters were devoted to each
other ; but they were not demonstrative, and
seldom spoke of their feelings. I was glad to
hear Mrs. Lyndhurst express herself after this
grateful fashion, for I knew she often gave Aunt
Catherine a great deal to bear.

You will miss her very much when she goes
to St. Croix.'

*Yes; but I must not think of that,' she returned
quickly. ' One must not consider oneself
in the matter. There is business to be done
important business  and no one can do it but
Catherine  she is so strong, so clear-headed.
She is so different to me altogether. I am not
old, Olga, in spite of my gray hairs, and yet the
time has come to me when the grasshopper
is a burthen. Do you remember how the Wise
Man puts it : " And fears shall be in the way " ?
It seems to me as though I dread my own
shadow sometimes.'

I wish I could help you and Aunt Catherine,'
I began wistfully, but I dared not proceed.

Mrs. Lyndhurst gave me a furtive look.
She understood without words what I meant.

That is for Catherine to decide. She has
been talking to me again. She makes me
miserable  as though I had not enough to bear
without that. I do not like reposing confidence
in young people  they are so hard, they judge

SO severely. It is the old who are merciful, who
know, how to make excuses

Mrs. Lyndhurst, it is you who are hard now.
When you were young you would not have said
that.'

Was I ever young ?  it is very long ago
then ; but you must not quote me as an example.
Olga.'

Why not ?' rather curiously.

Because I was not good  not what a girl
ought to be. I was self-willed, and bent on having
my own way. Catherine would tell you that she
does not condone the past, for all her pity. If I
had only listened to her, if I had allowed her
to be my conscience, I should not be the lonely,
unhappy woman I am now.'

She seemed profoundly agitated, and I dared
not question her any more ; but my thoughts
were very busy over this speech. Why was
Mrs. Lyndhurst lonely? she had Aunt Catherine;
and, in reality, Aunt Catherine was just as
lonely as she, and yet I had never heard Aunt
Catherine complain.

It might be that in her secret heart she would
have preferred a fuller life ; that the love of
husband and children would have been as
precious to her as to other women ; but she
never bemoaned her solitary state  on the
whole, she seemed busy and happy. Perhaps

I was not competent to judge ; but it always
seemed to me that the position of the ladies at
the Hall was singularly enviable. They had
wealth, freedom and consideration ; they were
beloved by their poorer neighbours, and respected
and liked by all who shared their
friendship. After all, was it a bad thing to be
free as air, to do what one liked, to follow one's
bent unchecked and untrammelled by a husband ?
That obedience was a formidable item in the
marriage ceremony  to love would be comparatively
easy ; but to voluntarily submit to a
master was quite another thing. I began to
take counsel with myself, if it would not be as
well always to remain Olga Leigh.

I was roused from this reverie by a touch on
my arm. Mrs. Lyndhurst was looking at me
fixedly ; her manner was full of suppressed
melancholy.

Do not take example by me, Olga,' she said
imploringly ; ' if I had my life over again  oh,
if we only could !  how differently I would act
now ! It is terrible to grow old, my dear, when
one's youth has been a failure. It is as though
some inexorable power were compelling us to
sit still and watch the result of our life-work
we cannot turn our eyes away if we would 
*' Give an account, add up the losses of the years
before death comes," that is what it says ;

and some of us who are miserable bankrupts
fear to turn over a single leaf

Dear Mrs. Lyndhurst, we are none of us
without faults.'

But some are more guilty than others, Olga.
You are young, but you are good and true ;
keep so ; dread the first stain of wrong-doing.
One wrong act involves another, until we are
entangled in our own web. I am talking
strangely to-night, dear child ; but one of my
melancholy fits is on me, and the sense of loss
is heavier than usual' She paused, and I could
see her eyes were full of tears. ' It is getting
late now, and you must go home. Leave me
to take a turn by myself; solitude often soothes
me.'

'Must I go, Mrs. Lyndhurst?'

Yes, my child, I think it better ; but tomorrow
you may come to us again.'

She kissed my cheek with her cold lips and
turned away. I was left by myself, and the
uncanny feeling returned  Lady Gwendoline
might be near me. I sped away through the
garden-paths as though my feet were winged ;
only once I looked back. The moon had just
risen, its faint, silvery light illumined the dark
walk. Mrs. Lyndhurst was pacing up and
down it slowly. I could see her tall, graceful
figure distinctly ; she had drawn her lace-scarf

over her gray hair, and she looked weird and
strange in the dim Hight. Suddenly she stopped
and flung up her arms. I could see her thin
white hands clasping each other. ' Will it be
too late ?'  did I hear the words or only dream
them ? ' Too late for me ? too late for him T

UNLOCKING pandora's BOX.

Heigh ho ! daisies and buttercups,
Fair yellow daffodils, stately and tall ;
A sunshiny world full of laughter and leisure,
And fresh hearts unconscious of sorrow and thrall !
Send down on their pleasure smiles passing its measure,
God that is over us all !'

Jean Angelo.

Soon after this I had to bid good-bye to Jem.
It was always a trying ordeal, and no amount
of usage could reconcile me to the parting.
The floods of tears that that boy cost me ! Not
that I would have let him know how I cried
my eyes out directly he was out of sight !
Jem's behaviour during the last few days had
not been wholly satisfactory. To tell the truth,
I found his light-hearted philosophy very trying
under the circumstances ; his cheerfulness was
almost aggressive. He took no notice of my
lugubrious looks, and while I was counting up
VOL. I. 8

the hours and minutes Hke a miser, and begrudging
every duty that called me away,
Jem lounged away his time in the young men's
study, talking nonsense with Harry Vivian, or
boxing or fencing with Mr. Campbell. The
bicycle trip had come off, and Jem had been
late for dinner that day, and though he had
invited me for a walk the following afternoon,
I found to my chagrin that Harry was to be of
the party. I could not help giving Jem a
reproachful look as Harry went on to open the
gate for Rollo, who was wild to get out.

What's the matter now ?' he asked Innocently.


Why did you ask Harry ?' I whispered
crossly, for really Jem was incorrigible ; ' you
might have remembered that I should want you
to myself for our last walk.'

But my remark did not make the least Impression
on him ; he only whistled, and then
began to laugh as though he were amused.

That's the way you mean to talk to your
young man, I suppose, if you ever get one ?'
observed the rude boy. ' You will have to mind
what you are about, Olga. Not many fellows
would be so good-natured as I am. Here are
Vivian and I putting ourselves out for your
pleasure, and this Is the way you treat us.
Vivian, I hope your young woman will behave

herself better than Olga does ; she is always
grumbling at me for something or other.
Why don't you do this or do that ? I have to
put my foot down pretty strongly, I can tell
you ; it is the only way when one has to deal
with girls,' finished Jem in a disgusted manner.

And then to punish me for objecting to that
tiresome Harry's company, he talked to him
exclusively for the next mile or two ; but he
was very nice the remainder of the way, as
though to make up for it.

It was always an understood thing that I
should help Jem pack, so on the last morning
I went up to his room. I thought Jem was in
better spirits than usual ; he rattled on volubly :
no other word would rightly express his bright
and inconsequent talk, or the rapidity with
which he hurried from one topic to another.

'Catch hold of these shirts,' and a pile of
linen descended on my lap ; ' ram them in hard,
Oloa. I don't believe women know how to
pack ; it wants a mathematical brain to calculate
distance and economize space. There are my
new socks,' a flutter of gaudily-striped things
aimed from the other end of the room, and
caught with difficulty ; ' now set to work, old
girl, while I pack my coats,' and Jem
whistled an air from ' Les Huguenots.' If
one or two tears dropped on the new shirts

82

no one was the wiser. Of course it was only-jem's
way, and it was natural that he should
be a little elated at the idea of his tutorship ; it
was such a beautiful house where he was ,Song,
and he would have plenty of fishing, and shooting,
and tennis, and a host of pleasant new
acquaintances, and what could a young man ask
more ? and of course he could not take me with
him, so I was a goose to fret ; but, still, if he
would only talk to me, or let me talk to him,
and not go on quoting French in that ridiculous
fashion.

Jem ate an excellent lunch ; he was joking
with Harry all the time. Harry was going
with him to the station  he did not address meat
all until the last moment. I had run up to
his room to see that nothing was left behind,
when I heard him spring up after me three
steps at a time.

Good-bye, old girl !' he said, catching hold
of me ; ' take care of yourself, and don't get
into mischief without me.'

Oh, Jem, don't go yet,' I implored ; ' I want
to speak to you.'

I can't stop, the cab's waiting ;' and he would
not let me detain him one moment. I followed
him to the door, and he waved his hand to me
with a cheery smile. Not even saying good-bye
to me for five whole months  for I should not

see him before he went back to Oxford  could
make Jem look grave, even for an instant. I
shut myself up in his empty room, and had
what women call a good cry, and it really did
me brood.

When I went into the drawing-room, two
hours later, feeling very sad and subdued, I
found Harry there alone. He was evidently
waiting for me, and I was quite sure, from his
voice, that he was very sorry for me.

It always seems strange without Jem, doesn't
it ?' were his first words. ' I am sure he felt
going away very much this time ; he was
terribly glum as we drove to the station  that
is not like Jem at all.'

Jem glum ! I could not believe my ears.

 He did not talk a bit, and seemed quite down,
poor old fellow. He does not like leaving
you. Miss Leigh, that's what it is ; and of course
it is natural  for if you were my sister '

And here Harry heaved a tremendous sigh
which aggravated me in my tender state, and
made me rather short with him.

But I am Jem's sister, you see.*

Yes,' and here Harry sighed again ; ' but if
there is anything I can do for you in Jem's
absence  any little service, I mean  I am sure
I would gladly do it ; it would be no end of
pleasure,' continued the poor boy rather sadly ;

for though I know I am nothing to you beside
Jem  and where would anyone find a nicer
fellow ?  still, I do think a lot of you, as you
know, and it would be just a happiness to me
to find out anything I could do for you.'

After all, sympathy is very soothing, especially
when one is very low, so I could not
help looking kindly at Harry, and thanking
him ; and I suppose my manner was softer than
usual, for the foolish fellow turned quite red
with pleasure.

You could not think of anything just now,
could you, Miss Olga ?'

No, not this minute ; but I will pour you
out a cup of tea, as Kitty is keeping us waiting.'
I did not like that ' Miss Olga,' it was too familiar
; and I did not quite like the expressive look
that accompanied it. Really, young men were
very difficult to manage ; to think of all the
snubs I had given Harry, and yet he presumed
to call me miss Olga ' in that tone. But I was
too low-spirited to resent it actively, and so
Harry had the best of it that day.

Jem wrote me a nice little note the next day,
to tell me of his safe arrival at Middleton Park.

I am in clover,' he wrote ; ' it is an awfully
jolly place  deer park, and such preserves, and
the house as big as a barrack. The widow '
(Mrs. Middleton had lost her husband the

previous year) * is very civil ; but, of course, she
is a trifle melancholy, which is to be expected,
poor thing ! and the boy is a nice fellow, only
not very robust. I expect to have a real good
time here, and to meet no end of swells. You
may write to me as often as you like, and mind
you tell me everything about yourself I always
feel responsible for you, and though I don't like
finding fault  being a soft-hearted fellow  there
is a vein of sentimentality in your character
that gives me a good deal of trouble. The
worst of an impulsive person is  you never
know what they are going to do next. But no
more of this, from your affectionate brother 
Jem

Perhaps people might say there was not
much in the note to make me feel so much
happier, but I could read a great deal between
the lines : Jem wanted to hear from me, he
was anxious to continue my confidant ; I was
to tell him anything and everything ; and,
best of all, his stoicism had been intended
as an antidote to my sentimentality, and was
not really want of feeling. And when I had
made all this clear to myself, I cheered up
immensely.

I was happier, too, about Hugh, after a little
conversation we had together.

I was sitting on the lawn one evening,

watching an exciting tennis match between
Harry and Mr. Campbell, when Hugh ran
over the grass and joined me.

Do you know where mother is, Aunt
Olga ?'

Yes, dear ; she is in the schoolroom. Mab
and Jessie wanted her to hear their new duet ;
they have been practising it so nicely. I am
sure she will be quite pleased to hear them.
Where have you been all the afternoon,
Hugh ?'

For the boy had a bright, excited look.
Hugh was not a handsome boy ; the twins
were decidedly pretty little girls, and Wilfred
had his father's well-cut features, but Hugh
was somewhat ordinary, and only his soft
brown eyes redeemed him from plainness.
Still, he was a gentlemanly-looking little fellow,
and, after all, a boy does not need beauty.

I have been with fattier,' he returned, in
answer to my question. ' We have been for
such a long walk  to Fletcher and round by
Wardle, which was ever so nice.'

You like a walk with father ?' For his
voice was quite eager.

Oh yes ! And he talked to me such a lot.
Aunt Olga  all about my rabbits, and the
chickens, and our new plan for the garden ;
and he has promised to let Mr. Vivian help us

build our new summer-house ; and. then '  here
Hugh's voice dropped a little  'he talked
about something else.'

You mean about the school ?'

Yes ; did you know it is all settled, and I
am to go to Mr.' Fulton's next term ? Father
says he knows Eastbourne well, and that it is
such a nice place, and that I am sure to like it.
There are eighty boys, and the house is so big,
and they have a field to play in, and three
times a week the boys go down to the sea to
bathe ; and they have cricket-matches, and purchases,
and all sorts of fun ; and he says, too,
that Mr. and Mrs. Fulton are such kind people,
and that he knows I shall be very happy there.'

Dear Hugh, I am so glad !'

That I did not like it at first, you know,
not until father talked to me. I used to cry
about it every time I went to bed. I did not
know what the twins would do without me ;
and there was mother. But father was ever so
nice'  Hugh's favourite expression; 'he told
me that he did not like parting with me, but that
he knew it would be for my good, and that I
should learn better with other boys ; and that if
I wanted to please him, and make him proud of
me, I must be brave, and not mind leaving
home, as my fretting made mother unhappy.
And so I promised, and he kissed me, and I

think there were tears in his eyes. So you see,
Aunt Olga '  with a curious blending of grief
and triumph in his tone  * father really does
love me, though I am so stupid. He said it
gave him great pain not to be able to keep me
with him ; and then he stopped suddenly and
began talking about other things, and then we
came home.'

I was very glad to hear Hugh's account, but
I had no opportunity to say more just then, for
Mab came running out of the house, closely
followed by Jessie as usual  no one ever saw
the twins apart.

Oh, Hughie !' she exclaimed breathlessly ;
mother is so pleased with our duet 1'

Yes ; and we are to play it to father this
evening,' added Jessie. ' We are to sit up on
purpose. Shall we ask mother to let you sit
up too ?'

Hugh must hear us, of course,' observed
Mab decidedly. Both of the twins were devoted
to Hugh. They each of them took a
hand as they spoke. ' Let us go and speak to
mother at once. Come, Hughie dear!'

And they carried him off. What a pretty
picture they looked  the little girls in their
white smocks, with their fair hair streaming
behind them, and Hugh's dark, closely-cropped
head between ! Once all the three heads

seemed to touch each other in their eager talk.
Two little arms went round Hugh's neck.

Oh, Hughie ! must you go ?' I heard Jessie
say in a very sorrowful voice.

Hugh was telling his story over again then.
There would be lamentations and tears when
Hugh left his little sisters ; he was at once
their master and their slave, the patient victim
of all their little whims, and the grateful recipient
of their overflowing affection.

Of course he must go if father sends him,'
remarked Mab, who was more strong-minded
than her sister. * Never mind, Hughie darling,
we will write you long letters and tell you about
the rabbits and everything, won't we, Jessie ?'
and then they each kissed him, and the arms
went round his neck again, and in this fashion
they proceeded solemnly to the house.

Kitty was not the woman to refuse such a
request. She was far too fond of spoiling her
little daughters. When the twins played their
duet that evening, Hugh was in the corner
beside the piano. Kitty watched them delightedly
:

Aren't they darlings?' her eyes seemed to ask.
Her voice was full of maternal pride when she
spoke.

Hubert was far more moderate.

Very nicely played, my dears,' ho. said when

they had finished. ' Kitty, my love, your pupils
do you credit,' and he made a bow to each of
them in turn. How the twins laughed! ' We
shall have great pleasure in seeing these
young ladies in the drawing-room again, eh,
Cunningham ? Now run away to bed, and,
Hugh, open the door for your sisters like a
gentleman.'

Hugh obeyed, but Harry and Mr. Campbell
were before him, and stood at the door like a
pair of sentries.

Thank you,' said Jessie, lifting up her sweet
little face rather shyly to the young man as she
passed ; but Mab, who saw the humour of the
situation, exploded into a little laugh.

Aren't big people funny sometimes ?' I heard
her say when they were outside. ' Why did
you get so red, Jessie ; you always do. I am
sure father liked our piece quite as well as
mother did.'

During the week that followed I saw very
little of Aunt Catherine. True, I had resumed
my old habits and went almost daily to the Hall,
but I saw most of Mrs. Lyndhurst. x\unt
Catherine was always busy and pre-occupied,
and never pressed me to stay.

*We shall have plenty of time to talk presently,'
she said once, dismissing me with a
wistful smile.

I had nearly finished my modest preparations
by this time. A new travelling-box, the joint
gift of Kitty and Hubert, stood in one corner of
my room. I used to look at it every night with
the pleasurable anticipation with which a pilgrim
might eye his staff and scrip. It was a sort of
Pandora's box to me, and most surely Hope
was at the bottom. Oh ! divine gift of all the
goddesses, the especial heritage of youth, with
what soft rainbow tints dost thou paint the
future ! what golden rays hover amongst those
misty distances  the visionary hilltops that
enclose the fabulous kingdom of the Might-be !
I verily believe that to my young home-bred
enthusiasm St. Croix seemed a sort of enchanted
place. In youth the very charm of
novelty is an exhaustive pleasure  to wake up
in a foreign land, to hear a different language,
to see fresh sights, to reap new experiences.
What could be more delightful ? It is the
tedium, the routine, the carelessness of daily
life, that weary the young. To inherit only a
small bare corner of the globe seems very pitiful
to the heir of all the ages.

In looking back on those days I am almost
tempted to exclaim with the aged Faust : ' Oh,
stay ; the moment is so fair !' As though one
could arrest that strange, sweet dreaming-time
that we call youth !

I was beginning to wonder when marching
orders would reach me, and to chafe a Httle
at the delay, when one morning one of Aunt
Catherine's brief notes was put into my hand.
All her arrangements were made, and she would
be glad to see me the following afternoon. Would
I come as soon after luncheon as possible  this
was all it said. I scribbled off an affirmative
answer, and then rushed upstairs in a high
state of excitement to try on the new tweed
dress and the hat that Kitty had trimmed forme.
Then, I am ashamed to say, I sat down
on the floor before my box and indulged in a
delicious day-dream  in which position I was
discovered by my nieces. The little girls
seemed mystified, and stood hand-in-hand at the
door regarding me in perplexed fashion.

May we come in, Aunt Olga ?' It was Mab
who spoke. ' We wanted you to tell us how to
dress our new doll.' It was always ' our doll ' 
our everything. The twins had everything
in common. 'You weren't busy, were you?'
eyeing my lowly position rather dubiously.
No, I was only thinking.'
Do you always think on the floor, auntie ?'
'Oh dear no. I do my thinking anywhere!'
We never think quite so hard, do we,
Jessie? We thought you were asleep, Aunt Olga;
your head was quite down on the box, and

Rollo was sitting up staring at you. It did
look so funny, didn't it, Jessie ?'

Very funny,' replied Jessie, who generally
repeated her sister's words with parrot-like
precision.

Mab had far more originality. Now, I do
not know what fit of idle mischief was on me
that I should infect those innocent little creatures
with my grown-up nonsense ; but I made them
sit down one on each side of me, while Rollo
blinked at us between his paws, and thereupon
I told them a wonderful tale of an enchanted
kingdom, called Dreamland, wherein all manner
of loveliness dwelt, and how there were magic
keys forged that would unlock the mysterious
portals, and how I was wandering in this strange,
fair country when they disturbed me.

I saw Mab knit her brows at this point,
as though she were trying to understand, but
Jessie exclaimed :

Why, you were sitting on the floor, auntie,
doing nothing at all !'

Nurse never likes us to do nothing,' put in
Mab ; ' she always says doing nothing is helping
to spin Satan's web. She says so, doesn't she,
Jessie ?'

This was not a pleasant idea. Could it be
possible that these spangles I was weaving
were any part of the arch adversary's work ?

Nurse's Puritan notions had spoiled everything.
My aerial car of fancy dropped from the
clouds.

My dear Mab I observed sententiously,
only clever people can talk nonsense. Little
girls like you cannot be expected to understand
everything. Now, where is the doll, that
I may give my opinion on her toilette ?'

And then, as Jessie produced her piece-bag,
we were soon as busy as bees. Why
do we always use that comparison ? Spiders
are busy, and worms and moles in a dark underground
way ; but to be busy as a worm somehow
suggests a crawling policy, and subterranean
deeds unfettered by wholesome daylight. To
be busy as beavers would be better and more
original. I do love those dear clever architects
and builders !

The next day, as ill-luck would have it 
Hubert would have preached me a sermon if
he had heard me use that most heathenish expression
 some old friends whom we had not
seen for years bore down upon us from an
unexpected quarter, invaded our luncheon-board,
and, upon pressing invitation, remained
to tea. It was in vain that I pleaded my engagement
with Aunt Catherine in an importunate
aside to Hubert. I must remain and
help Kitty entertain our guests, that was his 

reply. They would leave early, and I should
still have time to pay my visit to the Hall
before dinner.

If there were one point on which Hubert was
fussy, it was on the duty of hospitality, and the
necessity of putting ourselves out even for
those who were personally antagonistic to our
tastes. ' The law of kindness is too much set
aside in these days,' he remarked in my hearing
once, and I am afraid the admonition was intended
for my special benefit ; for Kitty was
always gracious to the most unwelcome visitor.
" Thy own friend and thy father's friend forsake
not." I am always reminded of that text when
I see young people yawning metaphorically in
the presence of their elders, and mentally
stigmatising them as unmitigated bores. We
should try to remember that by-and-by we shall
be old bores, too, and that a younger generation
will turn its cold shoulder to us. What a pity,
then, to withhold our kindly looks and words
where perhaps they are greatly needed. " Do
as you would be done by," that is the golden
rule, after all.'

Now as Hubert always tried to practise what
he preached in his own gentlemanly way, and
Kitty, like a true wife, aided and abetted him,
people generally stayed twice as long at Fircroft
as they would have done at any other house ;

VOL. I. 9

luncheon visitors remained to tea, and so on.
It is difficult to tear one's self away from this
delightful house, dear INIrs. Leigh; had often
been the speech of a gratified visitor, and on
the present occasion I really thought Colonel
Morrison and his sister would never go. I sat
literally on thorns the latter part of the afternoon.
I saw Kitty look at me reproachfully
once or twice as though she thought I was not
taking my fair share in the conversation.
Olga knows this,'  Olga will tell you that,'
she kept saying.  Olga, will you show Miss
Morrison the photo of Jem in his undergraduate's
cap and gown ?'  and so on.

Well, it was over at last. Hubert had taken
up his felt hat to walk with his visitors to the
gate, and Kitty had accompanied them to the
door. I saw my opportunity for making my
escape ; in another minute I was crossing the
lawn like a lapwing ; the kitchen garden, the
paddock, were soon left behind ; long before
Hubert had finished his good-byes I was walking
up the Elm Avenue, and the rooks were
cawing a welcome.

I encountered Bennett in the hall ; he told me
that Miss Seton was in the garden, that I
should find her by the sundial, and I proceeded
there at once.

I should have known where to have looked

for her, even if Bennett had not informed me ;
the seat by the sundial was her favourite place.
It was a quiet, sheltered spot, shut in bligh
walls covered with fruit-trees ; the broad walk
was planted with standard rose-trees, and every
few yards a rose-covered arch spanned the path.
In the rose season the effect was beautiful.

Aunt Catherine was in her usual seat, and
Jasper, her especial pet, was strutting up and
down before her, trailing his glorious tail behind
him, followed by the mincing steps of his
humbler consort. Beryl. She held out her hand
to me, with her quiet, welcoming smile.

You are late,' she said gently ; ' I was beginning
to fear that you were not coming
after all.'

Oh, it has been so tiresome !' I exclaimed,
and I began to explain volubly the reason of
my delay ; but Aunt Catherine heard me rather
absently  she was evidently thinking of something
else.

What does it matter ?' she said, when I had
finished ; ' you are here now, and there is plenty
of time for our talk. Look at Jasper !' for the
beautiful creature had mounted the sundial and
was slowly unfurling his plumes. ' Virginia
had a headache, and remained in her room, so
I had tea alone, and came out here. I wanted
to see you especially this evening, Olga.

92

Do you guess what it is I have to say to
you ?'

Oh, Aunt Catherine, do you mean that you
are really going to tell me your business at
St. Croix ?'

Yes, child, I am. I think, after all, it will be
best. Virginia is against it  that is what has
caused her headache ; she knows I mean to tell
you this evening. I am reposing great trust in
you, Olga, but I know you are reliable.'

I squeezed her hand without making any
reply ; words were hardly needed, Aunt
Catherine and I understood each other.

Well, then, I may as well tell you at once
that I am going to St. Croix solely and entirely
on Virginia's account ; that the business is hers,
not mine.' She paused, as though she found it
difficult to proceed. ' We have obtained a clue
at least, I hope to obtain it  a clue by which
we may discover a treasure she has lost.'

Was that all ? but her manner was very
strange.

What sort of treasure do you mean, Aunt
Catherine ?'

I mean Virginia's son,' she answered
calmly.

Virginia's story.

" What is good for a bootless bene ?"
The falconer to the lady said :
And she made answer : "Endless sorrow !"
For she knew her son was dead.'

Anon.

I UTTERED an exclamation, and almost jumped
from my seat. Never, never in my whole life
had I been so surprised ! But Aunt Catherine
did not look at me. She merely repeated the
words, with a certain dreary inflexion, as though
she had learned them by rote :

I am going to look for Virginia s son.'
But, Aunt Catherine,' I stammered, turning
very red, for I was so confused, so taken aback
altogether, that I hardly knew what to say, ' no
one in Brookfield knows that Mrs. Lyndhurst
ever had a child.'

Dr. Langham has always known it,' she returned
composedly. ' And now you know our

secret, Olga  the secret of my sister's unhappy
life. He was only a year old when she lost him,
and that was five-and-twenty years ago.*

Five-and-twenty years ! I could scarcely
realize it. I knew that Mrs. Lyndhurst had
married young, and that she was three or four
years older than Aunt Catherine. Her son
must be a full-grown man of six-and-twenty.
How had she lost him ? What did it all mean ?

All at once I recalled the evening when Jem
and I had wandered in the Hall garden, and we
had encountered the weird, ghost-like figure in
the Lady's Walk ; and again a sudden flash of
memory brought before me vividly the pale
face and silvery hair over which the white hood
was drawn so closely ; and the words sounded
in my ears as though they were freshly uttered :
Oh, my sin ! Will it never be condoned ?
Will there never be an end to all this suspense
and misery ?' and ' God only knows !' uttered
in a despairing voice.

Olga '  and here Aunt Catherine looked at
me pleadingly, and I could see she was much
agitated  ' my great fear in telling you this
miserable story is this, that you will blame
Virginia ; but you must not  indeed, you must
not. She has been very weak ; she has suffered
and the pain has been too great for her. Weare
not all alike ; some of us are stronger to

endure than others. I would have you remember
this, and not judge her harshly. Who
should know her so well as I do ? and I have
never blamed her, except for marrying Paul
Lyndhurst.'

Will you tell me all about it, Aunt
Catherine ?'

I will tell you as much as it is necessary for
you to know ; but there are some things that
must not be repeated, neither do I care to
dwell on the story of Virginia's mad infatuation
for her lover. Why is it, Olga  but you are
too young to answer such a question  why is it
that an evil nature  an utterly perverted and
immoral nature  can ever dominate and gain
the mastery over an innocent one ? Virginia
was good  yes, in spite of her little faults and
vanities, she was a good, pure-minded girl 
but her love for Paul Lyndhurst blinded her.
She would believe nothing against him 
nothing.'

I have heard  I think it was Hubert who
told me  that Mr. Lyndhurst was a singularly
handsome man.'

You are right ; I think his face was almost
perfect. The features were finely-cut, as we
see them in Greek sculpture ; his physique was
magnificent ; he was just a beautiful, soulless
animal. I was very young then, not more

than eighteen or nineteen, and very shy and
diffident ; but I had my ideal  every girl has
that, I suppose.' She caught her breath and
hurried on : 'I cared for goodness in a man
more than any degree of attractiveness, and I
used to shrink instinctively from the subtle
sneer that lurked in Paul Lyndhurst's handsome
eyes.

I remember once arguing with Virginia
until I was on the verge of tears.

" You must not have him," I said ; " he is
not good. I am. sure he is not good, Virginia.
He says horrid, sneering things in a polite way.
Oh, his manners are fine  I know that  but he
is inwardly cruel ! I am sure of it. He dislikes
old and plain people. He makes fun of
them, and derides their little infirmities ; and
he is not kind to animals. See how he treated
his dog yesterday ! Oh, Virginia ! do struggle
against this infatuation ! Rome is a bad place
for you. Let us ask father to take us away.
We shall be safer at Brookfield  dear old
Brookfield !"

But I might as well have spoken to the wind.

*' You are prejudiced," she said coldly ; " Paul
said only yesterday that you had disliked him
from the first, and that it was because he was
poor and had no friends. You are hard on him,
Catherine. He Is very unhappy. He says he has

not a friend in the world but me ; that there is no
hope for him if I forsake him ; but I never will give
him up  he knows that, my dear, noble Paul !"

Ah, he had bewitched her, or she never could
have used that word of Paul Lyndhurst.

Of course, I know now, Olga, that I ought
to have warned my father, but we were too
much in awe of him for any such confidence.
If our mother had lived I would have spoken to
her at once ; but our father  no, it was impossible.
I dreaded his anger too much. It is
a sad thing, Olga, when children fear their
parents. Virginia had always been our father's
favourite. She was a bold, high-spirited girl,
and he was very proud of her. It was Virginia
who was always the spokeswoman  who could
coax him to do anything ; but I was timid and
awkward in his presence. It needed more
courage than I possessed to tell him the state
of things between Virginia and Paul Lyndhurst ;
and, as though to accelerate matters, father had
taken a strong fancy to the young artist, and
had him perpetually to the house.

Our stay at Rome was drawing to a close, and
I was beginning to breathe more freely, hoping
that time and absence would weaken Virginia's
unhappy attachment, when all at once the
blow fell ! Without giving me a hint of her rash
resolve  without bidding good-bye Virginia

left the house secretly one morning and was
married to Paul Lyndhurst, and when the news
reached us she was on her way to Venice with
her husband ! Olga, It is useless to dwell too
much on a painful past. I will leave you to
imagine my father's bitter anger and my own
grief. I saw the letter he wrote in answer to
her piteous plan for forgiveness  it was a cruel
letter for any father to write ; but I can make
more allowances now. He told her that she was
no child of his now, that he would never see
her again, that he had done with her for ever.
She had disgraced her name. He would never
acknowledge the beggarly artist she called her
husband. Her little fortune, bequeathed to herby
her mother  about three thousand pounds 
should be made over to her at once ; but she
need never expect a penny of his  it should all
be Catherine's. Poor father, he was almost
beside himself with anger and mortified love
when he wrote that letter.'

Oh, Aunt Catherine, how dreadful !'  for she
paused a moment in her recital.

Yes,' she replied gently ; ' such scenes and
such words are very dreadful to remember ; one
longs for a draught from Lethe sometimes. My
child, those two years were the saddest years
of my life. I had my own troubles, and the
Hall was desolate to me without Virginia. I

had never been my father's companion, and I
could do Httle to comfort him in his trouble.
In my heart I reproached him for his hardness ;
but I never dared to mention Virginia's name.
Now and then during the first year of her
absence she wrote to me, but her letters were
very brief and unsatisfactory. She seldom
mentioned her husband's name, or said she
was happy. My questions on that point
were left unanswered. They were always
moving from place to place  one letter was
from Naples, the next from Munich, a third from
Basle. I never knew where to find her, and
more than one of my letters came back to me.
The last one I received was written in pencil,
and told me of the birth of her boy.

"' He is not like Paul," she wrote ; '* he is more
like our family, and I mean to call him Basil,
after our little brother who died. Perhaps when
my father hears that, he maybe touched. How I
long to show you my baby, Catherine ! He is
such a pretty little fellow, and so good ; he
hardly ever cries. My husband does not wish
to have him baptized. Paul is a freethinker,
you know, and laughs at my superstition, as he
calls it ; but my baby shall not grow up a
heathen. I am determined upon that. If there
be no other way, one of those kind-looking
priests at St. Sulpice shall baptize him. I

would rather have him baptized in the Roman
Catholic Church than have him a heathen ; but
there is plenty of time." The letter ended
abruptly here ; but a postscript had been added
a few days later : " I have been ill again and
could not finish this, I will send it as it is. Do
not be anxious if you do not hear again soon.
Paul does not like me to write ; he says I have
no one but him now. Oh, Cathy, darling, why
did I not listen to you ? I have sown the wind
to reap the whirlwind. Baby is prettier than
ever ; he grows so fast. God bless you. Your
loving sister, Virginia."

I laid my letter on my father's desk. I had
never dared to show him one before. When
I went into the study the next morning it was
gone ; but he never spoke of it. I thought it
had been destroyed ; but after his death we
found it in an old pocket-book he always carried
about with him. The letter was creased and
almost illegible, and in its folds was the tiny
lock  scarcely more than a few hairs  poor
Virginia had cut off her infant's head. I remember
how bitterly Virginia cried when she saw it.'

As Aunt Catherine again paused her eyes
were full of tears.

Oh, it is all so sad  so sad,' she went on, * it
gives me the heartache even now to remember
it. I noticed a change in my father from that

day ; he become more abstracted and melancholy,
nothing seemed to interest him. At
times he seemed restless and unsettled. Now
and then, as we sat alone together, he with his
book, and I with my embroidery, he would look
at me fixedly, as though he wanted to say something
; and then his lips would close more firmly
than ever, and he would turn away and take up
his book again. I used to wonder sometime
if he were thinking of Virginia, but I dared not
ask him the question.

One night  it was a wild autumnal night, I
remember, for the wind was crashing among
the elms, and I heard the fall of a great branch
once  we were startled by the loud ringing of a
bell. It was late, and the servants had just gone
up to bed, so my father went to the door and
undid the bolts himself, while I followed him.

As he flung the door wide open, a tall veiled
lady, muffled up in a foreign-looking mantle,
quietly stepped into the hall.

We were both much startled. '' Madam "

began my father, in his quick, haughty way, but
the lady put back her veil and looked at him.
'' Good heavens ! it is Virginia!' he exclaimed,
turning very pale.

'' Yes, father, I am come back. Will you
take me in ? Shall I go down on my knees to
you ?" She laughed rather strangely ; her eyes

were wide and glittering. '' Cathy, why do
you not kiss me ? Have you forgotten we are
sisters ? Do you know what I have done ?
I have run away from Paul ! I have left him,

and I have left " but here her face became

very white, she put out her hands as though
feeling blindly for some support, and if my
father had not caught her she would have
fallen at his feet in that deathly swoon. We
were unwilling to summon help, so we carried
her between us, and, laying her down on the
drawing-room couch, applied all possible remedies
; but it was a long time before she
recovered consciousness, and she did not speak
to us again that night. She lay motionless, with
closed eyes, only every now and then a convulsive
shudder seemed to shake her from head
to foot. If my father's anger had ever been
bitter against her, it died a natural death now.
He only seemed to remember that she had
come back to him again. Her very helplessness
and misery appealed strongly to his fatherhood.
He sat beside the couch holding her
hand, and every now and then stroking it, and
once he looked at me pitifully, as though to
demand sympathy. My poor father ! the furrows
of his hardness were broken up for ever ! I
knew then how he had loved her, and how
cruelly his pride in her had been wounded.

She was sadly changed, our poor Virginia !
Her girlish beauty was gone ; she looked ten
years older than when we had seen her last.
Her face was drawn and haggard, and there
were dark circles round her eyes. In the
broken-down creature before us, who could have
recognised our bright, high-spirited girl ?

I thought that night would never have
passed. Now and then she opened her eyes
and looked at us, but only a low moan escaped
her lips. Towards morning my father roused
the servants, and sent off one of them for Dr.
Langham  it was old Dr. Langham then. A
terrible fear had assailed us  Virginia's mind
was unhinged by trouble ! But when Dr.
Langham arrived, he comforted us a little on
this point.

*' She has had a shock," he said decidedly ;
very possibly a series of shocks, for she is
worn almost to a skeleton, and it has brought
on this attack of the nerves. From her appearance
I should judge that she has not touched
food for hours. We must be very careful," he
continued by-and-by ; " indeed, I may say
there is urgent need of care. The brain is a
very delicate piece of machinery at present ;
she is as much in possession of her reason as
you or I, but the brain is torpid. These
nervous disorders are very misleading to non-professional

people  In extreme cases they
certainly approximate to insanity. Her mind is
over-strained  unhinged, if you prefer the word.
A little more, and I would not answer for the
consequences."

Dr. Langham was right ; he was a clever
man, and we soon realized the truth of his
words. For some days Virginia lay in this
strange torpid state ; she was perfectly tractable,
and would take food from our hands like
a child ; but she did not seem to recognise us 
at least, she never spoke to us  only, when my
father kissed her, she would turn aside, and lie
with her face to the wall, moaning in a sort of
heart-broken way.

*' You must give Nature time," Dr. Langham
would say ; '* every power of mind and body is
exhausted at present. By-and-by, when she
can speak, she will explain everything." And
aoain he was riorht.

o o

About a fortnight passed, when one day I
noticed a change in her. Dr. Langham noticed
it too. *' She is coming round," was all he said ;
'this restlessness is a good sign. Get her to
speak, it will relieve her."

But there was no need for any effort on my
part. Dr. Langham had hardly left the room
before I heard Virginia's voice calling me.

*' He is wise  very wise," she said feebly.

*' Yes, let me talk, Cathy ; let me get rid of all
that is oppressing me "  here she put her hands
on her breast, as though a weight were there.
I lay down beside her on the bed, and she
crept nearer, till her face was against my
shoulder  and then the whole miserable story
came out. It was well my father was not there ;
no man could have controlled himself and
listened quietly. Long before she had finished,
my tears had dried up in a blaze of womanly
anger  that he should dare to treat a Leigh
so!

I can only touch briefly on that story. If
Paul Lyndhurst had ever loved Virginia  and
there was grave suspicion for this doubt  his
love did not survive the honeymoon. Before
many weeks of their ill-starred union had
elapsed, he had thrown off his disguise and
shown himself in his true colours. The first
quarrel had been about her money : he chose
to consider himself injured by the smallness of
her fortune ; her father's threat of disinheriting
her in my favour made him savage. '' If you
had played your cards better we should not
have landed ourselves in this hole," he said to
her angrily. It was in vain poor Virginia protested
that it was no fault of hers ; that to
please him, and him only, she had consented to
the secret marriage. He only flung away from

VOL. I. 10

her with a covert sneer at the easiness with
which he had won her.

Oh, he was a bad man, this Paul Lyndhurst,
a cold, black-hearted villain. Think of the
misery of a pure-minded, delicately-nurtured
woman, carefully sheltered from all knowledge
of evil, suddenly finding herself tied for life to a
man without a shred of honour, without principles,
without religion, and, lastly, without love
for herself.

Alas ! there were darker shades in Paul
Lyndhurst's character, which she found out by-and-by
: an inveterate gambler, he soon squandered
half her little fortune ; and to complete
her disgust, she soon discovered he drank
deeply. Poor unhappy Virginia ! nothing but
her pride, and her despair of her father's forgiveness,
prevented her from leaving him and
returning home; and by-and-by another reason
kept her. After the birth of her boy her husband
treated her better, but this peaceful state
of things did not last long. After a time his
cruel moroseness returned ; something had gone
Wrong with him  his work suffered, and, as usual,
he wreaked his ill-temper on his wife. Virginia
had been long in recovering from her confinement
; before she had regained her strength
they left St. Croix, where her boy was born, for
Havre, and here she had a second illness.

On her recovery she saw a change for the
worse in Paul. He had always been uncertain
in his temper, but now his moods were savage ;
he seemed as though he hated her, and was
determined to embitter her existence. There
were cruel scenes, and Virginia, weak and
broken-spirited by daily insults and ill-treatment,
conceived at last a perfect terror of her
husband. The very sound of his voice or his
footstep threw her into a state of nervousness
that was almost indescribable. One night 
but I will spare you the details, Olga  Virginia,
almost wild with terror and shame, rushed out
of the house like some hunted thing, and wandered
up and down the dark streets, with only
one thought, to hide herself where Paul could
never find her again. By some strange fortune
she found herself presently on the quay. Suddenly
it occurred to her that at this hour the
boat would be starting for Southampton. Like
one in a nightmare she took out her purse.
She had sufficient money, so she paid her fare,
muttered something about her luggage being
too late, and, going down to the cabin, threw
herself upon a vacant berth.'

I could keep silence no longer,

But her child, AuntCatherine?  herlittleboy.'*'

Aunt Catherine shook her head. She looked
at me almost imploringly.

10  2

Do you not understand, Olga ? She was
not herself  my poor Virginia ! The cruel pain
had blotted out her memory.'

Do you mean she had forgotten him ?'
Aunt Catherine bowed her head solemnly.

Don't, Olga  don't speak yet. Did I not
say you must not blame her ? I know what you
are thinking, " Can a woman forget her sucking-child,
that she should not have compassion on
the son of her womb ?" But that such things
can be we are also told In the same text ; but
let me repeat her own words :

" I knew nothing  I thought of nothing,
but to escape Paul. My brain was on fire.
Perhaps I was mad. God grant it, but I fear
I was not ! Only I had forgotten everything
In my unreasoning terror. In the darkness of
night, just before dawn, my memory returned.
I heard the groaning of the paddle-wheels and
the long wash of the waves. A child In the
next berth woke up crying. The sound went
through me like an electric shock. My baby !
I had forgotten my baby ! I had left him
asleep in his little cot, with his bonne beside
him, and had come down to Paul, who had been
already cursing at my delay. He had bade me
fetch my bonnet and mantle, for some wild expedition
he had planned. It was my refusal to
accompany him that had brought on the shameful

scene. I thought he meant to kill me, for
he was mad with drink, and I fled out of the
house." '

Poor thing  poor thing ! And she did not
go back to him ?'

No ; her one thought was to take refuge
with us. She kept saying to herself all the remainder
of the way, '* Cathy is kind ; she will
bring me my baby." But when she reached usher
strength was gone ; that night of agony
had done its work.'

Oh, Aunt Catherine !'  and I was crying
bitterly now  ' surely you or the Squire tried
to find her child for her ? It is too dreadful to
think of, that dear baby left with the cruel
man !'

My dear, I could not leave Virginia, and
my father was too old and broken for such a
business. But we put it into the hands of our
solicitor, to gain possession of the child ; and a
trustworthy person was sent over to Havre to
settle matters with Paul Lyndhurst. There
had been an inevitable delay of some weeks.
When the agent arrived he was too late. Two
days before, Paul Lyndhurst, accompanied by
the child and the bonne, had left Havre ; but
no one knew where they were gone.

'' Monsieur had been in a terrible humour
ever since madame had left," the woman of the

house had informed him ; " nothing had given
him satisfaction. When old Lisette had taken the
boy to him he had sworn at her and bade
her keep the brat out of his sight. Lisette was
a bold woman to accompany him, for monsieur
was one who feared neither /e bon Disc or the
devil, but he paid her well, and  well, one does
anything for money. Lisette was a proper
nurse ; she was devoted to Monsieur Bee.
Monsieur Bee was smiling like an angel when
they left the house." And this was all : father
and child had vanished as though the earth had
swallowed them up. In vain we advertised
and spent time and money in the search. My
father and I went again to Rome. France,
Germany, Switzerland were all searched by our
agents ; but nothing could be heard of Paul
Lyndhurst. Once we thought we were on the
right track ; an artist answering to the description
had been found nearly frozen to death on
some Alpine pass ; but on questioning the
monks he proved to be a German.

Olga, you may imagine the rest : the heartsick
suspense and longing, on Virginia's part 
the alternation from hope to despair. One
moment she believed her boy was dead, the
next she cried out that he was alive, and that
Paul had depraved him and made him like
himself. Her boy's future was ruined, and

all through her ! Yes, you may guess the rest :
Virginia's trouble has been the bunsen of my
life. It is a good many years since we relinquished
all hopes of ever finding Basil ; but
the thought that, if he be living, his grandfather's
v/ill has made him master of the Hall
has given us a new incentive for action. A
few weeks ago we received information from
one of our agents that Paul Lyndhurst was
dead. It is to verify this that I am going to
St. Croix ; but I cannot induce Virginia to
accompany me, poor dear ! She will have it
that he may not be dead, and that she is safer
at the Hall.

 The priest who is our real informant of
Paul's death is supposed to be the same who
baptized Basil; anyhow, it was at St. Croix, at
the very St. Sulpice that Virginia mentioned
in her letter, that the child was secretly baptized.
Now you know all, Olga, and I am terribly
weary. I can talk no more.'

HE WAS SO PRETTY, OLGa!'

I now must change these notes to tragic'

Milton.

Aunt Catherine's tired face certainly verified
her words, and I pressed her to go back to the
house and rest.

Perhaps it will be best,' she returned after a
moment's hesitation. * I can see my story has
excited you ; it would be well for us not to
discuss It now. Go home, dear child, and tomorrow
come to me again, and I will tell you
my plans for next week.'

And then we walked together to the Hall
door, and parted without another word. As I
looked back for a moment to wave my adieux,
I saw Mrs. Lyndhurst watching us from her
window ; but she gave no sign of recognition ;
on the contrary, when she saw she had attracted

my notice, she drew down the blind hastily,
and I walked rapidly down the avenue.

The first gong sounded as I entered the
house, so there was no time to lose. I dressed
hurriedly and took my place at the table, and
tried to talk as usual ; but my manner must
have been strange, for I saw Kitty look at me
inquisitively once or twice ; she was as sharp asa
needle, and was very quick to detect the least
thing amiss. When we went back in the
drawing-room she followed me under the
pretext of showing me her work ; she was
smocking a little frock for Girlie-ga.

Is there anything the matter, Olga T she
whispered. ' I hope there is nothing wrong at
the Hall !'

What should be wrong ?' I answered
shortly, for this sisterly espionage annoyed
me.

I don't knows ; only your eyes look as though
you have been crying.'

Nonsense !'  still more abruptly ; * you are
always fancying things, Kitty. Mrs. Lynd-
hurst is not very well ; but that is nothing new.
I sat with Aunt Catherine in the garden, and
we had a good long talk. Jasper was lovely.
He spread out his tail just to attract our
attention, and Beryl kept pecking at Aunt
Catherine's gown, to remind her of the sweet

cake she had promised her. ' What beautiful
creatures they are !'

And which day do you start ?' asked Kitty,
not particularly interested in these details.

This was embarrassing. I coloured up, and
answered rather awkwardly :

Aunt Catherine did not tell me. I am to
know tomorrow. She was tired, and I did not
stop so very long.'

Only two hours,' was the somewhat sarcastic
rejoinder, and then Kitty carried away her work.

I had not deceived her in the least. In her
own mind she was quite sure that something
had happened. It was trying to have such a
tell-tale face, and really that habit of blushing
over every trifle was extremely ridiculous. I
was thankful that Jem was not there to add to
my embarrassment. Everything was tiresome
that evening. Hubert, as usual, requested
some music, and as Kitty was busy, I was
obliged to remain at the piano for the next
hour to accompany Mr. Cunningham's flute.
The pieces were long and difficult, and I played
worse than usual. To add to my vexations,
Mr. Cunningham begged my pardon at every
mistake, and entreated me to go over the erring
passage again.

No one is listening,' he observed ; 'and we
may as well get the thing perfect. Let us try

that page again, Miss Leigh. One, two,
three

The mild 'tout, tout' of the flute recommenced.
Mr. Cunningham's head wagged contentedly
over his beloved instrument. Crash went the
pedal. I was fast losing patience and temper
under the ordeal, when Harry interposed. He
had been watching us both for some time, though
he had only been pretending to tease Rollo.
At the next break-down he came to my rescue :

Why don't you shut up that beastly noise,
Cunningham T he said quite crossly. ' Don't
you see Miss Leigh is tired out ? You ought not
to trespass on her good-nature. Here you
have been a good hour blowing on that confounded
flute, and no one has a chance of
speaking a word !'

I am afraid Harry was very rude ; but we
were none of us too polite to Mr. Cunningham.
I do hate a rich, lumpish young man.

Mr. Cunningham unscrewed his flute. He
was affronted, and no wonder, by Harry's uncivil
remarks.

You have no soul for music, Vivian,' he
returned stiffly. * People who cannot play
themselves, and know absolutely nothing of
music, generally set themselves up for critics.
Thank you, Miss Leigh ; you played that last
passage charmingly. I like a staccato movement,'

but 1 would not listen to his heavy encomiums
any longer. I gave Harry a grateful
smile and slipped away to my room.

I am afraid to say how many hours it was
before I slept that night. Mrs. Lyndhurst's
sad story haunted me. I went over it point by
point, and again my tears flowed as I thought
of the miserable mother who had lost her child
so strangely. My heart ached for her, and yet
my sympathy was not unmixed with blame.
How could she have done it ?' that is what I
kept saying to myself over and over again. It
was right for her to leave that wicked husband.
No one could blame her for that, if she had only
taken her baby with her ; but to forget her own
child  and yet she was not mad  to leave that
boy in his father's power ! Oh, how could she,
how could she? that was always the summing-up.
No ; I could not understand it. The utter
horror of it all baffled me. It is almost impossible
for youth, witty its healthy, natural
views of life, to comprehend the workings of a
morbid temperament, dominated by a subtle
and cruel power. The complex mysteries of
human nature are not to be unriddled by the
young. Such a case as Mrs. Lyndhurst's
needed the wide comprehension of a psychological
student  wise in the science that is most
conversant with the phenomena of the mind.



If I had been older, the difficulty would have
been easier of solution, for no thoughtful person
who has lived long in this world will deny the
singular contradictions and surprises of human
nature. The man, the woman, acts in a diametrically
different way to what we expected ; strange
things are done on sudden emergencies  there
is utter collapse of the reasoning powers. Can
human nature betray itself after this fashion ?
Look at Judas, at Peter, at a hundred examples
of failures,' would be the answer of the psychologist
; ' " Judge not " is the command of the
All-knowing and All-merciful.' When I went
to sleep that night I felt I loved Mrs. Lynd-
hurst less ; but none the less I pitied her
sincerely. When the morning came I was still
in the same mind, only 1 was determined Aunt
Catherine should never know the change in my
feelings. I went up to the Hall in the afternoon.
Aunt Catherine was writing letters In
the library. She received me with her usual
kindness, and began at once talking about her
plans. It was Saturday, and we were to start
the following Wednesday. We were to take
an early train to town, lunch at an hotel, and
go down by the boat-train to Southampton ; the
boat would not start until midnight. There
was a little more talk about arrangements, a
few questions about luggage, and so on ; and

then Aunt Catherine turned again to her davenport.


These letters must go by the afternoon post,'
she said quietly. ' Will you go up to Virginia
now, Olga ? and we will meet again at tea-time ;'
and as I seemed a little taken aback at this proposition,
she continued : ' Virginia wishes to see
you. She knows we were talking yesterday ;
she made me promise to send you up to her.'

Could anything be more embarrassing ? But
I had no excuse ready; Hubert and Kitty were
paying parochial visits  no one at home wanted
me  so I was obliged reluctantly to leave Aunt
Catherine's comfortable presence, and go in
search of Mrs. Lyndhurst. On my way upstairs
I encountered Marsden. I thought she
looked at me a little oddly as she drew back tolet
me pass.

Mrs. Lyndhurst is in her sitting-room, I
believe ?' I asked, by way of saying something,
for J knew quite well where I should find
her.

Yes, ma'am ; but. Miss Olga,' addressing
me rather hesitatingly, ' my mistress is very
poorly this afternoon. She seems low and
nervous. It is cheerfulness she wants, not any
sort of sad talk  I mean, you will be careful
with her. Miss Olga ?'

I never knew Marsden strange in her manner

before ; her round, good-natured face looked
quite prim and solemn. Was it possible that
she was in her lady's confidence ? She was
an old servant, and a very faithful one, but
somehow I hoped Marsden did not know about
little Basil.

Mrs. Lyndhurst was in her usual place. I
am afraid as I greeted her my manner was a
little constrained, for she looked in my face
very searchingly as she held my hand. After
a moment she dropped it, but she did not ask
me to sit down, or question me in her usual
pleasant way.

Aunt Catherine told me you wanted to seeme,
Mrs. Lyndhurst,' I began rather awkwardly.


Yes,' she returned sadly ; ' I wanted to see
for myself. " When she comes into the room I
shall know," that is what I said. You are not a
good actor, my dear  has anyone told you that
before ? I dare say Jem has. Your face tells
everything in a moment. You were sorry that
I sent for you; you have no wish to see me 
that is all written very legibly, Olga.'

Please don't, Mrs. Lyndhurst.'

Is it painful for you to know that ? Young
people are seldom hypocrites ; they are too
eager; their impatience betrays them. It is
better for you to be true, Olga, even though you

do condemn me. What is it ? I said to
Catherine, '' Do not tell the child  do not,
do not." It is the young who are the most
pitiless of our judges. They make no allowances
; with them black is black and white
white  there are no medium shades, no mercy,
no extenuation. You have done wrong ; you
must suffer for it. Is it not Draco whose laws
were written in blood ? Well, the young are
Draco-like.'

I was nearly crying by this time. Why
would she say such dreadful things? and how
was I to answer her ? It was cruel of Aunt
Catherine to expose me to such an ordeal !

I can read the question in your eyes, Olga,'
she went on. ' You have pretty eyes, my
dear, very soft and gray ; but they have a
terrible way of asking questions. *' How had
you the heart to do it, you unnatural mother ?''
that is what they say.'

Oh, hush, please, Mrs. Lyndhurst !'

My dear, I cannot hush ; there is a time for
everything  Solomon said that, did he not ? 
and my time has come for speaking. '' How
could you do it ?" Olga, that is the question I
have asked myself for twenty-five years, and I
have not found the answer yet.'

It was terrible to hear her ; her voice was
thin and strained, and there was a pinched look

about her face ; but she took no notice of my
entreaties to her to spare herself and me.

If I have sinned, I have had my punishment.
Think of a punishment lasting five-and-twenty
years !  five-and-twenty years !'
Can I ever forget the dreary tone in which
she repeated these words } * It is more than
your whole lifetime, Olga.'

I felt a curious revulsion of pity as she
spoke. My youthful severity was not proof
against such misery : without asking myself
again how such things could be ; I threw my
arms round Mrs. Lyndhurst, and begged her
not to talk so sadly.

Indeed I will not blame you !' I said
earnestly, and I fully meant what I said. ' It is
not easy for me to understand. I am so young,
you see, and so happy, and I have never been
tried ; but, indeed, I will not be hard. Only
you must not talk like this.'

For there was a wildness in her manner that
frightened me, for it brought back the scene in
the Lady's Walk.

My caress soothed her ; she was one who
depended on sympathy. The rigid muscles
relaxed ; a softer look came into her eyes.
She stroked my hand without speaking for a
few minutes, and then she said more quiet :

Yes, I am to be pitied. God only knows

VOL. I. I I

what I have suffered all these years ! Oh, he
was sb pretty, Olga  my baby ! He had such
dear little hands and feet, and such a cooing
voice. Somehow I always think of him still as
my baby, and yet he is a full-grown man.'

I was silent. It would not hurt her to talk
in this quiet fashion ; perhaps it might be a
relief. It certainly pained me to hear her; but
what of that ?  were we not told to bear one
another's burdens ?

I have always dreamt of him,' she went on,
Sometimes the dreams were happy, but at
other times they were terrible  terrible ! They
were never quite the same. I used to dream of
him as a little child, and then as a school-boy.
Once he was showing me his prizes. I was
opening one book after another. " Basil
Theodore Lyndhurst " was written in everyone.
I called him Theodore after my father 
the gift of God. I used to say it over to
myself sometimes. It was so true  my baby
was the gift of God !'

I would not interrupt her by a word, and she
went on softly, as though talking to herself.

Once he had some childish ailment ; he was
feverish and suffering, and I remember how
frightened I was. *' If my baby die, I shall
die too," I said to Lizette. She was a good
old creature. She was rocking the old-fashioned

Flemish cradle as I spoke, and she looked up
and shook her head at me. " Le bon Dieu
will not take the little angel," she said solemnly.
*' He knows, and the Blessed Mary knows, that
madame has trouble enough. It is only our
Lady of Sorrows who has her heart pierced
through and through with pain. Madame will
not have to suffer. She is young and feeble, and
le bon Dieu knows that." Poor old Lizette !
she was very good to me. But, Olga, she little
knew, if I had lost my baby then I should have
wept like other mothers, and have been comforted.
I should not have wept tears of blood
all these years.'

God has watched over him, dear Mrs.
Lyndhurst.'

Ah ! so Catherine says. That is how she
comforts me. If it were not for that thought
I must have lost my reason. Now and then
all hope fails me, and I dream that he is dead.
When I wake it seems to me that I must
search the world over, only to find his
grave.'

Poor, poor Mrs. Lyndhurst 1'

'But that is not my worst fear'  and here
she shuddered  'there are times when far more
terrible thoughts assail me. What if he should
have become like his father ? Catherine has
told you about my husband. Do you think a

II  2

man like Paul would be a fit guardian for an
innocent child ?'

He had Lizette,' I interposed, eager to give
a crumb of comfort ; for she had touched now
on the very point that troubled me.

Yes ; but he would not require a nurse
long ; Lizette would be dismissed, and then how
would it fare v/ith my boy  no mother to counteract
his father's teaching ? What if he should
have grown up a freethinker ? What if he should
have learned to scoff at religion, at women, at
everything  like Paul ? Could he touch pitch
and not be defiled ? Could he live for years
with that godless, bad-hearted man, and not be
utterly depraved ? Oh, if this be the case, 1
pray I pray most solemnly that I may never
see my son's face in this life.'

Her voice had grown more intense, more
tragically earnest. A cold shiver ran through
me at her words. This awful probability had
already crossed my mind. If it were true, oh,
how much better it would be to stumble on
some foreign tombstone, some wooden cross,
in a far-off cemetery, and read the name of
Basil Theodore Lyndhurst engraved there !
If I could only find some word to comfort her !
And then I remembered the beautiful story of
Monica and St. Augustine : the reckless prodigal
feeding on husks ; the weeping, praying

mother ; the consolatory speech, so strangely
prophetic, spoken by a holy man  ' The child of
so many prayers and tears cannot be lost.'
Mrs. Lyndhurst kissed me when I had finished
the simple story. If she had heard it before she
did not say so, but a faint smile came to her face.

It may be so  God grant it!  and my prayers
may have been an invisible shield to Basil. I
will try to think so, and then my pain will be
less.'

Yes ; and Aunt Catherine hopes that she
may hear some news of him at St. Croix.*

The news will be very vague, I fear she
returned sadly. ' Pere Lefevre, the priest who
baptized my little Basil, has only lately returned
to St. Genette. You know St. Croix is only
the suburb. He is again attached to the parish
church, St. Sulpice. We have heard a rumour
that he has been attending the death-bed of an
English artist. The description tallies with that
of my husband.'

Is that all ?' for I thought at least that some
clue had been discovered of Basil.

That is all at present ; it is for Catherine to
find out all she can from Pere Lefevre. If it be
not under the seal of confession he will tell us
what he knows. These priests have kind hearts.
If we could only find old Lizette !  but she must
be lone dead.'

Was she very old ?'

Perhaps not. It is difficult to judge of the
age of these peasants. Their hard work makes
them look older than they really are. She
might have been fifty.'

That would make her seventy-five now.'

Yes, if she be living, but I doubt it. There
is nothing but doubt and regret all round. Even
if I find him, even if Catherine is successful,
and one day I shall hear Basil is alive and
is coming home, do you think even such
blessed news as that can atone for the past?
Think what 1 have lost, never to see him in
his childhood, his boyhood, his early manhood,
to have some strange bearded man suddenly
come to me and say, " You are my mother ; I
am Basil, your son. Where is my grandfather's
property that belongs to me ? Where are my
goods that I ought to have enjoyed all these
years ?' How am I to recognise him whom
I saw last as a baby ?'

Yes, yes, I see what you mean ; it is very
hard for you.'

Will he be like Paul, and frighten me with
his father's likeness ? Will he love the stranger
who calls herself his mother ? Oh, they talk
of nature, of instinct, but instinct is sometimes
blind. I may say to him, " Come, embrace me,
my son ;" and he may answer coldly, " How am

I to feel you are my mother ?  affection in a man
cannot be forced. We have never been anything
to each other ; the whole world has divided
us. How am I know my English mother from
any other woman ?" '

Is this how you have tortured yourself all
these years, Mrs. Lyndhurst ?'

Yes, Olga. Ask Catherine, for she has been
my guardian angel ; ask my good faithful
Marsden how I have tried them. There were
times when, like Cain, my punishment was more
than I could bear  then it was that Catherine
was a tower of strength to me. " You have
still a sister," that is what she would say tome.
I could not have borne my life without
Catherine.'

Just then Marsden interrupted us. She had
a tea-tray in her hand. As she set it down she
looked at her mistress's agitated countenance
with disapproving eyes.

You have talked too much, ma'am she said,
with a solemn shake of her head. ' I warned
Miss Olga; but I see it has been no use. Now
you will have one of your bad headaches.'

'It was not my fault, Marsden,' I pleaded;
for the good creature seemed greatly disturbed.

No, Mary, you must not scold the child.
I was obliged to talk, and I think she has done
me good. Go down now, my dear, and leave

me with Marsden. We quite understand each
other, and she knows she may scold me as
much as she likes ;' and she smiled up in
Marsden's face, but the faithful soul was hardly
mollified. She saw signs of suffering in her
mistress's drawn face and weary eyes, and was
anxious for my departure.

Aunt Catherine was awaiting me in the
drawing-room. She looked at me scrutinizingly
as I sat down beside her.

Well, Olga, can you forgive Virginia now ?'
I forget what my answer was, but I know it
satisfied Aunt Catherine, for she took my hand
and said soothingly :

Don't cry, dear ; I am afraid you have had
a painful scene with my poor sister ; but it was
better for you to see for yourself  now you know
what my life has been.'

Oh, Aunt Catherine, how could you have
borne it all these years ?'

That I can hardly tell you. We all have
our work in life  Virginia is my work.*

But it must have been so depressing.'
I would not allow it to depress me. I had
many duties  the care of our property, our poor,
the search for Basil as our rightful heir, the old
name to keep up in the county. Then I had
my pleasures, my books and garden, and '  here

she looked at me very sweetly  ' the affection
of my adopted daughter.'

Oh, Aunt Catherine, am I indeed a comfort
to you ?'

Her answer took me by surprise, for she was
rarely demonstrative, and seldom expressed her
feelings.

Sometimes I think you are my greatest
comfort. You are a great deal to me, Olga ;
you always have been. Now drink your tea,
my dear, and let us talk of something else.'

A FAIRY GODMOTHER AND A PRINCE.

I give you my word I am heart-whole.'

Red Gauntlet.

If we cannot be better friends, do not at least let us entertain
harder or worse thoughts of each other than we have now.'

Wordsworth.

Aunt Catherine kept me with her a long time.
She saw that I was much upset, and she wished
to change the current of my thoughts, and as I
still seemed low-spirited and unlike my usual
cheerful self, she took me up to her room under
the pretext of showing me a new travelling rug
that she had just bought. After which she
unlocked her wardrobe and brought out her
jewel casket.

I have never shown you my trinkets, Olga
she said quietly, ' and I know girls love to see
pretty things. These all belong to me. Virginia's
are at our bankers'. She has never
worn a single article of jewellery these five-and-twenty

years, with the exception of one or two
diamond rings ; and as her ornaments are much
handsomer than mine, it was hardly safe to keep
them in the house.'

Oh, Aunt Catherine, what lovely things !' I
exclaimed in ecstasy, as she opened one case
after another, and showed me their glittering
contents. ' I think I have seen that ruby
pendant before ; you wore it when you went to
the Collingwoods'  that night I helped you
dress, and you wore your black satin. I know
Kitty told me how well you looked  the best
dressed woman in the room.'

What a distinction !' she returned, smiling at
my enthusiasm, but I knew she liked the little
compliment. ' Well, Olga, you seem entranced
with my treasures. I suppose you think me
enviable to be the owner of all those fine things .''

I am afraid I did think so.

They give me very little pleasure,' she went
on, without waiting for my answer. ' I suppose
if Basil be living these will go one day to his
wife. That is why Virginia hoards hers so
jealously. You see they are chiefly old heirlooms.
They have been in our family for years
and years. Do you see that enamel pendant
set round with pearls  see how discoloured the
pearls are with age  they say that belonged to
the Lady Gwendoline, and that Ralph of the

Iron Heart gave it to her. No one has worn it
since  it would have been considered unlucky ;
but they unclasped it from her neck as she lay
in her coffin. Think of the contrast, a love-token
reposing on the shrivelled neck of an
aged woman ! If it were not for the knowledge
that love is eternal, and that the heart cannot
grow old, one would disbelieve the reality of
such things.'

Lady Gwendoline's story is so terribly sad.'

It is not sadder than many other women's
stories,' she answered, and her tone was a little
peculiar. * Not so sad as Virginia's, for example.
If Gwendoline had accepted her fate,
and had not bewailed over her misery until her
poor brain was crazed, she would have led a
more peaceful existence, dolni her daily work
with patience until death called her to rejoin her
lover. Poor soul, the truth was revealed to herat
last ! Do you remember her dying words :
Heaviness may endure for a night, but joy
Cometh in the morning " ?"

Aunt Catherine's manner had orrown a little

o

solemn.

There are thousands of unspoken and unwritten
stories  some of them as sad as poor
Gwendoline's. Love comes to most women,
but it does not always bring happiness with it.
Some hide their pain like the famous Spartan

boy of old hid his fox. They keep their own
secret unflinchingly to the end ; others take
it meekly as their appointed cross. " What I
do thou knowest not now, but thou shalt know
hereafter "  I would write those words on many
a single woman's grave.'

Aunt Catherine,' I began timidly, but she
stopped me by showing me another trinket.

The others are heirlooms, as I told you,
Olga ; but my father gave me this, and I have
always meant it for you  don't blush so, child.
I suppose I may give you a trinket if 1 like,
and I know you have so few pretty things.'

This was the truth, for my mother had been
a poor vicar's daughter, and her few simple
ornaments had been given her by her husband.
Only a bracelet and a ring or two of no particular
value had come into my possession.

But, Aunt Catherine, this is far, far too
beautiful for me !' I gasped.

Why so ?' pretending to misunderstand me ;
it will look very well on your round, whitethroat,
and it is so simple and girlish.'

It is perfectly exquisite,' I stammered, and
indeed it was very unique and uncommon. It
was a necklace formed of a single row of gems
all of them different  set very lightly. Some
of the stones were costly, others less so, and
the effect was extremely good.

Do you like it, Olga ? I am so glad. I
have always meant it for you. Now help me
to clear up all this finery. If there ever be
such a person, Basil's wife will have ample
choice, will she not ? for all these must go by
right to her. There, let me lock them up safely ;
and now you must run home, or Virginia will
be wondering what has become of me.'

I carried off my treasure and showed it
proudly to Hubert, who was sitting alone in
the drawing-room. He examined it curiously,
and then looked at me with rather an odd
expression.

'Do you admire it, Hubert? is it not kind
of Aunt Catherine to give it to me ?'

It is very good of her. I think it extremely
handsome,' he returned in his precise way.
'You are a lucky girl, Olga. There is no
doubt at all that Miss Seton is much attached
to you.'

That is nothing new,' I replied pertly, for I
thought his manner rather tiresome.

But it is more evident now. Jem was only
saying something of the sort the last evening he
was at home. You see neither Mrs. Lyndhurst
nor Miss Seton is young, and they have no

heir. So, as Jem says ' but I was not going

to hear what Jem did say, and I took away my
necklace rather crossly, for it annoyed me to

see Hubert dangling it on his fingers, and peering
at it through his spectacles while he talked
such nonsense.

I am quite sure Aunt Catherine will never
leave me a penny of her money, if that is what
you mean,' I observed in a vexed voice ; ' and
what is more, I do not want it ; and I cannot
bear you and Jem to say such things  it is
dreadfully mercenary, and '

What a silly child you are !' he replied
good-humouredly ; ' but there, Jem and I will
keep our thoughts to ourselves if they annoy
you. I hope you will show Kitty your necklace.'


And then I marched oft with a good deal of
dignity. How tiresome of Hubert and Jem to
think of such nonsense ! But of course they
did not know of Basil's existence, so perhaps
they were not so much to be blamed, after all.
I was doubly anxious now for poor Mrs. Lynd-
hurst to find her son, if only to prevent people
thinking of such ridiculous things.

I went up to the nursery to find Kitty ; on
Saturday evenings she was always up there for
an hour helping nurse. Nurse was busy in the
inner room, and Kitty was sitting by the window
putting in clean tuckers in the children's Sunday
frocks. The twins had just been saying their
prayers ; they were standing by their mother in

SEARCH FOR BASIL LYSDHURST

their little blue dressing-gowns, looking fresh
and fair from their ablutions.

May we stay a little, mother ?' exclaimed
Jessie eagerly, as she perceived me.

Auntie will soon be going away,' observed
Mab as a conclusive argument-and

then they both climbed up in my lap
and pleaded for a stores

It must be a Sunday story am afraid,
finished Jessie, *' because we have just said our
prayers and hymn, and mother would not like
faire-stories after that.*

No, daring, you are quite right returned
Kitty. ' But. indeed, you must not keep them,
Olga : it is quite time for them to be in bed.*

Let me show them this first,' I suggested,
opening the case. And then there was an exclamation
from mother and daughters,

WTiat a beauty you will look in it, auntie !'
from Jessie,

Auntie is quite a beauty without that,* contradicted
Mab  oh, the lovely innocence of
childhood I  * but she will look ever so much
nicer in it  quite a grand lady.'

Let me see it, children dear. Aunt Olga
rr.er.: to show it to me.' And Kitty held it in
her hand admiringly. ' Yes. it is very handsome
: it will just suit you, Olga. Miss Seton
is extremely generous.'

But though she said no more, I could read
her thought : * The ladies have no heir, and
they are fond of Olga !' Good gracious, how
I longed to shout ' Basil Theodore Lyndhurst '
into her pretty little ear !

The little girls left us reluctantly after this,
and then Wilfred came in to say his prayers.
I always liked to watch Kitty with her children.
Her tired face  and how very, very tired she
always looked now !  had a soft, motherly expression
on it.

Mother, why do you always stroke my
head when I say my prayers ?' Wilfred asked
suddenly. * Is it to keep time with the words ?
I think I am too sleepy to say my hymn ;
please let me off.'

I will say it for you, Willie.'

And as the little fellow nestled up against
her, she sang it in a low, crooning voice that
was as good as a lullaby. Nurse carried him
off half-asleep after this, and Kitty turned to
her work again.

Do let me help you,' I pleaded ; but she
shook her head, smiling.

There is so little to do, and I like doing it,
Olga. I do so love working for my children ;
they will not always be little ; when they are
grown up they will not need me. Don't you
think Mab is growing very fast ?'

VOL. I. 12

Yes ; she Is much taller than Jessie.'

She Is quite a little mother to Willie and
baby now, and she Is so nice to her father.
Hubert was only saying so yesterday. If anything
were to happen to me  I mean, If they
lost me  Mab would take care of them
all'

Thank you, Kitty ; I suppose you have
forgotten my existence,' I returned, In a half-affronted
tone. * Mab, indeed !'

Kitty laughed  she could not help It  but
her tone was still melancholy.

I beg your pardon, Olga. I thought, of
course, you would be married. You do not
suppose that I should ever ask you to sacrifice
yourself for my children ? What would Jem
say ?'

Whatever he liked. Kitty, why will you
talk in this doleful fashion ? It Is quite
ridiculous. Mab and Jessie are both so pretty
that they will be sure to marry young. Mab
would just do for Harry, when she grows up,
and then you and Hubert will be Darby and
Joan. V/hat a handsome old couple you will
be!'

Kitty looked at me thoughtfully, as though
she were trying to imagine the picture.

Hubert is always saying things like that.
*when the children leave us," 'when Wilfred

is a man," and so on. It gives me rather a
shiver to hear him.'

Why ? You are very incomprehensible this
evening.'

Oh, I don't know '  folding up her work.
I never think of the future. I cannot imagine
myself old. It takes all my strength to live my
daily life ; I am too tired to look beyond. I
have all I want now  Hubert and the children,
and you and Jem. I have a sort of faith that
as long as my children need me I shall be here.
I know you think me odd, Olga, but my mother
died young, and I suppose that gave me the
notion that perhaps I should never be old either.'
I looked at her anxiously. Kitty was always
prone to low spirits. Was it my fancy, or did
she look a little thinner and more fragile than
usual ? * Want of tone,' Dr. Langham called it.
Well, no one thought much of that.

I hope you do not talk to Hubert in this
way,' I observed, in a scolding tone.

Oh no ; it would only make him unhappy,
poor fellow ! he takes too much care of me
now. I don't know what Hubert would do
without me, Olga.'

I don't know what any of us would without
you,' I returned, with a remorseful kiss or two, for
how often Jem and I had been cross with Kitty !
Now, pray  pray don't talk any more in this

12  2

ghoul-like manner  It is just overwrought
nerves  for you will tire yourself so dreadfully
; and oh ! how angry Hubert would be
if he heard you ! He would send for Dr.
Langham at once, and order you up to bed.'

That is just why I do not tell him,' she
returned ; and a little mischievous sparkle
came to her eyes. ' He is so fussy, dear old
fellow, and makes so much of every little ailment,
so I just keep my bad feelings to
myself, and never tell him what makes me so
cross sometimes.'

'Well, you may tell me instead'  a great
effort of magnanimity on my part, for I did hate
talking about ailments, and presentiments, and
all kinds of doleful things ; and Kitty's remarks
were so often set in the minor key. To
my surprise, she thanked me quite affectionately.

May I, indeed, Olga ? That is so kind and
sisterly of you ! I dare say it is all fancy, and
that talking it over comfortably with you will
do me good. You see, when one has a husband,
one is obliged to think of his feelings ; and
Hubert is very easily depressed. So it will be
nice to tell my troublesome feelings to you.'

Nice for Kitty, perhaps! But I was not the
woman to shirk my word ; and, after all, Kitty
had lots of worries. I thought of Aunt
Catherine's noble example as I went to my

room, and the burthen she had so patiently
borne all these years. Perhaps she had wanted
to be married, and had given up someone she
loved to stay with her afflicted sister. I
thought what a good woman she must be, and
I made a resolution to be more to Kitty, and
to help her as far as possible over the rough
places of life ; and again those touching words
of Amiel came into my mind : ' Oh, be swift
to love  make haste to be kind.'

Kitty's plaintive conversation made me
secretly uneasy, though I would not allow
myself to say so. Most likely the tragical
talk of the afternoon had unhinged me  even
a healthy young person can be nervous. I was
tired and creepy, and did not make allowances
for Kitty's unconscious exaggerations. And
yet I have always noticed that people who talk
much about their feelings  who count their
owen pulsations and regulate their own heart-beats
 are liable to overstep the truth, and to
draw too largely upon their imagination.

I found myself watching Kitty during the
evening. She was certainly a little quieter than
usual. She brought her work to the table where
Hubert was playing backgammon with Harry,
and sat beside him quite contentedly. Once
he told her that she was trying her eyes and
had better go to bed.

You work too hard for us all, little woman,
he said, looking at her tenderly.

I saw Kitty slip her hand into his :

Do let me stop a little longer ; it is so nice

and quiet, and I like being with you.'

Harry was rattling the dice rather noisily,

and did not overhear the little conjugal whisper.

I dice not above seven times a week,' observed
Harry sententiously. ' Mr. Leigh, are
you aware I am quoting Shakespeare ? Actually
those words were written by the immortal
William. Mark the line, pregnant with meaning
: "I dice not more than seven times a
week." '

I congratulate you on your memory, Vivian,'
returned Hubert dryly. ' Whose throw is it ? 
mines Deuce!  ace  come, that's lucky ! Kitty,
my dear, I mean to beat this fellow hollow ; he
has grown too conceited.'

So, after eleven years, Kitty still cared to sit
by Hubert. Matrimony was not such a dull
affair as I thought it, after all. Only, as I took
care to add, if I ever should have a husband he
must be diametrically opposed to Hubert ; no
beard, no spectacles, no fussy humdrum ways !
And he certainly should never call me ' my dear '
I should settle that beforehand with him.
My dear !' Could any two words be more insufferably
patronizing ?

Now it was the very next evening that Harry
behaved in the most tiresome fashion. In fact,
I was so shocked that I cried about it. We
were walking home from church together,
and were just sauntering along in a lazy way,
because the evening was so beautiful, when he
made me turn into a little lane on the pretence
of listening to a nightingale, when all at once I
found, to my dismay, that he was proposing tome
!

If I had not been so angry I must have
laughed, for it was too absurd, and yet the poor
boy was quite in earnest, and, in spite of his
youth, there was a manly dignity about him that
checked any propensity to merriment.

You ought not to be so severe. Miss Leigh,
he said deprecatingly, as I again repeated that
I was excessively annoyed. ' Of course you
have never encouraged me ; but when a fellow
likes a girl, he has a right to tell her so.'

He has no right  none at all,' I replied
hotly, for what would Hubert say to us ? and
how unmercifully Jem would have laughed at
us both ! For though Harry would be tremendously
rich one day  he was an only son, and
Colonel Vivian was at the tip-top of county
society  he was only twenty, and ought to bethinking
of his studies, and not making himself
miserable about a girl a few months younger

than himself. Besides, if I ever married, my
husband must be at least ten years older than
myself !

I hold a different opinion,' he returned,
flushing at my petulance. Poor, dear Harry,
how nice and handsome he looked, and how
fond I was of him ! ' You are very hard on me,
Miss Leigh ; as though I can help loving you ;'
and then he said a great many pretty things,
and would not let me interrupt him until he had
finished, and then he said quite humbly : ' Won't
you give me just a little bit of hope ? I am so fond
of you, that even a crumb of comfort would be
something. If I may speak to you again in a
year's time, or two '

But I stopped him decidedly.

'It is no use, I cannot care for you in that
way, Harry. I like you ; you have always
been so nice and kind, and you have given me
Rollo ; but I will not be so wicked as to give
you any hope. We will be friends. Oh yes,
we will always be friends, and I shall be so
interested in all that concerns you.'

I see it is all up with me,' he returned
gloomily ; ' but of course I am not such a cad
as to press a girl. If you ever alter your mind' 
here I shook my head  ' you must just let me
know, for 1 shall never care for anyone else.'
(* Oh, Harry, what a fib !') * I suppose you would

not let me, just for once ' but as I drew myself
up the poor boy blushed and apologized. I
took his hand and held it for a moment ; there
were tears in his eyes, and I was so sorry for him.

No, Harry dear,' I said gravely ; ' how do
I know that in the years to come I may not
like somebody else better, and then I should
feel sorry if 1 had let anyone else kiss me. Nowe
can be friends without that ;' and then, as he
still continued dejected, I talked to him in quite
an elder sisterly way. Harry's sisters were
only school-girls of fourteen and fifteen. I
gave him a great deal of excellent advice, to
which he listened in a most docile manner ; but
I am not sure that it benefited him, for as we
turned our faces homeward he produced a little
packet from his waistcoat pocket, and in a
shamefaced manner tendered it for my acceptance.


It was a pretty little brooch, and must have
cost a good deal ; but I put it back in his hand.

You must keep that for Ada or Laura's
birthday,' I said quietly, and he did not venture
to say another word. When we reached the
hall-door I shook hands again with him  this
time very solemnly. ' You poor boy, I must
forgive you, I suppose, but you must never do
so again,' and I ran upstairs.

I cried a good deal that night, for I was so

sorry to have vexed him ; but as I brushed out
my hair before the glass, I peeped at myself
once or twice rather curiously.

So I have actually refused an offer !' I
thought ; * I wonder if I shall ever have another.
Kitty said she never cared for anyone until she
saw Hubert  that the moment she saw him she
had an odd sort of feeling. I rather like that
idea ; in fairy tales everything is so deliciously
sudden : the prince comes riding up ; he just
throws a glance at the fortunate princess. " I
am he," that is all he says, and he holds out his
hand, and they ride away into fairyland. I
shall never have another chance, I know; but, all
the same, I should like something out of the
common. Jem says I am awfully romantic.
What a goose you are, Olga !" he would say.
Well, I am a goose,' and with this humiliating
confession I scrambled into bed.

LA MAISONNETTE.

Oh, the moorland by the sea, where the purple heather groweth,
And the bracken rears its crozier 'midst the mosses and the
ling :
Where the brown bee crowns its song as it gaily homeward
goeth,
And the wheeling sea bird stooped the white wonder of
its wing.

Oh, the incense-breathing firs ! the great firs that skirt the
moorland,
Shedding perfume all about it, from soft surging plumes of
green,
That with strong protecting arms, leaning inward from the
foreland.
Let the tender, warm sea-azure here and there slip in
between.'

Helen Marion Burnside.

Do you feel better, Olga ?'

No  yes  I don't know, Aunt Catherine,' I
replied, speaking in the smallest of voices, and
struggling up into a sitting posture. I am
afraid I must have looked a miserable object
huddled up in my berth, for Rollo sprang up

and licked my hand ; and, in spite of her pity,
Aunt Catherine could not forbear a smile.

Poor child, I am so sorry you have had such
a wretched time. The captain owns it was a
little fresh, but I was too good a sailor to mind
it. Now, Olga, you must drink this cup of tea
and try to join me on deck. We are just nearing
the quay, and it is such a lovely morning.'

I will try,' I replied languidly ; ' but please
do not wait for me.'

For in my present mood it almost aggravated
me to see Aunt Catherine so well and brisk ;
she looked as trim and comfortable as though
she had slept in her bed at home  not a hair
awry, and quite a fresh colour in her face.
Indeed, as she took care to inform me, she had
slept soundly the first part of the night, and
then, finding the cabin close and unbearable,
had gone up on deck to watch the daybreak.

A little fresh, that was what they called it!
Never had I passed such a night in my life !
It had seemed interminable, lying there in misery
and discomfort, listening to the labouring engines
and the wash of the waves, and seeing
nothing but the swinging lamps and the rocking
walls of the cabin. Now and then it appeared
to me as though the floor were merged into the
ceiling. Dim figures seemed to reel through
the distant door. Now we seemed to sink with

swing-like motion into some deep trough of the
waves, and then to rise with an awful regularity
and precision. How I longed for my dear little
room at Fircroft, for Kitty, for Jem  even
Hubert would have been a comfort  to be anywhere
out of this suffocating place, which to my
giddy, confused senses seemed full of white,
cadaverous faces, and whispering voices grotesque
with misery !

It was good of Aunt Catherine to bring me
that cup of tea ; but in spite of its restorative
effects I still felt so faint that it was with
difficulty that I could drag myself from my
berth ; and long before I had put the finishing
touches to my toilet, the boat stopped, and we
could hear the rush of footsteps overhead.

Olga, my dear child, what a time you are !'
and Aunt Catherine looked at my pale face with
concern. * The luggage is being taken to the
Custom House, and we must go ashore at once.
Don't look so miserable ; the fresh air will do
you a world of good, and you will soon feel all
right again.'

And with these cheering words she handed
me my hat and gloves, and bade me follow heron
deck. The first rush of cool morning air
turned me giddy, and I clutched Aunt
Catherine's arm for support. I was dazzled,
confused by the sunshine and bustle, the crowding

passengers, the sharp volley of speeches.
A strange blending of English and French
voices seemed to fill the air  gendarmes, drivers
of fiacres, and sailors. How strange it all
looked ! What a medley of foreign life ! What
glow and colouring ! Before us were the gray
walls and buildings of St. Genette, the broad
quay planted with plane-trees, the stream of
people and luggage going to the Duane ;
behind us the blue sea, with its tossing, crested
waves sporting in the sunlight. What a bright
scene ! how full of interest to everyone except
to me !

Now, Olga,' observed Aunt Catherine, in the
same brisk voice, ' you shall sit down on that
nice shady seat while I see after our luggage 
you are not fit for the bustle of a Duane, and
I am perfectly accustomed to manage for myself.
No one will interfere with you, you will
find plenty of amusement, and Rollo will take
care of you ;' and I gladly took her advice.

The giddiness was passing off now, and I
began to feel less miserable ; in a little while I
was looking about me with the keen delight of
an inexperienced traveller. Every minute I
saw something to attract my attention ; now it
was a group of watermen in their blue blouses,
gesticulating and talking with French vivacity ;
then a bonne, in her white cap, with some oddly-dressed

children ; a priest, in shovel hat and
cassock ; a little shrivelled Sister of Mercy, in a
white hood and gray habit. A sudden tinkling
of bells ; a miller's cart slowly rumbles along the
quay ; the driver in his blue blouse cracks his
long whip ; the horses are gay with their blue
sheepskins and bells  under the bright sunshine
everything looks full of colour. Two more
priests, one old and gray, the other young and
solemn-looking, pass me, reading their breviaries,
and an old peasant woman, in a long black cloak,
with a basket of onions and carrots, meets them.
The old priest lifts his hat with a kindly air.
Bon jour, Madame Grenier !' he says, with a
kindly reverence. The toothless old creature
mumbles out something in a shrill voice ; she
has a brown weaken face, and looks a hundred,
at least ; some soldiers with blue trousers and
red shoulder-knots pass, and point her out to
each other ; then they laugh and nudge each
other, and say something about his reverence
and the little mother of the big Pierre. So
these are French soldiers, I say to myself;
these dapper little figures with odd monkey-like
faces, and big pointed moustaches. How they
strut along the quay  these fine fellows  as
though they could conquer the world ! The
younger priest has walked on, still absorbed
in his breviary ; but Madame Grenier talks on

in shrill quavering accents, and the old priest
listens good-humouredly ; she is telling a long
story, but it is not easy to understand her dialect
the name Pierre comes in frequently. Has
she ever been young, this Madame Grenier? It
must be terrible to grow like that ! At this point
in my reflections, Aunt Catherine interrupted me.

I am ready now, Olga,' she said ; ' the luggage
is on the fiacre ; it is rather a long
drive to La Maisonnette, but I see you are
better.' I noticed that she gave the old priest
a searching look as we passed him. * If it
should be Pere Lefevre !' she whispered in my
ear. Another crack of the whip, and we were
off, down a long road that skirted the quay. It
was some time before we lost sight of the sea.
The lean little horses did their work famously,
but presently their speed slackened, as we
entered a long narrow street with shops on
each side. 'We have left St. Genette, Olga,'
explained Aunt Catherine ; ' this is really St.
Croix. You must see St. Genette properly tomorrow;
some of the streets are so quaint. It is
such an interesting place  especially to artists.
This street is comparatively common-place, but
the shops are excellent. Look ! there is the
market, but the stalls are half empty. Do you
see that old woman with the gold earrings ?'

I was thoroughly interested by this time.

J

After a few minutes we turned into a wide road
planted with trees, up and down which some
bonnes and children were strolling. By-and-by
we came to a lahore figure of the Christ hanging
on the cross. How lonely and pathetic it looked
in that wide place ! We passed some large
houses set in gardens after this ; then the road
grew more countrified. We drove down lanes
with cornfields on one side ; strange to say, the
cornfields were also orchards. All at once we
stopped before a big brown gate shaded by a
large sycamore ; a barn was on one side. The
driver pulled a bell that sounded a hoarse loud
peal ; the next moment we heard footsteps, and
a young woman with an oddly-shaped coif
and a droll good-humoured face threw open the
gate with voluble welcome.

Madame and the young demoiselle were
welcome ; they must be much fatigued, and
must refresh themselves at once. She and
Jules would see to the luggage. The horses
would take care of themselves. Would
madame enter the house ?' in a shrill, high-pitched
voice.

We were standing in a wide courtyard.
Before us was a good-sized house, plastered
with yellowish stucco, with great brown shutters
 jealousies, I suppose they call them  to
every window. The sun was blazing now, for

VOL. I. 13

It was mid-day, so Aunt Catherine was glad to
take refuge in the house. The doors all stood
open. Rollo, who had preceded us, stood
wagging his tail in some perplexity.

Out of the way, old fellow. This is the
salon, Olga !' exclaimed Aunt Catherine ; and I
followed her into a pleasant room, very nicely
furnished, and deliciously cool, with one big
window looking on the lawn and courtyard, and
the other on the garden. I opened the blind
and peeped out, and my exclamation brought
Aunt Catherine to my side in a moment.

I had never seen such a garden. It was full

o

of big trees, and resembled a miniature wood.
At the end was a little grove ; a broad
gravel walk led to it. On one side was a tiny
lawn, on the other a confused pattern of oddly-shaped
beds, with paths round them. The
whole garden gave one a delightful Impression
of shady coolness and luxuriant foliage.

Very pleasant In summer, but decidedly
unwholesome In winter,' observed Aunt
Catherine. ' No wonder the place did not
agree with Mrs. Milner. What a pretty room
this is, Olga  is it not? There is Jeanne
carrying in our rugs. I suppose the salle-manger
is opposite. Let us explore. Does It
not seem strange, taking possession of the
whole house in this fashion. Look at Rollo



poking his nose almost everywhere ; I am sure
he enjoys the fun as much as we do.'

The salle-manger was a large bare-looking
room, one end lined with cupboards, and with
an astonishing number of doors. There was a
door into the passage, and a door into a dark,
fusty little kitchen, a glass-door opening on the
courtyard, and another opposite it leading into
the garden. A small window by the fireplace
gave additional light. A hen and some chickens
were clucking on the door-step in anticipation
of a meal, which the white cloth and cups and
saucers seemed to warrant.

Oh, Aunt Catherine, how deliciously cool
this room is ! but it is far too big for comfort.
What a long table just for us two !'

The coffee is ready, and shall be served,'
returned Jeanne, coming in at that moment.
Perhaps madame would dismiss Jules, and
give him his due. She and the demoiselle
must be famished after such a journey. Would
mademoiselle prefer a cup of English tea ?
Madame always took it for her dejeuner.
Strong tea with a slice of lemon would be
refreshing, or cafe au lait.'

I pronounced in favour of a cup of English
tea ; Aunt Catherine chose cafe au lait. More
bustle, and stamping of sabots across the brick
floor, then Jeanne marches in triumphantly,

132

bearing" a large coffee-pot In one hand and a
little brown teapot in the other ; a pile of toast
follows, then eggs, and some slices of curious-looking
meat, a bowl of salad, some plums, a
glass-jug of cold water. Rollo watched Jeanne's
movements attentively. He was a dog of
sagacity, and always knew his friends. Jeanne
was not handsome ; she had a turned-up nose ;
she wore a singular cap ; she talked gibberish ;
still Rollo decided she was a person to whom
he might show respect. In proof of this he sat
up before her solemnly and tendered her a paw
  a signal that he was growing hungry.

Jeanne uttered a faint shriek, and wrapped
her hands in her apron ; she pronounced him
Uni bete enjoyable  he was ill-conditioned,
terrible, a monster to be feared ; regardless of
all these compliments, Rollo still sat and
proffered his paw in the most friendly fashion.

Jeanne giggled and fairly fled to her kitchen,
and we could hear her high-pitched voice out
in the courtyard.

Mrs. Milner says Jeanne is an excellent
servant,' observed Aunt Catherine, as she
poured out my tea ; ' she is a most faithful
creature. I wish you did not look so pale,
Olga, but tea and toast will just suit you. I
did not make a bad breakfast on board, but I
mean to try some of that stuffed veal. You

must lie down and get a nap, while I unpack
and write to Virginia.'

1 was glad to take this advice presently.
There was only one good-sized bedroom, which
I at once decided must be for Aunt Catherine.
The other rooms were rather small and barely
furnished ; an uncarpeted passage led to them.
After a few moments' hesitation, I chose a long,
narrow room next to Aunt Catherine's ; it was
furnished with the utmost simplicity  a little
French bedstead in one corner, a painted washstand
and chest of drawers, with an oval glass
in a black frame hanorinor over it. There was a
door of communication with a still smaller
room ; a chintz curtain hung over it. The floor
was polished, and a little strip of carpet was
beside the bed. The window was wide open :
down below was the shady garden, with the
little grove, looking more like some woodland
glade in its depth of delicious coolness ; it was
so strangely silent, too  only the humming of
bees, as they hovered over the quaint flowerbeds,
broke the stillness, or the occasional click
of Jeanne's sabots across the courtyard. Aunt
Catherine came in and closed the great brown
shutters for me ; then she shook up the snowy
pillow, and left me to my siesta. It was late
in the afternoon when I was awakened by
Rollo laying his big black paw on my arm ; he

looked in my face with a whine, as though remonstrating
with me on my unusual laziness.
Jeanne was standing by me with a little tray
with a cup of coffee and some crisp-looking
crackers on a white-fringed napkin ; she deposited
it on the bed, and then, putting her
hands on her hips, regarded me with a benevolent
grin.

La jeune demoiselle had slept well  bien !
The great dog, Monsieur Rollo  was not that
his name ?  had been contemplating the door for
hours ; he had been triste, inconsolable, without
his mistress. Where was madame ? she lead
one to recruit herself with a walk  she was a
person of energy. She had left word that the
jeune demoiselle  Meess  Meess Olga  oh,
the droll little name!  should repose herself: the
day was long enough for amusement. Would
it be possible to assist mademoiselle ? no 
then she, Jeanne, would return to her devoirs ;
there was water to draw from the well, and she
must fetch eggs and butter from the farm.
Would the young English Meess be afraid to be
left in the house with the big dog, Monsieur
Rollo ?'

I dismissed Jeanne with the assurance that I
should not be afraid, and then jumped up and
unpacked with the utmost despatch, while Rollo
lay with his nose between his paws and watched

me. When I had finished I took my hat and
went out in the passage ; the open window
tempted me, and I stood for some minutes
looking out on the courtyard and barn and the
brown gate shaded by the huge sycamore.
How still and peaceful it looked in the evening
light ! I felt as though 1 were in some enchanted
place ; it was all so strange and undone-like, as
though I were dreaming, and must wake up
presently and find myself back at Fircroft.
Jeanne must have gone to the farm ; I peeped
into the empty kitchen, where only a black
kitten was warming herself beside the closed
stove, and then went out into the garden. 1
directed my steps involuntarily to the little
grove ; there were some wicker chairs and a
table, and a hammock swinging between two
trees ; a little gate led into a kitchen-garden
full of fruit-trees. A sort of curiosity induced
me to snatch the gate and walk down the
narrow, grass grown path ; there seemed a sort
of building at the end, that looked like a stable
or a barn, I could not guess which ; a dilapidated
flight of steps led to the upper story  was
it inhabited ? for there was a white curtain
fluttering at an open window  the next instant
I caught sight of a dark masculine profile, and
turned hastily away. Perhaps, after all, it was
a barn, and that was the farmer himself. I was

intruding  most likely the kitchen garden belonged
to the farm and not to La Maisonnette.
I was glad to close the gate behind me, and to
find myself in our own garden.

I wondered where Aunt Catherine had gone,
and as I heard Jeanne's sabots In the distance, I
determined to go a little way down the lane ;
but as I opened the gate I found her standing
outside ; she had her old brown garden-hat
on.

I was just wishing for )Ou, Olga,' she said
brightly. * I wanted to show you the extensive
domains that belong to our landlord. I have
been talking to him  his name is Monsieur
Perrot, and he lives at the farm close by. He
seems an honest old fellow. That lane leads
right down to the bay ; but I want to show you
the view from the cliff Burst. We may regard
this as our private grounds  so Monsieur
Perrot tells me. No one but his lodger ever
comes here, so we shall be quite undisturbed.'

So saying, she opened a little gate, and we
found ourselves in a cornfield full of apple-trees.
Then we came to a green place with
some beautiful fir-trees, overlooking the lane.
Across the road were the grounds of a chateau,
with a small lake surrounded by trees, and a
boat moored to the bank. The water had a
strange greenish hue, as though from the

filtering of sunshine through leaves ; it had a
solitary, deserted look, as though no human
footstep ever broke the stillness, or trod on the
grassy paths.

That is the Chateau de Clairville,' observed
Aunt Catherine. ' It belongs to the Detains
but they are in Paris at present. Mrs.
Milner told me a sad story about them once.
The eldest son, then a fine boy of eleven or
twelve, was drowned in that very lake. A
schoolfellow upset the boat, and Gaston could
not swim. They say none of the family have
ever looked at the lake since. It is probably
the truth, for the boat seems falling to pieces
through age and disuse. Madame Detains
has taken a dislike to the chateau, and
they live most of the year in Paris.'

It looks like the scene of a tragedy,' I
returned, with a shudder. ' How weird and
uncanny it must look by moonlight. Let us go

and Why, there is actually heather!

What a pretty, wild place !'

'Yes; is it not? This is the cliff; and if
we follow this little winding path, we shall
come to the steps that lead down to the
bathing-house. Is this not curious, Olga 
this mingling of cornfields, orchards, fir-trees,
and heather-covered cliffs ! Now you can seethe
bay  what do you think of that i'

I was silent from sheer admiration of the
beautiful scene before me. Below us lay the
yellow sands, with piles of amber coloured
seaweed, and beyond, the blue waters of the
bay, shimmering in the golden sunlight, and
studded with rocky islets ; across the bay
wooded promontories, and the white gleam of
buildings from the gay little seaport town of
Nanterre ; while to our left were the picturesque
banks that skirted the river Livres  cliffs, sands,
and the red and white sails of numberless boats,
all steeped in the pure radiant light of early
evening.

Aunt Catherine, this is paradise !'
An earthly paradise ; but you are right  it
is very beautiful. The sunsets are wonderful
here ; indeed, the glow of colouring is peculiarly
foreign. I have seen the bay as intensely
blue as the Mediterranean. Look to your
right, Olga : that is the fashionable bathing-place
of St. Croix, and across those cliffs there
is the cemetery and the Hospital de St. Pierre.
We shall pass both on our way to the English
Church. Further on is St. Genette, and those
massive towers belong to St. Dominique 
that is where they kept the English prisoners.
When we cross to Nanterre, we shall have to
start from St. Dominique  it is only twenty
minutes across the bay.'

I listened to Aunt Catherine with interest
and tried to follow her outstretched finger, as
she pointed out one object after another ; but I
could only give a divided attention. My own
senses seemed steeped in beauty. We were on
the farthest point of the cliff ; no one was insight
; the only signs of human life were the
little boats rocking in the sunlight. One could
dimly discern a red or blue cap belonging to
some fisherman. We where seated on the
heather, and the long slow wash of the waves
was the only sound that reached our ears ;
except, once, the distant clanging of a bell on
the cliff.

Are you cold ? Why do you shiver, Olga ?
There is scarcely a breath of air ; it has been
a hot day, so Monsieur Perrot tells me.'

No, I am not cold.'

But in spite of my words another irrepressible
shiver passed through me. I had a strange
indescribable sensation as though something
were going to happen, as though some subtle
spirit of change stood by me to interpret the
future. Why had I come there ? Would it
not have been better for me to have remained
at home ? Something to this effect seemed to
pass through my mind with a strange nervous
accompaniment of dread. I had never experienced
such a feeling before.

Are you sure there is nothing the matter,
Olaf ?'

No ; but I believe I am tired,' and I stood
up and stretched myself a little wearily.

Let us go back to the house, then,' returned
Aunt Catherine kindly. ' Jeanne will have
prepared our supper by this time, and when
you have had it you shall go to bed. Come,
child, come !'

But I followed her unwillingly. Once I
looked back ; the sky was tinged with a rosy
hue ; the bay was transfigured ; the lite fleet
of fishing smacks looked like fairy boats ; the
opposite shore was bathed in the glow of the
setting sun.

I am glad I have come across the seas to
look at this,' I said to myself; and then aloud,
Aunt Catherine, we must always come herein
the evening. I shall christen this lovely spot
Seton Point." '

A Middle-aged ROMANCE.

Thou goes,' she said, ' and ne'er again
Must we two meet in joy or pain.'

Bridal of Triermain.

They part,
Each with a grieved and anxious heart.'

Berkeley.

A NIGHT of sound sleep perfectly restored me.
When we met at breakfast, Aunt Catherine
declared herself to be quite satisfied with my
looks. It was a lovely morning ; the air delight
and buoyant, the spacious salle-manger
looked cool and bare as I entered it. There
was a pleasant flicker of green leaves against
the glass-door that led into the courtyard. A
faint breeze stirred the huge branches of the
sycamore. Rollo lay stretched out on the stone
step watching a hen and her chickens scratching
in the dust. A fragrant smell of coffee came

from the kitchen. A great pile of brown toast
was on the table. Aunt Catherine came in
from the garden with a bunch of roses with the

o

dew still on them.

Have you slept well, my dear ? but I need
not ask, you look as bright as the morning itself.
Now I shall venture to propose a little plan for
the morning. We will take a fiacre and drive
down to St. Genette ; it is too hot to walk all
that distance. After we have looked about usa
little, we will go to St. Sulpice. You will
not mind my leaving you alone for a little while,
Olga, while I call on Monsieur Lefevre ?'

You are going this morning ?' in some
surprise.

Aunt Catherine smiled.

Procrastination was never one of my faults.
What is the use of putting off for tomorrow
the duty that belongs to to-day ? I am too good
a business-woman to cheat my conscience in
that way. I have come all this distance to see
Pere Lefevre, and I do not mean to lose a
moment before I call on him. We must think
of poor Virginia.'

Yes ; of course.'

But I was a little sorry that Aunt Catherine
would not give up one day to pure enjoyment ;
it was such a delicious morning. I should have
liked to have spent it on the sands, or on Seton

Point ; but I would not have told her so for
worlds.

An hour afterwards we were driving towards
St. Genette, and my brief discontent was soon
forgotten at the sight of the beautiful old
town, with Its narrow picturesque streets, and
its quaint houses with their peaked roofs and
overhanging eaves and wide casements, over
which towered the steeple of St. Sulpice. I
felt as though I were transported back to
mediaeval days, as though I had seen those old
streets In some dream of the past. What colouring,
what harmony of tints in the soft grays and
yellows, the dull red roofs, the narrow breadth
of sky above, so deeply, intensely blue, the clear
sunshine ! And then the gay medley of passers-by
 white-capped bonnes, soldiers in red and
blue, sisters of charity in their hoods and gray
and black habits, sombre-looking priests,
peasant women with massive silver earrings
reposing against their brown, shrivelled cheeks,
and little black bead-like eyes roving everywhere.
From end to end of the quaint old
town we drove, and every moment we came
upon some picturesque group, some combination
of effect and colouring to excite our admiration.
Now it was some snow-white pigeons settling on
a red-peaked roof, now a heavy cart with gray
horses ambling along under their gay adornment

of blue sheepskin and bells, then a donkey with
pannier, a dark-eyed girl with gold earrings
walking beside it, a brown-faced baby in a close
cap peeping out of each pannier

All at once we left the narrow streets behind
and crossed a place with sycamores and seats
under them. Some soldiers were drinking and
smoking under the awning of a restaurant.
A band was playing in the distance, some
children were dancing, while their bonnes
chatted and knitted on the benches. A quick
turn, and I uttered an exclamation of delight :
before us was the open sea. The waves were
rolling in upon the shore ; the sun was shining,
there was a great stretch of yellow sands : gay
little cabanes of blue and white striped canvas
seemed dotted about everywhere; oddly dressed
figures emerged from them, and ran with little
ripples of laughter into the sea. The children
were wading knee-deep in the pools ; ladies
were workings gossiping, watching the bathers ;
the band was playing dancing music ; there were
coloured minstrels, conjurers, ah old man with
an organ and a melancholy-eyed monkey. The
old man played a dreary tune, the monkey
jumped and clutched its little red cap. Some
soldiers were watching it. Everywhere life,
movement, children's voices, laughter, and the
yellow sunshine pouring down on the gray old



buildings and rocky island, and on the happy
human groups. I could have stayed there for
hours; but Jules had his orders, and after a few
minutes he had cracked his whip again, and the
lean little horses were carrying us back into the
narrow streets. We were descending a somewhat
steep one. The houses were poorer and more
crowded. In another moment we were at the
door of St. Sulpice.

What a change from the busy streets to the
dark scented stillness within. j\n old peasant
woman was hobbling in before us. She took
some holy water and crossed herself, and looked
at us rebukingly as we passed her.

How vast and mysterious it all looked  the
lamps swinging before the high altar, the stacks
of empty chairs, the side chapels and shrines,
with dark figures kneeling here and there, the
strange, penetrating perfume of incense.

I will leave you now, Olga whispered Aunt
Catherine ; ' there is much that will interest you.
You can go round and look at everything ; no
one will disturb you.'

I felt as though I were in some dream as I
heard the great door close after her. The utter
stillness, the gleam from the different shrines,
seemed to wrap me round with mystery.
Everywhere was repeated the same solemn
story here the Madonna and the calm-eyed

VOL. I. H

Babe, there the Mater Dolores and the Divine
Sufferer on the cross  simple, majestic, uncomplaining
; in all ages a spectacle to n:en and
angels.

I grew weary of wandering about presently,
and seated myself before a little chapel, with an
image of a grave, benevolent St. Joseph, and
the Holy Child beside him. An old fisherman
was kneeling before it ; his gray head was
bowed in his hands. A little farther off was
the old peasant woman who had preceded us,
and a lady with a long black veil. Now and
then some noiseless figure glided from behind
the high altar and knelt down silently. The
hushed fragrant atmosphere seemed full of those
noiseless prayers.

It is good to be here,' I thought ; ' here
thousands of worshippers, rich and poor,
learned and ignorant, have brought their cares
and sorrows, their penitential petitions, their
praises, to the throne of Divine Grace. In
England the churches are empty, swept and
garnished for the Sunday services. No sons
and daughters of toil ever creep into those spotless
edifices on week-days to offer up a prayer,
a thanksgiving for some blessing received. Are
the poor of St. Genette more pious ? Whose
fault is it that our churches are not homes for
our working people ?'

I was so absorbed by these reflections that
Aunt Catherine's return quite startled me. I
had not expected her so soon. She looked pale
and weary, and as soon as we were outside she
said with a sigh :

We shall have to be patient, Olga. I
encountered an unexpected difficulty. Monsieur
Lefevre left St. Croix this morning. He
has been summoned to a brother's death-bed,
and is not expected back for a week or two. I
saw his old housekeeper, but she could give
me no information. Her master was a holy
man, she said, and was always attending the
sick and dying. He never spared himself if
his people needed him. Some of the other
Fathers knew how to save themselves trouble,
but not Pere Lefevre.'

Oh, Aunt Catherine, what a disappointment
!'

Yes, it is very trying. Virginia will be so
cast down by the delay. If I thought it would
be any good, I would follow him to Paris ; but
how can one intrude at such a time ? He
will come back, she says, as soon as his
brother is buried ; and I fear we must wait for
that.'

But though Aunt Catherine said no more,
I could see that she was much troubled.

We were tired with our busy morning, so,

142

after dinner, Aunt Catherine proposed that we
should take our books and walk to the little
grove, as I persisted in calling it.

'Jeanne says it is always cool there on the
hottest days ; and she has promised to bring us
some coffee presently. In the evening we can
stroll to your favourite point.'

As I approved of this plan, we were
soon comfortably ensconced, Aunt Catherine in
an old-fashioned armchair, and I in the hammock.
We were both indisposed for conversation
at first  Aunt Catherine had a book, and I
was content to lie in the hammock and listen
to the birds twittering among the leaves over
my head, and think of Jem  it was so pleasant
and peaceful. As I swung to and fro, I could seethe
little grass-grown path I had explored
yesterday, between the apple-trees. Someone
was walking among the cabbages, for I could
catch sight of a blue blouse in the distance. The
sun was blazing on the yellow stucco walls of
the house ; the brown shutters were closed.
Jeanne was going to and fro between the welland
the court-yard  I could hear her shrill voice
speaking to someone ; the black kitten was
chasing a white butterfly across the lawn,
springing up into the air and then suddenly
wheeling round in pursuit of its own tail ; a
great brown bee settled on a rose-bush close

to US.  What a beautiful world this is,' I
thought as I floated off into a day-dream.

Aunt Catherine read steadily all the afternoon,
but I noticed that now and then a sigh
escaped her ; but she did not talk freely until
we had taken our coffee, and were sauntering
towards the cliff. When we had seated ourselves,
and had exhausted our rapturous exclamations
at the beauty of the evening, and of the bay
below us, she said rather suddenly : 

Olga, you do not know how I have set my
heart on finding Basil.'

I had been watching some barefooted boys
with closely-cropped heads and ragged trousers,
who were collecting seaweed on the shore, but
as she spoke, I looked up in some surprise.

I shall be bitterly disappointed if we fail to
discover any traces of him. I hope I am not too
sanguine, but I am hoping great results from
my interview with Pere Lefevre. Surely Paul
Lyndhurst will have spoken of his son on his
death-bed.'

If if he be still alive,' I replied ; but Aunt
Catherine looked a little distressed at my remark.


Who put that doubt in your head, Olga ?
Why should not Basil be alive ? Virginia always
says he was a strong, healthy child. It would bea
cruel disappointment to me as well as to his

mother, if your supposition were true. If Basil
be dead, we have no heir

I was silent, for just then Hubert's foolish
speech came into my head. I felt myself colour
with annoyance. That was the worst of hearing
such speeches, they could not be forgotten. But
Aunt Catherine did not notice my slight embarassment
; she was following out her own line
of thought.

It is so sad that we have no one belonging
to us  no one to take interest in the place, and
to cherish us in our old age. Virginia's son
would have been so dear to me. I should have
been as proud of him as though I had been his
mother. Sometimes I look at Jem  we are both
very fond of him  but he is not a Seton : our
blood does not flow in his veins  he is not one
of us.'

I see what you mean, Aunt Catherine.'

It is our own that we want, our own flesh
and blood. If I could only find Basil, and say to
him, " I am your mother's sister, but you shall belike
my own son ; come home with me, and I
will show you your mother. If you will be
patient and not mind the society of two homely
women, we will teach you the old traditions,
the family histories. You shall know your
ancestors by name, you shall be one of us." This
is what I am always saying to the imaginary

Basil ; and,' with a little smile, ' he always puts
his hand in mine, and says frankly, " I will go
home with you." '

I had never heard Aunt Catherine speak like
this before. There was a yearning sound in
her voice, and a misty look in her gray eyes
that spoke of unfulfilled longing.

If you had only married !' I exclaimed involuntarily'.


She started, and a faint blush came to her
cheek.

You mean, if I had married I might have
had a son of my own  perhaps sons and
daughters, who knows ? That is what one
misses when one grows old. That is why I
think so much of Basil, because I have no one
else belonging to me.'

But, Aunt Catherine '  hesitating, for I
feared to displease her  ' surely you could have
married over and over again if you had liked.'

One only wants to marry once, Olga,'
smiling as though my speech amused her.
After all, there is only one man a woman can
bring herself to marry.'

Whom do you mean ?' in some perplexity.

I mean, of course, the man she loves.
Doesn't that go without saying ?'

Yes, of course ; but  no, you will think me
impertinent. I will not ask such a question.'

Your eyes ask it Instead. Yes, there was
someone whom I could have married.'

And for whose sake you have remained
single  oh, Aunt Catherine !'

You question rather closely, little one ; but
never mind, it is a very old story ; it does not
give me pain now. When I was your age,
Olga, I was thrown almost daily into the
society of someone who seemed to me better
and nobler than anyone else. I never knew
anyone so absolutely true. He reminded me
of Nathaniel, for he was without guile. Young
as I was, I soon understood that he had a
higher standard of right and wrong than most
men.'

Will you tell me a little more about him ?'
creeping closer to her as I spoke, for there
was a shadow on the dear face.

Don't you think it is rather foolish of a
middle-aged woman to tell her love-story to a

girl ? Well, if you will hear it But there is

nothing much to tell. Other women would
have forgotten it long ago  would have loved
again, and have married ; but it was never
possible to me.'

Did you care for him so much ?'
How could I help It, knowing what he was ?
And then he was so good to me. I should have
grown up frivolous and pleasure-loving but for

him. Everything I have I owe to him. It is
strange to think that anyone so young should
have had such an influence. He was not so many
years older than I was. He was only in deacon's
orders when he first came to Brookfield.'

I had no idea he was a clergyman. Do you
mind telling me his name, and  and was he
very attractive-looking ?'

Aunt Catherine smiled at the feminine question.


That is so like a girl, Olga ! His name is
Robert Fleming. No, he was not handsome ;
on the contrary, he was plain  but it was a
face one could trust at once. I used to think it
beautiful when he was preaching. My father
was always hospitable to the clergy. Mr.
Fleming used to dine at the Hall once or twice
a week. He was a clever and amusing companion,
and his conversation was always agreeable
to my father. After a time he volunteered
to teach me Latin and botany, and then we
Averse always together. Was it any wonder,
then, that we grew to care too much for each
other ? Surely the blame was not ours ? I
can only marvel at the blindness of my father
and Virginia ; but no one suspected anything
until too late. I think that year was the happiest
of my life. Every day brought new
pleasure. I never asked myself the reason

why I took life so joyously. I was young, and
the world was very beautiful, and Robert was
good to me.

But one day the revelation came. In an
unguarded moment, when we were alone, the
truth came out. Robert loved me too much
for his own peace of mind ; either he must
leave Brookfield, or I must give him hope that
his feelings were returned. I do not need to
tell you, Olga, that my whole heart belonged to
him. I owned my affection frankly, and for
one day at least we where happy.

I remember that night I could hardly sleep
for joy. I lay hour after hour recalling his
looks and words. I seemed to ask no more of
life than Robert's love, and to feel that we belonged
to each other. But my happiness was
short-lived. When 1 saw him again he looked
worn and harassed. To my dismay T found
that he was blaming himself severely for his
imprudent confession. " Your father will have
a right to reproach me for my dishonourable
conduct, Catherine," he said sorrowfully. '' I
ought not to have betrayed my feelings. There
is only one course open to me. As a gentleman,
I must at once acquaint him with what has
happened." And in spite of my entreaties and
tears  for I feared to lose him  he sought at
once an interview with my father.

I need not tell you the result : my father was
bitterly angry with us both ; Robert was forbidden
the house, and I was reproved most
harshly and cruelly for my undignified behaviour
in encouraging a poor curate. In
vain I protested that I loved him dearly, that
I would never marry any man but Robert
Fleming. My father simply refused to hear a
word. We were ordered to pack up at once and
leave the Hall  we were to go abroad, and
remain there as long as Robert was at Brookfield.
Olga, it was only through Virginia's connivance
that I bade Robert good-bye. It was
a bitterly sad parting : neither of us had any
hope.

" I am a poor man, Catherine," he said tome
; " my people are comparatively humble
folk. I have no interest, I cannot expect
success in this life  I shall never be able to
win you  the prize is not for me  I am justly
punished for having dared to love you." And
those were almost his last words to me.'

Do you mean you have never seen him
since ?'

Never, Olga, except at a distance. Robert
Fleming and I parted that summer morning forever
in this world. We went to Rome, and
before our return he had left Brookfield ; and
the only thing I heard was, that he had been

ill, and that an uncle had taken him abroad. If
we suffered, my poor father had his punishment
too. To save me from marrying the best man
in the world, he took us to the place where poor
Virginia met her wretched husband. But for
this she might have been a happy woman now.'

And you have never heard of him ?'

Not until my father's death, a good many
years afterwards, and then a casual acquaintance
we met at some watering-place mentioned his
name. He had a curacy at Leeds, and was
working in a very poor parish. She told me
the name of his church, and a year or two afterwards,
when I was within a few miles of the
place, I went one evening in the hope of hearing
him preach.'

Did you really ? Oh, Aunt Catherine, but
did he not recognise you ?'

He could not, for I had a thick veil, and sat
at the end of the church. But I could see him
distinctly ; he looked older and thinner, and
stooped a good deal, but it was the same good,
kind face. And his sermon was beautiful ; it
strengthened me for a long time.'

But why  why has he never come to you ?
Is he married ?'

No, he has never married, but that is all I
know about him. I have never expected him
to come. He is still a curate, and I am a rich

woman, and belong to a county family, besides.
How can I tell ? he may have forgotten me 
a man is different to a woman.'

But you have many friends  grand, influential
ones ; could you not have helped him
secretly to a better position ?'

What a little plotter you are, Olga. How do
you know that I have not tried ? More than
one living has been offered to Mr. Fleming 
comfortable country livings; but he cannot be
persuaded to leave his curacy. They say he is
doing a great work there, a very great work,'

Why do you look like that, Aunt Catherine ?
you are keeping something back.'

 Oh, it is nothing,' she said, with her pretty
middle-aged blush ; ' only I like to think I help
him in that work. From time to time the
curate of St. Mark's receives a sum of money
from one who signs herself, "The Friend of the
Poor." He has never seen the handwriting 
the world is full of these shy philanthropists.
Of course, he takes the money and is thankful,
and asks no questions.'

Dear  dear Aunt Catherine, that is so like
you.'

But it is not like me to romance after this
fashion ; you are a little witch, Olga, to coax
this story from me. Shall we call it the Old
Maid's Secret ?'

Don't call yourself names ; you are as nice
now as you ever have been. Jem and I have
always admired you so ; you are not a bit old
there is not a gray hair on your head.'

I will show you hundreds tomorrow. Come,
do not let us talk so foolishly. I am old-fashioned
enough to believe in Providence  what is, Is
best. One day, when our work Is done, Robert
Flemlncf and I shall meet asfaln. I can wait
happily till then.'

And this Is why you have never married ?'

Well, you would not have me content with
the second best ?  there was only one Robert
Fleming. Now, never let us speak of this
again. Let me give you one piece of advice 
you are young enough to need it : make greater
allowances for the so-called old maids ; poor
things, they are often dull and uninteresting,
and have odd, fussy ways, but you do not know
what trouble and pain may be In their past.
Many of them have young and faithful hearts
in spite of their wrinkles. There, I have
preached my little sermon,' and as Aunt
Catherine said this she rose from her seat, and
we went back under the firs and across the
cornfield to La Maisonnette.

THE Pavilion IN THE GARDEN.

Then saunter down the terrace, where the sea,
All fair with wing-like sails, you may discern ;
Be glad, and say, " This beauty is for me 
A thing to love and learn." '

Jean Angelo.

The next few days passed pleasantly. Aunt
Catherine was a delightful companion. With her
usual unselfishness she put her own cares and
anxieties aside, and only thought how she could
add to my enjoyment. The weather was lovely ;
every morning the bright sunshine woke me ;
and as I begrudged every moment spent
indoors, we were out from morning to evening.
As soon as our early breakfast was over, and
Aunt Catherine had settled down to write
business letters, or talk over housekeeping
matters with Jeanne, I used to put on my
broad-brimmed hat and go down to the shore,
accompanied by my faithful Rollo. A steep

little lane, with arching trees overhead, and a
high, fern-covered bank on one side, led down to
the bay. The wall of the Chateau de Clairville
was on the other side ; in the distance one
could see the blue waters of the bay. A little
farther on was a pool, where the women washed
their clothes. Often I came upon a little group
chattering and laughing as they beat out the
linen on the stones. A rugged path led up the
cliff to St. Croix. On Sunday we walked to
the little English church, and passed the tiny
cemetery and the hospital. As we returned
that evening a glorious sunset was hushing the
bay, and we stood for a long time looking at
the lovely scene. Below us was the quiet
cemetery, with its black wooden crosses and
wreaths of immortelles, and beyond lay the
gleaming golden waters. The sun was just
sinking in a mass of crimson clouds ; the western
sky seemed lit with strange radiance ; the marvellous
tints melted and glided into each other
with prismatic brilliancy ; the deep red sail of a
fishing-boat seemed to float between earth and
sky ; then came a snowy-white one ; an indescribable
hush and stillness seemed to brood
over the scene, as though some holy watcher
stood above the quiet dead. A little beyond
was the hospital ; before it lay a green enclosure
with grass and trees, overlooking the bay. As

we walked slowly past, we could see a group of
sisters in their gray habits and white hoods
sitting under the trees. One of the sisters was
reading aloud ; as we paused a moment, a tall,
dark-eyed sister, with a beautiful face and the
step of a queen, crossed the road and looked
at us. The clear, kindly eyes lingered long in
my memory.

Aunt Catherine,' I said sofdy, as we went
down the cuff, ' did you see that sister's face ?
She looked like a St. Cecilia.'

I saw a very handsome nun,' replied Aunt
Catherine dryly ; * depend upon it, she is quite
human. Well, they are all good women, though
not perhaps as grown-up as we are  but that is
the fault of the system ; still, theirs are noble
lives, Olga, spent in ministering to the sick
bodies and souls of their brothers and sisters.
One might well envy them their usefulness.'

But for once I found Aunt Catherine's middle-aged
philosophy damping  the inspired face
and queenly gait of the grand-looking sister
haunted me. I could fancy that face bending
over the sick and dying, the pure sandy lips
murmuring consoling prayers. How worldly
and unsatisfactory one's life looked beside hers !
how petty one's aims and pleasures ! I looked
back more than once at that quiet scene, the
little band of hard-working women resting in

VOL. I. 15

the sunset, the one solitary voice breaking the
stillness.

I can read your thoughts, Olga,' observed
Aunt Catherine quietly ; ' you are envying those
good sisters yonder ; your young enthusiasm is
casting a glamour over them, as usual. My
dear, under those gray habits there beat very
faulty human hearts ; they do not find it easier
to be good than you and I ; they are just brave,
unselfish women, who have given up their lives
to Christ and His poor, but they have their
daily sinking of heart, their discouragements,
as much as you or I ; their little world, bounded
by those walls, is not more free from temptation
than our wider one.'

Yes, I know ; but, still, it seems so peaceful
and beautiful ; and then that face !'

St. Cecilia's, you mean. I wonder if Jeanne
can tell us anything about her ; perhaps, after
all, she is not more of a saint than that little
shrivelled-up sister we saw on the cliff just now;
in this world, alas ! beauty and holiness are not
synonymous terms.'

But I was not to be convinced, and from that
day I never passed the Hospital de St. Pierre
without watching for the dark-eyed sister.

Our mornings were always spent on the
shore  Aunt Catherine would join me when
her business was finished ; and we would choose

a seat under the shelter of the rocks and watch
the bathers and the children building their sand-castles.
If the afternoons were hot we always
sat in the little grove, but now and then we
drove into the country. Once Jules drove us
to the little village of Lorette. We seemed to
go on for miles, down long endless roads, past
cornfields, orchards ; then through one or two
scattered hamlets. Now and then there were
wider views, glimpses of the river, an expanse
of country opening out before us ; then the
road seemed to close in again, and we would
pass a solitary chateau.

All at once we stopped, and Jules assisted
us to alight. We were in a tiny village ; in
the middle of the street was a life-sized figure
of the Christ ; an old woman was spinning in a
doorway ; a group of handsome peasant girls,
with snowy caps and long earrings, were chatting
and laughing outside the little brown
auberge ; a woman was carrying a green crucis
to the well, in which, as we looked down, we
could see ferns growing out of the side. Just
opposite was a gray church ; another figure of
the Christ was in the churchyard. As we
entered the humble edifice we could see one or
two women kneeling ; a young priest was just
leaving the altar ; there was the usual smell of
incense.

15-2

Is not this an ideal village, Olga ?' observed
Aunt Catherine. ' I remember visiting it years
aero  the women were threshing corn in the
streets, the place seemed piled up with yellow
straw ; they were chanting some hymn to the
Virgin ; that old woman was spinning in her
door then. Now we have a long drive back,
and must not loiter, especially as Jules has
taken enough cider.'

And she was right ; it was dark before we
stopped at the big brown gate  Jeanne could
not see our faces as she threw open the door.

Madame was late,' she said in her shrill tones ;
it was Monsieur Rollo's voice that she heard
first : ** Open to your friends, my good Jeanne,"
that was what he said ; ma foi ! he was a dog of
sagacity  of intelligence. La demoiselle must
be tired above every-thing. Ah well, she,
Jeanne, had lighted the lamp, and the little
supper was all ready.'

Jeanne's little suppers were always very tempting
after one of these expeditions ; the big
coffee-pot always graced the board, and the bowl
of salad. The white china lamp made an oasis of
light in the great bare room ; the glass door
stood open ; gray moths dashed in from the
darkness, bent on speedy destruction ; in the
stillness we could hear the faint soughing of
the trees.

When supper was over, we betook ourselves
to the snug salon ; there were always letters to
write  to Jem, to Kitty, even a note to Hubert.
We could hear Jeanne moving about, washing
up dishes and talking to Rollo ; by-and-by
there would be the quick slamming of doors
and shooting of bolts.

How strange it is,' I said once, looking up
from my book, ' Fircroft and the Hall seem sofar
away ! I don't feel as though I shall ever
want to 2:0 back. I should like to eo on living
as we are for years  just you and I, and Rollo.'

ind without Jem ? Is the dearly-loved
brother so soon forgotten ?'

Jem would come and see us sometimes. He
is not always at Fircroft, you know. When he
has left Oxford he will have to live in London.
We talk of that sometimes, and wonder if
Hubert will let me join him there. Jem and I
have always planned to live together.'

You would leave us all, Olga ?'

'Not willingly; but if Jem wanted me I
would go. I do not like to think of him alone
in London. Jem ought to be my first consideration
; we are everything to each other.
Hubert has Kitty and the children. I am not
needed at Fircroft ; that is what I have always
felt.'

I should miss you very much !'

Not more than I should miss you ; but Jem
will have two more years at Oxford ; besides, by
that time, you may have Basil. When Basil
comes, Jem and I may not be needed.'

Is that how you judge of my friendship,
Olcra ?'

No, indeed !'

But I kissed her with a feeling of remorse ;
for I was afraid that deep down in my heart
there was latent jealousy of this Basil. If he
should ever take possession of the Hall, Jem
and I would be outsiders. ' It is our own that
we want, our own flesh and blood,' that was
what Aunt Catherine had said. It was Basil,
not Jem, not this foolish child Olga, who must
be taught the family traditions, who must be
instructed in the old historic lore. Lady
Gwendoline and a score of dead and buried
Seftons were to be introduced to Basil as his
rightful ancestors. I was only a poor little girl
whom the ladies had adopted out of sheer
kindliness. Well, it was just, but it was a little
hard ; for would this Basil, this stranger with
his foreign education, his un-english habits,
ever love Aunt Catherine as Jem and I loved
her!

And so you would like this odd life of ours
to go on for years ?' asked Aunt Catherine
with a smile of amusement ; ' and what would

become of the Hall, and the estate, and Virginia,
and my poor people, you unpracticable young
person ?'

I am not thinking of details,' I returned
loftily ; ' at present I want things to go on in
the same way  to spend endless mornings on
the shore, to wander along the cliffs in the
evening, to drive down to St. Genette, to make
excursions, to drink coffee under the trees.
The air is like champagne ; it seems to get into
my head. I long to run about with the children
on the sands. When I bathe I feel like a
water-nymph splashing with her companions.
1 feel so young, and so strong, and so happy,
happier than I have ever felt in my life. Aunt
Catherine.'

Aunt Catherine looked at me attentively.

I never saw you look so well, certainly.
You look like a wild-rose, Olga  sweet and fresh,
but full of little thorns, too ; it does me good
only to look at you. Come, shall I plan another
expedition ? Shall we go down the river in the
steamer and spend a few hours at Chamber,
dine at a restaurant, and look over the town ?
We shall be back by ten.'

Delightful ! let us go tomorrow.'

What an impetuous child ! You remind me
of the old French proverb, *' Un ' tiens ' vaut
mieux que deux ' tu I'aurais';" in plain English,

" One ' holdfast' is better than two ' thou shalt
have it,' " or, as we generally say, " A bird in the
hand is worth two in a bush." Well, well, we
will go tomorrow.'

And that was how Aunt Catherine spoilt
me.

The clergyman and his wife had called on usa
few days after we arrived, but with this exception
we had no visitors. Some of the
English people looked at us curiously when we
went down to the bathing-place, but we kept
entirely to ourselves.

One evening I was lying in the hammock ;
we had been at St. Genette all the afternoon,
and we were both tired. Aunt Catherine was
resting on the couch in the salon ; but the air of
the house stifled me, and I preferred swinging
under the dark trees, and watching the eerie
dusk creep over the garden-paths. A lite
crescent of a moon hung in the dark summer
sky, and one or two stars peeped out over the
house.

A cool, delicious air stirred the leaves above
me, and fanned my temples refreshingly.
I was thinking of Jem ; wondering what he
thought of my long letters, full of descriptions,
and half afraid they would be put into his
pocket half read, when a low growl from Rollo
disturbed me, and a moment after a tall, dark

figure emerged from a clump of gooseberry-bushes
In the kitchen-garden and walked
rapidly down the little path. It had been Impossible
In the darkness to distinguish any
features ; but as I raised myself In the hammock
1 judged by the free, swinging gait that
the Intruder must be young. The light,
springy step certainly did not belong to
Monsieur Perrot, who was old and fat, and had
a stubbly gray beard. The Incident was a
little disturbing, and, in spite of the cheerful
light from Jeanne's unsheltered window, I felt
unwilling to remain under the dark trees.

I had a disagreeable Impression that the little
gate close to me might be suddenly unlatched ;
that even now a face might be peering at me
through the bushes. Rollo was still sniffing
about uneasily. I called him quickly, and sprang
from the hammock, but as soon as I was in the
house I began to laugh at my own cowardice.

You were startled, Olga,' observed Aunt
Catherine soothingly, ' and it is so dark under
those trees. I should have felt the same
myself. Most likely it was Monsieur Perrot's
lodger. You know, he told me he had a
lodger ; It may be a young man, for all we
know, though I was foolish enough to make up
my mind the lodger was a lady.'

But what was he doing so late in the

kitchen-garden ? Monsieur Perrot's house is
some way from here.'

This seemed to pose Aunt Catherine.

I am sure I don't know,' she said, much
amused at my earnestness ; * but we don't want
any mysterious young men suddenly emerging
from gooseberry-bushes. Monsieur Perrot is
away just now ; on his return 1 will question
him about his lodger. Wait a moment, though,
I have an idea; Monsieur Perrot mentioned
the pavilion once  that is the little barn-like
building at the end of the garden. Most likely
he is an artist, and uses the pavilion as a
studio. Yes, this is no doubt the truth. So,
after all, it was only a harmless artist smoking
his pipe among the cabbages.'

Perhaps Jeanne would know.'

I advise you not to question her. Jeanne
is an inveterate gossip. She would retail all
your remarks to Madame Perrot. After all,
Monsieur Perrot's lodger has nothing to do with
us. When it is dark you had better keep to this
end of the garden, and then you will not be
started.'

This was sensible advice, and I acted on it ;
but one evening, just as we were going to
supper, I remembered I had left a book belonging
to Aunt Catherine on a seat under the
trees.

It was a lovely moonlight night, and the long
path leading to the little grove was as bright as
day. The lawn was bathed in silvery radiance ;
only a dark shadow lurked under the trees.

I wish I had brought Rollo with me,' I
thought, as I went quickly down the path ; but
I was ashamed to turn back and call him. I
could hear Jeanne singing over her work.
Aunt Catherine was arranging some flowers in
the salon. They were both within call ; but
I confess I wished myself back in the house,
when I heard footsteps on the other side of
the hedge. With a sudden impulse I caught
up the book and drew back into the shade,
where no one could see me. The footsteps came
nearer, then paused. I felt as though I were
suffering nightmare. I was rooted to the spot,
and could not move. If only I had Rollo !
then I glanced fearfully behind me. After all,
the sight was not so terrible.

A young man was leaning on our little gate
and looking at the house. His face was turned
from me, but I could just see a little gray
peaked-cap drawn over his eyes, with a glimpse
of dark, closely-cropped hair.

Just then Aunt Catherine's figure blocked up
the lighted doorway.

Olga, my child, where are you ?' she exclaimed
anxiously.

I dared not answer, for fear of betraying
myself. But Aunt Catherine's clear voice had
broken the spell. The dark head and gray
cap disappeared. A moment afterwards the
quick footsteps receded into the distance, and I
ran down a side-path towards the house. Aunt
Catherine was looking for me.

Where have you been hiding, Olga ? Why
did you not answer when I called ? I am
almost sure I saw someone standing by the
gate, only the trees obscured my view. Why,
you look quite pale and scared ; was there really
someone ?'

Yes, yes !' I exclaimed excitedly ; ' it was a
tall man  but I could not see his face  he had
a gray tweed coat ; I could see that distinctly,
for he was leaning on the orate, Aunt Catherine !'

o o

with a little gasp : ' he was watching the house.'
And why should he not watch the house ?'
she said cheerfully ; for she saw I was shaking
with nervousness.  You are as bad as Jeanne,
Olga. Do you know, nothing would induce
her to pass the cemetery at night  no, not if her
dearest friend were dying. Is there any law
why Monsieur Perrot's lodger should not use
his eyes ? Have you any idea how bright and
pleasant our house looks when the lamps are
lighted and there is a warm stream of radiance
through the open door ? Why should not the

poor man stand and admire the cheerful prospect
? I dare say he felt like that poor young
man in " Excelsior"  don't you remember how
it goes ?'

" In happy homes he saw the light

Of household fires burn warm and bright ;
Above the spectral glaciers shone,
And from his lips escaped a groan :
Excelsior !'"' '

Jem has quite spoiled '* Excelsior " for me,
by parodying it. He destroys all the beauty
of my favourite pieces.'

I call that a blot on Jem's character ; the
cleverest parody is objectionable to me ; it is a
worse sin in my eyes than punning ; it is as bad
as caricaturing one's friends, or mocking them
behind their back. You must break Jem of that
odious habit.'

He does it all the more because he knows
how it teases me. He has even parodied
Longfellow's beautiful poem, *' Tell me not in
mournful numbers." You know how much I
love it ; but he turned it all into an ode against
eating roast pork ; it was so funny and yet so
clever.'

I shall never remember Jem in my will,
unless he turn over a new leaf. I think I will
tell him that. Well, Olga, have you got over
your fright yet ? Can you bear to think a

human being Is solaced by the sight of our

lamp ?'

I was a pfoose to be so frightened ; after all,
he looked like a gentleman.'

He ! I suppose you mean your artist friend
who has managed to drive away your colour ?
What a silly child you are ! but all the same,
you must promise me never to go near those
trees again after dark unless I am with you.'

I promised this very readily, but Aunt
Catherine was in a teasing mood all supper-time,
and did not spare me ; she even threatened
to write to Jem, and tell him what a little
coward I was  as though Jem did not know
that long ago ; and finally she proposed that we
should take a turn in the garden, and so exorcise
the fearful spirit.

Oh ! I don't mind it a bit with you and Rollo,'
I returned, quite pleased at the idea.

Well, this is a ghostly place, I confess !' she
said, as we stood together under the trees.
Olga, you have infected me with your curiosity.
I am actually going a few steps up that path 
keep where you are  and I will be back in a
moment. Rollo, stop with your mistress.'

Don't go far,' I pleaded, for the nightmare
feeling was returning ; but Rollo's glossy
head was against me ; and in another minute
Aunt Catherine returned.

She closed the gate carefully behind her.

There is a light in the pavilion. Our artist
friend works late. I could hear him whistling.
The window was wide open, so I did not
venture near. What a crazy old building it
looks in the moonlight ! But it must be a quiet
sort of place to work in. What is that Rollo
is carrying in his mouth ?'

I stooped to look, and Rollo wagged his
tail, and dropped something at my feet. He
evidence thought he was presenting me with
a treasure. It was a little white cotton glove,
such as children wear, with a ragged thumb, as
though tiny teeth had been nibbling it.

I looked at it in some bewilderment.

The Parrots have no little children belonor-

o

ing to them, have they, Aunt Catherine ?'

No ; their eldest son is unmarried, and their
daughter, a widow, has only one boy of fourteen.
I have heard all their family history from
Jeanne. I wonder where Rollo found his-treasure.
Perhaps some children have been
weeding the garden.'

Poor people's children do not wear gloves,'
I returned. ' Rollo picked It up by the gate.
I saw him sniffing at something in the grass ?'

Perhaps the artist is a married man and has
children, and that is why he works so late.
Come, I am beginning to take a kindly interest

in him. We shall weave quite a romance about
him presently. Now, it is getting late ; I can
hear Jeanne shutting up. Will you light our
candles, Olga ? and then we will retire to
bed.'

A BUTTERFLY-HUNT.

Dear boy, thy momentary laughter rings
Sincerely out, and that spontaneous glee,
Seeming to need no hint from outward things,
Breaks forth in sudden shouting, loud and free.

From what hid fountains doth thy joyance flow.
That borrows nothing from the world around ?
Its spring must deeper lie than we can know 
A well whose springs lie safely underground.'

Archbishop Trench.

The next morning, as I was standing in the
sunny courtyard feeding the chickens, Aunt
Catherine stepped out of the glass-door, that
opened out of the salle-manger, in her big
flapping hat, with her favourite gossamer veil
twisted round it.

I find I have no important letters to
answer this morning,' she said briskly; 'and
Jeanne can manage without me, so I shall comedown
with you to the shore. Do you mind

VOL. L 1 6

choosing a quieter spot this morning ? for those
noisy English girls quite disturbed me yesterday


Let us go beyond the little bathing-house.
There are some deliciously-shady nooks among
the rocks,' I returned eagerly, for I rather endorsed
her opinion. I had grown tired of the
bustle of the bathing-place, with its row of little
gaudily-striped cabanes, the splashing and
joyous cries of the bathers, and the groups of
nurses and children. Some fast-looking men
had made acquaintance with a family of English
girls, and a great deal of flirtation and giggling
had been the result. They made fun of everyone
; even Aunt Catherine did not escape their
witticisms.

There comes the old maid in the gray hat,'
I heard them say once when I was sitting alone
among the rocks. ' Does she not look like a
flapping seagull ? I suppose she is afraid of her
complexion. I wonder what has become of the
little girl who is always with her ; she's not a
bad little thing, after all.'

Do you mean the girl in brown, who swims
so well. Eraser T  but I would not hear anymore.
Why did those odious creatures take
possession of the place } How could any ladylike
girls tolerate them } To call my dear Aunt
Catherine an old maid, and to sneer because

she took care of her smooth, girlish complexion !
Oh, I had no patience with them !

So we crossed the common and went down
the steep Httle path by our bathing-house, and
after a short scramble over the rocks we found
a nice shady corner, where we spent the morning.
I had my sketch-book and colour-box
with me, as I wanted to send Jem a little painting
of the bay, with its rocky Islands, and the
low-hanging woods on the opposite shore ; and
Aunt Catherine had her knitting and book.
Sometimes when she came to a passage that
she liked she read it aloud to me, and that made
the time pass very pleasantly.

I think we were both sorry when the time
came for going back to La Maisonnette. I
was just putting up my painting materials
when Aunt Catherine nudged my arm and
whispered :

What a pretty child, Olga !'

I looked up quickly. A young man in a gray
tweed coat was springing over the rocks with a
little boy In a white sailor suit seated on his
shoulder. The child had a lite red cap,
under which his long hair was streaming in the
breeze.

Gee-gee, Mr. Horse !' he ci-died gaily.
Reggie wants to go faster faster.'

Hold tight, old man !' was the reply.

162

As they both passed us the loveliest little
face looked down upon us, a small hand waved
to Rollo. I started, and uttered a smothered
exclamation : the peaked gray cap and dark,
closely-cropped hair recalled the intruder of'
last night. But before I could give vent to
this suspicion Aunt Catherine interrupted me.

Look  look ! the child has dropped his cap,
and his brother does not know it she said
anxiously. ' The little creature will have a sunstroke.
Oh dear ! oh dear !'

My only answer was to jump up. The cap
was soon in Rollo's mouth, but he gave it up tome
at once. How hot the sun was ! Rollo
rushed at my side with joyous barks as I flew
over the sand. Jem had once told me that I
could beat any girl in a fair race ; but we were
in the shady road beside the washing-pool before
I could overtake those long swift strides.

I beg your pardon,' I panted ; ' but the
little boy has dropped his cap.'

The young man started and turned round.

Oh, Reggie !' he said reproachfully ; but the
boy only burst into a merry laugh.

Reggie's head is hot,' he said in a tone of
perfect satisfaction.

Thank you so much continued the young
man. ' Have you run after us all that way 
you were sitting under the rocks, were you not ?

Reggie, thank this lady prettily for the trouble
she has taken.'

Reggie banks '00/ repeated the child
glibly.

He had a soft little cooing voice ; the young
man lifted his gray cap with another ' Thank
you,' and went on his way.

He is quite young,' I said to myself as I
walked slowly back. ' There is something
almost boyish in his manner ; and yet it is a
singular face  dark and smooth, and with such
pronounced features ; but he is a gentleman.
I liked his voice.'

You ran as highly as a gazelle, Olga,' were
Aunt Catherine's first words ; 'but, my dear, I
fear you must have overheated yourself. Did
you ever see a prettier child, Olga ? It was
such a bewitching little face.'

I wonder who they can be I returned in a
puzzled voice. ' I am sure  very nearly sure,
at least  that it is the same young man who
was leaning on the gate watching our house
last night. Of course, I could not see his face,
but his figure looked the same.'

what nonsense, Olga! What could have
put such an absurd notion into your head?
Monsieur Perrot's lodgers must belong to
quite a different class ; this young man did
not look at all like a poor artist. You know

Monsieur Perrot's house is quite a humble
cottage ; it cannot afford much accommodation.'

Still, I am convinced it is the same person,' I
replied obstinately ; and nothing Aunt Catherine
could say could alter this opinion in the least.
I am rather glad I have seen him by daylight,'
I finished ; ' for now I shall not feel in the least
nervous if I hear footsteps behind the hedge
again. One does not dread an ordinary young
man in a well-cut tweed coat.'

And though Aunt Catherine laughed at this
definition, she did not argue the matter anymore.


I think the beautiful child must have made
an impression on Aunt Catherine's soft heart.
She was a child-lover by nature, for she alluded
to him again that day, so I knew she had not
forgotten him. As for me, I own I had a feeling
of curiosity ; when one is idle, the smallest
trifle will interest one.

Perhaps by this time I was beginning to feel
that the life at La Maisonnette was a little
solitary. Aunt Catherine might be content with
it, but I was young enough to think that even
a mere passing acquaintance would be pleasant.
How nice if I had that dear little Reggie to
play with ! I could fancy him darting over the
lawn in pursuit of butterflies : a child would be
such an amusement !

!47

The next morning we went to the same
place, and I found myself several times looking
up from my sketch-book in the hope of seeing
a little figure in a white sailor suit playing on
the sand ; but only a bonne and a few chattering
children passed us.

As we went home, toiling a little wearily up
the steep shady road, Aunt Catherine told me
that she had ordered Jules to bring the fiacre
at half-past two.

I am going to drive down to the Rue
d'Eglise,' she explained, ' in the hope that
Monsieur Lefevre has returned. We have
been here a fortnight and nothing has been done.
Poor Virginia's last letter was so sad ; Marsden
says she is already wearying for our return.'

Do you wish to go alone. Aunt Catherine ?'

Yes, dear, I think it will be best ; and the
drive will be so hot. I have some shopping todo,
too ; but I shall be back by tea-time. You
will not be dull, Olga ?'

I scouted this idea with some energy.

I mean to spend the afternoon under the
fir-trees below the common,' I said presently.
I shall get a breeze from the bay there, and
it will be cool looking at that green pool belonging
to the Chateau de Clairville.'

'And thinking of the poor drowned boy,
Henri Delaincourt. I think our own little grove

would be more cheerful ; but I believe you are
still afraid of the owner of the pavilion.'

I contradicted this stoutly. I was afraid of
no young men In tweed suits, either in daylight
or by moonlight. I only wanted variety and
a breeze from the bay. So I carried my point,
and presently stood on the steep bank looking
down at the passers-by in the road beneath,
and then, seating myself at the foot of one of
the firs with my open book in my lap and
Rollo's glossy black head beside me, I soon
fell into a blissful day-dream.

It was an enchanting spot; the sombre green
pool closed In with trees looked cool and refreshing.
To my left were the blue flashing
waters of the bay. Some soldiers were going
down to the shore. I could see their red
shoulder-knots through the trees. I could hear
the women's voices from the washing-pool.
Below there was life, amusement, human
activity ; but above was the quiet sunshiny
common with Its broom and gorse and purpling
heather.

We had spent more than an hour in this
delicious ' far niente,' when Rollo suddenly
pricked up his ears and sat on his haunches as
though suspicious of some crackling sound
behind us. I peeped cautiously round the tremble.
To my astonishment I saw a little white

groping figure in the dry ditch ; the gleam of
a red cap was plainly visible, with long, straight
hair under it. The next moment it emerged

o

bodily from the ditch and commenced running
down the steep slope leading to the road.

It was rather a dangerous declivity for little
feet, and I rose hastily with a warning cry.

Where could his brother be ? surely the child
was not alone on the common ?' I thought of
the cliff with a shudder ; even if he ran too fast
now, he might tumble into the road below.

Reggie !' I exclaimed, ' come away !' for the
little creature was flashing between the trees
like a will-o'-the-wisp ; he was evidently in
pursuit of a large moth. ' Rollo, lie still!' I said
authoritatively, for I was afraid the dog might
frighten him if he joined in the chase. Rollo
obeyed reluctantly, and sat up panting, and
with watery, eager eyes, watching me as I ran
down the slope. Reggie saw me and stopped
still.

Reg wants that butter pie,' he said plaintively,
pointing with his finger to the tree
above us.

The butterfly has flown away,' I replied,
taking his hand.

His dear little face looked hot and eager;
his beautiful eyes were large and wistful ; he
had his cap hugged closely to him ; his dark hair

was cut across his temples in the fashion children
were wearing it just then ; he was so pretty I
could not help kissing him ; but he seemed to
take my attention as a matter of course.

Reg wants to ride on the big doggie,' was
his next remark, and he walked up to Rollo in
the most confiding way, and patted him. ' Gee
up, doggie !'

And actually one little leg was across him
before I caught him away.

Rollo does not like little boys to ride on
him. Shake hands with him instead.'

And as Rollo proffered his clumsy big paw,
Reggie broke into a fit of musical laughter and
clapped his hands before his mouth.

k\mny big doggie ! Reggie must not laugh,
or the doggie will be angry. Good-bye,
doggie. Reggie wants more batteries !'

And he was darting away again ; but I had
my arms round him in a minute.

Where is Reor<Tie's brother ?' I asked.
Reggie must be a good boy and find him.
Good little boys do not run about alone.'

The child seemed perplexed at my question.
He looked at me, then at Rollo ; then a merry
light came into his eyes.

Reggie wanted batteries! Reggie ruined
away ! What larks !'

Yes, actually that innocent babe, for he could

not have been more than four years old, said
What larks !' and burst out laughing again.

I was at my wits' end ; was he really speaking
the truth, or was it only nonsense ? but before
I could make up my mind to believe him he
had escaped from my hand.

Good-bye ; Reg is going home,' and he
was darting round the corner as fast as his
little legs would carry him He laughed more
than ever when he saw I was in pursuit of
him  it was evidently a rare game to Reggie ;
in fact, he laughed so much that he had to
stop and take breath, so I caught him up
easily. He gave me a droll lite look then,
and put his hand in mine of his own accord.

Reg is tired,' he observed confidentially ;
but when I offered to carry him he shook his
head with much dignity.

Where Is Reggie's big gQC-gee ?' I asked,
with sudden inspiration. He understood meat
once.

Over there,' he said, pointing in the direction
of La Maisonnette. He had led me down
one of the paths leading off the common, and
we were in a lite copse now  beyond us lay
some fields. Reggie, who was dragging at my
hand rather wearily, pointed to a lite path.

Reggie ruined all down there, and the
butter pie ruined too.'

Did you come down that path, really ?'

He nodded vigorously. I had never been
there before, and I had no idea where it led.
Reggie seemed acquainted with it ; he went
along contentedly, now and then stopping to
gather a bright-coloured weed, and crooning a
little tunc to himself. Only once, as the path
turned off, and I was still going up the field, he
pulled me back.

Reg lives there he said, pointing to a
brown, barn-like building in the distance.

With a sort of shock I discovered we were at
the back of the pavilion. A lite door in the
wall stood open ; I could see the grass-grown
steps, and the apple-trees in the kitchen-garden.
I was so surprised that I stood quite still, until
Reggie gave me a little push and we went in.

Reggie slammed the door behind us ; then,
quite ignoring my presence, he stumped up the
worn steps. I followed him slowly.

Reggie's toned back,' he said, pushing open
another door ; but there was no answer. I
guessed at once the room was empty. I made
up my mind that I was entering an artist's
studio, but as I followed Reggie I looked round
in some surprise  it was fitted up as a living
room. It was a large, bare-looking apartment,
with three windows, each commanding a different
aspect. One of them looked out on our

little grove ; I could see the empty hammock
swaying in the slight breeze.

A ladder communicated evidently with a loft ;
a gray kitten sat on the lowest step washing its
face. The furniture was of the plainest description
 a bed, covered with a blue quilt; a
washstand, with a large green crucis ; a round
table in one window, an armchair, covered with
seedy-looking red velvet, beside it ; a portable
cupboard, with a coffee-pot and some yellow
cups and saucers ; another table, with writing
materials and books ; a wooden chair or two ;
and a leathern portmanteau, with a rug tossed
upon it. There was a small closed stove, but
it had not been lighted ; on the top was a small
tin kettle with a spirit-lamp under it, ready for
kindling. Reggie looked round rather piteously.

Reg wants his tea,' he said, pursing up his
dear little mouth as though he were going
to cry.

I sat down by the writing-table and took him
up in my lap to comfort him. There was a pile
of neatly-bound books lying near me. I could
just see the titles  an edition of Sophocles,
The Epic of Hades,' ' The Light of Asia,' by
Edwin Arnold, and Carlyle's ' French Revolution.'
1 had no time to see more ; for just then
there was a rapid footstep outside  the door
was pushed open, and the young man in the

gray tweed suit was looking at us from the
threshold.

He seemed transfixed with astonishment, and
a flush crossed his face as though he were
embarrassed. I rose at once, feeling very
nervous.

1 beg your pardon,' I stammered, ' for this
intrusion ; but I found your little brother straying
on the common in search of butterflies, and
brought him home : the place is not safe for so
young a child.'

He was about to answer, but Reggie interrupted
him.

The butter pie ruined away, and Reggie
runncd too,' he said calmly, as though he were
stating an important fact.

Oh, Reg, Reg  how am I ever to trust you
again,' replied the young man, taking him in
his arms and looking at him with reproachful
tenderness  ' when you promised me not to
stir?' Then, turning to me, as I witnessed this
little scene with unfeigned interest, he said
earnest : ' 1 have to thank you a second time
on Reggie's behalf. You arc quite right  the
common is not safe ; it was truly good of you
to bring him back ! Did Reggie show you the
way ?'

Yes ; he led me straight to the pavilion. I
was so surprised ! I had no idea that we were

such near neighbours  that anyone really lived
here,' looking round the room as I spoke.

I am afraid my speech was a little blunt, for
an odd expression crossed his face  a proud sort
of look.

I knew we were neighbours,' he replied
rather coolly ; ' for I have often seen you in the
garden of La Maisonnette. We are Monsieur
Perrot's lodgers, Reggie and I. He has kindly
fitted up this old pavilion for our use. It is
rather a rough sort of place, but I like it for a
change. We lead a picnic life ; it is rather fun,
isn't it, Reg ?'

You and your little brother ?'

Now, as Aunt Catherine said afterwards, I
had no right to stand there questioning a perfect
stranger ; but I cannot account for the strong
feeling of interest that prompted me to linger.

He gave a short laugh at my question.

You make a mistake ; I am Reggie's father,
not his brother,' he said quickly ; and I blushed
with annoyance at my error. He continued, as
though to set me at my ease, ' Other people
have thought the same as you.'

I was too confused to reply, and was turning
away with a murmured ' Good-mornings though
it was very nearly evening now, when Reggie
stooped from his high perch, for he was seated
on his father's shoulder.

Reg wants the lady to kiss him

The little darling, how was one to refuse ?
but as I imprinted a kiss on the smooth baby-face,
the young man said hurriedly :

I have not thanked you as I ought, and yet
you have saved me from a painful shock. If I
had found the room empty on my return, I
should have feared something had happened to
Reggie. I must never leave him again.' He
followed me to the steps, but did not offer his
hand. ' Believe me, I am truly grateful,' he
said with a pleasant smile that seemed to light
up his face.

Good-bye  good-morning, I mean !' was my
incoherent reply. ' I am so glad I found him !'
As I stepped into the little grass-grown path I
glanced back. They were still there watching me.
Reggie waved his hand ; his father lifted his cap.
I felt myself grow hotter every moment. ' I am
Reggie's father !' What an astonishing, what
an incredible avowal ! That boyish-looking
fellow Reggie's father ! and when I came to
reflect on it more coolly, why should I be so
surprised ? The smooth, dark face might be
older than it looked. He certainly expressed
himself with manly dignity ; but still he was
far, far too young to be a widower, and when I
told Aunt Catherine, on her return, she agreed
with me that it was very sad.

I suppose he is a widower, Olga,' she said
a lite doubtfully.

Yes, of course,' I returned eagerly ; ' he is
living" there alone with his little boy. Now I
come to think of it, he wore a plain gold ring
on his finger. You always know a widower by
that, and he is in mourning, too ; for though he
wears a gray tweed coat, he has a black tie.
Oh dear, how sad it seems, Aunt Catherine !
He is a gentleman, and yet he must be very
poor  the room looked so bare. It cannot be
pleasant to have a ladder in one's bedroom, and
there was no carpet, only a mat or two, on the
floor.'

You do not know his name ?'

No, indeed ; as it was, I am afraid he
thought me curious. When he came in he did
not seem quite pleased to see me there. I
am sure he is proud, and does not want people
to know he is poor.'

Very possibly. Monsieur Perrot could afford
to let him have the pavilion for a trifle. I think
it has been used as a store-house before. It
is a lite awkward for us, having such close
neighbours. You cannot help bowing to him,
of course, but it will never do to pick up an
acquaintance in this way.'

Oh, Aunt Catherine, I must speak to that
dear little Reggie if I see him.'

VOL. I. 17

Aunt Catherine looked rather dubious at this.
The ladies were very particular on all questions
of etiquette, and of course she felt the charge of
a young girl rather an onerous responsibility.

Well, well, you can just nod to him,' she
said, dismissing the subject, and she told me
rather sadly the result of her expedition.

Monsieur Lefevre's brother is not yet
dead, Olga. They think he may linger sometime
yet. A young priest is taking Monsieur
Lefevre's place. I spoke to him for a moment.
He was very civil. He told me that it was
Monsieur Lefevre's only brother ; that he was
much younger and like a son to him, and that
he would not leave him until all was over.

' He may linger some time )ret," he said ;
there is great weakness, but little suffering.
He clings to life rather tenaciously, madame.
He has not weaned his affections from earth.
It is not always easy to wish for death when
one is not old, and as to that, the old are not
more willing than the young  it takes a saint
to die well. Some do not commence their
education until the class is called. Many of us
are not too ready with our lesson." Oh, we
had quite a conversation in the little dark
passage! He was a good young man ; he spoke
feelingly.'

I was not surprised that Aunt Catherine

owned herself a little tired  the delay was
peculiarly trying to her energetic nature. She
wanted to be doing something. But she tried
to throw off her lassitude, and made me go on
with a book we were reading together, and in
which I was much interested.

That night as I went to bed I stood for a
few minutes by my open window. The garden
was bathed in moonlight, and the leaves of the
trees below me had a strange silvery light on
them ; the summer wind was laden with the
perfume of the sleeping flowers.

I wonder if Reggie be sleeping too,' I
thought, as I at last turned away reluctantly ;
and my last thought that night was a vivid remembrance
of a little figure flashing between
the tree-trunks, and of a radiant upturned face,
and eager, groping hands, as the gay coloured
moth fluttered beyond his reach.

172

CHAPTER XV.

A FRIEND IN NEED.

He acted with the steadiness, promptitude, and determination
which belonged to riper years.'

Tic Monastery'

'Thou art obliging, friend, and, I doubt not, sincere.'

Castle Dangerous.'

The next day was Sunday, and as we walked
to the little English church at St. Croix I
secretly wondered if the occupant of the
pavilion were an orthodox churches, or if
he were, like other Bohemians, somewhat irreligious
in his habits. I was secretly afraid that
this latter surmise might be correct ; most likely
he was bathing, or boating, or perhaps wandering
over the sands with Reggie. Well, it was
no business of mine ; but all the same a feeling
of anxiety would intrude itself on my mind
when I thought of that sweet, engaging little
creature. ' And he has no one but his father

to set him an example I finished with youthful
severity.

I felt rather ashamed of my rash judgment
when, on entering the church, I saw a dark,
closely-cropped head before me, and, lower
down on the seat, a little figure in a white
sailor suit. They were sitting just before us,
and as I was kneeling down Reggie looked
round and grave me a radiant smile. I could
see him afterwards making signs to his father
to look too, but he shook his head and took no
notice.

What strange creatures we are ! I am sure
I enjoyed my service all the more for finding
I had been wrong in my uncharitable surmise.
Reggie was evidently quite accustomed to
go to church. After the first minute he
behaved beautifully  holding his Prayer-book
upside down, and sitting perfectly still during
the sermon, with such a dear; prim expression
on his little face, as though he knew how good
he was. His father, too, seemed very attentive
; he repeated all the responses, and sung
in a deep, rich voice. Once I saw him look at
Reggie, and a grave, sorrowful sort of expression
crossed his face ; and then he took,
the child's hand and held it all the rest of
the service.

As we went out they were very near us, and

I saw Reggie looking at me wistfully, as
though he wanted to speak to me ; but as I
nodded to him his father drew him quickly on.
I know he saw us, for he gave a quick glance
round ; but as we went out of the gate I saw
them walking down the town, as though they
were going to St. Genette.

Your little friend behaved very nicely,
Olga,' Aunt Catherine said, as we turned in
the opposite direction ; ' he was as quiet as a
little mouse all the service. And yet when I
saw him give you that merry look when we
first came in I was half afraid how things
might be.'

I never saw a child behave better.'

Nor I ; he has evidently been well brought
up. What an interesting little creature he is !
But his father looks very sad.'

Do you think so ?'

Yes ; I could see his face plainly once or
twice. It was a beautiful sermon, but I do not
believe he was listening. He seemed buried
in gloomy thoughts, and yet Mr. Baraud was
preaching about cheerfulness. He was dressed
very well  he is not at all shabby-looking 
and yet they are living in that odd way.'

'It is rather difficult to understand, certainly.'


He is a gentleman  I am sure of It. He

was quite aware that you were behind him in
the porch, but he thought it better not to take
any notice of you. The child was hanging
back, but he drew him on. We are such close
neighbours that most likely he considers any
recognition would be awkward. I call that
good taste on his part.'

I would not contradict Aunt Catherine, but
I had just felt a little bit offended. It would
not have hurt him to have bowed, or to have
let Reggie speak to me. I thought it was his
stiff English way to keep aloof, just because
we had not been formally introduced. Of
course he was a gentleman  I did not need
Aunt Catherine to tell me that; one's instinct
on such a point is never wrong. As I felt
slightly touchy, I thought it better to drop the
subject ; so I began talking about Jem  dear
old fellow !  and that always put me in a good
humour.

I was not surprised that they were missing
at evening service. Reggie was too young a
child for that ; but as we were walking down
the steep cliff-path leading to the washing-pool,
on our return, I saw the young man standing
under a clump of trees looking at the bay.

As we were passing he turned quickly round,
and we came face to face. He looked started,
and muttered a ' good-evening ' as he took off

his cap. Aunt Catherine made no remark,
neither did I. We both knew he was following
us up the lane. As we turned in at the
great brown gate, he walked quickly past, looking
straight before him.

The next morning we spent some hours on
the shore, as usual, and in the afternoon we sat
under the trees in the garden. As I knew we
were overlooked from the pavilion, I would not
use the hammock, and sat up as sedately as
Aunt Catherine. I was buried in my book,
and was not a little startled when the violent
shaking of the little gate behind me roused me
from my novel, and there stood Reggie, peeping
at us between the bars.

Open gate for Reggie,' he shouted.
Aunt Catherine rose at once.

What do you want, my dear ?' she asked
very kindly. ' You must run away, or father
will be looking for you.'

But Reggie stood his ground.

Who are you ? Reggie does not know you ;
Reggie wants the little lady. Open, please ' 
shaking the gate again.

Reggie ! what are you doing there ?' exclaimed
a stern voice. ' Come away this
moment !'

The child looked perplexed ; his father's
sternness was evidently new to him.

Father, come and open the gate,' he said,
with wistful confidence. ' Reggie wants to play
with the lady.'

No  nonsense !' and a hasty stride followed
the word.

The young man was just snatching him up,
when I said piteously, for the beautiful, eager
little face was too much for my stoicism :

Oh, please  please do let me have him fora
little, Aunt Catherine ! Do let me have him !
I should so like to play with him !'

I do not know what Aunt Catherine thought
of my impulsiveness, but she certainly made
the best of it.

Will you spare him to us for a little while ?'
she said, with her kind smile. ' This young
lady is so fond of children. We will take
great care of him.'

The young man bowed gravely ; he seemed
more embarrassed than pleased.

Certainly, If you are so kind as to wish for my
little boy's company. Reggie, old fellow, mind
you behave yourself like a gentleman.' He set
him down, and opened the gate. ' Please send
him back directly you are tired of him. Reggie
knows his way home ;' and with another
bow that included me he went back to the
pavilion.

Reggie jumped into my arms with a delighted

shout, and seemed to like my hugging
him. Then he pointed to the hammock, which
he called a swing, and very soon he was lying
in it with his eyes shut, ' going to sleep.' We
had a fine romp after that  Reggie and Rollo
and I. Aunt Catherine sat and watched us as
we dodged each other among the tiny flowerbeds,
or played at hide-and-seek in the bushes.
Sometimes we hid from Rollo, and he was as
clever as possible finding us out.

When Jeanne brought us our coffee, we sent
her back for milk and biscuits for Reggie. He
seemed almost too excited to eat. Once, when
a butterfly skimmed past us, he jumped up in
pursuit. The graceful little body darted hither
and thither over the lawn.

Isn't he lovely 1' I exclaimed, as he ran back
to us, his eyes sparkling with glee.

Butterpie gone home,' he said. ' Reggie
catched one yesterday ;' and he sat discontentedly
to his biscuits again.

A little later, as he was swinging again in
the hammock, I thought I would have some
conversation with him, so I began by saying :

Reggie dear, do you remember poor
mammie ?'

Mammie's an angel !' he returned promptly,
with a sentimental air. ' They put her in the
ground to grow. Father said so.'

Dear me ! What an extraordinary idea to
put into a child's head, Olga !'

Reggie looked up at the sky in a contemplative
manner  his expression was heavenly 
then he looked at me anxiously.

Will mammie grow ? Reggie digged for
her once. Reggie digged, and digged ; but
mammie was not there  only nasty black
worms ; so Reggie ruined away. Reggie hates
black worms !'

Don't question him any more, Olga !' interrupted
Aunt Catherine ; ' he is such a baby,
and of course his ideas of death are confused.
I have been thinking that, after all, it is not a
bad idea, on the part of Reggie's father. The
seed planted grows into the lovely flower;
so the child's imagination pictures a growing
angel. Think of the infantine faith  the baby
hands diorcrinor for the lost mother. What
marvels children are ! no miracle would astonish
their innocent eyes, and why ? because
life to them is one miracle. Don't you think
we might learn a lesson from them ? Why are
we human children to think ourselves grown up
with our heavenly Fathers How the angels
must wonder at us !'

Aunt Catherine was in one of her gente,
moralizing moods, but Reggie interrupted herby
suddenly scrambling out of the hammock.

Good-bye ; Reggie must go home now

Of course, the child has been with us for
two hours  he is quite right, dear little fellow !'
and Aunt Catherine opened the gate with suspicious
alacrity. Reggie started through it.

Reggie is here, father !' we heard him say.
The answer also reached us :

That's right : what a time you have been,
old man !'

Aunt Catherine was unusually thoughtful that
evening. But I was rather amused when at
supper she suddenly broke out into a little incoherent
speech, in which my injudicious impulsiveness
and her own blamable softness of
heart were rather severely rebuked.

I quite allow for the temptation,' she went on ;
but it is always best to think before one speaks.
I am afraid it was rather a liberty on our part.
I am not sure the young man was pleased ;
I know It was hard to refuse the darling 
such a sweet little pleading face as it was !  but
we cannot be too careful in a place like this.
What do we know about this young man,
except that he looks like a gentleman, and
lives in rather a Bohemian fashion ? and he
is not even an artist ;' as though, in Aunt
Catherine's opinion, this somehow complicated
matters.

I am afraid my argument in return for this

piece of excellent good sense was strictly
feminine, therefore no argument at all :

I can't help all that, Aunt Catherine ; Reggie
has fascinated me  I have fallen in love with
him, he is such a dear !' and though Aunt
Catherine shook her head at this girlish remark,
she evidently thought it useless to pursue the
subject.

As her warning was in vain, she had recourse
to diplomacy. So the next afternoon, as I was
preparing to go in the garden, she observed
that it would be pleasant on the common. I
was about to remonstrate, but I saw from her
expression that she had made up her mind
on the subject, so I thought it best to say
nothing.

It was the first afternoon that I did not
thoroughly enjoy, but when we went back to
take our coffee in the salle-manger, Jeanne
met us with uplifted hands.

Le pauvre enfant ! ah, it was heart-breaking !'

What do you mean ?' I exclaimed brusquely,
pushing past Aunt Catherine. * Surely nothing
has happened to Reggie ?'

Mille pardoned ! no, there was nothing to
make la demoiselle look so scared. But all the
same, it made her (Jeanne) triste to see the
little angel shaking the gate, and calling for la
demoiselle. * The lady who smiles,' that is

what he called the demoiselle, whom he Implored
to open the gate. 'C'est mol, Reggio
he affirmed constantly, and she (Jeanne) could
not pacify him ; poor little one ! he had cried
so bitterly, and monsieur had lifted him In his
arms and kissed him a dozen times as he carried
him away.

Ah ! Aunt Catherine,' I said reproachfully
and the dear thing looked quite sorry, and
ashamed of herself. Her simple little ruse had
Inflicted pain, and Aunt Catherine hated to give
pain, even to a fly. I think we both had a
pathetic picture In our minds at that moment,
of a little wistful face peering Into a forbidden
paradise. 'The lady who smiles '  what a pretty
description ! and what a stupid thing conventionality
was, if it would not allow one to play
with a child !

Aunt Catherine's primness was not proof
against all this pathos and disappointment, and
the next afternoon she had no objection to
allege against our favourite resort ; but this time
there was no interruption. Of course Reggie
was a prisoner In the pavilion ; his father's pride
could not brook interference from strangers ;
Reggie must be kept out of harm's way. ' The
lady who smiled' was an embarrassing and unnecessary
personage in the estimation of this
perverse young man.

Later in the evening I took a solitary
stroll. Aunt Catherine was tired; but, as I was
restless, she would not keep me in. ' Do not
go too far, Olga, and come back before the dusk
sets in,' were her parting words.

I had every intention of fulfilling these two
injunctions faithfully ; but it was a delicious
evening, and the lanes were enticing. I wandered
on, and the soft creeping twilight found
me still some distance from La Maisonnette.

I had met few people  an old woman with
two tethered cows grazing by the roadside, a
boy in a blue blouse, a little girl with a string of
red beads round her neck ; but by-and-by I
heard footsteps the other side of the hedge, then
voices. Two people were walking down the
field path, within a few feet of me, evidently
bound for the same direction. An undefinable
feeling of pleasure crossed me as I recognised
Reggie's voice.

Father.'

Well, what is it, old fellow ? Tired, eh ?'

Reggie's legs ache dedful.'

Poor little legs ! No wonder, when they
have been running about all day! Here; climb
up, old man.'

No, sank '00. Reggie too tired to ride gee-gee.'


What, quite used up ? Never mind ; father

will carry Reggie in his arms all the way home.
Is. that comfortable ?'

Were comfortable, sank 'oo,' evidently cuddling
up in sleepy fashion. ' Father sing to
Reggie now.'

Sing you to sleep ? No, that will never do;
wait till we get home. Look at those stars ; are
they not bright ? Don't go to sleep yet, my
boy. Try and talk to father ; poor either is so
.dull.'

So dull,' echoed Reggie in a drowsy voice.

Father has no one but Reggie now. What
-would he do without his little boy, I wonder ?'

He would kye,' very promptly.

Oh, if crying would mend matters, father
would cry an ocean full ; but we can't wash out
-our mistakes in that fashion; there is no blessed
Lethe for us poor human beings. Some of us
have a taste of purgatorial fires in this world.
You love father, don't you, Reg ?'

Reggie loves father dreadfully.'

'That's my own boy! Well. I have you  my
sone blessing out of all the cursed wreck ; so
there is no need for the enemy to blaspheme.'

I was so afraid of hearing more that I put
my fingers in my ears and hurried on. Had I
done wrong to listen ? and yet how could I have
.avoided it?  only the hedge divided us. Every
.tone of the deep, intense voice seemed to vibrate

almost painfully in my ears ; the chord of hopeless
sadness underlying the fatherly tenderness
was distinctly audible to me. At the words
Father has only Reggie now ' there was a sigh,
long-drawn and pitiful, as though an open grave
were yawning before his eyes.

The tears sprang to my own as I heard it ;
he was so young to be so sorely tried. As I
hurried down the narrow winding lane, I remembered
a gate opened into the field: probably
they would come through it. In my eagerness
to avoid an embarrassing rencontre so far from
home, I walked on quickly and heedlessly.
The dusk was confusing ; the high over-hanging
hedges made it still darker.

I was vexed at my own carelessness in having
wandered so far from home, and afraid that
Aunt Catherine would soon become anxious at
my delay ; and this mixture of emotions absorbed
my thoughts, and I stumbled on blindly.
The next minute I struck against a stone, and
my foot doubled up under me. The sudden
pain told me what had happened  it was a
slight sprain.

I sat down on the fallen log of a tree not far
from the gate to recover myself, until the pain
subsided. It was not a pleasant state of
things. Granted that the sprain was not a
severe one, it was still sufficient to retard my
VOL. I. 18

progress. I got up and tried to stand. Yes, it
was possible ; I could limp along pretty fairly.
But if the pain got worse ? The ankle was
swelling, too. I sat down again, and unfastened
my boot with difficulty ; this gave me a little
ease, and I determined to make a fresh start
Nil desperado,' as Jem used to say.

At this moment footsteps approached the
gate  it was unlatched. I could just see a tall
dark figure turn into the lane. It would have
to pass me, but I determined to take no notice.
I had some flowers in my lap, and I busied
myself with them, hoping that in the dusk he
would not be able to recognise me. I thought
he was about to stop, but he evidently thought
better of it, and walked on rather slowly.

I was unwilling to be left alone in the gathering
darkness, so I thought I would follow them.
Even the sense of their nearness would be
company ; but I got up too quickly, and was
obliged to sit down again with a suppressed
groan. In a moment the footsteps came back.

Have you hurt yourself Can I help you
in any way ?' asked a voice anxiously.

I thought it was impossible that he could
recognise me. He evidently thought he was
addressing a stranger.

I struck against a stone just now, and I fear
I have sprained my ankle ; it is not very bad



and I shall be able to walk directly ; but I got
up too quickly.'

Why, it is the lady from La Maisonnette !'
he returned with some surprise. ' It was too
dark to recognise you. Reggie, wake up ; this
is your friend.'

Is it the smiling lady, father ?' asked Reggie
in a very sleepy voice.

That is what the rogue always calls you ;
but I am truly sorry for your misfortune.' How
very friendly and kind his voice sounded !
though it was impossible to read his expression.
I could barely see the outline of his features.
I am afraid you are in pain,' and then he added
rather impatiently, * I want to be of use ; but it
is so confoundedly dark under these trees that
I cannot see how to help you. It is much
lighter further on.'

Please do not trouble about me,' I returned
hastily ; ' my foot is better now, and I think I
can manage to walk. Reggie is so tired, and
I know it is time for him to be in bed. You
must not let me detain you.'

A short laugh answered me.

Do you think that is the way that Reggie
and I mean to prove our neighbourliness  to
pass by on the other side ? and especially as we
have to thank you for two or three kindly
services  by bringing my naughty runaway back,

182

for example, on that terribly hot afternoon.
Now please tell me how I am to help you. I
can easily carry Reggie on one arm and give
you the other ;' and as though he read my
hesitation aright, he continued more earnestly :
Indeed, I am very strong, and the boy Is no
weight at all. Put your arm round father's
neck, Reggie, and hold tight. That's right, boy.
Now, then, let me see how you can stand ;' and
the next moment a strong hand assisted me to
rise. ' Come, that Is capital ! Can you put
your foot to the ground ?'

Yes  I think so,' making the attempt carefully.
' Of course It hurts, and I shall have to
walk very, very slowly; but I do not think It Is
a severe sprain.'

I am glad to hear It  now  Miss  Miss 
oh, I forgot !' with a slightly nervous laugh ; ' but
will you take my arm, please, and just use meas
a crutch.'

My name Is Leigh,' I returned, as I
obeyed.

Oh, Aunt Catherine, what would you say to
see me now? but necessity knows no laws. We
moved along slowly, and there was silence fora
minute or two, and then my companion said
very kindly :

How are you getting on, Miss Leigh ? Does
it hurt much ? Excuse me, but you are not

making sufficient use of me. I am afraid I am
not much assistance, after all.'

Oh yes, you are, thank you, and the pain is
not very bad. How your arm must ache, carrying
Reggie ! He is asleep, is he not ?'

Fast asleep, poor little beggar ! We have
been too far this evening, and I have tired him
out ; he is such a plucky little chap that one
forgets what a baby he is.'

He is a darling,' I returned, half under my
breath, but my remark was overheard.

I don't think there are many children of his
age like him. You would not believe how
sensible he is, and such a companion ! Perhaps
I am not impartial,' and I could feel he was
smiling ; ' but he is just perfect in my eyes.'

I was about to answer ; but my foot came in
contact with another loose stone, and I gave a
little cry of pain. He stopped at once.

Oh dear ! I am afraid that was my fault.
Will you wait just a moment, and I will shift
the boy to the other arm, and then I can help
you much better ? Now then, lean all your
weight on me. Don't be scrupulous. Miss
Leigh. I am a tower of strength. We are
getting on famously, and every footstep is
bringing us nearer home. Does talking worry
you ? Would you rather have me hold my
tongue ?'

 No  talk, please I replied faintly, for my
foot was pretty bad now ; ' it will make me
forget the pain a lite. Talk about Reggie 
anything.'

You are very brave,' in a grave, pitying
voice ; ' I did not think a girl  I beg your
pardon, a young lady  could be so brave. Do
you see that twinkling light ? that is where my
landlord, Monsieur Perrot, lives. What a droll
old fellow he is ! Madame, his wife, matches
him in drollery  they are a curious couple

Are they ?'

They are interesting from a psychological
point of view. Monsieur Perrot is a consummate
egoist ; his ego is the central point in
creation; everything revolves round it  *' C'est
moi : acres nous la deluge " is stamped ineffaceably
on every word and action.'

He seems to me a stupid, fat old man, and
oh ! so ugly.'

His stupidity and egoism are synonymous
terms ; to me it is a grand denseness. Few
people have a genius for creating their own fog.
Imagine the serenity of a human being who
dwells in a moral atmosphere so thick that no
hostile criticism, no unkind opinion, can penetrate
it. Fog !  I have used a wrong metaphor :
it is more like the rhinoceros' hide, invulnerable
to the sharpest dart. When I think of all



this I could bring myself to envy Monsieur
Perrot, in spite of his stupidity, his stoutness,
and, as I think you added, his ugliness.'

You are a philosopher.'

Pardon me, I am nothing of the kind ; a
philosopher is not an impatient, irritable sort of
mortal, is he ? Perhaps I love to rail on all
mankind, like our friend the melancholy Jaques.
Are you a student of Shakespeare, Miss
Leigh ?'

My brother Jem reads it to me sometimes.
Would you mind waiting a moment, Mr. ?'

I see, we have not been properly introduced
not according to the golden rules of Mrs.
Grundy  so I may as well tell you my name is
Fleming. There is a wall behind you, if you
like to lean upon it ; but I can tell you for your
comfort that we have not much farther to

go.'

Are you sure of that ? oh, I am so thankful !'
but my voice was very faint.

His only answer was to kneel down in the
dusty road and gently lift the suffering foot, and
place his hand under it as a support.

This will give you a moment's ease from
the strain  I can tell from your voice what you
are feeling ; without some relief you will turn
faint, and we have still this long road to La
Maisonnette. If you were not afraid to be left

alone in this dark road, I would run on and get
you some help  may I ? I should not be ten
minutes away. Are you afraid ?'

No  o ; if  if you will be back soon,' but it
was the biggest fib I ever told in my life.

THE LITTLE HOUSE ON THE CLIFF.

This is not a man to be driven from his temperament without
some sufficient cause.'

The Monastery'

I do not take offence easily.'

Rob Roy:

My unpleasant sensations told me that Mr.
Fleming was right (how strange he should
have that name !). A horrible feeling of sickness
was creeping over me, and but for the
relief his strong hand was giving, I could
hardly have borne the pain. To my surprise,
however, he did not move.

Are you not going .' I asked, a minute
later.

No, certainly not ; I must stay now.'

But why ?'

As though you do not know ; do you always
tell fibs, Miss Leigh . your shaky '' No" was
decidedly one just now. You are horribly

afraid at the idea of being left alone for ten
minutes ; I am sorry for it, because I should
like to spare you any more suffering, but what
can I do? If I dared, I would put Reggie
down and carry you to La Maisonnette, but 1
dare not run the risk  he might wake up and
be frightened, or a vehicle might pass with a
driver the worse for cider.'

'Mr. Fleming! as though I would permit
such a thing !'

I am afraid I should not wait for your permission,
if it were the thing to do ; but the fact
is, I do not dare. Now, will you make one
more attempt, for Reggie's sake ?  he is so
uncomfortable on my shoulder.'

I am sure now that he said it to rouse me, for
Reggie was sleeping most sweetly ; but if this
were his intention he succeeded, and in another
minute I was limping along to the best of my
ability, in spite of shooting pain and growing
faintness. Mr. Fleming kept up a ceaseless
flow of talk, but I was no longer capable of intelligent
interest. I seemed to hear disconnected
sentences in a sort of dream, then
detached words : ' the farm ;' ' take care ;' ' a
ditch there ;' ' a lanthorn at the gate ;' ' looking
out ;' ' sensible people ;' then I was dimly
conscious that I was more tightly held ;
a light flashed in my face, and, ' Oh, OJga,

my poor child !' in Aunt Catherine's pitying
tones ; and then for a moment I knew no
more.

When I regained complete consciousness I
was lying on the couch in our pretty little salon,
and Aunt Catherine was beside me. Reesfie
was curled up, still fast asleep, on an opposite
couch, and Mr. Fleming was walking across
the room with a glass of water.

Oh, I am all right now,' I said feebly ; ' it
was only the pain. Aunt Catherine, please
thank Mr. Fleming ; he has been so good tome
; he must have had a miserable time of it.'

Not quite so miserable as you had ;' but I
noticed he looked rather pale and tired as he
spoke. ' Miss Leigh has behaved like a
heroine : I never saw greater pluck. Now
your foot must be attended to at once, so I will
wish you good-night.'

He bowed, and was about to withdraw ; but
I put out my hand impulsively, and Aunt
Catherine followed my example.

I do indeed thank you,' she said very warmly ;
and then I asked if 1 might kiss Reggie, and
Mr. Fleming brought him to me at once.

Aunt Catherine did not harass me with questions
when we were left alone ; she rang for
Jeanne to assist me to my room, and after
fomenting the inflamed and swollen ankle most

tenderly, she bandaged it as skilfully as a
trained nurse would have done.

It was only when I was comfortably in bed,
and enjoying some Sandwiches and a glass of
delicious lemonade, that she drew from me an
account of my accident, and listened with the
deepest interest.

It was quite an adventure, Olga,' she said
when I had finished. ' But, my dear, you have
given me an hour of terrible anxiety ; I have
been walking up and down the lane, and Jeanne
has been standing at the gate I do not know
how long. If you had been ten minutes later I
should have gone round to Monsieur Perrot for
assistance.'

Oh, Aunt Catherine, I am so sorry ! But
indeed I never meant to go so far, and creeping
home after this fashion has taken me such a
time.'

Well  well, I will not scold you ; yOu have
been punished enough. If it had not been for
our neighbour you would have fared badly. I
think I shall write a proper little note of thanks
in the morning, and tell him how you are, or he
will be calling to inquire. What did you say
his name was  not Fleming, surely ?' and her
voice changed a little.

Yes, it is Fleming ; do you think it is any
relation ?'

 . 

Certainly not she returned promptly. ' He
Is no relation of Robert Fleming  if that is
what you mean. I recollect his telling me that
he had no one belonging to him in the world,
except an old uncle, and his name was Faber.'

It is very strange !' I persisted.

I do not know why you should say so ;
Fleming is not such an uncommon name, is it ?
I knew some people who called themselves the
Cough-Flemings. Oh yes ; and there was a
Mrs. Samuel Fleming, too ; it is a name I like
very much ;' and Aunt Catherine played thoughtfully
with the fringe of the quilt as she spoke.

After a moment she began again :

I think on the whole our neighbour behaved
very well, Olga. He is a gentleman; I liked
his voice and manner exceedingly.'

Oh yes ; and he was so kind. He was
not a bit stiff really, when he saw I was in
trouble.'

I wonder if I have ever seen him before  I
mean in England ; his face did not seem quite
strange to me.'

Nor to me either ; how funny !'

No, not funny. The world is not so large,
after all, and one stumbles upon people in all
sorts of unexpected places. He is not handsome
; I am not quite sure I like his face : his
eyes are a little cold, and I should judge from

his mouth that he has a temper. When you
see him close he Is not so very young, after all.'

How do you mean ?' for I was not quite
pleased with all this criticism. Mr. Fleming
had been so kind, so considerate, that It did not
seem quite fair to him.

Well, he might be seven or eight and
twenty  even more. There is a worn look
about him that hardly belongs to youth.
Depend upon It, he has known trouble.'

As though I were not as sure of that as
Aunt Catherine ; but I was not going to repeat
what I had heard. Could I ever forget those
bitter, half-mocking words : * There is no blessed
Lethe for us poor human beings ; some of us
have a taste of purgatorial fires in this world,'
followed by that broken, ' I have you, my one
blessing out of all this cursed wreck '? That
tone of utter hopelessness  what could it mean?

Aunt Catherine bade me good-night after
this, and I was glad to be left to my own
thoughts. The remedies had Qiven me relief,
and I was now in tolerable comfort ; but all
the same, sleep seemed to have forsaken me.
I tossed restlessly and feverishly on my pillow,
now recalling the incidents of the past evening,
and now perplexing myself with curious conjectures
on the subject of our mysterious neighbour.
He was a perfect stranger. I had only

just learned his name, and yet I felt a profound
interest in him  his loneliness, his melancholy,
his strange, reckless words, and the wonderful
affection that seemed to subsist between him and
his boy, had somehow stirred the quick sensibilities
of my nature. How kind and helpful
he had proved himself on an emergency ! Most
men of his age would have been either awkward
and embarrassed, or else they would have
presumed and grown familiar ; but I could not
but own that his behaviour had been perfect.
In a moment he had put me at my ease, by
the way he seemed to forget himself in his
anxiety to be of service. Only the truest
good-breeding and an innately kind heart could
have taught him such unselfish courtesy.

If I could only do something for him in
return !' I thought, as I lay looking out into the
starry darkness, while the night breeze, perfumed
with the odour of flowers, stole in at the
open window. ' If only Aunt Catherine, dear
thing that she is, were not such a stickler for
propriety ! if she would only make friends with
him and find out why he is so unhappy ! Why
is it wrong, I wonder, to be kind and companionable
with our neighbours, even if they
be strangers. I think the world is a stupid
place, after all. I suppose we shall be obliged
to know all sorts of people in heaven.'

I suppose my midnight philosophy was not
particularly wholesome, for Aunt Catherine
shook her head when she saw me the next
morning.

You will just have to stay where you are
for the rest of the day,' was the only consolation
she gave me ; ' your bad night has made
you look like a ghost. As I am going down to
St. Croix this morning, I shall ask Dr. Addison
to look at your foot.'

Oh, Aunt Catherine, do you think that is
necessary ? it is not a severe sprain ; you said
so yourself last night.'

No ; but you have aggravated it by that
long walk, and it is as well to be on the safe
side. Why, Olga, you look ready to cry !
Surely one day in your room is not such a
terrible punishment.'

I am so vexed at my own stupid carelessness,
and it is such a lovely day,' I grumbled ;
think how delicious the shore would be this
morning !'

'You may just leave the shore alone, and go
sleep instead,' was her unsympathizing answer.
I don't see why Rollo need be a prisoner, too,
so I shall take him as my escort. Good-bye,
you tiresome child ;' but I detained her.

Shall you write that note, Aunt Catherine ?'

Well, I don't know,' dubiously ; ' our neighbour

has been already to inquire. He came
before I was down, and as Jeanne knew
nothing about your bad night, she had not
much to tell him, so he left his compliments and
went away.'

I think a note would only be civil. We
hardly said anything to him last night !'

Well, I will see about it when I come back,
for I have not a moment to spare now. I must
be at the market early to get you some fruit ;
and there is Dr. Addison and a hundred other
things ;' and then she called Rollo and left me.

I spent the morning in sleep. When Dr.
Addison examined my foot he prescribed a
simple remedy and a few days' rest.

You will not be able to run about for a week
or two,' he said  he was a nice old man, and
spoke in a sort of fatherly way  ' but there is no
need to keep you a prisoner. Get someone to
carry you out in the garden, or in a day or two
you might have a drive. Fresh air will do you
good, and we must not make an invalid of you !'

I felt quite cheered by this sensible prescription,
and when Aunt Catherine returned to my
room she told me that she and Jeanne had discovered
an old wheeled chair in an outhouse.

So there will be no difficulty at all,' she went
on, ' in carrying out Dr. Addison's advice.
Jeanne can wheel you into the shade, and we

VOL. I. 9

can make up a sort of impromptu couch with
two or three chairs. And in a day or two you
shall have a drive

May I go into the garden to-day ?'
No, not to-day. Dr. Addison thinks you
will be better where you are ;' for I was lying
comfortably outside my bed. Then she said, in
rather a hesitating manner : * There was no
need for that note, after all, Olga. I encountered
Mr. Fleming in the market, and he
walked back with me. He saw I was somewhat
laden with the fruit, so he at once offered
to assist me. I found him very good company ;
he seems well read and full of information.
We talked a good deal about Oxford ; he is an
Exeter man.'

Did he say whether he had any profession ?'
I asked eagerly.

Xo ; he is singularly reticent. It was quite
by accident he mentioned Exeter. '* When I
was there," he said, " in my undergraduate

days " and then he stopped, and spoke of

something else directly ; but he talks exceedingly
well.'

Did you like the look of him better this
morning ? was my next question.

I have never disliked the look of him,' she
returned ; ' but his face somehow baffles me.
He has such a cold expression until he smiles,

and then his features seem to Hight up. It is
not a happy face, Olga ; there are such bitter
lines round the mouth. But I confess he
interests me.'

And me also.'

Yes, I know ; but we must be careful.
There is one thing about him that I like  he
certainly does not presume ; indeed, I have
a suspicion that he does not wish for our
acquaintance. But that may be my fancy.'

Purely fancy, I should say.'

Something in my tone seemed to strike Aunt
Catherine, for she closed the subject abruptly,
by showing me the basket of fruit and flowers
she had brought ; and I was too much touched
by her thoughtful kindness to say anything
more about Mr. Fleming.

An hour later I was lying with my eyes
closed, thinking of Kitty and the children,
when the door softly opened; and Rollo's tail
beoan to waq in a friendly fashion. The next
moment something warm and soft darted at me,
and Reggie scrambled up upon my bed.

Take care of my poor foot ! Oh, you
darling ! Who brought you ?' and I nearly
smothered him with kisses.

Reggie took them as a matter of course ;
he was used to being loved. He had two or
three clover-stalks in his hot hand.

19  2

Reggie has picked you f powers,' he said
proudly.

But who brought you, my sweet ?'

Lady brought Reggio he replied promptly :
and then I knew Aunt Catherine had contrived
this little surprise for me.

Reggie seemed mystified by my apparent
laziness. He wanted me to get up and play
with him, and when I explained matters he
insisted Rollo should come up too ; so we were
all of a heap together. I told him stories at
last to keep him quiet. I recollect one was
about a little white, downy owl with round
yellow eyes, who lived with her children in an
ivy-bush. I regret to say that Reggie repeated
this tale under the title of ' the howl
what lives in the ivy-bush,' and he was so
much pleased with it that when I had finished
he wanted me to begin it all over again.
Reggie stayed with me some time, and was
as good as possible. He went away reluctantly
when Jeanne came to fetch him.

Monsieur son pere was standing at the little
gate, and had requested that le petit should be
brought to him.

I raised myself up when Jeanne had left the
room. Yes, I could see the gray cap between
the branches ; he was standing by the hammock
waiting for his boy.

Reggie has forgotten father,' I could hear
him say, as the Httle figure bounded along the
gravel walk, and then Reggie sprang into his
father's arms with a merry laugh.

The next morning I was carefully wheeled
by Jeanne into my favourite grove, and there
I spent the rest of the day, and many succeeding
days, very happily with my work and books.
Reggie was my constant companion; every
afternoon, exactly at the same time, he would
come running down the little path and call tome
to open the gate. If Aunt Catherine were
absent, I had to summon Jeanne. Mr. Fleming
never made his appearance ; once I caught
sight of him in the distance, but he never
obtruded himself.

Reggie would play happily for hours. At
first he could not understand why I would not
play hide-and-seek with him and Rollo. He
would run away and hide, and presently I
would hear his dear little voice calling me ; but
I had to send Rollo instead. Once he called
so long and so imploringly that Aunt Catherine
accompanied Rollo.

Look at Reggie !' he cried triumphant.
Reggie is Mrs. Howl in the ivy-bush.'

Sometimes he lay contentedly in the hammock
while I told him fresh stories. He did
not care for tales about good lite boys or

THE SEARCH FOR BASIL LYNDHURST

girls, but a story about a squirrel, a mouse, ora
rabbit instantly commanded his attention.

Ah, ah! Mr. Bunny,' he would say, 'Mr.
Fox found you out. Go on, my dear ;' for this
was the patronizing phrase he had adopted forme.
I suppose he found ' the smiling lady '
too long for ordinary occasions. How Aunt
Catherine laughed when she first heard
him !

What a droll lite creature he is !' she
would say ; but she soon grew excessively
fond of him.

One afternoon, or rather evening, I had my
promised drive, and I enjoyed it so much that
Aunt Catherine told Jules to come daily. I
was sitting in the fiacre one evening, waiting
for Aunt Catherine to come out, when I saw
Mr. Fleming coming up the lane. He was
walking rather wearily, and Reggie was running
on before him.

Of course Reggie recognised me with a
shout ; but as I leant over the side of the
fiacre to warn him from coming too close, Mr.
Fleming came up hurriedly and lifted him out
of harm's way ; and then he could not do less
than speak to me.

I am glad to see you out again. Miss
Leigh,' he said rather gravely, and I understood
why Aunt Catherine thought his face

cold, for there was not the gleam of a smile on
it. ' 1 am afraid you have had a trying time
lately.'

Oh no,' I replied rather timidly, for his
manner did not put me at my ease, and he did
not seem in the least pleased to see me. ' I
have been out in the garden all day, and you
have been kind enough to spare Reggie to mea
good deal, so I have not been dull.'

Then his face did relax a little.

There is no keeping Reggie away ; you and
Miss Seton have spoiled him. He is always
wanting to come to you.'

I have not kissed my Dear,' observed
Reggie, in such a sentimental tone that we
both burst out laughing, and after that he
could not quite stiffen up again. But this
friendly mood was brief.

The next minute Aunt Catherine came out
of the house. She seemed pleased to see Mr.
Fleming, and shook hands with him as he
helped her into the carriage. But he responded
in the briefest manner to her pleasant speech,
and, taking Reggie's hand, walked on.

Aunt Catherine looked after him thoughtfully.


Had you been talking long to Mr. Fleming,
Olga ?'

No ; only three or four minutes. He did

not seem quite like himself ; he was rather cool
in his manner

I was thinking the same myself. One cannot
help being civil, of course ; but if you take
my advice you will say as little as possible to
Mr. Fleming. Any attention on our part
seems to embarrass him. For some reason or
other, he certainly does not mean to know us.
I never saw any other young man so reserved,
and with whom it was so difficult to get
on.'

I was too much chagrined at Mr. Fleming's
coolness to contradict her. And yet how different
he had been that evening ! But it was
no use thinking of that.

In a week's time I was able to hobble about
a little ; but it was some days after that I
went down to the shore for the first time since
my accident. Aunt Catherine had letters to
write as usual  to her lawyer, her bailiff, and
to one of her tenants  indeed, she had business
to occupy her until luncheon. The morning
was sultry and sunless, and Aunt Catherine
begged me not to go . farther than the llltle
bathing-house, as she thought a storm was
threatening, and as my opinion coincided with
hers, I readily promised to follow her Injunction.


The hour that followed was not entirely enjoyable.

I was oppressed by the stillness and
airlessness of the atmosphere. The bay had
a leaden, oily aspect. I was peculiarly susceptible
to any sombre influences, and I was
conscious of a sense of heaviness as I looked
out on my favourite scene, as though I were regarding
a dear friend under sinister circumstances.


By-and-by a few heavy drops warned me.
As I put up my sketching materials hastily,
they fell faster and faster. As I could only
walk slowly, I was slightly damp before I had
unlocked the door of the bathing-house and
had taken refuge In the tiny room.

A moment later I heard hasty footsteps ;
someone was dashing up the steep little path
leading to our common. To my surprise It was
Mr. Fleming, with Reggie, as usual, on his
shoulder. Out of sheer humanity, for the
thunder-shower was very heavy, I begged him
to enter ; and without a moment's hesitation he
accepted my invitation, and, depositing Reggie
on the wooden table, began rubbing him down
with his handkerchief, while Reggie comported
himself like a frisky lite pony.

Thank you so much for this shelter, Miss
Leigh,' he said quite cordially. ' I actually
dashed past the open door without seeing it
until you called me. I am thankful for

Reggie's sake, for I don't mind a wetting myself;
but he is such a delicate little fellow.'

Oh, I hope he has taken no harm,' for his
sailor suit felt a little damp.

Oh no, the rain will soon be over ; it is too
violent to last. Will you not sit down, Miss
Leigh ? I see you still walk rather lamely ;'
and he brought me one of the wooden chairs,
and took the other himself.

Mr. Fleming's manner had decidedly thawed
since our last meeting. Perhaps he considered
it was his duty lo entertain me in return for my
hospitality ; for he began talking about the
book he had under his arm, and asked if I had
read it. I forget its title, but he gave me a
rdsumd of the contents, and criticised it in a
masterly fashion. I wished Aunt Catherine
could have heard him. After that, he sat looking
down at the bay, while Reggie played at
his feet with Rollo.

Isn't that grand, Miss Leigh ?' he said presently.
' I do like looking at a large expanse
of water ; it gives me such a sense of freedom.'

There was a strange intensity in his expression
as he watched the dark water and the
driving rain, and some impulse made me say :

You speak as though freedom were the chief
blessing to be desired in life.'

So it is,' he answered short, and his eyes

were still fixed on the bay ; * there is nothing to
compare with it in my opinion ; and yet how few-men
are really free !'

How do you mean, Mr. Fleming ?'

He turned round and gave me a quick searching
glance, as though my question disturbed him.

'Oh, it is not easy to explain my meaning;'
and there was a tinge of impatience in his voice.
There is very little freedom in this world, after
all. It is a little hard, is it not ? that some have
to pay a life-long penalty for some youthful
error ; but so it is.' He sighed, and drew
Reoeie between his knees : and as the child
looked up in his face, his expression softened.
Never mind, Reg, old fellow. Freedom is a
sweet sort of mistress ; but I would not take
her in exchange for you.'

I thought it better to change the subject
by saying I hoped the rain would soon be over,
as Aunt Catherine would be getting anxious
at my delay.

Oh, I hope not,' he returned, going to the
door ; ' you gave her anxiety enough the other
evening. Miss Seton is your aunt, is she not,
Miss Leigh ?'

He certainly looked mystified when I explained
that she was no relation.

But you call her Aunt Catherine,' he
persisted.

Oh, that is only our pet name for her. Jem
calls her that, too. Jem is my brother, Mr.
Flemings, and we both live with a married
brother, who is a clergyman. Aunt Catherine 
Miss Seton I mean  is only a neighbour, and
she lives with her sister, Mrs. Lyndhurst, at a
beautiful place close by  Brookfield Hall. They
are such dear creatures, the Ladies, as we call
them, and we are so fond of them.'

Yes, I see,' and his manner betrayed some
interest ; ' these adopted relationships are often
very close  sometimes as close as real flesh and

blood ones. I knew of a case once ' then

he stopped abruptly.

'You knew of a case once, Mr. Flemings' 1
repeated, as a sort of encouragement to him to
proceed, but he returned quickly :

Oh, it is nothing ; it would not interest you
in the least !'

I believe you think nothing interests us,' I
replied, rather piqued at this sudden reticence.
I mean'  for he looked perplexed at this 
at least, Aunt Catherine says that she is sure
you do not want to have anything to do with
us ; that you would rather not, in fact.'

I blushed with annoyance the moment I
made this impulsive speech. I could not think
what made me say such a thing ; but somehow
his manner provoked me so, it was so cool and

guarded, just as though he were on his defence
against us  as though we were his natural
enemies. I am sure at that moment that I
dished him heartily.

To my surprise he answered me with the
utmost gentleness.

Why do you say that ?' he replied, almost
as though he were speaking to Reggie. ' Why
should you think me so ungrateful ? It is not
right to misjudge anyone. What if I do not
consider myself worthy of your acquaintance ?
What you think an unbecoming reserve may be
only my way of showing my respect.'

Mr. Fleming,' I stammered, ' is it because
you are poor that you do not consider yourself
our equal ?'

Then he smiled.

No, Miss Leigh ; I am too much of a philosopher
to fear comparison of that sort. My
poverty is an extraneous circumstance that has
nothing to do with me ; but you are wrong.
Though I do not seek acquaintance, I take a
great deal of interest in the kind ladies who are
so good to my boy. There, the rain is over.
Do you think we may venture now ?'

Oh yes ; I think so.'

My cheeks were burning. How gently, yet
with what dignity, he had rebuked my rudeness!
He was not even vexed with me for my presumption.

As we went out together, and he
followed me up the little path between the dripping
gorse-bushes, he talked in the pleasant
way he had talked that evening ; and when we
parted at the door of La Maisonnette, he held
out his hand for the first time.

Good-bye, Miss Leigh,' he said, with a clear,
open glance of amity. * Please give my compliments
to MissSefton;' and he looked so friendly
that I ventured to say :

I am afraid I have been very rude, Mr.
Fleming. Please forgive me.'

Why, what nonsense !' he said heartily.
I have nothing in the least to forgive ;' and
then he shook hands with me again.

END OF VOL. I.

HILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

C, C. &> Ca.

THE TEMPLE BAR MAGAZINE.

Serial Short's by the follcnvbig Writers have appeared in the pages of
this Magazine :

The Seven Sons of Mammon, by George Augustus Sala. For Better, for Worse,
edited by Edmund Yates. Aurora Floyd, by Miss Braddon. The Adventures of Captain
Dangerous, by George Augustus Sala. The Trials Of the Tredgolds-john
Parchment's Legacy, by Miss Braddon. Broken to Harness, by Edmund Yates. -
Paid in Full, by H. J. Byron. The Doctors Wife, by ]Miss Braddon. David
Chantry, by \V. G. Wills. Sir Jasper's Tenant, by Miss Braddon. Land at Last,
by Edmund Yates.  Archie Lovell, by ]airs. Annie Edwardes. Lady Adelaide's Oath,
by Mrs. Henry Wood. A Lost Name, by J. Sheridan Le Fan. Steven Lawrence :
Yeoman, by Mrs. Annie Edwardes Kitty, by l. E. Bentham-Edwardes. Vera. Red
as a Rose is She, by Rhoda Boughton. Susan Fielding, by Mrs. Annie Edwardes.
A Race for a Wife, by Hawley Smart. The Bird of Passage, by J. Sheridan Le
Fan. His Brother's Keeper, by Albany de Fonblanque. The Landlord of
the Sun, by W. Gilbert.  The Poison of Ass, by Florence Marryat.  Goodbye,
Sweetheart! by Rhoda Boughton-ought we to Visit Her? by Mrs.
Annie Edwardes.  The Illustrious Dr. Mathews, by MM. Erckmann-Chatrian.
The Wooing o't, by 'Mrs. Alexander.'  The Deceased Wife's Sister, by
'Sidney :\Iostyn.'  The New Magdalen, by Wilkie Collins.  Uncle John, by

W. Whyte-Melville.  A Vagabond Heroine, by Mrs. Annie Edwardes.  My
Beautiful Neighbour, by W. Clark Russell Leah : a Woman of Fashion, by Mrs.
Annie Edwardes. Patricia Kimball, by Mrs. Lynn Linton.  Philip Leigh. The
Frozen Deep, by wilkie Collins. Bitter Fruit, by A. W. Dubourg.-Lilith, by W.
H. Pollock. Ralph Wilton's Weird, by ' Mrs. Alexander' The Dream Woman, by
Wilkie Collins.  Basils Faith, by A. W. Dubourg.  The American Senator, by
Anthony Trollope. Her Dearest Foe, by 'Mrs. Alexander.  Victoria Contain, by
A. W. Dubourg. The Two Destinies, by Wilkie Collision Old Mans Darling, by
A. W. Dubourg. Cherry Ripe ! by Helen Matters. A Blue Stocking, by Mrs. Annie
Edwardes. The Ordeal of Fay, by Mrs. Buxton. The ' First Violin,' by Jessie Others
-Two Handsome People, Two Jealous People, and a Ring, by Miss Laplace.
Jet, her Face or her Fortune, by Mrs. Annie Edwardes. Aid Robin Gray, by Mrs.
Godfrey. Probation, by Jessie Fothergill  Ebenezer, by C. G. Leland. Vivian the

Beauty, by Mrs. Annie Edwardes. Celia, by Mrs. Godfrey. Adam and Eve, by Mrs.
Parr. The Portrait of a Painter, by Himself, by Lady Pollock. A Little Bohemian,
by Mrs. Godfrey. The Rebel of the Family, by Mrs. Lynn Linton. Kith and Kin,
by Jessie Fothergill. The Frees, by 'Mrs. Alexander. Marie Dumont, by Lady
Pollock. The Beautiful Miss Roche, by Mrs. Godfrey's Wild Jack, by Lady
Margaret Majestie. Robin, by Mrs. Parr.- A Ball-room Repentance, by Mrs. Annie
Edwardes. Unspotted from the World, by Mrs. Godfrey. Belinda, by Rhoda
I'.roughton.- lone Stewart, by Mrs. Lynn Linton. Uncle George's Will, by Lady
Margaret Majestie. A Perilous Secret, by Charles Reade.  Zero : a Story of Monte
Carlo, by Mrs. Campbell Prayed. Mrs. Forrester's Secret, by Mrs. Godfrey. Peril,
ley Jessie Fothergill. Mitre Court, by Mrs. Riddell.-A Girton Girl, by Mrs. Annie
lldwardes.- A Bachelor's Blunder, by W. E. Norris-put Asunder, by Mrs. Godfrey.
Pastor Carew, Miser and Millionaire, by :vers. Lynn Linton. Red Spider, by the
Author of ' Mehalah,' etc. The Dangers Jewels. Loyalty George, by Mrs. Parr. -A
Village Tragedy, by Mrs. M. Woods. Out of the Fog, by W. M. Hardinge. Moor
l3les, by Jessie Fothergill. The Rogue, by W. E, Norris.

To be obtained at all Bookstalls.

TO BE HAD OF EVERY BOOKSELLER IN THE EMPIRE.

Who does not welcome TEMPLE BAR 1 John Bull.
One can never help enjoying TEMPLE 'Reb ' Guardian.

Among shilling magazines TEMPLE BAR keeps the leading place, which it has
held from its commencement, more than a quarter of a century ago' //f.

'TEMPLE BAR is always the best of the monthly periodicals. The editor seems to
have a knack of getting the brightest articles, the most exciting tales, and the most interesting
reminiscences of any magazine conductor' Z>7//'//w Union.

'At the head of the Light Brigade, as usual, standi TEMPLE BAR, with its knack
of being always vivacious and amusing.'  Globe.

'TEMPLE BAR offers a wide choice of entertaining reading' Z-Zt-rary lyric.
TEMPLE BAR is always good holiday reading, be it for the winter's fireside or the
summer beach or Iuku-isle o/ ll'i/ii Guardian.

TEMPLE BAR. 'The articles and tales fully sustain the high reputation of Messrs.
Bentley's deservedly popular magazine' Comma Gentleman.

TEMPLE BAR is one of the few magazines that never flags in brightness' /'a//
Mall Gazette.

In all respects TEMPLE BAR more than maintains its high reputation in the front
rank of literary ventures' ]'arw//M Gazette.

TEMPLE Bar' This favourite magazine for town and country readers.'  Burnley
Express.

TEMPLE BAR. ' AH the contributions are of an able character, and no surprise can
be felt at the increasing favour shown towards this very excellent magazine by the pul N-
Variously Gazette.

'TEMPLE BAR has a high literary \o\xx.' Perthshire Constitute  al
In TEMPLE BAR may be enjoyed one of those excellent lx)ilings down of looks
which is a speciality of the magazine. '~Grrt////V.

TEMPLE BAR has abundance of readable fiction.'  Illustrated London Nciis.
TEMPLE BAR. 'The historic gateway is gone, but "Temple Bar,"ihe magazine,
remains. We have managed to survive the loss of the former with equanimity, but life
would be distinctly less worth living if we were deprived of Messrs. Bentley's admirable
magazine.'  County Gentleman.

TEMPLE BAR is always readable. It is one of the few magazines we may take up,
if going on a journey, with the assurance that it will provide amusement.'  Illustrated
Sporting and Dramatic News.

TEMPLE BAR is full of readable matter, grave and gay' York Herald.
'TEMPLE BAR is invariably superior to the fluctuations of literary skill which
sometimes afflict its contemporaries.'  Dublin Mail.

TEMPLE BAR furnishes its readers with interesting reading' /F/rt Examiner.
TEMPLE BAR.  ' There has generally been one article worth all the cost of this
magazine.'  Hearts Guardian.

'TEMPLE BAR i-> generally interesting. '.">7. James's Gazette.
TEMPLE BAR is always amusing, and contains literary food adapted to all tastes.
John Bull.

TEMPLE BAR. 'An enormous shillings-worth, both for bulk and quality' ./l/-v
Sun.

'The average of excellence in TEMPLE BAR is high' Illustrated Sporting and
Dramatic A'ezus.

TEMPLE BAR. this admirable serial maintains the reputation for excellence
which u has steadily gained fbr many year? Yarmouth Gazette.

m ] IV

S:y,'ih

m

'y'ki:JM/iLk<>f!y</'''- A

L I B RA FLY

O? Thou

N 1\'ER.5ITY

or ILLINOIS

Close

;

T

-*v:j5v)4i

>f?

is /\  X X  X Ax x

lvi/:44



x

>V-a >?ss /j<Krl /

book! '''" " " overdue

<|J

BASIL LYNDHURST

BY

ROSA NOUCHETTE CAREY

author of
'Nellie's memories,' 'not like other girls,' 'only the governess,

ETC.

IN THREE Volumes
VOL. TI.

LONDON

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

publishers in (Driinarg ta cr (tajcstj) tltc (xittn



[Al rights reserved']

CHAPTER

I. CATHERINE SEFTON's RETROSPECT

II. A STRANGE NIGHT

III. ' HE IS EVERYTHING TO ME ' -

IV. LOOKING AT THE SUNSET
V. LA RUE d'eGLISE

VI. ' THE EPIC OF HADES ' -

VII. THE END OF A SUMMER Idol -

VIII. ALINE

IX. ' YOU ARE BASIL LYNDHURST !' -

X. Lisette DUPONT

XL Good-bye TO LA MAISONNETTE

XII. 'AULD LANG syne'

XIII. ' WELCOME HOME, MY DEAR ' -

XIV. ' FRIENDS FOR LIFE '

XV. ' THEY ASKED FOR THE SQUIRE '

XVI. ' SO YOU HAVE COME BACK !'

























33

SEARCH FOR BASIL LYNDHURST

MISS SEFTON's STORY

VOL. II. 20

CATHERINE SEFTON S RETROSPECT.

Seek not much rest, but much patience.'

Thomas a Kempis.

The graves grow thicker, and life's ways more bare,
As years and years go by ;
Nay ! thou hast more green gardens in thy care,

And more stars in thy sky.
Behind, hopes turned to griefs, and joys to memories.

Are fading out of sight ;
Before, pains changed to peace, and dreams to certainties,
Are glowing in God's light'

Lyra Mystic.'

There is one lesson that I think we all learn
better as we grow older, and that is submission
to the discipline of life.

Youth is slow to comprehend the inevitable
laws that govern human existence. They
turn away their eyes with natural reluctance
from the dangers and pitfalls that threaten
their future peace. To-morrow is not to-day ;

20  2

the present, so joyous, so strewn with flowers
that Is sufficient for these thoughtless minds.
Age, with its sad environment, is still far away
in the misty distance  away with all these prophets
of evil. ' Let us eat and drink !' Oh
yes ! is that not their light-hearted philosophy ?

I thank the Fatherly Wisdom above that
such things should be  that these children just
entering upon life are so mercifully blinded, so
pathetically ignorant of the difficulties and
sorrows that will beset their path later on. But
with us who are older it is different. What
woman of forty-five  yes, it is I, Catherine
Seton, who ask the question  what woman of
forty-five can look back on the years of her life
without a sigh of regret, without a repressed
shiver, as the shadows of the past seem to
enfold her ?

Ah I we know now what life means, as we
look back over the years. There was work
that we set about so gladly, so eagerly, and
yet left unfinished ; there were friendships that
had been broken, promises unfulfilled, hopes
that had been frustrated, good intentions that
had come to an untimely end ; those who had
loved us had passed within the veil ; others had
disappointed us ; where we had expected to find
consolation we found vacancy. Who will not
verify these words ? Who has not experienced

this bitter discipline ? Is it not written in the

Food Book, that 'through much tribulation '?

Well, can we not finish that sentence for ourselves
?

But I am no pessimist. Like other women,
I have kept my journal of mercies : I have had
my glad times  my golden opportunities.
When joy fled, Peace  tender and abiding  has
taken me by the hand and led me gently on.
Would you know what she whispered to me at
the hour of my greatest desolation  when I
parted with the man whom I honoured above all
men? ' It is but for a time. This life  this
antechamber, where the grown-up children
learn their lessons ; where they do their painful
tasks ; where the problems they are studying are
not clear to their comprehension  this is but
the beginning  the childhood of life : beyond is
the real life, where all shall be solved, and the
parted shall be reunited for ever.'

I had had much to try me. When I was quite
young the burden of a sister's wrecked happiness
had been laid on me  the daily and hourly
responsibility of helping a weak, morbid nature
to bear a trouble that seemed too heavy for it.
I take no credit to myself for this ; many a
woman has had a like burden, and has borne it
far more bravely than I. I loved Virginia;
she was my only sister ; but I was not always

patient with her. She had wrought her own
woe. There were times when I would speak
strongly to her of the duty of bearing more
cheerfully the penalty of her own weakness.
When I told her that no private grief should
ever shadow the peace of a household, she
would listen to me meekly. ' You are right,
Cathy ; you are always right,' that is what she
would say to me. But the cloud never lifted ;
the next day it would be the same : the old sadness,
the shrinking from strange faces, the want
of interest, the self-absorbed, morbid depression;
no, she could not help it, my poor Virginia ; the
poison had entered into her very being ; her
nature was not strong enough to rally ; she was
simply crushed.

Life could not be very gay at the Hall
under these circumstances, but I had my own
interests. I was proud of bearing an old and
honoured name ; the charge of our estates gave
me plenty of active work ; our tenants, the poor
people round us, the ordering of our household,
and the interchange of civility with our neighbours,
filled up one busy day after another, and
left me no time to think of my own happiness.
If only Virginia would have worked too ! but
she was too spiritless, too much unnerved by
her unhealthy brooding ; after a time I had to
leave her alone.

It has always been my opinion that a single
woman should create her own interests and ties.
I know that my affection for Olga brought
much happiness into my life, and I grew almost
to regard her as my adopted child ; Jem was
very dear to me, too, but he was not Olga.

I never knew any girl like her ! She was not
specially clever, nothing out of the common,
but there was a freshness and sweetness about
her, a sprightly sort of gentleness that entirely
won my heart. Few young girls are restful.
Olga was singularly so; her nature had no
abrupt angles ; there was a wonderful serenity
about her ; she had no moods ; she was always
just herself, simple, affectionate, unselfish.

I think the great secret of her charm lay in
her complete unconsciousness ; she never seemed
to be thinking of other people's opinion ; she
wished to be loved, but she gave herself no
uneasiness on the subject ; her affections were
very strong ; she was capable of any amount of
self-sacrifice for those she loved ! Perhaps her
chief danger lay in her sympathy for others,
her generosity often out-stript her prudence ;
if she could help others, she was willing to run
any risk herself

I remember the little anecdote that Jem once
told me of their childish days ; it was so
characteristic of Olga : she was ready now to

scorch herself in any good cause, to try her
powers, to approach the impossible too closely !
I could fancy her still crying out with childish
petulance, ' Oh ! Jem, it hurts !' for she was one
who could suffer keenly. The one flaw in her
character was a certain difficulty in understanding
lower or more prosaic natures, in
making allowances, in giving out her best to
them ; and yet when she really loved anyone
it was marvellous how she overlooked their
defects, how she gave them credit for fabulous
virtues. I am thinking of Jem, who, after all,
was not more romantic than other young men
of his age.

But with poor Mr. Leigh it was different.
Olga was never entirely just to him ; even Jem
told her so. A certain slowness of comprehension,
a tedious mannerism, a few surface faults,
blinded her to his excellences. I never knew
a better man ; as a clergyman, he was faultless,
and his single-hearted loyalty to his frail, worn
wife was touching beyond measure. To borrow
an oft-used expression, he simply worshipped
the ground she walked on.

I used to scold Olga sometimes when I was
in a lecturing mood. Tt is always, Jem, Jem !'
I said once, ' never Hubert ; and yet what a
good brother he is ! Has he ever said a hard
word to you ?'

No, never she replied quite meekly, tor she
knew she deserved my scolding.

He is good as gold !' I went on ; 'he never
thinks of himself  you have often told me so ;
it is always his wife, or his children, or you, or
Jem ! he is so fond of you both, Olga.'

Yes, I know,' looking very much ashamed
of herself.

'And yet it is always Jem !  oh, I grant you
Jem is charming ; I like him better than any
other young man of my acquaintance. He is a
fine fellow  a very fine fellow  but he is not
better than his elder brother.'

Why should you compare them ?' she asked
reproachfully ; ' they are totally different. Jem
is Jem ; and as for Hubert '

'Well, what about Hubert?'

Oh, he provokes me  he is so dense !  but,
all the same, I am very fond of him. I am not
like Kitty, perhaps, but, then, Kitty is his wife.
If I had a husband I should swear by him, of
course.'

x'\nd then the naughty child went off singing
to herself, just as though I had made no impression
on her ; but I never lost an opportunity of
speaking a good word for Mr. Leigh.

Virginia was very much attached to Olga 
she always said that she was like a sunbeam in
the house. Once or twice, when we were sitting

together in the long winter evenings, she would
drop some word about her that I found it difficult
to answer.

We are growing old, Cathy,' she said once ;
and if we should never find Basil '  and then
she looked at me meaningly  * if we should have
to seek for an heir  and we should have none of
our own flesh and blood  then there is Olga.'

I remember the sudden pang I felt when
she first said this, and how the blood seemed to
rush to my heart for a moment. Had it come
to this ? were we so poor, so deprived of all
natural ties, that we must leave a neighbour to
inherit our lands ? Must the Seftons die out ?
Were we two lonely women the last of our
race ?

We must find Basil,' I returned ; and in
spite of myself my voice faltered.

But Virginia was in one of her dark moods.

Basil may be dead,' she whispered ; and I
shrank a little at her tone. ' How can we find
my boy if they have buried him out of sight ?
We are growing old, Catherine, and who is to
live here in our stead ? is it to be Jem or
Olga ?'

It is to be neither,' I exclaimed ; I know I
answered her with a sort of impatience. ' How
do we know Basil is dead ? and the property is
his. I will not lose the hope of finding him.

You are his mother, Virginia ; it is for you to
hope too.'

I think I am tired of hoping,' she returned,
with a gentleness that simply exasperated me.
 I have hoped so long  and if he should be
dead '

I cannot explain how all this reiteration vexed
me. It was only poor Virginia's way  her
method of tormenting herself; but to-night it
was simply unbearable. I flung away from the
room as that last dreary sentence rang in my
ears  ' If he should be dead !'

Well, it might be so ; Basil might be lying in
his grave ; but for all that, why should it be
Olga  Olga, whom I so dearly loved, but who
was not our own flesh and blood ? We could
remember her ; oh yes, there were other ways
of showing our affection  but what had she
done that this rich inheritance should be hers ?
why should her simple, happy life be spoilt by
all this weight and responsibility ?

It is not for Olga,' I said to myself; 'and
yet to whom could it all go ?' and as I asked
the question, the thought flitted through my
mind  a sudden memory of one who had been
poor all his life, and had done good work with
only a scanty reward ; who had toiled and
grown gray in his Master's service, without
asking for His good things. Would not wealth

be of infinite use to such a one ?  a talent, a
glorious talent, to be spent for others ; would
not hundreds be benefited, as well as he ?

I went about with this thought locked up in
my breast for many a day, but I never spoke of
it to anyone. Now and then Virginia would
revert to the old subject  ' If he should be
dead but I always soothed her with the hope
of a living Basil.

There was plenty of time ; by-and-by, in a
year or two, I might speak another name, that
had not been mentioned between us for five-and-twenty
years. Would Virginia think me mad ?
would she again plead Olga's cause ? Time
would show. Meanwhile the thought soothed
me ; perhaps one day it might all belong to
Robert Fleming. It made me happier to think
of this, and how he would care for all our
poor people. Perhaps he might even take
the name of Seton, to please his long-lost
friend.

I know few young persons would give a
middle-aoed woman credit for such romance ;
but the heart is slow in growing old, and I had
a tenacious memory. I could have married
over and over again, but I had never seen a
man to compare with Robert. 'If it be not
Robert, it will be no one,' I had cried to my
father with passionate girlish despair ; but he

had answered with an incredulous smile. Well,
I had been right  it was no one.

Sometimes, when Olga looked at me in the
innocent way that was natural to her, my whole
heart seemed to go out to the child, but, all the
same, I would say to myself:

I am not wronging her  there will be plenty
for her and Jem. She will not misjudge me,
because when I had the power to make her a
rich woman I withheld my hand  because I
selected a faithful steward, and kept it all for
him.'

No ; I was not afraid of Olga. There was
nothing mercenary in her nature ; she loved us
and was grateful to us for our kindness, but
no speculation on the future ever entered her
thoughts.

I was in this unsettled state of mind when the
report reached us of Paul Lyndhurst's death.
It came to us in a strange, roundabout way,
and was terribly vague and unsatisfactory. He
had been dead for years, but no one knew of the
fact but a certain Pere Lefevre, one of the
clergy of I'Eglise de St. Sulpice at St. Genette.

Our hopes of ever finding our rightful heir
Basil had by this time ebbed very low indeed,
but as this faint clue reached us, it was wonderful
how they revived again. When Virginia
looked in my face with yearning eyes, but

without speaking, I knew what the words were
that she left unuttered :

You will go to St. Genette and see Pere
Lefevre. Perhaps on his death-bed Paul may
have mentioned his son ;' and I answered as
though she had really spoken :

Yes ; I will go

In my own heart, I was glad that any action
was possible ; all these years there had been
nothing that I could do. How could I have
left Virginia to search for Basil ? But now.
when she bade me m, I could leave her with a

o

clear conscience.

But I did not know what need there would
be of patience, or of the long weeks of waiting
that lay before us. At first I chafed sadly at
the delay, but a letter from Virginia reassured
me.

Yes, it is hard,' she wrote ; ' but I am used
to disappointment ; and you must not trouble
so much about me. It is needless to say how
I miss you  the faithful sister who has become
a necessity to me ; but though the Hall is
empty without you, Cathy, I would not have
you back for worlds. Stay where you are, and
let us both try to be patient. You have Olga ;
the dear child will not let you be dull. No ;
you must not come back until you can bring me
word that I am a free woman, and that Basil 

ah ! I dreamt of him last night : he held out his
hand, and said '' Mother," and I woke weeping
for the very sweetness of the dream.'

After this I banished all uneasy scruples, and
tried to enjoy our pleasant unconventional life.

I began to love La Maisonnette almost as
much as Olga did. I liked our cosy salon, and
the great bare salle-manger, with its open
glass doors and shady coolness. Sometimes,
as we sat at our meals, the chickens would peck
at the crumbs beside us ; Rollo used to watch
them furtively, and growl from time to time,
but he never dared to chase them away  only
Jeanne would come clattering over the floor,
and drive them off with loud protestations.

One might as well dine in the poultry-yard !'
she would say, with a toss of her head, as one
cackling chicken after another fled into the
courtyard. ' Poof ! it makes one hot, too  the
aggravating fowls !'

I must confess our neighbour at the pavilion
interested me greatly, though I tried to hide
this feeling from Olga. Indeed, it was for her
sake solely that I did not make any overtures
towards intimacy.

A girl is a serious responsibility, especially
a warm-hearted, impulsive creature like Olga,
who was capable of setting Mrs. Grundy at
defiance if she could only perform a kind

action to a fellow-creature. In spite of her
innate refinement, one found it very difficult
to make her understand the little niceties and
adjustments that are necessary in our intercourse
with the other sex ; her very innocence
and kindness of heart made her bolder than
other girls, and her unconsciousness added to
the danger.

Judge my dismay, then, at finding an interesting
young widower located at our very back-door
 a widower, too, under very questionable
circumstances, and evidently as poor as a
church-mouse. Unknown to Olga, I had questioned
Monsieur Perrot about his lodger, but
his replies had been very unsatisfactory.

Monsieur was poor, certainly ; he had affirmed
the fact. He  Monsieur Perrot  was standing
one evening at his door talking to madame, and
cet jeune monsieur had addressed him. Madame
Ravished to know how long ago. Well, perhaps
a month or five weeks  a few days before
madame had come to La Maisonnette.

Not longer ao than that ?'

Mais non, certainement ; madame could
verify the fact, for she came out and kissed le
petit, who was asleep in monsieur's arms.
Madame thought it was his little brother, but
monsieur only smiled and shook his head.
Then they had got into conversation, and

monsieur stated that he was looking for a
lodging  some quiet place that was not too
dear. Monsieur owned his poverty frankly :

I have only a little,' he said in a bright sort
of way ; ' when I have spent that, our holiday
will be over. I want it to last as long as possible
and then he had frowned as though some uneasy
thought troubled him.

And you offered him the pavilion, monsieur?'

Well, it was madame's thought,' he returned,
pushing his old blue velvet cap rakishly over
one ear. ' She had fallen in love with le
petit, and, indeed, he was a little angel of
beauty.'

If one might put a few things in the
pavilion,' she said, and monsieur had caught at
the notion at once. It was dirty and full of
litter ; but, all the same, nothing had suited him
so well.

It is a hermitage,' he cried  'a lodge In a
garden of cucumbers. Look at that sunset 
those windows looking out on the apple-trees.*
Ma foi, monsieur was easily contented. He
and madame bargained over matters like two
children  like chattering magpies. There must
be a bed ; as for a bath, there was the bay ; buta
table, even some chairs, were necessary. A
stove  good ; he would have excellent coffee.
The bread and the milk for le petit  nothing

VOL. II. 2

was wanting. Dinner could be had at a
restaurant. It would be a life after his own heart.

 Wake up, Reggie, and see thy new abode
the other edition of the old curiosity shop.'

Oh, it was droll to hear him, and to see le petit
clap the hands ! How interesting Olga would
have found all this ! but I dared not tell her. I
dared not excite her sympathy and pity by
describing the poor fellow's boyish transport at
the sight of the bare-looking pavilion. There
was a touch of poetry in those few words :
Look at that sunset'  as though he habitually
lived above his surroundings.

We are ourselves in spite of our environment,'
he had said to me as we walked together
that afternoon from the market-place.

I found it difficult to forcrct that talk. It was
the conversation of a man who had thought
much and suffered much, and whose faith inhumanity
had become impaired. Every now
and then there was a bitter, half-mocking speech
that jarred upon me, as though under the boyish
manner there lurked a hidden depth and undercurrent.
I hardly know how to describe the
impression it made on me. I felt as though I
must take his hand and beg him to be silent :
It is not so. There are yet good people in the
world; high aims, lofty principles. Throw away
this black pessimism, this garbage that no one

wants, and open your eyes to the better side of
life ;' but he was a stranger, and I could not say
this.

He interested me profoundly. Indeed, he
was never out of my thoughts ; but, all the same,
he repelled me. The dark intent face and cold
gray eyes haunted me. I used to ask myself
curiously whether I liked or disliked him ; fora
long time I could not answer this question.
I used to be sorry when Olga met him. The
night of the accident I had an uneasy feeling
when I saw him with her.

Will you take my boy ?' he had said to me
quickly, almost peremptorily; 'Miss Leigh has
hurt her foot and is very faint ;' and then he had
lifted her up as though she were as light as
Reggie, and carried her into the house. ' She
has been very brave, but the pain has been too
much for her,' he said as he went to the sideboard
for cold water.

It struck me then, from his manner, that he
had been used to illness  he was so quiet and
helpful.

But in spite of my old-maidish scruples, there
was no keeping Olga and Reggie apart. The
child had taken a fancy to her. Every day we
heard his little voice shouting to us to open
the gate ; and then he would come bounding
through it, and fling himself into her arms. It

21  2

was SO pretty to see them together ; Olga had
such gentle winning ways with children.

I am sure that it was his gentlemanly instinct
that kept Mr. Fleming at a distance  how
strange he should have that name !  for he was
very grateful to us for our kindness to Reggie ;
but, all the same, he did not wish for any intimacy.
I have seen him avoid us more than
once, or pass us with a bow, and I often begged
Olga to be equally distant.

I was rather amazed, then, when I heard of
the rencontre at the bathing-house ; and still
more so when she repeated her impulsive
speech.

Why am 1 so foolishly outspoken, Aunt
Catherine ?' she asked in quite a piteous voice.
I mean to be so careful, and then the words
somehow escape me. Jem is right  it is my
own fault that 1 get into so many scrapes.'

It is better to think before one speaks,' I
replied with unusual severity ; but really the
child had been so foolish.

To my dismay she suddenly burst into tears.

Oh, I am so ashamed of myself!* she cried ;
'and you say nothing to comfort me. Mr.
Fleming will think  oh ! I do not know what
he will think ; but no one could have been
kinder.'

He will only think that you want to befriends

; your little reproach meant nothing but
that. Mr. Fleming is a man of the world ; he
will not misunderstand a little bit of girlish
pique.'

You are making it worse,' she returned ;
and I could see she was much put out. ' What
business have I to wish to know any gentleman
who shows so much reluctance to know
me ? My pride ought to have prevented me
from making such a speech ; but it was just his
loneliness and unhappiness  oh, I am sure he
is unhappy !  that made me long for us to be
his friends. I thought how much good you
might do him. But there, how often you have
told me not to enact the part of Providence, and
so I have brought this humiliation on myself.'

But it is nothing  a mere nothing, my dear
Olga. How can you exaggerate a few words ?'

It is not a mere nothing to be misunderstood,'
she replied with much dignity. * Aunt
Catherine, why do you not comprehend my
meaning ? I am right to be angry with myself
; I made a foolish speech to a stranger ; I
am glad I asked his pardon for my impertinence
; I am glad he answered me so kindly.
My one hope now is, that I may never have an
opportunity of speaking to Mr. Fleming again ;'
and the dear child marched out of the room
with her pretty little head as erect as possible.

Certainly I was right in saying Olga's impulsiveness
would lead her into trouble. If Mr.
Fleming had not been a gentleman  well, I
know many a man would have taken advantage
of that innocent little speech, and made it the
basis for a lively flirtation.

A STRANGE NIGHT.

Hast thou gone sadly through a dreary night,
And found no light ;
No guide, no star, to cheer thee through the plain 

No friend, save pain ?
Wait, and thy soul shall see, when most forlorn,
Rise a new morn.'

Adelaide Anne Proctor.

The next morning, as we were sitting over
our breakfast and reading our letters, I noticed
that Olga changed colour, and knit her brows
as though something disturbed her.

Is Jem treating you to one of his fraternal
lectures ?' I asked, anxious to find out what
was amiss.

Jem writes rather strangely,' she replied Ina
very low voice. * I think you had better
read what he says ;' and she laid down the
letter before me, and went on with her breakfast.
And then she added, a moment later :

You see, I have always been accustomed to
tell Jem everything. I like him to know all
about my friends, and everyone ; he Is so
sensible and sympathetic. I never knew him
take notions into his head before.'

I made no answer to this. Before I read a
word I understood that Jem disliked the idea
of our new acquaintance, and I was right.
The passage Olga pointed out to me was as
follows :

And now I want to say a word to you, and
I hope Aunt Catherine will excuse my interference.
I think that you ought be very careful
before you pick up new acquaintances in
that outlandish place. You are such a softhearted
goose, Olga, and  begging her pardon
Aunt Catherine Is not exactly what one
would call a woman of the world '  what a rude
boy !  ' and I think you want someone to look
after you both  you two poor unprotected
females ! Now, I do not half like the Idea of
this fellow at the pavilion  what in the world
is a pavilion ?  he does not seem altogether
square. I think you said his name was
Fleming ; try and find out his Christian name.
There was a man of that name at Exeter  before
my time, of course  who was the tip-top of
all the riff-raff there, and who did not bear the

best of characters. I think his name was
Gerard, or Bertram ; I can find out which. He
was confoundedly clever, and all that  that
kind of fellow always is  but he made a mess
of his career by marrying beneath him. I
think the girl was in some shop ; but nobody
knows exactly, only he vanished as though the
earth had swallowed him up. Now, I don't
say this man is your hermit of the pavilion, but
it looks uncommonly like it, and if you will
take my advice you will have very little todo
with him. You may show this to Aunt
Catherine if you like, for she is a sensible
woman, and will not mind my taking the
liberty of cautioning you both. Write again
soon.

Your affectionate brother,

Jem.'

I hardly knew what to say as I handed
the letter back to Olga. It had made me
desperately uncomfortable. I did so hate
suspecting people.

Jem may be right, you know ; he is very
sharp. He has all the meanings of the future
lawyer about him.'

To my alarm, Olga burst out with a passionate
remonstrance.

I call that too bad, Aunt Catherine. You

are condemning Mr. Fleming without proof,
just because Jem chooses to Interfere and make
ridiculous statements. That is quite a version
of '' Give a dog a bad name, and hang him !" '

My dear Olga !'

*Many young men have been wild at
Oxford ; but they have turned out very well
for all that, and he may have repented of his
follies. Why should we refuse to make any
allowances for him ?'

You think, then, that Jem's Mr. Fleming is
the same as ours ?'

It looks very much like it,' she returned
reluctantly. ' You surely remember, Aunt
Catherine, that he told you that he had been at
Exeter ? I am afraid that corroborates it.
He may even have married beneath him '

She stopped and twisted her hands nervously
together. It was a habit of hers when anything
troubled her for which she could find no
reason.

Well, my dear, will you not finish your
sentence ?'

1 hardly know how to explain my meaning.
I am bitterly disappointed to think that Mr.
Fleming could have contracted a low marriage
he seems too refined, too cultured altogether.
But perhaps he was young, and the girl was
pretty ; anyhow, I think we ought to be sorry

for him, for he must have had much to bear.
Perhaps, after all, it is a good thing that his
wife is dead

I thought you would have judged him more
severely.*

I don't seem as though I could find it in my
heart to be hard on him ; he is too unhappy,
Aunt Catherine. I am sure that he has repented
and is sorry ; perhaps that is what he
meant about not being worthy of our friendship.
He may hold himself aloof for that very reason,
and I am to judge him harshly !'

No, Olga, 1 did not say that ; only the world
will turn a cold shoulder on him. A gentleman
has no right to marry beneath him. How
can he expect his friends to be the same to him
afterwards ?'

There may be justifying circumstances,' she
returned firmly, ' or he might have been very
young, Aunt Catherine. Jem may say what
he likes; but he does not know Mr. Fleming.
He has never seen him with Reggie ; if he had,
I don't think he would be quite so hard on
him.'

All the same, he has made me very uncomfortable.'


That is so wrong of him ; and, after all, we
have found out nothing.'

No, but we shall never feel quite easy until

we know if Jem be right or not. Well, it is no
use talking about it any more. Time will show,
I suppose, whether Mr. Fleming is a desirable
acquaintance. Jem will never rest until he has
sifted matters  he will find out all about him,
and then write to us again  and I suppose we
must wait for that.'

And until then you will keep him at a
distance ?'

On the contrary, he keeps himself at a
distance, but I shall certainly do my best to
avoid him. I cannot help it, Olga,' as she
looked at me reproachfully ; for this was not
her idea of fairness. * Jem is right : we are two
unprotected females, and must take care of
ourselves ; and, after all, Mr. Fleming may bea
wolf in sheep's clothing.'

And then I carried away my letters, for what
was the use of prolonging the argument ? Olga
never could be induced to speak severely of
any sinner, however black he might be. To
her sweet nature it was a sort of necessity to
think the best of everyone. .She would even
have been sorry for the poor wolf : he must
have been so hungry before he had eaten the
sheep, as she would have said. Olga went alone
to the shore that morning, and after luncheon
we drove to St. Genette. Olga seemed a lite
tired on her return, and for a wonder betook

herself to a couch in the salon ; but I heard
her question Jeanne if Reggie had been to the
little gate as usual.

Jeanne had replied, to her surprise, in the
negative. Nothing had been seen of le petit.
That is strange,' had been Olga's response ;
Reggie has never failed me before ;' and then
she had taken up her book and said nothing
more.

As I was not tired, I went out into the garden
and strolled about a little. I could not help
feeling somewhat home-sick. I wished I were
in the old English garden with Jasper spreading
his tail on the mossy old sundial. The
peaches and nectarines must be ripening on the
sunny walls, and the flower-borders would bea
glowing mass of colours. I wondered if
Virginia were pacing the Lady's Walk as usual,
with her pale, sad face turned to the sunset.
I was so busy with these reflections that a
slight sound near me quite startled me. To
my surprise, and I may add annoyance, it was
Mr. Fleming unlatching the little gate. I could
scarcely believe my eyes when I saw him
deliberately unfasten it and come quickly
towards me.

I beg your pardon, Miss Seton, for this
intrusion,' he began hastily; * but I am in great
anxiety about Reggie : he looks very ill, and I

am going for the English doctor, if you will
kindly tell me where he lives ?'

Reggie ill ?' In a moment my brief annoyance
vanished.

Yes, and I do not know what is the matter
with him. He has been very sick, and seems
in a high fever. Will you tell me to whom I
had better go ? Inhere is no time to be lost, ashe
is all alone.' He looked at me wistfully and
hesitated. But there was no need for him to
say any more.

That child alone ! I will go to him at once ; of
course, I will stay with him while you are away.'

Oh, how good you are !' he said earnestly,
and I am sure there were tears in his eyes ;
he seemed terribly agitated. ' I wanted to ask
you, but I hardly dared to make such a request.
I have locked him in, because he seems wandering
a little ; but I could not bear leaving him
alone, poor little chap ! But if you will stop
with him '

He did not wait to finish his sentence, but
dashed up the steps and unlocked the door. I
could hear ReeSfie's voice talking rather excitedly
as I entered. But before looking at him,
I gave Mr. Fleming the necessary directions.
If Dr. Addison should be out, there is his
partner, Mr. Dodd, in the Rue d' Accord ; they
are both clever men,' I finished.

He nodded as though he understood me, and
ran down the steps  and I was left alone with
the boy. What a strange bare room ! just as
Olga described it ; even the gray kitten was
sitting on one of the steps leading to the loft.
The windows were all closed, probably for safety,
but I opened one of them ; the close stove was
alight, and a curiously shaped vessel like a big
coffee-pot with a black handle was on the top ;
I found it was full of hot water.

Reggie was tossing uncomfortably on his
pillows ; his dear little face was flushed, and his
lips hot and dry ; his beautiful eyes were wide
open, and had the lustrous look of fever. He
was chattering about ' a great big butterpie.'
Isn't it a funny butter pie ?' he asked when he
saw me.

1 knew very little about children's illnesses,
but I guessed it was a sudden feverish attack ;
perhaps he had been running about too much
in thes un, and had overheated himself, or he
had taken something to dlsaoree with him.
I knew Wilfred had these sort of attacks, and
often alarmed his parents ; some children were
always light-headed when they were unwell.
I would not let myself be frightened, though
he certainly looked very 111 ! The poor little
creature seemed wretchedly uncomfortable ; the
bedclothes were all in a heap. I was glad

now of the hot water ; I could sponge his face
and hands, and give him a little warm milk and
water to drink ; then I removed the pillow and
some of the outer coverings, and he seemed less
restless.

It would be some time before the doctor
could be here, and it was growing dusk. I had
some difficulty in lighting a small lamp that
stood on the writing-table ; it had not been
properly trimmed, and the flame was rather
smoky. I placed it as far as possible from the
bed, for it would never do to be left in darkness;
but the smell of the paraffin oil was sickening,
and the room looked bare and comfortless in
that murky light. What a place for a delicate
child ! the floor had evidently not been swept
for a week. I heard afterwards that Madame
Perrot neglected her lodgers ; and there were
marks of dust on everything.

Reggie seemed quieter now, and lay babbling
rather indistinctly of father and kitty. He
seemed to like me beside him ; once he thought
I was Olga. ' Tell me about the howl, my dear,'
he whispered with confidential huskiness  ' the
howl what lived in the ivy-bush.' That hour
seemed a very long one to me. Every now and
then I went to the door to listen. How dark and
quiet it looked outside  almost oppressively still!
Our little grove seemed to shut out the outer



world. Only once a sudden gleam shone through
the foliage ; it was a light from Olga's room 
she must be wondering at my long absence. The
next minute it disappeared and all was dark
again, and I went back to Reggie.

I was thankful when at last footsteps reached
my ears, and the door in the wall was unlocked.


It is Mr. Dodd. Dr. Addison is at St.
Genette. Have I been very long ?'

As Mr. Fleming put the question, he stooped
down and looked at his boy, and I shook hands
with the young doctor. I saw him cast a surprised
look round the room ; then his eyes
rested on Mr. Fleming a moment. He was
certainly a strange contrast to his surroundings ;
there was an indefinable air of refinement and
culture about him, that would have struck even
a stranger ; even the way he walked across the
room to fetch the smoky lamp was somehow
different to the way other men walked ; there
was a free grace in every movement, an ease of
bearing, a restrained strength, that was quite
unique.

He held the lamp quietly while Mr. Dodd
examined his little patient ; nor did he speak
except to answer his questions. I could not
help admiring his power of repressing himself


VOL. II. 2 2

'Well, what do you think of him ?' he asked,
when the doctor had finished.

I shall be able to tell you better to-morrow
was the evasive answer.

Is it anything infectious ?'

Oh no, not in the least. The child has been
running about too much in the sun ; he has
overheated or over-excited himself How long
has he been ailing ?'

He did not seem quite himself yesterday 
or was it the day before ?  he complained of
headache, and was rather drowsy. I kept him
quiet, and then he seemed better.'

He got a little wet in that shower yesterday,
did he not, Mr. Fleming ? I think Miss Leigh
told me so.'

Not very ; do you think that mattered ?'
looking at the doctor anxiously. I fancied Mr.
Dodd avoided his eye.

One cannot tell ; with these delicate children
it does not take much to make them ill.
I should say that he has been ailing for a day
or two. You must keep him very quiet, and
follow my directions. His hair is too long ; we
must alter that.'

Do you mean it must be cut off?' and the
poor young fellow turned exceedingly pale.

Oh, I dare say Miss Seton will see to that,'
in an off-hand way that deceived neither of us.



Now, are you going back with me in the carriage
? There will be medicine and ice required
; and you had better bring some Liebig's
essence back with you. Who is going to attend
to my orders ?'

You may give them to me, Mr. Dodd ;' and
I signed to him to follow me to the other side ot
the room. We spoke in the lowest possible
tones. I could see Mr. Fleming was strainer
his ears to catch what we said, but he could not
hear a word.

Is it only a simple feverish attack?'

I can hardly tell you to-night ; it Is more the
brain. I should say the child has the most
delicate organization ; he has evidently one
of those sensitive, highly-wrought natures that
are liable to this form of illness ; there is need
for great care. You will be with him tonight
?'

Yes, of course ; there is no one else to nurse
him. But, Mr. Dodd, do you think he could be
moved close by  to La Maisonnette ?'

To-night ?  no, certainly not ; you must
keep him where he is ; it is not very comfortable,
but it is cool and airy ;' and then he proceeded
to give me all directions, while Mr. Fleming
looked at us wistfully ; but he did not interfere,
only, as Mr. Dodd repeated once more, 'His hair
is too long and thick ; if you have some scissors

22 2

by you, I should advise you to cut it rather
closely,' I saw him fingering the rough locks, as
though he were loath to part with them ; and ashe
did so, his lips were pressed tightly together,
as though in intolerable pain.

As they went through the door in the wall, I
stood for an instant looking out into the dark
garden. As I did so, I caught a faint gleam of
whiteness in the distance. If it should be Olga
looking for me, for she was wearing a white
gown this evening ! With a sudden longing that
it should be so, I leaned over the parapet, and
called her name. To my relief, she instantly
responded, and I could hear her fumbling at the
gate.

Where are you, Aunt Catherine ?'

Here at the pavilion !'

Then I could hear her running down the
gravel-path, and in a minute she was beside
me.

Oh, Aunt Catherine, it is I who have been
frightened this evening ! We have been looking
for you everywhere, and then I thought I
heard your voice. But why are you here ?'

Hush, you must not speak so loud ; Reggie
is ill, and his father is just going back with the
doctor to fetch the medicine. I have promised
to stay with him to-night. But, Olga, I am so
thankful you have come ; there are so many

things I want that Jeanne must bring me. Mr.
Fleming will be away an hour, and I must put
things a little comfortable before his return. I
must have another lamp, not this smoky thing.'

I was holding the door as I spoke, but now
she put her hand over mine as though to
open it.

Tell me that presently. I must see Reggie
first,' and as I yielded to the strong girlish
pressure, she crossed the room and knelt down
by the bed. ' Oh, my darling, how ill he looks !'
and she lifted the little hands to her lips.

Reggie seemed to recognise her voice ; for
he smiled and muttered drowsily : ' She was so
pretty and fluffy, my dear, and had such nice
yellow eyes.'

Olga's eyes were full of tears as she listened
to him ; but there was no time to be lost on
mere sentiment. In a moment the dear girl was
as prompt and full of resources as ever. I saw
her looking round the room quickly, as though
to note its deficiencies.

I must have a lamp, Olga  that one with the
soft pretty shade ; and my work-basket, and
some of those fine towels, and a napkin or two,
and a duster, and '

Oh, there will be more than that required,'
she returned quietly ; ' I must bring Jeanne to
help me. You must have an easy-chair if you

are to sit up all night, and you have had no
supper, and Jeanne must make you some
coffee. Don't trouble yourself. Aunt Catherine ;
I will see to all that, and you must take care of
Reggie.'

And without trusting herself to look at him
again, she gave me a little reassuring nod and
went away, but I followed her to whisper
outside :

You will not let Jeanne make a noise.'

She shall not come farther than the steps.
I will bring everything myself. Oh, you may
trust me, dear !'

And she sent me back to my watch with the
comforting thought that I had a faithful helper
outside.

I am afraid to say how many journeys those
two women performed between La Maisonnette
and the pavilion during the next half-hour.
Every few minutes I heard faint sounds at the
bottom of the steps, and then Olga would enter,
noiselessly carrying in one thing after another
in her strong young arms, and quite regardless
of her own fatigue. I do not think I ever
admired her as I did that night. She was so
quiet, so helpful, so full of thought for me. The
easy-chair was placed by the bed, and a slip of
carpet and a footstool put near it. The smoky
lamp was carried away, and our pretty shaded

one placed in its stead. Then, to my surprise,
another easy-chair was put near the writing-table.
' It is for Mr. Fleming ; he will be so
tired,' she whispered.

Only once I saw her linger over her task ; it
was when she saw me beginning to cut off
Reggie's thick locks.

Oh, must you do that ?' she said with a little
sob, and the tears were running down her
cheeks as she went out. But it was not long
before she came back ; this time she carried a
tray covered with a napkin. ' It is your supper
and his she said softly. ' I am going to bring
you some coffee, and then there is nothing else
I can do. It is growing late, and Jeanne is
tired and wants to shut up.'

My dear, you have done such wonders,' and
I kissed her and wished her good-night.

She had only just gone when I heard the
latch of the door lifted, and Mr. Fleming entered.
I saw him give a dazed sort of look at
the room, as though he did not recognise it.
I dare say he wondered what magician's wand
had been at work during his absence. The
soft shaded light, the easy-chairs, the tempting
meal on the table, the steaming coffee-pot, must
each have been a mystery to him ; but tired
and jaded as he was, he was in no mood for
comfort. On the contrary, he helped me to

apply the ice to Reggie's head and give him
his medicine, waiting upon me in a way that
made me think again that he must have been
used to illness. The ingenious manner in which
he constructed a screen with a couple of chairs
and the quilt so as to shield Reggie from the
light proved him ready with resources. It was
not until there was nothing more to be done
that I saw him throw himself into a chair as
though he were exhausted ; and no wonder, for
he had tramped miles that day.

I poured him out some coffee, and putting
some sandwiches on a plate, placed the food at
his elbow ; but he was lying back in his chair
with closed eyes and took no notice. He
looked frightfully pale, and his hair was damp
and matted on his temples ; most likely he had
eaten nothing all day. I touched him gently to
rouse him. He opened his eyes ; their look of
misery was almost more than I could bear ; but
he only shook his head when I begged him to
eat.

I cannot  it is impossible !* was his answer ;
and then he closed his eyes again with a
groan.

He wanted me to go away and leave him,
but I dared not. Poor fellow !  he looked
little more than a boy in that light  he was
utterly spent with grief and inanition : the sight

of the little cropped head on the pillow had
turned him sick.

I must do him good in spite of himself.
Why need I mind him ? he was only Basil's ae,
and I was old enough to be his mother.

Mr. Fleming,' I said gently, ' you must
drink this coffee, and, pardon me, you must eat.
How are you to help me nurse Reggie if you
give way like this ?' and as he made no answer,
1 put my arm under his head, and held the cup
to his lips as though he were Reggie. ' Now
drink, please ;' and to my relief he obeyed me.

Most likely the first taste was like a cordial
to him, for he finished it almost at a draught ;
then I put a sandwich in his hand : ' Now eat
that, and I will bring you some more coffee.
Tell me truly  you have eaten nothing today
?'

Yes ; I had some bread : that was all there
was in the house. I could not leave Reggie to
get anything else. May I have some more
coffee ? it is delicious.'

Yes ; but you must finish all those sandwiches.'
But I had no need to urge him : the
craving for food had returned, and he ate what
I had placed before him as though he were
famished ; but when he had finished he pushed
away the plate with a gesture of disgust.

Isn't it horrid to think I can eat, with him

lying there ! Miss Seton, you are an angel of
goodness to me to-night ! Tell me, do you
think my boy is in danger ?'

He took my hand as he spoke ; his were hot
and trembling.

o

How can I tell ?' I faltered. ' He is very
ill ; and, indeed, I must go back to him. There
is great need for care  Mr. Dodd said so ; but
he is no worse  I think he is even quieter.'

He drew a long breath, and then looked at
me rather strangely.

If he should get worse would you promise
to tell me ?'

Yes ; I will ask Mr. Dodd to do so.'

You must keep your promise, for a good
deal depends on it. He will not get worse,
dear little chap, will he ? Only  only, you
know, in that case I must tell his mother.'

His mother ! Was he wandering ? had
anxiety about Reggie been too much for him ?

'Yes, I must tell Aline  I mean, I must tell
my wife. She is in England ;' and when he
had said this he raised himself with difficulty,
and went to look at Reggie.

CHAPTER III

HE IS Everything TO ME.'

With patience to endure our griefs we learn not soon,
But how much later still to take them as a boon ?

Archbishop Trench.
Thou who art
So happy in Thy heaven alway,
Take not mine only bliss away I'

Mrs. Browning.

I \\EXT back to my little patient. Reggie was
moaning, and seemed restless and ill at ease ; but
after a time he quieted down again into the same
drowsy state. I sat beside him silently, holding
the hot tiny hand in mine ; there was so little
one could do. Now and then a shiver passed
over me as I thought of Air. Fleming's words.

Jem was right, after all ; there was need indeed
to be careful. What would Olga say ? How
would she be able to defend Mr. Fleming now ?
She had pitied him, in her simplicity, thinking
him a heart-broken widower ; how would she

receive the astounding intelligence that his
wife was really alive and in England  that
Reggie had a mother ? Would she not be
shocked by his reticence, his seeming indifference
? Would she not ask, as I was questioning
myself now, what it could all mean ?

And yet there might be some explanation
possible, some satisfactory solution of the
mystery. He might have come over to St.
Croix on Reggie's account. Perhaps he was
too poor to bring his wife too ; she might be
delicate an invalid. Only the strongest necessity
would induce him to alarm her by the
account of Reggie's illness ; it was his care,
his thoughtfulness for this wife of his  this
Aline  not his indifference, that had prompted
his silence.

All these suggestions were plausible enough,
then why did I not believe them ? Why did
I instinctively refuse to acknowledge them,
while a growing distrust and uneasiness seized
me ?

Mr. Fleming is a perfect stranger to us,' so
the inward argument went on ; ' he is a proud,
reserved man. Is such an one likely to speak
of his family affairs ? How was he to read our
thoughts, or to know that we had imagined him
a widower ? Such an idea may have never
entered his head. This is not the reason why

he has kept himself so aloof, and made no
response to our friendly overtures ;' and so on.

I could not refute these arguments ; but a
woman judges by instinct, and in my inmost
heart I felt that Jem's story was true. Mr.
Fleming was evidently a dissatisfied, unhappy
man. That this unhappiness was connected in
some way with his married life I was now as
convinced as though the evidence were before
my eyes. He had married beneath him, and
he was now ashamed of the woman he had
made his wife. Perhaps they were separated !
And Olga had been thrown into the company
of this man ! No wonder her young guardian,
Jem, was up in arms. What would Mr. Leigh
say ? My responsibility weighed heavy on me
that night. How was I to behave in future to
this poor wolf in sheep's clothing ? How was
1 to keep him and Olga apart, and yet do my
duty to this worse than motherless child  this
little innocent being who was perhaps made the
scapegoat of his parents' transgressions ? And
as I asked myself these perplexing questions I
involuntarily raised my eyes. Mr. Fleming
was watching me, as though he read my
thoughts ; his face had grown paler and more
haggard. His fixed, miserable glance gave mea
shock.

Do not be hard upon me ; you do not know

it all.' That was what his eyes seemed to santo
me. Poor boy ! he was so young  only
Basil's age, if Basil was living. How was one
to judge him severely ? That tired, sad young
face seemed to appeal strangely to me.

The next minute I rose softly, and taking up
the strip of soft carpet Olga had put for my use,
I spread it beside him with a hassock and
Reggie's rejected pillow. He looked at me
with a bewildered air, as though he did not
understand what I was doing. I put my hand
on his shoulder :

'You are worn out,' I said gently; 'this is
the only couch I can contrive for you. You
must lie down and try to sleep. I will promise
to wake you if there be anything for you to do ;
and '  as he hesitated  ' you will be able to
help me more tomorrow if you sleep now.'

Do you really mean it ?' he asked under his
breath.

Yes ; please do not keep me waiting. I
want to cover you with this '  pointing to a
wrap in my hand. ' This place is very draughty.'

And then his weariness was so great he resisted
no longer. As I stooped to adjust the
covering he arrested my hand and carried it to
his lips.

Oh, how good you are ! I never knew anyone
so brood ! I do not deserve it.'

But almost before I left him his eyes closed
and he was asleep. Once or twice during the
night I looked at him as I passed to and fro
on some errand ; he was sleeping soundly, his
head pillowed on one arm, the other stretched
on the rug that covered him. There was something
boyish in his attitude ; his face looked
calm and happy, as though some peaceful dream
had beguiled him. There were no lines now
in the broad, open forehead ; the smooth, dark
face was at rest. The firm lips had relaxed
into a half-smile. Only once, when the dawn
felt chilly and I put a shawl over him, he stirred
and frowned.

Don't, Aline ; it hurts  it hurts dreadfully !'
I heard him mutter, as he flung away from
me.

During the hours that followed I had plenty
of time for reflection. I could make my plans
for the morrow undisturbed. After all, there
was a way out of my perplexity. Olga must
be made to understand that any intercourse
with Mr. Fleming must be forbidden for the
future. Only on this understanding could I
retain my present post. She was so unselfish
she would not refuse, for Reggie's sake. If
Olga were only off my mind, I felt I could
devote myself gladly to the service of these
two helpless beings  for a man is generally

helpless in some degree In a sick-room, unless
he is especially fitted by nature for a nurse.

Mr. Fleming was not without resources. He
was helpful and self-reliant, but his anxiety for
his child unmanned him. I knew that for his
boy's good he would allow himself to be guided
and advised ; his very gratitude would make
him pliable in my hands. No, I must not disquiet
myself any more ; with a little tact and
discrimination I should be able to steer through
my difficulties.

I was so sure, too, that Olga's good sense
v;ould aid me  the dear child had never yet
disappointed me.

The longest night must have an end, and
by-and-by I saw the gray dawn creeping
through the uncurtained window ; there were
faint streaks of light across the sky ; the birds
began to twitter. The coming day was
heralded by numerous voices  by the crowing
of cocks from the poultry-yards ; by the faint
bleating of sheep. The sun was rising, and
soon the happy, waking earth would be bathed
in his golden radiance. It was still so early,
that I was surprised to hear footsteps approaching.
They were not Jeanne's sabots
clattering up the steps ; that light tread could
only belong to Olga.

The next instant there was a gentle knock,



the door was softly opened, and my dear girl
entered, looking a little pale and anxious, as
though she had not rested as well as usual, and
laden with a heavy tray that she had carried all
the way from La Maisonnette.

I thought you would like your breakfast
early,' she whispered in my ear ; ' so, as I was
awake, I would not trouble Jeanne. How is he,
Aunt Catherine ?'

I do not quite know, my dear. He does
not seem worse ; but it is for the doctor to
tell us.'

Oh, he is not worse, I can see it ; I am sure
of it,' she returned, kneeling down by the bed
and kissing him softly. ' Oh, my darling ! how
sweet he looks ! but I am so sorry his pretty
hair has been touched.'

Hush, Olga !' for she had not perceived Mr.
Fleming, and he was now awake and watching
us. ' My dear, will you go away now and come
to me presently ?' and she understood me in a
moment and rose at once  a hint was always
enough for Olga. She did not look beyond the
bed, but only said quietly :

Yes, I will see you by-and-by. Please take
your breakfast, Aunt Catherine ;' and then she
went away softly.

1 looked at the meal her loving hands had
prepared. There was a little brown teapot for

VOL. II. 23

me; a tiny coffee-pot, that was evidently intended
for Mr. Fleming ; a pile of crisp, delicious-looking
toast ; some new-laid eggs ; a pat of
fresh, golden butter. All served so daintily ! I
could see Mr. Fleming was looking at it too.'

This is your breakfast as well as mine,' I
said with a smile.

May I have it presently ?' he returned quite
humbly, as though he were asking a favour. ' I
must go down to the bay and have a dip first.
I could not sit down like this,' with a shrug, as
though he were conscious of his jaded appearance.


The stove is still warm ; it will heat your
coffee. Yes, go ; it will do you good ;' but he
lingered to look at Reggie and question me.

She did not think that he looked any worse.'

'Who? oh, you mean Miss Leigh. No, I do
not think he is worse this morning. Indeed, he
seems rather easier.'

If he should get well, it will be you who will
have saved him,' he replied in a voice of intense

emotion ; ' what shall I not owe you  if  if '

he stopped as though unable to say another
word.

Please do not say any more ; we cannot tell.
It is in God's hands, not mine. Look what a
lovely morning it is !'

I am keeping you from your breakfast, and

you look SO tired,' he returned remorsefully ;
I will go,' and he hurried away.

Five minutes later Olga's soft footsteps
returned again.

He has gone to bathe,' she said eagerly ; ' I
saw him pass with his towels. So we are safe
for some time. Let me pour out your tea,
Aunt Catherine, and then I must put things a
little comfortable for you both.'

She was running away, but I held her fast.

Olga, my dear, I want to speak' to you. I
had rather a shock last night. Mr. Fleming 
oh, I don't want to speak against him, poor
fellow ! but he is not what we thought him 
not a widower. His wife is living; she is in
England.'

I fancied she turned a shade paler in her
surprise ; but she answered me very quietly :

I am glad that he told you. It is better to
know the truth about people i'

Yes, and Jem must have been right in what
he wrote.'

Very probably,' but there was no indignation
in her clear tones ; * it was stupid of me to
get that idea into my head ; but I certainly
thought his wife was dead. Did he say anything
about her. Aunt Catherine ?'

Not a word  only that he must tell her if
Reggie got worse. Olga, I fear there must be

UNIVERSITY OF ILUNUlS

something very wrong. It makes me uneasy
that you should be with him.'

It is not our affair,' she returned quickly ;
his wife has nothings to do with us. It is only
Reggie who concerns us. You will not forsake
him, surely ?'

Not if  if  you will promise '

There is nothing for me to promise,' she
replied with a touch of impatience in her voice ;
it is not I who am nursing Reggie ; it is only
you, Aunt Catherine.'

Yes ; but, my dear, do you not see my
difficulty ? Last night Mr. Fleming slept upon
the floor, and when to-night comes, what am I
do with him ? and there is no other room than
this, and you and Jeanne are alone at La
Maisonnette !'

But I shall not be there to-night,' she
returned, as though a bright idea struck her.
Listen to me, dear  to-night you shall lie
down, and I will watch Reggie. There is the
big couch in the drawing-room that can be
brought over to the pavilion, and you shall rest,
and I will call you from time to time.'

And Mr. Fleming ?'

Oh, there is the room at the end of the
passage,' she answered in an off-hand manner.
Jeanne shall get it ready for him, and he shall
have his supper and breakfast in the salle-manger

; and Jeanne will wait on him : is it not an
excellent idea ? but we must not talk any more 
your tea is getting cold, and I want to do a lite
dusting before he returns. Do you see this red
sash, Aunt Catherine ? when he goes out and
you want me, you must fasten this to the railing
at the top of the steps, and when I come to the
little gate I shall see it ; it is to be our signal to
each other. There, I have arranged it all, and
there is nothing to say more !' and she moved
away quietly and began to put things in order,
arranging the books in neat piles, and removing
the lamp ; but she had not been long at work
before the door in the wall was unlatched, and
Mr. Flemings re-entered, looking all the fresher
for his bath. Olga left off at once and shook
hands with him. ' I am sure Reggie looks a
little better,' she said in a low voice. ' Aunt
Catherine has finished her breakfast ; you must
have yours now;' and she went out, carrying the
lamp with her. I saw a strange, undefinable
expression flit across Mr. Fleming's face as he
closed the door after her ; perhaps those few
words cheered him, for he seemed to enjoy his
breakfast, although directly he had finished he
seemed so restless that I recommended him to
stroll up and down the garden until Mr. Dodcl
arrived.

Do I fidget you ?' he asked penitently. ' I

am afraid you want to get rid of me. If I could
only control this restlessness !'

You will walk It off,' was my reply ; and to
my relief he took my advice. I suppose Olga
saw him marching up and down the little path,
for she never came near us.

Mr. Dodd's report was hardly as satisfactory
as I had expected ; his manner was guarded and
he spoke vaguely.

Oh no, our little patient is no worse,' he
said in answer to the father's anxious questioning
; ' Indeed, I trust he is going on fairly well ;
but there is little change, and we cannot be too
careful. A great deal depends on the nursing ;'
and here he looked at me.

I saw at once that he would not speak out
plainly before Mr. Fleming ; so I begged the
latter to leave us for a few minutes, and he
obeyed me rather reluctantly.

Now, Mr. Dodd,' I began as he closed the
door, ' you may speak to me as openly as you
wish.'

I do not want to alarm you,' he replied
cautiously ; ' but the child is very 111, and one
can never tell in these cases.'

You do not find any Improvement, then ?'

No material improvement  certainly not.'
And we must not move him ?'

On no account ; he will do very well where

he is  this room is cool and airy ; and as far as
quietness goes it might be a hermitage ; but I
suppose,' looking at me inquiringly, ' there is
very little accommodation ? still, La Maisonnette
is so close.'

Oh, we can manage !' for it was no use
taking a stranger into confidence. And, after
all, Olga's plan could be tried ; so, after giving
me a few more directions and promising to call
in the evening, Mr. Dodd took his leave. He
was young ; but his manner gave me confidence,
and I had heard from the Milners that he was
considered extremely clever.

After our early luncheon was over, I wrote
out rather a long list of things that I required
from the town. . There was money to be
changed at the bank, and various commissions
to be executed, Mr. Fleming undertook them
cheerfully. I could see that he was sanguine
about Reggie ; he thought Mr. Dodd had not
spoken quite so gravely, and, of course, I did not
undeceive him. The long walk would be good
for him, and he would have the pleasure of
feeling himself of use, besides which, his absence
for an hour or two would enable us to make
arrangements for the night. There was much
to be done ; the pavilion was pleasant enough
by day, but it was decidedly cold and cheerless
by night. Directly Mr. Fleming had started

for St. Croix, I hung out the red signal, and
after a little delay Olga come. I set her and
Jeanne to work, and in about an hour we had
made things more comfortable. The big couch
with pillows and quilt was placed ready for the
night, and a Japanese screen round it. Some
more strips of carpet were laid over the boards,
the newly-trimmed lamp brought back, and
Olga had actually washed the floor over, and
had placed a great bowl of roses on the writing-table
before Mr. Fleming returned.

He came in hot and dusty, and paused a
moment on the threshold. Olga had her back
turned to the door, and did not see him ; she
was arranging the lite tea-table. She wore a
coarse bib-apron over her pretty summer gown,
and had pinned a handkerchief over her brown
hair to protect her from the dust. Mr. Fleming
did not seem to recognise her. I saw him put
up his arm to shield his eyes, as though the
sunshine dazzled him. She started and coloured
a little when she turned round and saw him,
but did not speak. When she had left the
room, Mr. Fleming came close to me.

Miss Seton,' he said hurriedly, as though
he were agitated, 'please do not let Miss Leigh
work in the way she is doing ; it pains me excessively
to see it ; it is not right. I have strong
arms. I am not useless. There is nothing I

will not do if you will only tell me how I maybe
of service. It is not for Miss Leigh, it is
for me, to work.'

I looked up into the young determined face.
In my heart I admired the proud independence
that refused a girl's services. Unwittingly he
had placed into my hands.

Will you really promise to do as I wish ?'

Try me !' was the eager answer ; and a
wonderful softness came into his gray eyes.

Oh, if he had only been Basil, I felt then
that I could have loved him !

You are very good,' I returned quietly ; and
then I explained to him the arrangements we
had made for the night.

To my dismay, he turned very pale, and
looked exceedingly unhappy.

Oh, you will not do that ?' he said piteously ;
you will never ask me to leave him ? I would
do anything else. I will sit up all night, or
there is the loft. I would lie down on a heap of
shavings  anything  anything  so that I maybe
near him !'

But, Mr. Fleming '

Oh, you don't know what he is to me !' he
interrupted. ' If he should die, I should just
go and hang or drown myself. 1 could not
live without my boy , baby as he is, he is everything
to me.'

The tears came into my eyes to hear him
talk Hke that, poor fellow ! and for his own sake
I must be firm. I took his hand  it was
clenched, and felt like iron  and I spoke to him
as though I were his mother.

My dear,' I said, ' you must not talk so ;
you have been very good and patient. No
one could have behaved better ; but you must
trust me  a little. 1 am very tired, for I did
not close my eyes last night, and if Olga will
sit beside Reggie I shall be able to sleep.'

It will be all the same,' he urged eagerly ;
you can rest there behind that screen, and I
will promise not to take my eyes off him. Do
you think I cannot keep awake as well as Miss
Leigh ? And it is my own boy who is lying
there !'

I shook my head. He was making it very
difficult for me, and yet I would not give it up.
I knew that there would be no rest for me
under such circumstances. He would not know
how to manage Reggie, and I should spend the
night in watching them both.

He looked at me in his keen way.

This does not please you ; you want me to

g

away

Yes, for this one night. It will be better.
I would not propose it if I did not know it
would be for the best. Mr. Fleming, you must

not think me cruel. If Reggie be worse  if there
be any change, I mean  I will promise that
you shall be called at once. If you leave your
window open, there will be no difficulty. Either
Olga or I will come. Can you not trust me
this once ?'

He did not answer for a moment, and then he
said in a hasty tone :

Yes, I can trust you ; but it is long since I
have said that to any woman ; but, remember, it
will be with my all. Very well, I will go ; send
me away when you wish ;' and then he went
back to Reggie ; but it wrung my heart to see
him sitting there with his head buried in his
hands. Ah me, that the love for a little child
should be so great, and yet there are many of
us who doubt the Fatherhood of God !

It was late, nearly ten o'clock, before I asked
him to withdraw. He had not once moved or
spoken ; but at my first whisper he rose at
once, and, with one long look at his boy, went
out on the steps, where Jeanne and her lantern
were waiting for him. I could not let him go
like that, and followed him out.

Mr. Fleming, you will try to sleep ? I may
need you tomorrow.'

Oh yes, I shall try,' he replied in a weary tone.

You do not know how grateful I am to you
for this compliance with my wishes.'

I would rather you had told me to lie down
on these stones ; may I  ' with a sudden change
of tone  ' may I stop outside here ?'

And lay up rheumatism for life ! No, certainly
not, and there Is a comfortable bed ready
tor you. Come, Jeanne, I entrust monsieur to
your care ; make him comfortable. Good-night,
Mr. Fleming; God will watch over Reggie as
well as though you were beside him. You must
trust your boy to Him ;' but I must confess that
I felt a sad choking sensation In my throat as I
watched him walking with bent head, as though
he hardly knew where he was going. Once I
saw Jeanne catch hold of his arm as though he
were stumbling.

Olga was sitting beside Reggie, and looked
wakeful and vigilant. There was no need for
any words between us, and I threw myself
heavily on the couch, and was soon asleep.
Two or three times that night Olga roused me,
but I always resumed my interrupted nap.

I woke at last of my own accord, and peeped
round the screen. The gray dawn was just
breaking, but the lamp was still alight. To my
surprise, Olga had quitted her post. I thought
I heard her voice speaking to someone outside ;
the next minute she re-entered.

Were you speaking to Mr. Fleming, Olga ?'

Yes ; this Is the second time he has come.'

He has not slept, then ?'

Yes, during the earlier part of the night ; but
towards morning he got restless. I have sent
him away happier this time, Aunt Catherine. I
do believe Reggie is a little better -that Mr.
Dodd will say so.'

I thought so, too, as I looked at him, and in
our joy and relief we kissed each other, and
Olga cried a little.

Oh, he is such a darling !' she said ; * I think
it would break my heart if we were to lose him.
I do not believe I have ever liked any other
child in quite the same way ;' and I understood
her. The little creature had certainly found
his way to our hearts in the most singular
manner.

And now, Aunt Catherine,' she continued ina
different voice, ' what are we to do about
breakfast ?'

Are you very tired, Olga ?'

Not so very tired,' was the brisk reply ; * but
I shall have a nap presently.'

Then in that case I will leave you in charge
for an hour, while I change my things and refresh
myself. Shall you be afraid to be left,

Olga r

Not a bit ! you must stay and have breakfast
with Mr. Fleming. Yes, that will be best,
Aunt Catherine.'

I knew 1 could trust her, and there was
nothing to be done for Reggie ; so I went back
to La Maisonnette. Jeanne was in the salle-manger,
and I begged her to prepare an
early breakfast. Just as I was sitting down to
the table, Mr. Fleming came in, evidently from
another dip in the bay, for he had his towels
over his arm ; he looked very pleased to
see me.

'Reggie is better!' he said eagerly. 'Miss
Leigh is sure of it.'

Yes, I think so, I hope so ! We shall see
what Mr. Dodd says ;' and then I added reproachfully:
'After all, you have not slept.'

Oh yes, I have !' he returned in a boyish
sort of way ; ' and the bed was so comfortable !
I slept quite two hours, and then I got up and
dressed, and went over to the pavilion ; Miss
Leigh heard me, and came out.'

Yes, I know.'

I went back again and had another nap ;
but somehow I could not get the dear little
chap out of my thoughts, and I was obliged to
run across again. I am afraid Miss Leigh
must have thought me a bore.'

I am afraid so too.'

He gave an odd little laugh at that, and then
said rather unsteadily.

Don't chaff me, please ; of course I behaved

like an ass last night; but if you knew what it
cost me to obey you !'

I do know.'

And yet you asked me to go ! Never mind,
I am too happy to reproach you. Well, it was
the hardest bit of work I ever did in my life ;
but all the same, I did it.' And then a curious
change came over his face, and he walked away
to the window. ' If Reggie be really better,' he
said as he stood there, ' there will be no need
to tell Aline ; we shall not be here much longer.'

Do you not think that in any case his
mother ought to know ?' I asked cautiously.

No, I think not,' was the hesitating answer ;
there are mothers and mothers. Aline is not
one of the anxious sort And with this vague
response he whistled to Rollo, and went out into
the garden until I had finished my breakfast.

LOOKING AT THE SUNSET.

Oh, the moorland by the sea I The red sun in gallant
splendour
Drops his morning kiss upon it, ere he goeth on his way,
Or athwart its gold and purple steals a benediction tender,
Ere night's starry curtains shroud him at the dewy close of
day.'

Helen Marion Burnside.

I WAS much comforted to find that Mr. Dodd
endorsed our favourable opinion of Reggie.
The child was going on well, he said  much
better than he had ventured to hope ; there had
been a change for the better in the night, and
though there was still the same care required,
he trusted there would be no relapse. I told
him how we had managed for the night, and
the hard work I had had with Mr. Fleming.
I thought he seemed much interested.

You were perfectly right,' he said ; ' you
have saved yourself wisely for to-night ; you

could not possibly have done otherwise. Mr.
Fleming will be reasonable enough to own
this.'

He could not have kept awake,' I replied ;
he was so worn-out with anxiety, and I should
have been watching them both all night.'

Yes, 1 understand ; get him over to La
Maisonnette again to-night, if you like. I cannot
dispense with my head-nurse yet.' Mr.
Dodd and I understood each other perfectly.
I overheard him afterwards talking to Mr.
Fleming on the steps.

Leave it all to the ladies,' he was saying.
'Miss Seton is an excellent nurse; you are
perfectly safe in her hands. The boy is doing
very well ; and with such scanty accommodation
'

Oh, I do not mind about to-night !' replied
Mr. Fleming in his eager way, without letting
the doctor finish. ' They may send me where
they like, but last night it was different. Doctor,'
dropping his voice, ' I give you my word I would
rather have cut my throat than have had to go
off and leave that little chap ; and yet, when
she told me to go, I was obliged to obey her.
She is a woman one must obey somehow ; 1
never knew anyone like her.'

Oh yes, I know what you mean ; and she is
a capital nurse, too. Very well, I shall look in

VOL. II. 24

again this evening. Can I take you down to
the town, Mr. Fleming ? It will be a little
distraction, and you will be out of the lady's
way. '

I think this latter argument prevailed ; for
Mr. Fleming let himself be carried off as
quietly as a lamb. Olga went back to La
Maisonnette for a couple of hours, and I was
left alone with my little charge.

Oh. the stillness of that noontide watch ! I
had to shake off drowsiness once or twice by
walking to the open window. Outside the sunshine
was blazing : white butterflies. Reggie's
favourite playfellows, were fluttering hither and
thither ; the low apple-trees were bending under
their load ; some bees were returning laden with
honey from the fields of clover ; an old man ina
blue blouse was working among the cabbage ;
our little grove looked cool and shady. How
long had I been at the pavilion ? Only two
days  the time seemed endless ! Two days
ago Mr. Fleming had been a stranger, and now
I did not try to disguise from myself the strong
interest I felt in him. He had come into my
life with this strange suddenness, and I felt that
I could never banish him again.

Olga will not always be with me,' I thought,
as I looked out dreamily at the gray head
bobbing among the cabbages. * It is only for

her sake that I am careful. Why should I not
continue his friend, even if we find Basil ? there
will be room for him. I must find out why he
is so lonely and unhappy, and then, surely, there
will be some way of helping him. Even Virginia
will be interested ; she is so sorry for
people who are unhappy ; and we are rich ;'
and a sort of gladness came over me as I
remembered our beautiful home  a sudden
sense of power and well-being  almost for the
first time. And he had the same name ; and it
was the sort of work Robert would have loved.
to make this poor young man believe in human
nature ao-ain.

Mr. Fleming returned just as Jeanne came
over from La Maisonnette with our luncheon.
She told me Olga was still asleep, so I charged
her on no account to disturb her. The rest
of the day passed very quietly. ]mr. Fleming
spent the afternoon watching his boy ; but he
was careful not to disturb me. If I wanted
him, he was always at my side in a moment ;
and he seemed very grateful if I let him do
anything for Reggie.

I am not in the way, am I ?' he asked once.
I wish there where something I could do for you,
but I am such a clumsy fellow. Still, if you
will only let me stop, I do so love to watch him.
Look here, Miss Seton, I think he wants to

24  2

keep me :' and he showed me how Reggie's
feeble fingers were clinging round his hand.

Of course you may stay 1 returned, smiling
at them both : it was such a pretty picture, only,
somehow, I could only see it dimly through
a mist. ' Do you think that I can have the
heart to send you away again so soon ?'

He looked a little grave at the remembrance
of the previous night, but he only said :

I am afraid I was ver' selfish. You were
quite right  Mr. Dodd said so ; and if I had
fallen asleep I should never have forgiven
myself.'

Well, I am going to reward your obedience,'
1 returned lightly ; and, as he laid the little hand
down and followed me to the window, I continued
: * You may stay here to-night if you like.
At least, I can promise you a better couch than
the floor.'

His face lighted up in a moment; a quick
flush of pleasure crossed it.

Do you really mean it ? Will you indeed
permit me to stay ? Shall I not be a hindrance
to you ?'

No ; I have been thinking it over. I have
promised Mr. Dodd that I will take the
nursing myself to-night, and as, thanks to you,
I had some hours' sleep, I shall be able to
manage it.'

And, of course, Miss Leigh is tired ."'

She would not own it ; but her watch was a
long one, and she is not used to nursing. Soif
you do not mind '

I  mind !'  and a flash of the gray eyes
answered me. ' I, who owe evening to
your goodness, your generosity  my bDy s life
my '

Hush, please !'  laying my hand on his arm.
1 almost forgot he was not belonging to me ;
we so soon grow to love those who are dependent
on us for kindness, and he was only a
boy to me  a boy Hke Basil. 'Well, that is
arranged, and '

Wait one moment, please. There is Miss
Leigh ; we must not forget her. She would
like to say good-night to Reggie  she is so
fond of him, and he of her. Do you think I
do not see all that ?'

Well ?'

May I look if she be still in the garden ?
she was there just now  and then I will
bring her across.'

There was a repressed eagerness in his
manner ; but I hardly knew how to refuse. It
was such a little thing to ask, and it would
please Olga. So. after a moment's hesitation
which I hoped he did not notice  I let him
go. Five minutes after I saw them walking

down the path, and went out on the steps to
meet them.

Aunt Catherine,' Olga said brightly, and I
could see she was quite pleased and excited,
Mr. Fleming says there is such a beautiful
sunset, and you must go with him and see it
while I sit by Reggie. It will not take you
long, and the air will do you good, and you
have a long night before you.'

So this was what they had plotted  for I could
see how busily they were talking  as they came
up the garden ; after all, it was only about me.

We have settled all that. Miss Seton,' observed
Mr. Fleming, with his old coolness ; ' if
you will just fling that lace thing over your
head, we will go at once.'

And I will stop with Reggie. Do please
go, Aunt Catherine ;' and Olga put her arms
round me and gave me a gentle little push
towards the steps, and Mr. Fleming held out
his hand. ' It will only take you a few minutes,
and the boy is so much better.'

Yes, I think he is, Olga. Mr. Dodd seemed
quite surprised at the progress he has made
since the morning.' And then I let myself be
persuaded ; my head felt heavy and tired, and
the evening air was so delicious.

I was surprised to see Mr. Fleming unlock
the door in the wall.

We shall see it much better from the
common, and the air is fresher there,' he explained
; ' and it is just as quiet as the garden.'
And then, as we walked down the field, he
said hurriedly : ' I think Miss Leigh will like
to be alone with Reggie. She has taken such
a wonderful fancy to him, has she not ?'

Yes ; but, then, Olga is so fond of children
-  most young girls are.' And, just to tease
him, I continued, half laughing : ' Yesterday
you seemed reluctant to accept her services.
I recollect quite a little tirade on the
subject.'

Oh, that is quite another matter,' he returned,
in an embarrassed tone. ' I hope you
did not think me ungracious ; but if you knew
how I felt when I came in and saw everything
so fresh and beautiful, and Miss Leigh standing
there in that apron '

Well, of course it was not very becoming ;
not that Olga would think of that.'

That is not what I mean at all,' he returned
impatiently ; ' but I see you are only joking. It
is not for me to notice what is becoming to a

young lady, though ' he paused, and then

hurried on. ' No, it was of something quite
different that I was thinking. I had been
bothering myself all the way home, thinking
what a muddle I had made of my life, and how

everything brings its own punishment. I had
just made up my mind I was not fit to be in the
room with two such good women, and then I
opened the door and saw Miss Leigh. I felt as
though some princess had deigned to visit a
beggar, and to put his hut in order. Somehow
I felt quite crushed by it all, and that made me
speak out as I did.'

Yes, I see. But, Mr. Fleming, you do not
understand Olga ; she is one who loves to do a
kindness for anyone ;' for I did not want him to
think that she would not have done the same for
the oldest and plainest man in her Majesty's
dominions.

Do you think I do not know that ?' and
there was a touch of haughtiness in his manner;
he did not like to be misunderstood. ' I have
never met with anyone like Miss Leigh before;
but I am glad to know that there are such
people in the world. I am afraid I have not
been a devout believer in human goodness,
especially female human nature. It does me
good to see such a noble exception.'

Perhaps your wife  at least ' I

stopped in some confusion. What was I going
to say ?

He turned round with rather a bewildered
air.

We were not speaking of my wife, but of

Miss Leigh. Do not let us talk of Aline
just now. Look at that sunset ! is not that
glorious  unutterably glorious ? One cannot
be quite hopeless when one looks at
that !'

We had both stopped simultaneously. Seton
Point was just below us, and all around us the
flashing waters of the bay. The western
heavens were blazing with marvellous light, one
colour merging into another: now crimson, now
rose edged with pearl, now a sheet of vivid gold,
with a molten, glittering sea under it. It
seemed to me as I stood there as though a door
were opened in heaven  as though that flood of
glory must herald the white-robed messengers
of mercy, the guardian angels of the night, if
only our eyes were not too gross to see them.
How dim this world must look to them as they
glide through those mysterious portals  this
little world, where man plays his sorry part !

I looked at Mr. Fleming as these thoughts
passed through my mind. He was standing
with folded arms, intently watching the spectacle.


How beautiful, how unearthly it all looks!' he
murmured. ' I have never seen anything quite
so fine before. Miss Seton, in the face of all
that,' pointing to the sea and sky, * I could not
talk of my wife. Some day, when Reggie is

better  quite well, I mean  I will tell you my
miserable story, and you will say to me, *' Goodbye,
Mr. Fleming ; for I do not wish for your
acquaintance any more." '

I am sure I shall say no such thing.'

Will you not ? but you have not heard my
story yet. Oh, I grant you there are extenuating
circumstances !  young hot blood, the wilfulness
of boyhood ; but there are some things
that harden a man, that drag him down ; and,
after all, I have been much to blame.'

Perhaps so.'

He turned round and looked at me with a
smile.

Do you think that forgiveness is possible ?
but you do not know  ingratitude is not a light
sin.'

No sin is light. Air. Fleming ; but I am one
who believes in repentance. A man may go
wrong ; but it is never too late to retrace his
steps. While there is life there is hope ; we
may say that of every human creature.'

Hove curious !' he observed, in a musing
tone ; ' but you remind me so much of a friend
of mine. Sometimes when you are speaking, I
seem to hear his voice ; he thought, like you,
that there are infinite possibilities in every
human being; he was always talking about such
things ;' he stopped, and, by his frown, I could

see he was trying to throw off some painful
recollection.

Mr. Fleming, I am afraid we must go
back.'

Oh, I had forgotten Reggie for the moment
! Fancy my forgetting that boy even for
an instant ! Do you know, I could not sleep
without him last night  not properly, I mean 
I have got so used to feeling him near me ; I
like to know I have oot him all safe. Isn't it
strange to care for a child like that ? I could
not have believed it once.'

I suppose he is your only child, Mr.
Fleming ?'

I thought he seemed a little surprised at the
question.

Yes, there was a girl ; but she only lived
three months ; she died in convulsions.' He
turned his face away. ' I was sorry at the time ;
but I think I am glad now, and I only want
Reggie.'

We had reached the pavilion by this time,
and found Olga sitting beside the boy. She
rose directly she saw us, and wished us both
good-night.

It was growing dusk, and after a short interval
Mr. Fleming lighted the lamp and sat
down to read ; but his attention often strayed
from his book. Reggie was a little restless at

first, but after an hour or two he seemed more
comfortable, and then Mr. Fleming said he
would have a nap, and I saw nothing more of
him until morning. He was young enough to
sleep soundly, and there was no reason to
disturb him. He told me afterwards that he
had never rested more comfortably. ' I felt
even in my dreams that I was near him, and
I knew you would wake me if he got restless
again. Now you must let me take your place,
for you look downright ill this morning I
told him that I would o across to La Maison-mette
presently, when Mr. Dodd had paid his
early visit, and I kept my word. Olga was
evidently expecting me.

Oh, you poor thing, how tired you look !'
was her first orreetinof.

Never mind that, Olga dear. Mr. Dodd
says that Reggie is quite out of danger now,
so I am oroinof to leave him to his father this

o o

morning, and have a nice rest. Tell Jeanne
to attend to Mr. Fleming's luncheon. He is to
put up the red signal if I am wanted. They
will do very well for a few hours : Mr. Dodd
says so  and I confess I am rather worn out.'

And then Olga pounced on me and carried
me off to my room. How cool and comfortable
it looked! My last impression as I fell asleep
was the remembrance of Olga in her white

gown closing the brown shutters, while a bee
hummed lazily about her.

The next few days passed quietly. At first,
Olga and I shared the night-nursing between
us ; but one morning I again proposed to Mr.
Dodd that Reggie should be moved to La
Maisonnette, and to my relief he made no
objection.

It would be so much easier,' I said ; ' I could
have him in my own room, and then there
would be no need for any more sitting up. It
is not necessary now, but I do not like leaving
him.'

I think the other way would be preferable,
and you have had enough inconvenience. Miss
Leigh was talking to me yesterday; she is afraid
you will be knocked up. Suppose you talk to
Mr. Fleming about it. You could easily have
the boy well wrapped up and carried across.
I dare say his father would look after him all
right ; but after such an attack he will be weak
for a long time, and a woman's care is best in
such cases.'

I had made my plans, and the next morning
I spoke to Mr. Fleming ; he owned that it
was a good idea. Reggie would be safe with
me, and I should be spared all fatigue.

Oh yes, of course it would work excellently
only '

Only you do not feel you can bear to part
with the boy ?'

Oh, it is not that,' he returned In a tone of
great embarrassment ; ' I should be quite happy
knowing he was over there and well looked
after. It is only  well, I must say it ;' and then
he blurted it out with difficulty : ' Miss Seton,
you have done enough for me  too much. Last
night I could not sleep for thinking about It all
how I was ever to repay you. Oh, it Is not
so much the money I mean  I could work for
that ; It Is the kindness, the goodness, and all
for a stranger ! Am I not right in saying it is
too much ?'

I do not regard you as a stranger !'

Well, perhaps not ; but all the same I have
no right. Look at the nights you have sacrificed,
the discomforts you have had, and you have
been accustomed to such luxuries. Oh, I know ;
Miss Leith has told me !'

Miss Leigh is a sad chatterton, I am afraid.
Well, then. If these are your only objections,
Reoforle can be brought across at once.' He did
not answer. ' Mr. Fleming, 1 should so like
to have him, and so would Olga.'

1 am sure there were tears in his eyes, for
he turned away and walked to the window, but
still he did not speak.

After a minute I followed him.

It shall be just as you please. Pray do not
distress yourself ; but I thought by this time
you would look on me as your friend. There
is no question of that sort between friends  only
that one loves to take trouble.'

He turned round at that.

'As though you have not taken trouble
enough ; as though you had not grown pale
with watching over my boy. I think the
angels, if there are such beings, must be like
you and Miss Leigh. There, I will not hold
out any longer ; it is only my pride  because I
hate to receive everything and give nothing.
Shall I bring him now ?' but I told him there
was no hurry for an hour.

His little bed was all ready, and by-and-by
he was carried across in his father's arms.
Olga had dressed the room with flowers. The
shutters were open, and one could see a vista
of green leaves interlaced with slanting sunbeams
; some climbing roses peeped in at the
open window. As Mr. Fleming laid him down,
I saw a lovely little smile flit across the white
sunken face ; but Reggie was too weak to express
his satisfaction in any other way, only he held his
father's hand tightly, as though he feared to lose
him.

I closed the door and left them together.
Olga and I sat together for a long time in our

pretty salon, talking over the strange week we
had passed. Olga seemed as though she could
not make enough of me.

Aunt Catherine,' she said softly, as she
looked at me, ' do you know how tired you
look ? You have lost your nice, pretty colour,
and it is all with nursing Reggie. I do not
wonder a bit that Mr. Fleming is so grateful'*

I think the hot weather has tried me ; but I
shall be able to rest now. Olga, you have no
idea how thoughtful Mr. Fleming is; I never
saw anyone so unselfish. He says that he will
not be in our way at all, and that if 1 will let
him spend an hour with Reggie in the morning,
and another in the evening, he will be quite
content  that he is perfectly happy to let me
have him.'

I suppose he means to resume his old
Bohemian life at the pavilion ; it will be very
dull for him.'

We cannot help that,' I returned quickly.
Olga, I have been wanting to ask you something
for days  how long will Jem's holiday
tutorship last ?'

Only for another week, Aunt Catherine.'

Well, do you know, my dear, I have been
thinking that it would be a good plan if I were
to ask Jem to join us here. I shall still have to
leave you so much alone, and if I have to stay

here much longer, they may be wanting you
back at FIrcroft, and then Jem will be useful as
an escort.'

I saw her colour rise, but she answered with
her usual gentleness :

Oh yes, and Jem may be able to help you.
You must do as you like about all that, Aunt
Catherine. I am very happy here, and it will
be hard to leave you and Reggie ; but if you
think it best  well, of course it is for you to
decide ;' and then, as we heard footsteps moving
overhead, we said no more on the subject.

VOL. II. 25

LA RUE d'eGLISE.

We arc ourselves
Our heaven and our hell  the joy, the penalty,
The yearning, the fruition. Earth is hell
Or heaven.'

The Epic of Hades:

I HAD not made this suggestion about Jem
without a great deal of thought ; but it seemed
to me the only way of solving my difficulties
with regard to Olga. Reggie had wasted away
to a little skeleton, and it would be weeks before
he regained strength. During that time I should
be responsible for him, and as most of the
nursing would still devolve on me, Olga would
be left a good deal alone. Once or twice the
thought had crossed my mind that one of the
sisters from the hospital might be induced to
take charge of Reggie ; but when it came to the
point I felt reluctant to give him up. He was

SO little trouble now ; and I had Olga to help me.
As he grew better he would lie happily for
hours playing with the flowers his father
brought him, or cuddling a tiny white kitten
that Olga had discovered about the place.

Mr. Fleming kept strictly to his two daily
visits, and I generally took advantage of them
by indulging in a stroll with Olga to our
favourite point. During the remainder of the
day he walked or sketched, or sat reading in
the kitchen-garden. He had meant to resume
his old Bohemian life  dining at a restaurant, or
preparing his own meals ; but I had taken all
these arrangements into my own hands. I could
not bear to think of him shifting for himself ;
besides, I knew his purse was growing empty,
and he could not leave Reggie and go back to
work. I had secured a helper for Jeanne in the
person of a stout, bright-eyed girl, who was
just then looking for a situation. Her name
was Marie, and, among her other duties, I gave
her the care of the pavilion, as Madame Perrot
still wantonly neglected her lodger. During
its master's brief absence she swept and dusted
and kept it tidy. Marie, too, conveyed his
meals across to him when Olga and I sat down
to ours. I was afraid every day that he would
remonstrate with me on the subject, and kept
purposely out of his way ; but for a little while

252

he held his peace. But one evening he left off
playing with Reggie rather earlier than usual,
and followed me into the garden. I saw directly
by his manner that he wanted to speak to me,
and I determined to give him the opportunity.

Have you said good-night to Reggie, Mr.
Flemings ?'

Yes ; Miss Leigh is with him. I took the
liberty of asking her to go to him. Miss
Seton, there is something 1 must say to you :
how long is this sort of thing to go on ?'

Do you mean about Reggie ? Mr. Dodd
thinks that I may bring him downstairs tomorrow
; the change will be good for him  he
is going on so nicely ; but of course he is still
very weak.'

Oh, it is not about Reggie ! that is not
what I mean, at all ; but how long am I to goon
living on your bounty ? Do you know,'
and here a dark flush crossed his face  a flush
of bitter humiliation, ' that I wrote last week to
my wife for some money ? she has means of
getting it for me  for her brother is not poor ;
and her answer was  and of course he dictated
it : " You have played at being the idle
gentleman long enough ; it is time you and
the boy came back. George has no money
to spare just now. I wonder you are not
ashamed to ask him." I told her how ill Reggie

had been ; but she takes no notice. I dare say
she has forgotten all about it.'

Mr. Fleming, there was no need to write to
England. I can lend you any money you
want for present use.'

Do you think I would ask you to lend me a
franc ?' he replied ; and nothing could be prouder
than his look. ' Do I not owe you enough
already ?'

You owe me nothing.'

Oh no !' with a little laugh ; ' it is of course
absolutely nothing at all that you do for me ; it
is not the life of an enchanted prince that I
am leading at present  oh no ! When I come
in from my walk, I find my hermitage swept
and garnished ; not a speck of dust anywhere ;
fresh flowers ; a new book  even the paper.
Sometimes I catch a glance of the substantial-looking
fairy who had worked in my service.'

Oh, you mean Marie. Yes, she is a nice
creature ! and, then, she finds so little to do
here."

Once I had to cater for myself ; to go into
cheap restaurants ; to boil smoky water for my
coffee ; to fetch my own milk and eggs from the
farm ; now I sit in my garden with my hands
folded and wait. I know that at an appointed
hour Marie will appear with her tray. I shall
dine and sup like a king ! my coffee is fragrant

and rich with cream ! Miss Seton, 1 ask again
how long is this going on  how long ?' and here
he drew a long breath. 'Am I to receive and
not be suffocated with all this kindness ?'

I would not answer him lightly  he was too
much in earnest for that.

Mr. Fleming, do you know I think the
generosity is on your side, not mine? You are so
good to let me have Reggie ; we were growing
dull at La Maisonnette, and a child is such a
boon to two women, and you never complain
now of being lonely without him.'

I hope I am not quite so selfish as all that,'
he replied gravely ; * but. Miss Seton, there is
one thing more that I must ask. Reggie is so
much better now, and yet Mr. Dodd comes to
see him every day, and it will not do to run up
a long bill.'

Do not trouble yourself about that,' I replied;
that is my affair.'

I do not understand,' he returned ; and I
could tell at once by his manner that I had
said the wrong thing, for he seemed to stiffen
in a moment. ' I hope you do not mean that
Mr. Dodd will not wait a little until I can
settle his account ; there will be no difficulty
about that matter if he will only give me time ;
there are ways and means, and I am not afraid
of work.'

Mr. Fleming,' I said after a moment's
hesitation, for I did not dare pursue that
subject, ' you have never told me vhat your
business is. I hope I am not impertinent in
asking ; but I know you will give me credit
for a good motive.'

You have asked rather an awkward question,'
he returned with a quick, nervous laugh.
I belong to the unemployed at present. When
I first went to Oxford, it was with the intention
of studying for the Bar ; but, like a fool, I
threw away all my prospects in life by marrying.
Oh ! I must tell you about all that some
day. You should hear it all now, only I have
to go down to St. Croix for that medicine
Mr. Dodd forgot to bring, and it is growing
late ; but I can tell you as much as this : when
I committed that cursed folly of marrying at
one-and-twenty, I had to take the first thing
that offered  a mastership at Highgate. The
pay was poor enough ; but we managed to live
within our means, until Aline  well, never
mind about that. I had to throw it up in a
hurry, and then we had to fall back upon her
brother.'

Do you mean that you lived with him ?'

Yes ; Aline is there now. He  Mr. Barton
is not a gentleman ; he does not understand
how a man of my education feels about things.

His business  well, it is retail, and,' with a
proud curl of his lip, * it was not likely I could
mix myself up with that sort of concern. Of
course, there are misunderstandings ; we are
not on the same plane, George and I ; but, in
his way, he is good to us. He is trying to get
me a clerkship now, as other things have failed;
so I am only doing a little literary work at
present  writing articles for one or two papers :
sometimes they give me a book to review. I
am expecting to be paid for one or two things
soon ; that is why I asked Aline to advance me
the money

Then, in that case, Mr. Fleming, you can
surely allow me to be your banker ?' But he
only shook his head.

People who live like enchanted princes do
not require a very long purse,' he returned,
with a smile. ' I am my own banker at present;
I only wish you to know the real state of affairs.
Now I must go. When may I talk to you
again ?'

Shall we go on the common tomorrow
evening ? perhaps there may be a sunset.'

'Very well, then; I will fetch you. I must
wish you good-night now.'

He looked at me wistfully, and a great sadness
seemed to come into his eyes, but he did
not say any more. The next minute the little

gate swung back on its hinges, and I saw him
striding down the path towards the pavilion.

The next morning, as I was sitting with
Reggie writing my letters, while he played
with some paper figures his father had cut out
to amuse him, Olga came quickly into the
room.

Aunt Catherine,' she said, and there was a
little excitement in her manner, * I want to
speak to you a moment. Do you know Monsieur
Lefevre has come back, and that his
brother is dead ?'

I almost started at the name. Reggie's illness,
and my interest in Mr. Fleming, had
made me almost forget why I had come to St.
Croix ; but with Olga's words came a sudden
rush of recollection.

How do you know ? who has told you ?'
for to my knowledge Olga had not quitted La
Maisonnette that morning.

It was Marie. I was talking to her just
now while I warmed Reggie's beef tea  you
know I like to air my French, Aunt Catherine
and Marie is a nice, sensible girl. We were
talking about St. Sulpice, and she had been relating
some wonderful legend about that image
of the Madonna and Child in the Lady Chapel,
and then she mentioned Pere Lefevre's name.
"He told me that when I confessed to him

on Friday," were her words. Of course I
questioned her very closely ; and it is true :
he came back last Wednesday, his brother is
buried, and they had Masses said for the repose
of his soul at St. Sulpice. Marie said Pere
Lefevre looked very worn and sad.'

Olga, I must go to him this afternoon !'
I knew you would say that,' she replied.
Oh yes, you must go, Aunt Catherine, and I
will take care of Reggie.' And then she continued
gently : ' It seems as though we have
forgotten Basil lately ; but it is not really so,
only dear little Reggie has engrossed all our
thoughts.'

That was true, but I would not allow that
Basil had been forgotten. I could not eat my
luncheon that day, and the moment it was over
I set off for St. Croix, quite disregarding Olga's
entreaties that I would walk slowly and not
fatigue myself. What did fatigue or heat
matter if only I could come at last face to face
with Pere Lefevre, and learn from him whether
Basil were dead or livings ! I recall that walk
now with a feeling of surprise. I was so sure
that Monsieur Lefevre would help me. I had
no fears, no misgivings ; the time of suspense
was over. In a day or two Virginia would
know all  whether she were the mother of a
living son or not.

I remember, as I climbed the steep cliff path,
how beautiful the bay looked beneath me. The
children were playing on the yellow sands, filling
their little pails full of bright amber seaweed.
I could hear them calling to each other. By-and-by
I passed the hospital and the cemetery ;
a young widow was kneeling beside one of the
graves. How long that walk seemed to me !
but at last I reached La Rue d'Eglise, and
stood again before the tall, narrow house. It
seemed months since I last stood there talking
to the solemn-faced young priest. The friendly
housekeeper seemed pleased to see me.

Ah ! here is madame again she said
with a smile, ' and le bon pere is actually within.
That is well, after the many times madame has
been turned from the door. Ah, there is need
for patience in this world !' Would madame
enter at once ? and she would tell her master.

I stood for a minute in the little dark
passage. I could hear her talking volubly, and
a man's voice answering. Then she returned,
and ushered me into a small room with
a window overlooking St. Sulpice. Pere
Lefevre was writing. He rose at once, with a
profound bow.

Madame has desired to see me,' he said ina
smooth, polished voice, as he offered me a
chair. * I fear, from what Martha tells me,

that my long absence has been of great inconvenience
to madame. Alas ! affairs not of my
ordering have detained me ! Such things are in
the hands of le bon Dieu.'

I looked at Pere Lefevre as he delivered
himself of this little speech. He had a meagre,
spare figure, but his face was pleasing ; the
dark, sunken eyes were keen and intelligent.
He was evidently a gentleman. His manner
was suave and gentle, and at once put me at
my ease. Perhaps he saw how nervous I was,
for he went on to speak of his brother's death,
and gave me a little sketch of the end, which
enabled me to recover myself.

And now madame must tell me how I can
serve her,' he said at last.

In reply, I gave him a brief summary of our
history. I told him Virginia's sad story ; the
misery of her married life ; her flight to England,
and desertion of her child ; her diseased
and lifelong terror of her husband.

If she could only be certain of his death, I
think there would be some peace for her remaining
years,' I observed in conclusion.
And if she could only gain some clue that
might aid her in her search for her son, it
would give her fresh life.'

And her husband's name is Paul Lynd-
hurst ?' he asked as soon as I had paused. He



had listened to my story with grave attention.
Only once, when I first mentioned Paul's name,
he had looked up with a surprised air, and his
keen glance seemed to read me through and
through. ' It is very strange,' he muttered ;
and then he had composed himself to listen.

Yes, monsieur,' I returned, in answer to his
question ; ' and the report has reached us that
you attended his death-bed.'

Did your informant state where Monsieur
Lyndhurst died ?'

He believed at a village near Geneva ; but
there is no one of that name interred there
the whole account is confused.'

Monsieur Lefevre shook his head.

I was never in the neighbourhood of Geneva
in my life. Madame's informant is altogether
wrong. Paul Lyndhurst  le bon Dieu have
mercy on his soul !  lies in the cemetery at St.
Croix. Madame may see his grave there if
she will.'

I clasped my hands ; the blood seemed to
rush to my heart.

Mon pere, is this really true . Oh, it is
grievous to rejoice that anyone is dead 1  but if
you only knew !'

My daughter,' he said kindly, ' it is not
always easy to grieve when death takes our
enemy. Human nature' is weak. We are not

all saints. I know enough of this unfortunate
man to understand what you feel.*

But when  when did he die ?'

He thought a moment.

I should say it was nearly ten years ago.'

Ten years ! Virginia had been free ten
years, and we had not known it !

Shall I tell madame what I know ?' And,
as I looked at him imploringly, he went on :
It was after vespers one evening, as I was
leaving St. Sulpice, that an old peasant woman
accosted me. I knew her by name ; she was
old Nanette Duclos, who lived with her half-witted
son in the little tumble-down cottage in
the narrow alley that leads out of the Rue
Dominique. It has been pulled down long
since. She had a strange story to tell me.
An Englishman, an artist, was lying ill  she
believed dying  in her house. He had been
seized with a sort of fie at her door a week
previously, and, with the Divine charity one
sees among the poor, she had nursed and
tended him ever since.

'' Mon pere, he is not one of us ; he has
known better days," she said. " He cannot eat
our food, and all he asks for is brandy ; and he
is dying ; and he does not believe in le bon
Dieu, or in the blessed Mary. And he lies
there cursing, and no one can make him be

9b

silent. And he has almost frightened my poor
Pierre to death."

I went with her at once, and I found Nanette
had not exaggerated matters. When I stepped
up to the miserable bed, and looked in the face
of the man who lay there, I knew at once that
he was dying.'

Mon pere, will you describe him to me ?'
My daughter, it is not easy after all these
years, and I have seen many dying men since ;
but I can recall a little. It was a handsome
face  the features finely cut, but wasted by
disease, and with all the evil passions stamped
on it. He looked fiercely at me as I entered.
*' What do we want with priests ?" I heard him
say ; " I never believed in them."

I had some difficulty in entering into conversation
with him. His manner continued defiant,
and his oaths and curses made one's flesh
creep to hear him; but our Holy Church teaches
us how to deal with such cases: I must win him
through his miserable appetites. I gained his
attention at last by promising to send him a
better bed, and, if the doctor permitted it, some
good wine.

He ceased to glare at me ; a more human
expression came over his face. ' Why, you are
not such a bad sort, after all !" he said, with an
air of extreme surprise. '' I never thought a

French priest could be such a sensible fellow.
Come ! I call that behaving like a gentleman.
Now, I don't mind entering into a compact with
you. Just see after a few comforts for me, and
I will undertake to listen to as many sermons as
you care to preach to me."

I knew better than to argue with him.
There was a fierce, unsettled light in his eyes,
which resembled insanity. I thought it prudent
to return a soothing answer, and withdrew under
the plea of bringing the doctor. When I returned
it was with a physician ; but, as I surmised,
there was little to be done.

'eyes, he is dying, poor fellow!" was his
report as he joined me in the room below.
This is a case for you, not me. He cannot
last many days."

" Is it your opinion," I asked, '* that the man
is deranged ?''

He shrugged his shoulders. '' It Is not his
fault that he Is still sane ; he has drunk pretty
nearly all his senses away. As far as I can tell,
he has lived on brandy, and nothing else. He
is calling out for It now."

'* You do not mean that I am to give It
him ?"

'certainly  but In small doses  unless he Is
to collapse at once. I tell you, the poor wretch
has made It his food for months ; he will suffer

tortures for the want of it ; and, after all, nothing
matters now ; he is a dead man."

** In that case, I will give him a little," and I
went up at once. He almost snatched the cup
from my hand in his wolfish eagerness. *' Oh,
that is good  that is life !" he cried, as he
drained it. " Give me some more, and I will
call you a good fellow!" But he swore at me
when I carried the bottle away.

Madame, I need not trouble you with all the
miserable recital. We poor priests know how
hard it is to win these wandering souls. He
was a great sinner ; but God is good, and I
would not lose hope. I surrounded him with
comforts : he had a clean bed, fresh linen ; one
of our good sisters nursed him ; we induced him
to take a little soup ; the doctor had given him
an anodyne ; he suffered less ; his temper improved.
Sometimes he would talk to me ; by
degrees I got him to tell me his story. My
daughter, some things I regard as under the
seal of confession. A life such as his could not
be edifying.'

I understand, Pere Lefevre, far too well.
Heaven forbid that the evil record of Paul
Lyndhurst's life should pollute a woman's ear !'

The good father went on :
By degrees he softened perceptibly. My
attentions pleased him ; he was grateful for the
VOL. II. 26

alleviations and comforts 1 was able to procure
for him. In spite of his recklessness, a terror of
the black future that yawned before his sinful
soul at times haunted him ; then he would speak
to me of the past.'

Did he mention his wife ?'

'A little. He told me one day he had
married a ounce English heiress for her money;
and that, to his disgust, her father had disinherited
her. " She was a handsome girl," he
observed ; " but I was never in love with her,
I cared far more for the little Pauline I deserted.
She was always whining about her own people.
I grew weary of her at last. It was a mistake
for a man of my calibre to tie himself down to
matrimony ; she lost her good looks, too, when
the boy came. Ah, well ! I was drunk one
night, and I believe we had a bit of a quarrel.
Anyhow, she left me with the brat on my
hands, and that is all I knows about it.' '

But, mon pere, why did he not seek her for
his own interest ? To be sure, my father was alive
for many years after that, and would have protected
her against him ; but, still, it seems strange
that he should have made no attempt to possess
himself of her fortune.'

I believe he was hopeless on the subject, and,
as you say, madame, your father lived for many
years after your sister returned to him. As far

as I can make out from a very disjointed narrative,
the unfortunate man rejoiced in his freedom ;
the child was an incubus, but he bore with him
for a time, intending by-and-by to rid himself of
him by sending him back to his mother. Meanwhile,
things went on from bad to worse ; his
habits grew more depraved ; he had an attack
of delirium tremens, and was removed to a
hospital. On his recovery he suddenly remembered
his boy ; from the first he had taken
very little notice of him, and but for the care of
the faithful bonne the little creature would have
fared badly. He was told now that during his
illness they had been befriended by an English
clergyman who was travelling for his health ;
that this unknown benefactor had literally fed
and clothed the child, and that a strong affection
had grown up between them ; and that this
good friend desired nothing less than to take
the boy back with him to England, and to
bring him up as his adopted son.

I will give you Paul Lyndhurst's own words :
" I was glad to be rid of him ; and a feeling
of revenge against the woman who deserted me
made me determined not to send him back to
the Hall. If Virginia wanted him, she must
make terms with me, Paul Lyndhurst. I
wanted to go into Italy, and a child and nurse
were not to my taste. I had an interview with

26  2

his reverence, and in the end I said, ' Leave
me your address, and when I want Basil I will
send for him ; until then you are welcome to
him;' for, you see, I did not mean to part with
the boy out and out. One day he would be
rich  I did not forget that."

And now I am coming to the strangest part
of all. By his own account, Paul Lyndhurst
lived a wild, reckless life in Rome and Naples,
but one day he heard of the death of his
father-in-law ; it had happened long before, butin
his wanderings the news had failed to reach
him.

If his father-in-law were dead, Basil  his son
Basil  must be his grandfather's heir. He
must claim him at once ; there was no time
to be lost. Madame, this wretched man was
actually on his way to England to seek his son
when his fate overtook him, and he was taken
ill at Nanette's door.'

Men pere, tell me quickly the name of the
clergyman.'

But Pere Lefevre shook his head.

My daughter, how am I to tell you ? No
names were mentioned at all between us.
With the cunning that seemed to belong to
him, Paul Lyndhurst never once pronounced
the name of his father-in-law, the Hall, or
the English priest. "To-morrow you shall

write to his reverence," he said. '' No, I have
no address about me ; but I never forget
anything. Yes ; tomorrow you shall write."
Alas ! madame, when the morrow came the nurse
who was sitting by him heard a slight sound,
but before she could reach him he was dead !'

Dead I Oh no, mon pere  not without
telling you where Basil was ?'

Alas ! yes, my daughter ; we burled him here.
Paul Lyndhurst  that was all we could put.
We could find no trace of writing  nothing
that could prove his wild story. Sometimes I
have imagined it was the creation of his fancy
the outcome of delirium ; there were times
when he did not seem sane ; how did I know
whether this Basil had an existence? Just to
satisfy my conscience, I inserted in an English
paper the death of Paul Lyndhurst, and added
my name ; nothing came of it, and voila tout,
madame.'

He looked at me compassionately, as though
he feared I should be overwhelmed with disappointment
; but I started from my seat.

Mon pere, it was an English clergyman
who adopted Basil ?'

Yes, certainly ; so it was affirmed.'

Then in that case it will be easy to discover
Basil. We can advertise ; there can be no
difficulty in that ; our lawyer shall put the

matter in hand at once  it shall be in every
paper ; Basil's adopted father will soon be
found. Oh, I have hope now !'

It would be better still if madame could find
the bonne. Oh, if we only knew her name !'

Ah, as to that, mon pere  Lizette must bean
old woman now. Perhaps she is not living.'

What name did you say, my daughter ?' he
asked quietly.

Lizette Dupont.'

There was a woman of that name living
with her grand-daughter in the Rue Anglaise.
Tenez, madame. permit me to ascertain
whether she be still living. If you will give me
your address, I will write to you.'

I gave him the address, and with many thanks
took leave of him. The good old man accompanied
me to the door, and gave me his blessing.
It was too late to do anything more ; tomorrow
1 must visit the cemetery and read the name,
Paul Lyndhurst, for myself; but now I must
return to La Maisonnette. Olga would be
growing uneasy at my delay. A fiacre passed
me ; I hailed the driver and jumped in, and
throwing myself back on the shabby cushions, I
closed my eyes wearily, and gave myself up to
reflection on the miserable story I had just
heard.

THE EPIC OF HADES.

'To cure thee of thy pride, that deepest-seated ill,
God humbled His own self  wilt thou thy pride keep still ?

God humble, and man proud ! Do angels, when they range
This earth, see any sight at once so sad and strange ?

 r * 

He knew, who healed our wounds, we quickly should be fain
Our old hurts to forget  so let the scars remain.'

Archbishop Trench.

x\s we drove down the lane I saw Olga standing
at the gate. Her white gown and great red
umbrella had quite a picturesque effect. She
had a bunch of yellow roses in her hand ; behind
her were the brown gate and the sycamore-tree.
The shutters had all been thrown back
to admit the fresh evening breeze. Windows
and doors were open, curtains fluttering. As
I walked up the courtyard I had glimpses of
the shady garden. Jeanne was coming from

the well with a green and yellow niche. Her
apron was filled with corn for the fowls. I could
hear them clucking in expectation.

Olga drew me into the drawing-room. The
little tea-table stood in one window, the big
easy-chair beside it ; there was a perfume of
roses, and heliotrope, and mignonette. Olga
put her arms softly round me.

How tired you look, Aunt Catherine ! and,
yes, you have been crying ; your eyes are
quite wet. What is the matter, dear? Is it
another disappointment ? and you have been
so long away  all the afternoon !'

I put up my hand to my face in some surprise.
Were my eyes really wet ? I knew nothing
about it.

Oh, it is all so sad,' I replied with a sigh ;
and Pere Lefevre could tell me so little about
Basil : only that when he was quite a baby 
at least, not more than two years old  a clergyman
took him to England and brought him upas
his own son.'

I saw Olga start ; she was pouring me out
some tea, and her hand trembled so that she
spilt some.

Oh, how awkward I am !' she said with a
little laugh ; but her face was quite pale ; ' but
of course you know the clergyman's name ?
Pere Lefevre will have told you.'

That is just what he does not know himself,'
I returned in a vexed tone  'neither his name
nor the place where he lives. We shall have to
advertise in the Times and the Guardian, and,
indeed, in all the papers, until we find Basil's
adopted father ; but there is one thing I know,
Olga, that, if you will, we may stand together
tomorrow at the grave of Paul Lyndhurst.'

Is he buried here ?' she asked in an awestruck
voice. ' Oh, then, you have learned something
this afternoon ? Oh yes, we will go, and
then you can really tell poor Mrs. Lyndhurst
that you have seen his name, and that she need
not fear him again. I think that she has never
quite got rid of the terror that one day she
might see him.'

I know it was her mania ; no one could
persuade her out of it; that was why she would
never leave the Hall for a single day. Poor
dear Virginia ! Dr. Langham said at last that
it was hysteria ; her nerves were too much worn ;
she could not be reasonable ; but, Olga, think
of the pity of it : he has been dead ten years,
and Virginia did not know'

Ten years ! do you think you can tell me all
about it: Aunt Catherine, or are you too tired .
Mr. Fleming is with Reggie, and he says that
I am to let him know if you wish to go out with
him this evening. It is not yet six; but if you

are too tired ' and she looked into my face

very gravely.

Oh, it is impossible ! I could not listen to
him to-night,' I said wearily ; * I should bethinking
of that miserable story I have just
heard, and how we are to find Basil. Mr.
Fleming will not mind if I put him off until
tomorrow.'

He will not mind at all,' she returned quietly ;
it must be as you like, Aunt Catherine.'

Then I would rather talk to you instead,'
was my reply, and as she placed herself beside
me, 1 related all that Pere Lefevre had told me.
Olga was always a good listener. It was not
her way to interrupt people ; but now she sat so
motionless, with her face half hidden by her
hand, that once or twice I stopped in my narrative.


Go on ; please tell me all,' she would say
when I paused, and I would take up the thread
again.

It is horrible  horrible !' she exclaimed when
I had finished ; * how can there be such God-forsaken
souls anywhere when,' dropping her
voice reverently  'when Christ has died. How
very difficult life is, Aunt Catherine ! One
cannot understand.'

'It is a mystery,' I returned ; ' there is so
much that is unknowable. Some of us have to

Stumble on in darkness all our lives ; the light
is hidden from our eyes. How do we know ?
Just at the last God may have spoken to him ;
He may have heard and answered. It is never
for us to judge between the most sinful soul and
its Creator.'

You are right, Aunt Catherine. I like your
merciful creed : people are too prone to judge,
to pronounce condemnation. Do not talk about
it any more ; I can see how it has tried you.
There is something I want to show you that I
think will interest you. Mr. Fleming lent mea
book to-day, because he said I should be dull
without you, and he brought it across this afternoon.
It is the '' Epic of Hades." I remember
you liked it so much ; but I have not read
a page yet.'

'It is a very good book,' I replied as I took
it carelessly. Evidently Olga wanted to distract
my thoughts ; but I was not in the humour
to discuss the ' Epic of Hades.' I opened it
at random, just noting the pencil-marks on the
margin of the pages ; favourite passages had
been underlined. It had been well read. At
last I turned to the title-page, and then an involuntary
exclamation escaped me. Olga was
watching me ; she drew a long breath of relief.

You recognise it, then, Aunt Catherine }'

Recognise it ! how many years had passed

since 1 had seen that handwriting ? Six-and-twenty
years  nay, more  and I had been a girl
then ; but I knew it at once. It was not a
handwriting that could be easily forgotten. It
was characteristic of its owner  large, benevolent,
and yet a trifle angular, betraying a
marked individuality and originality.

Basil Fleming, from his affectionate friend,
Robert Lucas Fleming, St. Mark's, Leeds.'
This was all.

Olga left me and went outside for a few
minutes. She wanted me to recover myself ;
but I could only sit there looking at that one
name  Robert. I was impatient at myself at
last at this emotion after half a lifetime of
silence. Oh, what fools we women are ! The
hair grows gray while the heart is young ; there
are wrinkles on the face, and the pulses still beat
as quickly. Why are we so slow to learn our
lesson  that youth has fled and taken all
our precious things with it ; that between us
and them there is a gulf fixed ? It was not the
Robert Fleming I once knew who had written
those few words. This was an older Robert 
a man who had grown gray in his Master's
service. Only his handwriting was the same.

Good-bye, Catherine  my Catherine,' had
been his last words to me ; ' it is not God's will
that we should be happy together ; not yet  not

in this world. Let us try to submit ourselves ;'
and then he had left me. Had he lived single for
my sake, as I for his, or had any other woman
become dear to him ? He had not married, that
was all I knew.

'Aunt Catherine,' and Olga touched me
gently, * do you feel better now ? Oh, I know I
have given you a shock ; and his name is Basil.'

I was so bewildered that I could not take in
her meaning. I read the inscription again :
Basil Fleming, from his affectionate friend,
Robert Lucas Fleming.' To be sure, what
could it mean }

Is it  can it be Basil  your Basil, Aunt
Catherine T she whispered in my ear.

I put my hands on her shoulders, and almost
pushed her away in my excitement. I did not
seem as though I could understand, and yet

Do you not see,' she continued gently, ' how
strangely it all seems to fit in ? K clergyman
in England has adopted him ; he may even
have given him his name. It is your Mr.
Fleming, and perhaps Basil '

But I would not let her go on.

How do we know ? Olga, it is not possible !
Why do you excite me like this ? Are there
no other Basils in England ? No, you must
not delude me with such hopes !'

But if it be true, Aunt Catherine?'

How do I know that it is true ? How do I
know anything until he tells meP Oh, I was
wrong to say I would not go out with him ! I
cannot sleep until he answers this question :
What have he and Robert Fleming to do with
each other ?'

Dear Aunt Catherine, you shall ask him that
question ; but you must not agitate yourself like
this. You will frighten Mr. Fleming, and he
will not know how to talk to you.'

But, Olga, if what you suspect is true, and
he is really Basil '

And then I could say no more, but could
only cling to Olga and weep ; for it seemed tome
as though it could not be true that Providence
had not this rich gift in store for us; that
it must be a dream, a hallucination ; that, after
all, we must be deceiving ourselves. Robert
Fleming might only be a friend  a chance
acquaintance. Were there not other Basils
in England ? I was so shaken, so bewildered
with it all, that I could only cry softly to
myself.

Olga behaved beautifully ; she made me lean
against her, and only said a quiet, soothing
word at intervals. It might not be true ; I
must not distress myself; but it would be nice
to hear about an old friend, and perhaps Mr.
Fleming could tell me about him ; * and even

even if he be the wrong Basil, perhaps your
Mr. Fleming will help you to find him she
finished.

Just at this moment we heard footsteps descending
the little wooden staircase. I sat up
at once and tried to compose myself, and Olga
looked at me in a questioning manner.

Shall I call him ?' she whispered ; but as I
hesitated the footsteps came nearer; there was a
quick, light tap at the door, and Mr. Fleming
came into the room.

Reggie is asleep,' he began, * and I wanted

to know ' and then he stopped and looked

at us both. * I am intruding ; you are not well.
Miss Seton. I beg your pardon.'

'Aunt Catherine is very tired,' whispered
Olga.

She wished to shield me, but I put her aside
almost impatiently.

'What does it matter if I am tired? Mr.
Fleming, I should like to walk with you to the
Point ; the air will do me good.'

Are you sure that you are quite fit for it ?'
he returned, with such an air of concern that
the tears rushed to my eyes again. 'Something
has been troubling you. Miss Leigh
looks anxious with a quick glance at her.

Olga's colour rose a little, but she was quite
equal to the situation.

You are right ; Aunt Catherine has been
agitated. She has much to trouble her. If
she would only keep quiet until tomorrow ! but
it is for her to decide.'

I should like to go,' I replied quickly ; but
my limbs trembled as I rose from my seat.

I saw Olga and Mr. Fleming exchange looks
but neither of them said a word. Olga brought
me my bonnet, and wrapped a little shawl round
me, and Mr. Fleming quietly gave me his arm.

Perhaps the air will be the best tonic, after
all,' he said, as we turned into the field-path ;
but I made no answer.

The book was still in my hand ; I was thinking
how I could ask him that question. Mr.
Fleming became silent in his turn. We passed
the firs, and strolled quietly down the little path
that led to the Point. As soon as we had
reached it, he spread the rug Olga had given
him, and then placed himself at my feet. The
shore beneath us was strangely still this evening
; the tide was low, and the stretch of
yellow sands, with the gray boulders and masses
of bright-coloured seaweed, seemed bare and
empty ; one could hear the soft lapping of the
water. A bell was tinkling from the hospital
on the cliff; a little boat with a red sail was
coming across the bay ; the opposite shore
seemed bathed in a strange silvery light. Mr.

Fleming drew his gray cap over his eyes ; a
long sigh escaped him.

'And I have to talk about myself?' he said
in a voice of suppressed bitterness.

'Yes,' I replied; 'but not just now. *I
want you to tell me something else first ;' and
I pushed the book towards him as I spoke.
I want you to tell me how you came to know
Robert Fleming }'

My question seemed to surprise him ; he
looked at the inscription, and then at me.

Do you know him ?' he asked in a tone of
excessive astonishment. ' He has never spoken
of you to me  never; and I knew all his
friends.'

Perhaps not. I have not seen him since
I was a girl ; it is not likely that he would
mention me. But this is not the question.
What I want to know is your relationship
to Robert Fleming.'

Then I will tell you in a few words. In one
sense there is no relationship between uS ; in
another, I owe him everything. When I was
a child  a poor neglected little creature with no
one to care for me but an ignorant peasant
woman, who was my bonne  he adopted me,
educated me, and brought me up as his own
son. My dear lady, what ails you } you are ill !
please let me fetch Miss Leigh '

VOL. II. 27

No, no !' I gasped ; * it is nothing ; let me be
quiet a moment ; it will pass ;* but as I hid my
face in my hands a sob escaped me. ' O my
God ! it is Basil,' I said to myself, and a sort
of giddiness came over me. I had a dim consciousness
that my hands were drawn away
very gently, and that my dear boy was chafing
them in his own.

They are icy cold,' I heard him murmur ;
what can be the matter ?'

After a time I recovered myself Yes, I could
listen now ; the faintness had passed.

I am better,' I said, trying to smile. ' I am
so sorry I frightened you. I suppose Olga was
right, and I have tired myself.'

But you will let me take you home now ?'
he said in a caressing voice.

Not for worlds I replied firmly ; ' it was
only giddiness; it has quite left me. I am
perfectly comfortable here with this nice stone
to rest against, and it is so quiet. I am longing
to hear your story. When Mr. Fleming
adopted you, did he give you his name at the
same time ?'

I will tell you all I know ; but that is very
little. Mr. Fleming was travelling abroad when
he found me. He noticed me first, and then
the people of the house told him about me.
My father was in a hospital. I had no one

belonging to me but my bonne ; the poor
creature was in great trouble and perplexity.
She had no money, and but for the kindness of
strangers we should have starved. " I permit
them to occupy the garret," the mistress of
the house told him ; '' but I tell Lizette that
she must apply to the Maire. I have children
of my own to clothe and feed." I was too
young to remember this time ; but Mr. Fleming
has often recalled the day when he came upto
our garret, and how I ran across the floor
to him and clasped him round the knees, and
called him daddy.'

" My heart went out to you then, Basil,"
he has said to me since, " when I lifted you
up and you laid your dark curly head against
me, and I felt your childish arms round my
neck. We were fast friends from that hour,
and never a day passed without a visit to the
garret."

I was a mere baby ; but I certainly remember
a tall man who took out his watch to
show me, and who brought me playthings and
bonbons, and how I climbed on his knee, and
called him daddy.

One day he took me in his arms. '' I am
your father now, Basil," he said to me ; '' you are
given to me." Later on, when I could understand,
he explained to me that my own father

27  2

had gone away, and had given me into my
friend's keeping.

 " You are to Hve with me, and be my little
boy until he comes to fetch you," that was all
he ever told me of my father ; and once, when I
asked why my name was Fleming, he told me
my father had not wished me to bear his name ;
but he never hinted at any reason.'

'And Mr. Fleming brought you to England
?'

Yes, and 1 remember I was sea sick, and
cried for my bonne ; everything else was indistinct.
One of my earliest recollections was
playing with a Dandy Diamond called Pepper
on the hearth rug, and of a nice motherly
young woman whom I called Martha, and who
washed and dressed me with her own children.
And I remember that I always slept in a little
bed in Mr. Fleming's room, and that I cried
if the watch were not under my pillow  but I
shall weary you ?'

No, no ! if you only knew how every little
detail interests me !'

You are very good to listen to me at all,'
he replied in a low tone ; ' but I need not
linger over these early days. Mr. Fleming
had brought me to his own lodgings. He
lived in a road leading to St. Mark's. It was a
high narrow house, and had a long strip of

garden at the back, where we youngsters played.
Mr. Fleming lives there still.'

'And he is still the curate of St. Mark's.'

Yes,' with a quick glance at me, as though
my trembling voice arrested his attention, ' he is
the senior curate ; there are two others ; it is a
large parish, and a very poor one. Once or twice
a country living has been offered him ; but he
has always refused it. He says he will live and
die at St. Mark's among his poor people. I
have heard it said that when Mr. Career dies
he is the vicar, and an old man now  the
bishop will offer the living to Mr. Fleming.'

Will he accept it ?'

Most certainly he will ; the position will just
suit him ; there is not a man, woman, or child that
he does not know, and they are all devoted to
him. " Our Mr. Fleming," that is what they call
him.'

And all these years he has been poor ?'

Not so very poor,' he answered quickly ;
he had a little money left to him before he
adopted me, and this enabled him to send me
to a good school, and afterwards to Oxford.
He grudged me nothing, and yet he spent
absolutely nothing on himself.'

'And he is living still in the old house at
Gresham Street ?'

Yes, do you know it ?' in some surprise.

No. 27; and Martha still takes care of him.
Her husband is dead, and all her children except
Patience are married and out in the world.'

And you have lived with him there all these
years, Basil ?'

The name escaped me involuntarily. I saw
him look at me, and a smile came to his lips.

How strange to hear you call me that ! but
I like it  I like it.*

I beg your pardon I returned in some
confusion.

Do I not tell you I like it ?' was the reproachful
answer. ' I wish you would always
call me Basil. Yes, I lived with him off and
on until I married. We were very comfortable;
we had a big room running from front to back.
Mr. Fleming kept all his books in the back part,
and we called it the study. We had a round
table and some big arm-chairs in the front part,
and that was our dinner-room. I never seemed
to interrupt him ; he would write his sermons
while I smoked or played with Scamp, who
was Pepper's successor. When he came in tired
from his labours in the parish he always
seemed to like to see me there. " There you are,
Basil," I can hear him say now ; 'just help me
off with my coat, there's a good lad, and let us
be comfortable." Oh, those were happy days !'
he finished with a groan.

And he sent you to Oxford ?'

Yes ; I was giving him trouble, and he
hardly knew what to do with me. Public-school
life had turned me out a restless, conceited
sort of fellow, with a strong belief in my
own brilliant abilities, and a lofty disdain for
what I called narrow opinions. My success at
school had spoilt me. I had grown up self-willed,
with a dangerous love of pleasure, and
a decided tendency to choose my friends for
amusement rather than edification ; any opposition,
any attempt to guide and restrain these
weak and evil inclinations, only irritated me;
even the mild advice and loving admonitions
of my dearest friend only excited my impatience.
I remember how often I ended an argument
with the remark, '' We of the younger generation
think otherwise, Mr. Fleming. Thank
goodness ! we live in a more enlightened age,"
and I remember how his grieved silence was
his only answer.

I had gained a scholarship, and as my great
wish was to go to Oxford and afterwards to
study for the Bar, it was decided that I should
go to Exeter. The evening before I left Leeds
he spoke to me with unusual seriousness ; he
mentioned my faults one by one, and implored
me to struggle against them ; he warned me of
the temptations of University life. ' Your pride

and love of popularity will lead you into danger,
Basil," he said. "With your pleasure-loving
temperament, and, pardon me if I speak plainly,
your self-indulgence and dislike of denying
yourself any present gratification, you will
certainly fall into serious difficulties unless your
corrective be hard work and the friendship of
men worth knowing. My boy, for eighteen
years you have been my one thought ; do not
disappoint me !"

I was in a softened mood that evening, and
I listened to him with unwonted patience. I
remember telling myself as I went up to my
little room that he would have reason to be
proud of me  that I would distinguish myself at
Oxford. 1 fell asleep and dreamed 1 was on
the Woolsack. I was full of spirits the next
morning, and quoted the dream as a favourable
augury of the future. Mr. Fleming only shook
his head.

'' My boy," he said sadly, '* I do not believe
in auguries ; I would rather have you
a good man than see you Chancellor of
England"'

He was right,' I murmured.

Yes, he was right, I know it now; but I was
a self-willed young fool then ; I would not learn
my lesson until bitter experience taught it tome.
At that time I preferred the devil's teaching.



Miss Seton, it was an evil day that I
went to Oxford ; but I mean to pass over my
year at Exeter very quickly. I do not wish to
shock your ears, and the retrospect of this part
of my life is very painful to me.'

THE END OF A SUMMER Idol.

I require no argument to urge mc to be kind to a pretty
woman.'

 Fair Maid of Perth:

A wilful man must have his way."

The Antiquary:

All this time the strain on my mind and
attention had been terrible. I had followed
every word with famished eagerness. How
often in the old days had I wearied Heaven
with prayers that the silence between us might
be broken, and that I might at least have the
consolation of hearing something of the life
Robert Fleming was leading. But it is one of
the sad mysteries that seem to wall in human
souls in tangible darkness that such prayers are
often left unanswered. And yet if we would
only wait long enough, if the precious ointment
of our faith were not all poured out upon
our idols, if we could believe that the blackness

of our cloud would be relieved by a silvery
lining, if we would possess our souls in patience
instead of lashing them into wild rebellion, it
might still be well with us !

Oh, it was easy for the middle-aged Catherine
to preach philosophy ! But for the young,
girlish Catherine, stretching out her hands with
pitiful yearning for the birthright of happiness
the rightful heritage of her youth  it was not
quite so easy. One cannot see through blinding
tears. A bruised heart cannot moralize.

If only Basil would have told me more !
Oh yes, I called him Basil to myself with a
strange thrill and lingering over the word ! I
hardly dared look at him for fear he read the
truth In my eyes.

You are my boy and hers !' That is what
I longed to say to him. But I must hear his
story first. If only he would have told me
more of that life in Gresham Street ! But,
with a man's impatience of details, he was
hurrying on to a more marked episode of his
existence. I noticed that as he began to speak
again he turned his face aside ; but I could see
his features working. A sombre and gloomy
light had come Into his eyes.

I commenced my University life with Mr.
Fleming's warning ringing in my ears. Before
many months had passed it was more than

verified. I was considered the most popular
man in college. I had a host of acquaintances,
but few friends. Sober-minded reading men
avoided my company ; but all the wild, versatile
youths gathered round me, and helped me to
waste time and substance. Not in the riotous
living of the prodigal  thank Heaven I never
fell so low as that !  but in unprofitable discussions,
in festive gatherings that unfitted me
for my work.

Many of my friends were unsettled in their
views ; to them there was nothing sacred in
heaven and earth. 1 did not openly avow
myself an Agnostic, or a follower of the black
philosophy, but the simple truths I had been
taught by a good man seemed to shrink into
nothingness. " What do we want with creeds ?''
they would say. " The people are not to be
led in leading-strings any longer : natural religion
is all that we want." Oh, it makes me
sick to remember the cant phrases of our soulless
philosophy  utter negation, absolute impossibility
of knowledge, of the finite mind
measuring the infinite ! This is what we taught,
fools that we were  sifting our puny knowledge,
as the child digs his little pit in the sand
to hold the ocean !

When I went home for my first vacation,
Mr. Fleming received me with an air of restraint.

He looked worn and anxious, and,
though his affection for me was evidently the
same as ever, the old unrestrained intercourse
seemed impossible. Often I saw him look at
me sadly, as though he were waiting for my
confidence, but no word of reproach passed his
lips. Alas ! for the first time, I was eager to leave
him. The quiet atmosphere seemed to stifle me.
I longed for my lawless freedom and brilliant
debates  the society of my so-called friends.

I had one friend in particular, Stewart
Morton. He was a man of some consideration
; his family was old and wealthy,
but his father and brother were well known for
their freethinking opinions. Stewart had
already made his mark at Oxford. He had
undeniable abilities, he was clever and witty,
and his brilliant conversation and attractive
person blinded people to his faults ; but, as a
man, he was wholly without principle. I was
in the habit of taking long walks with him,
partly for exercise, and partly to carry on those
discussions in which we both delighted. His
dangerous sophistries were rapidly undermining
my moral nature.

After a time his stronger intellect dominated
me. But for Stewart Morton I should never
have met my fate. One afternoon, or really
early evening, we found ourselves in a village

some miles away from our college. We were
tired and hungry and thirsty, and even Stewart's
brisk tongue had flagged a little. We were
sauntering down a field where some haymakers
were at work. One of these, a girl, attracted
our attention. She was moving slowly between
the cocks, raking up the loose hay. She wore
a blue cambric dress and a white sun-bonnet.
There was something regal in her gait ; she
looked like a princess who was playing at
being a rustic. As we passed her, she leant
on her rake and looked at us.

*' By the powers, what a beautiful girl !" observed
Stewart In my ear. " What a subject
for an idol ! by Jove ! yes, and I will speak to
her ;" and, prompted by mischief, Stewart put
his words into practice.

Taking off his hat with his finest air, he informed
the girl that we had lost our way, and
were weary and starving. Was there a farmhouse
near where we could obtain refreshment ?
And then he added, with glib falsehood, that
his friend, pointing to me, was just recovering
from an illness, and that he feared the effect of
the long walk before us in our present fasting
condition. I saw the girl look at me. She
had large soft eyes, like a gazelle, with a sort of
appealing sadness in them.

*" There Is Mr. White's house," she returned 

the red-brick house you see yonder ; they are
very kind, hospitable people. I am staying
with them. I do not think they would refuse a
glass of milk to a stranger ; shall I go and ask
them ?" with another shy glance at me.

'' May we go with you ?" suggested the young
hypocrite ; " you can walk as far as the house,
Fleming, can you not ?"

'' Oh yes !" I returned rather sulkily, for his
little fiction displeased me. There was no need
to have invented that story of my illness ; but
Stewart was in one of his mischievous moods.

"your friend does not look delicate, "observed
the girl in some surprise. She spoke in a low,
deep voice ; the accent was not perfectly refined.
As she spoke she took off her sun-bonnet
and fanned herself with it, as she walked
between us. She was wonderfully handsome.
The shape of her head was beautiful, and there
was something classical in the smooth dark
hair, drawn off the white forehead and coiled in
glossy plaits behind. Her figure was large, but
finely moulded, and there was an air of gravity
about her that added to my interest in her.

' He is not naturally delicate," commenced
Stewart provokingly ; 'but an illness always pulls
down a fellow. You are pretty fit now, aren't
you, Fleming  only in a starving condition ."

'What more he meant to add is buried in

oblivion, for at that moment a stout comely
woman, with pink ribbons in her cap, came out
of the farmhouse.

' Whoever are you bringing along with you,
Aline ?" she asked in a puzzled tone, shading her
eyes from the sun ; but before the girl could
answer, Stewart, hat in hand, was beside her.
I heard the explanation again  long walk ; two
undergraduates ; one of them recovering from
an illness ; impossible to get him back without
refreshment ; he would not answer for the consequences.


" Dear sakes ! just hear him," she interposed
in quite a flurry ; '' poor young gentleman ! Isn't
it lucky, Aline, I have just masked the tea ? I
am sure you are welcome, gentlemen, if you will
honour us by sitting down with us. White !"
bustling into the passage, "wherever is that man,
I wonder ? White, here's company ; two of our
Oxford gentlemen dead beat and fasting. Aline,
get some more plates, and tell Jane to dish up
that ham. You are kindly welcome, young
gentlemen !"

I do not know how Stewart felt, but I was
tolerably ashamed of his wholesale fibs, as these
kind, homely creatures dispensed their simple
hospitality. Mr. White, whose florid face
matched his wife's ruddiness, shook hands with
us heartily.

" It Is not the first time that young puss,
AHne, has brought in gentlemen," he said with
a wheezy laugh and a knowing wink at the
girl.

I thought she looked distressed ; she
coloured and went out of the room without
speaking. On her return she sat down opposite
me and began to cut bread-and-butter. I could
not take my eyes off her. It was not so much
her singular beauty that charmed me as her
gravity, her silence, and the strange pathos of
those dark eyes. Once or twice as she looked
at me a sort of shiver passed over me, a thrill
of expectation that went through me. Now
and then she offered me something ; but I
noticed she never spoke or looked at Stewart.
He was chattering in his clever, heedless way
for the benefit of his host and hostess. Now
and then the farmer leant back in his elbow-chair
with a loud guffaw that made the tears
run down his cheeks ; but Aline never smiled.
When tea was over, I was standing by the
window a moment, when Aline suddenly paused
beside me.

'' Have you been ill ?" she said, fixing her
strange eyes on me.

'' No," I returned in a vexed voice ; " it was
only his nonsense. I have never been 111 In my
life."

VOL. II. 28

*' I thought so, you looked so strong ; then
you do not tell stories like him ?"

I shook my head, and then added hastily :

" He meant no harm, it was only his fun ; he
is really very nice when you know him."

" Humph ! I think I like you best," she replied,
and an odd little smile played round her lips ;
and then she leant out of the window and
picked some roses.'

My poor boy, I can imagine the rest,' as he
paused to take breath.

Yes, it is easy to imagine it,' he returned
hurriedly, ' if you had only seen Aline that
evening ; it was an idol  it fascinated us both ;
that dark wainscoted parlour  the girl in her
blue dress, offering us the roses. 'will you
come again ?" that was what she said to me as I
went out dizzy and bewildered with the novelty
of my sensations.

" What a Ruth !" observed Stewart as we
walked down the lane. " I wonder if there bea
Boaz in the background  my lady Ruth
favours you, Fleming. I heard that pretty
whisper just now ; I am half inclined to cut
you out, only, you see, I am so uncommonly
good-natured. Go in and win, my boy; it will
be rare sport to watch you  hay making and
syllabus ; tea and ham in the parlour. I
had no idea you were such a gay Lothario."

It was profanation to hear him talk like this.
Must there always be a Mephistopheles when
Faust meets his Margaret ? Those deep sad
eyes haunted me ; the touch of the cool, soft
hand still lingered in mine. Hitherto I had
been fancy free ; for the first time I felt the
tingling of a new passion in my veins. That
night before I slept I determined to see her
again, and without Stewart.

From that day I took solitary walks, and
they invariably ended at Cross Farm. I had
always a kindly welcome from Mrs. White and
her husband ; I think they were proud of the
handsome girl who was their guest, and a suitor
or two were to be expected. They made no
objection if I invited Aline to take a stroll with
me in the fields to admire the sunset ; sometimes
she walked back through the lanes with me.

Aline always blushed with pleasure when she
saw me, but after the first few minutes she invariably
relapsed into gravity : she spoke little
except in answer to my questions ; but her
manner was full of intelligence, and she never
repelled me by any vulgarity. She was not a
gentlewoman by birth ; that was evident to meat
once. She told me frankly that her brother
her only remaining relative  had a small
shop in Holloway.

 " George is very kind to me, but I find the

282

life dull," she said once. " I do not like serving
in the shop  the people stare so ; I tell
George I want to be a governess, but he will
not hear of it. He has sent me here that I
may get rid of the idea, and also because he is
angry with me ;" and her eyes filled with tears.

How I longed to kiss them away ! But that
evening she would not tell me the reason of her
brother's anger. At times her sadness  her
utter despondency  infected me ; I felt as
though I were under the influence of some
power that I could not resist. There were
times when I thought I was not in love  when
I wanted to break away from her and be free ;
sometimes I would part with her almost coldly,
but in a day or two the desire to see her again,
to be near her, would be too strong forme.


I knew nothing of her real character ; she
was reserved with me ; she neither invited nor
permitted any love-making on my part ; she
liked me, and frankly told me so, but there was
no coquetting on her part.

One day I had driven over to spend an hour
with her, when I found her looking flushed and
excited ; I thought her manner strange.

"George is a tyrant !" she said, as I asked
anxiously what was the matter. '' He insists
on my marrying a man old enough to be my

father. He Is a grocer, too, but in a large way.
He says I have given my word to marry
him."

" Is that true, Aline ?"

" Yes, it is true," she replied, bursting into
tears ; " but I would rather die than marry him.
Basil, if you care for me, why do you not save
me from George ? I cannot keep my word  I
should murder Nathaniel or myself. Oh ! you
do not know, but it is almost driving me out of
my mind ! and, Basil, you know you care for

J)
me.

" I love you, dear," I returned passionately,
for she was clinging to me, and sobbing like a
broken-hearted child, and her beautiful face was
wet with tears. How could I know ?  I was
only one-and-twenty, and I was not one who
knew the ways of women. If I had been a

little older But there, let me hurry on.

I have not been the only headstrong young
fool who sold his birthright for a mess of
pottage.

We settled it all before we parted. The
long vacation was approaching, and, contrary
to Mr. Fleming's wishes, I had accepted an
invitation to stay with Stewart Morton ; his
people lived at Wormwood. Aline was going
back to Holloway. Nothing could be easier
than to procure a license and marry her in the

old church in Holloway Road. Her brother was
a Dissenter, and so was Nathaniel Jennings.

We parted from each other very tenderly ;
I believed, that day at least, that I was
ready to lay down my life for Aline Barton.
I took Stewart Morton into my confidence;
he seemed a little alarmed at the notion of a
marriage.

*sit will hinder your prospects in life," he
said ; "Is there no way out of this ?''

I almost quarrelled with him at last ; he
wanted to teach me a little bit of worldly
philosophy. He did not believe in women ; in
his opinion, flirtation was a venial sin. If I
had listened to him '  and here his face darkened
* but I could not unlearn the lessons of a life.
I silenced him at last by telling him roughly
that I chose to be a fool rather than a knave ;
no woman should ever rue the day she saw
me ; that I was madly in love with Aline, and
that I meant to make her my wife.

He was a little sulky at first ; but finally
promised to see me through it, as he called it,
and I accompanied him to Wormwood. I only
saw Aline two or three times before we were
married. We met on Sunday evenings in the
old parish church, and had a stroll together
afterwards. She was very quiet and subdued,
and very grateful to me for the sacrifice I was

making, and each time I left her I was more in
love than ever.

Stewart did not see her until the day we
were married, and then he vowed to me in the
vestry that he had never seen a grander-looking
bride ; and certainly Aline looked her best that
day. Her face was colourless, and as she stood
at the altar, with downcast eyes and her deep
lashes sweeping her cheeks, she was more like
a lovely statue than a woman. Once only she
raised her eyes to me with a frightened look ;
it was when I was promising to love and
cherish her until death. I felt her hand
tremble in mine then. I had taken lodgings
at Highgate ; through Stewart Morton's influence
I had secured a mastership there.
Aline was not quite penniless ; she had two
or three hundred pounds. It was not until
the day after my marriage that I wrote to Mr.
Fleming. It was rather an off-hand letter; I
was too proud to show feeling. I had no reply
from him ; but one day, when I returned from
my morning's work, I found him sitting with
Aline.

The sight of him took my breath away ;
for a minute I could not speak. He had been
ill  he looked thin and worn ; but he stretched
out his hand to me with his old kind smile.

** So you could not trust me, Basil ?" he said,

as Aline put down her sewing and went quietly
out of the room.

I could make him no answer ; for the first
time the consciousness of my own base ingratitude
to this generous benefactor filled me with
shame and remorse. How had I repaid this
dearest friend of mine for all his loving sacrifice ?
By disappointing all his hopes of me ; by flinging
up my prospects in life, and uniting myself
to a woman whom a few short weeks of matrimony
had convinced me could never be my
equal or companion ! I stood before him confused
and guilty  a prodigal weary already of
his husks, yet for whom there could be no consolation.


*' My poor bo)' ! we must make the best of
it," he said presently, when, crushed and humiliated
by his goodness, my proud reserve gave
way. "You must be loyal to your wife, Basil.
Never let her think she is not your equal; if
she love you, she will soon teach herself to
become worthy of her husband."

He stayed with us some time, and shared
our mid-day meal with us. I remember how
patiently and gently he tried to win Aline's
confidence ; but she was in one of her strange
moods, and seemed to have taken a dislike
to him. She had already developed a singular
jealousy of my friends. When I remonstrated

with her after he had left, she said
sullenly :

" George Is every bit as good and forgiving
as Mr. Fleming, but you never ask him to take
a meal in the place. You hate to have anything
to do with him, because he Is not one of
your fine gentlemen !"

This had been our first matrimonial dispute.
Mr. Barton had behaved to us with tolerable
generosity. He had stormed a good deal at
first, and had called Aline in my presence a
sly, good-for-nothing girl ; but he had relented
at the sight of her tears.

'' You have treated Jennings cruel," he went
on ; " he is that cut up that he can't mind his
business, and all along of an ungrateful girl
who could not keep her word to him. You
have behaved as I never thought a girl could
have behaved ; but it is too late to cry over
spilt milk now, and what Is done can't be altered.
You have made your bed, and must just lie in It.
I wanted to tie you up to a safe man ; but you
have chosen to fend for yourself."

'' But you will forgive me, George ?" sobbed
Aline.

I hated to see her demean herself to such
a fellow ; why, he could not even speak his
own language, and he was a little insignificant
sandy-haired man. The very look of his glossy-black

clothes turned me sick ; how could he be
Aline's brother ? But they were evidently fond
of each other.

'' Come, come," clapping her roughly on the
back, "don't spoil your eyes with crying; least
said soonest mended. We must make the best
of a bad job. Bring your husband to have potluck
with me on Sunday, Allie ; and we will
have a crack together."

Oh, how I grew to loathe that little parlour
behind the shop, and those Sunday dinners ! I
put a stop to them at last. " If you choose to
have George here, well and good," I said one
day; 'but I am not going to Holloway every
Sunday; you may go by yourself;" and Aline
sulked, and retaliated by turning a cold shoulder
to my friends. Before long I went of my own
accord to Holloway. I must tell my story in my
own way. I hate this part of my life so much
I can hardly bear to speak of it. It was a
drenching November evening. I stalked into
the shop, looking, I suppose, as cheerful as the
Ghost in " Hamlet." George, who was adding up
accounts in his little desk, turned pale when he
saw me. " Come into the parlour," he said ;
'' Smith will mind the shop." I followed him
in  I was benumbed with wet and cold ; and he
drew up a chair to the fire. " Sit down and have
a warm, Fleming," he said quite kindly, though

we were not the best of friends. " Susan will
bring up the tea-things in a minute ; but there
is something you want to tell me first ?"

" Yes, George."

He rubbed his hands nervously together ;
his lips twitched. " You aren't going to tell
me that Allie has broken out again ?" he said ;
** don't tell me that, for heaven's sake !"

I turned and looked at him sternly ; he must
have seen the loathing in my face, for he put
his hand on my shoulder,

*' Don't, old chap ; keep it in ! Allie is your
wedded wife, you know. A man is bound to
bear with his own flesh and blood."

*' If I had known it "  and here I turned on
him so fiercely that he recoiled a step or two 
*' I would have died sooner than marry your
sister."

*' Aye, aye ! to be sure you would," he replied
pityingly; "but Nat was not of your
way of thinking ; he was that fond of Allie
that he would have taken her in spite of it.
That was why I wanted him to have her,
because he knew all about it. If you had come
to me and said, ' Barton, I am in love with your
sister I would have told you the truth, and
there would have been an end of it, and Allie
would have stopped with me or married Nat
Jennings."

* George, what am I to do ? I shall go mad
if this goes on ; I have no control over Aline."

" What are you to do ? that beats me, old
fellow ;" and he sat down opposite to me and
shook his head disconsolately. '' She has been
a handful to me, that poor girl has ; but for
all that, I never wanted to get rid of her. She
is all I have belonging to me ; for I never mean
to have chick nor child of my own. Somehow
I have always turned against thoughts of matrimony
since my cousin Jenny died. Allie has
been like my own child, somehow ; for there is
twelve years between us ; and I couldn't blame
her as I should have done, when 1 remembered
mother."

I looked at him aghast.

'' Do you mean T'

He nodded. " Yes, mother and father too ;
but mother was the worst ; she died of it at last.
I always thought father took to it just out of
misery at her goings on. Jenny lived with us
then, and folks thought we should have married
each other, only she caught malignant small-pox
nursing a lite servant who was taken ill, and
that carried her off."

" George, how old was Aline when you first
saw signs of this fearful habit ?"

" Well, it might have been a matter of two
years or so now. I thought I should have

broken my heart that, night when I found it
out  such a bonnie lass as she was, and so
good-humoured and kind when the madness was
not on her. Look here, Fleming, I can't stand
seeing her own husband turn against Allie.
When she was at her worst, and had got to the
drink, I was never hard to her. How could
she help it, poor girl, when it was in her blood ?
It was just a madness, and she knew it herself.


" ' George,' she would sav in one of her
penitent moods, ' it comes over me just like
madness. I seem to have no power to fight
against it. Sometimes I pray about it. but it
always masters me in the end. I hate myself
for it ; I want to be good, and to have people

love me. Perhaps if I go away somewhere

Why don't you lock me up, and save me in
spite of myself?' Poor Allie! she would be
good for a long time after one of these breaks-out
 that is why I wanted Nat Jennings to be
her husband, because he would have had more
patience with her." '

CHAPTER VIII.

ALINE.

Yet, if I seem to speak of grief,

'Tis scarce worth wonder. I have known
Large losses, dealt in moments brief,
Hide harvests ere their autumn strewn.'

Philip Stanhope Hartley,

'My career has been one of difficulties, and doubts, and
errors.' ' Guy Mandarins.'

At this point Basil's voice suddenly dropped,
as though he were weary. He rose and began
pacing up and down the narrow point, as
though he could no longer control his restlessness.
I watched him without speaking. How
I longed to stretch out my hand to him, to bid
him be comforted.

Do not lose hope. You are one of us ;
you are no longer alone in your wretchedness
you have a mother.'

Oh, if I might only say that to him ! But

he must tell me all first. My poor boy ! So
this was his deary fate  to be linked for life to
this woman. What bitter news for Virginia !
What perplexity for all of us ! The moon
was rising now, and the pale silvery beams
began to play over the water ; the air was
soft and balmy, and the only sound that
reached our ear was the faint ripple of the
waves on the sand. Basil suddenly came upto
me.

Are you cold or tired ?' he asked abruptly.
Miss Leigh told me to take care of you.
Would you like to go in now, and let me
finish this miserable story tomorrow T

1 could not sleep until I had heard all you
have to tell me. Sit down, my  Mr. Fleming.
Do you think my heart is not full of pity for
all you have suffered ? Do you think I do not
understand T

It was my own fault,' he returned huskily.
I deserved to be punished, but at times it has
seemed to me as though the punishment were
greater than the sin. I was so young, so
horribly young and inexperienced, and  and I
thought I loved her.'

Did you not T

I do not know  perhaps ; but my love, such
as it was, died a natural death very soon after
our marriage. Aline had not been my wife

three months before I discovered her fatal
habit. I had thought her strange once or
twice  a little excited in her manner ; but that
night  shall I ever forget it ?'  with a shiver.
I had been spending the evening with Stewart,
and had come home late. As I walked up
Highgate Hill in the starlight, I thought
rather tenderly of my wife. I had not seen
her since the morning, and she had seemed a
little depressed then.

" I do not like you to be out so much,
Basil," she had said to me. " There are times
when I am afraid of being left to myself. If
1- had said that to George, he would have given
up any pleasure to stop wich me."

I disliked this allusion to her brother, and
answered her rather coldly :

** George Barton and I are very different
men. I am sorry you feel dull, Aline, but I
cannot break my engagement with Stewart."

" That is what you always say," she returned
rather sullenly. "You care for Mr.
Morton more than you do for me ; and yet I
am your wedded wife. I am not clever and
amusing like your other friends, and so you get
tired of me."

'' I wish you would not talk such nonsense,
you silly child !" I replied, trying to laugh off
this. 

But Aline was not to be soothed. She did
not return my kiss as usual, and though she
followed me to the door she had no parting
smile or word for me. I thought privately that
she was in a bad humour. Her absurd jealousy of
my Oxford friends already tried me a good deal.

I always let myself in with a latch-key. It
was long past midnight, and I was surprised to
see a light burning in the parlour. How foolish
of Aline to be sitting up for me ! I thought ; and
yet the little attention pleased me. I went in
with a smile on my lips. What a sight met my
eyes ! The fire was out, one guttering candle
was on the table ; the other had burnt itself out.
Aline was lying half across the table, with her
flushed face pillowed on her arms. Could she
be asleep  ill ? What did that strange spirituous
smell mean ?

As I stood on the threshold unable to realize
the true meaning of the case, she opened her
eyes, and with a stupid, vacant stare came unsteadily
across the floor to me. Good heavens !
I believe that sight nearly drove me mad in my
horror. I pushed her from me with a curse, and
she fell heavily to the floor.'

You hurt her, Basil !'

Nothing hurt her that night. She only
grovelled at my feet, and begged me not to
be angry, but I was almost beside myself. I

VOL. Ti. 29

dragged her up, and made her go up to her
room, but I had to carry her at last. I saw
her throw herself upon her bed, and locked
her in, and went downstairs. I spent the remainder
of the night walking up and down
like a caged thing. How was I to bear my
life beside her? Miss Seton, I believe only
one thing kept me from blowing out my brains
in the cold gray morning, and that was the
thought of my adopted father. How could I
bring this grief on him ? No, I deserved
punishment. I must bear the hideous fate I
had brought on myself. I must bear with the
woman I had made my wife. Yes, it was the
thought of that true gentleman, Robert Fleming
 his tender love, his stainless life  that
shielded me in that awful hour, and brought me
to my knees sobbing like a child.

I left the house the next morning without
seeing Aline. I had my school duties to perform.
When our little maid brought in my
breakfast, I told her to look after her mistress.
* I am afraid she is ill," I stammered.

When the time for my return approached,
a feeling of disgust and sickness oppressed me.
As I drew near the house my pace slackened.
How was I to confront Aline ? She did not
come to meet me as usual. I had not expected
it. The little parlour was in its usual order.

The fire burnt brightly. A shaded lamp was
on the table. The kettle was hissing and
bubbling on its brass trivet. The tea-things
were arranged. A little bouquet of chrysanthemums
and brown leaves lay beside my plate.
An appetising smell of hot cakes came from the
kitchen. For one moment I felt as though the
hideous spectacle of last night were a dream.
Then Aline entered.

She came up slowly to the table, and stood
leaning on it with one hand. She looked very
white and ill, and her eyes were swollen with
weeping.

*' Basil " she began, and then stopped

as though afraid to say more.

" What have you to say to me ." I asked
sternly ; for even her grief-stricken aspect did
not soften me in the least.

" I have to ask your pardon," and then,
bursting into wild weeping, she sank on the
floor before me. '' Oh, Basil, Basil, don't be
so hard with me ! I have tried ; indeed, I have
tried ; but the temptation was too strong, and
you left me alone. Oh, I would rather you
killed me than look at me like that, as though
you loathed the sight of me ! It is not my
fault  ask George. George knows, and he is
always so good to me. Oh, why did I ever
leave him ?  why did you make me care for

29  2

you ? I ought not to have let you marry me,
but I was so afraid that George would force me
to have Nat Jennings."

" Aline, will you get up and listen to me ?"
" No, not until you say you will forgive me.
Basil, you are my husband. You must help me
to overcome this dreadful habit. I am young  7
I must get over it. I will  I must. I hate
myself for doing it, but now and then the devil
tempts me. Basil dear, only forgive me this
once, and I will never offend you again."

What could I do ? She was my wife, and
she looked so lovely, kneeling there with the
tears rolling down her face. How could I help
at last taking her in my arms ? She was so very
gentle and humble that night. She listened tome
as meekly as a child while I talked to her.
I told her that, of all sins, this was the most
repellant to me  the one I judged most harshly.

" Other vices are bad enough," I said ; " but
this degrades the whole moral sense. It drags
a man down below the level of a beast. Aline,
you have inflicted a fatal stab to my love. I
can never think of you as I did yesterday. If
this went on, I could not answer for the consequences."


" Would you grow to hate me ?" she whispered,
and a great sadness, almost a despairing
look, came into her beautiful eyes, and then she

covered my hands with kisses. *' Oh, Basil,
do not hate me ! I love you so much, and I
want to please you."

" Then you must promise me never to taste
the accursed stuff again. Promise me now,
Aline."

She gave me the promise gladly, and seemed
as happy as a child when I kissed her ; nothing
could exceed her sweetness that night. She
hung about me, and coaxed me all the evening.
George came to see us the next day, and on
the following Mr. Fleming surprised us by a
second visit I said nothing to either of them.
Aline was on her best behaviour. She was
gracious  charming. She sent George away
perfectly satisfied. Stewart called in the next
week, and she made much of him, and asked
him to come again. When he left, and I was
chatting with him on the doorstep, he said
to me :

'* I begin to think you are a lucky fellow,
Fleming ! That wife of yours grows handsomer
every time I see her."

A month or two passed in tolerable tranquillity.
I never left Aline now. I spent
the evenings reading to her. On half-holidays,
when I was free, I took her for a walk. I had
reason to be more than usually considerate ; we
hoped in the early summer that Aline would

become a mother. Her health was a Httle

delicate just now ; she was liable to fits of

depression, and I did not find it always easy

to cheer her. Once or twice, as the winter

went on, I had a vague suspicion that things

were not quite right ; but I was not sure. One

night I was detained at school, helping the

head-master with some accounts. I had begged

Aline to go to bed early, and she had promised

to do so. The house was quite dark, as I let

myself in, and I went softly upstairs. As I

entered our room, my heart died within me.

Aline was stretched on the bed fully dressed.

There was no need to ask this time if she were

ill. I did not disturb her ; cold as a stone, and

with a sense of despair that seemed to crush

the youth out of me, I went downstairs, and,

rekindling the smouldering embers, threw

myself down on the hearth rug, and lay until

morning.

The next evening there were tears and
reproaches again. Aline was so ill with her
penitence that I grew frightened at last. I
must be more careful with her ; but I was
losing heart now. On the third relapse, I went
to George ; I have told you how he comforted
me.

The summer came, and Reggie was born ;
and for a few months love for her child, and

gratitude for my attentions, kept Aline straight;
but by-and-by the old madness broke out again.
Alas ! I knew ndw that it was madness  an
hereditary taint was in her blood. We tried
every means, George and I ; we watched her,
kept her amused, and for two or three months
no one could be more reasonable. Then I
would leave her some morning standing smiling
at the door, with her boy in her arms, looking
like the picture of some grand, pale Madonna,
and in the evening she would meet me with the
raised look of a sleep-walker in her eyes.

How she ever obtained the drugs that were
destroying her we never knew ; but stories of
the lady at Myrde Cottage begun to be rife
in the neighbourhood. When things got worse,
I was obliged to resign my post ; the place had
grown too hot for us.'

But surely you let Mr. Fleming know of
your trouble ?'

He shook his head.

No, I never could bring myself to tell him ;
and after a time he discontinued his visits.
Aline had taken a strong dislike to him 
she was always susceptible to these strange
jealousies. At last I begged him not to come.

" We are better apart just now," I said ; " it
is not pleasant for me to see my friends ignored
by my wife, and I cannot bear to see you

treated as Aline treats you ;" and he acquiesced
sorrowfully.

I was glad when he kept vay ; I could not
bear that he should see my degradation. He
used to send me money sometimes, but I
always returned it. I would write to him now
and then, and tell him about Reggie  his
beauty, his cleverness, his winning little ways;
but I said little about my wife. After a time
my letters grew fewer. I told him that for
the present we were living with I\lr. Barton ;
but 1 gave him no reason for the change. He
wrote back and implored me to tell him more 
to come and see him  to let him assist me ;
but my answer was curt, and I fear ungracious,
and after that he let me alone.

Since I have been at St. Croix, I have
written and told him everything. When I
go back to England I mean to take Reggie
to see him.'

That is right,' 1 murmured.

Yes, better late than never ; poor old man !
he is terribly cut up about it all.

Well, it was after our babv-Qirl died that
George made us come and live with him. I
could not get another mastership, and was only
earning a scanty maintenance by writing articles
and reviewing books. Aline's few hundred
pounds had long gone. George represented to

US that he was not a rich man ; the shop at
Holloway was all he had.

" Allie is the only creature I have belonging
to me in the world," he said ; " and I can't see
her pinched while I am alive. If you can put
up with a humble place, Fleming, you are
welcome to what I have. Allie and the boy
will be safe with me ; and you will have a
roof to call your own while you are looking out
for work."

Things were at such a low ebb with us just
then that I could not well refuse George. My
affection for Aline was a thing of the past now,
and all my love was centred upon Reggie.
From babyhood he had been constantly with
me ; even before he could speak he would hold
out his arms, and cry to come to me. He soon
made it evident that he preferred my society to
his mother's. Sometimes I had to take him
out of his crib, and, wrapping him up in an old
shawl, carry him downstairs. Nothing else
would satisfy him, and he would lie contentedly
in my arms while I read or wrote until he fell
asleep. I never could quite understand Aline's
feelings with regard to the child. Sometimes
she appeared indifferent to him. Now and
then in her irritable moods she seemed as
though she could not endure the sight of him.
I believe that after a time she grew jealous

of my fondness for him, and never willingly
caressed him in my presence ; but more than
once, when she thought herself alone, 1 have
seen her snatch him up, and cover him with
kisses, while he struggled to get away from
her.

'' Mother kisses Reggie too hard," I heard
him say once.

We had a very good nurse for him for two
years. George's thoughtfulness provided this
comfort, for Aline could not be safely trusted
with the care of her child. Reggie was always
happy with her, and until she died '

I interrupted him.

Wait one minute, please ; I want to ask you
a question. Did Reggie call her mammy ?

Yes ; how did you know that ?' he returned
in surprise. ' Reggie was very fond of her.
I think he cared for her far more than for his
own mother, and it was a great loss to us when
she died, and George told us that he could not
afford another nurse. I was never happy then if
Reggie were out of my sight.

It cost me a bitter struggle before 1 could
make up my mind to go and live at Holloway ;
but I could not let Aline and Reggie starve.
The thought of the little parlour behind the
shop gave me a sick feeling. There was a
room upstairs with two windows looking down

on Holloway Road, which was given up to
AHne ; but all the meals were taken in the
parlour. Rebecca, the elderly maid-of-all-work,
who had lived with George for the last fifteen
years  a red-haired, large-boned woman  would
lay the table in her usual noisy fashion : the
willow-pattern plates, the big clumsy knives,
were repugnant to me. Rebecca's turned-up
sleeves, her dirty apron, her rough, uncouth
ways, were all separate sources of offence ; but
I learnt to be grateful even to Rebecca, when I
saw how wisely and kindly she dealt with Aline
in her attacks. She had a man's strength, and
would carry her in her arms like a child.

*' You may leave her to Becky," George
would say ; " Becky understands Allie perfectly."


My surroundings were intolerable to me. I
had been used to Mr. Fleming's refined and
cultured conversation, and my year at Exeter
had still more unfitted me for the society of a
man like George Barton. After a time I could
not endure my life, and I was obliged at last to
find a retreat where I could read and write
quietly without distraction.

In my walks about Highgatel had discovered
a little cottage where a worthy old couple lived,
with whom Reggie and I made friends. In
return for a trifling weekly sum they agreed to

allow me the use of an empty room. I sent ina
few articles of furniture, laid up a little store
of wood and coal in an outhouse, and every
morning, as soon as George and I had finished
our early breakfast  Aline never appeared until
long afterwards  I dressed Reggie, and we set
off for Laurel Cottage. We spent the whole
day there. On my way I purchased provisions
for our mid-day meal ; sometimes ready-dressed
from a cook's shop, or else I broiled our chops
or steak on an old gridiron Mrs. Jones lent
us.

Reggie played about happily while I wrote
my articles and reviews. When he was tired he
would clamber up on my knee and sit quietly,
turning over his picture-book. He quite understood
that I must not be disturbed. Sometimes
his head would drop against my shoulder and
his eyes close. I would let him stay until
my arm got cramped, and then lay him down
on a rug at my feet, where he would sleep for
an hour or two. He never gave me any
trouble, but always seemed perfectly happy and
contented. A few bricks, a Noah's ark, and a
little cart were his only playthings ; but when
it was warm enough he would be running about
the little garden half the day, building a grotto
with some oyster-shells, or digging beside old
Jones, and making belief to help him. Dear

little chap, he was just the sunshine of my
life ! I do think Aline was right when she said
once that he was more my child than hers.

Sometimes when I played with him, or
hunted butterflies, or picked flowers in the lanes,
I forgot all about Holloway ; but it was always
the worst hour in the twenty-four when I went
back to it. When the evenings were cold I
wrapped Reggie in an old rug and carried him
all the way home. He used to burrow in it like
a rabbit, and I could just see his bright eyes
peeping out of the folds. He never came to
any harm ; I think the free life suited him as
well as it did me.

George would look up and nod a welcome tous
as we passed through the shop ; but Aline
generally received us rather sulkily :

" So you have come back," she would say ;
I suppose Reggie wants his tea ;" but she
never seemed to take any pleasure in waiting on
him. Oftener than not, Rebecca would put him
to bed. Aline was not always disposed to leave
the warm parlour and the fireside. *' George
would be coming in for his tea," she would observe,
and he liked to see her there. It was
always George  never me or the boy. I used
to think at last she did not care for either of us,
and yet she was the mother of my Reggie !

I could not spend the evening, with George

coming in and out, talking to Aline as she
sat at her work ; the tingling of the shop-bell
and the footsteps of the customers irritated me
too much. Besides, Aline and I had little to
say to each other. I used to wait until Reggie
was in bed, and go up and say good-night to
him, and then go out and prowl about the
streets for hours. It was strange, lonely work,
but I liked it somehow. I saw plenty of life,
only it was of the humbler sort. Sometimes,
when the mood was on me, I would walk into
London. I never returned until late. Aline
was always in bed, but George would be sitting
by the fire smoking and reading his newspaper.
The remains of the frugal supper would be still
on the table.

" Help yourself, old fellow," he would say.
*' Allie has gone to bed, and I am just finishing
my last pipe. Becky has gone up, too, but
I will go down to the cellar and draw you
another mug of ale, if you want it."

Poor old George ! he was always the same
good-humoured and cheery, and ready at any
moment for a "jaw," as he called it, but I
would not often be drawn into an argument.
He was, like all Dissenters of his class and
standing, narrow-minded and intolerant and
full of prejudices. I used to compare him
sometimes in my own mind to Mr. Fleming,

or even to Stewart Morton, and wondered
what Stewart would have said to him.

I am afraid I treated him very badly, but
he bore all my snubs with the same cheery
good-humour. I think his one fear was that I
should break away from Aline altogether. He
had a sort of pride in his own way, and as long
as he could keep the peace between us, and
things were outwardly smooth, he seemed satisfied.
I am sure in his own heart he was sorry
for me. He never objected to my long absences,
and always explained them in his own fashion.
I heard him talking once to his friend Jennings.
I suppose the latter had been somewhat inquisitive.


" No, he doesn't work here. You see, with
the customers coming and going, there is no
sort of quiet. He has a room a little way out
where he writes ; it is like a gent going to his
office."

" But he is out all the evening, too. I
wonder Allie likes it !" replied Jennings, who
still took an interest in his former sweetheart.

I could have flung him out of the shop as I
heard him, but George did not seem the least
embarrassed by this cross-examination.

'* Well, you see, Nat, Ale is a sensible lass,
for all her failings, as is known between you and
me. She knows the lad is a good bit tried with

her goings on, and wants exercise after his
writing. He is a rare walker, is Fleming."

'' Humph !" was all Jennings' reply.

I wonder if George's explanation satisfied
him ; no doubt he thought 1 neglected Aline
shamefully. I was in a bad temper that evening,
and when George came into the parlour I
said a contemptuous word about Jennings.

" It strikes me as rather bad taste that he
should always be coming round after what has
passed between him and Aline," I said ; for a
man is always touchy about his wife, and
though I did not love Aline, I would not allow
any old sweethearts to come after her.

To my surprise, George quite brightened
up at my brusque speech.

" I don't mind your saying that a bit,
Fleming," he returned; "it shows you have
some sort of feeling for poor Allie. Bless
your heart ! Allie is barely civil to him ; she
never holds her head higher than when Nat is
here, so there is no call for you to be jealous.
With all her faults, she knows her duty too well
for that."

" Oh, don't trouble yourself," I answered
coldly. " I am not the least jealous of Nat
Jennings or of any other man."

" Of course not," he replied briskly. '' You
are quite right there, my lad, for Aline never

looked at any man but you  not in the way of
loving him, I mean. As for Nat  poor old
beggar !  I am precious sorry for him ; he can't
get over the loss of Allle. But there, it was
not to be, and Allie is safe with me ;" and
with a sigh he went off to shut up the shop.

Now  would you believe it ?  I was such a
fool that I must needs go upstairs and hector
Aline on the subject.

" Nat Jennings comes here too often," I
said to her. " I have just told George so. I
hate a fellow to come sneaking round where he
is not wanted."

'' There is no reason for calling him names,
or speaking to George, either ; and you will
wake Reggie if you talk so loud," was her only
reply, and I dropped my voice at once.

'* All the same, incline, I tell you I will not
have the fellow round here so often."

" You must tell George that," she returned,
with a dignity that somehow became her. " It
is not my affair, nor yours either  Nat is his
friend."

'but he used to be yours," I retorted
sulkily ; " what is the use of denying it ?"

Aline flushed. " What has come over you
to-night, Basil ? What does it matter to you if
anyone looks at me or not ? I thought that
sort of thing did not interest you much now.

VOL. II. 30

It is quite true I took up with Nat once to
please George ; but I never could fancy him, as
I told you. It is not likely I should trouble my
head about him now, when I have married
another man."

But I was not quite mollified. " That is all
very well as far as it goes ; but you see, Aline,
he may trouble his head about you, and I could
not put up with that for a moment."

She looked at me rather oddly, and the old

wistful, tender look came into her eyes. *' Thank

you, Basil, for caring about it so ; but there is

no need ;" and she turned away. I was half

tempted to follow her and give her a kiss, for

she had answered me gently, and looked like

the old Aline ; but she left the room. I think

things might have been a little better after that,

only a few days afterwards Aline had one of her

breaks-out, and then everything was wrong again.

My literary work had brought me in a little

money, and this summer I determined to give

myself a holiday. I told Aline that I was going

to take Reggie abroad. As usual, she made no

objection, and though George looked grave and

shook his head at the notion, I refused to

listen to him for a moment. " I must have

thorough change of scene," I observed irritably ;

for the last month or two I have felt nearly

mad. Aline will be quite happy with you ; she

will not miss the boy, and I must take him. I
could not go without Reggie."

'* It is not my place to find fault with you,
lad," he answered sadly. *' Yes, you may leave
Aie with me ; but you are wrong about her
not missing the child."

' Why, do you mean she really cares so
much for Reggie ?'

" Well, she is the little chap's mother, isn't
she ." with a rough sort of pathos. *' I tell
you what, Fleming : you don't understand Allie
as well as I do ; she isn't without her conscience ;
she knows what a burthen she is to you, and
she tries to make up to you by sparing Reggie.
Why, when you are gone she will just cry her
eyes out, and then fly to the drugs for comfort
; that is what she always does when she is
unhappy. I see you don't believe me, lad ; but
it is my opinion, and Becky's too, that she is as
fond of you both as possible. I have seen
her watching you when you and the little chap
were hugging each other, with her eyes quite
full of tears ;" but I would not believe him.
Aline showed no special feeling when we took
leave of her. Her eyes were quite dry when
she packed Reggie's things, and when I put him
in her arms, and he kissed and stroked her face
in his pretty way, she gave him back to me as
quietly as possible.

There ! I have told you all. I have kept
nothing back, Miss Seton. I am only six-and-twenty,
and yet my fate has been such that I
have grown weary of my life. O God ! when
I think of what I might have been, and what

I am ' and with a groan he was about to

spring to his feet ; but I laid my hand on his arm.

Basil,' I said, ' do not go yet ; it is my
turn now.'

YOU ARE BASIL LYNDHURST !'

Let us not burden our remembrances
With a heaviness that's gone.'

Tempest

Courage and comfort ! All shall yet go well.'

King Jo hn.

I HAD spoken In a somewhat agitated tone, and
Basil seemed perplexed at my manner. ' Miss
Leigh is right,' he said anxiously ; ' and you are
very tired. I can feel that you are trembling
all over. Why did you let me talk so long ? it
must be nearly nine o'clock. Look how bright
the moonlight is ! indeed I cannot allow you to
sit any longer.'

He spoke with such gentle insistence that I
could not refuse to rise ; but I still detained him.

I cannot go back yet. Olga will be there,
and I must speak to you alone. If I am tired
I do not know it ; I am thinking of other things.

I have heard it all now. My poor boy, how you
have suffered ! And then your wife ! It is all so
sad  and to know it is for life.'

Yes, it is for life he answered gloomily.

Oh, my dear, do not speak in that tone '
You have great troubles ; but there may be consolations.'


You are very good to try and comfort me,'
he replied quietly. ' It is your kind heart and
your sympathy that prompt you to speak of

comfort ; but while Aline lives ' He stopped

abruptly.

Do not let us speak of her  not just yet 
you have your cross ; but there may be blessings
in store for you. Basil, I want to tell you
something, only I am afraid of startling you.
What if I have found out something about
your past life that you do not know yourself 
about your father and '

My father !' he exclaimed before I could
finish my sentence  ' my father, who cared so
little about me that he gave me up to a stranger !'
And then he added bitterly : ' Mr. Fleming is
the only father I ever knew.'

My heart sank when I heard him speak in
that tone ; his mother had forsaken him too !
I trembled as I thought of Virginia. For a
moment I hardly knew what to say, and all the
time he was looking at me so keenly.

Do you mean that you knew my father ?' he
asked presently.

'Yes, I knew him. He made the Hfe of one
very dear to me so wretched that death would
have been a relief ; but he is dead now. We
must not judge those who are gone. But for
your broken-hearted mother '

She Is dead too,' he returned quickly ; ' she
died when I was a baby. Mr. Fleming told
me so.*

Someone had lied to him, then.

Basil, your mother is not dead ! All these
years she has been seeking her son !'

In the clear, white light I saw his face
change ; he started violently.

I do not understand you. Why do you
say such strange things to me ? My mother !
I have no mother ! You are making some
mistake.'

I am making no mistake,' I repeated calmly.
All these weeks you have interested me ; but
to-day I have found out the reason. To-morrow
you must come with me to the cemetery at
St. Croix, and we will stand together at your
father's grave, and I will tell you then about
your mother.'

You must tell me now,' he returned, and
his tone betrayed strong emotion. ' You have
said too much and too little. If you knew my

parents  and something in your manner assures
me that you are speaking the truth  you must
know their name and mine. Who am I, then ?'

I took his hands, and hell them as I answered
him.

'You are Ikisil Lyndhursl !' I said. 'You
are the son of my only sister, the grandson
and heir of my father, Ralph Seton !'

He clutched my hands so tightly that I
winced with the j:)ain. * Good God !' was all
he could say for the* moment. I could see it
was impossible for him to realize it.

'You are my nephew, Hail.'

 Am 1 ?' and then he drew his hands away,
and walked to the end of the point.

1 think his emotion was so great that he
could not speak to me. He stood cpiite still
and motionless for a few minutes, with his arms
folded across his chest and his head bent. Then
he came back to me, and, even in that light. I
could see the excited look in his eyes.

'I want the proofs; you must tell me all
everything! There must be nothing kept back
from me, not one word, if this be true !' and his
chest heaved ; it was difficult for him to restrain
himself to speak calmly.

It is true ; but I cannot tell you all to-night.
I am growing weary  I must confess it now 
the strain has been too great. Basil, it is a

great thing that I have told you. I do not
think you have realized it  that you are your
grandfather's heir, and the master of Brookfield
Hall'

You said something Hke that before,' he
returned uneasily. ' No, I do not realize it ; I
feel as though I were dreaming, Miss Seton.'

You must call me Aunt Catherine. Basil,
my dear, you are one of us  you are my boy
now.'

Then he broke down utterly.

Oh,' he said, when he had recovered himself
a little, and we were walking slowly up the
common, ' it is the thought that I have someone
belonorinof to me that unmans me so. To
think that it is you  you who have saved my
boy's life  who now claim me as a nephew; that
I have a mother who has been thinking of me
all these years  it is too much ! too much !'

And your home, Basil  the beautiful home
you have never seen ?'

I cannot take it in to-night,' he returned ina
bewildered tone. ' It is your house, is it not.
Aunt Catherine ?'

He hesitated shyly over the last words ; but
I felt such a thrill of pride as I heard him
say it.

No ; it is yours,' I answered quietly; 'but
your grandfather stipulated that it should be

your mother's home for Hfe, and mine, If we
wished it. But it is a great house, Basil !
There is one wing that has always gone by the
name of the Dower House.'

What do you mean ?' he returned quickly.
Is it possible that you think ?  but I will not
discuss that to-night. Why do you hint at such
things when my brain is almost reeling ? You
do not know what it is to me to feel that there
is such a home for Reggie in the future ; that
the shop at Holloway will be a nightmare of
the past ! Do you mean '  and here his voice
shook again  'that that is all over for ever,
and that 1 am not to go home night after night
to see George smoking in his shirt-sleeves ? Oh,
good heavens ! when I think of my life there !
And you talk to me as though I were going to
turn you out of your home ; and I am to believe
you, and not think it is all a dream !'

He was so agitated that I had some trouble
to quiet him. He complained at last that I
told him so little about his mother. I had
some difficulty in evading his questions.

It is so late, and I am tired out, Basil. Tomorrow
we will have a long talk. If I began
about Virginia, I should not end until midnight ;
but I will tell you as much as this  she is a
great invalid. All her youth and strength has
been crushed out of her ; her life has been

an unhappy one ; her troubles have affected
her nerves ; she is old and weak, and needs
a son's tenderness.'

She shall have it he answered ; and I could
see his eyes were glistening, and then neither
of us said more until we reached La Maison-mette.


He seemed as though he meant to leave me
  perhaps he thought I was too weary ; but
I drew him in.

I cannot part with you just yet, and you
have not tasted food for hours, and Olga will
be waiting to congratulate you.'

But he did not require pressing.

I wanted to come in,' he said simply. * I
felt as though I must see Reggie. Ah ! there
is Miss Leigh ; she has been watching for
us.'

Olga was standing outside the glass door of
the salle-manger. She looked at us anxiously
as we entered.

Well, Aunt Catherine ?' was all she said.

I was about to answer to explain, when Basil
put me aside quite unceremoniously.

'Miss Leigh,' he said eagerly, 'she is my
Aunt Catherine now.'

Yes, I know ;' and Olga held out her hand
to him with one of her sweetest smiles. ' You
are Basil  the long-lost Basil ; for whom they

have been seeking all these years. Oh, I am
so glad. And you and Reggie  dear little
Reggie !  will come to live at the Hall.'

I think those few simple words, said so
cordially, did more to convince Basil of the
truth than all my explanations. The bewildered
look left his face ; he grew calmer. As he
grasped her hand, he said quickly :

You live at Brookfield, too ?'

Yes ; I am so glad. And you will know
Jem, and Hubert, and Kitty; and the children
will play with Reggie. Fancy Reggie and
Girlie-ga together. Aunt Catherine! Oh, it is
too delightful !'

I wondered what made Basil turn his back
suddenly and walk to the window. A minute
afterwards he said he would go up to Reggie.
Olga came and knelt down beside me directly
we were left alone.

Are you very glad, dear Aunt Catherine ?'
she asked gently. I think my answer must
have satisfied her. ' And Basil  I suppose I
must call him Mr. Lyndhurst now  he looks
very pale.'

'It is with happiness. Oh, what a life he
has had, poor boy ! Olga, I must tell you
all about it some day. His wife '

What of his wife ?' she asked quickly.

That is what I cannot tell you now. But

she is unworthy of him ; and she makes him
very unhappy.'

There is all the more need for his mother to
comfort him. I always knew he was unhappy
that is why I was so sorry for him. And he
is poor, too ; and I suppose his home is uncongenial
to him. Poor Mr. Lyndhurst ! But he
will have you, Aunt Catherine. Oh, how proud
he looked when he called you that !'

We talked a little more, for it was some time
before Basil returned, and then we sat down to
supper. I think Olga was the only one who
spoke much. She was gay, vivacious, charming
; our silence did not subdue her in the
least. She insisted on giving Basil a full
description of the Hall. I am sure she did
it on purpose, because she saw how strongly
he was moved. She talked about the Lady's
Walk, and related the Lady Gwendoline's
story. She even mentioned the peacocks,
which she said would be such a delight to
Reggie.

Reggie will have the old nursery, will he not,
Aunt Catherine T she said presently. * It is
papered so prettily, and has such a lovely
view.'

Once she called him Mr. Lyndhurst, and
I saw Basil start and flush.

I do not know my new name yet,' he said,

trying to laugh. ' I think I prefer Basil at
present.'

Mr. Basil, then,' she said, smiling at him.
Your grandfather's name was Ralph ; but he
was not a bit like Ralph of the Iron-hand.
Aunt Catherine, you ought to have been called
Gwendoline ; but, indeed, it would have suited
Mrs. Lyndhurst best.'

Do you mean my mother ' he asked, ina
low voice.

Yes, but her name is Virginia. How
strange that her husband was Paul !' and so
she talked on.

Basil seemed to listen in a sort of trance.
Now and then he put in a word, a suggestion,
a question. As for me, I could not eat ; I sat
with my hands on my lap, thinking of Virginia
and looking at her boy and mine. It was late
before Basil went away ; I wanted him to stay,
but he said for this one night he would rather
go back to the pavilion. He was too restless to
sleep ; he wanted to prowl about, to smoke in the
moonlight. No house could hold him in such
a mood, so I was obliged to let him go.

But I may come in to breakfast, may I not ?*
he said, as he bade me good night ; ' and afterwards
we will have that talk ;' and then Olga
and I stood at the door and watched him
striding down the path to the little gate.

Aunt Catherine, what will Jem say ?' was
Olga's last question that night.

I was worn out, but I could not sleep until
daylight ; the thought of the letter I had to
write to Virginia, and of my impending talk
with Basil, drove all drowsiness from my eyes.
How was I to make him understand Virginia's
timid and morbid nature ? Would he believe
in the mother who, in her nervous panic, had
abandoned her child ? I felt I had not yet
surmounted all my difficulties ; another thought
kept me restless. Would it not be necessary to
see Robert Fleming ? Did we not owe him a
full explanation ? Besides which, a verification
of facts on his side would be satisfactory to us
both. He must know the whole truth about
his adopted son ; he must receive our thanks
for those years of care and tenderness. And
as I remembered them, I felt that Basil, as the.
adopted son of Robert Fleming, was dearer tome
than ever.

Yes, it was this last thought  why should I
deny it ?  that kept me wakeful. One day before
long Robert Fleming and I would meet again
once more in this life, thank God ! I should
look in his true face again ; we who had once
been lovers would grasp hands as friends. I dismissed
these agitating reflections at last, and
again the thought of Basil's dark face glowing

with happiness stole across my mind  my boy
as well as Virginia's ! Our lonely days were
over now. It was no stranger whom I should
present to her, but one whom I already loved,
whom I was beginning to understand. ' He is
already one of us,' I said to myself, as the
happy tears came to my eyes in the darkness ;
and as I remembered Reggie, my cup seemed
full to overflowing.

I dressed myself early the next morning, and
waited for Basil ; I was impatient to see him
again. When I heard the click of the little
gate I went out in the sunshine to meet him.
I had expected a joyous greeting. To my
surprise, his face had the same white shaken
look It had worn when I first spoke to him ;
there was a haoardness about him, as though
he had not slept. As I took his hand, it felt
.weak and nerveless as a little child's.

Basil, my dear boy, are you ill ?'

No,' he returned in a low, vehement voice
that increased my apprehension ; ' but I have
been thinking about it all night, and I am
convinced it must be a mistake. You have
told me nothing  there has been no proof, no
certainty ; It is this that tortures me  that I
cannot bear. If It should be all a mistake !'

It is no mistake, Basil, I am sure  quite
sure  or I would not have told you. In an

hour or two you shall hear everything. Will
you not trust me until then ?'

My quiet voice seemed to soothe him ; he
spoke more calmly.

I thought the night would never end. I
felt as though I could not wait until morning.
If it should not be true, and I must go
back to that life, how could I endure it ?
Would not everything be worse  more unbearable
? In the moonlight I was picturing
it all as Miss Leigh described it. I seemed to
see it in a dream  the old Hall, the Ghost
Walk, the avenue, and the rooks cawing overhead.
I could fancy Reggie running over the
lawns  just fancy the little chap I carried in
my old rug down Highgate Hill !  and then I
thought of my mother  and if it should not be
true !' and he set his teeth hard.

 Basil,' I said gently, * it is true. You are
distressing yourself to no purpose ; it is just a
nervous fancy because you have not slept. I
want you to do something for me  I want you
to come in now and take your breakfast quietly.
I do not wish Olga to see the state you are in ;
it would trouble her so much. I have ordered
Jules to be round at ten o'clock, and we will drive
down to the cemetery ; and when we have
found your father's grave I will tell you all I
know.'

VOL. II. ' 31

I am sure my calmness gave him courage,
for he made a strong effort to carry out my
wishes ; and though he could not eat, and spoke
very little, Olga did not seem to perceive there
was anything amiss. It did us both good to
see her sitting there and looking so cheerful
and serene ; a sort of halo of youth and purity
seemed to surround her ; her large, clear eyes
were beaming with kindliness.

Mr. Basil,' she said in her simple direct
way, * I am sure Reggie is almost well now ; he
has been laughing and talking this morning, and
he wants to be dressed immediately and to go
down to the bay ; for he says all the little fishes
miss him.'

We tried to laugh at this little speech, butin
spite of all Olga's efforts the conversation
Ragged. I was glad when the meal was over,
and Basil went up to his boy. He did not comedown
until the fiacre was at the gate. The
drive was taken almost in silence, and it seemed
long before we reached the cemetery.

Pere Lefevre had given me implicit directions.
Before many minutes had passed 1 conducted
Basil to the spot. There was a little
mound, with a black wooden cross at the head ;
some kind soul had hung a wreath of yellow
immortelles on it. There was the name ' Paul
Lyndhurst,' and ' R.I.P.'  that was all. Basil

had become very quiet ; he took my hand and
led me to a little bench placed in a shady
corner ; no one was in the cemetery ; we had it
to ourselves.

Will you begin from the beginning ?' he said
gravely ; and then, leaning his elbows on his
knees, he composed himself to listen.

It was a long story, but I managed to tell
him everything ; he only interrupted me once.

I will see Monsieur Lefevre myself  that
will be best ; the entry of my baptism must be
found at St. Sulpice.'

This was all he said from the beginning to
the end.

My voice faltered a little when I first spoke
of Virginia, but I suppressed nothing : he was
a full-grown man ; he must know the whole
truth. I disguised nothing  her panic, her
wild flight, her anguished repentance. I tried
to make him see it with my eyes ; I drew a
touching picture of her loneliness, her broken
health, her wanderings in the Lady's Walk, her
nightly prayers for her son.

Basil, she lives for you,' I finished ; * she
has no other thought in life. But for this hope
of finding you her frail existence must have
ended long ago ; it is for you to make up to her
for these years of unutterable sorrow.'

He did not seem as though he heard me ;

312

his head was still buried in his hands ; he did
not move until my voice died away into silence
I had nothing more to say ; then he started
up and stretched his arms over his head.

It is true, then ? Oh, Aunt Catherine !' and
then he took my hand and kissed it.

His face was very grave  almost stern ;
but I saw by his eyes that he doubted no
longer.

You acknowledge that you are Basil Lynd-
hurst, and the grandson of Ralph Seton.'

Yes ; I am not such a fool as to disbelieve
it any longer. I will see Monsieur Lefevre.
Oh, if we could only find Lizette ! and then I
must write to Mr. Fleming. Aunt Catherine,
he must be the first to hear  he comes before
my mother.'

He spoke the last word in a hesitating way ;
his manner did not please me.

Oh, Basil ! not before your mother.'

Yes,' he said, and a dark flush crossed his
face  a flush of extreme pain ; ' you must not
think me hard if I say so ; I have a strange
nature ; I shall find it difficult to forget what
you have told me.* I was silent ; how was I to
answer him ? The next minute I saw him look
at me with great affection. ' Oh, if you were
my mother !' he murmured, and his eyes were
full of tears.

Dear Basil, when you see her you will love
her too.'

I hope so,' but there was no conviction in
his tone. ' Last night I was thinking of her  
oh, so tenderly! I kept saying 'mother" to
myself, just to hear how it sounded ; but the
feeling has got chilled somehow.'

It will pass ; believe me, it will pass ; your
mother is a good woman.'

She was very weak,' he replied gravely.
Look here. Aunt Catherine, I have a little
chap of my own ; I can put myself in her place :
could I ever have left Reggie ?'

You are a man  you have a mean's strength ;
Virginia was a weak girl.'

Miss Leigh is a girl, too. Do you

think But what am I saying ? There

are not many like her.'

Perhaps not ; she is very good. But, Basil,
she is fond of your mother.'

Is she ?' and his face lighted up. ' But,
then, she likes everyone  that is just her goodness.
Aunt Catherine, please do not look so
sad ; of course I mean to be good to my
mother ; do you think I shall reproach her ?
Only when I think of Reggie, and then of that
poor little lonely chap in the garret, I somehow
feel as though an impassable gulf separated me
from my mother.'

His face had settled into sternness again ;
but how was I to reason with him ?

And there is Aline,' he continued after
another silence ; ' what will my mother say to
her?'

She will be sorry, of course ; but she will
receive her kindly and make the best of her.'

I doubt if it will answer,' he returned
gloomily ; ' I cannot imagine Aline at the Hall.
She will disturb your peace and my mother's ;
she is a strange being. She will not assimilate
herself to your ways ; perhaps if I go away '

Go away, and you are the master, Basil !
Do you know it all belongs to you ? All these
years I have been nursing the estate, and
saying to myself, "It is for Basil," and you
would leave us to our loneliness !'

I do not wish to leave you,' he replied
tenderly ; ' it is of you I am thinking, not myself.
I cannot bear to think that my wife may
bring trouble !'

We cannot help all that,' I answered
quickly ; ' it is her right. We cannot rob her
of her prerogative. Where you and the child
are, Aline must be !'

I suppose so,' he replied in a troubled tone ;
 but she would be happier with George.'

The house is large enough for all,' was my
answer. ' Do you remember what 1 told you

last night, Basil ? There is a wing that has
always been used as a dower-house. There is
plenty of room there for Virginia and me. We
shall not be in Aline's way or yours.'

He made no reply ; but after a minute he
rose and began to pace the walks. Presently
he came back to me, his eyes kindling, his head
held high. 1 saw then, for the first time, a likeness
to his mother when she was a girl.

Basil,' I said eagerly, ' you have the Seton
mouth. You remind me of your mother and
grandfather !'

He looked excessively pleased at that.

I am trying to realize it all,' he said simply ;
yesterday I was no one ; I did not even know
my own name ; I was indebted to charity for a
roof; to-day'  here his eyes flashed ; he looked
wonderfully handsome  ' to-day I am Basil
Lyndhurst, master of Brookfield Hall ; the
descendant of a hundred brave ancestors 
among them, Ralph of the Iron-hand; and the
best of it all is,' his voice changing as he spoke,
'that it will all come to my little chap  to
Reggie !'

Lisette DUPONT.

Let our old acquaintance be renewed.'

Second Part of ' Henry IV:

she's a good creature.'

Me?'7y Wh'cs of Windsor

It was nearly one o'clock when we parted at the
gate of the cemetery, for Basil had excused
himself from accompanying me back to La
Maisonnette. He would put me into a passing
fiacre, he said ; but there were many things that
would detain him at St. Genette. It was absolutely
necessary for him to seek an interview
with Pere Lefevre. He wished to see an entry
of his baptism at St. Sulpice. Inquiries must
also be set on foot for the relatives of Lizette
Dupont ; he must take counsel with Pere
Lefevre on the matter. All this was said in a
quick, decisive voice. Basil was bringing his
clear, masculine intellect to bear on the subject.

I felt he would lose no time and spare no pains
in unravelling every possible clue. To my
surprise, he begged me to defer my letter to
Virginia until the next day.

It will be a long letter ; it will take you
hours to write it,' he continued as I remonstrated
with him. ' You are far too tired for such
a task, and I am sure Miss Leigh will agree
with me. You must go home and rest, that
you may be ready to talk to me this evening ;'
but I objected to this on the score of selfishness.

You selfish !' he returned in atone of infinite
scorn ; but he relented at my pleading face.
Well, if you must write, let it be a brief note
of preparation ; it will be better so. Say you
have news  important news ; that you know
exactly where Basil is to be found ; that he is
well, and that you will write more fully by the
next mail. Will you promise me to do this,
Aunt Catherine ?' and he would not let me leave
him until I had promised.

How strange it was to submit to that strong
young will ! Since my father's death no one had
contested mine, and yet it was sweet to me to
give way. ' There is someone to take care of us
now,' I thought, as I drove away and left him
standing in the middle of the road. He had
pulled off his gray cap, and the sunshine shone
on his uncovered head. How strong he looked

SO full of life and energy, with such free grace
and ease in every movement  a son of whom
any mother could be proud ! And as I thought
of Virginia, I could not see him for the mist
before my eyes.

The mid-day meal was over when I arrived.
I had left orders that things should go on
as usual ; but Jeanne brought me a dainty
little dinner, and waited on me. Olga was
with Reggie in the little grove. I could seethe
red umbrella orleaminiif through the trees.
As soon as I had refreshed myself, and written
a few lines to Virginia, I joined them, after
giving orders that our coffee should be served
there. I was too much excited to sleep, and
an easy-chair in the shade would be delicious.
Reggie was lying in the hammock, and looked
far more like his old self, in spite of the loss of
his hair. I thought he was prettier than ever.
His delicacy gave him an ethereal look, and his
eyes were larger and brighter. He had his
two kittens hugged tightly in his arms. I
thought I never saw a sweeter picture.

Olga was reading. She put down her book
to talk to me. I told her a little about our
morning's conversation, but it was not possible
to say much before Reggie, and after a time
we changed the subject. Presently she leant
towards me and whispered : ' Do you know,

Reggie has been talking about his mother today
quite of his own accord. When I asked
him if he wanted to go back to her, he shook
his head most decidedly.

" Reggie will stop here with father and my
Dear," he said. '' Mother is always too tired to
put Reggie to bed, so Becky comes ;" and then
he went on about Uncle George, but I could
not understand him in the least. ''If Reggie
goes home, my Dear must come too," he finished.
Was it not pretty of him to say that ?'

Olga, I do believe you love that child more
than you love Girlie-ga or Wilfred.'

I cannot help it,' she returned quickly. ' Is
it wrong, Aunt Catherine ? one is not responsible
for these things. I dare say Mr. Fleming
felt the same for that little child he found in
the garret. I think Reggie and I will always
love each other, if it were only for the memory
of the sweet days we have passed together.'

She spoke in a somewhat troubled tone.
Olga certainly looked a little pale and subdued
this afternoon ; perhaps the heat oppressed her ;
she had lost her old vivacity ; but the next
minute she made an effort to recover herself.

 Oh, do you know there is something I have
not told you ? I had a letter from Jem this
morning, such a long delightful letter, and he
says that next week he will be coming home,

and he wants to know if there will be any chance

of seeing me.'

That depends on Basil. Reggie is well
enough to travel now. Next week ?  oh yes !
Virginia will be expecting us before that.'

Will it be so soon over  our happy visit ?'
And Olga looked wistful, almost sad. ' It
will be like a dream when we look back on it
the bay, and the yellow sands, and Seton
Point, and this dear old house, and the pavilion.
Shall you care to see Jem again, Aunt Catherine ?
But he is nothing now ; it is only Mr. Basil.'

She spoke with the smile still on her lips.
Olga had such a lovely smile, but only I who
knew her could recognise the sadness underneath
it.

Yes, it is Basil who is our own boy ; but you
will still be a part of my life  you and Jem.
Even Basil will not come between us. Surely
you believe this, Olga ?'

Oh )'es/ she returned, kissing me hastily.
Dear Aunt Catherine, do you think I would
have it otherwise ? All these years you have
been so patient and so lonely, and now you
have Mr. Basil and Reggie ; for Reggie is
your own, too. How glad Jem will be ! but
you must expect him to be surprised ; and it
will be nice, too, for me when I come up to the
Hall, for there will be Reggie to play with, and

sometimes for a great treat his grandmother
will let me carry him off to Fircroft, and we
will show him the Surprise ; and perhaps Hugh
will let him have a little garden of his own, and
I shall sit and watch him with the other children,
and Kitty will be as fond of him as
possible.'

We had both forgotten Reggie's mother.
What would Olga say when she knew the sort
of woman Basil would bring to the Hall as its
mistress? Would not her pure nature be shocked
by such a contrast ? would not even Basil
sink in her estimation when she had seen his
wife ? I was about to answer her, when Jeanne
appeared with the coffee ; and the next moment
Basil's tall figure blocked up the doorway.
Reggie caught sight of him and shouted
his name with all his feeble force ; then he
raised himself up in the hammock and stretched
out his arms. It was hardly a wonder that
Basil snatched him up and kissed him before
he had a word for us. ' Has Reofme wanted
father so badly ?' he asked with that wonderful
gentleness he always showed to his boy.

Reggie always wants father,' returned the
little fellow in his quaint way  ' father and my
Dear.'

I saw Basil look hastily across at Olga ; but
she was busying herself with the coffee-cups

and did not seem to see him. I wondered if he
noticed her paleness. She had put on her white
gown to please me. I always grumbled if Olga
did not wear white in the summer ; nothing
suited her so well. This afternoon she had
fastened a spray of jasmine at her throat ; she
looked so young, so child-like and simple, that
it did one good to see her. I wondered why
Basil suddenly knit his brows together as
though something pained him ; then he put
Reggie back in the hammock again and turned
to me.

Aunt Catherine, I have seen the entry of
my baptism at St. Sulpice. Pere Lefevre 
what an old brick he is !  went with me. There
it was  Basil Theodore Lyndhurst. The priest
who baptized me is dead now ; his name was
Pere Delays.'

I am so glad you have seen it for yourself.'

Glad that I am a Roman Catholic ?' with an
amused glance at me. * You will be sorry to
hear, then, that I was re-baptized at Leeds ; but
I have found out more than that. Miss Leigh,
do you think Aunt Catherine is too tired to
drive with me again to St. Croix ? it is a
beautiful evening, and I have a fiacre at the
door, and when we have finished our coffee *

Oh, Basil, do you mean '

That we have found Lizette Dupont ? That

is exactly what I do mean. That old trump 
I beg his pardon  Pere Lefevre had discovered
her ; she is still alive, you see, and as brisk and
sensible at seventy-five as she was at fifty ; she
told his reverence that she was not much over
fifty when she became my bonne.'

Have you seen her, Basil ?'

No,' he replied, laughing. ' I could not
accomplish everything in three hours and a half.
I was more than two hours with Monsieur
Lefevre, and he gave me something to eat ; then
we went to St. Sulpice and spent another hour,
and here I am.'

And you want me to go with you ?'

Yes ; but not until you have finished your
coffee ; there is no hurry ; it is only five now.
Miss Leigh. I am afraid you will owe me a
grudge for carrying off Aunt Catherine; but
you can understand how anxious I am to establish
my own identity.'

Yes,' she said gently, ' I can understand
that, Mr. Basil, and I will go and fetch Aunt
Catherine's bonnet and her lace shawl  for there
is no need for her to fatigue herself unnecessarily
; and then I will put Reggie to bed, for I
can see he is growing tired.'

She moved away as she spoke, and I could
see Basil was watching her closely ; when she
had disappeared into the house, he said :

Aunt Catherine, you have known Miss
Leigh for years  since she was a little girl ;
does she ever think of herself at all ?' and
without waiting for my answer he continued :
But I am going to carry Reggie in myself, for
he is growing quite heavy. Do you think you
can sit on my shoulder again, old fellow ?' and
as Reggie screamed with delight at the idea, he
was carried off in the old fashion.

Basil had secured a pair of fresh horses,
and in a very short time w c were rattling down
the steep stony roads that led to St. Sulpice.
By-and-by we had to descend, and enter a sort
of blind alley. The houses looked poor and
squalid ; but one at the end had a more
respectable appearance. The step before the
door had been freshly scoured ; some plants
blocked up the little window. A young woman
with a baby in her arms was talking volubly
to a man in a blue blouse. Basil walked upto
her with his cap in his hand.

Madame, it is here that Lizette Dupont
lives ?'

Mais oui, vraiment ; monsieur was perfectly
correct. She was Lizette Dupont's granddaughter,
and this was Gustave, her husband.
Le bon pere had already enlightened them ; they
were to expect une dame Anglaise, who had les
affaires with the grandsire ; would madame

and monsieur enter ? The place was dark ; but
they would become accustomed to the obscurity.
And she was discoursing still volubly when a
shrill voice from within was heard chiding her
for her delay.

Tiens ! thou hast been a chatterton from
thy birth, Marie! Let madame enter;' and
then Marie withdrew her substantial figure
from the doorway.

Be not cross, little mother,' she said tranquilly
; ' the day is long enough and to spare.
Entrez, madame !' and I advanced cautiously
into the close, dark room.

When my eyes became used to the dim light
I could see Lizette Dupont more distinctly; she
was sitting knitting by the stove. She was a
tiny woman, with a brown, puckered face and
bead-like black eyes that looked sharply at us.
She wore a close cap, rather like her great-grandchild's,
and a pair of silver ear-rings
dangled against her wrinkled neck.

She greeted us with shrill welcomes, and
begged to know our errand. Le bon pere
had been mysterious. ' Une dame Anglaise
wishes to question you, my daughter ; there are
les affaires.' That was all that had been said;
and then he had asked her many questions
about her past life.

I commenced cautiously ; but directly Basil's

VOL. II. 2

name had crossed my lips she interrupted me
with a loud exclamation :

Le petit ange ! le pauvre cher enfant ! was
it of him madame would speak ? But, truly,
le bon Dieu was wonderful in His ways!
It might be her prayers to our blessed Lady
had touched her Son's sacred heart. She had
prayed, she had wept, that she might have
news of the little one before she died.

She was so excited that I hardly knew how
to proceed ; but Basil came to my assistance.
He took her shrivelled hand, and said gently :

That was a long time ago, Lizette. Should
you know me now ?'

You, monsieur, you !' and the little beady-black
eyes seemed to look him through and
through. ' Holy Virgin ! could this grand-looking
monsieur, so much stronger and bigger
than her Pierre  could he be her baby, her
nursling, her petit Basil ?'

'Yes, truly, ma bonne  I am Basil Lynd-
hurst.'

Lyndhurst ! oh, the name !' she screamed,
and the skinny arms were flung round his
neck, and, before he could remonstrate, she
had kissed him on either cheek.

He bore it very well, however ; indeed, he
told me afterwards that those kisses of his old
nurse had touched him greatly.

She is only a peasant ; but once she was the
only friend I had. Can I ever forget that ?'

The poor old creature was so much overcome
that it was some time before we could
induce her to compose herself. The tears
rolled down her wrinkled face, and she kept
ejaculating, in a sort of ecstasy, ' Le cher petit !
le joli ange !' stroking Basil's hand all the time.

He coaxed her at last to recount her little
story. She wandered a good deal at first, and
we found it difficult to follow her meaning,
though she spoke very tolerable French. She
would clench her fist whenever she mentioned
Paul Lyndhurst's name  ' cet homme infamy !'
as she called him  but we understood her better
after a little.

I adored my mistress,' she said presently ;
she was so gentle and so handsome, and until
that bad man broke her heart and drove her
away she lived only for her child.'

'Hush, Lizette ; you are speaking of Basil's
father.'

But Basil gave me a reproving glance.

Do not interrupt her, Aunt Catherine ; it is
better to hear the truth. It is not possible forme
to respect my father's memory ; I have told
you already that Mr. Fleming is the only father
I have ever known.'

Fleming ! Tiens, mon enfant ! that was the

2  2

name of the English priest who carried thee
away ! Holy Mother ! how it all comes back
to me ! and yet it was nearly four-and-twenty
years ago.'

We exchanged looks of mutual satisfaction,
and she rambled on :

My mistress was so devoted to the child
that she could not bear him out of her sight.
He is my only consolation," she would say.
Look at him, Lizette !" she would cry ; " is he
not a wonderful baby } and so intelligent ! See,
he is holding my finger now !" and so on ; for
she would talk of him for hours. It was a
happy day for me when Pere Delays baptized
him in our beautiful church. We carried him
there secretly, for fear of monsieur. The
English priest was absent, and madame was
in great perplexity what to do.

" My child must be baptized," she said.
If I cannot find a Protestant clergyman, I
will take him to St. Sulpice. There is no time to
be lost ; Paul will carry us off in a day or two."

Seest thou, mon enfant, how the blessed
Virgin heard my prayers ?' and her shrill voice
softened into tenderness.

Alas ! the very day after our little one received
the grace of baptism there was the
terrible scene with monsieur, and madame fled
from the house. We waited up for her all

night ; monsieur's rage was awful. When she
did not come back, and a week had passed, he
carried us off. I was afraid to go, to trust myself
with cet homme terrible ; but there was the
little one, so I went.

It was a miserable life we led, wandering
from town to town wherever there were picture-galleries;
for monsieur cared for nothing but his
pictures and the drink.

He fell ill at last, and they removed him to a
hospital. He was raving mad, they told me.
What a position ! picture it for thyself, mon
cher. No money  hardly a sou to buy us
bread ; but the blessed saints were not deaf to
Lizette's prayer. The woman of the house was
a good Christian ; she had children of her own;
she pitied us.

'there is the garret," she said; "it will
shelter thee and the child. When meal-time
comes I will spare thee some onion broth and
some bread. Do not lose faith. When monsieur
is well, he will repay me."

Oh, she was a good creature, this Madame
Other!

We lived like this for weeks ; le petit grew
and thrived. When people saw him in the
public walks, they said he was as beautiful as
an angel. Many came up and spoke to him,
and pressed bon-bons and cakes on him. Then

he would run to me and show me his treasures.


'' Regarde-tu, ma bonne, these bon-bons
Basil has got !"

Then they would look at me curiously.

'' He is poorly dressed ; but that peasant is
not his mother," they would say.

One day the English priest came up and
spoke to him, and the next day to that ; and afterward
le petit would clap his hands at the sight
of him. Recalled him the kind Englishman.

One wet day we were in our garret. Le
petit had no toys, and he was playing with a bit
of wood and some rags. I was in bad spirits.
Madame Gotier had been up, and told me that
her husband had been grumbling at her.

'' We have not enough for our own children,
and thou art feeding strangers," he had said.

And then she caught up the child and cried,
and we both wept together.

" Lizette, thou must speak to the Maire,"
she said presently. " I dare not anger Henri ;
he is, as thou knowest, of a violent temper."

I prayed to our Mother of Sorrows with all
my heart when she had left me. Le petit
seemed uneasy at my tears.

" Why dost thou weep, ma bonne ?' he
asked, stroking my face; "they will give us
bread to-day."

" And tomorrow, men enfant ?"
*' To - morrow  we shall see ;" and he
marched off with a wise look.

What did le pauvre petit know of tomorrow
? Alas ! my tears could not cease.
Must I take the child in my arms, and beg
my way back to St. Croix ? Should we not
both expire with fatigue and famine ?

Mon enfant ! my faith had failed ; and at
that moment relief was at hand. There was
a knock at the door, and the English priest
came in. Le petit shouted at the sight of
him.

" Hast thou brought Basil some pain-device,
monsieur ?" he cried ; and when the
Englishman took him in his arms, he patted
his face with his little hands.

" Are you in trouble, my good woman ?"
he asked presently, sitting down beside me,
while the child opened his box of bon-bons ; and
then it all came out  what Madame Gotier had
told me, and how her husband had refused us
shelter.

'' I will settle all that," he said quietly.
'will you come with me, Basil? I will bring
you back to your nurse presently ;" and actually
le petit left his bon-bons at once.

" May I take some pain-device to Consonant
Marie?" he asked.

Ah ! it was like the dear angel, to share
with others.

From that day all went well. Monsieur
Flemings he told me that was his name  came
to us every day. Sometimes he took us outwith
him. Henri ceased to grumble, for rent
was paid for the garret, and Madame Gotier
served our meals regularly. It was not always
onion soup now, but sometimes roast meat and
vegetables ; and plenty of milk and white
bread for breakfast and supper.

'* Monsieur pays for everything," Madame
Gotier told me one evening. * Henri is in
an excellent temper ; everything is as it should
be."

I was happy then ; I think I loved le petit
more than my own children ; I wanted those
days to go on lor ever ; too soon they came
to an end !

One day I was summoned to the hospital.
Monsieur Lyndhurst informed me abruptly that
he had no further need of my services. My
wages would be paid, and I might go to my
own people. He had made other arrangements
for Basil. The English clergyman
would take him to England  this was all he
told me. Was it a wonder that I believed
in my own heart that he was taking him to his
mother?

I was heart-broken ; but it was for the
child's good. I was only an ignorant peasant,
who could neither read nor write ; and he was
like a young prince for beauty. I let him go ;
I think I did not speak ; something seemed to
choke the words back. Le petit kissed me,
and went off gaily, chattering to his new friend.

As for me,' finished Lizette sadly, ' I went
to live with Pierre, until he married again, and
then Julie's daughter took me in. There were
little ones in both houses ; but they were not
le petit. For years I never ceased to regret
him ; but I became comforted at last.'

Lizette,' I interrupted in a tremulous voice
that I strove in vain to steady, ' you have not
described this English clergyman who took
Basil away.'

I am not good at description, madame,' she
returned simply. ' Monsieur was young, but he
looked worn and sad ; someone told me he had
had an illness. He was not handsome  not
like Monsieur Lyndhurst, who had la beauty
de Diable  but his face inspired one with
confidence. He had gray eyes, full of gentleness,
and when he smiled it seemed to lift the
weight off one's heart. For the rest, his face
was smooth like a boy's, and his hair was a
reddish brown ; he used to rumple it when he
grew excited in his talk, and he would get up

from his chair and walk up and down the room,
talking all the time.'

I never could break him of the habit,'
observed Basil, laughing ; ' and that trick of
running his fingers through his hair when he
was perplexed  how well I remember it !
Aunt Catherine, is it this close room that
makes you look so pale ? I shall be glad to
get out in the air myself.'

Let us go,' I returned quickly.

Oh, how true it all was ! I felt as Lizette
talked as though Robert Fleming were standing
beside me ; that infinitely sweet smile, those
deep-set gray eyes  had I ever forgotten them ?

Must thou go, mon enfant ?' exclaimed
Lizette querulously. ' I have found thee only
to see thee vanish again.'

I will come again before we leave St. Croix,'
he replied soothingly. * If I can, I will bring
my boy Reggie ; he will remind you of the
little Basil. I will tell you about him another
time, but 1 must go now.'

He pressed some money into her hand, and
shook it heartily. Marie was still talking to
her husband ; she eyed us curiously as we
passed. The fiacre was waiting at the end of
the alley, and we were soon rattling through the
stony streets. Basil appeared lost in thought
for some time ; then he roused himself.

Aunt Catherine,' he said quietly, ' tomorrow
I shall write to Mr. Fleming and tell him
everything, and you must write to my
mother.'

Would it not be better to speak to him,
Basil ?  there is so much to explain.'

 Of course I must speak to him. If I were
in England, I would go to him at once, Aunt
Catherine,' looking at me wistfully. ' Do you
not think we ought to go as soon as possible ?'

You are right. When she receives my
letter  the letter I am to write tomorrow 
your mother will count the hours until she sees
you. She will not sleep or rest until she has
looked upon her son's face.'

In that case we ought to start at once. It
is Friday  we might take the Monday boat.
Is not this your opinion ?'

I have not thought about it ; I will tell you
tomorrow,' I replied faintly.

I could decide nothing more that night.
Basil was very quick. He saw at once that I
was exhausted, and said no more ; but when I
looked at him I could see by his intent face
that he was making his plans. Of course he
would have his way, and, after all, it was a
comfort not to decide for one's self. * I shall
leave everything to Basil,' was my last
thought before I fell asleep that night.

Good-bye TO LA MAISONNETTE.

I never looked a last adieu

To things familiar, but my heart
Shrank with a feeling, almost pain,
Even from their lifelessness to part.'

Miss Bowles.

After all, Basil had his way, and we arranged
to start by the Monday boat. Olga heard our
decision very quietly. When I said a word or
two of regret about her holiday being over,
she stopped me at once.

That has nothing to do with you and Mr.
Basil,' she said quickly. ' Your business is
finished ; it is right for you to go home. We
have been here seven weeks  seven weeks 
and I think they have been the happiest of my
lite  with a certain wistful emphasis on the
words.

But you are sorry that our visit is over,
Olga ?' I persisted.

One is always sorn when a holiday is over,

but that is not the right way of looking at it.
Your anxiety is over, and you are going to
show rIr. Basil his beautiful home, and I shall
be near you. and you will tell me about everything,
and Jem and I will be as happy as
possible.' But. for all that, there were tears in
her eves when she kissed me. ' Dear Aunt
Catherine, it has been so nice having you to
myself. I shall never forget these days at La
Maisonnette  never '

Here she broke off suddenly, as Basil came
into the room, and went out into the garden to
join Reggie. Basil looked after her rather
anxiously.

Has she been crying ?' he asked abruptly.
Is she sorry to leave here ? I do not wish to
be selfish, Aunt Catherine, and if you think
Miss Leigh '

Olga is quite ready to go,' I returned ; ' she
perfectly approves of our decision. As for
breaking our journey and savior at an hotel
for the night, she approves of that, too. She
thinks, with me, that Reggie will be too tired if
we eo on, and that it will be far better for you
to see your home in daylight.'

I was not thinking of myself when I proposed
it,' he replied, with a shade of annoyance
in his tone. Basil had been slightly irritable

all the morning ; the excitement and strain of
the last few days were telling upon him. ' I
thought a few hours' rest would be good for
you and Reggie, and we should give my mother
a little time to recover herself. If you or
Miss Lehigh think otherwise, I need not engage
the rooms.'

It is far better to do as you have arranged,
Basil, my dear. It is such pleasure to have
someone to take care of us. I have always had
to be the business-man of the family ; but I
shall gladly abdicate in your favour ;' but to my
surprise he made no response to this little speech.

He took up some telegrams and read them,
and then he said in a low voice :

Miss Leigh does not look herself. I want
you to tell her from me that if she wishes it
Reggie shall be with her as much as he is now.
1 am too grateful to her not to spare him whenever
she wants him. It shall be the same at
Brookfield as it is here. Will you tell her this,
Aunt Catherine ?'

Certainly I will if you wish it, Basil.'

His manner gave me a little uneasiness ; he
seemed far from happy, as though Olga's sadness
had infected him ; but after a few minutes
he conquered his unaccountable depression, and
showed me the letter he had written to Mr.
Fleming.

I have sent a telegram, too,' he said presently
; but I was so absorbed with the contents
of the letter that I forgot to ask him, then or
afterwards, what he had said in his telegram.
There was so much to arrange that day 
letters to write and bills to pay, and all sorts
of commissions to give Basil when he went to
the town.

He did not come back until Reggie was
asleep and Olga had joined me in the salon.
He found us sitting at the open window, looking
out on the barn and the moonlit court.

'It is such a delicious evening!' he said
coaxingly ; ' would not you and Miss Leigh like
a stroll on the common before supper ? You
have not been out of the house all day, Aunt
Catherine !'

But you must be so tired, Basil.'

Tired !' with a contemptuous laugh ; ' why,
I could walk ten more miles with ease. Miss
Leigh, I hope you will join us. Monsieur
Perrot has been prophesying rain tomorrow ;
so perhaps it may be our last walk together at
St. Croix.'

Very well,' she replied gently, rising at
once from her seat, and we followed Basil into
the lane.

We strolled past the little grove and down
the common, towards Seton Point ; but he

would not let us pause there, so we went down
the steep path, by the bathing-house, to the
sands below. Just as were passing it Basil
addressed Olga for the first time :

Do you remember that morning when you
called to us to take shelter from the rain ? It
was one of the many kindnesses for which I
have to thank you  one of the things I shall
never forget. I hope you do not think I am
ungrateful [{ I say lite about them.'

I think it is your nature to be grateful, Mr.
Basil,' she answered quietly ; ' but you have
nothing for which to thank me. I have always
pleased myself in what I have done. It is so
pleasant to serve one's friends.'

We are friends, then, Miss Leigh ?'

I thought it rather odd of Basil to make this
speech when Olga had shown him such real
friendship ; but she answered him quite
naturally:

Oh yes ; I hope so. I should be very sorry
to believe otherwise.'

And I, too ;' but he spoke so much under his
breath that I doubted if she heard him. Then
he turned to me and asked me to take his arm.
I was walking so slowly that he was sure I was
tired. He spoke in his old affectionate way.
Perhaps he already knew how I loved to lean
on that strong young arm.

We Stood for a long time looking at the
silvery waves as they shimmered and sparkled
in the moonlight. We were all very silent at
first until Olga began to talk in her gentle,
rapid way.

I shall always like this bay ; but I think I
prefer the wide open sea at St. Genette, where
the big waves roll in and break into white surf
on the shore. It is more real, somehow. Do you
know what I mean ?' half turnings to Basil as
though she were addressing him.

I think I can guess,' he returned ; ' there is
more freedom. It gives one a greater sense of
power. One can imagine what the sea looks
like hundreds of miles away ; but, all the same,
I should have thought this quiet, peaceful bay
would have suited your taste better.'

You think I am tame in my ideas,' she
replied, with a touch of impatience. ' You are
wrong ; you do not know me. This peace, this
tranquillity, might become a little monotonous intime
; it is more suited for age than youth. I
am not quite so prim and quiet as you think. I
am afraid I like change  variety, even storms ;
yes, even storms,' with a little laugh ; ' it is
like life. Things are for ever changing in life 
hopes and fears, joys, disappointments, miseries,
all come tumbling to our feet like the big waves
at St. Genette.'

VOL. II. Z

I think there are no miseries in store for
you,' he answered quickly. 'If I were a
prophet, I should prophesy smooth things of
your future. After all, your life will be like this
bay  there will be no billows mountain high to
engulf your little bark.'

There are storms even in this bay,' she
replied, smiling. ' People have been drowned
Jeanne told me so. Your smooth things
may be deceitful. I do not think you are a
true prophet. Do you know, when I was a
child I wanted to be a martyr ;' and actually
she related to him the childish incident of the
scorched finger. She told it so prettily, too,
with a pathetic rendering that took away all
desire to laugh.

I do not know what Basil thought of it, but
he said :

Poor little thing ! Poor innocent little
child !'  half to himself.

So you see I shall never make a martyr.'

Why not ?' he returned. ' Because you
have failed once ? Do you think perfection
is to be achieved in one attempt ? You must
ask Aunt Catherine's opinion  it is not for me
to talk to you.'

But I wish you to talk to me,' she replied
playfully.

I cannot, Miss Leigh, I have made too

many mistakes in my own life to set people right
with theirs. How can you ask a man who has
trampled on his own ideals, and who has
squandered all his priceless treasures in return
for a passing gratification, to preach faith to
such an one as you ? Mr. Fleming is your sort ;
he would talk to you for hours.'

Mr. Basil,' she said quickly, ' I thought
you said just now that we were friends. Have
you forgotten that already ?'

No; certainly not,' looking at her in some
surprise.

Well, then, I do not like my friends to
paint themselves in such black colours ; it is
not kind to Aunt Catherine, or to yourself.
What does it matter if you have made mistakes,
except that you must bear the consequences
as patiently as you can ? So many
people make mistakes, and are sorry, and then
do better, and '

 But there is one mistake that can never be
rectified he answered in a low voice.

I knew at once that he was thinking of his
wife, but I could not tell if Olga understood
him ; it was not possible for either of them
to speak quite plainly.

If it cannot be rectified, you must just make
the best of it she answered. ' I suppose if we
sow tares of our own free will we cannot

o t o

expect corn to grow up. Is that not
true ?'

Yes, I suppose so,' he replied gloomily ; but
she would not let him finish in that tone.

You must not speak so, as though everything
would not come right some day. Life is
not for ever. You will not take your mistakes
with you up above. Perhaps  who knows ? 
they may be set right here.'

Never  never !' between his clenched teeth.

 Never mind,' she returned cheerfully ; ' then
you must just put up with them as they are. It
will not be so hard when you are in your beautiful
home, and you have your mother and Aunt
Catherine and Reggie. You will have so much
to do ; there will be your tenants, and perhaps
you may enter Parliament ; and when you are
doing good with all your might and helping
other people to be good too, you will not find
much time for thinking of past mistakes. Am
I not right. Aunt Catherine ?'

Yes, my darling ; Basil will find this out for
himself one day.'

What am I to say to you two good women ?'
returned Basil with suppressed emotion. ' I
think I had better say nothing for fear I should
make an ass of myself ; but you shall see you
shall see  if I am not a better man from this
day.'

It will all come right,' she said cheerfully;
and then she walked a little farther to the edge
of the sea, and we heard her singing the verse
of a hymn softly to herself:

Brief life is here our portion ;

Brief sorrow, short-lived care ;
The life that knows no ending,
The tearless life, is there.'

Basil made no remark, and we walked on.
Once we looked back ; Olga was still standing
motionless in the same position. The moonlight
shone on her white dress, and on her
uplifted face. She had thrown a light woollen
scarf over her head. In the strange silvery
light she looked like some beautiful picture.

Do you know of what she reminds me now,
Basil ?'

No,' he answered rather shortly.

Of some picture I have seen of Christiana
about to cross the river. The drapery looks
just the same, and there is the water.'

I thought Christiana was an old woman,' he
answered curtly. ' To my mind. Miss Leigh
rather resembles Mercy or Phoebe.'

Evidently my fancy did not please him, for he
called to her somewhat peremptorily :

It is getting late, Miss Leigh, and i\unt
Catherine is very tired ;' and she ran towards
us at once.

I suppose I must not ask what you were

thinking about just now ?' remarked Basil, as
she joined us.

I was only saying good-bye to it all,' she
returned, looking at him a little sadly. ' It has
been such a lovely time, and this is such a dear
place !' and then she came round to my side
and took my arm, and we went slowly up by
the washing-pool, and under the dark overhanging
trees ; and it seemed to me that
neither of them spoke again until we reached
home, and then Basil said he had a headache,
and did not want his supper.

Olga and I went to church the next morning,
while Basil stopped with Reggie ; and in the
evening Olga took his place. We spent the
afternoon in the garden, and Basil made me
come with him and say good-bee to the
pavilion ; he did not ask Olga to come too.

It is only for you and me,' he whispered.
Do you think I shall ever forget that night.
Aunt Catherine, when I was sick with famine
and could not touch food ; and yet I could take
it from your hand like a child.'

We went to church together after that, leaving
Olga with Reggie. Basil had been a little
quiet and subdued all day, but he became like
his old self directly he found himself alone with
me. In the course of our walk he spoke a
great deal of his mother and Aline.

I want you to tell me what I am to do he
said presently. ' I have been lyino;- awake for
hours thinking of the future. I know what my
duty is to Aline, and yet how am I to do it
without causing misery to you and my mother ?
I want you to advise me and help me.'

My dear,' I replied after a moment's hesitation,
' I am old-fashioned, and have old-fashioned
notions.'

You mean,' he returned quickly, for he always
seemed to understand the slightest hint, ' that
I must act up to the spirit as well as to the
letter of my marriage vows  for better for
worse  and it has been for worse all along.'
A bitter sigh escaped him, and then he went
on : ' I have tried to be a good husband to her
indeed I have tried ; but it is she who has
failed in her wifely duty. Aunt Catherine, I
should never have left her as I have if she had
said a word to keep me ; her sullenness has
driven me away. I believe in my heart that
she is happier without me ; last night I was
thinking that perhaps it would be better for her
to stay with George.'

Basil, my dear boy, would that be right }'

I think it would be the lesser of two evils.

If Aline be at the Hall, she will make your

and my mother's life wretched ; she is safer

with George ; in some way I think I irritate

her. I could make her an allowance, and
Reggie and I could go and see her sometimes !'

I was silent. It would be easier so ; our
poor boy would in some degree recover his lost
freedom. But again I asked myself, Would it
be right ? Could anyone absolve him of the
responsibility he had taken on himself ? 
Those whom God has joined together let no
man put asunder.' As I thought of those
awful words I shuddered.

Basil was watching my face as though to
gain the clue to my thoughts. I repeated the
words aloud ; he seemed to shiver as he heard
them.

Don't, Aunt Catherine !'

My dear, she is your wife ; you are responsible
in God's sight for that poor girl ; she is
the mother of your boy  of your little lost
angel. In spite of her grievous infirmities, she
has been a true wife to you.'

He flushed up at that.

She has never cared for any other man,' he
said proudly.

In her own way she loves you. No, do not
shake your head. I have gathered this from
your own words. You have no right to refuse
her the shelter of your home, unless she tells
you that she wishes to remain with her brother.'

She will never tell me that.'

Are you sure of that, Basil ?'

Quite sure. You do not know Aline ; she
is proud, too, in her way ; she always wanted
to marry a gentleman  to live above her
station ; she likes soft, luxurious living  handsome
clothes  dainty food ; she would like to
drive in her carriage. George cannot gratify her
tastes ; I have only to say '' Come," and she
will leave him at once.'

And yet you think she will be happier with
him ?'

After a time  yes ; these things will only
satisfy her until they have lost their novelty.
She has got the demon of unrest within her ;
neither I nor any living man can make Aline
happy. I am telling you the whole truth ;
when she comes to the Hall, there will be
misery in store for us all.'

It will not be so bad as you think, Basil,' I
returned, anxious to soothe him. ' In a small
house it might be so ; but when you see the
wing we call the Dower House, you will take a
more cheerful view of things. There are two
large sitting-rooms ; there will be no necessity
for us even to have our meals together. Aline
need never see us unless she likes.'

Aunt Catherine,' he remonstrated, ' is it
to me you are saying this ? Do you think I am
so happy that I shall not need you every day of

my life ? Will there be anyone dearer to me
or more honoured than you ?'

Basil  your mother !'

I do not know my mother impatiently ;
she is not my friend as you have been. How
do I know how things will be between us ? It
is you to whom I shall turn for comfort when
Aline '  and then he stopped, and went on
bitterly  ' yes, I will ask her to come ; I will
not shirk my duty. Will that content you ?'

Yes,* I replied, pressing his arm. * I ask
nothing but to see )Ou do your duty. Basil,
when you go and fetch your wife I will go too.'

You !' he exclaimed, with a start ; and then
he said gratefully, * But that is so like your
goodness !'

My dear, what nonsense ! You are one
of us now. Your burthens are ours. Oh, I
know well what Virginia will say when she
hears your story ! She has such a good heart.
She will say, " Bring your wife to me, Basil,
and let me try to be a mother to her ;" and
nothing will exceed her gentleness. Aline will
not be able to resist her when she sees herself
surrounded by all this kindness. She will not
be sullen any longer.'

I think he was too much touched to answer,
and we walked on in silence. It was sweet
to me to hear the assurances of his affection,

and yet In my heart I felt as though I were
robbing Virginia. She had still to win
him.

Olga was singing to herself In the dusk when
we returned ; we could hear the clear, sweet
notes through the open window. Basil made
me stand In the court-yard for a long time
listening to them.

She will not sing like that unless she believes
herself alone,' he said by way of explanation
; and, Indeed, I had never heard her sing
so well.

The rest of the evening passed very peacefully.
After supper, we sat round the window
still In the dark  and talked ; at least, Basil
talked. Olga was rather quiet. He wanted to
hear about all the people on the estate ; the
names and private history of the tenants  his
curiosity on the subject was Insatiable.

I mean to be Interested about everybody and
everything,' he finished, when I declined to
enlighten him any more.

I think we were all a little tired that night ;
but Olga came into my room to look at Reggie
in his sleep.

It Is for the last time,' she said softly, as she
kissed his closed eyelids. * He belongs to you
now, Aunt Catherine.'

I had given her Basil's message, and I

reminded her of this, but she only shook her
head.

Everything will be different,' she returned
rather sadly. ' Reggie will have his mother
and his grandmother and you ; he will not need
me then. Mr. Basil is very kind ; but he does
not understand that things must be different ;'
and then she went away without looking at him
again.

I thought of Reggie's baby-words, ' I shall
always want father and my Dear ;' and I could
not help thinking that Olga might be wrong.

The next morning Basil took Reggie down
to St. Genette to see Lizette, while Olga and
I completed our packing. They drove there
and back, so as to save the child any fatigue.
They both looked wonderfully bright on their
return.

Lizette was quite bewildered at first,' Basil
said, laughing ; ' she took Reggie for me. We
could not make her understand for a long time.
Reggie was quite alarmed. '' Reggie is Reggie !"
he kept saying; so at last she was convinced.
'* He is thy image, mon cher !" she said
presently. " I am growing old ; my eyes are
dim. I thought surely it was mon petit." Ah,
well, we have left her happy, poor old soul !
so it is a good morning's work, after all.'

We sat in the little above all the afternoon,

and Jeanne served us our coffee there. I
missed Olga after a time, and Basil said
he would go in search of her. He seemed
to know instinctively where she was to be
found.

It was growing late, so I dressed Reggie and
myself. The fiacre was at the door, and Jules
and Jeanne were bringing out the luggage.
Rollo was with his mistress. I felt a little
anxious at Olga's delay, and went out in the
lane to look for her. She and Basil were just
coming down the field-path.

There is Aunt Catherine,' I heard her say ;
and they quickened their steps.

I thought Olga seemed a little excited. She
slipped her hand in my arm as I stood waiting
for the luggage to be strapped on the fiacre.
The sun was just setting ; a sort of glorified stillness
seemed to pervade the scene. How
peaceful it all looked  the old house, with its
brown shutters, its open windows ; the courtyard,
with its sycamore ; the steep, shady lane ;
the cornfields ! There were the chickens scratching
in the dust as usual ; the gray and white
kittens frisking on the doorway ; Jeanne clattering
to the gate with one package after another.

Basil assisted us into the fiacre in silence, and
then followed us and took Reggie on his knee.

Good-bye to La Maisonnette !' exclaimed

Olga, as Jules cracked his whip. Her voice
was so sad that we both looked at her. Were
there tears in her eyes, or was it only the sunlight
? ' Good-bye to La Maisonnette, and the
dear, beautiful days that have been so happy !'

*AULD LANG SYNE.'

But I am constant as the northern star,
Of whose true-fixed and resting quality
There is no fellow in the firmament.'

"" Jjiliiis Caesar'

He has my heart yet, and shall have my prayers
While I shall have my life.'

'Henry VIW

We had a calm passage, and the September
night was so warm and pleasant that we remained
late on deck. Olga seemed to enjoy
pacing up and down in the starlight. She
yielded reluctantly to my proposition at last to
seek our berths, and secure two or three hours'
sleep ; but, after all, the suggestion was a wise
one, as it enabled us to join Basil at breakfast
feeling tolerably refreshed.

I think we all found the journey from Southampton
a little irksome. Reggie, who was still
weak from his recent illness, curled himself upon

Olga's lap, and was soon fast asleep. Every
half-hour Basil begged to relieve her, but she
always refused.

Do let me keep him,' she pleaded. ' He is
so light that I can hardly feel his weight.'

But, for all that, she looked a little weary
when we arrived at Waterloo.

Basil had secured rooms for us at Victoria.
It was quite early in the afternoon as we drove
up to our hotel ; but Reggie was already asking
to be put to bed, so we felt we had done wisely
to break the journey. It was arranged that he
was to sleep with Olga that night ; she had
begged it as a favour. We were showed at
once to our rooms ; and when Reggie had had
his tea and was comfortably tucked up in bed,
we left him under the charge of the chambermaid,
and went down to our sitting-room.

Dinner was on the table, and as soon as we
had finished we drew our chairs round the open
window and looked down on the animated
scene below. A stream of vehicles passed
every moment ; the foot-passengers were jostling
each other on the pavement ; eager faces,
gay dresses, children's voices  noise, movement
everywhere. Olga gazed down upon it all
with a grave, abstracted face. Perhaps at that
moment her thoughts were far away. Most likely
she was recalling a different scene  a steep.

shady lane, with fern-covered banks, the blue
water of the bay shining in the sunlight ; a
certain brown gate with a sycamore over it.
Near us a bell was ringing for the evening
service ; a woman was singing in the square.
We could hear her voice  a little cracked, but
not without a rude sort of melody  ' In the
gloaming'  oh, that pitiful old song, with its
sweet, reproachful plaint ! I seemed to hear it
in a sort of dream. I was thinking how Brookfield
would look tomorrow. I was longing to
hear the rooks cawing over my head, to seethe
elms with the evening light on them, to
feel Virginia's arms round me. I woke up with
a start. Olga was watching me. There was a
smile on her face.

Where is Basil, my dear ?'

He has gone down to smoke his cigarette
in the square. He will not be long. Do you
know you have been asleep, Aunt Catherine ?
We would not disturb you.'

I thought I was at Brookfield. Ah, the
woman has stopped singing now. I am so
tired of that song. I think I will go and look
at Reggie, just to see he is all right. 1 shall
not be long, and then we will have some tea to
wake us up.'

Reggie was asleep, and the chamber-maid 
a pleasant - looking young woman  was still

VOL. II. 34

beside him. Her work was over for the evening,
she said. She could wait until the young
lady came to relieve her, so I went down again.
Our sitting-room was at the end of a long corridor.
As I walked slowly down it, a gentleman
coming up the staircase attracted my attention.
He was a tall man, with iron-gray hair, and
from his dress was evidently a clergyman.
Something in his walk struck me as familiar.
The next moment he accosted me.

Would you be so good as to tell me ' he

began, and then he stopped. I suppose I was
looking at him strangely'.

Mr. Fleming !'

Catherine  good heavens !'

And then for a moment there was no other
word. I think for the minute he could not
speak. It was so sudden, so unexpected, after
all those years.

I am afraid my first speech was wholly
stupid.

How could you recognise me ?'

I might ask you the same question,' and
he gave a nervous laugh. ' It was your expression,
and the way you looked at me ;
but '

He did not finish his sentence, but I could
see then the old keen look that used to read me
so truly.

In spite of the joy of this meeting, I shrank a
little from his scrutiny.

I have changed, of course  eight-and-twenty
years would change anyone. If you had passed
me, I should have had no right to be hurt. A
man is different. A woman ages more quickly.'

I hardly knew what I was saying in my
nervousness, for he was still holding my hand,
and the clear gray eyes were still reading
me.

Eight-and-twenty years ! is it really so long
as that, Catherine ?  I beg your pardon, Miss
Seton ; but '  dropping my hand and looking
away from me  ' I should have known you anywhere
; you are wonderfully little changed considering
! We are both middle-aged people ;
but my life has been a hard one. I shall be
glad to hear that yours has been smooth.'

I forgot to return any answer to this, though
he spoke in a questioning tone. Oh, I knew
well that his life had been hard ! It was
stamped on his thin, careworn face ; the weary
stoop of his shoulders told it. In a certain
sense he had aged more than I had ; only the
vivid brightness of his eyes, and the quick,
energetic voice, recalled the Robert Fleming
of old. He had grown gray, too ; but I had
known that before.

More than one person had passed and had

342

looked at us curiously ; every moment some
door opened Into the corridor.

*We cannot stop here,' I said hurriedly.
Our sitting-room is just by ; will you come
in?'

I will come by-and-by,' he returned rather
absently ; ' but there is a friend I must see first.
Number eighty-four. Yes, that was what they
told me downstairs.'

Number eighty-four is our sitting-room,' I
observed, smiling.

He looked so perplexed at this that I was
about to explain, when an exclamation behind
us made us turn quickly. Basil was springing
up the staircase three steps at a time.

So you have come ?' was all he said ; but
the look the two men interchanged, and the
way they grasped each other's hand, was
enough to tell me what they were to each
other. As for Mr. Fleming's face, it was
illuminated.

My dear boy, have I ever failed to come
when you sent for me ?'

Never  never, my dear old friend !'

Basil, do you mean to tell me that you sent
for Mr. Fleming ?'

Why, of course !' with an astonished look at
me. ' I told you that I telegraphed from St. Croix.
Have you forgotten that, Aunt Catherine ?'

But before I could answer Mr. Fleming
interrupted us ; he was looking from one to
the other in the utmost perplexity.

Do you know this lady, Basil ? She used
to be a friend of mine in the old time.'

'So she told me. Look here, Mr. Fleming:
you ought to have waited for my letter  it
would have explained everything  instead of
rushing up to London in this impulsive way.
I was thinking about you just now as I was
smoking in the square. " I shouldn't wonder
if the dear old man puts in an appearance tonight,"
that was what I said to myself; and
then, as I came upstairs, I saw you and Aunt
Catherine together.'

My dear boy, will you answer my question ?
Are you a relative of my old friend, Miss
Seton ?'

But, after all, I would not let Basil answer.

He is Virginia's son !' I returned quickly.
Basil is her boy, and mine. He is our
father's heir  his own lawful grandson ; and
it is you  you who have cherished our boy
all these years ! Thank God that we have
met at last, and I can thank you for all your
goodness to Basil !'

He was very much surprised ; he grew quite
pale with emotion. I do not think he could
have heard such news and not be moved by it.

Come,' said Basil, throwing his arm lightly
over his shoulders, *we cannot stand out here any
longer talking about our private affairs. There
is only Miss Leigh in the sitting-room, and she
knows everything. Come in, Aunt Catherine,'
and we followed him at once.

Olga certainly looked surprised at our abrupt
entrance ; but at Basil's first word she came upto
Mr. Fleming and gave him her hand.

'You are Mr. Basil's friend,' she said in her
pretty girlish way. ' Oh, we know all about
you ; he is always talking of you ! I am so
glad that you have come at last ; it is a great
pleasure  is it not. Aunt Catherine ?' and then
she gave me a quick, loving look. ' Now I
must go to Reggie ; and there is so much that
you three will have to say to each other ;' and
before any of us could stop her she had left the
room.

I sat down by the open window, and left
Basil undisturbed to tell his story. Mr. Fleming
made him go back to the beginning. He
described his life in the pavilion ; his first
meeting with Olga ; our kindness to Reggie ;
the child's illness, and all that followed ; Pere
Lefevre's story ; and the visit to Lizette Dupont.


Ah, poor Lizette ! I remember her well !'
observed Mr. Fleming, with much feeling.

She was a faithful creature. But for her
you would have fared badly, Basil. How
strange, how marvellous, it all seems ! To
think all these years I had a Seton living
under my roof; that the boy I thought was
friendless and penniless was the heir to Brookfield
Hall ! Leave me to think over it for a
moment ; your story has almost taken my
breath away.'

'Aunt Catherine shall make us some tea,'
returned Basil gaily. ' I am thirsty with so
much talking. I have had more than my share.'
Then, as he followed me to the table, he said
curiously : ' What was the waiter saying to you
just now ? was it about Miss Leigh ?'

Yes ; Olga had pencilled me a little note.
Reggie was awake and she could not leave him,
so she wished us all good-night. The chambermaid
had brought her some tea, and she was
quite comfortable, and she said again how glad
she was Mr. Fleming had come.'

Miss Leigh knows exactly when to efface
herself. Yes, it is just like her ; but she would
not have been in the way.' Mr. Fleming overheard
him as he joined us.

Who is that young lady with the pretty
voice  whom I fear that I have banished from
the room ? is she a protegee of yours, Miss
Seton ?'

Yes, virginia and I are ver' fond of her.
Olga is charming when one knows her w(rll.
Do you remember Fircroft, that old red house
near the church ? she lives there with her
brother. Mr. Leigh is our curate-in-charge.'

Yes, I remember Fircroft ; it was to let in
my time ; old Miss Crowder had just died.
When I have time I must ask after a few of my
Brookfield friends. I have a tenacious memory
it will astonish you ; but there is another subject
we have not mentioned : I have not yet
asked after your wife, Basil.' His voice was
grave, and he looked fixedly at the young man
as he spoke.

She is well ; at least. I believe so,' returned
Basil in an embarrassed tone. * She is with
George at present.'

The anxious look deepened on Mr. Fleming's
face.

My dear boy. you have not left her ?'

Only for a month or two ; one must have
change sometimes. Holloway was driving me
mad, so I thought it best to go away for a little.
She let me take the boy ; I couldn't have gone
without him ; she knew that.'

And things are no better ?'

They never will be. George manages to
keep her straight for a little ; but it never lasts
long  it never can with Aline.'

Poor girl ! poor girl ! and yet in her way she
is good to you ; are you '  and then he looked
at me and hesitated  ' do you mean to bring
your wife to Brooked Hall ?'

I suppose I must ;' but I interposed :

We shall go and fetch her together. Basil's
burthens are ours now ; we must share them
together. If he be unhappy, we shall be unhappy
too.'

A peculiar softness came into Mr. Fleming's
eyes ; but he looked at Basil, not at me.

You will not be unhappy, my boy, with
such friends to help you. Your wife is young,
there may be hope still ; do not leave her with
her brother too long. mr. Barton is a goodman
in his way ; but we must not shift our
responsibilities on to other men's shoulders ; no
one can relieve you of a husband's duty to that
poor girl'

Basil flushed as though the advice were unpalatable
to him ; he threw up his head a little
proudly. ' I know ; you need not tell me,' he
said bitterly. ' I have brought the misery on
myself and must abide by it. If a man acts like
a fool, he must pay for it.'

It was the old reckless tone. As he heard it,
Mr. Fleming rose and put his hand on his
shoulder. 'I am at my old quarters, and it is
getting late ; will you walk across the Park with

me ?  you can smoke your cigarette and we can
finish our talk.' And then 1 knew that he
wanted to be alone with Basil, his boy as well
as mine  that my presence was a restraint. I
thought Basil agreed to this proposition a little
reluctantly ; perhaps he dreaded the clear-sighted
judgment of his mentor ; but Mr.
Fleming did not appear to notice it. The
sudden leave-taking troubled me ; he had said
so little to me or I to him ; it was Basil who
had engrossed him. A chilly feeling of disappointment
crept over me as I thought how long
it might be before we met again.

To my surprise he seemed to answer this
thought.

It is not good-bye,' he said quietly ; * Basil
tells me that you do not leave until mid-day tomorrow.
I should like to come and see you
again  may I ?'

I shall be very glad.'

Then I will come.' He seemed to wait until
Basil had left the room, and then he came a
little closer.

I should like to talk to you about Basil ; he
has been very dear all these years  he is still 
I have missed him terribly.'

I am afraid he has not always treated you
well.'

Never mind that now ; with all his faults he

has been like a son to me. Well, it has been a
great pleasure finding you two together ; goodbye
 God bless you !' and before I could
answer he was gone.

The room looked a little solitary, and I went
up to Olga. She was sitting by the open window ;
she seemed surprised to see me.

Has Mr. Fleming gone already ?'

Yes, dear, and he has taken Basil with him.
He wanted a long quiet talk with him. Why
have you not gone to bed, Olga ? And you
are so tired.'

'Not so very tired'  wrapping my arms
round her and leaning against me, a favourite
action of hers in some moods. ' Aunt Catherine,
were you not very glad to meet your old friend
again ?'

Very glad indeed.'

I should have liked to have seen more of
him ; but of course I knew I was in the way.
He is just what I thought. Do you know, his
face reminds me a little of yours. No ; I
cannot explain it '  as I uttered an incredulous
exclamation  * but you have both got the same
clear, earnest look  what Jessie calls a trust-able
look.'

My dear, I am very much obliged to you
and Jessie.'

He is not young, of course  his hair is

quite gray. How old did you say he

was ?'

Mr. Fleming must be fifty ; his work has
aged him.'

Yes ; and then his life has not been a happy
one.'

We do not know that, Olga,' rather quickly.

Do we not i*'  with a lite laugh. ' Well, I
must not keep you here talking. I suppose he
is coming again tomorrow ?'

I do not know why you should suppose any
such thing ; but for once you happen to be
correct.'

It would be very strange if he did not come.
He and Mr. Basil must want to be together.'

Oh yes, of course ;' and then she kissed me
affectionately and let me go.

I was glad to be alone with my own thoughts.
After all these years God had granted me my
wish: I had looked in the face of Robert Fleming
again  the man to whom I had plighted my
girlish troth, for whose sake I had lived single
and the meeting had not disappointed me. I
had seen the quick flash of joy in his eyes ashe
pronounced my name. Would he have
called me Catherine in that momentary confusion
if the past had been wholly obliterated
from his mind ? if the girl Catherine had been
forgotten ? I held to this thread of comfort

firmly, when the cold waters of common-sense
came to damp my enthusiasm.

Let me confess it : I did not long remain
happy. Many a woman of my age has these
sudden chills of introspection and retrospection,
these dim brooding moods, when we are
brought face to face with our inner selves, when
we look with dreary, pitying eyes on our dead
youth, on the hopes that lie in faded heaps like
autumn leaves. All those years, in which we
might have been so happy  does not the strain .
run after that fashion ? All those fresh
womanly feelings wasted in waiting for something
that never came  in that wistful watching
that too often ends in heart-sickness and
despair !

After all, if he had cared for me as I had
cared for him, would he not have trampled
down his pride underfoot and came back to me
not in my father's lifetime, perhaps, but when
his death had set me free ? And  and  I will
write it here  I had expected him month after
month, and year after year, and he had made
no sign ! No ; he had never come back to the
Catherine he had so tenderly loved, whom,
strong man as he was, it almost broke his heart
to give up ! But in my inmost mind I had not
been angry with him. It was his notion of
honour  strained and misplaced, perhaps, but

Still a sense of honour  that had refused to
seek out the heiress. Alost likely he thought
himself forgotten. He had not loved again,
that was certain ; and this knowledge, poor and
meagre as it was, was the abiding sweetness of
my life.

What poor creatures we women are ! We
can bear disappointment, suspense, unhappiness,
but we cannot endure that one whom we
love should forget us. No ; this one thing we
cannot bear !

It was some time before I could reason and
school myself into calmness ; as the bitter waters
of the past, that had submerged all my youthful
hopes, seemed to rise again before my eyes, a
sort of dual voice seemed to oppose vague
utterances.

After all, you have had a happy life,' one
seemed to say. * Many women have to do without
love and marriage  it is Kismet, Fate, the
will of God. You have had your freedom, wealth,
plenty of work, friends to cheer your leisure.'

Yes, but I have been lonely through it all
murmured that other unbidden voice. ' I have
had no strong arm to lean upon ; all my life I
have wanted my other self. When I have seen
wives with their husbands, mothers with their
children, I have felt my freedom an irksome
thing, my wealth mere emptiness. The will of

God ! Ah, well, you are right. It may be so ;
but I think our heavenly Father knows why
the eyes of women are so often dim, and their
tears do not make Him angry.'

Most likely you have cared for Robert
Fleming more than he has cared for you,' went
on the voice ;  this reflection ought to humiliate
you. A little while ago you had settled to make
him your heir.'

I do not feel humiliated ; such a reflection
would not trouble me for a moment. What
does it matter on which side the lovelies ? He
was my master once, and taught me all I knew
of good ; I had no religion until he instilled it ;
I owe my better self to him  to his high-minded
example ; he loved me once : that is sufficient.'

This is mere sophistical nonsense. At your
age one should think more wisely.'

It is the truth, and I know no other. As
long as Robert Fleming lives, the world will be
richer to me. I ask nothing from him but
friendship, esteem, a kindly recollection of the
past ; more would embarrass  would trouble
me  would disturb my sense of fitness. I
neither ask nor desire it ; but if I could only do
him some good, I think I should die happier /
and with this curious confession of womanly
faith I triumphed over my dissentient voice.

I grew quite reasonable at last, and

chided myself in earnest for the hours I had
wasted in fruitless regrets. 'You are not the
only one,' I said to myself severely, ' whom
Heaven has deprived of complete satisfaction in
this world. There are so many widowed lives 
meek, uncomplaining ones  lives so patiently
borne that even the angels must wonder at
them, and you  you have had so many blessings
;' and then, touched and humbled, I knelt
down to say my thanksgiving, and after that I
slept as sweetly as ever ; and when morning
came I woke quite happily, for was I not going
home with Basil ? and was that not happiness
enough ? besides which  but I have written
enough on that subject.

When we met at breakfast it was Basil who
looked as though he had not slept. He did not
deny the charge.

One can't stand so much excitement,' he
said, laughing rather nervously. ' I suppose
that long talk unsettled me, and then I kept
thinking about my mother. I cannot help
dreading the meeting. What am I to say to her,
and she to me, when we are strangers to each
other ?' and then he broke off as Olga came
into the room with Reggie, and it seemed a
relief to him to take the little fellow in his arms.
Poor Basil ! I could feel for him ; it was terribly
embarrassing.

Mr. Fleming came quite early. Basil took
Reg-gie half across the park to meet him, and
they all came in together. Basil had almost
lost that fagged, harassed look. As soon as
Mr. Fleming had shaken hands with us, Basil
accosted me eagerly :

Aunt Catherine, such a capital idea has come
into my head : why should not Mr. Fleming
come down with us to Brookfield ?'

To Brookfield ?' I faltered.

Yes ; it will make things easier for all of us.
I should like it. I shall feel more like myself if
he is there to back me up ; and my mother
ought to see him, you know.'

My dear boy, it is you who are master ; you
may surely ask whom you will to your own
house.'

1 never thought of that,' with a flush ; ' and
I will do nothing without your permission.
Shall he come, Aunt Catherine ?'

If he will be so good,' I returned, smiling.

Mr. Fleming had remained silent ; but I
could see this wish on Basil's part touched him
profoundly.

Will you come, Mr. Fleming ?'

Go and ask him, Reggie,' whispered Basil in
his boy's ear ; and the child, in his ready, sweet
obedience, ran up to him. Mr. Fleming stooped
over him.

VOL. II. 35

What is it, my little fellow ?' he said gently.

Reggie wants you to come, and father, too,

and my Dear ' looking round for Olga, ' and

Aunt Cathy,' for he could not pronounce my
name.

'What, all  everybody? I think I must
come, Reggie ; father's wishes have always been
paramount with me. But this young lady,' looking
at Olga with kindly, observant eyes, ' I
think you made a mistake there ;' and then he
put down the child and walked to the window ;
and, after a moment's hesitation, Basil followed
him, and they talked earnestly together ; and,
though Olga and I could not hear what they
were saying, there was a pleased look on Mr.
Fleming's face  a bright, happy look that told
us volumes.

'WELCOME HOME, MY DEAR.'

O, Lord ! my boy, my Arthur, my fair son !
My life, my joy, my food, my all the world !
My widow comfort, and my sorrow's cure.'

King John.'
O Lord, that lends me life,
Lend me a heart replete with thankfulness.'

Second Part of ' Henry IV.'

Just before we started, I found myself alone
with Mr. Fleming. I had gone upstairs to put
on my bonnet, and on my return to the sitting-room
I saw him standing at the window apparently
lost in thought.

My entrance roused him. As he came towards
me, I noticed that he looked younger
and brighter than he had yesterday. His
shoulders seemed to have lost their stoop. ?Ie
seemed alert  full of animation.

I am glad to have an opportunity of speaking
to you,' he began quickly. ' 1 am afraid

352

my boy has been a little impulsive. Are you
sure that I shall not be in the way  that Mrs.
Lyndhurst will not think it an intrusion ?'

 I can answer for Virginia's welcome as well
as my own,' I returned gravely. ' Mr. Fleming,
cannot you understand how deeply we are indebted
to you ? You have been our benefactor
as well as Basil's. When Virginia learns how
all these years you have been guarding her
treasure, there will be no limit to her gratitude.'

You must not say such things to me. Miss
Seton. It troubles me to hear them.'

Then they shall not be said. I would not
hurt you for the world. Let me tell you instead
how glad 1 am for Basil's sake that you are with
him at this crisis of his life.'

He is very nervous about this meeting with
his mother,' he said thoughtfully. * He has confessed
to me that he dreads it beyond everything.
It is unfortunate that Mrs. Lyndhurst would
never consent to be photographed, for he cannot
picture her in the least. He seemed quite
surprised when I told him what a handsome
girl she used to be.'

That is because your description does not
tally with ours. Eight-and-twenty years ago,
I grant you, Virginia was a beautiful creature.
When you see her, you will not recognise her as
you recognised me.'

Is she so changed ?'

Changed ! that is not the word. Strangers
have often told me that it made their hearts
ache only to look at her. Her troubles have
been too much for her. Her nerves have
suffered.'

I understand  Basil told me a great deal
last night.'

He says very little about his mother to me,
and I am half afraid to question him. I should
like to know what he really feels about her.'

It is difficult to judge,' he replied after a
moment's hesitation. ' He is very guarded.
He does not speak openly even to me. I can
see he feels her desertion of him in his helpless
infancy very keenly, and yet no word of blame
passes his lips ; but it has chilled him. No,
you must not grieve," as the tears rose to my
eyes, and he looked at me very kindly. ' It is
only natural he should feel it, but we must
hope that mother and son will soon be drawn
together.'

I think if she fails to win his love my
poor Virginia will break her heart. Any
coldness on Basil's part will crush her. Mr.
Fleming, will you tell him so ? I have gone
through so much that I feel I can bear no
more.'

I would willingly spare you all pain if I

could he returned gently ; ' but, pardon me, I
think I understand Basil better than you do.
We must leave him to himself; he has a good
heart. We must trust that. Any advice would
only embarrass him. You saw for yourself last
night how hard it is for him to take even a word
from me. It has always been like that  his
pride has been his bane.'

He has never been proud with me.'

That is because you are so gentle with him.
I can see for myself how much influence you
have with him already. He was talking to me
about you last night. He thinks there is no one
like you. You would have been pleased to hear
him.'

Mr. Fleming, will you tell me one thing : Is
it your opinion that Basil is to blame at all with
regard to his wife ?'

He looked sorry that I had asked the question.
He hesitated, and seemed unwilling to
answer.

You have put a very difficult question. I
should have liked you to judge for yourself.
Basil is very much to be pitied. No one could
deny that he leads a wretched life with that
poor girl ; but it has always been my opinion
that he might have done more for her in the
beginning.'

I am afraid he has ceased to love her.'

It was never real love.' he returned warmly.
It was just a young man's fancy for a handsome
girl that would have cooled in a month or
two. He very soon grew weary of her. A
woman of her calibre could never hold him
long. When I first saw her, I knew there
would be no happiness for him in the future.
Poor boy ! he needed more than she could give
him, and yet she loved him with all the strength
of her undisciplined nature.'

You think that Aline loves him. Basil
assures me that she is quite indifferent  that
she seldom speaks to him.'

That comes of her sullen temper. She
is jealous, too ; and she knows that she has
forfeited all claims to his respect. I believe in
her way the poor girl suffers terribly. She has
fits of remorse that are quite distressing to
witness. I believe if Basil spoke kindly to her
then she would be ready to die for him ; but he
has lost all heart and interest. He tells me
that he never troubles himself now about her
moods.'

Mr. Fleming, you will think me hard, too ;
but I am afraid I take Basil's part. How is he
to bear with such a woman ?'

You have not seen her,' he answered
quickly. ' I should not be surprised if she
interested you in spite of yourself ; there are

possibilities even in her nature, poor thing" !
She is the victim of others' sins ; an hereditary
taint is in her blood. Her brother knows this,
and pities and shields her ; it is only her
husband who has no mercy.'

But what would you have him do ? He is
going to bring her home.'

Yes, he will bring her home ; but will he be
good to her ? Will he watch over her, and
keep the deadly poison away ? Will he try to
wean her from her fatal habit by surrounding
her with other influences, and teaching her self-respect
? Will he stay with her instead of
rushing away to seek distraction for himself,
and taking his boy with him ? Miss Seton,
you must not think mc hard ; my heart bleeds
for him ; but right is right. Basil has made that
girl his wife, and he must do his duty by her,
as other men have done theirs. It is no
question of love ; it is clear, manifest duty.
This is what I have told him, and he does not
contradict me.'

No, he will not contradict you ; but his life
will be terribly difficult  and he is so young.'

She is young, too.'

'Yes, I know;' and then we could say no
more, as we heard Basil's voice outside.

I was glad to have had even this brief talk.
I knew now what were Mr. Fleming's opinions

with regard to Aline. In some respects they
corroborated the impressions I had already
formed. I felt Basil had not been faultless  
his long absences, his restless wanderings, his
absorption in his boy, had widened the breach
between husband and wife. Aline had lost
all incentive to self-control ; she despaired of
regaining Basil's love ; most likely she was
trying to drown her sense of neglect and
wretchedness ; but, on the other hand, what
superhuman patience was needed to endure the
daily companionship of such a woman! It
was easy for a man like Mr. Fleming to preach
the duty he so nobly practised of self-abnegation
; but for Basil, with his sensitive nature,
his pride, his impatient irritability, it was
more difficult ; and in my heart I could not
blame him ; and he had already suffered so
much.

I think but for INIr. Fleming we should have
been a silent party ; but he helped us all to
feel more natural and at our ease. Basil's
nervousness seemed to increase as we drew
towards our journey's end ; he talked fitfully.
As we slackened speed, Olga, who had been
very quiet, suddenly brightened.

Oh, there is Jem !' she said. ' Rollo, look !
there is dear old Jem !' and Rollo whined
expectantly, as though he understood.

Is that your brother ?' exclaimed Basil ; ' I
should like to shake hands with him. What a
fine-looking fellow !'

But I doubt if Olga heard him, for she was
waving and kissing her hand to Jem. I smile
now when I recall Jem's look of astonishment
as the two gentlemen followed us out of the
carriage. As Basil's dark face peered over my
shoulder, I heard Jem whisper in a sort of
disgusted aside :

Why, you haven't brought that fellow
Fleming over with you, surely ?'

I only hoped it was not audible. Olga
hardly knew how to answer, so I thought it
politic to explain matters.

This is my old friend Mr. Fleming, Jem ;
but now let me introduce you to my nephew,
Basil Lyndhurst. Basil, this is Miss Leigh's
brother, of whom you have heard so much.'

Jem's face was a study as they shook hands
rather stiffly. The whole thing was so droll
that Olga and I began to laugh ; but this did
not mend matters.

I was not aware you had a nephew. Miss
Seton,' replied Jem, in a dignified manner, and
turning very red. (He had never called me
anything but Aunt Catherine for years.) ' I
am very glad to make your acquaintance, Mr.
Lyndhurst. Olga, I have got a truck for your

luggage. I thought you would like the walk upto
Fircroft.'

Yes, I will come, Jem. Dear Aunt
Catherine, good-bye until tomorrow ! Give
my love to Mrs. Lyndhurst.*

But you will bring Jem with you tomorrow,
Olga ? I want him and Basil to be good
friends.'

I will bring him if he will come. Good-bye,
Mr. Basil ! Good-bye, my darling Reggie !'
kneeling on the ground to kiss him.

Jem watched these proceedings a little stonily.
When she had finished, he took off his hat tous
all with a grand sweep, and drew Olga's
hand through his arm, and hurried her away.
I smiled to myself as I looked after them.
Poor Olga ! she would have some trouble in
soothing him. Jem was not one to like
mysteries ; he had been too much taken by
surprise, and he was ruffled in consequence.
Basil made a little speech presently that amused
me still more.

Mr. Leigh seems rather haughty for such a
frank-looking fellow. On the whole, he did
not seem quite pleased with me.'

You don't know Jem,' was my reply ; * he
will be quite different tomorrow. He thinks
Olga ought to have prepared him ; he hates
surprises. Never mind ; there is our faithful

old Jennings with the carriage. You must
speak to him, Basil.'

Basil's nervousness seemed to return as he
seated himself beside me, for Mr. Fleming
insisted on taking the opposite place. Olga
looked up at us as we passed with a tremulous
little smile, and waved her hand. Jem was
still holding her arm ; he raised his hat stiffly,
with the gravity of a young judge. Basil looked
back at them once or twice.

There is Fircroft,' I said presently ; * do
you hear the rooks, Basil ? Look ! we shall
turn into the avenue directly  you can seethe
Hall now ; and  and  welcome home, my
dear !'

He pressed my hand, but did not answer ; he
had grown strangely pale, and there was a
strained look in his eyes, as though he were
expecting to see someone. How grandly the
rooks were cawing over our heads  as though
they were greeting the long-lost heir ! I doubt
whether Basil even heard them, any more than
he noticed the flecks of golden sunshine on the
green turf, or the play of light and shadow in
the branches of the elms. My dear old home !
How lovely it looked that September afternoon
! My eyes were misty with unshed tears ;
a flood of gratitude was in my heart. Oh, how
good Providence had been to us ! I looked at

Mr. Fleming ; his grave answering glance, so
full of unspoken sympathy, of complete understanding,
satisfied me. I was not the only one
to rejoice that day !

The Hall door was wide open ; I could see
Bennet's white head, with our old housekeeper,
Mrs. Larkins, behind him. As the carriage
stopped, and Reynolds sprang from the box to
open the door, I saw Marsden cross the hall
hurriedly, as though in search of her mistress.

I took Basil's hand as we stood together on
the threshold ; he had a dazed look, as though
he were in a dream ; he acknowledged the
servants' respectful greeting almost mechanically.


Mrs. Lyndhurst is in the drawing-room,
ma'am,' Bennet said in my ear ; and I put my
hand on Basil's arm to rouse him.

Come, my dear, come ! We must not keep
your mother waiting ; she is an invalid, remember
;' and 1 drew him on.

Once he stumbled slightly ; the hall was dark
after the sunshine outside, and the oak floor
slippery to unused footsteps. I felt him draw
his breath hard as Bennet opened the drawings
door. And then for the moment I thought
I was dreaming, too ; for the Virginia who stood
in the middle of the room to receive us was not
the Virginia I had left  who had lived with me

all these years. For a second I did not recognise
her.

The frail graceful figure that seemed always
bowed by some mysterious weakness was erect
and tall ; in place of the straight black folds of
her widowlike stuff dress, she wore black velvet,
and that in spite of the sumner warmth. A
little head-dress of costly lace just shaded the
silvery hair, and as I crossed the room I could
see she had a diamond ornament at her throat,
and that her hands were blazing with diamond
rings  Virginia, who had not worn jewels for
five-and-twenty years ! But how deathly was
the marble paleness of her face as she stretched
out her hands tremblingly to her boy.

My son  ni)' own son !'

Mother !'

Just that one word, uttered under his breath,
as though that low passionate utterance compelled
response and recognition ; and as she
looked up in his face with those pleading eyes,
he stooped and kissed her quietly, reverend
on the cheek. He told me afterwards that the
touch of that cold thin cheek gave him a sort of
shock. As for Virginia, that timid, quiet caress
from the full-grown man, who was her son and
yet a stranger, seemed to unseal the pent-up
emotion ; she trembled so violently that I
thought she would have fallen, and Basil

quickly put his arm round her and drew her to
a seat. She kept hold of his hand.

You are very kind,' she gasped. 'Will you
sit down beside me ? you are so tall '  trying to
smile  'and I  I want to see my son.'

He obeyed her at once, but he seemed
nervous and embarrassed under that long fixed
look. As for me, I knew what it meant ;
the mother's eyes were seeking some resemblance
she feared to see. Oh, she had found
it!

Catherine !' How well I knew that sharp
thinness of voice ! ' Catherine, he is like Paul !
It is Paul's mouth  his handsome mouth  and
he has his father's chin. You told me in your
letter that there was no likeness : you are
wrong ; and, look, he has Paul's hand !  I
should have known that hand anywhere !'

What does it matter ?' I returned, somewhat
alarmed at this ; ' Basil does not take
after his father in anything else.'

No '  after a moment's hesitation  ' and,
after all. I am. glad that it should be so ; it
makes him still more my son. I can see the
likeness for myself. Basil '  how softly and
tenderly she pronounced his name !  * you must
not mind anything I have said. I have
suffered so much ; and all these years, these
long, cruel sears, I have been childless.'

Yes, I know ; but he did not look at her ashe
spoke.

I could see his position tried him terribly 
that he did not know what to say to her.
Whose fault was it that he had been a stranger
to his home all those years ? that he had been
forsaken in his helpless infancy and cast upon
the compassion of strangers ? Could he tell her
so ? But the thought would not be banished ;
it kept him silent.

An agonized expression crossed Virginia's
face, as though she read his silence truly.

Catherine, do you see ? he has nothing to
say to me ! My son turns from me  from
me, his mother ! He has hardened his heart
against me because of that past sin of mine !
He has judged me already; and I  what shall
I do ?'

She wrung her hands, and it was pitiful to
see her poor quivering face. It was too much
for Basil ; he started up, and began pacing the
room. It was some minutes before he could
calm himself sufficiently to speak to her, and
all the time she sat, poor soul ! watching him,
and sighing as though her heart would break.
Presently he came back to us.

Mother,' he said almost harshly, but I saw
he had some difficulty in keeping himself in
hand, ' you ought not to have said that  that

should never have been mentioned between
you and me. What is past is past. You are
wrong ; your son does not judge his mother ;
he has too many sins of his own.'

He sank down on the couch beside her and
covered his face with his hands ; his strong
young frame seemed shaking with emotion.

Virginia,' I said gently, ' Basil is right ; you
ought not to have spoken to him in that way.
He does not wish to remember the past ; you
must never recall it to him. It is a new life
that is beginning for you both to-day  a new
and happier life.'

Is it T she returned softly, and she laid her

hand on his arm. She was his mother, but she

dare not venture on a closer caress. ' Yes, I

know ; for this my son was dead, and is alive

again ; he was lost, and is found.'

* # # *

We grew calmer by degrees. Basil was the
first to recover himself. I saw by his manner
that he was anxious to efface the impression
from Virginia's mind, to place things on a more
natural footing. She had entreated him with
tears to forgive her, and his answer had soothed
her.

It is not for a parent to ask forgiveness of
a child,' he had said. ' My father's sins have
been so great that I wonder you do not hate

VOL. II. 36

me for my likeness to him. Do not let there
be any such question between us.'

Then you do forgive me, Basil ?'

What ! again, mother ? And, after all, I
have no right ; but, if you will have it, I
freely forgive you. Now that is finished, and
we will never refer to it again. And I want
you to see my boy ; you have two children,
you know !'

Your boy !' and her manner was a little
bewildered.

Had she forgotten all 1 had told her in my
letter of Basil's unhappy marriage ?

Yes  Reggie. Will you fetch him, Aunt
Catherine ? Do you mind ? I do not know
my way about the house ;' and I went willingly.

It was some minutes before I returned to the
room ; I thought it was better to leave them
together. On our way through the hall I endeavoured
to impress on Reggie's mind that he
was going to see his grandmother. I wanted
him to say the word after me, but he refused.

'Too long,' he said, shaking his head;
Reggie don't like it !'

I am afraid we had all spoiled him, and
indulged his childish whims. He was dressed
in his white sailor's suit, and, in spite of the
loss of his hair, he looked so delicately pretty
that I knew how Virginia would admire him.

His erect little figure was so trim and graceful ;
he carried his head with such dignity, and he
was such a friendly, loving little creature.

He marched up straight to his father and
stood beside him, looking with childish curiosity
at Virginia's pale face.

Is that lady Reggie's Gran ?' he asked at
last.

Yes, dear. Will you give her a kiss ?'

It was evident Reggie did not relish the idea
of the kiss ; but he was accustomed to obey his
father's slightest word, so he put up his face at
once.

How do you do. Gran ?' he said gravely ;
and Virginia caught him in her arms and burst
into tears.

Reggie regarded her with astonished eyes.

Has anyone been naughty, father ?' he
asked in great perplexity. ' Why does Gran
cry ?'

 Let me cry, darling ; it does me good. Oh,
Cathy, Cathy ! look at this dear little face, and
think  think of that little child I never saw 
that lonely little child who never knew his
mother !' and for a little while she sobbed
bitterly, and refused to be comforted.

Reggie looked so frightened that Basil took
him on his knee, and after a time we were
obliged to send him away. Virginia was

362

becoming hysterical ; her frail form could ill
support her overcharged feelings. It was Basil
who proposed sending for Mr. Fleming  I had
not once thought of him. I was a little dubious
as to the result, but, as it proved, Basil was
right.

He had been accustomed to all forms of
mental distress ; his very first words as he took
her hand seemed to soothe her.

All this has been too niuch for you,' he said
gently. ' You have no strength left to thank
God for the great blessing He has vouchsafed
you to-day. Miss Seton, I think you must
give your sister some wine, and then she will
feel better ;' and without heeding her wild sobs
he said a few grave, strong words that seemed
to lift her out of her self-abasement and place
her on a higher level.

It was wonderful to hear him talk. He
seemed to understand just how she felt.

Basil,' he said, turning to him by-and-by,
you have a grand task before you : you have
to compensate your mother for all her past unhappiness
; you have to win her love and confidence.'


The love is won already,' she returned, with
a wan smile.

So much the better,' he returned heartily.
But, Mrs. Lyndhurst, your son needs something

more than love at your hand  he will
want real help and sympathy. He has told
you about his wife ?'

No,' she said timidly. ' There has been no
time, and I have troubled him so ; but Catherine
said something in her letter. You are not
happy, Basil ?'

No, mother, I am not happy. Aline is a
great trouble to me.'

Aline  is that your wife's name ? My dear,
you must tell me everything, and I will help
you. We will both help him  will we not,
Catherine ? There is nothing  nothing we
will not do. You shall not be unhappy, my
son, if your mother can prevent it. There
will be no sacrifice too great  you may be sure
of that.'

Will you do something for me now, mother ?'
taking her hand.

It was pathetic to see how she brightened
every time he said that word ; she looked at
him with unutterable tenderness as he spoke.

Yes, surely, Basil'

Will you go and rest now ? It hurts me to
see you look so frightfully pale. You are ill,
though you do not say so. I should be happier
in my mind if you would rest.'

I will go, then,' rising at once. * Cathy,
will you come to me presently ?  not now ; I

must be alone a little. Thank you, my dear,'
as Basil gave her his arm, and led her to the
door.

I did not hear what she said to him, but there
were a few words on her part, and then he
stooped over her again and kissed her.

'friends for life

'Who reverenced his conscience as his being.'

Tennyson.

Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel.'

Hamlet:

I WAS perfectly aware of the reason that made
Mr. Fleming remember suddenly that he had
an important letter to write before the evening
post. Like Olga, he knew when to efface himself;
some unerring intuition told him that I
should prefer to be alone with Basil. The
moment the door closed after him, I went up to
Basil and took his two hands.

Well, my dear ?'

He looked at me with an expression that
was difficult to define  a curious mingling of
pleasure and sadness.

Aunt Catherine he said slowly, ' 1 am glad
my mother is like that.'

Oh, Basil ! Really and truly ? Then you
are not disappointed in her ?'

No '  drawing a long breath  * but you
must not question me too closely ; you must
give me time. Do you not see '  very gravely
' what a trial this has been to both of us  to
her as well as to me ? One hardly dared to
speak for fear of wounding the other ; there
was a barrier across which we seemed to look at
each other. Thank God it is over  that I shall
never have to live through such an hour again !'
Dear Basil, I quite understand how you
felt.'

I think when it came to the point that I
would rather have walked up to the cannon's
mouth than have entered that room. All these
days I have been saying to myself, " If I should
be disappointed in my mother !" I was growing
quite morbid over the idea.'

Very few men have to pass through such an
ordeal ; but it has ended well'

Yes, it has ended well ; no one could have
been kinder. Do you know, Aunt Catherine,
I was glad in my heart when she spoke of my
likeness to my father ; it seemed somehow
more satisfactory ; but I would rather have resembled
my mother.'

I am so pleased to hear you say that.'

Why, she is lovely !' he returned quickly ;

When she spoke, something in her voice reminded
me of you ; but you are not really
alike.'

Not in the least.'

No, there could not be two sisters more
unlike each other. I can understand now
what Mr. Fleming told me about her beauty 
she is very sweet-looking ; but of course one
can see what her life has been ; there is one
thing I am sure that she needs : a son to take
care of her.'

My dear, it makes me so happy to hear you

talk in this way ! I was so afraid ' but

something in his look warned me not to say
any more.

I know what you were going to say,' he
returned ; ' but that is a forbidden subject ;
for heaven's sake, Aunt Catherine, let the dead
past bury its dead. Why should we try to disinter
the ghastly thing ? That is the worst of
women, they are so fond of moral dissection ;
even a good woman knows the use of a scalpel.'

You are very hard on us,' pretending to
look offended ; but he was too much in earnest
to heed me.

Men are more generous ; when they forgive,
they forgive thoroughly, and with no arriere-
pense ; that is how I feel about things. We
must wipe out the past ; there must be no allusion

to it  no painful remembrance ; this is what
I feel strongly. Do you not see how much
need I have to forget ? If I had lived here under
my mother's roof, I should never have met
Aline. I  I dare not think of it ;' there was a
cloud upon his face as he spoke  a concentrated
bitterness in his voice ; then he recovered himself:
' For pity's sake let me keep that thought
away ; it would madden me to think of what
might have been. Aunt Catherine,' looking at
me wistfully, ' I want to be a better sort of
fellow ; I want to do my duty, and not to think
of my own happiness. You must help me with
Aline. You must keep me up to things ; neither
she nor I must disgrace my mother, who has
suffered so much all her life.'

I was so touched that I could not answer
him ; if only Mr. Fleming had heard him !

Do not let us talk any more,' he said
presently ; ' all this has taken it out of me ; 1
feel dead tired, as though I had walked twenty
miles. Will you come out in the garden ? a little
fresh air will do me good ; do you mind ?''

As though I minded anything ! He opened
the glass-door, and we stepped out on the lawn.
I showed him everything ; the Lady's Walk,
and my favourite Elizabethan garden, with the
sundial and peacocks. He wanted to fetch
Reggie at once to see them ; but I told him the

child would be having his tea in the nursery,
and beoored him not to disturb him. 1 could
see Reggie was in his thoughts perpetually.

Fancy the little chap chasing butterflies over
that lawn !' he said once, ' and how pleased he
will be with the honeysuckle arbour ! He must
have a garden of his own  that little bed we
passed just now. And he will take up his
flowers to see how they grow ! and he will
water them six times a day out of his new
watering-pot ; can't you fancy him doing it ?'
Then, by-and-by : ' That was a velvet dress
my mother wore, was it not ? I always had a
fancy for velvet. Don't you think Reg might
have a velvet suit with a lace collar ? he would
look like a picture ! I saw a little boy once
dressed like that, and it struck me then how it
would suit Reggie.'

Oh yes, he would look lovely,' and, just to
humour him, I discussed the rival merits of ruby
and dark-blue velvet. I saw that he was
trying to fling off his grave mood. When we
had explored the garden, and I wanted him
to come in and see the house, he shook his
head.

I could not take in any more to-day,' he
said wearily, ' and it is so delicious out here !
Let us take a turn in the avenue and listen to
those black-coated fellows. Hark ! what is

that ?' as the sudden pealing of bells broke on
our ears.

It is Mr. Leigh's thoughtfulness,' I cried
breathlessly. ' Olga had told him, and he has
just trot the ringers together.'

Do you mean it is for me ?' looking quite
scared.

'Yes, dear; it is in your honour. It is a
welcome to the heir the young squire of
Brookfield. If they had known, Basil  if we
had given them time  all your tenants would
have been at the station to receive you. There
would have been triumphal arches and flags ;
the Bedfellows, with their band ; and the vicar
at least, the curate-in-charge  would have
made you a speech.'

Oh, Heaven forbid !' he returned, quite
shocked at the idea. ' I could not have undergone
it.'

I could not help laughing at his evident discomposure.
With all his pride, he had nota
spark of vanity ; there was nothing little
in his nature ; his faults were big glaring
faults, but there was no meanness.

All the same, they will feel we have cheated
them. We must have a supper and a dance for
the tenants later on. You must not shrink from
your responsibilities.'

No,' he said softly ; ' I must face everything.

How pleased Reggie will be with those
bells !'

We were standing in the avenue. I do not
know what impulse moved Basil to take off his
hat and stand bareheaded and silent. There
was a grave, reverent look on his face. ' Please
God !' I heard him say, as though speaking to
himself. My ' Amen ' was inaudible.

I was obliged to leave him at last, and go
up to Virginia. As I passed the library, Mr.
Fleming came out. The library window commanded
a view of the avenue  perhaps he
had been watching us.

Well,' he said, looking at me with a smile,
is the Squire pleased with his ovation ?'

He seems rather upset by it all. I cannot
get him to look over the house, or to pay
attention to anything. Wee must leave him
quiet for this one day.'

His cup is filled to the brim  very little
would make it overflow. You are right ; we
must leave him to get used to his position.
I will go out to him, and tell him some Leeds
news  any triviality that comes into my head.'

I have been talking to him about Reggie's
frocks.' He laughed at that, and we parted.

I found Virginia lying back on her easy
chair, with her eyes closed, as though she, too,
were listening to the bells. She seemed utterly

exhausted, and there was a dark look round her
mouth ; but when she opened her eyes I almost
started. In place of their wild, haunted look
they had the happy restfulness of a child.

Cathy, dear Cathy ! do you hear the bells ?
They are ringing in Basil's honour  to welcome
my boy to his home. Good Mr. Leigh ! I
must thank him for this.'

You are happy, Virginia ?' I asked softly, as
I knelt down beside her, and looked into her
sweet pallid face.

Happy ! I am suffocated with happiness !'
putting her hands to her breast. ' Do you
know how I felt when he kissed me  the first
kiss I have ever had from my child ? As
though I could die with joy ! And when
he told me to oo and rest I felt then that I had

a son.'

He will be everything to you.'

He is nobleness itself. There was not a
word of reproach, and yet he owes all his
unhappiness to his mother. Did you see how
his face changed when he spoke of his wife ?
He is terribly unhappy.'

I fear he is.'

I do more than fear it ; I am sure of it.
There are lines in his face that tell their own
story. Cathy, I must confess something : There
was one moment when I shrank from him 

from my own boy  and that was when I saw
his likeness to Paul'

 I am afraid he noticed it.'

He shall never notice it again ; but for the
moment it was so strong. There was the
beautiful mouth and chin. Paul's were modelled
like a Greek god's. I shut my eyes for an
instant, and when I looked again it was still
there  the likeness  only the expression was
different ; there was no cruel sneer on Basil's
lips.'

No, indeed !'

I am glad he is not handsome ; there was
something diabolical in Paul's beauty. But his
hand !  there again I had a fresh pang. Do you
remember Paul's white, muscular hand and
filbert-shaped nails ? But, of course, you saw
him so little. Basil has his father's hand.'

You should not mind these things, Virginia.'
I do not ! I do not ! but for the moment I
was overcome. He is a grander man than
Paul ; and he carries his head like a king. To
think my little child has grown into that ! All
this time I have been trying to thank God ; but
my heart is too full for words.'

There are no words needed.'

No ; I just knelt upon the. ground, and said
nothing. But I think I never prayed so well.
Cathy, I cannot be surprised at anything today,

or I think Mr. Fleming would have
surprised me.'

Did you recognise him, Vi ?'  my old girlish
name for her.

Not in the least ; but when you mentioned
his name I said to myself : This is Catherine's
Mr. Fleming. How gray he has grown !' looking
at me a little curiously ; * but he is better
looking now than he used to be.'

I never thought of his looks.'

I dare say not. How fond you were of
each other in those old days ! Ah, my poor
father was cruel about that ! You were never
the same girl after Robert Fleming went away.
1 think no parent has a right to come between
two people who love each other.'

Perhaps not. 1 am of your opinion, Virginia;
but, if you please, we will not talk of that old,
old story. When you see him again you must
talk to him about Basil. He is his boy as well
as yours.'

Yes, I know ;' but I could see my words
pained her. She would be very jealous of
her son's love for others, I knew. I think
this made her a little cold in her praises
of Mr. Fleming. ' But he is a good man, and
we owe him a debt of gratitude,' she finished.
You must not let me be selfish, Cathy  if I
could only overcome this jealousy!  but I cannot

bear to think that he took my place all those
years.'

Poor Virginia ! After all, it was not pure
unalloyed happiness. The maternal instinct
that had so long been starved and thwarted
had to battle fiercely for its rights. Alas ! who
could give her back those lost years ? After
all, Basil was right when he decided that the
past must be consigned to oblivion : to her dying
day the mother's heart would cry out for the
little child she had never seen. I tried to persuade
Virginia to remain quietly In her room
that evening, but neither Marsden nor I could
Induce her to listen to reason. Her son should
not take his place at the head of the table unless
she were there to see it. I sent for Basil
at last, and at his first word she yielded.

Mother,' he said almost abruptly, ' it would
be impossible for me to eat my dinner if I saw
you sitting at the table and looking ready to
faint. If you will stay here quietly I will come
up and talk to you afterwards.'

But you will take your proper place,
Basil ?'

Not to-night. I shall sit by Aunt Catherine.
Why do we need this stiff formal dinner ? I
shall shock your servants : I have no dress-clothes.
I ordered them this morning ; but I
have only my morning coat.'

VOL. II.  ''J

Bennet will understand. He is such an old
servant. Catherine, remember tomorrow that
my son is to be consulted at what hour he
wishes to dine !'

My dear mother ' in a protesting

voice.

You are master here. Basil. No one shall
question your authority. Neither Catherine
nor I will obtrude ourselves, my dear,' taking
his hand timidly. ' Everything shall be as you
wish it.'

Your wishes will be mine, mother.'

Let us go now, Virginia, and Basil shall
come to you by-and-by. He has eaten nothing
since he has entered the house ;' and then she
said no more.

I was anxious to get him away. He was
looking nervous and uncomfortable acain. I
knew it pained him to see his mother so humble
and submissive. It seemed to put them both
in a false position. He spoke out this thought
as soon as the door closed behind us.

'Aunt Catherine, you must give my mother
a hint. I do not mean to put Aline in her place
or yours. We are circumstanced strangely. It
is not easy to define things. I will take my
place, but Aline is not fit for hers. You will
be just as much mistress here as ever. I don't
fancy my mother comprehends the situation.'

Perhaps not  nor, in truth, do I.'

Things will shape themselves,' he returned
in a melancholy voice, and then we entered the
dining-room.

I saw a look of surprise flit over Bennet's
face as Basil took the chair beside me, and Mr.
Fleming seated himself opposite to him. As
Reynolds handed the soup, I saw Basil look
round the room at the carved antique furniture,
the heavily-framed family portraits, the massive
flagons and drinking - cups on the sideboard.
The bells were still pealing, the rooks were
cawing over the tree-tops, the room was sweet
with roses and heliotrope, a great marble basket
of hot-house flowers was in the centre of the
table. I wonder why Basil looked at it all so
gravely ? Was he thinking of the bare pavilion ?
Of the cottage-room at Highgate ? Of those
midnight wanderings in Holloway ? Of the
parlour behind the shop ? And now of the goodly
heritage that was his ? As I looked at him
questioningly, a flash of his eyes answered me,
and then I knew I was right.

As soon as coffee had been served, Basil
went up to his mother's room, and I accompanied
him to look at Reggie, who was sleeping
in his father's room. I found he had taken
the cat to bed with him  a large snow-white
Persian, who went by the name of Peter. They

372

both looked so comfortable that I had not the
heart to disturb them.

The summer twilight had closed in, and on
my return to the drawing-room I found that
Reynolds had already lighted the hanging-lamp,
and the soft, warm light just irradiated the
centre of the room. Mr. Fleming was standing
under it with a book in his hand. At that
moment I was conscious of a strange shock, a
curious revulsion of feeling ; a scene out of the
long-closed past started up before me. Eight-and-twenty
years ago he had stood just in that
spot, when they had sent me in to bid him farewell
! The swinging lamp, with its pink shade,
was casting just the same glow over him, only
it was early spring, and the room was full of
warm firelight. Should I ever forget that
evening ? and how, when that miserable interview
was over, he put me from him when, in
my girlish passion, I would have clung to him ?

It is the will of God, Catherine,' he said
gently, and then he left me.

As these thoughts flashed through my mind,
Mr. Fleming raised his eyes and looked at me
fixedly. I knew then the same recollection had
occurred to him. He placed a chair for me,
and stood beside me a moment.

I can read your thoughts,' he said very
quietly. * You are remembering what neither

of US can ever forget. It is better to speak of
it frankly  it is useless to try and ignore it
Yes, it was here, in this room, that I passed
the bitterest moments of my life. When I
closed that door behind me I knew I was
closing it on my hopes of earthly happiness.'

I could not control my voice sufficiently
to answer him. He was standing just behind
me, and it seemed to me as though it
were the young Robert Fleming who was
speaking.

It took all my strength to give you up. I
remember you made it very hard for me to
leave you. Ah, well ! we are middle-aged
people now ; we can bear to look back on the
past pain. Time is a marvellous healer  Is it
not, Catherine ?'

Why have you never come to see me ?'
That question would rise to my lips in spite o
myself. ' ill these years your old friend has
been forgotten.'

You do not believe what you say,' he returned
calmly, as he took the seat beside me.
You have never been forgotten by me. No,
I have not come  that is true ; I had my
reasons. But, all the same, I have seen you
from time to time ; I have assured myself that
you were well and happy.'

Mr. Fleming ! what can you mean ?'

Forgive me if I do not answer you ; a man
must keep his own counsel sometimes. I have
not seen you for years ; the last time, I think,
it was at St. Mark's.'

'You knew me! you recognised me!' but I
was too much abashed to say any more. I felt
myself blush like a girl  I, the middle-aged
woman !

I should know you anywhere ;' and there
was unmistakable tenderness in his voice.

I preached well that night ; I felt inspired,
lifted out of myself, to know you were there
listening to me. I wanted to speak to you, to
tell you how grateful I was, but v/hen 1 came
into the church you had gone.'

You could not be sure it was I,' I stammered.

I had a thick veil.'

'If I had needed proof, it was given me.
Do you remember this ?'

He took out of his pocket a tiny prayer-book
that looked very much the worse for wear ; it
was bound in Russian leather, and on the fly-leaf
was written ' Catherine Seton.'

Why did you keep this ?' 1 asked, as he
took it out of my hand.

Could I embarrass you by returning it ?'
was the answer ; but I knew he was not
telling me the real reason. I saw that by
the conscious look on his face. ' 1 have had

it SO long that I may as well keep it ;' and
he put it back in his pocket with a fine air of
indifference.

Your visit cheered me immensely,' he went
on. * I knew then that I had a friend and
well-wisher as well as St. Mark's ;' and as I
started and again a painful flush suffused my
face, he said very earnestly : ' Do you think I
did not recognise our Lady Bountiful ?  that I
did not bless you in my heart as I expended
those generous sums of money ? If you only
knew what a happiness it has been to act as
your almoner ! I felt then as though you and
I were still working together.'

You and I ! Oh, how cautious he was ! But
he had called me Catherine once.

But, all the same, you never cared to come
and see me.'

 I thought it better not '  in a low voice.
Sometimes I used to wonder that you never
married. Do you know you have refused a
friend of mine  Beauchamp ? But he comforted
himself by taking a wife some ten years
ago. I remember his coming to me, and telling
me of his disappointment. He was a capital
fellow.'

You have not married, either.'

I have never cared to do so ;' but I fancy
he looked reproachfully at me, as though I

might have left that unsaid. ' I had Basil, you
see; I made him my chief interest in life.'

You must have been lonely when he left
you.'

Yes, I was pretty lonely ; I had got so used
to him, I could tell the lad anything. It was a
bad business for me when his wife manifested
that strange jealousy of his friends  it separated
us entirely : Basil begged me to keep away.
If I had had any idea of the real cause of his
misery I would not have obeyed him, but I
never knew until a few weeks ago.'

 It was wrong of Basil not to tell you.'

He could not bear for me to know ; but, of
course, it was a mistake. Never mind, I am
not his only friend now : he has you and his
mother to stand by him.'

We talked a little more on this subject 
about Basil's meeting with his mother. He
wanted to hear all about it ; and when I had
satisfied him, he said quietly :

Never mind Basil now ; you have told me
all I wished to know ; I shall hear the rest from
himself. I want to know something on another
subject. Will you tell me about yourself, and
your sister, and the life you have led all these
years ? You do not know how much it will
interest me.'

This was said so simply and kindly, and with

such an air of friendliness, that my troubled
consciousness was soothed at once. The next
minute I found myself talking to him as though
he were my brother ; and there was so much to
tell  the tragedy of Virginia's home-coming 
her despair and remorse  my father's death 
and our solitary life in the old Hall. I described
Virginia's strange seclusion  her morbid
fits  the grief that threatened to prey upon her
life. He looked at me anxiously.

I had no idea of this  at least, I had not
realized it ; it must have tried you sadly  such
a life !'

I would not let it try me,' I returned
quickly, for I did not wish him to pity me too
much. It had been in his power to help me,
and his foolish man's pride had kept him away.
After all, men, even the best of them, are such
cowards. ' I had plenty of work : I had Basil's
property to manage ; I became a woman of
business ; sometimes I went into society ; now
and then I entertained at the Hall  but that
was dreary work without Virginia. By-and-by
I had Olga to help me ; I never felt dull when
that dear child was with me.'

Olga ?  that is the young lady with the
pretty voice. Yes, I liked the look of her ; she
has a sweet face.'

Her nature is sweeter still ; everyone loves

Olga ;' and then I stopped, for at that moment
Basil came into the room.

He looked surprised to see me there.

It is very late ; I thought you would have
retired long ago, Aunt Catherine. I was
obliged to remind my mother of the time.
What a long day it has been !' rather wearily.
I think I must bid you good-night now.'

You are very tired, Basil !'

He gave me a queer glance.

I think this day has been three days rolled
in one  it has seemed endless. I suppose if we
measured time by our feelings, I should have
lived a month since I got up this morning.
Good-night, Aunt Catherine ;' and then, for the
first time, he kissed me  he seemed to do it
naturally.

Poor lad ! he is quite worn out,' observed
Mr. Fleming. ' People who do not know Basil
would not give him credit for such deep feelings
; but you and I know him better.'

'Yes, indeed. Good-night, Mr. Fleming.'

'Good-night'  and, detaining me a moment :
Thank you for all you have told me this
evening ; after all, we are old friends,
Catherine.'

I hope so.'

'And friends for life, too. Some folk think
very highly of friendship ; but you and I are

different sort of people. All these years I have
called you my friend.'

I am glad of that,' I returned soberly.

When I entered my room, with the candle
still in my hand, I walked up to the pier-glass
and gravely regarded myself from head to
foot.

What did I see ? A quiet, well-preserved
gentlewoman, in a gray satin dress, with a
figure that had not yet lost its girlish roundness,
and brown hair, with here and there a
thread of shining silver.

So this is Robert Fleming's friend,' I said
to myself 'his friend for life.'

But as I looked a sudden mist seemed to
obscure the view ; and as I turned away a great
cloud of sadness seemed to envelop me, for I
knew that I could not strip myself of my riches,
and that they, and they alone, divided me from
the tenderest and most faithful heart that ever
beat in this world !

THEY ASKED FOR THE SQUIRE.

You are shy and proud, like Englishmen.'

Tennyson.

God's goodness has been great to thee ;
Let never day nor night unhallow'd pass,
But still remember what the Lord hath done.'

Stolid Part of' Henry VI'

Just then there was a knock at the door, and
Marsden entered ; the honest creature had come
to unburden her heart of a Httle of its gladness.
She was warmly attached to her mistress ; with
the exception of myself, no one understood Virginia
so well. I used to marvel at her patience
when Virginia was in one of her trying moods.
This is a happy day, ma'am,' she began ; ' I
never thought to see my mistress look as she
does to-day. I could cry as I think of it, and
of our fine young Squire who has come to his
own.'

I was sure of your sympathy with us, Mars-den.
I have been talking to Mrs. Larkins and
Bennet, and they both say how pleased all the
servants seem with the look of their new master.
My sister has reason to be proud of such a
son.'

Oh, poor thing ! and she is proud ! She will
just lie awake until morning thinking of him,
and how he is sleeping under her roof to-night.
It has been a trial for him, poor young gentleman
! I will not deny that, meeting his mother
for the first time as a full-grown man ; but no
one could have behaved better. '* He has been
goodness itself to me"  that was what she said
to me just now.'

Marsden, I want to ask you something, and
there has been no opportunity. How did my
sister take the news ?'

Do you mean when your letter came, ma'am,
two days ago ? Well, I was in my mistress's
room, just attending to the flowers. I had
given her the letter, and was thinking no more
about it, when she suddenly called out, and I
thought she was going to faint. One hears
sometimes of folks who have died from a
sudden joy that was too much for them, and
I seemed to understand it when I looked at my
mistress's white face.'

Oh no !' I exclaimed, shocked at the bare

idea ; ' I had prepared her so carefully in the
previous letter.'

All the same, it was too much for her. She
seemed as though she were paralyzed at first ;
her poor hands shook so she could not hold the
paper. I had to read the letter to her from
beginning to end, and when I had finished she
made me begin all over again ; it did not seem
as though she could take it in.'

I wished afterwards that I had asked you to
telegraph to St. Croix ; I so dreaded the effect
on her.'

'Well, after a bit she got calmer, and I
gave her her composing-draught ; and then
she begged me to leave her alone for an
hour. I was almost afraid to do it, seeing her
so weak and upset ; but she was very peremptory
with me. I stood at the door for the
best part of the time, and it was hardly on
the stroke of the hour when I went back to her;
and what do you think were her first words,
ma'am ?' and now there was a broad smile on
Marsden's face.

It is no use my trying to guess, Marsden.'

No, ma'am ; and I assure you I could
hardly believe my ears : ** What am I to wear,
Marsden, when I receive my son ?" and looking
at me as anxious, too, as though the three
kingdoms depended on my answer.'

How unlike Virginia !' I murmured.

It was the first time I ever heard such a
speech from my mistress's hips, and I have
Heed close upon four-and-twenty years with her;
and it put me in a nice pucker. There was
only that old black velvet that had been put
away in lavender for the last twelve years, and
Wollaston and I had a world of trouble remodelling
it and making it ht to wear.' Wollaston was
our upper housemaid, who had always acted
as my maid, for I was too independent in my
habits to need a maid of my own.

It really looked very well.'

It did at a pinch ; but my mistress, bless
her dear heart ! grumbled a good deal over it.
This is really what I have come to consult you
about ; for last night my mistress said to me,
"You must renovate py wardrobe. I must have
some handsome dresses ; I do not wish my son
to be ashamed of his mother's appearance. You
and my sister can talk over it, and then you can
get me anything you and she think will be suitable."
It was a bit vague, was it not, ma'am ?
but, there ! my mistress is as impracticable in
such matters as a child.'

Never mind, Marsden ; you and I will put
our heads together. Let me see, if you will
come to my room half an hour before luncheon
tomorrow we will arrange it. There must bea

new velvet dress ; I have made up my mind
to that already  Mr. Basil has a fancy for
velvet ; and then, perhaps, a satin, and a rich
black silk with jet trimmings  we will settle all
that later on. I shall probably go to town ina
day or two, and can call on the dressmaker 
Hobart Place is only a step from Victoria.'

That will be best. Now I must not keep
you up any longer, ma'am,' and Marsden withdrew
with a satisfied expression on her comely
face.

The next morning, as I was finishing dressing,
I heard Nix bark, and, looking out of my
window, I saw Reggie, in his white sailor suit,
running down one of the garden paths, with the
pug waddling after him. The next moment the
window next mine was thrown up, and  Wait forme,
old chap !' followed in Basil's voice. Reggie
stopped at once, and planted his legs sturdily, as
though nothing would induce him to move,
while Nix ambled round him, heaving his fat
lite body and jingling his bells, with his foolish
little tail curled up tightly after the manner of
well-bred pugs.

I stood watching them until Basil came out of
the house. The gray suit and little gray cap
reminded me of La Maisonnette and the
pavilion. It was always a pretty sight to see
Reggie with his father. I like the way in which

Basil snatched him up, and, thinking himself unperceived,
kissed him again and again before he
hoisted him on his shoulder and marched off
with him. They were going to see the peacocks,
and the honeysuckle arbour, and Reggie's new
garden. I knew how Basil would enjoy showing
him all the sights. I am sorry to say that
Reggie spoke of the peacocks in the most disrespectful
way afterwards:

Them ridiculous birds, what has trains like
ladies,' he observed.

Basil seemed in excellent spirits at breakfast-time,
and when afterwards I volunteered to show
him the house, he consented on the condition
that Reggie came too. This impeded our movements
a little, as Reggie, who had developed a
strong attachment to Peter, insisted on toiling
after us with the huge creature tucked under his
arm, until he was red in the face. I am not
quite sure that Peter liked it  he was a cat of
dignity ; he escaped just as we were entering
the Lady Gwendoline's Room, as it was still
called ; and I saw him licking himself on the
window-seat in rather an irritable and injured
manner.

Do you think Aline would like this room ?
I asked presently ; 'it is a very pleasant room,
and with a little fresh cretonne, and a comfortable
chair or two, it would make quite a pretty

VOL. II. 38

boudoir. And it is so quiet, too; your apartments
would be quite shut off from the rest of the
house.'

Where would Reggie sleep?' he asked rather
anxiously. ' The nursery is too far away ; I
must have him near me.'

He could sleep in your dressing-room, if
you like ; there is plenty of space. Yes,
perhaps that is best. But, Basil, yon have not
answered me yet. Do you think Aline will like
this room ?'

She would be hard to please if she did not.
It is a very handsome room ; those carved
cabinets are beautiful. Has no one ever used it ?'

Not in my time. Virginia always preferred
a front room, and hitherto I have sat in the
library. I have always had so much writing todo,
and it was more convenient for the tenants
and servants ; but, of course, that will be your
room now.'

But why need I banish you ?' with a tinge of
impatience in his tone ; * the library would hold
a dozen people comfortably. Look here. Aunt
Catherine, if I am to be master, I mean you to
be mistress. You have got to coach me up in
my duties, so we may as well begin to work together
from the first.'

But, my dear '

There is no *' but " in the matter. I intend

to keep things as much as possible on their
former footing. I suppose AHne must sit at the
top of her own table ; but I don't mean to make
any other change. You talked a lot of rubbish
at St. Croix about the Dower House, as you
called it  as though I should allow my mother,
in her delicate state of health, to go into that
mouldy, fusty, disused wing. Why, the whole
place smelt like a vault !'

It has been so long shut up,' I returned 
ever since my grandmother's time. She and
her two daughters inhabited that wing when my
father married ; I showed you their portraits in
the billiard-room ; they were your great-aunts,
Alicia and Penelope. Of course, it must be
thoroughly aired, and a great deal of painting
and whitewashing will be necessary before the
rooms can be used.'

Perhaps so ; but, as I do not intend to have
them used, we may leave all that alone. My
mother will remain in her own comfortable
apartments ; and as for you, if you are too
proud or too unsociable to share the library
with me, you might take possession of that
pretty little morning-room downstairs;' and he so
evidently meant what he said, and was so benton
his own way, that I dared not say another
word ; and, after all, the Lady Gwendoline's
Room was most fit for Mrs. Basil Lyndhurst.

Reynolds came up just then, to tell us that
Miss Olga and the two Mr. Leighs were
talking to Mr. Fleming in the drawing-room.
They asked for the Squire, and for you,
ma'am.'

Basil coloured a little, perhaps at the word
Squire.'

We must not keep our first visitors waiting,
must we. Aunt Catherine ?' he said, and hurried
me downstairs.

I knew how kindly Mr. Leigh would greet
Basil  he had such a good heart! He wrung
my hand in quite a feeling way as he congratulated
me. ' I never was so surprised in my
life,* he said ; 'and I need not tell you how glad
I am, both for you and Mrs. Lyndhurst !' and
actually his spectacles were so moist that he
had to take them off to wipe them. I am
sure he shook hands three times with Basil.
His own regret seemed to be that his wife had
not been able to come with him that morning.

Jem, too, behaved very well. He was a little
grave, perhaps a trifle distant, in his manner to
Basil ; but he was quite his old affectionate self
with me ; only he persisted in calling me Miss
Seton.

But, Jem,' I protested, * I like Aunt
Catherine ever so much better.'

I cannot help that,' with an accession of

gravity ; ' it would not be good taste now, when
you have a real nephew.'

But Basil will not mind.'

I should not think of asking him,' rather
stiffly. ' I have been talking to Olga, and
begging her to give it up too ; but girls are so
self-opinionated ; she won't hear of calling you
Miss Seton.'

I should think not !' indignantly. ' Olga is
the last one to hurt my feelings.'

Do you mean that you will be hurt ?' and it
was evident Jem's soft heart was relenting ;
unfortunately, at that moment Basil called me.

Aunt Catherine, are we engaged for
Saturday ? is that the day we are going up to
town ? Mr. Leigh wants us to dine with him.'

I saw directly that Basil wished to accept
the invitation, so I told him Monday would do
very nicely for our expedition. Jem caught at
my arm.

Don't you understand how ridiculous it would
be for me ?' he said in a low voice ; ' perhaps it
does not matter for Olga ; but for me '

Well  well, do as you like, my dear.'
But I was just a trifle hurt with Jem. He
need not have made the difference in such a
hurry. It looked  it certainly looked as though
he were jealous of Basil. So, though he said a
great many nice things to me, and made the

THE SEARCH FOR BASIL LYNDHURST

most friendly overtures to Reggie  whom he
pronounced a 'jolly little chap'  I somehow
felt as though Jem were not quite a success. I.
hinted at this to Olga, when all the gentlemen
had betaken themselves to the stables  a part
of the establishment Basil had not yet visited.
We were waiting for Marsden, who had not yet
finished dressing her mistress. Virginia's sleepless
night had prevented her rising at her usual
time. I thought Olga looked rather uncomfortable
as I spoke.

I am sure he is prejudiced against Basil.'

Oh, I hope not ! I trust not !' looking quite
pained at the idea ; ' but Jem, dear old fellow !
has his peculiarities. He is a regular Briton,
Aunt Catherine. He prides himself upon
always being straightforward and above-board,
as he calls it, and, as you know, he does so hate
mysteries.'

That is so foolish of Jem.'

He will have it Mr. Basil is mysterious.
You know how Jem will ask questions. I am
sure he must have asked me at least five
hundred last night ! he will say over and over
again that Mr. Basil ought to have told us about
his wife from the very first. '' By your own account
you took him for a widower," he said
very severely ; '' well, no fellow has any right tolet
a woman think that of him." It was very

tiresome and wrong of Jem, and great nonsense
too, for of course he gave us no right to suppose
such a thing ; and why need he tell his
family affairs to strangers ?'

I am glad you defended him, Olga.'

Of course I defended him. 1 got quite
angry with Jem at last. Hubert and Kitty
were far nicer, as I told him. Oh, Aunt
Catherine, I am sure you will be shocked when
you see Kitty!'

Is she so unwell ?'

She is more than that; she looks absolutely
ill, and she has grown much thinner. Hubert
does not see it a bit ; when I spoke to him, he
only said the heat had tired her, and that it
was a mistake their going to Lowestoft ; the
place had not suited her.'

Poor little woman ! I must try and find time
to see her this afternoon.'

Oh, she sent you a message. I was to tell
you how rejoiced she was to hear about Mr.
Basil ; she really cried when she talked about it,
and she was so pleased to see me, and so were the
children. I have only just come home in time
to see Hugh. Hubert takes him to school tomorrow.'


And the twins, and Wilfred, and little
Florence ?'

Oh, they are all as well as possible ! Mab

has certainly grown, and looks so pretty. Do
you know, though I had got them all round me,
I missed Reggie. Oh, here comes Marsden
at last, and I must leave you to your business
!'

I could not prevail on Olga to stay to
luncheon.

Kitty was not well enough to be left, she
said ; and she knew Hubert and Jem would
both like to remain.

I think the stables had thawed Jem ; he was
far more conversational on his return. Basil
seemed to like him ; but I noticed neither of
them mentioned Oxford. After luncheon Jem
started for a long walk with Mr. Fleming,
Basil went up to sit with his mother, and Mr.
Leigh took me across to Fircroft. I found
Mrs. Leigh lying on a couch at the open
window in the drawing-room. Olga was sitting
by her, working. She certainly looked very
weak and fragile. I noticed her cheek-bones
were slightly prominent, and her eyes were
larger and brighter. She was always a pretty
little woman, though of late years she had had
a worn, faded look. She greeted me most
affectionately, and made me sit down beside
her.

I am so glad, dear Miss Seton !' she
whispered.

Her husband, who had not heard the whisper,
interrupted her.

Kitty has grown very lazy,' he said, in his
cheerful way ;  she makes us all wait on her.
I am head-nurse, and Mab and Jessie carry out
my orders.'

Hubert is right ; I give them a great deal
of trouble,' she returned rather sadly ; and it
struck me at once that she was depressed about
herself.

Mr. Leigh had some parish work, and left us
almost immediately ; and a few minutes afterwards
Harry Vivian came up to the window
and challenged Olga to a game of tennis.
Harry was a great favourite of mine ; we all
called him Harry ; and, indeed, who could help
liking such a bright, cheery young fellow ?
Long ago I had guessed the poor boy's secret,
though I never mentioned the subject to Olga.
If he had only been half a dozen years older 
but he would never be on the same plane with
her : he was only a good-looking boy, and Olga
was a woman. I thought she put down her
work a little reluctantly ; she would rather have
stayed with us.

I am out of practice,' she remarked ; ' but I
will try one game, if you like. But I mean to
walk back with Aunt Catherine.'

Mrs. Leigh looked after them.

We are all so glad to get Olga back,' she
said presently ; ' the poor children have missed
her so. Do you know, Hubert and I think she
looks different, somehow. She is quieter. I
noticed it last night, and put it down to the
score of fatigue ; but to-day she is even quieter.
She is generally so full of spirits.*

I think Jem was a little bit tiresome last
night.'

Do you mean about your nephew ? I am
afraid we none of us spared Olga. She was
very good in answering all our questions. She
has grown very pretty ; Hubert said so last
night'

I always thought Olga pretty.'

Well, not exactly ; It Is more her expression,'
returned Mrs. Leigh. ' Her features are not at
all regular ; but until last night I never thought
her the least pretty.'

Well, perhaps not. After all, pretty would
apply to a doll. There Is something better
than mere prettiness in Olga's face.'

I often wonder if she will marry,' she
continued thoughtfully. ' I think she will.
Hubert and I talk of it sometimes.'

Of course she will marry !' quite indignantly;
for the Idea of my sweet Olga being an old
maid was repellent to me. What, was she to
go through life and never meet her other self ?

She has never Heed anyone yet ; I am sure
of that. Olga is not Hke other girls. She
would ask a oreat deal from the man she
loved.'

As she spoke an odd thought flashed
through me  a curiously painful thought. If
Basil had been free, would he have cared for
Olga ? Would Olga have cared for him ? I
changed the subject hastily by questioning Mrs.
Leigh about her health.

If I were you,' I said seriously, ' I would
consult a physician. Dr. Langham is very
clever ; but it is always more satisfactory to
have a second opinion.'

I wish you would tell Hubert so,' she
returned anxiously ; he thinks so much of
what you say. I have never liked to propose it
to him, for fear of frightening him. I am
certainly not gaining ground this summer.'

I wonder Mr. Leigh does not see that
for himself.'

Oh no ! He will have it that it is only
Lowestoft, and I shall soon get stronger. He
was quite angry one day when I told him that I
felt much weaker. He thinks it is my fancy' 
and now there were tears in her eyes  'and
that I do not make sufficient effort. I went
out to pay some calls with him last week, and
when I got home I fainted.'

Mrs. Leigh, you must certainly speak to a
physician at once. It would be the truest kindness
to your husband ; never mind if he thinks
you fanciful.'

I believe you are right. I wish I were not
so cowardly with Hubert. I do so hate worrying
him. If you knew how good he is to me !'

I think everyone knows Mr. Leigh's devotion
to his wife.'

She blushed very prettily.

If I could only be well enough to help him
as I used ! it is such a trial having to lie here
and do nothing. That is why I am so glad
Olga has come back, because he will miss me
less. She has always been such a comfort to us.'

We had a little more talk, and before I left
Mrs. Leigh promised that she would ask her
husband to take her up to London. I was not
at all easy in my mind about her ; her mother
had died of decline, and one or two of her
aunts. There was a wasted look about her, and
her hand was so thin and light that it gave mea
shock to touch it. Olga had finished her
game, and she joined me at once. Her first
question was about her sister-in-law  did I
not think she looked ill ?

Very ill,' was my reply ; and then I told her
the piece of advice I had given. She seemed
relieved to hear it.

She shall go at once ; that is a good idea,
Aunt Catherine. I wish Kitty were not so
afraid of telling Hubert things. In my opinion,
husbands and wives ought to be perfectly
frank with each other ; but I dare say you will
tell me I am not a good judge '  with a little
laugh. ' But, then, Hubert is such a slow, stupid,
dear old fellow ; he never notices things like
other people.'

I don't know that,' was my unlucky response,
but I repented the words as soon as I
had spoken them. * He told Mrs. Leigh that
you were somehow different, and so much
quieter, and she said the same.'

Oh no, Aunt Catherine  not really,' in a
tone of such distress that I looked at her in
surprise. She was quite pale, and her lips
were quivering, but she turned off her emotion
with a laugh. ' Why, what nonsense ! As
though a person were never to be tired 
and Jem so harassing too ! I  I do not think
I will come any farther. Aunt Catherine ; it
would be a pity to interrupt them  would it
not ?'

We were just by our gate as she spoke, and
two people were coming slowly towards us. It
was Virginia in her lace hood, pacing under the
elms, supported by Basil's arm. Reggie was
running on before them.

How happy they look !' whispered Olga, as
she left me.

But I did not answer her ; I was too much
absorbed in that picture. Could I have ever
hoped to have seen that sight ? Virginia was
walking feebly, but her face was upturned.
Basil was bending down to speak to her. I
was almost sorry that Reggie saw me and
pounced on me with a shout.

I have brought my mother out into the sunshine
; there is no tonic like fresh air, I tell her.'
Basil still spoke with a sort of shyness and
constraint, with something of formality, but the
slight bashfulness sat well on him. * Are you
tired ?'  looking down at her.

No, my dear  no ; you have such a strong
arm, and it seems to support me so ;' and then
I took Reggie's hand and walked beside them,
until the gong summoned us to the house.

CHAPTER XVI.

so YOU HAVE COME BACK !'

Why, what's the matter,
That you have such a February face.
So full of frost, of storm, and cloudiness?'

jlfuc/i Ado about Nothings

Shy she was, and I thought her cold.'

Tennyson.

Mr. Fleming left us the next morning. I did
not see him alone again, and our few parting
words were exchanged in Virginia's presence.
I thought he looked very grave, but he said he
should soon see us again, as Basil had made
him promise to pay us another flying visit early
in November. I missed him sadly that evening
; somehow, I felt sure that, as he sat in his
lonely room that night, he was missing us too !
We dined at Fircroft on Saturday. On
looking back on that evening, I am not
quite sure that I regarded it as a success.

Basil was not perfectly at his ease. He
looked very handsome in evening dress, but
he showed his nervousness by being a little
stiff. Olga, too, was unusually quiet ; it struck
me that Jem was keeping vigilant watch
over her, and that she was aware of his surveillance.
She seemed half afraid to talk to
Basil, and her manner showed none of that
soft friendliness that was natural to her. Perhaps
Basil missed it, for I saw him looking at her
once or twice in a puzzled way. Mrs. Leigh
had made an effort, and took her usual seat at
the dinner-table ; I thought she looked far more
fit for bed. Her husband seemed overjoyed to
see her there.

Why, this is like old times, Kitty !' he said ;
and all through dinner I coukl see him at
intervals beaming on her through his spectacles.

I never saw a man more devoted to any
woman. Mrs. Leigh's worn, sensitive face
brightened into positive beauty as she caught
one of these fond looks.

She is picking up nicely now,' he said to mein
a confidential whisper. 'It is a case of
nerves. Kitty was always too finely strung.
If she would only make an effort and pull herself
together, she would get on.'

Poor Mr. Leigh ! I had not the heart to
undeceive him. Olga, who had overheard this

little speech, looked at me and shrugged her
shoulders rather sadly. We were not a very-lively
party ; I think the young men were a
little overawed by Basil's stiffness, which most
likely they mistook for haughtiness. I was not
surprised on our return to hear Basil say that
he had not enjoyed himself much. He liked
Mr. Leigh exceedingly, and Mrs. Leigh also.

What a pretty little woman she would be,' he
said, ' if she were not quite so thin and unsub-
statical-looking ! And 1 like that nice-looking
fellow, Vivian ; the other two men are sticks.'

And Jem ?'

Oh, Jem is a bit stand-offish. I don't know
quite what to make of him. He seems a nice
fellow enough, but he keeps his sister too much
in order.'

He is devoted to her, really.'

Oh yes, I dare say. Shall I light your candle
for you, Aunt Catherine ? What a pretty dress
that is ! You cut them all out this evening.'

But though he smiled in his old manner ashe
paid me that little compliment, I could see
Basil was not in his usual spirits.

Sunday was better. Basil and Reggie and I
went to church in the morning, and I felt very
happy and grateful. I was sure from Basil's
earnest, devout manner that he was grateful too.

After evening service we took Olga back

VOL. Ti. 39

with us. Jem was not at church, and after
supper she sang to us all our favourite hymns.
Basil was still a little quiet, but Olga seemed
more like herself, and the evening passed very
pleasantly.

The next morning we took an early train upto
town. Basil had to Interview his tailor and
boot maker, and I spent a couple of hours In a
quiet street leading out of Eaton Square discussing
materials and fashions with our dressmaker,
Miss Estrange. I am quite sure that
I never took such interest in my own dresses
as I did in Virginia's, and as Miss Estrange
was quite as Interested, I felt we had done a
good morning's work when I had finished.

It was nearly two o'clock when Basil and I
met for a hasty luncheon. He complained that
he had not done half his business, and that he
should have to run up to town again In a day or
two. He seemed tired and worn, and gave me
such curt answers that I left off questioning him.
I knew the approaching interview with his wife
was making him gloomy.

There was no time to be lost. So we jumped
into a hansom, and drove as quickly as possible
to King's Cross. Basil's tongue did not
unloose until we were In the train, and then he
said rather quickly :

I do hate myself for being such a coward !

If I had not been such a fool, you might have
been sitting comfortably in the library at this
present moment.'

But I prefer to be where I am, thank you.'

Oh, you say that just to make me feel better
about things. Of course you never think of
yourself, but, all the same, I ought to have
thought for you. Why need I have brought
you to such a place ?' with an air of intense disgust.
' You have never been used to it. I
ought to have remembered that.'

Nonsense,' I returned, laughing. ' I have
been in much worse places. Don't trouble
about my feelings, Basil ; I am only thinking
how I can best help you. I want Aline to
look on me as her friend. That is why I have
come with you  that she may know how ready
we are to welcome her.'

But as Basil said no more, and only looked
excessively gloomy, I thought it better to be
silent too ; for there are some moods of unhappy
self-consciousness when even the faintest touch
of sympathy seems to bruise.

In a few minutes we were walking down the
Holloway Road. Basil said we had only a few
hundred yards to go. He stalked by my side
like the knight of the rueful countenance. I
felt rather nervous and depressed myself I
could not help thinking of the weary months

392

our poor boy had spent among these humble
surroundings, and of the miles of pavement his
restless feet had traversed night after night.

This is the place,' he said, so abruptly that I
started. Before us was a little corner shop,
with a fine display of flowery Pekoe and fragrant
Bohea in one window, and heaps of plums and
currants, ornamented with citron and candied
fruits, in the other, and ' George Barton ' in gilt
letters over the door.

There where no customers in the shop, only a
small sandy-haired man, with a shrewd, comical
sort of face, looking over a ledger in the little
desk. I guessed this was Mr. Barton before
Basil went up to him and held out his hand.

Are you surprised to see me, George ?'

Well, I am a bit,' looking at me rather curiously.
' Allie never told me she expected you.
She is in there jerking his head in the direction
of the parlour. ' When did you get back,
Fleming ?'

'When did I arrive in England, do you
mean ? Last Tuesday ; but I couldn't come
before  I couldn't really, George,' in a deprecating
voice as Mr. Barton looked at him
rather sharply. ' I have a lot to tell you 
and Aline ; we had better go inside. You will
be wondering whom I have brought with me.
This is my aunt, Miss Seton.'

The little man ducked to me.

'Your servant, ma'am,' he said civilly; 'I
had no idea Fleming had a relative in the
world. Go to Allie, there's a good chap, and
ril join you as soon as Smith can take my
place  he is only changing a cheque for me 
and then you can tell us all your news.'

He spoke so heartily and kindly that he prepossessed
me in his favour ; but oh, my poor
boy ! no wonder you ran away from it all.

Come along, Aunt Catherine observed
Basil in a low voice, and I followed him into
a neat, cheerful little parlour.

Even in that instantaneous glance I saw
there were plants in the window, and some
nicely-arranged flowers on the small round
table. A great black cat was sleeping in a
cushioned chair ; and someone  Aline, of
course  was busy over some white work by
the open window. She dropped it as we
entered, and looked at us in extreme surprise
as she rose ; and, good heavens ! what a
beautiful face !

So you have come back, Basil !' she said
coldly, and without taking any notice of mei
think you might have written to tell us
when to expect you.'

I wanted to surprise you,' he said, with an
attempt at playfulness as he kissed her.

I noticed she turned her cheek to him and
received his caress reluctantly.

What a grand-looking woman ! I thought of
Basil's idyllic description of her in the harvest-field,
when she had first taken his fancy ; and I
could not but own that many a man might have
lost his heart to her.

She looked older than I expected  older
than Basil  and her fissure was larre and
matronly ; but the small classical head, with
its smooth glossy plaits, was just as he described
it to me, and so was the pure, clearly-cut
profile. The arose, dark eyes had a strange
penetrating sadness in them ; only the chin and
jaw was a little heavy and sullen-looking.

Basil did not seem to notice his chilling reception
; perhaps he was too well used toit.


Don't you wonder who this lady is, Aline ?'
he asked, with a sort of forced friendliness. * I
am going to give you and George another surprise.
I have found some relatives, and this is
one of them, my Aunt Catherine  Miss Seton,
I mean.'

And I have come with Basil to be introduced
to his wife,' I interposed hurriedly. ' My
dear, I hope you and I will be very good friends
in the future.'

But though I took her hand and pressed it

kindly she made no sort of response ; only a
hard look came over her face.

I suppose Basil has told you so much about
me that you are anxious to make my acquaintance,'
she said, with a sort of veiled sarcasm.
And then, with a complete change of manner,
and dropping my hand, ' Where's Reggie,
Basil ?'

'He is at the Hall  I mean, I haven't
brought him. I thought 'rather awkwardly
' you would come and see him instead.'

You haven't brought 'him i'  and now there
was a stormy light in her eyes. ' You have
kept him away from me all this time, and now
you have left him behind ! That is the way
you always treat me ! But of course Reggie
is nothing to me.'

Come, come ; you aren't quarrelling with
your chap already, are you, Allie ?' observed
her brother, who had overheard her last words.
Fleming says he has a lot to tell us ; most
likely he has some object in leaving the kid
behind. You see,' turning to us, and rubbing
his hands apologetically, ' Allie has been
missing him pretty badly all this time ; it is
natural she should have a mother's feelings.
I think the better of her for that, so we
won't blame her. Give the lady a seat, Fleming,
and take one yourself. Allie will be right

enough when she knows what you have got to

tell her.'

But, as though to contradict this soothing
statement, Aline resumed her work without
putting another question, leaving Basil to begin
his story as best he could. But I saw she
listened to every word ; and as he mentioned
his mother she drew a long breath and looked
up at him. He intercepted the glance at
once.

Are you glad I have found my mother,
Aline ?' he asked gently.

I don't know ; 1 haven't seen her yet ' 
evasively.

But you might be glad, for my sake,' he
persisted ; but as she made no answer he went
on with his story.

I saw her start and chancre colour when he

o

mentioned Reggie's illness, though he passed
over it very highly ; but she did not interrupt
him once, though Mr. Barton kept up a running
commentary in a sort of crescendo, which became
more shrill as Basil described his home.

Well, I am jiggered !' was his observation at
this point.

I felt the expression needed translation
to render it intelligible, and he rubbed up
his sandy hair until it seemed to bride. Mr.
Barton's excitement seemed to communicate itself

to Aline  she looked less statue-like. After
a moment she laid down her work.

Are squires very rich, Basil ?'

I don't know, my dear,' evidently delighted
to find she would speak to him. ' I cannot
answer for other squires, but Aunt Catherine
tells me I have a large fortune.'

Oh ! you will be happy then,' she said, still
looking at him. ' Our poor life has never
suited you ; you have not been brought up to it,
as George and I have. You will get on better
with your fine friends.'

Why, you talk as though I were going to
leave you behind ! only I know you don't mean
it. Aline, you should just see Reggie feeding
the peacocks  it is quite a picture ! Aunt
Catherine is going to order him a velvet suit ;
just fancy how he will look running over the
lawns and pulling the flowers !'

She seemed to listen to him breathlessly  her
lips parted  her eyes softened.

And there is such a beautiful room for you,
Aline  they call it the Lady Gwendoline's
Room  full of such lovely things ; and I shall be
able to buy you all you want  silk dresses,
furs, lace, anything you fancy  and my mother
is keeping some jewellery for you : you were
always fond of pretty things.

But I am not thinking of them now,' arching

her long neck with a gesture of disdain, and
looking handsomer than ever. * I am not a
child to be bribed into good behaviour by-pretty
things ; the question is '  and here her
voice faltered  ' wouldn't you rather have me
stop here along with George, than be shaming
you before your fine friends ?'

There was no mistaking the anxiety with
which she waited for his answer.

 Why should you shame me ?' he returned
impatiently. ' Why should we not begin allover
again ? We have made a mess of thrills
1 will not deny that. I have not been the
best of husbands to you. Aline ; and there have
been times when you have forgotten yourself.
But if you will only make a fresh start. I am
willing to overlook the past ; a man cannot say
more than that.'

Poor Basil I he meant well ; but if he had
only been a little softer with her ! But I suppose
he could not help his stern manner.

I am sure Fleming  I beg his pardon,
Lyndhurst  is speaking fair and proper, Allie ;
and there is no call for you to be so stand-fish
with him. You are his wife : remember
that.'

I am not likely to forget it. George,' she
returned, with a proud sort of humility. ' No,
you cannot sav more than that, Basil ; I did

not expect to hear you say so much, after the
way I have behaved. If you mean what you
say, and you are willing to have me to live

with you But there,' interrupting herself,

I will make no promises  I have broken too
many already  only I will try my best not to
disgrace you.'

She held out her hand to him as she spoke ;
it was a large well-shaped hand, but showed
traces of work. There were tears in her eyes,
but I do not think Basil saw them.

Then that is seeded, my dear he said
kindly enough : but I wished he had kissed
her  I think she expected it, for she sighed
in a disappointed way as she withdrew her
hand.

Come, this is first-rate,' exclaimed Mr.
Barton, rubbing up his hair again. ' Allie had
always the makings of a lady in her, and I shall
be proud and happy to see her in her right
place. Not but what I shall miss you,' looking
at her wistfully. ' You and me have always
been comfortable together, and the place will
be a bit dull without you ; but I have no call to
think of that. When shall } ou want her, Lynd-
hurst ? that is the next question.'

Had she not better come back with us tonight,
Basil ?' I asked. * There is no need for
any preparation.'

I thought Basil seemed disturbed at my question
; but a moment's reflection made him think
better of iJ".

Yes, why not ? You have not much packing
to do, have you, Aline ? You might put up
a few things, and let George send the rest ;
besides, I can get you all you want.'

To-night ?  come back with you to-night ?'
and Aline certainly looked frightened ; but her
brother gave her an encouraging pat on the
shoulder.

You had better strike when the iron's hot ;
there is nothing like getting a thing over.
Yes  yes ; go with your husband, Allie, and bea
good girl, and he'll be proud of you yet.'

Can I help you, my dear ?' I said in a low
voice ; but she shook her head.

There is not much to do, and Becky is used
to help me. Basil,' rather timidly, * would not
Miss Seton like some tea ? The kettle must
be boiling by now.'

That's an excellent idea !' Interposed her
]brother, without waiting for Basil to answer ; ' I
guess we are all pretty dry, talking so long.
Just you hurry up, Becky, there's a good lass.
Why,' with a laugh of intense enjoyment, ' to
think of my ordering about the Squire's lady in
this fashion! but you will look over it, Allie,
won't you ?'

I wish you would not talk such nonsense !'
she returned rather crossly, as she left the room.
Certainly Mrs. Basil Lyndhurst had not the
most angelic temper In the world ; but when she
returned, a few minutes later, all traces of sullenness
had vanished. I watched her with pleasure
as she helped the rough maid-of-all-work to set
the table. All her movements were slow,
but graceful. She did not seem conscious of
my observation ; but more than once I saw her
raise her dark eyes, and fix them on Basil In a
curiously searching manner ; but she scarcely
spoke as she poured out tea, except to ask her
brother once to pass the tea-cake to me.

Directly tea was over she went upstairs, and,
after a few minutes, Basil followed her. I think
he wanted to give her a hint or two about her
dress. The moment we were left alone, Mr.
Barton edged his chair a little nearer to me ina
confidential manner.

I am more glad than I can say, ma'am,' he
began respectfully, ' to see that there is a chance
of those two coming to a better understanding.
I don't mean to blame one more than another.
Allle has given Fleming a lot to bear ; but if he
had only been a little more patient with her !'

Has she  has Aline been going on better
lately ?'

Oh, I see you know all about it,' frowning

anxiously. * I suppose Fleming  bah ! I can't
o-et used to the new name ; Lyndhurst, I mean 
has told you ? Yes, it is a bad job for both of
them  these breaks-out of Allie's ; but she has
not had one for months. I do believe she is
ever so much better, poor girl ! She struggles
and prays against her temptation ; but at times
it seems as though the devil were too strong for
her. Her mother died of it, you see  not that
Allie knows that  that makes me not quite so
hard on her.'

But can nothing be done ?'

You must never let her taste anything
stronger than tea or coffee,' he returned
earnestly. ' Why, I never touch a drop of beer
even before her. Keep her amused and happy,
and give her a word of praise now and then,
just to let her see you are pleased with her, and
you will soon see what Allie is. She has done
a deal of fretting lately after Fleming and the
boy : it is a sore point with her, that neither of
them needs her. 1 was fearful that she would go
wrong with brooding over it ; but no, she has
kept herself straight.'

I am afraid you will miss her, Mr. Barton ?*

Well, ma'am,' in an odd, choked voice, ' you
are right about that. Allie is just the apple of
my eye. She has been my girl, you see, ever
since father and mother died, and I won't deny



it will be a bit dull for me ; though, as her husband
has the best nVht to her, I am not opine
to complain as long as he makes her happy.'
'Do you think she wishes to come with us ?'
That is a difficult question, ma'am. She is
sickening for a sight of the child, and she is
proud of beinor invited so kindly by her husband ;
but, in her heart, I expect Allie is mortally
afraid. It is going among strangers, you see ;
and then she has never been used to grandeur;
it will be kind of queer to her, having a livery
servant to stand behind her chair.'
Oh, she will soon get used to that.'
If you would only be her friend, and teach
her what to do !' he went on, looking at me so
wistfully that I was quite touched. ' You see,
Allie has never had a woman friend, and Becky,

though she is invaluable, has been a bit rouorh
with her. Now, a lady like yourself will be
different, and if you can only get an influence
over my poor girl !'

I will try my best  I will indeed, Mr.
Barton; and my sister will be good to her, too.'

Thank you kindly. Then I will not fash
myself overmuch. You will not be expecting
too much of the lass ? Allie is no talker ; even
with me she is mostly silent ; but she knows
how to make a house comfortable.'

I am olad to know that.'

Why, she has the cleverest fingers in the
world !'  warming into animation. ' You should
just see the set of shirts she has made for me !
You would not wish to see better work. And
she is industrious, too  never a moment idle,
except when she is in one of her bad states,
and then she will sit and do nothing for the
hour together. Why, the cakes and pies she
makes would astonish you ! And she keeps
the place as tidy as a new pin. Miss her!' 
rather grumpily  ' ay, and Becky will miss
her, too, for all the trouble she gives both of us
when she is in her tantrums.'

We were interrupted at this moment, for
Basil came back, and a few minutes afterwards
Aline followed him. She was dressed for walking,
and looked very nice. There was no fault
to be found in the gray gown, and hat bound
with a darker shade of gray velvet. I thought
from her appearance that she had been crying.

You have not been long getting ready,
Allie.'

No,' she said quietly, as she buttoned her
gloves ; * I had not much to do. Basil would
hardly let me take anything. He says my
clothes are not grand enough for Bloomfield
Hall, and that he must buy everything fresh, so
I have only got my blue cashmere besides
this.'

Never mind, my dear,' I interposed cheerfully
; ' you and I will come up to town and
order all you require.'

Shall I be able to come and see George too ?'
she asked anxiously.

Now, you are not going to trouble your
head about me,' returned her brother affectionately.
' Becky and I weill do first-rate
together ; shan't we, Becky ?'  as she stood
in the doorway, looking on rather grimly.
There ! you are ready now, so give us a kiss,
and don't keep Fleming waiting.'

I don't half like leaving you, George,* she
said, putting up her face to be kissed. ' No
one is half so good to me as you are. I doubt
but I shall repent it.'

Come, you might have paid me a prettier
compliment,' observed Basil good-humouredly.
Good-bye, George ! 1 will bring Aline back
to see you.'

He took hold of her arm, and hurried her
away, as though he dreaded a longer leave-taking.


Mr. Barton followed us to the door of the
shop, and watched us disconsolately as we
seated ourselves in the cab Becky had procured.
As we drove off. Aline leaned forward and
waved her hand to him.

Good-bye, dear old George !' she said un-vol.

II. 40

Steadily ; and a great tear rolled down her
cheek. * Are you sure you will take me to see
him, Basil ?'

Quite sure, my dear !'

Yes ; but he will not be welcome at Brookfield
Hall. George will never come and seeme
there,' she added sorrowfully ; and to this
Basil made no answer.

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING AND SONS, Printers, GUILUKOKU.

(;., C. e Co.

1



-*'->'-l*'

t(

J4ti

/

:'><

'.

>c?

/,

m''''U'-%y'4



il

;*t

d  ?l!E /r\ 5r )

rft-W

i./1'r ct x,

l?v.'-

ri

>

p Latest Date stamped below. A

Les charge is made on all overdue

Sm:?Aj books.

BASIL LYNDHURST

ROSA NOUCHETTE CAREY

author of
Nellie's memories,' ' not like other girls,' ' only the governess,

ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. Il

LONDON
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

ttblishcrs in ordinary to tx <|fta]cstg the (Qxxczn


[All rights reserved

Chapter

I. JEM GIVES HIS OPINION

II. 'i don't look like a squire's lady'

III. THE LADY Gwendolen's ROOM

IV, LADYBIRD PLAYS PRANKS

V. THE Dinner-party AT THE HALL

VI. ' IF I WERE ONLY LIKE YOU !' -

VI I. * YOU MUST TAKE CARE OF ME, GEORGE !'

VIII. 'troubles seldom COME SINGLY*

IX. ' BE GOOD TO HUBERT ' - - -

X. COOK SPOILS THE FISH - - - -

XI. AN AFTERMATH - - - - -

Nil THE NEW VICAR - .

XIII. A VIOLET IN SEPTEMBER

XIV. A NEW year's GIFT . . - .
XV. ' IS THERE ANYTHING YOU HAVE TO TELL ME ?'

XVI. THE WAY OPENS - . - .

lAGE



2 2


















SEARCH FOR BASIL LYNDHURST

OLGA RESUMES HER STORY.

VOL. III. 41

JEM GIVES HIS OPINION.

Thou art in a parlous state, shepherd.'

As You Like It:
I know the gentleman
To be of worth, and worthy estimation,
And not without desert so well reputed.'

Two Geiitleinen of Vejvna:

I WISH Aunt Catherine had not repeated
Hubert's speech ; somehow It gave me an uncomfortable
feeling for days !

It was so unlike Hubert to notice if one were
a little quieter, or if one talked less ; so it must
have been Kitty who put it into his head. He
had a way of repeating her speeches at times,
but I had never minded it before. Was there
any truth in the accusation ? For the first time
in my life I shrank from questioning myself too
closely. Perhaps my holiday had spoilt me and
unfitted me for the monotonous routine of home-life,
but certainly Fircroft had never seemed so

412

dull to me before, and, worst of all, Jem was
disappointing me.

It was impossible to deny that Jem was ina
most captious, fault-finding humour ; indeed,
there was no pleasing him ; he grumbled if I
mentioned St. Croix, and seemed to take no
interest in anything I told him ; and yet if I
were silent, he would ask me quite crossly what
I was thinking about, as though my silence
irritated him ; indeed, I never knew the dear
fellow so utterly perverse. I am sure Harry
felt for me, though his loyalty to Jem would not
allow him to say so ; but he gave me a sympathizing
glance now and then, as though to beg
me not to mind ; but somehow I did mind very
much indeed, and more than once I had a quiet
cry when I went to my room at night, for if
Jem were not pleased with me, my whole world
seemed out of gear.

He damped my enjoyment completely the
evening Aunt Catherine and Mr. Basil dined at
Fircroft. He seemed to listen to every word
Mr. Basil said to me, and if I laughed or
repeated any of our old St. Croix jokes, he
frowned and seemed quite annoyed. I left off
talking at last, and gave all my attention to
Harry, who took it quite gratefully.

Mr. Basil was certainly not at his ease ; he
was dignified, and rather stiff and formal. I

never found out before how handsome he was,
and for the first time I saw a likeness to his
mother  the only time he smiled naturally was
when I told him this ; he quite blushed with
pleasure  at least, he grew red.

I am so glad you can see it,' he said in a low
voice. ' I think my mother perfectly lovely ;'
and then I saw Jem scowling at me, and I left
Mr. Basil and went to the piano.

Jem was not more amiable the next day.
He grumbled a good deal on his way to the
church, and he chose to be exceedingly put out
because Aunt Catherine wished me to go back
with them to supper after evening service.

She might have had the civility to ask me
too !' he said, as we turned into the road ; ' but
I suppose the Don objects to me.'

Jem was really too bad. Of course it was all
his jealousy of Mr. Basil. I would not take the
trouble to ask whom he meant by that contemptuous
sobriquet, so I talked to Harry all
the way home, and never addressed a single
observation to Jem  even a worm will turn ;
and I was growing tired of Jem's ill-humour !

Jem refused to go to church with me in the
evening. He dragged off Harry for a long
walk, so I went with Mab and Jessie. The
Hall pew was nearly opposite the Vicarage
pew. I could not help noticing how grave and

abstracted Mr. Basil looked ; I had no intention
of watching him, only his fixed, stern expression
riveted me for the moment, as I glanced at him ;
he suddenly looked up, and our eyes met. I
felt somewhat confused, and all the rest of the
service I could not help thinking what that
singular flashing look meant. We three walked
back together in the sweet dewy evening.

Mrs. Lyndhurst was waiting for us in the
drawing-room. She wore her velvet dress, and
a pretty little lace cap, and I understood then why
Mr. Basil thought her lovely. She had always
been handsomer than Aunt Catherine, and with
that soft colour on her face, and that gentle, tremulous
smile, she certainly looked very sweet.

After supper I sang to them  I think I never
enjoyed singing more than I did that evening ;
there was very little light in the room, and the
windows were open. Mr. Basil sat near his
mother ; I saw her take his hand once, and kiss
it : perhaps the semi-darkness gave her courage,
for they were still very shy with each other.
Aunt Catherine told me that Mrs. Lyndhurst
feared to give him the least caress.

He is very reserved with her !' she said tome,
' and cannot bring himself to use any filial
freedom, and this restrains her ; but when the
first strangeness wears off, she will soon see how
affectionate Basil can be.'

Jem came to fetch me as usual, but he sent
in a message that he was smoking and had Rollo
with him, and would wait outside. I fancied
Mr. Basil looked disappointed.

There was no need for your brother to take
the trouble ; I could have escorted you,' he
said rather formally, but though he attended me
to the door, he did not speak to Jem, who was
strolling up and down under the trees.

He threw away the end of his cigar as I
joined him, and took hold of my arm ; my first
words were hardly gracious, however.

You need not have taken the trouble to fetch
me, Jem. You must have been tired with your
long walk.'

I suppose you meant the Don to walk home
with you ?' with a return of gruffness ; but I
was not in a specially meek mood.

I wish you would not call people names,
Jem. It is not good form.'

I think it is a capital name, and just fits the
person for whom it is intended. Lyndhurst is
such a stiff sort of chap. He looks ever so
much taller than anyone else.'

What makes you dislike him so ?' I replied
in a vexed tone. ' You do nothing but find
fault with him. It is hardly kind to Aunt
Catherine and Mrs. Lyndhurst, to pick holes in
their belongings.'

I can't help it,' curtly. * I can get on with
most fellows, but Lyndhurst and I don't hit it
off somehow.'

But, Jem, he was so friendly to you at first !'
Was he ? I can't say I remember that

circumstance!. I have a notion that we eyed
each other like a couple of tom-cats, as though
to test our fighting qualities. Look here, Olga,
I know you have thought me disagreeable the
last day or two, hut I can't get over the fact
that Lyndhurst and Fleming ant the same
person, and I hate your having anything to do
with him there.'

Jem spoke in the same surly manner; but
somehow I did not mind it half so much as I
had minded his sneering innuendoes ; it was
better to have our fight out once for all. Jem
evidently thought the same, for, instead of turning
into the paddock that led to our kitchen-garden,
he continued walking down the road.

I am beginning to detest the sight of the
fellow !' he went on, but this was too much for
my patience.

What right have you to speak so of anyone
after a three days' acquaintance ?' I said angrily;
you do not know Mr. Basil ; with all his faults,
I have the greatest respect for him. He is not
what you think him ; he is a clever man and a
gentleman, and his life has been very unhappy.

Are you so good and immaculate yourself that
you cannot make allowances for a mistake made
in youth ?'

You are meaning his marriage,' he returned
quickly; but I was not thinking of that. ' Look
here, Olga, I have heard a lot of this fellow
Fleming  Lyndhurst, I mean. When I was at
Oxford, the men told me plenty about him ; he
did not bear the best of characters with the
authorities. He got into a freethinking set,
and called himself an Agnostic. There was a
row or two in which he was mixed up, and he
very nearly got rusticated.'

I don't believe a word of it,' rather rudely.

Oh, you don't  don't you ! I suppose you
have got an excellent reason for your incredulity
?' sneered Jem  ' a girl has so much
experience of the world and men. Then, too,
his marriage was disgraceful.'

It was nothing of the kind,' I retorted.
Aunt Catherine told me all about it ; she was
a beautiful girl, and her friends were most
respectable.'

Her brother has a shop in Holloway, hasn't
he ? and Fleming  confound the two names !
Lyndhurst, I mean  married her on the sly ;
but of course that was not wrong ? You have
changed your ideas of morality, I find.'

No, Jem ; but you used a wrong word ; there

was nothing disgraceful about Mr. Lyndhurst's
marriage.'

Use what word you like, only let me finish.
I cannot think what makes you so contradictory
to-night. I tell you I don't approve of Lynd-
hurst, only you need not repeat all this to Aunt
Catherine ; she is bound to think the best of
her nephew. The part about him I dislike
most is his scraping up an acquaintance with
you in that outlandish place, and letting you
believe he was a widower.'

I was so angry at this that I was nearly
overwhelming Jem with my wrath ; he should
know, for the first time in his life, that I had a
temper. I would give him a taste of it that
should be caustic and stringent enough to last
him for a month ; but as I turned to him with
this amiable intention, I saw him regarding me
with such manifest anxiety, with such a troubled
expression, that I softened at once.

I have hardly patience to answer you at all,'
I began ; ' but I feel I must defend Mr. Basil.
You are very unjust, Jem, and very prejudiced ;
it was my own stupidity that made me take him
for a widower. I thought, from something
Reggie said, that his mother was dead ; but
he meant his nurse, so '  stammering a little
  ' I told Aunt Catherine, and she believed
U, too ; but it was all a mistake on our

parts, and Mr. Basil very soon undeceived
us.'

All the same, he had no right to be so
much with you, and I must say I wonder at
Aunt Catherine : she ought to have known that
an acquaintance with a suspicious-looking fellow
should have been stopped at once.'

Ah, Jem, how ridiculous you are !' I exclaimed,
quite weary of his persistence. ' What
could be the harm of exchanging a few civil
words with a neighbour ? Mr. Basil never spoke
to me unless he was obliged ; indeed, on several
occasions I noticed that he avoided me. But
when Reggie was ill '

Ah, of course, I know how things would be
then !' in an exasperated tone. ' Aunt Catherine
is too soft-hearted, and, for the matter of
that, you know you are a goose yourself, Olga.
Well, I don't want to make things worse by
putting ideas into your head, but Aunt Catherine
was old enough to know that it was not a safe
line to take when she had a young lady under
her care. I am not saying any harm has come
of it, mind you, but, all the same, it has put me
all wrong with Lyndhurst.'

Jem was purposely vague in his concluding
remarks, which were made in a decidedly apologetic
voice. Not for worlds would I have had
him suspect that I understood his hints, that

they were' making me tingle with shame allover.
He feared harm might have come of it,
how could I avoid understanding him ?  it was a
dangerous position for a girl. Poor, dear Jem !
it was only his love and anxiety for me that had
made him so gruff and disagreeable, and filled
him with such animosity to the young Squire ;
my heart relented to this foolish, blundering
Jem. I must set his mind at rest.

Jem,' I said as gently as I could, * you must
put all these foolish ideas out of sour head ; they
wrong me as well as Mr. Basil  he and I are
very good friends. I  I hope he respects meas
much as I do him, and from his manner I
think it is so ; no one has ever shown me more
respect. I would trust him more than most
men. I have never heard a word from his lips
that I would have wished unsaid ; he is a gentleman,
and noblesse obligee  and I wish '  and here
a spark of temper would show itself  ' I wish you
were more like him.'

Jem seemed quite taken aback b)' this little
outburst. It touched him in spite of himself,
and he had the rare magnanimity to overlook
my parting thrust.

Well, perhaps he is not such a bad fellow,
after all, and if there is no harm done '

He was floundering head foremost into it
again, but I caught him up smartly.

Harm  what harm should there be ?' But
I felt, with a little sinking of heart, that Jem
had very nearly hit the truth. ' I have
another friend at the Hall, that is all ; and
when Mrs. Basil Lyndhurst comes, I hope I
shall like her, too.'

I was carrying matters with a high hand.
Jem began to look as though he had had enough
of it ; but he took up my last words :

I don't suppose you will care much for a
vulgar, under-bred young woman.'

But she is not vulgar  Aunt Catherine told
me so. Mr. Basil would never have fallen in
love with the sort of person you describe ; he is
too refined in his tastes. Anyhow, I mean to
try and like her, just to help Aunt Catherine,
and because  because she is Reggie's mother ;'
and then all of a sudden my throat seemed to
swell, and I felt as though I wanted to cry.

Jem gave me a rough little shake.

Now don't be a goose, Olga ; I have only
meant it for your good. You ought to be glad
that I look after you. Many fellows would not
take half so much trouble for a sister.'

I don't want you to take that sort of trouble
for me. It is very disagreeable, Jem.'

Very well, then, I won't another time, and
you may look after yourself.' Then, relenting
at my sad face : ' Now, be a good girl, and

forgive me. Haven't I a right to take care of
the best Httle sister in the world ? I vow I
don't know the fellow who is brood enouLdi for
her;' and, charmed with this compliment. I no
longer refused to kiss and make friends, as we
called it in our childish days, only I do not
believe Jem and I had ever quarrelled so
seriously before. ' I had no idea you could
be such a s|)it-fir(',' he observed as we strolled
on happily, arm-in-arm. * Violet Campbell can
say a sharp thing or twr>. hut she can't hold the
candle to you.'

To this day I have no idea whether it was
Jem's artful intention to change? the subject, or
whether he made this speech quit,' innocently,
and without malice prepense ; but it certainly
had the singular effect of driving the Hall folk
out of my head in a moment. Poor, after all,
Jem was Jem, and I should like to see the girl
who Hut never mind that.

And who may Violet Campbell be ?' I asked
in a tone calculated to strike awe into any
bachelor brother's heart.

Oh, she is only a girl I met down at
Marlow,' mumbled Jem. ' Didn't I tell you
about the water-party ? She steered in our
boat. She was a nice lite thing  not as handsome
as Bella Parker and her cousin Nora, but
still '

You have a very bad habit, Jem, of calling
young ladies by their Christian names. It is
bad form, and not at all respectful.'

Oh, shut up !' was the amiable rejoinder to
this sisterly rebuke.

Did you only see Miss Campbell once ?' I
continued, bent on severe cross-examination.

She was at the picnic next day in the Quarry
Woods, and I met her coming out of church the
following Sunday. She was staying with her
uncle  he seemed a jolly old boy  but she told
me her people live in Kensington.'

Indeed.'

They are a large family  three or four boys,
and as many girls. VI  I mean Miss Campbell
is the eldest daughter.'

She seems to have told you a good deal
about herself and her belongings.'

Well, one must talk about something if one
is with a person for three or four hours,'
replied Jem testily. ' I dare say you contrived
to say a good deal to the Don when he was
morning about in that summer-house of his.'
But here Jem found himself unable to proceed,
as I effectually closed his lips. * Pax, you
ridiculous child ! you have half suffocated me.'

Jem disregarding this remonstrance, ' I wish
you would tell me a little more about Miss
Campbell. She is very pretty, you say ?'

I said nothing of the kind

Well, you implied it. You said she was a
nice lite thing.'

So she is, and so are you, when you behave
yourself.'

Do you mean she is like me ?' brightening
up.

No, I don't. You are not half so pretty.
I mean she is a different style. She is your
height, perhaps a little taller ; but there, I never
could describe girls. She is awfully easy to get
on with, and there is no nonsense about her,
and she does not try to flirt with a fellow. One
of her brothers  Kit she called him  was in
our boat, too. He is coming to Balliol next
term.'

Did she  did he, I mean, ask you to call ?'
Oh, there is plenty of time for that,' replied
Jem cheerfully. ' I said something about
looking them up when I went to town ; but
I think I shall wait until I know young
Campbell a lite better. Vi  I mean Miss
Campbell  is coming down to Commemoration
next June.'

I was silent. A little further reflection made
me swallow this piece of information very
quietly. I was quite used to these confidences
on Jem's part ; there was always
some ' awfully nice girl ' on the tapis. Not

that Jem had ever been really in love, but he
was of a genial, sociable temperament, and all
girls liked him. He was so full of fun, and
he admired them so frankly, the most prudish
of them could not take umbrage at his attentions.


Last summer it had been that pretty little
Miss Black, and in the winter he had transferred
his allegiance to Sybil Grey, and so now
if it were Violet Campbell I need not disquiet
myself ; so I tried not to think that there was a
shade more earnestness in Jem's manner, and a
greater unwillingness to enter into close particulars.


Nothing could be more foolish than for Jem
to lose his heart at his age. Why, he had not
left Oxford, and it would be years before he
could hope to hold a brief ; and with only a
hundred and fifty pounds a year of his own, he
was certainly not in a position to marry.

One question I did put to Jem as we stood
at the Hall door :

Are the Campbellss rich ?'

Rich ? I am sure I don't know,' returned
Jem, staring at me. ' Mr. Campbell is a
solicitor ; they live in Addison Road. No ; I
am certain they are not. I remember Dismiss
Campbell saying that some of the boys must go
into the city, as her father could only afford to

VOL. III. 42

send Kit to Oxford. Why do you want to
know ?'

Oh, only for information. Jem, there is the
prayer-bell, and we must go in.'

Kitty had retired early. As I passed her
door I went in to bid her good-night. She
was lying awake, and fully expecting me. She
looked hot and feverish, and I could tell by her
voice that she had been crying. I asked her,
with much concern, if she felt less well.

No,' she returned dejectedly ; ' I am only
fretting about Hubert. I have been speaking
to him about Miss Seton's proposition ; it
seems to worry him excessively.'

Do you mean he begrudges the expense ?'

No, of course not  neither the expense nor
trouble. Has Hubert ever begrudged me anything
? He will take me up on Thursday ; but,
all the same, he thinks that I am fanciful, and
wanting in patience. He has told me as much
to-night ; he gave me quite a sermon after
church, about the duty of bearing weakness
more cheerfully.'

How can Hubert be so ridiculous ? I begin
to lose all patience with him ; even Harry said
this morning how far less well you seemed, and
that he feared you were losing ground daily.*

*You must not be hard on Hubert, dear. I
sometimes think he is shutting his eyes purposely,

and that he does not want to see it.
His manner gives me this impression. Why,
he was almost irritable with me this evening ;
and the end of it was he packed me off to bed,
though I told him I never slept now until one
or two. It is so dreary lying here just thinking
of it all'

Never mind. I will stay with you, and then
you will not be dull ; when people are weak,
they get so low-spirited. I think that is the
worst of illness.'

I cannot tell you how glad I am to have
you again,' she returned, looking at me affectionately.
' I have missed you so much, and
Hubert has had no one to keep him company ;
and when I am with him, I am too tired and
stupid to talk to him or amuse him. Sometimes
I have fancied that he thought me cross,
and all the time it was only this miserable
sinking.'

Men are so stupid,' I began wrathfully ; but
at that moment there was a heavy step in the
dressing-room, and Hubert, hearing voices,
came in to know who was keeping Kitty awake.

It is only Olga,' said Kitty apologetically ;
she came in to wish me good-night.'

And has been chattering and disturbing you
for the last half-hour,' he remarked severely.
What will be the use of my taking you to a

42  2

physician, Kitty, if you refuse to take the
slightest care of yourself ? Dr. Langham begged
you in my hearing to be in bed by ten o'clock,
and it is now nearly eleven ; and you are not
attempting to go to sleep.'

I thought I told you, Hubert, that it was
impossible for me to sleep she returned reproachfully.


Of course it is impossible if you do not try,'
he replied decidedly ; and seeing him in this
authoritative mood, Kitty merely sighed wearily,
and gave up the contest by closing her eyes ;
but that flushed, feverish face did not look like
sleep. 'There's a good little woman,' returned
Hubert, restored to good humour by this ready
obedience ; and then he followed me out of the
room.

You meant it kindly, Olga,' he said, as he
lighted my candle ; ' but Kitty's nerves are in
such a state that she cannot be kept too quiet.
Rest and sleep and plenty of nourishment  that
was what Dr. Langham ordered, and a very
excellent prescription, too ; and what Kitty
wants with another physician passes my comprehension.
I wish Miss Seton had minded
her own business '  rather crossly.

I am very glad you have made up your
mind to take her,' was my bold reply. * I don't
want to worry you, Hubert, you have trouble

enough ; but I think Kitty is worse than you
think. It is not only her nerves : there must
be some cause for this weakness ; she is very
uneasy about herself.'

Of course she is uneasy if you all talk to
her about her health,' he returned doggedly.
Miss Seton has put this London doctor in
her head, and I shall have no peace until I take
her. He will just laugh at us for our pains,
and serve us all right, too ; it is a clear case of
nerves. She has overtired herself with the
children ; and she has never been strong since
little Flo was born. I shall have to be more
strict with her for the future ;' and so saying he
marched off.

Poor Hubert ! as though he could disguise
his anxiety from me ! All the time he was
arguing about Kitty's nerves, I could see how
he was watching me to know if I agreed with
him. Kitty was right ; he was blinding himself
purposely. I went to bed that night
with a heavy heart, for what would Hubert do

if Kitty But even to myself I could not

finish the sentence.

*i don't look like a squire's lady.'

Could ye bless him, father  mother,
Bless the dimple in his cheek ?
Dare ye look at one another,

And the benediction speak ?
Would ye not break out in weeping.
And confess yourselves too weak ?'

Mrs. Browning.

Aunt Catherine had begged me to spend th '
following afternoon with Mrs. Lyndhurst, as
she and Mr. Basil would be away the whole
day. When the time came, I left Kitty very
unwillingly. There had been a return of faintness
during the morning. Nurse told me her
mistress had not closed her eyes all night ; but
she had insisted on getting up at her usual hour
to prevent Mr. Leigh from being anxious. I
left her lying on the drawing-room couch looking
miserably ill and depressed, and Hubert
sitting by her with a pile of new magazines he

was cutting for her amusement. I could hear
him laughing as he explained some amusing
picture to her, and Kitty's feeble voice trying
to echo him ; but there was not a mirthful note
in it.

Mrs. Lyndhurst was sitting in the garden, and
Reggie was with her ; and we spent a very
happy afternoon. I was so delighted to have
my darling to myself again. We played our old
games with Rollo, even enacting ' Mrs. Howl
in the ivy-bush.' Reggie laughed so excessively
that I caught him again and again without difficulty.
His only complaint was that there was
no swing to rest in  by swing he meant the
hammock ; so his grandmother promised to buy
him one, and we settled where to hang it.

We had our tea in the old English garden,
and Reggie fetched Peter ; and with Rollo, the
pug, and the two peacocks, we were a goodly
company. Reggie looked like a lovely little
picture as he fed the gorgeous creatures ; and
the background of sunflowers was like a golden
hedge behind him. Reggie always went to bed
early ; and as soon as Marsden had carried him
off, we went indoors, as Mrs. Lyndhurst was
tired. When Reggie bade her good-night, I
noticed how often and how passionately she
kissed him. Reggie noticed it, too.

Why do you kiss me so hard and so many

times, Gran ?' he asked, fixing his eyes very
seriously on her.

The kisses are not all for you, my darling,'
she answered tenderly. * I meant them for
another little boy, whose mother never gave
him any ;' and then she sighed heavily, and bade
him go with Marsden ; and we both knew
what she meant, and how even her love for
this sweet, engaging little creature was mixed
up with inextinguishable remorse that her
own child should have missed so much.

I chided her gently for this sadness, but she
only shook her head with a melancholy smile.

It must be so, Olga. I try not to be
morbid ; but the knowledge of all he has lost
seems a barrier between us even now. Basil
is very generous ; he wants me to forget  he
tries to forget himself  but sometimes, when
the child is on my lap. I know what Basil
thinks, and then I can hardly keep myself from
asking his forgiveness over again.'

You must never do that ; it would only
embarrass him.'

No, I must be patient ; he is very dear and
good. I have only myself to thank that he cannot
be all a son should be to his mother ; he thinks
too much before he speaks : he is too much
afraid of hurting me ; he pronounces my name
almost timidly ; and the least caress on my part

seems to trouble him. If he could only speak
to me as he does to Catherine ! Why, he
was quite impatient with her this morning
because she kept him waiting, and he feared
they would lose the train.'

And you want him to be impatient with
you ?'

She could not help smiling at such a
question.

It almost sounds like it, does it not ? I
think I should not mind, if he were only at his
ease with me ; in other respects his behaviour
is perfect.'

But surely you are happy now !' I remonstrated
; for I had a youthful impatience of this
morbid iteration.

I am happy when Basil is with me,' she
returned. ' It is only in the night, when I lie
awake, that I think of the lifetime I have lost
all those years  those miserable years ; and
he wants me to forget  as though a mother
could ever bury the past. Do you think ' 
looking at me with a sort of strained eagerness
' that he will ever love me as he does
Catherine ?'

Some day he will love you more.'

Oh, my dear, how you comfort me ! If I
could only believe that, I should be happy
indeed ! How many days has he been with

me ?  only yq ; and yet I worship the ground
he walks on. But I must not tell him so  oh
no, It would not be well '

Mrs. Lyndhurst,' I said, checking her, for I
found It difficult to sustain the conversation, ' do
you think they will be back soon } I meant to
have left you an hour ago. Hark ! Is not that
the carriage turning In at the gate T and I rose
in a flurried manner.

Aunt Catherine had not asked me to stay
until their return, and they had come back
earlier than I expected.

Never mind ; you must stay to supper now.
What does it matter, child ? you are one of us,'
replied Mrs. Lyndhurst, pressing my arm
kindly, as we stood together at the window,
looking down the avenue.

Yes, there were the bays, and there was
Aunt Catherine waving her hand to us. But
who was that lady In the gray hat beside her ?
The next moment jNIrs. Lyndhurst caught hold
of me.

That is Basil's wife !' she said, In a quick,
agitated manner. ' Olga, I must go to the
door to receive my son's wife. Come, my
dear ; come and help me to welcome her ;' and,
half unwillingly, I followed her Into the hall.

Basil, there Is your mother,' I heard Aunt
Catherine sav ; and from her voice I knew she

was exceedingly nervous. And then Mr. Basil
turned round quickly and saw us. He looked
rather pale as he came into the hall, with a tall,
handsome-looking woman beside him.

Mother,' he said, in a very low voice, 'we
have brought Aline back with us ; Aunt Catherine
thought it would be better.'

You have done quite right, Basil. My dear,
you are very welcome. I hope you will soon
feel at home with us ;' and she kissed her on the
cheek.

I think young Mrs. Lyndhurst was hardly
prepared for this demonstration, for she flushed
up, and looked at her husband.

No one noticed me in this little scene, and I
regained the drawing-room unperceived ; but
they followed me almost directly. Mrs. Lynd-
hurst was holding her daughter-in-law's hand.
She placed her on the couch beside her, and
asked her to remove her hat. As she did so,
the elastic got entangled with her hair, and I
went to her assistance. She looked at me in
an odd, penetrating way, as she thanked me.
There was no want of civility in her tone, but I
thought her manner cold. She was certainly
very handsome, only it was a sort of heavy,
statuesque beauty that did not attract me ;
and there was no animation in her face or voice.

This is our young friend, Olga Leigh,' observed

Mrs. Lyndhurst ; ' we are all very fond
of her.'

And then Mrs. Basil looked at me again in
the same grave, penetrating way ; but she did
not smile or hold out her hand.

Involuntarily I drew back, a little chilled at
this reception. I wondered how Mrs. Lynd-
hurst could talk on in that gentle, kindly
manner, questioning her about her journey, and
receiving in return only those monosyllabic
replies. But perhaps the poor thing was
frightened to death at finding herself among
all these strangers.

I am sure Aline is tired, Basil,' observed
Aunt Catherine, breaking into this melancholy
little duet.

You are wrong ; I am never tired,' replied
Mrs. Basil. She did not speak abruptly, but ina
slow, meditative way ; and then she added :
There is nothing in such a little journey to
tire me.'

I am glad that you are so strong,' returned
Mrs. Lyndhurst kindly ; * good health is a great
blessing.'

Oh yes, I am strong ; nothing ails me.'

And then again there was an awkward
silence, only I noticed Mrs. Basil was looking
about her in an odd way, as though she missed
something. Of course, it was no business of

mine to interfere, but I felt so sorry for them
all. Mr. Basil was watching his wife so
anxiously, and Aunt Catherine looked flushed
and tired. If I could only help them! Without
thinking, I acted on the impulse of the moment
in a thoroughly Olga-like way.

You are looking for Reggie,' I said, in a
low voice ; ' he went to bed an hour ago. He
was quite tired out with play. Would you like
to see him asleep ? I will take you to him '
the last words prompted by the intense
eagerness in her eyes. There was no lack of
animation now ; she looked superbly handsome.


Yes, let us go to him,' she returned, rising.
And then she looked at her husband. ' I may
go with this young lady to see Reggie, may I
not?'

But before he could answer Mrs. Lyndhurst
interposed : ' My dear, this is your home ; there
is no need to ask permission for anything. Go
with Olga, by all means ; it is a good thought of
hers ;' and we left the room at once.

As Mr. Basil opened the door for us, I asked
him, in a whisper, if I had done wrong, would
he go instead of me ? but he only shook his
head and drew back. I felt a little uncomfortable,
and persisted.

No, no ; I would much rather have things

as they are. I am only too grateful to you for
proposing it ;' and he went back into the room,
and I rejoined Mrs. Basil, who was waiting forme
at the foot of the stairs.

What were you saying to him ?' she asked,
looking at me inquisitively.

I was rather surprised at the question, but
replied that I had only asked if he would take
my place.

'You need not have said that to him  it is
better as it is,' was her strange answer. ' I am
ever so much obliged to you for getting me out
of that room ; I thought I should be suffocated
with all those questions. George never asks
me questions. But there, come along. I shall
feel anyhow until I have had a look at Reggie.'

I kept my astonishment to myself, and took
her to the room where Reggie was sleeping.
Marsden was just leaving him. Mrs. Basil took
no notice of her respectful salutation ; she
almost pushed past her in her eagerness to see
her child.

It must have been a lovely sight to any
mother's eyes. Reggie looked almost angelic
in his sleep : he had thrown off the coverings ;
his dear little face was pillowed on one arm,
the other flung over Peter, who was curled up
beside him ; his long lashes drooped over his
flushed cheeks.

I heard a caught breath, almost like a sob.
To my surprise the tears were coursing down
Mrs. Basil's face.

The little daring ! How beautiful he looks!
But what have they done with your hair,
Reggie ? Someone has cut off my baby's hair
and never told his mother !'

They were obliged to do it,' I whispered.
Please do not wake him, he is sleeping so
soundly. He was ill  very ill ; and the doctor
said it must be done, and Aunt Catherine was
obliged to do it.'

Yes, I know  he was ill  he might have
died, and no one would have told me. His
mother would have been the last to hear it ;
and it is this sort of thing I must bear, and
say nothing.' And then, sinking on her knees
beside the bed, she covered him with soft,
noiseless kisses. ' My pretty boy ! My darling
Reg !' I heard her say over and over again.

I did not like to disturb her, so I left the
room as quietly as possible, and waited outside
in the corridor. Every now and then I could
hear her murmuring fond words over him.
With all her faults, Mrs. Basil certainly loved
her child.

As I stood there looking down into the cool,
fragrant old garden, Aunt Catherine came upstairs
and joined me.

Where is Aline ?' she whispered.

I have left her with Reggie. Please do not
disturb her ; she is very much upset, and of
course she wants to be alone with her child.'

We cannot leave her much longer, I am
afraid,' she replied uneasily. * Basil will be up
directly, and he will want her to be ready
before the gong sounds. Has she taken to you
at all, Olga ? Do you think she will let you
help her ?'

I do not know,' I returned dubiously ; ' but
I will try what I can do ;' and I went back into
the room.

She was sitting on the edge of the bed, stili
watching Reggie, but she was not crying now.
There was a profound melancholy in her whole
aspect  something in that drooping, grand-looking
figure and finely-moulded head reminded
me of a Mater Dolores I had once seen. She
did not speak or move as I approached her.

It is very late,' I said quietly ; ' and in a few
minutes the gong will sound for supper. Will
you let me show you to your room, and then
perhaps I can help you ?'

Whose room is this ?' she asked, starting
and looking round her.

I believe it is Mr. Basil's dressing-room.
There is no time to show you your sitting-room
now. This is your bedroom,' beckoning to her;

and she rose reluctantly and followed me. I
thought she looked round the spacious, 
room with an air of distaste.

What a big place ! I shall have room to
breathe,' she remarked, but I could not tell
whether with simplicity or sarcasm. ' And what
grand windows !' She walked to one of them
and looked out rather absently ; but on my
reminding her again of the time, she regarded
me with a puzzled stare.

I am sure I do not know what I am to do,'
she said, rather defiantly. ' You seem to be
expecting me to make a fine toilet, but I have
no better gown than the one I've got on ; and if

that does not please you ' she walked up to a

pier-glass as she spoke, and looked at herself
from head to foot. * I am afraid I don't look
like a squire's lady,' she went on, * in this
dowdy gown,' with a hard little laugh ; ' it was
George's favourite  he had a fancy for gray ;
but it is not Basil's taste ; he told me so as we
came along.'

Never mind about to-night,' I replied cheerfully
; ' I have not changed my dress either.'

Oh, white always looks smart ! To my mind
you are quite fit for a party. Do you live here,
Miss ? There, I have forgot your name.'

Do I live at the Hall  is that what you
mean ?'

VOL. III. 43

She nodded.

Oh no ; I live at Fircroft, a little lower down
the village. My brother is the clergyman, and I
live with him. You asked me my name just
now ; it is Olga Leigh, but I should like you to
call me Olga.'

I am sure I don't mind, though it is a
strange, outlandish sort of name ; for I feel more
at home with you, somehow, than I did with the
old ladies downstairs.' The idea of her calling
my dear Aunt Catherine an old lady ! ' And
you did me a good turn, bringing me up to see
Reggie. Would you believe it ?  Basil would
have kept me talking there another hour before
he would have remembered I was dying to seethe
boy.'

1 found this confidence embarrassing, so I
changed the subject by offering her some
yellow chrysanthemums, set with dark leaves,
and suggesting they would look well on her
gray dress. She took them with an air of
indifference, and adjusted them carelessly. I
noticed she had no rings on her large shapely
hands with the exception of her wedding-ring.
Her hair was very nicely arranged in smooth
coils that just suited her peculiar style. She
did not seem to notice my inspection ; she only
spoke twice again : once to remark on the
fineness of the towel she was using, and which

seemed to surprise her ; and the other was a
comment on the number of looking-glasses,

Rich people seem fond of looking at themselves,'
she said, a little disdainfully.

I hurried her downstairs at last ; they were
waiting for us. Mr. Basil at once gave his arm
to his mother, and Aunt Catherine took his
wife. I do not believe Mrs. Basil would have
opened her lips to join in the conversation if
it had not been for Aunt Catherine, for
Mrs. Lyndhurst looked too much exhausted
to resume her soft questioning ; but Aunt
Catherine talked on manfully. I saw Mr.
Basil make a sign to her once when Bennet
was going to fill his wife's glass with champagne,
and with ready tact she leant forward
and addressed her.

You are a water-drinker, are you not, my
dear ?' she said in the quietest manner.
Bennet, Mrs. Basil never takes anything but
water. I dare say she would like some of our
nice home-made lemonade ; it is such a cool,
refreshing drink.'

I did not hear Mrs. Basil's answer, but I saw
the crimson blood rise to her forehead, and she
seemed as though she could not eat another
morsel. I felt almost as ashamed myself, and
yet no one could have noticed anything in
Aunt Catherine's manner. I did not stay long

432

after supper. Jem had not come for me, so I
asked Aunt Catherine in a low voice if one of
the servants might \ alk with me. I was rather
sorry that Mr. Basil overheard this remark, for
he at once insisted on being my escort, and
rather than make a fuss, I was obliged to
submit. Mrs. Basil was sitting bolt upright
on the couch beside her mother-in-law. She
opened her eyes  such lovely eyes they were 
very widely as I wished her good-night.

'Why, how early you are going! Has Basil
asked to walk with you ?'

Yes ; there was no need. One of the
servants would have gone with me, but I
generally have my brother. I hope you do
not mind my taking him ?'

No one ever thought of asking me such a
question before,' she replied in a voice that
made INIrs. Lyndhurst look at us both in mild
surprise. ' Basil always pleases himself. I
suppose you will be here tomorrow ?'

1 do not know ; I am not sure,' quite confused
at this, for Mr. Basil could hear every
word.

You will come if Aline wants you, will you
not, Olga ?' interposed Aunt Catherine briskly.
Run across tomorrow afternoon as soon as the
children have finished luncheon, and then you
can stay to tea.'

And as I could not think of any plausible
excuse to prevent my complying with this, I
was obliged to acquiesce.

I confess Mr. Basil's first words as we walked
down the avenue took me by surprise.

Aline has taken a fancy to you, Miss
Leigh.'

'To me! What should put such an idea
into your head ?'

Why, it was pretty evident, was it not ?'
And though it was quite dark under the trees,
I could tell he was smiling. ' She scarcely
opened her lips to anyone else ; and then she
wanted you to come tomorrow.'

Do you think so ?'

I am sure of it. Aline is not a woman of
many words. What she says she means.
You won her heart by taking her up to see
Reggie. I was a fool not to think of it myself

She is certainly very fond of him.'

She has not seen the little chap for so long,
and he has been ill ; but she is not always
ready to take notice of him.' He stopped, as
though he had said too much, and then continued
in a different tone : ' I am afraid my
mother and Aline have not quite hit it off this
evening. Does it not strike you that my
mother seems depressed ?'

Not more than usual. I mean her spirits

are always variable. I think, if you will pardon
me for saying so, that you are judging too
hastily ; it is all so strange and new for your
wife. Somehow I feel very sorry for her
to-night.'

You think she is to be pitied T and I am
sure there was a little pique in his tone.

Oh, not in that way, at least,' feeling that I
was beginning rather awkwardly ; ' I am afraid
you are misunderstanding me.'

I would not do that for worlds,' he replied
gently. ' Will you tell me what you really do
mean ?'

Well, then, I feel sorry for Mrs. Basil
because all her surroundings are so strange to
her. She has never seen even your mother
and Aunt Catherine ; and though they are so
kind to her, she finds it difficult to open her
heart to them. Their conversation oppresses
her ; they have nothing in common ; she has
not been brought up in their way, and every
moment she is afraid of offending their prejudices.
She did not tell me this, but I can read
it in her looks and silence.'

Aline is generally silent ; but you are right.
When, indeed, have I ever found you wrong }
Did she  did Aline interest you ?'

Very much ;' but I wondered a little at the
question.

I ask that because I fear to trespass on
your goodness ; but if it would not trouble you
too much, would you  should you very much
mind giving her as much of your company as
possible ?'

You wish me to be friends with your wife ?'

That is my meaning, certainly, if it would
not tax your kindness too severely. I know
how good it would be for Aline to have such a
friend ; it would be good for her  do you not
think so ?' turning to me abruptly.

I thought his manner strange. He did not
seem quite like himself to-night ; there was a
sort of constraint about him, as though he were
not at his ease ; it was the first time he had ever
spoken to me of his wife, and he seemed afraid
of saying much. I told him in answer that I
would gladly do all I could to make Mrs. Basil
feel at home with us all, and that as I was
nearer her age, she would most likely talk tome
with more openness than she would to
Aunt Catherine. In return he thanked me
very gratefully, but still in the same guarded
manner. It struck me then that he was feeling
his position intensely, and that it required all
his man's strength to keep his uneasiness to
himself. I could not help thinking how sad it
must be for any man  and especially one so
proud and sensitive as Mr. Basil  to be tied

for life to a woman whom he could not respect,
and who repelled him by her strange sullenness.


In spite of my sympathy, I thought it better
to change the subject ; so I began talking about
Kitty, and in a moment his old friendliness
returned.

I am not surprised at your anxiety,' he said
frankly. * Indeed, I can only wonder at your
brothers cheerfulness. He must surely see
that his wife is seriously ill'

Oh, not seriously ! Please do not use that
word.'

Very much out of health, then ; but, of
course, a clever doctor will soon put her to
rights. Do you know, Miss Leigh, this is
the first time I have had an opportunity of
telling you how much I like your brother Jem.
Do you remember how you used to talk about
him at St. Croix ?'

You like Jem ?' in a tone of intense surprise.


You seem astonished. Why should I not
like a bright, clever fellow like Leigh ?'

You do not seem to take to each other,' I
stammered, as Jem's ridiculous sobriquet of the
Don came to my recollection.

Oh, he is a little on his dignity with me ; I
grant you that. Some of the best fellows in

the world are not easy to know at first. Most
likely he has not taken to me.'

I don't know why you should say that,'
growing very hot over this little fib ; but Mr.
Basil only laughed.

Oh, we shall hit it off presently, I dare say ;
and now, just as we are talking about him, there
he comes. I thought I heard Rollo's bark a
minute ago.'

It was a great relief to my mind to hear the
friendly way in which the two young men
accosted each other. My lecture had done
Jem good. I could detect neither stiffness nor
hauteur in his manner. He spoke cordially,
thanked Mr. Basil for his escort, and apologized
to me in the nicest way for being so late.
I gave his arm a little squeeze as a mark of
commendation, and I was still more pleased
when Mr. Basil turned of his own accord and
walked with us to the door. I kept Jem in the
porch a long time while 1 told him about Mrs.
Basil.

He seemed much interested, and did not disturb
me by any tiresome interruptions.

And she is very handsome ?'

Undeniably so. There cannot be two
opinions about it. She is a grand-looking
woman, and her eyes are beautiful.'

He had some excuse, then.'

Yes, of course ; everyone says so. But,
Jem, she does not make him happy ; there is
no happiness in her face.'

Well, that is not your business, nor mine
either,' was Jem's unsympathizing retort ; ' so
don't you go poking your inquisitive little nose,
such a ridiculous nose as it is, too, into other
folk's matrimonial concerns, or you will get
scorched for your pains. I don't want you to
come to me with "Oh, Jem, it hurts!" eh,
Olga ?'

But, as usual, when he teased me with this
babyish reminiscence, I ran after him and boxed
his ears.

Unfortunately, Rollo barked a shrill, joyous
bark, and then Hubert came out of the study
and asked what we meant by waking up Kitty
and the children. Dear me ! how old and grave
Hubert was growing ! and if Rollo did bark,
there was no need to speak so severely. I told
Jem so ; but he silenced my grumbling in a
minute.

Poor beggar !' he said in a pitying tone, * he
is a bit low to-night about his little woman.
Kitty was rather hysterical before she went to
bed because cook gave warning ; so there was
a precious row. Hubert scolded the cook, and
brought her to reason ; and then he told Kitty
she was a baby to take such a thing to heart,

and he ended by carrying her up to bed, for the
poor Httle thing was all of a tremble, as nurse
says ; and he has been as glum as possible ever
since.'

Oh, Jem, I am so sorry that Rollo made all
that noise ! I will go in and tell him so.'

You will do nothing of the kind,' replied
Jem, taking hold of me in his rough way. ' I
won't have the poor old man bothered. Just
go to bed, and don't let us see you again until
morning.'

And with this polite injunction, Jem took off
Rollo to his sleeping-quarters.

THE LADY Gwendolen ROOM.

I have much need of good advice.'

Sir Walter Scott.

I love that beauty should go beautifully.'

Tennyson.

I ENTERTAINED Kitty the next morning by
giving her a graphic account of young Mrs.
Lyndhurst's reception. She was greatly interested,
and so was Hubert ; for she made me
repeat it all over again for his benefit.

The ladies have been so kind to you, Olga,
that I think you ought to help them as much as
possible,' she said in her sensible way ; and as
Hubert endorsed this opinion, I went off to
spend the afternoon at the Hall, with the comfortable
consciousness that I was doing my
duty.

I found Aunt Catherine writing business

letters in the library. She looked up with
quite a relieved air as I entered.

I am so glad you have come, dear,' she said
warmly ; ' Aline has been asking for you half a
dozen times. She is rather tired, and has gone
up to the Lady's Room to rest ;' for the quaint,
bay-windowed room that had been set apart for
Mrs. Basil's use was always called the Lady's
Room, in memory of the unfortunate Lady
Gwendoline.

How have you got on this morning ?' I
asked a little curiously.

I hardly know,' with a thoughtful air.
Aline talks very little, and it is difficult to
break through her reserve. We were obliged
to leave her to Basil at last. He has been
behaving like a model husband all the morning.
He has taken her over the house and shown
her everything, and they were out in the garden
a long time with Reggie. Basil is there now
with the child ; but the worst of it is that I
cannot find out whether she is pleased or not.
She looks at everything, but nothing seems to
interest her much. Virginia asked her at
luncheon what she thought of the Hall, and
she only said " it was a big place, and very old,
and that she thought it must be dull in winter."
She has taken a dislike to the rooks ; she
owned to Basil that she hated their harsh caws.'

This did not sound very promising ; Aunt
Catherine's grave manner said more than her
words. Mrs. Basil had evidently repelled their
efforts at intimacy. What a strange young
woman she must be ! I asked if Reggie had
been with her all the morning.

Yes, I believe so ; he is always with Basil,
you know ; but I cannot see that she takes much
notice of him. No, indeed '  as I looked astonished
at this. ' She never once kissed him or
spoke to him while I was in the room, and the
child never went to her of his own accord. I
confess I am a little disheartened, and Virginia
is even more so, for we do want to make her
happy with us.'

Dear Aunt Catherine, it is so trying for
you.'

I think she looks upon us as old people.
She was quite surprised to hear how far I could
walk, and that I took so much exercise ; but I
must not go on chattering. Basil has been
hindering me, and I have half a dozen letters to
write before post-time. You had better run upto
the Lady's Room now, and see if you can
induce Aline to be a little more sociable.'

I obeyed reluctantly. Alas ! my long easy
afternoons with Aunt Catherine already belonged
to the past. The Hall would be a different
place to me now. I knocked at the door, but

as no one bade me enter, I turned the handle
and went in. Mrs. Basil was sitting in the bay-window
 it had a circular cushioned seat  her
hands were listlessly folded in her lap. Reggie
was evidently playing in the garden beneath,
for I heard his laugh as I closed the door. I
think she had been watching him, but she rose
directly she saw me.

So you've come,' she said abruptly. ' I
have been looking for you this last hour ; I was
beginning to think you were not going to keep
your word ; I told Basil so. Aren't you going
to take off your hat and stop a bit T

Oh yes, if you wish it ;' and I proceeded to
unbutton my gloves.

Do you always wear white ?' was her next
remark.

I thought it a singular one. She had not
shaken hands, but in her own way she seemed
disposed to friendliness.

Not always,' I replied ; ' washing is expensive,
even in the country; but Aunt Catherine
likes me best in white, so I try to please her.'

Why do you call her that ?' she went on
still more abruptly. ' She is not a relation of
yours, is she ?'

No,' I replied, colouring ; * but I have been
used to call her Aunt Catherine ever since I
was a child. I think I love her better than anyone

else except my brothers  brother, I was
going to say.'

I suppose you are one of those who attach
themselves easily ?' she replied, giving me at
the same time a searching glance that made me
extremely uncomfortable. * I wish I were like
you in that respect, but one can only act upto
one's own nature. I was never very soft,
except to Basil, but he had a way with him ;
and though I acted like the biggest fool that
ever lived, I could not help myself.'

I suppose not. What a pretty room this is,
Mrs. Lyndhurst ! and this window Is so delightful
!'

Why don't you say Aline ? I am not used
to the other name, and It sounds stiff from a girl
like you. You are ever so much younger than
me, aren't you ? I am sure you look so.'

I am twenty.'

And I am eight-and-twenty  going on for
nine-and-twenty, that is. George says I look
half a dozen years older than Basil ; but that is
because I have grown so stout. I was quite
slim when he first took up with me.'

You are not really stout for the word did
not suit her fine massive proportion in the least.
I saw my remark pleased her.

Don't go away with the idea that I am vain,'
she said, actually smiling ; ' but I want to ask

you a question. Do you think, does anyone
think, that I am handsome ?'

I wondered what Aunt Catherine would have
said if she had heard her !

Certainly ; everyone thinks so. How could
they help it ?' for I was answering her question
as simply as she put it.

She brightened up still more.
I never could get George to tell me. He
always said '' I was well enough ;" but that did
not satisfy me. Now Basil has been worrying
me half the morning to go up to town with his
aunt, and order some new gowns ; for, as he
says, the under-housemaid is dressed better than
me, and he wants me to look my best. Now
just tell me the truth : Do you think all the
fine dresses in the world would make me look
like a real lady, like my mother-in-law or Miss
Seton ?'

It would be impossible to describe my feelings
as she put this singular question. I hardly
dared to look at her as I answered her. I
began to think Mr. Basil's shrewdness was not
at fault, and that this strange, impulsive woman
must have taken a fancy to me, or she would
never have spoken to me with such frankness.

I think you would look very nice !' I stammered
; ' that you have no idea how nice you
would look ;' and then I continued more boldly :
VOL. III. 44

I know it is strange that dress should make
such a difference, bu-t it is true, nevertheless ;
everyone says so ;' and as I uttered this oracular
remark, I could not help thinking how one of
Mrs. Basil's velvet gowns would set off her
large massive beauty, and what a sensation she
would make in the county.

Do you really mean what you say ?' she returned
eagerly ; ' then I will have a try  I mean,
I will try to look my best. I am afraid ' 
flushing slightly  ' that living with George has
not improved me ; he is not careful about his
words, and one gets into bad ways. When
Basil was with me, I managed better ;' and as
she made this naive apology I noticed that
though her voice was deep, it was very full and
sweet, and that she spoke without any unpleasant
accent. No, there was nothing vulgar about
her, only a slight want of culture that, perhaps,
time might mend.

Well, then, I may as well go up to town tomorrow
and see about my clothes,' she went on ;
and supposing you come with me ? There is
no need to trouble Basil's aunt.'

But I , am not so experienced,' I remonstrated,
' and Aunt Catherine has such good
taste ; she would help you far better.'

'Oh, there will be no need of help,' she
replied rather decidedly ; ' if we go to a good.

place, we shall do very well. I know exactly
what suits me ; and if I am in doubt, I am
pretty sure to know what Basil would like. He
is wonderfully particular about ladies' dress ; so
you had better make up your mind for a day's
outing.'

Very well,' I answered rather reluctantly; for
though I loved shopping with Aunt Catherine,
I felt this would be quite different ; still, I was
sure, in my own mind, that the ladies would wish
me to accept any overture on Mrs. Basil's part.

She did not seem to notice my unwillingness ;
and we talked a little more. Dress is an exhaustive
subject, and we both found plenty to
say about it. She was a little absent in her
manner sometimes ; and once, to attract her
attention, I called her Aline ; and she turned
round at once with such a sweet smile.

That is nice of you,' she said heartily ;
nothing pleases me better than to take me at
my word, for I always mean what I say. It is
odd, our getting on so well together, isn't it ?
For, as I told you just now, 1 am seldom soft
with people ; but I shall not forget in a hurry
that you were the only one who understood
me yesterday. You got me out of that room
so cleverly when I was pent up to that degree
I could hardly breathe, with all those eyes on
me, and Basil watching me, as though he were

442

afraid I should do something dreadful. It never
entered his head that I was pining for a sight
of my boy.'

He had forgotten for the moment, and he
knew Reggie was asleep. Aline, you have
never told me how you like your new home ?'
for there was a cloud on her brow that I was
anxious to dispel.

They asked me that at dinner  I mean
luncheon ; but I could not answer them. It is
a grand place, of course ; only I feel lost in it,
somehow. I think it hurts me to see Basil
looking so much at home and as though everything
belonged to him, and he had never been
used to anything else ; while I am not fit to take
my proper place beside him.'

Oh, you will soon take it ; you will soon get
used to things, too.'

But she shook her head.

I have not been brought up among gentlefolks,
as Basil has. Oh, I have seen his friends
fine Oxford men, and that Mr. Fleming who
educated him ; but I could not get on with one
of them. Basil was never so nice to me when
his friends were with us ; he was always more
fault-finding and impatient.'

But surely you are pleased with this lovely
room !' I exclaimed, looking round with girlish
admiration.

I think I had never seen a room that pleased
me better. The carved cabinets ; the small
Indian tables inlaid with curious woods ; the
quaint portraits of Seton ladies in oval frames ;
the old-fashioned couch and easy-chairs  all
harmonized so well with the oak-panelling. In
this room the hapless Gwendoline must have
sat like Mariana at the moaned Grange, with
the same words on her lips :

Old faces glimmered through the doors,
Old footsteps trod the upper floors,
Old voices called her from without ;
She only said, "My life is dreary ;

He Cometh not," she said ;
She said, " I'm aweary, aweary ;

I would that I were dead !'' '

As I Spoke, Aline raised herself, and looked
at it all rather indifferently.

Oh yes. I liked this room best in the
house. Basil said he chose it for me because
it was so quiet. There is one thing about it
that does not suit me  I hear those horrid
rooks so plainly.'

'I am so sorry you dislike them ; they are
Aunt Catherine's favourite pensioners.'

Oh, I must put up with what I don't like.
Basil seemed disappointed because I told him
that I would rather be back in the little cottage
at Highgate ; but there, cottage or Hall, it is all
the same, if one must take one's self everywhere.

If we could only get rid of ourselves!'
rather gloomily.

At that moment Marsden came to say that
tea was waiting in the drawing-room.

Couldn't we have it up here, Olga ?' interposed
Aline, with a shrug. ' It will be so
dull in that big room downstairs.'

I think we had better go.' I returned quickly.
I have not spoken to Mrs. Lyndhurst ; and
she and Aunt Catherine will be expecting us.'

Oh, do as you like,' she replied, rather
sulkily ; and I half repented my decision.

It was too late to retract, however ; but I
felt intensely aggravated to see how Aline resumed
her cold, indifferent air the moment she
entered the drawing-room. She greeted her
husband without a smile when he came to meet
us with a pleasant inquiry as to the manner in
which we had spent the afternoon ; indeed, she
left me to answer him, and sat down beside
Mrs. Lyndhurst. I did my best to thaw her,
but without success. Aunt Catherine looked at
me in a pitying way.

How have you got through these two hours,
you poor child ?' she whispered, as she passed
me a cup of tea ; and I could hardly refrain
from laughing.

Partly to mystify them, and partly to compel
Aline to speak, I said very quietly :

Aline and I have been planning a day's
outing. She wants me to go up to'[town with
her tomorrow, and help her with her shopping.
What do you say, Aunt Catherine ?'

Mr. Basil darted a quick, amused look at me,
which said as plainly as possible, * Did I not tell
you so ?' But Aunt Catherine, who was filling
up the teapot, let the boiling water overflow in
her surprise. I think we were all astonished
when Aline jumped up and took the silver kettle
out of her hand.

You have overfilled it,' she said brusquely ;
and the water is trickling all over the tray.
Why don't you fetch a cloth, Basil ? Your
aunt will scald herself.'

I had better ring for Bennet,' he replied,
walking across the room very lazily ; and Aline
sat down as though she had been detected in
some fault.

Oh, I forgot the servants !' she muttered.

Thank you, my dear ; you have been very
kind and helpful,' replied Aunt Catherine, quite
pleased at this little attention from her stately
niece. * I have made a terrible mess ; but
Bennet will soon put it right for me. So you
have arranged to go to town with Olga ? Well,
I am sure you could not have selected a better
companion.'

Well, Olga is young, and one won't be

afraid of tiring her,' observed Aline rather ungraciously
; ' and we have a long day's work
before us. If you will tell us where to go  who
are the best people, I mean  and how much I
am to spend, we shall manage all the rest.'

I suppose you don't want my help, Aline ?'
asked her husband pleasantly.

Oh, there is no need to trouble any of you,'
was the off-hand answer. ' Olga and I '  she
was going to say ' me,' but stopped herself intime
 ' Olga and I will do very well, and I
know all your likes and dislikes ; so your taste
won't be affronted.'

Then in that case I will make myself useful
by looking out your trains. I suppose I maybe
allowed to meet you at the station ? or do
you intend to dismiss me for the day ?'

Mr. Basil was half joking I could see, but it
was evident that Aline did not understand
humour, for she answered him quite seriously :

I am thinking you will please yourself, as
usual, so sit is no use asking me. Perhaps, as
Miss Leigh is such pleasant company, you may
choose to make yourself agreeable.'

You may consider my offer retracted,' he
replied, jumping up from the table ; and I saw
at once that he was displeased. ' Do you think
the little chap has finished his tea, Aunt Catherine
?'

Now, what have I said to make him go off
in that way ?' asked Aline in an injured tone.

Did you ever see anyone so quick-tempered,
Olga ? But he is always like that.'

My dear, please do not say such things of
my son,' observed Mrs. Lyndhurst in feeble
alarm at this.

Aline stared at her.

If he is your son, I suppose he is my
husband,' she said pettishly ; ' and I have every
right to find fault with him.'

What nonsense !' I said impatiently. who
in their senses would find fault with such a
trifle ? Come in the garden, Aline ; I have
just half an hour before I must go.'

To my relief, she followed me at once.

You were right to take me up,' she said
confidentially. ' I need not have been so
touchy with Basil's mother ; but it is as well tolet
them know that I have not the best of
tempers, and then they won't give me more
than I can bear. There is Basil. I expect he
has got over his crossness by this time. I
mean to ask him to go with us to the station.'

If I were you, I would just leave it alone.'
But Aline was not a woman who possessed

much tact. She called to her husband rather
peremptorily.

You need not have been so short with me,

Basil ; I meant no harm. I should be Had
enough if you would go to the station with us.'

I am very sorry, but it is impossible,' he
returned gravely. ' I am going over to
Brighton for the day with Reggie.'

You have made your plans pretty quickly,
that is all I can say,' she replied, rather
aggrieved at this. ' You might have asked first
if I wanted Reggie to go with us.'

It is not likely I should do anything of the
kind,' he replied curtly. ' A day's shopping
would be far too fatiguing for any child. I am
going to let him have a run on the beach and
see the boats ; the sea air will be good for him.'

Reggie  it is always Reggie !' she replied
angrily.

But I would not let her proceed. I touched
her arm, and whispered to her that I wanted to
show her the Lady's Walk, and I gave Mr.
Basil a look as I did so. Aline was decidedly
ruffled. She turned a deaf ear to my soothing
speeches, and as soon as we were under the
dark fir-trees she burst out passionately :

Reggie, indeed ! I wonder 1 don't hate the
child, though he is my own, for. Basil thinks of
nothing else. I wish I had not asked him to
come ; it has only made him think more of
himself. He will be as high and mighty all the
evening as possible, when you are gone. I

will just shut myself up in my room, and take
no notice of anyone. Well, are you going to
tell me the ghost story ?'

Wait a moment,' for I could hear footsteps
crunching the dead leaves behind me, and Mr.
Basil came up in his quick way.

I am sorry I disappointed you just now.
Aline. I will give up Brighton for tomorrow,
and go with you as far as Victoria. I have
business I ought to finish, and we might take
the same train back. Will that satisfy you ?'
looking at her anxiously.

Thank you, Basil,' was all she said ; and he
went away without another word. Aline stood
quite still for a few minutes. ' I wonder what
made him change his mind ? I never knew him
do such a thing before. If he always spoke as
kindly as he did just now !' she sighed heavily,
and by tacit consent we changed the subject.

When I bade her good-bye, I kissed her, but
she made no sort of response.

Is she really cold and undemonstrative by
nature ?' I thought ; 'or is it shyness and an
uncomfortable sense of inferiority that makes
her keep people at a distance ?' But I found
myself unable to answer this question.

And another thing puzzled me : would Mr.
Basil have reconsidered his hasty speech if I
had not given him that reproachful look ?

I found Kitty far more cheery. She ralHed
me in her old way on my new friendship, as
she termed it.

What a pity we did not leave our expedition
until Thursday !' I observed ; ' and then we
could all have gone up to town together.'

Kitty's face fell a little at this.

Oh. I forgot to tell you,' she said hurriedly :
Hubert has found out that there is a meetings
of clergy here that day, and as he has several
important engagements during the remainder
of the week, we have put off going until the
following Thursday.'

My dear Kitty, what a mistake !'

Not at all. I am much better to-day 
Hubert says so  and I feel it myself; so please
do not say anything more about it.'

She finished with the Kitty-like dignity that
always silenced one.

When I reached the station the next morning,
I found Aline and her husband walking up
and down the platform. They both looked in
excellent spirits. Aline was perhaps quieter
than she had been the previous day ; but she
seemed contented, and I noticed Mr. Basil was
on his best behaviour, and paid her a good deal
of attention.

When we reached Victoria, he put us into a
hansom, and we drove to a dressmaker Aunt

Catherine had recommended  a certain Madame
Hortense. As we drove through the crowded
streets, AHne told me that she had had a grand
confabulation with Aunt Catherine and Marsden
the previous night.

Marsden  isn't that her name ?  is to feet me
all I want in the way of under-clothing, but I
am to do the rest myself. I am to order a
mantle, and one of those fashionable jackets
they are wearing now ; and I must have a
bonnet for church, and a hat. So you see we
shall have plenty to do before five o'clock.'

I wondered what Madame Hortense thought
of Aline. She certainly treated her with the
respect she would have shown to a duchess.
Aline was not at all flurried ; she went through
her business in the most matter-of-fact way.
She seemed to know by intuition the colour
and material that would suit her best.

As we sat at luncheon in the little shop in
New Street, I could not help expressing my surprise
at the justness and delicacy of her taste.

I think that sort of thing is born with one,'
she returned carelessly. ' I was always considered
the best-dressed girl in Holloway  at
least, George said so. Poor George ! I wonder
how he is getting on ? I could not have worn
the tawdry ribbons and flimsy laces other girls
did, to save my life. When we were first

married Basil often praised me for my neatness.
Olga,' interrupting herself as the covered
dish of cutlets was placed before us, ' I know
you are as tired as tired can be; and, for the
matter of that, so am I. Don't you think a
glass of wine would freshen us up ?'

Oh no ; we could not order anything of the
kind here,' I returned, growing hot in a moment.
A cup of coffee would be far better. Ladies
never order wine.'

I do not know what Aline thought of my
speech, for in my consternation I had quite
overlooked the fact that a gray-haired lady at
the next table was calmly sipping a glass of
sherry at that very moment. But Aline good-naturedly
ignored this fact, and ordered the
coffee. This was the only contretemps, and
we spent the rest of the afternoon pleasantly
enough.

I could not help noticing that wherever we
went Aline excited a great deal of attention.
She seemed quite unconscious of the fact.
Once, as we were walking down Regent Street,
she asked me if anything was wrong with her,
and on my assuring her that she looked as tidy
as possible, she said simply, ' Oh, I thought my
hat was crooked  that man stared so.' And
she really seemed to mean what she said.

Mr. Basil was waiting for us v/hen we drove

Up to the Station. He hurried us off to take
our places, for the train was just starting.

Why, you look as fresh as possible, Aline !'
he said, as we moved off ' I thought you and
Miss Leigh would be quite done up.'

Olga is tired, I believe,' she returned. ' But
I have had a pleasant day, and enjoyed it. I
like the shops and the crowds of people ; and
everyone was so civil'

And how many smart gowns have you
ordered ?' he asked good-humouredly.

Oh, I am not going to tell you,' she answered
rather shyly. ' Olga, don't you answer
any of his questions. I am going to surprise you.'

And then, of course, he began teasing us both
by a series of cross-questioning ; but I could see
he was doings it to amuse her.

I went back to dinner with them, but I suppose,
after all, Aline was tired, for she seemed
put out because she had nothing but her gray
gown to wear, and Mr. Basil was in evening
dress.

He might have kept me in countenance for
once,' she complained. ' And there is his
mother in her black velvet, and I look like a
milkmaid among them. Basil only laughed
when I told him so, and said I was growing
vain ;' and for the remainder of the evening she
relapsed into her old silence.

But she thawed a little when Jem came in to
fetch me. Jem always knew how to make
himself agreeable to ladies, and I saw at once
by his manner that he was immensely struck
with her, though he would not own it.

Well, what do you think of Mrs. Basil
Lyndhurst ?' I asked, as we hurried down the
avenue, for the night was wet.

I think she just matches the Don, and
that 1 should not like to be in his place ;' and
that was all I could get out of Jem.

LADYBIRD PLAYS PRANKS.

Lois the Healer prayed,
With soul uplift.
O Love, the beautiful,

Give me this gift,
Comfort and help to be

Where'er I go ;
Cool in the summer time.
Warmth in the snow"'

Anon.

During the next few days I saw a great deal
of Aline ; indeed, I began to feel that I never
had a moment to myself, and that I was neglecting
Kitty and the children shamefully. All
my little home duties were unfulfilled ; I neither
helped the twins with their lessons, nor assisted
nurse with the needlework. Jem complained
that I was never at home, and I saw the same
unspoken reproach in Harry's eyes. It was
in vain that I protested and excused myself.
Every morning one of Aunt Catherine s notes
summoned me to the Hall on some plea or

VOL. Il 45

Other. ' I am very sorry, but Aline has set her
heart on a day at Brighton, and she refuses to
go unless you are of the party ;' or, ' Aline has
to return Lady INIedhiirst's call, and she wants
you to drive over with her, as Basil Is engaged,'
and so on.

I turned restive at last, and told Aunt
Catherine plainly that Aline expected too much
of me. I was very willing to do what I could
for her, but she must understand that my home
people had a claim on me. She listened to me
very quietly, and without making any observation,
and I thought, of course, that she agreed
with me in thinking Aline rather importunate in
her demands on my time.

I was greatly surprised, therefore, when
Hubert spoke to me the next dii. He was a
little mysterious In his manner, and hemmed
and hawed a good deal. He began by saying
that he had a great respect for Miss Seton,
and that he owed her a return for her kindness
to me. ' She has been talking to me about
you,' he went on. ' She seems In a little difficulty
about Mrs. Basil Lyndhurst. She Is
rather peculiar, and does not seem to take to
them much. And she says no one but you
seems to please her ; and she has been asking
me, as a special favour, to spare you to them as
much as possible. We had quite a long talk

about it, Kitty and I, and we have made up
our minds that we must do all we can to ease
the poor ladies, for really, as Kitty says, youn 
Mrs. Lyndhurst is such a handful, and she does
not wonder Miss Seton is worried about her;
so we think 3'ou ought to be up at the Hall as
much as possible ; and as for the children's
lessons, Kitty says she will manage all those
herself

If Aunt Catherine had appealed to Hubert, it
was no use my saying a word. Hubert would
be so flattered by her confidence that he would
not listen to me, and I found it was no good
grumbling to Kitty ; and as Jem was going to
Oxford in a day or two, he would not be able to
fight my battles.

I made one vain attempt to coax Kitty.

You know,' I said persuasively, ' that I would
much rather be here with you, or overlooking
Jessie and Mab's lessons in the school-room,
than wasting so many hours with Aline. I
might as well be her paid companion at once,
if I am to drive about with her, and pay visits,
and help her with her fancy work. She is getting
to depend on me far too much.'

But, Olga,' she said, looking up from her
work in evident surprise at my dissatisfied tone,
aren't you just a little contradictory about this ?
Once you never passed a day happily if you did

452

not go up to the Hall, and now, when Miss
Seton wants you so badly, you are always
making excuses about being needed at home.'

I felt myself flush over Kitty's downright
speech, but it was no use trying to make her
understand ; indeed, I hardly understood myself
why the Hall seemed so different to me now,
but I only felt that I should be much happier
at home.

There were no cosy talks with Aunt Catherine,
no long, lingering chats in the twilights.
If I stopped a moment with her or Mrs. Lynd-
hurst, Marsden would come down with a peremptory
message to summon me to Aline's
room, or she would come in search of me
herself. And she was by no means a restful
companion, either. She had strange, difficult
moods, when nothing seemed to please her, and
she complained bitterly of the dulness of her
surroundings  when she would take offence at
a word, and make everyone in the house uncomfortable.


Her chief complaint seemed to be that she
saw so little of her husband ; that he was always
shut up in the library with Aunt Catherine, or
riding about on that fine new horse of his. In
vain I tried to explain to her that he was only
doing his duty.

All these years,' I said, ' Aunt Catherine has

been obliged to manage the estate as well as
she could with the help of a bailiff, and now Mr.
Basil has come home, of course it is only right
that he should help her. He has so much to
learn, you see, and only Aunt Catherine can
show him things.'

Oh, that is all very well, as far as it goes,'
she returned, not abating her injured tone. ' Of
course he is the Squire, and must manage the
property  I am not such a child that I do not
know that ; but, all the same, he need not spend
all the rest of the day playing with Reggie or
riding across the country.'

It is such a new pleasure to him, and he is
so proud of his handsome mare,' I pleaded, for
this had been his mother's first gift to him, and
I shall never forget his boyish look of pleasure
when he first mounted the beautiful creature
and rode her down the avenue. ' And he is not
wasting his time, either, for he ooes to see his
tenants. Why don't you learn to ride, and then
you can o-q with him ?'

He has not offered to teach me,' she replied
with a curl of her lip, for she was in a perverse
mood that day. ' There is to be a pony for
Reeeie. His grandmother was talking about it
at luncheon  a lite Shetland pony with a long
tail. It is not that I begrudge Reg his pony,*
with a touch of motherliness in her tone, ' but

Basil will never think of me as long as he has
got the boy beside him.'

Why do you not speak to him about it ? I
dare say the idea of your riding with him has
never entered his head.'

I would not ask him for worlds,' she returned
with an uneasy Hush. ' I knows how he
would hate to see my awkwardness, and no one
can ride well at first. I am getting too stout,
too,' for Aline was always morbid on this
point.

You do not walk enough,' I replied, turning
this speech to account. ' We should all of us
get stout if we sat in the house as much as
you do.'

I know I am lazy,' she returned more good-humouredly
; ' I was never one for much running
about, and driving is far pleasant than picking
one's way along muddy lanes,' for October had
set in rather wet and gloomy, and certainly the
roads round Brookfield were muddy.

'You might play tennis, though,' I continued;
for, to Harry's great delight, the Squire was
having an asphalt court made on a little slip of
unoccupied ground near the stables, and he and
Aunt Catherine were very busy over it indeed,
I am sure Mr. Basil never had an unoccupied
moment, and he was looking better and brighter
in consequence.

I made many efforts to rouse Aline from her
indolence. I wanted to teach her to dance, to
play the piano, to learn French  in fact, I rated
her pretty severely for her laziness. She took
everything I said in good part, for she never
turned sulky with me ; but I could not rouse
her to interest in anything except fancy work
she was very clever over that  or reading
exciting novels, which she would devour
greedily.

I used to wonder why she never played with
Reggie. Now and then we took him to drive
with us, or she would send for him on the
plea that Miss Olga wanted the child ; but she
rarely did so of her own accord. And yet
she was by no means indifferent to him. I
would often find her at her window watching
him when he was playing with his father ; and
if she heard him suddenly running down the
passage, she would rise hurriedly as though to
go to him, and then in a moment resume her
place. One day we had an uncomfortable proof
of the strong undercurrent of feeling that was
hidden under her apparent indifference.

I was playing one afternoon in the hall with
Reggie at battledore and shuttlecock, when
Mr. Basil suddenly rode up to the door, and
Reggie ran out on the steps in a state of great
excitement.

Give Reggie a ride, father,' he said coaxingly,
for he had had this treat once before.
And as Mr. Basil laughed and nodded  for
when had he refused his idolized boy anything ?
I lifted him up, and saw him safely deposited
before his father.

I thought I had never seen a prettier sight
than when Ladybird pranced and curvetted in
her coquettish way, and finally broke into a gentle
canter up and down the avenue. Reggie was
in his prune-coloured velvet suit, with a deep
lace collar ; and as he sat there, with his erect
little figure, with his father's arm thrown round
him, he looked like some childish prince. In
spite of his smallness and delicacy, he was such
a noble-looking child.

Just at that moment I heard a long-drawn
breath beside me, almost like a sigh, and, to my
surprise. Aline was standing behind me, watching
them ; but there was such an intense melancholy
in her gaze that I feared to speak to her.

Just then they returned. Reggie was laughing
and gesticulating when, unhappily, one of
the tame pheasants about the place suddenly
rose into the air close to them, with the strange
whirring sound that they always make, startling
Ladybird almost out of her senses. She reared
and snorted, and for one terrible instant I
thought they would both be thrown. Aline

thought so too, for she uttered a suppressed
scream ; but the next moment Ladybird brought
her fore-feet down again, and, turning sharply
round, broke into a mad gallop down the avenue.
Aline tore past me ; she was as white as death.
Mr. Basil had not lost his presence of mind ; he
held his boy firmly, and spoke soothingly to his
frightened mare, keeping his own seat in a
masterly way, and in a minute or two he succeeded
in checking her. She was still shying
and snorting nervously, when Aline, at no
small risk to herself, almost snatched Reggie
from his father. Her eyes were blazing with
anger ; her breast heaved with emotion.

How dare you !' she cried, pressing the
child to her. ' How dare you, Basil ! Is he
not my child as well as yours ? I will not bear
it, I tell you !'

Mr. Basil dismounted quietly, and, patting
the mare's neck, gave her in charge to a groom
who came running from the stables ; then he
followed us into the house. Aline had sunk
into a chair, but she was still clutching Reggie,
who looked bewildered and a lite frightened
at her vehemence. I wanted to take him from
her, but she resisted angrily.

He is not yours he is mine I Go away,
Olga !' she cried, with a stamp of her foot ;
and I drew back at once.

I am sorry to have given you such a fright,
Aline,' observed her husband. He looked
almost as pale and disturbed as she did, but
he spoke quietly. ' Ladybird has never played
me such a trick before, but, then, she was
startled.'

You mioht have killed him !' she said
passionately ; * and I must stand by and see it.
You treat me cruelly, Basil. Didn't I beg you
never to do it again ? Wasn't it only yesterday
that I said I could not bear your risking it ?
But there, you mind me no more than if I
were the wind.'

My dear girl,' he said, putting his arm
round her, but she shook him off, ' pray
don't excite yourself like this. Ladybird is like
a lamb generally. Do you think I would not
be as careful of the little chap as you would be
yourself ? Why, what nonsense, child ! and it
was pure accident. Miss Leigh will bear me
witness, 1 am sure.'

He need not have brought in my name ; it
only angered her the more.

Miss Leigh, indeed ! What does she know
of a mother's feelings ? What is Reggie to
her ? Isn't he my boy ? But there, you care
about nothing but pleasing yourself. No, you
shall not have him '  still holding Reggie
tightly ; and I could see she was trembling

all over with passion  ' you will go along with
me, won't you, Reg ?'

But Reggie was spoiled, and he chose to be
of a different opinion.

No,' he said, rather crossly ; ' I'll stay

with father and my dear Put me down,

mother.'

At the boy's petulant speech her arms
unloosened their hold, and at once dropped
wearily to her side ; a strange sort of look
came over her face.

I forgot,' she said, rising with a short, hard
laugh ; * he is more yours, after all ;' and she
gave him a rough push. ' Go to them, Reggie.
1 wouldn't keep you for worlds f and Mr. Basil,
with a grieved look, took up his boy.

You ought not to say such things to me,
Aline he replied ; ' I haven't deserved them.
I try to study you. It is you who are not
treating me well.'

Oh, I will not hear you !' she returned,
putting her hands to her ears, and walking
like a tragedy-queen across the hall.

]airs. Lyndhurst. who was standing at the
drawing-room door, and had been a spectator
of this little scene, stepped up to Mr. Basil and
touched his arm.

Go to her,' she whispered. 'It is her
nerves ; she has had a fright. Give me

Regle, and go to her ;' but he shook his
head.

It would be no use, mother ; I know AHne
by this time. She chooses to feel aggrieved,
and she would not speak to me. You must
give her time to recover herself; she will be
best alone.'

Mrs. Lyndhurst did not look quite convinced
; she gave me an appealing glance.

May I go to Aline ?' I asked timidly.

You ! No ; certainly not !' more abruptly
than I had ever heard him speak to me before.
And as I drew back, very much abashed at
this, he said, more gendy : * Do you think I
would expose you to such annoyance ? You
take trouble enough with Aline ; but when she
is in one of these moods she might not treat
you well.'

You are wrong,' I returned eagerly ; ' Aline
is never cross with me.'

Is she not ?' with a glimmer of a smile, but
he still looked very pale. ' I am glad to hear
it ; but all the same, I do not wish you to go to
her now ;' and though I knew he was wrong,
and that he was determined to punish Aline for
her fit of passion, I was obliged to obey him ;
so I went into the drawing-room, and after a
moment Mrs. Lyndhurst followed me.

I must go now,' I observed ; ' it is no use

my waiting any longer for Aunt Catherine.
Most likely she will not be back for another
hour;' for Aunt Catherine had gone for a
round of visits, which she had vainly tried to
induce Aline to pay with her ; but young Mrs.
Lyndhurst only performed her conventional
duties by fits and starts.

Well, my dear, do as you like ; for, as Basil
says, you take trouble enough for us. But, all
the same, I wish he would have let you have
your way. No one has such an influence over
Aline as you have ; but he seems too much
hurt to care about putting things right.'

Yes ; and she will just make herself ill
brooding over it all. I never knew anyone so
morbid. I don't believe she means half she
says. She just flings off these excited speeches
as a sort of vent  a safety-valve to her
feelings. People never mean what they say in
passion. Mr. Basil ought to remember that,
even though he is vexed at her want of self-control.'


You are right. I only wish Basil heard
you. But men like to have their own way, and
he is too much offended to hear reason. They
are an ill-assorted couple '  and Mrs. Lynd-
hurst sighed. ' Aline will never make him
happy.'

1 echoed this sigh as I went down the

avenue. I felt troubled and unnerved by what
had passed. Alone's thoughts had been for her
boy. She had not seemed to understand that
her husband had also been in danger. If
Ladybird had fallen back  and it was almost a
miracle that the started creature had recovered
her balance  Mr. Basil would have been flung
amoncT the snarled tree-trunks, and the mare
would have rolled on him. I turned sick at the
mere thought ; and, instead of thankfulness that
her two treasures were safe, Aline had hurled
angry words at her husband ; and yet, from his
white, shaken looks, he had been quite aware
of their danger.

I spent a miserable evening, thinking of it
all ; and when I set out for the Hall the next
afternoon, I was full of forebodings as to the
manner of my reception. To my surprise, I
found Aline sitting tranquilly over her .
She pushed it away when she
saw me.

There, I was just getting sick of work, so I
am glad you have come,' she observed, in her
usual manner. ' There are some visitors downstairs.
My mother-in-law sent up for me just
now, but I told Marsden to say I had a headache.
Oh, you need not disbelieve me,' with
one of her shrewd guesses at my thoughts.
I am not inventing ; all that fuss yesterday has

upset me. I wanted Basil to let me have some
sal volatile just now  it would have done me
good  but he says he does not hold with drugs;
so I told him I did not hold with talking to
visitors with a headache, and that he might goto
them himself. I believe he has taken me at
my word.'

I am sorry you do not feel well,' In a sympathetic
tone. Certainly her eyes did look a little
heavy.

Oh, it is all very fine to say that now ; but
why did you go off without bidding me goodbye
yesterday ? I had a regular fit of hysterics
when I got upstairs. For once that husband of
mine got properly frightened.'

Do you mean to say '

And then I stopped. It was no affair of
mine if Mr. Basil went to her or not.

Marsden fetched him. I would have died
before I'd have sent for him. But he wasn't so
bad, after all : he just scolded me a bit. George
does that. They say it is no use being soft
with people in hysterics. But when I came
round he was quite coaxing, and stayed with
me for ever so long: ; and then he fetched his
mother. I told him that I did not want her,
and that she would only fidget me ; and I
asked for him to send for you instead ; but he
was a little cross at that. '' Nonsense !" he

said, fuming a bit, just because I contradicted
him. " Miss Leigh has gone home, and I
cannot have her disturbed by every whim.
There is my mother always ready to do anything."
And when I saw he was bent on it, I
told him he might send her up.'

That was good of you.'

Well, I did not want to affront Basil again
so soon ; and he is so touchy about his mother.
But I declare to you, Olga, that she made me so
nervous, that I felt all over pins and needles.
I cannot make out why she fidgets me so, but
that soft, low voice of hers almost drives me
crazy.'

Aunt Catherine suits you better ?'

 Oh yes, I like her better than I do my mother-in-law
; but I do not seem to get on with either
of them. That is why I stop up here by myself,
because I am not at my ease with them.
They seem to speak a different language, and
all their friends are the same. I never know
what to say to them. Sometimes I don't know
how I am to go on living like this from day today.
I believe  though I don't dare tell Basil
so  that I am pining to see George.'

Ask him to take you to Hollo way when he
goes up to town next week.'

I did ask him  I asked him more than
once  but he always had some excuse ready.

He seems hurt that I am wanting George so
soon. " I will take you some day "  he always
puts me off with that. I know as well as
possible that he never means to ask George
here.'

I was silent. I thought it likely that her
supposition was correct. Mr. Basil would
hardly care to introduce his brother-in-law. I
wondered Aline had not the tact to see this for
herself.

Of course, I know George is not a gentleman,
and that he would not be comfortable
here. But when Basil was down on his luck
he took us in and begrudged us nothing ; and
I say we ought to be grateful, and do something
for George in return. What is the use
of my writing to him, and Basil sending him
game and fruit, and cases of wine ?  as though
Becky knew how to cook game ! George would
rather see me than have the finest present in
the world. I told him that outright, but he
doesn't seem to see it.'

You must speak to him again.'

Oh no ; I am not one of the nagging sort,
and I am not going to coax Basil against his
will. I know how he would look all the time
George was in the house : just as though we
were marrying him ; and if he were to put his
knife to his mouth, when Bennet was in the

VOL. III. 46

room  and poor George would be as likely todo
it as not  Basil would be in an agony. It is
best to keep them apart. But how ever I am
to go on living without ever seeing George I
don't know. And there is Basil with all his
friends round him, and that Mr. Fleming
coming here next month  it is as much as ever
I shall bring myself to be civil to him.'

I thought it better to let Aline talk on unchecked.
I believe the secret of my influence
with her lay in this : that I was too young and
inexperienced to control her properly, and so
she confided in me without reserve. I am sure
now that, but for this outlet, things would have
been much worse ; for her undisciplined nature
rebelled sadly against this ordered and conventional
existence. She never interfered in
any way with the ladies, never set herself up as
mistress, or contradicted their orders ; but she
took no visible interest in the arrangements of
her home, and never gave her opinion on any
subject.

After due reflection, I took Aunt Catherine
into confidence, and repeated this part of our
conversation. Aunt Catherine listened to me
rather sadly.

'Aline really wants her brother,' I finished.

Yes ; I know. I have already spoken to
Basil, but the subject worries him terribly. He

will not hear of Mr. Barton coming here  he
says he could not endure it  but he has promised
to take Aline to Holloway.'

Ask him to do so quickly, and without
delay.'

She looked up rather surprised at my serious
manner.

There can be no real hurry, surely ! Aline
has only been with us a month  or is it five
weeks ?  and, as Basil says, there is no need
for her to go often.'

I suppose she could not fo alone ?'

Oh no ; Basil would not trust her,' very
quickly ; * he never lets her go even for a walk
alone. If you wish it, I will speak to him
again, and see what is to be done ; but I know
Basil has a great many engagements, and there
is the dinner-party next week :' for a grand
dinner-party was to be given at the Hall in
honour of the young Squire, to be followed by
a still larger one to the tenants. * I am afraid
he will not take her until after that.'

No good comes of procrastination,' I returned
oracularly ; but I was not thinking of
Mr. Basil as I spoke, but of Hubert.

Kitty had not yet consulted a London
physician, and it would be long before she
would be fit to do so now. She had caught
a severe chill on the very day she ought to

46  2

have gone up to town. Hubert had started off
to attend the clerical meeting, after leaving
her a strict injunction to take a turn with the
twins. She stopped out too long, and a shower
came on, and, as they had only one umbrella
between them, Kitty got wet through, and in
her weakened and delicate condition she was
unable to throw off her severe cold.

Hubert fretted and blamed himself and her ;
and then Dr. Langham came and scolded them
both, and ordered Kitty to bed, where he told
her she was likely to remain for the next week
or two.

I thought he looked graver than usual when
he came downstairs, though he pooh-poohed
the question when I asked him if she were
really ill ; and, as Dr. Langham was rather
touchy on professional matters, and seemed to
consider his business was more with nurse than
me, I could not press the point any more that
day.

No good ever comes of procrastination,' I
had said, thinking sorrowfully of Kitty ; but
Aunt Catherine, who had no clue to my
thoughts, seemed a little alarmed at my earnestness.


THE Dinner-party AT THE HALL.

Beautiful faces are those that wear,
It matters little if dark or fair,
Whole-soul'd honesty printed there.
Beautiful lives are those that bless,
Silent rivers of happiness,
Whose hidden fountains but few possess.'

A7ion.

I am not mad  I would to heaven I were :
For then "tis like I should forget myself.'

Shakespeare.

I HAD not been included among the invited
guests, as x-\unt Catherine thought a girl of my
age would feel strangely out of place among the
older people ; but to our mutual vexation Aline
chose to be offended because my name was not
in the list.

We cannot ask three from one house,'
objected Aunt Catherine mildly ; ' and you see
Mr. and Mrs. Leigh are both coming;' for at
that time we hoped Kitty would throw off her

cold in a few days : but, as it happened,
I should have been obliged to accompany
Hubert.

It does not matter to me if Mrs. Leigh comes
or not,' returned Aline obstinately. ' I have
not spoken half a dozen words to her ; but if I
am mistress of this house, as Basil is always
saying, it seems hard I should not invite my
own friends ; and if Olga is not to come to the
dinner-party, I shall not put myself out about
anyone else ;' and of course, after this, Aunt
Catherine was obliged to send me an invitation.

She pencilled a few lines on the card, urging
my acceptance.

Aline will be very much put out if you do
not come. Tell Mrs. Leigh that she must
bring you.'

I was somewhat in dismay at this new whim
of Aline's, for I felt it would involve me in unnecessary
expense. The dinner-party would
be a most brilliant affair, and all the best people
in the county were coming. I had no dress fit
for such an occasion, and I had already spent
the greater part of my allowance. To my
delight, I found Aunt Catherine had intuitively
guessed at the real state of affairs, and was
ready to enact the part of fairy godmother.

Don't trouble your little head about such a
trifle she said in her kind way. ' Mrs. Leigh

is not fit to be worried just now ; so I have
settled it all with Marsden. If you will give
her one of your dresses for a pattern, she will
speak to Madame Hortense when she goes upto
town next Wednesday. I made up my mind
from the first that I would give you your dress.
Why, what nonsense !' as I thanked her rather
effusively. ' It is not the first time I have given
you a present. We will keep it a secret
from AUne, though ; she was very curious this
morning, and asked me what you were going
to wear.'

I thought Madame Hortense's taste perfect
when I opened the coffin-shaped box that contained
my finery. The dress was soft white
silk, and was trimmed with dainty finishes of
lace ; gloves and shoes of the most faultless
description completed the toilette. Even Kitty
raised her weary head from the pillow to wonder
and admire.

You will look like a bride, Olga ! Surely
you will have some deep-coloured flowers?' she
observed ; but I negatived this notion.

Aunt Catherine likes me in white, and I
shall wear the necklace she gave me ;' and
though she tried to combat this resolution, and
suggested chrysanthemums and brown leaves, I
adhered to my determination not to wear a
single bud.

I had promised to go up to the Hall early to
give my opinion on Aline's dress, and Hubert
would follow me later. He was rather out of
spirits, poor fellow ! at the idea of leaving Kitty
behind. He told me mournfully that it was the
first time that he had ever gone out to dinner
without her ; and then he said that I looked
very nice, and, after eyeing me through his
spectacles with a great deal of attention, he
continued with a sicrji :

Kitty wore a gown like yours the day we
were married. Do you remember how pretty
she looked, Olga, and what a colour she had
when I took her into the vestry ?' and then he
wrapt me up carefully and put me into the old
donkey-chair that we had borrowed for the
occasion, and I saw him still standing there
looking after us absently until we were out
of sight. Poor Hubert ! 1 wished  I wished
that he could have been a little less fond of
Kitty !

I saw Bennet smile at my humble equipage
as he assisted me to alight. Mrs. Basil was
still in her room, he told me, so I ran up thereat
once.

On my way I encountered Aunt Catherine.
She was quietly dressed as usual, but the black
lace gown suited her. She gave me a quick
approving glance. ' You will do very well, Olga,

she said, with a smile. ' Madame Hortense has
just caught your style  it is simple and in good
taste ;' and then she passed on.

I knocked at Aline's door, and Marsden
opened It. Aline was standing before the long
pier-glass contemplating herself. She did not
move or change her attitude in the least as I
entered, but only looked at me rather seriously.

Do you think I shall do, Olga ?' she asked
quickly. ' The dress is well enough ; but what
I want to know is whether I shall pass among
all the fine folk downstairs.'

I did not answer for a moment. I was thinking
I never saw a more beautiful creature, as
she stood in that queenly attitude, with her
white arms folded before her.

She had chosen the dress herself; It was
green velvet, and it was trimmed at the neck
with soft yellowish lace. A gold necklace, with
an emerald pendant  one of the Seton treasures
was clasped round her white, massive throat,
but her arms were quite bare. She shook her
head when Marsden offered her some bracelets.

I don't want them. I don't feel like myself
with a lot of jewellery. My mother-in-law may
wear them herself  you can tell her so, Marsden.
Well, Olga, why don't you speak ? Do you
think Basil will be satisfied with my appearance
?'

But she must have read my answer in my
eyes, for she gave a Httle laugh.

He ought to be satisfied, Aline. I think
you will be the grandest-looking woman in the
room. Lady Harcourt is handsome  at least,
all the county says so  but she will not hold a
candle to you to-night.'

What stuff!' she returned good-humouredly ;
but she was pleased with the flattery.

She looked at herself again to make sure
that I was speaking the truth. I felt everyone
would endorse my opinion : the finely-shaped
head with its coils of plaits ; the tall, striking
figure ; the deep, brilliant eyes ; the slow, graceful
movements, would attract attention at once.

You are right,' she observed tranquilly ; ' I
am not so bad, after all. I wonder if George
would know me ? Do you know, Olga, I feel
just as though I were acting a part  as they do
in plays  to-night. I am not Allie  I am the
Squire's lady. I wish you could write out the
dialogue for me ; it would be ever so much
easier. I shall have to talk to Sir Henry Harcourt.
Basil says he is to take me in to dinner.
What do you suppose is likely to interest a
baronet  eh, Olga ?'

She was talking in a random way, as though
she were excited. I wished Marsden were not
there to hear her ; but she was a discreet, trusty

creature, and I knew she never repeated
things.

You must let him talk to you ; that will be
best,' I replied sagely ; and then, to change the
subject, for I was afraid of what she might
say next, I continued : ' But you have never
admired my dress. It is Aunt Catherine's gift,
you know !'

It is very pretty,' she returned carelessly.
What a childish little thing you look In it,
Olga ! But somehow I like It. Mind you
keep near me when we go downstairs, and for
mercy's sake don't leave me to my mother-in-law.
Let us go down now, for I am just
longing to see how Basil looks. Take care you
don't fall over my train !'

It was still early when we entered the ,
and Mr. Basil was alone. He was
standing before the fire with one arm on the
mantelpiece, and seemed lost In thought. He
started perceptibly as his eyes fell on his wife.
She walked up to him half proudly, half shyly,
trailing her long draperies behind her.

Shall I do, Basil ?'

He moved slightly, and held her out at arm's
length ; a puzzled expression came into his
eyes.

I hardly knew you  I thought It was Lady
Harcourt. She is your height. You look first-rate,

Aline  doesn't she, Miss Leigh ?' but he
hardly looked at me as he spoke.

Aline blushed with pleasure. Those few
words had fully repaid her for all her trouble.

You must tell Olga she looks nice, too,' she
said magnanimously ; ' you must not give me
all the praise, Basil.'

He gave me a quick, keen glance that
troubled me.

Miss Leigh does not want me to tell her
that,' he said. ' She will have plenty of admirers
this evening.'

And then Mrs. Lyndhurst came in, and Aunt
Catherine followed her, and they both said kind
things to Aline. I drew back into a corner.

I wished Mr. Basil had not made that foolish,
flippant little speech. He must surely understand
that I did not wish for compliments from
him. Admirers ! when no one in the whole
world cared for me except poor Harry! I felt
a little hurt, and my beautiful dress did not
console me in the least, for when one has
friends one likes them to be simple and frank,
and not to say silly things.

To my surprise, I saw Mr. Basil leave the
fireside group, and the next minute he came to
my corner.

Are you typifying a snowdrop this evening,
Miss Leigh,' he asked, with his old friendly

smile, ' that you are hiding yourself away so
humbly ? Do you know, I have just heard
some new'S that has pleased me greatly ; and
I want to share it with you. I have had a long
letter from Mr. Fleming.'

Yes.'

The old vicar is dead, and they have offered
him the living of St. Mark's. It is the very
place for him. It is not a bad living, and the
new Vicarage has just been finished. So the
dear old man will be in clover.'

I am glad !'  with emphasis. ' Have you
told Aunt Catherine ?'

No  not yet ; there was no opportunity.
Do you think she will be pleased ?'

Certainly she will. Mr. Fleming has always
been poor, and '

But he weill be rich now,' interrupting me ;
but, as he is not a married man, that does not
matter.'

He may marry still,' I returned ; ' he is not
really old, only fifty ;' for I had leapt to this conclusion
at once. My remark seemed to surprise
Mr. Basil.

He is not one of the marrying sort. I do
not believe he has ever thought of it. What
has put such an idea into your head ?'

'It is a very likely idea,' I replied, rather
provoked at this, for men are so dense in such

matters ; they never guess things as women do.

Mr. Basil, don't you think Aline looks beautiful
to-night ?'

Yes, I suppose so,' but he spoke coldly.

She has taken such pains with herself, just
to please you. I never saw anyone so anxious,
and yet she is not a bit vain.'

No, she is not vain.'

In my opinion, she will be the most beautiful
woman in the room !'

Possibly. Oh, there is Mr. Leigh ! I must
go and speak to him. Come with me ;' but I
refused to be tempted out of my corner. But
the next moment Aline pounced on me.

Do you call this keeping near me ?' she
said, rather indignantly. ' My mother-in-law
was making me yawn as usual ; I suppose that
is why ladies use their fans so much. What
has Basil been talking to you about ? I could
see you both smiling. He hadn't much to say
to me, in spite of all my finery.'

He is perfectly satisfied with you,' was my
diplomatic reply.

Why, were you talking of me ?' opening her
eyes very wide. ' I never thought of that ; but
I believe you are quizzing me, and that you and
Basil had secrets together.'

'No; nonsense!'  rising rather hastily.

There are the Harcourt, Aline, and your place

is by your husband. He is looking for you ;
do go to him.'

You must come, too,' she returned decidedly.


Was she really nervous ? I wondered. There
was a touch of haughtiness in her manner as
she acknowledged her guests' greeting, and for
all her handsome looks she had very little
to say to anyone. Sir Henry, who was a
voluble talker, did not seem to notice her
silence.

During dinner I could hear his good-humoured
voice and laugh, and see Aline's
statue-like stillness, as she merely bent her
head or made some monosyllabic reply. Poor
Aline ! after all, I fear her position was hardly a
pleasant one. Towards the close of the evening,
I noticed she grew paler and still more
silent.

I was taken in to dinner by a lively Guardsman,
a cousin of the Harcourt ; he talked a
great deal about the Black Forest, and seemed
a pleasant and amusing person. I think he
hardly knew at first how he was to interest a
little country girl ; but he struck out in the
direction of the Black Forest, and, finding it
answered, he stuck to it gallant. I gave
him a good deal of information in return about
St. Croix, so we got on very well.

On our entering the drawing-room, Aline
asked me his name.

For you were just chattering like a couple
of magpies,' she continued; 'and I wondered if
he were an old friend of yours. I wish I could
have tackled Sir Henry in that style ; he must
have thought Basil had a stupid sort of wife.'

It struck me that Aline was a little sulky ;
she kept aloof from the ladies, who were all
crowding round the fire, and fanned herself in a
discontented way. When the gentlemen came
in, I saw her look eagerly at her husband, as
though she wanted him to come and speak to
her; but Mr. Basil was talking to Sir Henry,
and passed her without a word.

Unfortunately, Captain Harcourt seemed determined
to monopolize me again. He told mein
confidence, that he and I were the only
young people in the room, and that we ought
to have a fellow-feeling for each other.

I was afraid they would send me in with
some old dowager or some sprightly maiden
lady of uncertain age,' he went on ; ' but when
Mr. Lyndhurst pointed you out, I felt a
sudden exhilaration of spirits that has lasted
me all the evening. It was not the champagne,'
as I looked at him reprovingly, ' for, if you
remember, I never tasted it.'

But, after all, this was not a fair specimen of

his conversation, for he was really a most agreeable
companion.

Hubert came up to me presently ; he wanted
me to slip away without attracting notice  it
was still early, and it would not do to break up
the party : he would give miss Seton a hint,
and she would understand that he was anxious
to get back to Kitty. I obeyed him at once,
and begged Captain Harcourt to take no notice;
there was a door near us. I thought Aline was
still in the room, and hoped that she did not
perceive my exit. Captain Harcourt would insist
on coming into the hall to shake hands, but I
sent him back peremptorily.

I might have to wait some minutes for Hubert,
as he would have to watch for an opportunity
to speak to Aunt Catherine. Someone with
a fine tenor voice was singing ' The River of
Years.' I could hear the refrain as I crossed
the hall to fetch my fur-lined cloak. I hummed
the last line softly to myself, ' And we must be
ready to meet the tide.' Ah, that was the difficulty
 to be ready when the time came !

I was passing the half-closed door of the
dining-room, when I heard a slight movement
within, and thinking it was Bennet, I went into
ask him for a glass of water ; to my surprise
it was Aline. She was standing by the sideboard,
with her back to the door. What could
VOL. III. 47

she be doing ? The next moment I saw her
raise a wine-glass to her Hps, and drain the
contents. The sight turned me sick, and for a
few seconds I stood rooted to the spot. She had
the decanter in her hand, and was refilling her
glass, when I sprang forward, and caught her
arm.

Aline I" I exclaimed, in a shocked voice ;
*what can you be thinking about? For heaven's
sake put that decanter down !*
She tried to laugh it off.

Goodness me. how you startled me. you
tiresome girl ! I thought it was Bennet ; the
sergeants are always poking about when one
least expects them. What on earth makes you
look so scared ? I suppose a person may help
herself to a amass of sherry' in her own house.'

She was trying to brave it out, but she had
the grace to look ashamed of herself.

But not you,' I panted. ' Oh, Aline ! how
can you be so wicked, when you promised ?
You know you promised your husband that you
would never touch anything but water again !
Oh, I know ; Aunt Catherine told me so.'

People cannot always remember a promise,'
she returned crossly. * I wish you would not
make such a fuss about a trifle ; it is not your
business, you know. I was so nervous that I
could not touch a morsel at dinner ; and I was

nearly sick with that horrid, sinking feeling. I
feel quite different now. A little pick-me-up.
as George says, was all I wanted. And I will
go back to the drawing-room now, if you like.'

Yes, come  come directly,' for I noticed
that she gave a lingering glance at the glass
she had half haled.

'It is no use to leave that,' she muttered ;
and before I could prevent her, it was emptied.

Now, then,' she said coolly ; but as she
replaced the glass Mr. Basil came into the
room.

I shall never forget the look of disgust and
horror that came over his face when he saw the
glass in Aline's hand. She saw it too. Her
temper rose immediately.

Why are you prying on me like this ?' she
said angrily. ' One would think you and Olga
were my keepers. You are looking as though
you would like to strike me, just because I
helped myself to a glass of wine. You would
sooner see me faint than let me have a drop, I
know I'

I would sooner see you dead !' he returned
with suppressed passion. ' Aline, how dare you
break your promise to me ? You will have to
answer to me for this.'

I generally have to answer to you, don't I ?
No woman had a more bitterly hard taskmaster.

472

But I am not going to talk to you to-night, or
to Olga, either. You may both go back to
your fine friends and tell them I am taken 111.
Perhaps you would like to lock me up in my
own room first ? He did that once, Olga, only
George came and let me out.'

I never saw anything more terribly tragic
than her face and voice as she stood there in
her velvet dress, with her white gleaming neck
and arms, and that defiant look in her eyes. It
was as though the devil had entered into her.
I could not bear the sight, or to hear her
speaking to him in that fierce, mocking tone.
I could not be silent. I put my arms round
her, and prayed her to desist.

Do not speak so, Aline ; tomorrow you
will be sorry that you have made "him so unhappy.
Come away with me, dear ; I will take
care of you ; no one shall talk to you to-night.
Let me go with her, Mr. Basil ; I will help her,
poor thing !'

The tears were running down my face as I
spoke, for it was too much to see him standing
there looking so white and hopeless. He did
not speak, only drew back to let us pass. As
Aline yielded to my entreaties, I took her to her
room, and after a little while she consented to
undress and go to bed. Her passion seemed
to die away the moment she lost sight of her

husband's reproachful face ; she even thanked
me in a subdued voice for my services.

I stayed with her until I thought she would
sleep, and then I went downstairs. All the
guests were gone, and only Aunt Catherine and
Mr. Basil were in the drawings-room.

Has Hubert gone too ?' I asked, looking
round.

'Yes, dear. He was anxious about his wife,
so Basil said he would take you home later. It
is a fine night, and if you wrap up well you will
come to no harm.'

Oh no ; but I am sorry to take Mr. Basil out.'

There is no need to be sorry about such a
trifle,' he returned gravely.

And then i\unt Catherine helped me on with
my wraps, and whispered to me that I had been
very kind, and that I must come tomorrow,
early, and then I joined mr. Basil in the dark
avenue.

I thought he was never going to speak tome,
and I feared to address him. But as we
turned into the road he said, in a constrained
voice :

I hope you do not think me uncivil to-night.
Miss Leigh ; but I feel as though I cannot talk.'
And then he added hurriedly : ' I have had a
blow.'

Yes, I know. Please do not treat me as a

Stranger ; I would rather be silent too ;' and
then we walked on, and nothing was said until
we reached Fircroft.

I had shaken hands with him, and was about
to leave him, but he called me back.

I haven't thanked you,' he said hoarsely,
and rather indistinctly. ' You know I haven't
thanked you for what you have done to-night.'

Because I have done nothing,' I replied,
trying to speak cheerfully, ' and no thanks are
due, Mr. Basil,' for he was looking at me very
strangely. ' I want to ask you one thing  will
you airy to forgive Aline this once ?'

He remained silent. It was not possible for
him to tell a lie. In his heart he knew he had
not forgiven her.

Please  please be kind to her ; she knows
she has done wrong. To-morrow she will be
sorry for having grieved you.'

How long will her sorrow last, do you
think ?'

I cannot tell. But, Mr. Basil, think it is
until seventy times seven. Will you not get
her to make another promise, and help her to
keep it ?'

I will try,' he returned briefly, but he could
not trust himself to say more ; the iron of his
degradation had entered into his soul.

I could read his hopelessness in his tone.

There was a set, stern look on his face as he
turned away. But he had said he would try,
and I knew he would keep his word.

I was so wretched that night that I cried
myself to sleep. Oh, the terrible mystery of
these fettered souls whom Satan has bound,
who are expiating, perhaps, the sins of former
generations, in whose blood there is some hereditary
taint ! I shuddered as I recalled that
scene  Aline standing there in the pride of
her beauty, and the unholy light of a fierce
longing in her eyes ! It seemed to me as though
the pit were opening before me  as though
unhallowed presences were thronging round
their victim, triumphing over the weak undisciplined
will. Oh God ! what need for us to
pray daily, ' Lead us not into temptation '! Us
not me ; us  our frail and tempted brothers ;
our sisters trembling on the brink of ruin  our
sorrow-stricken sinful ones ! I wept bitterly as
I whispered the clause over and over again.
God help them ! God help them both !

IF I WERE ONLY LIKE YOU !'

There is nothing in this world can make me joy.
Life is as tedious as a twice-told tale,
Vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man.'

*" King Johns
You have been as God's good angel in our house ;
God bless you for it  God reward you for it !'

EiwcJi Ardent

I TURNED my steps very reluctantly In the
direction of the Hall the next morning. On
my way I encountered Mr. Basil. He was
riding Ladybird, and his new retriever, Rolf,
was running beside him. He just lifted his
hat as he passed, but took no further notice ;
and the next minute he had galloped out of
sight.

Marsden was coming down the avenue on an
errand to the village. She stopped to tell me
that Mrs. Basil was not very well. She was
lying down in the Lady's Room, and had given

Strict injunctions that no one but Miss Olga
was to go to her ; she had slept badly, and complained
of neuralgic pains in her head.

I found her lying on a couch, drawn up to
the fire, in her ruby plush tea-gown. It was a
dull, gloomy day, but the Lady's Room looked
warm and cosy. I could see at once that she
had been crying ; her eyes were much swollen,
and she looked altogether ill and subdued. Asher
head ached, she had unfastened her heavy
plaits, and I noticed they reached to her knee.
I could not help commenting on their length.

Oh, my hair has always given me plenty of
trouble,' she said languidly ; 'but now I have a
maid to help me, I do not mind so much.
When I was with George, I used to roll it up
anyhow. George grumbled sometimes. He
pretended to be proud of my hair  but, there !
don't let us talk of George. Take off your hat,
and draw up that easy-chair where I can see
you.'

I am so sorry your head aches so badly.'

'What does it signify  headache or heartache
? I have got them both, I did not sleep
a wink last night. I know what that means. I
told Basil so. But he is downright cruel !
He won't let me have a drop of chloral !
I told him George let me have it sometimes,
just to quiet me, and he said more shame to

him for giving in to my whims. Olga, 1 don't
want to grumble about Basil  poor old fellow! 
for he has been as nice as possible this morning
; only it is like moving a rock, trying to
change his mind when he has once made
it up.'

Has he been sitting with you ?'

Yes, for a long time. He found me crying
because I was low and wretched about last
night ; so, instead of scolding me as he generally
does, he sat down and talked to me. He
made me tell him how much I had taken  but
it was only three glasses, not a drop more  and
then he said how he had felt ready to sink into
the ground with shame and vexation at seeing
me so weak, and that he felt worse about it
because you were there to see it all. Olga, he
thinks a deal about you  I can see that 
but I am not going to be jealous. You were
like a little white angel to me last night ; and
when you came and put your arms round me,
and said you would take care of me, I felt as
though the devil was leaving me !'

Aline,' I said, kneeling down beside her,
you will never grieve your husband so again .'*
You are going to be good ? You will be goodwill
you not ?'

A distressed look came into her beautiful
eyes ; it was almost a look of fear.

I don't know,' she whispered. ' I told Basil
I would try. I would have told him anything
to give him comfort, poor boy ! But I cannot
trust myself.'

Why not, dear ?'

Oh, what a question !' throwing herself back
on her pillows. ' What a child you are, Olga,
to ask such a thing ! But, there ! I cannot
expect either you or Basil to understand me 
only George does.'

Will you try to make me understand ? I do
so want to help you.'

So does Basil  he told me so ; and there
were tears in his eyes ; and yet he is not a soft
sort either. He said there was nothing he
would not do for me, if I only kept straight ;
that he would be fond of me, and stay with
me, if only I would not shame him before his
people. It made me cry to hear him ; and
then I promised over again.'

Oh, I am so glad '

But she stopped me impatiently.

There is nothing to be glad about. I have
made promises before, and broken them, as I
did last night. Oh, Olga ! don't you see what
I mean ? When I am sane  when the devil is
not tempting me  I think I can keep my
promise easily. I won't notice the craving.
I hate the very sight of the poisoning stuff! I

wonder how I can ever bear the smell of it.
And then, In a minute, It Is all up with me, and
I must have It, though I die for It ! It is madness
! I have often told George so ; and I
know he believes me. But Basil won't let me
say the word. With all his kindness, he is
hard. He says many a man has fought a
fiercer battle and conquered, and that It Is my
will that Is weak.'

I found It Impossible to answer her. I had
no experience. I only knew she was In deadly
danger, and that we must save her In spite of
herself. Madness or sin, she must be saved !
I asked her, almost humbly, how we could best
help her.

By being kind to me,' she returned, without
a moment's hesitation. ' I am wretched enough
without people giving me more to bear. I
asked Basil this morning If he would let me goto
George for a little, but he won't hear of it.
He says George spoils me, and that I had
better stop with him.'

Would you not rather be with your husband,
Aline ?'

But she flushed almost painfully at the
question.

I like being with Basil, of course. What a
question ! As though a woman doesn't care to
be with her husband ! But If I make him unhappy,

I would rather go away. Oh !'  as a
great tear rolled down her cheek  * if I were
only like you, Olga ! If he could look up tome
and respect me as he does you, there would
be some chance of happiness for us. But I
have worn out his love, and I cannot bear the
thought that he only pities and tolerates me.
It drives me crazy sometimes, and then I
quarrel with him.'

But, all the same, you must not leave him.'

Who said I meant to leave him ?' looking at
me oddly. ' You need not get notions in your
head. If you were my friend, you would ask
him to let me stay with George for a bit ; he
would listen to you, and he only gets angry
with me if I propose it.'

Indeed, I could not speak to him on such a
subject. What would he think of such interference
on my part ?'

Oh, very well, then ; I won't say any more,'
rather wearily. ' I ought not to expect people
to take so much trouble about me, only I was
afraid Basil was making a mistake, and that we
should both suffer in the end for it ; but it can't
be helped.'

This speech did not tend to make me more
comfortable, but I thought it wiser to take no
notice ; so I spoke of other things. I contrived
to interest her at last, and the rest of the

morning passed more pleasantly. By Aunt
Catherine's wish I had remained to luncheon,
and I did not leave Aline until six. She was
feeling much better by that time, and promised
to go down to dinner as usual. We had Reggie
in, and played with him ; and she was In a far
more comfortable frame of mind when I left her.

I found Aunt Catherine alone in the drawing-room,
and I took the opportunity of stating
Aline's wish to go to her brother.

She told me at once that Mr. Basil was much
against it.

We were talking about It last night when
Basil came back from Fircroft,' she said, ' and
he told me Aline had been speaking about it.
He gave me his reasons. He declares Mr.
Barton spoils her ; that he Is so fond of her
that he often gives way to her whims and
fancies ; and that  that Is why she liked to be
with him.'

It Is natural that she should like to be with
her brother, especially when he has been so
good to her.'

Yes ; but, Olga, you do not quite grasp the
situation. Basil says that Mr. Barton is too
busy to watch or control her properly. More
than once she has eluded him and Becky. You
see, Mr. Barton is in the shop, and Becky downstairs
; and Basil says she is safer here.'

Of course he may be right.'

I think we are bound to leave the matter
to him. If Basil has ever failed in his duty,
he is certainly making up for it now. Even
Aline tells me how kind he is to her. We
ought not to find fault with him because he is
unwilling to trust her out of his sight.'

I hope you do not think me interfering ?' I
stammered ; but she only laughed at this.

I never think anything to your discredit ;
but, Olga, you must not be too anxious. I am
afraid, when I look at you, that we are burthening
you too much with our worries. You are
losing your blooming looks. I sometimes think
you are not quite so cheerful as my little companion
of La Maisonnette.'

I disclaimed this notion rather hotly, and
with a fine flow of words ; but finally I did
own that my divided duties were troubling me 
that I felt I was neglecting Kitty : ' Even nurse
complains that I am no good to her  and I was
always nurse's right hand ; and now Kitty Is ill,
Mab and Jessie are running wild.'

Yes, I see. We have been very selfish, I
am afraid ; but the dear little girls shall not be
sacrificed. You shall stay at home, Olga, and
do your duty, and I will talk to Aline. Perhaps
you could spare an hour late in the afternoon
just to keep my troublesome niece in a good

temper. Do you think that could be managed ?'
looking at me inquiringly.

Oh yes,' I returned cheerfully ; ' I could
easily spare the hour after the schoolroom tea.
Hubert generally sits with Kitty then.' And soit
was arranged, and 1 went home with a lighter
heart, feeling that Aunt Catherine would do her
best for me.

I was very thankful that we had come to this
understanding, for the next day Kitty was so
much worse that I could not have left her, and
my hands were so full with her and the children
that I had not a spare minute. And when the
afternoon closed in, I had to take my place in
Kitty's room instead of running up to the Hall
for the hour's chat with Aline. I sent her a
little note, and begged her to come and see me
instead, for I feared that I should be kept in
the following day ; but she took no notice of
this, and we did not meet for three whole days.

When at last I found my way to her room,
she received me so coldly that I was quite hurt.
I thought she looked dull and out of humour.
She was lying on her couch with a novel in her
hand, but she did not seem to be reading. She
turned her cheek to me  she had never kissed
me yet  but did not ask me to take off my hat.
I sat down on the rug, and asked what she had
been doing.

Doing ? there is not much to do in this
place she said fretfully. ' Basil has been
wanting me to take walks with him ; but I
am not fond of muddy lanes, and roads with
nothing in them, and I am getting sick of
driving. I do think the country in November
is perfectly deadly ; and there is Basil shooting,
and riding, and playing tennis, and can't find his
day long enough ! No wonder he feels sleepy
just when I am most wide awake, and want him
to play cards or do something amusing 1'

Country people are not fond of sitting up late ;
and I know of old that Mr. Basil is an early
riser.'

Yes ; and he wants to persuade me to bean
earlier riser, too. '' No, thank you," I said
to him ; " the day is twice too long already,
and there is no need to lengthen it." Why, he
is out and about with Reggie long before I can
bring myself to think of getting up. Actually my
mother-in-law was lecturing me yesterday, and
telling me I ought to be more with Basil. *' He
has enough of me already," was my answer ; for
I wasn't in the best of humours. I had been
asking Basil to take me to Brighton for a week
or two, just to see a bit of life, and what do you
think was his objection ? He did not like to
leave his mother so soon. Did you ever hear
anything so ridiculous ?'

VOL. III. 48

I can understand Mr. Basil would be reluctant
to leave her. You can see for yourself
how happy she is.'

Oh yes ; she is happy enough, and so are
they all. It is only poor me who is always
in the way. You are getting tired of me, too,
Olga. I always tired everyone but George.'

George, always George ! how she harped on
that one string ! Was it affection, or mere
contrariness, that made her dwell on this one
thought ? She made more than one reproachful
speech about my leaving her for three days,
and I could not get her to sympathize with my
home troubles ; in fact, she was very unsatisfactory
altogether.

I kept my promise to Aunt Catherine, and,
when it was possible, spent at least an hour
daily with Aline.

I never saw Mr. Basil, except at church ; I
got it into my head that he avoided me. He
was often in the house when I paid my visit,
but he never came near his wife's room. Once
I heard him playing in the nursery with Reggie,
and another time he was crossing the hall to
the library ; but I could not find out whether
he had seen me or not.

Aunt Catherine used to come to Fircroft
when she wanted me. She said there was no
other place where she could talk to me quietly.



Mr. Fleming had paid his promised visit, but
had only remained three days. Aunt Catherine
said very little about him, except that Aline had
been usually sulky, and had remained in her
own room, and not all her husband's entreaties
could Induce her to be friendly with Mr.
Fleming. When she dined with them she
scarcely opened her lips.

I was not satisfied about Aline. Her moodiness
continued ; she never seemed glad to seeme
now, or pressed me to remain ; and when
business prevented me from paying my daily
visit, she never came to Fircroft, or questioned
me as to the reason of my absence. I could
not find out what she did with herself all day ;
and Aunt Catherine's account was most unsatisfactory.
She said Mr. Basil was worried to
death, and that Aline was trying him dreadfully.
She found fault with everything he did ;
she would not be civil to his friends, and several
of the best people were offended because she
refused to see them. She grumbled if her
husband went out shooting or riding, and complained
that she was always alone ; and yet If
he gave up his amusements to stay with her,
she could not be Induced to do anything. She
had taken it into her head lately that she was
out of health, and wanted sea-air and tonics ;
but Dr. Langham had told them privately that

482

it was nothing but ennui. He wanted her to
ride, and play tennis  do anything, in fact, but
sit over novels and fancy-work in a hot room.
She had been very angry, and had quarrelled
with him, declaring that she would die before
she sent for him again ; and that day she had
frightened them all dreadfully, for she had
actually gone off to Brighton by herself for a
few hours.

If she had not encountered Reynolds in the
station and told him where she was going, we
should have been seriously alarmed,' went on
Aunt Catherine ; ' as it was, Basil had a shooting
party, and did not come in until five. Aline only
returned an hour later. We had sent the carriage
to meet all the trains. Basil was very
anerv ; but he could not make the least impression
on her. She was most provoking, told
him Dr. Langham had ordered her air and exercise,
and that she had had a fine blow on the
Parade, and had amused herself looking at the
shops, and she would not promise him not to doit
again. Basil made himself quite wretched
about it ; he said she had just done it to vex
him, and how could he be sure that she had
not begun her old habits again ? Her rushing
off in this way looked like it, and he
thought from her manner that she was very
much excited.'

i

I saw Aline the next day, and she gave me
her own version of the matter.

I was in a temper, I know,' she said frankly ;
that Dr. Langham had put me out, making
Basil believe it was just my fancy and nothing
else; but I should like them both to feel as I do
for a few hours  they would be ready to wish
themselves dead, I believe. I had not thought
of Brighton till I was close to the station, for I
was so mad with them all that I had walked out
of the house ; and then, all at once, I thought I
would have a bit of a spree, as George calls it,
so I took my ticket  but I had the grace to tell
Reynolds where I was going. It was a beautiful
afternoon, and I quite enjoyed myself. The
shops were getting ready for Christmas, so I
bought some things for Reggie, and walked
down the Esplanade, looking at all the fine
carriages. I would not walk on King's Road
at last because folks stared so ; and I got a cup
of coffee and a sandwich, and felt ever so much
better. There was a fine fuss with Basil when
I got back. I asked him at last if men generally
kept their wives in leading-strings. He
was not over-polite in his reply ; but I had had
my fun, and didn't care. What are you looking
grave about, Olga ? Of course you side with
Basil  you always do !'

I let this pass, and only told her quietly that

it was unkind on her part to give them such a
fright ; if she had not met Reynolds, no one
would have known what to think.

What should they think, but that I was
amusing myself?' she returned, staring at me.
1 am not a chill to be run over, and I don't
want a nurse with me. I tell you what it is,
Olga : Basil does not trust me out of his sight ;
he wants to keep me a sort of prisoner here. I
may drive about with my mother-in-law or Aunt
Catherine, or I may walk with him or Marsden ;
but I must not go a yard beyond the gate by
myself. Now, do you suppose I am going to
stand that ? I am so nervous now that I could
get into a passion at a minute's notice. My
life is too dull. I tell Basil so, but he won't
listen to me ; and now you're neglecting me,
and I haven't a creature to amuse me.'

Oh, Aline ! what am I to do ?' I replied,
much distressed at this selfish remark. ' Do
yuu know, dear Kitty is really very ill ; her
lungs are affected, and Dr. Langham wants her
to go to Cannes. Hubert is in a dreadful way ;
he would never believe it was anything but
weakness and a bad cold, and now he means to
have a physician down from London to see her.'

She has always been delicate, hasn't she ?'
but there was not much sympathy in Aline's
tone.

No, only latterly ; but now we are all very
anxious. Jem came home yesterday, and he
says he is quite shocked at the alteration in
her; but he did not tell Hubert so. It takes
all nurse's time waiting on her, and everything
else devolves on me. Jane helps in the nursery ;
but with Jem at home and the pupils, there is
so much to be done : it will be a sad Christmas
for us all'

Yes, I suppose so.' She looked at me
attentively, and then looked away again. ' I
think I shall hate Christmas more than usual
this year. My mother-in-law is making such a
fuss about it already. There is to be a tree for
Reggie, and a children's party, and a supper to
the villagers, and I don't know what beside ;
and, after that, Basil is going to Leeds, and he
wants me to go, too.'

That will be very nice,' I observed ; but
she shook her head with a strange smile.

I am not going. I told him so at once.
You need not expect to have my company,"
I said to him ; " and, what is more,
you do not want it  you will be a deal more
comfortable without me." For, you see, I could
not forget he had refused to take me to Brighton.
He chose to be put out about it, and told me
that *' I was the worst wife a man could have,
and that I would do nothing to please him.'

My lord was quite In a huff about it  what ! are
you going already ?'  for I was too much out of
patience to listen to her any longer.

How could she treat him so ? would not any
husband resent such inconsiderate behaviour ? I
was fast losing all hope of Aline ; an evil spirit
still dominated her  I could see that plainly.

I was just crossing the hall, when I saw Mr.
Basil. He had just come in from shooting, and
was warming himself before the big fireplace.
He came forward and shook hands with me
rather gravely. I had not seen him for a week
or two, and I noticed a worn, harassed look on
his face.

He began by telling me that he had been
walking home with Jem.

I am sorry to hear such a bad account of
Mrs. Leigh,' he said kindly.

We are all terribly anxious about her,' I returned,
in a low voice.

I do not wonder. I must come and see Mr.
Leigh. I have  I have been too busy to call
lately.'

Please do not trouble about it ; Aunt Catherine
comes nearly every day.'

And Aline ?'

Oh no ! Aline never comes. I do not
think she likes paying calls; I have asked her so
often.'

You must think it strange after all your
kindness to her. I am afraid you have spoilt
her  she misses your visits terribly  do you
not think so ?' looking at me so anxiously that
I knew he meant something else. '' Do you not
think her changed for the worse ?' would have
been nearer his meaning.

Yes, I think so. Aline is certainly not in
good spirits.'

'Are you in good spirits? Am I, for the
matter of that ? But you and I do our best to
struggle against depression ; but Aline will not
make an effort. I do not know what will
become of us if she will not try to be happier.
But, there ! I will not keep you listening to my
grumbling ; you are worried enough without
that. Take care of yourself, for all our sakes ;'
and he shook hands again very warmly.

The kindness and sympathy in his look and
tone made up for Aline's indifference, and I
went home more cheered. Kitty was a trifle
better that evening, and Jem and I had a long
talk, and altogether things were more comfortable.


The next day I was busier than ever. Harry
and Mr. Campbell were leaving in the afternoon,
and Mr. Cunningham was to follow in
the morning. There was no possibility of
seeing Aline. Mr. Basil came in the afternoon

and remained a long time with Hubert, but I
only saw him for a minute. He was going over
to Lewes on business the next day, he said, and
should not be home until late. If I could spare
an hour to sit with Aline he should be grateful ;
but I was not to inconvenience myself.

1 made up my mind that I would go at all
hazards. I am thankful now that I did, for
Aline was much nicer to me. She received me
kindly ; told me I looked pale and must have a
good rest. I did not think she looked well
herself, but she did not complain. She was
sleeping badly, that was all, she said ; but it
was no use telling Basil so, for he would not
let her have a sleeping-draught, so she must
just suffer. There was a weary, heavy look in
her eyes that did not belie her words.

But she was not inclined to talk about herself.
Contrary to her usual custom, she asked for
Reggie to come in, and she seemed so occupied
with him that I was not obliged to exert
myself

1 cannot remember that she said one sharp
thing during my visit. Even when Reggie
clambered up on my lap and refused to leave
me for her, she only smiled sadly.

He has liked you best from the first,' she
said gently. ' Reggie has taken a wonderful
fancy to you;' and she leant back in her chair

and looked at us both in a way that made me
feel uncomfortable.

I whispered to Reggie to go and give her a
kiss, but he refused. ' I will kiss my Dear
instead,' he said, in his pretty, wilful way. We
were spoiling our darling among us.

Let him be, Olga,' she said, with a sigh.
I don't want Reg to be ordered to kiss me.
He has plenty to love him  haven't you
Reg?'

Emma came in presently to fetch him, and
then, as it was getting late, I rose to go, but
Aline made me sit down again.

Give me a few more minutes she said
quite beseechingly. ' I don't seem to like to
part with you to-night. I haven't been nice to
you lately, have I, Olga ?'

I laughingly disclaimed this, but she shook
her head.

You are too good-hearted to tell me so, but
I know I have been detestable. I haven't
been Aie at all. I was just the Squire's lady ;
and somehow the character did not fit me; the
velvet gown wasn't so magical, after all.'

She sighed  such a weary sigh it was !  and
went on :

If I had known you before, Olga  if we
had been sisters  it might have been different.'

But you have a good husband,' I remonstrated,

for it struck me that she undervalued
her blessings.

Yes ; but Basil is too high ; I can't reach
him. We were never intended for each other ;
I see that now. He wanted a different sort of
woman to help him along. There ! I won't talk
any more. I am a bit low to-night, and I know
you are fidgeting to be off;' and then, as I
stooped over her, she put up her face and kissed
me for the first time  a \oncr, HneerinQ kiss.

1:5' o o

Good-bye, dear,' she said very gently.

If she were always as nice as she has been
to-day !' I thought, as I went down the dark
avenue. ' And yet how unhappy she seemed !'
And then I stopped and looked back.

The Hall door was open, for Bennet had
insisted on watching me down the avenue,
because, as he said, the big trees made it so lonesome.
A flood of warm, soft radiance streamed
out into the darkness. How could anyone be
unhappy who called that home ? I said to
myself, for I loved every stone and tree about
the place. A chime rang out through the
frosty air  the ringers were practising for
Christmas. Over my head the stars were
shining in the dark wintry sky. As I passed
the lodge I could hear the children singing
carols. It would not be a happy Christmas at
Fircroft with its mistress ill upstairs.

I did not see Aline the next day ; I was
often obliged to omit my daily visit now. We
had callers all the afternoon, and one of them
stayed so late that there was only just time to
dress for dinner. I determined to go earlier
the following afternoon, and to take Wilfred
with me to play with Reggie.

I rose with this idea. I was just finishing
dressing, and Mab and Jessie were reading
their morning psalm, verse by verse, as they
always did, with Kitty, when nurse brought mea
note from Aunt Catherine. It was very
short :

My dear Olga,

Will you come round directly you have
finished breakfast ? I want to see you particularly.


Yours,

Catherine Seton.'

It was certainly very inconvenient to be summoned
away so unceremoniously. My absence
would interfere with the children's lessons, for
I had now resumed them regularly. I begged
Mab and Jessie, in Jem's hearing, to go on with
their practising and needlework until I returned,
but to my surprise he offered to take my place.

I will look after the youngsters,' he said

good-naturedly ; * there is evidently something
up ; Aunt Catherine seems flurried.'

I asked why he thought so, and he returned
promptly :

Well, she has not crossed her /'s or dotted
her z's; so it is pretty evident that she is in some
fix or other.'

YOU MUST TAKE CARE OF ME, GEORGE !'

But I had not so much of man in me,
And all my mother came into my eyes,
And gave me up to tears.'

'Henry V:

'Mine eyes
Were not in fault, for she was beautiful.'

Cynibeli7ie?

Jem's shrewd remark only added to my uneasiness,
and as soon as I could leave the breakfast
table I ran across to the Hall. I thought
Bennet looked a little mysterious as he admitted
me, and I fancied there was something ominous
in the way he told me that Miss Seton was
alone in the library.

Aunt Catherine was sitting by the fire reading
her business letters ; she spoke to me in her
usual manner, but I saw at once that she looked
harassed and worried; as she held my hand, she
said quietly :

We are all much troubled, Olga, and you
will be grieved to hear the reason  Aline has
left us !'

Aunt Catherine, what can you mean ?'

She went away last night ; she has gone
back to her brother's. She left a letter for
Basil  he wishes me to show it to you ;' and
without another word she put it into my hand.

I was too much shocked to speak ; somehow,
I had never expected anything like this. Aline's
handwriting was very clear and legible ; the letter
was evidently written with some degree of haste.
It began abruptly :

You must not be angry, Basil, when you
hear that I have gone away and left you and
Reggie. I am doing it for your good as well as
my own. Things could not go on much longer
as they have been going on, and so I thought it
best to settle matters for myself. I have asked
you over and over again to let me go to George
for a bit, but you would never listen to me. You
were always too masterful with me, and treated
me like a child, as though I did not know what
I wanted ; but I was serious all along, and now
I am going back to George, and it was a pity I
ever left him, for I am not fit to lead your life,
and the dulness of it is just killing me.

Of course, you will be blaming me, and saying

I am the worst wife any man could have, and I
dare say it is the truth ; but, for all that, you must
not think I have not tried. Olga knows that I
have. For a little bit I thought I could make myself
happy  all the fine things pleased me, and I
liked being with you and Reggie ; but I soon
found out my mistake. You were always too
high, and expected too much of me ; and I could
not get on with your people, and no one seemed
to understand me but Olga, and she was always
good as gold to me. I am sorry that I am to
say good-bye to Olga.

But, Basil, you need not complain of me too
much, for, except that once when I was overexcited,
I have kept myself straight  I have
indeed ; and I never tasted anything but coffee
the day I went to Brighton. I will tell you the
truth about that : I told the girl to bring me a
glass of sherry, and, just as I was taking it out
of her hand, I thought of you, and I put it down
on the table, and said I would rather have the
coffee ; and I never tasted it, though the longing
for it drove me out of the shop at last. And
when you were so angry with me for my
spree, I thought I had not done so badly, after
all.

But I could not keep it up, and that is why
I am going to George, for I can't trust myself
any longer, and I might disgrace you. You

VOL. III. 49

have had enough to bear, poor fellow ! and
you and Re, bless his dear little heart ! will
be better without me  I have known that all
along, only it is not so easy to say goodbye.


Now, Basil, you must mind what I say, and
not come near me, for I am going to stop with
George. I am tired of wishing you had not
married me ; but you are not the only one who
has made a mistake and lived to repent it,
and we must just do the best we can for each
other. And so God bless you !

Aline.

'Pes.  Give my love to Olga, and tell her
not to fret. I was never worth the trouble she
took with me.'

What do you think of it, Olga ?'
I think '  but I could hardly speak for crying
 ' I think that her heart was half broken
before she could bring herself to write that
letter.'

Yes, but Basil is unhappy, too. Think of
the painful position in which she has placed
him. He says this is worse to him than anything,
that he will not be able to face people 
you know how proud and sensitive he is. If she
had never come to the Hall, of course things
would not be so difficult to him. I see that

plainly. One thing  he is determined to have
her back.'

But if she will not come ?'

That is where we shall need your help.
Basil spoke of you at once. He wants you to
go with me, and try and bring her to a sense of
her duty. He is so angry that he dare not trust
himself to speak to her ; but he says, if she will
only come back, he will not utter a word of
reproach.'

Do you mean that we are to go to-day ?'

No ; not until Monday or Tuesday. Basil
thinks it will be better to leave her quiet fora
few days ; but he has written to her. He
brought his letter to show me : it was very
short, and said very little ; but she will see how-hurt
he is. He told her that he hoped she would
soon see things in a different light, and remember
that he had a right to be considered.
It was a very temperate, sensible letter; but he
says she always misunderstands him.*

Do you think she had better come back,
Aunt Catherine ?'

Don't ask for my opinion ; I am perfectly
hopeless ; we must just do as Basil wishes. He
has a right, as he says, to control his own wife.
I have not given you his message. He begs
you to do this kindness for him, as no one else
has so much influence over Aline. We are to

492

tell her that he will overlook her imprudent
step ; but that she must come back to him.
She may stop with Mr. Barton, if she likes, for
two or three weeks, and then he will go and
fetch her ; but she must not remain so long
away that people will wonder at it  he does so
dread any of his friends getting hold of this.'

You have not told me yet how she left the
Hall.'

No ; I forgot. Let me see, you did not
come yesterday, and Marsden says she was
looking for you all the afternoon ; and she had
Reggie with her until he went to bed. Basil
was out shooting with Colonel Strafford all day,
and did not get home till six. When he went
upstairs to dress for dinner, he just looked in
on Aline ; she was lying on the couch in her
tea-gown, and told him she had a headache, and
should not come down to dinner. The room
was almost dark, he said, for the fire was low,
and he did not see her plainly ; he wanted to
ring for coals, but she would not let him. Only,
just as he was going away, she called him back,
and asked him to kiss her. He was a little surprised
at that, for she had lately been so cold
in her manner to him ; but, of course, he kissed
her at once, and told her that he should come
up and sit with her after dinner.'

Well ?' for Aunt Catherine paused here.

Of course that was all he saw of her. When
he went up he only found the room empty, and
the letter lying on the table. She must have
changed her dress and slipped out the garden
way while we were at dinner. Reynolds felt a
draught as he was bringing out the game, and
discovered the side-door was wide open. We
have no doubt that she took the eioht o'clock
train to town, but Basil did not dare to make
any inquiries.'

Was Mrs. Lyndhurst very much upset ?'

Yes, but only on Basil's account. You know
she rather dislikes Aline than otherwise. Aline
has always repelled her from the first, though
she tried so hard to be kind to her. Well, it is
a miserable business ; but we shall do no good
talking about it. I think Tuesday will be soon
enough to go to Holloway. Will you hold
yourself in readiness for that day ?'

I am glad you did not say Wednesday. The
physician is coming down that afternoon.'

No, we will say Tuesday. Thank you, my
dear. Then that is settled, and I will tell Basil
so. Now I must answer my letters, so I need
not hinder  you any more. If possible, we
intend to say nothing of Aline's absence for a
day or two, so I must ask you to be cautious.'

I must not even tell Jem ?'

Better not.'

I was a little sorry for this restriction, for
Jem was such a safe person, but happily his
sense of honour prevented him from asking meany
troublesome questions. If he were disappointed
at my want of confidence, he certainly
did not tell me so, only he was kinder
than usual all that day, as if he knew I was
worried.

I did not see Mr. Basil the next day ; he was
not at church either morning or evening. I
heard afterwards that he had walked over to
Foliage for both services. I did not go up to
the Hall on Monday, but in the afternoon Jem
and I encountered him in the village. He did
not stop to speak, only passed on with a muttered
greeting. I hoped Jem did not notice
how embarrassed he seemed ; he quite flushed
up, and scarcely looked at us. But Jem said
nothing, only called off Rollo, who was sniffing
rather aggressively at the butcher's dog.

We left Brookfield by a very early train on
Tuesday. I think Aunt Catherine wanted
people to believe that she was only going fora
long day's shopping. She said Mr. Basil
seemed very low that morning ; but she did
not talk much about him or anyone else. I
think in her heart she dreaded our errand as
much as I did, for we both knew how stubborn
Aline could be when she chose.

It seemed to me a long time before we
reached Holloway. I took a great dislike to
the place, and wondered how Aline could bear
such a sordid life after she had had a glimpse
of better things. But I thought it better too

o

keep these reflections to myself, and it was not
easy to understand a nature like hers. I have
made up my mind since that she fled to it as a
sort of refuge ; that the fear of disgracing her
husband was the strongest feeling with her
then, and drove her to take this singular step.

I shrank behind Aunt Catherine as we entered
the dark lite shop. A tall young man
behind the counter was serving a couple of
women: when Aunt Catherine asked where Mr.
Barton was, he pointed to the parlour, and
went on weighing out the tea. He was a pale,
weak-eyed young man, and I thought he looked
after us rather oddly as we walked through the
shop.

The glass door stood half open. As Aunt
Catherine pushed it gently, a sharp-faced little
man, with rough sandy hair, jumped up out of
the easy chair and confronted us. From his
appearance I knew at once that this was Mr.
Barton. He looked ill and flurried, and stared
at us in the strangest way.

I hope we do not intrude, Mr. Barton, but
this young lady and I have come to see Aline,

began Aunt Catherine, but he interrupted her
almost brusquely :

Do you mean you have not got my telegram
?'

Telegram ? No. Why, what is the matter,
Mr. Barton ? You look dreadful !'

Not more dreadful than I feel, ma'am. To
think I have lived to see this day !' and
here he choked, and seemed hardly able to
speak. ' She has done for herself, my poor
Allie  she will never vex us more! This
morning, when Becky went to call her, she was
lying in her bed quite stiff and cold ; and  and
had been dead for hours !'

Dead !' For the moment I thought Aunt
Catherine was going to faint, the shock was so
great. I pushed her a chair, but I felt as
though I could hardly support myself. But I
noticed, all the same, that Mr. Barton wiped his
eyes with a yellow silk handkerchief, covered
with red spots, and felt a sickly sort of surprise
at his taste, and then the room seemed to turn
round, and after that, he began speaking again :

'We have had the doctors here  two of them ;
and they are pretty well agreed as to the cause
of death  it is an overdose of chloral. She
was never careful about quantities, poor girl !
and they say, from the look of the bottle, she
has taken enough to kill her.'

Tell me one thing  forgive me if I hurt
you, Mr. Barton  but do you think x\line  has
has done this on purpose ?'

Aunt Catherine could hardly get the words
out, her agitation was so great. The poor little
man recoiled as though he had been struck.

Heaven's sake, ma'am, no ! What could
have put such an idea into your head ? Aie,
with all her faults, wasn't the girl to do a thing
like that. Wait a bit till I can pull myself
together, and then I will tell you all I know.
But you may take my word for it  and I know
Allie through and through  that she is as innocent
of this as a child unborn.'

Thank God !' and the colour came back to
Aunt Catherine's lips ; but I could only sob ina
helpless, girlish way at the thought that Aline
would never speak to me again ; and neither of
us could say a word of comfort to the poor
heart-broken brother.

I was struck all of a heap when I saw Allie
come into the shop on Saturday night,' he
began presently, ' looking like a duchess in her
velvet and furs. We moody close late on
Saturday night, and it was half-past eleven
then ; and as the customers were staring at her,
I just whispered her to go into the parlour, and
I would follow her. And the first words she
said to me were, "I have left Basil!" And

then, taking my two hands and squeezing them
hard, she went on : " You must take care of
me, George ! for the Hfe there is driving me
mad, and I could not answer for myself any
longer."

'Well, you may be sure I reasoned with her,
and nearly talked myself horse about it being
her duty to stop with her husband and put up
with things ; but I could not make any impression
on her, and she looked so white and ill
that I was forced to send her to bed at last.
But she told me next morning she had not
slept a wink. But, for all that, she went to
chapel along with me, and sat in her old place,
and, vexed as I was with hvx contrariness, I
couldn't help being proud to see how folks
stared at her, and how well set up and handsome
she looked.'

And here he broke down, and it was sometime
before he could recover himself.

There is not a woman who can hold a
candle to her; and she looked like a queen that
day. And when we came home, and I saw her
opposite to me again, I was as pleased to get
her back as I could be. We sat over the fire
and had a long talk all the afternoon, and she
told me about things. Fleming  I mean
Lyndhurst  had been good to her, I could see
that, and she was as fond of him as ever : but

i

I could not get her to promise that she would
go back to him ; she kept saying over and over
again, till it angered me to hear her, that he
and Reggie were better without her  she
seemed to have got a craze on that point.

I thought she got a little low towards evening,
so I gave up my chapel that night and
stopped with her ; and I am glad I did. Ay,
Allie, I am glad of that now ! And we talked
about father and the old days ; but if I mentioned
her husband, she just hung her head and
sat twisting the diamond rings on her fingers,
as though she hardly knew how to bear herself.
The next day I saw little of her, being busy in
the shop ; but at dinner-time I thought she
looked pale. She was in one of her silent
moods at tea-time, and got up before we had
half finished, and went up to her room. Later
on, Becky saw her coming upstairs with her
bonnet on, and asked where she had been ; but
Allie never answered her, except to say her
head ached, and she was going to bed. " I
had my misgivings," Becky said to me this
morning, " that she had been after no good,
and I looked after her pretty sharply, until she
was safe in bed. But she was too deep for me."
She must have got an old prescription made
up  for she once had to have sleeping-draughts ;
but she did not go to any chemist who knew

her. It was carelessness that made her take the
overdose, most likely, as Dr. Baddeley says she
may have been impatient to sleep, and taken all
there was to have ; and no one found out anything
about it till Becky went in and pulled up
the blind this morning,' finished Mr. Barton, in
such an accent of misery that my tears flowed
faster than ever.

May we see her?' asked Aunt Catherine, ina
low voice. ' Olga, you would like to see
her;' and a dreary sort of gleam came into Mr.
Barton's eyes.

You shall see Allie, and welcome ; and you
will say for yourself that she looks like a picture.
And as for this young lady, who has
been so good to my poor girl, it is little I could
refuse her. Shall I lead the way, ma'am ?
There is no need to call Becky, for though she
is ready, she is rough, and quiet ways have
always suited Allie best ;' and talking under his
breath in this innocent, garrulous fashion, he
preceded us up the steep, narrow stairs.

It was a small room, but very neatly furnished,
and the first object that attracted my
attention was a beautifully-framed photograph
of Mr. Basil and Reggie. The bed stood in
the corner, covered with a white sheet. Aunt
Catherine folded it back gently, and beckoned
me to stand beside her.

Like a picture !' Never had I seen anything
so beautiful  no sleeping babe ever
seemed more calm and peaceful than Aline
looked as she lay there, with her white hands
crossed upon her breast.

There was something touching in the simple
arrangements. Rough but kindly hands had
been at work. They had unfastened the coils
of hair, and two long plaits framed the beautiful
face. The sullenness that had so often clouded
it in life would mar it no longer. There was no
need to ask if Aline slept sweetly  there was
even the semblance of a smile on the lips.

Do not cry so bitterly, Olga,' whispered
Aunt Catherine, in a broken voice. ' Who can
doubt that with the All-merciful there is mercy .
If she has failed, she has also repented.'

 You are right there,' returned Mr. Barton,
who had overheard this. ' Allie, with all her
faults, was good in her own way. I used to
tell Fleming so. Never a night that she did
not say her prayers ; I would hear her sometimes
at them, speaking quite loudly. " Tied
and bound with the chain of my sins "  I heard
her say these words once. And it was beautiful
to hear her singing the hymns in chapel. You
had a deal to bear, Allie ; but I always said
others were to blame, not you. And I believe
it from my heart.'

I could scarcely listen to the end of the
sentence. Someone was coming up the stairs
with weary, flagging footsteps  but I recognised
them. The telegram had reached him  he had
followed us very closely. I shrank behind the
bed-curtains. How I wished I could escape
before he entered the room !

Basil  oh, my poor boy !' in a pitiful voice
from Aunt Catherine.

But he did not seem to hear it, or notice anyone,
as he walked straight to the bed. His
face was pale, and his eyes had the dazed look
of a sleep-walker, and held some horror in them.
No, he did not see us ; he saw nothing but the
marble whiteness of the still figure that lay
before him.

Poor Mr. Barton could not long keep silence.

So you've come, Fleming  you have come
to see the last of Allie ! She will never vex
}'0u more, poor girl !'

Mr. Basil put his hand almost roughly on
his shoulder.

Don't speak to me like that, George ; I cannot
bear it! If I could have guessed that she
would do such a thing, I would have followed
her at once.'

Then 1 knew that the same terrible thought
that had been in Aunt Catherine's mind was in
his also.

Basil, it was not that ; it was an accident.
Oh, my dear, do not think that for a
moment !'

But I heard no more. I crept softly out of
the room, and went downstairs. Becky was
laying the table in the little parlour. She was
a grim, red-haired woman. As she carried away
her tray, I saw her eyes were red with crying
; but she did not speak to me. It seemed
to me that a long time passed ; it must have
been nearly an hour. I paced up and down
the little room, or looked through the stand of
plants down into the yard below. What a
homely, shabby little place it was ! and yet there
was an air of comfort pervading it. The fire
burnt cheerily ; a large black cat was stretched
on the rug ; Mr. Barton's pipe and newspaper
lay on the shelf beside his elbow-chair; a walnut-wood
workbox, evidently Aline's, was on the
small chiffonnier. Presently Aunt Catherine
came down to me alone.

He is better now, Olga,' she said, with
gentle composure. ' He and Mr. Barton are
still talking ; but they are not in that room.
My poor child, you must be faint with want of
food ; it is nearly three o'clock. We must take
something quickly, and then Basil wishes us to
go home. He will follow later in the evening ;
there is so much to arrange, poor fellow !'

You will not stop with him ? I could find my
way, indeed I could, Aunt Catherine.'

No ; he does not want me. He will be
better alone ; he is quite calm now he knows
that his worst fear is not verified. ! think if it
had been '  with deep emotion  ' Basil would
never have held up his head again ; but we are
all spared that.'

It was a long, dreary journey home. Aunt
Catherine scarcely spoke ; a sense of unreality
took possession of me as I looked out into the
darkness as the glimmering hedgerows seemed
to fly past. Yesterday, at this hour. Aline was
alive in the fulness of health and beauty ; today
 oh, the pity of it ! the strange, inscrutable
mystery that shrouded her !

I thought of that last message, so touching
in its simplicity : ' Give my love to Olga, and
tell her not to fret ; I was never worth the
trouble she took with me !' and I felt that,
in spite of the three short months I had known
her, I had grown to love her dearly. Yes,
in spite of her strange, undeveloped nature, her
curious moods, the pain she had often given
me, she had somehow wound herself round my
heart.

The carriage was at the station, and I was
put down at the gate of Fircroft. As I bade
Aunt Catherine a sorrowful goodnight, she told

me, in a low voice, for Reynolds was standing
by us, that she would let me know how things
went on with them.

Jem was at the door to meet me. As I raised
my face for him to kiss me, he put his hand
under my chin and looked at me.

Poor little woman !' he said very kindly, ' you
are just worn out with all this. Nurse has
lighted a fire in your room, and you can have
your tea there in peace ; and I will look after
the kids, and keep them quiet.'

Was it not dear and thoughtful of Jem ? butin
real trouble there was no one who could
sympathize so nicely as Jem.

The quiet rest in my own room refreshed me,
and later in the evening I was able to sit with
Kitty ; both she and Hubert were very much
shocked at the news, which had reached them
quite early. In fact, Hubert had been up at the
Hall when the telegram arrived, and he had
accompanied poor Mr. Basil to the station.

He would not have remembered to take
his ticket if I had not taken it for him,' Hubert
told me. ' I never saw a man so upset ; he seemed
quite dazed. The telegram was too vaguely
worded ; it gave us margin to imagine all sorts
of horrors. I am more thankful than I can say
to hear your account, Olga ;' and then they very
kindly dismissed me to bed.

VOL. III. 50

TROUBLES SELDOM COME SINGLY.*

Does the road wind uphill all the way ?
Yes ; to the very end I
Will the day's journey take the whole lonjj day ?
From morn to eve, my friend !'

Anon.

Be strong to bear, O heart !
Nothing is vain :
Strive not, for life is care,

And God sends pain ;
Heaven is above, and there
Rest will remain.'

Adelaide Anne Procter.

Hubert went to the Hall the next morning ;
on his return he brought me a note from Aunt
Catherine :

Basil is much calmer to-day,' she wrote.  He
is with Virginia now ; he says it does him good
to be with her. Do you remember those sweet
old words, Olga, " As one whom his mother
comforted " " Perhaps some good may come

out of all this trouble, and those two may be
drawn more closely together.

 Basil has settled everything. Aline is to be
brought here. He says Mr. Barton at first seemed
rather upset at the notion, but now he knows
he is to come too, he makes no further objection.
Basil has written to beg Mr. Fleming
to read the service. Everything will be as
quiet as possible, and she Is to be burled near
the Seftons. Basil thinks her brother will be
pleased at that. I am glad to see how thoughtful
he Is for Mr. Barton's comfort ; he will be with
us for some days, for Basil insists that he
should remain with us over Christmas. What a
Christmas It will be, Olga !'

Aunt Catherine's note was the one spot of
comfort in the day. Alas ! before evening
came, the trouble at the Hall was blotted out
of my mind by a new and crushing blow.
'Troubles seldom come singly,' is not that what
the proverb says . but seldom, Indeed, have
the clouds returned after the rain ' quite so
quickly !

The London physician came down in the
afternoon. When he and Dr. Langham had
visited the patient, there was a short consultation,
and then Hubert was summoned. Later
on Dr. Langham spoke to Jem.

502

It was Jem who told me the result of their
verdict. There was no hope for Kitty, they
had told Hubert so plainly. The chill, in her
enfeebled condition, had taken too strong a
hold on her ; rapid decline had set in. Dr.
Langham had been aware of this ; but Hubert
had refused to understand his hints, and he had
made up his mind that a stranger's opinion
would be more readily believed.

I looked at Jem in speechless consternation.
I was too much stunned to say a word. Our
poor, pretty Kitty! No, it was impossible
to credit it.

Olga, you and I must be strong for Hubert's
sake. Poor old man ! he will need all the help
we can give him. We must not think of ourselves.'


 No, Jem ;' then, almost in a whisper, ' Where
is he  Hubert, I mean ?'

He is with Kitty. Nurse has come down
and left them together. She says Kitty is
wonderfully calm. She asked Dr. Rupert herself
how long she was likely to live, as though
she were quite aware of her condition ; and now
she is only thinking of Hubert.'

soh, if I had only been kinder to her! If I
had not made so much of all her little faults !'
Alas ! why  why is this our first speech when
those we love are threatened with death ? And

again those tenderly reproachful words of Amiel
seemed to sweep over my soul : ' Life is short,
and we have never too much time for gladdening
the hearts of those who are travelling the
same dark journey with us. Oh, be swift to
love! Make haste to be kind!' I hid my face
in my hands, and wept bitterly.

Jem was very patient with me, though he
needed comfort himself. He stroked my hair,
and said, ' Poor little thing !' once or twice.

You were upset yesterday with all that
terrible business,' he said presently. ' And you
are not fit for another blow ; and this comes so
near home, too. I don't feel as though I could
talk about it much,' in rather a choky voice ;
I must keep myself for Hubert. Nurse has
gone out to see her sister, who is ill, and the
poor children are waiting for their tea. I vote
we go and give it them, Olga ; that will be
better than crying your eyes out ;' and though
Jem's consolation was a little too bracing for the
tender state of my spirits, a sense of duty made
me bathe my eyes and go into the schoolroom.

The children were all huddled round the
fire. Hugh had little Flo on his knee, and
Mab was telling them a story. Wilfred clapped
his hands gleefully when he saw us.

There is plum-cake for tea, and we are all
so drefferly hungry.' he said. ' Nurse said we

must wait for you ; and we thought you were
never coming  didn't we, Mab ? Are you going
to have tea with us too, Uncle Jem ?'

'Why, you don't want to eat up the pUmi-
cake all by yourself, do you, Willie? Hugh,
old fellow', hand me the matches ; we must
throw a light on the subject. Now then, the
kettle Is boiling, Olga, so set to work, or these
young folk will eat me.'

Only Jessie and Wilfred laughed at this
feeble little joke. Mab was looking at me
anxiously, and Hugh whispered :

What does the new doctor say about mother,
auntie ?'

Luckily, Jem heard the whisper, and came to
my help.

Don't tease Aunt Olga with questions,
children ; she has got a headache. You have
a headache, have you not ?' looking at me
rather doubtfully. How convenient these ailments
are sometimes !

I wondered how Jem could talk in that
easy fashion, cutting great slices of bread and
cake all the time, and helping Flo with her
bib ; but I noticed he could not eat himself,
and not even the thinnest, crispest slice of
toast could tempt him.

Give me some more tea ; that is all I want,'
he observed, as I looked at him.

It was quite late in the evening before I saw
Kitty. Jem and I had made a pretence of
dining together. Hubert could not be induced
to leave his study, so Jem made me cut a sandwich,
and took it in to him.

I do believe dogs know everything that is
going on he said, as he sat down again.
Would you believe it, Rollo is in there with
Hubert. I never remember him in the study
before. He is lying on the rug quite close to his
chair, and I could not coax him away ; he just
looked at me, and then wagged his tail. Olga,
Rollo knows poor old Hubert is in trouble.'

Do you think I may go to him ?'  rather
doubtfully.

No, he is much better alone ; you could not
do him any good. If I were in his case, I
would not have a creature near me, except
Rollo. Yes, I think I would have Rollo.'

I did not ask Jem's leave to go up to Kitty ;
she would be expecting me, I knew. Nurse
was just leaving the room. Kitty was lying
quietly on her pillows ; she held out her arms
to me without a word, and for a little while
we held each other fast.

I have known it all along, Olga,' she whispered
at last. ' Ever since 1 took that chill I
felt how it must end. I did not tell my thoughts
even to Hubert; he would know soon enough

that was what I said to myself  and so I got
through my bad times alone.'

Dear Kitty  dear, brave little Kitty!  and
we had no idea of this !

It was very sad at first. I used to lie
awake in the night and think of Hubert and
the children, and what they would do without
me. I used to feel so wicked sometimes, as
though I could not die, and go away from them
all. And then 1 longed to wake Hubert, and
ask him to talk to me ; but I am glad now I
let him sleep ; he will have time enough to fret !'

But he might have helped you. I cannot
bear to think of your going through these
dreary times alone.'

Dear, we must die alone ! Hubert cannot
help me then ; but, after all, I was not left long
in the darkness. I feel better about things
now, and so I was able to comfort Hubert a
little, though it nearly broke my heart to see
him so unhappy.'

It has come upon him so suddenly.'

'Yes, he has been blinding himself. He
tells me now that he fought down his fears,
and would not face them. That has been a
great mistake. Olga, they do not think I shall
suffer much ; that is a blessing, is it not ? for I
am so worn and weak. I feel as though I
could not bear much more.'

Please do not talk so !' I returned piteously.

It is such a relief to talk,' she answered,
with a sigh ; ' but I do not want to distress
you. There is so much I want to say to you
about the children, but I am too tired now.
Here is nurse coming back, so perhaps you had
better say good-night.'

I crept away to my room. Nurse had again
lighted my fire, and as I sat shivering over it,
too wretched and oppressed for any more tears,
a dull, heavy weight seemed settling on my
heart. Who has not known these hours, these
languors, these terrors, when the hand of our
God lies heavy upon us, and when in all the
world there seems no light for us ? The
shadow of death hovered over Fircroft. The
tender-hearted wife and mother was fading out
of life; and Hubert poor Hubert!  would have
no one to help him but an inexperienced girl ;
no wonder my heart fainted within me, as I
thought of the future.

It was long after midnight before Hubert
came up to bed. Jem was with him. I heard
them exchange a whispered word as they passed
my door. It was no use stupefying myself any
longer with these miserable thoughts. I went
.to bed too, and dreamt that I was playing with
Reggie in the garden of La Maisonnette.

I resolved to keep this fresh trouble from

Aunt Catherine until the funeral was over. I
said very little in my note. Perhaps she had
forgotten that we had made that appointment
with Dr. Rupert ; she certainly asked no questions.
I told her Kitty seemed weaker, and
that was all. I did not go up to the Hall. Mr.
Fleming and Mr. Barton were there, and I
should only have felt myself in the way. I
devoted myself to Kitty and the children, and
tried to do little things for Hubert. It is
strange how a great trouble seems to transform
people. The change in Hubert was singular.
All his fussiness and pomposity had vanished ;
he was very gentle with us all, and seemed
very grateful for any little attention ; but how
gray and old he looked  our poor Hubert !
He was never willingly away from Kitty ; he
would allow no one else to lift her from the bed
to the couch. It was touching to see how he
watched and waited on her ; and Kitty loved
to have him with her. We used to leave them
together as much as possible. I often found
them talking earnestly ; sometimes he would be
reading to her.

Hubert could not brincr himself to 2:0 to
the funeral. Jem went in his place, but he
told me very little about it, except that Mr.
Fleming had read the service beautifully, and
that the churchyard was full of people. Reggie

i

Spent the day with us, and showed me his
black suit with an air of dignity.

Mother is dead, my Dear,' he said rather
pompously ; ' but father did not cry. The
angel what looked her had big white wings,
father said so ;' and I heard him repeating this
to Girlie-ga in the nursery.

I was with the children most of the day, and
tried not to think of all that was passing at the
Hall : by-and-by I would visit Aline's grave,
and lay some flowers on it.

The following evening was Christmas Eve.
I had just given the children their tea, and
Hubert, as usual, was sitting with Kitty,
when Jane told me Miss Seton was in the
drawing-room, and I went down to her at
once. The lamp had not been lighted, but
the ruddy glow of the firelight gave us light
enough.

This is kind !' I exclaimed, as I threw my
arms round her ; ' dear Aunt Catherine ! I never
thought of your coming to me so soon.'

I wanted to see you for several reasons.
You are looking pale, my child. You must not
take our troubles too much to heart. Oh,
Olga, Mr. Fleming has been such a comfort tous
! he has done Basil so much good.'

Is he still with you ?'

No ; he was obliged to leave us last night.

He could not possibly be spared an hour longer.
But he was with us for two days.'

And poor Mr. Barton ?'

Oh, he is at the Hall still. He has promised
to remain until Tuesday, and then he and Basil
go up to town together. Basil goes on to Leeds ;
he has consented to spend two or three weeks
with Mr. Fleming. We all think the change
will do him good.'

Will he take Reggie ?'

No, he dare not  Leeds is so cold. He
will be better with us. Basil feels himself that
he must get away for a little ; all this trouble
has unhinged him terribly. He looks quite ill,
poor fellow!'

I do not wonder at it,' in a low voice ; ' but
I am glad he is going to Mr. Fleming.'

So am I ; no one understands him so well.
And, Olga, I must tell you, Basil has been so
good to Mr. Barton ; he has consulted him
about everything, and has treated him with so
much kindness and consideration. Mr. Barton
told me so himself.'

It must have been very trying for him to
come to the Hall under such circumstances.'

'Yes; but he would not have stayed away for
worlds. He wanted to see his Allie's home, ashe
said. He used to go into the Lady's Room and
look at her things ; he even fingered the dresses

she wore ; and he took such pleasure in seeing
the flowers people sent. He noticed your wreath
at once. Poor Mr. Barton ! I think we all like
him ; he is so simple, so faithful. I suppose
Jem told you how terribly upset he was at the
funeral ?'

No ; Jem never likes talking of such things.'

He sobbed dreadfully. It went to one's
heart to hear him ; but when we got to the
grave Basil put his hand on his shoulder and
made him stand by him. "You have the best
right, George," I heard him say, for I was
behind them both. Mr. Barton says he will
never forget that as long as he lives. I do
believe he is fond of Basil.' I was thankful to
hear these little details. It was dear and good
of Aunt Catherine to tell me all this.

'And, Olga, there is another thing. Basil
was speaking to me this morning. He wants
you to choose something of Aline's to wear in
memory of her ; he thinks you would like it.
It must be something she has used  a ring, or
some ornament ; but he wishes you to choose.'

He is very kind,' the tears coming to my
eyes, ' but I shall not need any remembrance of
Aline ; you do not know how I miss her, Aunt
Catherine. In her own way she was so good
to me.'

She was very fond of you. Basil said he

saw that from the first. Would you rather that I
chose for you, Olga? There's a pretty ring with
pink coral and diamonds, that Basil bought her
that day he first went up to town. She always
wore it, and it was on her finger to the last.'

Oh, not that one,' flushing painfully;  Mr.
Basil would not like it. Something far less
handsome.'

Well, well ; Basil shall decide. But it is a
nice thought  he is so grateful to you for all
you have done. Why, what is the matter, Olga ?'
for I found it impossible to restrain my tears.

Do not let us talk about rings any longer,'
I said, for I wanted to change the subject
dreadfully ; ' we are all so unhappy, and I have
wanted you so ;' and then I poured out my
troubles.

Aunt Catherine did not seem in the least
surprised, but she was very much grieved for
us all, and said everything she could to comfort
me. She would not let me dwell on the future.
At such times one can only live day by day,'
she observed very sensibly ; ' we must not overstrain
the mind by looking forward too much.
Strength for the day  the hour  that is all we
need !'

She stayed with me until Jem came to summon
me to dinner. We were both surprised
at the lateness of the hour.

 You have done me so much good,' I whispered,
as I kissed her ; and she smiled, well
pleased at that.

It was the saddest Christmas Day I had ever
passed ; and though Jem and I did our best for
the poor children, and had little gifts ready for
each of them, they all complained how dull it
was with mother upstairs. I could only attend
the morning service. Mr. Basil was in his
usual place, and Mr. Barton was beside him,
but after the first france I dare not look in that
direction again.

My thoughts were heavy enough, and it was
difficult to join in the glorious chants and
hymns, all breathing the joy-giving message
of peace and universal gladness.

I glanced at Hubert ; his grave, abstracted
face told me where his thoughts were straying ;
but he went through the service manfully, and
preached better than I had ever heard him.

Later in the day, as I was sitting in Kitty's
room, a small packet was brought me. and on
opening it I saw poor Aline's pink coral and
diamond ring. A little brooch, prettily set with
pearl, in the shape of a horse-shoe, accompanied
it, with a pencilled note from Aunt Catherine :

I could not bear to think that my usual
Christmas gift should be wanting, so I am

sending you this brooch. You have often seen
me pin my lace with it  I think it will just suit
you. I told Basil last night that you seemed
reluctant to choose anything, and he said at
once I had better send the pink coral ring ; but
I will give you his words : '' Ask her to wear it
always, in remembrance of my poor Aline. I
will say nothing of my gratitude  it will only
embarrass her ; and she loves to do good to
everyone. Let it be only in memory of Aline." '

I thought Kitty looked at me rather curiously
as she examined the ring.

'It is very beautiful,' she said  'almost too
handsome for a girl ; but you have a pretty
hand, Olga. Were you so fond of that poor
thing, after all ?'

Yes was my sole answer, as I shut up the
case.

I found my note of thanks very difficult.
Tell Mr. Basil that I shall value the gift for
Aline's sake,' was all I managed to write ; my
thanks were far more profuse for the little pearl
brooch.

1 did not go up to the Hall until Wednesday.
On my way I visited Aline's grave ; it was in
my favourite corner, near a weeping willow ;
the mound was covered with wreaths and
crosses.

Reggie was delighted to see me; he had been
fretting about his father's absence all the morning,
but Aunt Catherine had promised that
Wilfred should come and play with him everyday,
so he had cheered up. I had tea with her
and Mrs. Lyndhurst, and we sat over the fire
talking. They both spoke cheerfully of Mr.
Basil ; he had seemed in better spirits when he
left, and more like himself

He feels Aline's death dreadfully,' added
Mrs. Lyndhurst. ' I think if he had loved her
more, he would have suffered less. He is
blaming himself for everything he did or left
undone. Mr. Barton's grief is much easier to
bear.'

 Poor Mr. Barton! It will be a dreary going
home for him.'

Strange to say, he talks as though she were
with him still ; it is Allle's room, and Allie's
chair, just as though she were alive. He says
her things shall be about, as they always were 
that he shall put nothing away. Basil has promised
to go and see him sometimes, and he is
to come here whenever he likes. Catherine,
did you notice how he shook his head when
Basil said that ?'

No ; and I went out of the room almost
immediately.'

Well, he turned to me and said, '' It is very

VOL. III. 51

kind of your son, ma'am, to make me free, as it
were, of Allies home, and I am mightily obliged
to him for the thought : but I am happier in
my own little place. Allie seems to belong tome
more there  if you can follow my meaning.
I remember the day when she was so small
that she could only peep over the counter.
Lift me up, George,' she would say, * I want
to play at shop, too : and she would sit there
weighing out coffee and sugar in her doll's
scales as pretty as possible, and all the customers
taking notice of her. Wasn't father
proud of her then f '

And he will not come to the Hall .

No ; 1 am sure he will not. He will be
far happier talking to Becky about his Allie,
After all, Olga, this son of grief is almost akin
to joy. After a time the remembrance will be
as dear to him as Aline herself. My pity is
more for my own poor boy.*

Mr. Fleming will do him good,' interposed
Aunt Catherine hastily ; and it was evident
from her manner that she wished no more to
be said on this subject, and then they both
talked to me about Kitty, and Mrs. Lyndhurst
promised to come and see her.

It will be my first visit for five-ands twenty
years,' she said, with a faint smile. ' But Basil
says he does not like his mother to be such a

her sons influence.

 If Bas expresses a wish, it is enot ; Virginia
sini|Jy lives to please hiniL I am sie he
loves her better every day.' she finkhpH, wide a
sigh of satisfaction,

Mr. Basil remained away three weeks; and
then he only came home, as he said, because he
could not stay away from Reggie any kmger.

I saw him a few days after his return ; he
came to Fircroft to ask after King. Jem was
\-ith me in the drawing-room. I though: he
looked older, and was ver)- restrained
in his manner, i r
about twenty minutes

He said that it had
him to stay rith his c :  r

was large and comfort:
had furnished it with m  . . . .-
curate was only in cezrcn ? order?
had a great deal tc

cumber on him t c : e as a

lay helper. *Buiv . . : Jks

in the study of an ev .  . . . .jid

>i  2

if it had not been for the little chap I should
have stayed much longer, for he was so pleased
to have me  he said it was like the old times.'

Jem asked a few questions about Leeds, and
then he was called away to speak to someone
on business, as Hubert was out. Directly he
left the room, Mr. Basil got up from his chair.

Must you go so soon ?' I asked in some
surprise, for I wanted to hear more about the
Leeds visit.

*I believe I must,' he returned rather absently ;
and then he told me that they were all going to
Hastings for two or three weeks. * You know
my mother has never slept out of the Hall for
five-and-twenty years, and I am very anxious
there should be a departure from all her old
habits. Dr. Langham is charmed with the
idea. Aunt Catherine wanted to remain behind,
but I would not hear of that for a moment, so weare
all going ; and I intend Mr. Fleming to give
us a week by-and-by. He declares he has not
been to the sea for eight years.'

Was Mr. Basil only thinking of his mother,
or had his trouble made him restless ? He
certainly did not look well, and he was more
nervous than I had ever seem him. Just before
he left, I saw him glance at my right hand.
I suppose the diamonds, small as they were,
flashed in the firelight.

Do you always wear it ?' he asked in a very
low tone.

Yes, always. I have grown so fond of it ; it
reminds me of Aline.'

I am glad of that. Do you know, she once
spoke of you to me as a little white angel. She
was very fond of you  very. Good-bye, Miss
Leigh, if I do not see you again before we go.
I am grieved to leave you in such trouble ; if
I thought you would like Aunt Catherine to
remain, she should stay, after all.'

Oh no  no !' quite shocked at the idea.
She would be so lonely without you all, and I
could not be with her ; when I am not with
Kitty, the children want me ; there is so
much to do ; I could never see Aunt Catherine
even if she were at the Hall.'

And I am keeping you now ; how thoughtless
of me ! Do not let them overwork you.
I am glad you have your brother to look after
you.'

Jem goes to Oxford on Thursday,' I said
sorrowfully, for the dread of this was already
weighing heavily on my burthened spirits.

I am sorry for that '  very gravely ; ' there
is no one to look after you, then, and you are
tired, very tired, now.'

No !' But I could not trust myself to say
another word ; the kind look and tone were too

much for me. He said * Good-bye * rather
hastily after that, and I fancied I heard * God
bless you !' I felt very low the remainder of
the evening; everyone seemed going away; and
how I should miss Aunt Catherine ! though it
was quite true what I had said, that I should
have seen nothing of her, only when one is
in trouble it is a comfort to feel people are
near.

Aunt Catherine came to me the next day in
much distress.

What am I to do, Olga ?' she said ; ' Basil has
changed his mind, and wants me to remain
behind ; and now Virginia says she cannot go
without me. He is getting worried and wishes
he had never proposed the plan. I am sure you
are In his mind, and he thinks you need me.'

I would not let Aunt Catherine see how
much this thoughtfulness touched me ; but I
scouted the idea of her remaining with much
energy :

I should be torn in halves,' I said feelingly ;
1 should be always longing to get to you,
and tell you my troubles, and it would be
impossible.'

But I might come to you, as I do now,' she
replied, looking at me very kindly.

No, that would not do at all. Hubert told
me yesterday that I must deny myself to visitors

now Kitty is worse. I shall not like your being
so far from me ; but, all the same, it will be the
best for both of us.'

Perhaps so '  reluctantly  ' and I do not
know how to refuse Virginia. Poor dear ! she is
quite excited about this trip. You must send
me a few lines every day ; and if you want me,
Olga, I can come up at a minute's notice.'

So we settled it ; on Thursday Jem went
back to Oxford, and on the next day the Hall
was empty.

BE GOOD TO HUBERT.'

I bent to kiss her cheek,
And blessed her softly in the name of God,
And bade her go in peace. Yea, with a smile,
Which God had given me, I loosed my hold,
And suffered her to rise and go to Him.

*And now, at evening-time, when all the stars
Keep watch along the battlements of heaven,
She beneath from the palace-walls to watch
For my home-going step.'

Ezekiel and other Poems.

Jem's last words to me were : ' Do your best
for them all, and do not fret if your best is not
perfect ; put all your feelings in the background.'
But I knew by the way he looked how sorry he
was to leave me.

Only Harry had come back ; both Mr.

Cunningham and Mr. Campbell had left last

term, and no new pupils had replaced them.

No one minded Harry; he was so good-natured

and thoughtful that he was never in the way.

He was always on the watch to do kind things
for everyone, and his cheery presence was quite
a relief at meal-times. Poor little Huofh had
gone back to school. Kitty broke down sadly
when she said good-bye to him ; indeed, her
emotion so terrified Hubert that he hurried the
child away. But it was a long time before he
could soothe her. It seemed to us all that she
grew rapidly worse after this. In a few days
her weakness was so great that she could not
even be lifted to the couch, and the least
attempt to talk brought on the terrible fits of
coughing.

I should have liked to have been more in the
sick-room, but I dared not interfere with nurse ;
she was so experienced and capable that Dr.
Langham could not say enough in her praise.
She had lived with them ever since Hugh's
birth, and was devoted to them all. Nurse
and Hubert left me little to do, so I gave the
children their lessons, wrote letters for Hubert,
and tried to regulate the household, and only
crept into Kitty's room at odd moments, happy
if nurse would let me help her.

I had had several talks with Kitty before she
grew worse ; she used to tell nurse to leave
her with Miss Olga for half an hour, and then
she would talk to me about Hubert and the
children. I never knew anyone so thoughtful.

Once she made me bring her all her ornaments,
and the few simple treasures she had accumulated
in her short life, and told me which were
for Mab and Jessie. She forgot no one. There
were presents for the servants, for Jem, and
me ; even for Aunt Catherine, because, she said,
she had been so kind to me. And there were
little sums of money for her poor.

Hubert said I might do it,' she explained.
My poor little fortune has dwindled sadly.
But Hubert wishes it to be divided among the
children ; he will have nothing for himself; he
says he wants nothing but to lie down beside
his Kitty in the churchyard ;' and here a tear or
two stole down her face.

Another time we had been talking about the
twins, and she said :

Mab is very clever, and she will be nine
next July. I should not have been able to
teach her long. Mrs. Seeker was speaking tc
me in the autumn about that nice-looking
woman who has come to live at Ivy Cottage
with her invalid sister. I think her name is
Miss Boyle. She has been a governess, Mrs.
Seeker says, and has lived in very good
families ; but she has been obliged to come
home on account of her sister's bad health.
She will be very glad to hear of a morning's
engagement.'

Were you thinking of her for Mab and
Jessie ?'

Yes ; I thought of speaking to Hubert about
it. One gets so interrupted, and they ought to
have regular lessons now. Mab is getting on
so nicely with her music and French. Perhaps
by-and-bye  in a few months, I mean  you
will tell Hubert what I say. I cannot trouble
him about these little details ; he seems as
though he cannot take things in just now.'
True wifely heart, she was sparing him to the
last.

I told her very quietly that I would speak to
him  that she need have no fear that anything
she told me would be forgotten ; and she looked
so grateful and relieved.

It is so nice to think that they will have you
for a little,' she sighed. ' It makes me more
comfortable to know that.'

For a little ; what do you mean, Kitty ?'

She smiled faintly at my denseness.

Of course you will marry, Olga, and live
your own life, as I have lived mine. Do you
think I am blind to that fact ?' And then,
putting up her hand to silence me as I was
about to contradict this, she went on feebly :
Dear, I would not have it otherwise. Do you
think I could be so selfish as to want you to
sacrifice yourself to my children ? Hubert will

take care of them  only stay with them a year
or two, until they miss me less ; will you promise
me this ?'

I will promise you far more,' I began eagerly,
for my heart was full to the brim just then ; but
she put her wasted hand on my lips.

I will have no other promise. I know how
generous you are. Dying people ought not
to take undue advantage. How can either of
us know what circumstances may arise ? No,
Olga, } ou must not bind yourself ; let it be as
I said ;' and then she closed her eyes wearily
and I dared say no more.

I sat by her for a long time, hardly daring to
breathe lest I should disturb her, and with my
heart throbbing with mingled pity and pain.
Why should I not sacrifice myself ? who would
ever want me but Harry ? and I was certainly
not going to leave Hubert and the children for
him. Would it not be a good useful life to care
for those motherless little ones ? would not
any girl do it in my place ? and yet  such is
human nature  I was glad, secretly glad that
Kitty would not let me make that promise.
Perhaps in her farsighted, womanly wisdom
she understood me better than I did myself.

Kitty often very innocently gave me pain ;
only the next day she made me feel uncomfortable.'


We were on the same subject, Hubert and
the children ; and all at once she stopped and
looked at me very wistfully.

Will you try to put up with Hubert's lite
ways  you and Jem ?' she said gendy. ' I know
you have often thought him fussy about trifles,
and when he is unhappy he is apt to get irritable
; all men are like that. I should like to
feel that you and Jem would not mind.'

Oh,' I burst out, for the moment forgetful
of her weakness, and how little she could bear,
I deserve that you should say this to me ! I
know how horrid I have been to Hubert ; even

Jem has found fault with me, and now ' but

here a contrite sob stopped my utterance.

Kitty looked frightened. She raised herself,
panting a little, to kiss me, and tell me she did
not mean that.

Don't, dear !' she said tenderly. ' I never
like to see you fret. You are made for brightness,
Olga. Do you think I remember all your
little faults, when I have so many of my own ?
Do you know, I wanted to ask you and Jem to
forgive me ; but I never had courage to do it.
I knows how I have tried you both ; and I
meant, if I got well, that everything should be
so different. But I shall never have the chance
of doing better '  looking at me so sadly that I
could only hide my face in the pillow, and tell

her, in a broken voice, how dearly Jem and I
loved her, and how we should miss her ; and I
think this was what she wanted to hear.

I should like to see Jem again. I did not
bid him good-bye properly,' she said by-and-by.
You must send for him  when  when I get
worse. Hubert will want him ;' and she said
this more than once.

All this was before her weakness became so
great. By-and-by sadder days came, when she
could only whisper a few words to Hubert,
when she lay on her pillows racked by that
terrible cough  exhausted, but patient  her
large dark eyes often fixed for minutes together
on her husband's face. The strain was telling
upon Hubert, strong man as he was. He was
becoming unfit for his work. I wrote and told
Jem so ; and in a few days there was a letter
to Hubert from one of Jem's friends, a young
clergyman only just in priest's orders. He was
leaving his curacy, and offered his services
temporarily. We urged Hubert to close with
this proposition. He could lodge in the village ;
and he would be a nice companion to Harry
Vivian. His name was Bernard Montague.
He and Jem were great friends. I forget where
Jem had first met him. He was a quiet-looking
man with a pleasant manner, and such a musical
voice that his friends were looking for a minor

canonry for him. He worked splendidly in the
parish, and even offered to read Latin and
Greek with Harry, whose studies were being
carried on somewhat fitfully. Harry told me
he was engaged to a very nice girl living in
Kensington  a Miss Campbell.

I gave a little start at this information, and
asked rather anxiously if her name were Violet ;
but Harry did not know. The impudent boy
must actually have questioned Mr. Montague
on the subject ; for he told me the next day
that Violet was the name of the eldest sister,
and that she was very nice, too.

Mr. Montague's yf;/ was named Barbara;
and she was very pretty, only rather like a
gipsy, for he had seen her picture ; and so on.
For Harry would try to amuse me with any
sort of chit-chat.

Hubert felt Mr. Montague's help was a great
relief His bad nights were wearing him out ;
and yet he would not allow anyone else to share
the night-nursing with nurse. He had a little
bed in his dressing-room ; but if he heard
Kitty's voice, he would wake immediately ; and
he was the greater part of the day with her,
too. He was wonderfully handy for a man,
and his strong arms were always available.

No one could put her in so comfortable a
position, Kitty said ; and it was nice to feel

that he was always near her night and day, and
ready to read and pray with her.

One day at the beginning of February, Kitty
had had an unusually bad day. Dr. Langham
had come three times ; and after his last visit
Hubert came into the schoolroom, where I was
sitting with the children, and told me he had
telegraphed for Jem.

Dr. Langham says she cannot last long
now,' he said in a low voice, that the children
might not hear. ' I doubt whether he will be intime
;' and he walked slowly out of the room.

I ran after him.

Oh, Hubert !' I implored, ' do speak to
nurse. I must be with you all to-night  I
must indeed.'

Yes,' he said. Poor Hubert! how haggard
he looked! 'I think Kitty will like to have
you with her. One thing I forgot : she wants
to see the children before they go to bed.
Nurse shall tell you when she is ready ; but
she is too much exhausted now.'

It was Girlie-ga's bedtime, and she was
growing rather sleepy and cross. Jane undressed
her; and we told her stories to keep
her awake  at least, Mab did, for I could not
utter a word. She sat curled up on my lap
looking drowsily at the fire, with her tumbled
curly locks shining like gold.

When the message came I was obliged to
carry her in myself, for she would not let nurse
touch her.

Girlie-ga won't,' she said crossly, in return
to all her overtures.

Nurse doted on her. Wilfred looked rather
solemn as he walked beside me ; and the twins
were hand-inland as usual. What a sight foro



a mother ! I saw a spasm cross Kitty's wan
face.

'All but dear little Hugh,' she whispered.
Give him his mother's blessing, Hubert ;' then
more faintly : ' Let me kiss my baby, Olga.'

Girlie-ga wants to come to bed with mother,'
cried the little one eagerly, as she patted and
stroked her mother's face.

Hubert signed to me to take her away ; and
he himself led the other children to the bed.
Willie said nothing ; but Jessie began to cry
when she saw her mother's altered look ; and
Mab's features twitched ominously as she bade
her hush.

God bless you, my darlings !' gasped Kitty.
Ahab, be good to your father, and help Aunt
Olga, Hubert!'

That sad, appealing tone told him she could
bear no more. He leant over her, as though to
shut out that little clinging group, so unutterably
pathetic, from her sight. ' He shall gather

VOL. III. 52

the lambs with His arms, and carry them in
His bosom,' I heard him say, for day and night
he comforted her sinking soul with some such
cordial as this.

I left the room with the children, partly to
recover myself, and partly because Jessie was
sobbing so that I could not leave her ; she
was a sensitive, tender-hearted child, and of all
the children she most resembled her mother.
Mab put her arm round her neck and began to
cry too ; and then, to my astonishment, Jem
came out of the schoolroom and confronted us.

Jem ! Impossible ! Hubert's telegram only
went an hour ago.'

I did not wait for the telegram,' he returned
gravely. ' Vivian wrote and said they feared it
might happen any time, so I got leave at once.
Hubert must not be alone. Have the children
all been in ?'

Yes, she wished it ; but it is too much for
her. Jessie, please, please do not cry so !'

What shall you do now ?'

I must put the children to bed. Jane is
busy. Then I am going in again.'

I shall wait for you ; don't be longer than
you can help.'

And Jem sat down by the fire gloomily. I
asked if he had had any refreshment, but he
took no notice of my question ; so I left the

children, and went down to Harry, who was
walking up and down the drawing-room rather
restlessly, as though he did not quite know
what to do with himself, and asked him to look
after Jem, and he promised with alacrity to do
so. Willie and Girlie-ga were soon fast asleep,
but I did not find it easy to leave the twins :
they were both sitting up in bed, with their
arms round each other, crying as though their
hearts would break.

Mother is going to die,' Jessie kept saying ;
and Mab was no better. But presently they
consented to lie down, on my promising to come
to them again.

Mother wants Aunt Olga, and we mustn't
keep her,' said Mab, whose quickness had
grasped the situation.

I was longing indeed to go back, and Jem
followed me without a word. Hubert did not
seem surprised to see him. I think he was
beyond feeling.

Jem is here, love,' he said quietly ; and
Kitty opened her eyes ; a faint smile came to
her lips.

Dear old Jem !' she whispered, as he kissed
her; and then she held his hand. * Be good
to Hubert. Look after him ;' and a sort of sob
a answered her.

She did not take any notice of me for a long

522

time ; but by-and-by, when Hubert gave her a
restorative  for that last night he would allow
no one else to give her anything  I heard her
say, ' Where is Olga ?' and then for a minute
he did yield his place to me.

Remember everything,' she said, in a voice
so low no one else heard her. * You have
been so good to me  a real sister ! God reward
you for it ;' and she signed to me to kiss
her.

I think I was going to say something to her,
to ask her again to forgive me  for even in the
presence of the dying we think of ourselves 
but Jem drew me away.

That is Hubert's place,' he said in my ear ;
we must not be in his way.'

But I suppose he felt how I trembled, for he
kept his arm round me, and that comforted mea
little. I do not know how the time passed.
Now and then Hubert said a prayer, or a text
or two ; but there were few words spoken.
Nurse moved quietly about the room. Once
Hubert bade her light some more candles.
Kitty had murmured something about darkness.
Later on she called him feebly.

I am here, love, close beside you.'
Yes, I know ; but I am going now, darling
dear, dearest husband !'

She turned her face to him, but as he stooped

over her, in his love and anguish, she gasped :
Pray ! pray !'

I saw him move his hips in answer, but no
sound came from them. A broken voice near
me responded: 'Yea, though I walk through the
valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no
evil : for Thou art with me ; Thy rod and Thy
staff they comfort me.'

It was Jem !

I do not know how I trot out of the room. I
think nurse begged me to go ; but I found myself
sitting by the gray ashes of the schoolroom
fire. The lamp had long ago burnt out, but
someone had left a guttering kitchen candle on
the table. I never felt anything like the chill
of that February morning. I could hear my
teeth chattering from inward and outward cold.

My own loneliness appalled me. Jem was
with Hubert. Nurse and Jane were busy in
that room  another shiver at that thought.
The children  poor little creatures !  were all
asleep. And I  I had no one but my faithful
Rollo, who was sitting at my feet, every now
and then uttering a low whine of sympathy, or
trying to lick my face.

The first gleam of comfort came when cook
entered with her apron full of wood and paper,
and proceeded to light the fire. As I crept

nearer to the blaze, and stretched my numb
hands over it, I felt somewhat revived.

'You do look mortal bad, to be sure. Miss
Olga !' observed cook, with the frankness
peculiar to her class. ' Mr. Vivian asked me
just now to make you a cup of tea, and I will
bring it you in a moment ; it is close upon four
o'clock, and Mr. Jem has only just got master
out of that room.'

I made no answer ; but when she brought me
the tea I drank it. I had never before felt that
peculiar craving for warmth that I felt then.
It seemed so strange to be satisfying one's
physical needs at such a time ; but if cook had
been an angel of light, I could not have blessed
her more than I did for lighting that fire. I
found afterwards that Harry had told her todo
it. By-and-by Jem came in and took the
chair beside me. He did not speak to me, nor
I to him ; but I put my head on his shoulder 
as I had not done since we were children
together  and so we sat for a long time.

I asked him, presently, where Hubert was.

He is in there,' he replied ; and his voice
sounded so tired. ' Nurse has finished now.
He will not hear of going to bed  he says he
must stop there with Kitty. I don't know how
to manage him,' finished Jem dejectedly; 'I
suppose we must let him do as he likes.'

I begged Jem to go to bed ; but he said it
was not worth while, it was past five ; but he
thought he would lie down for a little, and made
me promise to do the same. I did not want to
leave the fire, but Jem's stronger will prevailed
as usual. As I crept under my eider-down
quilt, I told myself that it would be impossible
to sleep ; and then I knew no more until someone
touched me, and I saw nurse's kind,
motherly face bending over me.

'You have had a fine sleep, Miss Olga dear,'
she said. ' It is close upon ten o'clock, and I
have brought you your breakfast. j\Ir. Jem
and Mr. Vivian had theirs with the children.'

And my poor brother ?'

Oh, master has just fallen asleep by the
study fire, and Mr. Jem says no one must wake
him. No one could be more considerate than
Mr. Jem is, for all he is so young. He has
been telling the children  poor Miss Jessie is
making herself quite sick with crying for her
mamma  but he has been talking to her so
nicely. Now you will get up as soon as you
have had your breakfast, won't you, Miss Olga?
for you and me have a deal to consult about.'
And of course I understood her meaning. Oh,
these miserable formalities and conventionalities
that tread on the heel of affliction !

I stole into the room to see Kitty before 1

went to the children. It was only just five
weeks since I stood beside Aline. How different
our dear Kitty looked from Aline's grand,
marble-like beauty, that had resembled sleep
more than death ! but Kitty's worn, thin little
face looked very sweet  indeed, she looked
almost like a child. Flowers had come down
from the Hall already  beautiful hot-house
flowers lay on the quilt ; some lilies of the valley
her favourite flowers  lay in the white fingers.
I dare not stay there long. I knelt down and
said a prayer for Hubert, and then I went into
the schoolroom. Jessie and Mab were in the
big armchair, and Willie was turning over a
picture-book with Girlie-ga on the rug. The
poor little girls clung to me, and Mab's first
pueous words were for her father.

Mayn't we see father, auntie ?'

I stayed with them a little while, and then
went in search of nurse. I was very ignorant
and helpless, but nurse was full of resources.
We arranged, at last, that she should buy the
materials for the children's frocks, and that
she would send the dressmaker to take my
order.

You need not trouble, Miss Olga,' she said
soothingly. * Miss Nicholls and I will manage
things ; and Jane will give us a helping hand.'
And then I went down to the drawing-room

and wrote to Aunt Catherine ; and by-and-by
Jem came to me.

I did not see Hubert until late in the afternoon
; and then Jem sent me.

You had better get it over,' he said. 'You
need not say much to him  no one can do him
good, poor old fellow!'

Poor Hubert! It nearly broke my heart to
see him sitting there with his face hidden in his
hands, and his great Bible beside him. When
he raised his head, and I saw how white and sad
his face looked, I could only put my arms round
his neck, and kiss him again and again.

Thank you,' he said very quietly, far more
quietly than I expected. ' You and Jem are
very good ! How  how are the children ?'

Very unhappy, poor little darlings ! Mab
wants to see you.'

He rose from his chair, and walked a few
steps rather feebly, and then sat down again.

Not to-day. Give my love to them. Ask
them to pray for their poor father. I am too
weak to see them to-day. I must be alone
with God and my Kitty.'

What could I say ? I only kissed him again,
and went back to Jem ; but I could hardly tell
him what had passed for my tears.

We must leave him in quiet to-day,' returned
Jem. ' It is not only grief: his bad nights have

worn him out ; he is as weak as a child. Dr.
Langham says we must feed him up, and give
him plenty of good, strong beef-tea, or he will
not be fit for his work for a long time.
Montague came up, hoping to see him, but we
were obliged to refuse him. I have had to ask
him a few necessary questions, that is all.'

Hubert saw the children the next day. Willie
and Girlie-ga went to him before he was up,
and he sent for the twins later. Jem told me
that he found them sitting in the study. Mab
was standing with her arm round her father's
neck, and Jessie was on the stool at his feet.
They did not seem to be talking, but they all
looked quiet and composed. In the evening
poor little Hugh arrived, and Hubert rang his
bell and desired that he should come to him at
once. No one saw that meeting, but they were a
long time together, and though the poor boy's
eyes were red with crying when he came out,
he only said, * Father had talked so beautifully
to him.'

I narrated all those particulars to Aunt
Catherine ; I knew how she would love to hear
them. She wrote the dearest letters in return.
She and Mr. Basil wanted to come up for the
funeral, but Jem begged them to do no such
thing; he said Hubert would not hear of it;
that he was sure of their sympathy without

that ; that his Kitty needed nothing more from
anyone.

Aunt Catherine wrote again the next day.
She said that for Basil's sake she was much received
; he was just recovering his spirits a
Httle, and that it would be exceedingly painful
for him to enter that churchyard again so soon,
under such circumstances ; that her sister had
caught cold, and was not as well as usual ;
and as Marsden was away for a. fortnight's
holiday, she was much tied on the invalid
and Reggie's account. But, all the same, she
would have come if I had expressed a wish to
see her.

But her kindness did not stop here ; lovely
flowers came every day from the Hall, until
dear Kitty's room looked like a bower ; and on
the morning of the funeral three superb wreaths
arrived from Hastings, one of them from Mr.
Basil.

We all followed Kitty to her resting-place,
with the exception of our little Flo. Willie
held my hand, and Hugh walked beside Hubert.
Jem had the little girls.

I had a vague idea that the church and
churchyard were crowded  that we walked
between rows of sympathizing faces. Harry
told me afterwards that everyone, even the
poorest, had a black ribbon or a little bit of

crape. They sang Kitty's favourite hymn  the
one she loved most to hear  ' For all the saints
who from their labour rest.' The words seemed
to calm our grief :

The golden evening brightens in the west ;
Soon, soon to faithful warriors comes their rest ;
Sweet is the calm of paradise the blest.'

Poor, weary little warrior ! for her the rest
had come none too soon. No more would
Kitty's failing strength try to perform the tasks
she felt so hard ; no more would Infirmities vex
her and jar on her loving nature. The weary,
sorely-tried wife and mother had gone home.
And I must live without her,' were Hubert's
first words, as he entered his desolate home.

Father, you have us,' whispered Mab, who
heard this ; and she took his hand and kissed it.

Hubert caught her in his arms and burst Into
tears. He had not shed a tear before, Jem told
me. We left him with all the children round
him. Jem drew me away and shut the door.
Leave them together, Olga ; Kitty's children
will be his best comforters.'

And I believe Jem was right.

COOK SPOILS THE FISH.

From an old English parsonage down by the se
There came in the twilight this message to me ;
Its quaint Saxon legend, deeply engraved,
Hath, as it seems to me, teaching for heaven.
And on through the hours the quaint words ring,
Like a low inspiration, " Doe the next thynge.'"

Anon.

The Dean of Exeter was a friend of Hubert's,
and Jem found no difficulty in procuring extension
of leave. He remained with us about ten
days, and when he left he cheered me, as well
as himself, with the thought that the Easter
Vacation would bring him back in less than five
weeks. We both of us thought that Aunt
Catherine would come home long before that.
But we were wrong ; the octave of Easter was
over before the Hall party returned.

Mrs. Lyndhurst was the cause of the delay.
Her cold had proved serious  it had turned to

pleurisy ; and Marsden's holiday had ended
abruptly.

Happily, they were established in most comfortable
lodgings in Cavendish Square ; in fact,
they were in possession of the whole house ; so
Mrs. Lyndhurst did not miss her home-comforts.
There was an excellent doctor ; the
mistress of the house was kind and considerate ;
and, except during the first few days of the
illness, Aunt Catherine did not seem either
worried or anxious.

Mrs. Lyndhurst threw off the attack fairly
well, but she continued weak for some time ;
and until she regained her strength it was not
possible for them to return to the Hall.

Aunt Catherine's letters grew more and more
cheerful. ' His mother's illness has done Basil a
world of good,' she wrote. ' His own trouble was
drawing them very closely together ; but now
his anxiety for her has broken down the last
barrier. He is no longer reserved with her ;
he talks to her as freely as he does to me ; and
there is no word to express Virginia s happiness.
Marsden declares she gets younger every day.
She spoils Reggie dreadfully. Whenever we
refuse him anything, the little rogue says, '' I
will go and ask Gran." He has broken himself
of his baby way of saying Reggie weill do this
and that. He says he is a big boy now. One

thing he never forgets  " my Dear." I hope
you will not lose that name, Olga ; It Is so
pretty and quaint.'

I used to sigh as I put away these letters.
How quietly happy they all seemed ! Presently
I heard Mr. Fleming had joined them
for five days  that was just before Holy
Week. Aunt Catherine did not write until he
had gone back to Leeds. She said very little
about his visit, except that Basil and he had
taken long walks together, and that he looked
very well. She talked more about me and my
concerns, and was full of inquiries about Hubert
and the children.

When I look back on those weeks that
followed dear Kitty's death, I seem only to
remember the dull weight with which I woke,
day after day, as though the sense of responsibility
never left me even In my sleep. No
wonder I grew thin and tired ! and, oh ! how I
wanted Jem and Aunt Catherine !

I tried not to fret at the loss of Kitty, but I
missed her more every day. I had no Idea
how much I had loved her until I lost her daily
companionship ; and If I felt this, what must
Hubert's grief have been ? The sight of his
sad, patient face, day after day, was the worst
part of my trouble.

If I could only have lightened It a little

But a great sorrow is always environed with
loneliness ; human sympathy is sweet, but it has
its limits. None of us could help Hubert.

Jem and Mr. Montague had begged him to
go away for a change, and Mr. Basil had written
in Aunt Catherine's name, imploring him to be
their guest. His mother was ill ; but there
were rooms to spare in the house. He should
have a sitting-room to himself. The sea-air
would do him good ; and he could bring Wilfred
as a playfellow for Reggie. It was a kind
thought, and Jem and I urged him to go ; but
Hubert would not hear of it.

I am well enough,' he said, with a dreary
smile ; * nothing ails me. It is better to stay
and do my work. Things are bad enough,
God knows ! but coming home aoain and not
finding her here would be worse ;' and then
Jem said reluctantly that we must leave him
alone.

It was dreadful to see him trying to take up
his life again, and doing everything from a
sheer sense of duty. Mr. Montague spared
him as much as possible ; but after the first
fortnight Hubert resumed his old duties, going
about the parish, reading with Harry, and preparing
his sermons. I used to think he had
never preached so well.

But the strain of the day's work told on him

and in the evening he was fit for nothing but to
sit quietly in his study.

Harry and I often spent the evening together.
I do not think it ever entered Hubert's head
that such a state of things might be awkward ;
Harry was so much one of ourselves, and
Hubert looked on him as a boy. I did the
best I could under the circumstances. I made
Harry read to me while I worked, and I encouraged
him to go out as much as possible by
representing that Mr. Montague must be dull
alone in his lodgings. When Harry took this
hint, I used to carry my work into the study,
and sit there until bedtime.

I have no idea if my presence were a comfort
to Hubert ; he seldom talked to me  never
about Kitty  his wound was too recent and
too deep for words. But when I bade him
good-night, he always thanked me ; so I suppose
the intention pleased him.

During the day the twins followed him about.
Mab used to dust and arrange his papers, and
Jessie kept his flower-vases filled. He could
talk better to them. Once, when I wanted to
ask him a question, I found him sitting in the
twilight with the little girls one on each side of
him. Jessie's cheek was pressed against her
father's, and Mab's head was on his shoulder.

Mother was very fond of you, father dear,' I

VOL. III. 53

heard Mab say ; ' she wouldn't like to see you
cry  would she, Jessie ?'

Hubert started a little when he saw me.

'I am so sorry to interrupt you,' I faltered ;
but Mr. Reason has called with his bill, and
he said he must be paid,' and so on, and
so on.

Hubert listened to me very patiently, and
gave me the money. He was wonderfully gentle,
and tried hard not to let me see how my inexperience
troubled him after Kitty's wise management.
Sometimes he would tell me wearily to
ask nurse.

I am afraid I don't know about things as I
ought,' he said once ; ' my darling did everything
herself. She would never let me be
troubled  that is how she tired herself out 
but nothing ever went wrong.'

I am ashamed to say how I cried over this
little speech, and yet it was so natural for
Hubert to say it. I pitied him so for having
no one but a girl to help him, and yet Kitty
had been young once !

Nurse found me sobbing like a baby, and
comforted me as she would have comforted
Willie or Girlie-ga. She even gave me a
motherly kiss as I put my head on her
shoulder.

You must not fret, Miss Olga, dear ; fretting

never helped anyone. You are doing as nicely
as possible, and it stands to reason you cannot
be as experienced as the mistress  bless her ! 
for she had been learning master's ways nigh
upon thirteen years. She was only a young
thing when her first baby was born  the one
before Master Hugh  and she had a deal to
learn, both she and master. She has often
laughed about the mistakes they made the first
year they were married.'

Nurse was always a comfortable person. She
had plenty of common-sense, and knew exactly
what to say. Jem and I used to laugh at her
sometimes because her panacea for every ailment,
mental or bodily, was a cup of tea. She
coaxed me into the nursery on the present occasion,
and produced the inevitable little black
teapot, and really, after a cup of tea and a little
more talk, I felt quite cheered.

There is generally a difficult person in every
household, and ours was cook. She was simply
aggravating at times. Cook was really a very
capable servant ; she was a respectable woman,
and had known better days. So had nurse ;
but unhappily cook had a temper, and a very
curious one in the bargain. If an order coincided
with her private opinion, it would be
carried out to the letter ; if, on the contrary, it
disagreed with her, as she phrased it, it was

532

simply neglected, or else done as badly as
possible.

Kitty knew this peculiarity, and humoured
her by pretending to consult her on the daily
bill of fare, and cook fell into the trap. I never
heard of any contretemps except once when
cook declared peas were not in season, and
when Kitty proved her wrong by showing hera
basket of early young peas from the Hall
garden. Cook revenged herself by boiling
them until they came to the table more like
green-pea soup than anything else. Hubert
was so disappointed, for they were his favourite
vegetable, that Kitty, who also had a temper,
went down and gave her warning on the spot ;
but they made it up afterwards, and cook
remained in triumph.

I am not denying. Miss Olga,' nurse said
as she made the tea, ' that cook is one of the
most aggravating women I know. But, bless
you ! many people have tempers that want
humouring. If you only know how to take
her, she will go on as quiet as a lamb.'

But she spoiled the fish,' I returned dolefully,
' and my brother had no luncheon '  for it
was Friday in Lent, and Hubert never ate
meat on that day ; * and it is cruel, wicked on
cook's part to be in her airs and spoil the one
thing he can eat ; he had nothing but potatoes

and bread ; but he did not care about the
pudding. It makes me wretched to think what
Kitty would say to us if she saw him so
neglected. And she has cooked all the fish,
and there will be nothing but eggs for his
dinner.'

Well, if I were you, Miss Olga, I would just
leave things alone for the day. Master shan't
suffer, for I will beat him up some eggs and
sherry before he goes to bed, and he won't
starve in one day. Cook is in her tantrums
because Eliza is out, and scolding would only
make her worse.'

Eliza was the girl who helped Jane. She
assisted in the housework and waiting at table.
A boy came in to clean the knives and boots
and fill the coal-scuttles. When the three
pupils were here the servants had a great deal
to do. Cook cleaned the gentlemen's study,
but there was Hubert's study and the diningroom,
and drawing-room, and the school-room,
for nurse kept entirely to the nursery. The
nursery was very little used now ; only nurse
worked there. Fircroft was a large house, sono
wonder Kitty and I found enough to do in
supplementing the servants' work.

I took nurse's advice, and I am very glad I
did so, for even cook's temper had not been
proof against the account that Jane carried

down of master's lunching on potatoes and
bread. I never knew how she managed, but at
dinner-time there were lobster cutlets  probably-tinned
 and a delicious dish of twice laid fish,
that Hubert found very appetising. I think he
was as much surprised as I was when a 
made its appearance afterwards. Mr.
Montague was dining with us, and he remarked
that we had an excellent cook. Hubert looked
at me and smiled. He had remembered my
appeal to him to send cook away because I
could do nothing with her.

Cook behaved better after this, and I learned
presently how to manage her. Instead of
writing out the menu overnight, according to
my own ideas, I took her into counsel, and only
suggested things. This answered admirably.
I found she knew Hubert's favourite dishes
better than I did, and the bill of fare was generally
satisfactory.

I tried hard to get into methodical ways. I
rose early, and had the children to read with
me and repeat their texts while I finished dressing.
When my trying interview with cook was
over, and I had looked in at nurse and Girdle-ga,
I went to the schoolroom. The twins were always
ready for me. Willie came in later. We
worked until twelve o'clock, and then I took
them out until luncheon. After their early

dinner they generally worked with nurse, and
went out again with her, unless their father
took them with him. 1 was always busy in
the afternoon writing letters for Hubert, or
doing little things for him in the parish ; or
very often we had callers. Somehow I never
seemed to have time to open a book. There
was always so much work to do  little garments
to make for the children ; for nurse spent a
great deal of her time in mending for them,
and Kitty's clever fingers were missing. Harry
seemed to think I worked too much ; he used
to beg me to put it away and play chess or
some game with him. We did not like to touch
the piano until Hubert asked us to do so. As
the next best thing, he read to me  in fact, I
should have fared much worse but for Harry.

When Jem came home, things were better ;
for he would threaten to lock up the workbasket
in his cupboard unless I went out with him.

Bother Willie's shirts !' he would say ; ' let
him wait for them. It is far too fine to stay
indoors. I am going over to Braidley for
Hubert, and you and Rollo had better come
too ;' and, as usual, he had his way. But I did
not get through half so much work when Jem
was at home.

Jem had been with us for more than a fortnight,
before Aunt Catherine wrote to say they

were really coming home at last. Mr. Basil
had been to Leeds again, and had only just returned,
and he seemed in a hurry to get home.
It was the end of April, and the young lambs
were frisking about in the meadows round the
Hall, when I went across to see that everything
was ready for the travellers. I went into every
room. How fresh and bright it all looked ! The
whole house was fragrant with hot-house
flowers. There were even some in the Lady's
Room; Mr. Basil had not had it shut up. The
only change was that Reggie now slept in his
father's room.

I sat down a long time in the cushioned
window-seat, looking down the still, sunny
avenue. The rooks were busier than ever :
they had evidently nursery cares on their mind.
Their cawing seemed more jubilant than usual.

As I sat there, I thought how Aline's listless
figure had occupied this very place that first
morning after her arrival. I could even recall
the Intent look of her face as she sat watching
Reggie at his play. Poor Aline ! What a
strange intimacy ours had been ! and yet, brief
as it was, I felt I should never forget her.
Even now whole sentences came to my
memory, little speeches she had made about
herself, her husband  a hundred things. In
spite of her defective culture, there had been a

marked individuality about her, that impressed
itself even on her words. She had often interested
me, and had made me look at things from
a new aspect. But for her inherited infirmity 
for the failing that had embittered her short life
she would have been a grand woman.

At this point in my reflections, I was aware
of a tall figure coming up the avenue. For the
moment I thought it was Jem, but Jem never
held his head like that, neither did he walk with
those swift, even strides. I started from my
seat, forgetting that I should only bring myself
more in view. The next moment Mr. Basil
looked up and saw me, and I had to return his
bow. They were not expected for hours  -
what could have brought him there alone ?
Would he not wonder to see me in that room ?
True, Aunt Catherine had asked me to attend
to several little things ; but Mr. Basil would
not know that. I felt vexed to be discovered
in the Lady's Room ; but there was no escape
possible  the hall-door was open, the servants
were at their dinner, and he was already coming
upstairs.

I stood awkwardly enough, thinking how
I should excuse myself; but he evidently
thought no excuse was necessary. He came
in quickly, and I could see at once how
pleased he was to see me there. He held out

both his hands, and shook mine warmly. I
thought he looked older and somehow different,
but so well and brown, though, after the first
greeting, his gravity returned  perhaps at the
sight of my black dress.

I could not believe my eyes,' he said at
once, ' when I looked up and saw you at that
window.'

You must have been surprised,' I returned,
colouring. ' Aunt Catherine wrote to me, and
asked me to do one or two things for her, so
I came across early. I had finished, and was
sitting down to rest for a minute  the surprise
was quite as great on my side.'

I suppose so looking a little amused at my
long explanation. ' I did not cheat myself with
the delusion that you were there to welcome me
home ; but, all the same, I had no idea anything
so pleasant was awaiting me.'

But what made you come back alone ?'

I did not feel a bit at my ease standing there
talking to him, with not a soul near us, I
should have been far more friendly and unrestrained
if he had come to us at Fircroft. I
fancied he saw my embarrassment, for he looked
away from me as he answered.

I was in town last night ; our lawyer wanted
to see me yesterday, so I dined with him. As
I had nothing particular to do this morning, I

thought I would come on here, and look about
me before the others arrived. You cannot tell
how glad I am to be home again, Miss Leigh !'
and, indeed, his voice said he was glad  very-glad
indeed.

 You have been away a long time.'

A very long time ; but it has done my
mother good. I think you will hardly know
her, she looks so young and brisk. And Aunt
Catherine is well, too.'

And Reggie ?'

Oh ! he is orrowinor fat ; he is not a bit like
the delicate little chap who gave us so much
trouble at St. Croix. I must soon think of
sending him to school  fancy Reg at Eton !'
but, of course, he was joking. Then, with a
complete change of manner : ' I do not know
what Aunt Catherine will say when she sees you,
Miss Leigh ; you have grown much thinner ;'
and then he added in a low voice : ' I suppose
you have been taking care of everybody and
neglecting yourself, as usual.'

It was the old kind voice, and he was looking
so attentively at me, as though he saw some
change that grieved him. I felt myself blush
as I answered hastily :

 Oh, you have never seen me in black before
black always makes me look so pale !'

Do you think it is that ?' in a tone of relief.

No, I have never seen you in black. You
were always in white at La Maisonnette. Do
you remember that morning when you ran across
the sands to bring Reggie his cap ?  it was just
by the washing-pool  but you were not in
white that morning ; it was something gray and
soft.'

How strange that he should remember the
colour of my dress ! But, pleasant as it was,
I could not stay there any longer talking to
him.

Mr. Basil,' I said rather shyly, ' it is the
children's dinner-hour, and I must go ; and I
am just thinking that you will be hungry after
your journey  why not have luncheon with us
at Fircroft ?'

I should like it, of all things!' he returned
eagerly; 'but I am afraid Mr. Leigh would
think it an intrusion.'

Oh no ! Hubert sees people now, and Jem
is at home, and there is Mr. Vivian  I am quite
sure that they will be pleased to see you.'

Then, in that case, I will come,' he replied,

and I think it very good of you to ask me ;'
and then we went down into the hall, and passed
out into the sunshiny avenue.

Isn't it a lovely old place ?' he said, standing
still for a minute. ' I thought so as I turned in
at the gate just now. Do you know, I had a

regular fit of home-sickness, and then nothing
would do but we must come home. I think I
am cured of my love of wandering. I mean to
settle down into a regular English squire, and
dwell among my own people.'

And Reggie is to go to Eton ?'

Oh yes ! but we will not talk of that now,
please ; the little chap is not going just yet.'

And then, becoming grave again, he asked
me if the spring-flowers were growing nicely on
Aline's grave, and described to me the marble
cross he had ordered for her.

Kitty is to have a marble cross, too,' I remarked
when he had finished. ' Hubert takes
more interest in that than anything.'

How strange that he and I should be in the
same circumstances !' he said, with a sigh ; ' but
our cases are dissimilar.'

And then we came to the gate of Fircroft,
and found Jem and Hugh on the look-out
for me. Jem seemed much surprised to see
Mr. Basil, but he gave him a cordial welcome,
and sent. Hugh to fetch his father. I could not
wait to see their meeting. I ran upstairs to
take off my hat, and then hurried to put a few
finishing touches to the luncheon-table ; and
then they all came in and took their places, all
except Girlie-ga, who still dined with nurse.

I saw Mr. Basil glance at them ; the little

girls looked so pretty in their black frocks and
muslin bib-aprons. They always sat beside their
father, and Willie by me. When Mr. Basil took
the seat beside me, he said in a low voice :

This is the first time I have been your guest,
Miss Leigh ;' and Jem glanced at him quickly,
as though the speech reached him.

It was a very quiet meal ; all our meals
were quiet now  for no one could talk much
with Hubert sitting there so sad and silent ;
but on the present occasion he exerted himself
more than usual, and Jem and Harry did
their utmost to help him. Hubert dropped
out of the conversation presently, and then Mr.
Basil talked to Jem about Oxford ; their talk
lasted until luncheon was over, and then Hubert
muttered some excuse, and went to the study,
and Mr. Basil followed us into the drawing-room.

He asked Jem to go back with him to the
Hall, as the ladies were not expected until
seven, and Jem accepted the invitation with
alacrity. He ran off to find Harry, and give
him some message or other ; and the moment
Mr. Basil found himself alone with me, he took
a seat near my work-table  for I had taken up
some childish garment or other ; I think it was
a shirt for Willie  and said quickly :

Is that how you spend your time ? I hope
Jem does not let you do too much of that.'

I smiled at his anxious tone.

*Jem does his best to hinder me; but, as I
tell him, someone must do the work.'

And there is no one but you now ?'

Oh yes ! Nurse does a great deal. You
must not think I am over-worked. There are
the children's lessons in the morning, and '

What ! you do those too ?' with an astonished
air.

'Certainly. I teach Mab and Jessie, and
Willie comes to me now.'

It is too much ; it is far too much,' he
replied, so seriously that I found myself smiling
at his earnestness. ' No wonder you do not
look like the same girl ! No, and you are not
the same'  rather vehemently.

I feel very much the same, thank you,'
trying to turn his words into jest.

No ; you are quite different. I do not seem
to recognise you,' with quite a troubled air.
This is not the Olga Leigh who ran across
the sands in her white gown, whom I used to
hear singing in the garden of La Maisonnette ;
this is not Reggie's smiling lady at all.'

I tried to answer lightly ; but something
impeded my breath. He was looking at me
so gently that I could not bear it. A tear
dropped on my work. He leant forward almost
in agitation.

Oh he said, ' please do not cry ! I shall
never forgive myself if I have made you shed
a tear in the first hour of my return. You
look as though you have shed far too many
already.'

You should not talk so,' I replied, trying to
check them. ' You speak to me so kindly, and
that upsets me. It has been such a dreary
time ; and then poor Hubert!'

Ah ! he is changed ; he is terribly changed.
It gave me quite a shock to see him. He looks
like a man who has lost all pleasure in life.
Yes, I see ; he has made you all suffer.'

But he is so good ! Mr. Basil, I never
knew before how good Hubert is. He is
struggling to bear this for all our sakes  for
the children, and because he knows it is his
duty.'

I think duty is the Leighs' watchword,' he
returned, with a smile.

And then Jem came in. Of course he saw
at once that I had been crying. Not that that
was an unusual proceeding on my part now,
only he did not seem quite pleased that I should
have given way before Mr. Basil. Happily,
Mr. Basil saw his inquisitive glance, and
answered it with his old frankness.

You must discharge the vials of your wrath
on my head, Leigh,' he said. ' I have made

your sister cry by touching on a painful subject.'
And then, of course, Jem thought we had been
talking about Kitty ; and his brow cleared at
once.

Well, you see, Fircroft is not the most
cheerful abode at present,' he returned gruffly.
Jem was always gruff when he was feeling
things most. ' My brother is terribly cut up ;
and the children do a brood deal of fretting at
times, so Olga has her hands full. But I will
give her her due ; she does her best. By-the-bye,'
turning on me, ' what are you going to do
this afternoon ?'

I shall finish my work, and then '

Oh, you will, will you ?' and Jem deftly
snatched the little shirt and tucked it under his
arm. ' Well, you will not see this again for a
good twenty-four hours, unless you are clever
in picking locks ; so, as it is a fine afternoon, I
should recommend you to take Rollo and the
twins for an airing.'

Why not have the carriage round and take
all the children to pick primroses in Braidley
Wood ?' returned Mr. Basil quickly, ' Would
that not be a happy thought, Leigh ? The
carriage has only to go down to the station at
half-past six ;' and, as Jem expressed himself
charmed with the idea, they both hurried off to
give the order.

VOL. III. 54

The children were in ecstasies when I told
them to get ready ; and, as the carriage was
large, we took nurse too, for Harry had gone
for a walk with Mr. Montague. I never saw
Rollo more excited ; even his long run beside
the carriage had not sobered him in the least.
He was puppy-like in his gambols, and indulged
in such vagaries, while Mab and Jessie picked
their primroses, that I sat down on a bank and
lectured him.

Rollo,' I said severely, ' I really must reprimand
your foolish behaviour. You have knocked
my hat off twice by putting your great clumsy
paws on my shoulders, and behaving like a
ridiculous puppy instead of a sensible, middle-aged
dog.'

Here Rollo looked foolish, and tendered mea
paw, with his great tongue lolling out of his
mouth.

Don't be hard on him, poor old chap !' and
there was Jem grinning at me over the hedge,
with Mr. Basil behind him.

I was so surprised at the sudden apparition
that I sat perfectly still, which gave Rollo the
opportunity of knocking my hat off for the third
time ; after which he gave a rallying bark and
darted off in search of Jem. It was Mr. Basil
who brought me back my hat.

We thought the walk would be pleasant

than lounging about the garden and stables, so
we made up our minds to follow you. Is that
Mab or Jessie laughing ? How I wish the
little chap were here ! Do you know planting
himself straight before me and looking rather
wicked, * I am glad I have come, after all.'
Why ?  to help the children pick primroses T
No ; but because I have seen Reggie's
smiling lady again ;' and after this speech he
had the grace to take himself off.

542

AN AFTERMATH.

I love thee to the level of every day's
Most quiet need, by sun and candle light.
I love thee freely, as men strive for right ;
I love thee purely, as they turn from praise.
I love thee with the passion put to use
In my old griefs, and with my childhood's faith.
I love thee with a love I seemed to lose
With my lost saints  I love thee with the breath,
Smiles, tears of all my life !  and, if God choose,
I shall but love thee better after death.'

E. B. Browning.

I OPENED my eyes the next morning with a
feeling that something pleasant had happened,
or was about to happen. For the first time since
dear Kitty's death, I woke without that sense
of crushing weight. A little bird was singing
in the ivy under the window, and something
like enjoyment was stirring at my heart, for
to-day 1 should see Aunt Catherine and Reggie.
I lay for a few minutes to enjoy these new

sensations, instead of thinking over cook's last
transgression, or the amount of my weekly bills
the chief heads of my matutinal meditations.
I thought of our afternoon in Braidley Wood.
The children's baskets had been filled to overflowing
before the carriage came round for
them. Just at the last moment, Mr. Basil asked
if there were room for him and Jem, and the
twins begged him eagerly to come between
them. It ended by Jem and Hugh going outside,
and Jessie being squeezed in between me
and nurse. Willie and Girlie-ga were on our
laps, and I think, crowded as we were, we
all enjoyed our drive home that spring evening.


Just as wee were passing the churchyard, Mab
asked, with a quiver of her lip, if she might
give some of her primroses to dear mother.

Mr. Basil, who heard her, called at once to
Jennings to stop, and Jem, who had no notion
of our errand, touched his hat like Reynolds, ashe
appeared at the carriage-door, which made
Jessie giggle. But he was rather sorry for his
little joke when Mr. Basil explained matters,
and we all went into the churchyard very
gravely ; and Mr. Basil and I helped the
children tie up their little bunches.

We must give Mrs. Basil Lyndhurst some,
too,' Mab whispered to me presently ; and as I

tied up a small bunch of primroses, she took
hold of Mr. Basil's hand.

'This is for your grave,' she said in her
pretty way. * Your wife will like them, will she
not ? And mother has plenty. Aunt Olga tied
up these. Look, she has put some violets with
them  they smell so sweet.'

Let me come too,' exclaimed Jessie, taking
his other hand ; and they led him off between
them, talking to him all the time. Jem and I
waited for them.

Aline's grave was sweet with spring flowers.
A freshly-made cross I had placed there yesterday
lay in the middle.

Mab was still chattering as they returned
from their little pilgrimage.

You talk more than father,' she was saying.
Father hardly ever speaks  does he, Jessie ?
but he likes us to kiss him. There are so
many gray hairs in his beard  are you getting
gray, too, Mr. Lyndhurst ?'

Jem said something under his breath, and then
checked Mab by telling her it was very late.

I must go to the station,' observed Mr. Basil.

He had become very grave all at once. He
bade us good-bye rather hastily at the churchyard
gate, and jumped into the carriage, and we
followed more slowly.

Mab and Jessie arranged the rest of the

primroses in their father's study, and Hugh
helped them. His writing-table was covered
with them.

'Look, father!' exclaimed Mab, when they
had finished ; and Hubert took off his spectacles.


Are those all for me, my darling ? Are
there none for Aunt Olga and Uncle Jem ?'

Aunt Olga does not want them so badly as
you do, father, so we kept them for you and
mother. We always went primrose-gathering
for mother, because she loved them so. Do
you remember, father ?'

Remember ! I saw him sit down and cover
his eyes with his shaking hand. The children
did not know, and I had forgotten what Kitty
had once told me : that she had first met
Hubert at a primrose-gathering, and that he
had stayed by her all the afternoon, and had
helped her fill her basket. I took the children
away  for I saw Hubert could bear no more 
and I told them about it softly as we sat by the
nursery fire.

Jessie cried, as she always did ; but Mab's
brown eyes looked large and solemn.

I am glad you told us that, Aunt Olga 
and Hugh is glad too  ain't you, Hugh ? Now
we shall always put primroses on mother's
grave. Father told us one Sunday evening

that mother has nicer flowers where she is ; and
he says she is ever so much prettier. Don't
you wish we were with her, Aunt Olga ?  where
the flowers never fade and people never look
sad ! Father makes me ache all over when he
looks like he did just now. Doesn't it make
you ache, too, Hughie'

It was of all this I was thinking as I dressed
myself, and it was no wonder that I was a little
late, and kept Mab and Jessie waiting for their
reading. We had just finished, and I was
opening the window, when Rollo barked, and
gave a long scratch at the door  which was an
unusual proceeding on his part, for he was
generally waiting on the hall-mat to wish me
good-morning.

Mab flew to the door, and there was my darling
Reggie smiling at us with a great bouquet in
his hands ; he darted into my arms, flowers and
all, and gave me a good many kisses.

They are for you, my Dear,' he said, with
his arms tight round my neck. ' Father picked
them, and I was to give them with Reggie's
love  they are mine and father's, that is what
they are '  for Reggie's grammar was still defective.
' Father said they were all mine, but
he picked them every one.'

I put the flowers in water, and then gave my
undivided attention to Reggie. He was prettier

than ever, though he was very much grown,
and his black suit made him look older. In his
childish way he seemed as glad to see me as I
was to see him ; he kept beside me, and chattered
to me about his pony and Joe. Joe was in
disgrace because he had eaten a sparrow, and
Reggie had put him into the corner. He stopped
to breakfast, and helped to put sugar in all the
cups, and made himself as busy as possible ; and
I was so happy to see him there amongst all the
children.

Well, young jackanapes,' observed Jem, who
delighted to tease any child, ' what are you going
to do after breakfast  learn lessons with Mab
and Jessie ?'

I am going to the Hall with my Dear,' returned
Reggie loftily. * Aunt Cathy and Gran
want her, and father wants her, too.'

Come, come, Reg, that is a little interpolation
of your own !' I said, with a conscious
blush, because Jem was there to hear his
childish nonsense. ' Father never said anything
of the kind !'

'Yes, he did,' he replied, with an affronted
air. ' You are wrong, my Dear. I used to ask
father at Hastings if he did not want to see you,
and he always said yes.'

I thought it better to carry away my tea-caddy
and hear no more. Cook settled the bill

of fare that day. I think if she had proposed
the most preposterous dishes  salmon at two
shillings a pound and spring chickens  I should
hardly have noticed it ; I wrote down on the
slate all she told me. I was quite relieved at
dinner-time, when I found nothing more extraordinary
than a boiled leg of mutton and caper
sauce had been ordered.

In a little while Reggie and I were walking
up the avenue hand-in-hand, but our progress
was slow ; every now and then a rabbit
peeped at us between the trees or scampered
off to its burrow, and each time Reggie would
persist in standing still to ask me if this Mr.
Bunny were related to the French Mrs. Bunny
who lived on the common near La Maison-mette
 he seemed to think all rabbits belonged
to one large family.

What a lot of children Mrs. Bunny has !' he
finished.

I think Mr. Basil was on the look-out for us,
for we found him at the hall-door. He said at
once that he should take me to his mother.

I know you are dying to get to Aunt Catherine,'
he said, in rather a teasing voice ; ' but
you must pay your respects to my mother
first.'

And, as I saw no way of refusing this, I accompanied
him to the drawing-room. I thought

it best to say nothing about the flowers  they
were intended as Reekie's Qift  but on our
way I thanked him for sending Reggie.

Oh, I knew how you were longing to see hims
he said kindly ; ' so I thought you should have
him all to yourself. It has done you good, I
can see that.'

Mrs. Lyndhurst was sitting working by the
drawing-room window. She embraced me
warmly, and was most affectionate in her
manner. I thought I had never seen her look
so well : she was less pale ; her eyes had a soft,
satisfied expression ; and with her pretty morning
cap just covering her gray hair she looked
a handsome, well-preserved gentlewoman. She
had quite lost that nervous, shrinking manner
that had tried one so. I expressed my surprise
at seeing her downstairs so soon ; she had never
before appeared until luncheon-time.

It is Basil's tyranny,' she said, looking at
him with arch tenderness ; ' he rules his poor
old mother with a rod of iron. He will have it
that a change of rooms will be beneficial to me ;
and though he has the grace to let me breakfast
upstairs, he Insisted on establishing me here
directly afterwards.'

Miss Leigh thinks I am right ; you agree
with me, do you not ?' turning to me. ' Think
of the years my mother has spent In those two

rooms. Why, she was a different creature at
Hastings! Both her bedroom and sitting-room
commanded a side view of the sea ; and, as long
as it was light, she was never weary of looking
at it.'

It was such a complete change,' she said
softly. ' Basil was right when he said all those
years  for five-and-twenty years I looked out
on that avenue, and listened to the rooks cawing
: a turn or two in the Lady's Walk, a drive,
church, now and then a stroll in our own
meadows  that made up my life. I think I
was like a child  like Reggie  when I first saw
the sea.'

Yes, and looking on this pleasant lawn is a
change, too.'

And so they talked on, and every word
showed me how wise and thoughtful Mr. Basil
was for his mother's comfort ; if he had lived
with her all his life, he could not have understood
better how to deal with her.

I was fidgeting to get to Aunt Catherine. I
suppose Mr. Basil saw this at last, for he broke
off in the midst of a description of Firelight
Glen, and said it was time for me to go to
her.

Yes, go, my dear ; I know Catherine is expecting
you,' observed Mrs. Lyndhurst.

And then she and Mr. Basil looked at each

Other, and smiled ; but I did not understand
what they meant until afterwards. I was only
too glad to be set free, and I wished Mr. Basil
would not be so formal in his politeness, for he
insisted on accompanying me to the library ;
and, throwing open the door, with great solemnity,
' Miss Leigh to see Miss Seton,' he
said, in a sonorous voice that resembled Bennet's.

Dear Aunt Catherine, how I hugged her ! I
did not care if there were twenty Mr. Basils
standing there, but I found he had speedily
shut himself out, and we could hear him
whistling for Reggie. Aunt Catherine did not
speak for a moment ; but she held my face
between her hands, and looked at it earnestly
then she kissed me again.

My poor little Olga !' she said, in such a
pitying tone. ' Yes, Basil is right : you are
dwindled somehow, and all the brightness is
dimmed ! Never mind, it will all come back ;
we have only to be patient ;' and then she
made me sit down, and still keeping my hand,
began the gentle questioning that was needed
before I could bring myself to relate the experiences
of these two months. ' You had
better begin from the first,' she said quietly ;
I have the whole morning to devote to you,
and we shall not be interrupted  Basil has
promised me that. I want to hear all that this

poor tired child has had to bear ;' and then
it all came out.

What a relief to tell it all to that dearest
friend  to dwell on every particular, every little
failure, and to be sure of her sympathy in
return ; if I could not always restrain my tears,
Aunt Catherine's eyes were not dry, either. She
listened without interrupting me ; but when she
spoke her words gave such solid comfort. She
spoke so wisely about Hubert, and the necessity
of guarding him from any unnecessary
worries.

People say sometimes in these cases,' she
continued, ' that little things do not matter ; that
the greater sorrow deadens the mind to lesser
things ; but, I assure you, this is not always
true. It was the last straw that broke the
camel's back, Olga, and these small worries
may just make your brother's burthen unendurable.
Do not let him miss his wife in every
detail  he misses her enough without that ;
try to help him in little ways, by small unobtrusive
acts of kindness. He may not notice
them ; but they will do him good, all the same.
You might just as well say he would not miss
the comfort of a fire on a winter's day, because
he would be just as unhappy when he was
warm ; but, all the same, the absence of a fire
would make him more wretched. So I say to

you, take care he has all his accustomed little
comforts ; keep small vexing worries away from
him ; and, when you feel able for the effort,
show him a cheerful face  there is nothing like
the sunshine of a smile.' Oh, was she not a
wise woman, this dear Aunt Catherine !

I felt ashamed of talking so much about myself
at last. I was not afraid of taxing her
patience ; but I wanted to hear about herself.
Her letters had said so little ; the closely
written pages had been about my affairs. I
hinted this, and her expression changed.

Are you sure you have finished all you want
to tell me, Olga ?'

Yes  everything. , At least, I have talked
enough about myself for the present.'

The poor little self is so overburthened, you
see. Ah, well, we shall have plenty of time for
talk ! I want you to be with me as much as
possible '  she hesitated, gave a nervous little
laugh, and then said : ' I really do not know
how to begin. I wish you would help me.'
And as I looked at her, astonished at this
strange commencement, she laughed again, and
asked me softly if I could not guess what she
had to tell me about herself.

Then, in a moment, without another word, it
flashed across me what she was going to say ;
and I sat up, and gasped out :

Mr. Fleming!  you are going to marry Mr.
Fleming !'

You wise child !' and here such a pretty
blush came to her face ; she looked almost like a
girl that minute. ' Yes, Olga, I have promised
to marry Robert Fleming !'

But how  how did it happen ?' I asked
eagerly. ' I thought you told me that he would
never ask you !'

'What! am I to confess all that? It will
take a long time, and you have not even congratulated
me. Are you shocked or sorry,
Olga ? Do you think I am an old goose to
change my state so late in life ? But if I had
been sixty when he asked me, I would still
have snapped my fingers at the world, and said
yes!'

How can 1 be sorry, except for myself?' I
returned, laying my cheek against her hand ;
and, as I did so, I noticed a thick gold ring
like a guard  upon her finger. ' Do you
think I can begrudge you any happiness after
the life you have led here ?' and then, for the
moment, I could say no more, for the thought
of the Hall without her loved presence made
my heart sink like lead ; but she must not
know it  no selfishness on my part should mar
her pure happiness. ' You have been so faithful
I whispered, after a brief silence, during

which she sat stroking my hair, with a soft, faraway
look in her eyes.

He has been faithful, too,' was her answer.
Do you know, Olga, you were right : he never
meant to ask me ; he told me so. I was wrong
in thinking his living would make a difference ;
he did not even then consider me within his reach.
He was very foolish, very diffident. Oh, I have
lectured him well, and made him ashamed of
all his ridiculous scruples; but, all the same, it is
perfectly true that, but for the merest accident 
a little drop of the curtain quite involuntary on
my part  we should not have been engaged.'

Aunt Catherine, you must tell me more. I
cannot be content with anything so vague.'

My dear, it is not easy to tell. I hardly
know myself how it came about ; but I have a
strong suspicion that Basil guessed our secret,
but he would never own it ; and Mr. Fleming
assures me that not a word has ever passed
between them on the subject, but I am not sure.
Basil is very sharp, and Mr. Fleming may
have betrayed himself. However, I need not
trouble you about that.'

Please tell me everything you can.'

You know he spent some days with us at
Hastings. Basil asked him. I was glad enough
to see him ; but I had given up all hopes that
we should ever renew our broken engagement.

VOL. III. 55

I had seen him since he had become Vicar of
St. Mark's, and his manner certainly gave meno
idea that he considered himself anything buta
friend of the family. He was always kind
and considerate, always watchful for my comfort,
always pleased to be with me and talk to me ;
but that was all. We spent two days very
comfortably. I was becoming resigned to this
state of things. I thought perhaps, after all, it
would be better just for us to continue as friends,
and friends only, until the end of the chapter.
What he thought right would be right in my
eyes. Only now and then a twinge crossed
me. If he should be ill, and I should have
no right to nurse him  even to see him  how
would it be with me then ?'

You would have been miserable,' I whispered.


She pressed my hand, and went on :
On the second evening we were sitting round
the fire after dinner. Mr. Fleming had been
telling about a curious love affair in his parish ;
it was more amusing than sentimental, and made
us all laugh. When he had finished, Basil must
needs cap it with another ; but his was quite
different. In its main points it resembled our
story. Basil knew all the circumstances. The
hero was a college don. He had loved a girl
in his youth, and then they had been parted ;.

and after thirty years they met, and were
actually married.

'' They had both been faithful to each other
all those years," went on Basil, " but neither of
them knew it ; and when they met "

'And at that point I raised my eyes. Mr.
Fleming was looking at me with a strange,
eager, questioning look. Did I answer it, I
wonder ? I saw a flash of intelligence, of joy,
and then I looked no more ; and Basil finished
his story.'

She was silent ; but I begged her, in a
whisper, to go on.

Virginia praised the story and the love rs
constancy ; but Mr. Fleming said nothing,
neither did I. Basil did not appear to notice
our want of loquacity. He talked on for a
little, and then he asked Virginia if she where
ready for bed. He always took her up to her
room, and on this occasion he did not come
back for at least an hour. When he strolled in
later he said the moonlight had tempted him to
smoke his cigar on the parade.'

And you and Mr. Fleming were left alone ?'
for she had paused here.

*Yes'  a slow, comprehensive 'yes.' 'But
there is very little to tell, Olga ; it all came
naturally. He only said, '' Is it true  is it
really so, Catherine ?" just as though he were

552

taking up the thread of some conversation.
*' Have you felt this for me ?" was really his
meaning;, and I understood him at once. " All
my life  all my life !" that was my answer ; and
there was no hesitation after that.'

Few men would have been so faithful.'

No, indeed, not one in a thousand ; but
when I told him so, he said simply that the
thought of asking any other woman to marry
him had never entered his head ; that he had
never forgotten me, though he had always
believed our union impossible. He confessed
that his life had been very lonely, and only his
affection for Basil had reconciled him to his
solitary, hardworking existence ; and then he
asked me regretfully how I could leave my
beloved old Hall to keep him company in his
Vicarage.

" How will you endure Leeds," he continued,
*' after living all these years in the country ?" '

I wonder how you answered him ?'

I should think you knew my answer beforehand,'
she said, with another soft blush. * 1
soon made him understand that even hardships
shared with him would be preferable to my
present luxurious life.

'ewe have lost too many years already," I
said to him. " Our youth is gone. We are
middle-aged people. Do not let us spoil the

remainder by raising imaginary obstacles. I
am still a rich woman, though I have the Hall
no longer ; and if I come to the Vicarage, you
will soon see that I shall not miss any of my
old comforts."

I was very bold, Olga, and talked in this
matter-of-fact fashion just to remove the last
scruple, for I knew how he would torment himself
about all these trifles.'

And you are not afraid of the change ?' for
it seemed to me a very solemn and serious
undertaking for any woman of Aunt Catherine's
age to leave her own people and take up such a
different life, for Miss Seton was like a queen
in Brookfield.

 I am afraid of nothing,' was her answer,
except that the years are so few that we shall
spend together ; and, Olga, I am no longer
wanted here. Virginia is well and happy. She
has a son to cherish her declining years ; and
as for Basil, after a time he will marry again,
and his wife will be the mistress of the Hall. I
neglect no duty in marrying Mr. Fleming, and
in one sense I have been engaged to him all
my life.'

Yes ; I understand what you mean. Aunt
Catherine, you must not think that because I
am young I am not able to enter into your
feelings. I understand it all  everything.'

Do you ?' she returned gently, and she looked
at me rather strangely, as though she were
reading me through and through. ' By-and-by
you will understand, Olga; but not now  surely
not now, for you have had no experience.'

I hardly knew what she meant by this speech,
which she spoke very gravely ; but it somehow
made me uncomfortable. Could not one understand
such things by intuition? It seemed tome
that if I ever loved, my love would be like
Aunt Catherine's  through life until death ; no
weak diluted mixture such as some women call
love would ever satisfy me.

I asked her a little tremulously how soon
she thought they would be married, and she
answered that they had already fixed the beginning
of September. Mr. Fleming's curate would
be in priest's orders by then, and he would be
able to take three weeks' holiday. September
then I should only have Aunt Catherine for
four months ! She read this thought in my
eyes, and answered it at once :

We will be together as much as possible.
Olga, you must come and stay with me. I do
not mean to give up my child ; and I shall be
often at the Hall on short visits. You shall
not miss me too much, any of you. Oh, there
is the gong for luncheon ! and we have talked
for three whole hours !'

THE NEW VICAR.

Self-reverent each, and reverencing each,
Distinct in individuality.
But like each other, ev'n as those who love.'

Tennyson.
Uphold me, Father, in my loneliness
A little longer ! Aid me, give me strength !'

Enoch Ardent

When I told Jem the news, he was perfectly
unbounded, and he owned nothing had
ever surprised him so much ; but when I had
made him understand what a long affair it had
been, and how those two had been faithful to
each other for eight-and-twenty years, he threw
up his cap in the air, and said, ' Bravo, Aunt
Catherine ! I call that plucky !' and he was so
excited that he must needs go with me that
instant to tell Hubert. And when Aunt Catherine
came to Fircroft the next day, Jem congratulated
her in the nicest way. He told me

afterwards that he wanted to kiss her ; and he
was not the least bit brusque in his manners 
indeed, I never saw Jem more to advantage.

Mr. Fleming came to the Hall about ten
days later, and Jem and I were invited to
dinner to meet him. I never saw such a change
in any man ; in spite of his gray hair he looked
ten years younger  he was so bright, so alert,
his keen, intelligent face was so full of animation.


And as for Aunt Catherine, both Jem and
I agreed afterwards that she looked absolutely
pretty. I was a little curious to see how
middle-aged people conducted themselves under
such circumstances ; but they were both so
natural that, but for one or two little things on
Mr. Fleming's part, I should never have taken
them for lovers.

But I noticed that, whenever Aunt Catherine
spoke, Mr. Fleming suspended his own conversation
to listen, as though he feared to lose
a single word ; and once, when she was speaking
to Jem, I saw his eyes resting on her with
such quiet satisfaction. I know he called her
Catherine ; but I never once heard her address
him by any name  she told me afterwards that
she kept Robert for private use ; that in public
he was Mr. Fleming.

I like him to say Catherine,' she remarked ;

but, with all my boldness, I am too shy for
anything but Mr. Fleming.'

Mr. Fleming took a great deal of notice of
me ; indeed, he was so marked in his attention,
that I knew I stood hio;-h in his favour as Aunt
Catherine's protege.

You and I must be good friends,' he said
once, ' for we have one strong point of sympathy
between us ;' and he talked to me a
great deal about Hubert's trouble and my new
work.

Just at the last, I had a short conversation
with Mr. Basil. I had sat by him at dinner,
but he had been unusually quiet, and once or
twice I wondered why he was so grave. He
had talked more to Jem than anyone. But ashe
brought me my cup of tea, and stood by meas
I drank it, he commenced grumbling at
Mr. Fleming having monopolized me all the
evening :

There was no getting a word in,' he observed.


I plucked up a little spirit at this.

You had plenty of opportunity at dinner,' I
remarked with dignity ; ' but I do not remember
that you took advantage of it.'

This was a thrust he had not expected ; he
answered it quite seriously :

I hope I was not rude  I was in one of my

taciturn moods ; but with a table like ours ' 
the table at the Hall was circular  ' every word
one speaks is overheard ; one's conversation is
obliged to be general

So much the better !'

Yes, on ordinary occasions ; but I wanted
to talk to you very much. I have never heard
your opinion about this affair,' with a suggestive
look at the opposite couch.

Aunt Catherine was just then speaking to
Mr. Fleming. It was the first time he had
approached her ; how bright they both looked !

There can be only one opinion,' I returned
hastily: 'that it is the nicest thing that could
possibly have happened !'

You think so; and yet you do not know him.*

Indeed I do ! I have been looking at him
through Aunt Catherine's spectacles. If anyone
could be good enough for her, it would be Mr.
Fleming !'

Thank you,' he said, in a low voice, and he
looked very pleased.

You agree with me, I know !'

To be sure I do. I do not think there is a
man living to compare with Mr. Fleming, and
I have known him close upon four-and-twenty
years  ever since I was a little chap like Reggie
and all those years I never heard an unkind
word from his lips, or saw him do a mean

action. As far as our imperfect human nature
will allow, I think he is as near perfection as
possible !'

I can say the same of Aunt Catherine.'

You must pardon me if I seem to disagree
with you. I love Aunt Catherine dearly ; but
she is far more faulty as a woman than he is asa
man. In spite of her virtues, I have known
her hasty in her judgments, generous almost to
imprudence, and, with plenty of feminine failings,
these make her all the more lovable, so
you need not look so indignant.

1 do not like to think that you place Mr.
Fleming on a higher pedestal.'

Why not ?' quite earnestly ; ' Aunt Catherine
would be the first to place him there herself
; she would delight in his superiority. I
thought your true woman always idealizes the

.he 1( '

man sne loves.

We were not talking of Aunt Catherine's
opinion, but of yours '  in a tone of pique. '' Of
course she thinks him far better than herself.'

And you are ready to quarrel with me because
I idealize him too. Try and put yourself
in my place, Miss Leigh. Think of the lonely
little chap I was, and how good he was to me !
When I remember that man  his unfailing
cheerfulness, his quiet consistency, his unwearied
labours among his people, the mild

dignity which he opposed to ingratitude, the
tenderness he showed to sinners  I am lost
in amazement at the thought of his perfections
!'

And as he talked like this, I forgot my
girlish pique at his restricted praise of Aunt
Catherine.

Well,' he said presently, * are you mollified ?
have you forgiven me yet ? I think I can say
something that will please you. I am going to
transpose your sentence : if any woman ever
deserved him it is Aunt Catherine  will that
content you ?'

That sounds better, certainly ; but, Mr. Basil,
I want to ask you a question : did you guess
how it was when you told that story ?'

He looked a little queer ; but I could not
bring him to the point. He became all of a
sudden rather dense  wanted to know what
story I meant ; and when I told him it was
about a college don, professed to have forgotten
it, and then began teasing me by asking ' what
little bird had been telling me ;' and so I was
obliged to give it up.

He had a return of gravity after this, and
told me very nicely that he was quite relieved
to see how I was taking it ; that he had
feared my own sense of loss would hinder all
pleasure.

But I might have known you better,' he
finished ; ' I might have been sure that you
would not have thought of yourself, and yet
I know what it will cost you to part with your
dear Aunt Catherine !'

And here he looked at me very kindly, just
as though he understood all about it, and was
sorry for me. I could find no answer, and then
Jem came up and fetched me away ; but I was
glad afterwards that I had had that little talk
with him. I liked, after all, to think that Mr.
Fleming stood so heh in his estimation ; and,
of course, Aunt Catherine was not faultless !

Aunt Catherine kept her promise of seeing
me as much as possible, but my visits to the
Fall were much restricted now. I could not
often spend an evening there ; an hour or two
in the afternoon was all that could be spared.
Aunt Catherine soon found out this for herself,
but she was not long in discovering a remedy.

One day Hubert surprised me very much by
asking me what Kitty had said about Miss
Boyle. I was so much taken aback at the
question that I did not answer for a moment ;
and then he told me that Miss Seton had been
speaking to him  that she thought the children's
lessons added to all my other duties
were a little too much for my strength  that I
was growing thin, and always looked tired

now ; and then she had mentioned Miss Boyle
in very high terms.

Is it true that dear Kitty wished you to
speak to me on the subject, Olga ?'

Yes, quite true ; but Kitty said I was to
speak In a few months' time ; there was no
hurry. I wish Aunt Catherine had not talked
to you, Hubert. I do so love teaching Mab
and Jessie, and they are so good, too; and I
do not care if I am tired, so that I can be a
comfort to you ;' for I had just then such an
unaccountable feeling:  a loncrlnor for work. I
could not bear to be unoccupied a moment.
Perhaps I should have liked a little leisure
now and then if I could spend it with Aunt
Catherine ; but in three short months she
would be gone, and I should value my leisure
no more.

 My dear, you are a comfort to me,' he said,
with a sigh. ' What should I do without you
and Jem ? But you are like one of my own
children. I must take care of you as I would
of Mab and Jessie. I cannot have you grow
thin in my service. Kitty wore herself out.
I will not have my sister follow my wife's
example.'

But I am so strong,' I pleaded. And,
indeed, I never ailed anything ; so what did
it matter if I grew a little thin ?

Kitty was strong, too, once He checked
himself, and then begged me more quietly to
repeat every word she had said on the subject.
She was quite right,' he returned when I had
finished. ' My darling was always so wise.
Mab is clever, and ought to have good
teaching ; I will see Miss Boyle myself.'

Hubert was almost cheerful for the remainder
of the day. I believe the idea that he was
carrying out Kitty's arrangement for her children
gave him exquisite pleasure. I knew it
was no use saying a word to dissuade him ; I
had lost my dear little pupils from that day.
When Hubert came home that afternoon, he
called me into the study and gave me an
account of his visit to Fir Cottage with a good
deal of animation.

Miss Boyle is a most sensible person. She
is not young  about six or seven and thirty, I
should say  and she is quite a gentlewoman.
Her manners prepossessed me from the first.
She appears very amiable and pleasant. She
spoke quite frankly of their circumstances ; her
sister's trying state of health  she has some
internal disease  had obliged her to throw up
a most lucrative situation. She did not disguise
their poverty  said they were newcomers,
but that in time, with her good references,
she hoped to secure a morning or daily

engagement ; a morning engagement would
suit her best, as she should not leave her
sister so many hours alone.'

Did you see the sister ?'

Yes ; poor Rosinaa, as she called her. She
is a very plain woman, but has a sensible face,
like Miss Boyle. They were both so pleased
when I spoke of my own children. Miss Boyle
agreed at once to come from half-past nine
until half-past twelve ; the hours will be quite
long enough for the little girls ; and she begged
that she might not stay to luncheon. If you
like, Olga, you can still teach Willie for another
year.'

'Oh, may I? Thank you, Hubert;' for I
felt as though my mornings would be blank
without the children.

Aunt Catherine was charmed when she heard
Miss Boyle had really been engaged, but I
would not share her satisfaction. I grumbled
so much that she laughingly told Mr. Basil
when he came in from his ride that I was in a
cantankerous mood because I had been deprived
of my two pupils, ' and she does not thank me a
bit for my interference ; she has as much as told
me so.'

It is always a trial to relinquish work,' he
said, with evident sympathy, and not joining in
Aunt Catherine's fun ; ' if it were not asking too

great a favour, Miss Leigh, I would beg you tolet
Reggie share Wilfred's lessons ; he is such a
big boy, and he does not know his letters
properly.'

I hardly know what I said in return, except
that it would be a great pleasure  a very great
pleasure  to teach Reggie.

All right ; he shall come, then, and spell his
a d, ab, if you are sure you will not consider ita
bore,' he returned in quite an off-hand manner;
but he did not say any more just then. Of
course he saw that I had understood his motive ;
nothing would console me more for the loss of
my pupils than the prospect of teaching Reggie.
I longed to thank Mr. Basil for his thoughtfulness,
but I could only stammer out again that
it would be such a pleasure.

My daily labours were considerably lightened
now. The hour spent with Willie and Reggie
in the nursery was simply a play-hour to us all.
Every morning at ten Reggie came flying down
the garden, with his spelling-book tucked under
his arm, and a sort of business-like gravity on
his face. I wished his father could have seen
him, toiling over the pot-hooks in his copy-book,
or puzzling over the tremendous sentence
The cat has a rat,' with his eyebrows raised
and his dear little mouth puckered up. He
never liked me to kiss him at such moments.

VOL. III. =;6

Tell me about the cat, my Dear, and don't be
silly,' he would say, quite crossly.

Sometimes I took Reggie and Willie back to
the Hall, and sat with Aunt Catherine while
they played under Marsden's care ; but generally
I went to her in the afternoon, or she
would come across to me about tea-time. I
never missed a day if I could help it.

Jem had another tutorship for the long vacation,
and only rushed home for a couple of
days. He seemed more satisfied with my
appearance, and told me encouragingly that 1
was all right now.

Hubert told me last night what a clever
little housekeeper you were,' he said, as we
walked round the garden after dinner ; ' he
says everything goes on like clockwork, and
that Miss Boyle is a treasure. I wonder what
Hubert means to do about pupils; there is
Harry leaving at Christmas, and he has not
inquired about any new ones.'

He is not up to the work just now,' I
replied. * I do wish we need not have anymore
pupils, Jem ; they give so much trouble
in the house, and it is so awkward for me.
Harry does not matter, of course ; he is one of
us ; but if any other young man comes, Hubert
will be obliged to spend his evenings in the
drawing-room.'

I need not have disquieted myself on the
subject, for a few days after our talk Hubert
had a letter from Biarritz. The poor old Vicar
of Brookfield, who had been dragging on a
suffering existence for the last three years, had
succumbed at last to his malady, and the tidings
of his death reached us. Hubert told me the
news very gravely, but he made no further
comment on it, neither did Aunt Catherine
when I went across that morning.

Mr. Be van has been an absentee so long
that people will not miss him,' was all she said ;
he was a good old man, but somewhat deficient
in energy. I think the people like Mr. Leigh
better.'

It seemed good taste not to pursue the
subject. I was quite aware that the living was
in the Squire's gift ; indeed, in old times a
Seton had always held it. The Vicarage was
a large house, but was sadly in need of repairs.
The Beans, who had no children, had simply
used a few rooms and shut up the remainder ;
in fact, Hubert once told me the dilapidation
would be immense, and it would take hundreds
of pounds to make it habitable for a large
family. He and Kitty had taken a dislike toit
; they had never thought it healthy, and the
garden was thickly wooded and very damp.
Hubert once declared in my hearing that

562

nothing would induce him to leave Fircroft.
I think we all felt a little unsettled for the next
two days, and then Hubert called me into his
study, and told me a little sadly that the
Squire had offered him the living, and he had
accepted it.

And you are really the Vicar of Brookfield ?'
I asked a little breathlessly, but somehow I did
not dare to congratulate him.

Yes, dear. Kitty was always wishing this
to happen, but we thought the poor old Vicar
would last for years. Lyndhurst has been
most generous ; he wanted to take most of the
repairs of the Vicarage on his own shoulders.
He declared the dilapidation would almost
ruin the widow, but he soon saw there was no
necessity. I told him, Olga, that nothing would
induce me to quit Fircroft, where every room
is sacred to me, and then he suggested that
I should live here rent free.'

I always forget Mr. Basil is our landlord.'

Of course I declined this generous proposition.
The living is a good one, and with the
little I have of my own I shall have sufficient
without taking pupils. One thing pleases me
much : Montague will remain as my curate.
There is to be a mission church at Braidley,
and, as it will be three miles off, I could not.
undertake both churches.'

*A mission church at Braidley ! how delighted
Aunt Catherine will be ! This has been
her wish for years.'

It seems to be the Squire's wish too. He
tells me that his mother's fortune has accumulated
all these years, that she has been hoarding
her money for him, and that he is almost
alarmed to find how rich he is, and so he has
persuaded her that this church at Braidley must
be built, and she has fallen in with his views.
I tell you this in confidence, Olga  I think
Lyndhurst means it as a thank-offering.'

Is Mr. Montague to be the incumbent ?'

I do not know ; I am not sure. I think at
first we shall work it together ; but there will
be plenty of time to make up our minds.'

May I speak to Aunt Catherine about it ?'

Perhaps you had better wait until she talks
to you ;' and then I did bring myself to say a
word of congratulation to Hubert.

Of course I am glad about it,' he said
quietly, but there was no gladness in his face.
Mt is a relief to know that I shall spend my
life at Brookfield ; I am attached to the people,
and I love Fircroft, and my Kitty's grave is
here ; and by-and-by, when the children can
shift for themselves, I shall perhaps say my
Nunc Dimittis. God grant it !' he added very
sadly.

Poor Hubert! the wound was not yet beginning
to heal. We Leighs were a faithful race,
singularly tenacious in our attachments. It
would be years before Hubert would reconcile
himself to the loss of his Kitty, before he would
own that life held any attractions for him.

Aunt Catherine spoke of the new Vicar the
moment she saw me.

I am so glad it is all settled,' she said, as we
sat in the old English garden that afternoon.
Basil did not take long to make up his mind ;
the moment he read Mrs. Bevan's note he
exclaimed, '' Now Mr. Leigh can have the
living." '

I am so pleased you did not mention it to
him first.'

Oh no ! it was quite his own idea. He has
the highest opinion of your brother ; he says
he is so humble-minded, and so sincere ; and
then he admires him for the way he bears his
trouble. I think he has a good opinion of all
the Leighs.'

I am glad of that.'

Has Mr. Leigh told you about Basil's plan
I mean the church for Braidley ?' and as I
nodded, she continued eagerly, ' That was not
quite his own idea ; it grew out of a conversation
he and Mr. Fleming and I had together at
Hastings. Basil was grumbling half in fun

about his money. " I cannot use half," he said,
and one pony is enough for Reggie. Ladybird
and a couple of hunters for my own use
are about as much as I want ;" and then he
added more seriously, " I do not like the idea
of spending it all on myself, and if I only knew
some object !" '' Why not build a church for
Braidley ." I exclaimed, and Mr. Fleming
caught up the notion at once, and so did Basil.
I had to tell them all about the place, and how
the people had to walk three miles to church,
and there is only a Dissenting chapel in the
place. I finished, '' And all the poorer people
attend that." Well, we sat up until midnight
discussing it, and when I bade them goodnight
Basil followed me into the passage.

'' It is a good thought of yours. Aunt
Catherine," he said very earnestly ; '' a church
for these poor people will be just the thing.
It will be a thank-offering from my mother and
myself."

"And from me, too," I implored ; for the preceding
evening Mr. Fleming had spoken to me,
and I wanted to be ready with my Te Deem
too. " You must let me give a thousand pounds,
Basil." And after a little he consented.'

And it is to be begun at once ?'

Oh yes ; Basil has seen the architect, and
the site is all ready. Basil is not one to let the

grass grow under his feet  he is a regular Seton
in that. I never saw such energy ; he works
splendidly. I have nothing to do now, and he
is just as indefatigable in his amusements 
riding, shooting, tennis. He puts his heart
into everything.'

And yet he never seems tired.'

Tired ! The word is not in his vocabulary.
He certainly has a magnificent physique. Only
mental worry tires Basil. He and Reggie are
often out riding before breakfast. After breakfast
he writes his letters, looks at the paper,
talks to his mother, and then, perhaps, goes
riding again. In the afternoon, if anyone
challenges him, he is quite ready for a game of
tennis or a drive in his dog-cart ; or he will
run over to Brighton, and have a dip in the sea.
Sometimes he is a little sleepy after dinner, but
he never gives in to it ; and after a cup of
coffee and a chat with us, he goes off to the
library to read. I tell him his days are three
times as long as other people's.'

I never saw him look so well. But he is
always grave now.'

I know what you mean ; but that will wear
off by degrees. At times he is still a little
depressed  when he goes to see Mr. Barton,
for example.'

Oh ! by-the-by, how is that poor man ?'

Better  certainly better. He talks a great
deal about Aline still, but Basil thinks he is
more cheerful ; he takes an interest in his business,
and in the evening he always has a friend
to smoke with him. Basil means to take
Reggie one day to see him. He thinks Mr.
Barton has a hankering after the boy.'

And he will not come to the Hall ?'

No, he has positively declined every invitation.
But Becky tells Basil that he is never
tired of talking about Allie's fine home. He
has got her velvet mantle locked up in a
drawer, and sometimes he takes Becky to see
it. "She looked like a queen in it, didn't she,
Becky ?" he would say. '' Wasn't it grand to
see her  and the diamonds flashing on her
fingers } And to think it was my girl Allie !" '

I met Mr. Basil in the avenue that afternoon ;
he was in his tennis flannels, and was carrying
his racket. He looked flushed and heated
with the game, for it was a July afternoon, but
he would Insist on walking with me to the gate
at Fircroft. On the way he asked me what
Aunt Catherine and I had been talking about,
and without a moment's hesitation I blurted
out, ' Braidley Church,' for that had appeared tome
the important item in the conversation.

He seemed a little taken aback at this
answer.

THE SEARCH FOR BASIL LYNDHURST

I hope you approved ?' he said, in a low
voice, twisting his racket rather nervously.

I think it a lovely idea,' I returned warmly.
He turned such a bright face on me as I

made this eloquent remark.

I was sure you would like it, but I could
not bring myself to ask you ; it seemed so conceited
to mention it, don't you know. But all
the same, I was dying to know what you thought
of our plan.'

You could not have doubted my opinion fora
moment. Not that I have any right to give
it.'

No one has more right,' he returned impetuously.
' There is no one whose opinion I
should value so highly.' And then he added
more quietly, and with a sort of effort : ' I always
regard you as a special friend, Miss Leigh.'

'Oh yes, thank you.' And then I said
hurriedly : ' The church will be a great blessing
to Braidley.'

I hope so ; it seems terribly needed.' And,
half laughing : ' It will be a blessing to me, too,
for it will give me plenty of work. Ladybird
and I are likely to be tired of the Braidley
road.'

You ought to be tired now, playing tennis
this hot afternoon.'

Well, Montague cried off at last, and so did

Vivian ; they declared they could not play any
longer. What a nice fellow Montague is ! Is
he not ? Harry and Jem are always singing
his praises. He is a lucky beggar, too ; he
talks about getting married next summer. Jem
says he is engaged to an uncommonly pretty
girl, and she is nice in the bargain. Don't you
think he is to be envied, Miss Leigh ?'

I  I don't know. I suppose so, if she is
really nice,' for Mr. Basil's manner rather confused
me  it was half mischievous, half serious.
I told him I was in a great hurry, but he did
not seem to believe me, and he talked about
Mr. Montague and his pretty Barbara all the
way to Fircroft.

I think he is a fellow to be envied,' he
repeated.

But he is poor  they will both be poor,' I
said rather stupidly.

Under some circumstances poverty is an
evil that can be lightly borne. With youth,
strength, and mutual love, they will not need
your pity.' And then he gave me a droll look.
I don't believe you would be more prudent
than Barbara Campbell, under the circumstances,'
with a stress on the last words, ' especially
if you saw any chance of making
yourself uncomfortable for somebody's else
sake.'

Now, was not that a pretty compliment to
my unselfishness on Mr. Basil's part, though
he took off his hat and left me the moment he
had said it, as though he feared a reproof on
my part ?

A VIOLET IX SEPTEMBER.

Eternal blessings crown my earliest friend,
And round his dwelling guardian saints attend.'

Goldsmith.

My love is like the steadfast sun,
Or streams that deepen as they run ;
I think thee, wedded wife of mine.
The best of all that's not Divine.'

Those summer days passed all too quickly.
July came, then August, with its ripe golden
days and balmy nights, and then September ;
and from that time I began to count the hours
as jealously as a miser. Aunt Catherine made
all her arrangements very quietly. To my disappointment,
the wedding was not to be at
Brookfield ; but when she told me her reasons,
I could not but own she was right. She and
Mr. Fleming wished the ceremony to be as
quiet as possible. Aunt Catherine's position in
the county, her great popularity in the village,

would have brought crowds of her richer and
poorer neighbours to Brookfield Church ; the
school children would have strewn flowers, and
the churchyard would have been lined with
friendly faces.

We cannot face it, Olga,' she said decidedly.
'We are not young people, and we must be
married in our own way ;' and then she told me
her plans.

Mrs. Lyndhurst would not be at the wedding
under any circumstances ; but on the morning
before the eventful day, Aunt Catherine and I
and Marsden were to go to a quiet family hotel
near Berkeley Square. The rooms were already
taken. Mr. Basil would join us early the next
morning ; and Jem, whose tutorship was just
over, had permission to meet us at the church.
There would be no one else except the lawyer
who was to give Aunt Catherine away, and she
and Mr. Fleming intended to drive straight
from the church to the station en route for the
English Lakes. They were to be married at a
church near Baker Street by an old college
friend of Mr. Fleming's. Who would have
thought one of the ladies of Brookfield Hall
would have married so quietly, nay humbly ?

It did me good to see Aunt Catherine's
gentle composure during those last few days.
There was much to do, many to whom she had

to say good-bye ; but she fulfilled every duty
without haste or flurry, overlooking no one,
but giving to each one their due. She said
very little about herself and the future. I think
her happiness lay too deep for speech; but there
was a serenity  a quiet content  in her looks
that spoke volumes. She seemed hardly to
regret bidding good-bye to her beautiful home.

I shall be often here  we shall be often
here,' she corrected herself ; ' and it is Basil's
house, not mine.' And once she said a word
that gave a clue to everything : ' There is
nothing to regret ; everything is as it should be.
I have no room for anything but thankfulness.
My one thought is to make up to him for all
the years of happiness he has lost.'

We had one last long talk the evening before
she left the Hall. I had been there most of
the day helping Marsden. Aunt Catherine had
left us pretty much to ourselves. She had been
sitting with Mrs. Lyndhurst and walking with
Mr. Basil ; but after dinner, instead of joining
the others in the drawing-room, she called me
into her dressing-room.

Virginia has talked enough,' she said quietly,
and Basil and I have said all we want to say
to each other ; and now it is your turn, Olga,
for tomorrow I shall only be thinking of myself,
and shall not have a thought to spare for anyone

;' and then she began giving me advice in
her wise, kindly way, mentioning all my little
difficulties one by one, and giving me her ideas
how each one should be met. * You must
promise me one thing,' she went on, when she
had drawn from me another confession or two :
promise me that I shall not be less to you at
Leeds than I am at the Hall. Your weekly
letter must tell me everything about yourself.
I must still share your life as much as I have
always done.'

Was it not sweet of her to say this ?

And you must not let Virginia miss me too
much. Of course I do not expect you to pay
her a daily visit with all your home duties.
That would be asking too much ; but, indeed,
I need not speak about this, for I know you
will not neglect her, and we have already decided
that for the present your brother must be your
first duty.'

Not only for the present,' I murmured ; but
she took no notice of this little speech.

I am glad you will have Reggie every day.
It will make you happier, will it not ? My dear,
what I am going to say will sound a little unfeeling,
for I know you are sad to-night with
the prospect of losing me, and I ought in my
sympathy to be sad, too ; but I cannot be  I
am far too happy about you.'

What a strange speech ! and my heart was
so full, too. I could hardly keep the tears
back.

Am I bewildering you ? What a reproachful
look, Olga ! Oh, I cannot explain myself  at
least, not fully ; but at least I can say this, that
I am leaving you In the safe path of duty.'

Oh, If you mean that !' in a relieved tone, for
of course she was speaking of Hubert.

My dear, the last time I gave my village
Bible-class, we were reading that striking passage
about the Israelites crossing the Red Sea. I
know no lesson so suggestive, so pregnant with
meaning to all of us. Do you remember the
situation  how they were shut in  entangled
enemies behind and raging waves before ;
and the message came " Stand still !" ?'

Well ?' for she had paused here, with a sort
of solemnity In her manner.

' Stand still !" Could anything be safer ?
Wait  watch  until the path opens ; It is now
closed ; and then, as the waves rolled back,
Go forward !" '

Oh, I see.'

Are you sure that you see ?  are you sure
you take in all the meaning ? You are " standing
still " now, just doing your work from day
to day. Never mind how you like It, how long
it is to last. Never mind If you see no hope or

VOL. III. 57

vestige of a change. How can you until the
way opens  until you hear the " Go forward "
spoken and approved by your own conscience ?
Darling, do you think you understand now ?'

Yes, yes ;' but I said it with tears. I felt a
choking sensation that this was not the life I
wanted.

And so,' drawing me closer to her, ' I do
not fear to leave you. I love you too well to
rob you of the sweet privilege of sharing your
brother's burthens. Your after-life will be all
the brighter for the knowledge that )ou have
done your duty. But now we have talked
enough, and Basil will be wondering what has
become of me. 1 am going to send you home
now ; but you will come very early in the
morning.'

I promised this without difficulty, for I knew
Hubert would be too willing to spare me. I
was glad to escape without encountering Mr.
Basil again, for I was ashamed that he should
see the marks of tears on my face. It seemed
so selfish to fret when Aunt Catherine was so
happy.

As I walked down the avenue I thought how
strange it was that she had never once mentioned
Mr. Basil, or expressed any sorrow in leaving
him or Reggie. Love must be a wonderful
thing, I thought, if it made people forget their

nearest and dearest ; and then I checked this
thought, as though it wronged her. She had
her reasons. Perhaps she was feeling it all the
time, although she forbore to speak of it. Side
certainly loved them both dearly. Mr. Basil
had been away a great deal this summer. I
had once expressed my surprise to Aunt
Catherine that he should care to leave her ; but
she had replied rather more curtly than usual
that it was by her wish that he had done so ;
that the change was good for him.

So there had been grouse-shooting and salmon-fishing
and even deer-stalking in Scotland for
nearly five weeks, and Mr. Basil only returned
to the Hall three or four days before the
wedding ; indeed, I had not seen him before
that evening. He seemed in excellent spirits,
said he had had splendid weather and plenty of
sport, and was now going to settle down for the
winter. He did not look quite pleased as 1
gave an incredulous smile at this piece of information.


I believe you think I like rushing about
better than staying at home,' he said, in rather
a piqued voice. ' You are wrong if you think
so. I never want to stir from the Hall. I am
happier here than anywhere ;' and though I
found this difficult to believe, I dared not say
another word, for he seemed rather touchy on

572

the subject, and Aunt Catherine interposed
somewhat hastily with a question as to whether
he had found her a piece of white heather.

Mr. Basil had been a little silent all the rest
of dinner-time, and I wondered more than
once why my incredulity about his settling
down had even him offence. I know I tried
hard to draw him into conversation by all sorts
of little appeals ; but he answered me each time
so gravely that I was obliged to leave him
alone, and after that Aunt Catherine had called
me to her dressing-room.

But he seemed to have forgotten all about it
when 1 went up to the Hall the next morning.
The servants were bringing down the luggage,
and he told me that Aunt Catherine was with
his mother.

My mother is a little low this morning,' he
said ; ' that is why I am going to stop with her
instead of giving you and Aunt Catherine the
pleasure of my company up to town ;' and here
he waited for me to contradict him, but I had
not the spirit of a mouse this morning, and he
might have said what he liked unchallenged.
I suppose he saw this, for he went on sedately :
I grumbled at first when Aunt Catherine made
the arrangement. I thought she wanted to get
rid of me, but now I see she is right ; my
mother will require cheering up. I am going

to take her for a drive presently, and we will
get some lunch at that pretty old inn out by
Yatton ; and I will show her the village and the
churchyard, and when the horses have had a
rest, we will drive back to dinner.'

Will Reggie go, too ?'

Oh yes ; Reggie will go, too ;' and then he
did look a little mischievous, as though he longed
to say something, but just then Aunt Catherine
came in, looking somewhat agitated ; the parting
with her sister after all these years had doubtless
tried her.

Mrs. Lyndhurst would not have spared her
feelings ; and even Aunt Catherine's gentle
serenity had given way for a moment. It was
then that Mr. Basil came to her aid ; he asked
her in a low voice if she were ready, and as she
seemed hardly able to answer him, he said
cheerfully that it was no use losing the train,
and he wanted the carriage to take his mother
to Yatton, and would she please put on her
gloves ? But before they were buttoned he had
drawn her hand through his arm.

There is no time to be lost,' he observed ;
you must just shake hands with Mrs. Larkins
and Bennet ;' but he hurried her off before poor
Mrs. Larkins could say a word.

I saw Aunt Catherine look back at the Hall
through her tears, and then she pressed Mr.

Basil's hand. I could not hear what she said
to him, but he coloured and looked down, and
there was a moved expression on his face. 1
looked away at once, and tried not to listen.
Presently Aunt Catherine addressed me ; she
wanted me to remind her of something: when
we got to Victoria. She had regained her
composure. As we stood together on the
platform she gave some messages to Mr.
Basil.

Tell Mrs. Larkins that I was too much upset
to speak to her just then,' she said. ' There
was no hurry, after all. We have time to wait,
you see.'

The Hall clock must be fast,' returned Mr.
Basil gravely. He had the audacity to add,
.after all, it is a good fault ; but I may as well
tell Bennet to regulate it. Ah, there comes the
train ! Miss Leigh, I shall put Aunt Catherine
in your charge now ;' and he bade her an affectionate
adieu.

The rest of the day passed very quietly. We
had a late luncheon. In the afternoon Mr.
Fleming was expected, and I went up to
Marsden. But in a little while Aunt Catherine
came in search of me. She said they were
going to evensong at All Saints', Margaret's
Street, and she wished me to come, too.

What a quiet, tranquil hour that was ! how

I

infinitely more soothing than the ordinary
bustle before a wedding I It made one feel
better to be near those two, who, after their
sorely tried lives, had attained their hearts*
desire. Ah, well ! youth is good, and long
waiting is sad ; but were they any less happy
that all those years they had done their duty ?
The evenings sunshine was streaming down on
the knot of worshippers, and as it lighted up
Aunt Catherine's sweet face, and I noticed Mr.
Fleming's calm, reverent manner as he made
the responses, I knew no hearts were more
glad than theirs  that a richer aftermath in this
world's gleaning had never been known.

They parted very quietly after this. Mr.
Fleming was to dine and sleep at the house of
his friend, the Vicar of St. Jude's. He just
walked with us to the door of our hotel and
left us there.

Aunt Catherine remained in her own room
until dinner-time. There was very little talk
between us that evening. She asked me to
take my book, but I noticed that hers was on
her lap unopened, and when the twilight closed
in her abstraction was so great that she did not
notice that I could not see to read, and I was
so fearful of disturbing her that I sat quite
motionless. She rose at last in a little hurry
and accused herself of selfishness.

I will ring for lights,' she said apologetically.
My dear, I fear you are having a dull evening ;
but you will have Jem tomorrow. Shall you
mind if I go to my own room now ? You have
been very good, but there are times when one
must be alone.'

It was certainly a little surprise to me the
next morning when, on coming down to our
late breakfast  Aunt Catherine had proposed a
late breakfast  I found Mr. Basil standing at
the window. He gave me a critical look as he
shook hands.

Is it allowable to make a remark ?' he
asked. 'It is such a relief not to see you in
black. It is quite a rest to one's mind.'

This is Aunt Catherine's choice,' I answered
shyly ; ' she has given me the dress, so I do not
mind your admiring it.'

And I do admire it very much,' he interrupted.


But I was not going to let him go on like that.

Pray, have you town here, Mr. Basil ?'

Well, not exactly ; but I took the first train,
for I meant all along to breakfast with you and
Aunt Catherine. I thought you might want
me to keep up your spirits ;' and then he checked
himself, for the waiter was bringing in the
coffee, and Aunt Catherine was following him.

She did not seem at all surprised to see Mr.

Basil, only a faint blush came to her cheek
when she heard him tell me in a very audible
whisper that he had never seen her look so
nice, though the only notice she took of it was
to tell us to come to breakfast. I think Mr.
Basil was the only one who talked much, but it
struck me that he was not really in such good
spirits, only he made an effort to appear so. I
heard afterwards that he had dreaded the day,
and that he had to keep himself well in hand
to go through the service. Poor fellow ! it
must have been a painful ordeal to him, for he
had never attended any wedding but his own.
Aunt Catherine was very silent. Once or twice
she started when Mr. Basil addressed her ; it
was evident her thoughts were far away. By-and-by
I whispered to him not to disturb her,
and then he took the hint, and talked only tome,
until she rose and said that it was time to
get ready for church. I went into her room
presently to tell her the carriage was at the
door, and that Mr. Carew, the family lawyer,
was waiting for her. She was standing by the
window, ready dressed, with her little prayer-book
in her hand. The dark-gray silk seemed
to harmonize exactly with her quiet, tranquil
face. She held out her hand to me with her
old smile.

I am ready,' she said gently ; ' and I think I

am not so nervous as you. What makes you
look so pale, Olga ? You want your old colour
to match that pretty dress.'

It was only a few minutes' drive. Jem was
at the church-door to receive us. He looked
bright and well, and gave me an approving nod
as I joined him. Hot and Mr. Basil and I
sat together. Ah, well ! I have seen many
weddings since, but it seems to me that I never
saw one more to my taste than that wedding
in that empty church ; and yet the bride was
elderly, and the bridegroom gray-haired and
worn. But as I heard the tender solemnity of
those two voices, as they exchanged vows that
had been forbidden in youth, I felt no union
could be more blessed and perfect than theirs.
We followed them into the vestry. Aunt
Catherine was siLrnin* her name, and her
husband was standing beside her. She laid
down her pen to greet us. Mr. Basil came
first; then she held out her hands to me, and
offered her cheek to Jem.

We were onl)- a few minutes with her. Just
at the last she put her hand on my arm.

Remember our talk, Olga. Be good, be
brave ; above all, be happy, and God bless
you!' Then she turned to Mr. Fleming, 'I
am ready, Robert. I have not kept you waiting,
have I ? Where is Basil ?'

He has gone outside to see the last of us.'

But I heard no more : she was gone  my
dear Aunt Catherine was gone. My tears were
falling fast as I walked down the empty aisle
beside Jem. Mr. Basil was looking for us. To
my relief, he took no notice of me, and addressed
Jem in a cheerful, off-hand fashion.

There is no eradicating the remnants of
superstition from an uncultured mind. Marsden
is an excellent creature, but she has the faults
of her class. Would you believe it, Leigh, she
had secreted a satin slipper to throw after the
carriage for luck ! I caught her in the act  I
did, indeed. I thought Mr. Carew looked
amused. She has gone back to the hotel to
collect the things and settle the bill. And
now what shall we do with ourselves ?*

ewe may as well get some luncheon first,*
suggested Jem briskly.

The very thing I was going to propose.
Look here, you two are going to be my guests.
There is a first-rate restaurant a stone's-throw
from here, and we must have some champagne
to drink the health of the happy couple.'

It was no use my uttering a feeble protest
against the champagne ; Mr. Basil was determined
to have his way.

How I wished I could have enjoyed the little
feast ! he and Jem were so kind, so gay, so

bent on cheering me. We had a little table to
ourselves in a window overlooking the street.
I was still in my wedding garb  neither of
them would hear of my changing my dress.
Black should not be worn that day, they said.

On our way to the restaurant Mr. Basil
bought me some lovely flowers. The luncheon
he ordered was most luxurious. He consulted
Jem gravely about the champagne ; there
must be dessert  fruit, coffee ; there was no
end to his munificence. And afterwards he
bought bonbons for Reggie and our children,
until I implored him seriously to desist.

It was impossible to remain silent or depressed
under such circumstances. I never
could resist Jem's fun, and it pleased me to see
how well he got on with Mr. Basil. After all,
I was young. The sun was shining. Who
could withstand the mingled influence of sunshine,
kindness, and flowers ? I began to listen
to their stories, to talk myself, to laugh. Jem
patted me on the shoulder, and said it was the
champagne, but I knew better  it was the kind
consideration that had shielded me, the unspoken
sympathy, the generous effort to be gay.
How could I refuse to smile and be happy ?

1 think Mr. Basil was a little disappointed
when he found we were not going back with
him to Brookfield ; but Jem had begged me to

wait for a later train : he wanted to introduce
me to his friends, the Campbellss. I found he
had set his heart on this little plan. I should
not be tired, he would treat me to a hansom.
He had said something about it yesterday,
when he was dining at Addison Road, and the
girls had begged him to bring me over to tea.

Yes, I am sure that INIr. Basil was disappointed
; but of course he would not interfere
with Jem's plans. Jem was looking so eager
about it, so desirous of conveying to me the
exact message that had been sent, and in such
visible anxiety lest any obstacle should be
raised, that one could not thwart him.

It was rather irksome to me to go among
strangers on such a day. I would far rather
have gone back quietly to Brookfield, but I
would not hint this to Jem. So after a time
Mr. Basil sent for a hansom, but I thought he
looked a little dull walking down Regent Street
alone. I told Jem that I wished he could have
come too, but he said he could not have taken
such a liberty with Mrs. Campbell.

Jem talked about the family as we drove
along. I found he had seen a good deal of
them from time to time. I began to have my
suspicions. Violet's name was never once mentioned
 it was Miss Barbara or Miss Lille.

I waited vainly to hear the eldest sister mentioned.

Presently he said, * Miss Campbell
played a great deal of classical music but his
tone was a little constrained. I began to be
eager to see this Violet, for it might be that
Jem  well, one never knew whether young
men of his age were really in earnest.

The Campbellss lived in a large old-fashioned
house standing back from the main-road ; the
bio double drawing-room into which we were at
once ushered seemed very full of girls  alarmingly
so. There were girls in hats and without
hats ; girls with rackets, and other girls with
teacups in their hands ; but my fears for Jem's
future peace of mind subsided when I found a
few of them were neighbours. A stout, ladylike
woman, with a very soft voice, received us ; and
a very pretty girl  whom she called Gipsy and
Jem called Miss Barbara, and who was Mr.
Montague's fiancee, brought me a cup of tea ;
and another younger and fairer one, with a
comical lite turned-up nose, tried to tempt me
with various sorts of cake.

I sat and tried to answer Mrs. Campbell's
civil inquiries. Jem had told them about the
wedding, and Miss Barbara and her younger
sisters plied me with questions. It was pleasant,
but rather fatiguing, and all the time a buzz of
girlish voices and laughter seemed to fill the
room.

Jem was in the middle of a bevy of girls ; he
was haranguing them, teacup in hand, and was
very much at his ease. I took advantage
of a lull in the conversation to ask Miss
Barbara if her sister Violet were in the
room.

Oh no she replied ; 'she is playing tennis.
Vi is our best player ; but the set will soon be
over. I come next to Vi. Wasn't it impertinent
of me to get engaged before her ? Lille
comes next.' So the young lady with the nez
retrousse was Lille. ' Then Emily and Maud.
Maud is in short frocks, you see.'

And the rest are friends T

Yes, or cousins. We have cousins by the
dozen ;' and so she chattered on.

I was mightily pleased with this lite Miss
Barbara ; she was so naive and bright  in fact,
they seemed a nice , family. A few minutes
later Jem's voice startled me out of a dream.
My thoughts had flown to Aunt Catherine.

Olga, Miss Campbell wishes to be introduced
to you ;' and there was a young lady, ina
sailor hat, standing by Jem, with very soft,
gray eyes, and an open, frank face, that I
thought extremely taking; and yet it was not
pretty  oh no, not in the least pretty.

It was very good of you to come to us. I
am sure you must be tired,' she said, in a clear,

decided voice that was pleasant like her face.
Weddings are trying things, especially if one
is much interested in them. Your sister
certainly looks tired, Mr. Leigh. The room
is hot, and all those girls are so noisy ; perhaps
a turn in the garden would be refreshing.'

I hailed this at once, and Jem accompanied us,
of course. I knew how it was as I paced up and
down between those two. Violet Campbell
would be just the sort of girl to suit Jem ; he
would not care for beauty  not actual beauty.
Miss Barbara was the acknowledged belle of
the Campbell family. An amiable, sprightly
girl, with no nonsense in her, and plenty of
character, would be more in Jem's line. I felt
I should like her immensely. She was not
specially clever ; there was nothing original in
her remarks ; but she was clear-witted and kindhearted,
and could oppose Jem's sarcasm with a
gentle raillery that evidently suited him exactly.
I began to think that I admired her very much
before we took our leave. I liked her clear
complexion, glowing with health  the dimple in
her cheek, the particular shade of her brown
hair ; and she had a pretty figure, too. We
stayed as long as we could, and then Jem put
me into another hansom.

We shall only just do it,' he said. ' I wasted
a good three minutes looking for my hat. I

j - 

hope you are not tired, Olga ; but you can rest
tc-morrow.'

'Jem,' I whispered, for I had got him safe,
and he could not escape, ' I know why you
wanted me to go ; and I like them all, but I
like your Violet best.'

Hush !' he said, flushing up to his forehead,
and looking more bashful than I ever saw Jem
look before. ' She is not my Violet yet ; I
wish she were ; but I mean to do everything in
my power to get her. Do you think  do you
think  I shall have any chance by-and-by ?'
But I need not repeat my answer, or the long
talk that followed, and that lasted all the way
to Brookfield.

It was quite late  nearly ten  when we
walked out of the station ; but my flowers were
still quite fresh. As we came near Fircroft a
tall figure loomed in view. It was Mr. Basil
smoking his cigar under the trees ; he seemed
on the look-out for us.

Are you quite done up. Miss Leigh ?' he
asked at once. ' I thought I would take a
stroll in this direction ; I knew you would be
late. So you have not thrown away the flowers
yet ?'

We have had a first-rate day,' returned Jem
volubly. ' Olga has behaved like a brick. She
has not given in, but I should think she has
VOL. III. 58

had just enough of it. Don't let ns keep you
standing out here, Olga. I shall just smoke a
pipe with Lyndhurst before I turn in.'

Very well,' I returned, obeying this hint ;
but Mr. Basil followed me inside the gate to
ask if I were not very, very tired.

My mother hopes to see you tomorrow,' he
said ; * but I shall tell her not to expect you
too early.' And then he asked me for a little
piece of heliotrope, and of course I could not
refuse him.

Oh, how tired I was! When Hubert saw my
face, he would not let me speak a word.

The Squire has been here, and has told me
all about it,' he said. ' Go to bed, you poor
child ! and have a good long sleep.'

But, after all, I was not too tired to put my
flowers in water, or to think of Aunt Catherine
as I laid my head on the pillow ; and I was not
nearly so unhappy as I expected to be  everyone
was so kind !

A NEW year's gift.

I love you the better since your perplexities have become
known to me.' ' 6"/. Donatus Well

Thou hast the secret of my heart ;
Forgive, be generous, and depart.'

'lady of the Lake'

There is little to record of the weeks that
followed Aunt Catherine's marriage. I missed
her  ah, how I missed her !  but I tried to act
up to the spirit of her parting words, and there
was no time to fret. Jem stayed with us until
the second week in October, and while he was
in the house I could not call a moment my
own. He followed me upstairs and down ; he
took me for long walks, and day after day I had
to listen to his plans  his projects  for winning
this pearl among girls  Violet Campbell. I
used to envy him as he talked. I thought
what a fine thing it must be to be a man 
young, at the very beginning of life  and to

582

know exactly what one wanted. Jem knew
what he wanted, and he intended to have it,
too ; as far as his modesty allowed, he had
not a doubt on the subject ; neither had I, for
how could Violet refuse him ? Of course he
must work for her ; he must leave Oxford, and
beorin to eat his dinners before he ventured to
talk of an engagement ; but he had a little
money of his own, and Violet would have a
little, too ; and perhaps for a year or two they
might manage. This was how we talked  as
though a struggling, briefless barrister were one
of the enchanted knights of old, and could hew
his way through all obstacles. W'iien Jem was
gone, I devoted myself to Hubert, and I was
often with Mrs. Lyndhurst. Now and then I
saw Mr. Basil  not at the Hall ; he was never
there in the afternoon  but occasionally he
would come across to Fircroft for a chat with
Hubert, or to carry him off on some business
connected with the intended church at Braidley.
My red-letter days were the days when a letter
with the Leeds post-mark lay on the breakfast-table.
There was no need for Aunt Catherine
to tell me that she was happy. Every word,
every sentence, breathed a fulness of content.
From the very first she had thrown herself into
her husband's work ; she was leading his life.
It was 'our people,' 'our church,' our anything.

Mr. Basil, who had paid them a three days'
visit early in November, told me that i\unt
Catherine was perfectly in her element.

She is just the same,' he said, with a smile ;
she is as satisfied with her Vicarage as though
it were a palace. Somehow it looks better than
it used to look. She has the knack of making
any place comfortable and home-like. The
poor people are beginning to adore her as they
do Mr. Fleming. As for him with an eloquent
pause, * he is content personified.'

Just before Advent Aunt Catherine came up
for a brief visit to the Hall  a clergyman's
week, they called it. Mr. Fleming was with
her. I do not think she could have brought
herself to leave him so soon ; indeed, she told
me that he never liked her to be absent for an
hour.

I am afraid we are a foolish old couple,'
she added, laughing ; ' but I have got my
master now and, indeed, I should not like to
leave Robert ; he has been alone too long
already.'

It was happiness enough for me to know
that Aunt Catherine was at the Hall, and to
have some of our long talks, but there was
something better still in store for me, for
actually she took me back with her for a week.

I think Olga has earned a week's holiday,'

she said to Hubert ; * she has been working
very hard, and young people sometimes need a
change. I want her to see our Vicarage. Inly
husband says I have made it so pretty, and
then she will be able to picture the " Leeds
Darby and Joan ;" ' and of course she talked
Hubert round to her opinion in a moment ;
indeed, she made him promise to come and
fetch me back.

That week was one of the happiest I ever
spent in my life. I was with Aunt Catherine
from morning to night ; she took me with her
to her mothers' meetings, to her district, even
to her Bible-class ; and in spite of all her varied
duties, she found plenty of leisure to talkto me.
Well, Olga, are you satisfied about me ?' she
asked the last evening as we sat together in
her pretty drawing-room waiting for Mr.
Fleming's return from some parish meeting.
Do you own now that I have nothing to
regret, that I have found my right place ?'

Yes,' 1 returned in a low voice, for the door
was open, and Hubert was writing letters in
the study. ' For myself, I do not like Leeds ;
I prefer Brookfield ; but, after all, the town
does not matter. The church is nice, and you
have made your house so lovely. Your life is
full of work, but I know you would not have it
otherwise, and it is work you love.'

I love it all,' she said simply. ' I think if
they made Robert a bishop I should break my
heart ; I am prouder of being his wife  the
wife of the Vicar of St. Mark's  than I should
be if he were Archbishop of Canterbury. My
life is perfect, Olga, and he has made it so ;'
and then she rose and went to the door as she
heard his key in the lock, for early and late she
was always ready to greet him  never too busy
too much absorbed to put down her work or
book  to listen to what he had to say. Ah,
no wonder she was happy, for, as far as a goodman
may, he worshipped her.

Our Christmas was a sad one ; it was painful
to see Hubert struggling to do his duty to all
of us, and hardly able to summon up a smile
when his children crowded round him with
their little gifts. Happily, Christmas Day fell
on a Sunday, and we could keep it quietly, and
Hubert was In church most of the day. The
children had their dessert in the nursery, and
Reggie joined them ; and I think in their own
little way they were as happy as possible,
though I could see Mab was thinking a good
deal about her mother.

Harry had left us on Christmas Eve, and we
all missed him excessively. He went away in
very bad spirits, poor fellow ! after solemnly
assurlnof me that his own home was less dear

to him than Fircroft. I am sorry to say he put
the same question to me again, and asked it I
could give him the faintest hope. My answer
was too decided to leave him a moment's doubt.
I was fond of him, but it was the fondness of
a sister to a younger brother. I told him so
frankly, and that ended it. I do not know how
Jem found it out ; I am half afraid poor Harry
took him into confidence, but he came to me
when Harry had driven away from the door,
and said very kindly that I must not trouble
myself Harry was a good fellow, but he was
not good enough for that, and of course 1 had
done the right thing.

He'll get over it after a time,' he went on ;
bless you ! I have had these sort of attacks
myself  well, perhaps not so badly, for I never
proposed to a girl in my life ; but Harry is
young enough to fall in love half a dozen times
before he settles ;' and Jem patted me on the
shoulder in a fatherly way and marched off,
feeling that he had eased his conscience and
done his duty. Really, Jem was a tower of
strength to me in those days.

Jem had some visits to make during the
Christmas vacation, and he was obliged to leave
us on New Year's Eve. One of those visits
was to a college friend living at South Kensington,
and I knew then that he would see

Violet frequently. His letters were full of her ;
he had met her at a concert, at an afternoon
'at-home.' He was going to join them at
the Albert Hall. They had asked him for a
night or two to Addison Road ; they were
going to get up some private theatricals. In
fact, Jem enjoyed his vacation to the full ; his
one regret was that I could not share his
pleasure. Violet was so anxious to know more
of me, he said, and Mrs. Campbell was always
asking him to bring me again to see her.

They say you are charming, Olga,' he
wrote. ' I wonder if that is a bit of blarney
just to please your humble servant; but I suppose
a brother is no judge  anyhow, you are a
dear little soul, and I am always

Yours most affectionately,

Jem.'

New Year's Day was ushered in by a long
letter from Aunt Catherine, and a very pretty,
indeed costly, present from Mrs. Lyndhurst  a
little bookcase, beautifully fitted up, and, indeed,
far more fit for the use of a young princess than
for Olga Leiofh. I ran across to thank her, and
to lecture her on her extravagance. She heard
me good-humouredly :

Catherine told me that you wanted a new
bookcase when she was here in November.

I hope it is quite to your taste, for I could not
choose it myself, and people are apt to make
mistakes.'

I assured her it was lovely, only far too good
for me. I longed to ask her who had selected
it, but I had not the courage at the moment,
and she began to talk about something else.
She wanted me to put a fresh wreath on Aline's
grave.

I generally went about once a week, with
Mab and Jessie, to arrange fresh flowers or
evergreens on Kitty's grave, and we always
visited Aline's ; it seemed a sort of weekly
treat to the children ; even Willie would plead
to go. ' It is my turn to go to mother !' he
would say. * And mine, too,' Girlie-ga would
chime in ; ' I'm mother's dirt, too !' It was
wonderful how much we found to do, how busy
the children would be. Sometimes they brought
their little watering-pots, or planned what flowers
they would plant for the summer ; they would
hush their lite voices as they talked, as though
they feared to wake that tender mother.

On this morning I went alone with Mrs.
Lyndhurst's flowers in my hands, but I saw
somebody had been before me ; a lovely wreath
lay on the marble step of the cross. Perhaps
Mr. Basil had had it placed there. To my surprise
a similar one was on Kitty's.

I questioned Hubert on my return ; he
knew nothing about it. But, on my telling the
children, Hugh interrupted me ; he had seen
Marsden go into the churchyard, and she
seemed carrying something very carefully ; and
then the Squire had joined her, and they had
gone down the little path together.

I was sitting alone that afternoon ; the children
had all gone to a neighbour's, and Hubert was
busy in his parish. The house felt very still
and empty. Jane had lighted the lamp and
drawn down the blinds, and had just placed the
little tea-table beside me, when there was a
ring at the door-bell, and the next moment Mr.
Basil entered, bringing a rush of cold air with
him.

Are you quite alone ?' he said, with evident
surprise. ' Where's the Vicar ? Shall I hunt
him out of the study for you ?'

I informed him that Hubert would not be
home for an hour or two.

Ah ! and Jem has gone, and there is no
Mr. Vivian ; still, you ought not to be left alone
on New Year's Day. Why does not Mab or
Jessie come down to you ?'

They are all out ; there is not a child in the
house. It is Elsie Broderick's birthday, and
they are spending the afternoon there  even
Girlie-ga has gone.'

'And they have left you alone  what a
shame ! If my mother had known that, she
would have invited you up there. I don't like
to see you sitting by yourself on New Year's
evening.'

Oh, I have Rollo !' I answered lightly, as I
gave him a cup of tea and offered him the hot
buttered cake for which cook was celebrated.
I was not croinof to own how dull I had felt, and
how pleased I had been to hear his ring ; and
even he had not wished me a ' Happy New
Year.' I saw his eyes resting on my bookcase.

Do you like it ?' he said rather eagerly.
Was it what you wanted ? Do you think it
will be useful to you ?'

Very useful, only I am half afraid to open
it. It is far too beautiful for use !'

Nonsense ! you must never use anything
else !'

And then, as he had finished his tea, he
gave me a description of a New Year's Day he
had once spent with a friend in Paris, and
how they had driven about from one house to
another. His friend was a Frenchman, and he
told me how this man had nearly ruined himself
in bouquets and cadeaux of all descriptions.

That was my mother's present,' he said by-and-by,
as he crossed the rug to examine the
bookcase again. ' You must have your initials

engraved on it. I told the man there was no
time.' So Mr. Basil must have chosen it that
day he went to town. He seemed to think he
had made a slip, for he put it down hurriedly :
Everyone gives you presents  my mother,
Aunt Catherine, even Reggie  only I am not
permitted to offer anything.'

Oh, gentlemen do not make presents,' I returned,
somewhat confused by his manner.

Only under certain circumstances,' speaking
rather gravely ; then, very earnestly and persuasively
: ' I do want to give you something ;
I have wanted it for a long time. May I tell
you what it is ? There is only one thing that I
can offer you, though I doubt whether you will
think it worthy of your acceptance ; but it is
yours already, Olga, and I think you know it.'

His look left me in no doubt of his meaning,
and he had taken my hand very gently as he
spoke. I tried to draw it away. I tried to
answer him, but I could only tremble and blush
he had taken me so by surprise ; but he was
right. In my heart, though I would have died
rather than have confessed it, I knew he cared
for me.

My silence seemed to trouble him.

Why do you not speak ?' he said, in rather
an agitated voice ; ' why do you not answer
me ? Have I startled you ?  surely not. You

must have seen all this time how fond I have
been of you ; only it would not have been right
to speak before.'

No, of course not ;' but I did not dare look
at him.

But it is more than a year now, and there is
nothing wrong in my speaking to you this
evening. Would you rather have had me wait
a little longer  does your silence mean that ?'
stooping over me and taking my other
hand.

 No, no,' I returned desperately, for he was
compelling me to speak, and I knew, difficult
as it was to tell him, that it was better to say
the truth at once ; * there is nothing wrong in
speaking to me like this, but I wish  I wish
you had not spoken, when I cannot  when I
am not able to take what you offer me.' I
felt him start ; he dropped my hands, and the
next moment he asked me in quite a different
voice to look at him. He spoke so quietly
that 1 did so at once. 'I am so sorry,' I
faltered ; 'you must know how sorry I am.'

His only answer was to put aside the little
tea-table and draw up a chair beside me. I
think he felt his great height a disadvantage.
Then he said more calmly :

I knew I should read the truth in your face,
but your words were a little ambiguous. If

you are sorry, why are you trying to refuse me ?
for you are trying, are you not ?'

Because I must,' I returned, almost in
despair. ' Oh, Mr. Basil, you ought not to
have asked me ! How am I to think of such
things with Hubert and the children ?'

Is that your only reason against it ?' he asked
very quickly.

Yes, of course ;' but I did not in the least
understand how much I was admitting until his
next words told me.

Thank you, darling ; that is all I want to
know. I was afraid for the moment whether I
had made a mistake, and if you really cared ;
but I know how true you are : now I can listen
more comfortably. I want you to tell me,
Olga, exactly how you feel about things, just as
though  as though I were Jem.'

I was a little too shy to speak at first, but he
was so gentle and patient with me. I remember
he asked me whether I minded him being a
widower, whether I thought he was to be
trusted now, and whether I did not care more
for Reggie than for him. I suppose my answers
on these points satisfied him, for he begged me
again not to think of his feelings ; that he was
putting himself and his love for me out of the
question ; that he wanted to know what I felt,
and to help me as much as possible. And then

I did talk to him ; and when I began the words
came quite easily.

I told him everything, even about my talks
with Kitty, and how she hoped I should stay
some time with Hubert and the children.

Did she mention any period of time ?' he asked
anxiously, and when I returned, ' She only said a
year or two he smiled and looked relieved.

But he looked grave again when I spoke of
Hubert s loneliness, and asked him how I could
leave him in this big house with only the little
girls to take care of him. Then I repeated
Aunt Catherine's words the night before she
left the Hall. 'She said she was leaving me
happily because I was in the path of duty, and
she did not wish mc to disquiet myself;' and
then I told him what she had said about standing
still until the way opened.

I never could have believed that he would
have listened so quietly. I felt I could have
told him anything. I was talking as freely to
him as I did to Jem, and he was so anxious to
put me at my ease, that he hardly seemed to
think of himself. If I had not cared for him
before, I must have cared that evening.

When I had quite finished, he said it was his
turn now, and then I found that he was not
quite convinced, and that he wanted to refer the
matter to Hubert.

It is not as though I were asking you to
leave Brookfield,' he urged ; * the Hall is so
close, you can be here every day, and half the
day, if you will. You can be mistress of the
Hall and Fircroft too ;' but I would not let him
go on  the thing was impossible. I could not
do my duty to him and to Hubert too ; we
must just go on as we were until I saw my way
more plainly. He must not speak to Hubert ;
Kitty had not been dead quite a year yet, and
I could not have him worried.

But you do not think of me,' he complained.
I wish I could feel you cared for me half as
much as I do for you. You do not know what
you are to me, Olga ;' and then he implored me
to be engaged to him ; he would wait a year 
two, even three  if he were only sure of me ;
but I would not listen.

You are sure of me,' I said, in a low voice,
so that he had some difficulty in hearing me,
but I think he heard. ' I could never care for
anyone else.'

Then you do love me a little ?'

Yes, yes ;' but I would not look at him, for
I was anxious to have it properly settled, and
he must not know for a long time how much I
really cared for him. It was breaking my heart
to send him away from me ; indeed, the strain
was telling on me visibly. He saw it at last.

VOL. III. 59

I have made you look quite pale  I am
tiring you out!' he said, a little remorsefully.
Olo-a ! why are you so obdurate ? why will
you not be convinced ? You are raising all
these difficulties, and you will not let me help
you to surmount them ; how are we to go on
like this  just caring for each other ? If there
is no engagement, I shall have to go away.'

If we were engaged, Hubert must know,
and Jem, and everyone ; and then people would
expect other things !' for I could not explain
myself more clearly.

He laughed a little at that, but owned I
might be right.

Mr. Leigh would know, of course,' he said
thoughtfully.

Yes ; and then he would trouble himself
about it. Mr, Basil, please do not say anymore
 you must see I am right ! If you would
only go away now, and try to forget you have
spoken !'

That is so likely !' he returned rather dryly.
Olga, how dreadfully firm you can be ! Well,
I will go, because ) ou are looking so pale and
tired ; but you must say something nice to me
first  tell me you are not really sorry about
this !'

No, I am not sorry in the way you mean.'
His face brightened.

'Well, I will go home, and think what is best
to be done  what is best for you as well as forme'
 pressing my hand. ' You have given me
the right to say that by owning that you care
for me a little !' He looked round the room,
and then at me  a long, wistful look that
touched me inexpressibly. ' It is hard to leave
you, but I must go  God bless you, dear !' and
then he went.

I went up to my room at once  nurse had
lighted the fire  and I flung myself down on the
rug, and buried my face in the cushions of my
easy-chair. I had restrained my tears with
difficulty ; now they could have their vent.
Basil loved me, and I had sent him away  was
there any wonder I should be unhappy ? All
the scales were fallen from my eyes now. I
knew that he was dearer to me than anything
in life, and yet I had sent him away :

592

li THERE Anything YOU Howe TO TELL ME ?'

Be sure of this 
What I can help thee to. thou shalt not miss

Alls Well thai Ends Well:

A friend is so M leone who can finish your sentences for yoa.'

Anon.

Hubert came in, and then the children. I
could hear their voices chattering to nurse on
the stairs. I jumped up and bathed my eyes,
and then went into the schoolroom to bid them
Good-night ' and hear their account of the
evening. I found them examining their little
gifts, for there had been a Christmas-tree ; they
were eager to show me everything, and tell me
how much they had enjoyed themselves.

Hugh has a box of chocolate ; but he is
keeping it for father. Father always used to
eat mother's chocolate-drops  don't you remember,
Jessie . And these sweets are all for
you. Aunt Olga, because you have been all by

yourself this afternoon ;' and Mab pressed her
cheek affectionately against my shoulder.

Elsie is such a pretty little girl,' observed
Jessie; 'and Mrs. Broderick has a nice tractable
face. What do you think she said to us, auntie ?
She kissed us half a dozen times, and called us
poor little darlings, because we had crape on
our best frocks, and because mother has gone to
heaven.'

She kissed me, too,' put in Willie, with his
mouth full of sweets.

Girlie-ga had been carried off rather cross
and fractious.

Yes, and Mab told her that we were not
so poor as some little girls we knew, because
we had father and you, Aunt Olga, to take care
of us. And Mrs. Broderick said : '* Ah, my
dear, but you may not always have your aunt ;

she is young, and " and then someone said

'' Hush'' and she stopped. What did she mean,
auntie ?'

Auntie isn't never going to leave us !' interposed
Wilfred, with a sticky hug.

Not until I grow up, and can give cook the
orders,' returned Mab firmly ; and then they all
chimed in.

Oh, how my heart ached to hear them ! It
was a relief when the oono: sounded for me to
go down to dinner.

Hubert looked white and jaded ; he scarcely
spoke a word all dinner-time, and as soon as it
was over he went into the study. I asked if I
should bring my work and sit with him, but he
shook his head. When Jane took him in his
coffee she found him fast asleep. I was happier
in my mind when she told me that, for I knew
he would sleep heavily until bedtime : he had
walked too far, and had exhausted himself, butin
the old days Hubert had never been so
tired.

I had food enough for mv thoughts. 1 did
not attempt to check them ; they had travelled
back strangely to St. Croix  to La Maisonnette.
I was in the little grove ; Reggie was swinging
in the hammock ; a tall figure, in a little gray
cap, with a free, easy gait, was striding down
the path. 1 can hear the click of the gate,
even the ' Miss Leigh ' pronounced in the clear.
decided voice ; but it was not th(* stranger of
the pavilion  it was the young Squire, tir
master of Brookfield Hall, who had been with
me this afternoon.

Could it be possible that Basil Lyndhurst 
one of the Seftons  had asked me to be his
wife ? What would Aunt Catherine say ? And
Reggie  but I must not think of Reggie. I
must not even think of Basil : the hardest part
was over; I had sent him away, and now I must

just go on living my life. I tried to look it in
the face, to be reasonable. Could I not be
happy, feeling so sure of his love ? He would
be near me ; I should see him sometimes ; we
should be friends ; and in my heart I should
always know what he felt for me !

My answer to this was plain : I could be
happy if only he would be satisfied ; but I
knew his nature too well  patience was not his
forte. Life and trouble had not disciplined
him ; before long I knew he would chafe
aga'-st my restrictions ; perhaps he would be
angry and go away.

It was the fear of this that was making me
miserable  the fear that my influence would
not be sufficient. Tenderly as he loved me,
much as he reverenced me, his will was a
strong one, and might rise up against my
girlish decision. The very tone in which he
had said, ' I must think what is best for you as
well as for me,' showed me that he was by no
means subservient to my opinion. His one
anxiety had been to learn my feelings towards
himself; the rest had seemed of little consequence.


How I wished I could have brought him
round to my opinion ! I had wanted him so
much to agree with me, if he would only spare
me any conflict of wills ; but I had been so shy

in letting him know my feelings, that perhaps
he did not realize how hard it would be for me
to fight against him. I did so long to make
him happy ; he had suffered so cruelly, and I
could give him just what he wanted ; but no,
I must not think of that. ' It was Hubert, not
Basil, who was my duty  not Basil ! not Basil !'
I repeated, with tears.

I passed a restless night, and woke unrefreshed.
When Hubert met nie at breakfast
he asked me if I had a headache, but I
answered evasively. I had not mentioned
Mr. Basil's visit ; I felt 1 could not utter his
name. It was snowing heavily, and Reggie
did not come to me as usual. I sat in the
nursery all the morning, working at the sewing-machine.
The weather would afford me a good
excuse for not going to the Hall ; I felt under
any circumstances I could not have gone. I
kept the children with me all the afternoon.
Mr. Montague dined with us; but I have not the
faintest recollection what he and Hubert talked
about. Only once I saw Hubert looking at me
through his spectacles, as though he wondered
why I was so silent. Mr. Montague left us
directly dinner was over  he had an evening
engagement in the village  and then Hubert
proposed of his own accord that I should
accompany him to the study. He drew up

the low chair himself to the fire ; it was Kitty's,
and her little standing work basket was near it,
with one of Wilfred's unfinished shirts in it, and
the gold thimble Hubert had given her.

Sit there, my dear,' he said, in his kind, sad
voice. And as he lighted his reading-lamp, and
adjusted the green shade that he always used,
he continued : ' So Lyndhurst was here yesterday
? I do not remember your mentioning It,
Olga;

I was so startled that I nearly upset my little
work-case.

You were so tired last night,' I stammered.
Have you  have you seen him this afternoon
?'

No ; only his stick is in the hall ; and 1
asked Jane, and she said he had tea here in the
afternoon. I suppose he waited to see me ? I
know he wanted those plans Boston drew up.
I almost think I had better send them across
this evening, if it has left off snowing. I
suppose Jane or Martha could go ?'

 Certainly, if you wish it ;' but just as he was
drawing aside the curtain to look out, the hall-bell
sounded, and after a moment's suspense 
for Hubert never encouraged evening visitors 
the door opened, and Mr. Basil walked in.

He had thrown off his ulster, and was in
evening dress, as he had just risen from the

dinner-table. I was so surprised to see him,
for he had never come so late before  so
pleased, so overwhelmed with confusion altogether,
that I found it impossible to meet him
as usual ; and I could only hope that Hubert
did not notice my silence and my burning
cheeks. Happily, Mr. Basil spared me as
much as possible, for he shook hands hastily,
and at once engaged Hubert in talk  in fact,
he had never been more fluent. Hubert could
not get in a word at all. He apologized for
coming so late, but he had been at Braidley all
the afternoon in spite of the snow ; and he had
seen Boston. and now he wanted to look at
the plans.

I need not trouble to look over them here,'
he went on ; ' I will just carry them across with
me, and go through them on Monday morning ;'
and, after a little more talk, Hubert said they
were upstairs in his dressing-room, and that he
would fetch them. Another time I should have
offered to save him the trouble, but I was
actually too shy to open my lips.

The moment he had left the room Mr. Basil
came to my side.

Do put down your work for a moment,' he
pleaded. ' Why do you seem afraid of me
to-night ? Was it wrong to come ? I give
you my word, 1 was obliged to furbish up these

old plans as an excuse. I could not keep
away ; I was just pining for a sight of you.'

'' And I for you,' I could have said with truth,
for it was such a delight to see him there. I
had been making myself so miserable all day,
thinking that he was hurt at my sending hai
away  that he had not understood what it cost
me ; but I was obliged to confess to myself
that he seemed as usual  not at all depressed ;
he looked handsome and eager. As he spoke
he put his hands forcibly on my work.

I do not think you ought to have come,*
was all I could bring myself to say ; but I
suppose my face belied my words, for he looked
as happy as possible.

But you are pleased to see me  you know
you are pleased to see me,' in a coaxing voice ;
and you look ever so much better than you
did last night. Olga, you do not know how
restless I have been all day ; it will not answer
at all. You will have to give in  to reconsider
your decision. I must talk to Aunt Catherine
and Mr. Leigh. Your friends must not allow
you to sacrifice yourself, if it be a sacrifice,'
stooping over me a little closer.

Oh, please  please do not say any more
to-night !' I whispered. ' Hubert will be here
directly ; he will guess, and then everything
will go wrong ;' but he did not take the hint

quickly enough. for he was still standing close
to me when Hubert returned with the plans 
only I had got possession of my work, and the
shades of silk were difficult to match by lamplight,
so perhaps he thought Mr. Basil had
been helping me, for he apparently took no
notice.

Coffee was sent in after this, and Mr. Basil
stayed some time. I tried to take my part in
the conversation, to appear at my ease, but my
changing colour and short, breathless sentences
betrayed my nervousness. Mow was I to talk
to Mr. Basil with the old friendliness.- In his
new character he confused me, and yet 1 thought
none became him so well. No i;irl had ever
had such a lover. 1 am sure he went away at
last because he saw how it was with me.
Hubert went to the door with him.

It is a rough night, Lyndhurst,' 1 heard him
say as they shook hands.

I was folding up my work when Hubert
came back to me ; he looked thoughtful and
preoccupied ; but as I bade him good-night, he
asked me to stay a little longer, and I sat down
again reluctantly. He did not inquire, as usual,
if I were tired.

Is there anything you have to say to me,
Olga ?' he asked so pointedly that I stared at
him in dismay.

'No; nothing, thank you,' I returned in a
very small voice.

Nothing that I ought to know, that you
would tell Jem if he were here.'

Certainly not !' flushing to my finger-ends.
The idea of my telling Jem that !

You must forgive me if I am a little clumsy,
my dear,' he went on in the kindest voice ;
but I cannot forget how young you are, and
you have no mother, and no sister now to
advise you '  of course he was thinking of
Kitty  * and Jem is young too ; so, perhaps, I
should really be able to help you best if you
could only bring yourself to confide in me. Do.
my dear, for I feel a little anxious about you.'

'About me, Hubert ?'

Yes. Hasn't the Squire been making love
to you ? I am sure I beg your pardon, Olga,
if I am making a mistake ; but from his manner
and yours it was impossible not to suspect
something of the kind ; and as your guardian I
have a right to know such matters.'

Hubert was speaking with mild dignity, but
he was regarding me affectionately. There
was no escape for me now. Mr. Basil's
boyish impatience had frustrated my plans.
If Hubert knew our little secret, there would
be a complication. I was angry with myself
for my absurd shyness. If I had only laughed

and talked as usual, Hubert would never have
suspected anything.

I never knew how kind Hubert could be ;
he drew the truth from me in the gentlest
manner. He even made me confess that I was
by no means indifferent to the young Squire ;
that if things had been otherwise I should have
even him another answer.

It is a very good match,' he said thoughtfully.
' How pleased old Jem will be ! he has
quite changed his opinion of Lyndhurst. He
thinks him a fine fellow now ; so do I. My
dear little sister, nothing; could be better ; you
must be engaged to him at once.'

The quiet, matter-of-fact way in which Hubert
spoke almost took my breath away, but I
managed to stammer out the words :

'Impossible! how could I leave those poor
children ?'

He looked very grave at that, but his manner
did not alter.

Don't, my dear,' for the tears were in my
eyes now ; ' let us have a little talk together.
Draw your chair closer to me, and let me see
your face. I want to tell you something. My
poor darling spoke to me on this very subject.'

'Oh no, Hubert!' in a shocked voice, for
Aline had not been dead two months then.

She did not mention names, but, all the

same, I am sure Lyndhurst was in her mind.
Kitty was so clever ; she saw things sooner
than other people. Most likely it occurred to
her as a possibility. " Olga is sure to marry,"
she said to me one night when we had been
talking of the children. ** I shall be glad if she
will stop with you for a year or two." And then
she made me promise that I would not allow
you to sacrifice yourself for the children.'

Dear Kitty ! that was so like her, and she
had said the same thing to me.

" Olga is so generous that she will not
think of herself or her own happiness ; when
the time comes you must think for her,
Hubert"  those were her very words. 'she
will have no one but you and Jem to help her ;
you must do your best for her, as though she
were Mab." Olga, I am going to do my very
best for you. How old are you, my dear ?'

But I would not answer him ; I must have
my say too. I put my arms round his neck for
the second time in my life, and hid my face on
his shoulder, and implored him, with sobs, to
listen to me. I told him that I could not leave
him and the children, not even for Basil's sake ;
that though I loved him  I loved him dearly 
I could not be happy in neglecting my duty ;
this, and much more, in broken, incoherent
sentences.

He was very much touched, and had to take
off his spectacles to wipe them.

Thank you, thank you, my dear,' he kept
saying in a husky voice ; but when I was a
little calmer he asked me again how old I
was.

I shall be one-and-twenty next June.' was
my answer.

Kitty was younger than that,' he sighed ;
but there is plenty of time, Olga ; you must not
fret so. I am not asking you to leave us now ;
no, my dear, I could not spare you just yet.
But we must think of Lyndhurst ; I will talk to
him and find out his wishes. If he would not
think fifteen months too long for an engagement,
you could marry him on your twenty-second
birthday. You would have helped me for more
than two years then, and by that time I shall
be able to arrange something.'

But Hubert, the children ' but he would

not let me go on.

They are my children, not yours,' with a
smile ; ' the matter is not so difficult as you
suppose. Things are changed. I have no
pupils, and Montague helps me with the parish.
I have more time to give to the children, and
you forget what a treasure we have in nurse ;
and then,' patting my hand in an encouraging
way, 'the Hall is only a few hundred yards off;

you could still supervise Fircroft, and see to the
little girls' frocks, for I could not undertake that
department. We should see you every day,
and by-and-by my Mab  God bless her !  will
be able to look after her sisters and brothers ;
she is quite a little woman now in her way. I
never saw a child often so thoughtful before.'

I argued a little more with Hubert. It
seemed to me as though that night I were
fighting against my love for Basil, and the
knowledge of my forthcoming happiness ; but I
found Hubert mildly inexorable: he would not
listen to me for a moment. My grand plans for
martyrdom were all put aside with fine masculine
scorn.

We have Lyndhurst to consider,' he kept
saying ; ' you have treated us both badly. I
am your legal guardian, and have a right to
know all your affairs, and you left me in the
dark about the Squire's offer.'

I felt a sudden qualm as he said this ; he
had never guessed at Harry's attachment, and
would have been much shocked to hear that his
favourite pupil had made me two offers. A
guilty colour suffused my face as I remembered
poor Harry ; but his secret was safe with me.
Jem knew it, but he would never betray Harry
to Hubert.

I think you the luckiest girl in the world,'

VOL. III. 60

he continued ; ' think of being mistress of that
fine old place ! Who would have guessed that
our little Olga would have won our young
Squire ?'

And then he looked at me rather critically,
as though to find out where the attraction lay,
and I thought of Jem's brotherly critique.

He is a wise man,' he went on after a
scarcely perceptible pause. * He has had enough
of beauty with his first wife ; he wants something
better now ;' and then he took my face
between his hands and kissed it. * Go to bed
now, my dear, for we have said enough for
to-night. I have quite forgotten that it is
Saturday, and I have to look over my sermon
for tomorrow, and it is past eleven now.'

Oh, Hubert, I am so sorry to have kept
you !' and then I left him.

What had become of my unhappiness ? Why
could I not be sorry that all this had happened
that Hubert had discovered our secret ? But
I could be sorry for nothing. I could only
think of Basil  how he had looked, and what
he had said that evening ; and how his presence
had glorified Hubert's shabby old study, and
transformed it into a sort of earthly paradise.

I was glad that the next day was Sunday. I
was sure of seeing him in church ; and, perhaps,
after service, he might join us in the churchyard.

It would be awkward to see him with
Hubert ; but I knew at that time Hubert
would be in the vestry, and there would be no
one but Reggie and the children near us, for
Mrs. Lyndhurst never came to church in the
winter.

He came in late  he was often late  but as he
and Reggie passed our seat, he half turned and
looked at me  a quick, searching look. But I
hardly dared raise my eyes again from my
book all the service. How little he knew the
mischief he had done bv his visit last night !
Once, and only once, during the sermon I
ventured to glance in his direction. His head
was bent ; he was evidently thinking deeply.
He looked quiet, composed, thoughtful  I
wondered if the sermon engaged his attention.

Reggie ran after us, as usual, in the churchyard,
and I stooped down and kissed him ; and
the next moment Mr. Basil joined us, and we
walked together to the gate. Mab was on one
side of me and Willie the other ; Reggie had
hold of his father's hand. The children were
all chattering, so that he could not find an
opportunity to say more than a word.

'How are you?' he asked quickly. * Shall
you come up to the Hall to see my mother ?'

I shook my head.

When may I come again  your brother

60  2

does not like Sunday visitors, I know  tomorrow
? Oh yes ; I must bring those plans
back tomorrow. Will you jnve me a cup of
tea?  Good-morning. Mrs. Broderick ! what
severe weather we are having ! there will be
some more snow before night.'

Mrs. Broderick and her daughters had joined
us. The youngest, Cissie, a very pretty girl,
was looking at the Squire ; he could scarcely
disengage himself to bid me good-bye.

I shall try to come tomorrow or Tuesday,*
he said, in a low voice. ' I must speak to you
alone  you will have to give way !' and then he
quietly stepped back to Miss Cissie.

But as I walked on with tht* children, I determined
nothing would induce me to see him
alone. How was I to tell him about my conversation
with Hubert.- he had no right to
come again so soon. He was behaving exactly
as though I had accepted him. He was not
bearing himself in the least like a rejected
suitor. I began to feel I had not done the
thing properly.

I went to church in the evening with Mab,
but the Hall seat was unoccupied. Most likely
Mr. Basil had stayed at home to read to his
mother. I certainly attended to the service
better ; and Mr. Montague's sermon was excellent.


'0.- ';

l

J

CHAPTER XVI.

THE WAY OPENS.

I heard his deep " I will "
Breathed like the covenant of a god, to hold
From thence thro' all the worlds.'

Tie Gardener's Daughter!

O happy world . . . all, meseems,
Are happy; I the happiest of them all.'

Tennyson.

'Oh, but she will love him truly ;
He shall have a cheerful home ;
She will order all things duly,

When beneath his roof they come.'

The Lord of Burleigh:

I HAD no time to myself the next morning.
When I came down to breakfast a note was
awaiting me from Miss Boyle. Her sister
had been taken ill on Saturday night with
some internal inflammation, and Dr. Langham
thought very badly of her. Hubert said at
once that he would go down to Fir Cottage to
inquire after the invalid, while I gave the

children their lessons. He brought me a very
bad report at luncheon - time. Poor Miss
Rosinaa was dying, and he had found our
Miss Boyle in great trouble. We had all
become very much attached to her ; she was
a worthy, kind-hearted creature, and so humble-minded
with all her cleverness. I begged
Hubert to let me go and offer my services, but
he said she had a cousin with her, a very nice
person, and that I should be only in the way.

 The greatest comfort I could give Miss
Boyle,' he went on, * was in telling her that you
would take her place with Mab and Jessie. I
begged her to be perfectly easy on that point,
as you and I would manage the lessons between
us. Let them come to me for their history and
arithmetic ; it will be such a pleasure to teach
them something ;' and as Mab and Jessie were
charmed with this idea, they went regularly to
the study for an hour during the three weeks
Miss Boyle stayed away, and I believe all three
were sorry when her return put a stop to lessons
with their father.

As the weather did not permit the little girls
to take their usual walk with nurse, I sat with
them in the schoolroom all the afternoon, while
they amused themselves making scrap-books
for the children's hospital. This was a
favourite occupation with them. I did not

venture into the drawing-room until I knew
Jane had taken in the tea, and then I invited
the twins to join me. I could never count on
Hubert ; and if Mr. Basil kept his word the
little girls would hinder any private talk. I felt
very artful and diplomatic as I went down with
Mab and Jessie hanging on either arm. They
were in high spirits, and wanted to know if the
drawing-room cake were nicer than the schoolroom
one.

When I am grown up, and give cook
orders,' observed Mab, ' I shall always say
plum-cake instead of seed ; no one but Willie
likes seedy-cakes, Aunt Olga.'

I was beginning to think I had schemed in
vain as we drank our tea, for no ring at the
door-bell announced a visitor. To be sure, he
said ' tomorrow or Tuesday.' Never mind,
Mab and Jessie must be invited again tomorrow
; and I tried to dismiss the subject
from my mind, and to give myself up to the
children, who were in high glee. By-and-by
Hubert joined us; he looked tired and weary,
but brightened up as Jessie flew to him, and
Mab pushed a heavy armchair closer to the fire.

Are you keeping Aunt Olga company, my
darlings ? Mab, do you think you could pour
me out a cup of tea ? I want Aunt Olga to do
something for me. Olga, do you remember

those papers old Mrs. Stevenson gave me
about that good - for - nothing son of hers ?
They were in a thick blue envelope ; and I
know I put thcni in one of the racks on my
writing-table. Do you think you could lind
them, my dear ?'

I will look, Hubert. Jessie, that cake is
cold. There is some hot toast on the trivet for
father;' and I went away' (quickly.

The study-door was half closed. As I pushed
it open I came face to face with Mr. Basil !

'You have come to look for Mrs. Stevenson s
papers ?' he said coolly. ' 'I'hat's all right ; but
the Vicar does not wain them fcr the next
hour ;' and then he closed the door, and the
next moment I found myself held fast. ' How
could you have the heart to do it ?' he was
s lying ; * how could you have the heart to send
me away, my darling ?'

I never knew how pertinacious Basil could
be ; he gave me no peace until I had answered
his questions. I found, to my surprise, that
his self-distrust was so great, that he thought
so little of himself, and souci of me, that he
could not bring himself to believe that I really
cared for him ; when I found out what he felt,
1 did all I could to satisfy him, and he was so
grateful to me for my frank confession.

I know I am not worthy of you,' he said
humbly, as he drew me closer to him ; * but you
have done much for me already, and you will
do more. I always looked up to you as a little
saint, Olga. Do you remember, dear, that
evening of our dinner-party, when my poor
Aline disgraced herself? I shall never forget
what I felt when you put your arms round her,
and laid your cheek against hers ! " Come with
me, and I will take care of you." Was not that
what you said ? Olga, it was all I could do not
to bless you aloud for your goodness. I felt
neither Aline nor I was fit to kiss the ground
under your dear feet.'

Oh, Basil, do not talk so ! It was no goodness.
I loved her  I always loved her.'

I believe you did ; that is why I sent you
her ring. Darling, you will have to wear my
ring now, for Mr. Leigh  what a brick he is ! 
thinks that we may as well be engaged at once.*

It was all your fault,' I began ; but he knew
too well to let me finish.

What a good thought it was my fetching
those plans on Saturday evening ! I meant to
behave as well as possible ; but when I saw you
change colour every minute I knew it was all
up with our secret. When he had it out with
me just now, I told him that I considered
myself engaged. " That's all right," he said,

with a laugh : " I will send Olga in, and then
you can sense it." And we have settled it,
haven't we, des ?'

I tried to tell him now about my conversation
with Hubert, for he was so happy, and in such
spirits, thai there was no him to the

point He kept asking ir questions

 how long I had like - - :-high I

could possibly answer that question ; if I ready
and truly cared for him nxxe than Jem.

I was always jealous of that fellow,' he said.

Dear Jem " I sighed.

*Yes: b-: he dces not come first now, or
Reggie either.'

Xa of course doc Reggie ! What an idea !
As though I ' ' -n before you 1 Do
kl me tell yc -i.'

No, he SL a dejected air. I
know what you are going to say, and I have
heard it already. We are to be engaged for
fifteen months  unto you are two-and-twenty.
I was obliged to agree to everything, for fear of
losing you altogether : but '

You think nfteen months  a poor little year
and a quarter  too long to wait for me. Mr.
F'" waited eight-and-twenty years for
A : -erne.'

I ought to have known Baal better ; he was
not likely to submit tamely to such a reproof.

and I had to listen 10 a song narang~je, made
with a great deal of energy. He would wait
for me half his life, he said, if duty demanded
it. He was quite sure of me ; I was not the
girl to tell a fellow she loved him and then
change her mind, and on that point I had made
him quite happy, perfectly happy ; but, all the
same, he wanted to man' me as soon as possible,
I could not blame him for wishing this ; any
fellow in his circumstances would be as anxious
as he was ; and he must call my attention to
one point, that in his case it was not so much
selfishness as a clear-sighted thoughtfulness for
other people. He was afraid that I was not
sufficiently alive to his virtues ; when he said
other people, he did not presume to place me
amongst them, as he was far too painfully convinced
that I would agree cheerfully to a fifteen
years' engagement.

Oh, Basil !' in a shocked voice at this point.

No : I must not interrupt him. He was
speaking of his mother, who was so clearly in
need of a daughter, and of Reggie, whose infantile
years certainly pleaded for maternal
management. Basil's face was a study as he
completed this audacious speech.

But I was not to be silenced by any flow of
eloquence, and in spite of my interruptions,
I had mv sav at last. I told Basil that he had

made me so happy, so very happy, that there
was no room in my heart for selfishness ; that
he must let me do my duty to Hubert and the
children, and not be too exacting, for I loved
him so much yes. I actually told him that 
that a word from him, even a gesture of impatience,
would pain me terribly ; and when he
saw how earnest I was he did not tease meany
more, and nothing could exceed his gentleness.


My little sunbeam,' he said, very tenderly,
I cannot have you look so grave ; don't you
know a word from you is enough ? I (suite
understand, my dearest, and 1 promis(! you that
)ou shall never have anything to bear from my
impatience.'

And you will be happy, Basil ?'

Perfectly happy and content in waiting for
you, do you mean ? Yes ; a thousand times,
yes. boom this day we begin our new life
together, for I shall do nothing without you,
decide nothing, enjoy nothing. I shall see you
every day ; I shall be here as much as possible.
Olga, can that possibly be the dressing-bell ?'

I looked at the clock in dismay  half-past
six  and we had been talking for an hour and
a half. Basil looked amused at my horrified
expression, and suggested that we should go in
search of Hubert. We found him (quietly reading

by the fire. The little girls had gone
upstairs. He looked up with a smile as we
entered.

Have you brought me the papers, Olga ?'
he asked, and then he opened his arms to me.

Oh, how dear and good Hubert was to us both
that night ! He would not let Basil leave us ;
and, indeed, as he whispered to me afterwards,
he had no intention of going ; and when dinner
was over, he talked to us in so kind and fatherly
a manner, and he made me so proud and happy
by praising me to Basil. I never knew how
much I loved him until that night.

Basil took me the next day to see his mother ;
she literally wept for joy, and I was ready to
join her, when she confessed that this had been
for months the wish of her heart, and afterwards
we both wrote to Aunt Catherine and Jem.

Their answers perfectly satisfied me. Aunt
Catherine's was very short, but every word
expressed her perfect contentment.

'You have made me very happy,' she wrote ;
nothing earthly could have pleased me more.
I shall not now have a care for Basil ; you will
suit his peculiar nature utterly and entirely.
And, Olga, you have long been very dear tome
; now you will be one of us,' and so on 
such a letter as only Aunt Catherine could
write.

As for Jem's, it was so perfectly unique, so
altogether delicious, that Basil said I ought to
have it framed as a model of brotherly correspondence.
The dear fellow was literally
brimming over with fun and affection and
satisfied ambition  only one sentence was quite
grave :

I have long ago changed my opinion about
Lyndhurst; I always thought he had the
makings of a fine fellow, only I distrusted him
for awhile. I do not now own that he is perfect
worthy of you ; there is not a fellow
divine good enough for such a dear little soul ;
but he will do, and I have made up my mind
to give you a blessing, so here goes,' et cetera,
et cetera. Oh, how we laughed over that
letter !

We had been engaged about ten days ; poor
Miss Rosinaa Boyle had been buried nearly a
week, and her sister had not yet resumed her
duties, when one afternoon, as I was giving-mab
her music-lesson, there was a knock at the
door, and Basil entered. I was beginning to
be used to see him at any time in the day, for
he was seldom absent for many hours from
Fircroft. He would snatch half an hour whenever
he could to talk over any little matter with
me that interested him. This time he had
brought me a message from his mother ; she

wanted me particularly, he said. Could not
Mab finish her music by herself ? I made
a little demur at this, but he was very urgent.
He was not going back to the Hall for an hour
or two  he had to ride to Bradley ; he begged
me to remain until he returned, but I would
not promise this.

'Well, we will leave that part,' he replied,
with a smile that told me that he was pretty
certain to get his way, ' only do go now as
quickly as possible ; In fact, I mean to wait
until I see you out of the house ;' and seeing
this was his mood, I told Mab to finish her
scales by herself, and put on my hat as quickly
as possible.

Ladybird was waiting for her master, and I
left Basil for a moment while I fetched her
some sugar. The pretty creature knew me
well, for I had always petted her. I could not
help looking after my Squire as he rode off,
Basil always looked so well on horseback. He
saw me and waved his hat gaily, and then I
walked on.

I thought Bennet looked unusually pleased
to see me, but he asked me to wait In the
library a few minutes before I went to his
mistress. This somewhat surprised me, for I
was unused to any formality at the Hall ; but
I understood his motive better the next moment,

when I found myself folded in Aunt Catherine's
arms. My ecstasy may be imagined. So this
was the reason, then, why Basil had been so
urgent with me.

The surprise was so great for a moment that
I could only kiss her without speaking, and I
could see there were tears in her soft gray
eyes.

Are you pleased to see me, Olga ? My
dear, I could not stay away any longer. I was
just longing to see you and Basil, so I made
Robert bring me, and we have been here since
one o'clock. We slept at St. Jude's Vicarage
last night, and came on here this morning.'

And you have seen Basil ?'

Yes ; and talked to him, too. How happy
the boy is ! he looks better and younger already;
and  well, darling. I think you can imagine our
conversation.*

You have no idea how good he is to me !' 
rather shyly.

Come, you shall tell me about it ; that is
why I told Bennet to show you into the library,
because I wanted you all to myself. Do you
know how refreshing it is to see your sweet
little face ? Basil says you are just an embodied
sunbeam ! I call that a ver' pretty,
lover-like speech.*

Oh, what a talk we had ! I felt then as though

my happiness were complete. Aunt Catherine
was the only one to whom I could tell everything
; she understood in a moment that mv one
anxiety was how long Basil's patience would
last out.

It will last as long as it is needed was her
comfortable answer. ' Basil is perfectly content
to wait a reasonable time, and he thinks Mr.
Leigh's stipulation unreasonable under the
circumstances ; of course, if it had been possible,
he would rather have married you at
once, but he will not let himself think of that 
Basil is not the least selfish.'

Oh no I no one could be less so, Aunt
Catherine. I hope you will not think me
tidoretv ; but. indeed, I do not see how Hubert
is to spare me even then !'

Do you not ? Well, I have an idea on the
subject ; and so has Basil. Your news about
poor Miss Rosinaa Boyle put the notion in my
head ; her sister s death has set Miss Boyle free
to take your place.'

My place !'

Well, perhaps not that exactly, for she could
not be Mr. Leigh's companion ; but, as regards
the children and the care of the household, she
could certainly take your place ; indeed, I never
knew any person so entirely trustworthy. If she

VOL. III. 6 1

be the plainest, she is certainly one of the nicest
people I know.'

Do you mean that she should come and live
at Fircroft ?'

Perhaps not live there entirely ; but that
must depend on Mr. Leigh's wishes. But what
could be easier than for her to come every morning,
and remain until the children's bedtime }
She might still keep her rooms at Fir Cottage,
and so maintain her independence ; but, in my
opinion, there is nothing to prevent a woman of
her age  and she looks fifty at least  taking
charge of a widower's household. She is not
young, at least in h(r appearance, or attractive
enough to make such a position awkward ; but,
as I said before, this is for your brother to
arrange.'

And you think that by tb.at time I can be
spared }'

That the way will open. Yes, Olga, I do
think so, and Basil is sure of it. With miss
Boyle at Fircroft, and you at the Hall, there
can be very little difficulty in the matter. You
will always be on the spot to supervise or consult
with Miss Boyle ; she will be able to refer
all feminine questions to you. The children will
be with you constantly  every day  they will
bring their lite affairs to you to setde ; your
brother will do the same. Are )'ou convinced

now that everyone is right in not allowing you
to martyr yourself ?'

 Yes ; and I could not do it. I could not
give up Basil ; but still it troubles me to think
of Hubert being all alone.'

Put that out of your head for the present ;
in another year he will be more fit to be left.
His children will occupy his thoughts, and give
interest to his life ; he is strong enough and
good enough to stand alone. You know how
highly I have always thought of him  but
never so highly as now, when I have watched
him in his trouble.'

'He is an example to us all ; even Basil
says so.'

Basil respects him as much as I do. Well,
my dear, he will still have his faithful little
sister near him. What can be more easy than
for you and Basil to sacrifice an evening now
and then to cheer him in his solitude or to coax
him up to the Hall ? not to mention the hours
you will contrive to spare him between your
own duties. My dear, you do not know Basil
When he gets you to himself, he will be too happy
to be exacting ; he will be the first to remind
you of your duty to others.'

Oh, Aunt Catherine ! you always say such
nice things. It is not only words ; but you do give
one such real, solid comfort. You have taken

61  2

away every little tiresome scruple, and I feci as
lifht as air.'

Then yoii must come and talk to Robert
now; he is with XMrinia in the drawinL;-r()()m.
Oh ! there are Ladybird's hoofs galloping up the
avenue. Basil is in a hurry to jet back to his
sweetheart ; let us go and meet him !'

Basil gave me a droll look as he sprang
from his saddle.

Are you not glad 1 interrupted Mab's music
lesson ?' he asked as he joined me. * Were you
(ever more surprised in your life. Olga ?'

There is no one like her,' I returned, in a
whisper; 'and, oh, Basil, she has made me so
happy about things!'

Vcs. 1 know.' with a glance of full understanding;
: ' that is just what you wanted  a talk
with Aunt Catherine f and then we could say no
more, as Mr. I'lcming was crossing the room to
speak to us.

Aunt Catherine was right, and the way has
opened. It is eighteen months since she said
those words to me, and for three of those months
1 have been Basil's wife. Everything has happened
as she predicted. Miss Boyle is at
hircroft  a trusted, faithful friend of the whole
family  and I am at the Hall, its happy, its
most happy mistress I M\ husband says he

has now not a wish ungratified. I almost
tremble when he tells me so ; but, indeed, I
could say the same myself. There is no one in
the world so blessed as I am. Sometimes when
Reggie calls me mother, and Basil smiles as he
hears it, the tears come into my eyes ; but they
are tears of joy. We talk often of those old
days at St. Croix and of La Maisonnette, and
again and again I bless the day when Aunt
Catherine and I crossed the sea on that quest
that seemed so hopeless then, and yet was so
near fruition  the search for Basil Lyndhurst.

