CHAPTER I.

There's something tells me (but it is not love) I would
not lose you.'

Free all, the ride to Brynllwyd
might have been deferred to a
day when Cassandra considered
herself fi*ee ; for Heme's visit lengthened
itself out far beyond its intended term,
and he stayed at Ardgwen till the red
and gold had faded from the landscape
and November gloom lay heavy in the
valley. And every day he grew more
intimate with the family and more
doubtful of the wisdom of upsetting a
social system among the results of
which such pleasant households as this

VOL. II. 1

were to be numbered. And he was
liked as much as he liked. Lord St.
Asaph found him a congenial companion,
and Lady St. Asaph was grateful to him
for lightening her husband's depression.
Lady Sarah struck up quite a warm
friendship with him, and before she went
away, she had given him pressing invitations
to come and stay at Llanoun
and see her schools and other useful institutions.
Even Lord Ehoos forgot to
find him a bore.

And Laura ?

That bright gleam of cordial friendship,
which had broken so pleasantly across the
reserve she had assumed in her first intercourse
with Heme, had vanished suddenly
as it had come ; and now again she was
silent and unapproachable. If he tried
to engage her in conversation, she remembered
some duty that called her away ; or
\i constrained to remain in the room, she

answered in chilling monosyllables and
turned eagerly to talk with some other
person. And yet, with a strange perverseness,
when he was talking to others
her eyes would stray in his direction,
and no word that fell from him escaped
her ear. She watched him come and
go, and was conscious of an unwonted
vibration through all her frame when
he addressed her. She seemed to know
beforehand what he was going to say, to
catch meanings in his words which others
missed ; and more than once she 'was
startled to find her eyes meeting his
across the room in a flash of sympathy
at some thought that one had uttered
even while it crossed the mind of the
other. What had happened to her ?
She trembled at the answer, for was
not he Cassandra's lover ?  was not she,
in a manner, Cassandra's confidante ?
There was no excuse for her; she had

known how things were from the beginning.


And yet when, where, how had she
been to blame ? She could no more have
said at what moment she had first felt a
tremor in his presence than she could
have told when the first red glow had
come upon the woods. She could only-long
for his departure, and feel, even
while she longed for it, a great dread
of the emptiness that he would leave
behind. She had a foretaste of what
this would be every time he missed
coming into luncheon, or their party was
so divided in walks or rides that he went
one way and she another. And yet she
was always straining her ingenuity to
bring about such arrangements ; for she
was resolved to be loyal to her cousin,
cost what it might.

Sometimes she thought of seeking
safety in confession to her mother or

her sister, for she knew that she had but
to breathe a hint of her distress in order
to be delivered fi'om Heme's presence
in the house. But many motives held
her silent. Shame made her shrink from
telling how her heart had strayed into
love for the man who was to be her
cousin's husband. It was better not to
speak, she said to herself, for when once
he was married to Cassandra all would be
safe  all viust be safe : they would then
be on a well-defined footing, a certain
degree of intimacy would be allowable,
and self-respect would check all warmer
feelings. It would be better then not to
have spoken  fairer to herself, to Heme,
to Cassandra. And then there were hopes
whispering low in her heart that things
might take a turn she had not looked for.
It might be that she was mistaken about
Cassandra, and in that case her self-reproach
was uncalled-for. It might be,

. . might be . . . might be that it was
for her sake he was staying so long
among them. It might be that one
day he would tell her so. And then all
her self-tormenting would pass like a bad
dieam.

The low whisperings prevailed, and
she kept her secret from all about her.
Not however without a sense of guilt
that added much to her wretchedness ;
for once, quite early in Heme's visit,
she had had a little warning from Lady
Sarah, which, as it came prematurely,
she had been able to dismiss with honest
assurances that she was in no danger.
Ehoos, coming into the library one morning,
had surprised her sitting on the
floor in front of a bookcase in which old
newspapers and periodicals were stowed
away. A litter of papers was about her,
and she was so absorbed in some pamphlet
or magazine that she held in her hand

as not to notice his entrance. Laura
was not in the habit of reading old newspapers
and periodicals, and her brother's
curiosity was a little excited : he looked
over her shoulder and discovered that it
was an article of Heme's in a back number
of the Beforvier that she was devouring
with so much interest. He drew his inferences
and communicated them to Lady
Sarah, who, acting on the hint, gently
cautioned Laura against letting her affections
be entangled in a way that was not
likely to be approved of by her father,
and could therefore not lead to her own
happiness. To which Laura had replied
by assuring her sister that she was in no
danger of feeling more than friendship for
Heme, that she had only looked out
the article because she wanted to understand
something she had heard her father
say about it, and that there were a thousand
reasons why Sarah must not get

notions of this kind into her head. And
she ended hy telling all the little romance
she had spun about Heme and Cassandra,
with the result that Lady Sarah was quite
satisfied that the alarm was needless.
She told her brother so, and he shrugged
his shoulders and remarked that, whatever
happened, he considered that he had done
his duty.

And now that there was real danger,
Sarah was gone and no one seemed
to suspect anything. The reserve that
wrapped her round at all times served
as a cloak for her secret, and no one
discovered that a change had come over
her. And yet the change was very
great. In one short month she had
learned to look differently on all without
her and to doubt of much within. New
worlds of thought had opened to her,
new subjects claimed her interest. Politics,
art, science, philosophy  all the dry

and learned topics of grown-up life, to
which she had hitherto turned a deaf ear,
seemed to have revealed themselves informs
of Having interest. Knowledge had
become incarnate and had spoken to her
in a human voice. She felt ashamed
now of the ignorance she had confessed
so unconcernedly in her first talks with
Heme ; she hated herder for the indifference
she had hitherto felt towards
the wider interests of humanity. She
longed to he more worthy according to
his standard of worthiness, and blushed
to find herself continually wondering
what impression she was making on the
man who was her cousin's lover.

But the visit could not last for ever.
Pleasurable or painful, it had to end, and
one Sunday morning Laura woke up to
the consciousness that tomorrow she
would be delivered from the presence
that embarrassed her. She tried to persuade

herself that she was glad, but
there was no gladness in the eyes that
looked at her from the glass while
she was dressing ; and those were hardly
tears of joy that stole through her fingers
a few hours later as she buried her face
in her hands during the Litany and her
heart stammered a prayer that she might
be delivered from her distress  a prayer
that brought no help, but rather increased
her trouble and her shame. For herein
church, where he never came, sense
of another guilt than treachery to Cassandra
weighed upon her. This newcomer,
who had taken all her sympathies
by violence, seemed to stand between
her and God; and every thought that
went towards him seemed so much taken
from her faith. She wanted to pray to be
delivered from him ; but while his image
was present to her, prayer seemed vain,
for he did not believe it could prevail.

She wiped away her tears and stared
up at the window so that the sunlight
might scorch her eyes dry. But they
filled again immediately and she was
fain to bury them once more. Then
she saw Cassandra looking at her as
if she were reading her secret; and
with a strong effort she recovered self-command
and looked steadily at her
prayer-book during the remainder of the
service.

The castle had been poorly represented
at church that morning. Lord St. Asaph
never went to church  nor Ehoos, whose
Continental habit of breakfasting at
eleven would have been interfered with
by such an exercise. Heme's avowed
principles of unbelief excused him of
course, and Egmont was lazy on Sunday
mornings and inclined to consider his
weak ankle. So Lady St. Asaph and
Laura had had the pew to themselves.

As they came out, they joined the
rectory party and walked a little way with
them. Then Cassandra and Anna turned
back at Lady St. Asaph's invitation, and
came up to the castle for luncheon.

As they came through the village
Laura saw Khoos and Heme coming
to meet them, and in a moment she felt
the painful tightness of her heart relax.

How well she knew that figure,
the flexible height, the curve of the
shoulders, the turn of the neck, and 
over all  the brightness, the charm that
no other figure had for her !

Is that Khoos coming along ? ' asked
Lady St. Asaph.

'Yes, I think so, Ehoos and Maurice
Heme.' It was Anna who spoke, and
she added, 'I wonder they are not
ashamed to show themselves in the face
of the whole congregation.'

as it Mr. Heme?' said Lady St.

Asaph, doubtfully. ' I thought it looked
like Egmont.'

Heme and Egmont were about the
same height, and Laura herself, as the
reader may remember, had once mistaken
Heme for her brother. She wondered
now that she could ever have made such
a mistake.

I think it is Maurice,' repeated Anna ;
but I really don't feel sure.'

It is certainly Maurice,' Cassandra
said. I could never mistake his walk.
There is a peculiar uncertain swing about
it, as though he were trying to go in two
directions at once.'

Laura looked up at Cassandra with
wonder in her eyes. She had been feeling
that not to give an opinion on this
question of identity was to make herself
singular, and yet she could not, if her
Hfe had depended on it, have said a word.
And here was Cassandra giving her

opinion with perfect ease and going out
of her way to suggest disparagement of
Heme ! A wild hope rushed to her
heart, driving away the inclination to
tears and the choking sensation at her
throat. She gave herself up to it thankfully
 joy was safer to-day than sadness,
easier to conceal and less likely to be
wondered at if it betrayed itself. She
would drink the pleasant hope to the
dregs, putting away the thought of the
void misery that must come afterwards
and be borne as it could. She smiled up
at Heme when he spoke to her, making
no attempt at reserve. She knew that
if she answered coldly he would turn
from her to Cassandra, and that then
perhaps her tears would come again.
She let him walk by her and talk. She
would be happy for an hour, though all
the future should be blank. Only she
must avoid Cassandra's eyes and trample

down the thought of what Cassandra
might be feeling.

Again at luncheon he was by her side,
and again she gave herder to enjoyment ;
she talked gaily, laughed, looked brilliant
and lovely. But after luncheon she stole
away to her room and knelt down by her
bed and cried a long time. The others
went for a walk; but she said she was
tired and would rather stay at home.
And by the evening she was in the calm
impassive state that follows upon a nervous
paroxysm.

So the day came to an end. And next
morning, before she was up, she heard
wheels grinding along the carriage-road,
and she knew that the dog cart had come
to take him to the early train at Cresford.

She crept to the window and di'ew back
the blind and looked out into the autumn
morning. The sunshine was almost
as beautiful as on that morning when

they had rambled together, but the trees
were very bare and to Laura the scene
looked desolate. There was the dogcart
waiting, the horse tossing its head
impatiently and rattling the ring of the
bearing rein. She noticed that the rug
she generally used in the pony-carriage
had been flung over the seat, and she felt
a pleasure in the fact. A servant brought
out a portmanteau and put it under the
seat. Then Egmont came and said something
to the groom. And then  but then
her eyes grew dim and she let the blind
down and started back, for Heme was
coming out and she dared not risk being
seen. She left the window and went
to the dressing-table where half-a-dozen
withered cyclamens were standing in a
glass. She took the flowers in her hand
and placed them in a little note-book
that she habitually carried about her.
Then she pushed the book under her

pillow and crept into bed again. And
in another moment lie heard the wheels
tarn, and she knew that he was gone.

Very empty the house seemed all that
day, very weary all the uses of her life
for many days to come. But yet over
and over again she said to herself that
it was a relief that he was gone.

By degrees her life subsided again into
its accustomed channels, the new suggestions
of doubt and difficulty, which had
begun to obscure the old lights, vanished
from her view and left her sky clear and
untroubled as of old ; and before a
month was past the only outward change
to be observed in her was an increased
activity among the people of the village
the only inward change that seemed
abiding to herself was her newly awakened
interest in the larger life of the
world. She read newspapers and was
attentive when questions of social im-vol.
n. 2

portance were discussed, and she made
Cassandra explain to her much in art
and science which had formerly been
indifferent to her.

She believed that all danger was
past and that her new interests held
her by their intrinsic importance. But
the withered cyclamens were not removed
from their place, and the habit continued
of putting the little pocket-book under
her pillow at night.

Do you not know I am a woman ?
When I think, I must speak. '

T was a shock to Laura to find
herself painfully confused when
one day, about a fortnight before
Christmas, Egmont, in speaking of some
guest who was shortly expected at the
castle, remarked that he should like
him to meet Heme. She had not understood
that Heme was coming again, and
she was amazed to find that a certain
self-consciousness prevented her from
simply saying so, as would have been
the natural course. She felt herself
blushing at mention of his name ; and,

unwilling to meet her brother's look, she
received the communication in silence.

Egmont misunderstood her silence and
imputed it to dislike of Heme.

/ I can't think why you have taken
such a disHke to Heme,' he said in a
tone of annoyance. * He is really a very
good fellow, full of hardheartedness and
generosity. And though he has got very
Radical opinions, I declare I think there
is a great deal of reason in much that
he says. He is not a bit of a prig ;
indeed he can't be, or my father would
never have taken such a fancy to him.
It is very illiberal of you to disHke him,
just because he is not a Conservative.
You know the fact is, Laura, . . . .'

Here Egmont stopped and got rather
red. He was beginning to feel it incumbent
on him to have opinions and
to express them ; but at the same time
he was conscious of the difficulty of

appearing in a new character in the
family circle. Away from home, he
talked politics with dignity if not with
originality ; but at home his intellectual
majority was not recognised, and he confined
himself generally to more boyish
subjects. His friendship with Heme
had however given him courage of late ;
besides, he had been reading political
economy and constitutional history,
and, what with books and the conversation
of his friend, he was in as fair a
way as most of us to become a political
light.

He waited a moment to collect his
ideas, and then began again. * You
see, Laura, I think we are a little too
much inclined to stand still here. My
father's ill-health has put him out of
the struggle ; he really knows nothing
of the state of thought and feeling at
the present day ; things have made

enormous strides since he was a young
man ; and of course, if things change,
opinions must change too. And then,
you know, though my mother is admirable
in a practical way, she does not
take a large view. They say women
never do. I mean, you know, that though
it's very nice to have the parish under
one's own influence and to be a sort
of royal family in the place, this sort of
feudal state of things can't go on always,
and that every man ought to look all
these working-class questions boldly in
the face so as to be ready to take his
part when the time for action comes.
And my father himself was a Liberal
when he was a young man, though I
don't know that that matters. . . . But
what was I saying ? Oh, I remember,
I was speaking of Heme. He really
is a very good fellow and thoroughly
earnest in his opinions.'

I do not doubt his being in earnest,
but I think he is rather unpractical,' said
Laura, getting more and more embarrassed,
and feeling driven to say something,
since Egmont was determined to
argue about Heme's merits. She had
no particular meaning in saying that he
was unpractical, and was annoyed to
find the word taken up by her brother.

 Unpractical ? That's what women
always say when they don't know what
fault to find with a man.'

 Do they ? ' said Laura, with a peculiar
smile that she seldom showed to any one
but Egmont  a smile that betrayed the
presence of some critical keenness under
the diffidence and silence of her usual
bearing.  Do they always say men
are unpractical ? I should say that
showed there must be some truth in the
charge.'

 Not in the least ; a thing does not

become true by repetition,' said Egmont
sublimely. but what do you mean by
being unpractical ? '

 Talking about things that can't be
done instead of doing what can.'

 Oh, if that is your idea of Heme,'
said Egmont, rousing himself with sudden
and somewhat scornful energy, I can
only tell you that you are tremendously
mistaken. He is always doing all sorts
of good things  Quixotic sort of things,
such as you don't often hear of a man's
doing. He'll take any amount of trouble
for a friend. The fact is, he is in a very
unfair position here, and it's an infernal
shame from beginning to end.'

What do you mean ? ' said Laura,
wishing heartily that she could tell her
brother the true state of her feelings
towards his friend instead of having to
argue against him and herself at once.

 Oh, I mean with regard to the rectory

y

people. You must know as well as I do
that they have got a grudge against him.'

I know they don't like his opinions
and that they think he had a bad influence
upon Gerard.'

Exactly, that's the very thing, and
what I say is so infernally unfair. Gerard
got into all sorts of scrapes at Oxford, and
Heme helped him out of them and made
the best of things at home. And then
at last but it is not the sort of
thing I can tell you about. Uncle Harvey
would have been furious if he had ever
heard the whole story. When Gerard
had to leave Oxford in disgrace, and
all idea of his taking orders had to be
given up, they chose to say that it was
Heme's fault : whereas everybody who
had an ounce of sense knew perfectly
well that Heme was the best friend
Gerard ever had, and that Gerard was
about as fit to go into the Church as

I am. I declare I wonder Heme condescends
to speak to any of them again.
Only I suppose he likes Cassandra, and
that sort of thing will make a man overlook
a good deal.'

 I wonder, too, that he comes among
them. By doing so he seems to me to
be thrusting himself upon relations who
do not think well of him and who have
shown that they wish to drop him. And 
I cannot quite express what I mean  but
I have a feeling that a man ought not tolet
himself be thought worse of than he
deserves, and that if circumstances bring
such a state of things about, he should
avoid the society of those who misjudge
him, and live in a world where he can be
known as he is. I think that must bethe
meaning of not putting one's light
under a bushel.'

 Pshaw ! ' said Egmont, ' I wish I had
not told you about Heme. You have

y

only turned it all to his disadvantage. I
can't think why you persist in being so
prejudiced against him.'

 Indeed, I am not prejudiced. I only
said that I regretted his placing himself
in a false position.'

That is just what I complain of in
you. You ivill not see that it is circumstances
that have placed him in a false
position. The fact is, you don't know
how perplexing life is to a man.'

 Poor Egmont ! ' said Laura, glad to
divert the conversation into another
channel. ' Is it very perplexing to you ? '

 Not more so I suppose than to most
men. But, I say, Laura, don't you think
you might persuade my mother to have a
pleasant party in the house at Christmas ?
It is generally so frightfully dull, and my
mother can't bear us not to be here, and
yet I really don't see how we can be
expected to stay in the house if we may

not do anything jolly. I don't believe it
would do my father any harm if we had
a ball. He really likes to see people
about, though he fancies he doesn't.
That's one reason why I asked Heme
to come back  my father likes him.
However, we won't go back to that
subject.'

And then they wandered away into
discussion of who might be asked to the
house, and what might be done for the
entertainment of their guests when they
should be gathered together. And Laura
promised to do her best to persuade her
father and mother. And she kept her
promise faithfully.

Willing as she always was to forward
any wish of Egmont's, it must be admitted
that she prosecuted the idea of filling the
house at Christmas-time with an energy
and persistence most unusual in her. She
coaxed her father into consent, reasoned

away all her mother's objections,  promising
to take upon herself all trouble
of preparation and responsibility of entertainment,
 was seized with a sudden
passion for charades and dancing, and
contrived to communicate her enthusiasm
to Cassandra. She found an unexpected
ally in Khoos, whose view, expressed ina
letter from Paris, was that Christmas
being a dreary infliction to be borne
somehow, it was desirable to have a lot
of people in the house during the festival
to drown melancholy in noise  as Indians
are said to collect tum-tum men around
their Suttee sacrifices. He even promised
to make the gathering a condition of his
presence at Ardgwen ; and by this stroke
quite vanquished Lady St. Asaph, who
would have invited all England to her
house if by so doing she could have
ensured getting her son to come at the
Christmas season.

The only point in the programme that
they failed to carry between them was
the ball. Lord St. Asaph could be got
to look with favour on the assembling of
a merry party of young people under his
roof, so long as it was well understood
that it was a family party ; but a ball to
which all the county should be formally
invited was not to be thought of. The
idea of the ball was therefore abandoned,
or rather, like many great ideas that
have startled the world from the Empire
of Alexander downwards, it disappeared
in its integrity to be revived in less
imposing parts. It seemed sufficiently
within the term of a family party to need
no new reference to he ad quarters, that
there should be informal dancing every
other night in the old banqueting-hall,
and that a few specially intimate friends
from the neighbourhood should be invited
to swell the number in the house.

And with the tacit consent of their
mother and the assumed acquiescence of
their father, Egmont and Laura rode
from house to house, giving verbal invitations
for one night or another to almost
all the people whom they had originally-thought
of asking together. Festivities
were to begin a few days before Christmas
and to be kept up actively till New
Year's Day, when the guests would
disperse and the party from Ardgwen
were invited for a few days to Llanoun 
the Tremadocs being unable to spend
Christmas at the castle.

And so when Heme arrived on Christmas
Eve he found the household entirely
metamorphosed. In place of the quiet
family circle with whom he had grown
intimate during his autumn visit, he
found a houseful of people, almost all
strange to him, but intimate with one
another with the intimacy of blood-relationship.

There was a strong county
and family tone about the house ; conversation
ran in family channels of discussion
of people unknown to him and of
interests in which he had no part. For
though the Gwynnes were open-minded
and could look beyond the windows of
their castle upon the world of human
interests, they belonged enough to their
own world to fall naturally into its tone
on suitable occasions. Heme felt himself
an outsider, and though his hosts
were uniformly kind and friendly to
him, he had a sense of being neglected.
His especial grievance, though he would
not allow it to himself, was that Lam-a
was almost inaccessible. Young lady
cousins engrossed her all the morning,
cousins of the other sex were eager to
secure her as a partner in the evening
dances, to be at her side on horseback,
or hold her hand on the ice; nephews

and nieces took possession of her at
luncheon, and by their constant demands
upon her attention made it impossible
for her to join in general conversation.
Heme could have forgiven her for being
constantly engaged, but he could not
forgive her for looking so happy while
he was feeling mortified.

He was not, however, quite without
consolation. For on the rare occasions
when they were thrown together in such
a way as made conversation inevitable,
he could not but observe that her manner
towards him was different fi'om her manner
towards others. She seemed more
eager to talk and less content to be
merely talked to, as if she cared that he
should really know her thought : whereas,
with others, she seemed only concerned
to hear what they had to say and to give
such sympathy as they might require.
For instance, she would begin suddenly,

VOL. n. 3

Oh Mr. Heme, I have been wanting to
tell you,'  and then would follow a little
story of her experience since they had
met, bearing on something he had said ;
or an allusion to a book he had recommended
: delightful indications that she
distinguished him among the others, and
that his influence had become one of the
continuous threads of her existence.

It was a pity he could not know that
when she was smiling most sweetly upon
others and entering gaily into conversation
for which he did not care, the
sweetness and radiance that tormented
him owed their origin to his presence,
under the influence of which she felt
herself expanding into fuller enjoyment
than she had known for weeks ;  a pity,
not only for his sake, but for Laura's,
whose gladness was many a time checked
by seeing him looking depressed and
abstracted. ' Like a mute at a wedding,'

Egmont said,  and lie added that he
should have given him credit for being
able to enjoy himseK Hke a reasonable
man, and that he was beginning to think
him a prig after all. But Laura felt
rebuked by his gravity, and found her-see
once more questioning her own right
to be happy.

It was New Year's Eve, the day before
the party was to break up. The hall was
decorated with flowers and evergreens ;
wax-lights burned in the old silver
sconces on the walls ; the number of
dancers was double what it had been on
any former night. It was almost a ball ;
and all the more successful for its impromptu
character, which kept down expectation
and disposed everybody to be
easily gratified. Musicians had been
hired from Cresford, and Cassandra, who
had hitherto taken on herself the part of
playing, was free to dance among the rest.

She was looking more than usually handsome,
and winning as much admiration
as Laura herself. People amused themselves
with discussing which was the more
beautiful  some giving the palm to the
girlish charms of Laura, others to the
more mature beauty of Cassandra.

Maurice Heme, standing moodily in a
doorway, watched first one and then the
other with wondering annoyance. The
scene looked foolish to him, as scenes of
frivolity are apt to look when we are out
of temper ; and it passed his understanding
that sensible people should find
delight in it. He had not danced himself
for years  he had got out of the
habit of ball-going in his hard-working
days and had never resumed it. And
though his abstinence was mainly the
result of circumstances, that did not
prevent his regarding the enjoyment of
others from a position of critical superiority.

As the Frenchman decided that
music was an illusion when old age
had deprived him of hearing, so Heme,
having forgotten the pleasures of rhythmic
movement, judged that to whirl one
another round on a polished floor was a
pastime in which only fools could find
satisfaction. I hope it will not be considered
an inconsistency in him that he
rather envied the fools in their folly.

Laura came up and asked him why he
did not dance,

You cannot think how delightful it is
on this smooth oak floor. It is like
swimming away into heaven. . . . But I
believe you think it silly,  if not wrong,'
she added wistfully.

Not in the least ; I merely envy those
who enjoy it.'

But why should not you enjoy it ? It
is much better to enjoy than to envy.
Wil you let me find you a partner ?

You shall have Eva Courtenay, who
dances like a fairy.'

Is it too much to ask that you should
take my conversion in hand yourself?
Will you give me the next dance ? '
I wish I could, hut I am engaged.'
 And for the dance after that ? '
 I am afraid I am engaged for all
the rest of the evening. But do ask
Eva.'

Eva Courtenay was the prettiest of a
trio of pretty, fair-haired girls  nieces of
Lord St. Asaph  who were staying in the
house. Egmont had been paying her
great attention throughout the visit, and
they had danced almost every dance
together that evening. Now, however,
she appeared to be disengaged, and was
sitting by her mother while couples were
sorting themselves and getting into place.
But as Laura spoke, Egmont was seen
approaching her, and Heme said, 

You see Miss Courtenay is also engaged.
It is too late for repentance.'

Then Laura's partner claimed her, and
Heme, falling back into the doorway,
saw her carried past him in the dance.

Since when have you renounced
dancing ? ' asked Cassandra's voice in
an amused tone. She was sitting on a
bench near the door and had overheard
the little dialogue with Laura.

Since I lost the power of enjoying it.
It is a taste one outgrows.'

1 have not outgrown it yet, and I have
had more of it than you have.'

I can only congratulate you on your
more enduring youth.'

 Pray don't look so melancholy,' said
Cassandra ;  your tragic air is attracting
general attention. An old lady has been
asking Khoos confidentially who the
sombre-looking man standing in the
doorway is ; and I have had to give up

this dance in order to reassure her about
you. She thought you must be plotting
instant destruction of Church and State,
and was on the point of ordering her
carriage before supper.'

It is my misfortune to look savage
when I am bored.'

but why be bored when everybody
else is happy ? '

 I was meditating on the hackneyed
theme of mutability.'

the occasion that suggested it
being ?'

 The difference in the appearance of
this house to-night and when I was herein
the autumn.'

And of course you think the change
is not for the better ? '

 I certainly found it pleasant in the
autumn. I am out of my element in
the midst of all this rejoicing.'

rejoicing is the right thing at

Christmas-time,' said Cassandra. ' I
like it.'

Heme shrugged his shoulders. ' Again
I can only congratulate you.'

He spoke with an air of profound
dejection, at which Cassandra could not
refrain from smiling.

I seem to amuse you,' he said.

 Yes, you do. You remind me of old
times and tempt me to give myself airs
again and lecture you. Shall I ? '

By all means. You will make me
feel young again.'

 And am I to he candid  to speak the
truth and the whole truth ? '

Certainly.'

For instance, may I say that I think
it is rather unreasonable of you to be put
out at finding yourself a less important
person here now than you were six
months ago ? '

Cassandi'a gave her home thrust in a

bantering tone, and then looked np apologetically,
doubtful how it would be taken.

You are as unmerciful as ever,' said
Heme.

I am rude,' she said.

But she did not look rude. Her face
wore an expression of affectionate solicitude,
and there were tears in her eyes.

She repeated, 'I was rude, and I beg
your pardon. To tell the truth, I quite
agree with you in hating nothing s o
much as a houseful of people that I
don't know. But I do happen to know
these people, and I can enjoy myself
among them. Besides, I have an insatiable
love of dancing.'

 You would have liked to dance this ? '

I would rather talk.'

What shall we talk about ? '
Anything you like. Do you know,
by-the-by, that you have a great deal to
answer for with regard to Egmont ?

He has changed his politics and become
a Liberal since he made your acquaintance,
and he is continually coming
out with startling notions which he backs
up with your authority. You have become
a sort of pope with him.'

Heme laughed. And then going back
to the subject of his own thoughts, he
said, 

 I am coming round to your opinion
that friendship is a mistake between
people who belong to different worlds.'

I am afraid it is,' said Cassandra;
or rather it is an impossibility. To befriends,
people must have a common
ground in their every-day life. And yet
I don't know that the truth of the matter
is not that the consciousness of belonging
to different worlds only lasts till people
have become friends.'

 Certainly,' said Heme,  there have
been strong friendships between people

at opposite poles of society ; and not
friendships only, but marriages which
have proved happy.'

Cassandra was doubting what to answer,
when the music stopped, and the
dancers interrupted then* Ute-d-Ute by
passing through the door to seek cooler
air in the galleries and on the staircase.

But Heme was not disposed to be interrupted
altogether. It was the first time
Cassandra had allowed herself to be drawn
into anything like intimate talk with him
since he had arrived. She had been
designedly repellent in her manner towards
him, warding off by an air of studied
indifference the danger of being led into
any betrayal of her real feelings. And,
as it was her good or ill fortune to be an
excellent actress. Heme had been taken
in. He believed that his early love for
her had died long ago, and he had never
thought that she had repaid it with more

than friendship. But he had varied her
friendship, and it was not without regret
that he observed her determination to
keep him at a distance. He would not
let slip this opportunity of recovering
their old footing.

Shall we move too ? ' he said, offering
her his arm and leading her, not towards
the galleries whither the dancers were
making their way, but across the stone
passage into the library where no one
was.

Cassandra let herself be led away
without reflecting that she was drifting
into the very danger that she had been
taking so much trouble to avoid. Her
mind at the moment was turned upon
another danger  not to herself  which she
was anxious if possible to avert. During
the six weeks that had passed between
Heme's two visits she had come to see
his attitude towards Laura in another

light than that in which it had first
struck her. It was clear to her that
Laura's feelings were seriously engaged,
but it was by no means clear to her that
happiness would result from the attachment.
She foresaw opposition from Lord
St. Asaph, besides other difficulties which
appeared to her insuperable. Heme's
allusion to marriages between people at
opposite social poles suggested to her
the possibility of saying a word of timely
warning. As they sat down in the empty
room she said, 

 You were going to speak of marriages
between people who belong to different
worlds. I think they make a case apart
from friendship ; for in marriage one world
or the other must be given up, either
husband or wife adopting the life of
the other. But I should think that it
was generally a dangerous experiment.
Few natures are vigorous enough to

thrive in an atmosphere that is wholly
foreign.'

She waited for him to answer, but he
was silent ; and she repented having
spoken, wishing herself back among the
others.

 Are you going to Llanoun ? ' she
asked, abruptly.

I am. Are you ? '

No ; I have had rejoicing enough.'

 But surely this is a sudden determination.
Lady Laura told me you were to
be there.'

' I have written to Sarah that I am not
coming.'

But that is a pity. Can't you be persuaded
to change your mind ? '

Much would depend on the arguments
used.'

 If I said that it was a great disappointment
to me that you would not
be there, would that have any effect ? '

No,' she said, a sudden resentment
mastering her.  It would not make the
slightest difference, because I should not
believe it.'

Heme was not sure whether she was
in jest or earnest ; and, had her presence
of mind not deserted her, she might yet
have made a safe retreat. But she had
spoken under the influence of one of
those impulses common to passionate
natures, that urge them to break down
shams and face real issues in naked
truthfulness ; and having spoken, she
felt that further dissimulation was useless,
and she went on recklessly.

 Maurice,' she said bitterly,  why
should we play at hide-and-seek together
 we who understand one another
so well ? You need not be afraid. I have
no intention of speaking of myself beyond
asking you not to insult me any more
with insincere speeches like your last.

It is about Laura that I am going to
speak. You are playing with her unfairly
 you are upsetting her peace of
mind without having any definite prospect
of being able to restore it. You
know that you are not in a position to
marry her,  that my uncle would turn
you out of the house if you proposed
such a thing,  and yet you hang about
her and let her get fond of you. Of
your own part in it I say nothing, though
it is pitiable enough that you should
waste your time in dreaming about a
woman who is utterly out of your reach.
It is of her happiness that I am thinking.
You are going to Llanoun.
Have you realised what you are doing ?
Have you considered that Laura cannot
be your wife without either outraging all
the traditions of her family or being a
stranger at your hearth ? If she were
to adopt your views she would cut her-vol.

II. 4

self off from her own people  if she
did not adopt them, you would both be
miserable. It is folly to think of it ! '

But I tell you said Heme,  that I
have not thought of it.'

Then I say it is greater folly still to
drift into danger without thinking of it.'

Are you sure the danger does not lie
wholly in your imagination ? '

My imagination shows it me perhaps,
but it does not create it. Imagination
is no bad prophet ; and if I have too
much, I only wish I could give you a
little of it in place of some of your
short-sighted man's wisdom.'

 I think you are presuming too much
upon our friendship, Cassandra. . . .'

He began severely, but his tone quickly
changed; and Cassandra felt that it was
in tenderness and not in anger that he
broke off. She answered sadly, 

It is possible. But I care for Laura,

and I cannot be silent when I feel that
to speak may perhaps save her from the
misery that I foresee for her in any
development of her feeling for you. Yes,
I say it advisedly  misery. You do not
know her as I know her ; and you think,
perhaps, because she talks little of her
religious beliefs and is happy in small
things, that she is indifferent to greater
ones. But you are mistaken. Hers is
just one of those sensitive minds to
which, while the world is what it is,
some faith in a better world is a necessary
condition of happiness. She is
happy now almost without knowing why,
but if you took from her her belief
in God and Heaven she would wither
like a flower in drought. And if you
think that she would be content to
worship without you, I tell you again
that you are mistaken. And I know
what I am talking about. I know what



 ILUWOfe

it is to stand alone, to believe alone. . . .
I know it as you cannot know it  as only
those can know who have been lonely
all their lives Oh, Maurice ! '

She broke down suddenly, and the last
word came with a sob.

She had not meant to speak of herself,
she had said truly that it was love for
Laura and solicitude on her account that
had prompted her to speak her warning.
For during the last few weeks she had
faced and conquered the unworthy
jealousy that had taken her soul by
storm in the hour when she realised
that Maurice's affection was transferred
from herself to her cousin : she had
put her foot upon the neck of her unrequited
love and trampled it in the
dust of repentance. But our mortified
egoism live on underfoot, writhing beneath
the pressure of our will, ready
to start up again the moment our watchfulness,

is relaxed, and surprise us
perhaps in some cunning disguise of disinterested
care for the welfare of another.
Affection for Laura had been the
prompter. But the cue given, words had
come to her as to an actor who has
brooded over his part till each pregnant
word calls up the next, and the effort of
memory is reduced to kindling the first
of a chain of linked emotions. It washer
own experience that had taught her
to fear for her cousin; how then could
she plead for Laura without pleading indirectly
for herself ? How could thoughts
forged in the fire of her own trial find
utterance and not show marks of their
origin ?

In thinking she could speak and yet
keep her secret, she had over-estimated
her strength ; and she read her failure
in the compassion that looked from
Maurice's eyes.

Her words came to him as an appeal
from a soul in anguish, and with them a
rush of influence from the past went over
him  strong, irresistible as the avalanche
that sweeps the mountain's side with the
force of a long winter's gathered snows.

 Cassandra,' he said in a low voice,
 you have only to say one word, and I
will stay away from Llanoun, and Laura
shall be saved from all risk of pain.
I am sincere now, and it rests with
you to keep me so. Will you believe
me?'

He was bending over her. She felt
his breath upon her forehead; his hand
was laid on hers. But her eyes were fixed
upon her lap. She dared not lift them
to meet his.

 Cassandra,' he said again, ' will you
trust me ? '

The tones of his voice thrilled her like
exquisite music. But she could not

answer. Wonder, joy, shame held her
fast. .

 Cassandi'a,' said another voice, 
Laura's,  speaking from the door.

And Cassandra made haste to disengage
her hand, pretending confusedly
that a bracelet had got unclasped and
was being adjusted.

' I have been looking for you everywhere,'
said Laura. * We want to dance
Sir Eager, and Ehoos says he is engaged
to you and will not dance with anybody
else. Come quickly, we are all waiting.'

The two women went away together 
Laura apparently without having even
noticed Heme's presence, Cassandra
without giving him a parting look.

An hour later the hall was deserted,
the wax candles were blown out and
stood corpse-ike in their sconces. Movement
of bright dancers and murmur
of voices were gone, and the great

chamber was once more tenanted by the
silence and emptiness that were its
usual occupants. The last carriage
had rolled away through falling snow ;
the ladies of the house had retired to
their rooms ; the men were lingering over
the hall-fire, preparatory to a retreat to
the smoking-room.

Where is Heme ? ' asked Choose

He went to bed an horn' ago with
a bad headache said Egmont. * He
seemed out of sorts all the evening, and
he asked me to make his excuses if anyone
noticed his absence. Heigh-ho !
let's have a smoke.'

When a man is disappointed in a woman, it pleases-him
to think her hateful and to pray to be delivered from
her. But to have loved a woman once is to have a capacity
for loving her again.

Now to love life is like loving a woman.'

IaSSANDKA did not go to bed
after the dance. She sat
through the hours between
night and morning, looking out on the
white snow scene. And as she watched
the slow fall of flake on flake, she seemed
to gather a sad consolation from the
noiseless monotony of their descent.
Like the merciful veil of forgetfulness in
death to the fevered soles of human
life, seemed that white covering setting

silently on hill and valley and garden
lawn, and wrapping in a common garment
of loveliest purity castle and cottage and
spreading tree and creeping ivy.

 Oh if I could only die to-night ! ' she
murmured to herder  ' die and escape
the shame of tomorrow  die and be
forgiven for all my blunders, and remembered
only as the dead are, with tenderness
and pity. Oh if I could only die
and be at rest ! '

Poor troubled spirit  the rest of death
is far away from you as yet ! Far from
those vigorous rounded limbs through
which the pulses of life send the blood
coursing with such force that even in the
fireless room where the water is freezing
in the ewer, the hands that grasp each
other in the darkness are warm to
their own touch; far from the glowing
beauty of the face that presses itself in
agony against the window-pane ; very far

from the busy activity of the brain that
gives such intolerable point to suffering,
and scares away rest by its impatience of
the inevitable pauses of life. Death is
not coming yet. To-morrow and many
morrows more must be met, with the
shame they may bring, and the sorrow,
and the joy. The hom-s pass slowly, and
the church clock sounds their flight with
a dull uncertain voice at intervals that
seem like centuries ; but they are passing
steely, and the morning will come from
beyond the hills, and you will be full
of life and health to meet it, and you
will wrestle with it as you have wrestled
with the long train of yesterdays that
lie behind you  wounded often and nigh
to despau', but never quite overthrown
or wholly without hope. And you will
rejoice in the blue sky and the sunshine
and the sparkle of the diamond underfoot
; and you will thank death for having

spared you, and love life again despite
the shame. Nay, are you not beginning
to love it again already as you watch the
successive kindling of lights in cottage
bedrooms where labourers are wakening
to the day's toil? Is there not in the
feeble radiation of those smoky candles
a message of sympathy that pierces the
dark loneliness of your heart and calls
you back to fellowship with lives of men
and women whom you know, and have
helped many a time in their hour of
trouble, and are planning even now to
help again ? Can you be heartily praying
for death and quite sated with the light
of living day while that glad smile breaks
over your tired face at sight of what is
happening on the top of the eastern
slope ?

The snow-flakes have ceased to fall,
and the dim sky-curtain is suffused with
fairest radiance. The snow on the pine-tops

is tui-ned to tawny gold, and the
grey old castle glitters like an aerial
palace of glass. Morning has come at
last ; and its lap is full of healthful influences
of work and hope and interest.

Cassandra rouses herself and strikes a
light; for in spite of the gilding on the
hill-top and the bright reflection from the
outer snow, the room is too dim for the
operations of the toilet to he carried on
without the help of a candle.

She looks at her watch that lies on
the table where she laid it last evening
before dressing for the dance at the
castle ; it has stopped, she must have
neglected to wind it up on coming home.
She strips herself hastily of her ball-gown
and ornaments, and dresses herself in her
usual morning gown. She moves quickly
about the room, doing each little office
with precision and energy, but with a
mind apparently intent upon other things.

Her movements are strenuous because a
strong resolution is forming in lier mind,
but the resolution has nothing to do with
the trivial acts to which it lends its
character.

By the time she is dressed the church
clock strikes eight; she sets her watch
by it and then sits down and writes a
short note. There are hardly a dozen
lines in it and they are written without
hesitation, for they embody the thought
that has been taking shape in her mind
ever since the light began to dawn upon
the castle slope. They are a translation
into daylight sanity of the wild longing
of the night for death and oblivion : 

swill you try to forget what passed
last night ? I was weak, and my weakness
betrayed me into mad words. I
only ask you now to make no attempt
to see me before you go to Llanoun, and

to remember that it is in your power to
hurt Laura.  C. G.'

She folds the note without even reading
it through, as if she feared the
temptation to destroy it. Then, wrapping
herself in a cloak, she goes out into
the passage where the housemaid is busy
with her broom, down the staircase, and
forth into the white outside world. The
rectory does not breakfast till nine, and
if she walks briskly she will have time to
carry her note to the castle and get home
again before the family assembles for
prayers.

Very cheerless the scene looked now,
for the brightness of dawn had faded
from the sky which stretched overhead,
an unbroken sheet of dingy grey. The
snow was falling again, and the flakes
settled fast on her cloak and hat, and
drifted coldly against her unprotected

face. But she did not heed them. She
walked resolutely on with an expression
of sad but firm purpose that seemed in
harmony with the grim sunlessness of
the scene.

The note was delivered to a footman
in shirt-sleeves, who promised to give it
to Heme as soon as he should be up,
and looked not a little surprised to see
Cassandra abroad so early after the
dissipation of last night. And when Mrs.
Wynne came down with the keys of the
tea-chest, Cassandra was already in the
dining-room, waiting for breakfast and
ready to talk over the incidents of the
dance, as if there had been no special
incident of which the remembrance was
painful to her.

But when breakfast was over she put
her cloak on again, and without saying a
word to any one, went forth once more
into the snow  not this time on a definite

errand, but merely that she might spend
in physical exercise the throbbing energy
within her, and find soothing for her pain
among the sweeping curves of hill-lines
and the soughing of snow-laden pine-branches.


She walked up the hill that faced the
castle, and when she reached the top she
paused for a few minutes, sending her
eye along the path she had taken before
breakfast as if she expected to see someone
retracing the track of her footsteps
in the snow. But if so, her glance was
disappointed ; for it was not till she was
haKway down the other side of the hill
that Maurice left the breakfast-table,
saying that he was going to the rectory
to take leave of his uncle and aunt
before starting for Llanoun.

VOL. n.

she swears that all the men of his country are
constant. '

Marry then, I think that one of them swears false.'
*His reason is that all the women are of one complexion.'


Marry then, I think he may speak truth.'

Cassandra is out,' said Anna
Wynne as Heme was ushered
into the rectory drawing-room.
 She has gone on one of her mad errands
through the snow.' She spoke in the
even, inexpressive tones that were
habitual with her  looking her cousin
straight in the face, but without betraying
any special curiosity or suspicion.

Heme however knew her too well to
doubt the point of her announcement.
He understood what she meant him to
understand, namely that she was perfectly
aware that he had come therefor
the purpose of seeing Cassandra,
and that Cassandra had gone out in
order to avoid him. He knew also that
ideas, once admitted into Anna's mind,
were not easily displaced, and he made
no attempt directly or indirectly to disclaim
the object of his visit. He merely
said, 

 I hope your father and mother are
not out too. I have come to say goodbye
before starting for Llanoun.'

 No, they are at home  I will tell
them you are here.' And Anna went
out of the room to summon her parents.
She returned in a minute saying they
would come presently  her father was
giving instructions to the clerk about

the week's services, her mother was
ordering dinner. She sat down on an
armless chair at some distance from
Heme, and, taking some needlework
from her pocket, began sewing diligently
 leaving it to him to find conversation.


How is it that neither you nor Cassandra
are going to Llanoun ? ' he asked.

Addressed to Anna, the question was
a safe one ; there was no danger of her
being carried into one of those embarrassing
utterances of the whole truth to
which Cassandra was prone. Anna, like
all people of narrow outlook, had an
instinctive and quite unconscious dislike
of truth  that is to say, of all truth
that she had not weighed and measured
and followed in thought into its uttermost
consequences. She prided herself
on being matter-of-fact, and limited
fact to matter within her own ken.

And though her want of imagination
prevented her from ever seeing anything
in a true light, she believed herder to
be the one entirely truthful person in
the world.

She answered Heme's question without
lifting her eyes from her work.

 1 do not go because I take no interest
in Sarah's hobbies, and they are always
more than usually rampant at this time
of the year. And as for Cassandra, her
reasons are always beyond the comprehension
of the rest of the family. For
my part, I have given up trying to
understand them.'

The steely coldness of her tone
connected itself in Heme's mind with
Cassandra's appeal of the night before for
those whom fate has made lonely in their
lives. He looked at Anna with amazement,
as wondering that any woman
should be so little human, and felt

a deepened compassion for Cassandra.

And yet Anna was perhaps not less
entitled to sympathy than Cassandra.
She suspected rightly that Cassandra's
staying away from Llanoun had reference
to something that had gone wrong
in her relations with Mamice, hut what
that something was she was unable to
guess. And she was hurt that Cassandra
had not confided in her. Not unnaturally
; for we cannot expect people to
recognise their incapacity for the part
of confidant when the very cause of it
lies in their defect of the delicate perceptions
and quick sympathies that belong
to a wide-ranging imagination. If it was
impossible for Cassandra to unbosom herself
to Anna, it was equally impossible for
Anna not to resent Cassandra's reserve.
There would seem to be in the world an
irreconcilable quarrel between width and
narrowness to which one can see no end

save in the final strangling or absorption
of one or other force ; and, in the meanwhile,
it is difficult to say on which side
justice and mercy oftener fail.

Heme took up a book and made no
further attempt at conversation. Anna
stitched on industriously.

It was a relief when Mrs. Wynne
came in full of affectionate greetings
and cheery interest in the expedition to
Llanoun. She was sorry Anna and Cassandra
were not going  but there was
no use in her saying anything. They
were both so much firmer than she was,
and no doubt had good reasons for
staying at home  there was always a
great deal to be done at this time of
the year with the clothing-club and
coal-club, and now that Lady St. Asaph
was so much taken up with Lord St.
Asaph she did not know what she
should do if her daughters did not help

her. Still she was sorry. It would
have been a pleasant time for them, and
she would have enjoyed thinking of
them all together at Llanoun. How
long was Maurice going to stay there ? 
had he ever been there before ? No ? 
then he would be very much interested.
Sarah was so clever in her arrangements.
Her home was quite an Utopia
so indeed was the whole parish. And
Mr. Tremadoc was such a kind, pleasant
person. Perhaps it was quite as well
that he did not go quite so far as some
people did about reform,  it was a sort
of check on Sarah. Indeed Mrs. Wynne
sometimes thought that it was owing
to his influence that Sarah was so much
the most charming of the three sisters 
though they were all charming in their
way. But she could not help thinking
that Mary was a little too scientific
and political for a woman, and that

Kacliel would do more good if she
concentrated her energies on some individual
parish instead of belonging to
so many Societies. But then, to be
sure, Rachel lived in London almost all
the year and had not the same opportunities
as her sister. One last not
judge. . . .

Mrs. Wynne talked on pleasantly,
taking kindly views of everything and
everybody, while Anna sat back, sewing
with undivided attention, and Heme
just put in a word here and there. If
he had shown any inclination to talk afc
greater length, Mrs. Wynne would have
been as content to listen as she now was
to talk. She always took the part in life
that was left by others, and cheerfully
made the best of it. She talked on till
her husband came in, with his great-coat
on and his hat in his hand, to ask her
what in the world she had done with

the accounts of the clothing-crib. He
wanted them instantly, and it was really
most annoying that his papers never
could be left where he put them.

What Mrs. Wynne had done with the
accounts was to keep them very carefully
all the year round and to balance them
accurately only ten days ago. They were
safely and handily stored in a drawer
of her writing-table, and were produced
without a moment's delay. Mr. Wynne
took them impatiently, just glanced at the
last written page, gave a grunt which
seemed to say that, thank Heaven, they
were not this time in such utter confusion
as might have been expected ; and was
going out of the room without having
spoken a word to Heme. When the
rector was busy he was not very mindful
of the dues of others, especially of people
against whom he had a grudge.

His wife recalled him to courtesy :

Harvey, you are forgetting that Maurice
will be gone before you come in.'

Oh, I thought you would be here to
luncheon probably,' he said, taking his
wife's hint, without, however, acknowledging
it by look or gesture. (The part
left for Mrs. Wynne in married life
included much trouble and Httle thanks.)
'I'm sorry I cannot stay, but I'm
obliged to walk up to the schools immediately.
I suppose it would not suit you
to walk so far with me ? '

The invitation was not given very
graciously, but Heme accepted it all the
same, not being desirous of prolonging
his visit at the rectory. He walked upto
the schools with his uncle, who discoursed
much, by the way, on the impossibility
of getting anything to go right
in a parish where Methodism had once
set its foot. 'I declare,' he said, warming
to his subject and growing confidential

in the absence of contradiction,  for
Heme, absorbed by other thoughts, did
not trouble himself to argue, but listened
in silence, which his uncle was at liberty
to interpret as he liked,   I declare I
would rather they were all rank atheists
one knows what to be at with a manlike
Heasman there. But these ranters,
with their texts and their hypocritical
psalm-singing, bewilder the people till
they don't know their right hand from
their left, and can't see that insubordination
isn't Christianity. And what increases
tenfold the difficulty of dealing
with them is that you can never get a
woman to see this question of dissent ina
reasonable light.' It was ungrateful
of Mr. Wynne to say this, for Anna
saw the question in exactly the same
light that he did, which was what he
meant by a reasonable light. But the
rector was of an exacting temper that

disposed him to value little the easily
won agreement of persons like minded
with himself ; he regarded their opinions
as mere subsidiary clauses included in his
own convictions, while the opinions of
those who did not agree with him, though
worthless in themselves, were so many
affronts to his importance which he could
not afford to overlook. The result was
that the feelings of Mrs. Wynne and
Cassandra were taken as representative
of the feelings of all women, while
those of Anna were simply ignored. So
Mr. Wynne considered that no woman
could he got to see Dissent in its true
colours, because as he told Maurice,
 Nothing that I can say will hinder my
wife from behaving in the same way to
the Dissenters and the Church people.
And Cassandra is as bad ; she has not left
me a moment's peace this week because
I have advised my clerk,'  Mr. Gywnne

always said mis clerk and my church
and my schoolmaster,  ' because I have
advised my clerk not to let a cottage
of his, that has just fallen vacant, to a
dissenting family up at the other end of
the village. But I am forgetting that
you will probably take her side.'

 I am afraid I should,' said Heme ;
'but I have not time this morning to
discuss the question. I ought to begetting
back to the castle.'

Ah, well ! good-bye. I am glad to
have seen you again. I suppose you are
likely to be in these parts again some
of these days ? '

I suppose so,' said Heme, though in
truth that was a point he had been
revolving in his mind with much uncertainty,
as he walked from the rectory to
the school, and continued to revolve with
unceasing perplexity in the course of the
further walk from the school to the castle.

Since last evening, he had come to
see at least a prophetic truth in the
words Cassandra had spoken on the
evening of his first coming to Ardgwen.
He had no business there, and must
either make this visit his last or come
back as the declared suitor of one or
other of the women whose affections he
had engaged.

He had come to one of those crossroads
of life where every course points to
an event for which, when it is accomplished,
we must ever feel remorse, though
our self-reproach becoming articulate
has no severer rebuke for us than the
simple statement that we ought to have
been elsewhere. The false position in
which he undeniably stood towards both
Laura and Cassandra was only so far his
fault that it resulted from the inaction
and indecision that had crippled all his
career. It was one of those remote

consequences of omission  sad children
of our unfaithfulness  that persistently
reveal themselves to our confusion and
dishonour, claiming equal descent with
the more creditable results of action
to which we are so proud to give our
name. We try to disown them, we
appeal to the world whether they are
like us  like our promises, our principles,
our intentions. And the world answers
with a sneer that they are very like us
like our weakness and our waywardness
and our neglected opportunities.
The parentage is proved, and the past
hangs as a millstone round our neck.

Heme hardly attempted to justify
himself in his present dilemma. He was
more concerned to discover the way out
of it  more anxious if possible to console
Cassandra than to establish that she
was to blame for needing consolation.
He could not turn with indifference

I

from the desolate life that had cried
involuntarily to his. He could not find
much satisfaction in the reflection that,
had her attitude been less enigmatical
seven years ago, events would have taken
a different course and their united lives
might have achieved all that they had
failed in singly.

He asked himself why the union might
not be even now. Cassandra was the
same woman at thirty that he had loved
at three-and-twenty. He still admired
her, he still desired her friendship, he
still courted her approval and winced
under her reproach. But it was no
longer Cassandra but Laura who appeared
to him as the inspiring angel of
new beginnings.

Not that he had ever definitely proposed
to himself to make Laura his
wife ; the difficulties that Cassandra had
pointed out with such merciless truth-vol.

II. 6

fulness had been tacitly recognised by
him all along, and though he could not
conceal from himself that every thought
of new effort had been lately linked with
thought of Laura, he had been content
hitherto to couple himself with her in
vague dreams. Now however words had
been spoken which brought the question
out of the region of dreams. Cassandra
had told him plainly that Laura cared
for him, and it behoved him as an
honourable man either to come forward
definitely and take his chance of winning
her in spite of the objections he anticipated
from her family, or to withdraw
altogether and allow her to recover
from the impression he had made upon
her feelings before it had deepened to an
enduring scar.

His purpose in going to see Cassandra
had not been very clearly stated t
himself. But he had hoped by a quiet

interview with her to arrive at a more
accurate measure of his feelings than
he was conscious of possessing at present.
Having missed her, lie thought
the best thing he could do was to carry
out his intention of going to Llanoun.

The April's in lier eyes ; it is Love's spring,
And these the showers to bring it on. '

LANOXIN was certainly a very-pleasant
house to stay in and
Lady Sarah a most charming
hostess. So said all the world, and so
thought Maurice Heme, to whom it
seemed that in coming to the Tremadocs'
he had travelled hack to the pleasant
time of his autumn visit to Ardgwen.

Lady Sarah received him with entire
cordiality, taking up the subjects they
had discussed together at the point
where they had left them, and, by her
eagerness to show him the working of

her schemes and her solicitude for his
approval of them, making him feel that
her interest in him had been a genuine
one, and not merely a passing fancy to be
forgotten in a succession of other intercourse.


Lady Sarah was rather famous for
her friendships. She attracted to herself
people of marked individuality, and made
firm alliances with them in spite of wide
differences of character and conviction.
She would say, ' I am I  you are you.
I have no theories, I belong to no school.
I never made a proselyte in my life and
never mean to let any one make one of
me. But it amuses me to look at the
world through other people's spectacles,
and I like all people who have the sense
to be themselves.' What she liked in
others she realised in her own Hfe, and
her great charm probably came from the
instinctive wisdom with which she always

was herself. To it doubtless was due
the great success that attended all her
undertakings and seemed a quality of
her mind communicating itself to her
work rather than a happy crowning
from without ; and fi'om it resulted a
certain artistic completeness in her life
and character which disarmed criticism
and won approval even from those whose
most cherished prejudices she ventured
to oppose. Her frank disclaimer of any
regulating principle beyond her taste and
of any test outside experience, gave to
all she said and did the character of an
exception, which like all exceptions
might be considered to prove the rule it
broke. And so when she ran a tilt
against conventionalities, the most conventional
people felt that they might give
a rare indulgence to their natural man
and admire the hardy stroke, fearless of
establishing a dangerous precedent. If

she wanted to know people who were not
entitled to be known in her section of
society, she said, not ' The So-and-so's
are worthy people and ought to be invited,'
but  I like them, and I want to
have them at my parties.' If she wished
to reform the dress of her housemaid,
she did not denounce the iniquity of
fashion out of place, but attacked a
special gown as unbecoming, and suggested
in its place some garment of her
own contriving, possibly a pattern from
her own wardrobe which she had already
recommended by wearing it herself. If
she wanted her husband to make any
new arrangements on his estate, to improve
cottages or build new ones, she
begged the reform as a gratification of a
personal whim, and seldom failed to gain
her point. And so it came about that,
though she made no proselytes, she
obtained much influence and made her

mark on all around her. And at the
same time, by dint of looking through
other people's spectacles, she unconsciously
borrowed much from minds unlike
her own. Some conscious borrowing
she did also, in the way of buying up
waste talents and making people serve
her ends without believing in them. All
was grist that came to her mill, and
many who had failed to make their
talents serve ends of their own imagining,
or who lacked faith in any ends to
serve, were glad to do journeyman's work
under so confident a head.

There was at this moment a large
party assembled in the house. The
Courteney had come over with the
party from Ardgwen, to the great satisfaction
of Egmont, whose devotion to the
pretty Eva was becoming serious. The
"Walworthss were there, and Lady Mary
Vane. Then there was a sprinkling of

friends from the outer world. Mr. Burr ell
Jones, a London clergyman of liberal doctrine
and bright genial outlook  a massive
man with a splendid physique that
disposed him to aesthetic enjoyment and
coloured his Christianity with a refined
sensuousness that was very attractive to
a prosperous generation little inclined to
qualify itself for entrance into the gates
of life by any process of maiming and
halting. His wife, a graceful woman
with pale wavy hair and placid smiles
that passed for beauty with the help of
a studied picturesque style of dress.
A German lady who played the piano
beautifully, but not quite beautifully
enough to succeed professionally, as
Lady Walworth had intended her todo,
and who, having made her debut
last season in that lady's drawing-room
without creating the sensation that
was hoped from her, had sunk back

into obscurity, where Lady Sarah's
friendship had come to her consolingly.
And last but not least, Lady Sarah's
sworn champion and ally, Mr. Walter
Fenton, who deserves to be introduced to
the reader at greater length than the
other guests.

He was a man of miscellaneous talent
and whimsical character whom society
had once hailed as a genius, but had
long given up as a riddle not to be
solved. Some ten or twelve years ago
he had gained a sudden fame as a painter
by exhibiting at the Royal Academy a
series of ideal heads of rare beauty.
But since then he had done nothing, or
at least had given nothing to the world.
His studio was full of vague sketches and
unfinished attempts, and to the few intimate
friends who were admitted within
it he was in the habit of defending his
unproductiveness by comparing himself

to the prophet who went out to curse
and was constrained to bless, with the
difference that in his case he tried to
bless and succeeded only in cursing. He
seemed to be dominated by a genius of
despair. Gifted with a body and mind
tremulously sensitive to every charm
of beauty in the moral and physical
world, he was unable to find enjoyment
anywhere by reason of a mastering
sense of the transient character of all
good, of the blank purposelessness of
life and the futility of endeavour : every
idea turned to tragedy as he dwelt on it,
and subjects, chosen for their beauty as
worthy of representation in art, were one
after another dismissed by him, always
for the same reason that some latent
ugliness had revealed itself.

The friendship between Mr. Fenton
and Lady Sarah was of old standing,
dating as far back as her unmarried days.

And some said that lie had then cherished
a hopeless passion for her, and that it washer
marriage with Mr. Tremadoc that was
the death-how to his career as a painter.
It may have been so, but Lady Sarah
certainly did not suspect the attachment,
and the frankness of their relations was
never impaired by it  nor did it prevent
a cordial friendship between him and
Mr. Tremadoc. He stayed so frequently
at Llanoun that he was generally looked
upon as part of the family. The children
were devoted to him, and showed their
devotion, after the manner of children,
by making him devote himself to them.
He covered the nursery walls with quaint
sketches, and enlivened nursery-teas by
telling fantastic fairy - stories full of
grotesque humour and subtle pathos, at
which they laughed and cried in turn,
missing nothing but the undertone of
cynicism that was never absent from anything

lie did or said. To Lady Sarah
herself he was serviceable as a mediaeval
knight to his mistress in chivalry, only
his service was of a more useful kind
than one fancies that of the errant
knight to have been. He entered with
a sort of impartial sympathy into her
plans for the improvement of the people
about her, shrugging his shoulders a
little at her optimist views, but none the
less ready to help her in carrying them
out because he had no faith in their
containing any lasting good. Lady
Sarah was keen about popular education,
and when first she came to Llanoun she
had made great efforts to reform the
teaching in the village schools. Without
being at all a learned woman, she possessed
that general understanding of the
scope and meaning of knowledge that
cultured surroundings yield so readily to
women of intelligence and her desire

was that the knowledge, which she herself
rather saw than grasped, should be imparted
in as full a measure as possible to
all others. She had tried to start classes
of elementary science, learning herself
in order that she might teach; but
between her own ignorance and the
prejudice of others she had had little
success, and for once in her life she was
almost in despair. In her difficulty she
had taken Mr. Fenton into counsel, and
he had come very readily to her help,
entering quickly into her ideas and taxing
all his knowledge and his ingenuity
to devise means for putting them into
practice. From that time forward he
was her constant counsellor in all her
undertakings, and there was no smallest
reform made among the villagers of
Llanoun for which he was not largely
responsible. It was a curious alliance
this, between the practical-minded woman

moving sanely among the positive facts
and healthy purposes of life, and the
sceptical visionary whose life-purposes
had foundered hopelessly in the deep
waters of impossible dreams and ideals
too fair for a world careless on the whole
of bettering  an alliance not without
ludicrous aspects, but at the same time
full of pathetic meanings for those who
had eyes to read them. To Lady Sarah
herself the thing was perfectly simple ;
to Fenton it was not stranger than any
other phenomenon of life. That doubt
should work out the ends of faith,
that genius should fetch and carry for
common-sense, that gifts once grudged to
any work short of the highest and completest
should in the end be used to
patch and darn the common-place life of
an obscure fishing village,  all this was
but in keeping with the general irony of
things in a universe of which the story

was an involved paradox and the end a
blank negation.

In such a large and mixed party it was
easy for Heme to carry out his resolution
of holding aloof from Laura and observing
her at a distance, especially as she did
her best to avoid him, and threw a
marked coldness into her manner on
the occasions on which they inevitably
came together. They both played their
parts so well that they had been a
week at Llanoun, meeting continually,
often for hours in each other's presence,
and yet no word had passed between
them that was not quite common-place.
Heme was to go back to London on
the next day, and Lam-a was once
more looking forward to a deliverance
that would leave her desolate ; for the
renewed intercourse with him had dispelled
the illusion with which she had
comforted herself while he was away ; and



she could no longer hide from herself that
her attachment was deepening hominy,
even in spite of the indifference with
which he now treated her. She had no
right to resent this indifference, for she
had never allowed herself to think he had
meant more than friendship in their former
intercourse, and it was only natural that
the persistent coldness of her own manner
should at length have chilled his. She
knew, indeed, that she ought to rejoice
in it as saving her from temptations which
she would have been weak to fight against,
had they arisen. But to rejoice was beyond
her strength,  she suffered keenly
inter his neglect, and in spite of all her
efforts to appear happy an indefinable
sadness became visible in her manner.

The difficulty of maintaining an unconscious
air was increased for her by
the watchful solicitude that her failing
spirits awakened in her sisters. She felt

VOL. II. 7

that they observed her suspiciously ; and
every moment of the day became complicated
for her by some new necessity of
dissimulation  every simplest action was
liable to be misunderstood. If she threw
herself in the way of meetings with
Heme, they looked at her; if she went
out of her way to avoid him, they looked
at her. Only this morning she had
refused to be one of a walking party
because she had calculated that, in the
inevitable pairing off on the road, it
would fall to her lot to walk with
Heme. The party consisted of Mr.
Tremadoc, the Walworthss, Mr. Barrel
Jones, Egmont, and Eva Courtenay. Mr.
Tremadoc and Lord Walworth would walk
together and talk politics. Lady Walworth
would take possession of Mr. Jones, and
Egmont never lost an opportunity of
being at Eva's side. There would be no
alternative for her but to walk with

Heme ; so she made lame excuses and
stayed at home.

But now as she sat by the fire, working
at some embroidery for Sarah, which she
had made her pretext for staying indoors,
she felt that Lady Mary, sitting opposite
to her, was neglecting the book in her
hand to peep over its edges and discover
the true reason of her refusal to go out.
She worked on with increasing assiduity,
but her fingers trembled, and the stitches
went awry. She turned hot and cold
alternately in expectation of the sermon
she believed to be hatching for her ; and
when at last her sister spoke, she had
reached such a point of embarrassment
that she did not know how to answer,
though the matter was after all quite
impersonal.

*This is a very remarkable book,' said
Lady Mary ;  you should read it, Laura.
It contains many ideas which, I feel,

would have been of inestimable value tome
if I had come upon them at your
age. It is the great misfortune of
most women that they learn everything
when it is too late.'

What is the book about ? ' asked
Laura.

 It is a collection of essays on various
problems of life, addressed chiefly to
women. There is one on waste that is
excellent  most excellent : I should like
to put it into the hands of every woman
in the country. One on marriage, which
is good also, though I think it makes too
much of the superiority of the married life
to the single.' (Lady Mary regarded
her own matrimonial venture as the
great mistake of her life, pardonable only
for the sake of the right it gave her
to speak depreciatingly of matrimony in
general.) * Then there is one on education,'
she continued,  which is very able; it

lias some points in it that I am not aware
of having ever seen stated before, and
which are most important. And there are
others  on health, on dress, on beauty.
The essay on beauty is very striking. It
justifies the love of beauty by pointing
out how all true beauty has some real
utility at the bottom of it  how, for instance,
a fine figure is one in which all
the organs of digestion and respiration
have abundant room to work, and a good
complexion is the normal appearance of
the skin when the blood is in a healthy
condition, and so on through a great
variety of cases. I have always felt
that there must be some solid reason for
the satisfaction even superior people find
in these things,  which otherwise would
be so very unimportant.'

Lady Mary had looked away from
Laura now, and was complacently contemplating
her own person in a mirror

that hung conveniently on the opposite
wall. She had the fine form and colouring
that belonged to her family, and had
always valued them, in spite of the early
bent of her mind towards science ; and
while listening to lectures at the Royal
Institution it had never been a matter of
indifference to her that she was the handsomest
woman who sat on its benches
nor was she unconscious of the becoming
character of the plain black velvet
gowns which she habitually wore. But
vanity was a weakness inconsistent with
the part in life she had chosen to play,
and therefore she believed herself to be
free from it. When she had satisfied herself
that her figure was ample enough to
allow free play to the vital organs, and
her complexion of the tint produced
by duly oxygenated blood, she looked
back at Laura and observed that she was
rather pale.

I

'I think you did wrongly,' lie said,
in not going out this morning. You
are looking rather white and pasty, as
if you had not enough oxygen in your
lungs.'

It is not natural to me to have much
colour,' Laura answered.  I am always
pale; but I think I am very well.'

There was a slight melancholy in
Laura's voice as she said that she was
always pale. Without being exactly
vain, she had not formerly been discontented
with her looks ; but she was
beginning to think rather poorly of herself
now that she seemed so little attractive
to another. Lady Mary noticed the
melancholy note, and it confirmed her
in her belief that Laura was out of
health  delicate girls were always in
danger of becoming sentimental.

It is true,' she said,  that you are
generally pale, but I believe it is only

because you are not strong. And I am
convinced that there is nothing like
morning exercise for health. That is
one of the points this man emphasises
most. I wish I could find the passage
again to read to you  hut when one
wants a thing it always seems to have
gone out of the hook.'

Lady Mary fluttered the pages backwards
and forwards, without however
turning up the passage she wanted ; she
gave up the quest and began reading
another essay. Soon she spoke again.

Oh, here is something else that I
wanted to show you  some remarks on
love, that are really wonderfully sensible.
Listen,' and she began to read : * ' There
are few reforms in the education of girls
that would tend more to their happiness
in after-life than a radical change in the
tone of society and of books on the subject
of love. To assume a 'priori that

every marriage is based on love, and that
every so-called love-affair is a mysterious
and sacred romance " '

Oh, please don't read any more,' cried
Lam-a, realising that this was the text,
and that the sermon would follow immediately
if she did not make an energetic
protest. ' I hate people who write in
that sort of business-like way about love.
It always sounds to me indecent.'

Lady Mary drew herself up a little.
I am sorry you think my taste in reading
indecent.'

I beg your pardon,' said Laura ;  of
course I did not mean that, and I
daresay the man is quite right in what
he says. Only I always do hate things
about love  especially for reading loud.
I will read it to myself if you think it
would be useful.'

Laura's penitence was genuine. She
felt so utterly astray in her feelings just

now, that she was disposed to think most
people knew better than herself. Only
she could not undergo a discourse from
the sister with whom she had least
sympathy, on the subject on which she
knew she would be most unsympathetic.
She held out her hand for the book,
but Lady Mary held it back.

I do not want you to read it if you
are prejudiced against it. But I think it
is a pity to refuse to hear things because
they happen not to be on one's own
side of the question.' And Lady Mary
leaned back in her chair, and held the
book up before her face as if to say that
the question was settled.

Laura bent over her work, but her
eyes filled with tears and she could not
see to set her stitches. Suddenly she
heard voices in the hall  the walkers had
returned, and they would come into the
room in another minute. She started

up, and, hastily collecting her working
materials, made her escape through a
side door  regardless of Lady Mary's
observation on her eagerness to be gone
before the others came.

The door by which she fled led into
a long corridor at the end of which was
a pretty little room that seldom was used
by any one but Laura, who had got into
the way of considering it her special
sanctum whenever she was staying at
Llanoun. Thinking to take refuge there
now, she ran along the passage and
opened the door hurriedly.

She had counted on finding the room
empty, but to her surprise it was full of
people, and she stopped confusedly on the
threshold. Mr. Jones and Mr. Fenton
were standing in the window discussing
some designs that were scattered on a
table, Mr. Jones criticizing in a loud voice
and Mr. Fenton quietly defending 

while Lady Sarah was explaining to
Heme in an under-tone that the designs
were of Mr. Fenton's doing. Lady
Walworth, seated a little apart, was
watching the group with evident amusement.
She was the only one who saw
Laura's abrupt entrance and the confused
blush and start with which she
attempted to withdraw on finding the
room occupied. Laura, painfully alive
to her sister's observation thought fora
moment that the amused expression
on Rachel's face had reference to herself.
But she was quickly reassured. Rachel's
humour was abundantly fed for the moment
by what was passing in the window,
and she was only interested in Laura's
entrance in so far as it promised her
sympathy in her amusement.

 Don't run away,' she said ;  we are
looking at the designs Mr. Fenton has
made for the decoration of the schools.

This is the Palace of Truth, and we are
all to speak our unvarnished opinions.
Mr. Jones is getting up our courage by
setting us a good example.'

Have you seen them, Lady Laura ? '
said Heme, turning towards her as soon
as he was conscious of her presence.
He handed her one of the sketches, and
his voice sounded as if he wanted to
hear her opinion. A bright flush came
into her cheeks, and she felt suddenly
happy. Their hands touched as she
took the paper fi'om him, but she took
care that their eyes should not meet.

I am afraid my opinion will not be
of any use,' she said. ' You know that
I do not understand art.' She spoke to
Heme and remained standing by him 
he was less terrible to her than her
sisters.

I know you always say so,' he answered,
' but none of us are to be diffident

any more, for Mr. Fenton lias told us
that we are all to consider ourselves competent
judges. He only stipulates for
our speaking the truth. Is not that it ? '

certainly,' said Mr. Fenton; I have
great confidence in the instinctive judgments
of cultivated people on matters
of taste,  especially of women.'

Lady Walworth held up her hands.
This from you ! I thought you were
the sworn enemy of women-artists.'

So I am. Women are aesthetic but
they are not artistic ; they make an
excellent audience, hut very poor actors
as a rule. Lady Laura will not suspect
me of flattery, I am sure, if I say that
I would rather have her good opinion
of a picture I had painted than that of
a whole army of male critics. And I
am sure Mr. Jones will agree with me,
though of course his experience lies ina
different department of art.'

A smile went round the room, and
then Mr. Fenton, having revenged himself
on the preacher, turned quietly to
Laura and began explaining to her the
idea of his design. Laura had recovered
self-possession by this time and she
listened with interest ; she entered into
the subject with her usual quickness of
sympathy, and made one or two suggestions
that were received with decided
approbation by the artist. Unconsciously
she was soon taking the lead in
the conversation.

 Why, Laura,' said Lady Sarah, 'you
are coming out in a new light. I thought
sou rather despised art. If I had suspected
you of all these ideas I should
have made you help me long ago. Don't
you agree with me, Mr. Heme, that it
is very unfair to have valuable ideas
and to keep them under lock and key?'

Certainly,' said Heme. ' But Lady

Laura has solemnly assured me that she
knows nothing about art.'

Laura looked up at him with a perplexed
smile.

I should never have thought of calling
this art,' she said.

 You are like Monsieur Jordan,' said
Fenton ;  you talk art without knowing
it and so escape a great many blunders.'

It was a new sensation to Laura to
find her opinion valued by her sister's
clever friends, and though she blushed
and felt a little confused, it was undeniably
pleasant to her. She brightened
up under the influence of it, and looked
more than usually pretty. Heme forgot
prudence and allowed himself to look
at her with manifest admiration. Now
that his visit to Llanoun was so nearly
at an end, the resolution with which he
had begun it seemed likely to be set
aside.

As they left the room he joined Laura
and said, 

I am grate to Mr. Fenton for his
theory about women. I see now that
you are justified in neither painting, singing,
nor playing : your part is to understand
and suggest.'

Laura smiled and tried to answer, but
her inspiration was at an end. She felt
singularly incapable of either understanding
or suggesting, and without going
through the form of excusing herself, she
hurried away from Heme in the direction
of the drawing-room. The door was
open, and, as she approached it, she
caught the sound of her own name. Her
sisters were all there, evidently discussing
her. Without thinking what she
ought to do, she stood and listened.

 Laura herself assured me that there
was nothing between them,' Lady Sarah
was saying.

VOL. II. 8

That was three months ago said
Lady Walworth ; ' there has been time
for a whole three-volume novel to spin
itself since then. I think one of us had
better speak to her.'

What good can we do ? ' said Sarah's
voice again.  We shall only make her
unhappy. In my opinion the kindest
thing is to say nothing, but just to save
her from the pain of meeting him anymore.
Unless, indeed, it were not better
to let the thing take its course.'

There was an unusual tone of doubtfulness
in Sarah's voice as she said this.
Lady Mary was the next to speak.

 I thought you assured us just now
that Laura was safe because Maurice
Heme was going to marry Cassandra.
He cannot marry them both ; and I don't
think a course that ends in Laura's
breaking her heart about Cassandra's
husband will be very edifying. To my

mind such collisions in love are indecent.'


The last word was prompted by a
spirit of retaliation. Lady Mary was
still smarting under Laura's application
of it to her author's manner.

 But who vouches for the attachment
to Cassandra ? ' asked Rachel ' I should
be inclined to doubt it myself. Men
don't, as a rule, like that sort of incalculable
woman  especially when she is
nearly related to them. What have you
got to go upon, Sarah ? '

Sarah did not answer at once. She
was realising that she had in truth very
little to go upon  nothing, in fact, but
Laura's belief that such an attachment
existed. After a pause she said, ' Perhaps
it is a mistake about Cassandra. It
certainly struck me as odd that she
should refuse to come here now. Perhaps
there is nothing in it.'

sit strikes me,' said Lady Mary, *that
it is rather derogatory to Laura's dignity
to discuss the question entirely in relation
to Cassandra. This fancy for Maurice
Heme is foolish in itself and ought to be
discouraged on that ground alone. I was
on the point of warning her this morning,
but she rushed out of the room with tears
in her eyes, and I thought I had better
wait for another opportunity.'

*Pray don't speak in a hurry,' said
Sarah, who knew how terrible such speaking
would probably be, and felt as much
concerned for Laura as if it had been
proposed to set the police upon her.

Lady Mary replied with dignity, *I
had no intention of speaking in a hurry,
and I am quite willing not to speak at
all if you will undertake to stop the affair.
But that it must be stopped somehow I
am very certain.'

 Why ? ' said Sarah, with sudden boldness.

 Why should it be stopped ?
Maurice Heme is a good man and a
gentleman, and we all like him, and he
and Laura would suit one another. Forgive
me, Mary, but I think you do not
quite understand all that that means in
marriage.'

Lady Sarah did not stay to see the
effect of this speech. She was, in truth,
a little frightened at her boldness, for
Lady Mary held that sort of ascendency
over her sisters that generally belongs to
the least amiable member of a family
whose judgments are not to be disputed
for fear of the consequences. She could
not, Hke Sarah, look upon other people's
opinions as varieties resulting from difference
of character; nor, like Kachel, as
amusing vagaries giving suit to the
comedy of life. She viewed all questions
with ultra-seriousness, and all her
opinions were rigid as moral axioms 

deflection fi'om which implied a precarious
moral balance in the reflector.
Lady Sarah had the reputation in society
of being a singularly fearless woman;
nevertheless this was the first time in her
life that she had openly defied her eldest
sister ; and having done it, her next step
was flight. She crossed Laura in the
doorway, and they looked guiltily at one
another ; but neither spoke, and Laura's
entrance checked further remark on the
part of the other sisters.

It had been agreed that the impromptu
committee who had discussed the designs
in the morning should walk down to the
schools directly after luncheon and meet
the local decorator who was to be entrusted
with the task of execution. Laura
could not possibly escape being of the
party ; indeed, since the conversation she
had overheard in the morning, her one
object was to avoid Ute-a-Utes with her

sisters, and to go out was the surest way
of doing this. For Lady Mary, in spite
of her theories, was lazy about walking ;
and Lady Walworth declared herself too
tired with the exercise she had taken in
the morning to go out again. She did
not mind Lady Sarah ; and she thought
she would manage to walk chiefly with
Mrs. Jones, whose absent smiles were
famous for discouraging conversational
attack, and with whom one might consequently
walk in silence without making
oneself remarkable.

Laura was not the only person who
started on the walk with a private plan
of action. Lady Sarah, since her open
defiance of her sister's opinion, felt that
it was incumbent upon her to take a
decided part in Laura's love-affair, and
that to this end she ought to arrive at
more definite knowledge than she yet
possessed of the feeling on both sides.

But she was sorely puzzled to know
how to do this. From any direct questioning
of her sister she shrank with
an invincible repugnance. The silent
mystery of maidenhood in which Laura
moved was very sacred to the older
woman, and to break in upon it rudely
would have seemed to her a sacrilege.
On the whole it appeared to her that to
sound Heme would be the easier task.
And she promised herself that she would
make an opportunity of doing this in the
course of the afternoon's walk. Accordingly
she made an excuse for leaving
the school before the discussion was over,
and asked Heme to walk with her to a
fishing hamlet about a mile away. Her
errand done, they would walk back to
meet the rest of the party, and then all
go together to see the sunset on a
sandy reach that lay two miles on the
other side of Llanoun, where the carriage

had been ordered to meet them.
She thus made sure of at least a good
half-hour's Ute-a-Ute with Heme, in the
course of which she said to herself that
she could not fail to bring him to confession.


However, when she found herself
alone with him, the task of inquisition
seemed less easy than she had
judged it while she made her plans.
She talked of Laura, and he answered
in vague terms about women generally,
and their work in life ; she touched on
marriage and he was absolutely silent.
Then she started the subject of vocations
in life, speculating as to what on the
whole was the worthiest aim for a man
to set before himself in our times, meaning
him to understand in her remarks
an oblique questioning of his own drifting
career. She alluded to Mr. Fenton's
theory about women, and said she dissented

from it. People ought to have
creative power in proportion to their
sensibility, and she could only value
men and women by what they succeeded
in being, not by what they might have
been.

 In short,' said Heme,  you have no
place in your philosophy for failures.'

 No place for them among successes,
certainly. But then I don't think I
recognise as many failures as you probably
do. I don't call people failures
merely because their particular hobbies
go shipwreck. On the whole I think
a man's hobby is generally his mad point,
which it is his business in life to get
ground down.'

Lady Sarah meant this as a challenge,
and she looked up at Heme in expectation
of denial. But Heme made no
answer.

 Why don't you contradict me ? ' she

said. * You know you are full of hobbies
and are waiting to begin your life till
you find a clear field for them, and
that you have a great contempt for
people like me who grope along without
exactly knowing where they are
going to. Why don't you defend the
hobby-riders ? '

Because I am often tempted to feel
with you that hobby-riding is a mistake,
and to think that the sanest life is
the one that is least hampered by abstract
principles. Only unfortunately I
cannot succeed in getting my mad point
ground down. I cannot rest in the conclusion
that henceforth man is to be
redeemed only piecemeal and by individual
efforts, and that the world is
never again to experience one of the
vivifying movements that make the landmarks
of history. To talk in these days
of a new gospel is the surest way of

raising a laugh, but yet I can see no
inherent absurdity in the idea, unless all
past religions have been absurd also.'

Have you ever stated clearly to yourself
what the new gospel should be ? '
asked Lady Sarah.

Very clearly once.'

And now the vision has grown dim ? '
It has.'

Visions should grow clearer as we
advance in life. If they do not, we are
justified in counting them among the
phantoms that mislead us, not the
revelations that guide. Wil you tell
me what form your vision took ? '

 That,' said Heme, * would be to
write its epitaph ; and my vision is not
quite dead. Within the last few months
it has come to me again in almost as
vivid form as it had in the beginning.
I will still hope to show it to you
practically.'

Lady Sarah had for a moment forgotten
her part of inquisitor, and in
asking Heme for a confession of faith,
she had no thought of Laura in her
mind. But his answer told her all that
she wanted to know :  the last few
months ' could only mean ' since I have
known Laura,'  the practical demonstration
would come after they were
married. She said a mental Amen, and
then wondered to herself whether she
was justified in giving her sympathy to
a union of which the happiness must
depend on her sister's renunciation of
all her past helens.

The others came in sight. Laura was
walking in front with Mr. Fenton, who
was talking continuously as if he were
relating a story ; and she was listening
with the right sympathy that makes
speech so easy. As they met, she said, 

Mr. Fenton has been telling me such

beautiful stories of the old world, and
the last was the most beautiful of all.
Do you know the story of the Maid of
Craig-y-don, Mr. Heme ? '

To take the first opportunity of addressing
Heme was a course hardly
consistent with the plans with which
Laura had come out. But how shall
one hinder iron from turning towards the
magnet, or look and speech from going
where sympathy attracts ?

Heme answered that he did not know
the story. Would Laura tell it him ?
And he reminded her that she had once
promised to tell him a story and never
done it. Laura remembered, and said
she would pay the debt.

Mr. Fenton's story was one of those
primitive allegories in which the human
conscience everywhere has expressed its
sense of the universal strife between good
and evil, by investing surrounding scenery

with moral meanings and transforming
the working forces of nature into demons
and fairies of the hearth. The fancy
of a Gaelic bard had found an image of
virgin innocence in a white rock that
stood out lonely among the breakers ;
and, in the sea that tossed and moaned
around it, the likeness of a demon lover
wooing the white-robed maiden  now
with strong embrace of circling waves,
now with gentle murmur of caressing
ripple  wooing with irresistible persuasion
through the long enemies of
change that had elapsed since the old
dim time when tradition said that the
white rock had stood inland a quarter of
a lime.

The story in simple outline was
familiar to all the fishing population
of the neighbourhood, and mothers
made a convenient proverb of the bold
lass who had left her father's roof to

tempt the waves in company with a
strange lover and been requited for her
forwardness by abandonment in deep
water. In telling the story to Laura,
Mr. Fenton had added much to the
original legend, developing many latent
meanings and analogies, and clothing
the whole with quaint imagery and
fantastic detail of his own conceiving,
so that the allegory was lost sight of;
and she had listened with delight as to a
true-life story of a world gone by. But
when she began to tell it herself to
Heme, it struck her with new and embarrassing
significance. She hurried to
the end, saying as she finished, 

After all the beauty must have been
in the telling. I do not care for it
now. It is too tragic'

Not more tragic than life,' said
Fenton.

 But it is grim.'

So is life,  gi'im, sad, tragic. The
blighted life lays hold on the life that is
just budding, and drags it down to perdition.
The depths of misery call to the
depths of joy, and joy answers the call
and is swallowed up by misery. Light
goes out in darkness, sweetness of innocence
in bitterest remorse. It is the old
story of the two powers of Evil and Good
contending through the ages, and Evil
always victorious.'

 Oh don't ! ' interrupted Laura ; ' you
frighten mei;

forgive sie,' said Fenton ;  I am a
brute. But you see this is an illustration
of what I was saying,  any dismal raven
that has the fancy to croak can jake the
angels weep. We must get Mr. Jones to
preach us a sermon on the beautiful
harmonies of nature in which evil plays
the part of an agreeable discord, or dissonance,
or diminished something  what is

VOL. II. 9

the right phrase, Lady Sarah ? I heard
Fraulein Stahl explaining it to you yesterday.'


Lady Sarah had been talking apart to
Mr. Burrell Jones. They now joined the
other group ; and conversation became
general. Mr. Jones was eloquent about
beauty and art, and said that for his part
he did not exactly believe in evil. Lady
Sarah said she thought there was a great
deal of evil in the world, but that on the
whole good was the stronger power.
Mrs. Jones agreed with heiusband and
smiled vaguely at Mr. Fenn's thrusts.
Only Heme and Laura were silent ; and
by-and-by they found themselves walking
together a little behind the others.

Laura was absorbed in the thoughts
that Fenton's cynical outburst had
awakened. This mystery of Good and
Evil had been exercising her mind continually
of late  seeming as the statement

L5&

J

in large of the personal problem that
tormented her ; and her mind continually
lost itself in contradictions, while her
Heart shrank in terror fi'om a chaotic
world in which right and wrong were
so inseparably mixed that the wisest
and strongest disagreed among themselves,
and the ignorant knew not
to whom to look for guidance. Till
lately all her philosophy had been to
trust and to believe ; but now she found
the instinct of trust and the habit of
belief ranged upon opposite sides. The
voice that commanded her sympathies
spoke words that outraged the traditions
in which she had been reared : the
suggestions against which it seemed a
duty to do unrelenting battle came intones
that were as the echo of a sweet
missis in herself. And when her perplexity
was greatest, the strongest
impulse of her being was to thurn

for help to the quarter in which her
danger lay. Against this impulse she
was battling with ebbing force as she
walked in silence by Heme's side. Suddenly
it mastered her and she said  ,

Do you think it is true what Mr.
Fenton said just now ? Surely it cannot
be that good is so weak, and evil so
strong, and that the battle between the
two always ends in the triumph of evil.
It is too terrible to be true.'

 I think it is so far true that, in the
struggle with wrong, right always loses
something.'

Then,' said Laura, ' you agree with
Mr. Fenton that wrong is always victorious
? '

There was a great sadness in her voice.
She hadhoped, nay, she hadbeen sure, that
Heme would not agree with Fenton ;
and now she felt that he was passing
sentence of despair upon the world.

But Heme had not meant this words to
be so taken, and he hastened to explain.

 No, I do not agree to that. "What I
mean is that wrong can only be cured
by much sacrifice of things ideally good.
But such sacrifice is not a sacrifice to
edl  it is a sacrifice of lesser good now
to greater good hereafter. Mr. Fenton
thinks it terrible that misery should call
to joy, and joy answer to the call. But
I cannot sympathise with him. That it
should be so, seems to me the only hope
for the future. And I daresay Mr. Fenton
himself would say so at another time.'

I am sure you are right,' said Laura,
speaking with slow gravity  that is, if
you really mean what I think you do.
But then it is not at all what one is
generally told is right. It seems to me
that all the good that one has, all that
makes it possible for one to be better
than others, only fills one with remorse

until one has found a way of sharing it
with those who have it not. I think, if
I had been Lazarus, I would not have
rested in Abraham's bosom while Dives
was crying to me out of his torment.'

 I am sure you would not  you would
have come down from heaven when a
voice cried from hell.' And then, for he
did not wish to spoil the simplicity of
the scene by obtruding suggestions of a
personal nature, he added, * I believe all
good women feel as you do  your sister,
for instance, who spends all her thought
in devising good for the people about her.'

'Yes,' said Laura; * but then Sarah is
clever  all women cannot work as she
does.'

There are other ways than work by
which women help the world to grow
better. They do it best by being simply
good themselves and giving their sympathy
to all right effort. Only unfortunately

in these days the hest men are
going one way and the best women are
looking another.'

Laura looked up, asking him to speak
more plainly. It seemed to her that at
last the answer was coming for which she
lead been so long groping.

*Tell me what you mean,' she said.
I have thought so often lately how sad
it is that people who are earnest-minded
and who might work together should have
so little sympathy. I cannot call people
bad when T know that they are seeking
good, and seeking it more earnestly than
I am myself. And yet '

But yet it seems to you that some
people seek good by means that you have
been taught to believe lead only to evil.'

Yes,' she said; *till sometimes I can
see no difference between good and evil,
and life seems a mad stru2foie, with no
rest anywhere.'

There is no rest in the present,' said
Heme,  except for cowards who shirk the
struggle.'

He spoke bitterly, and Laura felt rebuked
 it did not occur to her that the
bitterness was against himself.

Oh, it makes me tired to think of it,'
she said, * tired to think of this continual
battling. Do bijou never feel this ? But
I know you do not. Cassandra has told
me that you have gone bravely forward,
facing all the puzzling questions and
standing by your convictions whatever
they might cost you. And Egmont says
the same.'

Lady Laura,' said Heme,  you would
not say this if you knew me better. I
am one of the cowards who have shirked
the battle.'

He spoke in a hard, low voice that
gave distinctness and significance to
every word and made it impossible to

put aside his self-condemnation as a
mere convention of speech. He meant
what he said, and Laura knew it. He
was expressing truly the bitter sense of
his failure and unworthiness. He was
telling her that the staff on which she
had thought to lean was but a reed
shaken by the wind. And she had no
choice but to believe him. He was weak
and astray like herself; there was no
help for her in the man for whose sake
she had unlearned her trust in God. She
could not answer  her disappointment
was too deep and terrible to be spoken,
and her lips would not shape themselves
to words of insincere consolation. For a
moment she looked at him with wondering
compassion. Then her eyes filled
with tears, and she turned them away
towards the horizon.

The sun was sinking into the sea and
flooding all the scene with a crimson

haze in which objects lost distinctness
as though they were dissolving in the
glow of deepening colour. The sky
seemed close above their heads,  one
almost with the sea in which its glory
was reflected.

They had walked far out upon the
sands and were within a stone's throw
of the white rock that rose like a column
of opal-tinted mist above the tranquilly-receding
tide. The legend came back
to Laura's mind, and, with shuddering
horror, she felt that the fate of the Maid
of Craig-y-don was coming upon her.
She cast a frightened look backward
towards the beach where the rest of the
party were lingering ; but their figures
looked far-off and unreal, she could distinguish
no one. She and Heme were
alone in the universe  alone and without
help.

A great terror filled her mind, prompting

her one moment to fly and the next
to tiiiTL to Heme for the help he could
not give. Suddenly he spoke.

I think I see them signing to us from
the beach he said. ' Had we not better
go back ? '

He spoke in his ordinary voice and
seemed quite unconscious of her distress.
She tried to turn towards him and answer
in a matter-of-course way, but she could
not command herself. She was at the
extreme point of nervous tension that
may break at the most trivial incident
or indifferent word, and the sound of
his voice was more than she could
bear. Her tears could no longer be restrained
 she strove to speak, but the
effort ended in a sob ; and she turned
away in helpless confusion. Heme could
not pretend unconsciousness any longer.
She was crying like a child before him,
and he knew why. What could he do

but comfort her? He turned abruptly
to her and took her hand ; she let him
hold it.

you are unhappy,' he said. 'What
is it ? '

She did not withdraw her hand, but
neither did she answer.

Will you not tell me what distresses
you ? ' he went on. * I might be able to
help you, and it would be a great happiness
to me to do so.'

No, no,' she said, snatching her hand
away and speaking almost petulantly.
You cannot help me. No one can help
me. I am foolish and weak and miserable.
And there is no help anywhere.
You said so yourself, and I feel that it
is true.'

'1 said it? When did I say it?
You have misunderstood me. I do not
remember saying anything of the kind.
When did I say there was no help ? '

Just now she answered. * When I
said that you were brave and strong, you
answered that you were not, and I felt

that you meant it  and  and ' She

broke off and looked imploringly towards
him.

 And was that what distressed you ? '
asked Heme, drawing nearer and taking
both her hands this time.  Is it on my
account that you are unhappy ? '

 Oh, I do not know! Only it all seems
sad and hopeless to me. And I thought
you were strong, and you say you are
not. And I do not know what is right.
How can I sympathise with right
effort, if I clo not know what is right ? '

She made a feeble effort to withdraw
her hands ; but as he held them fast, she
desisted and looked up at him nth an
expression in which despair and trust
were strangely mingled. It was in vain
she repeated that he could not help her

she felt safe while he held her Lands in
his, she was almost comforted now that
he looked gently on her sorrow.

And he ?

He felt that he had refrained long
enough. Cassandra's warning and the
sad words in which she had betrayed
the long hunger of her life had haunted
him hitherto with forbidding power. But
the revelation of Laura's dependence on
his love had brought a rush of joy that
bore down all considerations of prudence
or of other claims. If Cassandra loved
him, Laura loved him also. If Cassandra
needed him, Laura needed him far more.
And he needed her. In the knowledge
that she loved him he felt a strength
that made all things seem possible ; and
it was not compassion only for her sadness,
or remorse for having caused it,
that made him hold her hands more
firmly the more else struggled to get

them free. It was a stronger feeling
than sympathy that prompted him to
say commandingly, ' Listen to me one
moment, and then I will let you go.'

She resigned her hands passively to
his grasp and looked down in silent
expectation of she knew not what. She
was so conscious of having behaved
foolishly that she would not have been
surprised if he had scolded her like a
child  she was so willing to be ruled
by him that she would not have resented
his rebuke. She stood quite still and
waited for him to speak.

'Lady Laura,' he said, 'you tell me
I cannot help you because I am helpless
myself and unworthy and cowardly. Ifc
is true that I am all this  at least that
I was a moment ago, and should be still
if you had not given me back faith in
purity and goodness : you said that if
you had been Lazarus in heaven you

would not have been happy while Dives
cried to you from his torments. You
said you would come down to hell if
you could make hell better by your
presence. Did you mean it ?  I want
you, Laura. I am asking you to help
me to be strong and to do and be all
that I once dreamed. Laura, I love

you, and I think '

But at the words  I love you,' she
started away from him and stopped
him with a look that he interpreted as
anger. Till then she had hardly understood
what he was saying. His voice
was full of passion, and the voice of
passion was new to her; it bewildered
her like a strange language of which
the rhythm stirs without conveying definite
ideas. All she had been sm-e of
was that he was not angry with her,
and that somehow he was exalting her
in the moment of her humiliation. And

lie had listened as to a strain of soothing
music  not caring to analyse the influence
that comforted her. But when
he said he loved her, she could not
misunderstand any longer. She started
back and involuntarily looked up and
met his eyes. There was a look of
triumph in them from which she recoiled
in uncontrollable terror. What was he
going to do next? what had she done
that he should look at her like that?
She had wanted him to love her; but
she had not thought that love vvould
look like this.

She turned away and said in a voice
that had grown suddenly hoarse, ' Why
do we stay here ? It is late and chilly.
Let us go back to the others ; they
must be wondering what has become
of us.'

Heme did not end his sentence.
Laura was already hurrying back across

VOL. n. 10

the sands ; and he followed her mechanically.
As they walked along without
speaking, each felt the silence jarringly,
though neither could unravel the other's
mood. Heme feared that he had offended
Laura, and Laura felt herself the prey
to a vague dread like that which possesses
the mind on awakening from
troubled sleep among unfamiliar surroundings.


The group on the beach, who had
disappeared for a little while, now came
in sight again and made signs to them
to hasten. Lady Sarah was looking
anxiously at her watch. She had remembered
an appointment at home and
was afraid she should be too late to
keep it. As they walked round to the
boat-house where the carriage was to
wait they were joined by an old sailor,
Owen Williams by name, who as coast-guardsman
and captain of the Llanoun

lifeboat was rather an important person
in the neighbourhood. He knew all the
party except Heme, to whom Lady Sarah
introduced him as an old friend of hers.
They talked of the weather and Williams
prophesied storms. Then he asked Lady
Sarah to go in and see his wife, who was
in bed, a baby having lately been added
to an already numerous family. The
carriage not having yet arrived she went
in. The gentlemen went round to look
at the lifeboat, and they wanted Laura
to go too. But she refused  saying she
was tired  and sat down on a bench
outside the cottage and tried to talk to
Mrs. Jones. But she could not attend
to her answers ; they seemed irrelevant
and trivial, as did everything except the
words and looks that had just passed
between her and Heme. She could take
no interest in Lady Sarah's report when
she came out of the cottage ; and when

Williams came back and tried a second
time to persuade her to go round and
look at the boat, she stared blankly and
seemed to have forgotten that she had
ever taken an interest in it.

It was an unspeakable relief when at
last the carriage came and she found
herself driving home in the twilight.

Wearing an Eden crown.'

Lady Mary reflected a good
deal in the course of the afternoon
on Laura's love-affair
and Sarah's very incorrect view of it,
with the result that when Laura came
in she was lying in wait for her at her
bedroom door, meaning to read her a
carefully prepared lecture on the subject.
That Laura would refuse to listen never
entered her head. Nevertheless when
she intercepted her in the passage and
said,  Can you come in here for a few
minutes ? I particularly want to speak
to you before dinner,'  Laura answered

without hesitation that it was impossible,
as there was hardly an hour before dinner
and she must be quiet for a little while
before dressing.

'I am tired, I want to be alone she
said ; and she hurried on to her room,
leaving her sister in helpless consternation.

Once safe in her own room, she
locked the door and threw herself on
her knees beside her bed. She was alone
at last and might give way to the tempest
of emotions with which she had been
battling. She bowed her head upon
the bed and clasped her hands  falling
instinctively into the attitude of prayer,
though prayer in any form of articulate
words or definite petition was impossible to
her. She could only wait passively while
wave after wave of emotion went over her;
and when at last the tumult subsided act
left her calm, she could give no account
to herself of the feelings she had had.

They had passed quite away and
taken with them all the old self with
which she was familiar. The difficulties
which had importuned her during the
last few months seemed now remote and
unimportant. Gone, too, was the wild
and sudden terror with which she had
started from Heme when he would have
spoken on the sands. In its place had
come a homer, deeper dread. Her questionings
were answered. She knew past
doubting that he loved her, and she
might frankly face her love for him. The
prize after which she had yearned so
painfully was hers  but was it in truth
the prize she had desired ?

He loved her. Yes, but she had
thought that would mean that his strong
life would take up her weak one and bear
it safely above doubt and danger and difficulty
 she had thought that, if he loved
her, she might become a child again and

come and go at his bidding, heedless of
problems because he knew their answer,
untroubled by the sin and misery of the
world because his life was spent in
battling victoriously against them. Oh !
she had thought life would be easy if
he loved her, and now her spirit fainted
under the burden of the dignity with
which his love invested her ! He loved
her : that sounded like rest. But then
he worshipped her : that meant that she
must labour to be worthy of his worship.
There are humiliations that exalt, and
there are honours that humble to the
dust. Laura, kneeling at her bedside
with her head bowed down upon her
hands, felt that a crown had been
tendered her which she dare. not put
aside with any protest of false humility,
but which to accept would bring a
terrible compulsion to be without fault
in all her life. She had heard of girls to

whom their first love came as a bright
intoxication, flattering their vanity and
making them giddy and self-confident.
She thought of them with wonder. For
her, it seemed that vanity was dead forever
as she stood upon the threshold of the
unknown life and waited with lowly heart
for the teaching of revelations yet to
come. Life henceforth would be a solemn
service ; and this, her hour of vocation,
she counted high and holy as that in which
the virgin of the Christian story was
called to glorious destiny. To her, who
was but yesterday an irresponsible child,
whose safety lay in doubt of self and
humble reliance upon the judgment of
others, had been given the woman's
crown and sceptre  to her who, stumbling
in the dark, had stretched her
hand to grasp that of another whom
she believed able for guidance, had come
a confession of that other's weakness 

to her who deemed herself helpless had
gone forth an appeal for help. She was
bidden to the place of royalty, but she
could take her queendom only on her
knees  yielding herself as to a holy fate
to which she had been born and which
therefore she had no option to refuse.

She was roused from her kneeling
posture by her maid knocking at the
door. She was tempted to send her
away and say she could do without
help this evening ; but, reflecting that
this course would certainly provoke
comment in the household, she let her
in and resigned herself to be dressed
as usual. Only when it was suggested
to her to put on a rather grand
new gown, she declined it, and asked
for a plain white one that she had had
a long time. In the change of all
within her, she felt that the familiar
garment would be a helpful link of continuity

between the old Laura and the
new.

She delayed going down to the drawing-room
till she could count on all the party
being assembled. Otherwise she might
have encountered Lady Mary and been
forced to hear things that would have
jarred upon her mood. To-morrow, she
thought, she would confide in Sarah, but
for the present she chose to be silent :
it would be time for speech when she
had sounded all the depths of her new
experience. Besides it would be necessary
to sit through dinner; and how
could she do this if her secret were
known to others at the table ? Her
heart beat fast as she entered the
drawing-room, and things swam dizzily
before her eyes. Among all the figures
scattered about the room only one was
clear to her, and from that one she
turned her eyes away.

You are late, Laura said Lady Sarah ;
we are all waiting for you.'

I hope you are rested,' said Lady
Mary with significant emphasis on the
words, which however was wasted
upon Laura. She neither spoke nor
smiled, but stood still in her white
gown  looking serene and radiant  till
Mr. Fenton came up to her and said, 

 I believe I am to have the pleasure
of taking you in to dinner to-night.'

Dinner proved a less terrible ordeal
than she had expected. Heme was at
the other end of the table, on the same
side of the room as herself, so that there
was no danger of their eyes meeting or
of her being led into conversation with
him ; and Mr. Fenton talked kindly to
her and was patient when she answered
absently. After dinner she took refuge
in a corner with the children, and when
the gentlemen came in, Fenton joined

lier again. She was playing with a string
of opals that she had unfastened from her
neck to show to the children.

 They are like the colours of the rainbow,'
said little Rachel.

And like my prism,' put in Eustace.

But you should not wear opals, Lady
Laura,' remonstrated Mr. Fenton ; ' they
are unlucky. Will you let me look at
them nearer ? '

Laura handed them to him.  They
are very beautiful stones,' he said; but
you ought not to wear them. They are
treacherous and inconstant, and your
part is constancy.'

 Are you superstitious ? '

Not more than most people. We are
all like the children and animals, more
impressed by the appearance of things
than by their reality. Practically, I
suppose no man can have a more
thorough distrust of appearances than I

have ; but that does not hinder my moods
from being influenced by them. I have
been distressed all dinner-time by seeing
you dressed in opals.'

I am not afraid of them,' said Laura,
taking back her necklace and fastening
it round her throat again.

Lucky or unlucky, it was a most becoming
ornament to her. The simple
circle of beads lightly clasped her throat
and set off its round fulness very beautifully;
while the changing colours of
the stones seemed to be reflected in the
fitful bloom of her complexion and the
clear blue veining of her forehead. The
great transparency of her skin gave at
all times an ethereal character to her
beauty, and to-night this effect was
much heightened by the strain of inward
emotion that swayed her like an
exquisite music. She spoke, smiled,
listened, moved, with the air of one who

is far-off in mind ; and yet she could not
be called absent, for she missed nothing
that was said to her, and her answers
were prompt and to the point. It
seemed rather that all her senses were
quickened and their powers multiplied
so that she could move sanely in two
worlds at once  her feet on earth, her
crown in heaven. Mr. Fenton had
known her ever since she was a child,
but he thought he had never seen her
look so beautiful before.

 I think if you had not said they were
so unlucky I should have had to give you
my opals, Mr. Fenton  you cannot take
your eyes off them.'

They are worshipping eyes, not covetous
ones, I assure you,' answered
Fenton, taking the hint and withdrawing
the admiring look that was embarrassing
her. And then, sitting down beside her,
he said, 

Opals have always had a fascination
for me. They seem to me the type of a
sensitive nature, and it is in this sense,
I suppose, that we feel them to be of evil
omen. I once made them the motive
of a picture, which, however, came to
nothing. It was intended to be one of
a series, but the idea broke down.'

 Why did it break down ? '

Tor the usual reason,  it grew too
tragic in its development.'

Will you tell me about it ? ' said Laura.

If you like. But you wil soon tell
me to stop, as you did this afternoon. I
had a fancy that the gems we most
admire are all typical of different phases
of human passion, and I thought I would
paint the story of a woman's life in a
series of pictures, each of which should
represent a different stag in the development
or decline of her affections. In
the first I painted a very young girl

ornamented with pure, colourless crystals ;
in the second I dressed her in opals ; in
the third I gave her pearls for young
maidenhood ; in the fourth, rubies for the
pain of ripe life when passion is strong
and fierce ; and in the fifth and last
I decked her with diamonds, because
when innocence and repose and passion
are alike past, a woman depends on the
splendour of her intellect and the brilliancy
of her wit. Now you will give mea
lecture, for I know sou agree with me
that wit is a poor thing to end with.'

Yes ; but I can see the truth of your
idea, only '

What were you going to say ? '

That I think there are different kinds
of love, and that it is not the best kind
of love that you were painting.'

Fenton said abruptly, ' You are very
happy to-night.'

Very,' said Laura simply.

VOL. II. 11

 And you thought me a brute this
afternoon ? '

You made me unhappy for a little

while. But it is past  only I wish '

She stopped, and her eyes filled with tears.

'Why should you stop ? People should
speak when they are happy  it is the moment
of inspiration ? What do you wish ? '

That everybody was happy,' said
Laura with a sigh.

Fenton smiled and walked away to
fetch some engravings he had promised
to show her, and when he came back they
talked of great masters and their works.
Later in the evening Fraulein Stahl
played on the piano ; and then bedtime
came, and Laura saw Heme coming
towards her to say good-night.

She looked up as he approached her,
and met his look with grave, unsmiling
simplicity. It was the same look from
which she had fled in panic a few hours

ago  the look that seemed to take possession
of her life and bind it with sweet
and terrible conditions. But it did not
startle her this time ; rather, the mysterious
tension of her mood seemed to
gather strength from it. She held out
her hand and said good-night.

 Good-night, Lady Laura,' answered
Heme. And the words rang full and
solemn on her ear like the opening passage
of a great poem of human thought
and passion and prayer.

As the ladies went together through
the long passages that led to the bedrooms,
they paused several times to
remark on the violence of the wind that
rushed down the chimneys and shook
the hangings of the old house, and on
the storm-clouds drifting wildly across
the sky. Lady Sarah reminded Laura of
Williams' predictions, and Laura answered
mechanically. She hardly knew that the

wind was raging, and she had not noticed
the cloud-confusion of the heavens. And
when her sister wished her good-night at
her bedroom door and stood a moment
divided between a loving solicitude that
prompted her to ask for confidence and a
not less loving reverence that restrained
her from intruding into the closed sanctuary,
she looked in her dreamy joy so
sweet and saintlike that Lady Sarah inwardly
vowed that this marriage should
not fail if effort of hers could bring it
to an issue. So true is it that the best
instrument of conversion is the beatitude
of the apostles.

 Good-night, dear,' she said tenderly ;
*if the storm comes on and you are
frightened, you must call me.'

Laura promised, and thanked her sister
for the kind thought ; but she felt the
while that no storm of the elements could
upset her peace.

Life treads on life, and heart on heart ;
We press too close in church and mart
To keep a dream or grave apart. '

'x\UEx\ lay down to rest with a
deeper sense of peace than
she had yet known in the
course of her short, bright life ; and if
any one had asked her whether there was
in her heart any unsatisfied desire, any
craving for fruition or sense of greater
joy before her to which her present content
was but the prelude, she would
have answered truly, No. She wanted
no change in her outward life ; she did
not trouble herself to wonder whether

Heme would speak again before he went
back to London, or whether her family
would allow her to become his wife.
She was happy, too happy to think or
wish  or if she had any wish at all it
was that every hour of her life might
overflow as this one did with the bliss
of knowing that she might love. And
so she fell asleep, resting on the bosom
of her great content with as little consciousness
of what lay below it as the
sea-bird alighting on the crest of a wave
has of the terrors of the deep.

And while she slept the wind moaned
outside, and shook the house to its foundations,
and wrestled with the great trees
in the park and tore off their branches
and flung them in confusion on the
ground, and scared the hearts of sailors'
wives in the village, and drove many a
ship upon a fatal rock. The wind raged,
and the clouds drifted in black masses

through the starless sky to meet in vivid
lightnings and awful crashing thunder.

One does not look for thunder-storms
in winter ; and Laura, starting from her
sleep to feel the house trembling and see
lightning flashing from the mirrors, was
seized with a great terror in which all
the emotions of the preceding day mingled
in wild confusion like fragments of
a noble edifice that a sudden shock has
tumbled into ruins. It was the culminating
moment of the storm, and when
the last reverberation of the peal that
had awakened her had died away, a long
pause followed in which no flash relieved
the darkness, and the only sound to be
heard was the moaning of the wind.
She sat up in bed with clasped hands
and tried to be brave ; but in vain.
All the stories she had ever heard of the
havoc wrought by wind and sea came
rushing through her mind as in a cataract

of horror, and, mingled with them, came
floating before her vision scenes of the
past months.

Suddenly with an unutterable sense of
relief she heard Sarah's voice outside
her door : she was giving orders to a
servant to have things in readiness as if
for travellers expected in the night.
Laura glided out of bed and joined her
in the passage.

Is anything the matter ? ' she asked
with chattering teeth.

There is a ship in distress,' answered
Lady Sarah, ' and they have all gone out
to help. It is an awful storm ! '

They who ? '

Edward and all the men in the house.
I think Egmont and Maurice Heme
meant to volunteer for the life-boat. I
was giving orders to have hot things
ready for them when they come in.'

Lady Sarah spoke composedly as if

she were not anxious about them beyond
fearing colds and rheumatism from exposure
to the storm. Laura tried to feel
equally calm, but she could not. She
had turned deadly white on hearing that
Heme was probably out in the lifeboat :
she leaned against the doorpost and
clasped her hands tightly together.
Lady Sarah noticed her whiteness.

Poor child,' she said, ' how cold you
are ! I thought you were sleeping
soundly. Indeed you were an hour
ago, for I looked in and saw you.' And
she led her back into her room and
covered her up with blankets.

 What will they do ? ' asked Laura.
She wanted to know particulars of what
they might be doing on the waves. But
she had no experience of nautical matters
and did not know exactly how to
shape her questions. Lady Sarah was
standing by the window absorbed in her

own thoughts and did not hear the
question.

Laura watched her with wonder.
There was something very impressive to
her in the calm manner in which she
spoke and moved  something almost as
awful in a different way as the raging of
the storm outside :  more awful, perhaps,
from the contrast it offered to the terror
of her own heart. That seemed at least
in sympathy with her mood ; hut this
stoicism which a stranger might almost
have mistaken for hardness seemed to
stand apart from the storm and to tower
above its terrors. She felt rebuked and
oppressed by it.

*Are you not terribly anxious about
them ? ' she asked.  It is awful to think
of people one cares for being in such
danger.'

It is very awful replied Lady Sarah.
 One can only feel that all is in God's

hands. At times like this it always seems
to me that there comes a pause in life
when the ordinary com-se of thought and
feeling is broken across, and the only
wisdom is to follow the old word that
tells us to '' stand still and wait upon
the Lord." '

Laura could not answer. She felt that
there was a gulf between her and her
sister. Sarah could be calm because she
trusted in a Power above the storm,
while her own courage was dead and her
peace shattered because she had unlearned
the trust of her childhood, and the new
light had as yet been too faintly revealed
to help her in the hour of difficulty.
Later, when her anxiety was over, she
knelt down and thanked the Power in
which her sister trusted : but she remembered
all her life that while the danger
lasted all her prayer was a suppressed
repetition of the name that had lately

grown so clear to her. She remembered
that though Sarah had said that Egmont
was in the boat as well as Maurice Heme,
she hardly thought of him at all. Like
the Maid of Craig-y-don, she had left her
own people to follow a stranger, and her
punishment was coming  she would be
left alone in deep waters to stretch out
her arm vainly for a vanished help.

Her sister sat with her for about
half-an-hour, and then, the storm being
well over, she wished her good-night and
left her, promising to come back as soon
as she had any tidings to impart.  You
are quite sure you do not mind being left
alone ? ' she said.

 Quite sure,' answered Laura. ' The
storm is over and there is nothing more
to fear.'

Because if you mind in the least, I
will stay.'

No, no,' said Laura. She was impatient

now for Sarah to be gone  she
could not endure much longer the reproach
that she had come to feel in her
presence. But when she was really alone
solitude grew horrible again, and unable
to lie still in bed, she rose and went to
the window to look out upon the night.
She knelt down and rested her arms upon
the window-sill and strained her eyes to
see through the darkness in the direction
where the danger lay. But she could see
nothing, and the horror of her loneliness
increased, till at last the cry of her heart
became articulate and she moaned aloud,
Oh, Maurice, Maurice ! '

Then her head sank upon her hands,
and the long-pent tears flowed in the
darkness.

She did not know how long she remained
so ; but when she looked up
again the clouds were breaking and a
few stars shone faintly through the

gloom. She felt calmer  the tears had
relieved the overstrain of her nerves, and
a dull quiet had fallen on her senses.
She had ceased to feel, but she had not
yet energy to think  she could only keep
still, and let what fancies would float
before her mind's vision. Weird, terrible
fancies they were, but she looked on at
them unmoved.

The night was peopled with strange
faces  grinning, horrible, grotesque ; in
turn they beckoned her with unearthly
gestures, and then when she looked at
them with closer attention, one face after
another became like Maurice and looked
at her through the darkness as he had
looked upon the sands  only the face was
white and haggard as with long suffering,
and sad with an infinite and hopeless
yearning; and all the others seemed to
say,  There is a great gulf fixed.' . . .
Then Maurice was dead and his soul had

passed into the unknown world  into
far regions of which she knew nothing,
whither she could never follow. He was
outcast by God because of his unbelief ; he
was alone and sorrowful, yearning for a
word of sympathy or a look of love, and a
great gulf of silence divided her from him.
She had let him go without telling him
she loved him, and now it was too late.
She might cry out, but he would not
hear; she might stretch her hand out
into the darkness, but it could not reach
his han ; her heart might break to beat
against his, but he would never know it
through all the ages of eternity. . . .
Then the vision changed again, and it
was she who was outcast and miserable.
He had died nobly, sacrificing his Hfe for
others, and his spirit had found rest.
But she could not join him, for her faith
was not like his, and she was not worthy.
He was happy among souls that knew his

excellence  happy without her. And
Laura, alone with her own soul in the
darkness, knew that this vision was worse
than the one that had preceded it. *
God ! ' she murmured to herself, ' annihilation
would be more bearable,  for him
now, and by-and-by for me.' * Annihilation
' she repeated over and over to herself.
The word had till now been ol
utmost horror for her, but in comparison
with other possibilities she began to
discover comfort in it. Sh rose from
her knees and walked up and down the
room, trying to get rid of the numbness
that possessed her, and to realise that
body and soul were still one and alive.
Then she came back to the window.
The clouds were more scattered and the
stars were getting brighter. One star.
struck her as more brilliant than the
others. She fixed her eyes upon it. It
was Maurice's spirit  far away, unattainable,

but still visible. She kept it in
view ; every now and then a cloud passed
over it and hid it for a moment, then it
emerged again. The clear space in the
sky was growing larger, but there were
still ominous masses of cloud towards the
west where the storm had been heaviest,
and they were moving slowly in the
direction of the clear space. Would
they swallow up her star and engulf it
once more in blackness ? They were
very near ; her heart beat nervously,  the
foolish superstition had taken hold of her
imagination. If the star was hidden
Maurice would be lost. She held her
breath while she watched.

But while there was still a space like

 a handbreadth between the star and the

- edge of the advancing clouds, her attention

was recalled from fancy to fact.

Footsteps were coming towards the house,

and, with the steps, a hum of voices.

VOL. n. 12

She opened her window noiselessly and
leaned out, trying to distinguish faces
and figures. But all she could see
was a confused group, and the voices
were subdued so that it was impossible
to tell what was said or who was speaking.

She heard the house-door open and
close again. Then all was still. She put
on a dressing-gown, crept to the door and
waited, thinking surely Sarah would come
soon and tell her how things had gone.

Some one was coming upstairs. She
recognised Egmont's step and went out
to meet him. He was hurrying along
the passage and he did not see her  he
was brushing by her in the darkness.
But her suspense was not to be borne
a moment longer. egmont,' she said,
 tell me, are you safe ? '

Egmont started.  Good Heavens,
Laura ! is it you ? Yes, thank God, I am
safe; but it has been an awful night.

Where is Sarah ? ' And without waiting
for an answer he hurried on in the direction
of Sarah's room. But when he had
gone a few paces he turned hack, and
seeing Laura still standing in the passage
straining to catch sounds from the hall,
he said,  You had better go back to your
room, Lama. I will come to you as
soon as possible ; but I cannot come
now. Whatever you do, don't go down.'
Laura had not thought of going down ;
bat now the earnestness with which her
brother begged her not to do so, revived
all her fears with exaggerated intensity.
Why should he be in such a hurry to
find Sarah, why so determined that she
should not go down ? It could only
have one meaning, too horrible to be put
into words. She would not be kept out
of the way, she who had a better right
to be present than any one. She flew
along the passage and down the stairs,

not pausing till she was in the hall.
There she stopped suddenly, bewildered
by the glare of light and confusedly
conscious of a number of people crowding
together round something at the far
end of the hall. She tried to take in
the scene, glancing hurriedly from one
face to another. She saw her brother-in-law
talking gravely to Mr. Burrell
Jones, who looked haggard and unlike
himself. Mr. Fenton was there, and all
the men-servants, and one or two other
figures that were unknown to her. But
the one face that she was seeking was
not there. All at once she realised that
the something round which they were
gathered was the body of a man. She
felt a sudden sickness and a pang at her
heart like a sharp physical pain, and,
clutching at the banister, she bent down
and gave a low moan.

 I do not think you ought to be here,'

said a voice close beside her, at sound of
which she gave a cry of joy and started
forward with outstretched hands : 

It was not you then,  oh, thank God 1 '

Heme took her hands tenderly and
held them for one moment's space,
during which their eyes met in a mutual
claiming look. Then he put them
reverently aside : this was no moment
for lover's speech. ' Hush  sh,' he said,
motioning her hack with a mixture of
respect and authority in his manner. ' I
think you must not come further. You
are faint, let me help you upstairs.
There is a poor fellow dying there. We
have done what we could for him, but I
fear there is no hope of bringing him
round.'

Hying  who is dying ? ' asked Laura.

 It is Williams  the man we talked
to this afternoon. He behaved Hke a
hero at the wreck. But it was in coming

back that it happened. We got into the
current, and the boat was carried on to
the reef by the landing-place, and it was
smashed. We were close in, and he got
crushed against a rock. He was terribly
injured. I fear there is no doubt he is
dying.'

Dying ! ' she repeated with an accent
of horror on the word. She had Heed
eighteen years in the world and had
not yet seen any one die  no gap had
opened in the circle of her loved ones.
No one near or dear to her had yet passed
out of the living world. Death was for
her a word, a spectre  a far-off, unreal
terror. She had fancied indeed just now
while she was alone in the dark, going
through in imagination all the misery
involved in the loss that seemed to
threaten her, that she had met death face
to face and grappled with its utmost
horrors. But now she realised how far

fact surpasses the most lively imagining.
She had thought of death as striking the
life that was dearest to her, and she had
said to herself with shame that, that life
spared, no other blow could touch her 
that father, mother, brothers, sisters, all
had grown indifferent to her in comparison
with the new absorbing love. And
now Heme told her that Owen Williams
was dying, and in a moment all personal
feelings sank abashed in the presence of
a sorrow that had fallen on a household
hardly known to her.  Dying ! ' she
repeated. ' But is it certain we can do
nothing ? We are so many. . Oh
steely, there must be help. Where is
Sarah ? '

Sarah was coming down the staircase
with Egmont, too much occupied with
the thought of the dying man to be surprised
at seeing Laura. She gave a
questioning look to Heme, who answered

low, ' I fear it is all over,' and then went
on towards the place where Williams was
lying.

Let me come with you ? ' said
Laura, and Sarah let her take her hand
and accompany her. She knew she
could do no good, hut a feeling like
remorse hindered her from going hack
to her room. While others had been
helping, suffering, dying, she had been
wholly occupied with her oti morbid
imaginings, and now, as she looked on
the face of the dead man, it seemed to
upbraid her with selfishness, and her own
words of thankfulness, uttered on hearing
that it was not Heme, came back upon
her mind with a meaning akin to murder.
The doctor let fall the dead hand, and
said in a low distinct voice that sounded
all over the hall, 

 It is all over. There has been no
respiration for several seconds. There

is nothing more to be done, Lady
Sarah.'

And then the silence in which they
had been standing for several minutes
was exchanged for a general murmur of
subdued conversation about what should
be done with the body and how the sad
intelligence should be carried to the
widow.

It is all over,' Laura repeated to herself,
' and there is nothing more to be
done.' And she went near and looked
long and steadily upon the face of the
dead man. She was by nature timid,
and yesterday she would have shrunk
from the sight of death. But she felt
that it belonged to her new part in life
to shrink from no facts of existence ; she
must not any longer be a child, but a
brave and helpful woman, familiar nth
the trouble and sadness of the world.
Besides it seemed cowardly to shrink fi'om

the poor dead body to wliicli, but a few
hours ago, so many weak ones had looked
for help  cruel to turn away and leave it
alone with death.

Oh surely it is not a wholly morbid
feeling that makes us linger sometimes
in the presence of the calamity we cannot
undo, and the hours are not wasted
during which we wait silently looking
in the face of the inexorable power
from which all our yearning can win
nothing back ! Surely if it is well to
admire the might of man and to grasp
the fulness of his knowledge, it is well
also to have felt his helplessness and to
have bowed in humbleness before the
veil that hides the infinite mystery his
science cannot penetrate  accustoming
our hearts to patience and our intellects
to the high wisdom of knowing that there
is a limit beyond which they cannot go.
And perhaps it is doubly well for the

prosperous, whose day of sorrow is so
long deferred that Fate seems to have
forgotten them, to look betimes beyond
the charmed circle of their individual
lot and learn the look of sorrow and
touch the hand of death, so that when
their' day comes at last they may know
how to submit, and in the meantime it
may not be said of them,  ' They are so
happy that they cannot understand the
sorrows of their brothers.'

Not that Laura argued thus as she
drew near to the dead body from which
others were drifting away, intent on talk
about necessary details of arrangement.
She merely followed an instinct of sympathy
and the promptings of that unreasonable
self-reproach we all feel in the
presence of a catastrophe that has fallen
upon another while our thoughts have
been see-absorbed.

At last Egmont called her away.

You must not stay here any longer,' he
said, kindly ; and he took her up to her
room and made her promise to go back
to bed. And an hour later, as she lay
with sleepless eyes fixed on the dark
window, watching wearily for the late
winter dawn, she heard him open her
door gently and look in.

Egmont ! ' she called, and he came
to her bedside and knelt down beside
her and put his arm round her neck ;
and then she cried upon his shoulder
and clung to him, begging him not to
leave her till it was light.  It has
all been so terrible,' she said ;  and I
cannot get it out of my mind.'

So he sat with her tU morning,
telling her about the shipwreck and the
danger they had run in the lifeboat.
And as they talked over the horrors of
the night, saying simply the first thing
that came into their heads, each sure

of the sympathy of the other, Laura
felt that the old childish days had
come back again when she and Egmont
were all in all to one another; and
she wondered more and more that she
could have dreamed for a moment that
any new experience could blot out the
old ones, or a new love be to her instead
of the tried affections that had so grown
with her growth that her very being
seemed made up of them.

Calling him lord.'

Bene had gone back to London
before Laura appeared
next morning. And Lady
Sarah gave her a message of good-bye
from him, adding to it the information
that he would come back for one day and
night towards the end of the week as
arrangements were being made for a
public funeral for Williams in which all
the village would take part  those who
had rowed with him in the boat acting
as pall-bearers in accordance with the
custom of Llanoun.

The respite thus gained was very

welcome to Laura : she hoped that before
Heme's return she might have recovered
in some measure the calm that had come
to her in the hour when she knelt by her
bedside and meekly took her crown of
womanhood. That hour seemed now
very far away and its peace fled forever.
And like one who, after partaking
in a solemn rite in which his soul has
risen above all weakness of body and
worldliness of mind to commune face to
face with the Spirit of Eternal Good,
finds on returning to the busy street that
his exalted mood is no safeguard against
the distractions of the world, and is
tempted to call in question the teaching
of the sacramental hour, so she doubted
now the reality of the inspiration that
had seemed so strong and proved so
weak. For a brief space her spirit had
touched the Highest and she had thought
that henceforth all life would be illumined

by the sacred flame kindled in the contact.
But, as the intolerable glory faded
quickly from the face of Moses, and the
divinely-graven tablets were shattered
in wrath at sight of the perverse nation
revelling around a golden calf, so her
light had gone out and the new law of
a consecrating love that had seemed
given to guide her steps aright had
fallen into meaningless confusion. The
doubts that had been put to flight by the
declaration of Heme's love had now
returned, and her high sense of the obligation
to be faultless that his love imposed,
seemed to increase their urgency
without making her more fit to deal
with them. The thought of Cassandra's
claims came back now with torturing importunity,
while in her doubts as to the
Tightness of joining herself to one who
denied the faith to which she had been
bred she found another difficulty in

which she could get no hel) from anyone
: she felt that it was a question for
her own conscience only.

It was matter of thankfulness with
her that during her days of respite she
was left very much to herself. Lady
Sarah was continually occupied, and, of
the guests who had been staying in the
house, the greater number went away on
the day after the storm. The Courteney
returned home, the Walworthss
and Lady Mary Yane went on to Ardgwen,
and Fraulein Stahl, thinking that
Lady Sarah would probably be glad to
have as few people staying in the house
as possible, considerately invented an
engagement in London. Only the
Burrell Joneses and Mr. Fenton remained,
besides herself and Egmont.
Mr. Jones was to take part in the funeral
service and Fenton of course could not
be spared.

VOL. II. 13

Once or twice Laura thought of going
home before the day on which Heme was
to come back, but to do this would have
involved an explanation with her sister,
a course towards which she felt a growing
disinclination. So she stayed, and when
Heme came back to Llanoun on the day
before the funeral, she was still there ;
and when the afternoon and evening
went by without his saying or looking
anything that showed remembrance of
her unguarded words on the night of the
wreck, she began to think that perhaps
after all he had not noticed them and
that he would return finally to London
without seeking further speech with her.
She said to herder that it would be over
now in a few hours. And as they all
walked to the church together next
morning she felt that the burial to which
she was going, was that of all the sweetest
promises that life had yet spoken to her.

It was in a solemn silence of close-pressed
lips and tightened hearts that
the population of Llanoun walked in black
procession behind the coffin that bore
Owen Williams to his resting-place in
the Httle graveyard by the sea. Men,
women, and children were there, rich
and poor knit together for one short
hour less by a common sorrow than by
a common sense of prostration before a
power greater than man. Differently,
each from each, they felt the occasion
of their gathering  the loss of father,
husband, friend, old neighbour, new
acquaintance ; but all had a common
note in the mute amazement of soul that
comes in the presence of a calamity not
referable to human responsibility.

Laura's thoughts wandered a good deal
during the service, and when she called
them back to attention she was painfully
conscious of dissent. She could not but

remember the passionate rebellion of her
spirit when it had seemed that the threat
of the tempest was aimed at her own
heart ; and, rebelling for others now as
she had rebelled then for herself, she felt
towards the bereaved family and all the
mom-news and sufferers of the world a
sudden outleap of sympathy that had
something of the indignant colour that
our compassion takes when it is enlisted
on behalf of an oppressed people. The
universe seemed to confront her in a new
aspect : she saw men struggling together
in close-ranked brotherhood against a
strong, unpitying Fate of which the instruments
were storm and disease and
pestilence and death. She could not
join in prayer or praise, for prayer and
praise were alike addressed to him whose
hand was said to arm the tempest and
to spread the pestilence. God appeared
to her as a Destroyer, and her sympathies

were with the victims. She tried to listen
to the sermon and to find comfort in the
reiteration of , the stock phrases by which
optimist theology justifies the ways of a
God all-loving and all-mighty to the
doubting hearts of those whom he has
stricken. But in vain. The arguments
of the preacher carried no conviction 
his exhortations left her cold. She remembered
how she had once reproached
Heme for wishing to take their last
comfort from the miserable  she thought
now that their comfort was no comfort.
She began to understand how for all
whose worship has its centre outside
the human world, the lessons of such
hours must needs be dark, and how only
those who have learned to recognise the
moral blindness of the universe, and
whose help is in the loyal hand-grasp of
their brothers, can find their religious
trust quickened and its bonds strengthened

by the calamity that man has not
contrived. And she yearned towards
those whose trust is in a Providence that
does not claim to be almighty. She
thought there would be consolation in
belonging to a communion of which the
bond was a sense of mutual dependence,
and to whom every blow of Fate would
come but as a signal for the rallying of
comrades  an occasion for extending the
human sympathy that is the sole support
of stricken man.

When the sermon ended and the congregation
bowed their heads in reverence,
Laura drew hers up in involuntary protest,
and as she did so her eyes met
Heme's, and she knew that he was
feeling with her.

A few hours later she was sitting in the
window-sill of her favourite little room,
looking sadly out upon the park, where
the boughs torn off by the storm still

lay scattered in disorder. She was very
pale, and there were large dark circles
under her eyes, and every now and then
her lips quivered and her brow contracted
as though she were struggling to command
some painful thought. She was
saying to herself for the hundredth time
that Heme would go back to London
without speaking to her further, and that
it was well that he should do so  he was
bound to Cassandra, as she had always
thought, and his feeling for her had been
a passing movement of unfaithfulness for
which she was herself probably to blame.
He would go away and forget her, and
right would be done, and by-and-by she
would be strong enough to be glad.

If only he would go without bidding
her good-bye, and so spare her the pain
of another interview ! It seemed to her
that she could not meet him again and
look in his face and touch his hand and

hear him say her name  and not break
out in some wild way. She might have
been to blame, but surely all had not
been her fault or her imagining. It was
not her fancy that he had said he loved
her that evening on the sands. And why
should he say it if he did not mean it ?
Surely it had not been all her fault, and,
if she had betrayed herself that night,
he at least must know that she was not
without excuse.

She could give him up ; she wished
him to go back to Cassandra and be
faithful, but she could not find it in her
heart to believe that he had not cared
for her a little. To think that, seemed
somehow to rob her of existence.

But Heme had not forgotten, and
while Laura was praying that he would
go away without seeing her again he
was seeking her about the house. He
had turned back from a walk on which

he had started with Egmont and Mr.
Fenton, making the excuse that he had
some papers which he must look through
before going back to town ; he had
sought Laura in the dining-room and
in the library, and now he was coming
along the passage through which we
once saw her flying from Lady Mary's
admonitions.

Laura heard his footstep and started
from her seat, her pale face growing
suddenly crimson. But before he could
enter she had turned deadly white again
and was standing with her face towards
the window. She did not turn round ashe
came in, but waited as she was for
him to speak.

 Lady Laura,' he said, ' I have come
to say good-bye to you. I am obliged to
go back to London this afternoon.'

Yes,' said Laura, without lifting her
eyes from the ground.

And I had something else to say-besides
good-bye said Heme ; and then
he paused, hoping that she would lookup
and give him some encouragement.
But Laura was motionless and her eyes
were still cast down.

I had a great many things to say to you
continued Heme,  * things which I tried
to say to you once before. You stopped
me then, but you have seemed since to
give me leave to think that you would
care to hear them. May I say them
now ? '

Still Laura did not speak, and he went
on.  To tell you that I love you as
I have never loved any woman before
would be a very small part of what
I had to say. I wanted to tell you that
I worship you as the purest and noblest
being that I have ever known  I wanted
to thank you for having taught me to
believe again in the possibility of life

being grand and pure and beautiful. I
wanted to tell you all this.'

Her back was still tui-ned towards him.
He tried to take her hand, and she withdrew
it.

Why do you turn away from me ? '
he said.

Leave me,' moaned Laura.

But he only drew nearer. She was
trembling visibly.

Why should you tremble before me ? '
he said.  Laura  dearest  look up and
tell me that I may speak. Will you not
tell me that what you seemed to say
the other night was true  that you do
care for me and that my love is not an
offence to you ? '

But Laura stood as if spell-bound.
With exquisite delight she had heard him
call her simply by her name, as if she
were his and there were no more division
between them. But stronger than delight

was her sense that he was tempting
her to a great wrong. The image of
Cassandra rose between them, and she
felt herder a traitor to her friend.
Speech seemed impossible, and yet she
must speak. She looked up and met
his gaze steadily for a minute ; then
turning away again, she stammered,
 Cassandra.'

The name alone uttered at that moment
had reminder enough in it to
move Heme disagreeably : the look that
accompanied it made it impossible for
him to doubt the meaning with which
it was spoken. He understood that
Laura believed him to be virtually engaged
to her cousin, and he concluded
hastily that Cassandra herself was answerable
for the belief. A moment ago
he too had felt compunction towards
Cassandra, but now compunction gave
place to resentment.

 Cassandi'a ! ' he echoed. ' What has
Cassandra to do with us ? '

 Oh everything ! ' said Laura ;  she is

the dearest friend I have, and but

you know.'

 'V\at do I know ? ' asked Heme.

'You know  at least I mean  I thought
we all thought you were going to marry
Cassandra.'

There is some mistake,' said Heme
angrily. ' Who has told you that I was
going to marry Cassandi'a ? It is a
dream, an invention. Cassandra and I
are each fi-ee as far as the other is concerned.
We are good friends  that is all :
at least we were before I heard this.'

Oh, what have I done ? ' cried Laura
in distress.  It was my own fancy 
Cassandra never told me anything  I
thought it for myself  we all thought
it. Is it possible that we were all
mistaken ? '

'You were very much mistaken,' said
Heme. 'There is nothing between me
and Cassandra. She is free and I am
free. Do you believe me ? '

Yes, I believe you,' said Laura.
Only it seems strange when I had been
thinking it all along.'

But you believe me ? And now you
will let me speak ? '

He spoke confidently as if victory
were already won. But Lama diew back
and said, 

Oh no, I have listened too long already.
I do not know what has happened to me.
Please do not say anything more. You
are kind sometimes. Be kind now and
leave me.'

No,' said Heme, ' I cannot leave you.
Not at least till you have answered me
whether you love me or not. I have a
right to ask that question. You gave
me the right on the night of the storm.

and you must not send me away without
an answer.' lie waited a moment, but
as she did not speak he went on, dropping
the tone of fierce determination in
which he had begun to one of quiet argument.
lady Laura,' he said, 'when
we stood together this morning in the
churchyard, it passed through my mind
that in all calamities like death and ruin
that come from the great forces of the
world over which man has no control,
there is this element of good, that they
strip life for the moment of all artificialities
and make us feel the true worth and
sacredness of natural human feeling. I
had loved you almost from the first
moment of om meeting, but till this
morning I never deliberately purposed
to ask you to be my wife. I said you
belonged to another world than mine,
and that it was my duty to leave you
where you were happy. But this morning

I took courage and said that my
love  our love  was a more sacred thing
than the barriers that the customs of the
world have built up between us. I said
to myself that if you cared for me as you
had given me reason to think you did,
you would be happier in following the
impulse of your heart and becoming my
wife than in stifling your love for the
sake of rank and wealth. I said that I
had a right to ask you from yourself, and
that they were wrong who warned me in
the name of your happiness to leave you.
Was I right, Laura  my love ?  tell me
that I was right ! '

He had done speaking, and was standing
over her waiting once more for her
to speak, and she had sunk into the
window-sill and hidden her face in her
hands. She dared not meet his eyes, for
she knew what power was in them to
subdue her weakness. She did not answer

at once. She was trying to reason
with his arguments  trying to meet him
on the ground that he had taken. But
the ground was new to her. She had
never thought of the difference in their
worldly position as a barrier between
them. Barrier enough had been found
in the thought of Cassandra's prior love
and the romance of engagement between
the cousins that her imagination had
built up,  mountains of separation that
made it superfluous to inquire whether
there were also molehills in the waj
But now the mountains were removed
by a word. And yet she shrank from
him, almost wishing that she could find
valid ground for the denial of his suit
in the difference of rank to which he
had referred ; for she feared that the
scruples that held her back, though
they were real to her with a reality far
beyond any that belonged to the facts of

VOL. II. 14

mundane life, would seem to him mere
cobwebs spun by her girlish fancy to be
brushed away by a stroke of masculine
common-sense.

Was I right, dearest ? ' he repeated
in a lower tone, of which she felt the
pleading force thrilling through every fibre
of her body and compelling her to speak
though she would fain have prolonged
for ever the respite silence gave her.

*You were right,' she said, speaking
very low as if she would avoid hearing
the sound of her own words,  ' you were
right. What has happened during the
last few days has been so terrible and so
solemn that we cannot help speaking the
truth to one another. After that night it
would be useless for me to pretend that I
do not care for you. I will not try. I
think I do not dare. You know that I
care for you But then there is much
more that you do not know  there is

She paused. It seemed to her that he
might laugh if she told him what was in
her mind, and she could not bear that.

What is there ? ' said Heme ;  what
can there be to keep us apart if you do
love me as you say you do ? '

 Oh there is much, very much. There
is a gulf between us,' said Laura, despairingly.


I knew the world would say so,'
answered Heme with a note of bitterness
in his voice that made her wince. ' I
knew the world would say that I had no
right to ask you to marry me. But I
did not think that you would say so. I
thought it was you who said that you
would be miserable in the possession of
any good that you could not share with
others. Was it all a dream, what you
told me that evening on the sands when
you seemed like an angel from heaven
come to rebuke my doubt in goodness

and to cheer me with sympathy in all
the best feelings of my life ? Was it a
dream, and are you now angry with me
because I have asked you to be my
wife ? '

 Oh no, no ! ' she said, unable to
endure any longer that he should so
cruelly misunderstand her. * It is not
that  you know it is not that. You cannot
think that I meant any mere difference
of rank.'

What is it then ? what can it be ?
Believe me there is nothing  there can
be nothing  to keep us apart ; ' and he
came nearer to her, with a movement
as though he would have taken her to
himself then and there and held her his
for ever.

But she started from her seat and waved
him off with an imperative gesture.

 Listen,' she said ; * only be patient for
one moment, and I will tell you what it

is.' Then suddenly changing her tone to
one of entreaty she said,  Oh, do listen
and be pitiful !  I told you that I loved
you because I was weak and my fear
drove me to it . . But there is so
much besides.'

 "What is there ? ' said Heme.

Oh ! ' she said, * there is one's love
for one's father and mother, and for
one's brothers and sisters, for one's home
and for all the things that one has been
brought up to care for  and there is
one's faith in God.' Once more she
paused, hoping that he would answer and
so reinforce her strength by opposition.
But he was silent, and she had to gather
up her strength by an inward effort and
find words in her own mind only. She
went on desperately. ' And it seems tome
that since I have known you I have
somehow drifted away from all these
things, and that night when you were

out in the storm I first discovered how
far I had gone. You are stronger than
I am. But do not take advantage of my
weakness, for I must speak the truth to
you because you know it already, and I
could not bear that you should despise
me as you would do if I pretended that
it was worldly things that stood between
us. It is not worldly things. It is that
you are carrying me away, and that I
am too much confused and bewildered to
know clearly whether I ought to follow.'

 But why should you be afraid to
follow ? Our love will make a heaven
for us both in which all mere differences
of creed will seem of very little consequence.
See how small they must be
since they have not been able to keep
our souls apart.'

But Laura answered sadly, 
' No, no ; they are not small. I said
there was a gulf between us  and your

words only help to make me feel how
wide it is. To you these things are
nothing  but to me they are everything.
I could not be content unless we believed
together.'

We would believe in one another,'
said Heme.

That is not enough,' answered Laura.
That frightens me, but in the other I
think there would be rest. Oh, steely
there must be truths that are larger and
more fixed than the love of any man or
woman. I used to feel that it was so.
Sarah feels it ; she felt it in the storm
when I was all adrift and could not pray
or trust. I think I should feel it again
in a little time. If you gave me a little
time to think,' she ended.

*A little time,' said Heme bitterly,
during which all the old influences will
be about you, and your conscience will
persuade your heart against me. Oh,

Laura, if I thought you did not love me,
I would leave you without another word,
though to leave you would he to give up
heaven. But you do love me. And yet
you ask me to leave you. And this I
cannot do. It is cruel to ask it.'

Oh no, not cruel ! ' she said ; * I am
not cruel  hut I am unhappy. I want
to go home to my mother. She will
help me to know what is right. But if
I ought to decide now, I can only say, 
Good-bye.' And she held out her hand
in farewell. But Heme did not take it.

There was silence between them for
the space of a few seconds.

Laura had said ' good-bye,' and she
had fancied that the word would end
her struggle  that he would take her
hand and press it sorrowfully, give her
one last look, and go for ever.

But instead of going, he stood in front
of her, silent and motionless. Her eyes

were cast down, but she felt that his
were bent on her. Suddenly she looked
up and met them in a straight, full gaze.

He did not move, he did not speak.
And she did not turn away, but kept
her eyes fixed steadily on his. It seemed
to her that she had never really met his
look before,  never felt its warmth or
drunk its tenderness,  never known how
large and full and deep it was.

With every moment now, she felt that
it was growing more tender and more full
larger, bluer, deeper. It was as if
his inmost soul were opening for hers
to pass into it.

And all the while he was so still and
calm, as if he knew that he had but
to wait and she would recall her word
and come to him. Her own doubt was
melting under his conviction, her weakness
was yielding to his strength  and
she could no longer oppose argument

to impulse. Sarah's words spoken in
the storm came to her mind, 

At times lice tliis we can only standstill
and wait upon the Lord.'

The Lord ?

But who and what was Lord ?  Love,
Conscience, God, or Man ?

A few minutes ago, she had talked of
her faith in God, of her home and her
own people  saying that these stood between
her and Maurice. And now all at
once it seemed to her that God and
home were in the eyes of the man who
loved her and whom she loved.

She could not turn away from his eyes
any more. They held her. They drew
her. She felt herself rising from her
chair  moving, in spite of herself, towards
him.

Oh, what is it ? ' she moaned, ' what
is it? . . Do not leave me. I cannot
live without you.'

And she stumbled forward and glided
upon her knees  to the ground  at his
feet. 0 God  Maurice  help me ! '

And in a moment he had caught her
in his arms, and she was clinging to him
and uttering low broken sounds, and he
was answering with words of love.

And she felt that she could never
doubt again  she knew that for good or
evil she was his for ever.

To him that taketh away thy cloak, forbid not to take
thy coat also.'

Area stayed on at Llanoun
for two days more, and found
confirmation and comfort in
her sister's sympathy. For Lady Sarah,
having once taken her part, was eager
to help her through all difficulties. She
undertook to propitiate Lord Ehoos, and
wrote immediately to tell him of what
had passed, and to beg him to lose no
time in coming to Ardgwen and doing
all he could to promote Laura's happiness,
which she most earnestly assured
him depended upon this marriage. And

she told Laura that she might count
with certainty upon his help. At which
Laura looked doubtful. Sarah's confidence
was, however, not to be shaken.

you none of you know Khoos,' she
said.

Laura made no answer : she was very
well aware that she did not know Ehoos,
but she was none the less sm-e that he
would not be on her side.

However, she did not feel afraid.
Heme's love and Sarah's sympathy
seemed enough to her. She believed
they would carry her through, and she
started homewards full of happy confidence.


But by the time she reached Ardgwen
she felt her courage dying away, and she
wished she had allowed Heme to write
at once to her father instead of stipulating
for a week's respite.

She had said, ' I must have a few days

to think it over with my mother.' But
when she found herself at home again,
it was not to Lady St. Asaph, hut to
Cassandra, that she thought she would
tell her story first.

She went to the rectory directly after
breakfast on the day following her return
home, and met her cousin in the garden.

Cassandra was on her way to the
castle, impelled hy a restless anxiety
for news. The idea that the visit to
Llanoun would bring Heme to the point
of a declaration to Laura had never
once quitted her since the night of the
dance; and, though she had heard of
his visit to the rectory on the following
morning, as he had not followed it up by
a letter, she had been unable to find in
it any assurance of an intention to be
guided by her warning. Indeed the most
probable explanation of his visit seemed
to her that, having reflected upon her

hints and resolved to disregard them, he
had come from a sense of honour to tell
her so. The fortnight that had passed
since had been to her a time of almost
greater unrest than to Laura herself.

It is good for you to come and see me
so soon,' she said.  I was just starting
to come to you. How are you ? ' She
smiled as she spoke, and tried to feel that
there was not necessarily any special
significance in Laura's prompt visit.

Don't praise me, or I shall feel that I
am a humbug,' answered Laura, going
straight to the point. ' I have come
because I wanted to tell you something
something that has happened to me
and that I want your advice about. Will
you help me, Cassie ? '

The forced smile died from Cassandra's
lips. She knew what was coming, and
for a moment all power of dissimulation
forsook her. And yet it was only what

she had been schooling herself to bear
for months past  what she had foreseen
with certainty on the first evening of
Heme's first visit to Ardgwen. She had
thought over and over again how she
should feel when Laura came and told
her that she was going to marry Maurice
Heme : she had purposely accustomed
herself to the idea, so that the fact might
not take her off her guard. And now
the moment was come, and Laura was
standing before her with the news that
was no news trembling on her lips, and
she felt as unprepared as though the
bolt had fallen from a blue sky.

Laura put up her face to kiss her, and
she recoiled from her as from some bright
beautiful creature that has a deadly
sting.

Laura was too much pre-occupied with
her own thoughts to be minutely observant
of others. She noticed, however,

that Cassandra started, and she thought
she must have alarmed her by the
seriousness of her manner.

Oh, don't look like that ! ' she said ;
it is not anything dreadful. I did not
mean to frighten you.'

Cassandi'a made a weak attempt at a
smile. But she still avoided Laura's
kiss. There were half-formed purposes
within her that would have made it a
hideous mockery.

She said in a tone of forced lightness,
'I am glad your news is not dreadful.
It is a foolish habit with me always to
expect bad news when people tell me
they have something to say to me.
Come into the house, and we will have
a chat.'

But Laura preferred to stay outside.
It would be easier to tell her story in
the course of a walk than sitting within
doors. And Cassandra was of the same

VOL. II. 15

mind with regard to listening. So they
agreed to have their talk in the open
air.

They passed out of the garden in
silence, neither of them speaking till
they were well away from houses and
people. Then, when the village was
behind them and they were alone on the
hill-side, Laura began her story.

She went right back to the beginning of
her acquaintance with Heme, reminding
Cassandra how she had been prejudiced
against him before his coming to Ardgwen,
and detailing step by step of her passage
from prejudice to her present state of
feeling. Much she dwelt on her resistance
to the dawning inclination, much
on her efforts to withdraw herself from
the new influence. She omitted nothing
from the narrative save her misconception
about Cassandra. That was a part of
the subject she instinctively avoided.

Not that any doubt remained in her mind
after Maurice's distinct assertion that he
and Cassandra were mutually free. She
believed him entirely and was satisfied
that her notion had been without foundation.
But the recollection of it was
disagreeable to her.

So all that had reference to Cassandra
was omitted from Laura's confession;
and Cassandra, walking by her side in
silence, felt that her own part in the
affair must have been an illusion  a
dream that she had dreamed, in which
she and Laura and Maurice had figured
with the vividness of waking life, but
which could have had no existence
in fact, since all the while Laura and
Maurice had been playing a drama of
their own in which she had had no part.

Was it fancy, she asked herself, that
she and Maurice had sat together in the
library on the night of the dance and

that she had been betrayed into uttering
words of which the echo still startled
her inward ear? Was it fancy that
Laura had come in and discovered them
in the attitude of love-making? Was
it possible that she had seen nothing,
guessed nothing  that there had been
nothing to see and guess? and had
she, Cassandra, been ashamed without
cause? Her mind grew inattentive,
and she did not observe that Laura had
finished her story and was waiting for
her to reply.

Well, Cassie, why don't you speak ?
What do you think ? '

It is for you to think,' said Cassandra,
startled into attention, and catching at
the first words that suggested themselves.


 Oh, but I have thought, and thought,
and thought, and I can get no further
than I was at the beginning. I thought

you would be able to help me. There
is no one else who can.'

Laura's eyes were filling with, tears.
A great sadness, of a kind new to her,
seemed suddenly to have entered her life.
A responsibility had come to her which
she might not shift on to the judgment
of another, or even share in sisterly
equality with her nearest friend. Cassandra
understood her, but she felt no
compassion and she did not hasten to
answer.

No one knew better than she what
such sadness was. Her own life had
been steeped in it. And hitherto in
her intercourse with Laura she had
striven continually to save her from like
experience by anticipating with quick
sympathy the different stages of her
mind's development. It had seemed a
sort of atonement to her own poisoned
girlhood to make its lessons serve to help

another, and the half-motherly, half-sisterly
affection that she had cherished
for Lanra had been one of the best
influences in both their lives, mellowing
the character of the older woman
and strengthening that of the younger.
Amid many painful memories and self-condemning
thoughts, it made a bright
spot in Cassandra's consciousness to
know that she had given Laura such
friendship as might have made her own
life happy. And now this was the result
of it,  Laura had robbed her of the one
chance of personal happiness that life
held for her, and she must give her
sympathy and encouragement and never
betray the anguish it would cost her.

For a moment she said to herself that
she would not do it ; that to pretend to
rejoice in Laura's joy would be a piece
of base hypocrisy  a sort of injustice to
herself that could not be demanded of

her. What right had Laura to take all
the happiness and know nothing of the
cost ? What right had she to ask sympathy
for herself and never stop to think
whether others did not need it more ?

It was a moment of terrible temptation
to Cassandra. She knew the
strength of her influence ; she had but
to speak a word, and Laura would put
aside as a perilous snare the joy that
had been offered her. But that was
not what she desired. She did not so
much grudge Laura happiness as rebel
against her taking it in ignorance of
its cost. It seemed to her that the one
soul-satisfying vent her wretchedness
could find was in blurting out the story
of her own suffering ; and that, having
spoken, she could creep aside and bear
her disappointment silently for evermore.
Oh ! it had been bitter long ago to learn
that the world was less fair than she had

deemed it, but it was far bitterer now
to know that the fair things she had
recovered faith in were never to be hers.
The whole of life had seemed once to
stretch around her like a grey desert,
meaningless and boundless. Now the
desert was narrowed to her own lot, and
its boundaries were Eden of blessedness
reserved for others, and her thought of
sweetest consolation was an impulse to
lay waste the pleasant places from which
she was cast out.

It was a moment of fierce temptation,
and she was on the point of yielding 
when Laura slid her hand into hers and
renewed her appeal for help.

The familiar touch revived the old habit
of affection, and she answered involuntarily,
' I will help you all I can.' And
then, with a grim regret, she realised that
she had pledged herself to forego the
barren revenge she coveted.

Laura's face brightened.

I knew you would,' she said ; ' and I
knew that whatever you might say, you
would not be hard on him. Because you
have always taken his part and said it was
possible to be good and honourable and
yet hold his opinions ; you do think so,
don't you ? '

Certainly I do,' said Cassandra ;  and
I think I ought to tell you that I hold
the same opinions myself.'

It was a blunt confession, for which
Laura was wholly unprepared ; though
it hardly surprised her more than it
did Cassandra herself, who uttered it
without premeditation  partly because
she knew that it would be more substantially
comforting than the tenderest
expressions of sympathy, and partly also
because these were not yet possible
to her.

You I ' cried Laura in amazement.

And you go to church and teach in
the schools and do just like other people.
How strange ! '

How dishonest ! you might say,' put
in Cassandra ; * but I am a coward, and
I do not like to make myself singular.'

A new vista was opening before Laura.
It was evidently possible for young
women to arrive at sceptical conclusions
without being under the influence of
sceptical husbands. It might happen
to her, then, to reject Maurice's love and
sympathy and find that she could not
reject his opinions. It might happen to
her to hold them without sympathy as
Cassandra had done, and Uke Cassandra
she might not have courage to be true to
them. The prospect frightened her.

Do your opinions make you very sad ? '
she asked.

 Oh,' said Cassandra sadly,  that is
an impossible question to answer. Few

people are altogether happy, and I have
never been able to see that happiness or
unhappiness belonged specially to anyone
set of opinions. Happiness is all
accident, I sometimes think.'

 How do you mean ? Surely it must
make a difference to one's happiness
what sort of hopes and beHefs one has
about this world and the next, and one's
soul, and other people's. To me it seems
very sad to think as you and Maurice
Heme do.'

Cassandra answered more gently, 
 That is because you know very Httle
of what we do think. You only know
that we disbelieve things you never
dreamed of doubting till a few months
ago. To me who have lived outside
your faith for years, it seems that believers
and unbelievers have about an even share
of happiness. Or perhaps, if I were to
speak quite honestly, I should say that

I think the largest share both of joy
and of sorrow belongs to those who
are in sympathy with the best thought
of their own day.'

And is that what Maurice is ? '

I think so,' said Cassandra, and then
they were both silent for a few minutes.

Suddenly Laura said, 

Tell me how you came to have
opinions like his ? '

And Cassandra, who had till now
avoided her eyes, darted a swift questioning
look at them. Was it possible
that Laura had no suspicion ? Evidently
it was; for Laura did not look away,
but merely repeated her question.

Long afterwards, Laura, thinking over
this conversation by the light of subsequent
events, wondered at her own
obtuseness, and blamed herself for the
pain her want of perception had caused
her to inflict. But while the conversation

was actually taking place, lier
interest and curiosity were too fully
engrossed to leave room for any thought
outside the immediate question. Her
own life had grown so large and full
that it spread over the whole universe
and translated all facts and all experience
into language of self. She felt
it an important fact that Cassandra's
convictions should be identical with
Mamice Heme's, but important only
in so far as it tended in the direction
of her own wishes.

'Do tell me how you came to have
these opinions ? ' she said.

'It is a long story,' answered Cassandra,
' and not a happy one.'

Then you do think such opinions
make one sad ? '

Laura would not go without her answer
on this point. And Cassandra was conscious
of a growing irritation under the

pressure. The iron had entered into her
own soul and left scars on which it was
intolerable that triflers should lay an idle
finger-tip. She restrained herself however,
and answered quietly, 

I think all change of belief makes one
sad. Doubt is terrible, especially if one
has to meet it alone. And to me doubt
came when I was very young through
the influence of a person whom I had
believed to be very good and pure, and
who proved in the end to be extremely
bad. It was years ago, when you were
a child  before I knew Maurice  when
I was away at school. This woman
disappointed me and made me doubt, not
only the goodness and truth of God, but
the existence of any goodness in man or
woman. For a long time I believed in
nothing, in no one, and then I was very
miserable. But in time I began again
to believe in my fellow-creatures and in

the existence of a law of right and wrong,
but not '

*Not in God?'

 No, that belief has never come
back.'

Do you wish that it should ? Can
you be happy without it ? '

Cassandra could bear no more : this insistance
upon being happy wore a look of
insult to her. She broke out impatiently,
It is not fah to make my happiness the
test of truth. I am as happy as other
people are, when things go well with me
within and without. You do not suppose,
do you, that people who believe in
God are always happy, any more than
they that always do right? It is idle
cant to pretend that they are, and of no
use to you, or me, or any one.'

She spoke with a vehement scorn that
made Laura wince. She had not meant
to wound her cousin, and did not understand

what she had said to make her so
angry.

'I am very sorry if I have said anything
silly,' she said.

Cassandra was sorry too.

'No, no,' she said; * it is I who am
silly to lose my temper. The fact is, you
only hinted what all the orthodox world
says in one way or another, that we who
do not believe must be wrong because
we are not altogether and always happy ;
and I made a vicarious sacrifice of you.
But all the same it is a mistake to think
about happiness when you are seeking
truth. . . . Oh, Laura, Laura, there is
very little happiness in the world  so
little that I sometimes think that the
chief use of religion is to teach us to be
content without it.'

Cassandra stopped ; her voice was
broken by tears, and she could not trust
herself to say more.

'But if there is so little happiness
said Laura, ' surely there is peace for
those who are doing right ? '

*Yes, there is peace at the end for
those who have fought on so as to escape
remorse. But peace is not what you
think. Life is an awful struggle, and
peace conies only now and then when
we are tired out. Or it waits for us, and
we find it at last when we are old and it
is too late for happiness. But very few
are happy.'

Cassandra spoke in a tone of weary
despair that discouraged Laura from
pressing her further. And yet she could
not rest satisfied without getting some
advice from her as to how she should
act in the present crisis. After a silence
of a few minutes she said, 

I think we have wandered away from
the point. What I want you to tell me
is what you think would be right for me

VOL. n. 16

to do. It does not seem right to change
all one's opinions for the sake of . .
of some one person that one cares for.
But then I think that, whatever I decided
to do, I could not go back to my old way
of thinking. Sometimes the new way
seems wrong, but more often I think it
is really more right and more noble than
the other. And then again  I don't know
it may only seem right because I wish
to think it so. And I want to do right 
I do really, Cassandra, though I cannot
help wishing to be happy too. I cannot
help it, if I am not as strong as you are.
What am I to do ? '

While she was speaking they had come
to a stile, and Laura, instead of crossing
it, had stopped walking and leaned against
the wooden rail. Cassandra was obliged
to wait too, and in order to avoid Laura's
eyes, she busied herself with nipping the
brown buds off a branch of young elm

that overhung the stile. Every word of
Laura's was a stab, and for every stab she
must by-and-by give payment in help
and sympathy. In the meantime she
must vent her pain somehow  and the
innocent elm-buds fell, to save Laura
from revelations that would have scared
her from the happiness she was on the
point of grasping.

But when Laura put the direct question,
Cassandra could avoid her eyes no longer ;
she let the elm-bough swing back and
turned with desperate resolution towards
her questioner.

What are you to do ? ' she said ;
'why marry Maurice Heme of course,
if your father and mother will let you.
He cares for you and you care for
him. You will soon think alike on all
subjects, and you will make one another
happy.'

Then she moved away from the stile.

and, remarking that it was time to turn
back, began to walk homeward.

She had said just what Laura wished
her to say, and yet Laura felt as if she
had given her a blow, for there was a
note of irony in her voice as she said,
'You will soon think alike on all subjects
and you will make one another
happy,'  as if to think alike and to be
happy were a sort of childish folly with
which she could not sympathise and
would rather hear no more about.

Poor Cassandra ! it had cost her much
to say those words. To say them at all
was heroic, and yet they sounded cruel to
Laura, as a sacrifice of bulls and goats
might seem mere butchery to an onlooker,
ignorant of the sacrificial meaning
of the act. Certainly she did not mean
to be ironical, but our words sometimes
take on a tone without consulting our
will, and Cassandra's mood just then was

not free from that bitterness tinged with
contempt which those who have seen
storm and shipwreck entertain for idlers
who trim their pleasure-boats to sail
beneath a summer sky.

They walked back to the village in
silence, and as they parted at the rectory
gate both felt that their affection for one
another had suffered a hurt. It seemed
to Laura that Cassandra had failed in
tenderness at a moment when tenderness
was especially due ; and to Cassandra, in
spite of great efforts to be charitable, it
seemed that Laura was unpardonably
obtuse in the absorbing egoism of her
young love.

Many things, having full reference to one consent, may
work contrariety.'

;HILE Laura was telling her
story to Cassandra, Lady St.
Asaph was nervously awaiting
her at home. She had received two
letters, one from Lady Sarah and one
from Lord Khoos, loth alluding to
Laura's love-affair as a thing which must
have been already confided to her. Lady
Sarah seemed very clear on the subject,
satisfied that Heme and Laura
were well-suited to one another, and full
of arguments against all possible objections
that might be raised. Lord Khoos

merely said that having heard from
Sarah of Heme's proposal to Lam-a, he
had put off going to Paris for a few days
in order to come down to Ardgwen and
talk the matter over.

Lady St. Asaph read the letters with
a sense of bewilderment. Laura had
said nothing to her on the subject, and
Laura was not wont to have secrets
from her. For the rest, she was not
entirely unprepared. The reader remembers
perhaps that when the party
at Llanoun broke up, the Walworthss and
Lady Mary Yane had come on to Ardgwen.
Lady Mary had lost no time in
warning her mother of the dangerous
position in which she considered that
Laura stood towards Maurice Heme ; and
there had been much discussion on the
subject, in the course of which Lady St.
Asaph had the satisfaction of receiving
back from her daughter many admirable

theories and maxims which she had herself
instilled into her long ago. Lady
Mary said how she believed Laura to
be in a very sentimental frame of mind,
and how she thought it a great pity that
a more practical direction had not been
given to her training  she had always
observed that these foolish attachments
were the result of a vague up-bringing.
At which Lady St. Asaph winced, for she
was conscious of having let Laura grow
up with very little direction. She had
grown doubtful in her middle-age of
many of the theories of her youth, and
having conscientiously trained three
daughters in the way her earlier principles
said they should go, she had allowed the
fourth to take the way of her own tastes
and temperament. But her conscience
had never been quite easy in so doing, and
now that it was hinted plainly that she had
been blamable, she was without defence.

She could only ask what there was
in Maurice Heme that made an attachment
to him of necessity foolish, at
which Mary shrugged her shoulders
and remarked dryly that a man of
thirty who had not succeeded in making
more mark in the world than he had
could hardly be hero enough to justify
an attachment against which there
were so many a priori objections. And
in this opinion Lady Walworth had concurred.
To her mind that sort of man
was altogether a mistake. It was not
because he was poor that she objected to
him, or that she was exclusive about
birth. Nothing of that sort. Maurice
Heme was welcome to be anybody's son,
or nobody's. She would not have cared
if he had be m a cobbler or a stonemason,
provided he stood well on his
legs and let the world know that he
chose to be a cobbler or a stonemason.

But she objected to Laura's marrying
a man who was' clerk in a Government
office merely because he had been too
indolent to make himself anything else.
Maurice Heme was a pleasant enough
fellow as he was, and she was always glad
to have him at her house. But then,
when he was married, things would be
considerably changed. He and Laura
would just be able to scramble along and
keep two servants and go nowhere.  The
fact is,' said Lady Walworth, * there are
some people who are like kittens, very
nice till they settle down into middle-aged
cats, when they are apt to be rather
in the way. And Maurice Heme, unless
I am much mistaken, is one of these.'

It was not very long ago that Lady St.
Asaph herself had spoken of Heme somewhat
slightingly as a person who wanted
backbone. And the recollection of this
prevented her from directly contradicting

her daughter's opinion. Besides which
Lanra was her favourite child, and her
great love for her disposed her to be
rather exacting as to the qualities of the
man to whom she should be given. But
then, on the other hand, her very love for
Laura disinclined her to say aught against
the man on whom she had bestowed her
affection. The idea that Laura cared for
him placed him on a pedestal and made
his very weaknesses look like virtues
misunderstood. So she gave evasive
answers to her daughters, and professed
to think that their solicitude was, to say
the least of it, premature.

But this afternoon's letters proved that
it was not so. Heme had evidently proposed
to Laura while they were staying
at Llanoun, and the time for evasion was
past. She must speak to Laura on the
subject as soon as she came in, and she
must make up her own mind definitely

for or against the marriage. This was
no easy task to Lady St. Asaph, and she
found herself reading her son's letter
over and over again in the vain hope
that she might discover some indication
of the side to which he leaned ; for
since he had bestirred himself to comedown
and discuss the matter, she felt
that much deference would be due to his
opinion,  or rather she knew that whichever
way her own sympathies might tend,
her action would finally be guided by
him. For strong-minded woman as she
was. Lady St. Asaph was much in fear of
this eldest son of hers, whose way of life
she wholly disapproved and whose probable
opinion on any subject in heaven
or earth she was always helpless to
anticipate. She could defy her daughters
; she had the courage when necessary
to go contrary to her own traditions ; she
had ruled her husband for years, but she

was a coward in the presence of her son.
She feared him somewhat as ignorant
populations fear heavenly bodies of
eccentric and incalculable orbits.

She was still engaged in reading over
his letter, when Laura came in perturbed
and tearful from her unsatisfactory interview
with Cassandra. She was eager
now to confide in her mother and inclined
to be sure of sympathy, if for no
better reason than that she needed it
utterly.

I have heard from Sarah,' said Lady

St. Asaph ;  and she has told me

But why did you not tell me yourself,
my child ? '

Laura could not say why, and did not
attempt to do so. She was only glad
that the ice was broken, and, without
more ado, she sat down beside her mother
and told her story over again.

It was such a story as Lady St.

Asaph would probably have heard with
strong disapprobation twenty or thirty
years ago ; perhaps even now, had the
heroine been any other than Laura.
Her own youth had been lived without
sympathy, and her own marriage
had been entered upon without love.
And in arranging the marriages of her
elder daughters she had been true to the
traditions of her youth, and had thought
more of a certain dignified fitness than of
any special affinity of heart and spirit.
Indeed though her womanly instinct excluded
for her children as for herself
marriages that were not capable of
developing a sort of dutiful affection
between husband and wife, the most
worldly match-making was hardly more
repugnant to her feelings than a passion
that could carry a girl into forgetfulness
of the traditions of her birth and breeding.
The abandonment of such passionate

attachments revolted lier sense of the
supreme obligation to be at all times
dignified and decorous, and she seldom let
pass an opportunity of expressing herself
strongly in this sense. But, though her
expressed opinions on the subject of
matrimony had remained honourably consistent,
her feelings had undergone a
very considerable change since the days
when she consented to marry Lord St.
Asaph. She had learned that something
had been wanting to her own marriage.
And now, as she listened to Laura's
faltering confession of how she had
learned to love the stranger, it seemed
to her that a new revelation had come
to her in her old age, and she forgot
prudence and gave herself up to sympathy.
And when at last Laura said,
what shall I do, mother? He will
write in a day or two. He will come, I
think. What will you say to him ?

What may I do ? ' the only advice she
could give was that Laura should follow
her own heart. * If you love him, marry
him,' she said. * You will he happy.'

Laura was startled. She had expected
her mother to be gentle and sympathetic,
because to lier she was never otherwise,
but she had not looked for such unmeasured
sympathy as this.

 Do you mean it ? ' she asked. * But
what will my father say  and Ehoos and
the others ? '

Lady St. Asaph felt uncomfortable ;
she had forgotten about Ehoos for the
moment, and did not quite know how
to answer now. She rose from her seat
and began pacing up and down the room
while Laura sat wondering at the strange
turn that things were taking. Somehow
since that day when Heme first
came to Ardgwen and proved a wholly
different person from what she had imagined,

everything had gone contrary to
her expectation, but nothing that had
yet happened had surprised her more
than the girl-like eagerness with which
her mother had given the reins to her
sympathy and overleaped the obstacles
that had seemed formidable even to
herself.

Do you really mean it, mother ? ' she
asked again.

'Yes, yes, I mean it,' said Lady St.
Asaph, still pacing up and down the
room and speaking with agitation ; ' I
mean it. There is no happiness in
marriage without love. I did not think
it always, but it is true nevertheless.

I have felt it I mean, I have seen

it. Life is difficult, and one must do
one's duty. But it is easier when one
loves Much easier. You will be very
happy, my child.'

There was a strange expression in

VOL. n. 17

Lady St. Asaph's face, a strange emotion
at her heart. She looked with a sort of
wistful envy on this young daughter to
whom she knew that she ought to preach
worldly wisdom. She could not do it ;
she felt rather inclined to bid Laura
preach to her.

So she told her son, when he came in
the evening.

 I have been a fool she said, * but I
could not help it. And it will be the
same if I have to speak to her again. If
the marriage is not to be, you must tell
her so  I cannot.'

Hem,' said Ehoos.

I know you are thinking it is all my
fault for having let him come here in the
first instance. I never thought of anything
of this kind happening. With
your other sisters, things were different.
And then we all believed him to be in
love with Cassandra.'

Hem,' said Ehoos again.

did not ijoii think he was going to
marry Cassandra ? '

Well, no, I can't say I did exactly.
He only cared for her theoretically.'

Bat she cares for him. You think
that ? '

To say so now would he hardly chivalrous,
nor yet much to the point ; Cassandra,
not having been proposed to by
Heme, cannot marry him ; Laura on the
other hand lias been proposed to, and
her case is ripe for consideration.'

What is your opinion ? '

I really don't know that I have one.
What is yours ? '

 Laura is very much in love with him.'

So Sarah told me. The storm startled
her into a sort of declaration.'

hardly that,' said Lady St. Asaph,
jealous for her daughter's dignity.  But
she seems to have betrayed very strong

feeling for him ; so strong that I should
say, unless there are very serious objections
to the marriage, it should be allowed.
Otherwise it seems to me that '

In fact you think that Laura's  what
I must not call declaration  has compromised
her dignity. Is not that it,
mother ? '

I have some such feeling,' said Lady
St. Asaph.  What do you think yourself?'


*As a man, I cannot pretend to an
opinion on such a delicate question asa
woman's dignity.'

That is unfair. Men marry women
and cannot therefore pretend to have
no opinion on what relates to their
conduct. Put the case of a woman you
were in love with '

All would depend on circumstances.
If I were in love with a woman, and she
were kind enough to tel me unasked

that she was in love with me, I should
certainly think she ought to marry me ;
but, if she made the same declaration to
another man, I should think she ought
not to marry him, as her doing so would
interfere with my own designs. Such
questions cannot be decided upon abstract
principles.'

How are they to be decided then ? '

Lord Ehoos shrugged his shoulders.
By expediency, self-interest, and resignation
to the inevitable.'

I do not understand you,' said Lady
St. Asaph.  Why will you not tell me
plainly what you think ought to be
done ? '

Because I don't know. Probably
Heme ought to be sent about his business,
and Laura married out of hand to
some more eligible person. But, then, I
ought equally to marry an eligible person
and do a thousand things that I never

shall do, simply because I can't. What
ought to be done is an unpractical question
 I gave it up long ago.'

 Then you think Laura had better
marry him ? '

Lady St. Asaph spoke as timidly as
though it were her own future that was
hanging in the scales.

sit is probably the best thing she
can do.'

He is very poor.'

Women like poverty. Besides, my
father's interest will get him something.'

 Your father's interest is Conservative,
and Maurice Heme is an advanced
Liberal.'

Extremes meet. Heme has been
discovering lately that Radicalism is only
the latest development of Conservatism.
Tory interest, as a stepping-stone to
Laura's hand, will complete his conversion.'


you think him weak.'

No. He is bitten with impracticable
notions and as inconsistent as most people
who want to be better than their neighbours.
Not more so.'

You like him ? '
*Yes.'

And your father likes him ? '
Yes.'

But you doubt his liking the marriage
? '

He will want persuading. But I will
undertake the business if you like.'

How will you do it ? '

I shall tell him that Heme is coming
to ask his permission to marry Laura.
He will be indignant on principle. I
shall accept his objections as decisive
and offer to write instantly and tell
Heme not to come  alluding incidentally
to the impossibility of his ever being seen
in the house again. This will lead to

reconsideration. My father will reflect
that Heme is a pleasant fellow  the only
man in short that he cares much to
cultivate. We shall discuss the thing
over again and discover possibilities not
thought of before ; and the end of it will
be that Heme will come and be received
as son-in-law elect. Will you trust the
thing to me ? '

Thankfully,' said Lady St. Asaph.
And then, blushing as Lama herself
might have blushed, she added, 'You
do not know how happy you have made
me. I thought you would take the
worldly view. I can hardly believe now
that you will not change your mind.'

Khoos dreaded a scene. He moved
away and answered drily, 

'No, my sympathies are really enlisted.
Laura is as unfit, in her way, for correct
life in the best English society as I amin
mine. She would not succeed as a

great lady, and family pride makes me
wish to spare her a failure.'

Lady St. Asaph said nothing : she
feared she had made a fool of herself
again.

Has anything been seen of Cassandra
since this affair ? ' asked Ehoos after a
pause

Laura was with her to day. I do not
know what passed between them. Why
do you ask ? '

 Hem,' said Ehoos once more. And
there the conversation ended.

Ehoos found his father rather more
difficult to manage than he had anticipated.
Nevertheless, the result of
their interview substantially justified his
confidence. And before he returned to
London, it was arranged that, though
there was to be no actual engagement
just yet and no correspondence between
the lovers, still if they both continued

in the same mind and something could
be found which would add a little to
Heme's income, the subject might be
reopened at the end of six months. In
the meantime Laura was to go to London
and prove her constancy amid the pomps
and glories of a * season.' Lady Walworth
was to chaperone her, and it was
understood that, as far as possible, she
was to be guarded against meeting
Heme.

O sovereign power of love ! O grief ! balm !
All records, saving thine, come cool, and calm,
And shadowy, through the mist of passed years ;
For others, good or bad, hatred and tears
Have become indolent ; but touching thine,
One sigh doth echo, one poor sob doth pine.
One kiss brings honey-dew from buried days.'

N a corner of Cassandra's room
there stood an old-fashioned
oak cupboard, rudely carved on
the outside, and furnished within with
many drawers cunningly contrived as
secret hiding-places.

Cassandra had taken a fancy to it at
a second-hand furniture shop at Cresford
one holiday-time many years ago, and

had bought it with her pocket-money 
thinking it would be a convenient shrine
in which to deposit all those treasures
of correspondence and young literary
effort that marked for her the beginning
of an individual mental life.

In it she stowed away the small yearly
volumes of her journal; the bulkier ones
into which she copied all that charmed
her most in reading, the letters that she
valued, and her own attempts at composition;
and, later, the memorials of her
friendship with Maurice Heme.

It was years since she had opened it 
years since she had felt any inclination to
add to its stores. And yet she carried
in her mind a pretty accurate inventory
of its contents ; and of some of those
hoarded relics the thought was almost
hourly with her.

Just now they haunted her with especial
intensity, and after that walk with

Laura, she frequently found herder Entering
before the long-neglected cupboard
and playing wistfully with its key. It
seemed to her that, behind those panels
of carved wood-work, there lived yet the
past with which she was now called
to break for ever, and she yearned
as passionately for a last communing
with it as a dying one yearns for a last
embrace of the beloved whose sole presence
makes the world worthy of regret.
But as the stern monitions of priestly
counsellors might intervene between a
soul claimed for a passionless eternity
and such last indulgence of unhallowed
passion, so all thoughts of prudence forbade
the act to which she leaned. She
knew that to open those doors, and
pore over the papers they enclosed, would
be to let loose the emotions it was
already hardly possible for her to stem 
to turn back and embrace temptations

from which she had been long-time
flying. And again and again she thrust
the key back into her pocket and turned
resolutely from the tempting doors to
busy herself about some forced occupation
in the house or the village.

But at last one night she yielded.

Through hours of troubled sleep and
feverish waking, the cupboard and its
contents had haunted her. Winter
moonlight was flooding the room, cruelly
illumining her loneliness. She ached
for sympathy. She could forego it no
longer. The past should give it her,
since the present denied it.

She got out of bed and possessed herself
once more of the key. In a moment
she had unlocked the door, and the little
system of drawers that she had not seen
for so many years was open before her.

Which should she ransack first ? The
deep lower one in which were stored her

letters from Maurice and the rolls of her
manuscript freely annotated in his hand ?

Her fingers closed around its handle,
but they trembled so that she could not
turn it.

No, she would not open that drawer
yet  she would look at some of her
earlier treasures first, and come to these
later ones step by step, as they had come
to her in actual fact.

She took out one of the upper drawers
and emptied its contents upon her bed.
They consisted chiefly of extracts from
favourite writers, and one or two indifferent
poetic effusions of her own. They
did not interest her much. Neither did
the moral essays, nor the closely-written
journals, nor the unfinished romance that
filled the next, and the next, and the
next. But she glanced through them
all in order, with a feeling that to make
a systematic revision of her past was to

justify in a manner the final indulgence
to which it was the approach.

At last the turn of the lower drawer
came.

She no longer hesitated, but drew it
out quickly and set it on her writing-table.
Then, kneeling before it, she began
to empty it with eager, trembling
hands. At the top lay a little vellum
book with gilt clasps and corners. She
did not want to look at that now  she
laid it on the table behind the drawer.
Next came the rolls of manuscript  the
last Heme had sent back to her from
Oxford. The very paper in which they
had travelled still curled round them,
and she could read her address written
on them in his hand.

She opened one roll and began reading
half-aloud to herself. This was a maturer
work than the pages of poetry and ethics
that occupied the other drawers. It was

a translation of Faust, undertaken at
Heme's suggestion in the days when
they were most together. Their plan
had been to publish it with a critical
study in the form of a dialogue, which
should take the drama as its text and
evolve from it the religious futile of the
world. Only a very small part of the
dialogue had ever been completed; and
the translation, though substantially
written, had never undergone final revision,
for, while it was still in hand, the
quarrel had happened which had stopped
their friendship and all its pleasant results,
and Cassandi'a had never had the
heai-t to finish alone the task they had
begun together.

She began reading her translation, and
started  half in pain, half in pleasure  at
the discovery that it was a much greater
work than she had believed at the time
she was engaged upon it. The theme

VOL. II. 18

had been an inspiring one. The disappointed
philosopher eager to part withall
his knowledge in exchange for a day
of vanished youth, the man of pleasure
consumed by inextinguishable remorse
for the ruin of his plaything, the long
seeking through the mazes of all time
and thought for the day worth bidding
linger, the final satisfaction in the
work of human usefulness  had been her
gospel ; and, unconsciously, she had interpreted
with genius the genius of the poet.
She recognised this now, and wondered
how it might have told upon her destiny
if she had published the work years ago.
Then, impatient of the vain speculation,
she pushed away the manuscript
and turned to Heme's own letters. Oneby
one, she took them from their yellow
covers and read them in the order in
which they had been written. And as
she read them by the Hight of her ripe

woman's experience, she saw clearly,
between the lines of friendship and affection,
the half suppressed expression of
the love she had underrated at the time
when the letters were written. Then she
had attended to the matter of the letters
discussing the theories, laughing over
anecdotes, sympathising with the sentiments,
encouraging the aspirations.
Now all these seemed of very small
account,  the theories were in great
part exploded or discovered to be old
truisms under new names, the sentiments
and aspirations had had small
result in action, the anecdotes were of
people who had faded from her memory.
But the devotion to herself, that breathed
in every page, was fresh and living ; and,
as she read, a sense of triumph came to her.
He had loved her first, and first love
was best. What could he give to Laura
that could compare with what he had

given lier? The firstfruits of his manhood
had been hers, and Laura could
not take them from her. She had had
his promise : to Laura he would give his
failure. And the future would avenge her.

For had she not evidence that the
past was not quite dead for him ? That
evening, when she sang, had he not come
back to her with full devotion ? That
other evening, when he stood over her
and asked her for one word,  promising
that the future should be moulded by it, 
was he not in earnest ? She might have
held him then if she had not been so
proud, she might have been happy if she
had not been mad.

And even now was it too late ? He
would be coming to Ardgwen, and they
would meet, and she could recall him
if she would. A song would do it, a
word, a look ! And why should she forbear
? For whose sake ? For Laura's ?

Would Laura care to marry him if she
could see these letters and know the full
significance of the scenes at the piano
and in the library ?

Cassandi'a's face grew very hard in the
moonlight. The last letter was read and
returned to its cover. And she stood by
the table looking hungrily into the drawer
that was empty now, save for a few torn
fragments of cardboard that lay scattered
at the bottom. Some touches of
colour on one of them caught her eye
and started a new train of memories.

The bits of cardboard were fragments
of a sketch she had made of Mademoiselle
Azvedo in the days when she
worshipped her, and had torn to pieces
afterwards in the rage of her disappointment.
She had entirely forgotten
that they were there, and now, as she
identified them, she was conscious of a
leap of sympathy towards the sinning

woman whom she had so mercilessly
condemned when life was still a thing
of theory.

She felt no inclination to condemn her
now. She was conscious of thoughts that
lowered her to her level, of passionate
impulses that might master her in an
unguarded moment, of moods in which
she almost prayed to be led into temptation.
Between her and the outlawed
woman whose picture she had disfigured
in her girlish indignation she felt that
there was little difference now but what
was due to circumstances. And cassandra
was no Pharisee. For her, the
whited sepulchre was a place of corruption
equally with the united.

Poor sinning woman ! ' she thought ;
perhaps you too had striven to be good.
Perhaps you suffered and were lonely.
And perhaps I, some day '

But there she checked her thought.

Her fingers played nervously with the
bits of cardboard ; she wondered whether
they were all there; she wanted to seethe
face again.

Suddenly it occurred to her that it
might be possible to restore it, and she
began putting the pieces together. The
occupation fascinated her  she grew
absorbed in it, and forgot the letters and
papers that had engrossed her a few
moments before. Bit by bit the picture
grew together, till at last the whole face
was before her  the beautiful face that
had once exercised such a powerful influence
upon her. She stood a little
back and looked at it.

The face was very beautiful, certainly ;
but somehow it no longer fascinated her.
There was something in it that repelled
her. She wished that she had not restored
it.

Then, with a sudden movement of

compunction, she bent down and kissed it
tenderly, as though it had been the face of
a sister whom she had ignorantly wronged.

As she did so, an accidental movement
of her arm pushed aside the drawer and
dislodged the little vellum book that
rested on the edge of the table. It fell
against the fender, and its corners rang
hard upon the steel. Cassandra started
in terror, unable for a moment to resist
the impression that the noise was of
supernatural origin. She was however
quickly reassured by seeing the book
Ipng on the floor.

As she stooped to pick it up the door
opened and her mother entered.

Cassandra, what is the matter ? ' she
asked anxiously.  I heard a noise. Are
you ill? What are you doing with all
those letters ? '

It was painful to Cassandra to be
interrupted at such a moment, and she

would have given much that her mother
should not see the papers with which
she had been occupied ; for, on all the
things to which they related, there had
been silence between them always, and
she could not bring herself suddenly to
lay bare her griefs. She could not open
her heart to her mother, and, that being
the case, her p essence was an added
pain.

She made no attempt however to conceal
either the picture or the letters that
lay on the table : such small artifices
were not in her way.

She came forward and took her mother's
hand, meaning to lead her back to her
room and say simply that just now she
could not be disturbed. But when she
looked into her mother's face, she experienced
a sudden revulsion of feeling.
The expression of it was very sad, and
the eyes were red with weeping  they

showed signs of more than one night's
sleeplessness. Cassandi'a knew instinctively
that she was herself the cause
of the tears and the sleeplessness. Her
mother was grieving apart for her,
longing for the confidence she could
not give.

Cassandra often pitied herself for having
a mother who could not enter into her
hest thoughts and most real life ; now she
reproached herself for being a daughter
who was so little daughter-like. She
laid her hands gently on her mother's
shoulders and kissed the worn face tenderly
 as she had kissed that of the
singing-mistress a few seconds ago.

Dear mother,' she said, * there is
nothing the matter. It was only a
little book that fell and made a noise.
I am so sorry it disturbed you.'

*But why are you not in bed, my
child ? You should not sit up all night

like ttds. You will be ill. Why do you
do it ? '

I do not do it as a habit, mother. I
was looking through old letters, and they
interested me. I could not tear myself
away from them. But now I am going
to bed as soon as I have cleared away
all this litter.'

Let me help you. And then I will put
you to bed.'

Cassandra shook her head.

Then let me wait while you put the
papers away. I want to see you in bed.
It makes me uneasy to know you are
unhappy; for you are unhappy.'

Cassandra had sat down on the bed.
Her mother's presence was becoming
torture. She rocked herself backwards
and forwards with her hands clasped
over her head.

 You are unhappy,' urged the mother.

Yes, yes,' said Cassandra. * I am

unhappy, and yon are unhappy, and it is
a sad world, mother. But it cannot be
helped.'

Tell me what makes you unhappy,'
Mrs. Wynne persisted.

Mother, I cannot. It is not my fault 
but I cannot

Tl: ere was a ring of agony in Cassandra's
voice that came with sharp reproach
to her mother's heart. She rose meekly,
meaning to go.

No, no,' she said, 4t is not your fault,
it is mine. I know it  I say it to myself
often. I ought not to have sent you
away from me. But I was weak.  May
God forgive me, and bless and comfort
you at last.'

 Mother ! ' cried Cassandra ; and she
clung round her mother's neck, and sobbed
upon her shoulder as she used to do when
she was a little child.

While the embrace lasted, mother and

daughter felt very near to one another.
But tears and caresses are but imperfect
means of expression between human beings,
and articulate confidences remained
impossible to Cassandra. And so when
Mrs. Wynne went back to her room she
was still in ignorance of the secret of her
child's distress.

Cassandra returned to the writing-table
and began replacing the papers in the
empty drawer.

She no longer felt any inclination to
linger over them. The past was still
sweet to her, but she turned resolutely
fi'om its memories. The likeness of
Mademoiselle Azvedo was as beautiful
as ever, but she swept her hand over
it and reduced it again to unintelligible
fragments. She was still lonely, and her
future looked even drearier in the grey
dawn than in the glistening moonlight
of an hour ago. Her mother had used no

arguments, and she had made no attempt
to reason with herself. But, through that
short interview, she had passed into a
new phase of feeling, in which she felt
ashamed of the selfishness of the mood
it had displaced. What right had she to
he so greedy for happiness while so many-were
unhappy ? What right to be reckless
and unprincipled while her life was
a care to another? The vision of her
mother's sadness touched her with a
keen remorse. She knew herself to bethe
cause of it, and she could do nothing
to relieve it. But she could add to it
by giving the rein to such thoughts as
had been with her to-night. And this
she would not do. For her mother's
sake she would still try to be good and
resist the temptations of despair.

It was generally so with Cassandra.
All strong currents of emotion were sure
sooner or later to carry her beyond the

personal joy or grief, in which they had
their origin, into some larger channel of
sympathy with others. But hers was a
nature to which abstract names of right
and wrong appealed but weakly; the
faith she lived by was fed by no personal
or impersonal hopes to be realised in an
inconceivable hereafter; right was not
right for her aimless it would bear fruit
in visible increase of human happiness,
nor wrong wrong unless it added to the
great tale of human woe ; to do justice
though the heavens fell was a motto of
insanity, for justice was not justice unless
it bore the heavens up. Hence, moods
of scepticism were very frequent with her
in the long waiting times that go before
the harvest, and she was quick to cry out
that sacrifice had been in vain and right
life a mad ideal  to repent of unselfish
action and cry out with passionate
egoism for a fuller share of the joys of

humanity. But from such moods the
slightest hint of another's pain never
failed to call her back. While any
suffered because wrong had been done,
she would suffer with them; while any
toiled, however madly, along the hard
path of right, she would stand by them ;
for joy would be no joy to her if it came
stained with the tears of her brothers.
So many a time has the image of a
crucified God proved a more potent
appeal to the fidelity of Christians than
the joys or terrors of a far-off heaven
or hell, and the ranks of the martyrs
have in all ages been fed by chivalrous
loyalty to those who have suffered before.
Cassandra replaced the torn picture at
the bottom of the drawer and heaped
Heme's letters on the top of it; and
then she put the drawer back into its
place, locked the cupboard, and thrust
the key into an unhandy place. But the

Faust manuscript she purposely kept out,
thinking that in completing it she might
find a wholesome distraction for her mind
during the trying months that lay before
her.

The little vellum book remained out
also. By accident she had left it lying on
the floor. She discovered it after she
had closed the cupboard, and, as she
picked it up, she began involuntarily to
read the passage at which it had opened
in falling : 

 What name shall we give to the holy
influence that rises, incense-lie, from the
stream of the great human life to brood
above the chaos of the universe  to the
infinite "power , many in one that folds us
in its care and saves us, if ive trust it,
from sinking to the level of the beasts that
;perish ?

We can no longer call it the Spirit of

VOL. II. 19

God J for God has become to us a dethroned
idol, a hieroglyph of which tve Jcnoiv not
the reading, a riddle darkened by the confused
counsels of impatient ignorance,

We hesitate to call it Providence, for
it seems to us blind in its beneficence.
Bight is done to-day, and the ivorld is
blessed on some distant morrow when he
ivho wrought the blessing has fallen asleep
doubting whether all his worJc have not
issued in a curse. Love is lavished, and
the loved one is not purified by it, but an
onlooTcer is touched tvith pity and the
heart of a stranger grows more human.
Lives are poured out lice water for causes
that are not true, and the true cause is
bettered by the devotion that strove
against it,

The power is blind, but ive will not
call it Chance, for it obeys an unerring
law, though one so subtle that we cannot
trace its moorings. Evil and good are



mixed hut good is not evil nor evil good,
and the fruits of each are after its oivn
Mild, We may he touched to glorious
issues hy a gleam from an inglorious life,
or taught to love the highest hy lips that
have themselves hissed baseness. But not
therefore need ive say that all is contradiction.
It 10 as not the evil in the sinner
that charmed our sense lie music, nor
the baseness that thrilled our hearts to
nobleness ; hut rather the undying good
the evil cannot quench  the deferred promise
that is not wholly hrohen,

 The potter is good, hut ive zvill not
call it Goodness. For oftentimes the spotless
ones go hy and virtue comes not from
the77i, the pure ones divell among us and
save none hut themselves, the righteous
meet us in the way and reduce without
redeeming.

The power is reasonable , hut ive will
not call it Reason. Nor Might, though

it is mighty. For Reason is cold and
cannot quicken, and Might is pitiless and
crushes. And the Saving Poiuer is warm
and tender and life-giving as the bosom
of a mother.

We dare not call it God, But ivhat
can we say of it that has not been said of
God 1 Liilie the Father it creates. Lie
the Son it redeems, Lie the Spirit it
comforts. And wheresoever two or three
are gathered together in bonds of human
fellowship, it is there in the midst of them
to strengthen and to bless.

We say we will not call it God. And
yet no lover name contents. And so when
men say to us that God is Love, ive are
constrained to answer Love is God.

But some till say, Where is this Love
of which you speak . We cannot find
it, we do not know it. There are none
who give us good-speed ivhen tve go forth
to our work in the morning, or ludo latch

for our return at evening. Alone behave
lived, and alone hoe must die. It
is cruel to speali to us of a Love that
comforts all,

 And the Spirit of Love will answer,
My name is on your lips, hut your
hearts are closed against me. You
cry,  "Where, cohere and complain
that you cannot find me. And all the
while I am hnocliing at your hearts and
you ivill not let me in. Your "brothers
crowd around you  they are hungry and
cold and named  they are sad and lonely-hearted
 they stretch out their hands to
you and find no help. You do not hear
them, you do not see them  you Jcnoiv
only your oiun emptiness, your hearts are
filled with the sense of your own loneliness.
There is no place in them for me.

And others ivill say ivith a bitterer
sorrow, We Tcneiv it once and we trusted
it. We gave it our hearts, and it pressed

the life-blood from them, and gave them
back to Its cold and dead. We loved and
were loved. But our loved ones are gone
from us. And novo we are alone and
desolate, and we do not believe in the
'poioer of Love to save and comfort.

Arid again the Spirit will answer,
I came to you in a human form, clothed
with beauty and tenderness. I brought
you the joys of love, and filled your life
with sweetness. I blessed you in order
that you might bless. But you tooJc my
gifts and forgot ny commandments. In
your happiness, you strove not to mace
others happy. Being blessed, you did not
bless. And so love died within you, and
my blessing was taken away.

And others, again, will say upon their
knees. We do not doubt the power of Love,
we are not strangers to its sweetness. Weare
not iveary of telling or impatient
because the fruits of our labours are small.

We now that if we regio little, it is
because we have sown little. But we are

sad because we have so little to sow

because our hearts are cold and our
Jmnds empty. We have helped others, and
hoe are ourselves without helix ; we are
hungry, and can find no food  troubled,
and tve now not where to turn for rest.
And for shame we cannot speak ieace
to others lohile there is no [peace in our
own hearts.

And to these the Spirit ivill say. Not
all at once can I bless all my children
wholly. For lo I I myself am not whole
not one like the God of your fathers.
Like you I am broken by sorrow, and torn
by doubt and division. I dwell not in
Heaven throned and mighty, but on earth
in weakness and suffering. I have no
existence of myself, I live but in the
hearts of my children. I live while you
cherish me. When you doubt vie I languish,

and if all men should deny me, I
should cease to he. But while one heart
Jcnoivs me and clings to me, I may still
he found,

 Therefore if your oivn hearts are cold
and empty seeJc me in the hearts of others.
And if any ash you for 'peace, and as yet
you have no peace, confess that you are
desolate, and asJc help of those ivho sought
help of you. And as you join hands in
sympathy ivith your brothers I shall
return to you, and you ivill Tinoiv my
voice and he comforted.'

Cassandra read with trembling emotion.
The words were her own, written years
ago, and she had forgotten them. But
they were true for her still, and they
brought back the temper that inspired
them. She had invoked the past that
she might warm herself at its dead hopes
and vanished dreams. And the past had

answered her, though with another voice
than that which she had craved. Its
answer was not. in the memorials of personal
happiness to which she had eagerly
turned, but here in the little book in
which she had been wont to pour out her
thoughts in days of happier inspiration.
She had laid the book aside as foreign
to the occasion, and an accident had
returned it to her,  such an accident as
the devout of old time called a special
providence, as she called by no name,
but accepted in solemn thankfulness and
dared not disregard.

A moment ago she had bewailed as
barren the happy past and all its memories.
And now her help had come out
of the little book to which that past had
given birth. She felt at once rebuked
and strengthened. The prick of her own
former enthusiasm spurred her to new
effort. She would stagnate no longer.

She would break at once the insincere
silence that had paralysed her life. And
to Laura should be her first atonement.
She would write to her now and send the
little book that contained all the best
thoughts of the best period of her life.
And Laura's passage from the faith of
the past to that of the future should be
easier for the roughnesses the way had
had for her.

 Laura dearest she wrote, ' I startled
you the other day with my abrupt confession,
and I pained you by my impatient
answers when you asked about
my faith. Forgive me  I have been so
long silent on all that touches it that
speech is as difficult to me as to those
who have lived on desert islands. And
so probably, if you came to me again, I
should again answer you roughly. But
there was a time when I thought I could

speak of these things so as to help the
world to understand them, and then I
wrote my thoughts in the book that
comes with this letter. I doubt now
whether they will ever be given to the
world. Though they are true, they may
not be said with power or beauty enough
.to gain attention from strangers. But to
you, who know me, they may be helpful.
And if they are, they will not have been
written in vain. Head them, and send
them back to me, and some day tell me
if happiness seems possible by such light
as they give.

I go to London tomorrow to stay a
fortnight with the Annesleys ; you will
VvTite your news to me, and when I come
back we shall talk it over.

Cassandra.'

The Annesleys were friends to whom
Cassandra paid periodical visits, and she

had been glad within the last day or two
to accept an invitation from them that
enabled her to absent herself from 
in a manner not likely to excite
suspicion.

As Laura read the letter she felt
haunted as she had done once before by
spirits from an uneasy past. But she
found means to lay them, and she studied
the book diligently with grateful feelings
towards her cousin.

Chapter I.

Conviction was not, courage failed, and truth
Was something to be doubted of. '

T was the middle of April. East
winds and south-west breezes,
hail, rain, and sunshine, took
the hours in turn. Out in the country,
orchards were white with blossom, woods
were powdered with faint green, and
daffodils were blazing in the fields. In
London, painters' ladders cumbered the
pavement, shops were either idly shuttered
or bursting into splendour of spring
finery, Rotten Eow was empty, and the
show of carriages was shabby in the ring.
The small big world had fled from town
vol. in. 1

to spend the Easter holidays among
buds and blossoms, and the great little
world was swarming in the dusty streets
and shadeless parks, in practical contradiction
of the announcement of the
Morning Post that London was a desert.

Lady Laura Heme did not read the
Morning Post, but in this particular she
agreed with it, notwithstanding that
from the drawing-room window of a
small house overlooking Regent's Park
she was watching the crowds of holiday-makers
who were amusing themselves
unfashionably in the open sunshine.
She felt no sympathy with their enjoyment
: it was loud and coarse, and jarred
upon her taste. She looked on at it
only because she was disinclined for any
other occupation.

But in truth it was not solely because
the enjoyment of the people was coarse
that she felt out of tune with it :

enjoyment of itself was an affront to
her. The very brightness of the sunshine
offended her mood, and the scents
of violets and primroses, that came in
whiffs from the baskets of flower-hawkers
in the street, only awakened a painful
longing to get away and bury herself in
some grassy nook at Ardgwen, and dream
herself back into her old life. Tears
came into her eyes as she looked across
the terrace and between the opposite
houses into the green distance of feathery
willows and slower-budding elms,  tears
which came often now, and were the more
difficult to repress that they sprang from
no definite cause, but were only the
expression of a vague weariness and disappointment.


More than a year has passed since we
last saw Laura, and the year has been
a momentous one for her. We left
her on the threshold, and we find her

again in the inner chamber of life. In
the meanwhile she has been learning
many lessons that she did not look for ;
and though they are very common ones,
as might be shown by a comparison of
experience with many of the very
people in the street whose appearance is
so unsympathetic to her, they seem to
her so exceptional as to innate her life.
Her marriage has disappointed her, and
she is in despair for herself and all the
world.

But let ns go back over the time.
Lord Ehoos carried through successfully
the work of smoothing her love-path.
He fought her battle with Lady Mary
and Lady Walworth, and made them
both promise to withdraw their opposition.
Mary was the hardest to persuade,
but she gave her word solemnly in the
end and kept it literally  treating Heme
icily whenever they met, and speaking

of the marriage  when speech was necessary
 as a thing ordained and inevitable.
Rachel, on the other hand, treated the
affair as an amusing joke  especially
amusing in view of Khoos's attitude
towards it ; she promised lightly, and
having promised, began immediately to
speculate on the probabilities of Laura's
proving inconstant.

1 You don't expect me to force them
to marry in spite of themselves ? ' she
asked.

Ehoos said not.

1 Nor to send Laura down to Ardgwen
at the first symptom of wavering ? '

That was not insisted on either.

1 Nor to warn off every man who is nota
bore ? It will not be dishonourable, I
suppose, to let her see that there are a
few other men in the world.'

Ehoos thought not. And Lady Walworth
renewed her promise, privately

satisfied that she would not have to keep
it long.

But Khoos had a cordial ally in Lady
Sarah. She kept him constantly informed
as to the development of affairs,
and once sent him a strong hint that
Rachel was playing false. Upon which
he made an unexpected appearance in
Arlington Street and found that his
sister was working hard to get Laura
engaged to her last new lion, a certain
Mr. Grantley Graham, a young man of
considerable fortune, who had lately been
returned to Parliament by a Scotch
constituency and was creating some excitement
in the House of Commons
by trenchant speeches against political
abuses, and some trepidation in staid
drawing-rooms by what Lady Walworth
euphuistically called his bold handling of
social questions. He avowed himself the
apostle of pure hedonism; and as Lady

Walworth had adopted a Greek style of
dress that season, and, with it, a leaning
towards Greek conceptions of life, he was
in great favour with her. She had been
Mediaeval the year before, and would as
likely as not be Chinese before the next
season came round. She had opinions as
she had clothes, because it was impossible
to appear in society without them; but
she liked variety in all things, and shifted
her mind's wardrobe as often as her
body's. In justice to her, it must be
said that neither had any very direct
relation to her conduct. That was regulated
by impulse alone, and kept within
safe bounds by the very variety of her
whims. It was pleasant to talk pure
hedonism with Mr. Graham, but to
practise it was neither more nor less
to be thought of than to fast and scourge
oneself because one wore a crucifix.
Laura also found it pleasant to talk to

Mr. Grantley Graham, and Lady Walworth
certainly deserved some credit
for the self-denial with which she left
them to one another while she devoted
herself to people too behindhand to
appreciate pure hedonism. He was
dining in Arlington Street on the evening
of Lord Ehoos's arrival, and Rachel was
conscious of a triumph when after sitting
together through dinner he and Laura
got into tete-astute again in the drawing-room.
She suspected that her brother
had come as a spy, and was impatient
to have it out with him.

But Rhoos had weapons. He knew
Grantley Graham,  a man of execrable
opinions, which he was most honourably
consistent in carrying out. This was
said with a peculiar emphasis that made
Lady Walworth suddenly realise what
pure hedonism honourably carried out
might lead to, and she wished the 

in the back drawing-room could be
interrupted. She looked anxiously at
the pair, and wondered whether Rhoos
had noticed their mutual absorption.
Rhoos however seemed to see nothing.
He went on talking about Mr. Graham,
and, though he mentioned several rather
questionable episodes in his career which
had not yet come to Rachel's ears, he
laid no stress on them, but merely told
them as relevant anecdotes likely to
interest her.

Rachel grew alarmed and suddenly
showed her hand.

What was she to do ? He and Laura
were devoted to one another. He might
propose any day  was perhaps doing so
now. And it would never do to let her
marry a man like that.' She was ready
for desperate measures.

Rhoos shrugged his shoulders. ' If
Laura likes that kind of thing ?'

Likes it ! My dear Ehoos, what can
she possibly know of such things? Can't
you go and interrupt them? It would

look marked if I did, but you they

will not suspect you.'

1 Graham will probably not propose
while I am here.'

And you will speak to Laura tomorrow
and tell her the sort of man he is ? '

It will be better for you to do that,'
said Ehoos drily.

And in this way Rachel was brought
to full confession.

It turned out that no mischief was
done. Laura admitted to liking Mr.
Graham and to enjoying his conversation.
But on cross-examination it
appeared that his charm lay chiefly in
his knowing Heme and holding similar
opinions to his on many subjects. Of
pure hedonism he naturally had not
talked to her.

Lady Walworth felt that she had
had an escape, and she underwent a reaction
of cordiality towards Heme. She
had him frequently to dinner during the
remainder of the season ; and she was
gradually dropping Mr. Graham, when
one day he reinstated himself in her
favour by announcing his engagement
to a lady who fully shared his admiration
of pure hedonism.

Ehoos had also taken much trouble
to get some profitable advancement for
Heme ; and he had succeeded in obtaining
for him the private secretaryship to
the cabinet minister who was at the head
of his office. This circumstance was felt
to justify the reopening of the marriage
question before the date originally fixed.
And the result was that, very soon
after Laura came home from her London
season, Heme was authorised to go
down to Ardgwen and renew his suit.

He came one day towards the end
of August, when Laura was sitting under
the old cedar-trees where they had first
made friends that September morning.
She was curled up in a little heap at
the foot of one of the great trees with
Cassandra's book in her lap and a queer
medley of thoughts in her mind. She
had been reading of devotion to humanity,
of self-sacrifice that asks no reward, of
brotherhood among men, of duty to the
generations yet unborn. But somehow,
in her thoughts, devotion to humanity
became a synonym for loving Maurice,
and the day when the kingdom of
Heaven would come upon earth was
identified with that which should make
her his wife. Suddenly she heard a
rustle among the leaves, and he stood
before her, and she sprang to him,
and felt that heaven had opened and
life was turned into a strain of music.

Next day a gardener found the book
under the trees and sent it up to the
house. And Laura returned it to Cassandra
with a great many thanks and
an apology for the green stains that had
come upon it during the night spent in
the open. She wrote, ' You will not be
angry when I tell you how it happened.
I was reading your book yesterday under
the trees when Maurice came, and I was
so glad to see him that I forgot all about
it and left it lying on the ground. I have
tried to rub the stains out, but they will
not move. I am so sorry. Thank you
again, dear Cassie, for letting me keep
the book so long. It has been a great
comfort to me, and has made me understand
things much more clearly than
I did before.'

They were married in the beginning
of September, and the early days of
October found them settling into their

home  the small house with an outlook
upon Regent's Park. The taking of that
house had been Laura's first disappointment.
For though it was unfashionably
situated in comparison with the houses in
which her sisters lived, it was a more
expensive house than they could well
afford, unless indeed they were to spend
all their small income upon their own
housekeeping, and leave no margin for the
thousand and one little schemes of outside
usefulness they had planned together.
They had looked at a great many houses
in less pleasant parts of London  houses
in small dingy streets in central parfcs,
semi-detached villas in suburban regions
too remote to be named in Need Books,
too near to be counted among the suburbs
of pleasant refuge from London smoke
and noise. But friends grew pathetic at
the idea of Laura living in such places,
and Lord St. Asaph shuddered at their

very names. And so the house hy
Regent's Park was taken to please Laura's
family, and Laura was at first grateful to
Maurice for giving in to her people, and
afterwards blamed him in her heart for
not having taken a more independent
line. Everything else had been settled
much in the same way. Laura was inexperienced
and had the character of
being unpractical. Her mother and
sisters were the reverse, and naturally
counted on her being guided by them
in furnishing her house and engaging
servants. They took her shopping, and
hardly consulted her about what should
be purchased. They told her how many
servants she must keep and how much
work each one must do, and they recommended
some protegee of priceless value
to fill each place. A kitchen-maid, much
valued by the housekeeper at Ardgwen,
was put through special training to

qualify her to cook in her own right for
Heme and Laura; a girl who had been
educated in Lady Sarah's schools was appointed
to open their door and wait on
them at meals; a housemaid, learned in
hygiene and competent to light fires on
scientific principles, was provided by Lady
Mary ; and a charwoman was introduced
into the house by the cook before Laura
took possession, and proved too firrnfy
established as an every-other-daily visitor
to be removed by any effort of hers, unless
she were willing to let her cook go
too,  a step that would have smacked of
ingratitude towards her mother. Lady
Walworth played the part of critic, and
by her humorous comments upon one
detail after another of the establishment,
made it impossible for Laura to be
blind to the absurdity of her position.
She was the doll of the family, a creature
without will, dignity, or authority. She

gave sham orders to servants who ruled
her, handed out sums of money for expenses
over which she had no control,
was called mistress of a house in which
no one was less free than herself. These
things were clear to her in very early
days of her married life, but they did not
in the beginning gall her so much as
they came to do by-and-by. When first
they came to London the world was
away, and Maurice came home early
from his office, and had abundant leisure
to spend with her. She was still child
enough to enjoy the bustle of settling
into the house, and since her husband
assured her that submission to the benevolent
despotism of her mother and
sisters need be only temporary, she believed
that the fulfilment of her dreams
was only deferred. Things would
change, and in a little time she and
Maurice would quietly slip their chains
vol. in. 2

M

and do all the things they had talked of.
And in the meanwhile she had more than
enough to do in reading and learning
all the things a useful woman ought to
know. Heme initiated her by degrees
into the philosophy of modern life, and
told her how, long ago, he had begun
a book of which the purpose was to
bring home to the most simple and uneducated
minds all such results of modern
thought and discovery as bear directly
upon daily life, and how he had laid it
aside because his own life had proved
unsatisfactory and he had shrunk from
offering himself as a blind leader of the
blind. Laura was eager to see the work,
and he got out the long-neglected manuscript
and read it to her during the
evenings they spent together, and she
wondered and admired and looked forward
to the day when it should be given
to the world and her husband should

be cleared of the imputation of having
turned back from the plough.

But as the world came back to London,
things changed. Heme's work
was heavier, and he came home late
from his office. Then invitations came
thickly, and they were out almost every
evening. Time, which had seemed infinite
in the beginning, was now so short
that from Sunday to Sunday Laura hardly
had half-an-hour's real talk with her
husband. He was always busy or tired.
She had to go on alone with books they
had begun together, and, if she referred
to the plans they had made in the
autumn, he seemed to have lost interest
in them. The book was put away and
never mentioned.

He had said that their present way
of life was only temporary, but it seemed
to Laura that they were settling into a
groove which they would never get out

of again,  or rather into two grooves
separate one from the other, his of office
routine, hers of foolish uselessness. In
every contact with him she seemed to
find the echo of her own words when
he was wooing her, c There is a gulf
between us  I said there was a gulf.'

It was the irony of her lot that
the gulf was another than that which
she had dreaded. Cassandra's prophecy
had justified itself  she had not been
long in learning to think with her
husband in all things. It was he who
had first roused her to think and feel
beyond her personal life, and her sympathies
had flowed easily into the channel
of his own. She was like a finely capable
instrument that chance had thrown under
his hand to utter music of his choosing,
or be silent if he forgot to touch the
strings. But, being a human instrument,
her silence could be only external.

Inwardly she was full of voices  the tunes
he had taught her played themselves out
in her heart, sadly and with wearisome
mechanical repetitions. The ideas that
had seemed pregnant with action a few
months ago were now a meaningless habit
of her mind. They could lead to nothing,
they brought her no satisfaction, but she
could not cast them out. They clung
about her life importunately like persons
with whom we have begun acquaintance on
a warmer footing than we can maintain,
and who, when we are cooling towards
them, hang inconveniently upon us, not
allowing us to follow the impulse of the
altered mood that would disown them.
She wished now that she had never
heard of these fine-sounding humanitarian
ideas that were so much too large
for the practice of daily life, that she had
never been asked to participate in plans
that were not to be carried into action.

She might then have been happy in the
round of shams that filled her day.
She might have believed still, as she had
once believed, that all work connected
however distantly or mechanically with
the political world was of patriotic quality,
and that every man who went forth daily
to his office and played his part in the
great machine of government was an
obscure hero indispensable to his country's
good. But Heme had broken this
illusion among many others. He had
taught her to look at the British Constitution
from the high ground of philosophical
politics, to laugh with him at
its anomalies, to feel the want of system
in its basis, and to see in the confusion
of its development the incurable anarchy
that precedes dissolution. He had taught
her in short to look upon the whole
existing machinery of government as an
entanglement of abuses which it was

only justifiable to bear with till the moment
came for the substitution of a new
order grounded on more systematic conceptions
and born of a higher inspiration.
It was therefore impossible for her to
take much interest in his work, or to
believe that it had any result of public
benefit in the contemplation of which
she might find compensation for her
private loss ; and it was inevitable that
she should suffer in seeing him day by
day grow more absorbed in it.

Then too he had shut up all ways of
consolation. By looking through his
eyes she had come to regard the life of
her own class as selfish and frivolous, so
that she could not content herself with
the amusements of society. And the
possibility of higher consolations was
gone also. He had taken away her faith
and given her nothing instead. She had
staked all on him, and he had failed her.

Not that she exactly blamed him ;
she could not do that yet, just as she
could not yet have forgiven him had she
looked his inconsistencies fully in the
face. The man who had seemed to her
girl's eyes the one hero in a world of
faulty creatures must be kept at heroic
height a little longer. So she blamed
the general world and the ordering of
it  blackening the background that her
white spot grown grey might retain at
least a relative radiance.

And all the while she concealed her
disappointment so well that Heme believed
her to be fully satisfied with her
life, and when his fetters galled him as
they too often did, he habitually justified
himself for submitting to wear them by
reflecting that they were the dowry she
had brought him. Cassandra's warning
came back to him not seldom. In such
a marriage one or other must be sacrificed.

It seemed on the whole more
chivalrous to let it be himself.

1 Marriage is the safeguard of the
country,' said an elderly gentleman one
evening at a house where they were
dinning. ' If all marriages of young
members of parliament and newspaper
writers could be prohibited for a term
of five years we should have a revolution
before half the time was gone. I could
name fifty men of my own acquaintance
who, from being fire-brands, have become
pillars of the state, and the talisman has
been marriage in every case. There is
nothing like it.'

Upon which had followed a general
discussion, and everybody had adduced
cases in support of the theory. Laura's
neighbour took the opportunity of thanking
her for an article of Heme's which
had lately appeared in the Present Baya
colourless periodical that served as a

meeting-ground for writers of all parties
in their relaxed moods, its contents being
chiefly remarkable for that judicious
quality of balance that gives the reader
rest. Laura, who had not followed the
conversation, did not at once see the
point of the compliment. She brightened
at praise of her husband's work,
and said something incoherent about
having had no part in it beyond that of
an amanuensis.

No conscious part of course ; you
ladies always do your best work unconsciously,'
said her friend with bland
paternal gallantry. ' I may tell you in
confidence that your influence is telling,
this article is its first fruit. You
have taught your husband that we are
not all ripe for knocking down. When
a man passes from the "Reformer to the
Present Day we may consider him
convalescent. Heme will be with us

altogether before long  fairly out of
quarantine.'

Laura understood now, and could have
cried with annoyance. Humiliation and
mortification could hardly have been
more exquisitely contrived : the world
was thanking her for the results that
made her miserable.

As Easter drew near she was buoyed up
by the anticipation of a holiday visit to
Ardgwen. The prospect was delightful
to her in every way. She and Maurice
would find one another again in the
woods where they had found one another
first. And her mother would help her.
Not that she would tell her mother
that she was disappointed, but somehow
that expression in Lady St. Asaph's face,
and the tremor in her voice that had
perplexed her when she was confiding
her love-story to her, came back to her
often now as she mused upon her

trouble. They seemed sympathetic to it.
Her mother would guess how it was with
her and help her.

There was another face too that she
wanted to see again. She was haunted
by the likeness of her namesake that
hung in the library at home. Whenever
she looked in the glass, it seemed to her
that the face of her ancestress looked
out at her instead of her own reflection.
And sometimes the impression was so
strong as to make her wonder whether
she was going mad and this was her
first delusion. She was impatient to
see the picture again, and note some of
the points of difference between herself
and it.

Altogether the longing for the visit
grew intense, almost to frenzy. It was
to end all her troubles and begin heaven
again with better chances of continuance.

But she was to be disappointed in this

also. One morning at breakfast while
she was counting the days till they could
go, Heme told her that they must give
up the visit. There were holiday duties
to be done at his office, and the man on
whom they would have fallen in the
natural course of things was disabled by
serious illness. For various reasons the
work devolved upon him.

It is a bore,' he said, ' but it can't be
helped. And after all I don't know that
we shall lose much in the end. We can
get away at Whitsuntide if we stay now,
and the weather will probably be pleasant
then. Can you give me another
cup of tea ? '

He was holding out his cup to
her. She must look up and smile, and
take it, and make what apology she
could for the foolish tears that she
could not repress.

Of course he saw her tears and wanted

to know their cause. She stammered
that they had none beyond that she
was silly and not very well. Then why
had she not told him that she was ill ?
He spoke in affectionate reproach, kissed
her and stroked her hair, and insisted
on being told exactly what was the
matter.

She felt herself a humbug, and explained
that she was not ill, only foolish,
and finally attributed her tears to the
disappointment about the visit to Ardgwen,
 which was in truth no more than
their occasion. Of their cause she could
not bring herself to speak, though her
instinct told her now was her moment.
Heme took her confession in good faith,
and believed that she was crying childishly
because her anticipated holiday
was deferred. It was his turn to feel
disappointed, and he did not conceal
his annoyance. When he told her that

they would have to stay in London
through the recess, it had been in his
mind that the relinquishment of the
holiday visit would restore to them a
little of the privacy they had enjoyed
so much before. He had thought Laura
would see it in this light, he had counted
on hearing her suggest that this would
be compensation. He suggested it himself
now, but in a tone of remonstrance
that robbed the suggestion of comfort.
Then he proposed that she should go
alone since her heart was so much set
upon it, and she felt that the tables
were turned upon her. She must seem
to him not silly only, but selfish, to be
grieving over her own disappointments
instead of throwing herself into his life.
She would not hear of going alone  she
did not mind about Ardgwen. She
should like nothing so well as having
a quiet time at home with him. She

could not think why she had been so
silly as to cry

In short she was altogether ashamed
of herself, and said so, and asked to
be forgiven.

And so there was a little scene of
forgiveness and reconciliation as if there
had been a quarrel. And Heme went
out to his office with a feeling of annoyance,
and Laura sat at home and read
her books and made heroic resolutions
never to be foolish again.

On his way, Heme called on Lady
Walworth, and told her that Laura
seemed rather unwell and nervous, and
asked her to look in on her in the
course of the morning.

Kachel came, and found her sister
looking brighter than usual.

Why, you are like Mother Hubbard's
dog she said. ' Maurice came and
told me that you were ill, and that

I was to look in and prescribe. But
you seem better than usual. What did
he mean ? '

Laura blushed uncomfortably, and
felt her tears coming back at the reference
to them.

1 1 was silly at breakfast this morning,
that was all. But it was good of
Maurice to ask you to come. He is
very good.'

Of course he is,' said Rachel, and she
repented of having disregarded his injunction
not to let Laura know that
she came at his bidding. ' Of course
Maurice is very good. But w r hat are
you doing with those big books ? '

1 1 am learning,' said Laura.

Learning ! ' said Lady Walworth
coming near and looking over her
shoulder. l What is it all about ?
Social Dynamics " . . . . " Solidarity of
the Human Race" " Classification

vol. in. 3

of the Sciences' ' Why, you will
never learn anything out of a prosy book
like this. I believe big books only stupefy
people. The only way to learn now is to
read periodicals and newspapers, and keep
your ears open in society. Thank God,
people have learned to condense their
thoughts nowadays, and everything that
is worth remembering can be said in
two words  if it were not so we could
never keep up with the new ideas.
Why, by the time one has plodded
through a big book like that, everything
in it is found to be untrue. No
wonder you get morbid if you read that
sort of thing.'

1 Who says I am morbid ? ' asked
Lama. ' Not Maurice ? Maurice likes
me to read this book

No, no, Maurice did not say you were
morbid. It is I who say it. He said
you were nervous. But I shall tell him

that it is this own fault for making you
read this sort of thing. I shall send you
a bundle of novels, and now I want you
to come for a drive with me. I have
some shopping to do, and then I am
going to drive out to Wimbledon

Laura consented, supposing that the
drive had also been arranged by Maurice,
and wishing to be obedient.

The drive did her good. The fresh
west wind sweeping over Wimbledon
Common had a tonic effect on her
nerves, and her sister's conversation completed
her cure. Kachel was a mistress
of the art of turning things with the
laughable side upwards, and she put forth
all her powers for Laura's benefit, plying
her incessantly with ridiculous anecdotes,
and theories of life  half-serious and half-burlesque
; now making her laugh, then
drawing her into argument, and then
making her laugh again by some outrageous

absurdity flung id as sober sense
the moment argument began to be too
serious. The result was that, when
Heme came home in the evening, he
found Laura looking more animated
than he had seen her for months, and
he congratulated himself on having
effectively cured a passing humour of
depression.

Laura thought she was cured too, and
for a few days she kept up the illusion.
She desisted for a while from her vain
twitching at the great tangled skein of
human things, and tried to work the few
threads her fingers had broken from it
into a fragment of domestic tapestry.
She laughed at herself for having wanted
to reform the world, and set about reforming
her household. Books on domestic
economy succeeded to the Social Dynamics
at which Lady Walworth had
laughed; she got the cook to teach her

to make an omelette, and announced her
intention of henceforth paying the tradesmen
herself. The purchase of a very
large account-book was another laudable
step in the same direction. The keeping
of accurate accounts seemed to her a
typical act of good housewifery likely
to react beneficially on the internal arrangements
of a house somewhat as religious
exercises react on the pious mind
that practises them. Then she discovered
that there were a host of small things
to be done in the way of beautifying
the house  things she had promised todo
long ago and never somehow found
time for. She did them now, and found
them amusing, and grew lighthearted
over them.

It was a pretty little comedy she
acted, with her conscience for applauding
audience. And she quite enjoyed
it while it lasted. But unfortunately

it did not last long ; like so many
great actors she was ill-supported by
the remainder of the caste. Her household
did not enter into the spirit of
the play, and showed a disposition to
resent her quickened interest in their
doings. She found herself quietly opposed
by them ; her notions of reform
were snubbed; she realised her helplessness
aud submitted. Conscious of her
own inability to sweep, scrub, or cook, she
was too honest to give herself airs of
superiority towards those who could, and
she acquiesced perforce in their decision
as to how things should be done. Her
attempt at practical control collapsed,
and her part in the household was reduced
to keeping account of what others
did. She wished for real poverty that
lives in a cottage and keeps no servants ;
then she might have done things badly
till she learned to do them well, and

recovered self-respect in knowing herself
useful. Her own little skein-end would
then fairly occupy all her energies, and
it would be her duty to be always working
at it. In her present circumstances
it only grew more ruffled for her fingering,
and the best thing she could do was
nothing. And back went her mind to
the big problems from which she had
lately chidden it away. It was useless
to tell her they were no business of hers.
Perhaps they were not. Perhaps all her
duty in life was to sit contentedly at
home and be happy and make her husband
happy. She could not, that was
all. Not while sad faces reproached her
in the street, not while the newspapers
told awful stories of crime and misery,
not while ignorance prevailed and people
all around her were groping in darkness,
could she be content to use the light that
had been revealed to her as a domestic

lamp to illumine her happiness and her
husband's. She might be wicked, unreasonable,
every way to blame, but she
could not. Rachel had said that she
was morbid. What did morbid mean?
she asked herself, suddenly realising that
she had the vaguest notions as to the
sense of the word. She looked it out in
the dictionary. ' Morbid, diseased, sickly.'
She smiled helplessly. People were not
generally blamed for being diseased and
sickly. Besides, was it a disease to be
sorry for people and to want to help
them ? Maurice used not to say so, nor
Cassandra. She would not believe it.
It was the world that was to blame  the
selfish world that went its own way of
enjoyment, careless of the misery of
others  like the Florentines who fled
from the plague-stricken city to amuse
themselves with telling love-tales in a
garden. They ought to have stayed

and helped. But then they might have
caught the plague and been ill. Diseased,
sickly, and consequently much to blame !
Laura grew scornful. They might have
died and swelled the cankering heaps of
corpses. What good in that ? To sicken
and die was to become a noxious thing,
pestilent, poisonous. Morbid began to
seem a more reasonable word of reproach,
flight the least pernicious course. Only
she could not fly. She must stay in the
infected city and catch its sickness and
be blamed for what she could not help.
The picture at Ardgwen rose before her.
She realised the lot of her ancestress
with painful sympathy, the thwarted
aspirations, the uncongenial surroundings,
the silent suffering, the early death
closing a useless life. Likeness of face
pointed to likeness in lot. Laura thought
she was pitying the sad woman who had
died two hundred years ago ; but her

tears were for the living one to whose
sadness the shadow of the other's fate
added a shade of superstitious dread.

This was the point to which she had
come on that April morning when the
world was making merry and its merriment
jarred upon her taste. Her inclination
being to weep with those who
were weeping, she very naturally resented
the invitation of the sunshine to
laugh with those who were laughing.
There was to be no laughter with her
sanction till there was no more weeping.
She tinned wearily from the window and
addressed herself to her weekly task of
casting up tradesmen's books, and then
when she had ascertained that neither
butcher, baker, green grocer, nor milkman
had failed in his addition, she put on her
bonnet and went out to pay them.

The streets were crowded, dirty, disagreeable,
and Laura almost repented

of having come out. She disliked being
jostled by dirty people. However, the
alternative of going back to the house
and sitting alone with her thoughts till
dinner-time, was worse, and she went on.
Having paid her bills, she bethought her
that a pleasant way home than through
the market-street might be found by
going a little round and cutting across
a corner of the park. She turned up a
little street where two or three shops had
lately been converted into a temporary
place of worship, of which the Gothic
doorway, surmounted by a cross, indicated
the High Church character, a hint borne
out by the inscription on a neighbouring
door, ' Mission House of the Sisterhood
of St. Ursula.' Laura had often met the
Sisters of St. Ursula in her walks, and they
interested her. Were they not, like herself,
trying to straighten the tangled skein,
and, if they were pulling by another end,

why should that shut them out of her
sympathy ? Difference of religious direction
did not hinder her from feeling for
and with the Lady Laura of the picture :
why should it divide her from the living
women who were doing in fact what her
ancestress had pined away in the vain
desire to do ? She stopped in front of
the building with a half-wish to go in
and make friends with them. A Sister
came to the door with a broom in her
hand; she was sweeping out the room
preparatory to service. Seeing Laura on
the threshold, she thought she must be
wanting information.

Do you want to come in ? ' she asked.

c Is there service going on ? ' Evidently
there was not ; but Laura did
not exactly know what to answer. She
had not made up her mind to go in,
and yet she did not wish to turn away.

1 Service will not be till half-past five

But the door is always open. You can
come in if you like

1 Thank you,' said Laura; 'I do not
think I will come in.'

The Sister's face was unattractive : so
was the room, now that she looked into
it,  distempered walls stuck about with
illuminated texts, deal boards crowded
with rush-bottomed chairs, a little altar
covered with bright needlework and
set out with flowers, seemed to offer
no answer to her needs. She wanted
warmth of human life and sympathy,
and she saw no promise of this here.

1 No, I do not think I want to come
in,' she said. But she still lingered on
the doorstep.

1 Would you like to speak to the
Mother Superior ? ' asked the Sister,
divining that some inward trouble must
be the cause of this apparently purposeless
waiting.

No, thank you, not to-day. You said
the service was at five, I think ? '

Half-past five,' repeated the Sister.

1 Oh yes, half-past  I had forgotten.
Good-morning.'

And Laura walked on up the street,
with no intention of coming to the
service at whatever time it might he.

She seemed fated to make acquaintance
with the Sisters that day. As she was
turning the corner to get into the street
that would lead her into Regent's Parka
procession of children in hue linen
frocks came upon her. She stood to let
them pass ; and, as they went by, more
than one turned to look at the ' pretty
lady.' One little one in particular looked
so long, that, walking with her head
turned over her shoulder, she caught
her foot in a worn paving-stone and
fell prone upon the footway, screaming
lustily. Laura started forward and

picked her up, and found herself, in a
few seconds, the centre of a little crowd
of foot-passengers who paused to look
and inquire what was the matter. It
was a relief to see a Sister join the group
and claim the little one as her charge.

I don't think she is much hurt,' said
Laura preparing to yield her up. But
the child had taken a fancy to her and
began to cry again at the attempted
transference. Her little fingers closed
round Laura's watch chain, and every
attempt to loosen them caused fresh
screams.

1 Will you not let me carry her home ? '
asked Laura. ' I am really responsible
for the accident. She was looking back
at me when she fell. May I take her
home ? '

If you will, it will be very kind. But
I am afraid you will find her heavy;
you do not look very strong.'

The Sister spoke in a tender, compassionate
tone. Like many other people
that afternoon, she was seized with sudden
pity for this young fair woman, who
seemed outwardly so blessed, and yet
wore such a look of sadness in her face.

1 Is it far ? ' asked Laura.

1 No, only to our nursery at the end
of the street. You seem fond of children.
Perhaps you will like to see our
nursery and school.'

I should very much.'

Laura felt more inclined to accept the
invitations of this Sister than of the
other. She was a young, light-haired
girl who looked about her own age, with
merry dark-blue eyes, and an irregular
waving line of mouth that broke continually
into smiles as she spoke, making
dimples in her cheeks, and showing
beautifully white teeth,  the face of a
boy-angel, sunny, joyous, and free from

care,  a bright incarnation of unselfish
usefulness. Laura walked by her, wondering
how a girl like this came to bea
Sister of Charity and whether it must
not be a good life that could make anyone
so happy.

The child had fallen asleep by the
time they reached the school, and Sister
Edith put her to bed in a little crib.
Then she showed Laura all the arrangements
of the school and the nursery,
prattling innocently about every detail,
and passing from trivialities to things
the most important with a quaint mixture
of childish simplicity and womanly
responsibility.

1 Do you manage the school entirely
yourself ? '

1 At present I do, because we are only
three, and there is more than enough
for the others to do among the sick
people about. It is a terrible neighbour-vol.

III. 4

hood, and there are very few people here
who will help us at all.'

Laura blushed. 'I have often wished
I could do some useful work among the
poor people, but it is so difficult to know
how. 1

'I think it is impossible to do any-good
unless one gives oneself up to it
wholly

You mean unless one becomes a Sister
like you.'

1 1 don't say that it is so with everybody,
but I think it is true of most
women. I could never have done anything
if I had not joined the sisterhood.'

But everybody cannot be a Sister,'
said Laura ; ' people have belongings 
I am married. I could not leave my
husband, even if I wished it.'

No,' said the Sister, and she looked
at Laura with a mingled compassion and
curiosity that made her shrink.

1 You surely do not think it wrong to
be married ? '

I was only saying what I thought
was the one way of doing this sort of
work.'

'I don't see why one should not do
some work, though one may not give up
all one's life to it.'

Sister Edith shook her head.

It is not a question of quantity so
much as of quality. You might work
ten hours a day at charity, but if your
life lay in another world, your work
would not be of much use. You see
we Sisters are as poor as the people we
want to help. We have nothing at all
of our own, and the Mission has very-little.
We very often do not know how
we shall make out tomorrow's meal.
And the people know this, and what we
give them they value, because they know
that it is a sacrifice of the simplest

UBRARV

NWttS/TY OF lUJNOt<

necessaries of life. And there is more
than that I think. We have no life outside
our work except our religious life.
And the people know this, and so, when
we speak to them of the blessings of
religion, they believe that we mean what
we say.'

1 How long have you been a Sister ? '
asked Laura.

Ten years

Laura looked almost incredulous.

1 You thought I was much younger
than I am. Everybody does. I am
twenty-eight. I came here when I was
eighteen, and I have never repented it.
It is the best life, I think, that is possible
in the world now  the most true to
Christianity, and the one in which there
is least conflict

You seem to forget,' said Laura,
that it is a life impossible to most
people. And as for conflict, one does

not choose it. It comes in spite of
oneself. It is not possible for everybody
to be a Sister of Charity. '

She spoke impatiently. There was
something provoking in the Sister's
calm assumption that her own way of
life was the one right way, the more
so that Laura was much inclined to
agree with her. The statement so
quietly made that no redeeming work
was to be done except by entire devotion
and renunciation of all personal ends
found a full echo in her own heart, but
she felt nevertheless an unreasonable
resentment against the implied blame
to herself as one who lingered in the
world.

There is surely other work to be done
besides that of a Sister of Charity ? ' she
said, feeling however quite at a loss
to say what the work might be.

1 Possibly,' answered the Sister; 'but

I know nothing of it. I only say that
this sort of work can be done in no way
but this. It was the work I wanted todo.
I know nothing of other work.'

It is the work I want to do. It is
the only work that seems to me worth
doing. But I can do nothing. I am
married, and my husband is absorbed
in other things. What am I to do ? '

With a sudden impulse Laura had
thrown off concealment. The calm conviction
that had provoked her a moment
ago, attracted her now. This young
woman had evidently solved the problem
of life : she had chosen and had not
repented. It was an instinctive act to
ask guidance of her.

Sister Edith did not answer at once.
Laura's appeal struck a chord in her
that had been long silent. It awakened
emotions that had vibrated painfully in
the days when the choice was not yet

taken that had ended conflict before
the time when conflict may be most
terrible. She had found shelter from
the storm while it only brooded imminent
in clouds of threatening outline,
and she had no counsel for those who
were in the thick of it  only compassion
and an impotent wish that the world
were ordered otherwise.

'What shall I do?' Laura asked again,
unsuspicious that the silence of oracles is
often but the expression of their ignorance.
It seemed impossible that one
who was so contented herself should
have no talisman for healing the discontent
of others. ' What shall I do ? '
she repeated imperatively.

Pressed to answer, Sister Edith spoke
of the memories Laura had awakened.
She said, 'You feel as I used to feel.
It was that that made me leave the
world. I could not help thinking of all

the misery around me. It haunted me
so that all enjoyment seemed wrong,
and the only life that was not wicked
and unchristian, one that should be at
all points like that of our Saviour himself


She bowed her head solemnly, and
Laura, under the influence of a strong
sympathy, bowed hers also, forgetful that
Christianity lay behind her, and that
the life of Christ was no longer to hera
type divinely given for imitation.

Every other life continued the Sister,
i seemed to me not only wrong but unhappy,
and yet when I spoke of what
I felt to others, they said I was unreasonable.
People used to tell me that
the times were changed, and that right
and wrong changed with the times, so
that what was very beautiful and good
eighteen hundred years ago would only
lead to confusion if it were tried now. I

was too ignorant to answer them, but
they could not convince me, and at last
I followed my impulse and became a
Sister of Charity. I have never repented
it. I have been working ten years now,
and I am happy.'

Laura was disappointed. This practical
argument, ' I have never repented,'
seemed the only arrow in Sister Edith's
quiver  sufficient for herself, but useless
for all besides. Of what good was it to
her,, whose duty lay in the world, to be
told again and again that for those who
had left it there was peace ? She began
to rebel against a content that was so
self-centred : she said to herself that these
Sisters were no better than the rest of
the world  they shut their eyes and ears
and cried peace when it was evident to
all who were not blind and deaf that
there was as yet no peace. She said
what she felt : 

'But what right have you to be so
happy? There is still misery in the
world. And if it was the misery that
made you sad before, it ought to make
you sad still. I think it is a sort of
childishness to be happy just because one
is busy oneself.'

The rudeness of the speech was condoned
by the evident distress of the
speaker.

Sister Edith answered quietly, 
'the misery is still there certainly,
but it no longer reproaches me with looking
on and doing nothing to hinder it
from spreading. We do what we can,
and trust God for the rest. I do not
think that can be childish, unless all
God's teaching is false, and then indeed
we must be without hope.'

I beg your pardon, I had forgotten '

Laura broke off in her apology. She
had forgotten that the Sisters believed

in God, and had not therefore the weight
of all the world's woes pressing on their
spirits. They had but to do their duty
and report faithfully to their taskmaster 
tha rest was in stronger hands. But
she had no such trust, she could only
look from the chaos of outside things to
the impotence within herself, and find
no rest in either.

The bell that had been tolling for the
last ten minutes stopped its monotonous
summons, and the half-hour struck.

'It is time for evensong said the
Sister quietly. ' Will you come with
me?'

Not to-day,' said Laura.

Then I must say good-bye to you.'

May I come and see you again ? '

1 Whenever you like.'

And work with you ? I could teach
the little children. I should like it.'

'I cannot stay now,' said the Sister;

and her black robe flitted through the
doorway.

Laura stood for a few moments looking
after her. She felt that her petition had
been rejected, she was not to be allowed
to work with the Sisters. Perhaps they
knew about her, and disapproved of her
as an infidel. They certainly would disapprove,
if they knew. Any way, there
was no help for her at the Mission House.
She gathered up her gown and began to
walk sadly home. As she went, she
thought over the conversation with Sister
Edith and came to the conclusion that
she was wrong. But then who was right ?
She wished Cassandra would come and
see her. But Cassandra always made
excuses when she asked her to come and
stay with her, and lately she had not
even written. She wished somebody
would advise her with authority, and she
looked up and stared into the eyes of

the first person who met her in the
street.

It was Cassandra, come like a miraculous
answer to prayer. She fell upon her,
and in another minute they were walking
to Chester Place together.

1 It is as impossible now, as in the days of our first
parents, to believe that the garden of Eden is the lurking-place
of the serpent of temptation. '

iASSANDKA was staying with
the Annesleys. She had been
in London three weeks, and did
not know how much longer she might
stay. So much Laura learned from her
in the course of their walk home, but
more she at first refused to tell, though
Laura clamoured for why and wherefore.
She was mysterious, evasive, fantastical,
to a point that was exasperating. But
then she was affectionate, bright, and
animated to a point that was delightful.

And Laura could not be angry with
her. She repaid her reserve by a flow
of confidence, if one may call confidences
those disingenuous narratives that we all
indulge in sometimes, in which nothing
is true but the chronicle of objective
facts, nothing false but the treatment of
our moods in experiencing them. Laura
talked on, laughed at the slavery in
which her servants held her, made light
of the disappointment about Ardgwen,
described her interview with the Sister
of Charity, and said it had effectually
cured her of all illusions about convent
life, and reminded Cassandra of her cynical
saying that people only renounced
the world when their own folly had made
it too hot for them. I was going to say
that she acted well, and took Cassandra
in. But on second thoughts I doubt
whether she was acting. She felt better
for seeing Cassandra, and all things

looked suddenly bright to her. She
could not help painting them in bright
colours.

Cassandra believed her to be perfectly
happy, and was honestly thankful that
it was so ; not only for Laura's sake,
but because her own future was thereby
cleared of difficulties. In coming to
London she had meant to keep out of
the way of Heme and Laura. She had
anticipated some difficulty in doing so,
but she was resolved to do it at all cost
rather than risk coming between husband
and wife. But now, as she sat in Laura's
drawing-room and heard her talking
about her life with what she took for
full content, she began to think that her
determination to keep away had been
unnecessary and that she might safely
keep up her friendship with them. In
fact, to do so seemed now a safer course
than the other, which would of course

surprise Laura and set her seeking for a
cause,  a search which could hardly
miss its end.

Laura, having told her own story, renewed
her pressure for Cassandra's.
And Cassandra became more communicative.
She confessed that her presence
in London meant more than an ordinary
visit. She had plans, but at present
they were unformed and she did not
want them talked about.

1 And I suppose that was why you
kept away from me. You could not
trust me to keep your secrets.'

Exactly : you would have told
Maurice, and he would have told all the
men in his office, and my plans would
have been all over London before a
week was out.'

But you are going to tell them me
now?'

Yes, Cassandra would be communi-vol.

in. 5

native now, since further attempt at
mystery could only rouse inconvenient
suspicion. She told Laura that she had
made up her mind to break away from
her home life and find some work in
London by which she could live. Laura
was surprised at first, then thought it
the most natural thing in the world.
Of course all the ways of life at Nant-gwyn
must be intolerable to Cassandra.
She wondered that she could have
borne with them so long. It would be
much better for her to be in London,
where she could have congenial society
and be quite honest about her opinions ;
and it would be so pleasant to have
her near. But what work was she going
to do?

Ah, that was the difficulty. There
was such a dearth of work for women,
and what there was was so ill-paid.

It is  very,' said Laura.

{ So say the Annesleys. They feel so
strongly about it that they are agitating
for getting women enfranchised.

1 But will that give them work ? '

Cassandra shrugged her shoulders.

1 They say so. But in the meanwhile
I am half-expecting to have to give up all
my plans because I cannot find any work
on which I can live like a lady.'

1 And you must live like a lady,' said
Laura.

As soon as she had spoken, she
thought of the Sisters of St. Ursula, who
lived so unlike ladies, and she wondered
which was the sincere mood in her,  that
which envied them half-an-hour ago, or
that which now decided that Cassandra's
life must be an easy one. The old habit
of leaning on her cousin came to her
help, and she trusted the present mood
because Cassandra said, * I certainly
wish to live like a lady.'

1 Of course you must live like a lady,'
Laura said again. And then she added
with a sigh, ' Oh dear me, I wish we
were rich ; that would make everything
easy

I wish J were,' said Cassandra. And
they both laughed.

Then Laura said, 

1 But there can't really be any difficulty
for you. You are so clever. You could
make a fortune in fifty ways. You sing,
play, draw, and do everything better than
any one else. If I were you I would be
rich in a year. What do the Annesleys
advise you to do ? '

1 To take two rooms somewhere and
have classes. I am to teach girls everything
that they ought to know, no
matter whether I know it myself or
not.'

1 To teach ? ' Laura made a face of disapprobation.


1 And why not teach ? '

1 Because you might do something more
amusing. You might write books, or paint
pictures, or sing. If I were you, I should
sing at concerts.

I could never give singing-lessons,'
said Cassandra. ' Pray don't propose that
again. In the first place I should fail,
and in the second place I should hate it.'

1 But why ? '

1 Because I am sentimental enough to
hate the idea of selling the best thing
about me.'

Then you will teach,' said Laura,
and I shall come to your classes and
learn everything I ought to know.'

1 My classes will be for girls, not for
married women. And now I am going.'

No, you will stay to dinner.'

1 The Annesleys expect me. Good-bye.'

She had heard the click of a latch-key in
the door  Maurice was coming in. She

had intended to escape before his return.
That being now impossible, she would
at least avoid meeting him in Laura's
presence. It would be less confusing to
fall in with him on her way out. The
necessary courtesies of opening the door
for her and finding her umbrella would
cover embarrassment.

They met in the hall, and greeted one
another with perfect composure. He
inquired how she was going, and walked
with her to the nearest cab-stand; and
as they went they talked of the chances
of a European war. They might have
been merest acquaintances. But as he
closed the cab-door and wished her goodbye,
he asked if she would be coming to
see Laura again. She answered that she
hoped to do so.

'It will be kind of you,' he said; and
she turned away with a choking sensation
in her throat.

She came again very soon, and on her
second visit the impression of the first
was confirmed. She went away satisfied
that Laura's happiness was complete, and
that her presence in Chester Place was
fraught with no danger to the peace of
the house. So she allowed herself to
come again and again, taking care however
to be gone before the hour when
Maurice habitually returned from his
office.

This was at first. Later on she let herself
be persuaded to stay to dinner, and
then the three had very pleasant evenings.
The atmosphere was clear, talk
unembarrassed. Laura's year of married
life had considerably developed her powers
of conversation ; she took her part freely,
and was especially good as a third, while
Cassandra was excellent as a leader 
fearless, versatile, original. All the subjects
Laura had grown shy of alluding to

were boldly introduced by her. She
assumed as a matter of course that Heme
was of unchanged mind on all questions,
and that Laura was with him. And the
result was that Laura began to think she
h ad been the victim of delusions . Maurice
still meant all he used to say, he was
only too busy for action just now.

In a little while Cassandra found suitable
lodgings in Wimpole Street, and, from
the time she was established in them,
hardly a day passed without a meeting
between her and Laura. They were constantly
together, reading, walking, talking :
it was like old times at Nant-y-Gwyn.
Laura threw herself heartily into Cassandra's
plans and took much trouble to
get pupils for her. She was busier about
it than Cassandra herself, and being busy
oh tell it not to Sister Edith !  grew
quite happy. Things were so changed
with her that when Whitsuntide came

she hardly wished to go to Ardgwen
because it would interfere with her being
present at Cassandra's first lecture.

Cassandra had misgivings sometimes,
but she always silenced them with the
thought that Laura was quite happy.
The past was dead for everybody but
herself  dead and buried beneath their
happiness. They were safe, and she need
only think of herself. Why then should
she cut herself of! from their friendship
when it made all the difference between
a life that was bearable and one that
was not ? She assured herself that there
was no danger, and resolved to go on as
she had begun.

Laura could not quite reconcile herself
to Cassandra's doing no more brilliant
work than teaching. She racked her
brain to think of something else for her,
and the idea of public readings occurred
to her. She proposed it one evening at

dinner. Cassandra did not altogether
repudiate it. She was conscious of being
able to read well, and was not insensible
to the pleasure of doing publicly what
she excelled in. Her fastidiousness about
singing professionally was a thing by itself.
Singing had associations for her
that made it unmarketable. But reading
was different.

Laura was delighted that her suggestion
should be received with favour, and
she developed the idea. Cassandra must
not read quite publicly, but in drawing-rooms
at evening parties. She would
begin at Rachel's and become the fashion
immediately, and her fortune would be
made. She appealed to Maurice whether
the idea was not excellent. He thought
it might answer very well, and began to
consider what Cassandra might read.

Laura suggested Shakespeare. But
Maurice thought that would not do.

The preponderance of the dramatic element
made it a field full of danger for
any one who had no experience of the
stage, especially for a woman. Besides,
everybody had preconceived ideas as to
how Shakespeare should be read,  she
would find her audience in the most
difficult of all critical attitudes. No one
should attempt Shakespearian readings
who had not already an established fame.

Cassandra asked how it would do to
read from the literature of other languages.
She was a good linguist, and
could trust her accent in French, German,
or Italian. Heme thought better of this
idea. Society was getting curious about
foreign literature, and would probably
jump at an opportunity of improving
acquaintance with it by listening instead
of reading.

The idea was not allowed to drop : it
grew in favour the more they discussed

it. Soon Lady Walworth was taken into
council, and she undertook to sound
society on the subject. But the result
was not encouraging. She reported that
the number of people, wno knew any
foreign language well enough to care to
hear readings in it, was too small to be
depended upon for audiences, and the
scheme had to be given up, much to
Cassandra's disappointment. For while
it was under consideration she had made
one or two experiments in reading to
very small audiences at the Hemes'
house with a success that had been
decidedly encouraging. She had enjoyed
the actual reading, and the admiration
she won had been pleasant to her. It
had stimulated the appetite for applause
that made part of her artist nature, and
was in the ascendant now that other
sides of her character were under a
necessity of suppression. She frankly

recognised that an artistic career of some
kind would add an element of positive
enjoyment to her existence, which would
make the life of work she had chosen far
more congenial to her than it could be
otherwise. Her standing in society would
be the surer for it : it would make her
valued in the world. And to be valued
was not less pleasant to her than to most
people. It was therefore a keen disappointment
to her when the idea of the
readings had to be abandoned.

Before long, however, it was revived
in another form. Gounod's Faust e Marguerite
had just been brought out in
London, and society, having seen the
opera, fancied it knew the poem. Everybody
was talking Faust, Mephistopheles
was the fashion, and girls whose ears
might not be denied by mention of real
Gretchen were appearing at fancy balls
in the costume of Marguerite.

Cassandra went with Maurice and Laura
to hear the opera, and they talked of it
afterwards. Laura was among the many
who did not know the Faust of Goethe.
Cassandra insisted that she must read
it at once.

i It provokes me,' she said, ' that people
should see the opera and come away
thinking it is all that Goethe meant.
To my mind the meaning of the drama
is entirely lost when the central interest
is transferred from Faust to Gretchen.
It is almost absurd as it stands in the
opera version,  heaven, earth, and hell
called into play just to bring about the
ruin of one poor girl. The machinery
is out of all proportion to the result.
Whereas in the original you see that
Gretchen' s destruction is only one chapter
among many,  the first and the
saddest perhaps, but still only one among
many in the history of Faust. He tries

in turn every experience of life, and
finds none satisfying till he devotes himself
at last to the work of reclaiming
some marsh lands and making them fit
for human habitation. While he works
at this he finds himself happy and wishes
life would last for ever. And as he
breathes the wish, his bond with the
devil is loosed, and he is saved : he has
found a happiness that is useful to
mankind. It is a splendid conception,
the most splendid in all literature, I
think. It makes me angry to see it
degraded as it is in this opera version.
We must read the original together,
Laura.'

But Laura's German was not equal to
the task, and translations were in request.
Heme had two or three in his library,
but he had objections to all of them.

Cassandra wondered whether it was
possible that he had entirely forgotten

hers, till one day he ended her wondering
hy speaking of it.

You once made a translation of Faust, 1
he said ; ' it was better than any other
I ever read. What have you done with
it?'

Cassandra told the truth. It was
finished, and she had lately had thoughts
of publishing it. Heme said this was
the very moment for bringing it out, and
Laura asked her to bring it to their
house next evening and read it to them.

Without reflecting, she promised todo
so.

She wondered afterwards at having
so promised. The work was so bound
up with her past relations with Heme,
that to read it in his presence could
not but be dangerous, and, in truth,
what had deterred her from publishing
it during the last year, was a shrinking
from the open reminder that it would

be to both of them. As she went
home she thought she would find an
excuse for not reading it.

But next evening found her at their
house, installed in her reading-chair with
the manuscript before her.

She had translated the whole work in
accordance with her view that the first
part was never meant to stand alone,
and the work of reading it occupied
several evenings.

She had not to complain of any want of
sympathy in her hearers. Laura was almost
as much possessed by the revelation
of the drama as she had been herself.
Heme said over and over again that it
was a work of genius, and that no translation
that had ever yet been given to
the world came near it It must be
published at once, and it would make
her famous.

None of the three ever knew with

vol. in. 6

whom originated the idea that Cassandra
should give a public reading from this
translation. But somehow one evening
they found themselves discussing the
plan. Cassandra had thought of it often
and was ready with detail. The whole
would of course be too long and tedious,
and moreover many scenes might be
omitted with advantage from her point
of view, which was that it was desirable
to give people an idea of the whole
scheme of the poem. She proposed to
read the most characteristic scenes of
the first part, and then give a sketch of
the scheme of the second, quoting freely
from the text, but reading no scene
except the final one.

Heme thought the idea excellent.
The readings would succeed in themselves
and they would be the best possible
advertisement for the book when it should
appear in its entirety.

It is a charming plan,' Laura saidi
and I shall go tomorrow and tell
Rachel that she must get up a reading
for you at her house. We will have
one here first, won't we, Maurice ? And
the grand performance at Rachel' s will
take place on the day after. It will be
delightful ! '

Heme was quite of Laura's mind, and
the thing was considered settled.

Heme walked home with Cassandra
that evening, and they talked together
as they used to talk in the days of their
early friendship. Suddenly they found
themselves speaking of the dialogue that
was to have appeared with the translation,
and from that they got to Heme's
own neglected work. Cassandra spoke
warmly of the importance of completing
it. He answered in a tone of depression,
spoke of want of time, of the difficulties
of his position ; and finally he confessed

to a growing weariness and scepticism
that made a truer reason than any of
the others. Cassandra answered sympathetically,
then suddenly grew reserved
; and they finished their way in
uncomfortable silence.

She took home with her that night a
stronger doubt than she had had before
as to the safety of her present course.

But next evening brought a note from
Laura saying that she and Rachel had
talked over the new plan, and that
nothing remained but to settle details.
Would Cassandra come in the evening
and meet Rachel?

And once more she said to herself,
They are happy : no harm can come.'
And she went in the evening and let
Heme walk home with her again.

Life has many silent chapters before that last one we
call death : of inarticulate communions and suppressed
sympathies ; of resisted instincts and evaded destinies ;
of promises given and broken without so much as a
whisper in the ear ; of swift glancing into that abyss of
the irrevocable, where all things are made plain in the
day that is too late.'

T was arranged that the Faust
reading should take place
towards the end of July.
Laura was eager for an earlier date,
but there were strong reasons for making
it as late as possible.

Cassandra was advised by persons of
experience not to attempt reading professionally
without going through some
systematic training. Her voice was

good, and, for an amateur, she was
rarely skilful in the management of it.
But she readily appreciated the difference
between the style of delivery
demanded by dramatic reading and the
simpler manner of which her own
taste had made her master, and she
believed that she might gain much by
taking lessons from some person skilled
in the arts of the stage. Lady Walworth
supported her in this view, the
more warmly that she had a coach
to recommend,  a certain Mr. Williamson
who lived at Brompton and was
the most charming man in the world,
with the most charming wife, and every
possible recommendation for Cassandra's
purpose. He had been known to the
theatre-going world many years ago
under the name of Meredith Taylor,
but for a long time he had been living
in retirement. Lady Walworth was

not sure whether he still gave lessons
in a regular way, but she had no doubt
of his being willing to teach Cassandra
as a favour to herself. She drove her
to Brompton at once, and arrangements
were made for a course of
lessons.

It was another advantage of putting
the reading off till late in the season,
that in the meanwhile Cassandra could
make way in society. At Lady Walworth's
house she was to be introduced
to all the most remarkable people in
London ; and there was little fear of her
not holding her own among them. She
was soon very much in request. The
beautiful Miss Wynne with the aristocratic
air, who was Lord St. Asaph's
niece, and yet chose to live in lodgings
and drudge at teaching school-girls, was a
sort of heroine of romance, and everybody
wanted to be introduced to her. Lady

Walworth was pressed to take her everywhere.
Recreated a sensation, and people
compared her to historical beauties.
Then the fame of her voice got abroad,
and she was persuaded to sing, and
others made the suggestion Laura had
once hazarded. But she would not
listen to it. Her determination was
firm, she would not put all her gifts
into the market. People might buy her
reading, but they should beg for her songs.
She would accept no bonds in music.

What with her classes, arid her training
in reading, and the numerous social
engagements that her popularity dragged
her into, her days were very full, and
as the summer went on she became a
less frequent visitor in Chester Place.

Laura missed her and began to feel
dull again. She taxed her with neglecting
her, and Cassandra laid the blame
on the pressure of work. She could not

help herself. It was essential to her
success that she should go as much as
possible into society. ' I am making
friends of the mammon of unrighteousness,'
she said.

Laura admitted the plea and ga r e a
sigh of envy. Her own life looked dull
by the side of Cassandra's brilliant
career. She felt like a little household
fire that is killed by the sunshine. The
old morbid moods came back upon her,
and one day she made an attempt to
confide in her cousin. It was shortly
after she had remonstrated with her on
her neglect and Cassandra had made
an effort to come oftener. She had
come in just as Laura was reading the
last page of a novel, parting with hero
and heroine at the steps of the altar,
and wishing she could know something
of their after-life.

1 1 wish,' Laura said, 'that novels did

not always end at marriage. When I
have followed people through their love-making,
I always want to know how
they got on in their married life. And
books always assume that that must
be happy. I doubt whether it is so
always  don't you ? '

i One certainly must suppose that
there are exceptions, otherwise what
would the divorce courts be so busy
about? But on the whole I don't think
novels about unhappy married life are
the most edifying. For there are some,
you know, if you really want to read
them.' And she mentioned a number
of books in which the sorrows of matrimony
were laid bare.

I don't think I meant that kind of
thing,' said Laura ; ' but it seems to me
that it would be fairer if novels sometimes
showed the little troubles and difficulties
and disappointments that come

to married people even when they are fond
of one another. I think if I wrote novels,
that is what I should describe.'

Then you would do a very wrong
thing,' said Cassandra, seeing through
Laura's strictures on novels, and reading
in a moment that her happiness was not
so secure as she had hitherto believed it.
She spoke with sharp en phases, taking
care not to meet Laura's eyes. She
was determined not to be the recipient
of confidences on the subject of Laura's
married life. 'You would do a very
wrong thing,' she said. ' The novelists
are quite right in generally ending their
third volume with the wedding Marriage
is a sort of death through which
people pass into eternal silence. To
make revelations about one's married
life is to be a ghost, and those who
do it deserve the sort of reception we
give to ghosts.'

1 What a ghastly comparison ! ' said
Laura with a shiver.

It is rather, but it has taken hold of
my fancy. Henceforth whenever people
moan to me about the troubles of their
married life, I shall tell them they are
ghosts and ought to go back and lie
quietly in their graves.'

Laura was glad she had not rushed
into more direct confidence. She changed
the subject, and during the rest of Cassandra's
visit she lost no opportunity of
saying affectionate things about her
husband which might undo the effect
her words had evidently had.

But her artifices were vain. Cassandra's
eyes, once opened, were not to
be easily closed. As she walked away
from the house, she recognised with a
sense of terror that the perfect sympathy
between Laura and Heme, to which she
had trusted as a safe foundation for her

own future, was an illusion. Laura was
sad at heart. Heme was probably disappointed
also, and her position, as
their friend, might at any moment become
dangerous. She saw him coming
along the street, and she crossed to the
other side of the way in order to avoid
meeting him.

Next day she kept away from Chester
Place in spite of a pathetic note from
Laura saying that she was still unwell
and would be obliged to give up a party
in Arlington Street. Cassandra sent
word that she was too busy to come,
and spent the afternoon in an objectless
ramble through back streets where
she was unlikely to meet friends.

The party in Arlington Street was to bean
event in Cassandra's career. Lady
Walworth had so timed the issue of the
circulars advertising the Faust reading
that they would be in the hands of all

her friends before they assembled at her
house that evening. They would come
full of curiosity on the subject, and
would be glad to meet Cassandra. Then
there was to be a musical performance
by several amateurs, among whom Cassandra
was to be the chief star. She
was to entrance her audience and send
everybody home determined to come
and hear her read. That was Lady
Walworth's plan, communicated some
days before to Cassandra, who was
pledged to make it succeed.

Cassandra arrived late and was chidden
by her hostess for so doing.

'Everybody is asking for you. You
are the heroine of the evening. I have
had fifty petitions for tickets for the
28th. Petitions, if you please. London
is on its knees for the privilege of hearing
you. You will have an ovation. Let
me introduce you to the Princess '

Cassandra was introduced to the

Princess , and heard that she was

coming to her reading.

1 1 have heard so much of your reading
from common friends,' she said. 'It
is very good of you to give us all an
opportunity of hearing it. Let me
present my husband to you. He admires
your singing greatly. He heard you
here at the beginning of the season
and has raved about you ever since.'

It was time for the musical performance
; Cassandra was led to her place by
the Prince. She bowed like a queen ashe
seated her by the piano, and thanked
him with an absent air. Then she turned
to the instrument and swept her hands
over the keys ; and in a moment she had
forgotten Prince and everybody present.

Lady Walworth had distributed written
programmes among her guests, as a hint
that the singing was to be attended to

seriously. Cassandra had promised to
begin with 'Auf Fliigeln des Ganges.'
It was one of her most popular songs,
and she knew people were counting 011 it.
But it was impossible to sing it. She
remembered the night at Ardgwen when
it had lifted her into heaven and
brought Heme back to her. It could
not bring him back now, nor could it
carry her to heaven. Music had ceased
to be a sanctuary closed against pain.
Her trouble pursued her into it. She
would be in hell while she sang of
heaven. She would sing something
else, and let people say what they liked.

She chose the song of Sappho from
Rossi's opera, c Ah rending quel core,'
and gave the rein to her emotions. The
song was a perfect expression of them,
and the effect upon the audience was
overwhelming. Sappho herself could
not have sung her sorrows with more

real passion. Strangers were taken by
storm, and those who knew her singing
best were startled.

The Prince said to his wife, l Did I not
tell you she was a miracle ? It is as
if all the pains of mankind had found
voice at last and were singing their story
from the beginning of the world up till
now.'

'It is terrible,' answered the Princess;
one's heart aches to think what she
must have suffered.  Ah, Mr. Heme, I
did not see you before. I hope you were
in time to hear the song.'

Heme passed on with a bow. He had
been in time to hear it from the door, 
he was on his way to the piano.

Cassandra thought she started at sight
of him. But she was outwardly motionless.
The only change perceptive in
her was a relaxation of the tense expression
her brow had borne while she sang.

vol. in. 7

She held out her hand to him and
said, 

1 So you are here after all. I hope
Laura is better.'

She is better. She would not let me
stay with her

Cassandra made no answer. Her eyes
fell guiltily. She would have given worlds
to know whether he had been in time to
hear her sing. But for worlds she could
not ask him.

Somebody said, 'You did well to disregard
the programme. You are never
so great as in " Ah rending." You were
supreme in it to-night.'

1 It was a sudden caprice. I took
fright at " Wings of Song" as I sat
down, and, as you say, I know I
can always trust myself in " Ah rending."

'

Heme was still standing by her. She
tried to look him frankly in the face, but

again her eyes fell, and she was conscious
of blushing deeply.

< Let me take you downstairs he said ;
1 this room is stifling.'

She rose involuntarily, and was putting
her arm in his when she saw Lady Mary's
eye fixed unpleasantly upon them from
the other end of the room  she was
watching them with evident suspicion.
Cassandra drew back and declined refreshments.
She would stay where she was.

Heme pressed her. But she was resolute,
and she turned away from him to
receive compliments from others. Then,
in a moment, she repented, and asked him
to take her down. It seemed to her that,
if she gave way now to this foolish self-consciousness,
she would never be easy
in his presence again. It was a feeling
that must be overcome at once, unless
she meant to go back from all her plans
and break openly with him and Laura.

They passed close to Lady Mary on their
way down, and Cassandra made a point
of stopping to speak to her.

Lady Mary asked pointedly after Laura,
and Heme made the same answer to her
that he had given Cassandra five minutes
ago.

The refreshment room was hotter than
the drawing-room and more crowded.
They looked in and turned away.

1 Come out into the air,' Heme said,
and he led her into the garden behind
the house.

The night was sultry, and heavy with
the scent of flowers. A fountain was
playing in the moonlight. Another
couple crossed them as they went out 
a young girl in a white gowTi leaning on
a man's arm. She was saying, 

I wish she had not sung. There was
something in her voice that troubled me 
it will haunt me. And she looked so sad.'

The man answered lightly.

She sings magnificently, and she's a
great actress  the trouble was not hers,
but Sappho's.  But hush! . . . .'

He had caught sight of them, and he
stopped abruptly.

Cassandra looked up at Heme  their
eyes met; hers fell again in an instant,
and she withdrew her arm from his.

What are you going to do ? ' he
asked.

She started.

I ?  oh, I don't know. It is hot,
suffocatingly hot. Don't you find it so ? '

1 thought you would like to walk a
little.'

She took his arm again, and they
walked up and down for some minutes;
and, when they came back to the
drawing-room and Cassandra tried to
remember of what they had spoken, she
discovered that they had been silent.

She had not realised it at the time,  the
silence had been drowned by the tumult
of her emotions. Heme took her back
to the piano and seemed disposed to 
her while she sang. She felt his
presence like an oppressive atmosphere.
It seemed to choke her  she could not
find voice for a single note.

Please go,' she murmured, and he left
her side ; and, by the time she had ended
her song, he was gone altogether.

The rest of the evening passed like a
triumph. She was introduced to one
person after another till she was in hopeless
confusion as to the names of her new
acquaintance and in danger of going to
luncheon with people who had asked her
to dinner, and to dinner with people who
wanted to see her at live o'clock tea.
Lady Walworth kept her till all the
other guests were gone, and embraced her
rapturously as soon as they were alone.

I You were perfect,' she said with enthusiasm.
' Your success is sure. You
must stay at home all tomorrow afternoon.
Everybody is going to call on
you.'

'I shall be busy with my class tomorrow
afternoon,' said Cassandra.
Everybody will have to be content with
leaving cards.'

'Better and better. Duchesses will
drive up to your lodging and be told that
you cannot see them because you are
engaged in teaching half-a-dozen schoolgirls.
That's what I call a triumph
of genius. I shall not like you half so
well when you have made a fortune and
set up a carriage. By-the-by, how are
you thinking of getting home to-night ?
Everybody, who might have taken you,
is gone. Are you expecting a Cinderella's
coach ? '

I I am trusting to a cab. You know

that I always come and go independently.
May I ring and ask for one ? '

1 Certainly. But, dear me, it was a
success beyond anything I ever dreamed
of! Do you know what Burrell Jones
said after your first song ? '

1 No said Cassandra absently.

Don't pretend not to care. Burrell
Jones is the greatest man in London  at
least he might have been if we had not
spoiled him. His opinion is worth having.
Confess that you want to hear it.'

< 1 do.'

1 Well then, he said that he never conceived
it possible before that he should
envy a woman, but that he would give
all he had to be able to move a congregation
as you moved us to-night.'

Cassandra smiled.

And I think I would give all I am ever
likely to have for the chance of moving a
congregation instead of an audience.'

The servant had answered the bell and
was waiting for orders. Rachel had forgotten
for what they had rung.

1 What was it we wanted, Cassandra ? '

A four-wheeled cab to take me home,
if you please.'

The servant left the room, and Rachel
burst out laughing.

1 You can't go home in a cab by yourself.'


1 Why not ? '

1 Because it is preposterous  out of
the question. Why did Maurice Heme
desert you ? He is your recognised
knight. It is unpardonable of him.'

Maurice went early. Laura is not
well.'

'Ah, true, I had forgotten. One forgets
everything on nights like this. But
all the same you cannot go alone.'

1 Certainly not,' said Lord Walworth;
1 1 will go with her.'

Cassandra accepted the escort gratefully.
She talked politics brilliantly
above the rattle of the cab as they drove
together to her lodging, and left Lord
Walworth on the doorstep amazed at her
versatility, and wondering how he had
never discovered before what an astonishing
genius his wife's cousin was.

And then, having let herself in with a
latch-key, she crept up to her room and
threw herself sobbing on her bed.

1 Surely my strength shall be in her, my help and protection
about her ;

Surely in inner sweet gladness and vigour of joy shal
sustain her,

Till, the brief winter overcast, her own true sap in the
spring-tide

Rise, and the tree I have bared be verdurous e'en as
aforetime.'

Cassandra used to go three
times a week to Brompton for
her lesson from Mr. Williamson.
And before going home after it,
she habitually turned into Kensington
Gardens and spent an hour or so in
walking up and down under the trees,
reading over the passages she had
studied in her lesson, and considering the
suggestions of her master.

These walks among the great trees
were very pleasant to her  her day had
no happier hour than that which was
so spent. She enjoyed her lessons from
the old actor, who was proud of her and
took infinite pains to make her perfect
at all points, and generally ended his
instructions hy telling her that she would
soon know far more than he could teach
her, and that next season she would be
amused to think she had been his pupil.
She had a filial feeling towards the old
man, and found an innocent refreshment
in dwelling on the interest he took in
her success. It seemed a purer thing
to her than most of the admiration she
received, and she felt that her best
work was done under its influence. It
roused the nobler side of the artist in
her by setting before her a perfection
she recognised as beyond her. The
very humiliation of having her shortcomings

pointed out was welcome asa
counterweight to the ignorant praises
of which she received so many. She
rejoiced that there were difficulties to he
overcome and courted ruggedness in
her work. They were welcome to her as
tests of her seriousness, as means of
convincing herself that she was an artist
in earnest, and not a mere dilettante in
love with nothing of art but the applause
it wins. She was in truth very hungry
for anything that might feed her self-respect
and help her to hold her head up
before the world.

For the sense of guilt to which she
had awakened on the evening of Lady
Walworth's party had never left her
since. In vain she argued with herself
that she was doing no wrong, that her
relations with Heme were pure, her
conduct to Laura loyal; she could not
rid herself of the sense of guilt that

had made her glance fall abashed before
his in spite of three successive efforts
to look horn simply in the face. She
had tried more than once to disregard
her embarrassment and talk freely with
him ; but conversation invariably drifted
dangerously, or ended abruptly in an
oppressive silence. She was uneasy in
his presence, restless in his absence.
She avoided his house as much as
possible, only going when Laura's invitations
were too pressing to admit of
denial, and always coming away before
he returned.

Once or twice she had thought that
Laura's manner was changed to her, and
had felt that it would be almost a relief
to be reproached by her, and so have
occasion for an open quarrel that would
put an end to the doubtful position in
which she now stood. But Laura's coldness
 if coldness it really were  was

always quickly followed by some special
manifestation of affection, and Cassandra
came to the conclusion that the change
she fancied had no existence outside her
imagination. So long as Laura prayed
her to come and see her, it could not be
wrong to go, for her conscience absolved
her of in any way seeking the attentions
of Heme : she knew that she consistently
repelled them. She could not
hinder him from admiring her singing.
And after all, had he said a thousandth
part in praise of it of what all her world
was saying ? Would not absolute silence
have been far more marked? Was it
not insanity on her part to think so
much of a word from him when he was
only one in a large chorus? Would
she not learn indifference in time, and
be glad by-and-by, when she had
conquered this woman's weakness, that
she had not given occasion to scandal

by a self condemning retreat ? Such
questions were continually with her.
She could not answer them. She simply
went on in spite of them.

However, they did not pursue her
into Kensington Gardens. That washer
place of peace and holy influence.
She felt an innocent woman as she paced
up and down among the glades, absorbed
in her manuscript. And frequenters of
the spot who came to know her by sight
and to look for her at her usual hour,
never dreamed that any trouble haunted
her, and though they observed that she
avoided notice as much as possible, they
thought it was only that she might
pursue her studies undisturbed.

But one evening, as she was so engaged,
she started suddenly and felt the blood
rush to her cheeks at the sound of a
footstep gaining upon her from behind.
She tightened the roll of her manuscript

and hastened on. Her pursuer hastened
also, and in another minute was beside
her.

1 Why have you done this ? ' she said,
without lifting her eyes from the ground.

Heme did not answer, but walked
by her side in silence.

She made a conventional remark on
the sweetness of the evening, to which
he replied conventionally. Then they
were silent again. He led her deeper
into the grove, and she followed his lead
in painful expectation.

He touched the roll of manuscript in
her hand, and said, ' You were studying
your Faust. Will you let me look at it ? '

She let him take the paper from her,
and he began reading aloud from it.

Do you remember the day you wrote
that ? ' he said.

4 It was about this time of the year
she answered, ' a beautiful summer

vol. in. 8

evening. We were sitting under the
ash-tree that leans over the stream on
the south side of the park. I remember
it. But it would be better to forget.'

1 It is not possible to forget,' said
Heme.

Cassandra was silent. He read on,
and with every line a picture from the
past rose before her eyes.

No,' she said; < it is not possible to
forget.'

1 But you thought I had forgotten.'
1 You gave me reason to believe so.

Of what use is it to remember if '

She did not complete the sentence : a
sob choked her speech.

He took her hand and held it.
You were going to say, if one is not
loyal to that which one remembers.'

< I do not know what I was going to
say. It is better to say nothing, I think.
Maurice, it is better that we should not

meet. Why have you followed me here
to-night? This has been my place of
refuge,  the only place that was not
poisoned for me by thoughts of which
I am ashamed,  and now you have
spoiled it. It is cruel of you ! '

Forgive me,' he said, ' or at any rate
let me tell you w T hy I came. Will you
listen, or is my presence intolerable
to you ? Painful I know it must be,
but can you bear it for a few minutes?
I came here on your account, Cassandra.
I had that to say which I thought might
be for your happiness.'

1 It is too late to think of my happiness,'
she said bitterly. ' You have
Laura's happiness to care for, not mine.'

I know that,' he answered ; ' I am
not unmindful of Laura's happiness.
But is that any reason why I should
cease to care for yours ? We agreed,
I think, that it is impossible to forget.'

There was a hard tension in his
manner that frightened her.

1 Maurice,' she said, in low supplicating
tones, ' what do you want with
me ? What can he the use of such
meetings as this ? What happiness can
come of them ? I implore you to leave
me. The past is past. The only course
for us, that is not absolutely mad, is tolet
it alone for ever. Every word you
say to me, every moment you remain
here, makes my life more difficult, my
position more shameful. '

She had withdrawn her hand from
his when she began to speak, and she
was standing now at a few paces from
him. He made no effort to detain her,
or even to lessen the distance between
them. She half turned as if to go.
Then she hesitated and stood still. If a
gulf had opened in the earth to separate
them she would have broken out in thanks,

but she could not of her own will go
from him. A perceptible interval elapsed
before he spoke again. Then he said, 

I have no right to resent any suspicion
you may entertain with regard
to me. I have behaved ill to you. I
deserve that you should think me capable
of anything.'

There is no use in this she said ;
what was it that you came to say ? '

You give me leave to tell you ? '

1 Yes, yes  only be quick.'

I will be quick, only let us sit down.
Here in this open pathway we are liable
to be seen from either end. Come under
the trees.'

He spoke imperatively, and she felt
constrained to obey. She followed him,
hanging her head low in shame. To what
depth had she fallen that she must skulk
out of sight with Laura's husband ?

But she would not sit down. She

stood erect before him and once more
begged him to speak quickly.

'I have behaved ill to you he repeated.

'Yes, yes,' she said, hardly knowing
what she said. ' But it is useless to
talk of that now, if indeed it be not
useless to talk at all.'

You gave me leave.'

1 1 gave you leave  yes. Because you
have made it a matter of indifference
to me now what happens or what is
said. Do you think I can go back
among my friends after this meeting
with you? Do you think I can look
Laura in the face and not sink to the
earth with shame at the memory of how
her husband pursued me to remind me of
what every thought of honour forbids me
to think of ? Do you expect to meet me
to-night at Rachel's ? But after
all I think I ought to thank you. You
have decided everything. I have thought

a thousand times that the best thing I
could do was to disappear. You have
made it the only thing I can do. Yes,
you have done the best thing for my
happiness. Oh, Maurice, is this how
men care for the women they love ? '

1 Cassandra,' he said in a voice of
intense pain, ' I have no right to resent
anything you may say. I only ask you
for your own sake to listen. I do care
for your happiness. If I did not, I should
not be here now.'

I will listen,' she said ; ' only in mercy
be quick.'

He drew nearer to her, and she did
not move away. He took her hand
again, and she let him lead her to the
seat she had refused a minute ago. But
he did not sit down beside her. He
leaned against a tree at a little distance.
She should not have occasion to start
away from him again.

He went straight to the point.

I have suspected,' he said, ' what
was passing in your mind. I have been
haunted by the fear that some day we
should lose sight of you. I have seen
your trouble, and I knew you well enough
to guess that, of the two ways out of it,
the likeliest for you to choose was the
most unselfish. You were not likely
to stay where you thought your presence
might bring sorrow. You were only too
likely to take steps that would make all
your future intolerable. You see I did
you justice.'

More than justice,' Cassandra said
humbly. ' I knew I ought to go, but I
had not courage.'

You were right to stay.'

She shook her head.

Yes, you were right.'

'It does not much matter,' she said.
1 It is over now. You have ended it.'

1 No, it is not over, and I have not
ended it.'

She had fixed her eyes on him for a
moment with a dull stare. Now, her
look went beyond him  away, through
the trees, to a spot where a bit of the
Serpentine gleamed in the sunlight. He
followed her glance and felt confirmed ina
suspicion that had been haunting him.

Cassandra,' he said, ' swear to me
that you will never think of that again.'

1 It must end,' she said.

'For my sake, if not for your own,
swear to me that you will give up that
thought. Think of the unutterable
agony that it would be to me to know
that you had done that, and that I had
brought you to it. I have behaved ill to
you. I have been weak, contemptibly
weak  I have hurt you. I know it, and
I loathe myself for it  I know that I
deserve punishment, but not such bitter

punishment as that. Cassandra, I will
not bear that. Do yon know that the
thought of that water, and of you walking
up and down by it alone and wretched,
has been haunting me night and day?
You said just now that this place had
been a refuge for you full of good influences.
I have been near you every
evening since one day when I saw you
linger on the bridge.'

I was watching the setting sun,' said
Cassandra. ' I never thought of the water.
I am fond of life. It seems odd, does it
not, after all that has happened? I
wonder at it myself very often, but it is
so. I cannot help it.'

Oh, do not try,' he said in a full low
tone that thrilled her with a sudden joy.

The words were very simple, but they
breathed relief from a horror beyond
words. They were a thanksgiving, a
prayer, a revelation. As she looked up

for an instant and met his eyes, she knew
that at last he loved her as she had
desired to be loved by him. Their spirits
had found their true relation : she was
woman to him as he was man to her.
Other men might wonder at her genius
and wince under her judgments. He
had done so before now : he would
not do it again. He thought of her as
weak and suffering  in mortal danger,
needing the protection of his love  and
all his manhood burned to serve and
comfort her. He asked to take the
burden of her life upon him. Nay, he
had done so already. He had pursued
her like a watchful Providence, making
an atmosphere of rest in which she had
walked confidently, not knowing to what
influence she owed her peace.

And he was Laura's husband. . . .

She knew it, but not at once would she
realise all that the fact involved. Fora

moment she must resign herself to the
bliss of being loved by him. She had
walked lonely all her life till now: she
would walk lonely for the rest of her days.
But this oasis should yield its quickening
draught ere she rose up and resumed her
weary way. And so for one moment her
heart rested in the forbidden joy, securely
as though the dream might last for ever.
But the distance between them was undiminished,
and quickly she awoke to the
sad reality. His love had come too late :
he owed it to another. He had no right
to care for her. She must tell him so.
She must rebuke him and turn away.
Only she could not do it yet, for he had
given her one instant of such joy as outweighed
all the suffering his love had
brought her. And the first thanks of
her heart were for his love, the second
only for the forbearance that saved it
from being an insult.

There was a great gentleness in her
voice when she spoke next.

And you have been here before she
said, ' always  when I thought I was
alone. But there was no danger. I
never thought of the water. I am fond
of life, oh, so fond of it ! I think I love
it for the sake of all that I have dreamed
possible.'

'You love it,' said Heme, 'for the
sake of what you make it. That is what
I wanted to put to you. You make life
a nobler thing for all of us. We are
better for having you. You have a right
to the satisfaction of knowing that. The
happiness it brings you is a pure and
holy thing. You would be doing wrong
in flying from it.'

I should be doing right in flying from
you.'

'You cannot fly from me and not fly
from all your friends.'

1 Then I must fly from all my friends.'

1 Why must you ? You have nothing to
fear from me. Have I not told you that
I have been here a dozen times at least,
watching you while you walked up and
down, till I know every tree in this grove
by heart, and yet I have not troubled
you? What can you have to fear from
me ? Am I such a low beast, Cassandra,
that the woman I love and honour so
that God ! what can I say to make
you know what I feel towards you ? Is
it conceivable that you are not safe with
me when all I care for is your safety ? '

i It is not you, I fear ; it is myself,' she
said.

'And how can you best escape from
yourself? By cutting yourself off from
everything you care for in life,  from
your own people, from society, from the
work in which you delight,  and living
somewhere out of sight, doing no one

knows what, among people who care
nothing for you ? The notion is insane,
inhuman. You would be the first to say
so if it were proposed for any one but
yourself. Confess that such a life would
be intolerable to you.'

She would not confess it, but she could
not deny it. It was too terribly true.

He went on, 

I You see you cannot contradict me.
Such an existence would be death to
you, and you are fond of life. And the
only alternative is to go on in the course
you have wisely chosen.'

It is a course full of danger,' she said.

I I swear to you that there shall be no
danger.'

1 But there is danger all the same.'

Not more danger than is inseparable

from any life that is worth having. To

seek a life without danger is to ask to bea

child again, or a stick, or a stone.

How many people here in London do
you suppose are living a life without
danger?  Not one man and hardly a
woman. A handful of girls perhaps, and
they the least alive of all the herd. You
know this as well as I do.'

'You speak of outward danger. That
is not what I fear. It is the feeling of
guilt that I cannot be rid of. I am
ashamed to look Laura in the face.'

You are doing Laura no wrong

1 Would she say so if she saw us now ? '

He was silent for a few seconds.

Then he said, 'You are looking at
the thing from an ideal standpoint and
aiming at solutions that have become
impossible. I have behaved ill. Things
have gone wrong. They can never be
wholly righted, but perhaps we may make
them better. . . .'

Cassandra interrupted him.

< Things will be better when I am gone.'

1 By God, no ! ' he cried with a violence
that startled her. ' Wrong is not righted
by being made complete and infinite.
That you should be utterly sacrificed,
cannot be the right way of atonement.'

I am the only one who .can go she
said. There was a helpless smile upon
her face, in which he read the bitterness
of despair and the irony of it.

1 Spare me that smile, Cassandra he
said ; ' its reproach kills me.'

1 I meant no reproach. I meant
nothing beyond what I said  that I am
the only one who can go, and that I had
better go at once.'

But you must not go ; believe me, you
need not go. It ought to be possible for
us to be friends. Any other supposition
is a slander upon both of us  upon all
that we have been to one another  all
that we are.'

She shook her head, and again she

vol. hi. 9

smiled the smile that was intolerable to
him.

1 Do not smile like that. Listen tome
 I could convince you if you would
listen to mei

I will listen,' she said.

1 You will not misunderstand me if I
seem to speak coldly,' he said. ' You will
know that it is only because a commonsense
tone is wisest and safest.'

Say what you like,' she said, holding
out her hand to him. ' Oh, Maurice, you
talk of reproach and forgiveness and of
having behaved ill, and it all sounds
meaningless to me. I could not reproach
you if I would. If I could, everything
would have been different. Say what
you like, and . do what you will.'

He pressed her hand silently.

Tell me what is the common-sense
view of the position,' she said, feeling
that he had still a difficulty in speaking.

He hesitated no longer, but said
quietly 

I think it is this. Laura is much
happier for seeing you often at our
house. She would be unhappy if you
ceased to come. She would be absolutely
miserable if she knew why you ceased to
come. You are happier for coming. No
one is injured by your presence. By
ceasing to come you would be sacrificing
yourself in vain.  Have you ever thought
of what it might be to give up everything
and then awake some day to find
that the world was only the poorer for
your loss? There is no remorse more
terrible.'

1 know it,' groaned Cassandra ; ' it
is heU ! '

i It is such a hell that you are preparing
for yourself when you talk of disappearing
from among us. It cannot
be your duty to fly, when flight means

starvation for your own soul and misery
for others.'

1 It cannot be right to stay while I feel
as I do towards you.'

1 And will mere absence prevent our
feeling as we do towards one another?
If you disappeared from among us tomorrow,
do you suppose that I should
cease to think of you? I should not
rest till I knew where you were, I should
watch over you as I have done now, I
would know day by day whether it was
well with you. And you would think of
me. We could not help it, either of us.
If to care for one another is a sin, it is a
sin we must carry with us to our graves.
It is useless to say we must go here or
go there because a feeling that has become
part of our lives is sinful. We should
take it with us, and only be sinners in
one place instead of another

Cassandra looked up in sad reproach.

Oh, why did not you think of all this
before ? '

Because you were too great for me,
and I was a fool and coward.'

1 was a fool too,' Cassandra said.
But we will not reproach one another.'

'It is sweeter to forgive,' he said. 'You
do forgive rne ? ' He waited a moment
for her to answer, but she was silent. As
she had said a moment ago, forgiveness
from her to him had no meaning for her.
She did not know how to forgive him.
She only knew that she loved him and
that she must not say so. He said
again, 'You do forgive me, and you
will let me make such poor atonement
as is in my power  you will trust my
friendship, Cassandra ? You will not any
longer be afraid in my presence ? Henceforth
I am your friend  your brother, and
I have a right to care for my sister. Is
it not so ? '

He was standing close to her no
speaking low, waiting with trembling
hope for her reply. She lifted her eyes
to him for one moment ; then she turner
away her face and held out her hand:
to him without speaking. He took them
in his and kissed them. She had surrendered,
but she hardly acknowledge
it to herself.

c You promise me not to run away ? '
he said. ' You will stay among us and
trust me  trust yourself ? '

I will stay she said.

'And you will come to-night to
Kachel's ? '

She bowed her head.

And I may see you home now ? '

1 As you like.'

'It is the simplest course,' he said,
You trust me, and are not ashamed of
being seen with me.'

She rose without another word, anu

put her arm in his, and walked with him
to the gate of the gardens. Further she
would not let him go with her. She
pleaded fatigue, and begged him to get
her a cab.

At the moment of their parting it
happened that Lady Walworth and Lady
Mary Vane drove by. Maurice was
raising his hat to Cassandra  she was
bending slightly forward in acknowledgment.
The cab went on, and he stood
a moment looking after it.

1 There is Maurice Heme,' said Rachel,
nodding and waving her hand to him;
1 but he does not see us. He is absorbed
in contemplation of a four-wheeled cab

1 Did you notice the lady in the cab ? '
asked the other.

1 No ; was she very beautiful ? I will
ask Maurice about her to-night.'

< It was Cassandra,' said Lady Mary;
and her voice could not have been

more awful if she had said, ' It was
the devil.'

Cassandra  what then ? ' said Lady
Walworth innocently.

But Lady Mary vouchsafed no answer.

Cassandra kept her promise and came
to Arlington Street in the evening. The
party was smaller than usual, and rather
a dull one. She was importuned to sing,
but she persistently refused.

Take care,' said Lady Walworth ;
1 one may give oneself airs too soon. It
will be time for you to be capricious after
the 28th. Now, you must be all amiable
condescension. Do sing. Everybody is
bored.'

I would if I could,' said Cassandra ;
'but I am not well  my head is splitting.
I should have been wiser not to come.'

Poor thing ! You have been overworking
yourself, and forgetting to eat
and drink, I daresay. I declare, women,

when they live by themselves, are even
more helpless than men. You look
starved  I will wager you have had no
dinner to-night.'

Cassandra smiled confirmation. It was
true that she had had no dinner  she had
felt no inclination for food on coming in.
She said she had over-tired herself, and
that the best thing she could do now was
to go home to bed.

Not till you have had some food,'
said Rachel. ' You do not leave my
house without supper. I shall send
you down with Maurice Heme and
instruct him to feed you like a baby 
here he is.'

Heme was passing close by them. He
was making his way towards Laura, who
was sitting by Lady Mary on a sofa in
the back room. She had expressed a
wish to go early, and he thought she
would probably be ready to leave now.

He had carefully avoided Cassandra
throughout the evening, only speaking
the word or two, on coming in, which it
would have been significant to omit. He
pretended now not to observe her, though
he was so near her that he had difficulty
in not treading on her gown as he
threaded his way through the group of
which she made one.

Lady Walworth laid her hand on his
arm and stopped him.

I was just looking for you she said.
Cassandra is starving, and I want you
to take her down to get some food

4 Can I do anything for you ? ' he
asked, speaking direct to Cassandra.

< Don't consult her,' said Lady Walworth
; ' she is under my orders and so
are you. You must take her down and
give her champagne and chicken. She
has been working hard and forgetting to
eat ; and she will be laid up in a day or

two if she is not taken in hand. Take
her down and make her eat.'

1 What am I to do ? ' said Heme, still
speaking to Cassandra.

He would not offer her his arm without
her permission  she should have free
opportunity of reconsidering her promise
of the afternoon. She understood him,
and determined to be equally honourable ;
she had promised to trust him, and she
would not go back from her word. She
answered, 

'I think we must do what we are
told. I believe Rachel is right  chicken
and champagne are a good foundation for
success. '

They went down together, and she let
him go through the form of getting
refreshments for her. But she could
not eat them. Her headache was
genuine, and he forbore to persecute
her.

1 You would rather I got you a cab than
anything else ? ' he said.

1 Thank you, yes. I am very tired 
you must tell Kachel that I supped
heartily and then thought myself free
to go.'

He found her cloak and helped her
to escape. As he was going upstairs, he
was caught by Lord Walworth, who
detained him for some minutes. The delay
was annoying ; he thought Laura might
be getting impatient; it was later than
she had meant to stay. He broke away
as soon as he could, and hurried to the
drawing-room, made a short explanation
to Rachel, and then went in search of his
wife. She was still on the sofa looking
pale and tired. Her face seemed to
reproach him, but he could not tell
whether its reproach was intentional.
Her words, when he reached her, showed
that it was. She said, 

1 1 thought we were going early ; it is
half-past eleven, and I am so tired. '

'I was coming to you half-an-hour
ago,' he answered, 'but Kachel intercepted
me and ordered me to take Cassandra
down to supper. She was ill, and
I had to get her a cab and then explain
to Rachel that she was gone. Then
Walworth got hold of me and I could
not escape. But we will go now at once.
Mary will say good-night to Rachel for
us  will you not ? ' he said, turning to
his sister-in-law.

Certainly,' answered Lady Mary in
chilling tones ; ' Laura ought to go at
once. I was just thinking of taking her
home myself.'

Heme answered drily, 'It was very
kind of you, but hardly necessary. There
are at least twenty men here who would
have fetched me if Laura had asked them
to do so  I think Laura knew that. Shall

we come now, or would you like to say
good-night to anybody ? '

He turned from Lady Mary and addressed
Laura herself, as if deprecating
interference between them.

Laura chose to go at once. She had
felt guilty during the dialogue between
her husband and her sister. Lady Mary
had drawn her attention to the little
scene in the doorway when Heme was
hindered by Kachel from coming to fetch
her away. She had said, ' Do you see ? 
in a manner that had made Laura start ;
and the half-hour since had been full
of miserable suspicions that had made
it the longest of her life.

Now she was repentant towards her
husband, and she wished her sister a
frigid good-night.

1 We pass sentence upon our fellows, of failure or of success,
as if we knew what their aspiration had been.'

Hee days before the reading
in Arlington Street  that
is to say on the 25th of July
there was to be a grand rehearsal
at the Hemes'. For this Laura had
stipulated when the idea of readings
was first started ; and at the same time
she had made Cassandra promise to
come and stay with her during the important
week. The 25th was a Tuesday 
Cassandra's classes broke up on the
preceding Saturday, and she arrived in
Chester Place on Monday.

Laura's welcome was languidly affectionate.
She said many times that she
was glad to see Cassandra, but having
said this, she seemed to have little more
to say. They fell into an awkward
silence, and, to break it, she took Cassandra
to the spare-room, told her she
was its first inhabitant, and showed her
all the arrangements she had made for
her comfort. Cassandra praised everything
and was a little more grateful
than the occasion required. Then
Laura bethought her that Cassandra
must be tired, and suggested that
she should lie down and rest till it
was time to dress for dinner ; which
Cassandra was glad enough to do, not
so much because she was tired as
because of the embarrassment Laura's
presence occasioned her.

They had been together a very few
days before and had chatted easily

enough, and Cassandra was not conscious
of anything she had done since that
could have caused a sudden change of
feeling in Laura. She had not once seen
Maurice alone since the day of their
meeting in Kensington. Gardens ; they
never corresponded; and it happened
that, during the last few days, they had
not even met in society. She tried to
persuade herself that there was no
change, but the more she dwelt on
the manner of her reception, the more
she felt that she was not so welcome
as Laura professed to make her. Then
she tried to persuade herself that there
was, at any rate, no justification for a
change. She repeated to herself the
assurances she had fought against when
Maurice had urged them upon her : she
had come to think them sound. All
had gone so smoothly that she had
learned to look upon the danger, of

VOL. III. 10

which she had talked, as past, and to
thank Maurice for the frank speech to
which they owed their present safe
relations. She had had no reason to
repent of her trust in him. In all their
intercourse since, he had been honourably
true to his promise  sparing her
every possible occasion of embarrassment.
She was deeply grateful to him, and
said to herself many times what a
blessed gift was this male common-sense
that she had sometimes looked down on
with contempt. Left to herself, she
would probably have taken some mad
step that would have betrayed her and
him, and ruined Laura's chance of happiness.
Thanks to him, they were tiding
safely over the time of greatest difficulty
for them all. In a few weeks London
would be emptying. She would go home
for a short holiday. Heme and Laura
would stay on in town till the end

of August, and then go down to Ardgwen.
When they met again in
October, Laura would be a mother, and
a new chapter of existence would have
begun for her. Cassandra could be less
frequent in her visits without being
missed. The child would furnish Laura
with interest and occupation. She
would moreover be in better health
and less liable to the morbid moods she
had been a prey to during this summer.
She repeated all these things to herself
as she walked up and down Laura's
spare bedroom, and tried to find comfort
in them. But all force of conviction
had gone from them, and once
more she felt that truth and right
were on the side of the unreasoning
instinct that bade her fly from Laura's
husband. Not that she wavered from
her trust  only, as she had said to him,
she feared herself and the sense of

guilt that overwhelmed her in Laura's
presence. She said to herself that fora
woman to feel guilty is to be guilty.
Acquittal of her reason and the unanimous
absolution of all the world areas
nothing against the condemnation
of her inner conscience. Maurice had
decided as a man, and was doubtless
right from a man's point of view. For
her he was mistaken, and she had been
wrong to let him rule her. But it was
too late to go back  she must make
the best of her position and learn to
bear her own disapprobation.

It had been arranged that they
should all dine that evening in Arlington
Street. There was to be a
family party : the Tremadocs, who had
come to town a few days before in order
to be present at her readings ; Lord
Ehoos, whom the same attraction had
brought from Paris ; Mr. and Mrs. Courtenay,

with the pretty Eva, whom I hope
the reader has not quite forgotten, and
Eminent, to whom she had recently become
engaged ; Mr. Burrell Jones 
without his wife, who was nursing babies
at home with whooping cough; Lady
Mary Yane, and our old friend Mr.
Fenton. Cassandra and the bride-elect
shared the honours of the evening. Eva
Courtenay was taken down to dinner
by Lord Walworth, and sat silent between
him and Mr. Tremadoc ; Cassandra
went down with Mr. Burrell
Jones, whose place was next to their
hostess, and was the centre of conversation
throughout dinner. She was
brilliant, and said things that were
quoted afterwards. She found the party
pleasant, and forgot, for a space, all the
anxieties that had beset her. After
dinner Fenton taxed her with being
cynical. She denied the charge, and

then expressed penitence if she had
sinned unknowingly.

1 It is a mistake in art,' he said.

'I agree with you, only how is it to
be avoided ? There are combinations
in society that induce cynicism as surely
as certain climates do malaria.'

1 True, and for that reason art should
eschew society.'

Is that why we see you so seldom ? '

It is. I have the disease so strongly
that I dare not risk aggravating it.'

1 Then what a touching compliment
you pay us by being here to-night ! '

'I pay you one.'

Cassandra made a magnificent curtsey,
and her lip curled more cynically than
ever.

1 You think I am not in earnest,' he said.

I know you are, 1 she answered. ' But
I have not mastered my part of ingenue.
It is Eva Courtenay you should have

complimented  not me. Only perhaps
it is better to leave Egmont to do that.
Tell me what is the greatest age you
have ever known simplicity attain.'

'I believe Lady Sarah is six-and-thirty,'
he answered.

Cassandra laughed and said, 'And
Rachel is a year older.'

'But that is hardly to the point,' said
Fenton. ' Now if you had mentioned
her husband's age . . .'

1 1 do not know it,' Cassandra said.

'I do,' said Fenton, ' I heard it from
Burrell Jones the other day.'

1 And it is ? *

1 The age of innocence.'

i Who is cynical now, Mr. Fenton ? '
asked Cassandra, laughing in spite of
herself.

1 All the world, and you and I who are
part of it. But if you will sing something,
we shall all feel better.'

< Is that true ? '

1 Yes, perfectly true, and you only
doubt it because it is so. I will make
atonement for the wicked things I have
said by giving you a sermon  that is,
if you will have it.'

I am much in want of sermons.'
Then believe me when I tell you that
to be great in any way is of necessity to
say good-bye to the feeling of innocence,
and that to be great is a duty wherever
it is possible. If you did not see the
world as it is, you would not know what
it ought to be. Innocence cannot paint
innocence, cannot even conceive it.
Look at Miss Courtenay, for instance ;
she is the most guileless of all present,
and yet she blushes guiltily every time
Egmont speaks to her. Any one of us
could act the ingenue better than she can
And what is the drift of all this ? '
Ah, I had forgotten that I was

preaching. I must point my moral. I
think it is that women who have great
gifts must not take fright at the consequences
their gifts bring with them.
They must not cry for the simplicity
of bread and milk  they must rise to a
higher simplicity of strong meat.'

A simplicity above cynicism, not below
it,' said Cassandra.

Exactly, and the sum of it is that
you must not grow cynical, or you will
fail and disappoint us all. Now will
you give me a song in return for my
sermon ? '

'I promised to sing a duet with Mr.
Burrell Jones.'

1 Pardon me, but I do not like the
combination.'

It must be, nevertheless,' said Cassandra,
' and here he comes to remind me.'

The duet was much applauded. Mr.
Burrell Jones had a fine baritone, and

people said it went particularly well with
Cassandra's soprano, the only dissentient
voices being Mr. Fenton's and Lady
Mary's. The former repeated that he
did not like the combination, and Lady
Mary said she agreed with him. They
were pressed to sing again, but Cassandra
knew Laura wished to go early, and
she would not risk detaining her.

She thought over Fenton's remarks
on her way home, and wondered how far
he divined her position and how far he
had been merely shooting at random.
Either way it was clear that he too
thought it was a mistake to fly. But
then he was only another man. He
had suggested another line of argument 
one drawn from comparison. Maurice had
asked her how many people in London
lived a life without danger. She asked
herself now how many husbands among
her acquaintance loved their wives best,

how many wives their husbands? At
the worst, was she not less guilty than
many others who held their heads high
and whose names were untouched by
scandal ? Only again, what did that
matter, if her own instinct condemned
her?

She argued the question over and overall
through the next day, but without
arriving at any conclusion in which her
mind could rest. And she was still
arguing it when the evening came and
she found herself at last in presence of
her audience.

Heme led her to her place, and stayed
by her for a moment, arranging her desk
and making sure that all was right.
She thanked him, but said she should
not use the desk  she knew the play
from beginning to end, it was easier to
her to recite than to read. Then he left
her and took a place near the doorway

where he could see her without being
fully in her sight.

She came forward and stood face to
face with the audience.

There had been much discussion about
what dress she should wear. Lady Walworth
had had wonderful ideas : she had
wanted her to appear as the tragic muse,
she had designed a symbolic costume
that was to express the ideas of the
poem; a thousand times she had implored
Cassandra to allow her to provide
the dress and trust all its arrangements
to her taste. But Cassandra had been
deaf to all suggestions, and had reserved
the right of putting on what she pleased
at the last moment.

And what she did please at the last
moment, was to appear in a black gown
of lustreless texture and the simplest
possible form. Her hair was without
ornaments, and the sombre effect of the

dress was relieved only by her own vivid
colouring and the glimmer of a jewel
she wore on her neck.

The dress was one that she had worn
many times before, and her choice of it
this evening was dictated solely by a
disinclination to trouble herself about
the matter. To appear at all before an
audience of Laura's friends had become
so distasteful to her that she could not
trick herself out for the occasion.

But the most careful study could not
have produced a more perfect result.
She looked magnificent, and candid
Lady Walworth said to her neighbour,
' She was right ; the plain black
gown is splendid. It is consummately
chosen.'

That she was splendid was the
unanimous feeling of the room, and
a movement of applause, greeting her
advance, sent a thrill of delicious excitement

through all her nerves. She
bowed in acknowledgment ; the applause
spread, and its effect upon herself was
heightened.

All her senses seemed quickened as by
an electric bath. She drew herself up
and surveyed the audience, and for a
moment she felt that she had been
transported into a palace of truth.

I know not whether it was that her
studies under Mr. Williamson had made
her abnormally quick in reading the
expression of faces and spelling language
on the lips, or whether what she saw
and heard was but the effect of an
over-strained imagination, but in that
instant it seemed to her that she had
the clue to all the secrets of the people
who were ranged before her. She could
see their most hidden feelings, hear
their inaudible speech. She saw Lady
Mary touch Ehoos on the arm and say,

Look at Laura and tell me if it can
be justified.' She heard him answer,
There are guiltier women than she who
will judge her by-and-by.' And she
followed his eye along the benches.
She saw a bride of ten weeks' standing
casting down her eyes with guilty consciousness
while her neighbour said soft
words in her ear. She saw

But what right have I to tell the
things Cassandra saw or thought she saw
in that strange moment ? Enough, that,
as she looked, her lip curled with scorn
and the words she had spoken to
Fenton came back upon her mind, 
There are combinations in society that
make cynicism inevitable.

Then she looked at Laura and read
her condemnation in her white face and
anxious eyes, and the guilt of others
seemed as nothing  her own was all she
knew. For a moment she thought she

would not read, but Egmont, who was
standing near, said low, 

'You had better begin at once  they
are all quiet.'

She made a great effort, and began.
At first her voice was low, and more
than once it faltered with emotion that
had its source outside the play. But
gradually she mastered her feelings and
compelled them to obey the rhythm
of the verse. Her passion helped the
passion of the poem. Her audience was
at her feet ; and when she came to the
great scene where Faust demands of the
fiend, who will not understand him, that
he may drink to the dregs the mixed
cup of human experience  tasting hatred
as well as love, agony no less than
rapture, vileness side by side with glory,
and death at last when life has been
exhausted,  when she put the despairing
question, What then is man if he may

not reach the crown of manhood towards
which all his being strives ?  and paused
a moment before uttering the mocking
answer, a burst of applause told her that
success was sure.

From that moment she forgot everything
but the play. She was Faust,
she was Mephistopheles, she was
Gretchen. Herself she had ceased
to be.

She was unconscious of the unswerving
gaze of passionate admiration with
which Heme's eyes were fixed on her.
She did not see the haggard misery
in Laura's eyes as they looked helplessly
from her face to his, and read
the truth at last. She saw nothing, and
she felt the applause that followed the
close of every scene only as an inspiration
for the next.

But it had been arranged that there
should be a break half-way through

VOL. III. 11

the reading, and during the pause consciousness
of her surroundings came back
to her.

All the audience had risen. The
room was filled with a buzz of voices.
Women were drying their eyes and
saying they had never known what
Faust was before. Men were pressing
round Laura and begging to be introduced
to her cousin. Laura was forcing
her lips to smile, but the expression of
her eyes gave them ghastly contradiction.
Suddenly she turned deadly pale and
made a tottering movement in the
direction of the door. Cassandra darted
towards her and put her arm out to support
her. But Laura looked at her
stonily and pushed her away. Lady
Mary stepped between them, and at the
same moment Ehoos came up and made
Laura lean on him.

This is your doing,' he said; and he

glared at Lady Mary with an oath between
his teeth.

No, it is mine,' said Cassandra ; and
she turned away from the group, and
passed out on to the balcony, and stood
alone in the moonlight.

Had all the room seen the mute gesture
of repulsion with which Laura had
rejected her proffered help ? Had they
understood its meaning? Would they
turn away from her if she w T went back
among them now ?  But she would not
go back. She would stay outside alone
till they were all gone. Then she would
creep upstairs to bed, and tomorrow,
before breakfast, she would go away.

Cassandra had lived over thirty years
in the world ; she had a woman's experience
of its difficulties, more than most
women's knowledge of its facts, and she
was generally credited with possessing
her full share of presence of mind in

social emergencies. Bat there were
moments when she was helpless as a
child, and had no thought but to lie still
while things took their course and carried
her with them to destruction or salvation.
It was such a moment with her
now. Her good name hung on her immediate
action, and she was passively
resolved that she would not act.

In a few minutes Heme joined her.

Oh, there you are,' he said, forcing
himself to speak without embarrassment,
and succeeding so well that she thought
his composure genuine. 'Everybody is
asking for you. Why have you hidden
yourself? Let me take you back into
the drawing-room.'

He tried to take her hand and lead
her back, but she drew it away and stood
firm.

How is Laura ? ' was all she said.

Laura will be down in a few minutes.

The heat of the room made her faint. I
have taken her upstairs. Sarah is nursing
her, and she will be all right very
soon. When I have taken you back, I
will go up to her again.'

Go now,' said Cassandra; 'I do not
want to go back to the drawing-room.
It is cooler here, and I feel a little less
wicked.'

Cassandra,' he said, * I implore you to
come back. People are beginning to talk.'

'Let them talk,' she answered; 'their
talk can alter nothing. I thought we
were doing right, injuring nobody.
That was what you assured me. How
have things changed that now we must
fear the talk of people like ? '

1 Hush,' he said; ' you are unreasonable.
We cannot argue now. You promised
to trust me, This is the moment to
show that you meant it. Come back
now and finish your reading, and all

that has happened will be forgotten.
You have had a splendid triumph.'

A triumph ! ' she said with an accent
of scorn. ' Is this your idea of a
triumph ? I think I could write another
canto to the Inferno and show how
usurpers are crushed under the wheels
of their own chariots  of triumph.
Maurice, whatever happens, I cannot
go back to that room.'

What excuse am I to make for
you?'

What you can.'

1 There is nothing that I can say.
You must come back.'

1 Why must I come ? To prevent the
world's talking? Oh, Maurice, I think
men are greater cowards than women.
I am ready to bear my punishment, but
you cannot meet yours.'

It is not a question of bearing punishment.
It is a question of preventing

further wrong. For Laura's sake you
ought to come back.'

1 You own then that we have wronged
her. You saw her face, you saw how she
pushed me away,  can I go back after
that? She hates me, and I loved her
oh, Maurice, I did love her  she
must never doubt that . . .'

C I know you did,' he said. ' It is
I who have wronged her, not you,
Cassandra. I have wronged you both.
You cannot say it more strongly than I
say it to myself. But this is not the
time for confession. To-morrow will
come. To-night, for your sake and for
hers, I must entreat you to come back.'

I will come back when Laura asks
me.'

Maurice dear . . . .' Laura was
standing on the window-sill. She had
come down, and the room being hot, someone
had placed a chair for her near the

window. From where it stood, she could
see Maurice but not Cassandra. She
rose to go to him : she wanted to tell
him she was better and to reassure herself
of his love by a few words alone with
him. But a step forward brought her in
view of them both. Cassandra was leaning
against the wall that divided the
balcony from that of the neighbouring
house  the moonlight fell on her face
and lit up its beauty  Maurice stood
in front of her pleading desperately. It
was as if a vision had been sent to end
the weary argument Laura had been holding
within herself. That other scene in
the library at Ardgwen came back to
her; she understood its meaning now;
she remembered Mary's hints; she no
longer doubted her own vague instinct
of distrust. A long drama of treachery
was laid bare at last. Her husband and
her nearest friend had conspired to make

her miserable. She turned sick at heart,
and broke off in her appeal.

Cassandra started forward as if she
would have thrown herself at Laura's
feet. But Heme laid a strong hand
upon her arm, and pressed her back
against the w T all.

1 This is no time for a scene,' he said.
We must go back to our guests. Laura
must wait till they are gone for an
explanation. '

'I will go to bed,' said Laura; 'I am
ill, but I will not disturb everybody.
Sarah will go upstairs with me.'

Sarah took her upstairs, and Cassandra
came back into the drawing-room followed
by Maurice. People had taken their
places again and were waiting for the
reading to go on.

'I am not going to read,' Cassandra
said to Maurice.

1 No,' he said ; c it is impossible now.

He beckoned to Khoos, and asked him
to explain that Lanra had been taken ill
and that the reading could not go on.
Then he went upstairs.

Ehoos made the announcement, and
everybody began to say good-night. A
few guests went at once ; others were
obliged to wait for their carriages.

At last they were almost all gone, and
Maurice came down and reported that
Laura was asleep. A doctor had been
sent for and had declared that there was
nothing serious  she would be herself
again in the morning. He stood talking
to the few guests who still lingered.

Cassandra and Khoos found themselves
Ute-a-Ute in the back room.

'How much longer are you going to
stay here ? ' he asked.

Not after tomorrow morning

'Forgive me, if I say that I am glad
to hear it.'

'You need not ask my forgiveness,'
she said. l It is I who ought to kneel to
every one. I wish I might  I think I
should feel better for it.'

She tapped her foot impatiently on the
floor. All the emotions of the evening
were turning to a miserable irritation for
which no vent was possible.

Ehoos asked her what she meant todo
when she went from there.

1 1 do not know and I do not care. I
am going for ever. None of you will
hear of me any more. That is all that
matters.'

Ehoos almost smiled. There was a
wildness about the idea that touched
absurdity.

He said, ' Do you mean that you are
going to live quite by yourself  away
from all your friends ? '

1 It is the only way I can live. Among
my friends, I make misery. The desert

is the right place for me, and I am going
into it at last.'

I know there is no use in my giving
you advice,' he began ; but she interrupted
him.

Don't say that,' she said ; 1 1 want
advice. I am bewildered and utterly
astray. What ought I to do?'

She looked up at him beseechingly,
with clasped hands and eyes full of
despair.

i Come into the balcony,' he said
quietly, ' and if I can I will help you.'

She rose to follow him through the
window. Then suddenly drawing back,
she said with a bitter laugh, 

Oh heavens ! what must you think
of me ? '

1 I think you are in great trouble and
that it is very kind of you to let me help
you. You need not fear my misunderstanding
you, Cassandra. I see quite

well how you are placed, and that the
judgment of a dispassionate person like
myself is just what you want.'

Thank you,' she said very humbly ;
you have always been much kinder tome
than I deserved.'

You have nothing to thank me for.
Will you not sit down? we could talk
more quietly so.'

He pointed to a chair and seated himself
in one beside it. She sat down and
began to speak hurriedly.

'You see what has happened,' she
said. ' We have played a mad game,
and it has ended disastrously. But we
meant no wrong. We persuaded ourselves
that our friendship robbed her of
nothing. It was mad, and it has ended
as it must end. But we meant no wrong,
do you understand ? '

I understand perfectly. The children
of light have once more proved themselves

less wise in their generation than
the children of this world.'

Yes, that is it,' said Cassandra. l And
now I want you to advise me. Of course
I must go tomorrow, and I must go
without seeing Laura. Shall I write and
tell her how it all happened ? '

I Certainly not.'

I I knew you would say so. What
shall I do then ? '

1 Invent an excuse for going suddenly,
and write that.'

I cannot. 1

Then go without writing at all.'

And leave her to think the worst ? '

Leave her to think what she likes.'

Cassandra gave a groan.

Oh, it is hard,' she said. ' I know I
am to blame. But yet, as I look back, I
cannot but see that I was terribly tempted
and that there were excuses. I should
forgive in her place, if all the truth were

told me. It is terribly hard to leave her
without one word that would make her
understand. And yet I believe that you
are right.'

I know I am. Your mistake was to
come here at all. The only reparation
you can make is to go away and leave
Laura and her husband to one another.
They must settle it between them.'

She will think the very worst of me.
Do you not know that she will ? '

I know nothing in the matter.'

But you can think  what do you
think ? '

1 1 think as you do, that it is possible
Laura may blame you more than you
deserve, but '

He was going to say something to the
effect that that would be easy, seeing
that in his opinion Cassandra had been
throughout more sinned against than
sinning. But he forbore, knowing that

to suggest excuses for her, would only
make her break out in exaggerated self-condemnation
that would be profitless.

Cassandra put her own interpretation
on the blank he left.

1 But I must bear it as my punishment
you mean ? '

1 No, indeed. I did not mean to speak
as your judge, but merely to repeat that
whatever explanation is made to Laura
must come from her husband, not from
you. And, after all, Maurice is not likely
to make a scapegoat of you.'

Cassandra did not answer for a few
moments. It needed a painful effort of
her will to submit to this duty of silence.
But she recognised that it was the right
course and she was resolved to adopt
it. In asking counsel of Ehoos, she had
honestly meant to be guided by what
he should say  she would not reject his
advice because it involved pain.

1 promise you,' she said, ' that I will
go early without seeking an explanation.
And now good-night, my friend.'

She laid a peculiar emphasis on the
word friend which Khoos contrived to
reproduce in his answer. He said, 

1 Before we say good-night you must
tell me what part of the desert you are
going to,  you cannot mind leaving your
address with your " friends." '

I shall go hack to my lodgings,' she
said, and she told him her number in
Wimpole Street.

i Will you promise me to take no
decisive step till you have heard from
me? You should not act rashly. Remember
that your friends have claims
upon you which you are not justified in
disregarding. Your mother .'

6 1 will do nothing without first telling
you,  I mean, nothing immediately. I
cannot bind myself for always.'

vol. in. 12

That is of course. But just now you
are upset and unfit for judgment.'

She bent her head in assent, and
then parted from him with a silent
pressure of the hand. She saw Maurice
waiting alone at the other end of the
drawing-room as if to give her the opportunity
of speech if she desired it, but she
avoided him and went straight upstairs
to her room.

In a few minutes she heard the house
door close and she knew that Ehoos
was gone. Then Maurice's footstep
sounded up the stairs, and she felt every
fall of it ]ike a throb of her own pulses.
She knew when he stopped outside
Laura's room, she held her breath during
the pause between the click that opened
the door and the duller thud that told
of its closing again, then she buried
her face in her hands and thought,
1 Now they are together once more, and

LADY LAURA. 179

I am shut out for ever from their
lives.'

So near and yet so far. Only a few
beams and a little plaster,  only heaven,
earth, and hell, between her and the two
beings who were dearest to her in the
world.

She rose from the chair into which she
had sunk on first coming into the room,
and busied herself with undressing and
packing, moving stealthily for fear she
should be heard in the room below.
Since she had promised to forego the
luxury of an explanation, she could not
bear that they should know of her departure
till it was an accomplished fact.
It would have been intolerable to her to
see either of them again and hold silence ;
intolerable to be asked about her plans or
offered help in the details of her departure.
There is a sting in the touch of hands we
have once held in fulness of soul's sympathy,

when such sympathy has become
impossible, and they offer themselves in
services of practical help.

So she moved noiselessly about the
room, not caring how long her task
occupied her, wishing rather that it
might drag on till the morning. But at
last it was accomplished, and by the
time the morning dawned she had no
excuse for watching any longer. But
she would not go to bed, not believing it
possible that she could sleep. She sat
down in the window seat and rested her
head upon the sill so that she could
watch the morning grow.

But Nature, though she is a hard
mother to us at times, is not without
her mercies, and among them there is
perhaps none greater than the physical
exhaustion that follows on mental strain,
and brings us rest when we need it most
and are yet ashamed to seek it. And

in spite of her sorrow and her pride,
sleep came to Cassandra before she had
watched many minutes  sleep, sweet and
dreamless as that of an infant in its
mother's lap.

1 The fruit of dreamy hoping
Is, waking, blank despair.'

S soon as the arrival of the first
post made the excuse of a
sudden summons plausible, Cassandra
asked for breakfast in her room,
and told the housemaid that she was
obliged to go away at once. She left a
message for Laura to the effect that the
Annesleys were in trouble and had begged
her to lose no time in going to them,
and then saying that she would write in
the course of the day, she hurried from
the door. To go really to the Annesleys
was, in truth, the last thing she felt inclined
to do. Theirs was a busy practical

house in which all questions had
been settled long ago on grounds of pure
reason, and all that remained was to act
upon there. Her relations with them
were based on the least fundamental part
of her nature, and were in fact those of
comradeship rather than of friendship ;
all that they had in common belonged to
the region of opinion and action, and left
the depths of emotion unsounded.

And just now emotion was paramount
with Cassandra. The balance of things
was upset with her, and that end of the
beam that carries the practical counterweights
of passion had jerked its burden
to the winds and pointed emptily aloft,
while emotion bore down the other end
to depths that reason cannot measure.

She had promised Ehoos not to acton
her own wild impulses, and she was
content to sit still until he told her what
to do, but she could not go among people

whose philosophy ignored the difficulties
in which she was involved. The conversation
in Brunswick Square would
have been about as grateful to her present
mood as one can fancy a dry reading of
the Decalogue might be to a conscience
broken with the guilt of every act therein
proscribed. Besides it would have been
impossible to explain to them the reasons
of her sudden breach with the Hemes,
and she would have felt dishonest in
accepting their hospitality without a
candid statement of her position.

She could not go to the Annesleys,
but a summons from them was the only
excuse she could invent for her sudden
departure, and she must trust to Ehoos
to help her out of any awkwardness the
fiction might involve.

Meanwhile she went back to Wimpole
Street and waited idly in her room with
her own sad thoughts for company.

About an hour after her arrival a
letter from Ehoos was brought to her.
It was a welcome interruption to her
solitude. She broke the seal however
with some tremor. There were considerations
that made her sometimes
doubt the prudence of allowing him to
become her sole adviser. But as she
read, she felt reassured. It was a letter
of purest friendship.

My dear Cassandra,  There is an

aspect of your position which I consider


very important and which I only forbore

to draw your attention to last night
because I knew that to do so would be
useless. But I have more hope of gaining
a hearing this morning  much more
hope of persuading you by letter than in
the course of a verbal argument. This
is my apology for attacking you again so
soon.

'What I want to convince you of, is
that you are taking a very exaggerated
view of your mistake  for after all you
have only made a mistake. To talk of
yourself as a guilty woman who ought to
ask forgiveness of all the world and then
disappear into the desert, sounds like
nonsense to anybody who knows you and
knows the world. If you deserve excommunication,
the whole of fashionable
London, and I daresay unfashionable
London too, ought to have been laid
under an interdict long ago. Your turn
for going into the desert will not fairly
come till the desert is fuller than the
world of which you think yourself unworthy.
I speak, mind you, of your
position and conduct as compared to the
conduct and position of other women in
society. In comparison with many
whom I am in no haste to condemn, I
do not hesitate to say that you are

blameless. But I pray you to understand
that in saying this I do not for a moment
presume to come between you and your
conscience. While it condemns you, I
do not venture to acquit you. A mistake
that has brought distress on others is, I
well know, a thing to be repented perhaps
even more bitterly than many false
steps that the world calls by its hardest
names. But such repentance is a matter
between you and your own soul. It
must not clothe itself in outward acts of
humiliation, or it will infallibly be misunderstood.


1 If you now commit yourself to any
signal step of retreat, the world will call
you guilty in its own sense, and it will
be your fault that it does so. You will
have given occasion to a scandal from
which you will never again be clear.
And this you have no right to do. Your
disgrace would touch your family. If

you were really guilty it would be necessary
for them to accept a share of your
shame. But you are not guilty, and to
thrust an unreal shame upon yourself and
them would be not only foolish but wrong.
1 cannot pretend to think that the
scene last night escaped observation. It
has set people talking, but the talkers
know that they have themselves been
talked of in their time, and they will not
be very severe on you unless you condemn
yourself by seeming guilty. My
sisters of course see the whole situation,
and I wish there were any one of them
to whom I could advise you to speak
freely. But in truth I think you will do
better to avoid the subject with all of
them. From Mary you would not expect
much comfort  I need not warn
you against making her your confessor.
Sarah's extreme simplicity would make
her about as helpful as a child of two

years old. Rachel would probably scare
you by taking a lighter view of the matter
than even I have dared to suggest.
Confess to none of them, but accept
frankly the support of the two who are
willing to stand by you. You will do
this with a clearer conscience for knowing
that you are not accepting it on false
pretences. And so I say again, they
know how you stand, and are not disposed
to cast you off. For you to take the
initiative and cast them off, would be
simply suicide.

I am going now to Chester Place, and
shall send you news of Laura as soon as
I have seen her. In the meanwhile, will
you go and see Rachel, who expects you
to call about some arrangements for
Friday evening? I have just seen her
and know this from herself.

Forgive me for inflicting upon you this
long lesson in worldly wisdom, and believe

me to be always and under all circumstances,


1 Affectionately yours,

1 Bhoos.'

She read the letter through several
times, and at every reading felt more
convinced that its counsels were wise.
The moment for retreat was past. She
had drifted into danger when she might
have held aloof, and now that she
would fain have returned to safety, right
and wrong had changed places, and the
temptation of yesterday was the binding
duty of to-day. She owed it to others to
persevere in the course upon which she
had entered. She must give the reading
on Friday, she must play her part in
society as before. She could do it, and
she would.

She wrote a short note of thanks to
Ehoos, and then lost no time in going

to Arlington Street to keep her engagement
with Lady Walworth.

And meanwhile how had the night
gone with Laura ?

While Khoos and Cassandra discussed
in the balcony, and Heme waited in the
drawing-room, she lay sleepless and
miserable on her bed, straining her ear
to catch the voices from below  now
wishing them to stop and let her husband
come and make the explanation he had
spoken of, now wishing that they might
never cease and so postpone for ever the
moment in which she was to hear the
extent to which she had been wronged.

What ought she to say to him when
he came ? Must she reproach him
and repel him with stern looks ? It
seemed to her that she ought to do so.
He had deceived her at all points ; he
had forfeited for ever all claim upon her
love. She had learned to love him by

believing him to be great and good and
worthy to be loved. He had been her
hero and her god, and she had gloried
in giving herself to him without reserve ;
and he had shown himself unworthy 
not only faithless to herself but untrue
to all the purposes of his life. It seemed
to her that the very purity of the
love she had given him commanded
her to take it back now that he had
stripped himself of all the qualities that
had won it from her. And she realised
with a sort of horror that she could not.

Was it right or was it wrong? She
could not say : her judgment was chained
in helpless bondage to her love. If he
would but come back to her she would
love him wholly as before, only no longer
blindly for virtues not his own, but
madly for himself because she could not
do otherwise.

And all the while he had not cared for

her, but for Cassandra. But why then
had he married her? Was he a fiend,
that he should find pleasure in ruining
the happiness of one who had never done
him any wrong ?

And then her mind went back to the
days before her marriage when she was
unthinkingly happy with her own people,
when she loved God and believed the
world was good. He had spoiled all her
life, and yet she could not hate him.
She knew that if he came to her she
should find no words of reproach, but
yearn to throw her arms about his neck
and sob forgiveness on his breast. But
this she must not do, because he did not
want her love  and besides, he would
not come. He and Cassandra would go
away together and leave her alone. She
had heard of such things being done, and
in the sudden wreck of all her habits of
thought and feeling, the worst possibility.

III. 13

ties seemed the only probable events.
Maurice and Cassandra would go away-together.
She found herself looking to
this as the certain sequel of to-night's
discovery. But then would they go
secretly, or would he come and tell her
they were going ? Perhaps that was
what he meant by an explanation. He
would come to her bedside and say that he
had found it impossible to go on loving
her, and then he would kiss her and say
good-bye, and it would all be over. Every
moment she became more certain that it
would happen so. But what would be her
part in the scene ? Surely she would not
oppose him ; there would be no happiness
in holding him against his will. Only
how would it be possible to kiss him,
knowing that it was for the last time 
how should she ever let loose the hands
that had grown so dear ?

All at once the door opened, and she

knew that he was standing within the
room. On a sudden impulse, she feigned
sleep. He came near to the bed, and she
felt him bending over her. She longed to
look up, to speak, to embrace him. But
there was a spell of terror on her that
only his voice could loosen, and he did
not speak. He stood doubting whether
to waken her and ask her forgiveness
then and there, or to leave her sleeping
till the morning. The doctor had said
she must sleep, and her white face resting
on the pillow looked at peace.

He scrupled to disturb her. He
was unwilling to delay their reconciliation.


While he still hesitated, she turned
over on her side and flung her arm
across her face as a screen against the
oppression of his silent presence.

1 She turns away from me,' he thought,
and he went out of the room and closed

the door noiselessly behind him for fear
of waking her.

Yes, he was gone, and she was alone
for ever. For a few minutes she lay quite
still trying to realise her future. She
saw herself getting up next day and
going about explaining to the servants in
the house, to her friends, to her mother
and sisters and brothers, that her husband
had ceased to care for her and had gone
away and left her. She saw the lonely
years following one another in monotonous
succession,  comfortless, joyless,
blank. But saddest of all in the sad
outlook, was the sense that that which
had been hitherto her sweetest hope had
now become her bitterest terror. Through
the disappointments of her year of
married life, there had been one thought
in which she had never failed to find
consolation,  she would be a mother
soon, and then her life would be worth

living. She would have a little one
dependent on her, a young life to nurse
and cherish and to mould according to
her will. Her child would be all she had
dreamed her husband was, do all she
could not do herself. Oh, the baby would
be the beginning of a new chapter in life,
the baby would make her busy, useful,
happy !

But now the prospect of being a mother
had become full of shame. What should
she tell the little one of its father?
How should she bear that it should know
that he had left her for another ? Her
child could not honour her when its
own father had put dishonour upon her.
Besides it would not be her child only :
it would be his, it would be like him.
It would make her love it, and then ina
little while it would go away from her,
and she would be twice desolate.

She remembered the Sisters of Charity

who lived in the back street and worked
among the poor. She thought she would
go to them. She was free now, and could
give all her life to work like theirs.

But then she bethought her that her
unbelief would be a bar against her.
They would not admit one who did not
worship God. Maurice had shut that
door against her also. And again she
asked herself for what purpose he had
so ruined all her life. Oh, why had he
made her love him so !

At last tears came to her relief, and
she sobbed upon the bed like a child.
How long she did not know, but when
the sobs subsided she was too exhausted
to think any more, and she too fell asleep.
The sun was high in the sky when
she awoke, and sounds of life both within
and without the house told her that it
was late. She sat up in bed and tried to
recall the incidents and feelings of the

night. She was not much more capable
of reasoning about them than she had
been while they were actually passing,
for her head ached cruelly, and she had
that sense of being mentally bruised and
strained that always follows upon a great
and new trouble.

But there is a wisdom belonging to
the morning that is as independent of
reasoning as is the delirium of the night.
And inevitably, her daylight thoughts
took a more probable direction than
those she had had in the darkness. She
ran over in her mind the things that
were to be done during the coming
day, and in doing so the mere force
of habit compelled her to count
upon her husband's presence in the
house.

She looked at her watch and found
that it was half-past ten. ( I wonder
whether Maurice has gone out yet,' she

thought ; and she got up and knocked at
the door of his dressing-room.

There was no answer, so she went in.

The room was empty, but everything
about it looked as usual. The clothes he
had worn on the evening before were
lying on a chair ; letters evidently brought
by that morning's post were on the dress-unstable
; a little paper of memoranda
was sticking in the glass, and she noticed
that one or two additions to it had been
freshly made. He would not have done
that if he had meant to go away altogether.
She went back to her room and
rang the bell: she had courage now to
face the housemaid and ask questions.

The maid brought her a note from
Maurice. He had gone to his office at
the usual hour and had left this note to
be delivered to her on waking, not before.
Laura tore it open eagerly. It was very
short, and the tone of it was neither more

nor less affectionate than usual. It
merely told her that he had looked in at
her last night and this morning, but that
finding her asleep both times he had
thought it best to leave her undisturbed.
He would be in at five, and he hoped to
find her better. She must send for him
immediately if she was not.

Being thus relieved from her worst
fears, she asked about Cassandra and
received the message that had been invented
for her. Then before she was
dressed, Sarah came to see her and
stayed with her for the rest of the
morning, and in the afternoon Rachel
called to take her for a drive. She went
with her gladly, only stipulating that she
must be brought home before five, as
Maurice had said he should be in early
and she did not want to be out when
he came. Rachel promised, but miscalculated
the time, and they were

still in the Park when five o'clock
struck.

Cinderella at the hall after midnight
cannot have been more distressed than
Laura was at the discovery. She implored
to he driven home at once, and
afforded her sister a good deal of amusement
hy the nervous restlessness that
possessed her till she was finally set
down on her own doorstep. Kachel
had driven away before Laura learned
that her alarm had been unnecessary, 
her husband had not yet come in. At
first she was glad, as she had set her
heart on being at home to receive him ;
but when an hour went by and still he
did not come, she began to grow uneasy.
And when another hour passed without
his appearing, all ths worst fears of the
night before came back to her. It was
true that he was sometimes detained
by business till late at night, but then he

LADY LAURA. 203

always sent her a note or telegram  and
to-night neither came. The notion of
his having gone away with Cassandra
reasserted itself, and Cassandra's mysterious
disappearance in the morning
seemed to give it fresh probability. No
letter had come from her either, and her
message was that she would write in the
course of the day.

The cook sent up to ask whether she
would wait dinner : it was more than
half-an-hour after the usual time, the
food was spoiling. Laura said she would
wait a little longer. Another half-hour
passed, and the housemaid came to persuade
her to dine alone. Laura would
have refused, but it struck her that the
girl looked at her compassionately as if
she suspected that something was wrong,
and she thought she would best disarm
suspicion by doing the most reasonable
thing. She went down and dined by

herself, forcing herself to eat as a means
of persuading her household that all
was right.

Then she went up to the drawing-room
and sat doing nothing. Ten o'clock
struck, eleven : he had not come. She
rang the bell and sent the servants to
bed. A little later she went up herself
and undressed. He was clearly not
coming home at all. She would try to
go to sleep. She bethought herself of
some sleeping-draughts that she had been
using lately. She took one, but it had no
effect on her. She could not stay in her
room. She put on a dressing-gown and
wandered about the house,  in and out of
the rooms, up and down stairs, like a poor
ghost that revisits scenes of past happiness,
and finds them desolate.

She went into the dining-room and
drew back the curtains and looked out
into the gas-lit street, hoping to see her

husband coming. Long time she looked,
but there was no sign of him. She went
through the folding doors into the back-room
which he used as a study. It had
been shut up all day, and the atmosphere
of it was close and oppressive. She set
her candle down on the writing-table and
opened the window, letting in a strong
gust of air. It caught some papers and
sent them fluttering about the floor.
She knelt down to pick them up, but the
attitude brought on faintness, the room
turned dim and the furniture swam around
her. She scrambled to her feet and felt
her way back to the other room, where
there was a sofa on which she could
throw herself. The faintness passed
quickly ; but, in the passive state that
followed it, the composing draught took
effect, and almost immediately she was
asleep.

Asleep and in heaven. She was sitting

again in the cedar grove at Ardgwen.
Sunshine was creeping lovingly about
her, blue sky looking in through the dark
branches overhead. There was a sound
of crackling among the dead leaves, and
she knew that he was coming. The sunshine
grew brighter and brighter, and
she saw him standing before her, She
tried to stretch out her arms, but they
were heavy and she could not lift them.
She tried to speak, but her lips were
numbed.

Suddenly the spell was broken.

Laura said his own voice, but not
in the low tender tone in which she had
thought to hear it. It rang round her
like a shriek of horror, and she started
from the sofa with an answering cry of
1 Maurice ! '

A great glare of light was about her,
the room seemed full of people. But she
saw nothing clearly but her husband

standing over her with arms stretched
out as if to save her from some deadly
peril.

She sank upon his breast, and darkness
closed round her in a swoon like death.

Look in my face : my name is Might-Have-Been. '

AS SANDRA found it difficult to
wait patiently for indirect news
of Chester Place. Moreover
such news as came was incomplete.
Rhoos's second note told her that Laura
was not up when he called, and though
he transmitted her message that she
was much letter, Cassandra felt no confidence
in the information. A third note
that came in the evening was equally
unsatisfactory. He had tried to see
Laura again in the course of the afternoon,
hut had not found her at home.
However he had heard from Rachel that

she had been driving with her and was
pretty well. He promised to come to
Wimpole Street next morning.

But the morning passed without his
appearing, and no note came to explain
his failure. Cassandra grew uneasy and
made up her mind to go to Arlington
Street for news. She had hardly gone
a hundred yards before she met Khoos.

1 1 had given you up she said.

'I was unavoidably hindered,' he
answered. ' But will you not come back
with me now ? '

Cassandra turned, and they walked
home together.

Something has happened,' she said;
let me hear it at once. '

But he said, cit will be better to
wait till we are in the house ; ' and she
submitted.

He talked of indifferent things, and
she answered at random. Then, as soon
vol. in. 14

as they were in her room, she put an
end to the forced conversation by saying
peremptorily, 

'Now tell me. I see it is something
dreadful. But it cannot be worse to hear
it than to be in this suspense. How is
Laura ? '

Ehoos thankfully availed himself of
the invitation to be direct. He said, 

1 Laura is very ill. I ought to tell you
at once that she is in serious danger.'

Cassandra had turned deadly white.

Go on,' she said. ' Maurice ?'

She could not frame her question,
but Khoos followed her thought and
answered it : 

He is with her, he will not leave
her  she does not know him now, but
when she recovers . . . .'

But she will not recover ! ' cried
Cassandra. ' She will die, and I shall
have killed her.'

Khoos made no answer. He knew
it would be useless to argue that point
with her.

1 Go on,' she said. ' What has happened?
How is she ill? For mercy's
sake tell me everything at once.'

He told her the story of the day before,
how Maurice had gone out in the morning
leaving Laura asleep and meaning to
come home early,  how he had been
unexpectedly detained at the office, and
then just as he was hurrying home had
been recalled by his chief, who wanted
him imperatively to go down to the
House of Commons.

He wrote to Laura, but there seems
to have been some mistake on the part
of the messenger, and she never got the
letter. Laura, it appears, was wild with
anxiety all day. The servants say that
from the time she came in from driving
with Sarah till bedtime she did nothing

but wander about the house looking like
a ghost. But at about eleven she went to
bed, and then they thought she would be
all right, and went to bed themselves.
However she seems to have got up again
and come downstairs to watch for her
husband;  though exactly what she did
nobody can tell, as she is quite delirious,
and it all happened after the servants
were gone to bed

'What happened? I do not understand,'
said Cassandra. Suddenly one
definite idea possessed her. ' She has
not tried to kill herself ? '

'No, no. I fear I am telling the
story bunglingly,' said Ehoos. ' It was
not that. But when Maurice came
home, he was startled to see a policeman
standing on the doorstep ringing the bell
violently. He hurried up, and as he
passed the dining-room window he saw
that the room was on fire. He opened

the door and rushed in to find Laura
asleep on the sofa. She started up,
screamed with terror, threw herself into
his arms, and fainted. Her child was
born in the night.'

< Is it alive ? '

'No, dead.'

She had been looking forward to it
day and night,' said Cassandra, ' and I
have killed it.'

Khoos said nothing.

'And Laura, you say, is dying,' she
said.

No, I do not say dying, only in very
serious danger.'

Neither of them spoke for some
minutes. Cassandra's feelings were too
mixed to find relief in expression, and
Rhoos divined that any words of consolation
would be vain.

After a little pause he said, 

1 1 had a favour to ask of you.'

Cassandra started. There was one
favour she lived in daily dread of his
asking of her  one she could never grant,
and yet which she knew not how she
could refuse after accepting so much
kindness from him. But her alarm was
needless this time. He went on, 

1 We want you, if you have no other
plan, to go down as soon as possible to
Ardgwen. My mother has been telegraphed
for, and we expect her in the
course of a few hours. But my father
cannot be left alone, and if you would goto
him it would be a great comfort to us
all. Mary has offered to go, and I have
done my best to discourage the idea. I
think you would be a more comfortable
companion at this moment. He will be
terribly cut up. Anything that touches
Laura, you know '

Yes, I know,' said Cassandra, 'and it
is all my fault.'

Do not exaggerate that idea. What
has happened is connected with your
fault. But Laura has been in a morbid
state for a long time, Kachel tells me.
It might all have come about even
though you had stayed at Nant-y-Gwyn.'

1 It is my fault,' she repeated.

1 About going to Ardgwen,' said Ehoos,
who was determined to keep conversation
to the safe point of practical action.
About going to Ardgwen. If it would
not be very inconvenient to you, it would
be a great kindness to go. You are the
fittest person in every way. And now
that, of course, the reading must be given
up, we thought you could not have anything
to keep you in London. But if
for any reason you dislike the plan,
pray say so, and we will arrange something
else.'

Cassandra did not answer. She was
looking absently away, hearing what he

said without attending to it. He said
again, 

'Pray do not hesitate to say if the
plan is disagreeable to you.'

And she recalled herself with an effort.

1 1 beg your pardon, I really don't
quite know what it was you proposed,
I was thinking of Laura. May I go to
her?'

That is impossible ; she is in raving
delirium. No one but the nurse and
Maurice are allowed in the room, and
he is only there on condition of not
speaking to her.'

What was it that you proposed that I
should do ? '

Khoos told her over again, and she
consented to go. He went out at once
to telegraph to Mrs. Wynne that she
was coming, and then returned to settle
details with her. He undertook all
necessary arrangements for her, and

promised to send Sarah to see her
before she went.

As she wished him good-bye her voice
faltered and she said, 

1 1 wish you would not be so kind tome.
I can never repay you, and it makes
me miserable to know it.'

c You need not fear me,' he answered.
1 If ever I ask anything of you that is not
wholly in your own interest it will not be
in the name of benefits conferred. I
hoped you knew me better than to think
I would urge such a rotten title as that.'

1 have nothing to give,' said Cassandra
; ' one title is as good as another. I
can only thank you.'

You would probably not do even that
if you knew what it is that you really
owe me. I have a debt to you which I
am trying to pay.'

She felt bewildered, but did not press
for an explanation. When it came later

from another quarter, it moved her very
little. It belonged to her fate that those
who loved her best should make her
wretched.

For days Laura lay between life and
death. And every post carried to Ardgwen
the news that there was no news. She
was still delirious, the doctors still refused
to speak of hope. Every day added to
the danger of the reaction that was inevitable
as soon as the fever should subside
; every day Cassandra came home
with a heavier heart from her walk to
Cresford in search of the afternoon
letters ; every day she found it a harder
task so to soften the truth to Lord St.
Asaph as to keep him from starting for
London.

The spectacle of his sorrow was a
torturing reproach to her. Anxiety for
Laura had made him for the first time in
his life forget to be anxious about himself,

at the same time that it made him
really ill and unfit for the journey he
wanted to undertake. During the past
year his health had grown rapidly worse ;
his mind was failing, and real physical
ailments had been added to imaginary
ones. The shock of hearing that Laura
was dangerously ill had brought on a sort
of fit from which he did not rally. Cassandra
was shocked at his condition when
she came down. He seemed to have
grown twenty years older, the blow had
brought him to his dotage. And this too
was her doing.

She was a very gentle nurse to him,
and he was grateful to her, and every
word of gratitude was a new reproach.
He talked of Laura continually, comparing
her with her sisters, and saying how
inestimably superior she was to them all.

She was the only one who was gentle
he used to say, ' the only one who had

any tenderness. She used to understand
that I was ill and to be patient with me.
She belonged to my family; the others
are like their mother. Come here

And he led Cassandra to look at the
picture of the other Lady Laura.

'Did it ever strike you how like she
was to that ? ' he asked. ' That girl died
two hundred years ago because her people
were not tender to her. And they hid
away her picture in a lumber room, and
it stayed there till I found it the other
day and had it hung here. It was at
the time your father was ill, and I and
my wife came over in a hurry from
Florence and had to stay on several
months. It was then that she was born,
and I called her Laura after the picture.'

He held the light up to the canvas, and
they both looked at the portrait. The
likeness to Laura had never struck Cassandra
so forcibly before : it was the

Laura of those last few weeks in London,
the wreck that she was answerable for.

She thought of what might have been
and what was, and she turned away to
look at the other pictures in the room, 
at Lady St. Asaph's splendour of strong
youth, at the genius in the countenance
of her husband, at the innocent prettiness
of the little Laura in the coral necklace.
The same story seemed written on them
all,  unfulfilled promise, baffled purpose,
great aims with pitiable results. Wealth,
beauty, genius, love  all the gifts life
covets, lavished in mockery instead of
blessing.

Lord St. Asaph was still looking at the
portrait of his ancestress.

She died young too,' he said.

At seventeen,' said Cassandra. ' Laura
is almost twenty.'

1 Is she ? I always think of her as a
child. It seems but yesterday that she

was born. She was the only one who
was born here. The others were all born
in London, except Egmont, and he was
born at Florence. But she belonged to
the place. I suppose it was foolish of
me, but I fancied she would always stay
here. She was fond of the place and
never wanted to go away, and everybody
was fond of her,  that was the
worst of it. I suppose if I had not given
her to Maurice Heme, some one else
would have taken her. I wonder whether
he has been kind to her. I don't know,
but I sometimes doubt it. She did not
look well when she was here at Whitsuntide.
She had a pinched look like the
girl in the picture. It used to haunt
me. If she gets well I shall have her
back and keep her  she can't go away
any more. I hate having my children
out of my sight. People are careless. . . .
Besides I can do nothing without her.

I have not written a line that is good
for anything since she went. I must
have her back if she gets well. But
there is no chance of her getting well 
no chance of it. Nine days of delirium,
the prostration will be terrible, she can
never rally from it. I know what prostration
is.'

'Yes, but you have rallied from it.
People make wonderful recoveries, especially
young people.'

But she is not strong ; she has inherited
my constitution, she is like me
altogether. I wish I knew whether that
fellow has been kind to her. Why don't
you say what you think of him, Cassandra
? You know him well  he is your
cousin or something of that sort. But
women never say what they think, except
my wife. I don't think she trusted
him altogether. But Khoos was set
upon it. He urged it on and persuaded

me it was for the best. I was too yielding.
That has been my fault all my life.
And Khoos is overbearing, he is more
like his mother than me. I wonder why
he was so set on this marriage.'

Let me sing to you,' said Cassandra ;
and she led him back to the drawing-room,
and went to the piano and sang him
one song after another till he complained
that the noise tired him. Then she came
and sat by his couch again, and listened
patiently to his complaining till bed-time.

The days passed monotonously. Every
morning after breakfast she went over to
the rectory and stayed with her mother
till twelve, the time at which Lord St.
Asaph left his room. Then she went to
him, and read to him as long as he would
listen. After that she walked with him
round the garden if it was fine, or sang
to him if the weather kept them in-doors.
At four o'clock regularly she started on

her walk to Cresford to fetch the letter
that would tell about Laura; and the evening
went in listening to such rambling
talk as I have described. It was weary
work, but she was thankful that it had
been given to her to do.

At last news came of a change in
Laura's condition. The fever had subsided
: she was conscious again, but
utterly prostrate. The next forty eight
hours would decide. Next came a telegram
telling of increased prostration.
Rhoos inquired whether it would be
quite impossible for Lord St. Asaph to
come to town. Laura was fully conscious
and had asked for him.

But nothing was said about Cassandra,
and she felt that the worst punishment
was coming upon her. Laura was dying,
fully conscious and without relenting
towards her.

Lord St. Asaph read the great agony in

vol. in. 15

her face and thought his child was dead.
He burst into tears and asked if it was
so. She showed him the telegram, and he
insisted that he was well enough to go.

She had not the heart to oppose him,
she knew what it was to love Laura
and not be allowed to go to her.

She took upon herself the responsibility
of his going, and sent a note to her
mother enclosing the telegram and saying
that she was making arrangements for
her uncle to travel to London that night.
She must go with him of course, and
there was too much to be done for it to
be possible for her to come to the rectory
before starting. Would her mother come
to her ?

Her father came too, and said he
would go instead of her. But before it
was time to start another telegram came
and told them the danger was past. A
favourable turn had taken place almost

immediately after the despatch of the
first telegram, and now with care and
patience they might count on all going
well. Cassandra rang the hell violently
and then ran out herself to stop the
carriage.

Later in the evening she said suddenly
to her mother, 

1 If she had died I should have been a
murderess. It was all my fault. Did
you know it ? '

I guessed, my child,' said the mother,
and she kissed her. That was all that
ever passed between them on the subject.

Immediate, threatening danger was
past, but for weeks the house in Chester
Place lay under the shadow of the most
serious anxiety. The slightest cold
might produce a relapse, the slightest
relapse could hardly fail to be fatal. But
unremitting care and a healthy constitution
brought Laura safely through all

risks, and before the end of September
Lady St. Asaph was allowed to bring her
down to Ardgwen.

A few days before they came, Cassandra
was relieved from her charge of Lord
St. Asaph by the arrival of Lady Mary,
who would have come long before but
for Rhoos's ingenuity. He knew that
Ardgwen could not hold her and Cassandra
at the same time, and he was
determined that Cassandra should not
be ousted. Accordingly he persuaded
his sister that her presence in London
was indispensable so long as Laura's
state continued critical. Their mother,
who had been indefatigable in nursing,
to an extent that was telling on her
own strength, might knock up at any
moment, Sarah was wanted at Llanoun,
and Rachel, though she had stayed in
London expressly on Laura's account,
allowing her husband to drink the waters

of Vichy in solitude, was too nighty to
be depended upon in case of emergency.

Lady Mary was open to flattery that
addressed itself to her superior sense,
and she forbore from disturbing Cassandra
by personal invasion of the castle.
She contented herself with writing her
long letters of instruction in the art of
entertaining her charge, which Cassandra
answered as shortly as she could, and
practically disregarded.

Cassandra was reluctant to leave Lord
St. Asaph to the tender mercies of his
daughter, but she recognised the necessity
of being gone before Laura came,
and she was grateful to Ehoos for the
considerate care with which he had provided
for the contingency.

On leaving the castle she spent a few
days at the rectory, and then returned to
Wimpole Street to resume her lectures
to young girls, and prepare for a course

of dramatic readings to be given in the
winter season, for she was fully resolved
to go on with the life of independence
she had planned.

1 So but thou strive, thou soon shalt see
Defeat itself is victory. '

With the return of spring Laura
was pronounced fairly recovered,
and Lord and Lady St. Asaph
had to resign themselves to letting her
go back to London. Maurice was impatient
to take her home, and she was
eager to go, though as the time of departure
drew near she felt more sad than
glad.

She was loth to leave Ardgwen and all
the home tenderness that it held for her ;
she wondered sometimes whether she
had not been to blame in leaving parents

who wanted her so much, and whether
perhaps the sorrows of the past year had
not come in punishment of her selfishness.
But such considerations she knew were
useless. Her duty was now toward her
husband, as also her strongest affection.
She had no doubt of that and no wish
that it were otherwise, only she grieved,
as we all do sometimes, that the dispensation
that was happiest for herself
had its drawback on the side of
others.

The months of her convalescence had
been for her a sweet and solemn holiday-time,
in which, by dint of passive brooding
rather than active reasoning, she had
arrived at truer conceptions of her married
life than she had been able to shape for
herself before. She could see now clearly
that of those sins of omission which had
undermined her reverence for her husband
she was herself directly or indirectly the

cause. In serving Mammon rather than
God he was sacrificing to the prejudices
of her friends, and while she kept silence
he might naturally believe that the
sacrifice was acceptable to her. If he
had been weak in this matter it was with
a weakness born of his love for her. And
his relations with Cassandra  the other
rock on which her happiness had risked
wrecking  she had learned also to regard
in a truer light. The promised explanation
had never yet been made, and she
was content to forego it altogether. All
that she cared to know was that her
husband still loved her tenderly and
loyally, and of this she had assurance
stronger than any that mere words could
give.

She might still doubt of many things,
but she had no doubt left as to her husband's
love. She rather doubted whether
there were any purposes or principles in

life the neglect or pursuit of which could
fairly be weighed against the possession
of his love. It seemed to her that henceforth
it would suffice her, and that she
would not again be tempted to repine
because her sphere of usefulness was
smaller than she had thought to find it.
It would console her for the disappointment
of the hope she had nursed through
the last summer. It w T ould be enough
for her even if that hope were never to
be revived.

She did not want any explanation
about Cassandra, but she longed daily
for a reconciliation with her. All bitter
thoughts of her had passed away  in
her own contentment, they turned to pity
for her who never could be so content.
For gradually the story of Cassandra's love
and hope and disappointment had become
clear to her ; all the confused indications
of the past, Cassandra's dark hints, her

own complicated misconceptions, chance
words and looks of others, and all the
incidents of the summer, had fallen into
their right places, so that she could read
them in connected narrative. She understood,
and pitied, and forgave, and
resolved that almost the first thing she
would do on returning to London would
be to seek her cousin and be reconciled
with her. In the meanwhile she had
no difficulty in keeping herself informed
as to her doings, for they were much
talked of both at the rectory and castle ;
and, at first, with strong disapprobation
from every one except Lord St. Asaph,
whose old predilection for Cassandra had
been much strengthened by the sweetness
with which she had borne with him during
her six weeks' charge. He never failed
to take her part when things were said
or looked against her, and so by degrees
Lady St. Asaph ceased to frown at mention

of her name, and Lady Mary learned
to be silent. Then, by-and-by, came reports
of her brilliant successes. She
was the star of the winter season,
and  nothing succeeding like success
opinion began to veer round in her
favour. Her father, who had been bitter
against her plan of an independent life
supported by class-teaching, grew proud
of her as she rose in favour with the
fashionable world. He took to himself
the credit of her gifts, and was gracious
when people congratulated him on her
triumphs.

Anna alone was consistent in disapproving.
She could not understand, she said,
why it was more noble and philanthropic
to make money by being the fashion in
London than to stay quietly among one's
own people and do the duty that
belonged to one. She made the observation
one day to Laura, but Laura did

not answer. It was in her mind that
Cassandra did not probably derive much
enjoyment from her success.

Though Laura was well-informed as to
Cassandra's movements, Cassandra was
in ignorance of Laura's, for the family
at the rectory were bad correspondents.
Mrs. Wynne's fluency of talk deserted
her the moment she took pen in hand,
and her letters were affectionate and
frequent without giving much information.
Mr. Prynne prided himself
on being too busy a man to write
on any but business occasions. And
Anna, though she conscientiously sent
her sister a fortnightly budget, had a
knack of omitting to mention the things
Cassandra was dying to hear. Once,
four weeks passed without a word being
said about Laura's health, though the
last news of her had been that the east
winds of the early spring had occasioned

a relapse into weakness. Cassandra
wrote repeatedly, ' How is Laura ? ' and
when at last the question was answered
it was with apparent unconsciousness
that there had been long silence as to
the special cause of anxiety. Intelligence
came more regularly for a time, then
it stopped again and Cassandra grew
uneasy. She could not bring herself
to press her sister any more ; it was
too obvious that her neglect was intentional.


She knew moreover that there was a
stern righteousness about Anna which
would have made her write in spite of
herself had there been anything of vital
importance to tell, and she tried to persuade
herself that no news was good
news and that her anxiety was groundless.
But she could not reason away her
uneasiness, and at last, one evening, she
made up her mind to go to Chester

Place and inquire at the house. She was
surprised, on approaching it, to see open
shutters and other signs of occupation.
Evidently they had returned to London,
and it would not do for her to call, as
Laura might misunderstand her purpose.

She was turning away, when a carriage
stopped at the door and a lady handed
out cards to a maidservant whom Cassandra
quickly perceived to be a stranger.
It struck her that this being the case she
might call without being recognised, and
before the girl had time to leave the door
she came up and made her inquiries.

1 Has Lady Laura Heme come back to
town ? '

Yes, ma'am, she returned last Friday
week.'

< Is she better ? '

1 Yes, ma'am, thank you. Her ladyship
is doing nicely now. She generally
sees people in the afternoon, but to-day

she is lying down and I was to say she
could not see visitors.'

I did not expect to see her,' said
Cassandra ; and she lingered a moment on
the doorstep in vague desire to get some
information, hut unable to think of questions
that might elicit it.

Would you like to leave a message,
ma'am ? '

No, thank you ; I had nothing special
to say. I am glad Lady Laura is better.
Good afternoon.'

And Cassandra went away leaving the
new maid rasher puzzled as to the strange
lady who would leave neither card nor
message, who did not expect to see anybody,
and yet seemed so disinclined
to go.

The door of Laura's bedroom was ajar,
and as she lay on her sofa in a luxurious
dreamland, half-way between sleeping
and waking, she overheard the dialogue

that was passing at the door, and recognised
Cassandra's voice.

She rose from the sofa and rang the
bell.

The maid brought with her the cards
of the lady who had called at the same
moment with Cassandra.

Laura glanced at them.

Had any one else been ? '

The maid described Cassandra's visit
of inquiry.

1 1 know who it was,' said Laura. ' I
would have seen her, but you could not
guess it. Will you send for a cab forme
at once ? I must go out this afternoon.'


Laura began to dress herself while she
spoke, and the maid wondered what had
possessed her mistress. She had complained
of languor half-an-hour ago, and
had said she must not be disturbed all
the afternoon. But there was no languor

vol. in. 16

about her now : there was a flush on her
cheek and a clear light in her eye, and
all her movements were prompt and
energetic. She was in the hall, bonneted
and cloaked, before the cab was at the
door. She was so impatient to be gone
that she forgot to leave word when she
was likely to come in, and she had to
turn back from the end of the street to
say that she might perhaps be late, but
that it would be of no consequence, as her
husband was not coming in to dinner.

Cassandra had not returned to Simple
Street by the time Laura got there,
and the servant of the house could not
say how long she might stay out. Laura
said she would wait for her, and she was
shown into the sitting-room.

She took off her cloak and bonnet and
sat down to wait. She had come to take
up their friendship on its old terms, and
Cassandra should find her waiting in the

LADY LAURA. 243

old intimate way in which she had often
waited in her bedroom at Nant-y-Gwyn.

She pictured to herself Cassandra's
return, the surprise with which she would
discover her, the mutual joy with which
they would rush together. She saw the
breach quite healed, life blamelessly happy
again.

She was so impatient for Cassandra's
return that she could not sit still-she
wandered about the room, looking at
the books and papers, and putting things
straight. The ordering of detail was not
among Cassandra's gifts, and her room
looked less comfortable than it used to do
in the days when Laura was frequently
in and out of it. Laura thought she
must take it in hand again.

In the course of her tidying she came
upon the little book Cassandra had once
lent her. She stood still before it in
sudden awe.

It seemed to her the symbol of Cassandra's
pain. She remembered the letter
with which she had sent it back, and
thought how cruelly its easy gladness
must have wounded her to whom it came
as the knell of gladness. She took it
reverently in her hand and opened it.

The green stains were still on the fly-leaf,
but the inscription they had blurred
was carefully erased. Laura remembered
that it had been the passage from Faust
in which Cassandra had triumphed in
her reading,  the aspiration to sound the
heights and depths of life, and exhaust
the experience of humanity. Below
it  instead of it  was written another
motto, also from Goethe. Prose, in place
of poetry : 

1 If now during our own lifetime toe
see that performed by others to which
we ourselves felt an earlier call, bat had
been obliged to give up ; then the beautiful

feeling enters the mind that only
mankind together is the true man, and
that the individual can only be joyous
and happy ivhen he has the courage to
feel himself in the whole?

Laura laid the book down with a sense
of having been rebuked. She had assumed
too lightly that she could make
all things straight again. Personal
happiness was assured to herself. But
for Cassandra all that was possible was
to learn to live without it.

The door opened and Cassandra stood
before her.

They did not rush to one another as
Laura had thought they would. Cassandra
drew a step back and stood silent.
Laura came timidly forward and said, 

1 have come to see you, Cassie. I
want you.'

Cassandra kissed her coldly and asked
her to sit down.

She had been thinking of Laura, night
and day, with shame and yearning love ;
she had longed to throw herself at her
feet and ask her forgiveness. But now
that Laura stood bodily before her, the
springs of her repentance seemed dried
up. She felt herself the victim of an
imposture. The Laura towards whom
she had repented was the Laura of the
haggard eyes and wounded heart,  the
wife she had supplanted, the mother she
had robbed of a desired child, the
suffering woman whose pain she had
occasioned.

But of all this there was no trace in
Laura as she stood now in her presence.
She looked well and happy, better than
Cassandra had ever seen her look before.
For excitement gave colour and animation
to her appearance, and her pretty
summer dress set off her beauty in
bright contrast to the dingy lodging-room.

She looked so bright and radiant
that it seemed to Cassandra that she had
come to triumph over her, and that when
she said, ' I want you,' she meant, ' I
want you to come back and look on at my
triumph; ' and her heart hardened against
her. Laura was happy : there was no
longer need to think of her with penitence.
She was good, and the wrong done could
not hurt her. It was she, Cassandra, who
had to bear the suffering as she must
bear the blame. She would bear it then,
but she would not show weakness in the
presence of those who had nothing to
bear.

Laura repented that she had come.
But she had not presence of mind to goat
once. She sat down as she was
bidden, and tried to talk of nothings.
She asked about Cassandra's doings, and
Cassandra answered that she was very
busy. Besides the classes she had undertaken

last year, she was now giving
private lessons, and she had a great many
engagements for evening readings. She
talked like a successful woman who had
nothing left to desire, and Laura was
taken in.

After a few minutes of such talk she
rose to go, and Cassandra did not gainsay
her. She helped her to dress and wished
her good-bye as coldly as she had received
her. Laura had difficulty in repressing
her tears as she went to the door.

But before she had passed the threshold,
she heard Cassandra say, ' Laura ! '
and she turned back.

Cassandra was sitting by the table
with her head bowed down, and her
face buried in her hands. She did not
look up as Laura turned, and Laura
thought she must have been mistaken in
fancying herself recalled, and moved once
more towards the doo:.

Laura, do not go,' said Cassandra,
and she looked up beseechingly.

Laura came back to the table.

I will stay if you wish it. I thought
you did not want me. You '

I know, but stay. I had so much to
say to you, but when you came, I . . . .
Oh, Laura, forgive me ! '

Laura put her arms round Cassandra's
neck and kissed her.

Laura,' Cassandra said presently, 'I
have been wanting to see you, hoping
every day that you would come, for I
knew that it was like you to come. I
wanted to ask your forgiveness  to tell
you everything. But when you came, a
demon seemed to possess me, and I could
not speak.'

Tiitr. is no need to speak,' said Laura.

1 You have forgiven me,' continued
Cassandra. ' I know that, or you would
not have come.'

Laura answered with a silent caress.

Cassandra went on, 

I did wrong and I brought sorrow
upon you. But your sorrow has passed,
and joy and peace have come back to
you. With me it is different ; peace can
never come back to me.'

1 Hush, dearest. Do not say that ; it
will come back. You meant no wrong.
Peace will come back to you.'

Cassandra shook her head.

No, the world is ordered otherwise.
Peace is for those who have never done
wrong  never even known it. My peace
died long ago when I was almost a child,
and if I wanted to make excuses it is
that that I should plead. My peace was
taken away, and I had to live without it.'

But it will come back,' Laura repeated.


Never,' said Cassandra. ' Shall I tell
you what my life has been lately ? I nave

gone on with my work, because they told
me it was right to do so  and I have
been successful. People have paid me
compliments, and I have enjoyed them
for a few hours and then come home hereto
despair and misery.  Is that peace ? '

Laura did not answer. She was taking
to heart the hardest lesson of life, that
there are griefs past cure, lives broken
beyond our mending.

'You see there is no peace for me.
All that is left to me now is repentance
and work. But I do not mean to go on
with this life I am leading now. It has
become hateful to me. People look
askance at me as a woman and run after
me as a lion. I have made up my mind
that it shall end with this season. I
have told PJioos so ; it was he who said
I must not stop at once.'

And what will you do instead ? '
Laura asked.

1 To begin with, I mean to be a hospital
nurse. 1

Laura felt inclined to cry. That the
brilliant Cassandra should end by being a
hospital nurse seemed the most impotent
of all conclusions.

1 But is not that a very hard and dreary
life ? Surely you might do something
else. With your talents, Cassandra. . . ?'

My talents have not brought me
much happiness,' Cassandra answered
sadly. 'I am beginning to lose faith
in them. I want work of which I can
never doubt the usefulness, and the
life I choose now will give me that.
Besides I am fond of nursing. The
happiest hours of my life have been
those in which I was doing work of the
kind I am thinking of falling back upon
now.'

But then you had other things to fill
up your life. As a hospital nurse you

will have nothing but nursing, and you
will not even be your own mistress.'

I am tired of being my own mistress,'
said Cassandra drearily.

Laura said no more.

Presently Cassandra spoke again : 

1 1 once thought I might do something,
but I had not courage, and I was not
honest, and I waited, always thinking
that something might happen to take me
away into a more congenial world where
I could be straightforward and simple.
But it does not do to pin one's hope
on things outside oneself. I always
knew it. I remember used to be fond
of saying so. That is the thing that
puzzles me most in all this. I have done
everything contrary to my principles  to
my nature almost. But it is over now.
Only, Laura, there was one thing
more that I wanted to say to you. You
see I am like a person who is dying. You

must let me talk on, because I am going
out of the world and shall not have
another chance. I wanted to say to you
that, though I have brought you so much
trouble, I loved you all the time. It
happened partly because I could not give
you up  at least I think so. Yes, I
always loved you, and you used to love
me, I think.'

Why do you say used, Cassie ?
Should I be here now if I did not love
you still ? '

You love me  yes  but it is a different
kind of love from what you used to feel
for me. You cannot help it, but it is
different. You pity me now, you used
to look up to me,  at least I thought
so, but perhaps that was a delusion like
everything else.'

1 Cassandra,' said Laura, ' you must not
talk like this, I did look up to you,
and I do still. I owe you all that is best

in myself. I owe you what I can never
pay. Why will you talk to me as if I
were a child and could not understand
your wretchedness ? I think I know just
how it was with you. You were alone
and you felt too weak to do all you
had dreamed of doing, and you thought
help was coming, and then it failed you
and you despaired.'

I Laura,' said Cassandra, ' you do not
know how I bless you.'

'And you do not know how I love
you,' said Laura. ' You must not doubt
it again. You must come and see me
soon  often.'

Cassandra smiled sadly at the innocent
suggestion. Not all the wisdom of life
is revealed to the babes and sucklings
there are some points in which the
world-experienced can instruct them still.

I I shall never come to you any more,'
she said.

Laura felt that her decision was final,
and they were both silent for a time,
during which Cassandra walked impatiently
up and down the room, while
Laura sat still, wondering at the strange
series of events that had brought their
friendship to this end.

Suddenly Cassandra stood still, and
began to speak in a different tone from
that in which she had talked of herself
and begged forgiveness. Her voice was
low, but there was a tone of authority
in it, and there was a look like inspiration
in her eyes.

1 Laura,' she said; 'I have hidden
nothing from you. I have confessed to
you that I am utterly wretched  painful
as it must be to you to know it. I have
told it to you because you are the only
person to whom I can speak and be understood,
and because in my wretchedness I
have grown so selfish that I must wring

a little comfort for myself even at the
cost of another's pain. And I do not
repent of having spoken. Your joy has
been bought at the cost of my misery.
My misery has overflowed into your life
and embittered it with what may be a
lasting pain. You know it and you have
forgiven me. You have accepted the pain
as your share  a sister's share  in my
lot. You do not wish to go free from
sorrow while others are weighed down by
it. You would not, if you could, blot out
of your memory what has passed between
us to-day. You would not go home deluded
with the thought that by a few
kind words given out of the abundance
of your blessedness you had made me
happy when in truth I am not happy.
Tell me that you would not.'

There was a fierce solemnity in her
voice which Laura caught in her reply. 

I swear to you that I would not.'

VOL. III. 17

'I believe you,' said Cassandra, 'I
do believe you. I feel sure that you will
never be content in a fool's paradise of
personal happiness, that you will never
harbour the hateful lie that all is well with
the world because all is well with you.
"When your own cup of happiness is fullest
you will remember that every drop of it
has been refined in the heart's agony of
another. You will take every joy that
comes to you as a new debt to your
fellow-creatures. You do feel this,
Laura ? '

1 I do. I have felt it vaguely for a longtime.
I feel it now as a law I must obey.'

'Yes, that is right; it is a law and
you must obey it.  Oh, Laura, you have
spoken of my talents. Let me speak of
them for a moment now that all temptation
to glory in them is gone for ever.
I never undervalued myself,  none but a
fool does that. I knew that I was beautiful

and had genius, that I could sing as
few artists can, that I could speak so as
to move people, that I could think like a
man and feel like a woman. I knew that
I had great gifts, and I gloried in them 
I dreamed that I could do much with
them, and that in using them I could
find all I wanted in life. I thought I
could do without happiness and be content
in making others happy. But I
could not.'

Here her voice sank to a whisper.
She laid her hand on Laura's hand, and
Laura felt the touch thrill her as though
some power independent of words was
being brought to bear upon her.

Laura,' she went on, i that is the
thing I most wanted to say to you.
People can't do without happiness. To
be unhappy is to be maimed, diseased,
stunted,  to have one's heart soured,
one's judgment perverted, one's whole

life turned into temptation. People
must be happy. And it is your duty
to make them so ; for you are happy.
Yes, you are very happy. The best
happiness is yours  such as alone makes
men and women whole and sound and
able to help others in the highest. This
happiness is yours  is it not ? '

I think so  I believe so.'

'I Jcnozv it is so. And it is a gift
beyond all others. You spoke of my
gifts, Laura. They are nothing by the
side of yours. Mine are the gifts that
make it possible to serve ; yours is the
gift of royalty that lifts you above the
wants and the dependence of the many
and enables you to bless and save as a
god.'

'But, Cassandra, it is not true  it
cannot be true, that only the happy can
help others and make them happy. You
helped me ! '

I helped you  yes. But it was not
I who made you happy. I helped
Maurice, but it was not I who made
him happy.'

Laura was silent.
Cassandra went on, 

You cannot contradict me. You
know that I am right

'You frighten me. What you say is
terrible. It is despair for all but a very
few.'

'It must not be so much longer,' said
Cassandra. ' But it will be so for ever
if people shrink from facing the truth.
You asked me once to tell you about
my faith, and I avoided your questions.
I might have told you much
about systems of philosophy  about organisation
of society  about science and
art and industry. But I would not.
These things are necessary and, in their
measure, good. But they are imperfect

and transient. They pass away or
change. They can never fill our hearts
or be to us instead of God. They are
not a faith  they cannot be built up
into a religion. But there is a religion
for us as well as for our fathers,  a
Religion of Humanity that will use and
control these things in the future, as the
Religion of God used and controlled them
in the past. It is much simpler than
any system, and at the same time
much harder, for like the religions of
the past it is made up of devotion and
self-sacrifice  of prayer and dependence
on the one side, of mercy and help on
the other. We have dared to say that
man must no longer look to God for
help. We must not stop there. We
must go on to say  All that man
once asked of God, he must ask henceforth
of his fellow ; all that man believed
God to be in the past, he must himself

be in the future. That is the new
covenant. We must be gods on earth,
or we shall be eternally condemned for
having hinted that there is no God in
heaven.'

But we are so weak. It sounds like
blasphemy to talk of being gods.'

We are weak for ourselves, but we
may be strong for others if we have
courage to be true and open. Oh, Laura,
the law that runs through our lives is
greater than ourselves, and our part is
but to make it more clear to others by our
faithful recognition of it. This we can
do, whether we succeed or fail.' She
paused a moment and then began again,
'7 have failed. I thought to do much.
I was ambitious. I dreamed that a day
would come when I should move the
world widely. But I was not happy. I
was alone, and a woman can do nothing
alone. You know how my hopes are

wrecked and how ray life breaks off herein
blank failure. '

'No,' cried Laura, 'I know nothing of
the kind. You are still young and all
your gifts remain to you.'

Cassandra waved her hand impatiently.

Do not torture me with suggesting
what is impossible. I know that I am
still young in one sense. I have probably
forty years or more left to live, and
there is abundant power of work in me.
But I have lost faith in myself ; and without
that, one cannot do the best work.
I have fallen very low in my own eyes,
and all the strength that is left to me I
shall need to lift myself up again. I
have none with which to help others.
All I have to give is my failure and my
misery, and these I give to you that
they may be a perpetual reminder to you
of the failures and the miseries of all
the world. You have taken my treasure

you must take my debts with it and
pay them faithfully all your days.'

1 Cassandra,' said Laura in a low terrified
voice,  what can I do ? You say a
woman who is alone can do nothing ; a
married woman can do less. She is
bound to another, she has no will left.'

'It is not true,' said Cassandra, 'not
true in your case. You have influence
over Maurice, but you have not courage
to use it. He worshipped you when
he married you. He loves you now.
You will be to blame if you do not
use his love to benefit the world. Tell
him your heart as you have often told it
to me. Let him know that your faith is
your life as his faith once was his life,
and you will not find him wanting. Oh,
Laura, forgive me, but it was your own
fault in part that things went wrong.
He did not like to take you too literally
at your word and make you sacrifice

everything to his gods ; you never told
him that they had become your gods too.'

I have told him now,' said Laura.

'Yes, and you are one again.'

But we are no nearer devotion than
we were before.'

You do not know,' answered Cassandra,
with a characteristic transition
from enthusiasm to common-sense. 'You
are only just out of bed. A man cannot
be blamed for not revolutionising his
whole life while his wife is lying at the
point of death. Go on being frank ; tell
Maurice to-night all that I have said to
you.'

Laura looked doubtful.

Yes, tell him,' repeated Cassandra.
You need not fear me. I am a spent
ball that has grazed your life in passing
and now lies dead and harmless. You
need not fear me.'

Cassandra turned away and walked towards

the window. She stood looking
out upon the street, dreamy and silent.

Laura felt that she was waiting for
her to speak, that she expected her to
give some pledge of sincerity and earnestness,
some promise of devotion in
the future. But she knew not what to
promise. Since her illness she had
ceased to trouble herself about the problems
that had so painfully occupied
her before. Her diminished strength
seemed, for the present at any rate, to
have settled the question of whether
she should embark upon any work
of outside usefulness. Whatever might
have been her duty before, it was
clear that now she was not fit to
undertake work, and that her home life
was more than enough for her. And,
without quite acknowledging it to herself,
she rejoiced in this solution by
circumstance of the difficulty she had

been unable to solve for herself. She
felt that a burden had been lifted from
her life, and she shrank from any suggestion
that she ought to take it up again.

It seemed to her that this was what
Cassandra was asking her to do, and
she would not answer all at once.

After a pause, she said, 

What is it that you think I ought
to do ? You speak as if you knew what
was the best work, as if you had made
up your mind and everything was clear
to you. But I cannot make up my i
mind as to what is right. And the
more I think of these things, the more
puzzled I grow. Do not despise me,
but I grow so puzzled and so tired that
I sometimes think it is better not to
think at all, but just to take life as it
comes, and live from day to day. But
I daresay I am wrong. Tell me what
you think one ought to doc

What one ought to do ? ' echoed
Cassandra wearily, and without turning
from the window. ' What one ought
to do ? How can I say ? It is impossible
to chalk out a life for another,
almost impossible for oneself. I once
believed in there being a special work
calling to each one of us. But now I
doubt it, except for the very few.'

And for the few, what is the best
work for them ? '

The work their inspiration calls them
to. There is no one work that is best
for all, of that I am very sure. But I
am sure also, at least I think I am,
that if any of us feel a special work
calling to us again and again, so that,
though we may turn from it time aftertime,
we cannot find rest outside it orbe
happy while it is undone  I think
then there can be no doubt that that
is the work to which we ought to give

ourselves. Such haunting seems to mean
inspiration as true as that which
drives the painter to paint or the poet
to sing. I think that to doubt it is
faithlessness, to accept any other life is
failure. Does it not seem so to you ? '

While you say it, it does, but not at
other times.'

Laura waited a moment, and then, with
a great effort, went on.

Cassandra,' she said, 1 1 cannot help
it. I am not as great as you think I
am. I have no inspiration. No great
work calls me. I once thought it did,
but I know now that I was mistaken.
I am not great, I can do nothing. If
I promised, I should disappoint you.
Let me go, or I shall promise and be
unfaithful after all. Cassandra, I must
go. I am not what you think I am.
Let me say good-bye and go.'

Cassandra started and took Laura's

hands, which were stretched out in farewell.


Forgive me,' she said; 'I was not
thinking of yon, but of myself. It is
to me that I think a special work calls.
It is I who must devote myself as I
have always dreamed of doing, or accept
failure for my whole life. I was thinking
of myself, not of you. For you, I
think you are right  no special work
calls you.'

I am not great enough for it,' said
Laura humbly. ' I must be happy. I
am selfish : I know it. And weak : I
cannot help it. Let me go, Cassandra,
I cannot bear that you should despise
me.'

But Cassandra did not let her go.
She held her hands, and looked into her
eyes wistfully and appealingly.

There is no fear of my despising you,'
she said. l You misunderstand me. You

think I want yon to do some great special
work, and that you are not great enough
for it ; whereas special work is just
what I think you are not called upon
to do. Not because it is too great for
you, or you are too little for it, but
because for you a normal life is possible,
and a normal life is always best. There
is nothing unusual in your character,
or your circumstances, no extraordinary
endowment or maiming defect, such as
throws people out of the usual beats
of life. You have been happy all your
life, with the exception of this one year,
happy in your own character, in your
affections, in your circumstances. And
you are going to be happy again. '

And being happy, you said I could
help most. How ? '

In this way. All are not equally
happy ; all cannot be equally happy.
But there is a sort of communism possible

in happiness. The unhappy have
a claim upon the happy ; the happy
have a debt towards the unhappy.'

'But how can one share one's happiness
with others ? It seems to me impossible.
It is what I have most wished
to do, but I see no way in which it
can be done. 7

'In one sense certainly you cannot
share your happiness, and you cannot
give it away. It is essentially your own,
a development of your being, a part of
yourself that you may not alienate. To
give it up would be a barren sacrifice,
a mistake of fanaticism that would better
no one. And yet there have been those
who, feeling strongly the inequalities of
life, have been driven by an enthusiasm
of sympathy to renounce the happiness
they could not share with their fellows.'

I have sometimes thought they were
right.'

VOL. III. 18

'I know. It is a phase one passes
through. But it is a mistake, and one
you are not likely to fall into again.
You are more likely to fall into the
opposite error, more likely to end as
many who began as you began, with
quick sympathies and a passionate desire
to help, have ended. You are more
likely to be tempted by-and-by to think
that after all there is not so much
misery in the world as you once thought
there was, or that people might all be
happy if they would  to believe in what
people call a law of compensation by
which things are made even all round.
It would be a very comfortable law to
believe in, but unfortunately it is one
that does not exist. People invent it
to justify themselves in being selfishly
content when they have got all they
want for themselves. And this is what
you must never do. You must regard

your happiness as a trust for others,
which you cannot alienate and may not
dishonour. You must keep your happiness
pure, because only thus can it bean
ideal helpful to others, only thus
can it rouse sympathy in those who are
striving to realise an ideal for themselves.
The moment you allow it to be
corrupted by selfishness or worldliness,
it will cease to be ideal, and instead of
sympathy it will provoke envy, and so
add bitterness to the lot of those who
are less favoured. Oh, do you not see
what a mockery it is for those who are
striving to be pure and unworldly in the
midst of privations and disappointments
when those who are happy use their
happiness for base and worldly ends 
how paralysing it is to those who are
labouring to help others to better ideals,
when those who have the ideal in their
grasp degrade it or deny it ? Do you

not understand how it tempts to scepticism
and despair, and how the opposite
helps and inspires ? '

1 1 do,' said Laura in a whisper.
'And now you understand what I
mean when I say that you have a great
trust to which you must be faithful.
Oh, Laura, there was a day lately while
I was at the castle, when your father
took me into the library and made me
look at the picture that we all think
like you. It was at the time when you
were most ill and we thought you would
not recover. He held a candle up to
the face in the canvas and made me
notice how like you it was, in look and
expression, and then he told me the story
of his finding it hidden away in disgrace,
and of his bringing it out and hanging
it among the modern portraits. He
said this was at the time of your birth,
and then he talked of you as his favourite

child. Then he went back to the girl
in the picture, and said she had died
young. And I knew he was thinking
that you would be like her in your fate
as you were like her in look. And I
felt it too, though I tried to turn from
the thought. And I looked away at
the other pictures in the room  at your
mother's portrait and your father's.
And I thought of all the promise of their
youth and of the little that had come of
it. And I thought of my own girlhood
and of my powers, and of Maurice and of
our old friendship, and of you, and how
I had helped you as a girl, and how we
had loved one another. It seemed tome
that everything had been wasted,
and that the end of all our loving and
aspiring was to be failure and disappointment
; and I said to myself that it was
always so  that disappointment was
everywhere, and that to purpose greatly

was but to prepare the greater failure.
And then you got better, and by-and-by
I knew that you were quite happy, and
then I believed again. I said to myself
that one happy life atones for many that
are disappointed,  nay, that it is the law
of life that many strive and suffer and
fail, in working out the happiness of a
few, and I thought I could be content
in thinking of you as one of the few
who are chosen for blessing. I thought
I could be content even if I never saw
you again and never had assurance of
your forgiveness. I thought I could,
but I could not. I have told you how
wretched I have been. Formerly, I
remember, I used to cling to life in spite
of sorrow, but lately I have longed for
death. I was ill, and once I thought
I should die. And then it came over me
that I could not die without first seeing
you. It seemed to me that I had a right

to claim from you the sympathy and forgiveness
that I knew I should have
given if I had been in your place and
you in mine. I wrote to you '

1 I never had your letter.'

1 I did not send it, and I am glad I
did not. You have come without my
summons, and so I know that you are
here because you too feel the law of
love, and are not afraid to trust it.
Your coming is like a promise to me.
It tells me that you will be faithful in
your happiness to all that you learned
when you were unhappy, that you
believe in the covenant of human sympathy
which will be the consolation of
the generations of the future.'

Her voice had grown hoarse with much
speaking. She paused a moment to recover
it, and then said solemnly, 

1 Tell me that I am not wrong. Promise
me that you and Maurice will be faithful.'

1 Yes, yes, we will be faithful said
Laura in a whisper.

1 And you will be happy. Laura, you
must be happy, or I shall feel that I have
suffered in vain and that my life is
wholly wasted.'

She ceased speaking, and there was
silence in the room.

A great awe was upon them both, and
the deepening twilight intensified the
vision Cassandra's eloquence had called
up.

In the small, dim room there was nothing
to remind them of the judgments
of the world, and the street sounds,
coming up in an inarticulate rumble,
seemed rather a monotonous accompaniment
to thought than an interrupting
voice. It was one of those rare moments
of existence when the clamour of temporal
things is silenced and the voice of the
spirit becomes intense like the whisper

of rustling leaves to the lonely ear that
listens in the forest. For Cassandra it
was a moment reaching far back into
happier years, rich with kindred enthusiasm,
of which the memory came to
her like a draught of renewed life. She
felt strong once more, she believed in
herself, she did not doubt any longer
that she would be true to the end 
steadfast in renunciation  unremitting in
atonement.

For Laura it was a moment reaching
forward into years of fruitful work  into
ages, remote, unthinkable, that should
be bettered by the faithful service of
lives now dedicated. She saw as ina
vision the generations of the future
submitting their lives in reasonable
obedience to the immutable laws that
make right right, and wrong wrong 
trusting the impulse of affection and
sacrificing self to the interest of others

finding gladness and peace in the fulfilment
of the new covenant of human
sympathy. The cynical might doubt of
joy, the selfish might scoff at love, but
she would never heed them. She would
believe the vision, she would trust its
teaching. She recalled the evening when
she knelt by her bedside and trembled
at the awful dignity involved in the
love that crowned and throned her. She
felt that that hour and this were linked
to one another as the first day and the
second of her life ; and she bowed down
her head and prayed that the days to
come might not fall below their level.

And then she went home and found
her husband watching for her on the
doorstep.

I have been with Cassandra,' she
said, and they went in together and she
told him what had passed.

I do not wish to be moved, but, growing where I was

growing,
There more truly to grow, to live where as yet I had
languished. '

pot many days after the interview
with Laura, Cassandra
received another visit. She
had come in from giving a lesson and
was sitting disconsolately in her room,
a prey to sad memories. She had tried
to read, but her mind refused to follow
the page, and she threw down the book
and gave herself up to brooding.

She was not sorry to have her thoughts
interrupted by the entrance of the maid
with a card, but she started on seeing
that it was Khoos's. His last letter had

been written from Vienna, and he had
said nothing of coming to England. She
wondered, too, why he had sent his card
before him instead of coming straight in
as was his wont. That he should do so
seemed to give a formal character to the
visit, which made her uneasy.

But, of course, she must see him. She
told the servant to bring him up, and
then, before he could come in, she surveyed
herself in the glass and made a
great effort to drive away from her face
all traces of weariness and depression,
for never in her life had the instinct to
show a brave front to the world been
stronger in her than at that moment.
Her effort was successful, and, when
her visitor entered, she looked bright
and strong as her old self, and her greeting
was given with a self-possessed
courtesy that suggested anything but
embarrassment.

1 It is very kind of you to come and
see me,' she said.

Khoos had not expected to find her
so calm, and his face betrayed surprise.
There had been indications, in her late
letters to him, of a disgust with her way
of life and an eagerness to break from
it which had made him uneasy on her
account. He had imagined her out of
hope, depressed, in danger of doing
foolish things ; and he had come over
with designs based on these imaginings.
He had thought, moreover, that she
would probably suspect his designs as
soon as she heard that he was there. But
her calm manner seemed inconsistent
with such suspicion. Before answering,
however, he looked at her again and
thought he detected a slight quiver of
the lips that belied the quiet of her
manner. Accordingly he refused to take
her greeting words as mere conventional

form, but treated them as a mistaken
statement which it was important to
contradict.

No,' he said, ' it is not kind of me to
come to see you. I have come on my
own business.'

Cassandra could play her part of unconcern
no longer. Ehoos's second glance
had found her out, and she was at the end
of her resources of dissimulation. She
waited in helpless silence for his next
word.

He seemed in no hurry to speak. He
established himself in his favourite position
on the hearth-rug, surveyed the room
critically, looked once more at Cassandra,
and at last after a pause of some minutes
said deliberately, 

1 Cassandra, do you remember a conversation
we had ten years ago in the
rectory garden when I asked you a
question and you gave me an answer ? '

Such questions and answers said
Cassandra, ' are not among the things
that people forget.'

6 No, they are not. I hear your answer
now as distinctly as I heard it then. It
was a very cruel answer, hard in substance
and scornful in tone,  such an
answer as a man certainly does not forget.'

Cassandra was silent. A scene from
the past had risen before her, a vision of
a glistening sun-bright hour at the end
of a day of continuous rain, when Ehoos
had come to look for her in the rectory
garden, and had found her working in a
bed of lilies ankle-deep in mud. He had
asked her to be his wife, and she had
told him scornfully that it could not be.

1 A man does not easily forget such
words,' Ehoos said again. ' You told
me that, if you married me, you would
despise yourself and despise me. You
taunted me with idleness and self-indulgence

and worldliness and a great many
other faults. That was a long time
ago.'

1 Ten years,' said Cassandra.

1 And in ten years people change.'

Not much.'

< They learn.'

1 Not much.'

I But still something. For instance, I
have learned that most of the things you
said were perfectly true and are true still.
Then you have learned something.'

I I have learned that I am incapable of
learning,' she said bitterly. ' I am no
better, no nobler, no wiser than I was at
twenty. And if I am changed at all,
it is in this, that every day my nature
grows more passionate and ungovernable.
I know I ought to be changed. I have
made a great mistake, and I ought to be
humble and to say that all my old way of
looking at things was wrong. But I cannot.

I am the same woman that I was
before. I shall never be different.'

Who wishes yon to be "a different
woman, Cassandra ? Not I surely. I
never heard that when Jacob had served
seven years for Kachel, he was glad to
be pnt off with Leah. I think he wanted
Kachel.' Ehoos was silent for a moment
; then he said, 

1 Cassandra, I have come to ask again the
same question that I asked ten years ago.
Have yon only the same answer for me ? '

1 The same in substance,' she said,
'but not the same in tone.'

You mean that you say now as then
that you cannot be my wife ? '

1 Yes, I say now as then that I cannot
love you as a wife should love her
husband.'

She spoke firmly though very gently, and
he felt a sentence in her words against
which there was no appeal. He had not

vol. in. 19

much hope of moving her, but he could
not give her up without another effort.

You are not scornful now. Will you
not tell me what it is that makes it
so impossible ? I have loved you constantly
all these years. I do not say
that I have never admired any other
woman or that my life has been blameless.
I do not pretend to any special heights
of virtue, but I do say that I have
never seen a woman whom I have
thought worthy to hold a candle to you,
and that if you send me away, Egmont's
wife will be the next Lady St. Asaph. I
shall never marry another woman. Is it
nothing to you, Cassandra, that a man
should care for you for ten years, and
come back to you '

She finished his sentence for him.

1 And come back to me when my folly
has humbled me to the dust ? No, it is
not nothing to me  it is so much that I

should like to thank you for it on my
knees. But oh, Ehoos ! you have
been so good to me, and yet what you
ask is impossible. I cannot do it.'

He walked twice up and down the room,
then he said, 

Perhaps I have made a mistake  I
have come too soon. I should have
waited till you were happier, more yourself.
Will you forget that I have been
to-day and let me come again ? '

'It would be useless,' she said with
desperate determination. 'You say you
could not marry another woman ; judge
of me by yourself and forgive me. It
is not my fault or yours that I cannot
love you. It is our fate  my fate which
has decreed that for me to love or to
be loved shall be only an occasion of
misery to myself and others.'

I w T ill say no more,' he answered; and
for a few moments they were silent.

Then lie asked her what she was thinking
of doing.

'I mean to be a hospital nurse she
said.

They were the very same words in
which she had answered Laura when she
asked the same question. But she
uttered them less confidently this time.
She knew that to Khoos they would
sound like a declaration of madness, and
it is difficult to speak with confidence
when one knows one will be heard with
amazement.

He drew a long breath.

Good heavens, Cassandra ! Have you
taken anybody's advice in making this
decision ? '

i I have thought a great deal about it.
It is a useful life.'

Possibly, but not a life fit for you.
Have you formed any conception of the
dreariness of it ? '

1 It cannot be drearier than my present
life.'

That I believe, but I never expected
yon to go on long with your present life.
It was necessary for a time, but now
you might give it up without making a
sensation,  you might go home.'

Impossible ! I would go if I were
wanted, but I am not wanted. There
is no place for me at home. The life I
am choosing will suit me very well  fora
time at any rate.'

I do not believe it. You are making
a tremendous mistake. You were made
for society. You are social, emotional,
brilliant. You are not the sort of woman
who can turn herself into a machine and
live without affections.'

I hope not,' said Cassandra, smiling
for the first time during the interview.

Don't tell me you are going to have
affection for these hospital people,' he

said ; 1 1 don't believe in that sort of
thing.'

'Yes, you do,' said Cassandra. 'I have
learned that during my ten years.'

Hem . . . . Have you told your own
people of this plan ? '

I shall tell my mother as soon as it
is quite settled. In the meanwhile I
have told Laura.'

You have seen Laura then? '

She came two days ago. We are
friends.'

I am glad of that. Then I need not
bother you any more. I feared you might
be friendless, and I wanted to say that, if
ever there was anything I could do for
you, you were to send for me, and I would
come from anywhere. You know I never
have anything to do that is of the smallest
consequence to me or anybody else. And
when a woman takes her life into her
own hands, she does sometimes need a

man's help. You will be doing me a
kindness by letting me serve you, and
you need have no fear of my ever renewing
to-day's subject. Will you promise
that, if ever you need help that I can
give, you will ask me for it ? '

I promise thankfully,' she said with
a faltering voice and tears in her eyes.
And then she gave him her hand and
they parted.

As soon as she was alone Cassandra sank
upon her knees and, burying her face in her
hands, sobbed long and uncontrollably.

Many emotions were mingled in her
tears,  pity for the wound she had inflicted,
pity for herself that she had been
compelled to inflict it, and bitter passionate
regret for all the sweet and
pleasant things of life that had become
impossible to her. Shame and regret
and self-reproach,  vain yearnings after
the impossible, weak shrinking from the

inevitable. But no repentance from her
purpose ; for the past had taught her that
the same world could not hold her and
Laura's husband without danger to them
both, which she was resolved never to risk
again.

She knelt on, and by degrees she grew
more calm. All her life passed before
her in review. Her turbulent childhood,
her exiled girlhood, her starved womanhood.
Her isolation of soul, the hopeless
love to which she had passionately clung.
Her brief career in London, her temptation,
her struggle, her failure. She
reviewed it all calmly, and asked herself
where she had gone wrong, at what
point she had taken the false turn,
what moment and what act should bear
the burden of the blame. She reviewed
the whole dispassionately, and acquitted
and condemned the whole ;  acquitted
herself of wrong intentions, condemned

the faults that made her life a failure.
She looked her life frankly in the face
and said, ' I could not do other in the
past, but I will do other in the future.
I have striven and failed ; hut in striving
I have measured my strength, in failing
I have learned my weakness. I have
failed, but I have been sincere, and those
who know me best believe in me still
and trust me. Laura came back and
Ehoos came back. Oh, if lie would come
too ! Then I should know that, for
him too, the conflict was past and rest
assured. If he would but come ! '

She knelt on, and the wish grew every
moment more intense. If he would come,
peace and joy would return, for she would
know that in his life and Laura's she had
a place of sympathy and safety. She
might never see them again, but she
would be with them evermore in spirit.
She would have a right to think of

them and live towards them, and tins
and tins only she felt that it was possible
for her to live. If he would bnt come !
The wish grew to a prayer  she felt that
she must kneel on till it was granted.

She heard the door open behind her.
She turned towards it. He was there !
She rose and came towards him.

Maurice,' she said, 'did you know that
I was praying that you would come ? '

1 Then you are not angry with me for
being here ? '

She did not answer, but she looked up
and gave him both her hands, and her
eyes smiled.

'You have grown thin and pale,' he
said, ' and it is my fault. You are ill.'

'No, I am happy.' And she smiled
again.

You smile as I have fancied dead
people might smile,' he said.

I smile as people smile when they are

happy  when the bitterness of death is
past, and they meet their loved ones at
the judgment-seat, and are not ashamed.
Maurice ! '
1 Cassandra ! '

I What was it that you came to say ?
I want to hear it.'

I I came to ask your forgiveness  to say
again, what can never be said strongly
enough, that I have been weak and unworthy
 that I have made you suffer.'

Do not say it, dear.'

But it must be said, or how can I
take your forgiveness ? How can I ask
you to believe in me again some day ? '

1 I do believe in you. I have always
believed in you.'

I have not done much to deserve that
you should.'

'No, that is true,' she said. ' You
have done very little, almost nothing.
You see I do not natter you, I am nota

blind believer. I know that you have
done nothing, and I am not afraid to
say it.'

1 1 thank you for saying it. I have done
nothing, and I have made you suffer.'

'I did not say that.'

But it is true.'

1 You must not say it again. You have
come to help me. I want to tell you
about my plans and to know whether
you think them mad. Ehoos said they
were, and so did Laura almost. You
won't say so, will you ? '

You are going to be a hospital
nurse ? '

1 For a time.'

I And afterwards ? '

I I don't know. I don't think I am ina
fit state now to make plans for my
whole life. But I think after a year or
so in a hospital I shall be myself again,
and then But I am not going to

make plans for afterwards. Tell me that
it is not unreasonable to leave the future
to shape itself. You used to say so. Do
you still think it ? '

Cassandra, I did not come to advise
you. Of what use can my opinion be to
you ? I persuaded you once against your
judgment, and trouble came of it. Do
not tempt me to advise you again.'

But it is not advice I want, it is
confirmation, and no one can give me
that but you. Maurice, do you remember
how when first we knew one another
I used to try to make you more ambitious ?
I wanted you to do great things and
make yourself a name. Do you remember
how you used to make me angry by
saying that I worshipped nothing but success,
and I used to call you the apostle of
failure ? And once I challenged you to
paint a life without success that should
be deservedly called great, and you said,

11 To have an ideal that all the world
thinks mad except oneself, to pursue it
by paths that all the world thinks wrong
except oneself, to fail in reaching it
through some weakness of one's own
character, to fail ignominiously and publicly
and be hooted at by all the world, and
to believe in one's ideal more firmly after
failure than before." Do you remember ? '

1 1 do. And I remember that we never
argued about success and failure again.'

True, because you had convinced me.
I understood that you were only wanting
in ambition because your ideal was something
outside of yourself. And from that
day I believed in you. Tell me that you
still think as you thought then.'

I still think as I thought then, Cassandra.
But when one has made a great mistake
and brought trouble on others, it is not
the moment for speaking with confidence.'

 No ; but I have forced you to speak.

You see I have failed, and my ideal is
unchanged. When I come out of the
hospital I want to try to do all that I
dreamed of doing before. You will not
say that I am mad if I do ? '

Certainly not. To believe more firmly
after failure is great, not mad.'

Maurice, we have stumbled together.

We have failed together. We tried to do

what was beyond our strength. We were

wrong to fail, but we were right to try it.'

1 think we were.'

1 It is the same with regard to your
career. You have done nothing brilliant.
You are nowhere in the race. You have
not succeeded in making your life what
you meant it to be. So far you have
justified the world's judgment of you.
People will presume upon this. They
will pester you with advice. They will
say, with more confidence than ever, all
the things they said of you before. They

will urge you to change the whole manner
of your life. They will want you to give
up everything that interferes with getting
on in the world,  to drop philanthropies
that absorb time and money, to draw in
your sympathies and narrow your intellect,
 to grow hard and concentrated
and selfish. But they will be wrong.
Ambition can never be a stimulating
passion with you, for it is not in your
nature. You could only develop a narrow
greed that would cramp your energies and
paralyse your will more fatally even
than the hesitation of the past. Your
true inspiration lies in sympathy. Your
mistake has been that you have trusted
it, not too much, but too little. You
must not listen to the world, Maurice.
You will not, will you ? You will be
great and believe more firmly after
failure than before?  Do I seem to
you to be talking nonsense ? '

You are speaking the truth. You are
saying what I wanted to say myself, but
could not say for shame, for I am bankrupt
just now of self-respect, and I cannot
make promises and protestations. But
if there is any way in which I can serve
you in the future, any sacrifice that you
think I ought to make, ask it, and, as
my life answers, judge of the sincerity
of my purpose and of the purity of my
feeling towards you ! '

She did not reply, and he repeated, 

1 1 cannot make promises or protestations.
I am ashamed to make them.
But if you believe in me  and you say
you do  ask something  anything 
everything.'

Still she was silent.

Is there nothing then ? Nothing
great or small that I can do and feel
as I do it that I am serving you ? Is
there nothing, Cassandra ? '

vol. in. 20

There is everything,' she said. ' Oh,
Maurice  Maurice  Maurice  you have
told me to speak. If I speak wrongly you
must bear the blame. You have told me
to ask some one thing of you, and I can ask
nothing less than everything. My whole
life depends on yours, my soul lives by
yours. Nothing short of your whole life
can satisfy me. You tell me to command
you to do something, and I can only say,
Be faithful to yourself. Be what you are
to me in my thoughts day by day and
night by night. Be manly, simple, tender,
true, and kind. Be upright and faithful,
generous and brave. Be what you are
and what I love, and you will repay me a
thousandfold for all the pain . . .'

A sob broke her voice and she stopped
a moment to recover it. He took her
hand and drew her towards him, and
she crept close with the shivering movement
of a frightened child.

 You told me to speak,' she said, 'and
I spoke as I felt. I could do nothing
else* For, you see, it is the last time.
And yet I do not know that you have
understood me. And you must understand
me. I cannot live unless you
understand me, I cannot trust myself
otherwise. I look to you to save me.
You ivill save me, if you will let me say
one thing more before we part. Maurice,
may I say it, and, when I have said it,
will you say Amen, and kiss me, and
then go ? '

He drew her nearer and held her tenderly.
. ' Speak,' he said, ' and I will say
Amen. It is you who save me. Why
should you fear to speak ? '

She disengaged her hand from his, and
stood a little hack. ' I am very lonely,'
she said, and her voice was low and
tremulous. ' Life is difficult, and I am
all alone. I cannot find God anywhere

as our fathers and mothers found him.
I try to, but it is in vain. It is the same
with you. You feel as I do that there
is no Father of all to whom all can
pray . . . But I must believe in something
 I must pray to some one. And,
Maurice . . .' Here her voice faltered
so that she could not go on speaking,
but after a moment she began again
more firmly, 

It seems to me that though there
is no one God in heaven for all, there
is God somewhere for each one of us.
Somewhere, in some one soul, the highest
is revealed to each of us. And that soul
becomes to us a temple for evermore, a
shrine at which we kneel, a holy of holies
where we meet the Eternal face to face.
But the temple maybe defiled, the Eternal
may leave it, the shrine may be desolate,
and then it is death to the soul that
worshipped there. Maurice, you are my

temple, my shrine, my holy of holies.
Promise me that wherever and whenever
we meet, here on earth, or hereafter  if
there be a hereafter,  promise me that
when we meet and I look into your eyes,
I shall see the light burning within, and
know that the glory of God has not departed
from you. Promise me, Maurice ! '

She had gathered courage and conviction
as she spoke ; with every word her
voice had gained strength and energy,
and by the end of her appeal it had risen
to a tone of authority, so that the words
1 Promise me, Maurice 1' sounded more
like a command than an entreaty. But
as soon as she had spoken, her confidence
forsook her, and with a movement
of shame, she turned away and sobbed, 

Oh, what have I said ? Forgive
me I am mad.'

Then for one moment his arms were
round her, and she felt his kiss upon her

hair and on her brow. And she slid from
his embrace and sank upon the ground
and buried her face in her hands.

1 Oh, not for my sake only,' she said,
but for the sake of all who are desolate
and tempted, be pure and true and
strong ! Not for my sake, but for your
own for hers whom we have
wronged, Maurice, answer ! '

And he bent over her, and she heard
him say ' Amen.' And it seemed to her
that the blessing of peace had come to
her at last, and she whispered, 

1 Go now. It is over. You have
promised. You will be faithful to yourself,
and I shall not despair.'

Then she heard the door open and
close again, and she knew that she was
alone.

Hazel, Watson, and Vine, Printers, London and Aylesbury.

3 0112 041678100
