CHAPTER I.

ON Carnal PLAIN t

CHAPTER IL

SAINT CHRISTOPHER 11

CHAPTER in.

Antony Compare's QUIVER . . . 21

CHAPTER IV.

THE shepherds' HOLIDAY 27

CHAPTER V.

TWO LITTLE SHEPHERDS AND A SHEPHERDESS . 40

CHAPTER Vr.

FOSTER-BROTHERS 45

CHAPTER Vir.

KEEPING HIS EASTER . . 4$

CHAPTER Vni.

THE DAY OF THE DEAD chapter

IX.

MY FATHER " . . . . . . 68-

BOOK II.-THE PILLAAVER.

CHAPTER I.

ARISTOCRATIC chapter

ir.

THE CHEVALIER DE KERDEC'h chapter

HI.

"it haunts me like A phantom" . . . 101

CHAPTER IV.
down-trodden 112"

CHAP'i'ER V.

A STROKE OF BUSINESS . . . . 121

Chapter VL

SAINT-SAMSON lol

cnAn'KK \'ii.

A DARK HOUR . ir>3;

BOOK IIl.-THE OUTCAST.

CHAPTER I.

POORER THAN POOR . . .159

CHAPTER n.

A TERRIBLE RUMOUR 169

CHAPTER in.

HAUNTED AND HUNTED . . 176

CHAPTER IV.

TIRED OUT . 181

CHAPTER V.

THE HUSKS THAT THE SWINE DID Eat"' . . 185

CHAPTER VI.

THE MILLER . . 193

CHAPTER VH.

SEEN IN THE Moonlight 201

CHAiaER VIII.

A SON OF Roman - i 1

mu Itttie oust of

BOOK I. THE LITTLE GUEST OF GOD.

CHAPTER I.

ON Carnal PLAIN.

Voit-on chez vous les loups-garous

Roder dans les buyers ?

Voit-on la wait error sans bruit

Les lavandieres?

Voit-on parmi les jones blonds

Les Organs danser en roads ?

Entend-on crier les ressorts

Du sombre chariot des morts ?
Voit-on les noirs metihirs se dresser sur vos landes 1
Avez-vous des dolmens au gigantasque aspect ?"

Les deux Britain's.

A WILD moon shone on a wild scene. Above, great black
cloud masses drifted across the sky, now shutting out her
light, now catching her rays, and scattering, as it were, loose
silver as they tossed them one to the other, mingled with
thin flights of tiny snow-flakes, which went fluttering across
the wind-swept spaces of the air. Below, in the moments
of brightness, was revealed a scene no less weird than that
above.

VOL. r. B

Stretching north, east, west, as far as the eye could reach,
was a great brown moor, storm-blown and dreary as imagination
could picture, hemmed in towards the south by a hoary
line, dimly suggestive of a distant shore, from whence the
dull thud of beating waves sounded, pulse-like, in the silence.

And what are those dim forms of gigantic stature which
occupy the moor ?

Whole armies of them stand there, row on row, circle on
circle, battalion on battalion, like soldiers on the watch for
an enemy. But never did mortal warriors stand so still ;
never were mortal forms so grim, so cold, so rigid; never
was mortal patience so dumb and untiring. For this spectral
army has stood there for centuries  nay, for cycles of centuries,
waiting for an enemy which never comes, or else has
come and gone, and may perchance come again from the
dim womb of the future. Generations of men and women
have lived, and loved, and died around, and are but as
mushroom crops to these hoary giants, whose origin no
one rightly knows, but is content to call them simply
memoirs and dol7?ie7is/'' and to speak of them in whispers
round winter fires, half wondering, half in awe ; for this is one
of the haunted regions of Breton story  the far-famed plain
of Carnac. If you were to ask one of the natives who had
brought these giant stones, he would probably tell you that
they were the soldiers who were pursuing Saint Corneille,
patron of the parish, and who were petrified for their

Memoirs, lit., long stones. Dolmans, stone tables.

sacrilege. Another would cross himself and answer that
they were set there by Guillom Coz  that is to say, " Old
William," one of the many popular names for the Devil in
Brittany. A third, of softer faith, might reply that Madame
la Vierge had carried them there in her apron ; while a
fourth would aver that it was none of these, but simply the
organs (pixies), who had built with them their ball-room,,
or general place of assembly ; that is, if the stones did not
come there of their own accord, which he for one was by no
means prepared to deny.

As for antiquarians, opinions differ with them almost as
widely, and though each may stoutly maintain his own
opinion, few agree as to whether the memoirs and dolmans
were temples, altars, and objects of adoration to the priests
of a long-vanished religion, or have served as tombstones
to some ancient burying-place or antique battle-field.

Be this as it may, the Bretons look on Carnac and its
pillars as haunted ground, and few will adventure themselves
within the giant lines and circles after nightfall, or
will pass them by in the waning day, without first signing
themselves with the Holy Cross. Matelinn Goren
(though he had little reputation for peculiar reverence in the
country around, and though his profession led him across
the most desolate regions at all hours of the day) felt a
strange thrill pass over him as he came in sight of the stony
outposts ; and his hand, though not too clean in any
sense, mechanically traced the sign on breast and brow.

His was a figure often to be seen, especially on the
highways and byways of the country. He wore the wide
baggy trousers confined below the knee, called bragoit-braz
the loose vest, and the broad slouching hat, which is the
old costume of Brittany. But the breeches were soiled
and torn, the vest faded and threadbare, and the hat
browned and bent by constant exposure to the weather.
Not less browned and rugged was the dark, keen-eyed
face, looking out from the shaggy locks of hair which fell
upon his shoulders. And there was a hard, cunning look
about the thin lips, which must have clung to them even
when they whined for bread, in the name of all the saints,
at the doors of the farmhouses ; for as his staff and wallet
testified, Matelinn Gourven was a professional beggar, or
kiaskervara (seeker of bread), as the name is in Brittany.

The superstition which clung about the place would have
made even Matelinn prefer not to pass that way so late ;
but unfortunately he had been stopped too long by the
attractions of the cider at a wayside inn, and the night had
fallen upon him before he could reach the village on the
other side of the plain.

With heart beating a little faster, he neared the outposts,
passed some dozens of the giant sentinels without hearing
or seeing anything peculiar, and was beginning to congratulate
himself on his bravery, when suddenly he stopped
short as though he had been shot, and the cold dew broke
out on his swarthy brow.

What was that ? Surely something moved beneath that
tall menhir in the centre of the line ? Surely something
very like a human wail mingled with the moaning of the
wind. Was it a origin 9 If so, more were sure to appear
before long ; and Matelinn felt his limbs tremble as he
thought how they would force him into their magic circle
and compel him to dance with them till cock-crow. But,
no ; it was too large for a origin. A momentary relief
crept into the soul of the klaskervara, only to vanish again,
as a still more horrible fear, suggested by the flutter of a
white garment caught by a puff of eddying wind, took
possession of him. It was a kannerez-noz. Yes, without
doubt it was that ; and the white linen was his own winding
sheet, which the phantom washerwoman of the night was
hanging out to dry. Horrors ! And was this he, Matelinn
Gourven, who had dared to laugh that very afternoon over
his cider at a comrade's story of how an ancestor of his had
met the kanncrez-noz in returning from a Pardon'' and
having been drawn into helping to wring out her linen, had
been twisted to death himself! Oh! if the saints would
only protect him, and aid him to escape unhurt this time,
he would never be so profane as to mock at kamierez-noz
or origin again.

Meanwhile the wailing voice still continued, and the
flutter, flutter of the white linen could be seen every time

A Pardon is a combination of religious festival and fair, so called because the
saint whose day is celebrated has certain indulgences attached to his shrine for the
benefit of pilgrims.

the moon shone out. MateHnn would fain have fled ; that
he felt utterly unable to follow his wishes was, of course,
due to enchantment  there could be no doubt about that.
Suddenly, another voice, shriller and more piercing even
than the first, joined in the wail, and well-nigh froze the
blood in the creeping veins of the klaskervara. In an
agony of terror he fell on his knees, and appealed to all the
saints in the Breton Calendar whose names he could
remember.

Oh, Saint Martin ! Saint Gueoroc ! Saint Corentin ! Saint
Volga ! Saint Toledo ! protect me ! Save me from
Mesdames les Kanncrez-noz and Messieurs les Korigans
and I will vow a taper  yes, a taper of the best wax  to the
shrine of Sainte-Anne D'Aurez !"

His trembling lips had only uttered this prayer half-loud,
but, nevertheless, it seemed to have attracted the
attention of the nocturnal washerwoman, or washerwomen,
if, indeed, as the klaskervara suspected, there
was more than one in his neighbourhood. The wailing
stopped. Could he have given offence in that quarter by
his prayer to the Saints ? The idea sent the cold dew
again to his brow. And yet he had been so careful to
speak respectfully of them !

For a moment there was dead silence among the spectral
stones. Only the night wind sobbed and whispered to the
withered grass and dead heather which grew at their feet .
then the first voice was lifted again in a tone of infinite

sadness, and this time, Matelinn fancied that it was

pronouncing words. He listened, fully believing that in

the pauses of the wind he should be able to distinguish the

traditional chant of the kannerez-iioz: 

Caen na sui Written salver,
Rede goelc'hi hon liver
Aidan an earc'h ag an aera""

The wind lulled for a moment, and words came indeed
to the ear of the klaskervara, but not the words he
expected. Surely they were not Breton words at all ? They
reminded him of something he had heard in his better days,
when he had gone regularly to Church. He listened more
keenly still, and with a strange wonder recognised the De
profundus. A kaniierez-rwz in prayer ! This was something
he had never heard of. A doubt dawned slowly on
him as the passionate, agonising voice repeated a supplication,
which surely is, as it were, the essential oil of
misery, drained and wrung out to the very dregs. Nowhere
else does anguish speak in words like these, whose very
fewness shows the utter depth from which the cry ascends.

As she prayed, the figure raised herself from the shadow
and fell forward on her knees into the moonlight ; and then
Matelinn saw the face  white, drawn, exhausted of all that
is pleasant in life ; and yet, surely  no, it was not the face
of the dead ! Matelinn came a little nearer. The figure

If no Christian cone to save us,
We must ever bleach our shroud
Under the snow and the wind.

saY him, gave a gasping start, and fell down beneath the
shadow of the menhir.

*' In the name of all the saints, what are you ?" asked the
klaskervara, unable to keep silence any longer, especially
now that his superstitious fears were lessening.

There was no answer, only a voice  it seemed to be that
of a child  cried out of the darkness.

At the voice, the figure, crouching below the menhir,
raised itself slightly, and stretched out its hands ; it seemed
to struggle for speech !

What ails you ?" asked Matelinn, who, now ascertaining
that the apparition was human  a woman apparently, in
the last stage of exhaustion  had quite recovered his
composure.

He bent over her, and a start seemed to go through his
wiry frame, as he saw her features nearer. She opened her
failing eyes, and a strange, wild look distended them, as
they fell on Matelinn's face.

You ! "

You ! "

The pronoun, pronounced in Breton by the woman and
the man, broke for a moment the voiceless silence of the
great lone waste ; then it closed again as suddenly, and
nothing spoke but the wind.

Those two, and God only besides, knew what strange
recognition had taken place among the memoirs.

A fatal exhaustion seemed to be creeping over the

woman \ but again she roused herself at the voice beside
her, stooped to one side, and, by a supreme effort, clasped
what seemed to be a little brown bundle in her arms, and
held it towards the klaskervara.

** For God's sake at least the child ! "

The death-rattle half choked the last word ! The look ot
supplication faded from the eyes ;  they glazed slowly, and
the head fell back against the stone pillar. The little brown
bundle rolled upon the grass !

Matelinn stood watching. Presently he bent down
again, and, seeing that all was over, moved the body where
fuller light could fall upon it. A gleam, as of gold, flashed
from under the broad white linen collar which covered the
shoulders and the upper part of the breast. The hand of
the klaskervara felt there, and drew out a gold cross, the
usual heirloom of every Bretonne, not absolutely poor.
Then he searched further, detached the rosary, and closely
scanned the pale limp hands which were fast stiffening in
death ; but every finger was ringlets.

The clothes he examined, but there was nothing worth
taking there ; all were too deeply signed with poverty. Fora
moment his eyes lingered on the long brown hair, which
had fallen from under the white winged cap worn by the
dead woman. He took it between his fingers, as though to
feel its texture \ but it seemed to send a shudder through
him, for he let it drop suddenly, lifted the body in his
arms, and walked slowly to one of the dolmans, or stone

grottos, which lay within the outposts. Within this he laid
the dead, and returned to the tall menhir. The little brown
bundle still lay there, but there was no cry now. It was
nestling close to the giant stone, asleep or dead, Matelinn
could not tell which. But there was no time to ascertain
now; the clouds were gathering more thickly about the
moon, and the snowflakes, which before had been but as
feathers scattered occasionally, were beginning to fall more
steadily. Taking the foundling of the menhir up in his
arms, the klaskervara grasped his staff and struck across
the moor.

SAINT CHRISTOPHER.

"One touch of nature makes the whole world \Cm."S]Lakespeare.

' Dead, dead ! Oh ! my little innocent my little white
flower  how art thou sleeping under the cold sod  my little
sweet heart, my angel child ? Dost think it very cruel in
thy mother to leave thee there, baby ? Oh ! God, that it
should be so ! His place was on my bosom, my sweet
darling  there, there in my arms, so warm, so soft  can it
be that thou art here no longer ?  that I shall never see
thy smile again, nor kiss thy lips ? What have I done that
God should take my only one  my first-born, my very
heart's life ? What have I said ? Oh ! blessed Virgin,
help me ! Do not let my wicked words be heard up there !
Mother of God ! thou didst lose thy Son j thou knowest 
thou only knowest how hard it is ! "

The mother let her head drop on her knees and rocked
herself backwards and forwards, in grief that would
not be comforted. And yet comfort seemed there in
plenty.

The fire burnt warm and bright in the great open fireplace
of the Breton farm-kitchen. There were marks of

worldly comfort and well-being on every side ; the handsome
dark oak presses and chairs, the rafters laden with
provisions, the antique silver drinking cups on the shelf,
which must have come down from father to son  all
showed that the inhabitants were people of substance, and
that not of yesterday.

Ninorc'h Comorre was, indeed, one of the richest 
in the district; but the cradle by her side was
empty, and she only thought of that. Outside, the wind
blew drearily across the plains ; homeless wanderers were
there who would have given their right hands for the
shelter of a roof, for the shade of the clustering trees, for
the screen of mantling ivy which clung round Ninorc'h's
window, and tapped, tapped, like restless fingers, against
the panes. On the sea, scarce a mile from the sheltered
farmstead, fishermen tossed in their frail boats, wet with
spray, chilled with the wind, and prayed to God in the
touching Breton phrase : 

My God protect me ! my boat is so small and Thy
sea is so great !"

Ninorc'h, sitting securely by the warm fire-side, seemed
worthy of envy to many. The sailors' and fishermen's wives,
trudging past her door with heavy hearts for their men at
sea, compared her lot with theirs, and sighed, poor hearts,
little knowing. But she only thought of the empty cradle
and of the little new-made grave in the village churchyard.


Nor was she alone. The comfort did not all come from
dumb objects ; it was not all r//r(?-comfort  human
consolation was hers, too.

Antonn Comorre stood beside his wife, with his hand on
her shoulder and a distressed look on his honest face; from
time to time putting in a word as it occurred to him ; and,
if his less sensitive man's heart could not feel the death of
the infant of days so deeply as the mother did, at least he
lamented it very sincerely, and truly compassionate his
wife.

But Ninorc'h only thought of the empty cradle.

Cheer up, little wife," said Antonn, at last, a new
aspect of the case dawning upon him.

*' Cheer up, it's the first, certainly, but maybe it'll not bethe
last. Eh, little wife ! Truly, it's sad, sad indeed, and
inconvenient, too  a fall ten days before Madame la
Comtesse can come with the child thou wert to nurse for her.
Hey ! Ninorc'h, I hadn't thought of that ! Truly, I don't
wonder thou takes on more than common. It's not only
the loss of the child, it's the loss of the foster-son as welland
that means the loss of what would have well made up
for the bad harvest. Hey! Ninorc'h, is there no child thou
could'st get in the village, just to keep the place of the
young Count ready for him till he comes to take it himself?
Think, Ninorc'h, is there no one ? Madame la Comtesse
was set on having thee, and no one else, to nourish the little
monsieur, and think if thou hadst to refuse, after all."

Poor Ninorc'h, she only sobbed the more at this.
Antonn was cruel  cruel even to think of any loss but just
that of the little angel himself; and yet Antonn, honest
fellow, had not meant it so. Rich as he was accounted
among the farmers of Carnac, he would have seemed poor
enough to many of his brethren of the spade in England ;
and the bad harvest of last autumn, not to mention the
rates and taxes, which grew heavier every year, had pinched
him more sorely than Ninorc'h knew. And so she sat and
sobbed, and thought him cruel and unfeeling ; and he,
feeling the loss of his first-born all the time, stood by and
looked into the fire, chewing the cud of bitter thought, and
wishing that women were more reasonable. And the snow
drove past the windows in wild white wreaths, and the wind
tossed the branches of the trees, and the ivy tapped, tapped
against the panes tapped, so that Antonn and Ninorc'h
did not hear how, among it all, Fate came and tapped at
their door.

Presently, however, Fate, or whoever the personage outside
might be, became impatient, and a heavy rap which
could not be mistaken, sounded on the oak panels.
Antonn moved towards the door, drew the bolts and
opened it. A figure, white with snow from head to foot,
stood there.

"In the name of God and the saints!" he said, "a
night's lodging and a morsel of food !"

Welcome," responded Antonn,'with the Breton hospitality

for "the guests of God," as in their speech they
name the poor and homeless.

The snow-covered wanderer entered promptly, never
doubting his welcome ; bent his head towards the woman
by the hearth, and uttered the customary salutation : 

May God bless all those who are here !"

*' And yourself," responded Antonn, making a sign to
the wanderer to seat himself by the fire. But the latter
stood still in the middle of the floor, hesitating.

Madame," he said, looking at Ninorc'h, " for the
sake of the blessed Saint Nicholas, patron of boys, have
pity on this infant ! I commend him to your charity.
Though, indeed, whether it be boy or maid, it passes me
to say."

Ninorc'h raised her head, and fixed her hungry eyes on
the little brown bundle, powdered with white, which the
seeker of bread held out towards her. There was a struggle
in the mother's heart ; pity and jealousy strove there. Why
should another woman's child be alive while hers was dead ?
hers so loved, so cherished, taken in spite of her love ! 
this, a beggar's brat, left, in spite of what, most probably,
was anything but love 1 The bitter question woke and tried
to close her heart against the little guest of God who stood
at its door and knocked. But pity conquered. The little
face, which was all that could be seen of the child, looked
so white, so pinched, so deathlike ; yes, in that latter
quality, it looked so like what her baby did when, the last

struggle over, it lay lifeless in her arms. Good God ! could
it be so, indeed ?

Ninorc'h sprang up.

*' Holy Virgin !" she exclaimed in a broken voice, " Give
it to me. Does it yet live ?"

With trembling fingers she unrolled the brown covering,
a woman's cloak of the coarse material worn by peasants?
and sat down again by the fire, chafing the rigid limbs in
her warm fingers.

Antonn looked well pleased.

Hey, Matelinn Gourven," he said, presently, turning to
his guest, "So it's you, man? Name of Saint Corneille ! I
did not recognise you, such an old man had the snow made
of you ! Nothing like the fire for making one young again
when it's only of that sort of hoar hairs there is question !
Faith of a Christian, you looked venerable, man  venerable
as the good Dom" Clemencz himself; and that you'll never
be, Matelinn Gourven, should you live to the age of the
holy Noah !"

Vertuz,-\ but that's a hard speech to a Christian,
Antonn Comorre ! What would you have, then ? A
seeker of bread must live. Holy Virgin ! but it's a hard
life  a hard life ; and, if it were not for the goodness of the
Christians "

"There, there, Matelinn ! that'll do; we know the rest,

Dom, dominus. Old title lor a parish priest,
t Vertue ! A Breton exclamation.

my good Matelinn; and betwixt old acquaintances, one
dispenses with ceremony  Hey? But, see! the child is
coming round. Verily, a fine boy, if somewhat elfish-looking.
Thine own, Matelinn?" (changing to the familiar
pronoun, as a twinkle of fun lit in his dark, grey eye).
Hey, then, I did not know tlioa hadst married ; and
Madame Matelinn Gourven  hast left her behind ?"

The face of the klaskervara darkened, and his hand
involuntarily sought the beggar's staff which he had
deposited beside him. But he checked himself, and the
pious look which stood him in such good stead with
the charitably-disposed, came back into his sharp little
eyes.

'jest not against Holy Charity," he said, in a reproving
voice, " A foundling, Antonn Comorre ! A foundling !
Would you have had me to leave the innocent to die
amongst the memoirs?  to die, or something worse? May
the Saints protect us!" He crossed himself, and Ninorc'h
looked up, shuddering.

*' Amongst the memoirs?" she repeated, in a lo'.v voice.
Holy Virgin ! if it should be a poiilhicaul " *

Antonn smiled.

"No, no, goodwife; human enough, methinks, by the

way he cries. Hark! one would almost fancy " He

stopped in time the reference to the dead babe, which
would have re-opened the tear f )int he was so ghd to see

Elf.
VOL. I. C

closed, for the moment at least, by this new claim on his
wife's cape.

"Ay, ay, human enough, I'll vouch; but try the holy-water,
if thou hast any misgivings  nothing uncanny '11
stand that. So, so ! Best to be on the safe side  Hey,
Mdtclinn? No offence to you."

Ninorc'h dipped her fingers in the little holy water basin
which hung below the image of the Virgin on the cottage
wall, and signed the child on breast and brow, holding her
breath the while in fear what might come of it. But
nothing came ; nothing but a grave, sweet smile on the
baby lips. Nothing happened more terrible than the
holding out of baby arms towards her who had warmed
it back to life.

Ninorc'h could not withstand that. She bent over the
foundling lying in her lap, pressed her lips where the cross
was still wet on the young brow, answering the cooing
sounds, with which the infant greeted her caresses, by those
inarticulate syllables of love which mothers use. Then 
Antonn saw it with joy, though he was discreet enough to
refrain from remark the childless mother opened her
bosom, drew to it the head of the motherless babe, and
bending hers till the two almost touched, let fall a rain of
tears on the short, soft curls  tears, warm and soft and
gentle ; as different from the bitter drops, wrung from herby
her bereavement, as are April showers from the storm-gusts
of November ! It was as though those baby lips, those

blessed tears were drawing from heart and brain the aching
trouble, the dull, hard pain, the rebelliousness of sorrow
which had lodged there, and which all other comfort had
seemed powerless to relieve ! It was to poor Ninorc'h as if
a cloud so black, so heavy as even to hide from her the
Saviour's face, had passed away, and truly  "whoso
received one such little child in My name, received
Me."

*'A Child of the Menhir! nameless, base-born ! ay, so it
may be," murmured Antonn, reflectively, "but it's a blessed
messenger to poor Ninorc'h  godsend, as Dom Clemens
would say  ay, that's what it is ! And come in the nick of
time, thanks be to our patron Saint Corneille, who has
granted my wish the moment 'twas out of my mouth. The
Holy Virgin be praised ! we'll not have to refuse the little
monsieur now !"

"Antonn!" said Ninorc'h, aside to her husband next
morning, as she saw the klaskervara stuffing into his wallet
the crusts of black bread and hunch of goat's-milk cheese
she had bestowed on him as a parting gift. " Antonn," she
repeated, holding the child very close, and looking up with
her wistful eyes, " we have food enough for three  is it
not so?"

Ay, little wife, and for four, too, God willing. Thou
would'st keep the child  is it not so, Ninorc'h ? "

Ah, yes ; for has he not come to me as the Holy Babe
to the blessed Saint Christopher? 'Twas God sent him tous,

Antonn ; my heart tells me so ; and I'd fain, fain, keep
him for my own."

"So? Well, then, in God's name, if Matelinn (lourven
be willing."

Nor did the klaskervara say them nay.

Antony COISIORRE's QUIVER.

Clillilron, uy, forsooth,
They bring their own love with them when they come."

Jean Ingklow, " Sapper at the M'dl.'

"Verily Antonn and Ninorc'h Comorre did well to take
in the little Christophe, Ah, yes, 'tis very true what good
Dom Clemens is wont to preach. Holy Charity is its
own reward  in that case at least."

So said the gossips of Carnac as they passed by Antonn's
little farm, and saw the children playing on the daisies
grass before the door ; and Antonn echoed their words
though with a half sigh.

Ay, wife, 'tis well we made the little lad our own, for
1 fear me there comes not another, at least "

He looked at the group and broke off with another
sigh, and the tears came into Ninorc'h's gentle eyes, as
they followed her husband's.

And yet it was as fair a group as you could well see.
There were four children there now. Tallest and
strongest among them was Christophe, the Child of the
jMenhir (for "Christophe" had Ninorc'h caused him to be

baptized, in accordance with her idea that he had been
sent to her as was the Christ-child to St. Christopher).

In the quiet, healthy atmosphere of the little farm at
Carnac, the thin, elfish-looking infant which came to its
door in the cold and storm of a winter's night twelve
years ago, had flourished and grown into a boy, unusually
large for one of his age and race. Yet he had the true
Ireton characteristics, though those perhaps of the
Leonard, rather than of the inhabitant of the country
round Carnac. The dark grey eyes which looked out
from the black locks hanging about his face were solemn
and dreamy, and yet full of a strange fire, which, though
not easily provoked, would sometimes flash out in a
manner that would frighten his more careless-natured playfellows.


His face was unusually long and dark of complexion,
which perhaps accounted for the melancholy expression
which always struck a stranger; for Christophe led too
healthy and happy a life to have any cause for sadness.
There was a tender look about the full red mouth, a
gentleness, which almost belied the proud bearing of the
head, the square set of the shoulders and broad strength of
chest. Already the boy was a wrestler of fame among his
comrades; but it was not always that he would put forth
his power, and he liked better to sit with Antonn's sheep
and Antonn's children on the solitary plain of Carnac, than
to join in the rough sports of the village lads.

One comrade of his own age he had, dearly-loved as a
brother, though so different from himself. This was the
second child in the household group, still a frequent
dweller at Carnac, though nominally he had done with the
care of his foster-parents, and was supposed to be pursuing
his studies at Rennes. This lad was Aymon de Kerdec'h,
the little Count," as he was generally called, who had fed
at the same breast and had grown up with the Child of the
Menhir.

A true little aristocrat was he  slight, dark, delicate-featured,
with little imperious ways about him, which
showed that easy and sweet tempered as he was, he did
not forget that the De Kerdec'hs were wont, as well as
the family of Kermavan,'' to boast that ''J/, le bon Dieu
seul est de plus vieille mason. His foster parents, however,
had no cause to complain of his haughtiness ; he never
showed it towards them except in the most occasional
flashes. They were fond and proud of him as a child of
their own, and his easy good-nature, and bright sunny
temper made him a great favourite with the other children
of the house.

Poor little Mao ! No fine strength was his, no bright
intelligence. The only brother of the infant under the
green churchyard sod, the only other son who had been
born to Antonn and Ninorc'h, was a poor innocent 

The motto of the seigneurs of Kermavan, who are Leonard, is 'Les Termagant
Die, avant.

harmless, guileless enough, but still " an innocent," such
as there are but too many by Breton firesides. Alas ! poor
mother !

Yet she had another child. " God has been good tome,"
she was wont to murmur when she looked on her
little daughter, " very good to me, for has He not given me
Genofa 1"

A lovely child was this ; a child who, as she passed,
drew the eyes of the village after her, with that look which
is like a benison, and which was mostly followed bv a
murmured " God bless her sweet face." Truly a sweet
face; fair among so many dark; daintily fair, though rather
with the quiet, delicate beauty of the lily of the valley, than
the bright piquancy of the wild rose. Yet it was not the
beauty of fragility which distinguished Genofa. Dainty
white as she was, with just the palest rose tint upon the
soft, round cheek, the blue eyes were nevertheless full of
health ; the long yellow locks were soft and lustrous as
the blossoms of the brootn; the slight, graceful figure
as supple as the slender twigs on which these blossoms
swung under the touch of the summer wind. Everything
about Genofa was gentle and subdued  her movements,
her voice, her very happiness  were set in a
softer key than those of most village maidens; and yet
only to look in her face was to gain an impression of the
most tranquil content. She was a dreamy, impressionable
little being in her peculiar way ; sensitive beyond common

to the touch of that mysterious world which we will call
nature. The wind had a voice for her, the sunshine a
smile, to which her sensitive feelings would open like a
flower ; but when the icy storms of winter swept over
Carnac, when the darkness of a thunderstorm brooded
over the earth, she would shiver and grow pale, as if at the
touch of an evil thing. No Breton child believed more
firmly in the spirits and goblins wide which popular
superstition peoples the Druid circles, the graveyards, hills,
and waters, than did Genofa. None drank in more
eagerly or learnt more readily the legends, tales, and
ballads of the province, of which old Mere Guenedon was
a living repository, than she. Dom Clemenz might reason
with her as he liked, nothing would hinder her from
having her own ideas about the spirit world, from feeling an
awed kindness towards the benevolent teiiz;'' and dreading
the spiteful organs and the treacherous broach, and
mary-vwrgan. And yet Dom Clemenz himself acknowledged
that a more devout child, as regarded her religious
feelings, was not to be found among all his pupils,
except perhaps Bernezz Guenedon, her cousin, who was being
educated for the Church ; but then he was almost a second
Saint Timothy, or rather Saint Corneille, which is almost
more, so far as the people of Carnac are concerned. How
proud was the good father of this lad  his best pupil, who
outstripped even himself in zeal for the Church ! Never had

Breton elves of (i) the fields (2) the laudes (3) the \vati;rs.

a more satisfactory kloiirek been sent to the seminary from
their village before. " Surely," thought all the inhabitants,
he will bring a blessing on his native place ; for is he not
the best thing in Carnac ? and have we not lent him to the
Lord ?"

But Bernezz Guenedon, young saint though he undoubtedly
was, could not be counted as belonging to
Antonn Comorre's quiver, and therefore his introduction
must wait.

THE shepherds' HOLIDAY.

Shepherds ! tell me, tell me have you seen
My Flora pass this way ? "  Old Song.

Golden sunshine  the rich, mellow sunshine of autumn 
flooded the plain of Carnac. The solemn lines of memoirs
and peuvent" had lost half their mystic solemnity under the
glad light of day, and looked pale, bare likenesses of their
awful selves ; like ghosts which have been surprised by the
crowing of the cock before they could reach their shelter
and vanish decently. Like these., they had lost all their
terrors with the darkness, and seemed rather to shrink from
the light, than did the things of light shrink from them. A
flock of sheep bleated around their cold grey feet, or lay
peacefully chewing the cud where their tall shadows fell.
Little blue gentians, purple heather, golden gorse, and sweet
wild thyme gemmed the short springy turf which hid  who
can tell what awful mysteries ?  bones of slain, grim remains
of human slaughter, or gruesome heathen sacrifice ; perhaps
even something worse than these  from the eyes of men.
AVell, let them rest, 'tis best such things are covered. Here

 Peuvent single stones, similar to memoirs, set up on end.

and there in the lower hollows, a deep pool of water laughed
in the low sunshine, and the far sea-line twinkled like a
girdle of sapphires, set between with tiny diamonds. A sky,
blue as the mentions, spanned overhead, where tiny fleecy
cloudlets wandered peacefully as the flocks below ; distant
lines of memoirs rose tall and grey against the blue haze of
the far horizon ; the drowsy hum of insects filled the still
warm air, and children's merry voices rippled in between.

A perfect autumn day, indeed. The little herdsmen
could not have had a letter one for their yearly holiday ;
for this was the Shepherds' Holiday, the annual fete of the
children who have tended the flocks during the spring and
summer; a sort of juvenile Saint Valentine's Day, when
each little shepherd chooses his tiny shepherdess for the
coming year.

It was, indeed, a pretty sight to see troops of little boys
and girls, { older than twelve, for at that age the lisle
shepherds are trusted with the goad, and promoted from
the passive watching of the flocks and herds to the active
and more manly employment of driving oxen ; and the
little shepherdesses have to go home and spin, and bake,
and make themselves more actively useful. jNIany of the
parents had come to take a day's holiday in the sunshine
with their little ones, and good store of Brittany cheesecakes,
and fruit, had been eaten among the broom, the
heather, and the little blue mentions, while old Grandee
C/ucncdon's (quavering voice intoned the Kent ar Juggle,

or children's lesson, whose versified precepts the little
herdsmen heard year by year, with, I am afraid, about as
much attention as they paid to the sough of the soft wind
among the bent and the broom bushes.

Now, however, the lesson was over, old Perik Guenedon
had found a mossy stone against which to rest his bowed
back and snow-white head, and was dreaming  of what ?
Perhaps of the Shepherds' Holiday seventy years ago,
when he chose Barbaik Lion, the old wife, who now sat by
him with her hand in his, to be his little shepherdess.
Seventy years ago ! And since then how often had they
kept the Shepherds' Holiday with their children and
children's children, and watched them dance, as the young
ones were doing now, around that tall menhir ! There was
their daughter, Ninorc'h Comorre, knitting placidly,
gossipping mildly with the mothers of the village ; old
Perik remembered when she was the belle among the little
shepherdesses, and had been chosen by  who was it?
Not his son-in-law Antonn ? No, these juvenile pairing
did not always foreshadow the real ones; no, no. Who
was it? Ah, yes, 'twas the little Count of Coetmor, he who
died ten years later, leaving the De Kerdec'hs sole heirs of
the old castle and lands.

And, apropos, was not Ninorc'h's little daughter Genofa
dancing hand in hand with the Child of the Menhir and the
little Count of to-day  he was now heir of Coetmor?
Well, well, they're but children now, so no harm's done,"

murmured old Perik, sleepily. Then he wondered, still
more sleepily, what had become of his own especial home
grandchildren, his son's children, Bernezz and Yvonne.
Bernezz, to be sure, was almost a young man, and a kloarek
to boot ; he would be above dancing with the little
herdsmen. " But Yvonne, the sweetest maid in Carnac, to
my thinking, though most folks won't look at her when
Genofa's by. Where is Yvonne ?"

Here, however, old Perik's drowsiness overcame his
curiosity, and he fell fast asleep.

x\nd where was Yvonne ?

Apart from the gay throng of merry children, in the very
centre of the sacred stones, with her shoulder hah resting
against one of the side supports of a dolman smaller than
most of its fellows, sat a tall girl of about thirteen. She
wore the holiday costume of her parish, a facsimile in
miniature of her mother's dress. The picturesque white
cap just showed the glossy line oi dark brown hair which
crowned the smooth open brow, - and set off the warm tints
of the olive complexion and dark kindly eyes. The well-formed,
somewhat massive chin, was propped with a hand
which had evidently known work already, and the red
lips  they were rather wide it must be confessed  were
just apart, so as to show the strong, white teeth within.
The snowy chemisette and black velvet bodice with its rows
of holiday embroidery, fitted tight to a figure which
promised to be that of a nobly-formed woman some day

But old Perik was right  Yvonne Guenedon was wont
to be overlooked, somehow, when her cousin Genofa
was by.

Not, however, by her brother Bernezz ; those two were
well-nigh inseparable whenever the young twenty-year-old
kloarek was at home from his college at Saint Brien. He
would fain have had her follow in his footsteps so far as
was possible for a girl to do, and look forward to the grey
habit of the Soeurs de la Sagesse, or the white one of Les
Soeurs Blanches. But, with aged grandparents at home,
Yvonne could scarcely be spared, even if she were certain
of having " a vocations and on this point the girl, though
she would not breathe it to Bernezz, knowing his strong
ideas on the subject, was more than doubtful. Indeed, she
often felt inclined to thank the saints that she had no choice
in the matter ; for had not Bernezz said more than once that
in his opinion all who were truly spiritually-minded vast
have " vocation'' and that a want of it showed that the
world was put first and heaven second. Yvonne could not
have borne that this adored brother should say that of her,
and yet no child enjoyed a Pardon more than she did ;
none took greater pride in her household work ; and oh !
was it so very wrong to love the dear, beautiful world,
especially on such a day as this ?

Thus sat Yvonne Guenedon, half meditating on these
things, half looking up at and listening to her brother, as,
with eyes fixed on the sinking sun and hands clasped round

his knees, he sat on the table-stone of the old heathen
world and repeated the " Canticle of Paradise."

He was a lad to be remarked even among a set so
remarkable as the kloareks of Brittany. A peasant that
was, a priest that is to be, the kloarek is, as it were, a being
above all others in process of transformation. Taken from
the plough at an age when boyhood is not yet over, he
exchanges the active life of the farm, the song of birds, the
free fresh air which blows over his native fields, for the
close study, the confined atmosphere of the university ;
where, the home-purse being probably but a scanty one, he
has to buy learning, as it were, with the price of bread.
From a rough, healthy boy, whose body has outgrown his
mind, the kloarek becomes a tall thin lad, whose black,
semi-priestly habit (when such a dress can be afforded)
enhances the pallor of his thoughtful face and studious
brow, round which the hair has already been cut short by
anticipation, though the long locks behind show that the
priestly vows are yet unspoken. Mind has distanced body.

At home he is no longer treated with the old rough
cordiality as one of the family; old friends and neighbours
show him grave respect  the light word, the jest is hushed in
his presence. He is an offering, set apart, dedicated to God.

Many a kloarek has turned back to his old life, appalled
at the change at the hard struggle for learning; at the.
harder one to keep life in on the pittance that remains
after fees have been paid and books bought ; at that,

hardest of all, with the natural affections. Many have thus
put their hand to the plough and have turned back.

Bernezz Guenedon never would. So he said himself; so
said all who knew him. The home-purse was but small ;
the lad's way had been a hard and thorny one ; but
hitherto he had never felt one doubt, one regret. The
stern dark face, with its deep eyes full of subdued fire,
was ever set towards the heavenly Jerusalem ; the resolute
mouth, which, grave as it was, could still, in such moments
as this, wear the soft expression of melting tenderness, had
never uttered a word of self-pity for the hard and lonely
path which the feet had chosen.

The following extracts from the Breton poem of " The
Canticle of Paradise," which Bernezz was reciting, are a
rough translation into English from the French version,
given by M. Emile Souvestre, in his 'deniers Bretons " : 

"when I look at Heaven'"  so those lips were murmuring,
now,  "* I say to myself: There is my country ! and
fain would I fly there like a white dove !

' But, alas ! I shall still remain here till the hour of death,
a prisoner under the flesh which is so heavy to my
soul !

* When comes the hour of death,  oh ! what joy !

Then shall I see Jesus, my true spouse.

'sand as soon as my chains are broken, I will rise into the
air like a lark. 

I will pass near the moon to go and rest in the glory ot
Heaven, I shall be upheld by the sun and the stars."

VOL. I. 1 1

There was an intense fervour in the lad's voice, as he
repeated, in musical cadence, the Breton words ; and his
face shone in the sunset glory, as though, beyond the fair
colours of the west, his eyes could behold the celestial
vision. A moment he paused, the rapt look still in his
eyes, and clear on the evening air came the children's
voices singing the shepherds' call : 

'Distil vintin papa zaviz evil kas ma zaout er 7fiez,
Eklevigvadouz O ka?ia, hag he anaiz ditch he moe; '"

'And I will sing with joy in my tomb:  My chain is
broken  now freedom, freedom for eternity ! ' "

murmured the kloarek, as though the sound of singing had
touched him with its associations. Again came the
children's ringing voices, louder than before : 

' There I heard my sweetheart singing, singing on the mountain side,
And I made a song to sing to her across the valley wide'"

* I shall be received in the palace of the Trinity, in the
midst of honours and delicious songs, and Jesus will
place on my head a crown of light.

'And He will sing : Bodies which have been blest as
yours has been, are a treasure hidden in holy ground.

** ' You are in My court as the roots of white rose-trees, of
lilies and of hawthorns in the corner of a garden ;
the rose-trees and the hawthorns and the lilies shed
their blossom in its season, and again bud forth.

"As I rose on Sunday morning to drive the kine to lea,
There I heard my sweetheart singing, by the voice I knew 'twas she."
Rhymed Travlation/rorn Tom Taylor's "Songs and Lt(icnds of Brittany.

'For a few sufferings, for a short disquietude, what a
a price, my God, shall I receive.' "

Again the kloarek paused, and the children took up the
strain : 

' Like golden blossoms of the broom, or wild rose sweet and small,
Like wild rose in a heath-brake, shone my fair above them all !
All the time the Mass was serving I had only eyes for her,
And the more I gazed upon her, the more love my heart did stir.' "

They broke otf with a laugh, and merry cries of " Not
yet ! not yet ! The shepherdesses are not yet chosen.
Hey, then, Christophe, Jan, Pierrot, who is thy wild rose ?
And thine, lad ? And thine ? "

But Bernezz murmured as one who heard not : 

' Oh ! how fair will be my part ! I dream of it, I love it beforehand,
Oh ! mer heart ! This thought consoles thee in all thy afflictions.' "

And thus, in that strange interchange of response between
the singers of an earthly love and of a heavenly rapture, the
praises of Paradise closed the strain.

Yvonne's eyes filled with tears ; a strange disquietude
awoke in her heart. The rapt face above her, the thin
hands folded as if in prayer, seemed all unconscious of her
presence. She had left them all for Bernezz, and her
brother seemed so far, so very far removed from her.

She heard the voices of her companions coming from all
parts of the plain as they dispersed to play their parts in the
Shepherds' Idyll. Now the boys were calling the maidens
each lite herdsman naming the shepherdess whom he
desired to choose : 

'all, kel all, he I all, ke!"

(A warning, conte !) She heard the voices sounding
clear and sweet on the evening air; then, when attention
was supposed to have been sufficiently gained, came the
special call, with the addition of the favoured name : 

*genoa! Z.-/" (hear).

"Nomina! Zt'/"

*margarita; Z</"

genoa! Z/"

'Rozenne! Le V

'genoa! Ur'

Yes, Genofa's name came the oftener.

Then there was a pause. The boys were waiting for
their answer. Laughter, sweet treble laughter, rippled a
little, and then the maidens responded as pleased them.

*' Neann-ked-de / " (I won't come !) or

Me ia 1 ie!" (I come ; yes).

Then there was more laughter, and the little shepherds
called again to their coy shepherdesses, or ran to meet
those who were kind. And

"Nomina! Lc!''

'* Genofa ! Lc! " rang again through the air.

]cut it was never " Yvonne ! Lc ! "

Had they forgotten her? Did no one want her?

A little sad, disappointed feeling came into the girl's
heart, the tears rose to her eyes. She had given them all
up to sit with Bernezzzz, and even Bernezzzz did not want her !
Nobody wanted her, and everybody seemed to want

Genofa. Yes, there was her name again from another part
of the plain.

Genofa ! Let Le! Le ! Genofa ! "

A tear dropped, she could not help it, though the dark
eyelashes winked hard to keep it in. And yet there was
no jealousy in the child's heart ; it was much too sweet a
little heart for that, sweet and sound to the core, as the
best Normandy pippin in her father's garden. No, it was
not jealousy, only disappointment ; for might not someone
have called her  just one  for, after all everybody could not
have Genofa.

Hark ! surely that was her name. Yes, there it was at
last!

Yvonne ! Le I Lei Yvonne ! "

A flush of pleasure mounted to the child's face \ her heart
beat. She put her finger to her lips as if to enforce silence,
and listened breathlessly.

Yvonne ! Yvonne ! Let "

Me ia, Christophe, ie ! "

She sprang up, a radiant smile on her parted lips ; went
forward a step or two, so as to escape the tall menhir which
barred her view, and shaded her eyes with her hand. But
soon the smile vanished, a look of disappointment and
disgust took Its place, and the child returned hastily to her
hiding-place beside the dolman.

What had she seen ? Alas ! not her favourite playfellow,
Chistophe, but Honarn, the son of Per Kabik, the humpbacked

tailor, who, if not exactly humpbacked himself,
inclined that way, and was much looked down upon by the
other village children for his simple, awkward ways.

Honarn," muttered Yvonne, with disappointed contempt.
" Ah, yes, he for example ! I suppose he wants me
because he can't get anyone else. Well, he may look forme
long enough  that one ! "

Yvonne ! little one ; what, here still ? Thou shouldst
not have stayed away from the sport because of me, little
sister. Ah ! Yvonne, no fear that I should be lonely. I
have had companions thou knowest not of Yes, yes ! it
was a vision of glory that comes not often. Ah ! child,
couldst thou but have seen it, how hollow would have
seemed to thee all earthly joy. But come, 'tis late; we
must be going homewards. No, not to-night, little one,"
as Yvonne slipped her arm in his, as if to walk with him
I would fain be alone, and there are the old grandparents,
and thy shepherd, sister  where is he?"

But though Bernezz put the question, he did not wait for
an answer.

Again the tears rose, as Yvonne stood watching her
brother's figure grow gradually smaller on the sunny heath.
Did no one want her? Ah, yes, the old grandfather, he
would want an arm home. Yvonne turned and left the
Druid lines, humming softly to herself a verse of the
shepherd's song which the children were singing on their
homeward way.

Grandfather ! "

She bent over the old man, who had fallen asleep, and
kissed his withered cheek.

*' Grandfather ! come home."

"What! Yvonne, little one? Where is thy little
shepherd, child?"

Why, here he is, grandfather, if thou wilt have me fora
shepherdess !"

She put her hand through his arm, and laid her soft
cheek tenderly against it.

Wilt have me, grandfather ? "

Have thee, my sweet ? Ay, what else ? But what
were all the lads thinking of, to leave thee, Yvonne ? God
bless the child, there's none like her  no, not one."

And so the pair went home together.

TWO LITTLE SHEPHERDS AND A SHEPHERDESS.

She was twelve years old  my darling,
And I was twelve likewise !"

Breton Ballad.

And Genoa? Why, Z//?/ little maid went home with a
shepherd on each side of her, and two voices to sing her
praises as she went. Very demurely the pretty child
stepped over the heath, refusing to favour either her
cavaliers above the other. Each had cried " Ze, Genofa ! "
and to both had she answered, \' Neann-ked-de'' and
then went on humming softly to herself as she picked the
blue gentians for the Virgin's shrine at home. Presently,
however, the two shepherds had sought her out ; and the
big, solemn Christophe, and the handsome, fiery little
Count, had well-nigh quarrelled as to who should have her
as his shepherdess.

Choose me, Genofa," said little Aymon, " Father gives
me a louis every month, and I'll buy thee  oh ! lots of
things !"

Take me, Genofa," said the Child ot the Menhir ;
'' M. le Comte is not here always, and I am. No one shall
tease thee about the crooked horns of thy old black cow

when I'm by, Genofa ; and thou shalt have the best
pasturage for thy sheep, and

Yes, yes, Christophe, I know. See, I'll take you both ;
that'll be best."

"No, no, Genofa, I want thee all to myself; I don't
want just half a shepherdess."

The little spice of coquetry which lurked under Genofa's
quiet ways broke forth at this. An arch smile curled her
cherry lips. She curtsied lowly.

"Half a shepherdess! So that's what I am! Thank
you kindly, j\I. le Comte. Come, Christophe, is half a
shepherdess enough for thee ? "

The dark, grave boy came forward eagerly, but Aymon
was not to be baulked.

Fie, then, Genofa ! But never mind, little friend I
Half such a shepherdess is better than the whole of any
other in the village ; so I '11 e'en take my share."

Then the two lads wove a golden broom-crown for the
little maiden's yellow hair, and carried her off between
them, as a prize, envied by all. And the two boys sang
in alternate lines the Ann Alike, the time-honoured song
which generations of little Breton herdsmen have sung on
like occasions ; only, whenever the verse would allow of it,
they substituted the name of Genofa for the Mac'haidic ot
the original composer : 

' As I rose on Sunday morning to drive the kine to lea,
I heard my sweetheart singing  by the voice I knew 'twas she ;
I heard my sweetheart singing, singing gay on the hill-side.
And I made a song to sing with her, across the valley wide.

' The first time I set eyes on Genofa, my sweet May,
'Twas at her first Communion upon an Easter Day,
In the parish church at Foesnant, 'mong her mates in age and size ;
She was twelve jeers old, my darling  and I was twelve likewise.' "

"Ah, no! you're both out there!" laughed Genofa,
softly ; "for I'm only ten, and I haven't made my First
Communion yet ! "

But the boys put their hands over her mouth, and went
on : 

' Like golden blossoms of the broom, or wild rose sweet and small,
Like wild-rose in a heath-brake, shone my fair among them all ;
All the time the Mass was serving I had only eyes for her.
And the more I gazed upon her, the more love my heart did stir,

I've a full-fruited apple-tree in my mother's orchard-ground.
It has green turf about it, and an arbour built around ;
When my sweet May, my best belov'd, deigns to come and visit me,
We will sit, I and my sweet, in the shadow of that tree.

' I'll pull for her the apple that has the rosiest skin,
Tie her a posy, with my flower, a marigold, therein 
A marigold all withered, as for-pined my cheek you see,
For not one tender kiss of love have I jet had from thee.' "

Genofa immediately struck in with the maiden's part,
singing the words which had evidently been originally
intended for an older shepherdess than she was, with a
frank simplicity, free from any shyness about their meaning.
Like the song of a little linnet in the hedge-row, her
childish treble sounded on the quiet evening air, while the
three pairs of feet tramped to the time of the tune : 

' Now hold thy peace, my sweetheart, and soon ; and sing no mo' ;
Folk will hear you through the valley, as their way to Mass they go.
Another time, when on the heath we meet, and there's none to see.
One little tender love-kiss I will give you  or two, maybe.' "

And to think this is the last pleasant holiday I shall have
to spend here for ever so long  ever so long ! " sighed the
little Count.

To think that I shall have to go home tomorrow, and
then to that horrid school ! Ah, bah ! Christophe, I wish I
were like you ; I wish I had no home but Carnac Heath ! "
The Child of the Menhir winced, and his dark face
darkened. Aymon de Kerdec'h's innocent speech had in it
an unintentional sting to which the foundling was very
sensitive. No home ! no name ! To a Breton, with all the
clinging veneration for birthplace and father's house, which
is so strong in the race, the want was very bitter ; and
though, through the kindness of his foster-parents, the boy
had had little cause to feel it, the sore was still there, and a
chance word would make it smart.

'whatever will you do without me, Genofa?" continued
Aymon, sentimentally, as they entered the hollow lane
which led into the village, where the sunset light fell
through the reddening leaves overhead and chequered the
path at their feet.

Now do say that thou wilt miss me a little  ihoit at
least?"

"There'll be Christophe still," answered Genofa, demurely,
smiling on her other cavalier.

He'll be there to help me with the cows and sheep,
and he can keep them together better than you. Monsieur."
'* 'Yon,' Gerofa ! " returned the boy, half pettishly.

Since when have I become  you ? ' That 's no pronoun
for me, little foster-sister ! "

Yes, but it is. Monsieur Aymon. Mother says that
we're growing up "(the little maiden drew herself up as
she spoke). Yes, growing up, and we're to remember that
you'll be a grand gentleman some day."

Yes, Genofa, dear, and then

But a butterfly flew in between, and the little shepherdess
started in pursuit. Butterflies were more to her
still than shepherd cavaliers, even though one was the
direct heir of the old house of De Kerdec'h.

And so the boys and girls came trooping in, two and two
or the most part, from their holiday on the heath, talking,
laughing, and singing the Anti Like, gay and careless as
the birds.

Old Perik Guenedon and his little granddaughter came
last, as happy a pair, now that the little disappointment
was over, as any of them ; he talking of Shepherds' Holidays
long ago ; she listening, and laughing at jests long since
spoken  sports long since played.

As they passed the old hawthorn tree, which stood, recruited,
before the tailor's door, Yvonne turned her head ;
and there, leaning against the gnarled trunk, was Honarn,
the tailor's son, all alone and sad. Their eyes met, and
there were tears in his.

Poor boy, and so nobody had wanted him either, ii t
even an old grandfather 1

FO STE R-B ROTH Hers.

The wren always loves the thatched roof where he was reared, and the voice of his
brothers."  Breton Proverb.

And thou wilt not forget me, Christophe, dear brother?
Thou wilt not forget me when I'm away grinding over the
books ; no, not if they keep me away from Carnac as long
as they say they will this time ? "

The foster-brothers were going down the hollow lane
together to meet the diligence, their arms round each
other's necks, their feet marching together.

Forget you, Monsieur Aymon ? No, no ; that'll never
be"  the boy's voice shook with earnestness  "I'll never
forget you, never ! But oh ! Monsieur Aymon, it'll be yoic
that'll find it hard to remember ! Perhaps when we meet
again you'll be a great gentleman, and you'll not care to
remember us  me, a simple peasant ! "

The small hand of the little aristocrat pressed the broad
shoulder of the son of the soil, on which it rested ; a soft
dewy look came into the bright, dark eyes, and there was
almost a caress in the voice which answered, in the old
words of the Breton proverb : 

' Ar laoueanik a galata ar toties pe leach e voile genet
ag ar money tis hretideicr ' * and what brother have I
dearer than thee, Christophe?"

The good God bless you, Monsieur Aymon, for that !"
answered the young peasant, fervently; "the good God
reward you for saying that to one who has no brothers ! "

I did think they would have let us make our First
Communion together," continued the little Count, " but
we'll remember each other on the day, Christophe  won't
we?"

"And  and when I grow up I mean often to live at
Chateau Coetmor; and I'll make everybody in the village
happy j and I'll do anything for you that you want,
Christophe, and  "

But in the midst of all the eager promises, the diligence
arrived, and in it the grave, ceremonious man-servant sent
by M. le Comte de Kerdec'h to escort his son, who looked
on with raised eyebrows as he saw his young master
embrace the peasant boy ; and, when the horses were again
on their way, read the young aristocrat a most respectful
lecture on the breach of les convenances of which he
had been guilty.

But Christophe did not hear it. With his wide beaver
doffed, and the wind fanning his dark brow, he stood
watching the diligence till it was out of sight, and then

" The wren always loves the thatched roof where he was reared, and the voice
of his brothers."

'What brother have I dearer than thee, Christophe?' "
he murmured, dwelling on the words in that loving way
which shows how deep they have sunk, "Ay, may the good
God bless him for that ! There's nothing that I wouldn't do
for him after to-day, so help me God ! "

The last words were spoken with solemn reverence,
almost like the taking of a vow ; then the boy drew his
hand across his eyes, as though to brush away the film of
emotion which had risen to dim them.

Little Count Aymon de Kerdec'h, as he sat in the
diligence and listened carelessly to the serious exhortation
of the grave domestic, little knew the fervour of devotion
which those few gracious words, so easily spoken, had
kindled for him in the heart of the foundling.

KEEPING HIS EASTER.

*' Decked like an altar before them there stood the green earth, and above it
Heaven opened itself, as of old, before Stephen ; they saw there,
Radiant in glory, the Father, and on His right hand the Redeemer.
Under them hear they the clang of heartstrings, and angels from gold clouds
Beckon to them like brothers, and fan with their pinions of purple."

Longfellow.

The day of the First Communion, which ought to be a
milestone in every individual life, is most especially so
considered by the young Breton. Ask a boy or girl their
age in that most devout of provinces, whose inhabitants
speak of each other, not as people, but as Christians, and
they will reckon, not by birthdays, but by the number of
Easter Communions which they have celebrated. It is
not " I am fifteen or sixteen," but J'ai fait trois
Parties," or whatever number the years since the Confirmation
]Jay may have allowed of. For those who know
Brittany, it is almost needless to add, that a Breton vho
does not yearly make his Paques is considered too much of
a black sheep well-nigh, to need reckoning at all.

It was the evening of Easter Day. Vespers were over,
and the greater part of the village had turned out in
holiday costume to rove the lanes where the first green

leaves were all a-flutter overhead, and pluck the pale
primroses, or to smell the breeze, sweet with the golden
blossoms of the gorse, as it swept over the great wild
heaths which lie round Carnac hamlet.

One figure only lingered by the Church door, which at
Carnac is in the centre of the village, apart from the sunny
sheltered corner reserved for the grave-yard. This solitary
figure, sitting, half-hidden, on the stone bench within the
great door-way was Christophe, the Child of the Menhir.
To him it was as the first day of the first year; for the
first time in his young life he had knelt before the altar,
with friends, neighbours, and adopted kinsfolk ; and the
boy, who had never known the ties of blood on earth, had,
through those sacred mysteries, been received into the
closest fellowship with the great family in heaven and
earth, who are all called after one Great Stane.

He knew it by the grave kiss with which his foster-parents
turned to greet him, as they crossed the home-threshold
together ; by the hand which each raised to bless
him. He was now their son, not only by fostering care
and by Baptism, where Antonn and Ninorc'h Comorre had
stood for him at the Font, but by another spiritual tie
which lies very close to the deep Breton heart  they had
made their Parties together. Henceforth all in Carnac
received the foundling as, in a manner, their kinsman.

The heart of the boy was very full; his soul was too
overflowing with the thoughts and feelings which had been

VOL. I. E

summoned there by the sacred act of the morning, to join
his companions in their merry hoHday-making ; the first
impressions were too deep, too fresh for him to bear
that the little waves of laughter and light-hearted talk
should sweep over them, and thus perhaps efface them
from his soul.

Beautiful beyond the things of earth are those first pure
aspirations of early dedication  the first-fruits of the soul
offered to its Creator.

But, alas ! the Holy Sign is oftener traced in the soft,
yielding sand, where the lightest ripple will wash it out,
than cut in the enduring rock, from which, though the beat
of many a stormy tide may rob it of its first sharp outline,
yet has no created wave the power to efface it.

Well, let us, at least, on the day of its tracing, guard it
even from the innocent ripple of the world. Too soon
must the tide be faced; let us not go to meet it

Thus Christophe sat in the shadow of the village church,
and mused of high things to be done in the strength of
that morning's meat.

So rapt was the boy in heavenly aspirations that he did
not notice how a shadow fell across the ray of sunlight which
lay outside the great church door, and started violently as a
hand was laid upon his shoulder ; and looking up he saw
the grave face of Bernezz Guenedon before him  the tall,
thin figure, in black, semi-priestly garments, standing in the
doorway, between him and the evening sky.

'' Bernezz !"

"Yes," returned the kloiirek, in answer to his exclamation
of surprise, 

We have some days vacation at the college. I could
not get away till yesterday, I walked over from Auras
and have just been to our house, but not finding anyone in
except the old grandparents, who were asleep on each side
of the fire, I thought to pass the time in church."

Saying this, Bernezz dipt his finger in the holy-water
basin, signed himself, knelt for a moment in prayer, and then
returning, sat down by Christophe on the old stone bench.

"Lad," he said, softly, "why art not with the rest?"

Christophe hesitated a moment, then answered, simply,
"I made my First Communion only this morning."

It is well," returned the kloiirek, in the same hushed
voice. After a pause he added, quoting from "The Canticle
of Paradise," with merely a change of tense :

' The gate of Paradise has been opened for me to enter ;
the holy men and women have come to take my hand !

' I have been received into the palace of the Trinity in
the midst of honours and of songs exceeding sweet, and
Jesus has placed on my head a crown of light ! ' Is it not
so, my Christophe ? Ah, yes ! I know it, I know it !
Have not I, too, known a First Communion day ? "

The look of spiritual exultation which always transformed
the stern, dark face of the kloiirek whenever it came there,
burnt in his eyes as he spoke. Christophe's shy reserve

melted before it. His heart, already full of soft emotions,
rose to meet the comprehending sympathy. He laid his
strong brown hand on the thin fingers of the kloarek.

*' Oh, Bernezz," he said, in a whisper, "it is just like that.
But  it does not seem enough. Is it not all receiving  no
giving? One wants  " He stopped. The peasant felt
unable to express a meaning too deep for the common
words of his every-day life. But the kloarek understood.

' What shall I give unto the Lord for all the benefits
that He hath done unto me'" he said, in that thrilling
tone which his mobile voice could assume at will.

Yes."

Thou would'st offer something in return ?"

Oh, yes ! If there were anything  " he paused in
strong emotion.

 Here we offer and present unto Thee ourselves, our
souls and bodies, to be a reasonable, holy and lively
sacrifice unto Thee,' " returned the kloarek, in the same
thrilling tone, quoting from the Holy Office.

Christophe, lad, that is what I have done ; I have laid
down everything at His feet, and  I am happy !"

His eyes shone as he added the last words in a dreamy
sone, as if to himself.

Christophe, lad," he continued, presently, and his dark
keen eyes were fixed so searchingly on the boy's face that
an uneasy feeling awoke in the breast of the latter \
" Christophe, lad, art ready to do /laf  to offer thyself, soul

and body, as a whole burnt offering ? Lad, can it be that
in thee I find a brother ? "

The feeling of uneasiness grew in the lad's heart.

"What?" he faltered.

The kloJirek bent still nearer, as though he would read
the very soul of his young companion.

Be a priest ! "

Christophe started. So intense was the tone which
Bernezz had thrown in these three words, that in the
stillness they seemed to pierce the listener like a dart.

A priest ! I was not thinking of that. I meant 
Bernezz, how could I be ? I have no vocation."

The boy was greatly startled, greatly troubled ; but the
kloarek did not heed it. He rose.

He that loveth aught earthly more than Christ, is not
worthy to be His disciple," he said, coldly. " No
vocation ! Yes, that is what they all say, and yet "  (his
tone warmed), " Lad, I should have thought that if anyone
were marked out for the holy calling, it would have been
thou ! Without father, without mother, without earthly ties
whatsoever ; no one to claim thy service but God and the
brethren. Even in a worldly point of view, it would give
thee a position  a standing. But, no; it is unworthy to
speak of that. Lad, lad, think ; art sure the good God has
not called thee ?" He stood before Christophe, and again
fixed on him the searching look which sent a superstitious
tremor through the lad's whole being.

'had God called him ? Could it be that it was indeed
his duty ? The lad's heart, taken by surprise, and greatly
troubled, began to question itself.

Bernezz, in his black cassock, stood there waiting. All
was very still, so still that Christophe seemed to hear the
sound of question and answer within him. But it was all
sound, all confusion. Bernezz had come to trouble his
pure and happy dream ; the heavenly images were broken,
as in water ruffled by a storm. Suddenly a distant sound
of laughter rippled the quiet evening air. Merry voices
spoke \ then, clear above the rest, rose a girl's fresh voice,
singing snatches from the soiie of the " Poor Clerk ": 

Oh I to what shall I liken her, that a wrong it shall not be ?
To the pretty little white rose, that is called Rose-Marie ?
The pearl of girls ; the lily when among the flowers it grows,
The lily newly opened, among flowers about to close."

The voice broke off  there was more laughing. Then
another voice took up the song at another place. It was a
man's voice this time : 

Ah, me 1 my stars are froward ; 'gainst nature is my stale ;
Since in this world I came I've creed a dark aud dismal fate :
I have no living kin nor friends, mother or father dear ;
There is no Christian on earth to wish me happy here!"

Christophe started. Strange, were not these almost the
words of Bernezz ?

But before he could think of it Genofa danced up the
village street, crowned with primroses, with her little apron

 " Ballads and Songs of Brittany."

full to overflowing of the same sweet blossoms, leading the
band of holiday makers. How fair she looked with the last
sunbeams touching her golden hair, and her sweet child's
face radiant with quiet happiness !

Christophe ! Christophe ! " she exclaimed, catching
sight of the boy who had risen to his feet, "Why did'st not
come? Where hast thou been all this time? See, do
help me to carry all these."

She held out her sweet yellow burden towards him, and
the boy gathered it up.

I have no living kin nor friends, ?other 7ior father
dear:'

Yes, that was true enough. But was there not Genofa ?
His dear little foster-sister, Genofa ?

And with the sight of Genofa and the primroses, all the
puzzling thoughts about vocation fled away.

After all, he was but a boy yet, and there was plenty of
time to think.

But Bernezz stole into the empty church and prayed.

THE DAY OF THE DEAD.

Then the forms of the departed
Enter at the open door ;
The beloved, the true-hearted,
Come to visit me once more ! "

Longfellow.

The black month'' came, the melancholy month in
which they celebrate the Festival of the Dead ; when, as the
Breton proverb says, " the leaves are less thick upon the
ground than are the souls of the departed in the air."

It was All Souls' Day, and Nature, as well as all the
inhabitants of Carnac, had clothed herself in mourning for
the occasion. The first black frost of the year had nipped
the last blossom in the cottage garden, and bound the
earth with its iron fetters. The leaden sky lowered heavily,
and a dreary, cutting wind whistled in the trees, sending the
dead leaves down in showers upon the graves, and moaning
as it swept over the stiffened blades of grass which grew
there.

All day long the death bell tolled, and the people went
softly, with grave sad faces, each one remembering his dead,
each one thinking on some dear one who had gone before.

So the Bretons call November.

Even the very children hushed their voices as they made
up their Httle offerings of flowers for grandmother's grave,
or to place on the tiny green hillock, under which lay a
baby brother or sister, scarce remembered except in the
prayer said morning and evening at mother's knee.

The bell for vespers was ringing slowly and dolefully
from the belfry of Carnac Church ; the black-robed people
of the village were all in the cemetery, bending over the
graves, placing flowers there, and filling with holy-water the
little receptacles made for this purpose. Some were down
on their knees, praying calmly over bones long since dry ;
others were almost prostrate beside a new-made grave,
watering the withered sod with bitter tears ; while others
again knelt at the Reliqiiaii-e where, according to a strange
Breton custom, were rows of little wooden niches, each
containing a skull, over which could be read the name
which it had borne in life.

In one corner, half kneeling, half leaning upon his staff",
was old Perik Guenedon, looking, not without satisfaction,
at a moss-grown cross inscribed with the names of generations
of his family, and at a little wooden box, something
like a dog-kennel, and evidently just out of the joiner's
hand, in which he had but that morning placed the bones
of his first-born son, who had died as a little child full fifty
years ago.*

It is a curious custom at Carnac, and some other places in Brittany exhume
the bones of relatives when they have been dead about fifty years, and put them,
enclosed in little boxes, on the graves of those more recently buried.

"Yes, thanks be to God and the Saints ! all that is left
on earth of my poor Bernezz now rests above the bones of
his mother!" said old Perik to a friend who stood near.

"It is not many parents who live long enough to do
that for their children, and not every one who can spend so
much on their dead. Holy Virgin ! how I have had to
save to get it done, now food is so dear and taxes so high
But it is worth it to bring them together on the same spot of
sacred ground, as I hope we shall all meet in Paradise one
day. The Saints grant that some one may do as much for
rae when viy time comes, neighbour! Poor dear oldwife,
and thou my little son Bernezz, the knowledge of
what has been done this day will ease your souls in
Purgatory  I know it will !"

So old Perik maundered on, as he looked with ever-increasing
satisfaction at his little wooden box, and compared
it with some resting on other graves.

Little Bernezz has got the finest in all the cemetery I
do believe," was his concluding remark, and the thought
seemed to comfort him greatly.

Under a weeping willow, whose last yellow leaves were
showered at every blast upon her white-capped head, knelt
Ninorc'h, carefully clearing the dead flowers from the tiny
green grave of her lost baby. Not till every blade of grass
which grew there had been stroked into order by her
fingers, and a long ivy-tendril twined round the little wooden
cross, did the mother rise, and then it was only to throw

away the weeds. She soon knelt again, and with folded
hands prayed long and earnestly. Tender words were
whispered by her lips, gentle supplications to the Mother
Maid, who, like her, had known what it is to love a child,
mingled with soft words addressed to her little angel in
Heaven, who had died without spot of sin  all fresh from
baptism  that he would pray for little Mao, his brother
innocent upon earth, and for all at home. This yearly
commemoration was very sweet to Ninorc'h ; it seemed to
bring her into such close communion with her baby, that
sometimes she vas tempted to believe that the wind
whispering in the willow leaves was the voice of her little
one answering her from Heaven. Nor did anyone notice
her. All there seemed to have their special grave, which
absorbed all their attention ; some even had many, and
scrupulously divided their prayers, that none of the absent
might feel themselves neglected. Even Yvonne and Genofa
had each their grave ; the former had lost her grandmother
in the harvest-time, and her tears, scarcely dried
from the first agony of parting, flowed afresh as she knelt ;
while Genofa laid her little offering of autumn flowers on
the small mound which covered the body of a girl friend
who had been very dear to her. Only Christophe had no
one there. He had come with his foster-mother and sister
to carry their offerings for them, and now stood unnoticed
and alone by the gate, leaning on the topmast rail, and
watching all the village as it went and came ; the dead for

once, on this one day of the year, occupying all the thoughts
and attention of the living.

No one noticed Christophe ; he was alive, and there were
no thoughts to spare for him on the Day of the Dead. And
yet the boy was more to be pitied than many who wept and
prayed by the long green graves.

He had no grave, none belonging to him lay in this holy
plot of ground to be tended and cared for. All the village
had their ties with the other world; their kinsfolk and
friends lay here in their midst, and could be visited and
prayed for at any moment. His were  where? He alone
vas bound by no ties of kindred to this peaceful spot  the
village mourned together ; he was as a soul shut out.
Where were they  father, mother, kin ? Had he any, or
was he only what the village called him  a Child of the
Menhir  nameless !  never to be claimed?

Tears gathered in the boy's eyes. What of that ?

The wind dried them. No one noticed.

I have no living kin nor friends, mother nor father dear!
There is no Christian on earth to wish me happy here !"

The trees, as they rustled drearily, seemed to whisper the
words to him. They seemed made for him.

But was there really no one on earth to " wish him
happy ? "

He looked at his foster-relations. They were all absorbed
in their dead. All were very kind to him. Yes, but he was
not of their kin, and perhaps some day  who could tell ? 

they might tire of him. There was no tie of blood to bind
them to him. He had heard the neighbours say that once,
when they did not know he was by. Could it be true ?

Such thoughts as these were as the whispers of Christophe's
bad angel. They did not often visit him, but there
were times, black times, when the air seemed full of them.
Such was All Souls' Day. He generally spent it away from
home to avoid a sight which called up the memory of his
forlorn condition ; but his foster-family did not like his
absence from the general commemoration, and to-day
Genofa had forestalled it by specially asking him to carry
her offerings, and there were few things he could refuse
Genofa. So he had come, though all the time he would
fain have been away.

Would God that I had a father and mother like the
rest !" was the yearning prayer of the boy's heart. " Would
God I had, even though they lay in the grave !" The
words seemed to say themselves over in his heart all the
time of vespers, when the black-robed village people were
kneeling in prayer for their dead, in the parish church
where these had been wont to kneel in life. The same
thought, intense, despairing, haunted him while he walked
in procession with the rest round the cemetery to see Dom
Clemens bless the tombs. It made him silent and moody
at the supper, which was eaten in awestruck solemnity,
like the old Jewish Passover, to the doleful sound of the
death-bell, swinging heavily in the church hard by, where

the priests were singing their Masses for the Dead. But no
one remarked his sadness, for all were sad, or at least
seemed so.

After supper, Ninorc'h and Genofa re-arranged the table,
placed the bread and meat in order, and left the chairs
before each place, that the souls of the departed, set free
that night, and permitted to retake forms which they had
worn in life, might have wherewithal to regale themselves, if
it should please them to revisit their old home.* The fire,
too, was made up and replenished, for, said Ninorc'h, half
to herself, as she swept the hearth, " They will be a-cold,
poor things, this dreary night ; they will need to warm
their bloodless fingers ! Where will thou sit, my sweet
angel ? Ah, me ! that I could see thee !" She sighed, and
outside there came an echo to her sigh, long-drawn and
very dreary. Ninorc'h started, half repenting of her wish.

Hark ! Antonn," she whispered, " what was that?"

"twas but the wind," answered her husband. "See,
Ninorc'h, it has not yet struck twelve. But, let us hasten ;
'tis not good to be out of bed when the midnight bell rings.
Who can say what we might see ?"

He crossed himself with a shudder, and the whole
family, following his example, retired to bed.

The fire crackled and burnt red ; the flickering flame,
now bringing into relief the sacred monogram, carved in
polished oak over the sliding door of each of the box-beds

A Breton superstition.

which lined the walls, now making it vanish again into
gloom. The wind moaned among the withered foliage,
and tapped the ivy leaves against the windows. Twelve
struck from the kitchen clock, and then was taken up by
the deep bell of the parish church. As the last stroke died
away, the death knell for the departed began again to tall.
Shuddering fell each stroke upon the cold night air, and
many a heart shuddered in response. Then there was
silence  waiting, expectant silence.

Ninorc'h hushed her breath.

Hark ! there it was  the voice of the sonneur des ames,
the Death Watchman of Old Brittany : 

Awake, O, sleepers  rise from bed !
Pray unto God  pray for the dead ''

Then the mother's hands joined, and her trembling
lips prayed half-audibly for her little dead babe and for
the souls of all the family.

Scarcely was her prayer ended  scarcely had the voice
of the Monsieur died away down the village street  than
many voices rose to take its place  voices of old men,
weak women, Httle children  plaintive, quavering, shrilly
sad, mingled with moans and sobs and wails of the wind.

First it was all murmur  confusion of sound; then, as the
voices became nearer, order seemed to form itself among
the chaos of mingling sound; and an air, with words joined
to it, came to the listening ear. It was :

THE SONG OF THE SOULS IN PAIN.'

' By Father, Son, and Holy Ghost,

We greet this house, its head and host,
Greeting and health to great and small 
And bid you all to praying fall.

' When Death knocks, with his hand so thin,
At midnight, asking to come in.
No heart but with a quake doth sap'.
Who is it Death would take away V

' And you, be not amazed, therefore.
If we the Dead stand at the door ;
'Tis Jesus bids us hither creep
To waken you, if chance you sleep.

' To wake you in this house that bide 
To wake you, old and young beside ;
If ruth, alack, live under sky,
For succour in God's name we crj' !

' Brothers and friends and kinsmen all,
In God's name, hear us when we call ;
In God's name, pray for us  pray sore,
Our children, ah, they pray no more !

' They that we fed upon the breast,
Long since to think of us have ceased :
They that we held to our heart's core.
Hold us in loving thought no more I

' My son, my daughter, daintily.
On warm soft feather-beds ye lie ;
Whilst I your mother, I your sire,
SccH-ch in the purgatory fire.

' All soft and still and warm ye lie,
The poor souls toss in agony :
Ye draw your breaths in quiet sleep.
Poor souls in pain their watching keep.

From " Ballads and Songs of Brittany."

A white shroud and fi\-e planks for l:)ed 
A sack of straw beneath the head ;
And over it five feet of clay,
Are all Earth's goods we take away.

We lie in fire and anguish-sweat, 
Fire over head, fire under feet :
Fire all above, fire all below 
Pray for the souls that writhe in woe !

Aforetime when on earth we moved,
Parents we had and friends that loved ;
But now that we are dead and gone,
Parents and lovers we have none !

Succour, in God's name, you that niaj" :
Unto the Blessed Virgin pray,
A drop of her dear milk to shed.
One drop on poor souls sore bestead I

Up from your beds, and speedily,
And throw yourselves on bended knee !
Save those whose ailments sore make lame,
Or Death already calls by name 1"

It is impossible to render the inexpressible sadness ot
this lament. Though the family at the farm had heard
it year by year  though they knew that the melancholy
voices were those of the wandering beggars, who always-crowded
to the hamlets for the yearly commemoration  yet.
they could not divest themselves of the shuddering feeling
that it was, indeed, the souls of their dead who were pleading
for their prayers. Indeed, Breton superstition clings to the
belief that the departed really come ; that it is really they
who knock at the doors in this midnight hour, under the
form of the homeless and suffering,

Wot,. I. F

'*I, your mother  I, your sire"  could it be, could it
possibly be, that the soul of a parent stood there without in
the cold, asking for prayers? Christophe, like the others,
had risen in his bed ; a strange, wild belief took possession
of his soul ; he seemed to feel that someone belonging to
him might be very near, and with pale, nervous lips he
repeated the Prayer for the Dead.

The voices swept on ; yet there was a sound as of footsteps
on the threshold, then a knock, as from an oaken
staff, sounded on the door.

Ninorc'h and Genofa trembled ; but Antonn crossed the
floor without more than a passing heart-beat. Night of
the Dead though it was, he knew that the wandering
beggars, taking advantage of the superstition concerning
them, would often ask for hospitality in the name of the
departed. It might be  nay, he was almost certain it
could only be  one of them, and if  (the cold dew broke
out on Antonn's brow as the thought struck him)  if it
should be a soul  well, then, the good God who had sentit,
keep him from harm ! Whereupon Antonn reached the
door, and, in a tolerably firm voice, challenged the visitor :

** In God's name, who knocks ? "

In God's name. Christian, and for the sake of the dead,
let me in, or I perish with cold and hunger !"

*' A human voice by the sound, the saints be praised !
Well, then, in God's name "  and crossing himself thrice,
Antonn opened the door.

Matelinn Gourven !"

"The same, as you see, friend Antonn Comorre,"
answered the klaskervara, for he it was.

Why, it is years since I set eyes on you ! I heard  "
Antonn lowered his voice and stepped back a little as his
visitor entered  " they / say in the parishes that  that  "

That I was dead! Well, what of that ? Nay, never
fear, Antonn ; I'm in the body yet, wretched though it be.
Ay, ay, man, folks will talk ; but Matelinn Gourven's not
dead yet. Be a good Christian, though, Antonn ; let me
have bite and sup, and sleep my sleep out here by the fire
before you ask me any more questions, .I'm as famished and
weary as the souls in pain. There, there, Pax Vobiscum as
the priests say, Go rest, and peace be with you all ! Sure,
every bite and sup 1 eat at your table this night will be
counted as a day less for your dead in purgatory. There,
goodnight, gentlemen and ladies, and the company. Sleep
well, I'll not forget you in my prayers."

Now, saj-, what is thy heart's desire ?
'Tis thine, whate'er thou may'st require.

Oh ! Thou that modest Earth and Heaven,
A bitter cup to me is given !"

Ballads and Songs of Brittany.

And so, Antonn, that's the boy  the Child of the
Menhir  eh ? " Matelinn chuckled.

Well, well, I see thought done bravely by him, and I
thank thee, friend. I shall have reason to be proud of
my lad  I see that."

 T/iy lad?" Antonn Comorre had felt a movement of
indignation at the ''thou " addressed to him by the beggar ;
but there was that in his speech which made him forget the
familiarity  nay, use it in return.

Ay, my lad, friend Antonn. What dost think? Should
I have insulted thee by placing him in thy family if he had
been a nameless brat  a mere foundling ?"

*' Not even this last audacity could draw Antonn from
the troubled surprise and bewilderment which had fallen
upon him.

Come, come, Matelinn Gourven, no more of this

jesting ! Why, you told me when you brought the child
here that he was none of yours ; and when you have seen
him since  how long is it ago ? No matter, you never
claimed him even then !"

The klaskervara chuckled, as at a good joke.
'' Well, then, friend Antonn, what of that ? How should
we get on in the world, we poor soldiers of the ragged
regiment, if it were not for our little innocent stratagems ?
Airs fair in love and war, thou knowest, friend Antonn.
Come, now, don't accuse me of telling thee lies. I never
said he wasn't mine. I said I found him, and so I did  a
poor little starving thing at the foot of the menhir down by
the little Saint-Michel there ; and if I hadn't had pity on
him, he'd have died there as his mother did. So, so! that's
all the thanks I get ! Never scowl at me like that, lad !
Come, my son  come and embrace thy father !"
It was the morning after the Day of the Dead.
The cold grey November daylight had come back to the
world, chasing the shadows before it; and the ghostly
beings, who had haunted all hearts and minds on the
preceding evening, had, all but those most recently lost,
retreated again into the background of memory. Forgotten
? No; those whom we have dearly loved in life
can never be wholly that ; rather laid aside reverently in
the depths of the heart with other sacred dormant memories
which will not bear the common light and handling of
every day, as we shut up the tokens which they have left

with our greatest treasures, and lay sweet sprigs of lavender
in between.

Neglected? Ah ! no, ye lost and dead, not that !

Would ye, who love us best, wish to lie so on our
memories, so in our thoughts, that the torn void there left
when your living presence was uprooted, should fester
ever?  that our eyes should weep so with constant looking
at your empty places  that they became all too dim for
daily work ?

That can I never believe. Rather would ye that we
should embalm your memory in our inmost thoughts,
and hold it there  not to freeze us, not to pain  but to
warm, to soften, to encourage ; to be remembered, not so
much before men as before God.

Rudely did the klaskervara break in upon the folding
up of these tender memories. The rough anxieties of life
sadly bruised the sacred thoughts of the other world which
still lingered in every heart on Antonn's farm. Ninorc'h
and Antonn had been gently grieving over the memory of
their little dead son in Paradise. Now a living one, adopted
in his stead, loved, as the tiny infant had not had time to
be, was about to be snatched from them. They sat mute,
half-stunned, too much taken by surprise almost to question
the truth of what had just been announced to them.

As for the boy, lie had stopped suddenly in crossing the
room, and stood there, as though paralysed by the words
he had heard. White, trembling, aghast he stood, trying to

understand  sickening, as the meaning of the words
dawned upon him.

My son !" the title struck him like a blow.

Son ! Son to Matelinn Gourven, the beggar, the seeker
of bread, the subsister on public charity, to whom the good
wives flung their brown coasts and cheese-rinds as they did
to the pigs ! Matelinn Gourven, with his beggar's wallet
and long staff, with his filthy clothes and grimy face, with a
countenance which spoke of a soul within, more filthy and
grimy still ! Matelinn Gourven, at whom the village boys
jeered as a sly cheat, who had no need to beg at all were it
not for his laziness. Matelinn Gourven, at whom, whenas
a little boy, he saw him last, he had himself pointed the
finger, and, in allusion to the goat-keeping village of which
he was popularly believed to be a native, had screamed
with the rest

Porscorif Bridge
Goats' flesh, Bee ! "

This his father \  This ! this!

Would to God I had a father and mother ! " The wish
had been in his mind so strongly all the day before that it
had been as a prayer. Was (lod answering it  and thus ?
If this man were his father, what must his mother have
been? The question brought a strong shudder. Matelinn
had said she was dead. Well, let her rest, 'twas better so ;
enough to have such a father, and alive 1 Yes, alive
Better the dumb, cold stone after which they named him

than this. Better to have remained the unknown Child of
the Menhir all his life.

These thoughts flashed, like scathing lightning, through
the boy's mind, in the momentary pause during which he
faced the man who claimed him as a son, without further
speech on either side.

Matelinn Gourven had said, " Come, my son, embrace
thy father !" and then had stopped as though expectant,
the leer in his little grey eyes, the sarcastic smile on his thin
lips spreading gradually over all his face, he read, while
as in an open book, the horror, disgust and repugnance on
the countenance of the boy.

So, so, youngster," he said at last, in that level, acid
tone, which, like the thin scum on foul water, hides, while it
indicates, something worse beneath. *' So, youngster, thou
dost not seem so delighted as might have been expected to
find thy father ! Don't be shy, boy ; thou and I will know

each other better ere long, and then by-the-by, what

do they call thee ? I did not attend the christening, but
doubtless our good friends here saw to that. I knew them
to be good Christians when I placed thee with them. Eh,
friend Antonn?

This last speech was almost too much for the honest
Breton farmer. He shook himself from his stupefaction,
and brought his right hand dowai on his knee with a
resolute smack.

Enough of this, Matelinn Gourven," he said. You've

had bite and sup, and night's lodging too, and you're
welcome to it j I was never the man to grudge what I gave
to God's poor \ but don't begin to pay me back in any of
your evil coin. It's time I went a-field, and the good wife
wants the kitchen fire. Take thy wallet, and trudge."

"Ay, ay, friend Antonn, I'm ready whenever the boy is.
Come, lad, make thy farewells, and pay thy thanks to these
good people."

What ! You mean to take him ? "

"Ay!"

And why, in the name of our holy St. Corneille, if hebe
thy son, this sudden claiming of him ? Heaven send me
patience ! 'Tis all a riddle to me."

A riddle easily read then, friend Antonn. Stay, and
I'll give thee the word of the enigma. 'Tis a short one 
piilaiucr/' Thou knowest what that means  eh, my
friend ?"

Antonn stamped.

If I know what it means ? You've come to insult me,
then, Matelinn Gourven, for example ? Therefore no rags
here !"

"Ah, ha! wait a bit; I'll come back later," laughed
Matelinn, using the customary sarcasm of the dismissed
rag-merchant, in reply to Antonn's words.

But come, Antonn Comorre, don't excite thyself so
much ; 'tis bad for the heart, not to mention the soul  least

A Rag Merchant.

of all the digestion. See, then, this is how it is. My
brother, the piHaiver, is just dead  the Saints rest this
soul!  and he's left me his horse and panniers, his donkey,
and all his little business. Now, as a simple klaskervara I
was better unincumbered, and I was loth to take my boy
from you, knowing he was useful ; but now it's a little
different. I want him to help me with the business, and
it's a good prospect for him  a good prospect. Hin ?"

A good prospect ! Take your good prospects to the
Horned Angel's and begone !"

Antonn shook his fist, and grew crimson with rage.

See, rascal of a klaskervara, you bring your beggar's
brat to me and fool me with a story of holy charity, and
then, when he is up and become as mine own, you come
and steal him, and pay me with impudence ! I'll tell you

what, Matelinn Gourven, if Heavens ! What have I

said? Never look at me like that, Christopher, my boy!
Thou knowest thought been welcome for thine own sake,
and ril stand by thee always ; but if he lee thy father, why

then Come, Ninorc'h, my wife, don't take on so !

Heaven send me patience, for I'm at the end of mine own,
and Old Williams's running away with my tongue ! "

Poor Antonn wiped his brow and sat down helplessly.
Ninorc'h rose, went to the boy, who still stood in the
middle of the floor, took his hand, and leaning her head

One of the Breton names for the Evil One.
t Another Breton appellation for the same.

on his shoulder, broke into sobs, which were echoed by the
innocent in the chimney-corner.

Christophe took no notice of any of them. His foster-mother's
tears dropped upon his hand  he did not seem
to feel them. His foster-father fumed, and uttered little
Breton exclamations (which will not bear translating) in a
low, growling tone ; the klaskervara sat, calmly munching
the remains of his breakfast, waiting for the storm to subside.
Christophe stood there and paid no heed. The boy
was trembling with suppressed emotion of various kinds.
Every word of the foregoing conversation had struck him
as so many blows  blows dealt on one who is already half-stunned
j two utterances had been as dagger-thrusts.

The  my son " of the klaskervara. " Your beggar's brats
spoken in heat by Antonn Comorre.

'* Beggar's brat ! " This then, was what they held him 
they on whose love he had so long rested ! Now was he an
outcast indeed. Oh ! it was hard  hard ! Beggar's brat !
How the name stung him ! Well, if they called him so, let
him be so, indeed. He would not stay to shame their
honest dwelling ; he would go with this man who claimed
him.

Indignant pride braced the heart, torn and bleeding with
sorrow and dismay. Gently disengaging himself from his
foster-mother, the boy moved forward and stood before
Antonn Comorre.

"Good-bye," he said, in a low, constrained voice 

Good-bye, and may God reward you for what you have

done for " the word seemed to stick in his throat, but

he resolutely brought it out, *' the beggar's brat !"

Antonn Comorre looked up, and a sob shook his hardy
frame.

No, no, my boy  my son (for thou ait my foster-son,
Christophe, whoever else may claim thee) ; do not let us
part like this. Perhaps it's all a tale. Stay, I'll consult
Dom Clemencz-he's a wise man; though if this he thy

father, why then lad, lad : but it'll go hard to part with

thee : "

The Breton respect for the rights of a father over his son,
struggled with intense reluctance to let the boy, whom he
sud come to look on as his son, go  and with such a man !
Antonn Comorre gazed at the boy with a wistful, puzzled
expression. The question raised was too knotty for him.

But Christophe cut the knot. He turned to the klas-
ferrara, whom before lie had resolutely ignored. "Tell
me, have you spoken truili ?" he asked briefly.

Matelinn looked up from his breakfast and nodded  his
mouth was too busy for words.

Well then, I will go," continued the boy, again addressing
his foster-either, and speaking in the same constrained
tone. " It is better so. God bless you all ! Good-bye,
mother ; don't forget me quite, and don't let Genofa forget
me. rd have liked to say good bye only she's out,
and I can't wait."

There was a catch of the breath, as at some inward pain ;
but the dark face was perfectly calm, and the firmly set lips
which kissed the weeping Ninorc'h did not even tremble.

Ninorc'h looked up at their touch  a dumb, pleading look
on the white, quivering features, which was beyond all
words. So might a mother sheep look after the lamb
which is being carried away from her.

It touched Christophe to the quick, and nearly broke
down the proud reserve. He put out his hand, then drew
it back hastily, and turned again to the klaskervara. " Let
us go," he said, and without waiting for a reply, left the
house.

'' So, so, the young rascal's in a hurry," said Matelinn,
with a regretful look at the eatables which still remained
on the table.

I did'nt think he'd have been quite so keen. However,
blood's thicker than water, when all's said and done, and
you have my thanks, good friends, for all you've done for
him. The saints keep you." And shouldering his walk,
the ex-klaskervara took his leave, unsped.

Meanwhile Christophe strode down the hollow lane away
from the farm-house, looking neither to right nor left ; not
daring to think, lest the horror of what had come, and was
coming upon him, should rush in upon his soul, and sweep
away his resolution before it was fully carried out.

He dared not realize what had happened ; he dared not
take his eyes from the ground, lest the sight of the well-known

land-marks of the little robin piping up there among
the withered leaves of the elm-trees  of the old mossy
well round the corner should bring down the tears
which throbbed behind his eye-balls. Fain would
he have shut his ears to the robin's song, to the
bubbling of the water, which sounded louder and
louder as he neared the corner of the lane ; but he could
not. Yet they hurt him. "Stop and think," they seemed
to say,  " will you leave us without a look, Christophe ? "

''Chrktophe!''

It was neither robin nor water which uttered his name
this time, but the tone was just as sweet.

The boy looked up with a start, and there beside the old
well, with one brown pitcher full at her feet, and the other
filling at the spout, round which the mosses clustered and
the red leaves fell, was Genofa.

"Christophe! what's the matter? Where are you
going?"

He stopped and stared at her without a word.

"Christophe," went on the little maiden, presently,
"Don't be cross. Come, I want you to help me home
with the pitchers."

I can't."

Why ?  They're so heavy ! "

"Genofa Oh, Genofa!"

Christine, in the name of Heaven, what's the matter?"
The child was startled at the tone of the voice, at t-he

look on the pale face of her playfellow. She forgot her
pitcher, and let the water fill it and overflow its brown sides.

I'm going away."

Where ? " Why ? "

"Where?  I don't know. Why?  Because my father
wants me."

He gulped over the word.

"Father? Never! He wouldn't want thee to go,
Christophe, I know he wouldn't. It's a joke  that's what it
is, and I don't like such jokes, Christophe."

"A joke. Would to God it were ! "

But I don't understand. leather hasn't sent thee away
I'm sure of that."

I wasn't speaking oi thy father, Genofa, but of uiinc.''

Thine ! But, Christophe, thou hast no "

She stopped.

But they say I have."

"Who? The Menhir? Christophe, dear Christophe!
don't look like that ! "

Tears sprang to the pretty eyes; the red lips quivered.
Christophe could not bear it any longer. He felt his eyes
clouding, his lips trembling also, and he would not cry no
he would not.

Good-bye,, little sister," he said, stooping down to kiss
the child's smooth brow, " Don't forget rae ! "

'* But, Christophe, is it true ? Has thy father come ? Is
he some one grand  a viscount, perhaps ?  a baron ? Oh

Christophe, is he like the father we used to make stories
about when we were little,  dost remember ? Is he "

She paused and turned her head to listen. There were
sounds round the corner of the lane the tread of animals,
the heavy footfall of a man, the cracking of a switch, and a
rough voice scolding, swearing. Christophe turned his
head also.

Round the corner came the klaskervara  or rather the
piilawer, as he now styled himself  leading by the bridle an
old pack-horse, lean, raw-boned, jaded by travel and blows
and burdens; and, urged on by stripes from his switch,
rough words and oaths, a little brown donkey in front, with
a pair of panniers slung across its back. Driver and
animals were alike  dirty and ill-kept ; the latter added old
age and starvation to the evils which they shared in
common with their master. Well for them that they did
not share the low cunning and cruel look which was the
ordinary expression of his face when free from observation.

'' That is my father, Genofa."

That: Oh, Christophe ! "

Hush ! Good-bye, little sister 1 "

He stooped again to kiss lier, but started with a shiver,
as the pillar's rough voice ceased its oaths for a moment
to address him.

So here thou art, boy ? I thought thought given me

the slip. If thou hadst, by " (here an apostrophe came

in, very different to the pious ones which the good wives of

the country were accustomed to hear from the lips of

Matelinn Gourven) " if thou hadst and I'd caught thee

again, I'd have made this switch and thy shoulders well
acquainted, my son  so I would ! Come, look sharp ! 
take the donkey's bridle, and trudge."

Christopher dark face grew a shade paler, his eyebrows
contracted as with pain ; but without a word he took the
bridle, and the strange pair went down the lane together.

Genofa watched them till they ware out of sight, too
much struck with astonishment to move or speak ; then,
when even the sound of their footsteps had almost died
away on the calm autumn air, she threw her little apron
over her face and burst out crying.

VOL. ].

%\\( itUatoer

BOOK II. THE Pillar.

CHAPTER I.

ARISTOCRATIC.

on the left.

The well-born, on the right the merest nob,
To treat as equals !  'tis anarchical."

E. B. Browning  Arirnra Laioh.

The Chateau de Kerdec'li stands among the poplars and
apple orchards of North Brittany. Trees hedge it in on
every side, yet not so thickly as to exclude the warm sunbeams
which slide between the leafage in summer time and
the brown network or branches in winter, to bask on its
strong grey walls and little pointed turrets ; for the san
seems to love the gentle southern slope where the Comtes
de Kerdec'h have built then home. Little is left of the
castle now ; i: is more than half unroofed, and the black
touch of fire may still be seen upon the stones which would
not burn. But in 1788 it was still in all its glory. The
long avenue of smooth-bolted beeches which led up to the

entrance gate was well kept, and free from the grass and
weeds which carpet it now ; the stone griffins of Kerdec'h
still guarded the great stone pillars of the gate itself, and
the flower-garden and tennis-court within, winter though it
was, were not untended.

The wintry sun lead sunk, round and red, behind the
leafless woods and hedgerows ; the windows of the chateau,
which looked west, were just losing its ruddy glow, and
the sun-sparkles were dying out of the light snow-powder
upon coping and pinnacle, to give place to the moon-sparkles
which would soon be lit there by the great white
orb, whose silver rim was already appearing over against
the sunset. Through the windows of the long withdrawing-room
anyone standing outside might have seen a valet de
diamhre moving up and down, touching turn by turn, With
a point of fire, the white wax candles which branched
from the wall, while another bore in the beechen log which
was to serve for the evening's fuel.

Madame la Comtesse was standing beside the window-looking
down the avenue, with the red glow of the dying
west on lier pale face and powdered hair, while Mademoiselle
Renee de Kerdec'h, her daughter, kneeled before
the fire, playing with a small silken-eared spaniel.

There they are !" exclaimed Madame, presently, waving
her hand till the deep lace ruffles fell back and showed her
white arm to the elbow. " See, Renee, how well Aymon
looks ! Ciel, low he is grown ; thou wilt hardly knoAv him

again  thou ! Say, dearest, how long is it since thou hast
seen him ? Thou wast at thy convent last time he was
here's"'

"Ah! Afaman, I know not," returned the young lady,
forsaking Finet to join her mother at the window. "But
truly he is grown, one would not say I was two years
older than he ! Ah ! they have seen us ; father waves his
hand, and Aymon is kissing his finger-tips," and Rente
nodded and waved energetically in return.

There they are round the corner  I hear their horses'
hoofs on the stone pavement of the court. Maman, may
I go to the door?"

"But, certainly, little one  see, I will go with thee.
Ah, but it is good to see them come safely home !
Saying which, Madame la Comtesse de Kerdec'h swept her
ricci velvet skirts in the wake of her daughter across the
salon and over the marble pavement of the entrance hall.

If Mademoiselle's quicker movements gained her the
first kiss of father and brother, the greetings received by
Madame were not less warm, and it was she who hung upon
her husband's arm and looked up into the finely-moulded,
aristocratic face, with the delicate eyebrows and hair, just
beginning to be powdered by age, which belonged to the
Comte de Kerdec'h. By the tender look in hers, it would
seem that she loved that face ; and yet to most eyes there
was a hardness, a sternness in it, as of one who would press
on to the mark, set for attainment by the owner's will, without

much ruth tor what the feet must trample to reach it : an
unbending Draco, who would carry out a severe law to the
very last letter.

M. le Comte is very just," was a common comment on
him, but it was hardly said in praise; and if few could
blame, few seemed to love him. There was one thing
wliicli. as some said, could warp this fine-drawn justice
beyond the hard straight line which divides it from tyranny,
and that was a breath on the proud name he bore. Touch
that, were it but by a whisper, and the punishment might
be more than just ; not only the pound of flesh, but the
blood with it. Yet withal the De Kerdec'hs did not stand
ill among the landlords of their day, and not a few among
the peasants on their estates would have given their right
hands for Madame.

"Ah! Raoul, how good it is to see thee back !" murmured
the little (Countess, looking fondly up in her
husband's face with her soft dark eyes. " It seems so
long since we parted, and the weather has been so dreary
ah ! so dreary."

She shivered a little, and a grave smile dawned on his
severe countenance.

'' So dreary ? Ah ! not to-day, at any rate ; the sun on
the snov/ I. as been almost too brilliant. Things look
brighter here in our Brittany than they do in Paris, I can
tell thee, little wife."

Ah ! yes, tell me about Paris. I used to think it must

be nice there in winter time. I remember when you
took me there, just after we were married, Raoul ; it was
not winter then, but ah ! how beautiful it was and how
bright ! Blanche de Flochic, who was my friend as a girl,
married a gentleman of the Court, and I used to envy hera

little ah ! now, don't look so grave, it was before I

knew thee, my friend !"

Did I look grave, Glauda? Well, I was not thinking
of that ; but there are sad things to be seen and heard
in Paris now-a-days. We in the country are far better off
far better, even when it is dreary weather, as thou mayest,
little wife. But we will talk further afterwards. There's
Aymon  the lad's starving; we have pushed on too quickly,
since the diligence set us down, to think of eating."

To get home the faster ? Ah ! my friend, that was
good ! But come, you shall have your reward. Supper's
served, and it is a good one  I saw to that."

'rand how is Renaud?" asked the Comte, presently,
when, having removed his travelling-dress, and satisfied the
first pangs of hunger, he was able to think a little about
other things of less pressing moment.

*' Eenaud ? Oh, much as usual ! He has not left his
room since we parted from thee, dear friend."

Not left his room ? How is that ? Henri should have
seen to it; it is not good for him to be cooped up like
that."

"Alas ! dear friend, but when the mind "

The Count's brow contracted.

Hush. Glauda," he said, putting up his hand, '' It
pains me to hear this strange illness spoken of like that.

There is hope  there must be ! Heaven Knows " he

stopped in agitation.

Madame de Kerdec'h looked up quickly.

"Ah, yes, dear Raoul, everyone knows  everyone
admires. If ever man had a devoted brother it is Renaud.
Alas ! poor soul, if devotion could save him, he has it and
plenty."

The Count averted his face.

"Enough," he said, "we will adjourn to his room after
supper. I consulted a famous physician in Paris, and he
particularly recommends cheerful society and conversation.
Well, Aymon, my son, hast satisfied the wolf?"

mademoiselle Renee started.

The wolf, dear Father?"

Ay, mademoiselle, the wolf! Didst ever see a boy eat
like that before? Thou hadst none such in thy convent,
I'll be bound."

Aymon laughed.

And she never had such a day's journey as icc have lead,
I'll be bound. Hun ! I can guess now how those poor
canaille feel whom we saw in Paris, swaying by the cord at
the bakers' doors, waiting their turn to be served with
pennyworth of bread."

How was iliad, Aymon ?"

'show was that, sister? Yes, yes, you in the convent
kn Av little enough how it tels to be starving, I'll warrant.
Fast-days? Yes, yes, I know  a little fish instead of a
great deal of meat, that's all it is wuh you. No, sister,
those I'aris people's fasting is quite another matter."

Well, since we have broken our fast so well, we will goto
your uncle's room, children," said the Count, rising from
table. *' Come, Renee, don't look so grave; thou art too
tender-hearted, little one. It is sad enough about the
Paris people, without doubt; but they are sadly tumultuous
and impertinent, sometimes; and if they were to be too
well-fed, who knows where their insolence might stop.
Fancy an old dame shaking her fist at her jNIajesty's
carriage-window one day. Ah! I thought that would bring
back the colour, little one."

r. de Kerdec'li rose, took a wax light, and went upstairs,
followed by his family.

THE CHEVALIER DE KERDEC'h.

iWfH, Forgetfulness

First Spirit. Of what  of whom and why V
Man. Of that which is within me; read it there
Ye know it, and I cannot litter it!

BvKuN. )fa.ifrcd.

After traversing several passages, the Count stopped at a
door in the west wing of the chateau, before which hung a
tapestry curtain. This he pushed aside, put up his hand to
knock, withdrew it, and remained listening.

Music was coming from within  the strange wild music
of the Breton national instrument  the biniou, a species of
bagpipes. Presently this ceased, and a voice began to sing
some words to an odd, wailing chant  monotonous, yet
with a strange ring of bitterness in it, rising at times to a
sharp agony. It was a man's voice that sang  a voice
which would have been a fine one but for occasional
discords, which showed that it was not quite under the
singer's control.

The words of the chant were Breton, and may be roughly
translated thus : 

*' ' Like a flowery field o'er which the bitter herbs have
crept, is my soul o'erwhelmed with anguish.

' y[y sorrow is continual \ I drink my grief with every
breathed am as the dove, reft of her mate.

' ' My loving heart broke in two parts when I learnt this
news : some of my friends told me
That slanderers wert busy in culling a bouquet forme
and my heart's beloved.

'A bouquet to separate us, my sweet mistress and mea
bouquet composed of four flowers :
Grief, melancholy, sorrow of spirit, and care.

O, miserable calumniators I ' "

Here M. de Kerdec'h knocked, and the voice broke off.
An elderly man-servant came to the door and opened it.
M. le Comte is then returned ?" he said, respectfully.
Yes. Can M. Renaud receive us this evening ?"
Certainly. Enter messieurs et mesdames
He opened the door, spoke for a moment in a low voice to
the occupant of the room, and retired into the background.
There were wax lights burning here, as in the salon downstairs.
Thick curtains were drawn before the windows,
and a wood fire crackled merrily ; a white French poodle
lay before it, his frilled paws spread out to the warmth,
his little pink nose resting upon them, his small pinkish
eyes blinking at his master, who sat in a high-backed chair
with his face turned from the door. He was a younger
man than his brother the Count ; tall and massive in
figure, but with a stoop of the shoulders which bespoke ill-health.
The hands, long and blue-veined, VN-ere fingering

the chanters of the biniou ; the pale, blue eyes were half-closed
in dreamy fashion, their long dark lashes almost
resting on the white cheek. The mouth was weak, the
forehead high, but not broad, and the hair which shaded it,
in odd incongruity with the still youthful face, was white as
suoAv. Such was the Chevalier Renaud de Kerdec'h, only
brother of the Count.

Good evening, Renaud," said the latter, taking the pale
hand in cheery fashion, and trying hard to smooth
out the crimp of pain which came to his brow at
the sight of the invalid \ " Good evening, brother ; I hope
I see thee well ?"

Well, well," said the Chevalier, " as usual, brother, as
usual  no otherwise. Be seated, madame, and mademoiselle,
and you ?" He looked up with a questioning,

puzzled expression.

"Aymon, dear brother," said the Comtesse, gently,
** Don't you remember our son Aymon? There, my son
embrace thy uncle."

Aymon obeyed in silence. The Chevalier nodded two
or three times, waved his hand towards the chairs, and
then went on in his uncertain voice : 

"I was trying over something. Will you pardon me a
moment if I go on ? It might slip) from me else ; things
do so evade me now-a-days. I don't know how it is, but
all feels so loose and slippery here

The long-fingered, transparent hand went up to the pale

brow, which knit slightly, as though its owner were seeking
for some truant thought.

"What was it  what was it?" he murmured, as if
speaking to himself  " as usual, 'tis gone  gone  gone !

Henri " his voice took a sharp, querulous tone, as he

turned to address the valet, who was waiting in the background.
" Henri, come here, tell me what it was, quick !"

The man took up the biniou which his master had laid
aside, and replaced it in his hands ; then he bent down
and whispered a word. The Chevalier's face cleared.

Ah ! yes, yes'' he murmured, as he fingered the pipes.
Yes, yes, that was it ;  yes, yes."

He filled the bag, played over again the same wild,
melancholy air which had been interrupted by the entrance
of his visitors ; then, keeping the pipes still on his knee, he
continued the melody with his voice, repeating the last
three words which had been on his lips when he was
disturbed : 

'' O miserable calumniators ! wherever ye go does
suffering follow you. Compared to you the plague
is sweet.

Your goading words would move the very stones to
rise and gnaw each other.

But thou whom I love, oh ! be faithful, and I will be
so. Be faithful, and wicked tongues will have no
power to part us.

Our hearts are like a rock in the wide sea when storm-winds
rage.

The corner-stone of love has been laid betwixt us,

God be thanked !
"Thou ait wise, my sweetheart ; and thou knowest, to

conquer, one must know how to fight."

''Ah, mon Dieu''

The singer's voice quavered and broke. He covered his
face, gave a long shuddering sigh, and rocked himself to
and fro on his chair, as if in pain. M. de Kerdec'h turned
away his head ; half rose, then sat down again, and looked
appealingly at the valet. The latter made a little sign in
indication of his master, and put his finger to his lips.

A painful constraint fell on the little party  none dared
speak or move. Presently, however, the Chevalier's mood
seemed to alter ; his face lighted as quickly as it had
clouded ; he took his hands from his eyes, and turned to
his visitors with a smile.

"What do you think of it?" he asked. "Not bad,
is it?"

"Bad? No, indeed, it is beautiful," returned the
Countess, with a kind smile, seeing that her husband made
no remark. " Our Breton melodies are always beautiful,
and I like the words, too ; only this sane is a little too sad.
Is it not, Monsieur ino7i heau-frenT

Yes, it is sad," answered the Chevalier, meditatively ;
"but what would you have, sister? Winter weather is
not the time for roses ; and when it is winter Jiere and
here (he laid his hand on heart and brow), can you expect

a merry measure or gay words ? Ah, no, sister, never
again  never again."

He turned and looked into the fire with a sigh.

*' Did you make it, uncle ?" asked Renee, presently,
lifting her little bright, dark face, in which the fire,
before which she was seated, with the poodle's head
on her knees, had made the blush-roses bloom like
damask ones.

What a question, Renee !" broke in Aymon, roused out
of the constraint from which he had suffered ever since he
came into his uncle's room ; for, to the healthy lad whose
childhood had been passed with pleasant companions on
the wind-swept Carnac heath, this shut-in room, with its
dainty luxuries and hushed stillness, suited to the invalid
life passed there, was anything but congenial.

What a question 1" he exclaimed, in a voice that made
the invalid start. "Hast thou never heard it before?
Why, it is old Pere Guenedon's favourite sdm ; and Tailor
Kabik  you should all have heard how he used to sing it
when he came in to the farm to do a day's work for the foster-parents
! 'Twas enough to make a cow laugh to hear him
howl out, "O miserable calumniators ! " as he drove the
needle through the cloth, sitting cross-legged on the table
with his hump sticking up above his head ; and he always
made his " loving heart break in two parts " when he cut
out a patch with the big shears. Oh ! but ///<?/ was woilh
hearing, it was ! And then Christophe, too, lie used to sing

VOL. 1. H

it sometimes, when  well, when the mists were on him  j ou
know. Oh ! yes, it's not the first time by many a hundred
that sone has been sung."

A puzzled, troubled look lead stolen over the Chevalier's
face as his nephew spoke. His dreamy blue
eyes fixed themselves earnestly on the boy; then the brow
knit, and the pale fingers clasped and unclasped each
other uneasily.

"Is it," he began hurriedly, as Aymon ceased, " A it, then,
one of the old sones ? I couldn't tell whether I had heard

it before, or whether " he paused a moment, then went

on, in a low, confidential voice, turning to Madame de
Kerdec'h  " It suited so well, you know, sister, that I half
thought  I did, indeed, I almost believed that I had composed
it. I used to be reckoned a poet once, madame;
I don't know whether you are aware of it? It was before
before  what was it?" The former searching look
came back to his eyes, and his hand went up to his
head.

"Excuse me," he continued, presently, " I pray you all
kindly to excuse me, my memory is not what it was." A
wintry smile flickered on the delicate features, as the
invalid bowed with a high-bred courtesy, so piteous from
one in his condition that it brought tears to the kindly eyes
of the Countess, and caused Monsieur de Kerdec'h to turn
away with a stifled groan. Again that painful silence fell,
and every one was thankful when Madame de Kerdec'h

reminded her husband that they had not yet heard all the
news from Paris.

Didn't I tell you," said the Count, seizing almost eagerly
on his wife's suggestion, " Didn't I tell you the great news?
No ! Renaud, this should interest thee, I think ; in former
times it used to be one of thy dreams that the lower orders
should be allowed a voice in public affairs. Well, thou
wilt have thy wish, brother; Necker has decided to
assemble the States-general.

"The States-general!" A sudden flash of intelligence
illumined the hazy face of the invalid. " Mon Bieu can it
be ? At last, at last, after years, the people will be heard !
Old Miorcec will be glad ; better times will be coming for
them, and then  perhaps  But no, it is too late, too late 1
Alas ! alas !

The light died from his eyes, and his head sank upon
his breast with a heavy sigh.

"Yes," continued M. de Kerdec'h, with a visible effort
there has been a second Convention of Notables assembled
to settle some preliminaries j the elections are to
begin in January, and then "

Then 7i>haf, dear Raoul ?" asked the Countess, seeing
that her husband paused and turned his head abstractedly
towards the door.

Then probably the deluge, which a certain great
lady, whose name I do not care to mention before my
little Renee there, foretold was to follow upon the follies

of her days. If it were not disloyal to criticise our
good king's judgment, I should say it was worse than folly
to give the people the rein now ; they are ready to break
out the moment the curb is loosened. Yes, Renaud is

right; it is So, I tJio2ig]it I was not mistaken. What is

it, sirrah ? Why do you stand out there knocking with a
glove of velvet ? Can't you come in ? "

There stands a spectre in your hall.'

Tennyson" Lady Clara Vere che Vere."

The door opened slowly, and the hoary head of the old
butler was pushed in. He had been in the family since
boyhood, and had known the present seigneur as a baby
and yet he shared in the common awe.

"Monsieur," he began, half pompously, half timidly
Monsieur "

"Well?" answered M. de Kerdec'h, impatiently, "What
is it?"

I said that Monsieur was occupied, that he could not
be disturbed ; I did indeed ; but "

The old man hesitated.

Ca/i'f you speak out,  who is it wants me? If you said
I was not to be disturbed, why on earth do you come and
do it ! " exclaimed the seigneur, sharply, the suppressed
suffering, which the sight of his brother's pitiable state
evidently caused him, venting itself on the old servant.

"A thousand pardons. Monsieur," answered the latter,
advancing a step with a deprecating bow; "indeed I did

not wish to disturb your lordship, but the fellow 7i<02dd
have me go ; he said you were sure to see him if you knew
though I'm sure I don't know  such an ill-conditioned
canaille as he is ! "

Did he give his name ? "

He did not; but  Monsieur will pardon me if I repeat
his beggar's language? He said he had once done Monsieur
a service, that Monsieur would remember one night in the
white month," and "

A strange 'expression, which almost seemed to denote
fear, came over the firm, delicate features of the Count \
but he recovered himself in a moment, turned towards his
brother to see if he were listening, satisfied himself that, sofar,
the attention of the invalid had not been attracted,
then rose hastily and went to the door.

'' Did the fellow say anything more, Antonn?" he asked,
in a low voice, with his back to the room and one hand on
the half-open door.

** No, Monsieur."

'' What is he like ? "

Like ? Monsieur may well ask that, before he consents
to see such a rascally-looking fellow,  if, indeed, he be
good enough to see him at all ! If Monsieur will permit me
to say as much, if were in Monsieur's place, I "

Enough ! Please to remember that you are valet, and I
am seigneur, and, as there is not much chance of our

'l"he ireton name for January.

changing places, you need not trouble to say what you
would do if you were in mine. Noiv will you tell me what
the man is like ? "

The old butler reddened at the sarcasm, but he trembled
also, and, with another bow, answered shortly 

A short, big-boned fellow, Monsieur, with dark, straight
locks, sharp eyes, lantliorn jaws, and a cunning look about
him altogether; though he's smooth-tongued enough; he
looks as though he could be impudent; and, as for his
clothes, they're as ragged as "

''A klaskervara?" asked the Count, interrupting him hastily.

No, a pillar ; Monsieur will excuse me for mentioning
such a thing before him."

A pillar ? " The Count repeated the word slowly,
as though it did not fit in with some image, which had
evidently been called up in his mind by the above
description. " A pillar ? Are you sure ? "

'' Monsieur may well ask that," replied the old butler,
indignantly. " The impudence of such a fellow to come
here  here to Chateau Kerdec'h ! It's scarcely credible.
But it's true, Monsieur, for he actually had the face to
ask the scullery-maid if she had any rags ! I'd have
slammed the door on his beggar's nose, if I'd been she."

Hush, Antonn, not so loud ; you will disturb M.
le Chevalier and the ladies. Show the fellow into the
yellow cabinet. 1 will see him directly."

It is considered an insult to a Ireton household to be asked for rags

Monsieur is very good," answered the old servant,
with a look of surprise j he paused a moment, as if about
to say something more ; but a glance at his master's face
checked him, and he merely bowed and withdrew.

"Why should Monsieur see such a good-for-nothing?
He is not generally so ready to see such scum, soliloquised
he, as he went reluctantly to carry the message.

"A pillar?" muttered the Count, as he closed the
door and returned into the room. "Strange, He was
certainly a klaskervara, that one, and these bread-seekers
do not often change their condition. Can it be the
same, I wonder ? Parbleu ! it is unpleasant enough, but
I suppose I must see him."

What is it, Raoul, my friend ? " asked the Countess, in
her soft voice, as her husband came back to the fire.

"Nothing, sweetheart, nothing," he returned, carelessly,
only some peasant fellow who asks to speak with me 
come to beg, I suppose ! "

"But thou wilt not see him to-night, my friend? It is
late, and thou art tired. See, Raoul, we will send him
this " (she drew a small coin from an embroidered bag
which hung at her side). " Shall Aymon take it, my
friend ? Here, Aymon, and tell them to give him some
bread ; perhaps the poor fellow is starving, like the Paris
people."

The Count made a quick motion to stop the boy.

No," he said, hastily, " I will go myself. Good night.

brother ; and do not wait for me, Glauda. Thou art right,
I aui tired, and will go straight to bed when this little
affair is seen to. Good night, sweetheart ; good night,
children ; sleep well, and don't dream of the Paris people,
little Renee."

He was gone before they could make another objection.

How good he is," said the Countess, with a soft little
sigh, " how just ! There are not many seigneurs who
would disturb themselves for a peasant like that. Imitate
thy father, Aymon, my son ; thou couldst not have a better
example."

Meanwhile, grumbling to himself at what he considered
the unnecessary courtesy shown to one who had so insulted
the De Kerdec'hs as to ask for rags at their door, old
Antonn slowly descended to the lower regions. It is
certainly hard to go back to a man, carrying a message
which shows him to be in the right and you in the wrong,
after haughtily and scornfully assuring him of the impossibility
of such a contingency. And yet this is what the old
retainer  who had only been induced to carry the rag-merchant's
message by the certainty which he felt that it
would be in vain  now had to do. It must be confessed,
however, that he fulfilled his humiliating mission with the
greatest possible dignity.

Tonyk' he said, pompously, indicating the pillar,
who still stood at the back door, while he addressed a
young lackey in the most careless tone at his command,

show that fellow into the yellow cabinet ; M. le Comte
deigns to say that he will see him at his leisure."

JVIiru'-iu !" exclaimed the lackey, who had been
passing the time in a little friendly chaff with the pretty
scullery-maid about the application which she had received
for rags, " So the master will see him, after all ! Well, well,
there's nothing like impudence. He wouldn't see my old
mother the other day, though, when she called about a
little reduction in her rent. Ay, ay; he's very j'list, is
M. le Comte. I should like to know what this one wants,
though ; dost think he's come to ask for thy hand,
Frangeza? He's of opinion thou hast a fair dowry, eh?
of rags .? Ha ! ha ! "

Hold thy tongue, great-mouth ! " " exclaimed Antonn,
crossly. '' Do thy duty, and don't talk so much."

'Yes, yes, ill-temper lungs all along the cord from top. to
bottom," growled Tonykk, as he turned to obey. '' When
the master's put out, the lackey is not long in getting the
benefit, be it at first or second-hand. Come, now,
Mr. Pillar, don't keep me waiting. This way ! ''

Don't keep me waiting, indeed ! He's kept Joie long
enough, and in the cold, too,  curse these aristocrats ! "
littered the pillar between his chattering teeth, as he
moved out of the freezing air, and shuffled his numb feet
along the passage and up a stone stair. " But I'll make
them pay for it  for that and other little debts. Yes, yes,

Breton (7Ucnou'c/.- imbecile.

Hey ! good evening, M. le Comte," added the vender of
rags, finishing his soliloquy aloud, as the lackey flung open
the door of the yellow cabinet and ushered him in.

The Count was already there, standing with his back
to the fire-place, where the wax lights were lit in the sconces
on either side.

He's been in a big hurry to see Monsieur the Rag Merchant,
anyhow," thought Tonykk, looking curiously at the
pair, as they stood facing each other. They were, indeed, a
strange contrast. The Count, tall, slight, and delicately
finished, from the proudly-carried head, with its keen, bright
eyes and clear-cut features, down to the small, well-shaped
hands and feet. Aristocrat was stamped on the whole man,
his very clothing looked courtly from its perfect fit and
sober richness of tint and texture.

The rag-merchant's apparel was, perhaps, the first thing
about him to catch the eye ; it was such a complete
advertisement of his trade  soiled, threadbare, faded, and
ragged to the last degree. For the rest, x\ntonn had
described him fairly enough ; but his thick-set frame looked
shorter and thicker, his big bones and loose joints more
awkward and clumsy beside the fine, well-knit figure ot
the Count.

On one point, however, the low-born, ill-looking knave
had the advantage over the high-bred, handsome nobleman
; and this did not fail to strike the sharp eyes of
the lackey, as he ushered in the visitor. The pillar,

a stranger on sufferance among surroundings he must have
been quite unaccustomed to, looked cool, determined, and
self-possessed ; while the Count, albeit on his own ground,
and quite aware of conferring a favour by consenting to
see a supplicant of low degree at an untimely hour,
showed a degree of nervous uneasiness very unusual
with him. His keen eyes dilated with an expression
very like dismay as they met those of the pillar, and
his face grew a shade paler.

Tonykk lingered in the doorway.

'' Enough, fellow ! " exclaimed M. de Kerdec'h ; " You
may go; I will send for you if I want you'

The tone was sharp  much sharper than Tonykk was
accustomed to hear from his well-bred master, and it
nettled him,

Fellow, indeed !" he muttered, as he shut the door.
*' I may go  may I ? Thanks, M. le Comte, I'll not go
far, in case you should want me. I may as well give the
old mother some idea of how the gentry receive a peasant,
against the time when she has the honour of an interview
 supposing that ever comes ; and  well, I think I
smell a rat ! "

The man made a noisy exhibition of going away, then
stole back on tiptoe, bent his ear to the lock and listened.

The moderate curiosity which had touched the dignified
butler, was a thirst with the lackey, which the slightest
scent of a mystery drove him to quench by the first means

which came to hand. But the door was strong and the
coveted stream filtered out but sparsely. Only now and
then, when, under the excitement of conversation, the
voices were raised from their usually low, cautious tone,
could Tonykk catch anything like intelligible sentences.
The first thing which gave him any satisfaction came
from the piilawer.

Surely," he was saying, in rather an excited tone, 
surely, Monsieur is not one to grudge a man his wages
when he does him a good turn ?  specially when the work
was such as did not quite square in with conscience. The
priest would have made me do "

Here there came a " Imsh!'' from the seigneur, and the
voices sank again. But it was not for long.

Was paid, did you say ? " exclaimed the pillar's
voice, losing its respectful tone. " Yes, but how much ?
And these sort of jobs require a running account  I can tell
you that, sir. I told you I was wanting a little advance on
account of losses in trade ; and yet, though I've given you
no trouble for I don't know how long, you refuse. Well,
sir, I've got a tongue In my head please to remember
that."

"Peace, villain!" answered the Count, in a voice less
under control than before. I told you last time you'd had
ten times what you were promised; so take yourself off at
once, and let me hear no more of you."

*' Then I'll coin my words."

You dare not. You know that "

The last words were inaudible.

I'll risk it, though," came from the rag-vendor again, ina
tone of such insolence that Tonykk absolutely trembled
for the result.

Look here, I give you till Monday, my fine gentleman,
and then if I don't get the money from you, I'll get it
from "

"Silence, fellow!" thundered the Count, and, immediately
after, the door was thrown open, so suddenly that
the eavesdropper would have been discovered in the act
had the master been cool enough to see him before he
slunk away down the dark passage opposite.

*' Antonn ! Tonykk ! Jean-Baptiste ! Where are you,
knaves?" called the master, in a loud voice.

' That's right, Tonykk," he continued more quietly, as the
eavesdropper, eager to see the end, reappeared on the
scene, " Show this fellow out, and af once  d'ye hear?"

"Yes, Monsieur, certainly."

 All revoir M. le Comte," said the indomitable rag-merchant,
with a low bow, as he followed the lackey, 
Monsieur will do me the favour to remember our little
arrangement for Monday ? ( Vz, ca mi plaisirs "

He turned again at the head of the stairs, bowed again
with a meaning smile and an affectation of great courtesy
and respect, then disappeared in the wake of Tonykk.

M. de Kerdec'h continued standing on the threshold of

the yellow cabinet with hand raised and finger pointing in
the direction of the staircase, till his unwelcome visitor was
out of sight. Then, as the footsteps died away, he let his
hand fall at his side, the look of angry scorn gradually died
from his features, his proud, firm jaw dropped, and he put
his hand wearily to his forehead.

"Back again," he muttered, "back again! It haunts
me like a phantom, and yet it is so long ago ! But I must
make a stand against this vampire," he continued, recovering
himself. " I will not have him come troubling me
thus. I will end it at once and for ever. Why should /
care for his threats  /, Raoul de Kerdec'h ? No, no ; let
him threaten ; it is time to have done with such weakness."

He lit his candle with a hand whose tremor he stilled by
force of will, shut the door of the yellow cabinet, and
mounted the stair which led to the bedrooms with a firm
step, and a face as proudly controlled as those of any of
the ancestors who looked down at him from the walls.

DOWN-trodden.

What made those holes and rents
In the dock's harsh swart leaves, bruised as to baulk
All hope of greenness ? 'Tis a brute must walk
Passing their life out, with a brute's intents."

R. Browning " C/u7rfe Roland."

While the Count was refreshing himself by the warm
home-hearth and the pillar waiting at his door, another
little scene was going on in the cold' snowy world, which
stretched beyond the castle-gates.

Cold, indeed, it was. The red glow of sunset had
died out from window and sky, and an ashen grey
shimmer, which was neither light nor darkness, was
creeping over the colourless earth. What can be colder
and more ghostly than the moon-dawn over the snow,
when a thin frosty veil is falling, like impalpable gossamer,
between earth and sky?

Cold, indeed, they seemed to feel it, those three figures
moving slowly along the lane outside the gates of Chateau
Kerdec'h. A tall, powerfully-built lad came first, leading
a pack-horse, strongly made, like himself; but whether
boy or beast were saunter and more hungry-looking, it
would have been hard to say. The steed was old and

broken spirited ; his leader young, with the man's high
birth-right of will and courage, not perhaps quite quenched
from eye and lip and gait ; that was about all the difference.
The little brown donkey, which brought up the
rear, toiling along bravely between its panniers through
the snow-choked lane, in spite of hungry look and cruel
marks of whip and staff seaming back and shoulders,
looked in better case, both as to mind and body, than
either of them. But, then, what can exhaust the dogged
patience and sturdy power of endurance of the little
despised creature, whose rough, brown back bears the
cross from birth to death, and which can thrive, like the
merry gold-finches, on the very thistles by the way?

Rags hung on each of the trio ; they filled the donkey's
panniers, they piled the old horse's back, they clung,
scanty and fluttering, like the last brown leaves in the
hedge-rows, to the gaunt form of the tall lad. Now and
then, as the evening wind rustled these latter with its
faint, freezing breath, and sent them slowly tumbling on to
the snow at his feet, the boy would put up his hand with a
strong shiver, as though he feared his tattered garments
would share a like fate.

The cold grew more and more intense, freezing the
breath of the three wayfarers in a strong white rime
wherever it touched, wringing the colour from the boy's
pale lips and fingers, and trying the broken wind of the
poor toiling animals ; and yet they struggled along, not

VOL. I. I

continuously forwards  there would at least have been some
hope in that, hope of a warmer goal at the journey's end 
but backwards and forwards, up and down, as though they
were waiting for someone, and the cold would not let them
do it passively.

The daylight faded more and more, the moonlight
gained on it, struggled with the haze and fell through it in
long blue beams on to the snow. Gigantic shadows stole
out of their lurking places and crept alongside the light,
and stars began to show in the dim infinite of the wintry
sky. The boy looked up at them now and then, and
sighed heavily ; looked towards the gate which shut in the
long beechen avenue of the chateau, and sighed again. A
clock struck in the great house, a dog barked ; he drew
the old horde's rein, and stopped a moment to listen ; but
no step crunched the hard snow under the beeches.

The boy drew a long, weary breath, and moved on
again. The old horse stumbled as it got again into
motion, and wheezed painfully as it recovered its footing ;
the little brown donkey, as though from sympathy, uttered
a long, melancholy bray.

Then the boy spoke, very softly, very pitifully, to his
fellow-sufferers.

"Poor Loizik, poor Mylio," he said, "you're tired,
aren't you, poor little ones ? Ah, yes, it's very cold, very
cold ! "

With his disengaged hand he stroked the old horse's

drooping head, seeing which the little brown donkey
pressed up to him and leant its small cold muzzle against
his arm.

Mylio, little one, is it thou ? " murmured the boy
again. " Poor little friend, I wish I had something for
thee, I wish "

He threw his arm round the little creature's brown neck
leant his head between the long, soft ears, and a deep,
heavy sigh, which was almost a moan, heaved his breast.
But the head was quickly lifted again, and a sign sent the
little animal back to his place.

There," he said, in a more determined tone, " I won't
wait any longer ; he can't be coming back to-night.
Poor beasts, I won't have you killed with cold and
hunger, to please him ; no, not if he were a thousand
times my father !" He shuddered as the word passed
his lips ; then, turning his face from where the Chateau
de Kerdec'h stood dark against the evening sky, he
whistled to the animals to follow him and stepped on
quickly down the lane.

They had left the chateau some distance behind them,
and the walls and towers of an old town, cresting a steep
hill and girt by a moonlit river, were just beginning ta
loom through the uncertain light, when quick steps
followed hard after them on the snow-covered road.
Neither boy nor animals heard the sound, the criuicJi
n-unch of their own five pair of feet prevented that ; and

it was not till a snarling ' Sac-r-r-r-e I" and the crack of
a heavy whip cut through the frosty air, that they turned
their heads to see a dark figure coming nearer and nearer
over the snow.

A simultaneous tremor ran through each of the three
wayfarers at the sight. In the beasts of burden this was
produced by downright terror ; but the white face of the
lad betrayed a mixture of feelings, among which a strong
disgust was the most apparent.

 Halte laV* exclaimed the disagreeable voice of the newcomer
; and, at the word of command, all three stopped.

*' Ah, ha, my fine lad, /'U teach thee to go off and
leave thy parent in the lurch I Didn't I tell thee to wait
for me? Didn't I, now? Sac7'el didst think it likely
I would want to travel all the way in this cursed snow
from Kerdec'h to Dinan on Shank's Nag, when I possess
those two brutes ? Diable ! I had enough of that before
my blessed brother (heaven rest his soul !) got out of this
wicked world and left me his shoes. Hora, now, thou
great mouth, answer me if thou canst, or by Saint
Corneille "

He raised his whip and glared at the boy ; but the latter,
though a full head taller than his persecutor, and, even
at his young age, nearly as strong-looking, stood dumb
and white, as though struck by that inexplicable spell
which holds a poor animal helpless before a serpent's eye.

"Speak, then, thou imbecile! why didst not wait?"

"I did'' faltered the boy. "I stayed far longer than
you told me ; but when I saw the poor animals "

'curse the animals, and thee, too!" exclaimed the
man, with an oath ; then, as though he had only been
waiting to force an answer before letting loose his passion,
he struck at the little donkey with his saluted foot and
sent the long lash of his heavy whip curling indiscriminately
round the boy and the old horse he was leading.
There ! take that, and get along with you for a set of
useless beasts !" he said, savagely. " We'll never get into
Dinan to-night at this rate."

The little donkey took the kick quietly enough  poor
beast, it was used to such !  it did no more than give out
a sobbing pant, and struggle forward as far out of its tormentor's
reach as the narrow track would allow. The
old horse too, though the blow fell on a place where the
bone had worn through the skin of its shoulder, causing
it to utter a scream of pain, attempted no retaliation. It
remained for the spirit of the human being to resent
the insult and injustice, more stinging even than the
cruel lash.

Wroth, even more for the poor animals than for himself,
the lad faced round, white and trembling, raised
his clenched fist, and, with his dark eyes flashing fire,
took a step towards the angry man.

The latter drew back, and a quick change passed over
his mean features.

What 1 Christopher I " he said, in an adhered voice.
*' What I wouldst strike thy father ? "

The boy's hand fell immediately, the fire died out of
his eyes, the proud defiance from his attitude, and he
stepped back to the horse's head, without a word.

"A//o/isI' said the master, as though satisfied with
his victory. *' Forward ! march ! Mylio here looks the
fresher of the two beasts ; he shall have the honour of
carrying me ! "

He laughed disagreeably at his own joke, vaulted onto
the little donkey behind the panniers, and, with
legs dangling down nearly to the snow, rode on, quite
indifferent to the way in which the animal laboured under
its double burden. With kicks from his wooden shoes
he forced the little creature through the snow at the side
of the road, and made it take the lead, while the old
pack-horse and his driver brought up the rear.

Poor Christophe ! it was only three years since he left
Carnac, and yet even Ninorc'h, his tender foster-mother,
would scarcely have known him now.

It was not so much the change in his outward appearance,
great as that was ; for, from a stalwart, healthy
boy, he had grown into a pale, thin stripling, with a
frame too large for its coverings, fleshly as well as textile,
and a face from which cruel suffering had well - nigh
scored out the last traces of the careless child. Cleanliness
had given way to squalor, neatness to rags ; but

there was worse behind. The down-cast eyes, the drooping
head, the general depression of the once upright
figure, all betrayed a spirit which, if not yet quite
broken, was nearly so. Hope seemed to have vanished
utterly in the swamp of black despond ; and the onward
look, so long clung to even by those who have been
met by disappointment too often, when they hoped to
see happiness come smiling round the next turn in the
road of life, had given place to the downward glance,
which looks for nothing but to struggle through the
journey, and have done with it for ever more. . The
boy's whole being seemed to have been paralyzed, covered
lowered, by the fatal change which had come upon him
through the finding of a father. How he had longed
and prayed for this ! How he had envied his companions
what lead seemed such a priceless possession 1
Tne idea had been the day-dream of his childhood  it
had mingled itself with his holiest aspirations. To find
a father on earth, or in Paradise, had been his dearest
wish  the want of one, his bitterest sorrow. And now !
It seemed to the boy that God had granted his prayer
in anger, in bitter irony, and had made of his heart's
desire the curse of his life. Finding his earthly father,
he seemed to have lost his heavenly one, for love and
trust were gone, and the breaking of the earthly image
had shattered for him the celestial prototype. The 'Told
idea of fatherhood had vanished, and in its place stood

that of cruel, inexorable destiny, to which the boy lifted
his scared eyes in terror, not in love. Being a Breton,
the species of half - superstitious awe with which his
countrymen are wont to regard the idea of paternity,
even apart from the merits of the individual, still clung
to him : but it was as the Nessus shirt to Hercules, to
paralyze, not to warm.

Woe worth the parents who thus desecrate for God's
little ones the beautiful sacrament of fatherhood \ in fouling
its outward and visible sign, they too often blur for their
children the inward and spiritual image divinely reflected
there. Of many, indeed, it may be said that they know not
what they do ; but let them look to it, for of such offenders
it stands written that it were better for them that a millstone
were hanged about their necks, and that they were
drowned in the depths of the sea !

A STROKE OF BUSINESS.

Ste.  " I thank thee for that jest ; here's a garment foret ;
Wit shall not go unrewarded while I am
King of this country."

Shakespeare. " The Tempest."

Ifo/d, Mr. Pillar, is that you ? "

It was Sunday afternoon ; the bells of the various
churches in Dinan were jangling together for vespers ; the
old town was bright with holiday costumes, winter
sunshine, and hoar frost ; the ivy which clung to the old
ramparts and to Anne of Brittany's ancient castle, glittered
against the coping of snow ; the sky above was hard and
blue as /a/ifs lazuli. But, among all this bright purity,
there was a speck, and a fit background for that speck.
The first was to be found in the squalid person of Matelinn
Gourven, lord of rags ; the second in the street where he
was oftener to be found when in Dinan, the Rue du
Jerzual, emporium of tatters, rascality, bad smells, and
glorious picturesqueness. He was coming leisurely up this
ancient entrance to the high-seated town  (who could
toil up that steep ascent otherwise than leisurely ?)  and
was just nearing the old gateway, with its lamp-lit shrine.

which leads to the upper town, when he received the
above salutation.

It came from a dapper lackey, in dark blue livery, with a
little battlemented tower embroidered in gold on his sleeve,
the cognizance, apparently, of some noble family. He was
strolling, leisurely also, along the street which crosses at
right angles the entrance to the Rue du Jerzual, and,
catching sight of the pillar, paused at the corner to let
him come up.

 Hold"" he said again, as the rag-merchant, puffing a
little, stepped on to level ground  " Hold, M. le Pillar,
do you want any rags to-day ? "

Certainly, if I can get them," answered Matelinn, in
no wise abashed; "but, unluckily, they're all locked up
to-day. When finery's being flaunted, no one likes to have
rags to sell  so much the worse ! "

Ha, ha !" laughed the lackey, with a glance at his own
spruce clothes ; " That's very true, M. le Pillar. You
made a false move when you came to our place the other
day  why, man, we were just rigged out for the v*'inter !
And to come to the very door of the Chateau for the cast-off
1 Did ye think we'd own to them there  specially the
women ? Why, Mr. Pillar, ye're not up to your trade !
]Sot that I'd object to do a stroke of business with you"'
he added, lowering the already confidential voice in which
he had been conversing, and drawing his companion further
into the shadow. " I've several articles I'd not be ashamed

to turn an honest penny by ; but it must be done under
the rose. I generally let old Solomon there have them (he
indicated an old-clothes shop hard by, with a wave of the
hand), but he becomes closer and closer every day, and 
Well, I'd rather do business with a compatriot than with a
Jew. Hey, M. le Pillar?"

Matelinn's face, thoughtfully cast down in listening pose,
and shaded by his hand, would have been a study all this
time to any physiognomist who had been fortunate enough
to get a good view of it. Slightly puzzled it was at first, as
though he had not fully recognised his interlocutor ; then,
at the allusion to his late visit, a sharply observant look
came into the little grey eyes, which, as they fell upon the
embroidered badge, beamed with the intelligence of one
who catches a clue he has been feeling for. Gradually, as
the lackey went on, a covert satisfaction grew upon the
listener's face, which, on the hint at a wish to open business
negotiations, merged into a compound expression of
keen intentness: the eagerness of a trader who scents
profit, mingling with the still greater eagerness of the
intriguer who catches sight of the solution to some secret
enigma.

So absorbed was he in feeding his thoughts on the
provender just famished for them, that he did not notice
that this had ceased, and that the speaker was waiting for
an answer.

The lackey was conscious of having finished with a

remarkably neat bit of flattery ; he felt he had condescended
a good deal in addressing such a brotherly phrase
to a pillar, and expected that it would work proportionately
to his own advantage in the intended transaction.
He was not a little mortified, then, to find that the pillar
made no reply, but continued in the same thoughtful
attitude ; his eyes on the ground, his face shaded by his
hand.

He waited a moment, then tapped the other on the
arm.

'' Hey ! Mr. Pillar," he began, in a slightly nettled tone,
emphasised by a change to the less respectful pronoun.

' Didst not hear me, man? Faith, thou art the queerest
sort of customer at the rag trade that / ever met. This
isn't the way to do business with gentlemen, I can tell thee
that much.

The pillar started.

"Hey?" he said, in the hurried way of one suddenly
awakened from a dream, " Monsieur must pardon me for
the little abstraction. It was necessary that I should make
a small calculation before referring to Monsieur's very
obliging offer. It saves time, which, doubtless, with
Monsieur, is valuable."

He smiled slightly as he made this delicate allusion to
the lackey's hired services ; then glanced up quickly to see
if the little bit of tempting wit contained in the double 
jr, had been bought too dearly. But no, the exceedingly

courteous form in which his words had been couched,
had not only completely salved the lackey's previously
wounded dignity, but had effectually prevented his feeling
the delicate sting of the pillavver's satire.

Then it is settled," said the lackey, when an arrangement,
slightly more favourable to a customer than was the
usual practice of the rag-merchant to allow, had been concluded
" I will have the disused clothes of the

establishment conveyed into Dinan on Tuesday evening
after dark, and you will kindly return the amount in a
sealed packet addressed to M. Adam Tonykk.

I shall probably be engaged at that hour, and may not be
able to come myself, but you may trust the bearer. M. le
Comte returns that evening, you see, or I would certainly
do myself  ahem  the honour "

M. le Comte ? Is he then absent ?" interrupted the
pillawer, with interest a little too visible.

Absent ? Yes," answered the other. " But that won't
matter; I'll arrange."

*' Ah ! Yes, yes ; certainly. But, that master of yours 
does he ride by way of Dinan ? You see, my friend, he
might not like to meet the little bale coming from his
chateau. All prejudice, of course; but, unfortunately,
there is a feeling against my business."

The lackey thought a moment.

No, no," he answered, presently ; " I'll see to that.
It's quite true about his returning through Dinan. But

Madame expects him by seven o'clock, at latest, and I'll
not despatch the bale till after that; not that he would
notice it though  at least, not in the dark, I think. However,
I agree with you, Mr. Pillar; it's. always best to be
on the safe side."

Does he ride alone ?" asked the pillar, with apparent
indifference.

"Alone? Yes ; I believe so. What makes you ask?"

' Oh, nothing. Curiosity, perhaps. The old Adam is
bound to be strong in an old-clothes-raan  eh, Monsieur?"

'' Ha 1 ha !" laughed the lackey, appreciating the sorry
joke fully to its maker's satisfaction. '* monsieur is, then,
a wit ? Ha ! ha 1 that must be good oil to the old wheels.
Is it not so, Mr. Pillar ?"

'well, yes; indifferently so," replied the rag-merchant.
'' And they need all the oil one can give them ; they do,
indeed. The old cart doesn't travel too quickly along the
road to wealth, I can tell you that, sir. Yes, yes, it's a
poor business, though it's an ancient inheritance, and as
such 02ig]it to be honourable  eh ?"

But the lackey did not catch the little joke this time ;
he had caught sight of something more attractive  viz., of
the plump figure and rosy face of his fellow servant, Mille.
Franreza, scullery-maid at the chateau, coming along the
street on her way to vespers, and he did not care to chance
being seen by her in familiar conversation with an .
He, therefore, took a hurried leave of his

disreputable-looking acquaintance, and hastened to leave
shadows for sunshine, by quitting Matelinn Gourven and the
old archway, and going to meet bright little Francesca in
the main street.

Matelinn Gourven was not in such a hurry to go on his
way. The bells might ring for vespers long enough before
attracting him, unless he had some purpose to serve in
obeying their time-honoured call ; and there was no such
occasion to-day. Therefore, he stayed still under the
archway and meditated, forming half a thought here and
there into soft articulations, and letting it drop outside him,
as there was nobody near enough to pick it up. Being a
man of small education, he could always think more clearly
in this way ; it took from the vagueness of the process to
hear parts of it occasionally, and not to have it all going on
in the soundless dark within.

''So, so, he's gone away, has he? What does that mean,
I wonder?" Silent meditation followed for the space of
three minutes.

'won't be back till Tuesday evening . I had
appointed Monday . . . Matelinn Gourven, it's plain
enough . . .-on't see thee . . . JToji'f! Hal . . Call
again? . . . Lost time . . . From Dinan . . . Ha, yes.
Saint Samson ! . . . Stay, there's the other ; but . . .
Scarcely do . . . No money, probably.

Here there was a long pause, during which no words
dropped, the man seemed to be thinking too intently

for that. He stood stock - still, with his hands in his
leathern belt, and his eyes fastened on no outward images,
yet (as the phrase is) fixed on the ground. Presently he
drew himself up, his eye flashed, and he rubbed his hands
together.

Praised be Saint Samson !" he mui cured, piously,
*' May he be my aid ! Yes, yes, so be it. I'll have
him to myself, anyhow, and then . . . if . . . Well,
well, no need to arrange any more now ; we'll see how
things go."

The process was evidently over for the present.

The thinker shook himself, as though to free himself
entirely from a burden which had oppressed him ; looked
this way and that, to make sure he was not observed ;
stuck his thumbs in his leathern belt, and strolled on
again.

*' Christophe, lad," he said, coming presently upon a
boy sitting with downcast face under the leafless trees of
the Place Duguesclin.

"I've changed my plans; we'll do business here till
Tuesday evening, and then take to the tramp again. Let me
see  " he appeared to reflect  " eastwards, I think.
Hast seen to the beasts ?"

'' Yes."

The boy did not raise his eyes ; the monosyllable
dropped out half-sullenly, half wearily.

Good."

Matelinn stood a moment eyeing the lad attentively.
Thought pale my son," he said, presently, " it's but cold
comfort sitting here. See  (he took some small coins out
of his pouch and tossed them to the lad)  " take these to
Mother Lefevre's and get something to warm thee. Ca, ca
a2( 7'evoh; I'll come anon.

The words were more kindly said than usual ; the
thought for his son's comfort  so rare, alas ! with this
father  surprised and touched the desolate boy. He
glanced up quickly with a tear in his eye ; but the pillar
had already strolled on again. The boy gathered up the
coins which had fallen on the snow at his feet, held them a
moment in his cold hand, and looked at them. The
gathered tear fell on the dirty copper ; but the tear was a
relief. It was as if this tiny ray of kindness, after weeks of
frost, had melted a corner of the ice which stiffened the
boy's heart against this man who called him son. Could it
be that the man was not all bad ?

' Since he is my father," thought Christophe, rising
slowly and stamping his numb feet on the hard ground 
since so it is, would it not be better to try and be more
like a son ? But oh ! my foster-father !  oh, my mother !
I would I had been content to know no parents but you I

Better the menhir, I think, than " an unconquerable

repulsion, more than the winter's cold, made him shiver
from head to foot ; but he checked himself.

No," he murmured, " no, I mustn't forget ; he has been
vor,. I. K

kind at last ; it was good to spare me these. Four sous !
Yes, it must have cost him something to part with them !"
In spite of his newly-formed resolve, the boy's lips curled
with an expression very like scorn, as he moved away from
under the leafless trees.

Saint SAM SON.

Lost, lost I one moment knelled the woe of years."

R. Browning. "CfttWe Roland."

It was snowing again. The dry feathery flakes fell
slowly and sparsely to join their fellows on the frozen
ground. The sun had gone down, like a scarlet ball,
behind the leafless trees, and darkness was battling with
snow-light and moonshine for dominion over the wintry
world, when the little cavalcade left Dinan and turned
eastward.

It was Tuesday evening. To Christophe, to old
Loizik and little brown Alylio, this fact meant nothing,
except that it exchanged for them the perambulation of
dirty streets for the longer and rougher tramp along
country lanes. The dull, plodding round of daily duty
was the same to them, whether it fell on Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, or any other day of the week.

But to the rag-merchant himself, riding silently on old
Loizik at the head of the little party, the day was
evidently a date of mark ; it mattered a good deal to him
that he should ride along this particular road on Tuesday

above all other days, and just at this hour and at no other.
This would have been evident, at least to anyone who,
holding the clue to some secret purpose in Matelinn's mind,
had taken the trouble to observe his actions. Three facts,
above all, might have indicated this. He had declined an
excellent opportunity for doing business, which had offered
itself in the town for the following day, and had refused
to leave Dinan in the morning, though he had been told
that several cottagers in a village which lay on his
proposed route were selling their possessions and quitting
the neighbourhood that very afternoon. Moreover  a
very significant fact  he had left Dinan without the bale
from Chateau Kerdec'h, and an hour at least before
the time at which it could possibly be expected. He
was unusually silent and thoughtful, too, as he rode along
on the old pack-horse, abstaining both from the oaths
and blows, to which those under him were but too well
accustomed.

Christophe observed this latter indication, and wondered
at it a little in the languid way usual to those in
whom interest and expectation have been well-nigh
smothered under the hopeless routine of an uncongenial
and monotonous life. Of the other and more significant
facts he knew nothing, Matelinn Gourven being too
close a man of business to confide any more of his affairs
than was absolutely necessary to any one  even his
own son.

CnincJi crunch crunch  the tread of their own footsteps
over the frozen snow was the only sound which broke
the absolute silence, except for the slight wheezing of
the pillar's broken-winded steed, less audible than
usi;l, for there were little or no rags on his back besides
those which covered his rider. Tramp, tramp, tramps 
they had gone on like this for nearly an hour, and
Christophe had gone back in thought to his old home,
and was wandering among the little blue gentians
and golden furze on Carnac Heath with little Genofa,
while his feet plodded mechanically over the snowy roads
of northern Brittany, so far away ; when old Loizik, coming
suddenly to a halt, checked the whole cavalcade.

The boy starred from his sunny dream, and awoke to the
cold, stern reality of his present surroundings. They were
nearing a gate in the hedge where a rough bridle-road led
off by a short cut to the Chateau de Kerdec'h and the
country beyond. Clumps of dark fir-trees, the outposts of
a little black forest further back, skirted the road, and hid
the progress of the bridle-path, which, after the first few
yards, entirely lost itself among their dirk red boles and
snow-laden boughs.

There was a weird mystery, a weariness about the place,
which made Christophe shudder involuntarily as he looked
at it and wondered if their road led through there. He
expected to see the pillar turn and order him to open
the gate, or else make some remark about the way they

should take ; but no, Loizik stood stock-still, with his
rider crouching forward somewhat over his neck, looking
neither to right nor left.

The lad looked at them in growing astonishment ; waited
a minute, and was just going to hazard a question (which,
by the by, he had discovered before this vas rather a
hazardous experiment), when a low groan struck upon his
ear.

Cliristophe started, looked to this side and that  before,
behind ; but there was no one in sight. Yes, there was no
room for doubt, it must have come from the pillar. He
left loose of Mylio's bridle, and went up to where the old
horse was standing in the road.

The rag-merchant was leaning forward on the packsaddle,
his two hands grasping the pommel ; his lips were
firmly compressed, his face bent down ; otherwise, he
looked much as usual.

Again came the low groan.

What is it ?" asked the lad, in a startled voice.

The pillar made no answer.

What is it, father?" he asked again, his voice trembling,
in spite of him, as he used the unaccustomed name. It
was an effort to use it ; but the effort was repaid.

The pillar turned his head slightly.

I am ill, my boy," he said,  "ill. This cursed cold has
brought on the spasms, and till they pass, I can ride no
further. Open tb.e gate, we will go into the wood. I

know a place where 'tis more sheltered ; I will sit down
there, and as for thee, thou shalt tether the beasts behind
the trees, and then look out for someone passing. I must
have help if thou art not to be left fatherless in the wide
world, poor child."

What was there about these last words to send such a
disagreeable thrill through the lad's blood ? He could not
tell. In the mouth of any other father they would have
been touching words ; but, somehow, it was no s) pathetic
feeling which rose to meet them. There was no time for
self-questioning ; only the lad was conscious of this strange
up-rising within him, and his heart revolted against it as
quickly. He was horrified with himself, and the reaction
made him more ready to give the man the attention of a
son than he had ever been before.

He threw erne strong young arm around the bent form
on the old pack-horse, took the reins in his other hand,,
spoke a word or two of encouragement, whistled to the
donkey to follow, and moved up to the gate.

This he set open, and led the old horse carefully over
the rough path within, the little donkey following close by
all the time, as though half-afraid of being left behind in
the dim mysterious shades among which they were passing.

A few minutes careful advance brought them to a clump
of fir-trees, standing together on the edge of a sort of
hollow on one side of the path. From the path itself you
could not distinctly see the interior of this shaded hollow ;

but the rag-merchant apparently knew it well, for he made
a sign for Christophe to halt and to help him down from
old Loizik's back. Leaning against a tree, he directed the
lad to tether the beasts where they would be out of sight,
and yet within easy reach when wanted ; motioned to him
to give him his arm, and led the way v/ith faltering steps
among the trees to the edge of the little hollow. Here
Christophe saw a strange sight.

A ray of moonlight, coming from the other side where
the ground was more open, streamed in, like a long thread
of silver, among the dark blue shadows, and lit up the
interior of n shallow dip in the ground, lined with snow,
but sprinkled thickly over with brown fir-needles from the
trees which shaded its brim. At the bottom, and in the
very centre of the hollow, was one of those gigantic
columns, such as the lad knew so well in his early home,
only larger, more massive than most of those he was
accustomed to ; looking more imposing, more titanic,
perhaps from the fact that it had no companions : it was
quite alone  lord of the glade, solitary in this silent solitude.

Neither was it standing erect, as is generally the case
with memoirs, but was leaning far out of the perpendicular,
bowed with its own weight towards the ground, like
a giant full of years. The moonlight struck upon its tall
grey head, and on the other side stretched a long black
shadow, double its own height, reaching right across and
up the slope of the woodland hollow which formed the .

shrine for this old-world saint : for it vas a baptized
menhir, purified from its heathen uses by holy water, and
sanctified with a saintly name.

'* Saint-Samson," murmured the pillar, as his son led
him down into the hollow. "Ay, ay, it is well."

There, lad," he added presently, ' I will sit down
here where I can lean my back against the stone. And
now listen to me, listen carefully. Dost hear, lad?"

The voice was stronger again ; the pillar looked more
like himself. The boy stood attention.

Go thou back to the gate and wait there till thou canst
see a traveller coming along. (The saints will send one to
a poor sufferer, I know that.) But listen, every traveller
won't do ; there be men about in these troublesome times
would rather mar than mend. The moon is getting up
nicely now, and thou canst see a good stretch of road.
Directly a traveller comes in sight, step up here and hell
me whether it be man or woman, one or many, and I will
give thee further directions. Now go, my son, and 
may it bring us a blessing ! "

The last words were added in a changed tone, with a
curious gurgle of the throat.

"Hasten, my son, hasten !" called the pillar after him,
as the lad turned away. " Hasten, for the love of all the
saints. Ah, this pain !"

The lad did as he was bid. He went back to where the
path turned oft" from the main road, leaned his arms on the

top) of the gate and looked earnestly and anxiously, now
along the way they had come, then down the short piece of
road which was all that was visible in the contrary
direction.

Taken by surprise, alarmed and softened by the sudden
illness of the hitherto inexhaustible pillar, he had obeyed
his directions without question ; but, as he waited there in
the cold, white silence, it struck lira that there was something
very strange about the entire arrangement.

Why could not he himself have helped his father to proceed
to the next village, without waiting for the chance of
other assistance, which, at that time in the evening, might
never come ? If it were medicine he were waiting for, was
a traveller likely to have it ? And was a seat on the cold
ground a reasonable cure fur spasms, brought on by the
severity of the weather?

He had almost made up his mind to return to the
pillar and persuade him to mount Loizik again and goon
slowly towards some shelter better than that of the
old menhir, when a slight sound in the distance made
him pause, and presently, from the direction of Dinan,
he could discern a figure on horseback, riding slowly
along the frozen road.

Christophe shaded his eyes with his hand, waited a
moment to allow of a nearer view, satisfied himself that
the newcomer was a man, and, so far as he could tell,
a gentleman too ; took in such other details as could be

seen at tke distance and in the light then to be ha<1,
and, having done this, stepped back quickly to the hollow
where he had left the pillar.

Matelinn looked up quickly as the lad came near,
seemed about to rise, checked himself, and asked in a
sharp, eager tone whether anyone were coming. Christophe
answered him, was again questioned, and then,
the replies appearing satisfactory, was sent back to stop)
the horseman and ask for help.

Say it is for a man in mortal extremity," added the
pillar in the same quick tone. " Conjure him to come
in the name of the blessed saints ; do not lose a moment,
lad, and waste no time in answering questions if he should
put any ; he might object, too, to helping a pillar 
there arc such folk, even among Christians  more's the
pity ! Hurry, lad, I say, I hear the horse coming near ;
if he should pass  ah ! "

He half-raised himself again, and his voice, though
low-pitched, became strangely hurried and eager as he
concluded. Christophe thought that he must be in great
suffering, and his voice also had a quick, appealing tone,
as he ran back to the gate and accosted the horseman
who now drew near.

'' For God's sake, sir," he cried, opening still further
the already half-opened gate. "For God's sake, stop and
help us ! He will die, I do believe he will, if he is left
any longer there in the cold, and I "

He did not conclude, for the fiery grey Normandy
horse, which the gentleman rode, started violently at the
unexpected apparition, reared, darted forward, and then,
checked by the strong hand of its rider, stopped as
suddenly, snorting and trembling, by the gate.

"What is it? What do you want?" asked the horseman
shortly, with attention evidently divided between his
restive steed and the tall, ragged boy who stood in the
way.

"It is a sick man, Alonsitur; he lies down there in sore
need of help. Will Monsieur give it?"

"A sick man?" repeated the gentleman, half doubtfully,
eyeing Christophe's tattered garments, and then glancing
back at his impatient horse,  "A sick man, you say?
What can I do for him? Shall I ride on and send help?"

*' Oh, no, Monsieur, he is in extremity ; he cannot wait.
For pity's sake, Monsieur," continued the lad still more
urgently, as the gentleman still appeared to hesitate  " for
pity's sake come to him at once  he is my father."

The last words were added with an effort, as if to
strengthen the appeal; and the boy fixed his dark eyes
entreatingly on the traveller.

"Your father? My lad, I would willingly help you,
but  my horse ? I don't know whether he would let you
hold him. Hadn't I better ride on and send "

"For God's sake, Monsieur, come at once," said the lad,
laying his hand on the horse's rein. " He might die before

you could send help, and then God help us, we should'
have his life on our hands ! " he added, hastily, using the
plural, as though struck by a sudden thought which his
hearer could not fathom. " Yes, sir, I can hold your horse,
or we can tether him ? "

No, he would not stand ; don't you see how frightened
he is? You must hold him  that is, if you can."

As he spoke, the gentleman dismounted, patted the
trembling horse, said a few encouraging words to
him, and throwing the bridle over his arm, turned to
Christophe.

]Sow, then, where is your father ? Lead on j you
shall take the reins when we get there."

The lad pointed towards the group of fir-trees.

"It is there. Monsieur; quite close," he said; and,
entering the field, led the way towards the hollow.

The horse started again, and trembled more violently ashe
saw the long black shadows cast by the trees upon the
snow, and felt the chilly gloom of the pine-wood closing
round him, and it required all his master's powers of
persuasion, added to a firm will, which he .evidently
knew could not lightly be resisted, to induce him to go
forward.

It was, indeed, a weird scene, and the gentleman, as
well as his steed, drew up suddenly with a start as they
came in sight of the menhir of Saint Samson, rising tall
and shadowy from the half-lit gloom of the hollow. The

figure of the pillar was not visible from where they
stood.

Christophe stopped too, and glanced half doubtfully
over the edge.

What is this ? " asked the gentleman hastily, as though
vexed with himself for the nameless fear his start had
betrayed. " What is this ? I see no sick man. Surely
you are not seeking to deceive me ? If I thought "

"How can Monsieur think so?" exclaimed the boy,
half indignantly, half reproachfully. *' See, Monsieur" 
(he had moved onward a few steps and was pointing down
into the hollow)  " See, Monsieur, there he is. Father,
I have brought help."

As the lad spoke, he ran down the slope and bent over a
dark object, which the watcher from above could now
perceive in the shadow of the menhir.

A deep groan sounded from the hollow, startling a night-bird
which flew screaming from the dark branches of a fir-tree,
sending down a shower of frozen snow on the heads of
those below.

The grey Normandy horse neighed with alarm, and
tugged wildly at the rein. Its master was still engaged in
quieting it, when Christophe came out of the hollow and
stood before him.

"Ah, Monsieur," he said, and there was a tone in the
voice which made the stranger turn quickly and look
fixedly at him ; " Ah, Monsieur, let me hold the horse now,

and will you go and see if you can do any good to him
down there  my father? He asks for you, and oh,
Monsieur, he seems in such pain !"

Instead of answering, the stranger still continued his
earnest gaze.

** Have I seen you before ?" he asked presently. " I
seem to know your voice."

No, Monsieur, I think not. But, oh ! don't delay ; he
won't let me do anything, and I fear he will die if he lies
there in the cold any longer.

Very well," answered the other, resisting the strange
reluctance he felt to enter the shadowy hollow,  " I will go
down and examine your father, and then come back and
speak to you about him, and we will see what can be done.
Here, you must hold my grey  see, this way. Be gentle
with him mind, but keep a firm hold of the reins  so, ho,
gently !" as the horse still continued to back away from the
hollow. "It's the menhir there that's frightening him, I
think ; take him out of the shadow, and lead him up and
down in the moonlight till I come back ; I won't be long."

Giving the rein to Christophe, the gentleman turned
away, and went down into the hollow.

At first the lad was too much occupied with the still-restive
horse to spare much attention for what was going on
by the old menhir. He could hear voices now and then,
but the trampling of the grey prevented him from distinguishing
what was said, even before he had got beyond

the shade of the fir-trees. Once there, he led the creature
gently up and down the bit of road between the wood and
the gate, patting its quivering neck and speaking to it in
low, caressing tones, till gradually it calmed down, and
ceased capering and pulling at the rein. Then Christophe
paused a moment to listen. It struck him that the
gentleman was long in returning, and  yes, surely the
voices were rather loud. It seemed more like an angry
discussion than a consultation between a man struck down
by sickness and one who had come to his aid. Surely, to
be able to speak in so strong a voice, the pillar must
already be much better ?

Christophe turned the horse's head again in the direction
of the menhir, and was nearing the belt of shade when a
faint cry, followed by a deep groan, struck on the night air,
causing the grey to plunge violently and trample again,
and sending a cold shiver through the boy's heart.

What was it ?

Could the pillar indeed be dying ?

The renewed excitement of the horse he was holding
hindered the lad, during the next few minutes, from
stopping to listen again, and he had thus no time to analyze
the feeling  half relief, half dread  which had rushed upon
him as this idea suggested itself to his mind.

If relief had been uppermost it was soon disappointed
for, no sooner had he succeeded in reducing his charge once
more to a state of control, than he perceived the pillar

himself emerging from the shade, mounted on the old
pack-horse and leading the donkey.

Christophe stared. Such a sudden recovery was almost
too wonderful to be believed. Surely the man who had
wrought it could have been none other than a very
celebrated doctor.

It is true, the pillar looked very pale, his eye was
wild, and there was a look of trembling nervousness
about his whole person, as he rode out into the moonlight,
glancing back hurriedly over his shoulder as he did so.
This, however, was as nothing ; such an attack as he had
had, was enough, thought Christophe, to upset the
strongest nerves. Really the stranger had done wonders.
But  where was he ?

Christophe took his eyes a moment from the advancing
pillar, and, like him, gazed also towards the wood ;
but he could see no one.

Matelinn started violently as he came up with the lad,
as though he had not yet perceived him, and had forgotten
that he was present.

He stopped his horse, reflected a moment, and then
said hurriedly, "Christophe, my son, is that thou?"

*' Yes," answered the lad in growing astonishment, 
"You are then better? The gentleman "

Yes, yes," struck in the pillar, interrupting him hastily,
" Yes, yes, much better  I  that is he  he bled me, you

see; and  and  it has nearly restored me. Thanks "

you I. L

He did not go on with his pious ejaculation ; it seemed
to stick in his throat.

Come," he added, presently,  " let us be going."

Pie kicked old Loizik with his heels, and the pack-horse
went slowly on.

But the gentleman," said Christophe, " Where is he ?
I have his horse, I can't go till he comes."

The pillar drew rein again, glanced over his shoulder,
seemed to reflect once more, and then said :

'' Yes, you can wait if you like. He bled me, you
see, as I told you, and then  tien he went away to get
some remedies, down the cast-track yonder  he said there
was a short cut. He said, though, that if I felt better
meantime, I'd best move on ; it was cold you see, and
the spasms  In short I mustn't stop; it's  it's as much
as my life is worth. No, not that ; I didn't quite mean
that. There, I'm going; you can do as you like. He
won't be long, I daresay; and if he is Let me see, what
did he say? Oh, that you might shut the gate, ride the
horse a mile or so down the road, and then turn him
loose, he knows his way home  these pampered brutes all
do. Milk tonnaires, lad ! keep the beast oft' me, can't
you?" he cried in a shrill voice, as the grey suddenly
kicked up its heels perilously near to Loizik's head, 
'would you be the death of your own father?  Your o-uni
father mind ; never forget that, whatever may happen.
Well, you know where to follow me. Mind, shut the gate!"

The pillar called this last sentence over his shoulder,
as he rode through, and turned down the main road,
followed by the donkey.

Christophe was left behind with the fiery grey, which had
become so restive again that he utterly refused to stand,
and the lad had to keep him in constant motion, up and
down, up and down the snowy path, till time and space
seemed interminable, and body and mind were alike weary;
the one with unceasing exertion, the other from puzzling
over the strange events of this strange evening.

What was the meaning of tha pillar's strange words?
what of his still more wonderful recovery ? and what had
become of the stranger all this time ?  was he never coming
back ?

Christophe looked again for the twentieth time to where
the cart-road vanished from sight among the gloom of the
fir-trees ; but nothing was to be seen, nothing but the trees
themselves, and their shadows, which now began to move
a little, as a light breeze rose, and gently stirred the
branches. This movement, the utter loneliness, and long
watching, awoke a nervous feeling in the bosom of the lad.
The shadows seemed to take strange forms, and he started
two or three times, thinking that something was coming to
him down the path. A nameless terror, as at an unseen
presence in the wood, took possession of horn, and yet he
could not resolve to leave his charge. Hush, what was
that ? Did someone sigh, or was it only the wind ?

With heart beating in great throbs, Christophe led the
grey close up to the margin of the wood. Again a sound
broke the stillness, a sound which was not the wind.
It seemed like a hollow groan rising out of the shadows
which shaded the base of the old menhir.

Superstition is strong in the Celtic race, strongest of all,
perhaps, in that portion of it which inhabits the more
remote parts of Brittany. The peculiar circumstances attending
his birth and breeding, as well as the congenial
soil of his individual character, had given it a hold on the
Child of the Menhir, more tenacious even than on most of
his countrymen.

For some moments he felt convinced that he had just had
an interview with the devil himself, who, encouraged by
the unfilial feelings he was conscious of having cherished,
had assumed the form of the pillar to tempt him away
from his duty. Yes, it must be so ; Matelinn Gourven still
lay groaning-in the hollow, and in a few moments more
he might have left him to perish.

But the horse  the stranger ? For an instant everything
began to assume a semblance of unreality, and, but for a
very material bite in the arm, which the Normandy horse,
conscious of the loosened rein, suddenly turned to inflict,
Christophe might have ended by persuading himself that
the steed he held was nothing but a spectre.

This, however, proved a salutary check to his nervous
fancies ; and he determined, come what would, to try and

tether the animal to the nearest tree, and go down into the
hollow to learn the worst.

Binding the grey as firmly as circumstances would
allow, the lad crossed himself, murmured an Ave and,
mastering his nervousness as best he could, descended
to the spot where the pillar had lain. There was
nothing there.

The lad skirted the giant stone with slow, cautious steps,
stooping to examine the ground as he went. The moon
had shifted her position a little in the interval, but there
was still sufficient light at the bottom of the hollow to
reveal most of its surface to a close observer. There were
footprints in several places ; at one, the snow had been a
good deal trampled ; but still Christophe could see no
living object  the ancient monument seemed to be the sole
occupant of the spot.

The boy had nearly finished his inspection, and was
about to turn away, when, where the shades fell thickest,
his foot struck against something soft, and again came the
sighing groan  this time close to his ear.

Christophe started back ; a cold dew broke out on his
brow, and his heart seemed to stop, and then go on again
with suffocating rapidity.

Saint Corneille, be my succour ! " he murmured, 
"What is this? Can it be he?"

Controlling himself with a great effort, he bent more
closely over the object on the ground, and could just

make out the outline of a human body ; the light was too
slim to distinguish anything further.

The lad's first impulse was to drag it out into the more
illumined part of the hollow and satisfy himself at once
whether it were the pillar or not ; to his excited
imagination, the uncertainty involved too much ghastly
horror to allow of his enduring it for a moment more.
Following this impulse, he put his hands under the arms
of the body, and, in another instant had placed it where
a dim moonbeam, filtering through the dark branches,
fell full on the upturned face. It was not the pillar.

Those clearly-cut, high-bred features never belonged
to a rag-merchant. At the first glance Christophe
recognised the owner of the grey.

There are moments in the lives of some into which the
bitterness of years seems to be compressed. Misery, such
as, perhaps, does not come to one man in the whole of
his three-score years and ten, is meted to another in a
second of time, falling upon his head with a weight vrhich
crushes out youth while it is yet tender, blasting the
green shoots of life with the suddenness of scathing
lightning. Moments there are which suffice to poison
the sources of life so that the stream of after years may
never flow bright again ; which blight all chances of
happiness, leaving the whole nature warped and riven
well-nigh hopelessly. Faith forbids us to omit that saving
'' well-nigh." God be thanked, some do overcome these

earthquake shocks, especially when the cause lies in the
fault of another rather than in themselves ; butchers one is
victorious, a score are vanquished. Shall we judge them 
we who have been spared the ordeal ? God help them !
He only knows the 'rial, He only can be their judge.

Such a moment it was that came to Ilanilet when the
lips of one no longer among the living, revealed to him
the secret which was to burden his whole life; "wiping
off all trivia], fond records " from memory's table, to make
room for one single black inscription.

Such a moment came now to Christophe, the Child of
the Menhir.

It hardly needed the wound in the breast, from which
dark drops of blood oozed slowly, to show that there had
been foul play ; it hardly needed a backward thought
over the events of the evening to show whose hand had
dealt the blow. That instant revealed it all, past all
doubt.

Not that the lad could realize all the horror contained
in this truth at the moment when his eyes first fell upon
the face of the murdered man. The shock of the
sudden discovery was too great to allow his mind full
play ; and the hope, soon* to fade on nearer inspection,
that the wound might not be unto death, was still there.
Outward things, connected withthe victim of this awful
crime, must still occupy him, drawing him, as it were, out
of himself by their urgent importunity, as he stood there

the wounded man and watching his fast-fleeting
breath ; but the dull agony of consciousness, not yet felt
out  the horror, which as yet there was no leisure to face 
underlaid them all.

Presently the half-closed eyes opened, and Christophe
felt them turn on him with a look of keen reproach.

There was an effort to speak, an awful, gasping effort,
which ended, not in words, but in a rush of blood from
the pale lips ; then the head fell back, and all was over.

Christophe laid the body down, and as he drew out the
hands which had supported it, a strange sensation about
them made him hold them up to the moonlight.

They were wet with blood.

This only was needed to make the lurking horror
break loose. 'J he lad shuddered like one in an ague-fit,
uttered a piercing cry, and fled from the hollow.

As he gained the higher ground, a dark object rushed
snorting before him, sprang through the gate, and disappeared
down the road, with the fleetness of the wind.
It was the grey Normandy horse, which, alarmed by the
cry, had broken his bridle and escaped.

Christophe followed him ; but, by a strange impulse
which he could not have explained, he paused at the
gate, shut it carefully, and then rushed on again as
though pursued by the terrors of a Cain.

A DARK HOUR.

My heart turned sick, my brain grew sore,
And throbbed awhile, then beat no more :
The skies spun like a mighty wheel ;
1 saw the trees like drunkards reel.
And a slight flash sprang o'er my eyes,
Which saw no further : he who dies
Can die no more than then I died."

Byko.m " Mazeppa.'

How long he continued to fly, Christophe never knew.
The unreasoning terror that was upon him took away all
consciousness of time and space.

To put as much distance as possible between himself
and the horrors of the menhir was the idea uppermost in
his mind, if idea it could be called ; and it drove him on
and on through the night, with a tyranny not to be
resisted.

Men have lost their wits from a shock less than that
which Christophe had sustained; and, for the time at
least, the lad's mind was off its balance.

His mad flight was ended by his foot striking against a
stone, or some other hard object, and he was thrown
violently to the ground, striking his head as he fell.

For a long time he lay there insensible, then cold or

pain, or a mixture of both, brought back a degree cf
consciousness, and he sat up and looked around.

It was still moonlight, no sign of dawn had yet
appeared in the east ; surely winter night had never
been so long.

The lad rose slowly and painfully. His limbs were
numb with cold ; his head ached in dull heavy throbs.
He felt very weary, yet, almost mechanically he began to
walk forward, for the sense of flight was still upon him.

On and on he went, scarcely more than half conscious
all the while, till at last a time arrived when rest became
absolutely necessary; without it he could go no further.

The instinctive pause roused him a little. He looked
around. The day was dawning at last. The cold light
of a winter's morning was spreading over the eastern sky,
and the moon was fading before it. The road had left
the fir plantations, and led, bleak and solitary, over a
barren moor. A few paces from where the lad was
standing was a place where four ways met, and marking
it, as is often the case in Brittany, was an ancient
stone cross with a Figure of the Crucified fastened
against it.

Tall and dark it stood out across the pale dawn, the
only notable object within sight, its avvful burden hanging
silent and motionless between earth and heaven, with
head bowed towards the one and arms outstretched
against the other.

The lad started as his eyes fell on the way-side crucifix ;
he crossed himself instinctively, moved forward and
kneeled down on the well-worn steps.

The habit of a life-time, not any idea of relief in prayer.,
made him do this, and from habit also he raised his eyes
to the sacred Figure, and his lips began to murmur the
Fate?' Jiosfer,

But scarcely had the holy name of Father risen to them,
than an uncontrolable shudder passed over the lad's whole
frame, and the words died away unuttered. He child not
say them, the bare idea seemed sacrilege.

Father ! what then was his father ?  a murderer \ and
he was  a murderer's son ! Nay, worse !  the lad grew
sick as this new idea forced itself into prominence  a
partner in the deed ! Yes, so it seemed to his diseased
imagination; for had he not lured the victim to his death?
Was it not he who had waited for the prey, and conjured
him in the name of all that was most holy to take' the
step which led him into what was surely the foulest
snare ever laid by one man for another : a trap baited pity,
by a feeling of brotherly-kindness ?

Oh, cruel, cruel to do this ; doubly cruel when it was a
father who thus made a son the unconscious instrument
of his foul purpose.

Christophe groaned aloud, as these details in all their
horror passed in review before him ; and, as he knelt with
eyes fixed mechanically upon the Face above him, the

sacred countenance itself seemed to take the features of
the murdered man and look down reproachfully upon him.
It was too much. AVith hands pressed over his eyes to
shut out all siglu, with thumbs thrust into his ears to
exclude what, after all, was no external sound, the echo of
the terrible death-rattle, Christophe turned once more and
stumbled blindly across the heath. A few yards he went,
not knowing whither, hardly conscious but of the horror
which possessed him ; then even that consciousness fled
away. There came a sound as of rushing waters in his
closed ears, hot flashes of black and crimson before his
closed eyes, a sensation as of endless falling, and then he
knew no more.

"kt outcast

BOOK 111. THE OUTCAST.

CHAPTER I. 

POORER THAN POOR.

J.e laboureur et sa femme se remittent a suer et a suffer, car ils sout seuls
encore. Le laboureur et sa femme sont cOmme des hirondelles qui vont faire leurs
nids aux centres des villes ; chaque poor on les balaye, et chaque il leur saul
recommence.

O labourers ! vous menez une vie dure dans le monde."

Complaints Ou Lahourcur (Breton).

Chi CK ETY- CLICK   dickcty-cllck  cricket-click  this sou nd,
repeated monotonously ad i/ifuiitin/t, mingled itself confusedly
with the slowly returning consciousness of the lad
Christophe.

First came a sense of pain, as though the sharp,
regular noises were so many pins, inserted one after the
other with painful precision into the dull, bruised
substance which used to be his brain. Then, as life
-ebbed slowly back, he was just conscious of a languid
feeling of curiosity as to the cause, a feeling not strong
enough yet to act sufficiently on the will which should

make the heavy eye-lids open, and so take in what was
going on.

Presently, while this sluggish inertia still continued, the
clicking sound ceased suddenly, and then he found that it
had been underlaid by another and fainter sound, which
still went on incessantly  the wJiirr ii<hirr  as of someone
winding thread.

Then low voices mingled with this  the hoarse whisper
of a man, the thin whisper of a woman.

*' He's long, wife," said the first.

"Ay, maybe he'll be longer yet," said the second.

*' It's likely thou wert right, after all," said the first.

Ay ; thou mostly comest round to viy way o' thinking,
good man," said the second.

Won't get over it ?  Better have let him die ? " asked
the first.

That's about it, husband," returned the second.

Then there was silence again, but for the whirr whirr
of the thread, or what sounded like it. Presently the man
resumed : 

I hadn't the heart to leave him, wife ; a Christian
can't see his brother in such a strait and not help. Who
can tell, wife, it may bring a blessing on us, on thee and
me  we want it badly ! "

"Ay. And don't think it's because I grudge him aught.

It's not that; only " she sighed, and if more words

followed, they did not reach Christophe's ears, for the

clicking sound began again. Somehow, this time, its very
monotony proved lulling, for soon he ceased to hear it, and
consciousness was once more a blank.

Next time he awoke, it was with a start ; something had
fallen with a sharp sound.

Broken again ! " exclaimed the same man's voice he
had heard before, only this time it had forgotten to
whisper,  ' The poor old frame is getting rotten Barbaik ! "

"Ay," said the woman, "but it'll last out our time, my
friend."

' Our time ! Ah, wife, wife, don't strike out hope like
that, so calmly, so  It will come., fortune 7t'///come before
thou and I have lived out our time ; and then,  and then
we can have new frames. It'll not need to last out our

time, I say ; perhaps a year, perhaps There, I've tied

it up once more, and it'll go for the present, anyhow."

The hoarse, eager tone in which these last words were
spoken ceased ; and again the dickdy-click dickey-clicks
which had been intermitted for some minutes, began
again.

Then, at last, by a great effort, Christophe exerted his
will, and opened the lids which hung so heavily over his
eyes.

He need not have hesitated so long ; there was nothing
to be afraid of in the sight which met them, nothing
unusual  nothing glaring or dazzling. It was simply a
scene which may be met with any day in Brittany  a

VOL. I. M

cottage interior of the humblest class : a place where
poverty was evidently too much at home, where she abode
rather as an inmate than as a guest.

The roof, which wys the first thing that offered itself to
Christophe's gaze, was dark brown in tint, crossed by
mouldering wood rafters, smoke-dried and rain-soaked,
between which showed the rough heather thatching ; here,
bulging in, as though it would fall into the room \ there,
falling out, leaving tiny chinks through which the blue sky
peeped, as with laughing eyes, whose sunny beams broke
in and twinkled on the earthen floor below.

The walls also were dark brown, and were evidently
formed of rough stone, smeared with clay of a sombre hue,
stained here and there with leprous spots of damp and
mildew.

Opposite the rude bed on which he lay, Christophe
could see an open fire-place, on whose hearth smouldered
a few turfs, the pungent smoke from which seemed unwilling
to escape by the proper opening, and preferred
seeking a passage through the chinks of the roof, and
through the ill-fitting door, below which a wintry wind was
blowing a tiny white snow-wreath into the room. To the
right of this was a tiny window, cracked, straw-stuffed,
paper-mended, yet framing at that moment a picture which
none of its defects could wholly mar  a splendid sun-set
sky, rich, beyond the skill of any pater, save the One
who is Divine, in glorious tints of deep-dyed crimson, palest

gold, and green, so ethereal as to border on blue ; and,
rolling up to this, in snowy waves, intense with reflected
colour, a great, wide stretch of moorland, infinitely melancholy,
solitary as the sea.

The solemn, rose-tinted light, dim and grave as that
which filtres through the sainL-fiUed window of some old
Cathedral, fell even into that poverty-stricken room,
glorifying everything within it with the last smile of the
dying giant, who had worthily run his course and was
content to pass hence in tranquil peace. There was little
indeed for it to fall upon, and that little, but for the all-glorifying
light, would have seemed mean and sordid
enough. Even the Crucifix, which hung in a niche of the
wall, facing the window, was of the roughest, coarsest
manufacture, and the hcnitier and rosary suspended below,
could not have cost more than a few centimes at a village
Pardon.

Yet in the rich, dim light of the dying west, which fell
upon it through the dusty window opposite, the sacred
Countenance seemed to wear an unearthly smile. Calm
still, victorious over death, it recalled no memory to the
lad's yet half-numb senses of the terrible look which had
been the finishing-stroke to his despair.

So far, indeed, was it from recalling anything to his
mind, that his eyes soon wandered elsewhere, languidly
taking in the details which surrounded him.

Of other furniture, besides the bed on which lie lay, the

Crucifix, and a rude bench by the fire, there appeared ta
be little or none, and yet the room was almost filled ; for
two great, cumbrous hand-looms stood, one in a broken
condition against the wall by the bed, the other under the
window. By the latter sat a man, working with his feet the
rickety trembles, while his hands threw the shuttle backwards
and forwards. He was pale and emaciated to an
appalling degree ; his spine curved outwards from constant
bending over the loom ; his chest was hollow ; his cheeks,
sunken and paid, contrasted painfully with the black-browed
eyes, deep-set in cave-like sockets, and the dark,
lank masses of hair which fell on to his shoulders. The
hands which threw the shuttle were blanched to an unhealthy
paler, and almost devoid of flesh ; and the fingers
were worn at the ends to a thin, sharp hook, almost like the
claws of a bird. They looked as though, ever since they
had been fingers, they had never done anything else but
throw the shuttle and manipulate the linen threads of the
growing web. The weaver seemed as much of a machine
as the frame at which he worked, and no less worn out
and rickety.

Opposite the man, at the lower end of the loom, stood a
diminutive woman, filling the winder with coarse linen
thread. She, also, had a pallid, half-fed appearance, but
there was that in the expression of her pale, pinched
face which was lacking to the man, making even his
wasted features infinitely less untimely. Sharp, hungry,

grasping worldly-wisdom sat on the woman's countenance,
while on the man's one could read nothing but the pathetic
patience of a weak dreamer, who is content to go ua
plodding wearily at an ungrateful task, sustained by the
vision of coming fortune, wliicli, like the lapwing, keeps
ever flitting before him and leading him on with deceitful
hopes.

The Breton hand-loom weaver doggedly refuses to
realize that machinery has dealt the death-blow to his once
flourishing trade. Year by year his earnings become more
scanty, his condition more miserable; yet, in spite of all, he
remains obstinate in his belief that this depression is but
for a time ; that a day will come when all the old prosperity
will return fourfold to him who knows how to wait. Never
was a land more conservative than Brittany. Old customs,
old Reliefs, old ways die hard there, disputing with
relentless Progress each inch of the legendary soil, so
dearly loved, so tenaciously clung to.

presently the sunlight faded wholly from the west, leaving
the little room in dim grey twilight. Up to the last
moment at which it was possible to distinguish the warp
from the woof, did the weaver continue his task ; and when
he could see no more he leant back in his seat, joined his
hands over his eyes, and stretching out his tired arms,
gave vent to a long, deep sigh. Then the woman also
dropped her winder and sank down wearily on the bench
by the fire.

For some moments they sat thus, and complete silence
reigned in the little room ; then the woman got up slowly,
stirred up the smouldering embers, laid upon them some
faggots of wood, and began to prepare the scanty pot au
fell of water, buckwheat bread, and onions, for supper. As
the flame leaped up, kindled the wood, and flickered
through the room, the man also rose, shuffled his feet into
his wooden shoes, and moved heavily across the earthen
floor, till he stood by the bed on which lay the sick lad.
Bending down, he set himself to scan Christophe's face so
attentively, that the lad, who had again fallen into a sort of
doze, opened his eyes with a start.

"He lives, Barbaik  he lives!" exclaimed the weaver,
with excitement.

Sainte-Anne d'Auray ! I scarcely expected it. Dost
hear, wife?" he continued, turning to the woman who was
paying no attention, but continued to prepare the pot an
fell in silence.

*' Dost hear ? He lives, I tell thee !"

Barbaik was standing with her back turned, shredding
onions into the black pot, which was beginning to simmer
on the fire.

'chum," she said, "hum; then for the next few da s,
I suppose, there'll be another mouth for the pot au feu.
How am I to make that enough for three, which is short
commons for two ? I ask thee that, Grallon ?"

'Flie weaver did not answer; but he sighed, and

straightening himself, glanced towards the Crucifix. The
glance seemed to do him good, for his melancholy face
brightened, and he said, quite cheerily, " Never mind, wife,
I'll do with half my portion. He'll bring a blessing on us 
see if he doesn't,"

Saying which, Grallon again bent over the bed.

'' Art better, lad'' he asked, softly.

It was an effort to Christophe to take in the sense, even
of this simple question, still more to answer it. For it
moment his great dark eyes stared helplessly at h.;>
questioner, and when the words did come, they seemed
to him as though sounding loudly from a long way
off. To the weaver, on the contrary, they sounded only
as a hoarse whisper, which he had to bend down quite
close to catch.

"Was nil?"

It is disconcerting to have one (question capped by
another, instead of receiving the answer you are expecting.

The weaver hesitated.

'111?" he repealed, presently, in a puzzled tone. "111.
Don't you know, then ? don't you remember you fell
into the Poiilpikan s-' Hollow on the moor out there, and
I found you lying, head down, heels up, between two
big stones, with all the breath knocked out of you? Ill !
Dost hear, wife? he asks if he were ill!"

"Come to supper, Grallon," was all the reply vouchsafed

Poulpikan, ;i marsh elf.

by Barbaik ; and Grallon, convinced apparently that
nothing was to be made of his guest at present, and that
he would certainly not need the half portion that evening,
complied.

A TERRIBLE RUMOUR.

This night, a rumour wildly blown about,

Came Tennyson"' Guinevere."

Was the lad an innocent ?

(gallon and his wife, Barbaik, h id several discussions on
this question in the courFc of the next two days following
that on which Christophe had been found by the weaver
in the Poulpikan's Hollow. It furnished food for the mind
of the poor toiler, as he plied his monotonous trade at the
noisy hand-loom ; and his wife, perhaps, thought of it also
rather anxiously, as she wound the thread for her husband,
casting glances the while at their silent guest, and
wondering how they should get quit of this extra mouth?
should it prove 'o belong to a witless head.

Thus in the pauses of work, when the eternal dickey-click
ceased for a moment, the weaver would unfold in a
cautious voice the result of his thoughts since the last debate,
and Barbaik would listen, and then put in the same
shrewd and caustic remarks, which served to provide a
fresh train for speculation during the next spell of weaving.

:Meanwhile the object of this interest lay silent on the

liard bed which the poor couple had vacated for him ;
or, as was the case during the course of the second day,
sat silent by the fire, whither the good-wife had assisted
him to move.

He paid little attention to what was going on around
him ; he did not even seem to hear the low-toned
discussions, discreetly carried on by signs and whispers,
accompanied by various glances towards their subject,
lest more intelligence might be there than was suspected.

The fact was that there had been sufficient injury to
Christophe's head, both from the shock he had received
during that terrible night, and from the effects of his fall,
to produce a dulled, stunned condition of the brain ;
v.'hich, though it no longer amounted to insensibility, and
was gradually wearing away with every hour, he could not
exert himself sufficiently to shake of.

Could not, and perhaps, also, would not.

For it was with him as vith one who awakes from sleep
witki the dim consciousness of a terrible misfortune ; the
full knowledge and consequent anguish of which are
lurking in the background, ready to spring upon him when
he shall have fully awakened. Can we wonder if such a
one cling as long as may be to the merciful insensibility
of sleep ? Does not each of us who has gone through
such experience give way to the weakness ?

Let no one, therefore, marvel at the condition of the
ireton lad.

This state of things lasted till the afternoon of the
fourth (hay after the murder by the menhir of Saint-samson.


It was market day in Dinan, the nearest town, which,
however, lay far enough away from the weaver's lonely
cottage ; and Barbaik had gone tu sell some of her
husband's manufacture, and lay in a supply of necessaries
with the produce.

Not having his wife to talk to, Grallon had worked wiili
hardly a pause during the whole time which had elapses
since her departure ; and Christophe, at whose toilet she
head had no time to assist, had remained in bed, sunk in
his usual condition of semi-lethargy, only rousing sufficiently
to swallow the portion of thin breath-soup which the weaver
brought him at noon.

As the short winter's day drew to its close, footsteps
were heard outside the door, and the wife returned, laden
with her purchases and prime 1 wide a supply of market
gossip which would afford the solitary couple a staple cf
conversation for many days to come.

The generally mither silent woman was unusually excited,
and evidently brimming over vrith news. " Well, Grallon,
well," she said, depositing her basket and bundles on the
floor b)' her husband's frame  "Here's doings for a
Christian land ! No Christian will feel safe in his
led if the rascal be allowed to escape. Sainte-Anne
d'Auray be our succour ! It is terrible ! terrible T'

Grallon had stopped this work on his wife's entrance,
and was leaning on his frame, listening, open-mouthed.

"But what is terrible, my friend? What, then, is it
that has happened?"

' Happened ? Yes, plenty has happened ; and to think
we should never have heard, and it is four days since.
Four days  g\ir it to yourself, my friend ! It is terrible
to live in such ignorance."

' But Barbaik, for the love of Heaven, tell me what has
happened? "

She came quite close to the frame put her hands on her
sides, assumed an air of solemn importance, and then
said, in a tragic whisper :

*rit is Monsieur le Comte ; poor gentleman, he is dead !"

'' Dead ! "

Ay, dead ! "

'but how? All, well, he looked healthy enough last
time I saw him, and as hard as Saint-Samson himself.
Not a sou of rent would he let us off, though he knew that
times were bad. Ah, well, the healthiest and the hardest
have to go, seigneur as well as peasant, and there's a day
of reckoning for us all. Ives "

But here the weaver's wife cut him short impatiently.
She had heard all that before, and it vexed her that her
husband should serve up his insipid rechauffe. while her
news was fresh, and highly spiced above all that had fallen
to her share for long.

Great-mouth ! " she exclaimed, stamping her foot on
the earthen floor, "Wait, then, till thou hast heard ! Dost
thou think I should make so much of it if M. le Comte
had died in his bed? Bah, that is a thing of every day f
No, no ; this is (jiiite another affair."

She paused a moment to enjoy the impression she had
made, and further whet this unworthy curiosity, and this
time she was rewarded.

The weaver started to his feet.

"What?" he said, " what ? Not in his bed ! Barbaik,
thou dost not mean to say that M. le Comte was "

'-Murdered U" said his wife, supplying the word in an
impressive tone.

Ay, murdered ! That's it, Grallon."

"But how?"

"How? Well, that's just the question. He was found
lying dead, stabbed in several places ; but who did it, no
one knows ; the rascal has escaped."

Good heavens ! and to think it has come to that !
Hard as Saint-Samson he was, there is no denying it,
but "

'saint-Samson!" echoed the weaver's wife, again taking
the words out of her husband's mouth,

"Yes, that's just where it was. He was lying by the
menhir, poor gentleman, dead as a door-nail. Thou seest,
my friend, it was thus : He had been away on business,
and Madame la Comtesse was expecting him back that

very night. He rode alone, as he was fond of doing,
though folks say he had a considerable sum upon him,
which was not there when he was found. That tempted
the rascal, doubtless. Well, he never came home alive 
never! His horse was all the living being hit ever
arrived that night. They thought at first he had throvv-n
his rider, and search was made, and after awhile he was
found ; but it \v is not the horse, poor innocent animal ;
no, no."

But who was it, then ? Who ? "

Who ? Imbecile that thou art ! Haven't I said that is
just the question?"

But it is terrible ! Barbaric, wife, it has made me tell
quite restless. Suppose I run down to the public-house
at the Quatre Maisons, and see if they have heard
anything there ? "

'ray, do. And I will step across the heath to Mere
Canon's, and tell her the news. I say, Grallon,"  she
lowered her voice and glanced towards the bed 

There is a reward out for the rascal who did it."

The weaver pricked up his ears.

A reward ? How much ? "

"Nay, that I could not certainly learn. Some said
fifty louis, some a hundred."

Holy Saint-Corentin ! a hundred louis ! If we could

gain it, wife ! Tell me, could it possibly be " he jerked

his thumb towards the bed, instead of finishing his sentence.

Bah ! a mere lad  an innocent to all appearance.
And yet " She too whispered the rest.

"Yes, certainly, my wife; yes, I could swear there was
blood on his hands when I found him. But then he had
fallen. No, it seems unlikely. But come, if he it be, he
is safe enough for the present. Let us go and see if we
can learn some more."

Ay, and don't stop down at the inn, Grallon, my
friend. Remember cider costs money and thou hast
none."

A hundred louis, a hundred louis," murmured the
weaver reflectively, for once in a wayfaring small attention
to his wife's words, 

' Well, didn't I say he might bring us a blessing ?"

' The saints send it  may be so," retorted Barbaik-,
incredulously, 

'* But the louis are not yet there, so beware of the cider.
Adieu, my friend, a bieiifot!"

So saying, the couple quitted the cottage, one going in
this direction, the other in that, across the sunset-lighted
heath.

HAUNTED AND HUNTED.

Half I seemed to recognise some trick
Of mischief happened to me, God knows when 
In a bad dream, perhaps."

R. Browning " C/ttWc Toland'

PoR some moments after they were gone, the cottage was
silent, but for the tinkling sound of the low fire. Presently,
however, there was a rustle in the far corner where stood
the bed, and anyone who had looked in might have seen
its occupant raise himself on his elbo.v and look round.
There was a wild expression in his grey eyes, such as one
sees in those of a hunted animal, who has escaped lor a
time, only to hear again the sounds of pursuit. The dull
lethargic look was gone, and yet it was plain that reason
was not yet fully awakened.

It would be hard to say how much of the foregoing,
conversation the lad had heard, what were the words that
had must roused his attention, and to vvhat extent the whole
had been understood. However that might be, certain it
is that, to a certain point, the dormant faculties had been
stirred up and fear was alive again.

Fear was the dominant motive power at that moment

and it acted at once, lending fictitious strength t > the
weakened body.

After satisfying himself tht he was, indeed, alone,
Christophe rose from his bed, dressed himself hastily, and,
opening the door, left the cottage.

The sun was near its setting, and was throwing long,
level rays over the moor. The snow no longer lay in
unbroken whiteness. A partial thaw had carried most
of it away, and the spotted heath looked inexpressibly
dreary.

The lad paused a moment on the threshold and looked
around. He could see by the marks of their feet in the
patches of snow which still remained, what direction had
been taken by the weaver and his wife ; and he, therefore,
struck off in a contrary course to either. There was no
path, and he plunged at random straight ahead, through
snow, through pools of water, shining redly in the setting
sun, through brown masses of wet heather.

The crimson globe which hung in the south-west sank
lower, and dipped below the far horizon. Light died from
the heath, and then from the pale sky overhead ; but still
Cliristophe stumbled blindly on, every now and then
casting anxious glances over his shoulder, as though he
dreaded pursuit. It never seemed to strike him that there
were other dangers ; that he might fall again into some
hollow, or sink up to his neck in the marshy ground
through which he had, every now and then, to struggle.

VOL. I. N

There is a saying that a special Providence wretches
over children, and those whose reason is not in a condition
for them to watch over their own safety. Such care was
there, I think, for Christophe then, or surely his feet would
never have been kept from the many pit-falls which lay
around in the gathering darkness.

Suddenly, it was too dark to see how, he again found
his feet on hard, dry, level ground. It seemed as if he
had struck some road, and so it must have been, for, as
she went on, the nature of the ground did not alter.

Walking more easily, he began to discover what a
strain there had hitherto been upon him, and how his
enfeebled limbs were trembling after their late exertions.
He stopped for a moment, drew a long breath, and
glanced up at the sky. It was getting a little lighter there.
Stars were looking out, the sunset clouds had melted away,
and against the vague expanse of firmament two long
Ones of shadowy plumes, daric and tall as those which
fancy might picture as waving from a giant's funeral-cars
stood out on either hand. They were poplars, he knew
that ; such poplars as you see every day in France, keeping
-watch, like tall sentinels, over the high road ; and yet
there was something in their aspect which made him
shudder involuntarily. He looked down again and
trudged on, striving in vain against the dull feeling of
lassitude, which each moment kept hanging in heavier
weight about his limbs.

The air was cold and raw, he shivered as he walked,
and his teeth began to chatter like a pair of castanets.
Presently came the feeling, rather than the thought, that
he was coming to the end of his powers, that to go on
much longer would be to fall down exhausted ; and what
would be the result of that in his enfeebled state during a
mid-winter night ? Christophe did not ask himself this
question ; he was in no condition to do so. It was the
instinct of self-preservation, more than any conscious
reasoning, which led him to look from side to side to see
if shelter there were any, of which such an outcast as he
might venture to avail himself.

Poplars, poplars, never-ending poplars ; nothing but
these and his own weary body seemed to Christophe to
remain upon earth. Look where he might, nothing else
was to be seen.

Presently, stumbling wearily on, he came to a break in
the dark avenue, where two side ways, one to the right, the
other to the left, turned off from the main road. More
to escape from the poplars than for any other reason,
Christophe took that to the left, and, after following it for
some minutes, perceived something which was not a poplar,
looming from the twilight in a field on one side.

Could it be a building? It looked like one. Christophe
stopped and gazed at it wistfully. His need of rest and
shelter was sore ; and yet he dreaded his fellow-men with
the haunting fear of Cain. He felt, as it were, a brand

upon him, by winch everyone beholding must recognise
him as connected with she dreadful deed by the menhir ot
Saint-Samson.

But as he stood there hesitating, his powers failed more
and more, and bodily need prevailed.

Scarcely knowing what he did. the lad passed through a
gap in the fence, staggered across the intervening ground,
and fell, half-fainting, against the wall of a small building.
It took him some moments to collect himself sufficiently to
search for a door, and several more for his trembling fingers
to lift the latch; but when that was done, a sense of great
relief stole over him, for the place within was shrouded in
the sheltering darkness he had grown to love. With a
great sigh of mingled weariness and relief, he went in,
drew the door after him and sank down on a heap of
something which felt soft and dry. The place was warm
with the breath of animals.

A sleepy bleat sounded from some far-away corner as
the lad entered, followed by the regular luuncJi muncJi of
some creature chewing the cud, after which all was
silent. I question if the weary boy heard even these.
Nature could do no more. He had reached shelter justin
time.

TIRKI) OUT.

O'erspcnt vvilh the day's fatigue."

L,o\c,PKLi.(n\." The Golden Loj<:nil."

All next day till nightfall no one came near the shed,
and the weary lad slept without a break ; but when the
sun had once more run his course and was sinking to his
rest, the door of the stable opened and a little peasant
girl, of about ten years old, entered, with her arms full of
fodder for the young animals which were kept there. She
gave a cry on seeing the sleeping figure stretched on the
litter by the <ioor, with one arm under his haggard cheek
and the other thrown out at full length.

The cry startled Christophe ; he awoke, sat up,
supporting himself on his elbow, and then the two
stared at each other in about equal alarm.

The boy was the first to recover himself. He got up,
shook the litter from his clothes, and said, with the
natural politeness of his race :

Pardon, I was so tired, I thought I might come in
and rest."

Yes, certainly," return 1 the little damsel, recovering

herself with alacrity, now that she heard 'the intruder
speak, 

"But don't you want to stay? You can't have been
here long, you know; its only just sunset."

Did he know? Christophe asked himself the question
in a puzzled way Surely the sun had set long since when
he lay down, and surely he had not just come, as the little
maiden so confidently declared.

"Yes," he said  "Yes, I will stay till morning if you
will let rfiC ; that is, if it be already so late?" he added,
looking in a puzzled way at the little white-capped figure
standing in the stream of red sunlight which had entered
with her by the door.

"Yes, it is late," she repeated, decidedly, 

"It is already four o'clock, and time to feed the goat,
and the heifer, and the dear little red ox. Don't you see
how hungry they are? Listen how they call me ! Coming,
coming, little darlings; Marie won't let you starve, will
she ? "

Speaking thus in a soothing tone of caress, the child
went up to the animals and served out their daily fodder,
portioning to each his due share with scrupulous impartiality.


See how hungry they are ! " she repeated, holding out
her empty hands towards Christophe, who had again
subsided on to his heap, 

TJicy know it is sunset well enough ; they always know,

and so do I. I'm going home to supper now," .she continued,
coming avay from the animals and moving towards
the door. There, as though struck with a sudden thought,
she paused, looked at Christophe for a moment, and then
said : *' I'm hungry, that's how I know it's supper time.
Aren't you hungry, boy ? "

Was he hungry ?

Again the child's words had suggested a question, and
this time Christophe did not have to search for an answer.

Yes," he said, after an almost imperceptible pause
I am very hungry."

"And have you nothing to eat?"

"No."

Poor boy ! "

Again the child paused, standing there, holding the door
in her hand, and looking down on the lad with a pucker
on her brow.

Look here," she said presently, as though struck by a.
happy thought 

You mustn't starve any more than the little animals.
I'll run home and ask mother to give me something for
you to eat."

Christophe looked alarmed.

No, don't do that," he said,

"She might send me away if she knew I were here.
I that is, I'm not so very hungry ; I can do quite well
till tomorrow."

'the child felt in her pocket, and immediately her face
brightened.

"See," bhe said, drawing out a piece of black bread.
Here's what mother gave me to eat when I was minding
the ccw. Now I know why I'm so particularly hungry
th's evening  I quite forgot my dinner !"

She put the bread into Christophe's hand, and, with a
friendly nod, and a brisk "good-night," shut the door, and
was gone.

Not till the bread was between his teeth did the homeless
lad know how much he had wanted it. Hard and
dry as it was, he ate it to the last crumb, and would fain
there had been more. Yet it did for his body that which
his speech with the child had done for his mind. Of
words, as of crumbs, there had been few, it is true ; yet
both were wholesome and supplied a want of nature ; and,
as he turned once mere to sleep, feeling comforted, he
knew not how, it did not even cross his mine, that, for
the first time since ll.at horrible night, he had exchanged
reasonable words with a human being, and that she had
not turned from him with horror.

He forgot for a moment his haunting consciousness of
the brand of Cain, and in that sweet forgetfulness he fell
asleep.

" An open nulli,
A gross need, food to till us, ;uk' no more."

E. R. Prowling  " Aariiiii. l.enjh."

Christophe could never give any very coherent account
of the manner in which he spent the next icw days. That
he left the stable very early the following morning, and
that he remained on the tramp from dawn to dark,
avoiding towns, and sleeping where he could, is about all
that anyone has ever been able to glean from him.

How he lived during this time is also uncertain.
One old woman remembers giving a lad, answering to his
description, the scrapings of her po au feu A workman,
going early to his labour, found him picking up the
leavings of the fowls in a farm-yard. A child once shared
her dinner with him. Little else, I think, can have passed
his lips, if the next authentic account which has comedown
to us of the poor lad be not exaggerated,

Tephany Kannau, wile of Benead Eannau, owner of a
tall windmill which stood in those days like a watch-tower
overlooking the hollow in which nestles the old grey town
of ]\Iorlaix, was standing one evening in the round doorway

of her husband's mill. Her arms were placed akimbo,
her plump hands resting on her hips, her comely face was
turned towards the sunset, and every now and then the
whistled and called as though summoning some animals
to come and partake of the contents of a smoking bucket
which stood beside her.

To what species these animals belonged soon became
apparent. A series of short grunts broke on the evening
air, and then, with a lumbering scamper, a flock of gaunt-looking
Brittany pigs appeared over a ridge of rising
ground, and ran, helter-skelter, long ears flapping, tails
twisting, little eyes greedily twinkling, up to the miller's
wife. Not too nice were they to enjoy the sweepings of
the round-house, which thrifty Tephany every evening
collected and cooked for their supper ; and soon every
snout was in the bucket, and Madame Rannau was standing
looking on, with a smile on her good-tempered face, at
the good appetite of her gobbling pensioners.

She left them after a while, and went back into the mill
for a handful of corn to throw to her pigeons, who, jealous
of the pigs' good fortune, were fluttering round, trying in
vain to find a vacant corner whence to snatch a fearful for
themselves. Pretty creatures they looked, with their white
wings, bright eyes, and dainty pink feet, cooing and flapping
and flashing around the ugly swine in the low red
sun-light ; now soaring to a coign of vantage on the old
grey mill, thence the better to survey possibilities ; then

swooping ulmobt on to the backs of the pigs, cooing lustily
if a chance grain of pottage rewarded their efforts.

The moralising beholder would probably have seen here
the emblems of innocence and sensuality ; and yet, from
my knowledge of pigeon-nature, I much doubt whether the
dainty white birds were a whit less greedy than the ill-conditioned
swine. So much for a timid and innocent
appearance ! It often gets more credit than it deserves
from a skin-deep observer. Presently, however, timidity
overcame greed. With a sudden rush and flutter, every
white wing in the assembly struck the air, leaving the field
in undisputed possession of the swine. Undisputed ?
Hardly that.

Madame Rannau, who understood the character of lier
feathered favourites too well to suppose that they would
have forsaken the ground without due cause while anything
remained in the pigs' bucket, looked up in astonishment
at the sudden flight past the window, where she was
standing with the corn-basket on her arm.

"Who can be coming?" she asked herself, as she turned
towards the door of the mill.

Ah, Minet ! if it should he thou who art frightening my
pretty doves "

The sentence remained unfinished on the red lips of the
miller's wife, for she had reached the door and come in
full view of the intruder, who had dispersed not only the
pigeons, but even the less bold among the porkers.

No cat was this strange, gaunt being, kneeling on both
knees upon the ground and disputing with the two largest
pigs for the remains of the pottage. His face was half
buried in the bucket, his long, dark hair hung, lank and
uncombed, upon his shoulders ; his back seemed a mass of
rags, through which, here and there, peeped the naked
skin. Two claw-like hands, thin to emaciation, greedily
scraped the pottage from the sides of the bucket and
raised it to a mouth which seemed unable to wait for the
service of the hands, but was eagerly bent to meet them.

AVhat was it ? A wild man, or a being left in the last
extremities of starvation ?

The blood left Tephany's ruddy lips ; they turned white
as unripe cherries, and her kindly eyes grew round with
terror as she looked at the spectacle before her.

No wonder the pigeons were frightened.

For some moments Madame Rannau stood, as though
rooted to the spot, then her fears found expression in a
sharp cry.

The creature at the pigs' bucket raised his head, turned
his face and looked at her and suddenly the good woman's
fright gave way to a feeling of profound pity.

Such infinite suffering gazed at lier out of those soft,
dark eyes, with their long lashes and heavy lids. Such
pain trembled on the thin white lips, pathetic, in spite
of the coarse food which clung to them; such privation
was scored on every line of the wasted features. And overall

there was a half imploring, half scared expression, an
evident fear of her, which effectually banished all alarm
from the mind of the miller's kindly wife. Big as the
intruder was, he had the look of a child who has done
wrong, and fears, yet deprecates, the consequences.

As the miller's wife still stood looking, the stranger
rose slowly, came timidly towards her, and said, in a
broken voice :

'pardon, Madame, I was so hungry!"

Poor lad," murmured the woman, gently, as she noted
how young was the face before her, with all its suffering, 
'poor lad, and you are hungry still?"

The gentle tone seemed to attract him ; he lifted his
pathetic eyes to hers with a look which made her feel
the tears spring quickly for very pity.

Hungry ? Ah, yes, Madame ! "

Wait a moment ! "

She hurried in-doors, and presently returned with a
buckwheat cake and a cup of milk. The stranger lad
was still there where she had left him, but he was no
longer standing upright; he leaned against the wall as
though for support, and there was a strange, eager look
about the eyes as though the waiting were hard to bear.
To Tephany it appeared like the look she had once seen
on the face of a starving, homeless dog, who had
crouched to her for food, and yet, with all its need,, had
evidently been too gently trained to snatch it. The wild

pathos of those hungry eyes had haunted her for days
afterwards.

With her kind heart swelling for very pity, she put the
hood into the lad's hands without a word, and stood by to
see him eat it, which he began to do with an eagerness he
tried hard to restrain. But presently he came to a
standstill ; he set down the cup on a little stone window-ledge
in the wall, looked at the remains of the cake,
shook his head with a faint smile, and returned it to the
miller's wife.

''Thank you, Madame."

What, do you not like it ?"

There was a ring of hurt surprise in the tone with which
she said it ; for Tephany was a notable housewife and
did not like to see her provisions unappreciated. The lad
noticed it.

Pardon, Madame, it is very good, but  I have gone so
long without, I "

He put his hand to this throat, and reeled slightly as he
stood.

Poor lad, he is faint with fasting !" exclaimed the
friendly woman, all lier pity returning upon her. *' Come
in, my child, and sit down."

She took the dirty, ragged arm of the wanderer in her
clean, plump hands, forgetting her ordinary horror of dirt,
and led him into the mill.

There was a stone bcncli within the door, and here she

made Christophe sit, while she bathed his brow and
moistened his pale lips with cold water.

Presently he sighed, and looked up with a smile.

Ah, thank you, Madame, you are very good."

' Poor child, poor child !"

Her tears gathered, and one dropped on the dirty brown
hand of the outcast.

His lips quivered. There was silence for a moment,
and tien he said, wearily 

I must go."

Not yet. You are too weak. Wait till the master
comes in, and we will see about a night's lodging. Will
you sit here ? I must go and put his supper ready."

He thanked her with his eyes; and, as she bustled
to and fro, lie could see them following her movements
with languid interest, as he sat there on the bench, never
moving hand or foot, evidently wearied out, and feeling
that, for the moment, it was well with him. The supper
ready, Te'phany came and stood at the door, shading her
eyes with her hand and looking out for the master.

He is late," she murmured, " late. It does not
generally take so long to conduct Fifine into Morlaix
with the sacks of flour, and to return. What can he be
doing ?"

She paused a little, looked more earnestly in the
direction of the town, and tapped her foot impatiently on
the doorstep.

If Adam had been here," she went on, talking rather
to herself than Christophe, " if that lout of a lad had
behaved himself, then Benead need not have gone. Rut
there  what can one do with idlers ? Benead was right
to chase him out, quite right. It is awkward, though,.
\itxy awkward. And with all that wheat reads to be
ground. Ah I "

She broke off suddenly with a quick exclamation of
alarm, clasped her plump hands and leant forward.

*' Quick I look here ! What is that I see coming up the
hill ? Surely it is not ! Quick, I say, look ! "

Christophe, thus appealed to, rose from his seat and
came to the door.

The sun had set, but there was still light enough to
make out the form of a white horse coming along the
winding road which led up to the mill : two men were
walking on either side and seemed to be supporting a
third who sat, huddled up, on the horse's back.

Christophe had made out this much, when the miller's
wife, without waiting for him to speak, flung up her
hands, and darted forward with a cr}- 

It is ! It is ! Ah, mon Dieu  Benead !"

THE MILLER.

The miller, that for-drunken was all pale,
So that breathes upon his hors he sat."

Chaucer" The Miller's Tale."

Never mind, wife, don't cry. I shall be better soon.
It was that stupid Fifine, she stumbled ; and the
sacks Ah ! "

Yes, they fell on him and crushed his leg, madame."
continued one of the supporters, taking up the words of
the injured man, who had broken off with an exclamation
of pain.

Pierre and I were passing at the time, and we took
him to Monsieur le Docteur, who dressed and set his leg".
Monsieur said "

 Yes, he said that Benead Rannau would not do a
stroke of work for weeks to come, perhaps months,"
broke in Pierre, eager to have his turn, 

** He says, too, that perhaps the leg will mortify, and
then "

*' Hold ihy stupid tongue, thou great-mouth," exclaimed
his comrade, interrupting him without ceremony,  '* never
mind him, madame, he knows nothing about it. Monsieur
VOL. I. o

the doctor will be up himself in the morning, and it w ill
be all right, you'll see."

Ah, yes, yes, we'll see ; we'll see," growled Pierre.
It ivcmld be all right, doubtless, if he had been a frugal,
sober man like thee and me, comrade ; but millers, thou
knowest "

He touched his mouth, winked knowingly at his
companion, and broke off as he caught Tephany's eye.

"More by token, Madame, I am dying of thirst, and
they do say you always have the best up at Monlin dien
Haut."

Tphany did not notice his insolence, she was too much
occupied in helping her wounded and half-fainting
husband into the mill, which they had now reached ; she
scarcely noticed, even, whose were the headlands which
so deftly assisted her.

The two men stood waiting within the door, evidently
expecting something.

"They are still there, Madame," said a quiet voice
beside her, when the miller had been assisted to bed, and
his wife remained bending over him, pressing her hands
together in dumb distress,  " they are waiting : can I do
anything ? "

She turned quickly and saw the ragged stranger
standing respectfully by, with a look of sympathy in his
deep eyes.

It was he, then, whu had helped her : the waif, the

stray, who but now was disputing for a mouthful of food
with the pigs !

Tephany had quite forgotten his existence : yet the
sight of him helped her. He seemed a friend a something
on which she might lean.

"Thank you. Ah, yes, I forgot ! It is the cider. You
will find a barrel in there;" (she indicated a door),
draw some, please, and send them away. Jehu is a
good fellow enough, but Pierre "

The shudder with which she closed, said more than
words.

Ah I if Marie were only back, and the boys ! " sighed
the poor woman, as Christophe turned to obey her.
How shall I ever manage by myself to-night  all
alone ? "

Madame, they have gone. Can I do any more ? If
Madame does not want me, perhaps I had better
go, too ? "

The same quiet voice was speaking again, almost
before Tephany could hope that the errand was
accomplished. The voice was so quiet that she could
not guess the insults the boy had received from the man
Pierre in doing her bidding, or how his companion had
hurried him away for very shame. There was a wistfulness,
however, in the tone with which the last words were
uttered that made her pause a moment before answering.
Could she give him the proffered shelter  now that she

was without protection ? She looked at her husband,
lying helpless and half insensible on the bed, and
hesitated.

If Madame would rather " began the voice again.

Tephany turned and looked full in the lad's face ;
that dark, pale, thin face, with the deep, wistful eyes
and the sensitive mouth. The look seemed to satisfy
her.

*' No, stay," she said ; briefly, and then turned again to
her husband, who had roused a little and was speaking
in a feeble, querulous voice.

'all that corn!" he said, "all that corn!" How
shall I grind it, Tephany ? And there's Fifine ; did anyone
put her in the stable ? And what's the night,
Tephany ? Isn't like to be windy ? I can't remember
whether the sails are properly secured. Go and see,
wife. But no, thou must not leave me ; I feel as though
I could not be alone. Yes, Tephany, the rascal was
right ; I'm no better than most millers, and I've broken
my word again. Mere Forgot's cider is a trifle strong,

maybe, but Ah ! if I am to die now, as that rascal

said I might. Old William will surely have me. Father

Paul will never give me absolution again, after

Dost think he will, wife ?"

He asked the question with an entreating intonation,
as though he longed to be contradicted ; but poor, kindly,
jolly-looking Tephany was too much shaken to do it.

This reminder of her husband's spiritual as well as
temporal danger came like the last straw : she burst
into tears.

"If Madame will tell me where, swill put the horse in.
I know about horses, we had one at home."

The lad started as the last word passed his lips ; it
had come unconsciously.

The miller's face relaxed.

"Ah, yes," he said, "let Adam do it  I forgot about
Adam. There, there, wife, it will be all right ; don't
cry."

He thinks you are Adam ; never mind, don't
contradict him  anything to keep his mind easy,"
whispered Tephany, who had followed her ragged
auxiliary to the door.

Yes, there is Fifine ; they might have had the
charity to put her in," continued the poor woman, as she
saw the white horse browsing outside in the fast
gathering twilight.

Stop, the stable is round there  you can't miss it.

Tie her up and give her some hay, and then Coming,

man aini one little minute only. What else did he say ?
Ah, yes, about the sails. Just see if they have been
properly secured, and if not, do it. You will see Jiou\
fast enough. Yes, yes  " as the miller's querulous voice
again called her  " Coming, nioii tui. About the sails ?
Oh, yes, up there  yoa can't miss it."

She pointed to a larger which seemed to lead to the
upper storeys of the mill, and then ran back to the
dwellings-rooms without another word.

The white horse raised its head as Christophe
approached it, looked at him for a moment, and then,
as though satisfied, allowed him to take the bridle and
lead it round the mill ; or rather, I should say, the horse
led Christophe ; for, confident that it would know the
way to its own stable, he held the reins loosely and
allowed it to take the lead.

A curious sensation came over the boy as he walked
round the dark, tower-like building, with the horse's
bridle in his hand, the rising wind on his cheek, an 1 the
wide, wild sky overhead. There was something in his
occupation, in the care of the patient animal beside him,
which awoke past memories in his still half-numb mind.
As each memory arose in dimly-shaped, misty outline, 
part separated from part, passing from his weak mental
grasp as he tried to seize it, only to give place to another
just as indefinite a strange, painful thrill of reviving
consciousness troubled his spirit.

lor days past now, he had lived a semi-conscious life ;
his higher faculties had been almost wholly in abeyance,
the needs of bodily sustenance alone occupying his
attention. Everything had been done, as it were, in a
dream, and forgotten almost as quickly.

But this evening there was a change. Almost for the

first time since his escape from the weaver's cottage, he
had eaten of wholesome food till he was satisfied ; he
had felt the warmth of a human habitation pass through
his chill limbs, and the genial warmth of human kindness
through his chill heart. As the blood in a torpid limb
under the influence of electricity, so the spiritual life
within him began to stir again, and with similar thrills
of pain.

'* Loizik !" he found himself saying to the horse ; and
immediately the vision of a poor, patient, worn-out
animal, with drooping head and troubled, suffering eyes,
rose before his mind.

Which was Loizik, this or that ? and how was it that
the very name troubled him so strangely ?

He looked up at the dark, tall mass rising above him ;
and, chill as was the night, the perspiration broke out inlarge
beads upon his forehead.

It seemed to him as though he ought to see fir-trees
around, and a long shadow stretching across a band of
moonlight at its base.

But these were not here.

Christophe shuddered, and drew a long sigh of relict,
as the horse stopped before a little out-house on the
further side of the mill. This, at least, called up no
haunting recollections.

He opened the door, and the animal marched in, as
one quite at home, and began to munch the hay which

was in the manger. Dark as it was, Christophe
manage-ed, by dint of groping, to find the rope, slip the
bridle from the horse's head, and secure him for the
night. This done, he returned to the mill.

SEEN IN THE Moonlight.

Uncertain as a vision or a dream 
Faint as a figure seen in early dawn."

Tennyson. '';i.oc/i A eden."

The Monlin dien Haut was, like many of the buildings of
Brittany, composed of both stones and timber in its outer
walls, but chiefly of the latter. It was a well-built old
mill, and had stood the wear and tear, the storms and
tempests of full two hundred years ; at least so said the
miller. Moreover, it was picturesque as well as useful,
awd formed the object for many an artist's picture, as it
stood up, tall and dark, many a score of feet above the
town of Morlaix, tossing its great sails, like giant arms,
against the sky.

The basement floor, sufficiently large to stand division
into two good-sized rooms and a little sleeping closet,
served as the dwelling of the miller and his family.

The first storey was larger still, and projected far
enough beyond the walls below, to form a covered passage
all around the dwelling floor  in mill parlance, a roundhouse,
which in its turn was fenced in with timber hoardings
to protect it from the open air. Here the miller

received the sacks of grain, which were hoisted up by
great pulleys to the g-rinding-chamber ; here, also, they
were lowered down again, and delivered back to their
owners filled with well-ground flour : for the Monlin dien
Haut bore a high character for its fine grinding.

A finely picturesque old timber stair-case led up to the
first storey, outside the round-house, communicating with
an equally picturesque little open gallery which ran all
round the mill. Inside, an equally useful, if less
picturesque ladder, performed the same office, leading
immediately into the interior of the first storey through a
trap in the floor.

Christophe hesitated a moment between these two ways
of mounting in pursuance of his errand, but finally chose
the inner.

Madame Rannau hid lit a mill-candle during his
absence, and struck it by the sharp spike with which such
candle-sticks are usually furnished, into the wall of the
round-house ; a bunch of keys, strung together by a piece
of string, hung on a nail beside it.

Christophe took both candle and keys, and, mounting
the ladder, pushed up the first trap-door, and found
himself in the grinding-chamber. The great mill-stones
were at rest, the huge beams and joists which supported
the upper floors, no longer trembled with the heavy roll
uf the machinery. The whole place seemed strangely
and*eerily quiet.

Christophe even was struck by the stillness ; for, though
he was no miller, he had several times been in a mill in
the old days at home : days which now seemed strangely
dim and far away, as though they had been lived in the
land of/lreams.

Upon everything in the chamber there had settled a
fine white dust. It looked like the dust which grows of
long disuse : but in reality it was the dust of labour, the
powdering's of the fine white rain of meal which was ever
being thrown off, like spray, by the floury cataract which
flowed from between the mill-stones,

A black cat, with face and ears whitened by its
researches among the meal-sacks, glared at Christophe
as he passed the hopper and went on up the next ladder
to the floor above.

The Monlin dien Haut was a tall mill, and Christophe
had to pass up through several other storeys, each appropriated
to some particular process in the grinding of corn,
before he reached the topmost chamber, that containing
the mainspring of the whole, the machinery connected
with the great sails outside, which set the
whole of the lower works in motion. Here also all
was silent.

The miller had evidently secured the sails all right
before leaving the mill on his expedition to the town : for
there was no motion, no sound to be heard, but the soft
piping of a gently-stirring wind among the great transverse

bars which formed the inner skeleton of the mig-hty
arms outside.

Christophe did his best to bring his weak and bewildered
mind to the task in hand ; he ransacked his
cloudy memory to call up an image of how things looked
when sails were properly locked, from the shadowy impressions
of past times. He tried his keys in what looked
like a lock in the machinery, found one that fitted, but
could not turn it further. Yes, evidently all was right.

He drew a sigh of relief, put his hand to a brow which
was throbbing painfully with the effort at unaccustomed
thought, and turned to go down stairs.

As he did so, a long shaft of pale moonlight fell into
the gloomy room, from one of the two square windows
facing each other, which pierced the wall, and from which
the miller was wont to look out for the coming of the
winds to turn his mill.

Christophe started. Never now could he see a shaft of
moonlight fall athwart the darkness without such a start,
and a curdling of the blood which turned his very heartsick.
His ordinary impulse on such occasions, to turn
and flee, came over him now : but he resisted it, walked
down the very track of the eerie light, and looked out of
the window.

It was a strange picture of light and shade which
stretched before him, as he stood there at the top of the tall
old wind-mill, lifted, as it were, between earth and heaven.

Close by him, stretching black and motionless, one
against the sky, one towards the far horizon, one pointing-down
to earth, the fourth hidden from sight, were the
mill-sails, about which, whether by day or night, there
is I know not what of weird power, which impresses the
imagination with a sort of fascination mingled with awe.

These were intensely black, steady and motionless ; all
else seemed a strange, shifting sea of light and shadow,
as the clouds scudded across the sky, now hiding, now
showing the moon, casting ghostly photographs of the
scenes in heaven on to the receptive surface of the
sleeping world which lay below. Now the roofs of the
town below caught the gleam ; then it passed with
gliding motion to the tidal river on which Morlaix lies,
lighting up its sluggish reaches till they showed like the
gleaming folds in the train of a bridal dress. Anon the
light died from the water, only to live again on the dim
brown moors and swelling hills which lie between
Morlaix and the far sea-line, where the silver seemed to
settle smilingly and linger ere it passed, like Arthur, to
the Isle of Pavilion, which lies, say the Bretons, in those
wan waters of the west."

Christophe looked some moments at the shifting picture,
then suddenly, as is usual with such unexplainable
perceptions, there came over him the feeling that
someone was standing behind him.

He turned quickly, and, as the moonlight, which had

l)L'en shut off from the room by his own face at the
win low, streamed again across the floor, he caught sight
of the figure of a man standing in it, with his face
towards the trap-door.

He was a young man, short, but very powerfully built,
with thick, black hair. Of his face, Christophe could see
but little, besides the outline of a long cheek and stubborn-looking
chin.

He wore a miller's dress, white from head to foot.
After standing for an instant with his hands in his pockets
and his eyes on the floor, he made straight for the ladder
and descended to the lower storey, without once turning
his head, or giving any indication that he was aware of
Christophe's presence.

The latter, after a short interval, followed him : and
then, for the first time, he perceived that the draught from
the windows had blown out his candle, and that he would
have no light but that of the moon to guide him down the
many ladders and through the silent chambers of the
mill.

Who. then, was this man that seemed to know them
so well that he needed no light ?

Christophe could hear him descending with unhesitating
steps. never once pausing till 'he reached the lowest rung
of the lowest ladder. Cautiously following in the gloom,
he himself found it no such easy matter.

Was this a grinder attached to the mill ? If so, why

had Madame Rannau spoken of being" alone ? Wh)- had
she been so ready to avail herself of the help of an
inexperienced newcomer ?

The incident puzzled him a good deal ; yet, such was
the condition of his mind, that the new effort, required to
find his way in the almost total darkness  (for the clouds
passed too constantly over the moon to allow of her giving-much
light)  caused him almost to for-et his meeting
with the stranger, by the time he had groped his way
downstairs again.

Very weary was the lad when he stood once more in
the presence of the miller's wife. The reaction consequent
on the novelty and excitement of the last few hours had set
in : the fatigue of a long day was telling on his weakened
body, and it was all he could do to stand upright while
he reported himself to the mistress, handed her the keys,
and waited to receive her directions.

In spite of her own preoccupation, the weary droop of
the tall, thin figure, the exhausted ring of the lad's voice
did not escape Tephany's attention. She rose immediately
from her seat beside the bed oCthe now sleeping miller,
took the candle, and led the way into a little sleeping
closet.

It is Marie's," she said, looking half doubtfully at
the dainty appointments of the tiny chamber, and
then at the undoubtedly squalid appearance of the lad
beside her.

Yes, it is Marie's ; but she won't be back to-night,
and I do not know where else to put you. I have no
time to make up a bed, and I must have you at hand incase
of need. Good night, and may the blessed saints
keep us all."

But, Madame "

Christophe's eyes had followed the direction of
Tephany's, and rested, not with doubt, but with utter
consternation on the scene before him.

The tiny room did, indeed, look very unsuited to such ashe.
It was not that it was luxuriously furnished ; far
from it. Of actual furniture there was little, and that
only of the usual description to be found in Breton houses,
such as was the Monlin dien Haut. But there was a
spotless purity, a dainty finish about it all, from the
snowy coverlet and white pillows, which gleamed from
within the dark oak framework of the lit dos with the
I.H.S. above it, set in wreathed work of quaint old
carving ; to the winter nosegay of window-reared China
roses, which filled the little vase below the shrine of the
Madonna, opposite the diamond window, deep set in
the old wall.

The very walls themselves were white, with the
dazzling whiteness of newly laid-on limewash, all above
the border of dark wainscoting which extended round the
room to the height of some three feet above the floor.

On a nail in the wall at one side of the window there

hung one of the close white linen caps worn by the
female population of Morlaix, and under the plain deal
chair with scarlet cushion which stood by the bed,
Christophe could see a tiny pair of woman's sabots.

Such a white little nest, and  (He caught sight of
himself in a small looking-glass which hung on the wall,
and fairly started. The contrast was too great.)

But, Madame "

The words came from him as a sort of protest. It
seemed little short of profanation that he should occupy
a room like this.

But Tephany was gone ; and Christophe, uttering the
words, turned, to find the door shut, and he himself
standing alone on the well-scrubbed floor. He glanced
again at the lite mirror, and fairly blushed.

Dirty, indeed, haggard with long fasting, and utterly
innocent of soap and water, was the face which met his
look. The darker shade which outlined the short, well-cut
upper lip, might be the first sign of coming manhood,
or only an intensified smudge of dirt, for all its owner or
anyone else could discover; d as for the hair which
hung in long black masses about his head and almost
into his eyes, it was all but rusty in hue from exposure to
the sun and wind, matted and unkempt to the last
degree.

From his face, Christophe glanced down at his figure,
and the blush became hotter.

VOL. I. p

No klaskervara could be worse than he : the rag-s
seemed literally about to fall from him and leave him
naked.

Such a tattered object ! And had he stood thus before
Madame Rannau ?

Almost for the first time since he had quitted his home,
the sense of his squalid appearance forced itself on the
lad's mind and filled him with overpowering shame.

Could his foster-mother see him thus, his dainty little
sister Genofa, nay even Yvonne  what would they say ?

It was long since he had consciously thought much of
the old home, but the sight of this little white chamber
seemed to bring it back. It was just such a one as
Genofa's, he thought : and with that he went forward and
laid his great, brown hand, half-timidly, half-tenderly, on
the snowy pillow. When he took it away, it seemed to
him that it had left a mark on the fair, white linen.

He drew back in horror !

No ; he could not sleep there. It was an utter impossibility.


He looked around, saw a mat, old and faded, if clean
like everything else, which had been laid down inside the
door to keep out the draught ; stretched himself upon
it,  like a dog not fit to intrude further, but which,
nevertheless, is suffered at the door,  and fell fast asleep

SON OF Roman.

She thereat, as one
That smells a foul-fleshed agaric in the holt,
And deems it carrion of some woodland thing.
Or shrew, or weasel, nipt her slender nose
With petulant thumb and finger, shrilling, ' Hence
Avoid, thou smallest all of kitchen-grease ! ' "

Tennyson" Gareth and Lisette."

'*' To think of all this happening since we went away !
Heavens ! I think old Mere Judith must have turned an

evil eye (Holy Saints, that I should have said the

word!) "

Here the speaker dropped her voice to a horrified
whisper, and hastily crossed herself.

"But really, Tephany, it is strangely unfortunate.
First, a week's baking all spoilt; then the fest pig
dropping down dead ; and now this accident ! You may
say what you like, sister, but I do believe Benead has
himself to thank. If he hadn't quarrelled with his bread
and butter and sent off poor adam, we shouldn't have
come to this pass. Nothing has gone right since he went
away, and that's  how many weeks since ? Well,
anyhow,  jW.'" Tephany, say then, what animal hast
thou got here ? 'Tis a very pig ! "

The speaker, a pretty, round, kitten-like girl as

 Ireton exclamation.

rci'-ards outward appearance, a copy in miniature of her
elder sister, the miller's wife, but daintier, more sprightly,
and altogether less what the French call solide in looks
than she  turned hastily, and started as her eyes fell on
Christophe.

The lad was diligently sweeping out the roundhouse,
evidently putting his whole mind into his task, for
he had hardly glanced up as the miller's wife passed out
on her way to meet the returning members of her household,
namely, her two little boys and the young unmarried
sister whose home was at present under her roof.

The boys had loitered behind, and the two women had
stopped with their backs to the mill that the mother
might glance down the road now and ag-ain, while she
poured out her tale of misfortunes.

Tephany followed the direction of her sister's eyes,
coloured a little, and answered in a tone which sounded
half apologetic, 

What could I do, Marie ? He turned up last night
just before Benead was brought home, and I had
nobody "

'' Bah ! a klaskervara like that ! "

Marie tossed her head and turned up her little retrousse
nose still further, as though its delicate sense had been
offended.

*' Why, he's a true son of Jovian* no better than one

Mab-roman  sons of Rohan a I'.icton name for pigs.

of the pigs," she continued, saucily, as the newly-liberated
herd ran grunting past. *' And to take him instead of
Adam Bah ! ''

She scarcely took the trouble to lower her voice, as she
brushed past the object of her disapprobation into the ,
whither she was followed by the miller's wife.

Animal as she might think him, and as indeed he
almost looked in his neglected squalor, the lad had caught
and vividly felt the girl's last remark. The hot blood
crimsoned his dark skin under its coating of dirt, and he
paused a moment in his willing labour of helping the
woman who had been kind to him, in the vague desire of
hearing a word from her in his defence. He had better
have gone on.

Tephany spoke indeed, but in a voice so pitched that,.
had he not been listening, it would not have been overheard
: yet it was evident that, not his defence, but the
wish to propitiate her sister, was the motive which
prompted her words.

Ah, yes, poor fellow, he is, as thou mayest, a vers
: but what wouldst have, Marie ? Ah, pardon," she
continued, following her sister into the little sleeping-closet,
' I did not mean thee to find out ; if I had thought
how dirty he was, I would never  but Benead was so
ill, as thou seest, though he sleeps quietly enough for
the present, poor man, that  that "

She broke off, her voice drowned in the angry exclamations

of her sister, who had evidently discovered the
black mark on her pretty white pillow.

'' But, Tephany, this is shocking,  terrible ! Thou dost
not mean to tell me he slept in here ? Yes ? Sainte-anne
defend us I A veritable pig  a beast like that !
Get along to thy animal, then ; I must put the room to
rig-its directly. My room, indeed ! "

The door was banged in the face of the miller's wife,
who, hearing her husband calling her, went to his bedside,
without a glance to see if her protege had been
within ear-shot of these pleasant remarks.

Had she looked, however, she would have found the
round-house empty. Christophe had not waited to hear
the conclusion of the altercation concerning him. With
head bent, ears tingling, and cheeks throbbing with
shame, he turned from the door of the mill, which, up to
that moment, had seemed to him such a kindly refuge
from misery and cold neglect.

Why had he so soon forgotten the image which last
night had shocked him by its reflection in the glass ?
Why had he not at least tried whether cold water would
make him more respectable before he had again presented
his squalid countenance in the sight of a civilized
woman ?

Poor lad, he felt as If his foster-mother, the notable
Ninorc'h  as if his dainty little sister Genofa, who was
always as fresh and sweet as a flower  had spoken by

the mouths of these two women. How they had always
hated dirt ! How Genofa especially had been wont to
shrink from the neighbourhood of a klaskervara I

A klaskervara ! The image of his father rose before
his mind's eye at the word, and he shuddered painfully.
Could it be that he was like tJiat

There was horror in the very thought.

Tears such as he had not shed for many months, which
indeed he had been too much crushed to shed, coursed
down the haggard cheeks of the wanderer, as he knelt
by the mossy margin of the well where Maitre Rannau
was wont to water his mill-horse, and tried, with hands
which, it is true, were too long unaccustomed  to make
his morning toilet. Round him grunted Madame
Rannau's pigs, wallowing in the muddy runlet which
flowed from the well, seeming (as he thought in his deep
humiliation) to recognize him as a brother.

"A son of Rohan!" Yes, she had called him that,
and as such even the animals owned him.

And he had dared to sleep in her room, that dainty
room which was like a shrine ! No wonder she was
horrified.

No anger mingled with the lad's smarting sense of
shame. His life for the past few years had been such as
to leave no room for pride, scarcely even for self-respect ;
and lately, when he thought at all, it was to wonder
dumbly how a creature so vile as he felt himself to be.

could be looked on by any Christian without a shudder.
The words of this dainty girl were accepted without
resentment, as only the simple truth ; nay, he was even
conscious of a feeling of relief that she had shrunk from
his outward squalor only, not from the soul's defilement,
which was before his eyes continually to the exclusion of
everything else. Outward soil mig-ht be washed away,
but blood

No, he would not think of that just now ; and it was a
sign of his improving mental condition that a mere
accident of daily life could come between his mind's eye
and the ghastly horror on which it had so long dwelt.

What with his own splashing and the pigs' grunting,
he did not hear the babble of childrens' voices coming
nearer and nearer, and it was with a start of surprise
that he looked up presently to see two curly-headed boys,
standing hand-in-hand, gazing at his ablutions with the
mo.=it profound interest.

Christophe's head was dripping with water, the drops
running down from his mop of black hair into his eyes,
faster than he could wipe them away with his tattered
sleeve. He must have looked a comical object, contorting
his grave features and winking hard in the endeavour to
look at the new arrivals ; but not the slightest irlea had
he of this till he was startled by a peal of childish
laughter from his two spectators. Then Christophe,
having at last succeeded in stemming the waster-drops.

stared too, and a pleasant picture it was which met his
eyes.

The boys mi.ht have been about eight years old, and
were perfect doubles of each other ; the same height, the
same colouring', the same form of feature.

You could see at once that they were brothers and had
been born on the same day ; you could see also, almost
as clearly, whose children they were. They mi<ht have
been modelled and painted after Madame Rannau, so
much did they resemble her.

Both of them had the curly hair, dark, yet with a
bronze tint upon it, which, in the sunshine, showed like
the interweaving of a gold thread  the soft olive skin
with a healthy rose blooming underneath, the full red
lips, and clear grey eyes, which, before her beauty had
become a little too expansive and over-blown, had made
Tephany Laurent the most admired among the penncn'Z ''
of Morlaix.

And now both cherub faces were rippled over with
smiles and laughter; the eyes twinkled with amusement,
the white, pearly teeth showed in a brilliant line between
the cherry lips. Such innocent fun is very infectious, and
before he knew what he was doing, the grave, melancholy
outcast, who had thought never to smile again, found
himself laughing back at them. The lad almost started
at the sound of his own laugh, so strange and unnatural

The Breton for a young marriageable girl

did it sound ; but he had no time to think of this, for. as
if the spell had been broken by the re-echo of their
amusement, one of the cherubs ceased laughing, and
spoke.

"Who are you ? "

Seldom was a simple question harder to answer. To
bury his individuality was Christophe's chief object, and
here was a child asking it of him point blank !

The lad could not lie ; though of late all idea of acting
on principle had been as if null and void  it was not in
his nature to do so.

But, after all, what was his individuality ? Did he
fully know himself? His father he knew  alas, too well !
But his mother ? His birthplace ? About all that the
pillar had been persistently silent.

*' Who are you'* repeated the boy, bent on getting
an answer, ' you nmsf be somebody, and live sonieivhere
you know," he added, with a sage nod of his curly head.
*' Mustn't he, Allan ? "

"Yes," answered the other cherub, decidedly, "of
course he must."

"Must I? Well, then, I don't; I live nowhere at
least, not now," added Christophe, under his breath, with
a sad sigh.

He had found something he could answer, both
harmlessly and truly enough.

You live nowhere  you have 710 home ? " questioned

the first cherub, as if such sad facts were sheer impossibilities,
c[aiie unknown in the sphere of his childish experience.

"Allan, dost thou hear? He lives nowhere, he has
no home !" repeated the child, impressively, turning to this
double.

The other meditated a little, after which he said slowly,
and with great conviction : " Then he's a klaskervara.
T/wy live nowhere, as thou knowest, Etienne ; and they're
nobodies, too. Adam said so."

The first cherub seemed impressed. He had forgotten
to take this phase of society into consideration. After
pondering his brother's words for a due space, he turned
again to Christophe :

You hear what he says, boy ? You are a klaskervara,
are you not?"

Was he a klaskervara ? Christophe repeated the question
to himself. A seeker of bread  certainly he had
been that for some time past, and had found but little.
He looked up and answered :

Well, perhaps  yes, I suppose I am."

The child seemed satisfied.

"Then I'll call you Klasker," he said. " There was an
old man who came to the door for bread every month,
one winter, and that was what we called him ; he was a
nobody, like you, and had no name  at least, he never
told it. He's dead now," added the child, carelessly  " at
least we think so, Allan and I, for he never comes ; so you

can have his name, if you like. You'd like to have one.
wouldn't you ?

Christophe could scarcely forbear smiling at the child's
curious appointment of him as successor to the old beggar
who was dead ; but it suited him well enough, so he
nodded his head in reply.

'' Then that's settled," concluded the little one, with a
look of great satisfaction. ** Would you like some bread,
Klasker ? Motherly give you some if I ask her."

*' Thank you, little master, she has already given me
my breakfast \ and now I'm going back to sweep out the
round-house."

The round-house ? Ours ? How droll I Allan, dost
thou hear ?"

'eyes. Stop, Etienne, I want to whisper something."

This was said mysteriously, with a curious glance at
the stranger by the water-trough ; and then both curly
heads approached very close to each other for the space
of some minutes, and Christophe felt that the private conversation
related to him.

Yes, motherly know," concluded the more talkative
of the pair. Come, Allan, we'll go and ask her all
about it. Goodbye, Klasker; don't be long in comme."

They nodded to Christophe in a patronising way, and
then went towards the mill, hand-in-hand.

CHAPTER I.

IN THE COURSE OF A YEAR . . , . 1

i7 CHAPTER II

"'HE MYSTERIOUS FOOTPRINT . . . . /

 . CHAPTER III.

Il <2CAT AND MOUSE . . 17

CHAPTER IV.

*' ONLY ADAM " 23

CHAPTER V.

HONEYED WORDS 35

CHAPTER VI.

THE PARDON 42

CHAPTER VII.

RIVAL PARTNERS 55

CHAPTER VIII.

SEEN IN THE FIRELIGHT 03

CHAPTER IX.

IN THE CATHEDRAL 70

CONTENTS.

BOOK V.-LOYE's YOUNG DREAM

CHAPTER I.

MAIDENS AT THE WELL 87

CHAPTER U.

"the thatch where he was reared and the

VOICE OF his brothers" 95

AT SUPPER .

CHAPTER HI,



Genoa

CHAPTER IV.



YVONNE

CHAPTER V.



TAP ! TAP ! .

CHAPTER VI.



CHAPTER VII.

A MIDNIGHT MASS



CHAPTER VIII.

NEVER LET ME GO AGAIN ! "

163

CHAPTER IX.

HARD BESET



CHAPTER X.

WHAT CARE I? 178

CHAPTER XL

A DRUIDICAL CONFESSIONAL 184

CHAPTER XII.

PLAYING AT LOVE 200

CHAPTER Xin.
"if thou didst but know!" 210

CHAPTER XIV.

SWEET SEDUCTIONS .218

CHAPTER XV.

A BOUQUET OF FLAX AND A WHEAT EAR . . 222

CHAPTER XVI.

"THINE, BODY AND SOUL !" 238

CHAPTER XVI I.

HIS MARRIAGE-MESSENGER 247

CHAPTER XVIII.

HALCYON DAYS 255

pivisker.

BOOK IV. Plaster.

CHAPTER I.

IN THE COURSE OF A YEAR.

An he work,
like any pigeon will I cram this crop 
And sleeker shall he shine than ans' hog."

'J'kn.\vs()iv.  " Gareth and Lynctte."

Things adjust themselves curiously sometimes, and in this
world, as with the scenes of a kaleidescope, harmonious
combinations are often formed out of what, at first sight,
appear to be very incongruous elements.

When Christophe first appeared at the Monlin dien
Haut to assist at the evening meal of the pigs, it seemed
little likely that at the end of a year he would still be
there in the respectable character of right-hand man to
Maitre Benead Rannau ; when Mille. Marie Laurent
classed him contemptuously with his first mess-fellows
as a " son of Rohan," and swept, dusted, and fumigated
her little room as though his presence there had brought

VOL. II. B

contagion : it seemed still less on the cards that, when he
returned to the house after his visit to the well, she should
have already discovered that, after all, he was rather
a handsome lad. And yet both these thing's had come to
pass : nay, more, the whilom brother of the pigs presently
found himself quite unconscious of the fine degrees which
led to the result  played off by the same dainty maiden
as blind, lure, second string, and I know not what, ina
somewhat entangled love affair which she was
carrying on.

As for the first fact, it is to be accounted for by the
collateral circumstances of the wind-miller's accident
and want of an assistant at the very moment of the
wanderer's arrival. New servants are not always to be
found at a moment's notice when an old one has been
dismissed, in. what the neighbourhood was pleased to
consider, a rather peremptory fashion ; and beggars are
proverbially not allowed to be choosers. So when
Christophe turned up at the nick of time to fill the
vacancy, and showed himself, with a little neighbourly
counsel, able to keep the mill going in a ver\- fair fashion
the miller was glad enough to keep him on from day today,
pending his recovery, which, as had been feared,
was not too rapid.

The boys also took to ''Klasker," as they had named
him, and pronounced him ten times better than Adam :
and as for comely and kindly Madame Rannau, she felt

not a little proud of her penetration in having, as she said,
actually discovered a jewel, if not /;/, at all events ainoiigy
the snouts of her swine.

"Wasn't that just what Father Paul said in his sermon
only the Sunday before ? " remarked cunning Tephany to
her invalid husband. " Didn't he say that if we would
only believe it, most disagreeable things come as blessings
in disguise (not that I mean the poor lad is disagreeable;
not really thou knowest, Benead, only he looked a

little little at all events, Marie thought so). What

I wanted to say is, that since he's proved a blessing,
perhaps your accident will prove one too, Benead, my
friend,  if thou wilt only open thine eyes to see it," she
added, a little doubtfully, as her husband growled something
which sounded like anything but an assent : 

"Ah, my best beloved, if thou wouldst only listen to
Father Paul I "

But the miller was in a mood little suited either to
finding blessings, or suffering sermons : and poor Madame
Rannau, who, though a miller's wife, was as pious as an;.
Bretonne connected with a less ill-famed calling" could
be,* was fain to run out of the room to avoid hearing
words such as Father Paul would certainly not have
approved of.

After this brush with the miller, it was most refreshing
come out into the round-house and hear the miller's

Why, I cannot tell, but millers are looked on in Brittany as men of loose morals.

i

man, grave and earnest-eyed, sing-ing- soft snatches from
the hymn of Paradise, as he went about his work, closely
attended by the two little bright-faced cherubs. And yet,
with the miller's man as with the miller, the words he vias
uttering" flowed rather from custom than from anything
deeper. Religion, like everything else with him, had
been stunned and deadened by that dark night's experience,
and not yet could he bear to be face to face with a
Crucifix.

Nevertheless, the lad's mind was recovering its tone.
The restless terror of the hunted animal no longer
possessed him ; and if happiness were still a stranger to
him, calm at least seemed settling down upon the soul so
long tempest-tossed ; the quiet, regular life, the kind
care of a gentle mistress, the bright companionship of the
innocent children ; above all, u<ork honest continual, work,
requiring attention which must not wander  all these
healing influences were acting on the morbid senses,
pouring in such oil and wine as no doctor but the Wisest
can dispense.

By degrees, too, another interest awoke : the half-flattered,
half-admiring feeling with which a very young-man
first perceives that he is an object of attention to a
very pretty woman, rather older than himself.

That the dainty occupant of the little white room
should deign to notice him in any way, was wonder
enough to the homeless lad : but that it should be

favourably  that she should nod to him kindly as she
passed through the round-house  that she should wish
him good morning with a smile, and linger occasionally
to exchange a word or two  this seemed to him little
short of a miracle, and if it did nothing better, at least it
raised him in his own eyes.

Pretty Marie certainly found him useful ; and, what is
more, the harder she worked him the more he seemed to
like it. It was a pleasure to him to be made hewer of
wood and drawer of water by this exacting little task-mistress,
who never would do anything for herself if she
could find a cavalier to do it for her. But woe be to the
country cavaliers who submitted themselves too implicitly
to her sway ! She was wont to make them toil hard
enough for her smiles ; and more than one, dismissed
when his services were no longer needed, had been heard
to declare that her heart was as hard as her brother-in-law's
mill-stones, and as crafty as that of the craftiest
mouser which lurked behind his meal-sacks. Some
whispered comparison, too, there was between the
treacherous weapons sheathed within the velvet paws,
and Mademoiselle Marie's unkind behaviour after softest
allurements ; but of such experience, barring the scratch
received on his first introduction, Christophe had as yet had
none. No ; velvet was not softer than were those paws
to him ; and the most innocent-faced kitten among the
feline inhabitants of the Monlin dien Haut could not lookup

at him with eyes less guileless than did the little sister
of the miller's wife.

Moreover, as yet the lad neither demanded nor
expected anything. He was pleased at her notice, and
felt the smiles with which she paid him for his little
services, like rays of sunshine in a cold and shady place.
That was all, as yet. Of what is called " sweethearts,"
the lad had little idea ; and he took what she gave him
and did what he was told with perfect simplicity,
suspecting nothing.

Sometimes, indeed, a little incident would occur which
might have hinted to a mind more alive to jealousy than
was Christophe's, that there was another claim on the
mill-maid's smiles besides his own. Sometimes a name
came up which brought a flush to the girl's cheek, a curse
to the miller's lips, and aroused an instant's questioning
even in the simple mind of the miller's man. But it was
quickly forgotten again, and then things went on as
before.

How long they might have thus continued, there is no
saying, had not the end of the year after Christophe's
arrival brought the afore-mentioned incidents up in a
thicker crop, and led him into a nearer acquaintance with
the owner of the aforesaid name.

THE MYSTERIOUS FOOTPRINT.

Cependant il se unit a penser que cette nuit lui contact bien cher, II faudrait
plonger I'ecuelle dans bien des sacs de able pour rattraper tant sargent."

Breton Ballad "7>rt Femme du Mennier.'

It was winter aain.

All over wide Brittany the crops had been gathered in ;
the busy flail had sounded its measure and ceased again
throughout the land ; and now every mill was merrily
grinding the garnered grain.

The Monlin dien Haut had its full share of work with
the rest, though its master (as he said) was 'not yet the
man he had been," and still ** not sound enough on his
pins to stand out a good day's grinding'" nevertheless,
the grinding was done, and so done that not a customer
of Maitre Rannau had any cause for complaint against the
quality of the flour.

"First-rate quality  hast-rate, friend Rannau," said one
sturdy farmer after another, as he sifted a little of the
meal through his fingers, and then, aided by the miller's
man, packed the sacks into his waggon, and set his
patient train of oxen in motion with the load.

Ay, ay, thought got a tip-top grinder," another would

remark, with a iiance, half-admiring, half curious, at the
dark, silent lad who had come to the mill since they had
been there with last year's corn.

Where didst pick him up, friend Rannau ? "

A klaskervara ? Ah, ah, ah 1 "

This last exclamation was grunted dow n in the throat,
with a nod of the head and a twinkle of the eye, as if
the answer accounted for something which had rather
puzzled the inquirer. And that something did somewhat
puzzle the farmers, mig-ht be seen by the way in which
they looked at certain sacks, the mouths of which showed
a large-er lip of unused canvas than was quite necessary
for tying up purposes.

"Maitre Rannau takes a trifle more toll than he used todo,"
whispered one to the other. " But what would you
have? the grinding's first-rate, to be sure."

At last, however, the whispers found voice.

' Yes, yes, the quality is excellent, miller," quoth one
old farmer, who was never known to take wrong for
want of plain speaking, as he lifted a sack of suspicious
lightness;  "the quality's excellent, but the quantify,
Maitre Rannau, the quantify? Toll's toll, I know that,
and the miller has his dues as well as the farmer ; Jut
there's such a thing as paying through the nose, and that
ril not do for the best grinding, by Saint-corinth, will
not I ! "

Poor Maitre Rannau. This was a heavy accusation,

and almost took away his power of speech. Justify
himself he did in a fashion ; promised to have his weights
adjusted immediately, made compensation from his own
toll-bin, beg-g-ed a thousand pardons, and profoundly
bowed the half-pacified farmer off the premises. Rut
this did not conceal an ugly fact, nor clear up an awkward
suspicion.

In a tumult of agitation he went to seek for his much-praised
man, who had not been present at the lodging ot
this g-rave complaint.

"Holy Saint-Martin, what shall I do?" he ejaculated
under his breath, as he dragged his stiff leg up the
ladder which led to the grinding-room. " What shall I
do if he, too, prove to be a good-for-nothing-? Such a
useful lad as he is, such a first-rate grinder, and I have
him so cheap ! Holy Saint-Martin, it's hard, I'm sure it
is, when I've done nothing but reform this whole year,
and haven't touched above a drop at a time ever since
the doctor told me 'twould be my death if I did. Ay, ay 1
it's hard on a man that he should put away his sins
and get nothing by it. It's not fair, it's not  the saints
forgive me for saying it ! If I'd been solid on my legs,

now These ladders '11 be the death of me ! Klasker,

I say ! What ! Klasker, lad, where hast got to ? "

The miller had by this time reached the grinding-room
; but, except for the cats and their hidden prey, it
was quite untenanted, and the rumble of the great millstones

drowned his voice and hindered it from penetrating
the upper storeys. Grumbling to himself, therefore, he
mounted higher ; but it was not till his head emerged
above the level of the topmost floor that he saw the object
of his search.

The mill-man was standing with his back to the ladder,
looking out of one of the windows over the wide open
country. His hands were clasped behind him over his
powdery coat, and the wind from without was shaking
down the meal from the ends of his thick, dark locks. As
the miller stepped on to the creaking floor, the grinder
started slightly and turned round ; then, on seeing who it
was, waited, as though expecting an order.

Maitre Rannau, however, as well as his breath would
allow him, burst out immediately with the episode which
was troubling him, refraining purposely from any accusation,
but narrowly observing his listener, expecting to find
him self-betrayed.

Great was his astonishment, then, when Christophe,
instead of showing either confusion or surprise, quietly
took up his last words, and gave a piece of information
on his part, which, for the moment, at least, completely
changed his place in the master's mind from defendant to
co-plaintiff.

"Roguery?" he repeated, calmly. "Yes, sir, that's
just what I've been thinking myself. I've seemed t<j misa
handful here and there, more than once lately, over and

above what the mice can have taken; and this morning-there
was a footprint on the floor of the meal-room by
Farmer Blanchard's meal-sacks, which wasn't yours, sir,
or mine either : of that I can assure you.

Where ? " asked the miller, hastily. " Is it there still ?
Can you show it me ? "

'ras to that, master, I've little doubt but I can, for I
took care not to disturb it when I lowered the sacks ready
for the waggon."

So saying, the miller's man crossed the floor, and led
the way down the ladders and into the room containing-the
great meal bins.

'I he wintry sunshine, which was racing with the
shadows across the country outside, passed also through
the little windows of the tall old mill, lighting in its passage
upon the white meal-dust which strewed the floor, and
making it gleam like a little carpet of finely drifted snow.

A passage was trodden right across the room from
ladder to ladder, and there were marks of tracks where
Farmer Blanchard's flour-bags had been lowered through
the trap-door. The miller stood below the ladder, looking
this way and that, with a bewildered expression, which
did not clear, as his man, stepping gingerly to one side,
approached a basket, such as country-women carry to
market, which was turned bottom upwards on the floor.
This he carefully raised, and then stood aside with an
emphatic  'there, sir ! "

Then the miller, too, came forward and looked. Sure
enough, printed in the white dust was the mark of a
man's foot, a short, broad, naked foot, with the marks of
the toes clearly outlined.

I put the basket to preserve it, sir : it must have been
newly set when I observed it, for the dust hadn't had time
to settle much, as you see."

Christophe said this, and then looked up, as though
expecting a remark from his master. But the miller was
still bending thoughtfully over the mysterious footprint,
and it was full three minutes before he raised his head,
and asked, still half abstractedly, 

When was it ?"

"When did I find it, sir ?" corrected the miller's man.

Yes, yes, of course. When did you first see it ?"

Christophe considered.

Well, sir, there was no wind last night, you know ; it
didn't rise till about five o'clock this morning. Yes, it
was striking five by the mistress's clock when I heard it
piping about the sails, and then I got up directly and
went to put the gear into grinding order. It must have
been half-past by that was done, and then I went to fill
Farmer Blanchard's sacks  I judg-ed he'd maybe come
to-day. The bins were all locked  I'd had my suspicions
and had done that the night before and it was when I
was going down to fetch the key that I saw yon footmark."


*' You'd had your suspicions ? Why didn't you tell me ?"

Rannau asked this with a tinge of mistrust in his
voice, and fixed a pair of searching eyes on the lad's face.
But the clear grey orbs of the outcast boy met them
unfalteringly.

They were but suspicions, sir ; I had nothing certain
to say, and I was unwilling to trouble you about what
might be naught but fancies."

*' What grounds had you for supposing there might bea
thief about the mill ?"'

The lad again considered a moment.

*' Well, sir," he said, present,  " in the first place, as
I told you before, I thought there was meal missing now
and again, I couldn't say low ; but the flour which went
back into the sacks didn't seem to stand for the grain
which came out of them. Then I've heard queer noises

at times, and once or twice I've fancied Your mill

doesn't happen to be haunted, Maitre Rannau?" concluded
Christophe, sinking his voice and looking up questioning
at the miller with his grave dark eyes.

"Haunted? Heavens, no!  not that I ever heard of.
May the blessed Saint Martin keep us from all harm ! "

The miller looked a little scared, and crossed himself
hastily, as he made this invocation. Then, after a
moment's pause, he asked 

- Why ?"

I scarcely know," answered the lad as if half to

himself. " I scarcely know ; but sometimes I've felt,
when I was up at niht minding the mill, as though I

were not alone, and yet "

The miller interrupted him hastily.
Nonsense, lad, nonsense ; spirits don't leave footprints,
and the Dead (God rest them !) don't come for food
except it be at Hollowness. No, no ; there's some one
else to blame. Tell me, boy, are you always careful to
lock the doors when you are not up here o' nitihts? Do
you never leave the keys about ?"

"Never! Except unless "

Christophe hesitated, and the miller immediately
observed, and noted unfavourably, the sudden change
from the term "never!" to the doubtful words which
followed.
"Well?"

But the lad did not answer. Thoughts and recollections
seemed to be crowding upon and perplexing him, as he
stood looking vacantly at the mysterious footprint.
Well ?"

The master repeated his question impatiently.
Christophe started as from a dream.
Will Monsieur allow me to think a little before I
answer him?" he said. "Some things have just struck me
which may give us a clue. But I don't feel clear enough
to say anything yet. AN'ill Monsieur leave me till tomorrow
? Things will, maybe, be clearer by then."

Maitre Rannau hesitated, looked at Christophe suspiciously,
thought a little longer, and finally turned hastily
away with a cold *' So be it."

Look you, boy," he added, pausing with his foot on
the ladder;  "see that no more corn goes meantime, or
it'll be the worse for you ; I shall hold you responsible."

Having said this, the miller descended the ladder and
disappeared, leaving his man still standing with eyes fixed
upon the footprint in the meal-dust.

*' Mademoiselle Marie," whispered the lad to himself, 
:Mademoiselle Marie."

He seemed scarcely to have observed the suspicion
which was implied in the last words of his master, so
absorbed was he in his own thoughts.

Let me see," he went on, after an interlude of silent
reflection,  "let me see. She took the keys out of my
hand, last week, as I was hanging them up before going
to bed \ and it was that very night I thought I heard a
footstep in the grinding-room. But. no, it couldn't have
been ; for all was safely locked when I got up to look,
and there was not a soul to be seen. The saints protect
us ! What do I say ? A soul ?"

He shuddered slightly.

"INIaybe," he went on in an awe-struck whisper, "I
believe in them. I've cause, God help me ! And yet he
said the mill was not haunted. Can it be that Tfii the

Jonah they are following after? Good help me," he
repeated, with a stronger shudder, and a nervous glance
around,  " God help me, this seems to bring it back again \
and I was feeling so free almost forgetting, if that could
be possible. And yet it was just about this time of
year ! "

The old wild look was fast re-appearing on the lad's
face, when suddenly the wintry sun, which had been
behind a bank of snow-clouds, burst out and shone
through the mill window full upon his figure.

The effect was magical. With a quick movement of
the shoulders, he seemed to shake off the cloud of
superstitious fear which was settling upon him, and went
back to his work.

No," he said, half aloud in a firm voice, " no ; as
master said, that's nonsense. Lies at the bottom of it
somehow, I do believe, though how passes me. But
nobody else has had the keys. Well, well, I'll ask her."

CAT AND MOUSE.

A gowpen of meal out of every man's poke
And pretty' sells, too, who can take a joke !
And my mill-wheels crj-

Diga-diga-di ;
And my mill-wheels s?.y
Diga-diga-da 1 "
The Millers \Ylfe of Ponfrtr-."-(Ballads and Songs of lJrittan>).

Towards evening the wind went down. The great sails
stretched their idle arms, as if to say  ** Well, well, work's
over for to-day at least, and now we can rest ourselves
and be at peace."

Christophe also stretched his arms wearily above his
head and gave a great sigh, as he turned from the look-out
in the topmost storey and prepared to descend the
ladders.

*' No, there'll be no more wind to-night, I'm thinking,"
he said to himself. " The sky's as clear as a pebble 
north, south, east, and west ; we'll have frost before
morning, but no wind ; so there's a night's rest for me."

He drew a long breath of relief, yawned and stretched
his arms again.

They were long arms now and strong ones, too, and the

Wot. II. c

expanse of chest which lay between had widened and
deepened considerably since he first appeared at the
Monlin dien Haut. You would hardly have recognised the
haggard skeleton of that day, in the well-grown, healthy
lad, whose powerful, almost massive limbs were displayed
to full advantage as he threw off the burden of the long
day's toil. The dark-locked head, also thrown slightly
back with the gesture of relief, was carried a full inch
higher than it had been a year ago ; the hunted, haggard
look had vanished from off it, the features had regained
much of their youthful outline, and there was a wholesome
glow upon the olive skin. Only the grave, deep,
almost saddened look, which the Child of the Menhir
had borne from infancy, was still there ; it had deepened
with his years, and now there was a nameless something
mingled with it  a something which a stranger, and even
one who knew him would have found it hard to analyze 
the expression which lingers in the eye that has looked
upon a horror from the realms of darkness, and cannot
cast it out, even after years of light. The lad never quite
lost that expression, even when his thoughts were furthest
from what had caused it  nay, not even in his sleep.

He had locked the upper doors, and had descended into
the grinding-room, when a shadow, flitting across the fast-gathering
gloom beside the hopper, caught his attention
and made him pause. He recollected the foot-print in the
meal-dust, and was on the alert in an instant.

Making as though he woalJ descend the next ladder, he
just went far enough to leave his eyes on a level with the
floor, and then stood at gize.

Presently, with a stealth and noiseless movement worthy
of one of the mill-cats, the shadow stole from behind the
hopper, glided across the floor, and came to a stand beside
one of the windows. Then by the flutter of the garments
on which the waning light now fell, Christophe saw that it
was a shadow ot the feminine sex.

He was still watching, when, with a sudden movement,
the figure left the window and made straight for the
ladder.

Seeing that it was already occupied, she gave a little cry,
and started back a pace.

"Mademoiselle Marie!" said the lad. "Why, Mademoiselle
Marie, is that you ? "

"Well, and what of that?"

There was a little defiant sound in the voice which
answered, that took the lad rather aback.

"Nothing," he rejoined, half apologetically  "Nothing,
only I wondered to find you here."

"Did you? Well, I can ask yoii now, since I suppose
you've been upstairs. Have you seen Blanched ? "

"What? The big white cat? What do you want
her for ? "

"Imbecile that you arc, what a question ! I want her,
and that's enough."

Shall I go and look for her, Mademoiselle r "

"Yes."

She let him go half way up to the meal-room, and then
called him back.

No, never mind ; it doesn't matter, after all. Klasker,
come here."

The lad came obediently towards the window at which
she had again posted herself.

Tell me," she asked, abruptly, " tell me what ails
Benead."

"Maitre Rannau ? Does anything ail him?"

Come, what ails you this evening ? You're as dense
as a fog and quite as mysterious ! Don't you know there's
something wrong? Didn't Benead come straight up from
Farmer Blanchard to talk to you ? Didn't he come down
again with a face as black as a thundercloud ? And hasn't
he been as cross as Old William all day ? Don't you think
/ know ? Come, you may as well tell me."

Christophe considered a moment.

Well, I've got to ask her," he thought, " as well
now "

Mademoiselle Marie," he said, fixing his great, solemn
eyes full upon her face, which looked handsomer than ever
in the soft evening light,  " there's been a thief in the mill,
we think. Some of the meal's gone, and I found the print
of a bare foot on the floor this morning. Mademoiselle
Marie, I wanted to ask you  you've had the keys from me

once or twice lateljfe are you sure you've been careful to
lock the doors and put them back ? "

A sudden, deep, rose-colour flushed into the pretty little
face, not to be accounted for by the pale reflection from
the fading west. For a moment her eyes sank under his,
then as suddenly she lifted them, and flashed on him a
look which made the lad wince.

Impertinent ! " she exclaimed. " Dare you question
me ? What is it \o you what I do with the keys ?"

Christophe was struck dumb for an instant. This was
not the voice he was used to from Mademoiselle Marie. .

He recovered himself, however, with a speed which surprised
and somewhat disconcerted the imperious little lady.

"Will Mademoiselle be pleased to think this is a grave
matter for me."

She seemed lo consider a moment, then turned to him
with her most winning smile : 

Surely no one suspects yoiL my friend? There, don't
look so sober, good Klasker. I'll make all straight for you
with Benead. If he doesn't know what an honest, good,
and trusty servant he has, I dj, and he shall know it from
me. There, dear friend, I can make any person see reason
when I like, or any tJiiih for that matter. Why, even the
very cats adore me ! As for the men "

She shook her fingers in the air with a merry laugh and
a roguish look, and skipped away down the ladder, before
her spell-bound listener had found a word t") say.

Well," he thought to himself, with an uncomfortable
suspicion that he had had the worst of the encounter,
I'll think twice before I lend her the keys again, anyhow.
What am I saying ? Surely the evil spirit of suspicion is
in me ! Christophe, my friend, thou must have a black
heart to suspect that kind little soul \ thou art; ungrateful,
thou art. Holy Sainte-Anne ! how lovely she looked with
the sunset on her face ! I wonder whether Genofa has
grown up as pretty? Ah, God keep thee, little sister, how
long it is since we parted ; thou must be well-nigh a

woman grown

"only ADAM."

I'd fool him to his bent !
Feed, should not he, to heart's content ?j"

R, Browning' Waring'"

The miller's man went to bed early that night. He had
been up betimes, had worked hard all day, and the
excitement of his discovery, coupled with the subsequent
discussion with his master, had, as the saying is, taken a
good deal out of him.

Perhaps it was this excitement which prevented him
from sleeping so soundly as usual.

Generally, when he lay down on his little pallet-bed in Ct
slip of the round-house which had been partitioned off fo"
his convenience, he never so much as sa7c> the darkness
which shrouded the deep brown rafters above his head ; it
was gone before he opened his eyes in summer, and when a
piping wind whistled him up in the mirk nights or dim
mornings of winter, he was not one to stay staring upwards
when sleeping hours were over ; as over they must be, or
why was he awake ?

So he would probably have reasoned, had you hinted at
the possibility of sleepless nights ; for these cruel blanks of

Xxmrndts blanches as poets call them are well-nigh
unknown to the sons of stirring toil toil which tires the
limbs without unduly taxing the brain.

That night, however, Christophe learnt something of
what it is to long for sleep and find it coy. Weary he was,
indeed ; but it was a weariness which was slow to find its
remedy. He kept thinking of the events of the day, trying
to solve the mystery which had invaded the mill; going
back to the night of his first arrival, and starting with a
strange sensation, as he suddenly recollected the figure in
the topmost room, the sensation of intuition that the thread
of mystery reached further back than he had fancied, for
was not this also a link in the chain ?

When at length he did lose consciousness, it was only to.
the actual moment. He did, indeed, forget that he was
lying on his bed in the round-house ; but the conversation
he had had with Mademoiselle Marie went on again, and
was continued in his dreams.

He dreamt that he stood with the keys in his hand ; that
she was pleading with him to lend them to Lier  'only
this once more "sand she looked so sweet and so pleading,
and the tears shone so piteously in her eyes when the
pleading was like to be in vain, that he was just going to
Live in, when a man's voice Was it rcal/y a voice ?

He started suddenly awake, and half raised himself.

Surely there had been a sound outside? The wind
must be rising, in spite of the promise of calm weather ;

I

I

he must get up and see to the sails. Yet he paused a
moment, listening.

There was not a breath; not so much as the faintest
sough of wind stirred the sleeping air around the old mill.

He must have been dreaming, indeed !

Christophe smiled at himself, shook away the rough
locks which had fallen into his eyes, and was about to lie

down again, when Hark ! There was the sound

again ; closer this time, evidently just outside that part of
the round-house where his bed was placed. Yes, clearly it
was a voice, a man's voice ; and, surely, there was a
woman's, too ? Christophe listened intently. The partition
was only of wood, but the voices were pitched in a love,
cautious key, and he could not catch the words.

The lad's heart beat with excitement. Here, at last,
were the thieves ; he might catch them on the very
premises.

Stealthily slipping out of bed, he threw on his clothes,
listened a moment to make sure that the intruders Vv-ere
still there, and then crept from the room.

His first act was to feel for the keys in that particular
hiding-place known only to himself and his master, here
they were now nightly placed. Behold, they were gone !

A thrill of dismay passed through the veins of the
miller's man.

Could maitre Rannau have taken them ?

Should he call him up and give the alarm ?

He thought for a moment, then, fearing that his prize
might escape him, resolved first to try the door.

It opened. Without waiting to think what this signified,
he crept out into the open air.

Keen and frosty it was, the stars were shining brilliantly,
and a sharp sickle of a young moon, rising behind the
dark mass of the old mill, produced strong masses of light
and shade.

Christophe crept along in the shadow, distinguished
the outline of two figures standing close up to the palisade,
gathered himself for a spring, and pounced, like a young
leopard, on the taller, bringing him to the ground in an
instant.

There was a smothered curse from the fallen man, a
shrill cry from his companion ; then the flutter of a petticoat
brushed against Christophe, as she fled past him into
the mill was it into the niili?

A puzzled sense of exceeding discomfort rushed into
Christophe's mind. What could it all mean ?

Ives it, indeed, Mademoiselle Marie ?

Was this a tender meeting which he had interrupted ?

Could it be that the supposed thief was a lover, secretly
favoured by the maid of the mill ? Christophe looked
down at his captive with a mind divided between consternation
and triumph ; a dull, sick feeling of anxiety 
disappointment  pain, (he knew not what it was), underlying
it all.

The sudden fall had apparently stunned the man ; at
all events, he lay quite still. He had fallen out of the
shadow (where he had been standing when Christophe
first saw him) into the moonlight ; and as the white beams
fell upon his upturned face, a strange feeling came over the
mind of the millet's man that all this was but the continuation
of some long-past dream ; for, surely he had
seen that face before ? Yes, and with the same light upon
it that rested there at present. Where could it have
been ?

So bewildered was the lad, that for some moments he
stood there stock-still, staring at the fallen man, searching
in his own mind for a clue to the puzzle, and forgetting to
take any measures to secure his prisoner.

Those few moments made all the difference in the
relations between the two ; Christophe had lost his opportunity
; for, suddenly, without the slightest warning, the
fallen man sprang to his feet, and turned to fly. This,
however, he was not allowed to do. Fleet-footed as a deer,
the mill lad, now thoroughly roused, made one bound forward,
seized the fugitive before he had gone a dozen steps,
swung him round with the impetus of his own speed, and
grappled him by the arms. But the stranger, too, was
strong, thick-set, and muscular ; and though Christophe had
the advantage in height and agility, the one was a fullgrown
man with every sinew hardened, the other was but a
youth, still incapable of resisting a prolonged and heavy

strain. For some moments they wrestled together, then
Christophe's young, pliant muscles bent under the tree
grip of his opponent, and he was forced down
on one knee. The check, however, was but momentary;
calling to his aid a certain Uoiir'' practised by the
wrestlers of the Pays de Vannes, and probably not known
to the Leonard, he applied it with such good effect, that his
adversary, taken completely by surprise, was tripped up
and thrown to the ground the very moment that he
thought himself secure of victory. Again he uttered an
exclamation, half curse, half cry; and this time Christophe
did not allow himself to miss his opportunity. Without
even rising to his feet, he sprang on the man's chest, and
was about to secure him sufficiently to prevent his escaping,
while he gave the alarm and took measures for confining
him, when a little window in the round-house was hastily
opened, and a voice of agony exclaimed : 

"' Stop, stop 1 Oh, don't kill him 1"

Christophe turned for a moment, but the fallen man
made a sudden struggle to seize the opportunity. and the
lad Ind only just time to prevent it by a well-directed blow
in the chest, which took the man's breath with a sudden
sob. In an instant the sob was echoed behind him, a pair
of clasped, white hands were stretched out in mute
entreaty, and, directly afterwards, a woman's figure rushed
from the mill and sank on her knees with a gasp beside
the combatants : 

'' Oh, Adam, x\dam ! "

Christophe started with alarm ; his heart seemed to stop,
as he glanced at the pretty pale face  pretty still in spite
of the tears which streamed down it. Yes, it was Mademoiselle
Marie.

'* Klasker," she entreated, presently, " dear Klasker,
don't kill him, it is only Adam !"

'only Adam?"

The lad repeated her last words half as exclamation,
half as question. She took it as the latter, and went
on eagerly 

Yes, yes, Adam Tonykk. You must have heard of
him ; he was servant here before you came, and knows
the mill and us all full well ; ay, and is well known to all
of US; Klasker, I wonder at you," continued the girl,
seeing the astonished dismay in Christophe's countenance,
and, quick to take advantage of it, suddenly changing her
tone,  " I wonder at you attacking a peaceable man in this
way I do. What did you take hmi for, then? Can't a
man come on honest business without you flying at his
throat ?"

'' On honest business. Mademoiselle ?" repeated poor
Christophe.

Ay. What do you know to the contrary?"

"At this time of night, Mademoiselle?"

"At this time of night, Monsieur!" echoed the little
witch, mockingly. " Why, what o'clock do you think it is ?

Not yet eleven, I assure you. As for that, I've not yet
been to bed !"

This last assertion, at least, Christophe did not doubt ;
but he was too much taken aback by the sudden way in
which she had turned the tables on him, to take any
advantage, beyond a hesitating reference to the mysterious
footprint and the missing meal.

'* Well, I'm ashamed of you, I am ! " exclaimed the
girl. "So you took him for a thief I Ha, ha, tJiafs good,
I'm sure. Adam, dost thou hear ? he took thee for a
thief. Speak up, my friend, and defend thyself."

Christophe marked the change of pronoun, the difference
of address she used in turning from one to the other, and
was conscious of a feeling he had never known before.
Could it be jealousy? There was no time for an answer
to this home-question.

'' Make the fellow get up, Marie," growled the ex-miller's
man in a stifled voice ;  " how can I say anything with
such a mill-stone on my chest. Saint-Kirio, must I lie
here for ever while you two discuss the rights of the case?"

He was near choking with rage and suffocation.

Yes, get up, Klasker, get up at once," commanded the
maid of the mill. "How dare you treat an honest man
in such a way ? Get up, I say, and beg his pardon, this
minute."

Christophe hesitated.

"But, Mademoiselle "

She sprang up indignantly, and stamped her foot upon
the ground.

Do you hear me, sir? Get up this minute''

But will he promise first to come with me to master
and explain his errand ? I must answer for "

Not at all ; it is / who will answer. None will you
obey me ?"

But still the lad hesitated, not knowing what to do. In
his uncertainty, however, he had loosened his firm hold of
the fallen man, who, quick as before to take advantage of
any lapse of vigilance on the part of his captor, cut short
the discussion by throwing him off, leaping to his feet, and
escaping down the hill, before Christophe had time to
stop him.

Klasker," said marie, laying her hand on the lad's
arm as he was about to start in pursuit, " let him go  it's
best so. You don't know what mischief you may do by
meddling further."

Well, I'll go and tell master, anyhow," returned
Christophe, half doggedly, as he looked after the fugitive,
now already out of sight, and saw that, in the uncertain
moonlight, pursuit would be useless.

No, Klasker, don't, there's a good lad," was the girl's
quick response,  "don't, I advise, I entreat," she went on,
eagerly, as the lad showed no signs of relenting.
Klasker, my friend, we've been good to thee here j
thou would'st not hurt us  me, in return ? "

She was pleading now; all her imperiousness had
vanished, the soft voice trembled and the pretty eyes
looked up entreatingly, as she gave him the familiar
pronoun, which, but five minutes before, she had denied
him in favour of the intruder.

In any other circumstances, Christophe would have
been won over at once. Not so now. In spite of the
mist of glamour which she cast upon him, the miller's
man suspected mischief, and saw tolerably clearly that to
hold his tongue concerning this adventure might put him
into what might prove a very awkward position. He was
hurt, too, at the evident deceitfulness of the little witch ;
sore at the way in which she had fooled him, and not a
little jealous to boot. So he turned from her without a
word, and made for the mill-door. To get, away, however,
was not sc easy. She hung upon him, she entreated,
she stormed, and finally burst into a flood of tears, which,
however, did not check her attempts at softening him
by words.

Would'st thou get me into trouble  wouldst thou
destroy me ? Klasker, dear Klasker, thou knowest / have
always been thy friend. Listen here. Adam is the most
innocent being in the world ; but my brother Eencad is a
man of strange whims, as thou knowest. He took a
prejudice against poor Adam  all for nothing, of course 
listened to bad, idle tales, and dismissed the poor lad at
a daj's notice. See, Klasker, it is thou who hast got his

place ; if it had not been that thou wast here to walk into
his shoes, Benead would have ended by taking him back 
I know that. Thou hast ousted him, Klasker; wouldst
get him into more trouble as well ? No, no ; I am sure
thou art too generous for that ! "

Christophe looked at the flushed, eager face, and saw
that, at all events on one point, the girl was sincere
enough ; and again a pang of jealous pain shot through his
heart or rather, perhaps, through his boyish self-esteem.

"Ah, I see," he exclaimed, bitterly, "you seem very
fond of this Adam, Mademoiselle."

"Fond of him? Not that exactly, at least  at least
not now," returned the girl, in some confusion. Then, as
though she had taken a sudden resolution of confidence,
she added hurriedly : " Klasker, Til tell thee. There Toes
a time when I was his chere auiie  dost understand ? But
not now, not now, Klasker. Now I only pity him ; I only
see him to give him what little help I can, lest he should
starve, poor fellow. Ah ! Klasker, dost know what it is to
be without a friend in the world? He is, except for me."

Christophe did know, only too well ; and the remembrance
softened him. The girl's confession, too, and her
assurance that all tender passages were quite over, was a
salve to his wounded self-esteem. She saw it, and was
quick to follow up her advantage.

"Yes," she murmured, turning aside and speaking
hurriedly, " it's only pity now. When one thinks  thinks

VOL. II. D

one has found someone else, who  I mean, false impressions
give way before true ones. There, I'll say no more,
but he has not got my heart. No, poor Adam, thou art well
enough, but I know someone now who's worth twice as
much to look at as thou art. Now Klasker, wilt thou
tell?"

She looked so bewitching, so coquettish, as she stood
there with the moon's soft light upon her upturned face,
that the lad's resolutions, senses  nay, his very convictions,
were all charmed away. He yielded without another
struggle, felt her seize his work-worn hand, and carry it to
her lips in excess of gratitude ; saw the slight figure flit
from him and disappear within the dark door of the old
mill, entered himself, and locked it behind him, and then
went back to bed, with his young, foolish senses lulled
asleep in a dream of bewitchment. Yet, ere he actually
passed from his waking dreams into the scarcely less substantial
visions of unconsciousness, a remembrance flashed
across him which ou::;ht to have opened his eyes to the
truth  This Adam  this night-prowler; yes, he was the
very duplicate of the mysterious visitant to the top storey,
the unaccountable miller he had seen on the first night of
his coming to the Monlin dien Haut.

HONEYED WORDS.

Trust her not, she's fooling thee."

Longfellow.

Though, as the wise man says, stolen waters are sweet, it
is generally but at the drinking thereof; certain it is that
they seldom fail to leave an after-taste of bitterness.

Those honeyed words behind the gable  the nearest
approach to the blandishments of love which had ever
fallen upon the unaccustomed ears of the menhir's child 
were intoxicating, indeed, for the time, and none the less
so for the thin veil of concealment which hung about
them.

Hes not got my heart. Poor Adam, I know some one
71010 who's worth thence as mncJi to look at as thoic art."
To whom could these words refer? The tone in which
they were spoken, the look which accompanied them,
seemed to indicate the fortunate person plainly enough,
and had sent a thrill of delightful half-certainty through
Christophe's foolish heart, to which the eager desire for an
exchange to certainty lent an added spice.

Could it be that this pretty little maid of the mill, the

beauty of Morlaix, the dainty little damsel whose scorn had
so deeply humiliated him on his first arrival at the Monlin
dien Haut ; and from whom, till this very minute, he had
felt as far removed as a glow-worm from the moon 
could it be that she cared for him  for ///w, a nameless
wanderer? Could it be? The very possibility was too
wonderfully sweet to allow him to sleep continuously. He
kept awaking in a manner quite unusual to him, and
asking himself the question, in a fever for morning to
come that he might test the reality of what, perhaps, after
all, was but a vision.

"The self-love of the foundling lad, which had never
had anything whereon to feed  which had been starved
and wounded and trampled on, till, had it been any other
quality of less tenacious nature, it would inevitably have
had the life stamped out of it long ago  was immeasurably
soothed and flattered. She was so pretty, so coveted a
prize, and  ah, it is so sweet to be loved, even when the
agent is far less lovely than was Mademoiselle Marie !
And did he love her ?

That, reader, is an important question which you must
please to solve at leisure. Only remember that our hero
is but a lad  poor, nameless, outcast, and unloved, and do
not be too hard on his starved young manhood. " Stolen
waters are sweet." \'cs, and bitter. The sweetness had
intoxicated him, the bitterness was to come. For they
'ii'crc stolen waters, insomuch as the price he had paid

for them was not his by right to give. He had been
unfaithful to his trust ; and Christophe felt this with a
flush of enlightening shame, when, next morning, he had to
face his master. Maitre Rannau was quick to observe
that the lad was avoiding him, and the slight suspicion,
raised by his manner the evening before, was immediately
strengthened. He let him alone, however, till evening,
willing to give him the chance of an explanation ; but it
did not come. Mademoiselle Marie, too, held aloof from
the miller's man, and he had not a chance of a private
word during the whole day.

Poor Christophe ! No wonder the sweetness melted
rapidly and the bitterness took its place.

By evening he was miserable enough, and when, as he
was setting things in order for a grinding night, the wind
having risen to a fine breeze, he heard Maitre Rannau's
heavy step toiling up the ladders, he was fain to wish
that charming Mademoiselle Marie had kept herself to
herself

Now, then, lad," said the master, as he landed his
heavy person on the floor of the topmost storey, " what
hast got to tell me ?"

The consciousness of concealment is not conducive to
candour of look ; and though Christophe by a great
effort rallied his wits sufficiently to narrate a story which
was true, so far as it went, yet the absence of the hidden
links, which his promise to Mademoiselle Marie forbade

him to show, and the hesitating manner in which he
skipped over the hiatus, made it sound anything but probable.


Maitre Rannau felt far from satisfied; yet he had no
grounds on which to build outward disbelief, and moreover
he could not afford to lose a useful grinder, whose
services, having taken him on in promiscuous fashion,
without any fixed agreement beyond the formula  *' for
charity's sake"  he had almost for naught.

*' Well, well, lad," he said, with suppressed irritation 
*' It doesn't sound too likely a tale, and I'm little wiser
than I was before I heard it. Just you take care though
that no more of my meal is spirited away. As I said
before, I shall hold you responsible. You've a good berth
here, my lad, 1 can tell you that  see you keep it."

Saying which, the miller turned on his heel and lumbered
down the stairs again, leaving his man to a heavy night's
work and the sombre company of his own thoughts.

Maitre Rannau, though well advanced towards recovery,
did little work now-a-days. Why should he, when he
could get it so well and cheaply done for him ?

Christophe had, indeed, a heavy night of it ; but the
morning brought a beam of joy.

After breakfast, as he was working away gloomily
enough, a light hand touched him on the shoulder, and he
turned round to see the miller's sister-in-law, looking more
charming than ever, in a patch of sunshine, veiled with the

powdery dust of meal. Even the close-fitting Morlaix cap
which she wore (not becoming to every face), did but set
off the smooth dark rim of hair which showed beneath it,
the bright, dark eyes and rosy face, like the jealous sheath
of a horse-chestnut blossom, enclosing and half-concealing
its dainty treasure. The remembrance of their last interview
had called up a flush of richest colour, and the bright
eyes glanced, half-coquettishly, half-shyly, from under their
veiling lids.

My friend," she said, softly, " wilt do me a favour ? "

' Another, Mademoiselle ? " He answered without the
readiness she seemed to expect, for the bitterness of
last night's ruling was still in his mouth,

'' Another ! " she exclaimed, taking her hand from his
arm. "Why, what is the lad thinking of? What favour
have I asked thee yet, my friend ? " Then, seeing her
answer in the lad's dark looks, she added, hastily 

Ah, yes, I remember ! And be regrets it ! 'Twas
such a little thing too,  the holding of one's tongue 
that's all!"

''A little thing! Mademoiselle? 'Twas no little thing
to me. I had no right to promise, and now master
suspects me."

Poor fellow ! (she altered her tactics with a sudden
perception of mistake). " Yes, yes, I know 'twas not
easy \ but there, 'twas for nie and I don't forget such
services."

She said this with such a soft, sunny grace, that
Christophe smiled, well pleased in spite of himself.

But this favour's quite a different matter, dost see ?
I know a dozen lads who would think 'twas the other way
round. 'Tis not everyone I'd ask to go with me to
Morlaix Pardon, M. Klasker."

'' To the Pardon, and with you  Ah, Mademoiselle ! "

His dark face flushed all over with surprised gratification,
and he made a timid motion to take her hand. She put
it in his, and the lad stood looking at her with a strange
beating at his heart. Her glamour was upon him again
in full force. What more the little coquette expected the
boy to do, I cannot tell ; for she stood there with her hand
lying passively in his, as though waiting. But he was too
bashful to make any further advances as yet ; and finding
that this was to be all, Mademoiselle Marie suddenly drew
away her hand, and with a quick " Well, so it's settled ?"
nodded her pretty head and disappeared as quietly as she
had come, leaving the miller's man so dazzled and
uplifted by her beauty and her favours that he had much
ado to keep his hand steady and his head clear for the
necessary work of the proverbially monotonous miller's
round of daily toil.

Like a child, he took to counting the days till that fixed
for the annual Pardon, or feast of the patron saint of the
town ; and this not like the pious, who looked forward to it
for the pardons and indulgences attached thereto, but from

reasons more common to the young. The thought of
escorting the beauty of Morlaix through the booths of the
annual fair, of accompanying her to High Mass, and
dancing with her afterwards in the brahe which usually
concluded such celebrations, uplifted him greatly, and
quite cast out for the time the horrible sense of a pursuing
fate, which, indeed, had troubled him much less of late
with its ghastly possession. If the skeleton were still in
the cupboard, at least the door was closely shut.

As for Mademoiselle Marie, she retained her ascendency
over the lad, and whetted his desires for her smiles and
her favour in a way that did infinite credit to her cat-like
talent for mouse-playing  namely, by being exceedingly
chary of either ; and she managed this the better by going
off at this juncture on a long-promised visit to an old aunt
at Saint-Pol de Leon, and only returning late on the eve
of the Morlaix Pardon.

THE PARDON.

Avez-vous de belles fetes
Pour honorer vos Patrons ;
Et pour mettre en I'air les tees
Avez-vous de vrais Pardons?"

' Le deux Bretagne.

She has ]brought the spring and its sunshine with her ! "
thought Christophe, profanely (he might at least have
given the Saint, whose day it was, the credit for that, as
most pious Bretons vrould), as, after a long night's
grinding, he looked from the windows of the Monlin dien
Haut, on the morning of the festival.

Lovely, indeed, was the early light  early both as regards
hour and season  which rested on the swelling country ;
on the old grey town in its cup-like hollow; on the winding
river and distant sea. Long lines of trailing mist, like
yards and yards of thinest India muslin threaded with a
weft of gold, outlined the course of the river, and hovered,
blue-tinted, over Morlaix itself, showing by its colour that
fires were already alight.

Already, too, the hum of awakening life  life that was to
be so lively on this the town's high festival  was rising

into the early air. And how sweet was this young, fresh
air! balmy with spring's first breath, redolent of fresh-turned
earth, new-springing herbs, waters set free at length
(and for good, as every old gammer and gaffer, with bones
just released from rheumatic pain, devoutly hoped) from
the icy bonds of winter. Christophe even thought that he
smelt primroses, and hastened down to see if, in a certain
sheltering fold of the hill-side, well known to him, he
could not find a yellow knot for Marie's broidered corsage.
But, no, 'twas too early, and he was fain to conclude that
the scent was but from association. Spring, sunshine,
sweet air, and young beauty, were all there present to
his senses ; surely early blossoms should have been
there too.

Of course, Maitre Rannau could say naught against his
man taking holiday on the Pardon. Miller though he was,
and therefore not expected to profess a high standard of
piety, to let his mill work on a holy day would have been
to tempt ill-luck too openly ; good as was his grist, no
Christian in those parts would have dared to eat of it
under such circumstances. So he locked the sails, hoped
there would be no wind to tempt him, saw all his household
depart in holiday gear, and sat him down to a
solitary pipe and a well-filled jug of cider. His duty of
course, as a Breton, wiS to have gone to High ]pass and
taken advantage of some of those indulgences of which,
as a miller, he stood still more in need than his fellow

Christians of less dangerous callings ; but then, as his
neighbours said, when they saw good Madame Rannau and
her little sons come into church without him :  '' What
can you expect of a miller? Lucky he has a pious wife
to pray for his sinful soul !" And, indeed, Benead
thought himself that he had done very well in sending
his wife as proxy.

Madame Rannau, her sister, the two cherubs and
Christophe, all went together straight to the cathedral,
whose cracked bell was calling the people to prayer before
pleasure ; the people showing their devotion by obediently
streaming all the same way, flooding the narrow streets
from wall to wall with a river of human life in every
variety of costume, which, however, was too tightly packed
to be shown to advantage. What the body wore was just
then of little moment, as nothing but the head was visible
Mademoiselle Marie was sadly exercised in her mind as to
the fate of her new black skirt, black velvet bodice, snowy
chemisette, and sky-blue shoulder-shawl ; for, not being of
exalted height, all these ran the risk of being considerably
crushed by her fellow Christians ; and her pretty lips
showed a pout less pretty, because Christophe's strong
arms had been monopolized (if such a word be allowed to
express the doings of twins) by the two cherubs, who,
pretty dears, had much ado to keep their curly heads
above water.

It was a relief to all when the probation of street-passage

was over, and the waters of the river poured full
tide into the sea; or, to speak without figure, when the
people, (all of them, at least, whom it would hold), had
been received by the Cathedral. The rest had no choice
but to transfer their devotions to the shrine of Saint
Melvin, further down the street. Our party from the
Monlin dien Haut, however, were among the fortunate
ones whose vows could be offered to the patron saint of
Morlaix in the sanctuary where he is most at home.
This sanctuary, in truth, is not beautiful. The massive
grey tower outside, rising like the honourable head of a
fine old man above the lesser summits of Morlaix, has a
venerable aspect of its own, but the space within, vast as
it is, has no architectural beauty to attract the eye. N ot
a worshipper there, however, would have understood you,
had you hinted at something wanting. To the simple and
devout souls who flocked there, the great church of
Morlaix was to-day the centre of all that was most sacred ;
the patron saint was holding his festival, and no one
doubted but that his intercession would be that day all-powerful
in Heaven. To the earnest Bretons gathered
there, it was holiest ground \ the blue paint of the roof
was the floor of heaven \ the paper flowers on the altar
were as though fresh from the dews of Paradise, and the
tinsel-robed images of saint and ]madonna  especially the
colossal figure of the patron himself, standing in the place
of honour  signified the immediate presence of the holy

persons they represented, ready to bend attentive ear to
the petition of the meanest.

There is something very beautiful in such simple faith,
even though we of another communion may count it blind.
Let us not be too hasty with our scorn; there are those
who say *' we see," yet use their spiritual vision to small
purpose.

Christophe found himself, with Mademoiselle Marie
clinging to his arm, carried away by the tide of entering
worshippers, and drifted towards a little chapel to the
right of the High Altar. Into this little haven, he half
led, half lifted his panting companion, and looked round
for ]madame Rannau and her twins, who had been
separated from him while entering the Church. Nowhere,
however, could he perceive them amid the sea of white
caps and dark, long-haired heads, which filled the great
building from wall to wall. These were, for the most
part, already bent in prayer, like the bending crests of
waves on the swelling ocean, some white, some dark. An
acolyte was censing the people, pressing his slow way
through the densely-crowded aisles, his censor swinging
cautiously in shortest oscillations lest it should come in
contact with some down-bent face. Soft chanting from
the choir, mingled and mounted upwards with the clouds
of fragrant smoke, rosaries were fingered diligently by
scores of horny hands ; and who can tell the multitude of

manifold desires which rose from the secret chamber of
those countless heating hearts ? Would the saint grant to
each his heart's desire? Strong, at least, was-the faith in
which each was craved of him !

But the Child of the Menhir knelt there dumb. Never
since a date not likely to be effaced from memory had he
prayed a real prayer. At first he had not dared ; latterly,
perhaps, he had not cared. Devotion, like every other art
or science, whether of heart or mind, requires practice to
keep it free from rust and cobwebs.

He looked at the praying multitudes, he looked at the
pretty girl by his side ; even her flighty thoughts seemed to
have settled on the matter in hand, for her lips were
moving, and the beads of her rosary were slipping quickly
through her fingers. AVhat was she asking the saint for ?
Christophe wondered, as he knelt by her ; and then looked
up and wondered whether, perhaps, there was nothing
which he might ask ; but he shuddered as he looked, for
above the altar was the picture of a strong angel bending
over the flames of Purgatory, the smoke showing black
against his spotless wings, and his hand outstretched to
rescue the souls in torment, while above the alms-box,
hung beside, were the words:  Pour les trcpasses.'

No wonder Christophe shuddered as he saw the anguished,
pleading looks of the tormented ones, and felt
that one pair of eyes were fixed upon his own face. Back
upon him flashed the dying gaze of his father's victim,.

hurried out of the world without a moment's warning 
a look which had in it such ineffable reproach ; and he
felt as though, even if all the prayers of his life were
devoted to that soul's deliverance, not one would be more
than due. And yet he could not pray ! Nothing could
he do but kneel and shudder, and then, when Mass was
over, linger a moment behind Mademoiselle Marie to drop
a coin into the alms-box, that at least " les pauvres trespasses
" might have the prayers of others more worthy than
himself.

The mirth of the Pardon, the triumph of escorting the
belle of ]\Iorlaix, were a good deal marred for Christophe
by this little episode. It was as though the door of his
secret closet had creaked on its hinges, and he had had
another peep at the skeleton within. The sight was
certainly not an exhilarating one, and Mademoiselle Marie
wondered what made her attendant swain so silent and
absent-minded, as they threaded their way through the
crowded streets.

"Where is Tephany?" she asked, at length, piqued by
his inattention ; " I think I will join her. Klasker, you
do not seem sociably inclined to-day."

The lad roused himself.

"Pardon, mademoiselle, I was thinking. But you'll
stay with me, won't you ? I really don't know where we
shall find Madame Rannau among all these folk."

*' Well, that depends," answered the girl, beginning to

relent. " If you'll remain awake, I don't mind staying
with you, but if you're going to dream again ; I recommend
you to go home and do it in bed. Heavens, what a
crowd ! Did you ever see the old town look so alive?"

Morlaix did, indeed, present a lively scene, and a
picturesque one too, though country people, at least in
those days, were not likely to think much of the latter.
The streets were so narrow, especially above, that only
the narrowest ribbon of blue sky could be seen betwixt
the high-pitched roofs of the old timbered houses, whose
walls showed a very patchwork of black and white beams
and plaster, crossing each other, in elaborate pattern-work?
in and out among the hooded dormer-windows and narrow
lattices. Storey after storey, in goodly array, fell politely,
each behind the one next above it in the social scale of
altitude, the lowest being open to the street, and "showing a
dim perspective within, only divided from the road-way by
a low counter on which the tradesmen, who mostly
inhabited these lowest storeys, displayed their wares.
Piles of wooden sabots were ranged on one, stacks of
gingerbread, ' galcffes'' and sweetmeats, tempted the
passers at another; while from a third, dangled the silver
crosses and glittering chains, which are the ambition of
every girl in Brittany.

Nor were these permanent displays the only traps to
catch the coins of the hundreds who streamed into Morlaix
from the surrounding country, for the treble purposes of

VOL, II. E

religion, relaxation, and business. Pedlars in goodly
numbers, venders of miscellaneous goods for the day only
had set up stall, booth, or other means of display at every
street corner.

Stalls of confectionery, never seen but at a Pardon,
were presided over by old women, whose tall-winged caps
showed that they were no inhabitants of close coined
Morlaix. Piles of sticky coins, eagerly watched by sharp
old eyes, grew higher and higher before the crones, as
their sticky goods vanished from off the stalls down the
throats of grave little Breton boys, looking like small menin
miniature editions of their father's loose breeches, long
vests, and coats gin with bright blue woollen scarves. It
was droll to see so much sweet-stuff devoured with such
gravity under the shade of broad-brimmed felt hats, with
velvet band and silver buckle, which would not have
misbecome a clerical crown.

Child-women, so to say  for the little girls in white
coifs, laced bodices, and full petticoats, looked as comical
to unaccustomed eyes as did their brothers  bargained
demurely with the hawkers of small wares, such as rosaries,
pins, penny ribbons, and bright medals, stamped with the
images of saints. Just outside the precincts of the churches,
hung crowds of beggars  lame, halt, blind ; in fact, every
form of disease and species of deformity was there represented,
leaning on crutches and sticks, led by children and
dogs, or propped up in helpless misery against the wall.

These had come to beseech the saint for recovery ; to vow
a waxen arm, leg, or whatever were the limb affected, incase
of an answer to prayer ; or, failing this (perhaps it
would be better to say, recovery or no recovery), to entreat
the alms of healthier fellow-christians.

Piteous, indeed, were the cries and petitions ; still more
piteous the stretching forth of palsied hands, the raising of
sightless eyes, or the mute display of hideous sores. No
more hideous spectacle of squalid misery could well be
imagined, and it is matter of doubt whether such an
oniniuiu gatheruui of repulsive disease and abject wretchedness
could be matched outside the ancient province.
Some of the least helpless among this wretched crowd
supplemented the asking of alms by a curious attempt
at trade. Those among the blind who could still boast
of a glimmer of light, suspended strings horizontally along
the sides of the streets, and hung from them farthing
prints of some popular Breton saint or miracle, gaily
coloured, with legend in print attached, which they repeated
in sing-song voices j or else perambulated the streets,
chanting religious canticle, amorous soiie, or heroic givers,
the two latter sounding idly from such lips. Others,
chiefly those afflicted with some disease not affecting sight
or movement, kept up a continual cry, to the better
dressed among the worshippers issuing from the church
doors : ' Who has the round of the church to make barefoot
? Who has the round of the church to make on his

Library

University OF ILLJ!'

knees?" And then some well-to-do farmer or tradesman
who had made a vow, and felt his feet tender or his knees
stiff, when he contemplated the stony road he must traverse
in order to accomplish it, made a compromise with
my lord the saint," as he respectfully termed him, threw
a little charity into the bargain, and paid in hard coin for
its fulfilment by proxy.

Several of these wretched penance-mongers were performing
their tour, groaning and panting, as Christophe
and his companion passed the church of S. melvin, on
their way to the river-side meadow where the dancing was
to take place ; and Mademoiselle Marie paused a moment
to inquire of the miller's man whether he had no occasion
to engage one of them on his own behalf  "for," she
added half-jestingly. -''if you haven't a vos', I am
sure you ought to have a penance to perform, friend
Klasker."

She looked up astonished when the arm which she held
trembled, and the lad asked in a voice which quivered in
spite of him, 

Why, Mademoiselle ? What, then, have you heard
about me that you accuse me of  of  "
He paused.
She laughed lightly.

Nothing, nothing. Why, Klasker, I shall think you've
committed a murder direct, if you look at me like that !
What ails you, lad?"

He, too, laughed \ but his laugh had not the true ring
about it.

"There, great-mouth," she went on, half contemptuously,
*' don't go about looking like a sinner on Shrove
Tuesday when every one else is gay. I did but jest, and
sure thou deserves a penance  ay, and a heavy one, too 
for being so stupid and dull to-day. Why, I haven't
heard a pleasant word, let alone a compliment, from that
great mouth of thine since we came into town. I'm well-nigh
ashamed of my gallant !"

Christophe laughed again rather foolishly, and was trying
to get up a pretty speech, as they stood looking at the
penance-mongers, when a sturdy Norman, who was standing
by, called out in a jovial voice : 

 Thou art a nice young man for a pretty girl, thou!
"Why, man, thy tongue's lame at a compliment when it
ought to be as glib as an oiled bolt with such a fair subject
to practise on ! Faith, I'll give thee a lesson, and I'll
take her locks for my theme. Pretty mistress, they're well-nigh
worth their weight in silver, so bright and silky are
they (all I can see of them, that is, under this envious
IMorlaix cap !), and the tint is as fair as it's rare 
there's rhyme and reason, too ! Pretty mistress, wilt
take a crown for thy locks? See (he showed her a
basket of various - coloured tresses, black and brown,
which hung on his arm). I've a huge fancy for these
sweet souvenirs !"

The hair-merchant laughed pleasantly, as the well-to-do
young girl, who had no need, like her poorer sisters, to
submit to these periodic shearing to provide the wherewithal
for holiday pleasures, tossed her head indignantly,
and drew her companion away.

*' Ah, ah !" he chuckled, as he watched the couple 
the street  " I was a trifle maladroit to ask
her before her beau, INIayhap, if I'd caught her alone, she
/ might have been more complaisant. Faith, these Morlaix
caps are mighty convenient for the trade ; you may take
the hair from under them, and few the wiser but the
maidens themselves. Ah, ha, here comes a more likely
customer ; she looks as though she'd sell her very ears for
that silver cross on the stall yonder !"

RIVAL PARTNERS.

Avoid : It seemeth not a knave
To ride with such a Iadj\''

'tennyson. " Gareth and Legacies''

Meanwhile the younger portion of the crowd which
thronged the Pardon, was rapidly flowing out of a meadow
by the river-side, where  at least, in those days  the
dancing usually took place. On their arrival in this rural
ball-room, Christophe and his pretty companion found it
already well filled with dancers of both sexes  the girls
seated on the grassy banks and mounds which hemmed
it in on all sides, seeming to indicate some ancient
fortifications ; the lads and young men sauntering about
in the middle of the fresh, sun-lit sward, waiting for the
orchestra to strike up.

The musicians, composing this important element in the
proceedings, were enthroned on a sort of wooden platform,
erected at the end of the field under a large plum-tree,
whose rosy buds were already swelling under the sweet
influence of spring air and sunshine.

A chief of the dancers was about to be chosen from
among the handsomest and most active of the lads
present, and, no sooner did Mademoiselle Marie perceive

this, than she pushed her beau forward into the circle of
competitors, insisting on him taking his chance whh the rest.

Christophe was shy and bashful, even beyond what is
usual among lads of his age ; he was grave and sedate
even for a Leonard  the gravest and most sedate of the
Breton race ; and so to be put forward in competition fora
post, whose occupant is the cynosure of all eyes, irked
him not a little. He reddened all over his dark skin,
and tried to withdraw. But it was too late ; he had
already been perceived, and the other lads seized upon
him with shouts of merriment, and almost compelled him
to go through his paces with the rest.

Not to raise a commotion and bring upon him the
further displeasure of the maid of the mill, Christophe
thought it best to submit, hoping thus to get soonest'
through the ordeal, and obtain leave to fall back into
the ranks. But he reckoned without his host.

Under the bright eyes of Mademoiselle Marie, the lad
could not make up his mind to play the povlaiii de
Pontricux as the Bretons call an awkward clown ; and,
though long disuse prevented him from doing what at one
time was his best, the natural agility and easy lightness
of movement which had distinguished him among the
younger wrestlers and dancers of his native Carnac, had
not departed iio\\\ him, and forced upon their possessor
a distinction which he by no means coveted.

In the Breton language, llcubcul PontrcHUCo\t of Poiitrieux.

Well done, the miller's man !" shouted the young men
present. " Long live our chief of the dance 1"

"How active he is, how graceful, how handsome,"
whispered the maidens. " And who is his chosen partner ?
The miller's Marie ! Ah, she's a fortunate girl, she is !"

And now the hautboys, the tambourine, and the bilious
(or bagpipes) of the orchestra struck up a somewhat solemn
and measured strain ; the young men sought out each his
maiden in her place on the green embankment, and led heron
to the daisies sward. Mademoiselle Marie, beaming
with exultation and gratified vanity, took possession of her
swain, and conducted him  will he, nill he (as it seemed
to Christophe, who passively followed her lead) to a place
at the head of the couples, and the dance began.

A stately affair was this same dance, or Jabadiio, as it
was called ; evidently the remains of the sacred measures
in which the Celts of the olden times were wont to take
part with the white-robed, oak-crowned Druids at their
head. No Druids were they now who gave the usual signal
and led off the long string of couples, but a pretty young
maid, in white c-iffe and chemisette, and a tall, dark
stripling in long coat and vest, girt with a bright blue
woollen sash. Nothing but their graceful movements and
good looks, specially distinguished them among a band
where all were more or less active and picturesque, and yet
every movement of theirs was carefully observed and
scrupulously imitated with the most religious exactness.

Now they formed a line, advancing with measured step ;
now they wound in and out, changing hands, weaving, as it
were, a mystic chain ; then the leader sprang lightly into
the air, made an evolution, and fell back on to the sward
with a heavy tramp of woodenshoes, each couple following
in turn while the others filed right and left, and then took
hands for the chief and his lady to pass under.

Sufficiently exhausting, too, it seemed to be, for when all
the steps, or passe-pieds, had been punctually executed, the
colour in the damsels' faces was considerably heightened,
and the swains were glad to sit down on the banks, each by
his partner's side, and mop up streaming brows with gigantic
cotton handkerchiefs.

During the last few movements of i\iQ Jabadiio, Christophe
had observed that the dancer next to him in the line had
regarded him, whenever they met, with a gaze anything but
pleasant. He was a man with a short, strong, thick-set
figure, black hair, and sallow complexion ; and the keen
black eyes which looked from under the strongly-marked
brows, followed the leader's movements with a mixture of
scorn, contempt, hatred, and jealousy, which puzzled their
object not a little, for he was too much occupied with his own
part in the dance to spare much attention for his fellows.

Presently, however, a movement in the measure brought
them face to face, and then Christophe recognised with a
start the nocturnal visitor at the mill, whom ]mademoiselle
Marie had called Adam.

She did not seem to see him, as she tripped along on
her partner's arm ; but no sooner was the ceremonial
mbadiio over and the gayer and less complicated dances
about to begin, than this morose-looking personage strolled
up to the pair, as they were sitting on the mound, and
without deigning to notice the youth, asked the maiden to
be his partner.

Mademoiselle Marie started violently on hearing his
voice, and looked up with a rush of crimson all over her
rosy face.

Adam ! " she exclaimed, '' tJiou here !"

"Yes," he answered, " as you see, Mademoiselle."

There was a sort of ceremonious stiffness in his manner,
not usual among peasants ; but the sidelong scowl at
Christophe showed that he was putting strong force upon
himself not to spring on him, as a dog does on his rival.
He waited a little, then, as the music struck up and the
girl looked irresolute and hesitated what to answer, he
spoke again, this time almost roughly.

Come," he said, " we waste time, Marie."

But  " she began, with a glance at Christophe.

The latter took up the word in her stead.

No," he said, rising as lie spoke, " this dance is mine j
the lady promised it to me. Did you not. Mademoiselle?"

Yes, but '''

 *' But she gave nic the first right ! I was her partner
before ever she set eyes on you  interloper, hypocrite,

no-name ! Curse you 1 I'll make you repent this, I will !'*
exclaimed the man, in a fury, which increased, as Christophe,
drawing his partner's hand through his arm, moved off
"without reply.

"Adam," cried the girl, in evident distress, turning her
face towards the discarded mill-man, as she was hurried
away by his successor,  'madam, don't be so vexed; only
this dance, and then "

But music and distance made the rest of her speech
inaudible; and the next moment she was treading the
daisies with light feet and kittenish grace of movement, the
prettiest girl in the dance.

Adam joined the circle of on-lookers and scowled as
before, only, if possible, with added gall ; and so soon as
ever the music was silent he again joined the pair, and
continued the conversation, if such it could be called,
where it had been broken off.

You shall repent this, you shall," he said to Christophe ;
*' those who've travelled the country with Jdaskeiraras and
piUawers (he laid a meaning stress on these two words) are
not fit partners for an honest maiden, though there's no
reason why they should not be good enough to play a part
with the pen-has.* Wait till I catch thee alone, my fine
fellow, and we'll see what thy training has done for thee !"

The insulting tone of this speech, especially the
contemptuous sneer with which the latter part was spoken,

Tl'.c Archon quarter-start'

stung Christophe doubly, because spoken in presence of
the pretty girl who was the bone of contention.

I'm not afraid to encounter you or any one," he said,
hotly. " Choose your own time. / shall be ready."

Very well, then," returned the other,  '' we'll show
Mademoiselle here, who's the fittest man to be her partner,
thou or I. Man say I ! Saint-Corentin, pardon me, he's
only a boy ! It would be a shame to hurt him. Come,
Marie."

And having let fly his parting arrow, one sure to hit and
rankle with a lad of Christophe's debatable age, he moved
off with the maid of the mill.

Christophe sat out this dance, waiting for the next,
which Mademoiselle Marie had already promised him, in
anything but an agreeable state of mind. At first it was
the contemptuous tone of the elder man and his slighting
words that vexed him most Youth is such a terrible
reproach to a lad of eighteen or nineteen. Probably not
even David himself, wise beyond his years as he
undoubtedly was, escaped a prick of mortification when
Saul objected to his championship on the score that he
was ** but a youth." Yet as the years roll on, age becomes
an equally sensitive point ; such are the strange vagaries
of human nature. Presently however, as the lad sat there
watching the dancers, the wounded sensitiveness of young
manhood gave way before the sudden sense of fear.
Klaskervara and Piliawer ! "

Could this man Adam have meant anything special by
these words ? Did he attach any deeper meaning to them
than what lay on the surface? "Was it possible that he
knew anything of the dark history of the present grinder
at the Moulin dien Haut ?

The mere idea of the thing made the cold dew break
out thick on the lad's forehead, which just before had
been flushed and heated with his exertions in the dance.
The gay whirl of the moving couples seemed to reel before
his eyes, and he leant his head on his hand with a sense
of giddy sickness. The ceasing of the music did not
rouse him, and it was some moments before he perceived
that the dance was over and the couples forming again fora
new one. He looked up, to see Mademoiselle Marie,,
still leaning on the arm of the former grinder, taking her
place with the rest ! As he raised his eyes, she turned and
glanced towards him ; shook her head, and laughed
roguishly, as he half rose to claim her, made some merry
remark to her companion, and began to dance.

Christophe could see the malignant grin on Adam's face
as he carried off the prize, and his blood boiled at the
slight. Without waiting to see more, he hurried from the
dancing-field and walked quickly away, not caring
whither.

SEEN IN THE FIRELIGHT.

Legions seemed gathering from the misty levels
. . . to supply these ceaseless revels 
Foul ceaseless shadows."

Shelley" Revolt of Islam.'

The sun had long set, and a crescent moon was rising
behind the Morlaix hills, before Christophe turned his steps
back towards the town. He had spent the remainder of the
festival wandering restlessly about the surrounding country,
now chafing under the insults he had received, now giving
way to an access of cold fear as he thought of Adam's
words. Luckily for him, he had wandered a good deal ina
circle with frequent pauses to rest and muse gloomily on
the trunk of some fallen tree or mossy stone, otherwise
small would have been his chance of regaining the mill
before the master's appointed hour for resuming work.

As it was the church clock was striking nine as he neared
a village, which, having often gone there to carry meal, he
knew to be fully half a mile from the town. All was very still
as he passed down the village street. The inhabitants had
already retired for the night, according to all appearance,
for not a light burnt in the cottage windows, and the you ng

moon alone shone on the narrow panes, and touched the
tops of the tall poplars in the little churchyard. As
Christophe neared this, however, he caught sight of a ruddier
gleam than that of the cold white crescent, flushing the sky
for an instant, sinking again, and then rising anew to smirch
the pure air of the spring night with a dash of black and
scarlet.

He quickened his steps to reach the rustic stile which
led from the further end of the long village street across
the churchyard, and then, by a short cut, through the fields
to Morlaix. As he drew nearer, a medley of strangely
mingled sounds met his ear, now rising in wild confusion,
like the red gleam which had first attracted his attention,
now dying away into almost utter silence.

amounting the wooden stile, he suddenly stopped in the
act of descending, as the cause of the, till now, mysterious
light and sound broke upon him.

For a moment a superstitious tremor had come over him ;
he could scarcely have been a Breton had not his first
instincts at this unexplained stir in a churchyard at night
jointed towards the supernatural. But a moment's glance
was enou h to satisfy him that the assembly, strange as it
was, belonged to this side of the tomb.

A wilder and more fantastic scene it would be hard to
imagine than that on which the eyes of the miller's man
now rested. Filling the eastern end of the little churchyard,
which sloped down towards the fence separating it

from the heath outside, and was well sheltered from what
wind was astir this mild spring night by a row of poplars
planted north and west, was an assembly more motley and
strange-looking than is often to be met with outside of
Brittany. All the beggars, the penance-mongers, the itinerant
minstrels of the poorer sort, the mountebanks  in
fact, the whole of the penniless crowd  halt, maimed,
blind  which had flocked to the Pardon during the day
which was just over, seemed to have sought here their
night-lodgings. The whole ragged assembly was encamped
here, 'under the fair star," 'ein the keeping of God," as
the French poetically put it; only that in this case the
poetic element had a dash of the ghastly, from the fact
that these miserable beings, who all seemed more or less
to be fighting for their wretched lives against the enlightening
grasp of death, had chosen for their couches the
graves of those who had already succumbed to the King of
Terrors. A fire of sticks and heather had been lighted on
a gravelled space immediately within the little gate winch
led out on to the heath beyond ; and a second and larger
one burnt redly and fitfully just outside on the heath itself.
Around both these, as well as under the lee-side of all the
nearer graves, and against the eastern wall of the church
itself, the beggars lay encamped, their bread-wallets at their
feet, their long white staffs (part of the professional insignia)
at their head.

Every form of wretchedness and vice, as well as every

VOL. II. F

attitude of rest, found its counterpart amon the crowd.
Here reclined a legless trunk, its head against a grave fora
ijiliow, its crutches flanking it on either side ; there a
blind beggar, with eyes terrible in their loathsome disease,
and long white hair waving in the night-air, crouched over
the fire, with his sightless gaze bent unflinchingly on the
red 5lw, of the embers; the watchful, wistful gaze of his
hunprydog being fixed as untiringly on the wallet, at which
the dog of a fellow-sufferer was snuffing as near as he dared.

Against the church wall leaned a crowd of wretched
women, young and old, huddled together for warmth, and
keeping up, apart from the men, an occasional buzz of
conversation. On the side of the smaller fire furthest from
Christophe a group of more vigorous mendicants were
counting over their gains, bursting out now and again into
hot dispute or envious invective. A couple of long-haired
Breton boys  the children of some deceased, disease-slain
wretches, perhaps, but in whom the hereditary taint was
still apparently so far in abeyance as to leave them spirits
for some of boyhood's sport  were rolling down the slope
just outside the sacred enclosure, laughing as loud as they
Hovo/1 t;i| cuffed into silence by some sleepy elder. A
wretched baby wailed in the arms of a mother still more
wretched, who sat under the shadow of the tall churchyard
cross.

A couple of idiots, old and grey-headed, without the
wisdom of the hoary head, laughed, now at each other,

now to themselves, as they plucked the daisies from the
short grave of a little child, and tossed them in sport, too
pitiable for ridicule, in each other's faces. Around the
larger fire a crowd, still more numerous and motley, had
assembled, and the sound of old men's prayers, pattered
in Latin which they did not understand, mingled strangely
and incongruously with the voice of a blind singer chanting
a country ballad, and the insane cries of some unfortunates
who had sought to forget misery by drowning it in the sour
wine of the country. And the countenances, all bearing
the stamp either of vice or misery, or both  the costumes
torn and ragged, yet still showing by cut or tarnished
embroidery the village to which the wearer belonged  who
shall paint them with mere pen and ink ? Imagination
must step in here. Add the background behind all these
figures  the dark heath, stretching in billowy swellings to
the hilly horizon ; the rows of plume-like poplars ; the little
dome-befriend church, with its dark grey roof and whitened
walls ; the wooden crosses at the head of the graves ; and
then throw over all the mystery of mingling, changing
light and shadow ; the cold gleam of the young moon,
wading through fleecy flocks of clouds ; the red glow of
the fires, whose flames rose and fell, according as the
breeze, salt with the brine of the not distant sea, rose to
fan them, throwing the fantastic figures and grotesque
faces into strong relief or passed away with a moan over
the dead heather, letting the light sink down, and turning

the whole assembly as if into a company of ghostly
shadows, moving fitfully in the dimness. Let your imagination
thus colour and fill in the etching which I have
given, and you will have a picture not less remarkable
than strange.

Christophe himself, hidden behind the branch of a tree
which shaded the stile, looked long at the motley spectacle.
There was something about it which fascinated him
strangely, so that he could not turn away his eyes.

Klaskervara and pillar"  so he had been himself
called that day; here, then, were his brethren and companions
!

The lad shuddered with repulsion as he looked at the
wretched groups before him ; and, as he looked, his eyes,
as if by a strange involuntary magnetism, sought the group
of more hearty vagabonds on the far-side of the little fire,
and, as he turned that way, the face of one among the
number turned towards him.

What was it that made his heart stop suddenly as
though a cold hand had grasped it ? What made a feeling
chill, horrified, and sick as that with which one might
view the messenger of death, pass over his whole being,
bathing brow and temples in dew ?

He scarcely knew himself, so sudden was the apparition,
so instantaneously was it blotted out again by a sudden
gust of wind which seized the flames of the fire and
whirled them down to the ground. A moment and he

could distinguish nothing j then, as suddenly, the red blaze
once more sprang up, illuminating and calling into strong
relief the whole of the beggar company ; yet Christophe
had eyes but for one group, and one figure amid that
group. The face was again turned from him, and he
watched for its returning with a fascination he could not
resist.

Yes, there it was again, the red glow full on the mean
features  the greasy, sallow skin, the long matted locks,
streaked with the first flakes of a snow that would never be
venerable. The keen, cunning eyes were looking full his
way. Did they see him?

Though, from his position and the falling of the light,
this was most unlikely, Christophe shrank back almost
without intending it into the deeper shadow, but continued
to watch the face, as though his eyes were nailed there.

In spite of changes, in spite of a general look of less
flourishing circumstances, which had sharpened the mean
features and decreased the oily, well-fed look about the
cheeks and jaw, Christophe recognised that face but too
well. It was one he could never forget ; one he had
seen with his mind's eye far too often, when the dark
hour was upon him, to leave the slightest room for mistake
as to its identity. For it was the face of his evil genius,
Matelinn Gourven.

IN THE Cathedral.

I have heard many speak, but this one man 
So anxious not to go to heaven alone 
This one man I remember, and his look !

Jean I ::'.;elo\\ ''Brot fa r ; anil  Pennon."

Was the recognition only on one side ? Christophe
asked himself that question with a sick terror.

He could not tell. The eyes continued to look his way,
and yet there was no appearance of recognition in them.
Still he did not feel secure.

He longed to fly, yet dared not move while the face was
turned his way.

The soft, damp night wind was soughing among the
poplars, balancing their graceful tops to and fro, and setting
all their nervous leaves a-tremor, like the patter of soft
rain ; yet the lad was afraid of the sound of his own sobbing
breath afraid that' the least movement on his part
would draw on him the attention he so dreaded.

With every nerve throbbing, he continued to gaze, till
all of a sudden the face moved. The figure, half hidden
behind the fire, rose to its feet.

That was enough for the lad. The terror which had
held him motionless took another phase at the idea of

pursuit : he leapt from the stile and fled, as though the
demons from the nether darkness were behind him.

The damp soft air rushed past his ears, as he ran ; the
tinkle of a bhlnd man's dog-bell, the gibbering-''i of
the idiots, the quarrelsome oaths of the drunken beggars
sounded in his rear, and were turned for him i'->to one
dread sound which seized on his imagination and lent
wings to his feet. The Monlin dien Haut, his work,
mademoiselle Marie, his rival's threats, all were alike forgotten
in the one thought of escape. The safe asylum,
the quiet security of the wind-mill, was snatched from
him in one day, and again he was a fugitive and a wanderer
on the face of the earth. But the insane terror which
had prompted his first flight did not last long. The lad
was healthy, well-fed, and in good condition, and such
fear as knows neither bounds nor reason does not generally
utterly master the mind while the body is as it singula oe.
Once out of the village, he slackened his pace, glanced
over his shoulder, saw no one, and then stopped to
listen.

No, there was no pursuit ; no sound of footsteps on the
road, no panting breath of one who follows hot behind;
nothing but the night wind sweeping softly inland from
the sea, over the broken ground covered with heph and
scrubby brushwood, and dotted by rocky fragments, which
lies between Morlaix and the Channel. Nothing but the
bleat of a flock of lean black sheep, picking the scanty

herbage by the tidal river, and the wash of the brackish
water among the reeds.

ri'tly re-assured by the silence and solitude around him,
the lad walked on at a more sober pace, following the highroad
which led over the heath away from Morlaix. Return
there, he could not, even to take leave of the family at the
Monlin dien Haut. The ex-grinder's meaning words, the
neighbourhood of the man he loathed and dreaded more
than death, had roused his slumbering fears. He dreaded
discovery ; he dreaded recognition by his father even more.

No fixed plan had he at present ; he did not even
think of how he should avoid the privations of his last
tramp ; his only thought was to get away, to put as many
miles as possible between him and Morlaix before he
thought even of rest.

The grey March morning was breaking in the east, ashe
entered a little grey, grim, silent town. Very grey was
it, for the streets were paved and the houses built of cold-heed
granite. Very grim was it, for the houses were
massive and severe in architecture, and all attempt at
ornament consisted chiefly in solid coping over lintie and
lower windows, in tail, narrow dormers above the translated
roof, finished by grim stone dragon, or grinning
face. Very silent was it, too, for the shutters were closed 
the inhabitants seemed all asleep, and only the cold, salt
wind from the neighbouring sea rushed through the
solitary streets.

It seemed at first as if Christophe were the only living
being astir there; but presently, as he turned the angle of
a house, he came almost full tilt against a cassocked priest
and a tall lank kloarek going to early Mass ; and, looking up,
beheld before him the towering front and twin spires of a
grand old granite cathedral. Then, for the first time, it
struck him that this must surely be the priestly city of Saint-pol
de Leon. Other figures, i and far between, it is true,
for it was still very early, were coming up, looking still half
asleep, from the streets converging into the open space
around the cathedral, and soon after the bells began to
ring. Then Christophe, following the example of the rest,
pushed open the heavy padded door, over which a gigantic
stone figure of St. Paul of Leon kept watch and ward, his
drawn sword in his hand, and entered the building.

It was very vast and scarcely more than half lighted by
tapers at the many side altars, and the great wax candles
on the high altar, seen far away in dim perspective from the
western door. Yet, in spite of the shrouding gloom the
lad felt at once that here was a church whose fair proportions
and venerable grandeur far exceeded that of any
he had ever before entered.

There was something in the forest-like rows of fluted
pillars separating the shadowy aisles, and increasing in
number as they proceeded east, in regular gradation ; first
single rows, then double, then treble, flanking the glorious
choir with its rich carving and exquisite tracery in

imperishable stone  a something which took hold imperiously
on the Breton reverence and veneration for the
unseen world, latent in every true son of the ancient
province, and which not even the rude shocks they had
sustained had been able to destroy in the wanderer's soul.

A mighty force, an overwhelming sensation as of a
tremendous Presence overshadowing and dwarfing his own
little individuality, came upon Christophe. He looked up,
almost in superstitious expectation of beholding some
palpable sign of Divine presence, but there was nothing in
the dim height of the vaulted roof, nothing but the calm
faces of stone angels guarding the spring of those soaring
arches behind their outspread wings ; nothing but the
prayerful countenances of saint and sovereign, and beyond
them, towering above the rood-screen, a great wooden
Crucifix. Christophe's eyes fastened on this at once.
Familiar as was the object, there was something in that
stupendous Figure hanging up there athwart the darkness 
the representation of the greatest agony, the greatest
humiliation this world has known  that took hold of him,
as he stood there, with the awe upon him which churches
such as this so often inspire, making him fall upon his
knees and cover his face with his hands. For him, ever
since that night when he had fled with the stain of blood
upon him, there had been something terrible in the sight of
a Crucifix, making him look the other way whenever he
passed one. The feeling was there still, but the heart

which had hardened itself against religion's softening
influence now felt strangely subdued. There were reasons,
doubtless, for this besides those which could be traced to
the impression made by this place so sacred to the Leonard,
the shrine of their great Saint-Pol. There was the sense
of utter helplessness in the toils of inexorable fate ; the
suffering for a sin not his own, which he could not escape;
there was also the bodily prostration, brought on by strong
emotion, violent exertion, and fasting since early the day
before. No wonder all this reacted on mind and soul, and
kept the lad, half kneeling, half leaning against the pillar by
which he had placed himself. The priests at the high
altar began to celebrate the Mass, little acolytes in white
and scarlet swung the perfumed censors to and fro, voices
rose and sank in measured cadence, the people bowed to
the earth before the sacred Host j none observed the boy
who knelt alone in the shade. The whole impressive ceremony
passed before him like the visions of a (dream. The
service was ended, the priests and servers left the church,
the sacristan extinguished the tall candles, and the congregation
withdrew. Still Christophe did not move. From
his kneeling position he had fallen just a little forward, so
as to rest his head against one of the straw-bottomed
kneeling-chairs. That was all the outward difference, yet
if you had looked at the lad's face you would have seen
that he slept profoundly.

When he came to himself again, it was at the ring of a

well-known voice. He started violently, and lifted his head
from the chair where it had been pillowed. The great
church was full of light, the sun shone through the painted
windows, casting a rainbow radiance on to hundreds of"
upturned faces, listening intently.

Not a sound broke the silence of the great church
beyond the passionate tones of that one voice, which
seemed to pierce through the space which separated
preacher and congregation right to the heart of every unit
in it. Men and women, young and old, all seemed to feel
the spell, and to sit as though bound hand and foot
beneath it. Such a well-known voice ! No wonder it had
called the lad from his long trance-like sleep, bringing up,
like a sudden vision, the wind-swept heath of Carnac, the
little village, with the home-like features he knew so well,
the very sough of the breeze and scent of the whin-bloom
among the old Druid stones whom they called his sires.

What was the magic which had wrought all this?
Christophe looked, rubbed his eyes, and looked again.
Was he still dreaming, or did he know the man who stood
in the pulpit? Surely the face was strangely familiar
familiarly strange !

He looked again, he could not but look.

Who was that young priest with the dark intense face,
the deep piercing eyes, the pallor of watch and fasting on
the wan brow and hollow cheek ?

Whose was that tall and massive, yet attenuated figure.

gaunt with the denials of an ascetic life, those large, thin,
transparent hands, outstretched m passionate pleading, in
terrible warning, in dread denunciation over the people ?

Whose ?

Bernezz !" exclaimed the lad, in a hoarse whisper.
' Bernezz !"

The exclamation had taken voice in spite of himself.
He glanced up at the preacher once more, and then round
sat the people, dreading to have been overheard. But, no ;
preacher and people were alike too much occupied with
the sermon to have attention to spare for anything else.

It was a wonderful sermon ; a torrent of passionate
eloquence, rushing, heart-hot, from the very depths of the
young preacher's being, and washing away, by its very
fervour and impetus, all the barriers of pride or worldly
indifference from around the souls of his hearers. You
could see, on the upturned faces, the reflex of what was
going on within ; you could see how the preacher, like a
skilled musician, was playing on the heart-strings of his
audience ; now plucking with merciless fingers at the sin-hardened
chords of strong men, making them wince and
quiver under the torture; now laying his hands more
gently, if quite as fearlessly, on the more finely-strung
feelings of the women. Watching those faces, it was as
though in their expression you could read the heart-music
thus awakened. Terribly groaned the bass in the soul of
that old man with the thin lips and the sliovver of silver

hair falling over the velvet collar of his long black coat, as
the young prophet spoke of the terrors of death and
judgment for one whose treasure had been hoarded here
and not laid up for eternity. The thin lips quivered, the
eager eyes took a terrified expression, the old knotted
fingers clasped and unclasped upon the top of his staff.

Sharply cried the treble in the hearts of women, who
wept and shuddered, with white caps all a-flutter, under the
picture of the Last Day, when the doors shall be shut, and
the foolish virgins, whose days were spent in pleasure
here, should knock in vain against the closed door of
the inexorable Bridegroom. Young men  there were many
kloareks among them, for this was an ecclesiastical city 
turned pale, flushed with enthusiasm, fidgeted uneasily,
or kindled with religious exultation, according to their
various states of mind, as the young, fervid voice rang out
like a trumpet call, summoning all to leave all for what is
well worth all earthly goods. " Follow me ! Evangelise
the world ! Cast out the great dragon of sin ! Conquer
yourselves ! Reign with your Captain for evermore ! "

The preacher's voice rose into a thrilling ecstasy as he
pronounced these last words ; then it ceased suddenly, ashe
paused for a moment with eyes raised to heaven, and
hands clasped, as though in prayer for his hearers. As
if by one impulse the whole of that immense congregation
fell at once upon its knees, and for some moments
silence reigned through the great cathedral, broken only by

an occasional sob from the women, a deep, catching breath
from the heaving breast of some strong man, and the light
rattle of the rosaries, as the people, with trembling fingers,
told their beads. *

It was Ash Wednesday. Christophe had not remembered
it till this moment, when, carried away like the rest by
that stirring appeal, he, too, fell on his knees once more
upon the hard pavement. The kneeling-chair seemed too
soft for the knees of such as he. Who was there here
who had need of so much penitence ?

When he looked up again, the preacher was wiping his
pale brow. The pallor of his face had increased to a
degree which was almost ghastly ! A faintness seemed to
have come over him, for he was tightly grasping the edge
of the pulpit, as though for support.

Some one  the sacristan, as it appeared  brought him a
glass of water ; but he waved it aside, mastered the faintness
as though by the mere effort of a powerful will, and
went on again : 

What must I do to be saved ?"

He asked the question slowly, thoughtfully 

Where shall I find the strength for this great battle ?
How shall I, a mere man, accomplish all this you bid
me do ?'*

He paused again. The people listened in breathless
expectation, as though the question were quite new, the
answer to it never yet heard.

The preacher leaned forward, his dark, piercing eyes
fixed on his listeners, his voice giving out the words with
a calm, steady impress illness : 

' Christ being come an High Priest of good things to
come offered Himself without spot to God.' That
is what He did. ' Sell all that thou hast, and give to the
poor, and come, follow me.' That is what He says to us.
Oh, my brethren 1 (the voice took a tone of infinite pleading)
could I only bring you all to this, how happy for me 
how happy for you! Dark times are coming; most of
you will have to give up your goods or have them reft from
you, anyhow ; give them up novi' ; give them up of freewill
 nay, more, give yourselves ! The Holy Church is in
sore need ! Will none of you serve in her ranks ? Young
men, were you but all as sam  could I but bring you all
into the net which has caught me ! Come jioil', pause not,
look not behind you ! flee from the horrors of Sodom !
I see, I see the world in flames, the heavens rolling
together! I see it coming Flee, lest it be too
late : '

His eyes took the expression of one who beholds unseen
things ; a prophetic look was in his face, he stretched out
his finger as though pointing to coming doom, and poured
out terrible words, as of a seer, striking cold the hearts of
all who heard him. Women shrieked, fainted, and were
carried out; strong men fell down on their faces to the
earth with groans for mercy ; the crowd, to use the expression

of one who has seen them on a Hke occasion " palpitated,
moaned under the words, as the sea under the
storm's wild breath." Celt spoke to Celt, and strong excitement
took hold on both, communicating itself, like an
electric fluid, from the one to the other. The religious
feelings of the Breton race, intensified almost to sombre
fanaticism among the men of Leon, were stirred to their
very depths by the power of this one young man, and he
only a peasant's son. But such things are in Brittany.

At last it was over. The spell of the young preacher's
words was removed ; the effect only remained, to bring
forth fruit, or die out, according to the heart-soil in which
the words were sown.

The mention was removed, and the people poured out
into the open air, to talk over the wonderful sermon, orin
some few cases, muse upon it in silence.

But Christophe did not stir.

He was not asleep this time ; he was thinking, or rather,
perhaps, feeling deeply. The callous incrustation of
eighteen long months had suddenly melted. Commissions
and omissions innumerable seemed to have taken hold upon
him and dragged him down to the earth; the sin of his
father, which he felt as this own, lay like lead upon his soul !

Lying there on the cold stone pavement, alone before
the Crucifix, he tried to find words to plead for mercy ; to
entreat that the terrible fate which was ever dogging his

E:nile Souvestrc.
VOL. II. G

steps, which, after a short respite, seemed once more to
threaten him, might in pity be removed. But his dry lips
could not frame a prayer. A horror was upon him. The
way seemed closed  all ways save

What had the preacher said ? '' Give up all 1" But
how ? What had lie to give ?

Like the memory of another world, similar words uttered
by the same voice came back to him from the dim, far-distant
past  from the days when he was an innocent child,
fresh from his First Communion  " Be a priest 1 "

The words had sounded terrible then ; they were still
terrible, but it was in another way. Then he had started
back as from fetters of iron \ now he trembled before the
idea as of something far too high for such as he. Then he
was half appalled ; now he was almost attracted.

Can it be that it is, indeed, my vocation?" he asked
himself,  " Indeed a call from God ? And am I flying 
have I been flying all these years from the fulfilment of
His will, as Jonah did? Is all tht has happened a
judgment on me for disobedience ?"

But the lad's mind was in a whirl, he could not think.
A sick faintness stole over him, and he was obliged at last
to leave the church in search of food.

Well, Will seek out Bernezz  if it were, indeed, he,"
thought the lad, as he feebly pushed open the great swing-door.
" I will see Berncz, and he will tell me."

Then he went into one of the little public-houses with

the traditional bunch of mistletoe over the door, expended
some of his slender wages in bread and cider, sat down on
the stone bench by the door to break his fast, and again
fell into a profound sleep.

*' Poor lad, do not wake him," said the kindly aiihetgiste,
as she looked at the tired, handsome face, leaning in
profound unconsciousness on the little wooden table before
the bench. " Poor lad, he looks just worn out !"

So they let him sleep as long as he would, and that was
till the spring sun was already sinking into the sea out
beyond Roscoff. Then he awoke suddenly, started as he saw
how the day had advanced, and going up to the auhergiste
who was busy in the public room, asked if she knew where
the preacher of that morning's sermon was to be found.

Dom Guenedon? Nay, I know not, young man.
He is a stranger here, and only came to preach at the
request of our vicar. They say he left the town immediately
after mattins."

But where has he gone?" asked Christophe, eagerly.

"Nay, I know not. Ask the sacristan  he's just going
down the street  he'll know."

But the sacristan did not know either. He thought
his reverence had gone to preach at Roscoff, but he was
not sure. Anyhow, he had left the town hours ago.

So Christophe left it, too, and tramped to Roscoff, which
lie reached late that night. But the preacher was not
there, nor had he been, neither was lie expected. The

lad was too much exhausted to go further, so he sought
out a humble lodging, and slept out the rest of the night
in profound unconsciousness. And next morning he
tramped out of the town again, as he had tramped in,
only wanting one thing which he had managed to bring
there and had been compelled to leave behind, and that
little thing was Hope.'

Coming to a place where four ways met, he sat dowTi
beneath the finger-post which told him that the three
roads he had to choose among led, one to Saint-Pol de
Leon, another to Landervisiau, the third to Brest. Which
should be taken ?

He knew not  he cared not. Everything in this cold
world seemed to be against him, and to everything he
was indifferent.

The spring seemed to have looked forth, and gone
again. The warm sunshine, in which he had sat yesterday
before the little inn, had disappeared from the earth.
The grey clouds scudded across the sombre sky, the wind
moaned across the country, and flying showers drove \.\\
his face and welted him through and through.

Alone, and uncared for, he sat there, without an aim
or an object in life; and, while he sat in the pitiless
pelting of the bleak shower, the utter misery of his
fate seemed to crush down upon him with overwhelming
bitterness, arid the lad covered his face in the solitude
and wept aloud.

Robe's )xrng xfAm.

BOOK v. LOVE'S YOUNG DREAM,

CHAPTER I.

MAIDENS AT THE WELL.

Thither came the village girls,
And lingered talking."

Tennyson" Pellets and Ettarre.''

Spring has breathed on Carnac plain ; one can see that
by the way in which the little grass-blades are shooting
up, green and fresh, around the feet of the changeless
memoirs, which neither winter's snow nor summer's sun can
alter one whit for better or for worse. Daisies are looking
up by thousands from the short, fine turf, pressing their
little white-fringed disks and round pink buds against the
very face of the grim old stones, crowding in upon the
fairy rings, where the Bretons are well persuaded that the
organs foot it on moonlight nights.

What balls they must have had, those little men of the
under world, to judge by the rings which tell of their

presence ! Many a score, green as emerald circlets, might
you count cut there on Carnac plain this early springtime.


And by Carnac village, too, the wearing o' the green is
now beginning. Though it is not April yet, though the
Paschal moon is not yet full, sunny showers have come as
avafif-couriers of the fickle month, coaxing open the
sheaths of the leaf-buds, and showing a glimpse of the
little crumpled garments in which the trees are preparing
to dress themselves.

Ferns are uncurling their stately green croziers by the
well under the plane-trees in the hollow lane, and the moss
which tapestries the old stone trough and creeps silently
about the foot of the rough little statue of Our Lady,,
keeping guard above, is becoming the loveliest study in
colouring that artist's eye could desire. Such greens, such
golds, shading into the most delicate tints of brown and
orange, all wrought into such a substance as no velvet, bethe
pile never so rich, can emulate. Coarse and careless,
indeed, must be the eye which does not rest with satisfaction
on moss in springtime !

And oh ! daintiest treasure of the opening year  the
fair, pale primroses, sweet with such a perfume as no other
flower can match ; lovely, with a delicate purity which has
won them comparison with starlight  these, too, are peeping
out timidly from the shelter of last year's fallen leaves
very timidly as yet ; just by twos and threes, little peeping

scouts sent before by the sweet yellow sisterhood, just to
see whether the rough j\Iarch winds, with their rudeness
and bluster, are really gone. How they smile, these
innocent spies, on meeting the radiant welcome of the sunbeams,
which are chequering the banks of the hollow lane,
as they filter through the quickening branches overhead,
where a thrush is singing his evening hymn.

Just so looks Carnac spring by spring; just so looked it
that springtide near one hundred years ago.

Two maidens were standing by the well  it was the village
gossiping-place, where the women met when the day's
work was over to exchange news while the pitchers were
filling  one tall, strong, and fully formed \ the other small,
slight, and almost childlike.

The little one had filled her pitcher, and was leaning
against the smooth bole of a beech-tree, her little spotted
feet lightly crossed below the blue hem of her short petticoat,
her hands behind her back, the sunbeams twinkling on
her tall white cap and snowy chemisette, on the knot of
primroses in her black velvet bodice, on her delicate wild-rose
face and the yellow ripples of her sunny hair, Carnac
caps are more coquettish than those of Morlaix, and do
not prevent you seeing that the wearers have hair. A lovely
little figure it was, and a sweet little face soft, dreamy, and
yet sunshiny withal, as is a sweet spring morning. Seventeen
years, perhaps, had gone over it, not more ; some might
have guessed less, so childlike was the sweet young face.

The other maiden, filling her red earthenware pitcher at
the slow-running spout of the wayside well, looked fully
four years older. Indeed, young as was her pleasant face,
with its kindly grey eyes and healthy sunburnt colouring, no
one would have hesitated to call her a woman. There are
some girls who are women always, almost from childhood,
while others scarcely seem, even in age, to have attained
their full completeness.

And so the young seigneur has come to Coetmor ?"
said the elder maiden, as she stooped to see if the pitcher-was
nearing full. " It's many a year since he has been
among us. Will he own thee for a foster sister noii\ dost
think, Genofa?"

But, yes, yes, indeed, Yronne," exclaimed the little
figure by the beech-tree, with a flush on her fair cheek, and
an eager ring in her soft voice. " What would you have,
cousin? Didn't we play together as children? Didn't
mother nurse him herself? Ah, bah, what art thinking of,
Yvonne ?"

But that's so long ago, cousin," returned the other ;
so long ago ; and they say he's been about Court since
then, and has grown a mighty fine gentleman. Honarn
Kabik was up at the Chateau last night with a coat old Per
had been mending for one of Monsieur's valets, and he saw
Tvl. le Curate himself walking on the terrace. Fine he was,
I can tell thee, as any goldfinch, and handsome as the holy
Saint Sebastian up there in the church, at least so said

Honarn ; but he never looked up to speak ; oh ! no, though
Honarn was scarce two yards from him as he passed. He
just kept walking up and down, with his eyes on the ground,
as if nobody were near at all. Yet Honarn played with
him, too, in the old days, Genofa.

Honarn Kabik  who's Honarn Kabik !"

The pretty girl tossed her flower-like head very slightly,
as a broom-blossom does in the wind ;  did he live under
the same roof with M. le Comte for years on years as /
did ? Besides ah, bah, Yvonne, he's so ugly, so ugly \
M. le Comte oughtn't care to claim acquaintance, even
though he did remember him  which isn't likely.

I don't see what ugliness has to do with it," replied
the other, bluntly, as she drew aside her full pitcher and
put another in its place. " / like people to be faithful to
old friends, whatever their looks j and if M. le Comte
were too fine to toss a word to poor Honarn, be sure he'll
have none too good a memory even for you at the farm,
Genofa. He'll speak to you, of course," she added, as her
cousin made an eager exclamation of dissent ; " he could
scarcely help doing that ; but as for coming to you on the
old terms, there'll be little of that, I'm thinking."

' But he has Yvonne ; he has, I tell thee," exclaimed
Genofa with excited eagerness. " No, no ; M. Aymon was
never too proud to acknowledge \\\s friends ; (she stressed
the word a little proudly) " he came to our house the very
same evening he arrived, and he's been twice since. Thou

shouldst see the present he's brought for mother; the
most beautiful cock and hen thou canst imagine ! And he
hadn't forgotten Christophe either  poor Christophe !"

The half sarcastic look with which Yvonne had been
listening passed quickly at the name.

"Ay, Christophe," she said, softly, "poor, poor
Christophe ; where is lie now, dost think, Genofa ? Ah 1
holy Virgin !" (she turned her eyes towards the statue of
the Madonna, and fingered her rosary), "blessed Mother,
keep poor Christophe, and bring him home once more !"

Amen !" murmured Genofa, crossing herself.

There was silence for a moment, as when the name ot
one dead is mentioned; then Genofa, breaking quickly
through the little gravity which had settled on her child-face,
suddenly laughed and turned a pair of mischievous
eyes on her cousin.

For example ; dost think hed remember thy Honarn,
Yvonne ?"

A quick flush rose to the face of the elder maiden.

'* My Honarn, Genofa !" she repeated ; " what dost
mean ?"

The mischievous smile curled the other's rosy lips and
danced in her eyes at the same time.

Well, I thought thou wast taking his part so hotly just
now, that, perhaps  perhaps Ah, ha, cousin Yvonne,

dost thou not know that the tailor" would fain arrange a

The tailors are the match-makers in Brittany.

match on his own account this time  that is, on his son's,
thou knowest ; and they do say there's only one penncrez
in the village that Honarn Kabik will even hear of  set
him up ! He'll find it hard to get a wife, I fancy, tJiat
one ! We'll teach him, beggars mustn't be cliooscrs ;
won't we, Yvonne ? There, never mind, dear ; I didn't
mean to vex thee ; of course, I knew it was all nonsense.
To think of him casting his eyes on my Yvonne,
indeed !"

Saying which, pretty Genofa came to her cousin's side
with a kiss and a caress which soon smoothed the vexed
look from the broad white brow of Yvonne. It was a
little hard always to have this little tailor flung at her, just
as if he were the only young man in the whole parish with
whom it were possible she should match, thought poor
Yvonne ; and then she chid herself for the unworthy
thought, and, taking up her water-pots, wished a kind good
evening to her pretty cousin, and turned towards the village,
leaving Genofa to carry her pitcher to the farm. But
the latter lingered awhile to gather one or two more primroses,
and then stood, tying them up with grass, and
looking after her tall cousin as she walked up the lane,
balancing one pitcher on her head and carrying the other
in her hand.

As she neared the turn where two great elm-trees leaned
across the lane and mingled their branches in toppling
embrace, the mischievous smile came back to Genofa's

eyes ; for, behold, there was " Petit Honarn " himself, lying
in wait to help Yvonne with her water-jugs !

I am afraid the poor little tailor's reception was none
the kinder for the gossip which was still rankling in the
girl's bosom, or for the strong suspicion that Genofa's
blue eyes had witnessed the meeting. How was it that
Petit Honarn was always so provokingly maladroit ?

Time THATCH WHERE HE WAS REARED AND THE VOICE
OF HIS BROTHERS."

So all life's sunshine is flecked with shade,
So all delight is touched with pain ;
So tears of sorrow and tears of joy
Welcome the wanderer home again."

WiLLiAJi Sawyer "J. Year of Song."

Out on the plain the tall shadows of the memoirs were
lengthening and strengthening, as the spring sun sloped
westward and flung its long, red beams across the daisies
sward.

Very still it was out there. The little shepherds had all
gone home, each driving his lowing herd, or his one solitary
cow, as the case might be, home for the milking ; and
only the peaceful bleat of the few sheep which still remained
behind, and the regular browse  browse of strong
teeth nibbling the sweet herbage, as they moved slowly
along where the grass was greenest  showed that living
beings there were still on this mysterious and legend-haunted
plain. Mysterious, indeed, it was, not only because
-of the everlasting presence of those tall, still stones, of
which none could rightly tell the origin, but because, if you

stood there to listen, you might hear, breaking softly
through the stillness of the quiet evening hour, strange
sounds such as were not made by any living beings, properly
so called  of that be very sure.

What was that noise, as of breathing, away to the
southwards,  sometimes soft and regular, as of a child
asleep  sometimes drawing loud hissing breaths, like one
in mortal illness ? The sea ? No ; the Breton shepherd
of these plains would hardly have allowed you such a
natural explanation. Rather, he would tell you that it
is Mor-Vyoc'h, the sea cow, who once came on land and
appeared to Widow ]\Iadek's little daughter, but has now
gone back to chew the cud and draw her breath under the
salt waves of her native element.

And, hark to that sigh coming nearer, growing to a
wail, and dying away, still moaning, into silence. What is
that? The grind ?

No, no ; that is a soul in pain ; that is poor Wilhelm,
who, after having lived a life of scandal to all good
Christians, carried his imperiousness so far as to leave the
souls of his mother, wife, and sister without Mass or
prayer, and was twisted to death in a wringing match by
the phantom washerwomen of the night !

It was not, however, any inhabitant of the under world
who appeared presently in sight, coming across the plain
from the direction of Auray. The sun was still above the
horizon, and whatever you might hear there was small

chance of seeing anything uncanny as long as his bright
red beams were there to dispel sights unholy.

No, the newcomer was only a tall strong lad in the
costume of a miller, with shoes bearing testimony to long
travel on stony roads.

The short cool grass seemed pleasant to his feet, for he
stopped to kick off his wooden shoes, took tliein in his
hand, and came along bare-footed. When he reached the
cluster of gigantic memoirs which stand together on the
plain some two miles or less from Carnac, he paused again,
walked straight up to the tallest giant of the group, lifted
his black felt hat so that the crimson light from the shining
west fell full on his long dark locks, looked up for one
moment, then knelt down in the long shadow of the
menhir.

For a while he seemed to pray ; then, if you lead watched,
you would have seen him lean forward and press his lips to
the inanimate stone, sign himself and it with the cross, then
rise again, and stand with right hand raised and eyes fixed
upon the sinking sun.

Blood-red it glowed upon the horizon, throwing bloodred
lights upon the grey stones, upon the motionless figure
and set features of the lad, and turning to purple-blue the
wide green sea of grass which stretched around. Bloodred
it sank from sight, glittered a moment like a burning
ruby, lessened to a fiery spark, and vanished.

Then the lad heaved a great sigh, let his hand

VOL. II. H

sink, and the fixed look of stern concentration relaxed
from his face.

By a menhir it was committed," he murmured half
aloud; **by a melior  my menhir  let the atonement be
made ; that is if "

He broke off hurriedly, as if only just conscious that the
words had been uttered aloud, glanced quickly round, put
on his hat again, and struck across the plain towards
Carnac,

The twilight was already falling as he entered the village,
but of this he seemed rather glad than otherwise, for he
walked on the shadowed side of the road whenever he
could do so conveniently ; avoided the looks of the
loiterers by the cemetery-gate and around the village oak,
made straight for the open door of the church, and knelt
down in the darkest corner of the dim interior.

Softly dusk it was in there, after the red glow of sunset,
full of deep brown depths of shadow, from which
here and there a little lamp shone like a glow-worm,
scarce revealing the few quiet figures who knelt at their
evening prayers.

Before the high altar, on which two tapers shone like
stars, knelt a priest in a black cassock  his tonsured head
'sent down, and his face hidden in his hands. But he
.vas in private, not public prayer.

A young maid, wiili pure pale face, half catching the
faint light from the altar, knelt before the Great Crucifix,

her eyes uplifted to the suffering Form, her elbows resting
on the back of her priedieu chair, and the rosary hanging
from her clasped hands. Her white nun-like cap, with
its snowy lappets falling back, did not even tremble, so
still she knelt, so wrapped was she in prayer and contemplation
: but if you had bent down very closely, you
might have heard the name of Christophe whispered
on her lips. Yvonne Guenedon had been accustomed to
pray for him in childhood, and she was not one whoever
forgot.

But that name was on another's lips as well, not calmly
whispered, as is the name of one so long passed from
sight that its utterance awakes no vibrating thrill of
emotion, but breathed in painful fervour, with the suffocation
of a half-stifled sob.

This one was a woman also, with the first light footsteps
of those crowding years which, when life's sun has
passed the line, tread heavier and yet more heavily upon
brow and hair. But she was fair still, and probably, but
for " fretting," need not have felt those footprints yet.

Year by year Ninorc'h Comorre confessed that
fretting," as her besetting sin, was absolved, and enjoyed
peace for a time ; but year by year the nagging demon
attacked her again, first in one shape then in another, and
she fell again.

Now it was that Antonn, her goorl man, was too careful
of his money, then too careless ; now her favourite cow

dropped its calf, then some beg-sar cast an evil eye on her
dairy, and spoilt a whole churning of cream. Three real
sorrows she had had, indeed ; though her neighbours were
wont to say that the third, at least, was a blessing in disguise.
The loss of her first-born child, the deprivation of
the one adopted in its place, and, last of all  and this was
but lately  the death through drowning of the poor innocent,
her last born. True, it happened very quietly. and there
could have been no pain. Seemingly he had gone to sleep
on the edge of a little pond out there on Carnac plain, and
had turned over, so that his face had rested in a little
mossy pool by the edge. So at least he had been found,
sleeping apparently, as he had done many a time before
at the same place, like a little child. It was long ere his
mother could believe that he was dead, so calm was the
expression of the innocent foolish face. The mother
mourned him sorely still, and this loss it was which had
renewed her longing after Christophe, never quite at rest
since he was taken from her at the festival of the Dead,
four years ago last November.

She was kneeling this evenings before the lite shrine
of Our Toady of Sorrows, close by the place where knelt
the stranger youth ; and, as she knelt, the tears welled
slowly from her eyes and words came audibly from the
trembling lips :

Christophe ! my son Christophe ! my little Christ-sent
child ! Oh I Mother of Sorrows I bring him back to me,

if still he lives ! Christophe, Christophe I Ah I God !
why didst Thou take him from me ? "

She did not heed the wayfaring lad who knelt so near
her in the shadow that the whispered words of her
complaint fell distinctly on his ear. She never saw how
he trembled beneath them, or how his strong features
worked at the sight of her falling tears. The grave,
somewhat sternly-set lips under the budding moustache,
took a softer expression than they had known for long,
and tears of sympathy glittered on his long eye-lashes.
He made a movement as though to place himself at her
side, but drew back again into the shadow, as she rose
from her knees and went out.

After a moment's hesitation, however, he followed her.
Through the church-door they passed, into the soft,
spring gloaming ; she in front, he some half dozen yards
behind her. Overhead, the rose-flush of the after-glow
was fading from the sky, giving place to that solemn,
ethereal, bluish tint which heralds the stars. Some of
them were glinting out already, not exactly shining, it was
not quite dark enough yet for that, but glimmering as
through a veil. Behind the budding trees, a large planet
was sending a faint silver light over the path it would
presently tread, and in the willovvs, by the grave-yard
gate, a thrush was singing so loudly, so clearly, so
tunefully, that her notes sounded far down the village
street. It was to the grave-yard that Ninorc'h Comorre

was going and not till she reached the gate did she make
an instant's pause, nor even then did she look behind her
to see who was following her through the wicket, which,
having unlatched, she had not tarried to latch again.
Straight on she went to the burying-ground of her
people, and down she knelt on the damp turf between
the graves of her children.

Long she knelt, telling her beads " with intention " for
the dead, and ere she rose another prayer had been put
up for the lost ; then, with a sigh, she stood up to go.
Who was it that echoed the sigh beside her? She
looked round hastily, but could see no other kneeler. at
least by the neighbouring graves. The shadows had
deepened fast since her entrance ; there was but lite
starlight as yet.

Mother ! "

Ninorc'h gave a smothered cry as she heard that name.
Often she had longed, kneeling by those graves, that her
children could come back and speak to her from the spirit-world
where they had gone. But there is a something
in our human nature which shrinks with an invincible
horror from the thoughts of contact with a spirit which
has put off the garment of humanity, and crossed the
awful boundary which is, as a great gulf, fixed between
life here and hereafter. This shrinking came upon
Ninorc'h, as she heard herself called by that name.

"Mother"'

There it was again, and this time the terrified woman
saw a dark form come from the deeper shadow which
lay beneath a clump of silver-tipped willow trees.

*' Holy Vir-in, keep me ! What is it ? " she exclaimed,
with lips dry through terror, scarcely knowing what she
said. How appalling, then, was the answer which she
had little thought to call forth.

It is I, mother  your son !"

What ! Main ? But, no ; it is too tall."

The lad saw her exceeding terror, remorse struck him
for his want of foresight, and he hastened, as he thought,
to re-assure her.

No, mother, dear, no ; it is Christophe, your son,
Christophe ! "

But she flung up her arms with a cry, half of added
terror, half of wild despair.

* Christophe ! No, not Christophe ? My God, this is
too much ! Then he is dead, too dead, too "

The words died away in a wail, and she tottered, as
though about to fall. But a strong arm was flung about
her  warm hands - living hands  seized her cold ones
and held them tight, while a voice, trembling too much
with tears, joy, love, and remorseful tenderness  all
mingled in one overmastering emotion  to come from lips
no longer warm with the blood of life, smote on her ear : 

No, not dead ! not dead, mother ! not dead, lout come
back, come Jioiue if thou wilt have me! Don't cry, don't

tremble, mother ! Really it is I  thy son Christophe.
Wilt not kiss me ? Art not glad to see me ? Oh, Mere
Xinorc'h!"

iMcre Xinorc'h  his pet name for her, the name he had
called her by from the days when he was a tiny, toddling-child
it fell on Xinorc'h's ear with a soothing, calming,
comforting sound, making her heart beat, no longer with
ear, but with trembling joy. She took her hands from
his, and clasped them about the neck of the tall form,
whose features were hidden from her by the surrounding
shadows, hiding her face on his breast, and sobbing for

very joy

Christophe, Christophe ! my son, my son !"
It was all she could say, for the sobs stifled speech 5
but it was quite enough for the lad. His heart hungered
and thirsted after the love so long fasted from : the
longing for that, and the great need which had grown on
him to lay his soul bare to Bernezz, in whom he had felt
the magnetic attraction of comprehension these had
drawn him home at last. How he had longed, how
dreaded to cross the well-remembered threshold, he
would have found it hard to tell. Dread to find its door
closed to him ; dread to find the hearth-circle thinned, or
the old love grown cold, had strengthened into a strong
fear as he approached the country he knew so well ; but
the mother's heart had been his all along, and the certainty
of this fell on his soul with the soothing power of a great

content. Dread died. Others might have changed, but
their change was but a secondary matter, so long as this
heart this tender mother's heart which now beat on
his  was still his own.

'' Christophe, come home !"

She raised herself from his breast, took his hand in
hers, and led him from the grave-yard, down the hollow
lane, and under its o'er-arching trees, neither speaking a
single word. She could not ; he would not, lest news of
change should trouble his great content.

Yet, as they drew nearer to the old gray farmstead,
under whose thatch he had been reared, the questions he
had not cared to put in that first draught of perfect joy,
began to rise and trouble his soul with vague forebodings.


His foster-father, how would Tic receive him  the beggar's
brat come back again ? And Genofa, little Genofa,
did she still live ? Surely lies was not that new-made
grave in the village cemetery ?

He turned with the question upon his lips, but it died
away ; he could not put it. They neared the house. It
was starlight now ; the trees which stood around it
rose against the sky in shadowy masses. Those
.trees  the tall beeches, the taller poplars, and the
crooked elm, in the fork of whose branches he had so
often sat as a boy, and pelted Genofa with scaly catkins 
how well he knew them ! There they were, just the

same as ever, standing out against the pale evening sky,
and stretching their branches around the dear old home,
under whose eaves the wrens and the swallows loved to
build.

A dog barked in the farmyard behind the house, let
the wall, and ran up to Xinorc'h, wagging its tail. Yes,
that was old Caleb, young still in the days when Christophe
had gone away, yet the very same sturdy guardian
of his master's property. Would he know him ?

Almost without thinking, the lad fixed on this acknowledgment
on the part of the dumb beast as a sign from
Which he might augur his reception by its owners.

Would he recognise him ?

Christophe's heart beat with anxiety as the dog came
round to his side, snuffed at his heels, hesitated, snuffed
ag-ain, and finally looked up and waved his tail, without
growling, as he was wont to do, even in his mistress's
presence, at a perfect stranger. So far so good. Christophe
could have embraced his ancient playfellow for
very gratitude. As they entered the garden-gate, someone
opened the house-door, letting out a flood of ruddy
fire-light into the gloom.

"Well, wife, so thou't back!" exclaimed a strong,
hearty voice. " We're all as hungry as a pack of wolves.
The young ones were for beginning supper without thee,
but I would not hear of that. Iii-da, who's got with
thee, wife ?  a guest ? You're welcome, sir, whoever

you are, if so be the good wife brings you. Come income
in."

And before Ninorc'h, who had been crying quietly all
the way, could command her voice to speak, Antonn
Comorre had stepped back a pace, and stood, holding the
door, for the pair to enter.

This they did, still without a word, Ninorc'h still holding
the lad's hand, and leading him up to the gi eat open
fireplace, where a pile of glowing logs sent a warm red
light over the low room, lighting up the furniture of the
old homely farm-kitchen where he had been nursed as an
infant and had played as a child.

How familiar it all was. The dark oak beams
stretching above, wattled in-between with brown-barked
hazel-rods, and hung with huge sides of smoked bacon.
The lits clos ranged along the two sides of the walls, with
the sacred monogram cut in open work on the folding
doors, which had shut in many a sleeper of the Comorre
family, now sleeping still more soundly in the village
grave-yard. The chests and presses, dark with age and
rich with carving, where the good-wife had already
stored up a goodly perishing of home-spun linen against
Gcnofa's wedding day. The great arm-chairs, facing
each other in the chimney-corners, for the good-man and
good-wife ; the long table in the embrasure of the
window, spread for supper with snowy napery, on which
shone four brass basins, polished till they glittered like a

richer metal in the red fire-shine. The farm-tools ranged
in a corner by the door, where Antonn had put them by
when he came from work. The Crucifix and holy water
basin, with a branch of blessed palm, kept since last
year, nailed above. The little statue of the Madonna by
the bed which used to be Genofa's, with a bowl of
primroses, placed like an offering, below How strangely
familiar was all this to the Child of the Menhir ; and yet
he felt himself among them as a strong-er !

Yes, for Antonn continued to gaze at him uncertainly,
turning questioning eyes on Ninorc'h ; the fair girl,
pouring milk into the basins on the supper table, turned
as he entered, and made her little reverence as to one
quite unknown  and yet, she iinist be Genofa. Yes,
though she had grown from a child into a maiden, he
Would have known her, he thought, anywhere ; yet she
knew not him.

And who was that handsome, richly-dressed youth, in
the place of honour by the fire ?  who half rose as he
entered, and then, guessing by his garb, the low degree
of the newcomer, sat down, with something of the superb
disdain of the nobles of his day, and played idly with the
links of his gold chain as he watched the group ? That
oval face, those delicately-cut features, those careless
brown eyes did he not know them also? Ah, yes,
surely this was his foster brother, Aymon de Kerdec'h.
No recognition in his eyes either ! Cliristophe called to

mind the Breton proverb which this same youn-
aristocrat had so tenderly quoted to him when they
had parted : 

The wren always loves the thatch where he cas reared,
and the voice of his brothers 

And sig-hed heavily. Not five years yet, and he who had
been known as a lrotlier, a son, was already forgotten.
Oh ! the blackness and pain of finding that they who
have loved and cherished, now know us no more I

*' Well, sir, and may I know your name ? " asked
Antonn, at last, seeing that his wife did not speak.

The lad turned an entreating look on Xinorc'h, who
went up to her husband, and put Christopher hand,
which she still held, into his, saying, in a voice which
quivered with emotion :

** Husband, husband, dost not know him ? It's ourson
 our lost Christophe ! "

*' Christophe I Ayol ! Good heavens, can it be true ?
Turn to the light, lad, that I may see thee ! "

Saying which the honest farmer took the lad by the
two shoulders and wheeled him round till the fire shone
full upon his face.

By Saint Corneille, and so it is ! But grown into a
man, and a fine one, too ! No wonder I did not know
thee, lad. And yet to think I should not ! Welcome
home, my son  welcome home ! " and with truly Celtic

fervour, the honest man took the tall lad in his arms and
g-ave him a right fatherly embrace. But the revulsion
was too great ; Christophe put his head down on the
broad shoulders of the man who had nurtured his
helpless childhood, and the pent emotion found vent in
one long-drawn sob.

Christophe ! Holy Virgin, Christophe 1 " exclaimed
Genofa, and having put down her milk-pan, she also
pressed forward to welcome the long-lost brother ; but a
rose-flush came to her delicate face as the tall youth
raised his head from her father's shoulder and stretched
out his hands for hers ; and there was a moment's pause
and hesitation on both sides, ere the kiss of greeting was
given and received.

A thrill, such as he had never felt before, passed
through him, as he stooped and touched with his lips the
warm delicate brow under the halo of yellow hair ;
while she palpitated under his kiss like a little bird, and,
having received it, retired into the shadow and busied
herself again with the supper. Then the young seigneur,
who had risen and was waiting his turn, also came
forward with this greeting, and, sensitive as Christophe
was, he could find nothing to complain of in the warm
grasp of the white, aristocratic hand, and the hearty
words with which he was airain greeted as '' brother I "'

AT SUPPER.

We sat and talked until the night,
Descending filled the little room ;
Our faces faded from the light, .
Our voices only filled the gloom.

We spake of many a vanished scene,
Of what we once had thought and said,

Of what had been, and might have been.
And who was changed, and who was dead'*

LoxGi-ELLow  " The Fire of DrI/ttvood. '

And where is Matelinn Gourven ?" asked Antonn
Comorre, when, a fifth basin of milk having been added
for Christophe, the lite party were seated at supper.

The farmer was busy dividing the hot rye-bread, which
Genofa had just served up in a clean, fringed napkin, placed
within a sort of basket-like whicker dish ; and he did not
perceive the look of trouble which darkened the lad's face
as he heard the name. Getting no answer, however, he
repeated his question, thinking he had not been heard.

'well, lad, Where's Matelinn ? Not in the village I
hope ?"

The lad tried to answer, choked, and tried again with
better success.

I don't know."

The answer was short enough when it did come, and
Antonn greeted it with a laugh.

Oh, ho ! Run away hast thou, lad ? Thou didst not
like thy father much, then  eh ?"

A deep red flush rose to the lad's brow, and, fading, left
him deadly pale.

' No."

No answer could be shorter than that, none less
encouraging to further inquiry. But Antonn Comorre,
kindly as he was, was not a man of the finest perception,
and he persevered.

'' Xo love lost between father and son, belike," he
continued, with a well-pleased smile.

*' Well, it must be hard to keep the Fifth Commandment
with latelinn for its object, and I've no doubt thou canst
get absolution for the past and dispensation for the future,
my lad ; so never take it to heart. Thought a home here,
and a father, too, so long as thou want'st them. But tellus,
lad, what was the final straw ?"

Spite of the kindly words, for a moment Christophe
almost regretted his return. Shame seemed to cover him
from head to foot. A nameless terror tingled in his
veins, and the food which he tried to svv-allow seemed
about to choke him, when, to his inexpressible relief,
Count Aymon, with the tact of his high breeding,
perceived his embarrassment, an*! adroitly turned the
conversation.

*' By the by, I forgot to tell you, foster-father, that this
is my farewell supper ; I'm off to Dinan tomorrow."

*' Off" to Dinan ! Why, lad, you've just come to
Coetmor ! What, will you leave us again so soon ?"

"Ay, 'tis sadly soon, and sorry I am to go, for I'd
hoped that my mother and sister would have joined me
here, and that we should have all spent our Easter
together. But it was not to be. I received a summons
to-day which brooks of no delay. It is another alarm
about the brigands."

'The brigands?"

It was Ninorc'h who put the question, and the puzzled
look on her face was reflected on those of her husband
and Genofa.

Ay, the brigands. Have you not heard of them ?
But, no, you are quiet as yet in this lite corner, out of the
way of the towns, and know little of the convulsions
which are shaking France elsewhere. Reality or rumour,
it matters little ; people begin to think nothing too strange to
believe, and the whole air seems like a vast thundercloud."

'* But the brigands, M. le Comte ?" asked Genofa, interrupting
reflections which she could scarcely follow, and
anxious to bring her foster-brother back to what had
aroused her curiosity.

The brigands, my pretty one ?" he smiled, half
caressingly, half patronisingly at the lovely child's face by
his side. " Well, thou knowest that these are hard and

VOL. II. I

puzzling times for some of our poor folks. They can't
understand why bread is still so dear, now the States-general
have met and made us a Constitution  a Constitution,
my faith ! " he laughed, disdainfully. " Well, they're
hungry, poor things, and they're tired of all the debating
up there in Paris ; so some of them have taken matters
into their own hands, and while the King and the nation
are settling affairs, they've taken pitchforks, clubs, and
what not, and broken into bakers' shops and country-houses,
and helped themselves to bread. Poor fellows,
it's very wrong, but one can scarcely blame them. It's
two years since we had the first alarm, when they made
such a to-do in Paris; then things quieted down for a
while. But now, true or false, every one begins to cry
again that the brigands are coming. My mother is
terribly nervous, and has sent for me to help to defend
Chateau Kerdec'h. I really think she and Renee would
be better here. We must see how things are."

But, M. Aymon, surely things are getting to a terrible
pass ?" said honest Antonn, scratching his head in 'a
puzzled way. '' Tell us, is it true what they say, that our
good King is as good as a prisoner in his own palace, and
that the National Assembly  that's what they call the
Government, isn't it ?  has things all its own way ?"

'* Too true, I'm afraid," answered Aymon, with a sigh.
* Everything seems tumbling about our ears, and what's
to come of it all, is more than I can say."

"I thought SO; I always said so," broke in Antonn,
energetically. " I kneiu the good King could have no say
in taking our priests from us, and putting in men who've
taken the oath to obey the nation. There's Dom Clemens
 never was a better, kinder, or holier man !
'Twas he who married me and the good wife there, and
baptized all our children. Ay, Ninorc'h, thou mayst well
cry ; it's something to cry about this, it is. Well, M.
Aymon, he got overlooked somehow when the other Cures
hereabouts were deprived of their living's ; but now
they've chased him away too, because he said it was
against his conscience to take the oath, and there's a constitutional
priest coming in his place. Ayol, M. Aymon,
here's the Laureled Sunday coming, and what we're to do
I ca?i't think. Christians /mcst make their Jaques, thou
knowest, and yet  and yet  I don't know how I could
take it from the hands of a man who's ousted our Dom
Clemencz ! There's Bernezz, he says it would be a sin."

*berne? Is he here?"

Till now Christophe had taken no part in the conversation,
and had scarcely seemed to heed what was said.
But there was a feverish eagerness in the way he put this
question, which struck the young Count, and attracted his
attention.

No, lad, not now," answered Antonn. " He-cas here
up to this evening; but he had warning that he was

So the Ireton call Easter Day.

watched, and left at sunset. Thou seest, he's staunch to
the backbone, is Bernezz, and the authorities don't like
him. Then he got into hot water at St. Pol about a
sermon he preached there. It made a great stir, they
say ; and he, being a non-juror, broke the law by preaching
at all  at least, so they say. As for me, I understand
nothing about these new laws. A priest's a priest, as /
think, and the Church is the Church ; and what the
National Assembly has to do with it, / don't know. The
Horned Angel's'' put his hoof in it all that's my opinion.
Why can't they let us Christians alone ? We were well
enough in old Brittany without all this new law-making.
May Old William fly "

*hush, hush, husband; what would Dom Clemenz
say, if he heard thee ?" put in Ninorc'h, warningly ; and
indeed honest Antonn was waxing unusually vehement.
The attack on their most sacred feelings, by depriving
them of their priests, was sending a thrill of anger and
consternation through all Brittany and the neighbouring
provinces, which was soon to bring about serious consequences,
and Antonn Comorre did but express the
general mind of his countrymen.

"Well, well, wife," he said, hacking savagely at the
goat's-milk cheese before him  " there are some things
which a Christian can't sit down and take patiently, and
meddling with his religion is one of them, I take it. Thou

the Devil.

shouldst have heard how the lads were talking at the
Salutation " last night. My faith ! the Government had
better look out, or the parishes will rise some fine day !
See if they won't !"

You think so ?" struck in the young Count, leaning-eagerly
forward  'you think so? Foster-father, you
know the people here right well ; think you they would
rise, supposing a chance should offer of striking an effectual
blow for his Majesty and the freedom of the Church ?"

Antonn looked up with a peculiar expression.

*try us, M. Aymon, try us: that's all," he said,
significantly, and went on eating.

Well, the time may come," continued the young Count,
musingly, "but the apple's not ripe yet, foster-father;
we must bide our time. M. Roland's having a try at
tinkering up affairs now, or rather, perhaps, it's the fair
dame his wife. Let us see how t/uy will succeed.
Beautiful milk this ! Is it from thy black cow, pretty
Genofa?"

Certainly, Monsieur," answered the maiden, demurely,
"black cow's milk is always the richest, as Monsieur
knows. Will he let me fill his bowl again ?"

*' Monsieur here, Monsieur there ! Since when have we
grown so ceremonious, sweetest Genofa ?" asked the
young man in a low voice, as the farmer's pretty daughter,
rising, bent over him to pour out the rich yellows mimic.
**Ah, bah, we must not lie so distant yn'xf time I come.

I shall count the moments till I can look on that flower-face
once more. We have none so fair at Court, Genofa.'

Monsieur is pleased to say so'* returned the maiden,
still demurely, but dimpling nevertheless.

Eh, and 'tis but the truth," continued the Count, and
might have whispered more, but that he caught his
foster-brother's eye ; so he turned once more to Antonn
with talk such as farmers love  of crops and weather,
cattle and culture of land.

And thus the evening passed.

Well, good-night, and good-bye," said Count Aymon,
rising at last, on seeing Ninorc'h's housewifely eyes travel
to the clock's face for the twentieth time.

Ay, I know thou art dying to get rid of me, good
mother. Early to bed and early to rise was always thy
motto, I remember of old. There  no excuses with me.
God keep thee, good mother : farewell, sweet Genofa
don't quite forget me : Christophe, old lad, I'm glad to see
thee back. Thou hast a right strong arm, lad, and we
may want it yet for the good cause. Chut, foster-father,
let us but whisper these things as yet. Thou mayst get
into trouble with the authorities by sending them thus
wholesale to Old William, though they do say that half
the advanced patriots are ceasing to believe in him among
other things  terrible, isn't it ? Well, adieu, adieu !"

He stood with the door open to finish his speech, then
waved his white hand and was gone, leaving Antonn to

shut it after him. The farmer did so, locking it carefully,
a precaution he often used to omit in the old times ; then
came thoughtfully back to the fire, and stood for some
minutes looking into it, lost in meditation. Then he
turned slowly and put both horny hands on to the
shoulders of the lad Christophe, who was sitting in the
chimney-corner, watching his movements with wistful
eyes.

Lad, lad," he said, in a voice deep with feeling,
these be troublous times, but they have brought us one
good thing this day, and that's thee lad. The good God
has taken little Main from us, as thou mayst have heard,
but He's brought thee back to fill his place, as He did
when we lost our little first-born, when thou wast brought
as an infant to our doors. Welcome home to bed and
board, my son Christophe."

Thus the wanderer had his welcome, full, warm from
the heart of both adopted parents ; and as he sank to
sleep in a bed redolent of fresh hay and lavender, in the
little loft with its gable-window, which had been his as a
boy, a feeling of dumb thankfulness wrapped him round,
body and soul  a feeling all the more sweet perhaps, that
he was too utterly weary to give it outward expression.

Genoa.

** Like golden blossoms of the broom, or wild-rose sweet and small 
Like wild-rose in a heath-brake, shone my fair among them all :
All the time the Mass was serving I had only eyes for her,
And the more I gazed upon her, the more love my heart did stir."

" Ballads and Sons of Brittany."

Those weeks before Easter were very happy ones for
Christophe. Bernezz, being no one knew where, he was
able to let that consultation stand over for a time with a
clear conscience ; and, it must be confessed, that now he
was once more in the sweet haven of home, with home
love and comforts around him, the resolution, taken
outside in storm and peril, gradually withdrew into the
background of his thoughts. The priest's black solitaire
which had then appeared as a robe consecrated by a
profession almost too high for him to aspire to, under
which he might hide a sin which was weighing him to
the ground, now seemed again like a pall, covering dead
hopes, and youth nipped in the bud.

Not that he consciously abandoned his resolution ; no, he
only postponed it, and lived meanwhile in the sunshine of
the present, and of a presence which grew sweeter and
brighter day by day.

Could any maid be sweeter than Genofa ? Christophe
used to ask himself this, as he watched the lovely child
going about her household work ; and happy, indeed, did
he feel himself when she allowed him to carry her pitcher
from the well, or bring in the log's from the wood stack
for her to light the fire. Such a sweet little sister surely
no one ever had before !

So he said to himself; and yet he did not feel in her
presence all that easy calm which brothers usually feel
with sisters ; and the girl herself had a shy timidity with
him which she was not wont to show with others, and yet
which did but give her an added charm.

Mademoiselle Marie, with her dark, piquant beauty,
was soon quite eclipsed for Christophe by the fair loveliness
of this child with the dreamy eyes and yellow hair,
whom he so fondly called his " little foster-sister."

And so thou didst not know me, little sister," said the
lad, coming behind he % as she sat spinning by the door,
some days after his arrival, with the afternoon sun filtering
through the elm-branches on her white cap and
yellow hair. The first shyness had a little worn off by
that time, and the lad's tongue was becoming freer.

"No, Christophe," answered Genofa, starting a little,
as his shadow fell upon the daisies grass-plot where stood
her wheel.

And yet I should have known thee anywhere !"

He said it half to himself, with a lite sigh.

Shouldst thou?" She just glanced up with a little
pleased smile, and then looked down again at her work.

Yes, anywhere."

*' Yet it is nearly five years since thou dentist away.
Surely I must have changed ? TJiou hast !"

Yes. Yet, if one cares  one does not forget."

She did not answer this time, but span her wheel round
rather faster, and drew out a long thread between her
slender fingers.

Genofa"  began Christophe again, after a little
pause  " dost think every one will have forgotten me ?
Therefore many of the neighbours were kind to me when I
was a boy. I ought to go and see them, and yet "

'' Yet what ?"

It's so hard to be stared at as a stranger !"

She looked up at him with a pitying look in her soft
clear eyes.

Poor Christophe !" she said, gently ; then, as though
feeling herself to blame, she added quickly, 'Tm so sorry,
but I didn't really forget, thou knowest ; it was only the
surprise, and  and "

"And what?"

A flush rose to her soft cheek.

I had thought of thee only as a hoy, and now  why,
Monsieur Aymon is less of a man than thou art I"

She said it half slily, half roguishly, with a quick
glance up and then down again.

More of a man than Monsieur Aymon 1 Christophe
smiled, well pleased, and a thrill of g-ratification
passed through him. He was, at all events, boy
enough still to appreciate the girl's little innocent
compliment.

Yes, and ever so much g-raver, and ever so much 
how shall I say it? Christophe  " (she lowered her
voice and looked round with a half-startled glance) 
Christophe, didst ever see a poulpican or a orig-an, or 
or a soul's Old Etienne's son did, and he had a lookin
his eyes, ever after, something* like thou hast."

This was not so pleasant. The g-ratified expression
died out of the dark face, and a look of trouble came into
his eyes. He made no answer, but the hand which rested
on the back of Genofa's chair trembled so that she felt
the movement, and looked round hastily.

*' Holy Virgin, protect us ! " she exclaimed, as she
caught sight of his face, while a scared look came into
her own, and she crossed herself rapidly. *' What have
I said, Christophe ? Don't look like that. Thou hast not
seen one really hast thou ? "

"Nonsense," he said, almost roughly, "what should
make thee think so ? "

"I don't know, I don't know," she murmured, " Dom
Clemngz would be angry if he heard me, I know. He
always says it is a sin for me to think so much about the 
thou knowest ivJiat  and to be so frightened : for that

the good God is more powerful than the demon, and can
keep us all safe. But  oh I Christophe, if I ever saw a
soul, I should die  I know I should ! "

She shuddered so as nearly to overset her spinning-wheel,
then jumped up hastily and went in-doors. The
lad followed her.

Where art going, Genofa ? "

"To the well : it's time the water was fetched."

She called this out of an inner room where Ninorc'h
kept her cooking utensils and stores, and presently
emerged with a pitcher in each hand. Without a word,
Christophe took one from her and walked by her side
through the home enclosure into the hollow lane. He
looked thoughtful and moody, and the girl on her part
did not try to break the silence, but just glanced timidly
into her companion's face once or twice, as they walked
under the great boughs of the over-hanging trees. It
was as when a little shadow falls across the sunshine ; as
when a cloud, no bigger perhaps than a man's hand,
climbs up from the glowing horizon into a sky of stainless
blue. What coming event did the shadow forecast ?
Was the cloud but a passing shade, or the herald of mist
and rain ?

Neither youth nor maiden asked themselves any such
question, but they felt the difference.

Yet what shadow could remain long on such a day, in
such a place, and with such a companion ?

Standing there beneath the beech-trees, leaning against
the same smooth bole where Yvonne had stood a few
evening's before, listening to the thrushes, feeling the
primrose-scented air fanning his cheek, and watching-that
dainty little figure stooping over her pitcher by the
mossy old well, Christophe could not keep his vexation
long. A smile grew gradually upon his grave face, and
a tender look rose into his dark eyes.

Genofa," he said, presently, " dost remember 'twas just
here we said good-bye ?"

Was it ? Ay, so it was ! I had forgotten," answered
Genofa, looking up from the well.

His face clouded again.

< Forgotten, forgotten," he muttered, moodily. " 'Tis
always so! Ah, Genofa, thou dost soon forget!"

But she made no reply to the reproach, for, as he spoke,
the nearly-filled pitcher slipped, fell, and all the contents
went to water the primroses and hart's-tongue on the
bank.

Holy Virgin ! she exclaimed, picking up the pitcher
and stooping anxiously over it to see that it was unharmed.
" What if I had broken it ! It's mother's old
favourite ! And all the good water spilt, too ! There's
lite enough to be got just now; we haven't had rain
for a whole week. Heavens ! I do believe there's a little
bit chipped out of the spout ! What will mother say ? "

So absorbed was the child over her damaged pitcher

that she did not see an old, bent, white-haired man,
leaning on the arm of a young girl, turn into the lane
behind her, out of the smaller one which led from the
lajidesr Christophe, however, had his face that way, and
seeing that the old man nodded to him, he doffed his hat
in return, but looked at the pair with eyes which showed
no sign of recognition. An eager look had come into the
girl's open, honest countenance as she caught sight of
him, and she half held out her hand ; but seeing that
they were not recognised, she withdrew it quickly, the
light died in her face, and she went on up the lane with
the old man, and was soon lost to sight round the turn
leading to the village.

Who was that, Genofa ?" asked the lad, turning to
his companion, when the pair had passed from view.

She had now again placed her pitcher under the mossy
spout, more securely this time, and turned to answer him
by another question.

Who ? Did some one go by ?"

Why, yes ; didst not see them ?  an old man with long
white hair, and a tall girl with a face like like  I was
going to say like an ox-eye daisy, but I think it was more
like that of our Lady up there."

He pointed to the figure of the Virgin, which some
native artist had cut and placed over the old well. It
had been carved probably after some village model ; for

Heath lands.

the features were of the Celtic type, and the mould the
homely one of a country maiden. But the artist, unskilled
as he mig-ht be, had given to his otherwise rough workmanship
an expression of noble strength, of tender
womanhood, which raised that face above the common
faces of this work-a-day world. A touch of heaven was
there.

"Like our Lady?"

Genofa turned her blue eyes in the direction of the
lad's finger, and studied the stone effigy with an attention
which, well-known as it was, she had, perhaps, never
bestowed upon it before.

So it is !" she exclaimed, presently ; " I never thought
of it before, but she is like that ;"

Who ?"

Why, Yvonne, of course ! Never say thou didst not
know her!"

But how dost thou know it was Yvonne ?"

Why, didst thou not tell me she was like our Lady up
there? There's no one else in our village with a look
like that. And then she was with an old man ; that was
Perik Guenedon, of course ; he never stirs out without
Yvonne, and she's seldom seen without him."

* Yvonne I"

He repeated the name, dwelling on it thoughtfully, and
turning his eyes in the direction whither its owner had
disappeared.

Why didst thou not speak to them ?" asked Genofa,
in a wondering voice. " They used to be among thy best
friends, those two, and she's my cousin."

He did not reply, but the colour rose to his face.

Why didst thou not greet them ?" repeated the girl ;
they'll take it unkind, I fear. I zc'is/i I'd seen them.
Why, Christophe," she went on, with a merry laugh, after
a moment's examination of his face  " why, Christophe,
I do believe thou hadst forgotten them, f/ioii ! Come, say,
isn't not true?"

He coloured yet more deeply, and was beginning an
excuse, but she caught him up, with childish delight at
being thus in a position to turn the tables on him.

Forgotten, forgotten," she repeated in mimicry of his
voice. " Ah, Christophe, thou dost soon forget 1"

He looked really vexed.

But I haven't seen her for so long," he answered,
and she's grown into quite a woman ; while as for Perik
Guenedon, I had no notion he was so old."

'' No, no, Christophe, that won't do," laughed the girl
with all her shyness gone. "Never talk to the again
about forgetting. Ah, ah, if one cares, one doesn't forget
isn't that it, Monsieur! Much thou must have cared
about Perik Guenedon and poor Yvonne !"

She laughed again a merry, ringing laugh, which
mingled pleasantly with the thrush's clear whistle and the
bubbling of the water in the old well. But the most

tuneful laugh sounds not pleasant in the ears of him
against whom it is directed, and Christophe, already vexed
at a mistake which must have hurt his old friends, looked
thoroughly annoyed.

Genofa saw it, and desisted.

Well, never mind," she said, taking up her water-jug
and turning to go,  " never mind, thou canst go to their
cottage this evening and make it up. What !" (with
another sly smile) " has thy memory quite gone ? Thought
forgotten my pitcher next ! I shall have to come back and
fetch both it and thee !"

VOL. II.

YVONNE.

And I looked on for his coming, as a prisoner through the grating
Looks and longs and longs and wishes for its opening day.

And he stooped to kiss his father, and he stooped to kiss his mother,
But till I said, ' God greet thee, sir,' he quite forgot me."

Jean Angelo.

Forgotten ! He had forgotten her ! he, the poor
motherless and worse than fatherless lad, whom she had
held in her womanly heart with such tender pity  whose
name had been in her prayers since the days when they had
played as children together  he had forgotten her !

Yvonne's heart was very sad, as she went homewards up
the lane, carefully leading her old grandfather.

Yvonne had been older than Genofa when the lad went
away, older even than he by several months, and she had
memories connected with him which the younger girl had
not. They had been confirmed together  together, too,
they had knelt at their First Communion, and it was into her
ear alone, as they sat on the plains in the old childish days
of cattle-herding, that the proud, shy lad had ever spoken
aught of what he suffered from his nameless origin and
equivocal position. There had been a motherly feeling in

her attitude towards him which gave to her recollections a
strength and tenderness net often attained at an sage so
young as hers had been when they parted. She had never
forgotten him, and her joy when she heard of his return
had been deep and real. She had looked hourly towards
the time when he would come to the cottage, as in the days
of long ago ; and if a little wondering misgiving at the
delay had begun to arise, she had put it by with the thought
that they could not yet spare him from their sight in the
old farmhouse which was his home. That he had forgotten
her, she had not once dreamt of ; and when she had caught
sight of him in the lane, only the necessity of her arm to
her tottering old grandfather had prevented her f'-om
running up to him with both hands out, sure of an
answering welcome.

Ah, there he is ! There's Christophe !" she had said
gladly to the old man ; and old Perik Guenedon, dim of
sight, had taken the witness of her young eyes, and been
ready with a kindly greeting for the lad he had known asa
babe. And he stood there unrecognising ! Yvonne's
heart, beating with joy and excitement, had suddenly stood
still, the tears had started to her eyes, and she had turned
away quickly to hide her disappointment, without speaking
one of the words of which her heart had been full.

"Was it not Christophe, then?" asked the old man,
presently, in a bewildered tone, as they went up the lane.
Yvonne tried to answer him clearly and gently as usual, but

there was a lump in her throat which made the words hard
to saps

grandfather, yes ; but  he did not know us,
grandfather, he did not "

In spite of herself, a sob burst out.

 What is it, little daughter ? " asked the old man, turning
his pale eyes with a distressed look towards her face,  " was
he rude to my Yvonne ? Ah ! if my arms were but
younger !" A flash of the old fire came into the dim old
eyes, and the withered hand clenched itself upon his staff.

'Twas said that Perik Guenedon, gentle as he now was,
had been a passionate man in his youth, and a renowned
champion of the peri basJ

Yvonne hastened to calm him.

"No, no, grandfather, he did nothing, nothing  'twas
only that he had forgotten us."

"Forgotten? Ay, ay, so it is with the young  out of
sight, out of mind. But do not fret, little daughter, hcs no
cause to be proud  that one ; a beggar's brat he is, who can
wonder at his manners? There, let me sit down in the
arm-chair, Yvonne ; and get us our supper, my maid, I grow
tired now-a-days full soon. Ay, ay, I'm not what I was,
Yvonne."

The Guenedon's cottage was considerably smaller than
was the house at Coiitmor Farm ; but its furnishings, like
those of nearly all Breton dwellings, were very similar,

Single-stick,

There were the same lits clos, with the cross and
sacred monogram on the doors ; the same carved high-backed
chairs and massive chests, clamped with brass;
the same earth em floor and raftered roof. But the
windows, instead of looking upon a farmyard and grass-plot
screened by trees, commanded a view of the village
street, with the village graveyard across the way, and
the old church coming in at the left hand corner of
the picture.

Old Perik Guenedon, from his summer seat in the
trellised porch under the climbing roses and honeysuckle,
could watch the comings and goings of all the neighbours,
and even catch a glimpse of the little wooden cross which
marked his old wife's grave, and of the little wooden ark
which rested thereon, enclosing the remains of his eldest
son. The sight of this last was a source of constant
gratification to him, and he was never tired of pointing it
out with pride, if a neighbour came to join in a friendly
smoke  " For,"  as he was wont to say  " 'tis not evef-y
father who lives to do that for his son !"

Yvonne's favourite place was at the little window
which looked down the hollow lane, with its vista of
cool greenery, towards Coi3tmor. Sitting there she could
just see the red-pointed roof of her aunt Ninorc'h's
dove-cote, with the weathercock atop, piercing the trees ;
and if Genofa came in to the village, her cousin from
this coigne of vantage could generally catch sight of

her white cap and blue-hemmed petticoat, full five
minutes before she appeared at the garden gate.

Yvonne was not sitting there this evening, however,
or she would not have started so violently, when, about
sundown, the yellow light which streamed through the
open door was suddenly cut off, and a shadow fell upon
the floor at her feet, as she was stooping over the simmering
pot-mi-feu. " Holy Virgin !" she exclaimed, letting the
spoon fall into the steaming contents  " Holy Virgin !
Who is it?"

'' 'Tis I, Mademoiselle Yvonne."

Christophe !"

She stood up and looked him straight in the face, with
a startled gaze ; then the colour rose and her eyes fell. He
coloured too, all over his dark skin, with a blush of
embarrassment.

*' Mademoiselle Yvonne," he said, hesitatingly, '* I must
beg your pardon ; I'm so sorry that I did not  did not
quite recognise you in the lane just now."

 No ?"

Again she raised her honest eyes to his face with a
simple questioning. As he had thought of Genofa, so she
now thought of him  she would have known him anywhere.
Her quiet way of taking his excuses embarrassed him
still more. She made no excuse for //////, he could see that
It piqued him a little too, and he tried to escape from the
difficulty with an awkward attempt at a compliment.

Mademoiselle Yvonne, say then, is it not a little bit
your own fault? Can I help it if Mademoiselle is so
grown, so  so embellished that she looks quite another
than the quiet little girl she was when 1 went away ? If
Mademoiselle "

But the girl drew herself up, and interrupted him with
proud humility.

"You have forgotten," she said, a little coldly, "we
do not call each other Monsieur and Mademoiselle between
ourselves in our village. We are simple country people, and
all friends, and compliments are not wanted among such.
And  and  " her voice faltered a little, *ewe used to befriends
in the old days, Christophe 1"

At this last appeal, in the voice which now came
back to him like the tune of a song heard in childhood,
Christophe's awkward embarrassment vanished. He
remembered that he was speaking to his kind playmate
of the olden time, and not to Mademoiselle Marie,
whose coquettish vanity had taught him (only very
imperfectly, she would have said), the art of paying
compliments. Instead of finishing the sentence she had
interrupted, he held out his hands with cordial frankness
towards the girl.

Forgive me, Yvonne," he said, >' I had, indeed,
forgotten, or I wouldn't have talked that nonsense. You
used to be like a little mother to me, the poor orphan,
when we were children together. I haven't, at least.

forgotten how good you were, though your face had got a
little rubbed out from my memory. But confess, Yvonne,
you wouldn't have known me either, if you hadn't seen me
with Genofa ?'*

She looked at him with a soft light in her clear eyes, as
she placed her two hands in his,  "Yes, I would,
Christophe."

He was touched by her simple earnestness, and by this
memory of him, where he had certainly not much thought
to find it.

That is good," he said,"  then thou hast thought of me
sometimes, Yvonne?"

In the friendly feeling called up by her words and
manner, the old familiar " tlwu " came back to his lips
quite naturally. But she perceived it at once ; his "jj'*?/,*'
addressed to her, had fallen coldly on her ear. Gladly she
followed his lead.

Have I thought of thee, Christophe ? Oh, yes 1 Were
we not playfellows ? Did we not make our First Communion
on the same day ? Does one forget those who have shared
such things with us ? Yes, I have thought of thee,  and in
my prayers."

She said the last words very low, yet they reached his
ear, and the hot blood mounted to his face. What was he
that he should be so remembered ?  he, who in the black
misery which had fallen upon him, had almost forgotten his
God !

God bless thee, Yvonne," he said, in a broken voice ;
and then they stood for some instants holding each other's
hands, he gazing earnestly into the clear, good face of his
childhood's friend. But the colour rose there under his
fixed look. That called back his thoughts from visions
of the by-gone days. Suddenly he dropped her hands 
he had forgotten how long he had been holding them.

It might have been an awkward moment for the old
playfellows, now children no longer ; but at that moment
the quavering voice of old Perik Guenedon, from his chair
by the fire-side, broke the silence which had become
just a trifle oppressive. He had evidently been asleep
and had just awakened to the presence of a stranger.

Who is it, Yvonne ? Who is it ? " he asked, leaning
his white head forward and peering at Christophe with his
pale blue eyes.

She made a sign to the lad to put his hand into that of
the old man.

It's Christophe, grandfather," she said, in her clear
tones  " Christophe ! who has come back among us again.
Thou art glad to see him, is it not so, grandfather ? "

Christophe ! Why, I thought he had grown too fine
for such as we," answered the old man with some asperity.
"Why, lad, have thine eyes grown old like mine that
thou didst not see us just now in the lane ? "

Yvonne had hoped that he would have forgotten this
former meeting ; for the old man's mind was apt to let

trifles of recent date slip quickly from it. But no, he had
felt the incident as a slight to his " little daughter," as he
called Yvonne, and it rankled accordingly. But the girl
was quick with her explanations.

Never mind, grandfather, he's come to see us now  on
purpose to see us  so thou must not scold him. There,
that's right ! And now he's going to stay to supper with
us, to make it quite like old times. Is it not so,
Christophe ? Dost remember how we used to run in like
hungry wolves  thou, Genofa, and I  after a day's herding,
and how grandmother used to lift up her hands on seeing
how much we ate ? Ah, yes, those were happy days !"
She sighed a little, as she set another place at the
round oak table.

* Do 1 remember ?" chimed in Christophe, heartily 
I should think so. Madame Guenedon was famed for her
jot-au'feti. Wasn't it savoury and good, and weren't Genofa
and I delighted when we were asked in for a share ?
We didn't get our supper so early up at the farm."

"No, we were always early folks. But my pot-au-feu
won't compare with grandmother's, this evening, for it's riot
savoury. 'Tis a fast-day, to-day, as thou knowest, so we
have only milk-soup."

Never mind, milk-soup is not to be despised, and it
smells delicious. Ah ! Yvonne, / have no cause to be
particular ! If thou couldst only know how meagerly I
have fared at times since I left Carnac !"

Yvonne looked interested, but the lad did not volunteer
many particulars, and, soon after supper, he rose to take
his leave. " And thou wilt come back ? " she said, as
she bid him good night.

Oh, yes ! I don't think of leaving the farm just
yet a bit. Good night, Pere Guenedon !" He called back
the salutation more for form's sake than anything, for
the old man was already more than half asleep again;
then he nodded once more to Yvonne, and was round
the turn of the lane in a trice. The time already seemed
long which was spent away from Genofa.

And Yvonne?

She knelt that night before her Crucifix, with a happy
smile on her pure good face j and when, amongst her bede-roll
of names, she came to that of Christophe, she paused
upon it with a feeling of innocent pleasure, which she
would have found it hard to analyze, but which resolved
itself into thankfulness.

TAP ! TAP !

Adieu, monsieur le rector, maintenant je vais a la sole.'

Breton Battad.

Here's the Laurel Sunday coming, and what we're todo,
I can't think. Christians muss make their Pctques thou
knowest."

So Antonn Comorre had said, with distressed perplexity
a month ego, and now here was Good Friday, and he waa
none the wiser. Nay, worse, for, with the nearness of the
sacred day, the need of a decision had become more
pressing. Were they to take their Easter Communion from
the hands of the interloper, or were they to abstain?
Which of the two was the greater sin ? These questions
of casuistry were much perplexing the minds of the
simple villagers, and as Holy Week drew to a close,
you might have seen groups of them collecting together
with puzzled faces and eager voices, which were hushed
immediately if the constitutional priest chanced to pass by.

So matters stood, when, at nightfall on Friday, Ninorc'h
went to fasten the oaken shutters and lock the door.
Genofa had gone to bed, Christophe was slumbering on

a bench by the fire, and honest Antonn was sitting in his
high-backed chair, with his forehead leaning on his hands,
and his eyes fixed in gloomy abstraction on the flames.

** Wife," he said, slightly shifting his posture, as Ninorc'h,
having made all secure, came and stood by the fire ;  " wife,
dost think the good God can have forsaken us because of
the wrong they are doing to His Church ? I've prayed fora
sign to guide me, every day this week, and never a one
has come. Ninorc'h, I've never missed my Paques since
the time I was confirmed, and I can't bear the thought of
doing it now ; but yet "

He broke off suddenly, and raised his head.

** Hark ! what was that ? I thought I heard a step
outside !"

They both listened eagerly, and the next moment there
sounded a tap ! tap ! tap ! on the oaken shutter.

By Saint-Corneille ! a late visitor. Give me my pen-bas,
wife." So saying, the farmer opened the shutter and
looked out.

It was not yet dark, and in the twilight he could make
out the figure of a child, standing outside, with a wand in
his hand.

He made signs to Antonn to open the window, then
came close up to the sill and leaned upon it. The fire-light
was now on his face, and Antonn was able to recognise
him as little Ado, a child who had always sung in the
choir when Dom Clemens was priest at Carnac.

Putting his finger to his lips, the little lad drew down
Antonn's face close to his, and whispered in his ear 

To-morrow at midnight on
Peulven Islet."

The farmer nodded. Though till now they had had
no experience in Carnac, he had heard of such things
elsewhere, and he understood at once that a secret
service was to be held by a non-juring priest, for the
faithful whose consciences would not allow them to accept
the ministrations of the interloper, appointed without the
sanction of the Church.

Having delivered his message, the child immediately
glided away to repeat it elsewhere, and the farmer closed
the window.

What is it ? What is it ? " asked his wife, eagerly, ashe
returned to the fireside, and Christophe, who had
roused up, asked the same question with his eyes. But
Antonn stopped to cross himself before he made reply.

'* It is," he said, very solemnly,  '* It is the answer
which we asked of the good God. We shall not go
without our Paques." Then he gave them the child's
message.

Next day a completely new spirit seemed to have
come over the village. Groups still gathered in the
morning , but, instead of puzzled depression, the faces wore
an expression of covert excitement. Towards afternoon,
the village became very quiet ; groups ceased to gather,

and there seemed a general desire to avoid observation.
If anyone had opened the street-doors and gone into
the houses, they might have seen men and women telling
their beads, or kneeling before the Crucifix in silent meditation.
But all this was not in preparation for High Mass
in the old church of Saint-Corneille. For the first time
since its foundation, the priest and his servers were destined
to celebrate the Easter Mass to empty walls.

With the falling of the evening shadows, a little stir
began again. Blue smoke curled plentifully from the
chimneys, as the housewives made up the kitchen fires.
Young girls stole out furtively, as though conscious of
something to conceal, filled their pitchers at the well, and
came back without the customary gossip. Men strolled
down to the shore, trying to appear unconcerned, examined
the boats, and made as though they were preparing to
go a-fishing. Then all collected round their respective firesides,
and a waiting time began which appeared strangely
long to the younger and more ardent. The moon would
rise at eleven o'clock, and, a quarter of an hour before that,
all were to meet at the strand for embarkation.

Apart from their religious feelings, there was a certain
danger about the expedition, which gave it an added zest
for many of the villagers. They had been chafing so long
against the new laws, which outraged their most sacred
feelings, (for, with a Breton, custom, especially in his religious
observances, is second nature in a more stringent

sense than is, perhaps, the case with members of any other
race) that it was a positive pleasure to feel that they
were about to set them at defiance, however secretly. The
law made it a matter of severe penalty for a non-juring
priest to exercise his spiritual functions, and a misdemeanour
for any citizen, either to harbour him or to
attend his services.

It was necessary, then, to use every caution, and to
preserve the utmost secrecy ; but few Bretons were
deterred by this, and the feeling that they might suffer
for it, made each religious privilege dearer than ever.
The townsmen might worship their tri-colour and bow
down to their Tree of Liberty ; but as for the peasants,
they were " Christians," as they loved to call themselves,
and would have none of such idols.

Genofa," whispered Christophe, as, having covered
the fire with turfs and locked the door behind them,
Antonn Comorre and his wife went down the hollow lane,
leaving the young people to follow. " Genofa, don't be
afraid, / will take care of thee."

The young girl's hand did, indeed, tremble considerably
as it rested on his arm 3 but it was rather with suppressed
excitement, and what the French call " exaltation " of
feeling, than with actual fear. Genofa's was just that
impressionable, highly-strung nature which is most likely
to be affected by such an occasion as the present, and
under its influence all that was softest and most clinging

in her character came into prominence, giving her an
added charm for natures formed to protect.

As Christophe spoke, her little hand rested more
confidingly on his arm, and in the soft starlight he caught
her timid glance of thanks ; but she did not answer, for
other groups were hurrying up in the same direction, all
either utterly silent, or only exchanging monosyllables in
hushed whispers. As they passed through the village,
the groups swelled to a crowd, Yvonne Guenedon,
carefully leading her old grandfather, being one of the
first to join our party. She came close up to her cousin
and pressed her hand, but did not speak; and thus, in
dead silence, the population of the village proceeded to
the shore, which is about a quarter of a mile distant. You
could hear the tramps tramp, of the hurrying feet, and
catch a glimpse of a stream of white caps, and a dark
line of broad beavers ; but that was all, for not a light
burnt in any cottage-window to betray the exodus of the
inhabitants by lighting up their passage with a ray,
brighter and more prying than what the stars could
show. In one house only, a candle shone, and that was
the dwelling of M. le Cure.

Poor gentleman, he is writing his sermon for
tomorrow," whispered more than one of his flock,
sarcastically ;  " pity he takes the trouble ! "

Yet, though they spoke in scorn, hearts beat faster and
eyes were turned nervously towards the lighted window,

VOL. II. L

as they passed the house, lest haply the Jureur* might be
looking" out, and pounce on the wandering flock, like a
wolf in sheep's clothing, as they felt him to be.

And now a faint lustre began to suffuse the horizon,
making the people quicken their steps ; the sound of the
sea, sighing over the pebbles on the strand, was distinctly
heard ; and in a very short time the band of peasants
had reached the shore.

Here the women and old people stopped and seated
themselves on the grassy sandhill, while the men pushed
down the whole flotilla of fishing boats, already conveniently
placed for the purpose, towards the water's
edge. You could hear the suppressed exclamations of
the men, as they worked in concert, and all with a will ;
the g-rating of the keels on the pebbles, and the low
plash of the waves. Otherwise all was so still that it was
difficult to imagine that several hundred people were
assembled there.

*' Now, Genofa !"

The girl rose from her place by Yvonne's side as she
heard herself called, and went down the shelving shore
after Christophe, closely followed by Antonn Comorre,
leading his wife.

And Yvonne ?" she whispered.

The lad turned sharply.

' Yvonne ? What of her ?"

So the Bretons called the Constitutional priests.

Will she not go with us ? She cannot leave hcr
grandfather, and she has no one to g-et her a boat."

Christophe looked confused. He had not thouj-ht of
Yvonne, and this upset his arrangements. Besides, he
'did not want to take care of two girls, and the idea just
then of Yvonne and her old grandfather was distasteful.
He paused a moment.

Well," he said presently, " I'll see if I can manage it,
but I had only arranged for thee and "

*' Come along, lad," called out Antonn Comorre, who
lead gone on in front. "What art waiting for?"

Genofa explained.

Perik Guenedon and Yvonne I" exclaimed the farmer*'
Of course, of course; scan arrange for them. Here,
genoa, come with me, while Christophe goes back lo
fetch them."

Genofa joined her father at once, and Christophe had
no choice but to go back.

And he Jiad to take charge of two girls, after all, for
Antonn Comorre accepted places for himself and his wife
in a friend's boat, and packed the two girls and the old
inn into the boat which Christophe had engaged for the
party from Coetmor Farm. However, the charge was
no heavy one ; the sea was calm as a lake, and as
christopher and the boatman plied the oars, and the boat
shot, to their regular plash, over the waters, the hush of
the scene and the rcQular exercise soon lulled his temporary

vexation, and he began to take a quiet pleasure in
watching the picture made by the two girls and the old
man, as they sat facing him in the stern of the boat. Old
Perik Guenedon sat with his hands leaning on the top of
his staff, his white hair, worn long according to the
ancient fashion of his race, blowing back from his calm
old face, in the light breeze which just stirred across the
waters. He seemed in nowise excited about the novel
way in which he was going to the Easter service ; only a
quiet, calm collectedness lay upon his features, and the
blue eyes were fixed on the sky before him, where the
moon was just gliding up into sight, as though he were
looking forward to a meeting, solemn as those beyond the
tomb.

The face of Yvonne, who sat behind with Genofa, wore
a similar expression, yet with a difference. In the youthful
face, that look of calm expectancy had in it a loving,
happy intensity, a tender grace, which was lacking to the
elder countenance. The one you might liken to a pool of
still water, in whose depths you can watch the flush and
quiver of dawning day : the other, to the same pool sleeping
in the sunset. Christophe did not think of this ; but,
as he looked at the girl's face, it recalled to him a picture
he had seen in some church of our Lady of Expectation.
Just such a look, he thought, was on the face of the
Virgin after the message of the Angel had warned her
of the coming of her Lord.

The two girls sat holding each other's hands, their
white caps, both after the same pattern, looking snow-white
in the silver of the rising moon, their gowns and
tx)dices just alike, their silver crosses sparkling on their
breasts. But the one cross rose and fell gently over a
quiet heart ; the other heaved with the throbbing of the
bosom on which it lay.

No calm look was on the face of Genofa. Its dreaminess
was stirred by intense excitement. Her nerves were
evidently wound up to the highest pitch; her features
quivered with feeling, like the sea under the trembling
reflection of the moon, and a hundred shades of expression
passed like shadows across the lovely brow. Yet with all
the half-childish curiosity and timidity called forth by the
unusual expedition, there was not a trace of thoughtless
levity which could unfit her for the sacredness of the
-coming rite. Genofa, if intensely superstitious, impressionable,
and excitable, was at the same time intensely
devout. The two conditions often go together.

They had rowed for about an hour, with few words on
any side, when the Breton fisherman to whom the boat
belonged, glancing over his shoulder, said shortly 

Ah, I thought so. There is Peulven Islet."

The others looked in the direction of his eyes, and
there, sure enough, looking dark and mysterious in the
blue moonlight, was a black object rising from the waters,
surmounted by what appeared to be a dark crown,

standing out in stern relief against the sky. All around
was a waste of waters, the low, reef-fringed coastline
showing dimly to the left, the offing, studded with the
rocky islets of the Morbihan, stretching away into far
blue vagueness on the right ; this island stood alone,,
mysterious, solitary.

I should take the helm here," said the boatman ;
*' there are sunken rocks which need careful steering
Can any other of the company take an oar ?"

"lean."

It was Yvonne who spoke, and she quietly changed*
places with the boatman and took his oar, which she used
with the strong, skilful handling common to many of her
countrywomen of the coast. The other boats, which,
theirs being lighter than the majority, they had gradually
outstripped, were now seen coming up, all directing their
course towards the solitary islet, which seemed to grow
out of the waters as they approached it. The dark
coronet presently showed itself to be a circle of menhirs
grimly looking out over the heaving' waves, from ages
which seemed well-nigh everlasting, so far as human ken
could stretch. If the memoirs of the land are awful in
their stony immobility and the strange mystery of
their origin (unknown, or but dimly guessed at),
these of the sea, especially as seen at midnight and
in circumstances like the present, were little short of
terrible.

As the boats neared the rock, a cloud of sea-birds
rose from its crevices and soared above the ring of
memoirs, flapping their white wings and uttering
their wild clangour, filling the silence with sudden
turmoil.

They are the Groac'hs/'" whispered old Perik
Guenedon ; " they are warning us off from their haunts.
Holy Saint-Corneille ! keep us from harm !"

"Amen," ejaculated the boatman, crossing himself,
while Genofa's blue eyes grew round with alarm, and her
fingers trembled, as she began rapidly to tell her beads.

Yvonne, in nowise stirred from her exalted calm, put
her arm protecting about the waist of her little cousin,
while Christophe uttered a Breton exclamation, not
complimentary to the boatman, who seemed, in spite o
his delicate steering, inclined to enlarge upon the theme.

Hush !" said old Perik Guenedon, solemnly, " do you
not hear the Confiteumil Domino ? The priest is there
already. Hark, to the chanting !"

Truly the dull old ears had been open first to catch the
sounds they had been so long deprived of ; and now that
the gulls had flown to more distant haunts, the other
occupants of the boat could distinct hear a rich bass
voice mingling a solemn Gregorian tone with the measured
sound of the sea : 

"Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the Lord.

Name originally given to the Druid priestesses, who had their college in dirt
island off the coast of Brittany ; but now also applied to water-witches in general.

\Vc have wished you good luck, ye that are of the house
of the Lord V

There was a solemn, deeply solemn gladness in the
words, which found a ready answer in the hearts of the
scores of peasants who had come thus into the wilderness,
like the Israelites to Sinai, to meet with God. The
greeting" came home to every one of them ; the landing
was effected in utter silence, and then each man stood
motionless, with bared head and beaver held between
trembling hands, till the last words of that and f
a portion of the 19th psalm which succeeded it, had
died away over the heaving waters.

I will keep Thy ceremonies : O forsake me not
utterly !"

For a moment there was utter silence ; then with one
consent all present joined their voices in one thrilling
Ame?i !

With many, at least, it was at once a vow and a
commendatory prayer : a vow, kept afterwards to the
death in the noble struggle made by the peasants of
Brittany, Main, and La Vendee for the faith of their
fathers : a prayer, which surely was not unanswered,
even amid the blood and fere which for a time swallowed
up the last hopes of faithful France.

A Midnight JIASS.

I will embark and I will lose myself,
And in the great sea wash away my sin."

Tennyson" The Holy Grail."

A NARROW, rocky cove, a sort of watery passage, leading"
nearly into the midst of the rocky islet, had received the
boats one by one, and served as good moorings for them
while their owners were absent. This creek was
bordered by a shelving ledge, from three feet to as many
inches in width, above which rose the rock sheer up to
the summit of the island. In the face of the cliff, just
where the creek ended, a flight of rude steps had been"
hewn  when or by whom none knew  leading up to the
level space at the top, round which the ring of giant
mentis had been erected.

Up those steps the peasants passed in single file,
emerging out of the deep shadow which lay in the
creek, into the blue moonlight which flooded the summit,
and lay side by side with the long black silhouettes of
the Druid stones. There was room enough inside the
circle for the whole assemblage, large as it was ; and
each peasant, as he passed in, saluted towards the centre.

and then stood or knelt in rank, the women in front,,
according to Breton custom in church, the men behind.
Exactly in the midst of the ring, the central point around
which this strange cong-relation grouped itself, was one
of those large slabs of stone, like an altar-tomb, placed
cross-wise on two upright supports, which are known
under the name of dolmans.

Upon this had been placed a small crucifix, a pair of
church candlesticks, and such other furnishings of the
altar as it had been possible to transport there without
too great risk of discovery. The wax tapers were
lighted, and, partly shielded as they were by the
encircling stones, burnt with a flame only slightly
wavering, whose light looked strange and weird amid
the surrounding moonshine.

Before this strange altar, facing the starlit cast, stood
a tall, thin figure in priestly vestments ; perfectly upright,
perfectly motionless, with a grave, intense face, appearing,
as the mingling lights fell on it, of a pallor almost
deathlike. He did not move as the people came in ; he
did not appear even to see that they were there till
the last man had taken his position. Then his face
changed, as that of one who comes back to earth
from a state of ecstasy, and he extended his hands
in blessing. The whole assemblage dropped on
their knees, and for a moment there was silence.
Then the priest turned to the altar, beckoned

to his server, who had just entered, and beg-an the-mass.


As the opening words were read, clear and sweet
across the waters, wafted thitherward by some wandering-breeze,
came the silver sound of a church clock. The
priest paused a moment ; it seemed to the kneeling people
as though a voice more sacred still, which he dared not
interrupt, were speaking to them through the night.
Twelve strokes smote the listening air, and then all
again was still. But the people knew that the Easter-morn
had begun, and the heads, which had been raised
to listen were bowed again, lower than ever, before the
Christ Who was risen indeed.

That sound had been the only one which was wanted ta
complete the ecstasy of religious fervour which this strange
pilgrimage had kindled in nearly every heart. It seemed a
link between the sacred shrines at home, from whence they
were driven, and this service amid the wilderness of waters.
On no Easter morn, perhaps, had the people of Carnac
ever before made their Paques with such solemnity as here,
among the dark-storied memoirs of the sea.

Christophe and the rest of the party from the farm at
Ccctmor, had taken up their position in that part of the
circle which was behind the priest, so that they could not
see his face. The voice, however, was known to Christophe
and thrilled him strangely. He waited eagerly till the
moment should come when he could see for himself

"whether voice and face corresponded A momentary
glimpse only could he gain during the service ; but that was
enough to make hi heart beat heavily, as he waited for the
concluding words. He felt that a decisive moment in his
life was approaching, and he trembled to meet it. He
glanced at Genofa, as she knelt there in the moonlight, its
radiance blanching still further her white cap, and flashing
from her silver cross, her fair profile looking exquisitely
pure and spiritual as it bent in prayer ; and a strange pain
shot through him like a dart. He could not face the
-decision which was at hand, should the priest prove himself
to be the man he expected. A feeling came over him
that he must turn and flee. Yet he waited.

The moment he was dreading came. The priest turned
to give the final blessing to those behind him, and
christopher saw plainly the face of Bernezz. Their eyes
met, and the lad knew immediately that the recognition
was mutual. For a moment the strange, keen orbs of the
young priest rested searchingly on Christophe's face j then
she fell on his knees before the altar and covered his face,
and the whole congregation followed his example. But the
lad felt as though, in that brief moment, the thoughts of
his heart had been read. A spell seemed to fall upon him
Escape seemed no longer possible ; and when the peasant-priest
stood up to address his flock in a parting exhortation,
conjuring them, as Christophe had heard him do before at
Saint-Pol de Leon, to hold fast the faith once delivered, to

leave all for the sake of Him who rose as on that day 
when he painted fidelity and treason, Heaven and Hell
life and death, in words which seemed to glow with fire and
to burn their way into the most callous heart, something of
the old passion, which had before passed from Bernezz to
him, caught hold anew upon him. Yes, he would speak ;
he would not shrink from the ordeal, however fiery ; the
verdict of that man should decide his fate. So he still felt
when, the address ended, the people stood up to disperse.
But Genofa crept up to him, raised her sweet child's eyes
to his, as if asking for sympathy, and slipped her arm
through his. Then the lad trembled, and a new hesitation
seized him. He might have gone away, after all, without
speaking, but circumstances were too strong for him.
Antonn Comorre pushed his way up to the pair.

Come, Genofa," he said, " thy mother is already outside,
and has a word to say to thee. Christophe here will
follow with Perik Guenedon and Yvonne  see, they are
still at their devotions  and we will all meet below at the
boats."

He carried off his daughter, and Christophe stood waiting
for the old man, who still knelt as though absorbed in
prayer. He scarcely knew even then whether he were
waiting for anyone else beside ; but he watched the priest.
Bernezz also knelt silently ; but of the two ho was the first
to rise. Christophe made an involuntary movement forwards,
then stopped irresolute. At the same moment the

priest turned, saw the lad, and immediately came towards
him through the crowd of dispersing people.

You wish to speak to me ?" he said, in a low voice.

'I Yes."

Christophe had begun with hesitation. He knew too
swell what that speaking involved to decide on it easily
but the keen eyes of the other were on him, and serried
sto force him to answer in the affirmative.

*' I knew it," replied the priest, in a tone which impressed
his listener with the feeling that all that vas
happening had been fore-known by the man beside him.

There was a moment's pause.

The congregation was fast dispersing from the Druidical
church, and old Perik Guenedon had risen to his feet;
while Yvonne, who stood by his side, was looking round fn
search of her companions. Lie had not yet discovered
Christophe, who stood in the dark shadow ot one of the
memoirs ; but he saw her glance, and again paused in
indecision.

Bernezz seemed to guess at what was passing in his mind.

"Shall it be now or later?" he asked, seeing that
Christophe did not speak

"Not now," answered the lad, hurriedly. 'they are
all waiting for me."

'' And you have more lo say than can be said on the
instant ?"

"Yes."

*' To-morrow evening, then, at moon-rise, by the great
tenir on Carnac plain ?  the one where you were found'*

** You know me, then ?"

*'I know you, Christophe."

Again there was a slight pause. Yvonne had spied out
sour hero, and was making her way towards him. Bemez
saw her, and a change passed over his steadfast face  a
look of human emotion, not often seen there. But it was
suppressed immediately, and he seemed in haste to begone
before his sister should arrive.

You will meet me, then ?" he said, hastily.

Yes."

'* God be with you, then, my son !"

The young priest spoke the words solemnly, half raised
this hand, as though to bless, and passed out beyond the
circle of memoirs.

An instant after Yvonne came up.

" Oh ! Christophe," she said, breathlessly, " thou art
there !" I was so afraid everyone had gone and left us
'behind."

My Father bade me wait for thee and Master
Guenedon."

Thy Father ?" she repeated the words half-doubtfully,
then resumed, hurriedly  '' Ah, yes, of course  Uncle
Antonn."

Christophe had observed the hesitation, momentary as
it was, and it hurt his sensitive pride.

Of course," he said, quickly,  " you are right to remind
me. But come, let us go ; they will all be waiting for us."

He turned, and led the way with a rapid step to where
old Perik Guenedon was standing, almost alone, within the
Druid circle, leaning on his staff, with his calm face
turned eastwards.

He looked round as Christophe and Yvonne came up
vdih. a dreamy, happy smile, as though his thoughts were
still occupied with heavenly rather than earthly things, and
took the young man's offered arm without a word.

Thus, the old man and the young going on before,
followed by the girl, they descended again the rocky
staircase which led to the boats.

The two faces, placed thus side by side, would have been
a fine study for a painter or a physiognomist. The old
man's, beaten by many a tempest, scored by many a grief
and struggle, worn to the bone by the full tale of the fourscore
years allotted to the strong ; yet full of peace, full of
what is better than happiness, generally so called, with the
light, not of earth, already resting upon the furrowed brow
and strongly marked features, shaded by the broad beaver
and the long gray locks which hung from under it upon the
stooping shoulders.

The young man's, not yet come to full maturity, with a
boy's smooth skin and rounded outlines, only shaded as yet
by the dark down of ripening manhood ; handsome with
the dark, refined beauty of the black Celt, yet overshadowed

by a cloud such as neither age nor trouble had
brought upon the face of his companion ; agitated by an
inward struggle which had brought a painful contraction
upon the broad fine brow, and caused the delicately-cut
lips now to press themselves closely together, then to
twitch and quiver as though beyond their owner's control.

So little did Christophe seem to be aware of where he
was and whom he was with, that he quickened his steps
without knowing it, and dragged the old man so roughly
forward as to make him stumble perilously on the rude
staircase, and to call forth a reproachful exclamation from
Yvonne.

This recalled him to himself; he made a hasty apology,
and, suiting his pace carefully to the feeble steps of old
Perik Guenedon, reached the mooring-place without further
mishap.

Antonn Comorre was standing up in his boat, looking
impatiently towards the stairs, as Christophe and his two
companions came up.

"Come along," he called out loudly  "come along!
there's none so much time. The other boats have nearly
all gone, and if we're left to make the landing alone, ten to
one the gardes national will have got scent of something
unusual, and we may be caught as we touch the shore.
The wind's rising, too, and it's likely enough we may have
a squall. Here, Christophe, lad, help old Perik Guenedon
and Yvonne in here beside thy mother and me, and do

VOL. II. M

thou take an oar in Victor Pouldu's boat ; his good wife's
taken a nervous fit, and won't be pacified unless our
Genofa sits by her. Our friends couldn't wait any longer,
so I was forced to take the boat you came in. Now, boatman,
steady  push off first, and when we're clear of the
rocks, the other boat'U follow. Steady 1"

They pushed off, and Christophe, stepping into the last
remaining boat, took his place between its owner and
Genofa Comorre, who was doing her best to sooth the
nervous tremors of poor half-blind Madame Pouldu, whom
this unusual expedition had disturbed in a painful degree.

Victor Pouldu received him in silence; he, too, was
evidently rather impatient at having been kept waiting, for
fh'ere was a sombre look on his brow, and he scarcely
allowed the Compares' boat to get clear of them before,
resting his oar against the rocks, he shoved his light bark
down the watery passage which led to the open sea.

*' NEVER Feet ME GO AGAIN !"

Escape me !
Never 
Beloved !
 * * - *

It seems too much like a fate, indeed ["

R. Browning "iyi/e in a Love."

The wind was certainly freshening, and this they discovered
with feelings of some anxiety, as they steered clear
of the rocky islet and found themselves once more in the
open. The sky, though still star-lit, was becoming veiled
with a slight haze, and, worse still, a small dark cloud was
hovering, like some dusky bat with outstretched wings, in
the eye of the wind.

Victor Pouldu looked at it, as he hoisted the rich umber
sail, where many a patch showed the ravages of tempest,
and growled out rather unceremoniously : 

"Pity thou hadst not been content to return with no one
but me, good wife. We might have been well on our way
by this, and the boat would have been the lighter."

A shadow passed across Genofa's face as she overheard
the words, and her pretty lips pouted. But Christophe
glanced at her with a grimace, as much as to say  " We

won't mind him, thou and I ; we know he doesn't mean it,"
giving emphasis to his look with a little nod, as he bent
his broad chest forward to the swing of the oars; and the
shadow passed away again. Victor's words had more
effect on Madame Pouldu ; she ceased her little sobbing
complaints, as she spoke, drew the hood of the large
cloak in which she was wrapped about her head, and,
shrinking back in her seat, occupied herself with telling
her beads, and repeating an apparently endless num]:)er of
Aves and Paters in a loud whisper.

Meanwhile the surface of the sea, so smooth when they
had come, began to curdle into long track-like lines of
white, and the water chafed and foamed around the prow,
as the boat cleft its swift way across the deep. The
moonlight gradually thickened and lost colour as it strove
with the ever-increasing haze ; and a dimness fell on all
around, which almost prevented our party from distinguishing
the boats of their companions. A few sea-birds,
roused by the coming storm, flew by on rapid wing; and a
fine, thin shower of mingled rain and spray increased the
discomfort of the two women.

Madame Pouldu showed her uneasiness by the increased
rapidity of her prayers ; and on Genofa's face, as she sat
opposite to Christophe,with lier small hands tightly clasped
upon her lap, there grew a timid, appealing anxiety, a
wide-eyed, childish alarm, which was not calculated to
increase his attention, every moment becoming more

necessary, to the matter in hand. He could not bear to
meet that look and yet feel himself totally unable to
attend to, or give her comforting.

"Art frightened, little sister?" he ventured to say once,
when the squall, which had been long threatening them,
seemed in momentary likelihood of overtaking their flying
boat.

"Yes," she said, with a quivering lip, a starting tear,
and a sudden shiver, which brought down a gruff reproof
from old Victor.

"Sit still, child," he said to the girl, whom he had
known from her birth, and still looked on as almost a
baby ; " I let thee come to quiet my old woman's fears,
and not to add thine own to the cargo."

Genofa hung her pretty head and pouted like a chidden
child, and the hot blood rushed to Christophe's brow.
He was about to make an angry retort, when the old man
seized the sail with a sudden grasp. "Ship oars!" he
cried, hastily. " Here, lend me a hand with the sail !
Quick, lad ! down with her ; the squall will be on us in
another moment !"

Aided by Christophe, he tore down the sail, resumed
the helm with the steady hand of an experienced sailor,
which must not tremble, whatever the heart may do, and
prepared to meet the shock. The keen eye did not quail,
the bronzed cheek showed not a trace of pallor ; the only
index to the inward anxiety was the quick sharpness of his

tone, a little knitting of the resolute brow, and the
muttered prayer of the Breton sailor : '' My God, have
pity on us ! Thy sea is so great, and our boat is so small."

Hardly were the words formed when the cloud, which
had grown rapidly larger, reached the little vessel and
drenched its occupants with blinding rain ; the wind, with
a shriek of rage, caught the frail bark and sent it scudding
like a leaf across the waters, which foamed along the
gunwale and threatened every instant to rush in and sink
it to the depths.

Poor Madame Pouldu seized Genofa round the waist
with a grip of frantic terror, and began repeating the
prayer for passing souls, strangely mixed up with those
for widely different occasions. The poor girl was no less
frightened. A look of piteous entreaty came into her
white face, and she stretched out her arms towards
Christophe in mute appeal. The lad's heart beat
strangely ; but not with fear for himself. He leaned
forward, took the little hands in both his own and held
them fast. They fluttered in his grasp like frightened
birds ; and the touch of them, even m that awful
moment, thrilled him through with a sensation of strange
content. There was nothing he could do at that moment
for the safety of the boat ; and, as he sat there, holding
the girl's small hands and looking into her beautiful,
appealing face, he almost forgot the imminence of their
common danger.

For some moments the boat flew on before the wind,
like an arrow shot across the waters ; then the squall
suddenly blew itself out as quickly as it had arisen ; or,
more likely, the hurricane was of a transitory nature and
passed on its way, with the cloud which bred it, leaving
the little boat behind. Gradually the sky cleared again,
and Victor Pouldu, with a long breath of relief, pointed
shorewards and said 

See, we are opposite Carnac village. Well, I scarcely
expected to see the little place again. God grant the
other boats have weathered the storm ! Now, Christophe,
lad, take the oars, while I turn her head inland. Steady,
lad, the sea's running very high. Steady, I say, or we
shall be swamped yet ! "

He added the last words m hasty alarm ; for, as the
boat was put about, the heaving swell broke over the
gunwale and poured in upon the occupants. For an
instant, they were again in imminent danger; but again
it passed, and relief grew upon the faces of the two
women, as the boat drew ever nearer, and the moon,
once more visible, showed them the faint outlines of
the well-known objects on shore. Grey and cold looked
the swelling waters ; grey and ghost-like the long, low,
sweep of coast, with its barren sand - hills, and the
skeleton form of some long-wrecked vessel standing up
dark among them against the colourless sky. But there
was home  there was safety 3 and the knowledge of this

lent a warmth and beauty to the picture, in the eyes now
fixed so longingly upon it.

The boat became more and more difficult to manage as
they neared the land. She was already considerably waterlogged,
and laboured in the heavy swell which was running
shoreward. Ponderous breakers, which seemed too weighty
almost to curl, were washing far up the sands, with a
mushed roll ; and every boat which had already arrived was
drawn up as high as possible among the grass-covered
dunes.

Well, God be thanked ! here we are safe at last !" said
old Victor Pouldu, preparing to leap into the surf, as he
felt the boat's keel ground upon the sand.

But scarcely were the words out of his mouth, when a
breaker, more gigantic than its fellows, rose suddenly like a
wall behind them  a terrible gray wall, with a ghastly white
coping swung over with a dull thud as of muffled
thunder, and buried the boat and her occupants in its
watery ruins !

How it all happened Christophe never clearly knew.
He was conscious of nothing but the sudden rising of that
awful wall, of a white horror of despair on one beautiful
face  the stretching out of arms towards him, and a shrill
cry of anguish 

Christophe, save me !"

After that came a sensation as though all the sea had
gone over him ; a blind, choking struggle, a desperate

grasping after something  somewhere ; a wild desire to
save a life which was not his own ; something touched 
clutched; a death grapple. There sensation ended, and
there was a blank. Consciousness came back with a feeling
of horrible pain, mental and physical, and the lad
found himself lying just out of reach of the waves, with
old Victor Pouldu standing over him. His hands were
still clenched, but they only held some bits of seaweed.
He raised himself with a choking cry.

Genofa 1 My God ! have I not saved her, after all !"

Old Victor Pouldu looked at the lad, and shook his
grey head.

"Ay, ay," he said, slowly  "her body at least."

Take me to her."

The old man gave him his hand, and he rose with difficulty.


Where ?"

Victor pointed towards the sandhill.

There," he said, laconically ; and the lad stumbled
forward, as though he were walking in a dream.

Under the lea of one of the hills lay the girl ; her head,
from which the white cap had fallen, on the lap of a fisherman's
wife, her long yellow hair straying, like wet gold
silk, over her shoulders. A man in a fisherman's dress was
bending over her and chafing her hands ; and beside her,
crouched among the scanty growth of sea-grass, was old
Mere Pouldu, wet to the skin, and shaking with cold !

As Christophe approached, a long shiver passed over
the, till then, motionless body of the girl. The eyelids
quivered, opened, and life came back with a long sigh.
For a moment she lay quiet ; then, catching sight of the
lad, her face lighted, and she stretched out her arms
towards him, like a child to its mother. He knelt down,
and she clung to him with a shudder.

"Christophe!" she gasped " Christophe ! never let
me go again  never, never, never ! " Then the arms
relaxed, and once more the golden head sank unconscious
; but this time it found a resting-place on
Christophe's shoulder.

HARD BESET.

' Whatever gird thee round about,
Of seeming good or seeming ill,
Do thou thy duty ; what befals
It is for God  not thee  to will.'

The blue lips cease ; but, musing on,

He wrestles with the growing thought.
Until the aching temples throb 

There where ;. net the veins have wrought."

W. Sawyer.

"Never let me go again  never, never T

The words kept repeating themselves over and over in
Christophe's ears all that night. Even after all danger was
past, and the whole party were safely at home again in
their beds, the lad lay awake, tossing in feverish excitement,
rehearsing the scene which had passed, and listening
to the piteous little cry, which still seemed to sound
through the night. Now it would fill him with a wild
delight : it was his name  his, she had called on, him she
had turned to first ! " Never to let her go again !"  what
did that mean ? His heart beat passionately at the
thought, and he clasped his arms across his breast, as if
her golden head still lay there.

Then a cold agony of despair would take the place of

transport, as he remembered the promised interview with
Bernezz and the doom which it might involve.

Never, never, never ! "

The last part of her cry then rang in his ears like the
dreary sobbing of the wind among church-yard grass.
How different the meaning now 1 If for a i" moments
he sank into restless slumber, thronging dream  figures
flocked by him. His father's face, hideous as a nightmare,
grinned at him from behind another at which he
dared not look. The stern, pale countenance of Bernezz
was always intruded, if for a moment he rested in the
vision of Genofa's sweet, blue eyes and golden hair ;
and behind all was ever a background of Druid stones 
stones which seemed to lie on his heart with the weight
of a terrible spell.

He awoke for the last time from one of these visions
with the feeling that the great menhir of Saint-Samson
was topping over upon him ; awoke with a start, to find
the flush of sunrise already crimsoning the east, and to
hear the church-bells ringing for a Mass which no one
would attend.

With a sense of relief, the lad rose from his bed, flung
open the little window in the roof, and leaned out.

How deliciously fresh was the morning air, sweet with
a thousand odours from the distillery of the dew. How
calm the quiet of field and orchard, where grass and
trees were dressing themselves in tenderest green, and

the early birds were shaking down the dew-drops, as
they preened themselves before tuning up for their own
Easter service of purest praise. The blackbird down
there in the old mossy apple-tree had already begun to
try his flute-notes, pausing every now and then, with
dainty head on one side, to listen to the echo against
the old gable wall.

How sweet, how restful it all was after the horrors of
the last few hours !

Christophe felt as though he were looking out into a
paradise of purity from the borders of some wood of
vile enchantments, such as he had often heard of in the
stories told round the fire-side on winter evenings. As
the breeze blew on his hot forehead and lifted the damp,
dark masses of hair, he shuddered at the images which
had risen in his mind, like poisonous vapours from some
stagnant pool, and a horror took possession of him at
this revelation of unknown depravity. And after making
his Paques too ! Had it then been human love and not
divine which had warmed his heart and made him feel
as though again he might join his fellow Christians in
their act of highest worship?

Poor lad ! he was too much shaken to be fit just then

to sit in judgment on himself; but, though he knew it

not, that midnight act had given him a secret strength

to keep at bay the powers of darkness which were striving

within him. He covered his face with his hands, and

whispered a prayer. He knew he must come to some
definite decision before again mingling with the family
of his foster-father. He must look this tumult in the
face and see what it meant, before he met Genofa once
more.

He had been wont to call her his little sister ; he had
scarcely doubted till now that his love for her was a
brother's ; but last night's events had rudely shaken this
comfortable belief. He was 7wt her brother  never could
be  knowing what his father was, the thought of such
relationship seemed, now he came to analyze it, little short
of pollution. He was not her brother  could he be
something nearer?

This thought, following consecutively on the preceding
one, brought before him a clearer perception of the
situation than he had yet had. If it brought a shudder
merely to think of Matelinn Gourven and Genofa together,
what would it be to link her lovely purity with such
hideous defilement ; to bring upon her the heritage of
crime which was the bane of his own life ? Nay, was
he not, involuntary as his part had been, a sharer in it ?
Could he then put forth his blood-stained hand and touch
the flower-fairness of this innocent child ? " Never ! "

The lad's lips closed tightly, as he uttered the word
and a look of decision came upon his agitated face.
Sinful he might be ; but of f/iis sin he would not be
guilty ; suffer as he might, he would not bring suffering

on her. He loved her  he knew it now and the knowledge
came to him with a bitterer pang than he had felt
yet in his short, sad life, where the pain had far outweighed
the pleasure. He loved her \ loved her as those
love who are to live a double life, which death even
sometimes refuses to sever ; but she could never be his
never, never, never !

*' Oh, God ! how hard it is to love, and love in vain ! "
The words, which he had heard, perhaps, in some old
Breton sone at the mouth of a wandering minstrel, came
back to him now like a voice given to his misery, and the
lad laid his aching forehead on the window-sill and sobbed
in utter wretchedness.

So young, and yet so sorrow-stricken ! Alas ! from
sorrow there is no age exempt. Presently, however, he
grew quieter, as another thought rose like a spectre to be
faced. Was 76' still unconscious? Had he, ignorant ashe
had been till then of his true feelings towards her, never
gone further than a brother might, so as to touch her
heart without knowing it ? The recollection of her
behaviour last night in the hour of danger  that behaviour
which had been the cause of the transport of delight which
had passed over him during the hours which lay between 
now brought with it a cold feeling of misgiving.

But, no ; had he not heard that people are apt to colour
facts according to their wishes? The thought that his
love might be returned had seemed so sweet at the moment

when he was first aware of it ; was not this, perhaps, the
cause that he had fancied a meaning in her words and
actions, which, after all, was probably not warranted by
them ? Painful as it might be, he would retrace in thought
the events of the night and see what he would now make
of them.

A furrow came on the lad's young brow as he thought
and thought ; but he was very honest with himself, and did
not seek to escape from any part of the painful task. Yet,
when it was done, though his first belief was greatly shaken
a doubt still remained  a doubt which, perhaps, might
never solve itself for him. His part seemed plain, however,
so far, at least, as the present was concerned ; his resolve
was taken. He would keep his appointment with Eernez,
open his heart to him in confession, and abide by his
judgment, whatever it might be. Were it as he expected,
then farewell to life, as those lead it who are free to live in
families. Were it otherwise?

For a moment the lad paused in the hard task he had
set himself to think out, and a light came into his eyes, as
at the glimpse of a happiness all but impossible in its
brightness. Were it otherwise ; should it turn out that
Gcnofa's heart were already touched, then, perhaps, the
prize might yd be his. The lad's logic was none of the
best 3 for, at this thought, he almost lost sight of the premises
from which he had started, and his dizzy brain
sprang forward towards a conclusion which ought to have

been impossible. But, then, if she ready loved him?
Yet, no J he would not think of that. There was danger
to his resolution in the very idea ; and a hard road must be
trodden first before even the bare ''if" were reached on
which the whole fabric of this sweet improbability rested.

God help me !"

It was more of a despairing exclamation than a prayer ;
yet, as the lad, weary with thinking, turned from the
window and flung himself once more upon his bed, the
answer came in the form of a deep and dreamless slumber.

VOL. II.

WHAT CARE I ?

Such wayward ways hath Love, that most part in discord
Our wills do stand, whereby our hearts but seldom do accord."

Earl of Surrey.

And Genofa?

No dreams had troubled her, during that night so
memorable to Christophe.

Fatigue and exhaustion had been succeeded by the
calmest repose, and when the girl awoke, somewhat later
than usual, she had some ado to realize that the events . of
the night before were not rather the fantastic changes of a
dream, than the real facts of a sober reality.

Her life had till now been so quiet, so undisturbed by
unusual occurrences, that it certainly did sttva very strange
that between her usual bed-time and hour of rising she
should have gone through so much.

Had she really made her Paques already in the Druid
temple at Peulven Islet? If so, how was it, then, that the
bells of Saint-Corneille, the old church where she had
been baptized, were still ringing for one of the many
Masses wont to be celebrated there on Easter morning ?
Had she really been whirled away over the wild night

sea with Christophe, and been swallowed up by the deep ?
If so, how was it that she was lying so comfortably in her
own bed under the protection of the sacred Monogram,
and not among the shells and tangle at the bottom of
the Sea of Morbihan. Had she really

But here the girl stopped her idle speculating, and the
hot blood of consciousness rushed over all the fair whiteness
of her innocent brow j for she had come to something
which s\iQfelt was a reality  felt with a quickening of every
pulse, whose testimony could not be gainsaid. She
remembered how, in the hour of danger, she had called on
Christophe ; how she had clung to him in her agony ; how,
amid it all, had come a feeling of deep content, as he held
her close with her head lying upon his breast. She had
thought that she was dying then, and, somehow, she had
not cared !

Yes, it was all true; but, with the knowledge, her
maidenhood awoke, and the childlike unconsciousness
which had possessed her till then was rudely shaken.

She could not face the fancies which came thronging upto
her, but sprang out of bed and joined her mother, who
was already busied about her household work.

Ninorc'h took the flower-face of her little daughter
between her two hands, after she had kissed it, and looked
closely into the forget-me-not depths of the lovely eyes.
She was anxious to see that the dangers of last night had
been passed through without scat. The long lashes

drooped a little, but the beautiful bloom on the soft cheeks
was, if anything, deeper than usual, and Ninorc'h let her
child go with another kiss, satisfied that her health was
quite unimpaired. Of anything else she did not dream.
She was still more satisfied when she heard the girl's
clear voice softly singing an Easter carol, as she foddered
the cows with the sweet, fresh grass she cut for them under
the old apple-tree. She did not think how an upward look
at the little gable-window above had made the girl's heart
beat, and set it wondering how the face would look which
she had last seen with the strong emotions of last night's
danger still upon it. How would he meet her? Would it
be quite as usual ? And then the bloom had deepened on
her cheek, and she had broken into song, half as a distraction
amid those strange, unformed thoughts, half from a
feeling of happiness she could hardly account for. She
was still cutting grass for her favourite black cow, when the
door opened and Christophe appeared.

She started so that she all but reaped her fingers instead
of the daisies grass ; yet she went on with her task,
feigning not to see him.

Good morning, little foster-sister, a joyful Easter to
thee," said a grave voice ; and then she looked round and
returned his greeting in kind. He did not stay to help
her, but walked on towards the stable and went in ; and
Genofa went on cutting the grass mechanically, feeling as
though she had had a fall  a fall from some airy cloud-castle

of impossibilities on to the hard ground of matter-of-fact.
When they met at breakfast it was just the same.
Christophe was, if anything, graver and more silent than
usual, and did not even allude to what had happened last
night. Nor did the father and mother either, for that
matter, after the first morning meeting with their little
daughter, when Ninorc'h had kissed her with whispered
words of thanksgiving, and Antonn had blessed her in a
voice which trembled in spite of him. But she could
understand their silence; they felt too deeply for words
just yet ; whereas he  was it that the matter touched
him very little?

In her newly awakened sensitiveness, the girl almost
thought so ; and when he spoke to her next some trivial
remark which he forced himself to make  she answered
quite pettishly ; and soon after, having finished her
breakfast, she rose from the table and went out.

She was going for water, but she did not tell Christophe,
as she usually did, so that if he liked he might come and
help her. Her heart felt sore within her, and the thought
that the half-acknowledged happiness of the early morning
had been all a delusion, brought with it not only disappointment,
 felt, though unacknowledged,  but also a horrible
feeling of shame which swallowed up every other sensation.
In her agony she had shown her heart ; had shown him
its preference before she even knew it herself, and he had
looked on with indifference ! Nay, worse ; he must have

thought her maidenly, and was checking her thus by
coldness and unconcern.

It was horrible, unbearable ! But she would show him
at least that she did not care ; she would make him
believe that he had been mistaken, after all.

And she did. No young beauty was ever more coy
and distant than was Genofa that day towards him who
had saved her life at the risk of his own ; and when
young Count Aymon de Kerdec'h appeared unexpectedly
at the village festivities in the afternoon, she received his
notice with the greatest apparent satisfaction, and danced
so often with him that the other village girls were mad
with jealousy.

Little coquette," Christophe heard them whisper, as
the rustic beauty stood apart with the gentleman, smiling
and blushing, laughing and chatting ; now lifting her bright
blue eyes to his ; now lowering them and letting her
dimples play bewitchingly, as she listened to some low-toned
remark. "Little coquette, she'll have her head
turned with a vengeance this time ; and yet she might
know what aristocrats mean when they flirt with a girl of
the people. AVell, well ; she'll not listen to anybody after
this."

Christophe moved away. The words and the sight
alike stung him, and he was glad to leave the holiday-makers
behind and return to the quiet of the farm,
deserted at Diis hour by all its inhabitants.

'she won't listen to anybody after this."
Why was there such a sting in the words ? Why should
he care? Had he not just been hoping that, if suffering
there must be, he might bear it alone? That, at least,
her heart might be still untouched. That it was so,
he fancied he now had ample proof; and yet it did not
make him happier. One thing it did, however : it made
the path he had traced for himself the easier to tread.
He could go forward among its stones and thorns without
the remorse of involving another in its pains and penalties.
He might give himself up unhesitatingly to whatever Providence,
as represented by the priest Bernezz, might decide as
his future fate.

That struggle at least, as the poor lad said to himself,
was now over. The igfiis farms of a deluding hope 
a sweet, impossible possibility  which might have led him
astray in spite of his resolution, had gone out for ever
Well, better so.

A DRUIDICAL CONFESSIONAL.

Pardon in me
The oscillation of a mind
Steadfast, and that cannot find
Its centre of rest and harmony
For evermore before mine eyes
This ghastly phantom flits and flies,
With frantic gestures and wild cries.
It hurries onward, and aloud
Repeats its awful prophecies !
Weakness is wretchedness I To be strong
Is to be happy ! I am weak.
And cannot find the good I seek,
Because I feel and fear the wrong !"

Longfellow " The Golden Legend'*

Twilight was falling as Christophe entered the Druid
lines.

A shudder, which he struggled against, but could not
repress, shook him from head to foot on finding himself in
the silent presence of the tall grey stones ; and this was
repeated still more strongly when he came to a stand at
the foot of the monster, which still went by the name of his
lather.

A Child of the Menhir !

Was there, then, really some mysterious connection between
his fate and these relics of a bygone age ? Was the

sorcery, which tradition associated with these weird monuments,
still alive for him?

A sensation, which almost amounted to fear, came over
the lad, as he waited there in the gathering gloom, and
recalled, one after another, the circumstances of his life.

Under a menhir his mother had died ; under a menhir
he had himself been found \ among memoirs he had
played in childhood; by a menhir had happened that
which had hung, as it were, a cloud of blood between him
and the joys of youth. And now? Yes, it was by a
menhir again that his life's lot was to be decided !

Truly, as in his dream, these awful stones formed the
background to every scene of importance in his history;
his life-thread seemed inextricably entangled among them.
No wonder that the superstitious Breton lad should turn
cold, as under the dread hand of fate ; no wonder he felt
an unreasoning terror, as he waited, in the growing
darkness, for the next scene in the drama of which he
himself was the central figure.

God's blessing be upon thee, my son."

The voice sounded quite close to him, and yet he had
heard no step. He looked round with a start, and there,
gliding from behind the menhir, was the tall, thin form in
the black soutane, which he was expecting, yet dreading, to
see. Bernezz did not offer his hand. Well as the lads had
known each other in early life, there seemed to have arisen
an imperceptible barrier between them. The one was a

priest and confessor ; the other a layman and a penitent.
That was the difference ; but each felt that it was a difference
which was everything.

You sent for me, my son ?"

Bernezz said the words rather as a remark than as a
question, while he stood waiting, with his back slightly
leaning against the menhir, and his keen eyes fixed upon
Christophe.

And the lad seemed to need a reminder, for he stood
quite silently opposite the priest, apparently forgetful for
what purpose they were there.

He looked up at the words ; but his gaze was strangely
absent, and still he did not speak.

'' You have something to confess ?"

Again it was the statement of a fact rather than a
question, and the searching eyes seemed to be closely
watching for its effect on the hearer. Nor did they look in
vain. A perceptible shiver passed over Christophe, and
he changed his position uneasily ; but still he said no word.
Only he looked at the young priest in his turn, with a sort
of fascination in his gaze.

The priest tried again, and the expression of his eyes
became more searching than ever; he seemed trying to
read the thoughts which were still withhold from him.

My son," he said, in a deep, quiet tone,  "my son, do
not fear to speak. The crime is great, the shame is
terrible; but there is no crime so great, no shame so

terrible which a true confession, a sincere repentance,
cannot relieve. Even blood "

He stopped, for a spasm had passed over his hearer's
face at the word, and the blood had left his very lips.

He made an effort to speak  failed once ; and when the
words did come, the voice had a strange dry tone, totally
unlike its usual quality.

"You know about it ?"

The priest hesitated. The response was apparently not
what he had expected. Then, after a moment's pause, he
went on, ignoring the question. '' My son, do not try to
hide anything from me. Speak freely, and I will advise
you."

"But if you know it already, why should I speak?
God knows it is a hard thing to tell, even under the seal of
confession."

There was a sort of bitter defiance in the tone, which
struck the young priest unpleasantly. A shade of colour
mounted to his pale face ; but he bit his lips, as though
to curb some hasty words which were rising to them ; and
when he spoke, the voice was all that it should be.

My son, why should you waste precious time in what
is not to the purpose? You are here to confess a great
and secret sin. Kneel and confess it as unto God, through
me, His unworthy minister. Only by means of confession
can you be freed from a terrible burden. If you are too
proud to humble yourself, be sure God will humble you,

and you will bear the brand with you even to your grave
ay, and beyond it, as did proud and unrepentant Cain.
Down on your knees, in the very dust ! and were it, indeed,
a brother's blood which cries "

Again he was suddenly interrupted, for, as though struck
to the heart by a random arrow, the lad did indeed sink to
the ground with a cry 

Then it is known ! Oh ! Bernezz, save me ! hide me
Indeed, indeed, I am not fit to die ! "

In an agony of terror, he clasped the young priest's
knees and groaned. He seemed to have lost all self-control
under the terrible fear which had suddenly fallen
upon him ; a fear which had possessed him before now,
but from which he had fondly hoped he was now secure.
The secret was terrible enough to bear about with him,
while it still remained a secret ; but if it were indeed
known ?

A cold dew bathed the poor lad's brow at the very
thought, and his breath came in painful gasps. For must
he not suffer for it ? Could he accuse a father to free
himself, even a father such as his ? And were he to do so,
where was the proof?

Bernt'Z was greatly astonished at the strange effect of
words which, even with the previous clue which Christophe
had unconsciously afforded him, he had hardly expected
would be so appropriated. He valued himself on being a
judge of character, and his former knowledge of Christophe

had certainly not led him to expect that he would find in
him a criminal of so deep a dye as the lad's words seemed
to show.

What had he, then, done ? Could it be that one so
young was already a murderer? And if so? The young
priest thought of the solemn service of the early morning
at which this lad had been present,  admitted, like the
rest, under stress of circumstances, without the ordinary
previous precautions,  and he shuddered.

No, it could not be. There must be some mistake.
Christophe," he said, gravely, carefully guarding his
voice from the emotions which he could not but feel 
"Christophe, my son, be calm. You are under some mistake.
Listen to me. I do not know any particulars of
this crime of which you accuse yourself; so far as I know,
they are still between you and God. Take a few moments
to quiet yourself; reflect, and then make your confession.
You have nothing to fear from me. All that you tell me
will, as you know, be as safe with me as with the grave. Is
it not under the seal of confession?"

These words seemed to re-assure the lad. He stopped
his convulsive gasping to listen, looked up for one moment,
when Bernezz ceased speaking, with a sigh of reef, and
gradually grew calmer, though the glitter of excitement still
shone in his dark eyes.

Bernezz stood patiently waiting, with his eyes fixed on the
evening sky, where the stars were coming out, though the

moon, already past her full, had not yet risen. A light-that
calm, grave radiance which sometimes lingers so long
after sunset  still shone in the west, and its reflection
rested on the pale, spiritual face of the young priest, and
on the tonsured head, from which he had removed his
broad beaver. Calmness and strength, thoughts and
desires raised above earth and her troubles, were in his
whole aspect, setting it in strong contrast with the passionate
emotion of the figure  younger, indeed, but not by
many years  which crouched at his feet; and around
stood, rank on rank, the strange, silent, motionless memoirs.
Something in the look and attitude of the young priest was
curiously in harmony with them  with them, and with the
stars. He seemed a link between. Kneeling there at his
feet, Christophe had a sort of perception of this, though he
could not have expressed how it was that they were connected
in his mind. Presently the young priest put his
hand gently but firmly on the shoulder of the kneeling
lad. "Now," he said, briefly.

Then, the usual form having been gone through, the
confession was begun, and the secret, so long hidden in
the depths of the young burdened heart, was at length
shared with another.

The lad seemed to have extreme difficulty in speaking.
His voice was low and husky. Every now and then he
seemed ready to choke, and, as the scenes in the terrible
tragedy rose one by one before him, a convulsive shudder

would pass over his whole frame and against take from
him the power of continued expression. From time to
time also, if a wandering breeze stirred the herbage, he
would start and look round with a frightened gaze, as if
he dreaded to see something, or feared an unseen auditor.
He was very candid, however ; he left nothing to be
supposed, but poured out the whole story, not only of the
deed itself, but of the effect it had had upon him. How
for a time it had overwhelmed his religion, and given him
a shuddering horror even at the sight of a Crucifix. How
he had lived for a time without God in the world, and
how it had been through Bernezz himself that he had been
re-awakened to spiritual things and made to think of an
atonement.

His whole inner consciousness was laid bare up to the
close ot last night's Mass. Only of the discovery he had
since made he did not speak. This was the sole reservation
; and, sin or not, he felt he could not speak of it.
He was ready, or thought he was, to make the sacrifice ;
but to pluck this secret also from his heart he felt he had
not the power. Therefore, when he had come in his
confession to the interview last night  an interview at
which this confession would have been made, had there
been time  he paused, unable to go further. And the
priest did not press him ; he had no cause to expect that
there was more to tell.

When Christophe had finished, he drew a deep breath,

and knelt on, waiting for the pronunciation of his fate. It
was long in coming.

Bernezz stood silent, with eyes bent on the ground,
pondering deeply over the strange confession which had
been made to him ; pondering, too, in what way he should
act upon it. For some time before he had been claimed
by the pillar, Bernezz had had his eye on his uncle's
adopted son. He had recognised powers beyond those
of an ordinary peasant lad in this foundling ; and, devoted
as he was, with an intense and almost fanatic enthusiasm
to the interests of the Church and the cause of religion,
he had often considered in what way an instrument, more
highly tempered than the spades and ploughshares among
which it lay, might be best used in their service. The
absence of all family ties had seemed to him a further
qualification, and almost a divine proof that the foundling
was set apart for some special use His own strong
vocation had been an index which, unconsciously perhaps,
pointed in the direction which that service was to take ;
and those words of Christophe's on the day of his First
Communion had made his heart leap with a feeling of
prophetic insight. He had spoken  spoken from out of
his own deep enthusiasm  and the lad's response had fallen
upon him, like cold water over glowing iron. He had left
him in despair, and with a feeling of indignation ; and
from that moment he had thought of Christophe  when
he thought of him at all  as a renegade, fighting against

the Divine will. His appropriation by Matelinn Gourven,
and condemnation to one of the most degraded of callings,
he had looked upon with a sort of grim satisfaction, as a
fit judgment on one who, having turned his back on the
high privileges of a son, was doomed to wander into a far
country and herd with swine.

And now the wheel had come full circle ; the lad was
finding out for himself, finding out by bitter experience
what he, Bernezz, had found out for him long before.

There was a sort of triumph in the young priest's heart,
as he stood there with this lad at his feet  a triumph which
he took for angelic joy over a repentant sinner ; but which,
had he carefully analysed it, he would have found to be
mingled at least with a feeling less pure.

But what human being, however raised above the things
of this world, is ever totally free from earthly taint ?

Yet he paused before answering. There were difficulties
in the way. True, the instrument now offered itself for
the grinding which should fit it for use ; but there was
blood on it : blood, shed indeed by another, but leaving a
taint nevertheless. Whence, too, was the iron taken?
From a quarry full of impurity. Would these two drawbacks
outweigh its evident value in the judgment of those
in authority ? Would they cause its rejection ?

Bernezz doubted; yet he was inclined to think not.
The Church was passing through a time of extreme
danger ; she was in pressing need of efficient servants, and

VOL. II. o

might overlook blemishes under present circumstances,
which in happier times she would refuse to tolerate.

So much for that difficulty ; but there was another.

The very circumstances which were in Christophe's
favour on the one hand, were against him from another
point of view.

The Constitution had degraded the Church to the rank
of a mere handmaid to the State. It had broken up the
orthodox seminaries, or filled them with constitutional
teachers. How, then, was Christophe to get the training
necessary for admission into the priesthood ? He could
not have it at present, in France at least ; he must wait ;
and might not waiting be dangerous to his purpose ?

Certainly it might ; yet, on the other hand, it was well,
perhaps, that the lad's sincerity should be tried. He must
not think that the favour was on his side, and too great
readiness to admit him might suggest this. That the
Church should open her arms to receive an erring and
repentant son ; that she should confide to him the stewardship
of her most sacred mysteries, and consent to enrol
him among her ministers, must be looked on as an
inestimable privilege.

So reasoned Bernezz ; and, having arrived at this conclusion,
he still delayed for a while to break the silence.
Folding his arms on his breast, he raised his eyes to the
evening sky, as though he would read there the will ol
Heaven. But the long delay was agony to the penitent.

The silence, at last, became unbearable, and he committed
the indiscretion of breaking it himself.

"Am I not to have absolution ?" he asked, in a trembling
voice. "Am I too guilty even for Heaven to pardon?
I used to think so ; for long after the  the deed (he
faltered over the word) I looked on myself as a murderer ;
but of late, things have seemed clearer. I have hoped "

He stopped ; but his pleading face, now lifted to that or
the young priest, as if to read there his fate, spoke the
rest.

Again Bernezz was at a loss what to answer. He had
been so completely taken up with that side of the case
which concerned Christophe's acceptance as a priest, that
he had almost forgotten to regard him as a penitent ; and
to find himself called on to settle the question of his share
in the guilt of this terrible deed was embarrassing. Yet 
the perception dawned upon him as the lad spoke the two
questions were closely involved, the one with the other ;
and  what voice whispered this in his ear ?  might it not
be prejudicial to lessen the lad's sense of guilt? However,
he must answer without further deliberation ; the agonized
pleading of those eyes demanded it; otherwise the lad
might be driven to desperation, and the instrument lost for
want of one to care for it.

The consequence was that, without absolutely doing it
consciously, certainly not deliberately, Bernezz temporized.

It is an unfortunate affair," he said" a very sad and

terrible crime ; and let me remind you, my son, that, had
you followed my advice, you need never have been involved
in it. You remember how I counselled the step
you are now desirous of taking? Then it would have been
comparatively easy; now it is difficult. No, do not speak,"
he went on, seeing, from the sudden change of the lad's
countenance, that he was going to interrupt him. " I do
not say that it is impossible ; it is, probably, so far as I can
now see, the one way out of the fatal labyrinth in which
you have entangled yourself. Be calm, my son, be calm ;
I am not about to refuse you absolution, though your errors
have been great. Apart from anything else, have you not
confessed to me that for a long space of time you have
lived the life of an outcast from religion ? No, I will not
refuse you absolution ; but it must be given conditionally.
Your impulse to make atonement, not only for yourself, but
for the far greater guilt of your father, seems to me a
heavenly leading. In my judgment, you have brought upon
yourself this sin and sorrow by fighting against the will of
God, Who, as I believe, designed you for His special service.
Like Jonah, you have fled from Him, and, like Jonah, He
is bringing you to obedience by the rod of His power
Thank God for His mercy, my son, that He deigns to doit
; and every thorn in the cross laid upon you, painful as it
now is, will become for you as a flower of love."

Bernezz's face kindled as he spoke ; his voice took the
thrilling tone usual to it under the enthusiasm of preaching,

and the spell which he had before exercised on Christophe
again came into operation.

His face, too, kindled j the depression which had fallen
upon him was suddenly lifted, and he felt inspired to bear
any burden which this man might see fit to allot.

Only tell me, father, what I must do, and I will do my
best to work it out, cost what it will."

These last words were added in a lower tone, for a
momentary vision of Genofa flitted before the speaker's
mind.

Then Bernezz explained so much of his views as he saw
fit to impart to the young aspirant to the priesthood.
Christophe listened in silence, and when he had finished
said, with a half-sigh : 

"Then you think I am really fit?"

Bernezz put up his hand, as though to check too great
presumption."

*' I said not so, my son. You were nearer once than
now 3 and it is a hard thing to regain one's first estate. But
do not despair. Heaven gives you a time of probation ;
set this great honour always before you, and beware lest,
having put your hand to the plough, you again look back
to the world and its fleeting joys. You have offered yourself
to God, if He will have you; you are as if devoted till
He sees fit further to reveal His will by allowing you
admission into an orthodox college. If you waver, think
what lies behind ready to swallow you the black abyss

from which you have yet but hardly escaped. If you persevere,
and Heaven see fit to accept your atonement  ah !
what joys, never-ending, outweighing all that the world can
offer, as this menhir (he placed his hand on the giant stone)
would outweigh the pebbles at its feet !"

Bernezz paused, and a look of ecstasy lit up his pale, thin
face. He seemed lost in the contemplation of some
supernal vision. Suddenly he started.

*'I was forgetting," he said. "There is search out forme,
and I may not linger too long. I must be in shelter
before the moon rises. Kneel, my son, and thou shalt
have absolution  only remember, it is conditionally

He pronounced the formula ; then, with his hand on the
lad's head, he solemnly blessed him, and glided away as
noiselessly as he had come.

For full five minutes, Christophe stood looking vacantly
into the gloom, in the direction which the priest had
taken ; then, as he had done before on his return to
Carnac, he knelt down by the menhir, pressed his lips to
the cold stone, and signed himself with the cross. Again
it was a sort of dedication ; but this time the sacrifice
seemed infinitely nearer, and escape less and less likely.

Kneeling there close under its shadow, the great dark
pillar seemed to tower to an awful height above his head.
A giddiness seized him ; the menhir seemed to totter as
though about to crush him. He rose hastily and staggered
away. It was as if inexorable fate were falling upon him 

fate, heavy as the menhir, dark as the evening shadows
which were falling thickly around.

And yet, since Genofa did not love him, was it not
happiest so ? Had not Bernezz thrilled him through with
a description of happiness, not of this earth, in store for
him ? Why, then, should he feel so stunned, so oppressed
by the prospect ?

The lad could not answer his own questions ; reason
seemed paralysed j he could only feel.

PLAYING AT LOVE.

'Tis an awkward thing to play with souls."

R. Erowmnc.

For three days after this Genofa and Christophe avoided
each other, and scarcely spoke. She from shamefacedness,
wounded pride, and self-respect, and a disappointment she
scarcely liked to confess, even to herself; he, partly from
wounded feeling, but still more from the dedication he
was conscious of having made.

There was a pain at the heart of both ; a longing after
each other, which neither would yield to ; a sense as
though the sun had gone under a cloud.

Christophe saw it plainly, and knew the wherefore ot
his pain ; poor little Genofa felt it dimly and confusedly,
refused to look her trouble in the face, and strove to forget
it in the company of young Count Aymon, who was still
at the Chateau and seldom let a day slip by without coming
to the liomc of his foster-parents. To see them together
was more almost iliad Christophe could bear. He knew
she was not for him ; but to see her with another  that
other a handsome, well-born youth, jesting gayly and

whispering soft nothings, to which she listened with a smile
and a blush  was gall and wormwood to him. His heart
swelled with jealousy; then turned sick with cold despair.
He felt that to stay there longer was torture well-nigh too
great for his strength. And yet Bernezz had bidden him wait.

Things, however, could not long go on like this without
something happening; and, though what did happen was
not of much importance in itself, yet it led to more.

It was the evening of the third day after Christophe's
interview with Bernezz at the menhir. Easter had brought
the Spring with a rush. The apple-tree, trained over the
south gable of the farmhouse at Coetmor, was covering the
old grey walls with a sheet of rosy blossoms ; those in
the orchard were likewise blushing into bloom ; and the
cherry-trees, which grew on either side of the garden-gate,
hung like a snowy bridal veil over Genofa's golden
head, as she knelt beside the shady border underneath,
carefully plucking a bunch of fragrant lilies-of-the-valley to
weave a crown for a girl companion, who had died the
day before.

So, at least, thought young Count Aymon, as he leant
over the wall, and peeped at his pretty foster-sister between
the branches ; and he caught himself wishing that the
aristocratic partis, which his mother was always proposing
to him and offering to negotiate, were capable of sheltering
half as much beauty under the wedding veil, as did this
child of the people under the cherry-blossoms.

Pretty Genofa did not see the admiring face which was

contemplating her behind the screen, or the colour in her

fair cheeks would have been many shades deeper, and the

voice which crooned the Breton ditty would scarcely have

been so steady and unembarrassed as it was. Very sweet

and soft it sounded, mingling with the drowsy humming

of the bees in the blossoms overhead ; for, though the

dead girl had not been a bosom friend, the occupation in

which she was engaged naturally brought thoughts of a

companion, who, a year ago, had been healthy and happy

as herself, and induced a gentle sorrow which suited well

with the pathetic words : 

"' " The happiest lot from life they bring,

The young whom death takes in the spring.

Ev'n as the rose drops from the spray,
So youth from life doth fall away.

Those who die ere this week is flown
All with fresh flowers shall be strewn ;

And from those flowers shall soar heaven high.
As from the rose-cup the butterfly."

She paused for a moment to smell the lilies in her hand,
and the pause was filled up by the opening warble of a
nightingale in the orchard behind the house. The pretty
head was bent on one side to listen, with a graceful birdlike
movement, and then the soft voice went on adam : 

Jefifik ! Jefhk ! did you not hear

The nightingale's song so sweet and clear ?

Breton " sine," translated in Tom Taylor's BallaiJa and So7ifjs of Brittany.

The month of May is passing e'en now,
And with it the blossom on the bough.

"When this she heard, the gentle maid,
Crosswise her two pale hands she laid :

I will say an Ave Mane,

Our Lady sweet, in honour ot thee :

That it may please our God, thy Son,
To look with pity me upon ;

That grace to pass quick me be given,
And wait for those I love in Heaven."

The soft voice trembled a little over the last words, and
was silent again.

Yes, in Heaven," repeated Genofa to herself, very low.
*' It will be no harm there. Poor Fantik is happier where
she is. Guillaume never really loved her, I do believe.
He admired others  me, for instance,  more than her,
and she did not live to suffer from his slights. Ah, well,
they say he is sorry now. Perhaps he would be sorry, too,
if / were to die." She thought of some one who was not
Guillaume, and sighed.

Why dost thou sigh, Genofa ?" asked a voice at the
garden-gate.

The girl started, and looked up, to see young Aymon de
Kerdec'h open it and come to her side.

With one bound, she was on her feet, dropping him the
pretty reverence her mother had taught her.

He doffed his hat and bowed to her, half in mimicry,
half in admiring courtesy; and Genofa could not help

thinking him a gallant figure in his black velvet riding-dress,
bending his bright handsome head in greeting to
her. Here was someone, at least, and that a somebody of
importance, who found her not to be despised.

The sense of this was balm to little Genofa, and she
smiled on him in return.

'that's right; a smile suits thee better than a sigh,
sweet sister," said Aymon, gayly. " But come, tell me,
what was the sigh about just now? It wasn't for nie, was
it, pretty one ?"

For yoiif Monsieur Aymon ?''

The little head went up, half inquiringly, half with
maiden pride, at the question.

Ay, for me. But perhaps you good people here don't
know  nay, how should you ?  that I'm going away again.
Ah ! heaven, it grows harder and harder to go each time !"

He said the last words in a lower voice, with a tender
sigh, and a soft glance of his dark eyes at Genofa, which
made her lower her silken lashes.

"Is it. Monsieur Aymon?"

She said it simply, because she was at a loss for a reply ;
and ( certainly was not prepared to have her hand taken by
the young aristocrat, or to hear the glib torrent of words
in the same strain that followed.

Is it Genofa ? Dost need to ask the question, pretty
one ? Ay, truly, it is ; and for what, dost think ? What
makes it so hard ? Nay, don't pretend not to know, sweet

hypocrite. But there, 'twould be harder still if I did not
have the hope of a speedy return, and a sweet welcome
from a sweet maid, of whose golden hair, blue eyes, and
rose-bud mouth, I shall dream "

Monsieur le Comte ! "

Having arrived at this point, Genofa seemed to think
that she had allowed her aristocratic admirer to go far
enough ; so she withdrew her hand and drew herself up
with a bewitchingly haughty air.

Monsieur le Comte, indeed ! " he returned, in a slightly
nettled tone. "Since when am I that, Mademoiselle?
Nay, if you don't take care, I shall call you Madame la
Comtesse, for you're acting the (:;vande dame with a vengeance.
But come, little foster-sister, don't let us quarrel
on our last night. Think, I may have to join the army
before we meet again ; those who love Church and King
are mustering at Tales in the Cevennes. There may be
fighting ere long. Sweetest Genofa,"  he possessed himself
of her hand again, and bent his handsome head lower
than before  "wilt thou not think of me sometimes,
when "

A step came round the corner, and a hand was laid on
the garden-gate. The young Count stopped abruptly, and
dropped the hand he was holding. The girl drew back
and blushed scarlet ; for there stood Christophe, in his
working clothes, looking as black as night. For some
moments he stood looking at them, and they stood looking

away  the girl, with the lilies half fallen at her feet, and
her face all aglow with vexed embarrassment ; the youth,
with his beaver awry, and a look of "caught" plainly
written on his boyish features ; and never a word spake
they.

The evening sun fell aslant through the cherry-trees
upon the three figures; upon the beds of old-fashioned
spring flowers and homely herbs and vegetables ; upon the
grey gable of the old farm-house, where the apple-blossoms
grew. A breath of air stirred the cherry-boughs, and
brought down a shower of snowy petals on the three
heads. The nightingale again struck up in the orchard
hard by : 

'' Jeffik ! Jeffik ! did you not hear
The nightingale's song so sweet and clear?"

Christophe heard it, and it seemed to break the spell
which held him silent and rooted to the ground. He
opened the gate quickly, and pushed his way rudely
between the two, who still stood on the path, brushing
the rest of it; lilies from Genofa's hand as he
did so.

How now, fellow ? Look to your manners ! " exclaimed
the young aristocrat, blazing up in sudden wrath, and
laying his hand on his sword ; but Christophe went on
his way without minding. Suddenly, just before reaching
the house, he wheeled round.

Genofa 1 "  he called back, in a rough voice 

*' what are you doing out there? Come in, and mind the
house." Having said this, he disappeared in the doorway.

*' Hey-day ! I must teach that lad how to behave ! "
exclaimed Count Aymon, angrily. " Such insolence ! By
my faith, I've a good mind to go and have it out with
him at once. He presumes too much on "

Genofa stopped him. She was trembling all over.

No, no," she said. " You must not ! Oh, do go
away. Monsieur Aymon. Indeed, I can't stop any longer !
Mother will want me ! Good-bye."

She dropped a little hurried courtesy, and fled away
before he had time to say another word ; and Aymon de
Kerdec'h had no choice but to go, muttering things
respecting his foster-brother, meanwhile, which are better
not recorded.

As for Genofa, she went into the kitchen in a state of
great trepidation : vexation, shame, and contrition, all
contributing to make up the sum-total of her discomfort.
She had meant no harm ; but what must he not have
thought ? The question brought the blushes to her cheeks
and the tears to her eyes.

To add to her confusion, the kitchen was empty but
of Christophe himself, who was standing before the fire
with his back to her. She would have withdrawn ; but
he heard her step, came to her with a sudden stride, and
caught her by the arm.

"Listen here, Genofa," he said, sternly. "Don't let

me catch you playing at love again with the young
Seigneur, or I shall think it my duty to speak to your
father."

The stern words, the rough movement, angered
Genofa. She shook herself free from his grasp.

Let me alone ! " she said, pettishly. " What does it
matter to you what I do ? "

"To me?" He repeated her words in a curious tone,
and his face altered.

'eyes; to you!" she returned, bitterly. "It's nothing
to you."

Nothing ? Oh, Genofa ! "

But the girl was exasperated. She thought he was
mocking her, and she did not notice the sorrow in his
voice.

Yes, I tell you," she burst out, with a stamp of her
foot. "And I won't have you repeating my words like
that. You're nothing to me, if I'm nothing to you; and
you've no right to take me to task. Aoiv will you stand
out of the way ? "  for he had placed himself unconsciously
between her and the door.

He moved without a word \ and the girl ran back into
the garden, and hid herself among the bushes in a passion
of weeping.

But the nightingale sang on overhead : 

Jeffik ! Jeffik ! did you not hear
The nightingale's song so sweet and clear ?

The happiest lot from life they bring,

The young whom death takes in the spring."

And the girl, who was so young and so fair, flung

herself on the grass and sobbed : " Oh, God ! that I could

die ! that I could die !"

VOL. II.

IF THOU DIDST BUT KNOW

Love, if you knew the light
That your soul casts in my sight,
How I look to sou
For the pure and true.
And the beauteous and the right, 
Bear with a moment's spite
When a mere mote threats the white !"

R. Browning.

You're nothing to me, if I'm nothing to you !" The
words went through him Hke a knife. He did not guess
at the complicated emotions, struggling in the girl's heart,
which prompted them. The "z/""  that little word which
might have given him the key to the riddle  was quite
unnoticed by him.

** You're nothing to me, and I'm nothing to you!" 
that was how he read them. Even the brotherhood  the
tie which had bound them from infancy  seemed to him
repudiated by her in her elation at the admiration she was
exciting.

I shall call you Madame la Comtesse "

The words, spoken in a slightly raised voice by the
young Count, had reached his ear on his way to the

garden-gate, and filled him with alarm. The hope of being
a '' grande dame'' must, he thought, be irresistable to the
country girl, and the least opposition insupportable to her.
Yet, was it not merely a glittering bait to tempt her onto
ruin? Would an aristocrat ever stoop to raise a
peasant maiden to the position of his bride? Christophe
had heard a good deal about aristocrats, not greatly to
their credit, when in the company of his pillar father,
and he knew at least that the pride of the French nobility
of his day would revolt at the idea of mingling their
blue blood with any from a plebeian source.

No, Genofa would only be deceived. He must guard
her, even from herself, though he were nothing to her.

Nothing  nothing ! Oh, why  why had she said that ?
It was bad enough to have to renounce her tacitly, but to
be so cruelly thrown off by her ! oh, it was too much ! '*
And the lad went about bearing a burden of double the
misery of before.

He did not see that Genofa was nearly as wretched.
Yet the girl was regretting the foolish '' playing at love,"
for she looked upon it as nothing more. She was brooding
over the unkind words she had spoken to Christophe  to
Christophe, who had saved her life at the risk of his own
till remorse became more than she could bear. She
had never even thanked him for his timely aid. Poor
Christophe ! whatever he had done to her, she had
certainly not used him well. How ungrateful he must

think her? Then she took to watching him timidly.
She saw the wretchedness in his face, and her heart
melted.

Poor lad," she thought, " surely his lot is hard enough ;
he has few enough friends without his little foster-sister
withdrawing from the number. No, I will not be unkind
to him, even though he should never think of me otherwise
than as the silliest of lite sisters. At least he shall not
think I am quite ungrateful for what he did on Easter
morning "

It took a good deal of courage on the part of poor
little Genofa to make her amende to Christophe in his
present mood. He was so dark, so stern, so silent, that
she felt quite afraid of him. And the childish heart
went pit-a-pat, as she made her way up to him one day
when he was chopping faggots in the wood-yard.

"Christophe!"

The ringing blows of his axe had prevented him from
hearing her approach, and she was quite close behind
him before he discovered her presence. At the sound
of his own name, the lad turned, and the colour rushed
to his brow when he saw who the speaker was.

** Christophe ! " said the girl, speaking very fast, " I
wanted to thank you for what you did the other night. I
have never thanked you yet, and yet you saved my life.
It was very good of you."

Good !"

He repeated the word mechanically, and stood looking
at her with his eyes full of a dumb pain which could not
express itself. He had saved her life that night, because
it was more to him than his own, and she called him good I
If it had been poor Madame Pouldu now, perhaps ; but
Genofa

Yes," she continued, resuming her speech, which was
evidently conned for the occasion, in the same hurried
way as before,  " it was very good of you, for you
might have been drowned, you know. I must have
seemed very ungrateful, but I am not, really. And
Christophe "

She stopped, for breath, or something else, failed her.

 Yes."

Christophe, I am sorry !" The words came out with
a sort of gulp.

* Sorry for what ?"

'* Oh, about the other night  for what I said \ it was so
rude and cross ; only I thought you had no right "

"No."

He paused a moment, then made an effort, and took
her hands kindly, in brotherly fashion. For the child's
own sake, he must not miss the opportunity.

"Genofa, little foster-sister, I have no right, I know.
But we have been brought up together, and have been
nursed by the same mother. Wilt promise me to be more
careful with our young Seigneur? He may speak 'fair

enough, Genofa, and mean no harm; but aristocrats do
not mate with peasants ; remember that, little foster-sister,
and don't let thy innocent heart be entangled. Oh,
Genofa, if !"

She crimsoned like a rose in June, and drew her hands
from his.

"Stop, Christophe," she said, with heaving bosom,
don't say any more ; there is no need. Indeed, I don't
care for Monsieur  not like that"

The lad drew a deep breath of relief, and his face
lighted. He glanced at Genofa; then took to studying
the chips scattered at his feet.

That's right," he said ; then continued very slowly, as
though fearing to tread on dangerous ground :  " But,
little foster-sister, if thou dost not really care for him like
that, why play at it? I think a maiden's love is too
beautiful a thing to pretend, and he might take it as real,
and care too much, and  and "

He stopped in great confusion.

She flushed more vividly than before, and felt inclined
to be angry again. What business had he to school her
like this ? Why should he mind whether the young Count
cared or not? If she could not have the real thing (and
whose fault was that ?) why shouldn't she amuse herself a
little ? She gave her head a little toss.

Nonsense," she said, i*' there's nothing in it, I tell you.
Why should ro( trouble yourself about it ?"

Having said this, she started at the effect of her
light words. He looked up with all his face in a
quiver.

*why should trouble myself about it?" he exclaimed,
passionately. " Oh, Genofa \ if thou didst but know I "

'what?"

She said it very softly, very shyly, for he had looked at
her as he had done on Easter Eve j and again at that
moment came the instinctive conviction of what was
hidden in his heart for her.

How lovely she looked ! Her golden head bowed
beneath his look, and glinting like gold itself in the
twinkling sunbeams which filtered through the fig-tree
overhead ; her sweet face flushed like a rose-leaf, and a
soft smile hovering about the comers of her pretty little
mouth. The little brown hands were playing with the
corner of her apron, and the folds of her full white bodice
rose and fell with the beating of her heart.

"What?" she repeated with a soft, shy, upward glance
of the bright, blue eyes, which fell again immediately as
they lighted on the passion of his face. No wonder the
lad forgot for a moment  forgot his dedication. He seized
her hands again in a hot, trembling grasp.

"If thou didst but know how / cared! Genofa, I
cannot bear to see it. If only for my sake "

He stopped, and (dropped her hands ; for, like a chilling
wind, the remembrance swept over him that he had nothing

to give in return for what he was asking. For a moment
there was an awkward pause; then he resumed, with all
the passion gone from voice and look : 

I would say, for thy father's and mother's sake  for
the sake of the old days when we were children together 
be careful, my sister. I may at least call thee that, though
perhaps there also thou wilt say I have no right."

He sighed as he spoke, and took up his axe again.

The girl shivered a little ; she, too, had felt the sudden
chill. Half involuntarily she glanced up to see if the wind
had risen ; but the broad leaves of the fig tree hung
motionless in the heat ; all was still and sunny as before.
It was nothing outward that had changed.

Oh, don't be alarmed," she said, with affected carelessness
j "I can take care of myself."

*sat least thou wilt forgive me?"

The dark eyes looked so sad, so pleading, that she
could not be angry. A little smile again rippled her face,
almost in spite of herself.

Oh, yes, Christophe," she said lightly, " I know it is
all for my good."

With that he resumed his work, and she returned to
the house, wondering in herself, did he love her, or
did he not ? Surely she could not have been mistaken a
second time. Surely his face could not so belie his heart.
And yet, if he did, why this hesitation? Here was a
mystery to exercise a maiden's heart.

* He should not pretend either," thought little Genofa,
with a smile to herself j " the only difference is that he
pretends he doesn't'

SWEET SEDUCTIONS.

' Al my heart
Went after her with longing :

For all her longing and her will
Was toward me.

Tennyson" The Holy Gall"

Thus the little quarrel was made up, and the two became
friends against

Christophe settled his mind, as he thought firmly,
to be nothing more  to draw the line at the friendly
intercourse of brother and sister, and go no further. But
such a resolution was not easy to maintain where Genofa
was concerned.

After due consideration, the girl flattered herself that
she had found a most satisfactory clue to Christophe's
contradictory conduct. He did love her (her woman's
instinct made her feel almost sure of that, and her own
inclinations made her still surer), but he was afraid.
Poverty and want of family connexions made him shy of
aspiring to the hand of an heiress  for so Genofa, being
now the only child of well-to-do parents, was considered
in the village.

"I must encourage him a little, just a little," thought
the maiden, " or he will never get so far as to call in the
tailor." -

Accordingly she did " encourage him just a little," butin
so charming a way that " the little " was all too much
for the poor lad's strength of mind.

It was in the spring time; the blossom was on the
bough, the sun shone, birds were pairing, and rustic
lovers whispering under the hawthorn in the twilight hour.
What wonder if, as the sunny days slid by, that winter
night, and its dark deed under the menhir of Saint-Samson,
retired further and further into the background of the
lad's mind? What wonder if the promise which pledged
him to a life of celibacy and self-denial grew to appear of
doubtful necessity; especially as no public vow bound
him as yet, and the time went on without a word from
Bemez ?

Yet he still held out, though the resistance grew daily
weaker, as Genofa gradually drove every other idea from
his mind, enthroning her sweet image in his heart, like a
Madonna in the shrine of a votary.

*' I have not committed myself, I have said no compromising
word," he kept saying to himself, after every
meeting with the maiden of his thoughts, when the delight
of being alone in each other's society had been joy
sufficient for either. " So long as I do not betray myself

The tailor is the match-maker in brittany.

and not go too far, surely, surely it can do no harm just to
look at her sweet face and hear her soft voice ! Ah,
heaven ! it will soon be forbidden to me even to do that.
Good God ! why should I be shut out from the joys
which are open to other men ? Why should / be called
upon to make atonement for my father's sin? Oh, it is
hard, hard ! "

And with these thoughts in his heart, he would press
his hands together in impatient bitterness against the
hardness of his fate, till, in Genofa's sweet companionship,
he again half forgot the cloud which rested upon his life.

"To-morrow is the first of the June fetes,* Christophe!"
said Genofa one evening; as, drawn by the magnet other
presence, he had passed the well, as he came home
from work  though by no means the most direct road 
hoping to find her there, and enjoy the bliss of carrying
her buckets.

It is going to be a lovely day, I'm sure of that.
Thou wilt be there, of course?"

I do not know," answered the lad, wistfully. " I
may be kept late at work."

Fie, then ! Nobody works after three o'clock on the
June fetes. Of course thou'lt be there, when I tell thee."
She gave him an arch glance, as they stepped along in
the chequered shade of the over-arching trees, he bearing

'* A very ancient Breton festival, probably a relic of the old Midsummer rites
of Druidical ages. It is celebrated every Saturday afternoon in June in some parts
f the province.

the water-buckets, she with a brown earthenware pitcher
poised on her graceful head. " Of course thou'lt be
there ; I'll may be have thee for a partner, and let thee
place a wheat ear beside my flower. There ! "

She smiled so charmingly that the lad could not say
"No."

I'll see," he thought ; " the June fetes are dangerous,
I know ; but then I can be careful, and Heaven knows
where I may be next June ! "

A BOUQUET OF FLAX AND A WHEAT EAR.

I will, I must, these weary fetters break 
I will be free, if only for her sake."

Jean Angelo " Thi Four Bridges.

*' Loves me  loves me not  loves me !" Genofa leaned
against the grey stone lintel of her father's door, with a
daisy in her hands, trying the old, old charm.

A pretty picture she made, as she stood there in the
June sunshine with the cool tones of the granite behind
her, the vivid green of a creeping vine fluttering above,
and the landscape, flush with the beauty of midsummer,
spread out before her. On the golden brown of the steep
thatched roof, the pigeons basked and coo'd ; the air was
drowsy with the hum of bees, and fragrant with the scents
of meadow-sweet and hawthorn. The little garden was
a-blaze with colour  dark-hued, heavy-headed peonies;
daisies, red and white ; yellow marigolds, and pink
columbine ; wall-flowers, blending in sweetness all the
colours of the sunset these, and many another old-world
flower jostled each other pell-mell in the beds, an
embarrassment of brilliant beauty to the bright-winged

butterflies which hovered among them. And Genofa
herself was well worthy of this brilliant setting.

A fair-hued flower she looked herself, in her fete-day
costume,  her white apron and full white chemisette, her
black velvet bodice, with its rows of coloured embroidery,
little bouquet of blue flax-blossoms, and silver cross
flashing in the sunshine ; her full black skirts, under
whose blue and scarlet hems peeped her slender crossed
ankles and bright-buckled shoes.

The vine-leaves cast chequered shadows on the high
white cap which crowned her golden hair, and across her
fair face passed the swift-changing thought-shadows, as she
bent it over the daisy in deep absorption.

It was the day of the first June fete, and she was
waiting for Christophe to come and escort her to the
Organs' Town, as they called the largest cluster of Druid
stones on Carnac plain, where the feast was always held
by the inhabitants of that neighbourhood.

The other lads and lasses were trooping past down the
lane ; she heard their gay voices as she stood and waited,
and still Christophe did not come home from his work in
the fields. She knew he had leave to stop with the rest,
for no one was obliged to go on working after three
o'clock on any Saturday in June. Why, then, did he not
come ?

Genofa's heart sank within her. The doubts, which her
ingenious theory could not always dispel, rose black and

cold. Did he care for her after 2\\like thai ? If so, why
did he hesitate to lead her, as his favourite maiden, to the
dance ? She knew that a young man's selection of a girl
as his partner for the June fetes was generally considered
to mean something. Did he not wish to show that meaning
with respect to her? Was the inward preference, of
which it was looked on as the outward sign, not there?
Did he, perhaps, prefer some one else Yvonne, perhaps ?
A pain shot through the girl's heart at the thought, and
memory brought up the faint blush, the start, with which
Yvonne had sometimes met him, and the air of confidence
and bieii-etre with which she had observed that Christophe
was wont to chat with her cousin. Yes, he had generally
more words, when they met, for Yvonne than for her ; he
seemed less constrained in her presence. Could it be that
she was the chosen one; after all ?

In an agony of doubt, Genofa had seized on a daisy
from the grass at her feet, and began to despoil it of its
pink-tipped petals.

Loves me loves me not loves me If he doesn't

come before I have finished, I k7ioii< it will be ' loves me
not.' Ah, Holy Virgin ! what shall I do ? there is only

another row ! Loves me not  loves me Ah, heavens !

Christophe, what a start thought given me !"

She turned with a low cry and dropped the daisy, on
which one silver zone still guarded the golden eye. The
lad had come through the house behind her, and had

paused to listen to the girl's innocent conjuring. It was
spoken half aloud, and he had overheard in part. A thrill
of delight had gone through him as he seized the clue to
her thoughts.

For surely it is //' he thought, " for she is waiting forme.
Good heavens ! Does she really love me, then, so
much ?"'

In his great joy he forgot all obstacles, and put his hand
lightly on her shoulder, and then she started round with a
low cry, her face all a-glow.

"So thou hast come at last," she said, feigning
indignation, to hide her confusion. ** A pretty time thou
hast kept me waiting, sir ! I've a mind not to go,
after all !''

Not go r

He had come back almost resolved on avoiding the
danger, and feigning business as an excuse for not
escorting his foster-sister to the June Feast; but now
resolution VN-as cast to the winds, and he was struck with
consternation at the idea of missing it.

Not go ! Oh, yes, Genofa, do go. See, I'll be ready
in a minute; thou wilt hardly be able to count sixty
before I am down again."

He rushed up to his loft, and was down again m a
twinkling, his dark face a-glow with haste,, his tall, well-knit
form looking splendidly picturesque in the fete-day
garments which Ninorc'h's tender affection had provided.

VOL. II. Q

Genofa glanced at him with pride, as they walked together
down the lane towards the Organs' Town, and thought
thai none of the lads at the fete would become the
gold-embroidered jacket so well, or look so brightly-handsome
under the broad-brimmed, silver-buckled beaver,
with its velvet band and long fluttering ends.

For to-day Christophe did, indeed, look bright. The
cloud which brooded so often over his handsome face
had lifted, and given place to a smile ; a change seemed to
have passed over his whole appearance.

She loves me  loves me !" this was the tune to which
he walked so lightly over the turf-grown path. " And
since she loves me, am I not right to consider her first?
I am net bound yet not really. Will not love absolve
and be an excuse for all?"

So his heart spoke, and with a sigh of relief he threw
off bit and curb and bridle with which he had been
restraining himself, and decided to let himself go as love
and chance might lead him.

She shall decide," he thought. *' If she loves me
enough to have rae, and her parents consent  well, then,
why not take the happiness the saints bring ? Bernezz
has forgotten me  that is plain."

So he smiled on his pretty companion, and sang gay
snatches of song, and was blithe as the thrush which
warbled to his mate in the hawthorn-lowered hedgerow.

'christopher, my friend, thou hast got no wheat-cars;

how wilt thou make thy offering ?" said Cienofa, presently,
to the excited boy by her side. " See, here is a gate in
the hedge, and  yes, I do declare  a corn-field within,
just handy. Go and pluck them quick."

*' No ; do thou pluck them, Genofa; 'twill bring luck."

She went into the field, and he stood leaning over the
gate, watching her. He was uplifted as with wine, and
scarce knew where he was. He, the poor outcast, seemed
living in a sofie.

Genofa came out of the corn-field, holding six green
wheat ears in her hand.

IS'ow, my friend, thy hat," she said. " See, I will
fasten them in, and that will bring more luck still."

He took the beaver from his head, and stood with the
sun upon his jet-black locks. Thought Genofa, "Will they
choose him for the Pardon ' this year ? Surely there is
no lad among them so handsome as he !"

"Come," she said aloud, "they must not choose the
Pardon without us. Let us be quick, or the play will have
begun." So they stepped on together, under the whitened
hedges, and out on to the wide free space of Carnac
Plain.

How springy the turf felt under their light, hurrying
feet ; how winged was the breeze which brushed past
their faces ; how mad with joy the larks which carolled in
the air ! All seemed to Christophe to be keeping the

t The lencL-r of the June Felo.

June fete together, and such a fete as had never been
before. They passed one or two other belated couples,
hurrying along in the same direction, and one or two
stray youths and stray maidens coming alone, who had not
yet found their partners. Was Yvonne one of the latter ?

Genofa half thought she recognised her cousin, walking
alone across the plain at some yards' distance from them ;
but she turned away her head and would not look,
chattering away more gaily to Christophe, that he also
might . not look. She had not yet got over that sudden
pang of jealous doubt, though Christophe was by her
side, more lover-like than she had ever known him.

And so they arrived at the Organs' Town. This was
a labyrinth of dolmans and memoirs situated on another
part of the plain from that where Christophe and Bernezz
had had their interview, so that there was nothing to
remind him too rudely of the distasteful subject there
discussed. Nor was there anything in time and scene to
bring the moment unpleasantly before him.

Then, the twilight had been over the plain ; the solemn
hues of evening had been on earth and sky; menhir and
dolman had risen, dark and shrouded, and solitary,
among the shades ; the scene had been still as a church,
and unpeopled save by himself and the pale, stern priest.

Now, the sun rose high in the stainless blue ; the
plain was flooded with yellow light, and alive with gaily-dressed
groups of youths and maidens; the whole

unmarried population, indeed, for miles around, between
the ages of the riper teens and the earlier tens, had
gathered there to dance and make merry together.

The air rang with laugh and jest ] and dolman and
menhir stood among the merriment like ghosts robbed of
all terror, who, by some mistake, have forgotten quite to
vanish at cock-crow.

A crowd of both sexes had assembled around a hugh
altar-like dolman which stood in the centre of the circle.
Before it stood the son of Antonn Comorre's brother, a
handsome youth of two or three-and-twenty, from the
neighbouring town of Auray, holding by the hand a buxom
damsel, several years older than himself, who, as report
said, would shortly become his bride. By the knot of
blue, green, and white ribbons, which he wore in his
button-hole, any Breton would at once have recognised
him as the pardon, or master of last June, while his
partner's silver ring proclaimed her as the past mistress.

His was the right of electing his successor, and a crowd
of the best-looking and most active of the young men
were trying to attract his notice, while the maidens were
pressing him to make a choice, that the sport might at
once begin. But, as it seemed, he was laughingly denying
them all, and, though keeping the crowd in good humour
with jest and compliment, kept looking over his shoulder
in the direction of Carnac village, as though awaiting
the arrival of someone expected. No sooner did he

perceive Christophe and Genofa than, unpinning his badge
of office, he came towards them, and, bowing low, said,
in a tone of mock solemnity : 

If it please you, ladies and gentlemen, to approve my
choice, I hereby name Christophe of the Menhir as pardon
of this year's fctos. Have I your consent ? "

He held up the knot of ribbons, which fluttered
in the the thyme-scented air, and looked towards the
crowd.

There was a thrill of some surprise. Some of the
youths looked discontented, some of the maidens supercilious
at this elevation of the pillar's son to the place
of honour over them ; but Christophe's prowess at wrestling
and single-stick had won for him a sort of respect,
and young Comorre was, besides, such a general favourite
that none liked to dispute his choice. Moreover, of
Christophe's good looks and excellent dancing  indispensable
qualities for every pardon  there could be no
doubt ; and, therefore, no open dissatisfaction was shown,
though the acclamations which greeted the nevv master
were less hearty than usual.

Young Comorre observed it, and to cover the lack of
warmth, uttered so many hot mots, as, in spite Christophe's
resistance, he pinned the ribbons in his button-hole, that
the by-sanders were soon in renewed good-humour.

"There, little cousin," whispered the young man aside
to Genofa,  "that's for thy sweet sake; for I know full

well who'll be mistress. Don't tell Marie, here, or she'll
be jealous !"

Christophe had flushed crimson at his unexpected
election ; and, keenly sensitive to the general feeling, had
begun by opposing himself to it ; but a look and a word
from Genofd stopped him.

A mark for every eye, he stood awkwardly in the midst
of the gay throng, longing to retire into private life, and
leave his honours to a more popular candidate, but unable
to do so on account of the pretty maiden, who he knew
was so ready to share them.

Come, lad," said young Comorre, slapping him good-humouredly
on the shoulder,  "don't dcX Jean Ic Vain'*
Choose the mistress, and let us get the ceremonies over
and begin the dance. Verf2(z,-\ my feet are itching to beat
it !"

The past mistress, with a sigh, drew off her silver
ring, and Christophe, blushing all over his dark face,
immediately placed it on Genofa's slender finger, upon
which the cheers which had been wanting in warmth at
his own election, immediately broke out with added
heartiness. Genofa Comorre was so fully recognised as a
beauty throughout the whole bishopric, that few maidens
in the assembly could consider her election as any slight
to themselves; and as for the lads, one and all admired
her  they could not help it !

An imbecile. t A. Ireton exclamation.

Then, the new master and mistress of the revels having
been chosen, the honoris struck up a prelude, and the
time-honoured song of the June Feast began. First, last
year's pardon sang to his partner a little greeting and
assurance of his constant true love, she replying
coquettishly by telling him that he was quite free to
take back his heart with the silver ring if so it pleased
him ; upon which he described his feelings as shadowed
forth by the ribbons of his badge :  '*'

The green ribbon in honour of my gossip fair I wore,
For true and tender was the love in my heart for her I
bore.

The white ribbon I wore in the eye of day to show
A token of the spotless love that was betwixt us two.

The blue ribbon I wore to mark that at peace with her

I'd be :
And ever as I look at it my sighs fall heavily."

Here young Comorre heaved such a tremendous sigh
and cast up his eyes so pathetically, that the whole party
was convulsed with laughter; and to the closing couplet
of his song his buxom maiden at once gave the lie by
tucking her arm confidentially within his, and joining in
the merriment evoked by his sad 

I'm left alone, now she is flown, alack, and well-a day !
As the wanton little pigeon from the old cote flies away."

(But that's not thee, Mac'haidik, the saints be thanked !)

" ballads and Songs of Brutal."

concluded the merry fellow, with a proud look at his
partner, who smiled confidingly in return.

Now, Christophe," said young Comorre, encouragingly.

The Child of the Menhir held back, but the other
youths pushed him forward, and he was fain to begin his
song to the sharer of his dignities.

It had all been composed long before, and was the
conventional greeting used on the occasion of every June
feast; yet the lad blushed and faltered over it, as though
it had been composed by himself, on purpose to express
his feelings for the lovely girl who stood before him,
flushing and sparkling with pleasure at her election : 

Then come away, my sweetheart, come walk the woods

with me,
We will hear the winds a-rustle in the branches of the

tree;
And the waters of the streamlet the pebbles murmuring

o'er,
And the birds in the tall tree-tops that their merry music

pour," &c., <S:c.

No sooner was the singing over, than every lad sought
out the girl he liked best, and the couples filed up, two
and two, to the great dolman to make their June offerings.

A relic this, no doubt, of the old heathen rites of
midsummer ; but, good Catholics as the Bretons are, many
such observances remain, testifying to the old religion of
their Celtic ancestors, still clung to with all the tenacity
of their race.

Upon the Druid altar, each maiden, who favoured her
partner sufficiently, laid the bunch of flax-blossoms which
all wore in their bodices ; and her swain then placed by
it a green wheat-ear from his beaver. If these remained
unwithered at the close of the evening, it was a happy
omen that man and maid would be faithful to each
other. Christophe and Genofa went through the
ceremony with the rest; but for them, at least, it had
a grave significance.

The girl laid down the little blue bouquet from her
breast, in a soft flutter of content ; stealing a look at her
partner, as she did so, to see how he was taking it. Very
seriously it seemed to be, if she might judge from the
intense look on the dark face, the flush on his cheek, and
the firm, set lips. His hand trembled, ashe took off his
hat and detached one of the wheat-ears she had given
him ; and his colour waned, leaving him white under the
sun-tan, as he placed the green by the blue.

Did there flash before him at that instant another
offering, made by another Druid stone, an offering which
should have left him naught to offer now ?

Some such cause there must have been to account for
the strange expression  a look almost of fear  which
passed across his face, as he completed the action.
Genofa saw it, and grew pale also. So superstitious was
the child, that such a look at such a time made her
shudder, as at an omen baneful to their love.

For one moment she stared at her partner, her blue
eyes wide with a nameless terror ; then the binons struck
up and the new master and mistress were called upon to
lead the jabadao.

At the first sound of the Breton bag-pipes, Christophe
started ; the look on his face chang-ed to one of bold
defiance, and he seized his partner and whirled her off at
the head of the dancers, in a mad round which left not a
moment for thought.

This first dance was a long one. The pipers played
till they were out of breath, and the couples were slow to
leave the ring. The new master and mistress were the
last on the ground, and not till the musicians had paused
from sheer exhaustion did Christophe draw his pretty
partner aside to rest.

Pretty, indeed, she looked ; her fair cheeks flushed with
exertion to the hue of a monthly-rose ; her eyes sparkling
with excitement, her golden locks falling from beneath
her snow-white coif, the sport of every soft air which
breathed across the plain.

Many an admiring look was cast on Antonn Comorre's
daughter, as she stood by her partner's side, leaning
against a menhir, her pretty feet crossed at the ankles
beneath the many-coloured hems" of her tier of petticoats,
whose number showed that she was well-dowered in

The wealth of a Ireton girl may Ije guessed from the numljcr of hems to her
petticoats.

goods as well as in beauty ; and many a lad felt a jealous
twinge under his embroidered vest, as he saw how
well-pleased the lite rustic belle seemed with her handsome
partner.

She might have had twenty others for the next dance ;
but she shook her pretty head, as the lads came crowding
up, and assured them that the next and yet the next were
promised to Christophe. Nor would she bind herself to
dance with any, her cousin, young Comorre, only excepted,
till later on in the evening.

There were some envious ones who remarked that the
favour-ed swain did not look so light-hearted as he should
under so marked a preference. And, indeed, as he leant
there against the tall grey stone, in spite of having the
prettiest girl by his side, the cloudless blue overhead,
and the flowery turf beneath his feet; in spite of the
jubilant songs of the larks, and the flood of sunshine
all around, there was something in his face not quite to
match.

What is it, Christophe ? Thou art grave T' said
Genofa, presently, half anxious, half reproachful, as she
looked up in his handsome face. " Wouldst perhaps like
another partner for a change?"

Another partner ! The saints forbid 1" was his
vehement answer ; and the look which accompanied it
quite satisfied Genofa as to its truth. Yet there was a
wildness about him, as he seized her and whirled her off

again at the first sound of the binons, which half
frightened the pretty child.

What possessed Christophe this evening ? She had
never seen him like this before : now grave, now gay,
with a mad gaiety which kept him moving through the
mazes of the dance, till the other couples clapped their
hands at the tireless agility of their nev pardon. Then
what burning looks he cast at her : what defiance there
was in his handsome eyes for every other lad who
approached her. What had come over him ?

Teach me, only teach, Love !
As I ought,
I will speak thy speech, Love
Think thy thought

Meet, if thou require it.

Both demands.

Laying flesh and spirit

In the" hands."

***)(-

Heart, shall we live or die ?
The rest settle it by-and-bj' !"

R. Browning;.

''I AM tired. Wouldst like to dance with Yvonne?"

Genofa said this, and looked proving-ly at Christophe,
as the binons struck up for the twelfth time, and the
couples moved to their places. She had seen the covert
way in which her cousin watched him ; she had seen how
once, when she was dancing with young Comorre,
Yvonne and Christophe had stood out from the circle and
talked together; and her jealousy stirred again.

No, I will not dance with Yvonne ; she has already
had Iter turn from me this evening," answered Christophe,
carelessly. '' See, she is going to dance with little
Houarn, the tailor. But thou art tired ?" He looked

tenderly down at the flower-like head, which was drooping
a little. " Poor little white dove, I've been too hard
on thee ! Have I quite danced thee off thy feet, Genofa ?"

The colour, which had paled a little, flushed her cheeks
once more under the tender look, the caressing words.

*'No, Christophe, no," she answered, almost timidly.
Only let me rest a bit, and then we will dance again.
Heavens ! was there ever such a June Feast before ?"

Never !" he answered, fervently. " I did not care
much about June before this year, Genofa ; but then I
have been away so long, and before that ''

Yes, before that we were only children," she said
quickly, taking the words out of his mouth  " wee where
only children, and did not come to the June Feasts ; and
we did not know "

She paused and reddened.

"What?"

He had slipt his arm through hers, and was bending-over
her, as they strolled away tog-ether over the daisies
plain. The heat of the afternoon was over ; the sun was
sliding down his golden way towards the west; the air
was golden ; the sun flashed a golden line on the
horizon : the flowering blossoms of the broom and whin
showed like golden heaps, cast down upon the fine, short
turf : and the two walked on in a golden dream.

What ?" He had asked the question, but the answer
did not come, and for some moments neither seemed to

care for further speech. The sound of the binons, the
g-ay laughter of the dancers, came to them on the scented
air, more and more softened by distance. Other couples
were strolling about also, but not near them, or, if they
were, they did not see them. Christophe had eyes for
nothing but Genofa, and she seemed to be counting the
daisies at her feet, as they pressed the pearly stars by
hundreds beneath their tread.

"No, we did not know then," he said, presently, as
though thinking out aloud a continuation to her speech 
we did not know, and now we do. It is of no use trying
to hide it from one another  is it, Genofa ?"

Her hand trembled on his arm. She looked up in his
face with a startled glance ; it seemed as though he were
reading her very heart.

There was a melting passion, an intense softness, in the
dark face, which made her drop her eyes instantly, and
colour to the very edge of her coif.

We know it, Genofa," he went on, speaking in a low,
soft tone, which yet vibrated, as though with some strong
feeling he were trying to control ; " we both know it, do
we not ? Say, are we to speak it out to each other, or
must I go away ? It must be one or the other  I cannot
stay here longer, and be dumb !"

There was a ring of pain in the last words which went
to her heart ; but yet she did not answer at once. She
had a nervous feeling that he was going a little too far.

She had encouraged him, it is true ; but should he not
first have spoken to the tailor, before asking her a question
which, perhaps, would need an answer it would be
premature for her to give ? What would father and
mother say, if she, their heiress and only child, were to
promise herself away so unceremoniously?

'* Must I go away, Genofa?  j/iicst I ?" He was speaking
again, and his voice was full of a passionate appeal.
*thou dost not know how sad it is to go where none
knows one, to wander where none cares ! Oh ! Genofa, I
have been so alone in the world, so solitary, so unloved
I thought "

His voice broke.

Then timidity gave way, and she strove to answer.

"Oh ! Christophe, thou must not leave us. This is thy
home, thou knowest."

*' But it cannot be my home, Genofa, except on one
condition. Child, dost think I'm like the dumb oxen, who
are content so long as they have a stall at night and a
truss of fodder ? Dost think I can see thee every day
and be as silent as they are ? Genofa, it is for thee to
decide  / cannot choose ; things are too strong for me !
Say, Genofa, must I go or stay ?"

She was frightened at the passion of his words. The
calm air of the wide plains seemed to thrill with his voice,
low as it was, and speaking for her ear alone. She tried
to answer, but could not.

VOL. II. R

Then I will go."

He took his arm from hers, looked at her once, and
turned away.

But her heart cried out in terror, and she stretched out
her hands.

"Christophe! Oh! it is not that no that, but

Father ! Mother !"

It was very inarticulate, but it brought him to her side
again. He took hold of her outstretched hands, and
looked down into her eyes. *' Father and mother, Genofa?
Ay, I know ; but it is thou who must give me the answer.
Must I go or stay ?"

*' Stay !"

She said it very softly ; but it was enough. With a
cry of exultation he caught her in his arms.

'* Then I will stay, Genofa. 77/? hast decided, and I
am thine  thine, body and soul !"

She started at the words, even as she stood there with
her head on his breast. They seemed to her almost
blasphemy ; and, indeed, the lad was so carried away by
excitement and passion, and the rebound from his late
in-curbing, that he scarcely knew what he said.

Thine !

Something in the echo of his own words and the way
in which she received them struck him also. He looked
up suddenly, started in his turn, and shuddered.

Before them, at the distance but of a few paces,

standing grave and tall against the evening sky, was the
great menhir under which Christophe had been found.
In their absorption they had drawn near to it unconsciously,
and had entered into the great shadow
stretching from its feet far across the plain. Christophe
gazed at it with eyes distended by a sudden horror.

"Not thine, but ininCy' it seemed to say in its silent
language.

Genofa followed the direction of her lover's eyes, and
she, too, trembled.

To have made their avowal in the shadow of that old
relic of the heathen times, seemed to her ill-omened, and
especially under that menhir.

*'A Child of the Menhir!" thus they called him.
Was there, indeed, something supernatural about his
origin ?

The girl looked in her lover's face, and her own grew
pale. Christophe saw it, and shook off the misgiving
which had suddenly possessed him.

Well, the die is cast now at all events," he muttered
to himself ;  " she has decided for me, and I cannot drawback.
Come, let me enjoy what fate sends me. Heaven
knows I have not had much pleasure in life !" He turned
to the girl.

** Sweetheart," he said, gently-why doit look so
pale ? Come, let us go back to the dance."

So they went, and in the mad, merry measure, soon

forgot the shadow cast by the great menhir. And at
sundown, when the gay gathering broke up, and a purple
twilight fell around the Organs' Town, where (as
they say) the little men of underground would soon be
dancing in the mortals' footsteps, those two walked home
in company, with their handsome heads very near
together, holding each other by the heart-finger,''- and
murmuring soft endearments in the shade of the
hawthorn hedges, where the thrushes were singing to
their mates.

Those two will soon be coming to my father, for
example," remarked Houarn Kabik, the tailor's son, ashe
shambled homewards by the side of Yvonne.

The tall, calm maiden had let him walk with her from
the merry-making, because she could not resist the
pleading of his eyes for this small grace. It was such
heaven for the simple, awkward fellow just to be allowed
to be beside her. He seldom said anything, and much as
his worship irked her, she was weary of ceaseless
denials. Yet she would sometimes think a little sorely,
why should it be just this little Houarn Kabik who had
picked her out for his admiration ? If he had not done
it, would another? The other lads seemed strangely
respectful of his choice, and she felt that it was hard
upon her.

So the Bretons call the rinj:;-ringer. For youth and maiden to hold each other
by this, means courtship.

'* My father will have a little business soon, will he
not, Mistress Yvonne?" went on the young tailor, presently,
seeing that his companion did not respond.

Who ? What ?" asked the girl, starting as from a
dream.

Why, yon couple  Mistress Genofa and Christophe
of the Menhir," said Houarn, with more alacrity than
usual, pointing to a youth and maiden walking on before
them in the far perspective of the flowery lane.

"Genofa and Christophe! Oh, no!" exclaimed the
girl, with quick decision.

' And why not ?"

"Why?" Oh, it is impossible! My uncle and aunt
would never allow it; and, besides, he is as good as
dedicated."

For Christophe, in a moment of confidence, had once
confided to the sister of Bernezz his thoughts of the
priesthood. The hint of it had caused her a momentary
shock; it had blown down a tiny castle in the land of
hope, which had at one time just trembled before her
vision. But she had grown accustomed to the idea, and
it had brought her peace. She had watched his ways
with Genofa without a pang of jealousy.

'only the Church will be his bride," she had thought.
They are just like brother and sister, that is all !"

"As good as dedicated?" repeated the lite tailor,
spending more words on the theme than was usual with

him. 'what 1 will he be a kliJarek? Nay, nay, Mistress
Yvonne, I am not a traitor's son for nothing ; I know
better than that!"

She did not reply, and the tall girl and the little man
walked on in silence under the snowy hedges. But a
sting had been planted in her heart. She watched the
couple before her with a new misgiving. Yes, they
seemed very different from her and Kabik.

"Can that be the way in which lovers walk?" she

thought uneasily. " Can it be possible that But no,

Christophe would not be false to his vocation."

HIS Marriage MESSENGER.

Thanks, good friend ; sound fruit is sound,
But for your apple nought I care,
Nor for your flower nor for your ear ;
All on my dove is set my mind."

ballads and Songs of Brittany."

*' Yvonne, I want thy help."

It was the next morning. The dew was still on the
grass and on the thorn-hedges where the May bloomed
thick and white, making the air fragrant, as with the
scent of fresh almonds.

Yvonne Guenedon was driving her cow down the lane,
meaning to commit her to the care of one of the little
herdsmen on the plain. By the last gate stood Christophe,
with his scythe over his shoulder, and old Caleb couched
at his feet.

Yvonne started a little and the colour came to her face.

Thou here, Christophe ? I did not expect to meet
thee here. I thought Uncle Antonn was to begin cutting
the seed-meadow to-day ?"

Ay. But I came round this way to see thee.'

"Me?"

Ay, Yvonne ; why not ? I want thy help."

My help ? What can I do, Christophe ?"

On the instant there flashed on her the meaning looks
and words of Houarn Kabik last night. Could it be
that ? But the idea was painful to the girl, and she put
it from her, as human nature is prone to do.

Christophe looked impatient. It seemed to him that his
friend and confidant was dull of comprehension this
morning. Since his understanding with Genofa, last
night, it seemed to him that his meaning was only too
plain.

We are all apt to forget that what is all-absorbing,
and thus all-transparent to ourselves, is often neither
interesting nor plain to others.

*' Nay, for sure thou must know, Yvonne : thou must
have seen. Oh I Yvonne, thou wilt be my friend, wilt
thou not?"

"I avi thy friend, Christophe 1" she answered, simply;
then looked at him, and waited.

And Genofa's ?"

She started a lite, but still replied : " Yes."

"We will always be grateful to thee, she and I, if
only "

Thei it was true !

'' Oh, Christophe 1" burst out the girl, scarcely knowing

what she said. *' Oh, Christophe, thou canst not mean it ;
thou canst not mean that thou and Genofa  "

*' Love one another?" he took the words out of her
mouth  " Ay, and why not ? "

Why not ? But surely thou saidst that thou wert
already devoted, hadst already chosen  the Church."

Her words seemed to sting him. He coloured angrily.

"And did I say it was decided? Am I already a
Kloarek ? "

No, but"

'' But what ? Surely I have a right to change. I have
made no vow  at least  " He hesitated. The remembrance
of that evening by the menhir returned upon him
and made him uneasy.

Yvonne saw his vexation, and checked herself  what
right had she to find fault ? It was, or ought to be.
nothing to her.

*' Christophe," she said, gently; * Don't be vexed.
Tell me all about it."

Then he told her, and his heart warmed, and the
uneasy feeling passed away as he spoke of Genofa.

She heard him to the end, trying her best to keep
down the rebellion of her heart. She did not understand
it  had no leisure, then, to ask what it meant yet she
felt it was there. But the thought of Bernezz rose, as
she listened. What would he, with his exalted ideas,
say to this choice of an earthly love in place of

the divine ? With what withering scorn she had once
heard him speak of a Kloarek who had been false to
his vocation ! And how disappointed he would be !
She knew that his heart had been early set on winning-christopher
; she knew how his soul exulted over a recruit
gained for the service of the Sanctuary.

Christophe," she interposed timidly, as he paused fora
moment in his praises of Genofa :  " She is all that, I
know ; but Bernezz, what will he say ? "

The lad flushed again uncomfortably.

** What should he say ? " he exclaimed, with some
heat :  " If I find I have mistaken my vocation, there
need be no more words from him in the matter. But
I see how it is, Yvonne, thou art not willing to help me.
It is very unkind."

"But I am willing," rejoined the girl, her eyes filling
with tears :  * It is only only  but never mind, I will
say no more. Come, Christophe, tell me what I must
do ? "

Go to father and mother I mean Genofa's  and
break the news to them," he said, somewhat mollified.
'' Do it this morning, when I am out of the way, and
Genofa is sitting with the sick child at Manor Pouldu*s.
Begin with the mother, and then when the father comes
in at noon, the way will be paved, and thou canst tell
him quietly without fear of an outcry. And, Yvonne !
kind Yvonne I speak for me, wilt thou not ? They love

me well, that I know. Still I am but a poor match
for Genofa, that I know also. Yet she loves me,
she loves me, the bonnie wee thing, and that should
weigh."

He had begun eagerly, commandingly almost ; he
ended with a humble tenderness, as he spoke of himself
in comparison with her he loved, which seemed infinitely,
touching to his hearer. She looked at him with a wistful
expression in her clear, grey eyes.

"Yes, Christophe, I will do it."

*sand you will come to me afterwards in the seed-meadow,
and tell me how you have sped?"

Yes."

* Our Lady bless thee. Thou art a true friend, Yvonne."

He said it gratefully ; then, calling his dog, he went off
to his work in the seed-meadow. Yet he never paused to
look after her as he went.

For some time Yvonne let her cow graze by the
roadside, and stood there by the gate, with her arms
resting on the top of it, and her forehead resting
upon them. She felt stunned and incapable of
motion.

My God ! my God !" this was the inarticulate cry of
her heart, *' I could have given him up to Iliac !  Thou
knowest it ; but to Jierl  He will wed, after all, an earthly
bride, and I  "  she breathed hard as in bodily pain 
and I ? Yes, I must help him ; I can do that, and he

must never know, never know, what it costs me. May
God bless him, and make him happy in his own
way with her he has chosen, and give me strength to
help him !"

So the girl prayed in her pain, and her sweet, true,
natural unselfishness helped her in that hour. Of shame
to herself, in having given her love unsought, the simple
peasant girl did not dream. He to whom she had devoted
the precious ointment of her heart would none of it ; but
she did not, therefore, grudge its dedication. She could
still pour it out for him in one way, if he would not have
it in another.

The cow lowed behind her, tired by the unwonted
delay. Yvonne looked up at the sound, sighed a little
wearily, and swung the gate open for the animal to pass
through. On the plain the little herdsmen were whistling
and shouting to each other; larks were singing in the
sweet blue air ; and bees were humming peacefully and
busily in the golden broom-blossoms. All seemed in tune
with the joyous freshness of the June morning ; yet, as
the girl turned homewards, after disposing of her
cow, there was a white, still look on her face which
would have suited better with the end of life  with
snow and sadness, death and winter  than with its
beginning  youth and sunshine, song and flowers
A frost had nipped hers full early, poor Yvonne.
But she did not lie down and die, for all that ; she

was one of those women who can suffer and be
strong.

Just as carefully as usual did she fulfil her little daily-duties
in her grandfather's cottage ; just as tenderly did
she help the old man to rise and dress; and then, having
seated him in his armchair and set on the pot-au-feu for
dinner, she asked a neighbour to keep an eye on him incase
he should want anything, and set off on her errand
to the farm.

It was well on in the afternoon before she could seek
out Christophe. He was standing knee-deep in the
buttercup-studded grass of the seed-meadow, mowing
down long ranks of juicy herbage, and did not see her till
she was close on him. Then he started, and his lips
trembled so. that he could scarcely frame the question he
was longing to put.

It was the girl who loved him that spoke first; in a
calm, clear tone, which surprised even herself when she
thought of it afterwards.

I have told them, Christophe. They were not pleased
at first ; but they love you, and I think they will give in
for your sake and for Genofa's."

This was all she told him. She said nothing of
Ninorc'h's tears nor of Antonn's anger on their first
reception of her news. She said nothing of her own
special pleading, nor of the length of time it was before
she could win from them a promise to consider the

matter. She kept the trouble to herself, and only g-ave
him the hard-won fruits.

Thanks, Yvonne, thanks," he said, with a brightening
face as he finished ;  " thou art better than any
tailor."

This was all the thanks she got. The happy lover
went off to find his chosen, and the girl who loved him
stole into the silent church and prayed.

HALCYON DAYS.

All in the blue unclouded weather."

Tennyson " Lady of Shalt."

Anton Comorre grumbled and fumed a little ; Ninorc'h
Comorre g-loomed and fretted a little. Both agreed that
'twas but a poor match for their heiress ; both regretted
the pillar connexion  though of course //// must be
broken off ; but both agreed that Christophe was a good
lad, and like a son already.

Finally, after watching the devotion of the young
people, and submitting to much pretty coaxing from
Genofa, they said " yes !" and the two were allowed to
go through the ceremony of drinking wine from the
same cup, and cutting bread with the same knife, which
in Brittany is regarded as a preliminary engagement :
Christophe being a " son of the house," (as Antonn said),
the more formal interventions of the Bazvala7i ''' could
be dispensed with.

The marriage was to follow after the harvest.

Then began a time of sunshine for the lovers : a time

The Ireton matcli-makw, and marriage messenger, who Is generally the tailor

of wandering" in the lanes at twilight, holding each other
by the ring-finger ; of whispered conversations in the
corners of the room ; of meetings by the well, and shy
kisses in the cool, moist shade of the dairy, or in the
orchard behind the gable before the rising of the moon.
Every time  in fact, every place  was consecrated by
some little sweet remembrance of a love-blossom snatched
from among the hours of labour. Only Genofa observed
that, unless his work or his duties as pardon of the June
Feasts took him there, Christophe avoided the plain, and
that he always came away from a chance visit to it with
a shadow on his brow.

This did not trouble her however, not then ; nor did
she vex herself to find a reason for it, in those first
halcyon days of acknowledged love.

Bluebeard's wife did not trouble herself about the
mysterious closet in that first joyous time of her undisputed
reign. All was too new and wonderful for that.

They were very happy those two young things. She
indeed had been happy always (with little intermissions,
which, like the cloud-shadows on a gleamy day, did
but enhance the sunshine), and this was like crown seton
it all ; or as the unchecked expanding of a bright
morning into a golden noon. He had suffered ; had
known what it is to go loveless and alone ; and this
sudden happiness was to him like the passing into
Paradise from the dark waves of a troublesome world :

it almost intoxicated him. The haunting fears which
had pursued him so long ; the struggle with himself
which had embittered the dawn of his love ; the vacue
uneasiness of conscience which had preceded the decisive
words  these were all forgotten in the bright dream
whose every vision was of bliss. Genofa was the heroine,
the centre of it all. He lived but for Genofa, thought but
of her, had eyes for none else ; and who, indeed, so
worthy of an all-absorbing love ? So at least thought
the adoring Christophe, as he looked at her beauty,
ripening like a peach under the sun of their mutual
happiness.

He became a poet in those days, like many another of
his poetical race, and composed a sone to his love, in
which he compared her hair to the golden blossoms of the
broom, her eyes to the sky-blue flax-flowers by which
she had marked him out as her chosen swain, her lips to
the crimson berries of the eglantine, and her face to a
wild-rose, blushing in the soft red of the early dawn. It
had all been said, no doubt, many a time before, of many
another maiden ; but what matter. Is not Love, are not
his utterances, ever new, though old as the days of Adam
and Eve? The spring, with its primroses and violets, is
born anew year by year, bringing ever fresh delight ;
and yet summer and winter, seedtime and harvest, have
not failed since the world began.

Genofa found that little sone the best and sweetest she
vor II. s

had cver heard, when Christophe repeated it to her one
evening behind the gable, when the white roses in the
garden-beds looked like veiled moons in the dim twilight,
when the stars were twinkling through the leaves of the
lime-trees overhead, and the nightingales were calling to
their mates. Sic thought it a miracle of composition ; so
what matter if it were not quite original ?

Yes, those were halcyon days for our hero and our
heroine ; but somehow such days will not bear much
description.

Those who have passed such will know all about it for
themselves ; and those who have not, will, according to
these connoisseurs, never be able to understand till their
own turn comes.

And this being the case, we may as well bring our
chapter to a close.

CHAPTER I.

Ij) SHARPENING WITS 1

:;;j CHAPTER II.

THUNDER IN THE AIR 14

' CHAPTER III.

SIGNS 19

CHAPTER IV.

Genoa's CONFESSION 28

CHAPTER V.

THE GREY CROW 38

CHAPTER VI.

SAINTE-ANNE 46

CHAPTER VII.

A VOICE FROM THE MENHIR 56

CHAPTER VIII.

PARTING 63

BOOK VIL-THE KLOAREK.
CHAPTER I.

DOWN WITH THE Clues ! " . . . .69

CHAPTER II.
"who is it? " . . . . . . 78

CHAPTER III.

ON THE BRINK OF AN ABYSS 85

CHAPTER IV.

BENEATH THE CRUCIFIX 90

CHAPTER V.

DENOUNCED 99

CHAPTER VI.

IN THE MIST . 108

CHAPTER VII.

A LITTLE CALCULATION 116

CHAPTER VIII.

PAST AND PRESENT 119

CHAPTER IX.

Madeline Goren's LITTLE SECRET . . . 128

CHAPTER X.

UNTO DEATH 136

CHAPTER XL
FOR him" 143

CHAPTER XII.

PROBATION 156

CONCLUSION . 159

'site Jiiiujer of Jfatt.

BOOK VI. THE FINGER OF FATE.

CHAPTER I.

SHARPENING WITS.

Past. " Art thou his friend ?''
Henry. " And his kinsman, too."

ShaivESI'eare " King Henry V.

A LA Creole de Bethlehem ! " is the name and sign
of a little road-side inn about midway between Auray and
Carnac. A small, brown, unpretending house it is, in spite
of its highly-coloured picture of the sacred manger group,
which swings beside the customary bunch of withered
mistletoe over the door. But, then, who could imagine a
grand hotel with such a name? The little brown house
is, outwardly at least, in character.

Let us enter it one June evening in the year, so-called
of grace, 1792, and see whether the inside corresponds.

This also is small and brown, and dark withal, for,
though it is a June evening, it is raining steadily, a
thick, persistent drizzle, and the window-panes are neither

VOL. III. B

of the largest nor cleanest. A turf fire smoulders on the
hearth, every now and then sending a puff of smoke into
the room, which seems used to it, to judge by the uniform
complexion of its contents. Nor is the chimney the only
smoker. On one side of ir, that next the window, sit two
men on a wooden bench with a wooden table before them,
smoking likewise ; and every now and then removing their
pipes to wash down the taste with a draught of cider.

One of these is mine host of the Creche a corpulent
man, fond of gossip, who likes to drink with his guests, and
savour the news with his cider.

His boon companion this evening is a thick-set young
man, with straight, black hair, and sallow complexion,
whom we have occasionally met before, though on previous
occasions he did not wear a certain red woollen cap 
rapidly becoming fashionable at that epoch  which is
certainly most becoming to his style.

*eyes," he said, presently, removing his pipe and taking
up his mug of cider from among the rings of that liquor
which covered the table, "yes, the times are beginning
to march  * ca ira, ca ira, as we say  we others in Paris.
We are appointing committees in every town ; we are
preparing the people, and giving them a little instruction ; weare
showing the King what the nation is, opposite to him.
Yes, yes, things are beginning to march at last."

*' In the towns, yes ; but scarcely here-abouts. Monsieur,"
began the landlord ; but the other took him up quickly

We say citizen now-a-days, not Monsieur!  we
others  Citizen Adam Tonykk  if you please."

The landlord looked up hastily.

Ah, pardon ; but as Mons I mean the Citizen 

perhaps knows, we are not so far on the march here as they
are in the towns. Country people are always in the rear."

"Ah, yes," rejoined the red-cap, rather loftily. "That
is what we must set right. The Citizen Landlord is, of
course, one of us? 1 have heard of him."

Mine host looked a little scared. He glanced round
hastily to see if he were observed ; but the only other
person in the room  a ragged beggar sitting in a far
corner  seemed too far gone in cider to be capable of
observation, for he was embracing his mug with one arm
and supporting his nodding head with the other. Citizen
Adam Tonykk followed the direction of his host's glance,
but, unaware of the presence of another guest, failed to
perceive the beggar where he sat in the shade.

Yes, yes," answered the landlord, in a confidential
tone. " My heart is, indeed, with the nation. The citizen
has not been misinformed ; I do my little best."

Good. Well, then, I want a little information. What
are the dispositions at Carnac ? "

"At Carnac?" The landlord raised his hands. "Ah,
sad, sad ! The people are sunk in the slough of priestcraft
and aristocratical. It is a iitronglicld of the old
regime."

Yes, and must be a stronghold of nationality. There
are reasons." He paused a little. " Describe the
situation."

"Firstly," answered mine host, touching his thumb.
Firstly, a aircj whom they adore, and a young priest,
his pupil, one of themselves, of whom they ai proud 
oh, up to the skies ! "

Not there now ? Surely not."

Oh, no, proscribed  in hiding somewhere. There
is a jiireiir ; but no one attends his offices  the old
influence remains."

"Well and then?"

"And then? Why, secondly,"  the landlord touched
his forefinger. " A seigneur, who is young and handsome,
and was at nurse from infancy in the house of one of
their chief farmers. He is as one of themselves*'

There now ? "

Oh, no ! The chief estates are near Dinan."

Not an emigre ? "

No."

Well, at all events, priest and seigneur are not on the
spot. Their influence will yield to mine."

"Will the Citizen excuse me? I doubt it."

But why ? These peasants are sheep. "Who will
resist me?"

"Ah! you do not know. There is the seigneurs foster-brother,
hand in glove with him, and a leader among the

young men. The Child of the Menhir ! they call him, and,
as they say, helped by the demon ! No such wrestler, no
such souleur/'- the leader of the June Feasts this year,
betrothed to the richest heiress of the place, and the secret
supporter, as they say, of the proscribed priests."

Indeed ! He must be removed."

As suspect ? Will the Citizen excuse me again ? That
would be dangerous. The people would probably rise."

The red-cap smiled a little. " Gently ; I am well aware
we must act gently. Things are not yet ripe for prompt
measures ; but there are others. Go on."

And mine host did, till he had told all he knew of
Christophe's history, and of the condition of things in
Carnac. He got little gossip in return that evening.

Finally, when he had heard all he wanted, the red-cap
asked for another jug of cider, and the landlord, after
setting it before him, excused himself and retired to attend .
to some business outside.

When he was gone, Citizen Adam Tomyk, ex-miller's
man and valet-de-chanibre, poured himself out another mug
of cider, but did not drink it immediately ; on the contrary,
his thoughts seemed for the moment to be meat and drink
sufficient.

In the far corner, the other guest of the Creole de
Bethlehem sat as erect as his cider would allow him, with
eyes fixed on the red-cap. He was apparently less far

Football player.

gone than mine host had imagined ; for there was speculation
in his bleary eyes, and he was saying softly to
himself, in a voice which the other occupant of the room
could not overhear : 

In Carnac, is he ? the beast ! Confound their low
voices, and this cider which fishes in my ears ! What do
they mean to do ? I must know more  1 must know more."

When he had said this some half dozen times, he seemed
to make up his mind ; he then rose, and, shambling across
the floor, sat down on the seat which the landlord had just
vacated. The red-cap looked first astonished, then angry ;
afterwards, as he observed the face of the beggar more
closely, a look of half-recognition came into his sharp,
black eyes, and he controlled himself and listened for \\hat
the half-tipsy klaskervara was about to say.

Monsieur will excuse me  ah ! yes, yes, the Citizen, I
ought to say, 'tis all one  excuse me, anyhow, but I

thought I heard you speak of one I know  of a that

is, a friend  Christophe of the Menhir. Is it so ? Is hein
Carnac ?"

He spoke eagerly, with an evident effort to clear his
wits from the fumes of the cider. The red-cap looked at
the same time curious and cautious. He examined the
beggar closely,

"Well?"

Because if he be, I can give Monsieur a few hints
which will remove him quietly. Is he really there ?"

The red-cap reflected a moment before answering.

Well, yes," he said, at length.

The beggar turned pale under his dirt.

Saint-Corentin !" he said to himself under his breath, 
"just there of all places. And he knows  he is the only
one. I must get him away quietly though, and without
appearing in the business, or he might turn, though I am
his "

"Will the Citizen go on with what he was about to say'*
asked Adam Tonykk, seeing that the beggar pondered long.

Ah ! yes, yes ; but let me see." He scratched his long
matted locks,  "yes, yes, it is in the interest of the nation
that he be made to withdraw quietly. Monsieur might
hint that he knows something of his antecedents  some
disgrace in the north,  no, in the west, I meant the west."

Ah ! that reminds me," said the red-cap suddenly,
The seigneur of Carnac and the seigneur of Kerdec'h
are one and the same, are they not ? Yes, yes, I know
The old Count was murdered, you know  this is the young
man. I think, then, that I am acquainted with some of the
Citizen klaskervara's antecedents, too. The Citizen knows
the Chateau de Kerdec'h ? He can give me some useful
information. We have met before I think."

A look, half-astonished, half-scared, came into the
bleary eyes. He struggled against the fumes of the cider,
but with only partial success.

I must use him, I must use him," he murmured,

with a look of clouded cunning, but I must not betray
myself.

We have met before," repeated Adam, more decidedly.

"I cannot recal that honour," replied the beggar.

No ? Well, I will help the Citizen's memory. The
Citizen was a pillar in those days ; I was of the household
of M. le Comte de Kerdec'h, as he called himself.
The Citizen klaskervara hated the Count  for reasons, of
some of which I am aware ; I, too, hated him, for reasons
likewise  filial ones, chiefly ; I am a good son. There
was a little transaction in cast-off clothes

The red-cap had given vent to these utterances slowly
and distinctly, pausing between each, about a second, to
mark the effect, to watch the blood ebbing and flowing in
the face before him. He now broke off altogether, and
gazed quietly at his interlocutor.

The klaskervara seemed in great trepidation. Large
drops broke out on his forehead and his breath came
fast.

"Curse him 1" he murmured, sotto voce, "it is the Count's
valet  the very same. 'Twas my evil star led me to him.
May the saints help me out of this, and I will repent  I
will repent ! Curse this cider, how it muddles my poor
brain 1"

Yes, there was a little transaction," continued the
other, keeping his eye steadily upon him, " or rather there
was to have been: but the Citizen klaskervara had more

important business still with the Count : very private
business, which obliged him to meet him alone."

Again the red-cap paused to watch his victim, thinking
to himself as he did so  " It's only a surmise, but I
believe I'm right, he looks like it ; and if I be  well, the
man's in my power. He knows something unpleasant
about the De Kerdec'h*s, or I'm much mistaken, and the
sooner that family's down, the better for me and the
nation. Good ! his eyes drophe winces. Now for
another turn of the screw." He leaned nearer to the
klaskervara. " He knew the Count was to ride unaccompanied
 I told him so  so he determined to meet
him, and  " another pause  " next morning the Count
was found deadT

With every word, the beggar had become more and
more ashy pale, except only when a look, more keen than
before, during one of the terrible pauses, had brought the
blood to his face with a sudden rush of dread anticipation.
But the very shock and terror of the moment sobered
him, and as the fumes of the cider abated, his cunning
returned. He seemed to make a rapid calculation ; then
lie also leant on the table and fixed his eyes on the other.

"Just so," he said, still somewhat thickly, but in a
steadier voice,  "just so. The Citizen valet seems wonderfully
well acquainted with the details."

The red-cap was rather taken aback ; he had not
expected such a rejoinder.

"Then you remember me now?" he asked, a stile
inconsequently.

** I do," answered the beggar, in the same tone ; *' and
that reminds me  / also know something of the Citizen's
antecedents. The Citizen was once a miller's man, but
was dismissed  for reasons. He then entered the service
of the Comte de Kerdec'h, where he was when I had the
honour to meet him. There was to have been a little
transaction between us ; but, as they say, the Citizen valet
was discovered extending the transaction to his master's
wardrobe, and was rather summarily dismissed from the
castle. This was on the Tuesday evening. They do say
the Citizen valet is better informed about the Count's last

moments than most people, but " He paused and

looked at the red-cap. His first shot had told, but the
latter fell harmless.

f, /(," rejoined the red-cap, with a look of relief.
Twas said, but 'twas found false. Tell, me, friend, why
you have laid aside your flourishing trade, and lain perdu
so long? Tell me why you were riding your old horse so
fast through the lanes that night, while your boy "

He stopped suddenly; pushing forward in the dark by
the aid of a very few beams of light, another seemed to
have dawned on him. His face lighted, and he was about
to speak again, when the beggar broke in, in a half-desperate
voice 

' My boy ! Citizen valet, that is where the shoe pinches.

I will be candid  alas ! I suspect him. That is why he
must be got out of this neighbourhood. I never told him
that the Count was father to his foster-brother, and he
might betray himself. Citizen valet, I trust to your
honour."

' Hum'' the red-cap reflected   hunt then this
Christophe is your boy ?  your son ?"

"Alas, yes!"

And what was the grudge  supposing that your suspicions
are correct?"

"The grudge? Alas, poor boy, an insult to me, his
father !"

*' Hum  and the cause ? Doubtless connected with the
little interview in the yellow cabinet. Stone walls have
ears, Citizen."

The klaskervara was again at a disadvantage. "An
eavesdropper," he thought. " Yet we spoke low. How
much does he know, I wonder?" Then aloud, with some
dignity : 

' Honour forbids some disclosures. Citizen, and when
one knows little, it is better to be silent to chance acquaintances."


So much aloud; then, sotto voce: "There maybe
money in the secret yet, though I am not at present
in a position to tell it where it would be of value.
Cautious, my friend ; he doesn't know much, that's clear.
Ah, that affair of Saint-Samson was a false step ! and

so, I fear, was this evening's conversation. Curse that
cider ! "

The red-cap, on his side, reflected also, and his reflections
led to the conclusion  " Wait

Well, my friend," he said, at length, " 1 honour your
reserve ; but, if the nation required it  and the n action
would know how to pay if it did  you would, I am sure,
speak freely. Meantime, we are agreed  the lad Christophe
must beg ot quietly out of the neighbourhood ! We
both have our reasons, and will work in concert  eh?
You may trust me; I am a confidential agent for the
Comic Rcvolutio7iah-e in Auray. You are a good patriot,
of course  I know it. Now for the hints you promised
me. Don't fear, no violence will be used  that would be
impolitic at present. So, speak low  stone walls have ears,
Citizen klaskervara."

Five minutes later the landlord was heard returning, and
the beggar went back to his former seat.

I hope no harm will come of it," he thought, rather
uneasily. " 'Tis the cider's fault if there do, not mine.
Well, he will do my business for me, anyhow, and I haven't
let out a word of truth, thanks be to Saint-Corentin !"

Not a bad evening's work," soliloquised the red-cap.
"But I must keep my eye on that fellow. I wonder
how much of what he told me was truth ? Well, that
remains to be seen, and 1 must set myself to find out.
Yes, yes, 'tis a delicate business, and the committee

have done well to employ me  few have such talents for
detection and diplomacy as I. Only remember, Adam
Tonykk, my friend, that there is more besides the Republic
to remember here  there's that secret to find out, and my
revenge to take on those bloated aristocrats !  there's the
murderer to discover and the reward to gain ! No, I
mustn't forget that it's a triple game I have to play, and
I mustn't be too precipitate. Slow and sure wins the day,
friend Adam.

Here, then, Citizen Landlord, bring me another mug of
cider !"

THUNDER IN THE AIR.

"Death, Fear
Are mixed in the atmosphere,
Which trembles and burns."

Shelley: "4 Vis-ion of the Sea."

There was thunder in the air of France. Dark clouds
were gathering overhead, spreading from the size of a
man's hand, till, like threatening wings, they overshadowed
the whole of her sunny sky. Paris was seething and
muttering round the last remaining shadow of Monarchy,
and Europe was mustering her armies and drawing near
for the coming slaughter.

Catherine, the wool-dealer, was raising the white
standard in La Vendee, and throughout Maine and
Brittany the proscribed priests were exhorting their flocks
in secret to stand firm against the storm of rebellion and
unbelief, which was almost ready to burst.

The country people listened ; but the towns, for the
most part, followed the fashion now becoming so general
throughout the other parts of France, and donned the redcap
of Republicanism.

As ye, however, the country was tolerably quiet ; only

in the towns the first heavy drops had begun to fall. But
all felt the oppression ; all, even the most ignorant, looked
at the clouds and listened to the distant muttering.

In Carnac, little retired Carnac, grey and antiquated asher
memoirs and dolmans were, men went on their way
pretty much as usual. There were no red-caps there yet, nor
white flags either. The people might have ignored the
portents altogether had it not been for their religious
feelings. But the removal of their priests still rankled.
They also, though slightly, compared with more stirring
places, and felt that there was thunder in the air. There
was an uneasiness, a feeling of expectation; though what
they feared, what they expected, not one in ten could
have clearly told.

In such a condition of the social atmosphere even the
smallest things become important ; and so it was that the
appearance in Carnac, about the end of June, of a new
inhabitant was much more commented upon than it would
have been under other circumstances. The newcomer,
notwithstanding was of singularly quiet manners and
ordinary appearance. He was of middle height, apparently
of middle age, for his hair was gray, and, so far as the
people could make out, of a middle grade in society ; for
he was plainly no aristocrat, and yet he had more polish
and education than was then usual among the peasantry.

He rented a small cottage in the village, which had
stood empty for some time on account of a dim

suspicion of ghosts, and set up the trade of a barber.
He seemed to have seen something of the world, and
to have travelled even beyond Paris, for he could tell the
villagers many things which they wanted to hear ; and
he told his stories in such a pleasant way, and with so
much respect to his audience, that he soon became a
welcome visitor in the farms and cottages. The men liked
him, for he shaved well ; the women liked him, fvjr he was
handy at binding up cuts and wounds, having, as he told
them, once lived in a surgeon's household ; the girls liked
him, for he imported " the newest Paris fashions in
coiffure," as he said. Was he for the King or the new
idea ? That they could scarcely tell as yet, for lie was
cautious in politics, and seemed to keep a wise middle
path. 'let us keep quiet. Do not let us hurry," he
said to the peasants ; and the peasants, who were cautiously
inclined, and, for the most, easy-going souls, agreed.
One must be careful how one risks one's little all," they
were wont to reply ; and the barber  Barber Postik, ashe
called himself  approved of their wisdom.

In few households was the barber better received than
in that of the Compares. Ninorc'h found his advice so
soothing in the many cases which fretted her; and he
recommended to her a concoction of herbs, good for the
heart-burn, which suited her better than anything she
had taken before. He was able, too, to alleviate the
rheumatic pains of old Perik Guenedon, and for this

Yvonne was grateful, though the girl had taken an
unaccountable prejudice against him at first sight, which
she found it hard to get over. Ninorc'h was especially
touched by the way in which he spoke of his old mother
"now in Paradise," to whom, as he said, he owed all his
knowledge of herbs. Genofa was delighted with him.
He dressed her golden hair for her in the most becoming
fashions, and regretted once or tv-ice, with delicate flattery,
that she was not going to be a duchess, or, at least, a
countess, that she might wear it in powder, as the great
ladies did. Surely it was a pity to bestow so much
loveliness on a peasant lad ? But, then, he was handsome
ah, yes ! he hastened to add, as he saw Christopher's
pretty betrothed look a little displeased. He almost
wondered that, with such a face, ]mademoiselle's intended
had not made himself a priest  it would have made his
fortune in certain quarters. Had he never had the
intention ? Genofa was a little startled. She did not
know. What made him think so ?

The barber fancied he had heard the thing mentioned ;
but probably he was mistaken. Perhaps it was because
Monsieur Christophe had the air of a priest  he looked
so  so grave. And then he turned the conversation.

With Christophe also, the man did his best to ingratiate
himself. He flattered him ; he tried to gain his confidence ;
he was always professing to be his friend. Yet he made
little progress, and met with but small return. The Child

VOL. III. c

of the Menhir-as reserved to a fault, and was never one

to care for strangers.

.ras soon try to get anything out of the memoirs
themselves!" thought the barber. "We must try another
dodge."

SIGNS.

Suddenly was blended
With our repose a nameless sense of fear;
And from the cave behind I seemed to hear
Sounds gathering upward !  accents incomplete."

Shelley" The Revolt of Tslara."

The halcyon days of the old fable were but of a week's
duration; those of our pair of love-birds, Christophe and
Genofa, lasted in unclouded beauty for nearly a month.
Then the calm which brooded over their life's sea began to
be ruffled. Very slightly at first  just a breath waking and
dying away in the heaven of their bliss; just a ripple furrowing
the glassy surface of the depths of their content,
and then sinking out of sight again ; just a word here, a
misgiving there, the source of which they hardly observed 3
that was all. Yet, as the days stole on from June into
July, the breaths became more frequent and the ripples
spread ; the halcyon time was closing. Could it be otherwise,
with that thunder in the air ? The birds themselves,
though no meteorologists, feel instinctively the approach of
a storm ; and so it was with our two halcyon, little as they,
absorbed in each other's love, cared to trouble themselves
about poetics. Barber Postik was the man for that; the

inhabitants of Carnal learnt mere about the new views
from him than they had ever done before, cautious as he
was in giving his opinion. Was it the thunder in the air
which was weighing on Christophe, bringing a sudden
gloom over his face, if certain subjects were but mentioned
in conversation ? What could it be which silenced the
laugh on his lips, and quenched his smile at the very name
of Bernezz, or an allusion to the sufferings of the proscribed
priests? Why was he so loth to cross Carnal plain, even
in broad daylight, or to pass the cemetery on his way to
inquire after old Perik Guenedon ?

Genofa asked herself these questions with a little
troubled sui prise, as she saw the gloom settling down more
darkly upon him, and felt that a sort of moody abstraction
was gradually withdrawing from her those lover-like attentions
which made up the chief brightness of her life. And
yet how loving he sometimes was !  how passionately he
would take her hand and draw her to him, when the mood
had passed and he observed the wistful look in her sweet
blue eyes ! It was not that his love was lessening  she was
convinced of that. What could it be ? Had he met with
a soul? She remembered once remarking to him, in the
first days after his return, that he had the look of one who
had had such an encounter. It was said in jest then ; yet
it made her shudder now.

Tears sometimes dimmed the girl's bright eyes, as she
knelt at night before her Crucifix and prayed for her lover's

happiness, and that it might be granted to her to make
his joy, for she felt that success was slipping from her.

And what was it which was troubling the lad's newfound
bliss ? Just the word here, the hint there, which
gave him to reflect," as the French say ; which stirred
again the scruples love's spell had laid to sleep. Only
this at first ; but incidents more palpable followed, signs
which took a terrible hold on the natural superstition of
the young man, and gradually poisoned the springs of his
peace.

The first of these occurred cne day v/hen he was
crossing Carnac plain. As has been said, it was always
against his inclination that he did this, the associations"
connected with it being apt to call up uneasy thoughts ;
but his foster-father had sent him on an errand to Auray,
and he could not object.

It was a sunny afternoon; cloud and sunshine chased
each other over the wide extent of thymy grass, and the
breeze blew in from the sea, fresh and salt and healthy.
There vv-as nothing ghostly there ; nothing but the ever
present Druid stones, lying and standing about the plain
like the skeleton remains left, after some battle of the
giants, to whiten in the sun and wind. In going, Christophe
avoided the tall menhir where he had been found, making
a considerable detour to escape it; but as he came back
he fell into a muse, and his steps led him without thinking
along the little path which skirted its foot. When he was

within thirty or forty paces, something  was it the wind?
or was it really what it sounded like ?  a deep groan under
the ground  made him stop suddenly. With a feeling as
though something terrible were near him, he raised his
eyes, and saw the tall menhir before him, rising, dark and
colossal, against the glowing background of the evening
sky. The sun was setting like a crimson ball, barred with
clouds steeped in flame and orange colour. A blood-red
light, reflected from the sinking orb, flushed all the east,
and bathed the plain in crimson. The tall menhir before
him, usually so grey and cold in hue, appeared as though
stained with blood.

Was it only the sunset light which gave that strange
colour to the stone ?

Christophe asked himself this, with a cold feeling at his
heart as he looked at the other memoirs, and compared
the rosy hue on them with the deep red stain on this. If
so, why had the crimson run, as it were, into the shape
of  was it, could it be ?  a great red cross ?

With a sensation, half of fear, half of curiosity, he
approached the menhir ; something seemed to draw him toit
whether he would or not, and when he was near enough
to distinguish local colour from mere reflection, he stopped
again and looked more closely.

Sure enough, a great cross stood out blood-red on' the
grey face of the stone !

What could it mean ?

Impelled by a terrible curiosity, Christophe Yent up
quite close to the menhir which they called his father, and
touched the cross with his finger. It came away stained
and sticky, and Christophe sickened with horror, for it
seemed to him that the very air around the menhir was
tainted with blood !

He closed his eyes, and staggered up against a
neighbouring stone, and before his mind there rose, in
all its awfulness, the scene by the Menhir of Saint-samson.


Shall I never escape it  never, never ! " thought the
lad, with a terrible shudder ; and then he opened his eyes
again, for the remembered scene was more full of horror
than the present one.

'Tis a sign," he murmured, with a sigh. *' My happy
days are over, and the Demon has sent this to show that
he is about to come after me again ! I "

He started violently, for again came that awful sound,
and this time it seemed to come from the ground at his
very feet.

My God ! " was the voiceless exclamation of the
wretched lad. " It is his blood !  his blood crying from
the ground ! " and, in an agony of superstitious fear, he
hurried from the spot, without once pausing to look
behind him.

Had he done so, he might have seen a face, not unlike
that of a demon in its expression of fiendish malignity,

look from a neighbouring dolman, while a voice hummed,
sotto voce, the song of the Paris mob 

Ca ira, m ira ! "

Next day, a peasant also observed the red cross on the
giant of Carnac, and a crowd of curious sabot - shod
labourers went to view it.

They also took it for a sign, though they interpreted it
differently from what Christophe had done.

'"Tiswarl" they whispered, *''tis war! Barber Postik
is right ; there is trouble coming. May the Saints keep
us in ic ! " Christophe heard this interpretation, and was
a little comforted.

The sign, may be, was a public, and not a private one.
He would wait and see. But the dread was there, and
deepened daily, as other omens followed.

Strange blue lights were seen in the cemetery chapel.;
and, as in former times, the people began to whisper that
the Devil was preaching there again to a congregation
of the Dead. Once it happened that Christophe saw
the light.

He had gone one evening on an errand from Ninorc'h
to carry some little dainty to old Perik Guenedon. He
had found the old man very ill, and Yvonne had asked
him to fetch Barber Postik. The Jack-of-all-trades was
out, and the neighbours directed Christophe to La Petite
Saint-Michel, where he was said to have gone. When at
last the barber was found, Christophe was still detained to

give assistance, and, finally, sent by the stranger to fetch
a bundle of herbs from his cottage-garden. It was in
returning that the lad observed the blue lights in the
cemetery chapel ; and, stopping to gaze with that strange
fascination which the supernatural exercises over some
people, holding them riveted to the spot in spite of their
terror, he heard his name repeated three times. Then
there was a pause, followed by these awful words : 

Fate follows. Escape, or thou art lost, body and
soul !"

Then the lights went out suddenly, and the lad was left
in the luminous twilight of the summer's night.

It was with a strong effort that he controlled himself
sufficiently to continue his way to the Guenedon's cottage
to deliver the herbs to Barber Postik ; but when he got
there, the maa was gone. He could not wait longer,
Yvonne said, and had left directions how she was to use
the herbs. He gave them to her in silence, and it struck
her as strange that he did not return her *good night." In
fact, the lad could not ; he was almost frozen with horror,
and his mind was in a whirl of dismay.

After that evening he was more gloomy and distracted
than ever; yet even this did not drive him from Carnac.
Whither should he go ? He had no other home, and his
love for Genofa was as fetters on his limbs. He co/Id not
wrench them free from that sweet bondage, to place himself
under the heavy yoke of the priesthood ; that yoke, so

congenial to Bernezz, seemed to him as an iron halter,
which would eat into his very soul, if once he bent his
neck to it. He could not resolve upon it ; and yet there
were times when his superstitious fears worked so upon
his morbid conscience that he felt as though fate were
becoming too strong for him, and that he must yield or go
mad. Then, again, would come a little respite, and
Genofa's eyes drew him irresistibly the other way.

As for the poor girl herself, she became daily more
puzzled and unhappy. She was always watching her lover's
face and trying to discover what was wrong ; and that face,
that effort, came before her and disturbed her even at her
prayers. Was he really putting her in the place of God,
and suffering vengeance for so doing? Had he really
relinquished the priesthood for her sake ? Barber Postik
had hinted as much ; but Christophe would give her no
reply on the subject ; he repulsed her so roughly when she
tried to question him, that she trembled to recur.

Even bluff Antonn Comorre began to remark that all
was not well. More than once he had surprised his
darling in tears, and he looked at his wife and shook
his head.

Ninorc'h," he remarked, at last, after revolving the
matter in his slow-going mind, " I begin to fear that there
is something uncanny about this lad. To begin with, he
was found under a menhir, and thou knowest what is said
about those stones ! Nothing wholesome is fathered by

///;;/  that I have always heard. May be he's z. poulpican
after all. Dost remember the story of Catherine Choir
and the changeling she brought up as her own ? And even
if he he the son of Mattelin Gourven  wife, that's a villain,
if ever there was one ! Holy Saint-Corneille ! I misdoubt
me about this match ! Ah, if I could but consult a
priest !"

Genoa CONFESSION.

Love, which sanctifies all other hearts,
In mine is  sin."

W. Sawyer" Ten Miles from Town."

Three days passed. The weather was heavy and damp.
The sun seemed to have gone under some cloud, which so
muffled its rays that the people began to look gloomy and
to prophesy a bad harvest. Old Perik Guenedon's rheumatism
came back severely, and he took to his bed.

I fear the old man's going down," said Barber Postik,
when his decoctions failed of their former result. " Have
you thought of procuring for him the last offices ?"

Ah, Heaven ! yes," answered Yvonne, with a sigh.

But how ? Our priests are chased away, and my
grandfather would sooner die alone than have \.\\q Mercury

"Naturally," answered the barber, in a sympathising
tone j " but you have a brother who is a priest ?"

'eyes. But he is proscribed."

*' You know where he is ?"

The girl looked at him suspiciously.

And supposing I do ?"

*swill Mademoiselle trust me to take a message?"

Holy Virgin, no! It might be bringing him to his
death. He might be seen and betrayed. Ah ! no ; I
cannot sacrifice Bernezz."

*then you will let your grandfather die without
the last Sacraments? Has Mademoiselle thought of
the risk? Excuse me, but supposing he died ina
state of sin, his perdition would be on your conscience
! And the priest, your brother, what would he
say ? Would he take your fears for him as an excuse ?
Scarcely."

He spoke earnestly and eagerly. The girl was impressed,
and felt a twinge of remorse for her prejudice against him.
She was frightened, too. Supposing what the barber said
was the case, would she not be sinning against the old
man and risking his soul ? She pondered j her face leaning
on her hand, her clear, grey eyes fixed on the face of the
old man who lay in an uneasy dose. Presently he stirred,
and murmured something. She bent down to listen. It
was the name of her brother.

May I really trust you ?" she said, going up to the
barber, and looking earnestly at him. The man's face did
not change. He returned her look steadily.

You may," he said.

You will promise not to betray him ?"

There was a wistful anxiety in the girl's eyes which would
have made it hard for a man to meet them who intended,
deliberately, to betray her trust. But Bernezz was not at

present the barber's object, so he answered her without an
instant's hesitation : 

"So far as I am concerned, he shall come and go in
safety  for this time, at least," was his mental reservation.

"Then I will give you a note for him. You will lay it
within the furthest dolman on the plain between here and
Auray possibly he may get it that way  I know no other
means. I would not ask you if I could go myself. But
there is the old man. I dare not leave him just at present,
and you say it were well not to lose time."

Certainly not. Then I can do nothing but carry the
note to the dolman ? An uncertain post-office, I fear."

"It is the only way," returned the girl, almost sullenly.

"She will not trust me further," thought the barber.
"Well, 'twill do for the present. Adieu, Mademoiselle,"
he added aloud. "And will Mademoiselle remember that
I am always at her command ? "

Thank you," was the girl's short reply, and she wrote
a line  (thanks to her kluarek brother, she was more
lettered than most country maidens of her time)  and gave
it him.

Have I done right ?" she thought uneasily. " I am
afraid, afraid ! " She clasped her hands together with a
passionate gesture, not usual with her calm, quiet nature,
and let her head sink for a moment on her bosom. The
old man called to her from the bed, in a feeble, quavering
voice. She ran to him, and stooped tenderly over the pillow.

What is it, grandfather, dear ? Bertie ? Yes, yes, he
will come, if I can fetch him. Go to sleep again, dear,
and try to wait patiently. See, I will smooth the pillows.
And see, there is great-grandmother's Crucifix ; I will hang
it where thou canst see it. Be patient, dear; the good
Jesus will know how to help us."

She moved the ancient Crucifix to the wall opposite the
bed, and as the dim old eyes turned to the Figure they
had known from childhood, she kissed the faded cheek
gently as a mother would have done. The old man's
crippled hand tried to raise itself to her head. She knelt
and guided it for him ; and, as the murmured blessing fell
from the aged lips, the girl's heart, sore with the aching of
love unreturned, and heavy with the anxiety of fears
undefined, gave way suddenly, and she laid her face on the
pillow and wept quietly. They were the first tears she
had been able to shed since that meeting with Christophe
in the lane, when the hawthorns were in bloom.

** Ah ! God, help me to serve them all, and then it will
be well," she prayed silently. "Lay what Thou wilt on
me, so long as they may be safe and happy !"

Would Bernezz come? If he ever got the letter he
surely would ; she knew that, at whatever risk to himself ;
but that risk weighed upon her, and what to wish, she
scarcely knew. Meantime the anxiety was terrible. When,
on the second night, she lay back in her grandmother's old
arm-chair to try for a few moment's sleep, her heart beat so

painfully that slumber long refused to come. At length
her weary eyes closed and she fell into a troubled doze.
The old clock ticked steadily, the breeze rustled in the
leaves outside, and from the shore came the eternal
murmur of the sea.

Suddenly another, and less continuous sound was added
to the rest,  the tread of a step on the stones of the
village street. It ceased, and then came three knocks at
the little casement, round which the honeysuckles twined.
Yvonne started up immediately.

It 13 he 1" she said, and moved to the door.
Coming, Bernezz," she murmured softly, adding for
precaution's sake, before she drew the bolt,  " It is
Bernezz  is it not?"

He answered with his priestly greeting, then came in,
and put his hand on the head of the girl, who knelt to him,
after the reverential fashion of the Breton peasants to
every priest, be they kin or stranger.

'* Oh, Bernezz !" gasped the girl, "they say he is dying,
and I could but send for thee, though I fear  I fear "

Hush, sister 1" said the grave voice of the young priest,
we are all in the hand of God 1 Will he see me to-night ?
the old man, I mean."

He is sleeping ; and thou, too, must need rest ; I will
call thee if he wake."

He looked at her closely, for there was a weary sound in
her voice.

Poor child !" he said, more tenderly than usual, " 'tis
thou who needs it most. Go sleep, and I will watch."

I could not, Bernezz."

There was something almost passionate in her tone ;
plainly her nerves were overtaxed. He saw it, but was far
from guessing at all the reasons."

Come, then," he said, soothingly, " we will talk a little
first, and then thou wilt rest. Tell me, what of Christophe
is he here still?"

"Yes."

The colour rushed to her face at the sudden mention,
and then left her pale as one of the white roses which
bloomed beneath her Crucifix. But the young priest
was thinking of other things, and did not notice the
change.

Does he keep stedfast ?" he asked.

*' Stedfast  what to ? Ah, yes, I know. But 'tis different
now; he has to think of Genofa."

 Of Genofa ?"

The young priest turned to her with a startled look.

Yes. They are betrothed. Hast thou never heard ?'*

"No."

There was a long silence. The face of the priest was
convulsed between grief and stern displeasure.

"Thou shouldst have hindered it, Yvonne," he said at
last.

'/ ?"

VOL. III. D

She turned aside and left the room hastily, to hide her
tears.

When she returned, her brother was on his knees before
the Crucifix. He knelt long, and she took her beads and
told them beside the bed. When he rose, he was calm
again.

"It must not be," he said quietly. "I must see him
tomorrow j or, if that cannot be, then Genofa. Thou
wilt help me, Yvonne, for I must not show myself abroad."

Yes. But, Bernezz," she added hurriedly, " they love
each other so much. Dost thou not think that there are
some  perhaps;  I mean that marriage is as much a vocation
for some as a life vowed to celibacy is for others?
Dost thou not think  "

'' Hush, child ! thou art speaking of what thou knowest
not."

He spoke sternly, and she was silenced. Presently there
was a movement on the bed.

"It is grandfather," said Yvonne ; and they both rose
and went to him.

The old man was eager for the sacred offices, so long
withheld. He was in haste to make his simple confession 
the easy confession of an aged man, who had clung to the
faith, so far as he knew how, with all the simple earnestness
of the Breton peasant, all his life, and had now for years
been beyond the capacity for committing any but the most
trifling derelictions. It was pathetic to see his reverence

for God's ambassador in the person of his grandson ; to seethe
positions of youth and age, hoary grandsire and youthful
descendant, reversed between these two; the old man
becoming the humble penitent, the young man the awful
dispenser of pardon and peace, through the power of the
sacred office with which he was invested.

The dawn was stealing through the little casement, and
the morning air shaking the perfume from the creamy
trumpets of the honeysuckle, when Bernezz summoned his
sister to kneel by the bed, while he celebrated the last
Sacraments and murmured the prayers for the dying, so
that the old man might not miss what, perhaps, could not
be his when death should really come. Very quietly the
old peasant closed his eyes when all was over. He was
contented now, and could die in peace.

'Now, Bernezz, go into the hay-loft and sleep," whispered
his sister. " I have had my rest as much as I need it, and
thou wilt be safe  no one will seek thee there."

"And thou wilt bring Christophe, or Genofa, this
evening ? I inst be gone before tomorrow's dawn, and I
must speak to one of them first. Only tell no one else,
Yvonne, unless indeed there be sick ones in the village ? "

'' No, there are none. I will do thy bidding, Bernezz."

It was evening again, when a light step stole up to the
door, and a hand knocked softly for admission.
It was Genofa.

She came in alone, looked round the hay-loft with a
half-frightened gaze, and knelt to the priest for his blessing.

Then Christophe has not returned ? " asked Bernezz.

*' No. He left at daybreak on business in Quimper, and
he will hardly be back before tomorrow," answered
Genofa, in a hurried voice, adding timidly  " You wished
to speak to me, my Father? It is well. I have been
wanting to make my confession \ I have been hoping that
Father Cleml-nz "

'' Father Clemens is in exile. He was too closely
watched for it to be possible to remain in the neighbourhood
But speak to me, daughter, I will hear you first and
then  Leave us, Yvonne."

Yvonne left the hay-loft where she had appointed the
meeting with Genofa, and the young priest and his girl-penitent
were alone together.

But no grey-haired Father could be more austere, more
insensible to the beauty of the lovely maiden who knelt
before him, than was Bernezz  such things had no charms
for him. He listened with stern gravity to the childish
omissions, the little sins of vanity with which the confession
began ; but when the girl came to the history of her love,
and of the doubts and scruples which were distressing her,
his face took an expression of almost painful attention.
Yet he heard her in silence to the end, sternly repressing
the impatience which the sobs and shudders interrupting
the narrative evidently caused him.

When she had finished, he said very gravely : 

Daughter, it was just of this I wished to speak. This
marriage must not be."

Genofa looked up with a wild expression in her lovely
eyes ; then, at the sight of the stern, unbending face of her
confessor, she covered her own with a stifled cry.

'It must not be," repeated the priest. "Nay, ask not why,
there are reasons enough against it. First, he is vowed to
the priesthood  you were right about that ; and  but
enough, the marriage would be a sin !"

She looked at him again with her blue eyes wide, her red
lips blanched ; then she sank down at his feet with a moan.

Daughter," continued the priest, with increasing
severity  " You must put an end to the affair at once  af
once, I tell you. Heaven's curse would "

He stopped suddenly, for the girl had fainted.

THE Grew CROW.

'\\'ith them a corbie, ash-grey for eld,
And a young crow, aye, at her side beheld."

" Ballads and Songs of Brittany."

Genofa Comorre scarcely knew how she got home that
evening. She had a dim perception of Yvonne's supporting
arm, and of a tender voice murmuring caressing words in
her ear. She had sufficient sense to understand the
injunction that she must say nothing to anyone of Bernezz
Guenedon's presence in the village  at all events till he was
gone. Just sense enough to complain of a headache as an
excuse for taking no supper; then she crept to bed and
crouched under the clothes like a wounded animal. Next
morning, almost to her own surprise, she found that she
could rise as usual; nay, even discovered that she must
have slept, or at all events, lain unconscious, for she had no
perception of how the dark hours had passed. She went
about all that day doing her accustomed work, with little
to show the stunned and bleeding condition of the life
within, for she felt that her first words on the subject must
be to her betrothed, and lie was resolved by no outward
sign to provoke the questions she could not answer.

Poor little Genofa ; not many would have credited her
with so much strength ; but love is a great upholder, the
greatest perhaps next to religion, and it works wonders
sometimes, even on the weakest natures.

One comfort only the girl possessed  she faintly hoped
that her lover might have reasons for his conduct, unknown
to the priest ; and she felt dimly thankful that her swoon
had kept her from making any promise which would bind
her, before she had heard what her lover had to say.

When evening came, she went down the lane by which
Christophe must return. She wanted to see him at once,
and alone ; for to meet him with father and mother looking
on, and no explanation possible, was, as she felt, beyond
her powers of endurance. The day had been a fine one.
The sun had shone out once more, and was still resting
with a golden glow upon the little patches of corn which
bordered the road. Great trails of large white convolvulus
and honeysuckle garlanded the hedges, and, in the grass,
the white stars of the stitchwort stood like a flowery
constellation. There was a hush in the air, a quiet so
great that the voices of the little herdsmen on Carnac
plain could be distinctly heard, at considerable distances,
calling the cattle home.

All outside was calm ; but Genofa's heart was beating
painfully, and even the cool touch of the dewy evening
could not allay the fever in her blood. More than once
she started violently at the light stir of a bird in the

bushes, thinking it was the tread of Christophe's horse
coming down the road \ and when at last the unmistakable
hoof-beats were heard in the distance, she stood still and
gasped for breath. He rode round the corner on the old
white mare, with the evening glow on his face and a happier
look there than it had often worn during the last few
weeks \ and when he caught sight of Genofa, the dark eyes
lighted with pleasure, and he sprang from his horse and
came to meet her with outstretched hands.

Genofa, sweet one, hast then come to meet me ? Thou
hast missed me, then, little one?"

She answered with a sob, and threw herself passionately
upon his breast.

A look of mingled surprise and terror came into the
lad's face.

'what is it then, Genofa? Tell me, dear  Ah, God !
what can have happened next?"

But she was trembling so that she could scarcely stand,
and he had to draw her down beside him upon the hedgerow
bank, and soothe her tenderly, before she could even
speak. The old white mare was taking her supper on the
lush grass which grew at the other side of the road \ and
the sound of her broiuzc, bronze, was all that broke the
deep stillness of the mellow July evening which reigned
around them. At last the girl found voice.

They say we must not marry, Christophe !" she said,
quiveringly.

Who says so ?" He asked the question with la rough
defiance, which made the girl start as she sat there with his
arm around her.

'berne!"

' Bernezz !" He repeated the name with a sort of gasp,
adding quickly, after a moment's pause, "is lie here?
Speak, Genofa, tell me all, for God's sake tell me all, and
quickly."

Then, as well as she could, the girl told her story, with
averted face and many a falter, saying as she finished, ina
broken voice, and with a hurried glance at her lover : 

"And is it true, Christophe ? Can we really never marry ?"

But the lad did not answer. He had hidden his face in
his hands, and his breath was coming in laboured gasps.

Genofa was terribly frightened. She seized his hands
and tried with childish violence to draw them from his
face; but he rose with a muttered oath, which made her
cross herself in dismay, and began to pace rapidly up and
down the narrow lane in front of her.

The girl looked on in utter dismay, her blue eyes wide
with fear, the tears chasing each other slowly down her
face.

"Oh, Christophe!" she sobbed, at last, quite unable to
contain herself any longer, "Oh ! Christophe, do tell me
what it is all about ? Didst thou really promise to be a
priest ?"

At the sound of this piteous appeal the lad started

stopped his walk, and came and stood opposite to where
the girl was sitting. There was a hard, fierce defiance on
his dark face, which frightened her still more.

'eves, I did," he said, scornfully ; "that is, I promised
Bernezz. But what business is it of his ? Has not a mana
right to change his mind ? Has he not ?  come, answer
me !"

"Yes, that is, if  but thou knowest they say that that
promise should never be broken, that  Oh ! Christophe,
he said something about a man putting his hand to the
plough and looking back ! He said  he said I should be
leading thee away from " She burst into tears.

The lad stamped his foot, and a strange expression
passed over his face, a look in which tenderness and
exasperation struggled.

Ayol ! " he muttered, using a Breton oath,

what business had Bernezz to meddle ? May the Horned
Angel "

Ah, hush ! for heaven's sake ! hush, Christophe 1"

And thou wilt forsake me for that Genofa ? For a
resolution made before I had half discovered what thou
wert to me ?"

But, alas ! even that is not all," moaned the girl. " He
said there were other reasons  that "

All the flush of anger faded from the lad's face ; his eyes
dilated, as with fear, and his lips blanched.

Genofa looked at him in dismay.

** What ?" he said, with an effort  " what else did he tell
thee? For God's sake "

nothing, nothing 1" exclaimed the girl, in a disturbed
voice. " Ah, Holy Virgin ! do not look so, Christophe !"

But as she spoke his face relaxed, the blood returned toit,
and he drew a long breath. He came back to the girl,
sat down beside her, and put his arm round her pretty little
figure.

Genofa," he said, entreatingly  " Genofa, sweet friend,
do not, then, cast me off for nothing ! What is altered since
thou didst promise to become my wife? Nothing. And
for the tyranny of one priest wilt thou take thy sweet love
from me? Ah ! Genofa, I have so few to care for me, and
I cannot stay here otherwise than as thy husband. Have
pity

She nestled to him with an involuntary gesture, then
started away.

But, Christophe, if it be to lose our souls?"

'nonsense ! If Father Clemencz were but here, I am
sure he would counsel otherwise. Bernezz can see no good
outside the priesthood. Only say thou wilt wait a little
before deciding, sweet one. May be Father Clemencz will
come back, and then "

She started to her feet and twisted her hands in anguish.

I dare not, I dare not !" she exclaimed, in a voice
sharp with suffering. '' Heaven must be displeased with us
already; I have long feared it. Thou hast looked so

strange, my friend, so strange ; and three days ago I sav a
grey crow" upon the gable  Ah, Holy Virgin 1 there it is
again !"

She put her hands before her eyes with a cry, as a
hooded crow flew across the road with a hoarse croak.

Even Christophe looked alarmed. This omen, coming at
such a juncture, sent a creeping sensation through his
veins. But his passion for Genofa, his fear of losing her,
was stronger for the moment even than his superstition.
He jumped up and seized her hands in his.

' Look here, Genofa !" he said, urgently, with a sort of
wild desperation, " if thou wilt not consent, at least, to let
things remain as they are, till we have a chance of consulting
Father Clemens, or some other priest besides
Bernezz, I will go away and kill myself. As sure as we
stand here, before Heaven, my death will be at thy door !'-'

"No, Christophe, no, no!" exclaimed the girl, clinging
to him in uncontrollable terror. " Oh! I will promise anything
 anything, even if  "

She shuddered, for again came the croak of the home-going
grey crow through the still air.

But Christophe would not let her have time to reflect.
He covered her hands with kisses, called her by all the

 A Lire! of ill omen in brittany, where, according to an old legend, it is supposed
-c poi-sesicd by an evil spirit. A common New \ear'b wish is as follows: 

Bonne anne a vous, jargon ;
Point de souris dans la maison
Xi corbeau gris sir le pigeon.

endearing names in the Breton vocabulary ; lifted her on to
the old white mare, and the two turned homewards together.
Yet, though both tried to hide it iron each other, there
was a dark weight of presentiment upon the heart of each.

SAINTE-ANNE.

Sainte-Anne bene ! du fond du coeur nous vous prions ; cnservon,s-nous en
grace maintenant et pour I'avenir.

*

O sainte patron 1 des qu'un desastre menace le monde, nous nous rappelons ton
pouvoir et nous imploring ton appui, la face tourney vers la tour de ton eglise."

Chant des Arzomm-s.

The above conversation between the lovers took place a
few days before the 24th of July, on which day, as every
Breton knows, is celebrated the Pardon of Sainte-Anne
d'Auray, the chief pilgrimage in Brittany. Every one goes
there from all parts  every one, that is, who has a vow to
pay, a petition to ask, a sin to expiate, or a profit to gain
on those who have.

For the inhabitants of Carnac the distance was an easy
one, and the greater part of the village was in the habit of
attending it every year ; and even this year, though there
was a constitutional priest installed at Saint-Anne, [the
people were not inclined to forego what was a noted fair
and social gathering, as well as a religious pilgrimage.

Was not Madame Sainte - Anne still there ? " they
asked. " Even if she had a jurair to serve her, and
would she not listen to the prayers of the faithful just

the same ? Besides "sit was whispered  " might there
not be a proscribed priest among the crowd to whom a
penitent might confess ? As for the jiireur, let him say
what offices he liked, no Christian was obliged to attend
to him if his conscience forbade it."

So argued the people, and Antonn Comorre and his
wife did not dissent. They were uneasy in mind about
their daughter's match, and anxious for the chance of
consulting a priest about it. Genofa, too, was intent on
trying what the chief Saint of Brittany could accomplish
for herself and her lover. So uneasy was the poor girl
since her interview with Bernezz that she had even resolved
a hard thing for her  to cut off her beautiful golden
hair and offer it at the shrine, that the Saint might have
pity on her and smooth her path of true love.

Farm work would, of course, be at a stand-still on the
fcte and so Christophe also was to attend the Pardon
in turn with an old labourer employed on the land, who
was to keep house during his absence. Genofa and her
mother were to spend the night with relatives in Auray
and return next day.

It was the eve of the Pardon. Already a crowd of
pilgrims from all the four bishoprics were wending their
way through the lanes and across the landes on their way
to the holy place. Among them you might see scores of
different costumes, from every part of the old province,
worn by people marching, weary-footed and dusty, to pay

their vows. Those of high degree were in the minority 
the great bulk were peasants ; but there were hundreds,
nay, thousands of these.

Keeping rather apart from the crowd, choosing the more
obscure bye-ways, and evidently anxious to escape observation
in the gathering twilight, were two persons whom
we already know. One was Barber Postik, otherwise
Adam Tonykk ; the second was apparently an aged beggar,
with long white hair and a hoary beard ; but this disguise
need not conceal from our readers that he was Matelinn .
Gourven, klaskervara and ex-pillar.

And so the long and the short is that you have failed
to dislodge him as yet," the beggar was saying, in a
subdued tone, to his companion. "Have you tried  you
know what  the last resources ? "

Not yet," replied the other, also in a cautious key ;
'' they are still in reserve. But I shall have to use them,
I fear. They are expecting the family at the Chateau 
the whole of them, and this link between the aristocrats
and the people must be cleared away at any cost before
they arrive ! that is "

Ay, at any cost !" repeated the klaskervara, with
emphasis. He had started slightly on receiving the
news of the expected arrival, but had checked himself
at once.

If the worst come to the worst, we must give the young
Count a hint of what we suspect, and have the fellow

arrested!" continued the agent. "But you do not
recommend violence ?"

No, certainly not, unless "

"Yes, yes. Unless nothing else will do  I understand.
Now, if I could but detach him from Mademoiselle
Genofa," continued the barber, meditatively, "it would
serve my turn well ; but she loves him with such
inconvenient strength. Will Marie Laurent be at the
Pardon, I wonder ? Scarcely, I fear." The last words
were spoken inaudibly.

Look here. Citizen Klaskervara," went on the
revolutionary agent, after a pause, "you had better make a
clean breast of it. We should accomplish so much more if
we did but understand each other thoroughly. I feel sure
you are keeping something back."

I protest. Citizen, I protest !" exclaimed the beggar,
vehemently, in ill-concealed alarm. "Though he is my

son, I scarcely know But if I can only find out, I am

sure all would be safe with  with Monsieur  that is the
Citizen "

"There, there, I can wait  I shall know in time,"
interrupted the other, with scarcely concealed contempt,
while the klaskervara thought rapidly  *' Shall I tell him a
part ? Oh ! if I only knew whether it would ever be worth
anything to me again ! 'Tvvas a fatal step that killing the
goose which laid the golden eggs ! No, I will not tell him 
not yet, at all events. Monsieur Citizen*' he continued,

VOL. Ill, E

aloud, if you could bring him across Carnac plain this
evening  if you have played the card you know of and

failed, I might help, and By the holy Saint Corneille !

our Carnac patron, I will sacrifice my feelings and see the
lad myself, if the business be not settled by tomorrow.
It will be terrible for a father, for he avoids me as though I
were a disembodied soul ; but anything to get him away
from danger."

The agent laughed scornfully, and the men parted
company at the next cross-roads, the beggar doffing his hat
to the great Crucifix which stood there, and drawing a sons
for his age and piety from a group of women going to
Sainte-Anne d'Auray, who were just passing by.

It was not quite such a gay or such a well-attended
Pardon as usual  the presence of the jureur, celebrating the
Office on the great open-air tribune, instead of the priest
they were accustomed to, prevented that, still more perhaps
than the stories and rumours of political troubles which had
scarcely yet touched the country people of antique Brittany.
Yet the large, steep-roofed church was still there, with its
sacred fountain, and the miraculous image of Sainte-Anne,
discovered by the peasant Nicolai in the 17th century,
had all its inherent sanctity. Picturesquely-dressed groups
of peasants were solemnly marching round the sacred
enclosure, carrying the symbols of evil?, from which they
believed themselves to have been saved by the miraculous
interposition of the saint. Storm-tossed sailors carried

their offerings of model ships; cripples their discarded
crutches ; sick men, lately recovered from the jaws of
death, dragged their winding-sheets after them.

By the sacred well in a corner of the churchyard lay
the blind, the maimed, the halt, waiting to drink, or to
bathe themselves in the waters from which the apparition
of the Virgin's Mother had risen for her interview with
Nicolai. At a stall by the church door a brisk trade in
votive candles was going on j and within knelt scores of
pilgrims absorbed in their devotions. Among them, on her
knees before the shrine, was Genofa Comorre, a perfect
agony of supplication on her fair child's face, which, with
both her slender hands, was uplifted towards the image of
Sainte-Anne. Before her on the pavement lay the shorn
locks of her long yellow hair, and now and then she
stooped and lifted the shining offering towards the image
of Brittany's chief patroness, as though pleading for a
hearing by what it had cost her such pain to dedicate. A
long ray of coloured light slanted through the stained
window overhead, and threw rose tints on the snow-white
cap and the lovely little face which it framed ; on the
pretty embroidered bodice and the clasped hands. Genofa
was praying very earnestly, so earnestly that now and then
the whispered words were audible.

Ah! blessed Sainte-Anne," prayed the child. " Blessed
Sainte-Anne, bless him and bless me ! Thou art so
powerful, pray for us that Heaven be not angry. Suiile

on us, holy grandmother ! do not let the wicked spirits
harm us. Guard us ever. And, oh ! grant that he, my
Christophe, may be saved and be happy, now and for evermore
! Ah ! madame, hear me,  hear a poor child ; and if
thou wilt but answer my prayer! Oh ! we will give thee such
a beautiful offering next year 1" She looked up at the face
of the image as she said this, and the tears which trembled
on her own long eyelashes made her think she saw a smile
across them on the face of the Saint ; and with a lightened
heart, she rose and went out.

On first passing from the dim church into the brilliant
sunshine, she could scarcely distinguish anyone. The
crowds of gay costumes and eager faces seemed to swim
before her in a glittering haze. But presently above the
din, she thought she heard the tones of Christophe's voice,
and looking up she espied him standing under one of the
churchyard trees, talking to a stranger girl, whose piquant
beauty at once attracted her attention. She wore the close
cap and black dress of the Morlaix paysannes ; but even
that Quakerism costume could not subdue the rich tints of
her blooming complexion. The hues of the damask rose
glowed through the clear olive of her skin, giving to each
round cheek the most charming freshness. Her lips were
as scarlet as a pomegranate, and her laughing black eyes
flashed and sparkled under the darkest of fringed lashes
and the most delicately pencilled of arched brows. She
wore a knot of scarlet poppies in her breast, and another

of the blood-red flowers was stuck coquettish behind her
ear, contrasting well with the primness of her snowy cap.

She seemed speaking to Christophe with gay familiarity,
and the lad himself was smiling, as if in spite of himself, at
her gay talk.

Little Genofa stood in the shelter of the church-door
watching them wistfully. She longed to listen to what they
were saying \ but, strain her ears as she might, she could
not catch a word.

We, however, will use our privilege as spectators and
eavesdrop a little.

"And to run away like that !" the girl was saying, with
mock reproach. " To leave me behind in the fair, waiting
forlornly for my dance ! Ah, coqnin I how shall I punish
thee?"

Nay, 'twas thou who threw me off for another dancer,"
returned Christophe, scarcely knowing whether to take her
in jest or in earnest. " Thou art very fickle, I fear,
Mademoiselle Marie."

"Fickle? Heine Ah, well. Monsieur Klasker, two can
play at that game, hein ? " Now, I dare to wager, thou hast
found another sweetheart, and that she is here at
this very Pardon ? " She looked round, as though
seeking some maiden to pounce on, and Christophe's
heart beat a little uneasily. " Come, thou wilt introduce
me to her! No? Ah, well, shy one, I. shall know how
to find her presently. Say, then, Klasker, why didst thou

run away so suddenly? Dost know what they all said
at Morlaix ? "

'' No."

'well, that thou wast a thief, and hadst been discovered
by my brother-in-law stealing the corn ! Ay, and Benead
himself believes that 'twas thou, and nobody else ; and faith,
it looked like it ! Fie, fie !"

*' Mademoiselle, surely you told them "

"What? No, no, dost think I was going to defend a
run-away? No, no; though I will say, I didn't believe it''

Of course not, when thou knowest "

Hush ! My brother is here somewhere. Thou hadst
better keep out of the way, for if he sees thee, there maybe
mischief ! Ha, ha, ha ! what a sheep the big fellow is ;
why he's vanished again  run away once more, I vow !"

She laughed mockingly to herself, for Christophe, unwilling
to have a scene with the miller, had pulled his hat
over his brows and plunged into the crowd.

The maid of the mill was still looking after him, when
she felt someone touch her on the shoulder, and turning
hastily, perceived a man with iron-grey hair, in a costume,
half peasant, half bourgeois. She stared at him without
recognition; but he bent close and whispered something
in her ear.

'madam!"

Yes, Marie. But, hush ! I am not Adam here !"

"Ah ! Ad  Cic, I forgot! But, tell me, where hast thou

been all this time ? Holy Virgin ! I thought thou hadst
forgotten me ! "

Forgotten thee, Marie ? " He looked at her with a
softening of his harsh face  " No, not that. But thou
knowest, I must earn money before I can claim thee. I
have a good place now, and  Ah ! let us only wait till the
aristocrats are down  there will be fine pickings, and thou
shalt be a lady, sweet friend. But come, thou canst help.
Dost see that girl of Carnac, by the church door  the
pink and white thing with the pale skin ?  Yes, that is she.
Well, she is the sweetheart of that lad who was talking to
thee just now. Speak to her, Marie  make her jealous
make her give him up if thou canst."

"But why?"

We want him away for political reasons. He will goat
a word from her."

It is not  Ah ! Adam, thou art not deceiving me ?
Thou dost not love her thyself?"

*' I ? Marie, I swear  But come, canst thou think I
could have such bad taste ? A washy thing like that,
when there is my damask rose !"

The girl smiled, well pleased.

Well, I will do my best, since thou wishes it," she
said,  'but we shall meet again?"

"Ay, this evening in the church."

Good." She greeted him with her most brilliant smile,
and sauntered through the groups towards Genofa.

A VOICE FROM THE MENHIR.

Et je ventis sur la route, nc sergeant a aucun mal, ne sergeant quia ma plu
aimed, quand j'entendis quelque invisible, qui me criait d'un ton menagant : 
Quid quieten quarts
Cum ad laborer natis sis '.''
Et nisi, je restai un moment debout, perdu, et le sang glace dans mes veines.
Et la voix ropeta encore : 

Hung nondum misery retinue.
Hung nondum misery retinue.' "

Aventures d'un Jcxtne Bas-Breton.

The July afternoon was drawing towards its close. The
church and churchyard had lost many of their occupants,
when Barber Postik found himself standing again under the
great sycamore where he had talked to Mademoiselle Marie.
His eyes were fixed on the door of the great church in
hopes of seeing the girl appear, for he was anxious for news
of her undertaking.

Presently he leant forward and his face became eager;
for out of the brown twilight within came two figures
whom he recognised as those of Christophe and Genofa.
They stopped by the bdnitier at the entrance, each dipped
a finger in the water and handed a drop of it to each other
on the tip. Then they signed themselves, took each other's
hands, and looked into each other's faces.

A ray from the westering sun was on them, and the man
under the sycamore could distinctly see the intense look of
passionate devotion on the face of the youth, and the
wistful, half-questioning, half-tender expression in the sweet
eyes of the girl. He said something which seemed to
re-assure her, for her face lighted into a smile of tender
trust. Then they kissed each other, as they thought,
unobserved. The girl returned into the church and the
youth walked swiftly towards the churchyard gate.

She has failed," thought the spy under the sycamore ;
"there has been a little difference only, and they have
made it up again. I nuit play one of my reserved cards."
He turned and followed Christophe into the road.

The lad walked on rapidly in the direction of Carnac,
so rapidly that the barber had much ado to overtake him.
He did so, however, and hailed him in a loud cheery voice.

Whither away. Monsieur Christophe ?"

The lad looked round. "I am going home," he said,
shortly.

"And I also  at least part of the way," returned the
barber. " I have to see a sick person across the landes,
and return to Sainte-Anne afterwards. Come, our roads
lie the same way, let us walk together."

Christophe allowed the other to join him without demur;
for, though he had no special love for the barber, a
companion across the landes where stood the Druid stones
was not unacceptable, especially towards evening.

For some time the conversation turned on the events
of the Pardon, and such like general matters ; but presently
the barber introduced the subject of the De Kerdec'h
family, and their approaching arrival at Chateau Coetmor.

They have not been here much, I understand ?'' he
asked.

"No," answered Christophe, "only the young Count;
his father and mother have never been here in my memory.
Their chief chateau is somewhere near Dinan."

Indeed ; and how did they come by the estates here ?"

"The late Madame de Kerdec'h was the sole heiress;
they came through her."

"And the late Monsieur de Kerdec'h, her son  what
sort of a man was he?"

"I hardly know; I never saw him. It is the young
Count I know so well ; he was here almost entirely as a
child, and scarcely knew his father."

"Ah, just so; 'tis a custom with the aristocrats to make
the peasants bring up their children for them. That was a
sad thing about poor Monsieur de Kerdec'h's death," he
added, after a pause, with a keen look at the lad.

Was it ? I know he died suddenly ; but I was away
from Carnac at the time, and when I returned the talk was
over. In fact, I do not much think it is a thing they like
to speak about. Some disgrace, I fancy  a duel, was it
not? I never thought to ask."

A duel ! No  a murder /"

He said the word with slow emphasis, and looked again
at the lad.

Christophe started. " How ?" he asked, quickly.

They had struck off from the road, and were treading
the short springy turf of the landes. The sun was getting
low, and was throwing long, oblique rays of crimson across
the grass. Against the glowing west, the first detachment
of memoirs stood out dark and solemn, as they rose
gradually into sight. The barber had his eyes fixed on
them, and gradually slackened his pace as he drew
nearer. He seemed to be trying to recollect something,
for he did not immediately answer. At last he turned
towards his companion : 

I will tell you," he said slowly. " I was living in the
neighbourhood at the time, and heard all that was to be
heard, and that was not much. Poor Monsieur de
Kerdec'h was riding home at night-fall. He was
unaccompanied and had a large sum of money on him.
The Countess expected him about eight o'clock, but he
never came. Next morning his horse was found without
a rider, standing in the snow at the entrance gate. Search
was made, and the Count was found, lying murdered at
the foot of the great menhir of Saint-Samson !''

Daring the whole recital the barber had kept his eyes
fixed upon his hearer's countenance. There he had read,
as in an open book, the anxiety, horror, and paroxysm of
fear which the lad was powerless to conceal.

He has done it," said the revolutionary agent to
himself, as Christophe, at length awake to his observation,
turned his face aside. " I half suspected the klaskervara,
but I do believe he has spoken truth after all."

"And the murderer?" asked the lad, at last, bringing
out the words with a gasp.

*' Was never discovered ! " finished the barber. Silence
for some minutes.

The light air which stole inland from the sleeping sea
seemed to roar in Christophe's ears, the ground at his feet
seemed to be slipping from under him. Only with the
strongest effort could he prevent himself from falling, ashe
stumbled on by the side of his companion.

"No, he was never discovered !" continued the barber,
after a long pause. " In these days justice is none too alert
in France, even when it is an aristocrat who is the victim
If it happens to be a peasant {d\.\S\, they're far too many
as it is, and if one be snuffed out a little before his time,
tani-viieux, bay the aristocrats  it's a mouth less to feed
in these scarce times. But to return to our sheep. A hue
and cry was made, but little or no wool was the result.
Footsteps were observed about the menhir, but it had
snowed again during the night, and they were nearly
obliterated. There vas a whisper in some (quarters about a
pillar and his son ; but whether it were one or the other,
or both or neither, there was no proving, especially as these
gentry are never stationary, and were no longer to be

found. In fact, there were folks who said they had left the
country the day before, and had been in Guingamp before
the murder. Ah, well, heaven knows, and to heaven we
must leave the revenge. Murder will out, they say."

A sort of convulsive shudder passed over the lad. His
face was disturbed and bloodless ; he walked on as
though quite unconscious of his companion's presence.
The latter continued to observe him closely for some
moments ; then he raised his head suddenly and listened
intently. A long, low whistle, like the call of a plover,
sounded across the landes ; it came again. Christophe
took no notice. The barber paused a moment ; then,
as though weary with the silence, began whistling a
popular air.

They were now within a very short distance of the first
detachment of Druid stones. A little footpath, leading
to a few fishermen's cottages by the shore, led off to the
left. On reaching it the barber stopped.

'' Our ways part here," he said. *' Good evening,
Monsieur Christophe."

The lad roused himself, made some sort of mumbled
rejoinder, and the two separated.

Christophe went on, in a state of such mental disturbance,
that he was quite incapable of thought.

' His father, his Oh, God! Only this was

wanting !"

He kept saying the words over and over to himself,

hardly knowing what he said. It was the simple outcome
of the anguish within. Clouds were rising and obscuring
the light of the setting sun ; a sort of premature twilight
was settling down over the wide surface of the solitary
landes. The memoirs stood up gaunt and awful in the dim
light, and over all reigned a great silence.

Suddenly, as he was skirting the first group, hardly
heeding the presence of the great stone which superstition
connected with his origin, a low, muffled cry seemed to
rise from the ground at his feet. The lad stopped as
though he had been shot, and trembled from head to foot.
Again came the strange, weird cry, and  was it really so,
or did his excited fancy make him imagine it ?  words
seemed to shape themselves in the sound.

Fly I Fly !" the voice seemed to say. '' Vengeance
pursues. Fly! Fly!"

And the lad did fiy. Fled, as he had done two years
before, in wild, unreasoning terror !  fled, till the voice, the
Druid stones, the landes themselves were left behind him
and he sank, breathless and exhausted, before one of those
tall Crucifixes which guard the cross-roads of Brittany ; as
though only at the foot of the Cross could he find a refuge
from the fate which so relentlessly pursued him. Raising
both hands towards the silent Figure, he cried aloud in
an anguished voice 

A priest, my Cod, a priest !''  then fell fainting on the
stones I

P A R T I N C.

\'ou and I
Must never, never, never join hands so !
Nay, let me say it  for I said it first
To God, and placed it, rounded to an oath !
Far, far above the moon there, at His feet.
As surely as I wept just now at yours 
We never, never, never join hands so ! "

R. Browsing" Aurora Leigh."

Thi: twilight of the next evening was falling without
an) thing having been seen of Christopher at the farm.
Antonn Comorre had grumbled much on coming back that
afternoon and not finding him there. Ninorc'h was just a
little anxious ; but it was no unusual thing for lads to be
late home from a Pardon, and anxiety had not risen yet to
any great pitch concerning the absentee.

Genofa alone was restless and troubled, with a restlessness
which would not let her settle to anything. She took up
one piece of work after another, only to drop each in turn
to look out of the window towards the road by which
Christophe ought to return. She knew that he had
intended last night to go straight back to Carnac, and she
could not help connecting his prolonged absence with
Marie Laurent and her confidences cf the day before.
Had he really once been in Ic ve with her, as the pretty

Morlaixnaise had said, and had she, perhaps, enticed him
back again? True, Christophe had repudiated any love
but for her alone, when, disturbed by what the girl had
heard, Genofa had taxed him with it the day before j but
they did say men's words were little to be trusted in
such matters. Nor was this all that was troubling the
little maiden. A note had been put into her hand that
morning by an ancient beggar as she knelt, to make her
parting prayer, at the shrine of Sainte-Anne. He had
whispered that the sender was Dom Bernezz, and the
message of the utmost secrecy and importance. Not being
able to read it herself, she had carried it to the village
scribe, Barber Postik, who, after swearing perfect silence,
had deciphered the two lines contained in the note : 

My daughter  stand firm ! Break off this marriage for
his sake and thine, or everlasting perdition may be yours ! "

That was all. No name was signed ; but it had been
enough to re-awaken all the girl's uneasy scruples. Moreover,
she had again, three times that day, seen the
ill-omened grey crow.

All this together had so worked upon the young girl's
mind that, after a long prayer before the Madonna in
Carnac Church, she had almost come to the conclusion
that, for both their sakes, it was right that she should give
her lover up. She was now waiting, in trembling, for his
return, rehearsing the parting over and over again with
ever increasing agitation.

It was about nine o'clock. She had gone into the dairy
by her mother's orders to finish some of her neglected
work, when she heard the sound of the garden-gate opening
and shutting, and the well-known step upon the path
which led to the back-door. Hardly knowing what she
meant to do, she went and stood on the dairy threshold.
Christophe saw her, and, coming straight towards her, took
her hands.

With a terrible sensation that the effort must be made
now, or strength would fail her utterly, Genofa whispered
brokenly 

Christophe ! Christophe ! we must part. It is not
God's will that we should marry, and I  cannot fight
against it any longer ! " The last words came out with a
helpless gush of tears.

He did not take her in his arms, as, perhaps, she
expected, to soothe her fears, and plead against them.
No ; he continued to hold her hands quite quietly, and
without showing the least surprise, or dismay, answered
in a hard, even voice  .

'-'Thou art right. I came to say the same. I see plainly
that Fate is contrary to it, and we cannot fight against
that. I am going to be a priest. Farewell, Genofa ! "

Christophe ! "

The girl gave a gasping cry, and tried to fetter him with
her arms. With the unreason of love and anguish, now
that he was accepting  nay, had forestalled her resolution

VOL. III. F

she desired to recall it. But the lad gently unclasped
her arms, and put her from him.

It must be, Genofa !" he said, resolutely. " We must
part ! See, I will tell thee "  as he saw her gasping efforts
at inquiry. " I have been to see Bernezz, and he unconditionally
approves. No seminary is open just now ; but a
friend of his  a seminary priest  has retired with several
kloiireks to one of the uninhabited islands, and is carrying
on their education in secret. Bernezz has given me a
letter to him, and I go, Genofa I go ! Do not try to
keep me ; God knows how hard it is ! "

"But Christophe "

No, my sweet foster-sister ! (for this is all thou canst
be to me). No, Genofa ; do not try to stop me. Wish
them good-bye for me, Genofa  the foster-father and
mother who have been so good. Bid them pray for me,

and " His voice broke, and he snatched her to him

with a choking sob. " Pray for me, too, Genofa, sweet
one ! Pray that God will accept my offering, and forgive
Heavens, what do I say ? Farewell, Genofa, farewell ! "

He tore himself away, ad before the girl's parched
lips had had strength to speak, he was gone.

%\\t fvUarck.

BOOK VII, THE KLOAREK.

CHAPTER T.

DOWN WITH THE BLUES !"

La'iques et pictures, il faut prendre votre parti. Voj'ez a mourir et a conibattre.

Votre Roi sur la terre, votre Dieu au ciel tous deux ont ett? outrages !  qui

les vengera ?"

La Revolution.'

A COLD November wind was blowing* through the narrow
streets of the little town of Auray, bringing with it the
damp odours of decaying leaves from the wooded banks
of the river, and driving a rustling" cloud of the leaves
themselves into the little square where stands the Hotel
de Ville with the other chief buildings of the place.

Thither also were converging, on this same morning in
November, 1792, streams of young men and country lads
in the various costumes of the surrounding" parishes, most
of them carrying their pen-has, and the greater part
wearing an expression, half-excited, half-obstinate.

Mothers, sisters, and sweethearts, in many cases

accompanied them ; some chattering volubly; some half
choked with anxious tears ; for this gathering was for
the purpose of enrolling the names of the young men of
the neighbourhood who might be required to form part
of the national guard then being organized all over
France, and to invite others to volunteer for the army.

''La faerie est en danger T' was the rallying cry
throughout France, when, having deposed and imprisoned
her King and declared herself a Republic, she saw
herself without organized defence and threatened by
foreign enemies. But here in the west, that cry was not
so heartily repeated as it was elsewhere.

No ; for the true-hearted provinces of Brittany and
Maine, and the district of La Vendee, could not so easily
tear up the old traditions of faith and loyalty which they
had held so long; and the exile of their priests still
rankled.

Yet the country lads had obeyed the order of their
local directory which had summoned them to attend at
Auray that morning. They had come; but it was with
smothered grumbling, with angry, excited looks, or sullen
brows. They had come, because they dared not stay
away ; but the most part had set out quite uncertain as
to how they would act when they got there.

All gathered together in the square in front of the
Hotel de Ville, as the clock struck twelve ; and, as the
last stroke hummed on the wind-swept air, a man in a

red night-cap came out on the steps, and harangued the
people in an eloquent speech full of national vanity,  the
grandeur of France, the glorious Republic  " one and
indivisible ; " universal liberty, brotherhood, and equality ;
the fatherland in danger, and the wickedness of all those
from whom the peril proceeded.

Forward !" he finished by saying ;  *' forward, brave
sons of the west ! Enrol your names on the glorious list
of those who are privileged to dip their hands in the
blood of the enemies of regenerate France ! Wait not
for conscription ;  conscription did I say ? Conscription
is for times when the blood is cold ; no7u it is all on fire ;
now every true-born son of France rushes forward to
volunteer for her defence, and I dare to say that the
voluntary contingent demanded from this commune will
be furnished three times over before to-day's sun has set.
Forward ! Who will volunteer for the army ? Who,
being hindered from foreign service by the ties of home,
will defend our beloved country in her gardes 7iationaux ?
Come, let me tell in Paris how forward in the cause I
found the brave lads of America."

He ceased, and the crowd swayed and hummed in
response. That some impression had been made was
evident. Some of the young men seemed flattered by
the speaker's words, and half inclined to come forward
on the spur of the moment and enrol their names ; others
in the background exhibited their zeal at second-hand by

pushing forward those in front of them. Rut, no sooner
were the steps reached, than there was a stand ; no one
seemed willing to be the first to mount them and enter the
building. The haire came out ; several officers came out ;
more speeches were made ; then, as the young men still
hung back, the authorities on the steps whispered together,
and tables with pens, ink, and attendant notaries were
brought out into the open air. This seemed to re-assure
the crowd a little. There was another impulse forward,
though again it was barren of results. Whereupon the
red night-capped individual, becoming excited, jumped
upon one of the tables and made another speech, more
eloquent, but much less flattering than the first ; for,
instead of sugar and honey, it was seasoned with pepper,
mustard, and vinegar ; that is, finding flattery fail, he
tried sarcasm, reproach, and irony.

'* Should he call them cowards ? No ; Bretons were
never cowards, so he was told ; yet it looked like it.
Could it be that Brittany was against liberty, equality,
and fraternity? Was she still under the dominion of a

worn-out creed " Here the maire glanced nervously

at the crowd, and made a warning sign to the speaker;
but it was lost on him, and he continued  " Still in the
chains of slavery, the darkness of superstition ; jiriest-
ridden "

A clod of mud, aimed by a dextrous hand, came full in
the speaker's mouth, and ignominiously choked his words.

A woman's voice called out  " That's right, lads ; down
with the blasphemer !"

There was a moment's pause; then the red-capped
man burst out again with a face as scarlet as his headgear


Brothers of Brittany ! I 7uih not believe that you
are all like that. One or two fools, perhaps, like the
fellow who threw the clod and the woman who spoke
just now : children and old wives, I say, may cling to
the toys of religion and aristocracy  crosses, images,
candles, feathers, and flowers. Such toys are well
enough for babes and dotards ; but wise men will not
bow down to a ''

A howl from the crowd drowned his voice. The
maire, who had been anxiously trying to gain his attention,
pulled him from the table and took his place, striving
to repair the mischief. But it was too late ; the most
sacred feelings of the crowd had been outraged by the
Paris Atheist, and the people would listen no longer.
The same woman who had spoken before, screamed
again  " Down with the blasphemer ! "

The crowd surged forward ; but the maire made a sign
to a body of gendarmes who were drawn up in front of
the hall, and they pushed their way in among the people
to remove the excited woman. She struggled, but to no
purpose ; for the sight of the fire-arms, which her captors
carried, appalled the rabble, and they drew back.

"Are you Christians?" she screamed : "will you seeme
carried away by the heathen? "

At this appeal, a young man elbowed his way towards
her from the outskirts of the crowd.

Shame on us ! " he exclaimed. ** Shame on us ! to let
a woman's voice be the only one raised in the cause of
our holy religion, and then see her taken without raising
sing-er ! Come on, lads, to the rescue !"

Inspired by his words, several other young men backed
him up. The gendarmes, seeing their determination, and
receiving no further orders from their chef wavered,
loosed their hold on the woman, and fell back. The young
rescuer, excited by success, called to his companions 

What do we Christians here ? We are not obliged
to fight for any but the King. No volunteers and gardes
nationaux, say I, without proper authority ! Why should,
we shed our blood for a Government which will pull down
our faith ? Why not stand up for our rights, like Jean
Chouan, like Catherine ?"

*' Ay, why not?" answered the crowd; "we are
enough to resist. Down with the conscription ! Down
with the gendarmes !"

And no volunteers no gardes nationaux?" asked the
young man who had taken the lead.

"No volunteers! No gardes nationaux!" howled the
crowd. " Down with the Blues !soldiers

of the Republic.

Well, then, forward !"

Up with your pen-bas !"

With a storm of Jiiiks which utterly drowned the
renewed attempt of the poor maire to g-ain an audience,
the young men rushed forward, put to ignominious flight
the body of gendarmes, beat with their staffs any who
resisted them, obliged the maire and his supporters to
retreat and bar themselves into the hotel de ville, overthrew
the tables, tore up the lists, and broke the ink-bottles.
Then they drew back, and waited for further
commands from their young leader. With quick decision
he leapt up some steps, folded his arms, and faced the
crowd. He was dressed in countryman's blue blouse, and
wore a pair of wooden sabots ; but there was something
about him which distinguished him from the ordinary
peasant. His dark, well-cut features showed a certain
refinement, a certain thought, a certain mysterious distinction,
which the bystanders could not account for ;
till, a gust of wind striking him in his exalted position,
blew off his hat, and then they saw that his head
was partially shorn with the preliminary tonsure of the
kloUrek.

Why, 'tis Christophe of the Menhir," remarked
some Carnac lads among the crowd. And Christophe
it was.

Lads," he said, speaking with considerable excitement
 " perhaps you did not mean to go so far when you

came here  did not ; nay, I did not even come to answer
to my name, but was simply passing by. However, it seems
to me we could not, as Christians, have done otherwise.
Wisdom, I speak not of. Our elders may tell us we have
done imprudently ; but it is too late to think of that.
And now, what are we to do ? Submit and ask pardon ?"

Loud cries of "No! no'*

Go forward, resist, defend our faith, and join the
C ho dans V ''''

' Ay, ay ! and thou shalt lead us, Christophe ?"

That I cannot do," returned the lad  " 'tis not my
place as a kloiirek, as one ignorant of fighting. There is
my foster-brother, now, the Count de Kerdec'h, a soldier,
a gentleman "

Yes, yes. Monsieur Aymon de Kerdec'h ! We know
him, he is one of us  we will have him 1" shouted the
Carnac men, and the others followed suit ; for the young
Count was popular in the district.

Well, I will be the ambassador ; I will tell him," went
on Christophe. " And now we must break up and go
quietly home, to deceive the Blues. A meeting-place will
be appointed. Long live the King ! God save our holy
religion, and keep us all ! Amen."

It was a solemn ending, and the earnest nature of the
Bretons made them take it gravely. Every hat was

Name given to the followers of Jean Cottereau (nicknamed Jean Chouan
ihtix'i, chat-hunt, or screech-owl), who raised the loyal standard in Maine .ind
Brittany.

doffed, every head was bent, and the deep *' A/ncn '*
which echoed through the crowd was like that at the end
of a prayer in church. Then all went quiet home, and
the maire, looking timidly out, about half-an-hour later,
was re-assured by seeing the square utterly deserted.

He seemed to sift me with his painful eyes."

E. B. BROwyiisG" Aurora Lehigh.'

Christophe also left the town but i not with the others.

f *
He also turned his steps in the direction of Carnac, like

the rest of the young men belonging to that place ; but he

took care to leave Auray by a different road, and to get

the start of his fellow-parishioners.

He walked along thoughtfully. Now that he had had
time to cool, he began to have some misgivings about the
step he had taken.

In the excitement of the moment, he had, perhaps, been
hurried along too far ; and yet, could he have helped it ?
Having done it, would the young seigneur back him up ?
If Count Aymon refused to come forward as leader, what
would be the result ? He thought of all those young men,
kindled to enthusiasm against oppression and wrong. The
train, indeed, had been already laid ; but he it was who
had put the match to it : what if it should explode in a way
he had not bargained for ? These thoughts troubled the
young kloarek, as he walked along with his eyes on the

ground ; nor were these the only troublous thoughts in his
mind Presently, he drew a letter from his pocket and
began to study it with a frown on his brow. He had
advanced much in learning during his studies of the last
months ; but writing still presented some difficulties to him.
This paper, however, he was not reading for the first time.
It had come to him through Bernezz (with whom he had
been in hiding some days, since the little knot of master
and students in the island where he had lived during the
autumn, had been discovered and broken up), and it was
signed " Yvonne."

The words contained in it were few, only these : 
 After threatens your adopted kinsfolk here. You should
be at hand in case of need. Beware of the stranger /"

'' The stranger !" that must mean Barber Postik ;
Yvonne never much trusted him. AYhat was the danger,
and which of his adopted kinsfolk did it threaten ?
Christophe asked himself this question anxiously ; for
already ghastly stories were being whispered of the
doings in Paris and the other centres of agitation in
France. If a King's person were not sacred, who
would be respected ? Who was safe ?

Thinking such thoughts as these, Christophe crossed
the landes ; too much absorbed in anxious considerations
concerning the future to do more than shudder slightly,
as his eyes fell on the grim memoirs, which time had not
touched nor weather changed since he saw them last.

Besides, his conscience was at rest now, and they could
not trouble him as they had once done. Irksome as his
present life was to him in many ways, he felt it as an
atonement, as a penance, no long-er shrunk from ; and
he was more at peace than he had been since the fatal
night by Saint-Samson.

The event of the morning had acted as a moral
tonic to him ; for he had been greatly dreading the
return to Carnac, the meeting with Genofa, and
the sight of his foster-brother; trembling for his
resolution against the one  not knowing how he should
face the other, with the knowledge of the dreadful
secret within him.

Now, the thought of insurrection was uppermost ; and,
kloiirek as he was, the idea of resistance made his
heart beat with excitement. The image of Aymon as a
leader, swallowed up for the time his character as a son
whose father had met death from his.

Yet, spite of this, Christophe felt the blood ebb from
his face, as he reached the door of the Chateau of Cormorant
asked for Count Aymon.

The servant was a Carnac man, an old friend, and
went at once to carry his request.

*' He is not in at present," he said, coming back ; *' but
Madame is expecting him. Will you come in and wait?
Here," he continued, throwing open a door to the left
of the entrance-hall,  '' sit down, and I will tell M. le

Comte the moment he comes in. We do not know where
he is, or you might go to him."

Christophe thanked the servant, who retired, closing-the
door behind him.

It was a sort of inner vestibule in which the young
kloarek found himself. A stone-mullions, stained window
filled almost the whole of one side ; on the other hung-family
pictures, and there was a door at either end.

Christophe waited half-an-hour  an hour. The sun
sank lower, and streamed obliquely through the coloured
glass. The lad's heart beat with impatience. The
Carnac men must be returning, and the seigneur was
still unaware of what had taken place. He was just
thinking of leaving and going in search of Count Aymon,
when a step was heard in the room beyond, and a hand
was laid on the handle of the door opposite to that
by which he had entered.

Christophe started up, expecting to see the Count
appear ; but no ) the door opened, and a gentleman
entered whom he had never seen before, and walked
slowly up the corridor. Perhaps the slanting sunlight
which streamed crimson through the panes, was in his
eyes, for he did not seem to see Christophe. He came
on with measured step, his tall form stooping forward,
his chin sunk upon his breast. The hair of his head
was snowy white, and yet he did not look old, and his
complexion was delicate as a woman's.

VOL. u\ G

Christophe bent low. He guessed who it must be  the
Chevalier de Kerdec'h, whom all the villagers had heard
of, but few had seen. " He was such a sad invalid," as
the Chateau people said; "moonstruck," whispered the
peasants. When the Chevalier was within three paces of
Christophe, he saw him at last, as he stood, cap in hand,
with the sunbeams shining like an aureole round his half-tonsure
head.

Ah !" he said, stopping suddenly, and gazing earnestly
at the lad  " ah, mon Dieu who is it ?"

A strange, wistful, puzzled look came into his pale blue
eyes. " Who is it ?" he repeated, with the gaze of one who
is walking in a dream, and has been suddenly startled.
I am Christophe, Monsieur," answered the lad.
"christopher  what repeated the Chevalier; "you
have another name ?"

The sensitive colour rushed to the face of the young
kloarek.

No, Monsieur." Then, as he saw the questioning look
still in the Chevalier's eyes, he added, hastily, "I am
Monsieur le Comte's foster-brother ! "

Ah ! I thought, I thought but no matter. What do
you want here, boy ? Why do you come? was not to
blame.

Christophe was surprised ; but he recollected what was
reported of the Chevalier, and answered as quietly as
possible; 

Nor does any one think of blaming Monsieur. I came
on business with the seigneur ; but they tell me he is out.
Does Monsieur, perhaps, know "

He was cut short by the hasty entrance of a valet.

Ah ! Monsieur is here then !" he exclaimed, going upto
the Chevalier. " I missed him from his room when I
returned, and was anxious."

He cast a quick look of inquiry at Christophe, and
moderated his anxious tone : 

"Monsieur's medicine is ready. Will he kindly come
and take it ? It is the hour."

He waited for an answer. But his master paid no
attention ; he was gazing fixedly at Christophe.

'' What did you say ?" he asked, presently, addressing,
not the expectant valet, but the young kloarek.

Christophe felt strangely embarrassed by the fixed
gaze of the gentleman.

I asked if, perhaps, Monsieur knew where I might
find the seigneur," he said, with an effort to recall his own
question.

There was something in the mild face turned to his
which irresistibly attracted and interested him. Each
pair of eyes seemed drawn to the other, and yet each
gazer was ill at ease.

Monsieur le Comte went down to Antonn Comorre's
farm more than an hour ago," said the valet, presently,
seeing that his master did not reply. '* Monsieur le

Chevalier and I were walking on the north terrace, and
I saw him go ; you will probably find him there. You
had better go now, young man," added the servant, in a
lower voice ; * you are disturbing my master."

Christophe bowed low, and was about to withdraw, but
was detained by the Chevalier.

You will come again ?" he said, wistfully. " I shall
see you again ?"

If Monsieur please," replied the young kloarek, surprised.
" I am at Monsieur's commands ; he has only to
send for me."

He bowed again, left the room, and took his way to his
foster-father's farm, wondering over his interview with
the mysterious and unfortunate member of the De
Kerdec'h family.

ON THE Erin OF AN ABYSS.

I am as one who on the brink
Of a dark river stands''
/ Longfellow" The Golden Legends'

The breeze of the morning" had sunk, the sun had already
set in a dull red haze, and scarcely a twig was stirring, as
Christophe pushed open the garden-gate (he noticed that
it was not latched) and walked up the well-remembered
path to the back door.

When he was about midway, he heard low-pitched
voices to his left, and, thinking to find some of the family
there, he turned up a little side path which led to the
dairy.

The xioor was partly open, and through it he descried
what, even in the waning light, he at once recognised as
the figures of the young Count and of his foster-sister
Genofa. She was standing with her face in profile
against the gloom behind, dressed in her working clothes,
with the sleeves pushed up above her dimpled elbows, as
though she had been interrupted in her occupation of
straining the milk. He was standing facing her, an
earnest light in his handsome eyes, an earnest tone in the

voice which said :  " Then thou, at least, wilt stand by us
by ine Genofa ? Thou, at least, wilt be true, whoever
else fails ?"

Christophe stood as if rooted to the spot ; the blood
sang in his ears ; something within him seemed to rise up
and to impel him, with passion well nigh uncontrollable, to
gather all his strength together and spring at his foster-brother's
throat. Yet he restrained himself by a desperate
effort, and, with a wariness which was scarcely conscious,
drew himself behind a lilac bush-which encroached on the
path. Were they really the pair he took them for ?
Coidd they be such traitors? Was not the twilight, and,
perhaps, his own excitement deceiving him ?

He set his teeth, and forced himself to await further
proof.

No ; he was not deceived. It was Genofa's voice and
none other, which replied to the appeal :  " Can you
doubt? Could we deceive you'*  and it was just as
surely the young seigneur's impetuous gesture which
raised her hand to his lips while, he exclaimed fervently 
I knew it ! We will stand or fall together, Genofa."

Christophe heard no more. To stay longer would be
to give way utterly to the devil that was in him. His
hand had been uplifted, his body drawn together in the
very act to spring, when something  a sudden look or
motion on the part of the young Count, an effect of light
and shade, what it was he could never tell, had recalled,

in a sudden flash, the memory of that lad's father by the
menhir of Saint-Samson ! It was as though God had
touched him and pointed to the abyss into which he was
ready to fall. A feeling* of utter helplessness came over
the lad, and with a quick motion he crossed himself and
crept away.

Away  away  where he knew not, with stumbling feet
and sickening heart. The experience of those last five
minutes had been almost more than brain could bear.
Heart and soul had alike received a terrible blow  blows
which were a revelation.

The young kloiirek had hoped that the passion for
Genofa  that passion which he had done bitter penance
for, as having turned him from the narrow way of duty 
had been purified from his heart by the fire of self-denial
and humiliation. He had hoped that he would be able to
look on her only as a sister  as a sister whom he had been
withheld from hurting by union with one who bore such
a doom as he did. Yet that first glance showed him that
he had failed to root the passion from his breast  he
knew it by the pang it gave him even to contemplate her
turning to another. And that other was his foster-brother
! There also his heart was pierced, and doubly
pierced ; for he had once loved his young seigneur with
a brother's love, and had believed that it was returned by
one worthy. Yet Aymon had known of his betrothal to
Genofa; he had heard the sad story of their parting,

doubtless  had not all the village spoken of it ?  and,
knowing this, he could come and defile the purity which
the other brother had sacrificed himself to spare. Yes,
defile  that was the word. If that purity could bedimmed
by lawful union with one who was the innocent
sufferer from, the unwilling partaker in the crime of
another ; how would it not be polluted by being made
deliberately the plaything of an idle hour ? Christophe
never dreamed that the young Count could have another
purpose ; he knew too well the great gulf which divided
classes asunder at that time in France, when to wed
one of the lower orders was looked on, in the upper,
as a disgrace greater than crime itself.

The lad ground his teeth as he thought of this, and
then let his head sink upon his breast in utter self-abasement
at the feeling of his own wickedness If
Aymon were guilty, what was Fie that he should judge
him ? Had he not been ready to do murder, to dip his
hand in a brother's blood  he, a kloUrek, an aspirant to
the priesthood? Alas! he felt as though that crime,
ignorantly shared in so long ago, had eaten its black
canker into his very soul, and corrupted him through and
through. His new-found peace and hope in a higher life
seemed utterly shattered the horrible belief in a pitiless
and inexorable fate had returned.

"Being that man's son, how can I be otherwise?"

groaned the lad in his misery. *'A murderer's son  or
the Child of a Menhir !  what does it matter what I do ?"

His first impulse was to quit the country altogether, to
leave things to their fate, if by so doing he might at least
have some hope of saving his own soul ; but the thought
of what he had undertaken in the morning made him
pause. All those brave lads, his old companions, who
trusted in him  could he desert them, break his word to
them ? Would it, indeed, be saving his own soul to play
the traitor to them? If the revolutionary committees
were to get scent of their purpose before they were
organized, with a leader at their head, what was to
become of the poor lads ? He thought of some of the
stories he had heard, and shuddered. There were those
among the revolutionary leaders who would stick at
nothing; and had he not been already warned against
Barber Postik ?

At least he must do his errand ; he must see the young
seigneur, bitter as it might be. Till that was accomplished,
he must restrain himself, and then Well,

afterwards he did not care much what became of him.

BENEATH THE CRUCIFIX.
Gramercy, gentle brother, what evil have I done?'

We come for right ; to know, in brief,
Hath Heaven a God  Bretagne a chief ?

Ballads and Songs of Brittany."

At this juncture Christophe's thoughts were interrupted
by a cheer coming from the direction of the village.

It is our lads returning-,'* he thought to himself, and
paused.

He had reached a  carrefoiir'' or place where four
ways meet, on the direct road between Antonn's farm and
the Chateau Coetmor. It was the same which had been
the scene of his terrible strung-le on the evening of the
Pardon at Sainte-Anne d'Auray. There was the great
Crucifix, at whose feet he had knelt and submitted to his
fate; there the stone on which his tears of agony had
fallen ; there the very spot which his knees had touched
when he had called upon God to accept an atonement and
cease to visit upon him his father's sin.

What place so suitable for the task he had to perform ?
Here, at least, he might hope for self-conquest by the

memory of what he was, by the power of the Christ
whose image was nailed up there.

The young* seigneur would, m all probability, pass that
way on his return home. It was now moon-rise, and he
could not miss him ; he would wait.

Thus resolving, Christophe knelt down beside the
Crucifix, and prayed for strength ; prayed that he might
remember what had been done, by him and his, to the
father of this young man. He had not knelt many
minutes, when a step was heard on the road leading from
Antonn Comorre's farm, and a voice whistling sofdy a
little Bretag-ne sone.

Christophe rose as the sounds came nearer, and in
another minute found himself face to face with his foster-brother.


Christophe, lad, tJioit here !" exclaimed Aymon de
Kerdec'h, stopping short with surprise. " Why, Genofa
told me "

The young kloarek winced at the name, and interrupted
him hastily,

Yes, yes ; but I am back on business. Monsieur le
Comte, I am the bearer of a message to you from the
young men of Carnac and of most of the other parishes
round Auray. They refused to enrol themselves, this
morning, under the Republic. They wish to join the
Chouaiis, and strike a blow for the faith, if you will be
their leader."

'' Ah, what is that ? Tell me all about it !" exclaimed
Count Aymon, eagerly.

Christophe did so, speaking in a cold business-like tone,
which sounded unnatural, even to himself.

Strange," murmured the young Count, as he ceased 
strange ; that fellow told me the peasants were
disaffected towards us  warned me that even  well,
well, let that pass. You are sure of what you say,
Christophe ?"

The young kloUrek's blood tingled at the doubt which
seemed implied. It was with difficulty he mastered
himself sufficiently to reply.

Monsieur has only to ask "

'nay, don't be angry, Christophe," went on the other,

seeing that he had given offence. " It is only that I was

given to understand the contrary. If it had not been for

that, I don't think I could have kept quiet all this time.

I have been advised to keep quiet ; to give no cause of

offence, for my mother and sister's sake, and for that of

my poor uncle. I think it would kill him to go into exile,

and my mother is such an invalid since her widowhood."


He paused a moment, and Christophe's heart beat fast

at the last allusion.

*' But," continued the young Count, rousing himself,

and speaking with an eagerness which he could not

conceal, "if the lads have really resolved to rise if they

really want me for their leader in the good cause  why*

then  oh ! to strike a blow at those Blues ! to join with
those who have already raised the white flag ! It would
be glorious ! "

The young man's eyes sparkled ; he looked for sympathy
from his foster - brother ; but Christophe's face
looked as hard as a stone.

' What is the matter ? " asked the Count, presently.
We have not met for a long time, Christophe ; but you
seem quite changed. Can it be the gloom of the coming
priesthood, old boy ? No ? Well, what is it ? "

Monsieur knows well enough," burst out the youno-
kloJirek; then pulled himself up with an effort.

Monsieur ! Hey-day, since when are we on those
terms ? Can I have offended the lad ?" he went on in
an aside to himself. '' Let me see, we have not met
since ah, I have it ! the night he caught me in the
garden with pretty Genofa ! But Christophe ! " (he
turned again to his foster-brother with a smile) " Surely
thou hast forgiven me those hasty words in the o-arden
last summer ? Surely thou art not jealous iww, old boy ?
Why, they tell me thou hast quite given up thy pretty
sweetheart for the charms of the tonsure ! I can't say
much for thy taste, for our little foster-sister is pretty

enough to tempt Saint Anthony himself; but " He

stopped in surprise at the terrible look which showed
itself on his foster-brother's face. For a moment he
seemed about to do something: desperate ; then his eyes

turned to the Crucifix ; he bit his lips, clenched his hands
till the nails dented the flesh, held his breath for a
moment, then answered with desperate calm : 

*rit is not jealousy."

What, then ? "

Surprise took from the young aristocrat the power of
saying anything more.

Christophe looked at him for a moment, and then
burst out in a voice of passionate pleading : 

*' I cannot see her ruined ! I cannot stand by without
a word and see her purity sullied  see the little trusting
thing deceived with fine speeches, till she forget all, and
oh, Monsieur Aymon, I did think once that you would
grow up a worthy man  don't do this ; don't, don't ! "

A sob choked him and he covered his face.

A variety of expressions chased each other over the
face of the gay young aristocrat  extreme surprise,
anger, consternation then a look of genuine emotion.
Thoughtless he might be, but he was not heartless.

Christophe," he said, presently, ' you are deceiving
yourself. Do you think I forget who Genofa is? I
would not harm her for the world."

*' Do you mean to marry her, then ?"

I ? IIarry her ? No  and yet I could not have a
prettier or a sweeter wife 1" The last words were added
with a half regretful sigh.

Then it is base in you to trifle with her as you are

doing  to ask from her promises as you do, as though you
cared for having them. If worse do not come of it, at
least her heart may be broken broken to give you a
moment's pleasure !

The young Count turned scarlet. He laid his hand
impetuously on the short rapier which he wore, then
withdrew it with a scornful laugh.

It seems to me you presume too soon upon your profession,
sir," he answered, haughtily, *'a nice to-do, indeed
about what, when all's said and done, never went beyond
the little scene in the garden you unfortunately witnessed.
Why, to speak truth, the little hussy tired of the game,
which, I believe, so far as her part in it went, was
played with a purpose. You're the one who has
committed the crime of breaking her heart, I fancy, if
anyone's guilty !"

Christophe winced, then looked up half-relieved ; but
the words he had overheard returned to his memory, and
he answered, coldly 

And yet you made her promise to be true to you this
very evening."

The young Count burst out with an angry exclamation 

And pray how do you know ?  Eaves-dropping ?"

'' I was riot eaves-dropping," returned Christophe, with
haughtiness, to match his own. " I came up to the farm
to give you that message, and heard a few words of what
you were saying to her in the dairy."

To his surprise, Aymon de Kerdec'h interrupted him
with a merry laugh 

Upon my word, Christophe, you are the most jealous
fellow that ever mistook his vocation and embraced
celibacy for matrimony ! Did ever anyone hear of a
more absurd misconception ? Why, that was a business
interview, not a love-tryst  she was promising to be true
to me as her liege-lord, not as her lover ! There don't
look so grimly mystified this is how it was. I had been
\sgS0k warned  never mind by whom  that the village
was being turned against me ; that even the Com.orre's
were no longer true; that there was a plot for betraying me
see, I am trusting you, Christophe ; I should hardly do that
if I were the villain you take me for. Well, I went down
to speak to Antonn (I didn't believe the calumny, o
course) ; but he was gone with his wife to Auray, and
Genofa had to answer for them. There, Christophe, are
you satisfied?"

*then you give me your word?'

Suspicious still ?" The young seigneur smiled frankly,
and held out his hand. * There, Christophe ; my hand
on it. I have not been the pupil of Dom Clemens quite
for nothing, bad as you think me."

The young kloiirek was completely won. The foster-brothers
clasped hands, the soft palm of the aristocrat
pressing the hard palm of the child of the people. If
class could meet class oftener like that, we should see

fewer revolutions. So absorbed had the foster-brothers
been in the business between them, that they had not
noticed the tramp of many feet coming up the lane from
the direction of the village ; but no sooner had they joined
hands in token of renewed confidence and friendship, thana
score of young men entered the carrefoiir and, on
perceiving the two, burst into a cheer.

Long live Count Aymon de Kerdec'h and Christophe
of the Menhir ! Down with the blues !"

' Hullo, lads," exclaimed the young Seigneur,
recovering from his first start of surprise ; " what is the
matter ?"

The mattei: !" called out a dozen voices. " Hasn't
Christophe told you ? We want you to lead us ag-ain't
the Blues."

"Gently, my lads," answered Aymon, as the villager
came pressing around him, talking excitedly in Breton,
and evidently carried away at last by the spirit of revolt
which had long been smouldering within them. But
though prudence bid him say, 'gently," his sparkling-eyes,
and the smile which curled about his mouth, showed
that he was as joyously excited as any of them at (he
thought of at last throwing off the enforced submission to
a hated authority, and striking a blow for that liberty,
which the Republicans prized so much for themselves, but
would not accord to those who differed from them.

The village lads, however, were in no mood to be

VOL. III. - H

repressed, even by the popular Seigneur. They crowded
around him, they entreated, they urged ; and when, at
last, the boy  he was scarcely more  was so far carried
away by the common enthusiasm as to make them a sort
of conditional promise, their excitement knew no bounds.

It was a strange scene, under the cold November moon,
to see those sturdy, long-locked fellows encircling the
two foster-brothers, coupling their names in ringing
cheers, throwing up their beavers into the air as they
huzzahed ; while upon them looked down the wooden
figure of the Christ, with sorrowful face and outstretched
arms, throwing the awful shadow of the Cross upon the
young and thoughtless group.

"Thoughtless" is, however, scarcely the word; the
earnest Breton people are rarely that ; and even those
young men, when the first burst of excitement was over,
remembered the gravity of what they were undertaking,
and with one consent knelt beneath the Crucifix, while
the young kloarek asked for a blessing on their enterprise.
So closely is religion bound up with every act of
the children of America.

DENOUNCED.

There he stands !
* * *

. The scene shifts  faujh ! what hangman's hands
Pin to his breast a parchment? his own bands
Read it. Poor traitor, spit upon and curst !"

R. Browning "C/iiWe Roland."

When they rose from their knees, each of the conspirators
grave an involuntary start on perceiving that, in the
meantime, another individual had joined their company.
He was standing in the midst of the carrefour, evidently
waiting for them to rise. The moonlight shone full on
his short, thick-set figure and grizzled hair, so that the
Carnac lads had no difficulty in recognising him as
Barber Postik.

'* Monsieur," he said, turning to the Count, and then
with a wave of his hand including the peasants  " Monsieur,
and good people, my neighbours, I was passing this
way, and have seen and heard a part of what, perhaps
I was not meant either to see or to hear. That I am
worthy of your confidence I think I have proved by this
time ; but let that pass. Only let us thank Heaven that
I have seen and heard; for I am permitted to be the means

of warning you from the brink of an abyss  a great
black abyss of foul treason."

Treason !" exclaimed the Count, and every voice
there echoed the vile word  " treason ! what treason ? 
who is the traitor ?"

"Will Monsieur le Comte and my good neighbours
permit me to ask a question ? Am I right in what I
believe I heard  namely, that it was he whom you call
Christophe of the Menhir who began the rising at Auray
this morning?  that it was he who proposed Monsieur as
the leader, and who carried the message ?"

Young Aymon de Kerdec'h looked doubtfully at the
barber, and hesitated to answer ; but his men were less
prudent.

Yes, yes !" shouted they all, with one accord ; " to be
sure it was Christophe. But what, then V

"What, then? Why, just this 'tis he who is the
traitor : he proposes to earn a reward from the Government
by first compromising Monsieur le Comte and his
people, and then betraying them. That is his little game,
but I trust I am in time to stop it, good neighbours."

"Never! Christophe, answer him! Thrust the lie
down his throat, lad !" shouted both Seigneur and peasants
with one voice.

The young kloiirek, scarcely knowing whether he were
more astonished or angry at this unlooked-for accusation,
stepped forward immediately and confronted the speaker.

'' Why do you say this ?" he asked, vehemently. *' You
know it is false !"

Bravo, Christophe ! we knew it ! " shouted his companions.
" Come, lads, up with your pen has ; let us
punish the liar ! "

The barber shrank back, but quickly recovering himself,
he came up close to Aymon, and said, impressively 
" Will Monsieur allow me to give a proof of this fellow's
untrustworthiness ? Monsieur does not know how much
depends on his having a moment's patience."

The Carnac lads had closed around ; every one who
carried his quarter-staff clenched it tightly and clamoured
loudly for their victim to be delivered to them without
more words. But Aymon had been impressed by his
manner.

Let us just hear what more he has to say for himself,
lads," he said. "It can do no harm; and should it be
more lies, you can give him double punishment."

' Ay, ay !" exclaimed the men, with a grim laugh.
And they listened.

'* Now, fellow," said the Count, " and mind your words
are few, for should you lie, you shall have a blow for
each."

Monsieur is pleased to be witty," answered the barber,
with ill-suppressed bitterness; "but, nevertheless, he shall
be obeyed. What I have to say requires few words.
Monsieur's father was murdered. His murderer has

hitherto escaped. There he stands!" He pointed to
Christophe, who was standing out from among his
fellows, and then closed with a triumphant accent : 
Nov, you will judg-e whether or not he is a fellow to
be trusted ! "

The young Count started, turned a pair of wide-open
eyes on the young kloUrek, and was silent for a moment
from sheer astonishment. The villagers followed their
Seigneur's example. Every eye was silently fixed on
the lad, who stood alone, like a prisoner arraigned at
the bar.

He had been listening for the barber's next words in
contemptuous confidence, sure of being able to cast them
back in his teeth. But the words which really came
were as unexpected as they were terrible, and their
effect on the young man was evident to all. Even in
the moonlight they could see the look of awful horror
which came over his countenance, changing every feature
as at the sudden aspect of a ghastly thing. The eyes
distended, the lips drew back from the teeth, the head
drooped, as though it could not hold itself upright any
longer to look them in the face.

Christophe felt that the hour he had so long dreaded
had come at last, and it was even more terrible than
fancy had ever pictured it. The blood surged up into
his head, and sang so in his ears, that he did not at first
hear that he was being spoken to.

Christophe ! " his foster-brother was saying, in tones
sharp with pain. " Christophe, do you not hear ? Speak
to us ; tell us it is another lie."

But Christophe answered not a word. Only he raised
his head a moment, shot at his foster-brother a look of
piteous appeal, like that of some wild animal taken in the
toils, for whom the dogs are waiting till his captor
shall let him loose, and let his head sink again upon his
breast.

Christophe, speak !'' said the village lads, appalled at
the silence of their champion. They had so confidently
trusted that he would clear himself from the stranger's
accusations  they felt that the honour of the village was
at stake, and they could not bear that a Carnac lad should
go down before the weapon  tongue or pen-bas, it was all
one  of an outsider. For Christophe 7*.'' a Carnac lad,
now. Whatever his origin, they had admitted him as
one of themselves by baptism and confirmation, by many
a religious rite and social privilege shared together, and
if he would but have spoken, his word  for the moment
at least  would have stood against that of the stranger.

But Christophe would not speak  he could not ; no, not
though his foster-brother, his former playfellows and
companions wrung his heart with their appeals ! For the
first moment the accusation had so stunned him that he
had not the power to deny it. Afterwards, when the hot
words of denial were ready to rush from his lips, he

pressed them back, for the thought of his father kept him
silent. He hated the man as an oppressor ; abhorred
him as one stained with crimes of foulest die ; loathed
him doubly for the relation in which they stood to each
other ; yet, with all this, ho was his father, and he could
not clear himself without accusing the other. He knew
what the accusation would draw upon him, and he could
not bring himself to make it. The ordi parricide seemed
to be shrieked in his ears when he opened his lips to
speak, and he shut them again in horror. Added to this
there was the morbid idea which that terrible sight had
so impressed on the lad's young mind  that he was
implicated in the deed, innocently, he knew, but yet the
fact remained. If the father had struck the blow, the son
had lured the victim to his death.

You see," said Barber Postik, at length, " he cannot
deny his guilt. Will Monsieur give orders to secure hinii
before he does further harm ?"

The young Count started.

Traitor, indeed," he said, in a tone of conviction .
Yes, secure him, lads !"

But Christophe did not wait for the utterly petrified
young fellows to recover themselves sufficiently for action.
With a sudden bound he darted from his place, leaped a
fence, and was off like a deer across the fields. He heard
the others give chase ; but in the dim light, the many
hedges, cross-lanes, and clumps of trees allowed him to

avoid them, and, doubling upon his tracks, he soon heard
their voices in quite an opposite direction ; he, running
towards the village, they away from it. He intended to
double again when the next cross-lane should give him fit
opportunity  at least, such was the dim instinct which
was all his stunned condition allowed him to be conscious
of  when, in darting round a turn, he ran right up against
a figure coming from the opposite direction.

The lane was dim with overruling trees, so that the
two, who had been thus suddenly brought up face to face
by the force of the collision, could not distinctly see each
other. Yet each had uttered an exclamation as they met,
and Christophe's voice had betrayed him.

Holy Virgin ! it is thou, Christophe ?"

The voice was Yvonne's, and a sudden impulse impelled
the young kloarek to lay his hand upon her arm,
and say brokenly 

Save me, Yvonne !  for God's sake, hide me somewhere
!"

Save thee, Christophe ?" she asked in astonishment.

Yes  ah ! for Heaven's sake, hide me !  they are
coming  they will kill me !" exclaimed the lad, in a voice
so changed by terror, that she scarcely knew it, and he
laid the other hand upon her arm and clung to her like a
child.

She did not ask any more ; she saw that something
very terrible had happened ; she felt that he trusted her.

and, even at that moment of horrible uncertainty, the
girl's heart glowed within her at the thought. Drawing-his
arm within hers, she turned and walked swiftly back
towards the village, which was close at hand. Swiftly
and silently she re-entered the cottage, opened the door
which led to the hay-loft, motioned the lad to precede her
up the ladder, and saw him stagger across the floor and
sink down exhausted upon the hay. Very quietly she
followed him, and, kneeling down, bent over him her
pure and pitying face.

"Christophe, my friend," she said, softly, "thou art
safe for the present, at least ; no one will think of looking
for thee here. Do not be afraid, my friend ; I will
watch, and warn thee of any danger. Do not fear. May
God and the good angels keep thee !"

And the poor fugitive, looking into that sweet, compassionate
face, felt as though the Virgin Mother had
descended from her niche and were bending down to
promise him peace ; and he let that peace steal over his
exhausted senses, and slept.

Yvonne watched him a moment, breathed a prayer
over the sleeping face, and then stole softly down the
ladder again.

Some moments were spent in arranging her grandfather's
pillows for the night  he seldom roused now,
except to take food  and then, with a sigh, she knelt
beneath her great-grandmother's old Crucifix.

Oh, good God !" prayed the girl, " Holy One, give me
strength ! help me to save him ! Only let me save him 
I ask nothing more. Accept, if it please Thee, my life
for his, so only Thou keep him safe. Ah, Jesus, help me,
for I love him  love him !"

She let her head fall upon the clasped hands which lay
on the top of her prie-dieu, and hid her burning face at
the foot of the Cross. And there she watched all night.

IN THE MIST.

One friend in that path shall be,
To secure mj' step from wrong ;
One to count night day for me,

Patient through the watches long,
Serving most with none to see."

R. Blowing "4 Serenade."

"Ah, Christophe ! ah, poor, poor boy, how thou must
have suffered !"

He had told her all  all but the name of the actual
murderer, which, indeed, she had little trouble in guessing
told all, as to a father confessor, or to a tender mother ;
for like a mother's was the girl's manner, as she knelt by
him and listened. Such tender pity, such sweet compassion
was in the noble face, touched by the morning
sunbeams, which slid in dusty rays through the chinks in
the walls of the hay-loft. Such strong, earnest trustiness,
that the fevered fugitive felt calmed and eased, as he
leaned against the trusses of fragrant hay, and poured out
what had so long lain festering on his heart.

Ah, how thou must have suffered !" she went on, in her
pitying voice. " But, Christophe, my friend, thou canst
not have told to Bernezz n// that thou hast told to me."

He looked up at her with a question in his eyes.

''No," she continued, "no, else he would not have
advised thee as he did."

Indeed, I told him all. What dost thou mean,
Yvonne ?"

He asked the question half querulously.

"Nay, do not be vexed," she returned, gently. "But,
Christophe, it seems to me that thou hast done wrong in
flying to the priesthood, feeling as thou dost for (xenofa ;
and she  ah, she loves thee, Christophe ! I know it. She
nearly broke her heart at parting  poor little thing !"

The lad's face quivered.

But, Yvonne, the atonement, the  ah ! God knows
what it cost me !"

His voice broke.

"Yes, but perhaps God willed it to be wrought out
otherwise  t/iou wast not the sinner, poor friend ! And
does God will us to pay a grudging sacrifice? one for
which, perhaps, he does not even call ? Christophe, I maybe
too presumptuous  Bernezz and I do not think alike
about it but it seems to me that there are other vocations
which are holy also, as well as that one. And, oh !
Christophe, to be fit for that one, should not one be very
sure of the true call? Does a man desire an unwilling
bride, or a woman an unwilling husband ? How, then,
shall we give to God and His Church a service, grudged asa
hard sacrifice to a severe taskmaster ? when it should bea

love, burning for Him alone  counting it almost too
great an honour to be chosen for His peculiar ministry."

She had spoken vehemently the convictions of a true
heart, whose very singleness and unselfishness made it see
through the mist of sophistry which blinds too many, and
makes them, from a false notion of God's will, mutilate
the very right hand which should have done Him service.
She spoke the more earnestly, perhaps, that she knew she
was pleading against herself. Her cheeks flushed, her
eyes shone, her face, of too massive a mould for beauty at
all times, became so transfigured that Christophe felt
himself looking at her in genuine admiration.

She saw it, crimsoned to the brow, and turned away.
She could not add another word.

"Well, it is too late now," said the young kloiirek,
presently; and she did not contradict him.

Afternoon came without anyone corning near the
fugitive's hiding-place. Yvonne had not left the cottage ;
and though she could see that there was an unusual sdr
in the village  groups gathering, men and women speaking,
v;ith many a gesticulation  the abode of the Guenedons
seemed in no way an object of suspicion.

At length, towards three o'clock, the girl thought she
might safely leave her post for a short time to fetch water
for the household needs, and see to the cow, which her
meeting with Christophe had hindered her from bringing
in from the landes the evening before. To tell the truth,

her mind had run much on the old black cow during her
night's vigil, and she had thought no shame to mingle
with her prayers for Christophe a petition that " Blackthorn,"
as she called her, might not be stolen by man or
beast ; for the girl and her grandfather were very poor,
and the old man now lived almost entirely on milk.

So Yvonne stole up to the hay-loft, told her refugee
that she must go out for half-an-hour, but would lock the
door during her absence; looked at her sleeping grandfather,
and went out into the raw air of the grey
November day.

Autumn leaves, the last survivors of the gay, green
dancers of summer, were falling sadly and slowly, as she
went along the lane ; little hard red haws were all that
was left on the hedges of the delicate white which had
clothed them when she and Christophe stood by the gate
that morning in June, and he had told her the tale of his
love for Genofa.

A cold sea-wind, not high and boisterous, but slow,
dank, and drear, swept over the landes, bringing with it a
dim, grey mist, from out of which the memoirs loomed
more spectral than ever.

Yvonne shivered, in spite of herself, and quickened
her steps. She had to go some way beyond the first group
of Druid stones before she could find Blackthorn \ but at
length the well-known low answered to her call, and the
creature came running to her, thrusting its cold nose

into her hand and rubbing its shaggy head against her
side like a faithful dog. The poor creature was in
evident discomfort for want of milking ; and, loth as the
girl was to lose any of the milk, she stopped a moment
within shelter of the memoirs to relieve the poor creature
of some of it, so that she might go home at a quicker
pace. While she was thus occupied, the sound of voices
close at hand struck on her ear, and hearing Christophe's
name, she listened intently.

The speakers were hidden from her, whether by the ever
thickening pall of mist or by the memoirs, she could not
discover ; but the voices seemed to come from the other
side of the tall grey stone under which she stood.

With beating heart, she pressed up nearer to it, crouching
down at its foot, and held her breath to hear, while the
black cow stood quietly by.

Now I'll just tell you what, Citizen Klaskervara," a
voice said which seemed known to her :  " I must hear
this secret now; you've kept playing with me and putting
off far too long already : I wont wait longer."

*' I told you there were others concerned "

Nonsense 1 what if there are ? Out with it. I ought to
have laid information in Auray before now against our
young aristocrat up there at Coi'tmor. It must be done
this afternoon, as you know well, and although this promise
to head the rising, which I overheard last night, may be
ground sufficient for his arrest, the authorities will prefer

the whole story; and you owe it to me to. keep nothing
back ; you know that, Citizen Klaskervara."

Halt, there. Citizen Barber," returned the other voice 
"You owed it to me to take no steps against my lad
without my knowledge. Where'd yon have been now
without my help ? And to go and denounce him like
that !"

What could I do ?" asked the other, in a more deprecating
tone. " He wouldn't keep out of the way, you see
even after all our trouble ; and seeing that we were on the
eve of a rising against the Government, I was forced to
play our trump-card."

'' And you say he did not deny his guilt ? Never tried
to shift it on to another ?" asked the second voice, in a tone
of ill-concealed anxiety."

No, why should he ? It would have been of no use."

*' True, but I scarcely thought he'd have taken it so
silently. Well, he seems to have got clear off."

"Apparently  there was no tracking him  but come
now, I must be off; out with the secret !"

There was a moment's silence, during which the other
seemed to reflect ; for when he spoke, it was in the tone of
one who has made a sudden resolve : 

Look you here. Citizen Barber, since the good of our
beloved country requires it, I won't keep the matter back,
painful as it may be to me. It must be for a consideration
though  I'm a poor man. You must see the Citizen

VOL. III. I

Director in Auray, and tell him I'm ready to make the
deposition to the officer he sends over with you this
evening."

The other uttered an impatient oath.

" You'd better come with me at once then, and make
your deposition, as you call it, in Auray. Puts, man 
tell me now, and trust me for the consideration."

"I can't  the matter requires thinking over before I
could tell it straight ; and as for going with you to Auray,
you forget that you commissioned me to have the roads
and principal entrances of the Chateau watched, in case
the aristocrats get wind. You can't do without me, you
see, Citizen Barber."

The other swore again under his breath, but submitted.


Well, at least, you promise to tell all, this evening ? '*

Yes  for a consideration. How much will they offer,
think you?"

"Will five lords do?"

"Not more?" (in a tone of disappointment).

Scarcely, the country's poor. And see, should not
her sons serve her for love ? "

A queer, untranslatable sound was the answer ; then,
after a pause : 

Well, well, I'll take five. We meet to-night, then,
at Hark ! what was that ? "

Yvonne trembled in her hiding place, as she heard a

step move round the menhir ; but her position at its foot
and the thick mist shielded her.

Humph, only an old cow browsing," said the voice,
which she now knew to be Barber Postik's. Yt? ; we
meet as arranged. Now, see to posting your brethren the
klaskervaras. Adieu ! "

Au diable I " murmured the other, when his fellow
conspirator was far enough to be beyond earshot; and
then, with a chuckling laugh, he also moved away into
the mist.

A LITTLE CALCULATION.

Par. "I'll about it this evening ; and I will presently pen down my dilemmas,
encourage mj-self in my certainty, put myself into my mortal preparation I
know not what the success will be ; but the attempt I vow."

Shakespeare :" All's well thckt ends ivell."

Til power of reading thought is a privilege which we all,
at times, would give large sums to possess. To look into
the mind of a friend or an enemy, and see there the
thoughts and intentions which he is hiding from us under
the mask of reserve or hypocrisy, is what many long to do ;
but such a peep behind the scenes is given but to few in
this world of fact. In the world of fiction it is otherwise.
The showman there, at least, is behind the curtain, and
can raise it when he pleases to give his audience a peep.

We will use this privilege now, and look into the
thinking - machine (it can scarcely be called a mind) of
Matelinn Gourven, the klaskervara.

He had been obliged to make a very rapid calculation
of chances when giving his answer to the barber ; he now
went over matters rather more at leisure, as he walked
across the landes towards Carnac, in the cold grey mist.
*' Yes," he thought to himself, " I will chance it. It

seems to be now or never, for there is no eluding that
fellow any longer. I must either keep mum. and fly, or
else make a bold attempt to realise all the capital I can on
this little secret at once Let me see; the chances
in my favour are :  first, the lad has disappeared, bearing
the blame in silence  filial piety which I dared hardly
expect, and certainly could never have counted on ; second,
he does not know anything of my whereabouts, not having
recognised his dad in this venerable wig and beard ; nor
do the aristocrats up there yet know me to be their ancient
pensioner  I begged of madame the other day and she
never recognised me ; third, the heirs of the late Count 
rest his soul  will be even more anxious than he was to
have the secret kept, now the crime of murder (for in self-defence
I must keep up that fiction) is added to that of
plebeian blood, and certain other little trifles, as a stain on
the family scutcheon. They will buy it, I think, for a trifle
more than those five loids which I can also pocket by
selling my second-hand goods for new, before my friend
the barber has time to discover my little previous traffic.
Then  well, my aristocrats will be safely caged, and can't
turn on me, and I can carry my gains with me beyond
seas, so that even if my son  ha ! ha !  should hear of the
accusation and turn on his poor father with a counter-charge
in revenge, I am out of the way.

Hem Matelinn Gourven, my friend; promising, is it not?

Now let us calculate the chances against; firstly, my

aristocrats mayn't bite  don't know the value of the
secret, don't care, etcetera. Scarcely, I think ; secondly,
hearing it, they may turn on me  fit the cap on the right
head, etcetera. Hardly, if you manage well, my friend.
Anyhow, I will have the money first, and they will soon be
in the keeping of the nation ; thirdly, that barber and his
troop may catch me playing traitor  that would be
awkward indeed; but I think I have time enough  'tis
worth the risk, anyhow. Allies, my friend, be quick seta
few spies in case, for the look of the thing, and then, hey
for Coetmor and my confession ! Ha, though ! whom
shall I make to  the Chevalier, or the Count ? Saints aid
me, there's a poser ! Let's see, who will pay most ? Well,
I think the young man  I don't know though, it concerns
the other more nearly. Well, chance must determine.
Presto, my friend, thou hast no time to lose !"

PAST AND PRESENT,

Memory, with sad eyes,
Holding the folded annals of my youth."

Tennyson" Tha Gardiner's Daughter."

Yvonne waited till all was silent; she did not even stir
from her cramped position till, as she concluded, the two
conspirators had had ample time to get clear off; then she
rose, trembling in every limb, crossed herself, murmured
a prayer, and turned homewards, the black cow keeping
close behind her.

The mist still clung thick and white round the sodden
earth ; but the wind was rising a little, and here and there
the curtain began to lift slightly, showing now one gaunt
menhir, now another. It showed something else when the
girl and the cow entered the lane which led to the village 
namely, a lame beggar, on a pair of rude crutches, posted
in the middle of the road like a sentinel.

He eyed the pair closely, then moved aside to let them
pass, neglecting to use his usual whining petition for a
a little sou or a piece of bread. This was a significant fact,
and after what she had overheard, the girl quickly drew her
inference  namely, that conspirator number two had

already began his work, and that this was one of the spies
set on anyone who might be going to, or coming from the
Chateau.

Probably he is not lame, after all," she thought,
knowing the tricks of many of the fraternity of the wallet ;
and she went on, with the uncomfortable feeling of being
watched, till she was out of sight.

Securing Blackthorn in the cow-shed, Yvonne ascended
the ladder, her heart beating for the safety of her fugitive,
in spite of what she had heard the conspirators say of their
ignorance of his whereabouts ; but Christophe was there
all safe, and sleeping profoundly, his great limbs stretched
upon the hay, and his dark face, looking sadly worn in
spite of its youth, just touched by the misty ray which
sloped through a loophole in the wall.

The girl stood over him, gazing intently, as though she
would learn the features all by heart ; though indeed, poor
soul, she had them there already.

He stirred in his sleep, and his lips opened and
murmured a name. It was Genofa's. The girl heard
it, and her noble brow contracted as with pain ; she
clasped her hands tightly together for one moment;
the next they were relaxed, and a finger raised to her
forehead to cross out the involuntary frown with the
holy sign.

'I must wake him," she murmured; "and yet my
Gods it will be to see him go ! I know it, I know it ! We

may never meet again ; yet I must hasten the parting  God
help me !"

An upward glance made the words a prayer. Then she
stooped and softly called him by his name.

The lad started, looked up wildly, saw who it was, and
raised himself into a sitting posture.

Christophe, my friend," said the girl, softly, " I have
something to tell thee. Don't be afraid j it is God who
has let me hear it." And, kneeling by him on the hay,
she told him all.

Christophe listened intently, and when she had finished
he started up.

I must go," he said  " I must warn them at once.
Don't keep me, I say," he added, impatiently, as Yvonne
laid a detaining hand upon his arm.

But, listen a moment," she said, in her soft, calm voice ;
and such was its tone, that the impatient lad could not
choose but listen. "How wilt thou go?" she asked.
Think ; all the avenues are watched, and even if thou
couldst get past, they would recognise thee ; and, after that
accusation, wouldst thou be believed, supposing even the
Seigneur should grant an interview? Think, Christophe
what good wouldst thou do there as a prisoner in the
Chateau dungeons?" 

The lad stamped his foot.

It is true," he said  " it is true ; but I must
risk it on the barest chance. Yvonne, wouldst have me

nie, of all people  leave them to fall into this snare
unwarned ?"

No," she answered, quietly, " / will go."

But how ? They will not let thee pass, Yvonne. And
those villains a girl like thee who knows what they
might not do?"

She thought a moment.

Listen, Christophe," she said, presently : " dost remember
the path through the wood, the door behind the
summer-house, and the spiral stair ? Dost remember, when
Aunt Tina was housekeeper there, in our childish days,
and we used to play at the Chateau ? Dost remember
how, one day, we found the door, thou and I, and she
made us swear on the Crucifix, never to tell the secret ?
Ah, how frightened she was, the dear good aunt !"

I remember. Yes, I can go that way. They will not
watch the wood-path, if they do not know about the door.
Let me go, Yvonne."

But listen again. We must go together. I will not
keep thee back, Christophe, for I cannot open the door
alone, that statue which hides it is too heavy for me to
move; but / must be the one to go in and give the
warning. Indeed, Christophe, it is the only way."

The lad thought a moment.

Thou art right, Yvonne," he said, presently. We will
go together. Come, let us waste no time ; it grows dusk
already, and this mist will help to hide us."

They went down the ladder into the dwelling-room
All was very still. The wood-fire smouldered upon the
hearth ; the large old Crucifix loomed out from the gloom
beside the large bed, where lay the old man. His granddaughter
went to look at him before starting; she knew
he was past missing her now ; for day and night had been
alike for weeks past to old Perik Guenedon. Christophe
stood by the door, waiting impatiently.

Yvonne bent over the withered face. How beautiful
it looked ! There was not a sign of pain, and the usual
heavy breathing was hushed.

Dear grandfather, he sleeps like a child," she murmured.
Then, with a sudden impulse, she bent to kiss his brow.
It was cold as that of a statue !

The girl uttered a cry. Christophe heard, came to her,
looked also, and saw how it was. The old man's last
sleep was over, and his soul had wakened in another
world than this !

The girl sank on her knees with a sob, and buried
her face in the bed-clothes. The young kloiirek hesitated
a moment, then knelt beside her, and repeated one of
the prayers for the dying. Then he rose ; but the girl
knelt on, silent and motionless. Christophe was at his
wits' end ; he looked at the window ; the gloom was
gathering ; he looked at the girl ; she seemed to have
forgotten everything but her sudden loss. Yet their errand
was one of life and death !

Gently, but firmly, he put his hand on her shoulder.
She started at his touch, and looked up.

Yvonne," he said, gently, " we must not forget the
living in the dead  he would not have wished it. He
will not want thee now, Yvonne."

No ; he will not want me ! " she cried, with a sudden
burst of passionate grief. " No one will want me ever
any more ! never  never, never ! "

Then, on a sudden, she calmed herself.

Come, I am ready," she said ; and she covered the
old man's face, took his old lanthorn from the wall, and
left the house without another word.

Out of the village, along the hedge-row on its inner
side, they went ; keeping to the fields, avoiding the lanes,
hidden by the mist and gloom, and stopped by no one.
Side by side they went, over the fallen leaves, with never
a word between them, startling a rabbit now and then,
but seeing no other living being. Then into the wood,
and along a winding path, little used but by four-footed
passengers, for it was choked by fern and brushwood
in several places, and the briars had thrown themselves
across in many a thorny garland. The mist hung thick
among the branches overhead, and dripped in slow drops
upon the mouldering vegetation which strewed the ground.
Death and decay were in the damp, still air. They
neared the Chateau. A wilderness was on this side  an
unkempt tangle of shrubs, which had once been a garden

when there was a Seigneur de Coetmor always in residence.
The De Kerdec'h family had always preferred their own
ancestral home in the north, and Chateau Coetmor had
been neglected in consequence.

The November twilight was thickening fast; our two
friends could see little through it but a high-pointed
gable, with a weathercock atop, showing between two
tall poplars, and a little light already twinkling in a window
half way up.

They entered the garden, past the old stone fountain,
with its moss-grown nymph emptying a pitcher  which,
indeed, poor thing, she need not have troubled to do,
seeing there had been no water in it since the two were
children  down the garden steps, with the stone balustrade,
the roost of four aged peacocks, too old and sleepy to
scream an alarm, and into My Lady's Bower.

This was an ancient summer-house, placed with its back
to the Chateau wall, smothered in creepers, and approached
through a maze  well named, but better now, perhaps, than
when some bygone Comtesse de Coetmor had it constructed
to increase the difficulties of those who would
penetrate to her bower. Inside the summer-house it was
quite dark ; but the memory of childhood's days is strong,
and Christophe and Yvonne had no difficulty in finding
their way. They felt about for the stone statue of Flora
which stood in a niche at the back, found it in the old
place, struck a light (the materials for which had been

carried there by Yvonne), shaded it carefully, and set
themselves to the task of unmasking the secret door.

The light gleamed on the green-stained person of the
Goddess of Flowers, on her mossy limbs and lichen-garnished
face. Truly she was no beauty, and a broken
nose made her still less so.

Yvonne smiled, in spite of the gravity of the situation,
as she looked on poor Flora's pitiful plight, and remembered
the childish romp which had in part been the cause
of it.

Dost remember toppling her over and breaking her
nose, Christophe?" she whispered.

Ay," he returned, in the same cautious voice ; " we
should never have discovered the door but for that
accident."

Moving Flora from her niche, a little round-headed rivet
in the stonework was found and pressed, which caused a
portion of it to turn on a pivot, disclosing a low, narrow
door. Another spring opened this, and the two found
themselves at the foot of a spiral stair, which seemed to
wind upwards in the thickness of the wall. They entered,
cautiously closing the door behind them, and began the
giddy ascent. Presently Yvonne, who was in advance,
reached a narrow landing, from which a passage, narrower
still, turned off to the left. She turned, signed to Christophe
to stay where he was, followed it a few paces, and
stopped outside a door similar to the one below.

Voices sounded from within !j

Again the girl glanced round at where her companion
stood holding the light, put her finger to her lips, beckoned
to him, and remained listening, with her hand on the
spring.

MATELIXN Goren's LITTLE SECRET.

"If head be bowed and heart be sore,
Reason enow have I therefor."

"Ballads and Soiufi <>/ Brittany. "

Fate, as the klaskervara put it to himself, decided the
knotty question for him simply enough.

*' To which of the Seigneurs can I speak ?" he asked the
lackey who opened the door to him. " 1 come on important
business."

The lackey looked at him, and hesitated a moment. He
saw the man's position by his dress, and, had the times
been in their normal condition, would probably have sent
him about his business; but, as things were, the seeming
beggar might, as likely as not, be the bearer of an important
message from some of the Chouan leaders, with
whom the servant shrewdly suspected his master was
about to connect himself, and to repulse him might be
dangerous.

I will see," he said, civilly, and retired into the house.

Monsieur le Comte left home early this morning," he
said, returning presently; "but Monsieur le Chevalier will
see you. Step this way."

*' Good," answered the klaskervara aloud, adding to himself,
"So ?  ah, then, it is probably just as well."

He followed the servant across the hall, and the inner
vestibule, where Christophe had waited the day before, and
then up a staircase which led to the suite of rooms set
apart for the Chevalier de Kerdec'h.

The Chevalier was sitting in his usual position by the
wood-fire, with his forehead leaning on his hand, and his
eyes fixed on the glowing logs. He looked up as the
klaskervara entered, and signed to him to come forward,
while the lackey, on another sign, withdrew.

Matelinn Gourven approached as far as the wolf-skin
which lay before the fire, and there remained standing.
The Chevalier did not offer him a seat, or make any movement
himself beyond a slight bend of the head ; that done,
he almost seemed to forget that anyone was present, and
relapsed into his usual state of profound and dreamy
melancholy.

For once in a way Matelinn Gourven's native audacity
was at fault ; he even felt not altogether at his ease. It
is embarrassing at any time to have one's presence entirely
Ignored, and the errand on which the klaskervara had
come, made the reception he was receiving more than
unpleasant.

'' This won't do," thought our rascally acquaintance,
after waiting some minutes without result,  " this won't
do." He coughed slightly.

VOL. III. K

The Chevalier started and looked up.

*' Ah, I forgot," he said. *' Pardon me, sir ; did you
want anything ?"

Want anything, indeed !" said the visitor, sotto voce,  " I
should just think I did."

What he said aloud was : " Monsieur will excuse me for
importuning him ; but I am here on business of the
greatest importance. I have a secret to confide to
Monsieur which has been kept from him too long; but
first he must promise to forgive me my share in the wrong.
and "

"What?" asked the Chevalier, absently; he seemed to
have lost the thread of the discourse, and to be in danger
of again forgetting the matter in hand.

The klaskervara saw that he must come to the front.

Monsieur will remember a young peasant girl of Leon,
called Rozenne Miorcec ?"

The Chevalier started as though struck by an electric
shock ; rose hastily and stretched out his hands, trembling
all over, and vainly trying to speak. But the klaskervara
went on unmoved.

"Monsieur would like to hear what became of her?
Well, if he will swear to me on the Crucifix not to make
any use against me of what I am ready to tell him, and
will give me a hundred louis (or say two hundred?) I may
perhaps be able "

But the Chevalier had found voice, and interrupted him

with words which were almost a cry, so piteous, so
tremblingly eager was the tone in which they were uttered.

A hundred louis ? Yes, yes, two hundred if you will
that is (with an anxious look) if I have them. Anything
to hear  to hear of Tier. Ah, have pity speak, tell me 1
Mon Dieu, how it pains me here /"

He laid his hand upon his heart, turned very white, and
gasped.

But the money  I must have it first," said the hard
voice of the klaskervara.

The Chevalier went to a secretary, unlocked it, drew out
a secret drawer, and counted out its contents before the
klaskervara with trembling fingers. There were one
hundred and thirty louis.

Take them, I have no more ; these are hard times for
us," said the Chevalier, looking up wistfully at the ragged
rogue and pushing the coins towards him.

Are they not enough ?" he added, nervously, as the
other greedily pocketed them, and still held out his hand.
"Indeed I have no more. Ah, tell me about her, for the
love of God !"

Yes, if you will give me that ring into the bargain,*
replied the klaskervara, fixing his covetous eyes on a
curiously-engraved gold ring which the gentleman wore.

Raoul de Kerdech pulled it off.

It was my mother's," he said, with a sigh. " But no
matter, I must hear, cost what it may.

I wish I had known sooner what a soft he is, and
how easy my task would be," reflected Matelinn Gourven,
*' I would have found a market before this, and effected a
better sale, good as this is. Well, well, it's done now.
Now for the story, and a short cut, too ; or, I shall be cut
short  ha, ha ! At present, Monsieur will take the little
oath," he added aloud, with a gracious smile ; " then the
secret is his; I ask nothing more."

The Chevalier drew a Crucifix from his bosom, and in a
voice, shaking under the pressure of cruel suspense, swore
as desired. Then he tottered back to his chair, sank
into it, leaned his head upon his hands, and said, in a
faint voice : 

Begin."

If Monsieur will allow me, I also will take a chair,"
said the ragged visitor with cool effrontery, and sat down
opposite the gentleman.

monsieur is sure no one is listening ? " he went on,
with a glance round the room. " Ah, well, then we will
begin. monsieur remembers Rozenne Miorcec? Yes? Of
course. She was a rare village beauty, and first love is
not easily forgotten. She was Monsieur's first love, as I
am aware ; perhaps he is not aware that she was also my
first admiration? No? Well, of course, she preferred
Monsieur  that goes without saying, when the choice was
between a peasant and an aristocrat. Monsieur saw a good
deal of her, T believe ; more than the late M. le Comte de

Kerdec'h quite liked. There were reasons, he feared, that
Monsieur's sympathies were being enlisted too strongly on
the side of the lower orders ; he feared, too, that the  what
shall I say ?  connexion with the beautiful Rozenne might
lead to a vies alliance : he knew Monsieur's high principles
and feared the charms of the Rose of Leon. Ah, she was
a beauty ! Fresh as the flower she was named after,
graceful as a fawn, and sweet as the morning air !"

The Chevalier uttered a quivering sigh.

"Monsieur thinks so?" continued the klaskervara,
*' Well, I thought so also, and, naturally, I did not love
Monsieur the better for it. Yet, with all her charms, the
Count was right. The old blue blood of the De Kerdec'h's
would have been terribly contaminated had it mixed with
that which ran in the sweet veins of a common peasant
girl. Yes, yes, that goes without saying. Also there was a
clause in the marriage settlements of Monsieur's mother,
who was a De Coetmor, that, failing male heirs to the
Comte de Coetmor her brother, all that great estate should
pass to her second son (supposing she had one) if he
married and became the father of a son who was to carry
on the name, otherwise her eldest son was to be Comte de
Kerdec'h and Coetmor. A marriage, therefore, between
Monsieur and the lovely Rozenne would at once blot the
family escutcheon and alienate a goodly estate. Naturally
M. le Comte objected to this. I was willing to assist in
preventing such a catastrophe. Brief, I persuaded the fair

Rozenne of monsieur's inconstancy, and confided her to
the care of a family I knew in Saint-Brieuc. A child was
born "

He was interrupted by a cry from the Chevalier, who
leaned eagerly forward.

"Eocene insisted that she was Monsieur's lawful wife
I know not if she spoke truth, but the family were
incredulous "

Heavens ! dared anyone deny it r" cried the Chevalier
in a dry, choked voice. "She was my wife,  yes. Ah!
God that I had known !" He sank his head on his hands
and groaned.

lVhew-7C'-7cf! So the lad will be Comte de Coetmor
then after all," said the klaskervara, soffo voce ; after which
he glanced at the clock, started, and went on hurriedly : 
'the family in charge of Rozenne informed us  that is?
myself and Monsieur the late Count  of the event which
had taken place. It was decided to remove the child.
The poor thing found this out and fled. We searched for
her, but in vain. All trace had disappeared, both of herself
and her infant. At last, quite unexpectedly, when I
was on one of my usual pilgrimages, I found her as she
lay dying under a menhir on Carnac Plain "

The Chevalier drew a quivering breath. '' Dead !" he
moaned,  " dead ! and she never knew "

The infant was alive," went on the klaskervara, with

business-like unconcern. '' I took him to Antonn Comorre's
wife, and she brought him up as my son "

'* Does he still live ? For God's sake, tell me ? " asked
the poor father, with a wistful eagerness, which would have
melted any heart but that of Matelinn Gourven.

Live ? Well, yes, he lives ; but, so to say, with the
halter round his neck ; for I am sorry to have to tell
Monsieur that his late brother, the Count de Kerdec'h,

met his death at the hands of this precious son of

Ha! what's this? Villain, you have betrayed me!"

UNTO DEATH.

I could but hope that time might show

How pure was the love my heart could know.
-i;- *)!-ifs * #

There was no end for such love but death."

W. Sawyer" Ten Miles from Town."

A SLIGHT sound, like the click ot a spring, had broken
the quiet of the room.

The Chevalier took his hands hurriedly from his face,
as the klaskervara uttered his exclamation, and saw the
tapestry lifted to admit two figures.

Yvonne stood first, her noble face stern with indignation
; Christophe followed her, his features convulsed
with conflicting emotions, his breath coming thick and fast.

The two occupants of the room had risen to their
feet and were standing, struck with astonishment. Terror
also was in the look of the klaskervara, but the interruption
had come so suddenly as to take from him for the moment
all power of escape. Before he could move from his
place, his arms were pinioned by the young kloiirek, and
he was forced back into his seat.

"You have lied!" he said, passionately  "you have

lied ! I may speak now, since I know you are not my
father. I owe you nothing  less than nothing, for you
have been very cruel to me. Monsieur," he went on,
turning to the Chevalier, and speaking in a changed tone 
father! I am no murderer, though, in my ignorance,
that man there made a tool of me, and poisoned my whole
life with the horror of it. 'Twas he who did the deed.
I may say it now to clear myself."

The face of the white-haired gentleman had turned pale
with overpowering emotion ; his lips were working, and the
tears running down his cheeks. When Christophe called
him " Father," he opened his arms, and as the last words
were concluded he tottered forward with a cry  " My
son  my son !" and sank, trembling and sobbing like a
woman, on the breast of the young man.

Yvonne stood in the background, looking on, and feeling
the sad isolation of the stranger who must not intermeddle
with this joy. Yet her presence was not unnecessary. She
alone was watching the klaskervara, feeling that there was
danger there. In his cunning face there was the look of a
beast of prey who is lying in wait, biding his time to spring,
as he sat there crouched up in the seat where Christophe
had forced him. He did not move; he seemed afraid
of attracting attention, yet the girl could see that he was
watching intently.

Presently, before even her quick ear had detected anything,
she noticed that he lifted his head slightly, and

turned his eyes in the direction of a door, partly concealed
by a curtain, situated in that part of the room opposite to
where she stood. From her knowledge of the house, she
kne.v that it led to an antechamber, communicating with
some bedrooms, and with a staircase leading into this
particular wing from the main building. She watched the
man closely, thinking that, so soon as he could find an
opportunity to spring up unobserved, it was his intention
to make a rush for this door.

Yet he did not seem to be watching only ; he seemed to
be listening also. Was that a sound ?

Yvonne glanced towards the father and son, but they
M-ere still too absorbed in mutual explanations to have eyes
or ears for anything else.

She remembered the mission of Barber Postik, yet it
seemed full early for him to return from Auray, and she
remembered also that he had appointed a rendezvous whither
klaskervara outside the Chateau. Surely he would go
there first ?

Yet the girl was uneasy. She longed to cut short the
interview between father and son with a word of warning ;
but hesitated to intrude. They seemed to have forgotten
her very presence. Thoughts take long to write, but they
are swift in their passage through the mind.

Five minutes, perhaps, had passed since Christopher
ai.'d Yvonne entered the room, certainly not more, much
as had been pressed int.) it : yet the girl felt that each

moment carried peril with it. Again she took her eyes
from the klaskervara a moment, and was opening her lips
to speak, when a sudden sound at the door attracted her
attention. The wood fire had done blazing, and was
sending a warm red glow all over the room, and in the
glow, standing just within the doorway, she saw the figure
of a man with a pistol in his hand.

The klaskervara was making signs to him.

The girl uttered a sudden cry, not a loud one, for the
imminence of the danger almost took from her the
power of voice.

At her cry, the figure vanished behind the curtain, the
klaskervara sprang up and made a rush for the door, and
the young kloarek turned as suddenly and threw himself
in his path.

In another second, Matelinn Gourven was struggling in
Christophe's grasp !

A vii, Citoyen I " he shrieked, and before Yvonne
had time to reach the door and carry out her intention
of bolting it on the inside, the intruder was again on the
threshold with the muzzle of his pistol pointing full at
the young kloarek.

Without a thought but for his safety, the girl flung
herself before him. There was a flash, a loud report,
and in an instant the room was filled with smoke.

As though both had been shot, the two combatants
sprang asunder ; Christophe made a rush for the door,

and the Barber, utterly taken by surprise at this sudden
onslaught from the man whom he thought he had shot,
sprang back from the threshold.

With the quickness of thought, the young man had
closed the heavy oaken door, drawn across it the great
wooden bar, sunk in the thickness of the wall, which
served it as a bolt, and returned into the room.

"It was a near thing," he said, still panting with
excitement. "You villain! this is jw/r doing. Monsieur
Father, can you get me something to blindfold and
bind him with, and then we must begone. See how it
has frightened poor Yvonne  she has fainted ! "

In the dim red glow of the fire, which was all the
light in the large old room, he did not see that the girl
as she lay apparently fainting on the floor, was pressing
her apron to her breast to stanch the blood which flowed
from it, and was clenching her teeth in agony to keep in
the moans of pain, lest they should reveal what had
happened and retard the escape of her companions.

Her unselfishness bore its fruit. The two men, thinking
it was only a swoon, put off attending to her till they had
secured their dangerous visitor, tied him securely hand and
foot, bound a bandage about his eyes, and gagged his
mouth. Before this was done, the tramp of feet was heard
on the stairs, voices sounded outside the door, and there
was an attempt to force it open. The strong oak resisted-open,

in the name of the nation !" exclaimed a voice.

and then came a heavy cannonade of knocking. Christophe
saw that if they were to effect their escape, it must be done
immediately. He opened the concealed door, snatched
up the lanthorn from the passage outside, where he had
left it, and gave it to his father with a few hasty words of
explanation ; then he lifted Yvonne in his arms, signed to
the Chevalier to follow, and passed through the door.

The old man kept his eyes fixed upon his son, obedient
to his every word and sign. He did not speak, he seemed
but for that one fixed attention, to be walking in a dream,
quite unmindful of pursuit and peril ; for his mild eyes
shone, and his face had that blissful look which one
sometimes sees on the face of a sleeping child, who smiles
at some bright vision of the night.

In Christophe's mind, on the contrary, the imminence of
the situation and the feeling that the safety of the whole
party was dependent upon him, thrust aside for the
moment all thought of the revelation he had just heard.
The sense of joy and relief could not yet be dwelt on 
scarcely even felt ; anxiety was uppermost, and all his
energies were wanted for action.

Under his directions, the door was closed, and the
Chevalier de Kerdec'h passed him in the narrow way, and
went on first down the stair, carrying the light. Christophe
followed with Yvonne ; but he kept his eyes on the
lanthorn, and did not notice what lead happened to the
girl.

She was suffering intensely ; yet she never uttered a
sound. The cold dews of agony broke out on her large
white brow ; a deadly faintness stole over her ; she thought
she would have died before the last downward step was
taken, and she felt the cold night air blowing on her face.
They were in the summer-house. There Christophe set her
down, and she heard him helping the Chevalier to replace
the statue.

She does not seem to revive, poor thing," she heard
him say, as he lifted her once more and went out into the
maze  "Hide the light, Monsieur; the garden may be
watched, and it would betray us. Now follow me."

They went down the garden paths unseen ; they entered
the wood. The cold mist-drops fell from the trees upon
her face. She prayed silently that God would help her to
endure, to hide her pain, till a place of safety were reached-where
that was to be she did not think. And God did
help her. The pain ebbed slowly ; she felt nothing but the
arms which held her, and his heart beating against hers.
Had she passed from purgatory to paradise? the girl
wondered dumbly. Then the faintness returned upon her,
and before they were out of the wood all knowledge, all
feeling, had passed away, and she lay as one dead in the
arms of the man for whom she had given her life !

FOR HUM."

'' Elalc. My life Is Utile,

Only a cup of water.
But pure and limpid.
Take it, O mj Prince I
Let it refresh sou 
Let it restore you.
It is given willingly 
It is given freely ;
May God bless the gift '.'

Li>\(;i-i:i.L(n\ " The Golden Legend."

*' Ah, the poor thing, she is dying ! dying ! Pitiful heavens,
to think of it  and no doctor ! for that barber fellow is off,
and they do say now that he was a Blue in disguise. Ah,
sweet saints, but it is pitiful !"

And tender-hearted Ninorc'h Comorre, into whose house
they had carried the fainting girl, bent over her as she lay
on the lis clos in the great farm kitchen, and burst into a
flood of tears.

Genofa was standing by, white with horror; but Christophe
did not seem to see her : he thrust Ninorc'h aside,
and bent, in his turn, over the bed with a terrible feeling at
his heart.

'' Dying !" he exclaimed. '* No, no, it is only a swoon.

They shot at me, and she was frightened. My God !" he
exclaimed, after a pause, as he caught sight of the blood
slowly welling from the bosom of the unconscious girl 
My God, can it be that the shot struck her? Ah! Yvonne,
Yvonne, speak, tell me how it was. Ah, no, it cannot,
cmmot be ! Is there rio one here who can help her ? "

He turned towards the others a white, appealing look.

Ninorc'h turned to her husband, who was standing open-mouthed
in the middle of the room, too much dismayed
by the suddenness of the disaster to be capable of a suggestion.


Come, then, great-mouth," she exclaimed, with the
fretted asperity which comes of pain and of powerlessness
to cope with a terrible disaster  *' come, then, what art
staring at? Go and fetch the Father."

Dom Clemens?"

Ay \ who else ? Ah, truly, it was the good God that
brought him here just in the nick of time ! Yes, Yvonne,
yes, my lamb j he is coming the good father is coming,
and will know how to help thee. Ah, God ! do not moan
so, my sweet ; it cuts me to the heart !"

And Ninorc'h, utterly vanquished, threw her apron over
her face, and burst out crying once more. Antonn Comorre
had left the room. No one spoke. Only the burning
wood puffed and tinkled in the great fireplace; the
tender house-mother sobbed and sighed, and the November
wind moaned in the withering foliage outside.

The lights and shadows from the fire danced across the
dark oak beams of the old Breton kitchen, basking and
glooming on the Virgin's shrine between the beds which
Genofa decked daily, and lending a mysterious solemnity
to the great Crucifix nailed upon the wall. The glow fell
upon the aristocratic figure of the tall Chevalier, who
leant against the chimney-piece and looked into the embers
on the hearth ; it shone less strongly on Christophe's
strong form, as he stood by the bed with hands clasped
tightly together, face bent, and features working convulsively.
Genofa and her mother were beyond its ruddy
influence, clasping each other like frightened children in
the gloom ; but the flickering light played across the face
of the girl who lay white and still upon the bed, f jrcing
herself to be calm, as the pain of consciousness stole again
over her aching senses.

Presently, as Christophe's painful breathing rose to a
sudden sob, she stretched out a white, limp hand, damp
with the dews of coming death, laid it softly upon his, and
smiled as an angel might

Christophe," she said, in a whisper, which did not
reach beyond him, " don't mind, dear ; I am content.
For him," she murmured, presently, as her mind wandered
a little 1 die, for him ! My God, I thank thee !"

Then silence fell again. Only the fire puffed and tinkled
on the hearth, and voices moaned softly within and without;
moaned silently with such human sadness round

VOL. III. L

the old farmhouse that the peasant women hushed their
sobs and listened awestruck, whispering to each other, " It
is the spirits ! She will not last long, poor thing  the
death-angels are coming for her soul !" And they told
their beads and murmured a prayer for the dying.

The door opened and the old fatherly priest came in,
followed by the stalwart farmer. He paused a moment to
pronounce the message of peace in his sonorous Latin, and
then went up to the bed and bent over the dying girl. It
was he who had baptized her as an infant, who had
prepared her for her Confirmation and administered to her
her First Communion. Into his fatherly ear had been
poured all the little secrets, all the small failings of her all
but spotless soul ; and now he was about to hear her dying
confession, and to administer to her the last Sacraments of
the Church, rites which he and all present knew full well
might at any moment be interrupted by the soldiers of the
Republic. All knew it  knew the danger of discovery ;
but all were loyal Bretons, and not for any fear of man
would they let a soul go out into the unknown without the
consolation and guidance of the Church.

Yvonne saw the old man as he bent over her ; a light
came into her fading eyes, she smiled and stretched out
her arms to him like a child.

The priest took the cold, moist hands in his, folded them
tenderly together, and then, at a word from him, the others
silently left the room, while the dying girl made her last

confession. When they came in again and knelt for the
last Sacraments, there was a heavenly calm upon the poor
pale face, but the old priest's voice was quivering with
emotion and the tears trickling slowly over his wrinkled
cheeks.

She is a saint," he said aside to Ninorc'h, when the last
prayer was ended. " I have been at many a death-bed,
and heard many a dying confession, but never one like
this. She is purity itself, sweet child  worthy to follow the
Lamb, if ever mortal soul were worthy. Ah, God be
merciful to us sinners  how far we come behind ! Yes
leave them alone together; is she not a saint?" he
continued, as a faint voice from the bed pleaded for a few
words alone with Christophe. And the two were left
together.

Christophe  brother," said the dying girl, in her low
calm voice, " sit down beside me \ I have something to
say."

He came and knelt by the bed. There was an awe
upon him, a sense of reverent homage, as at a sacred
presence, which would not let him take a posture less
humble.

Christophe," she said, '* I heard all with thee to-night 
the story of thy birth, and I thank God for and with thee,.
dear Christophe. Now thou canst hold up thy head like a
man, and I know thou wilt not belie thy birth, but wilt do
thy duty before God in the position He has given thee

But, Christophe, keep faith ; do not forget Genofa now
thou art a gentleman. She is but a peasant maiden, but 
she loves thee, and  ah, God, it hurts to pour out all one's
heart unheeded ! "

She paused a moment, and looked into the young
man's face with a glance which was almost frightened.
Had she betrayed herself? But no, he did not seem to
guess.

"And I love herT that was what he said, and he
said it with an intensity which carried conviction.
' God knows that, Yvonne. But  ah, Yvonne, can
I turn back 7iowz. second time? Can I deny my sell
to God when He has showed me this mercy ? Am I
not bound  bound ' Ah, me, it is hard to feel my hands
lettered just when life seemed brightening  opening
before me! just when the burden seemed falling off!
Yes. But, ah, Yvonne, I fear it is too late ! a priest
I vowed to make myself when I was in misery, and a
priest I must be !

Yvonne saw the bitterness with which the lad's soul
was chafing under an uncongenial lot, ,and she smiled,
with the calm pity of one who sees more clearly than
those who are struggling amidst the dust of life's turmoil.
Hast never heard of rash vows, my friend ? " she
asked, with a faint flash of humour. " Thine was one.
No, no, my friend, thou wilt never make into a priest
worth having  never, never ! 'Tis not thy vocation,

Christophe. Thou wilt be a good husband, a tender
father, a seigneur who can understand and feel for his
people like one of themselves ! But a priest  no ! "

I know it," said the lad, humbly. " I know it,
Yvonne. I should not be worthy to stand behind the
humblest in the sacred ministry. But, oh, Yvonne, I
wish I could see God's will about it as thou seems
to do!"

Christophe, listen ! " she said, solemnly. " In a few
hours I shall have gone from this world. The dying see
clearly sometimes. 1 have long thought that Bernezz was
wrong in persuading thee to be a priest, and now I seem
to be certain of it. Oh, Christophe ! " she continued?
raising her steadfast eyes, with a look of rapt vision,
God is not as thou and others think Him. He is no hard
task-master forcing His people to make brick without
the straw. He is a loving, tender Father. Thickest
thou He would deny the spirit if it were His will to
have thee for His priest ? No, no ; He has sent thee no
call ; it is not His will  do not kick against the pricks
Christophe," she went on, with increasing fervour. " I am
dying in thy place  no, no, do not thank me ! I am
content  but since it is so, my friend, wilt thou not
promise me 07ie thing, one little thing, Christophe?"

Anything, Yvonne, anything  for thou wilt ask me
nothing that is wrong. Heavens ! could I deny thee
anything lying there like that  dying for me!"

The young kloiirek's voice was passionate and thick
with emotion.

*' Well, promise me this, Christophe," went on the
dying girl. " Promise, at least, to pause and think well
before taking any final vows. Ah, think well before doing
what may wreck thy whole life, both here and hereafter ;
for it I know thee, Christophe, thou art one to grow hard
and reckless under the constant fretting of an unloved
yoke. Ah, think what the sin would be to touch the
sacred mysteries of God's sanctuary with a profaning
hand ! Thou lightest come to that, Christophe  even
that, and  ah 1 do not let me have the pain of knowing
that what I have done has been worse than vain ! Better
for thee to have died, Christophe, than live to lose thyself.
I think  ah ! God  I think 'twould break my heart to
know that, even were I in Thy Paradise ! "

Her voice had grown faint and low ; but a flush of
emotion had risen to her cheeks, and her eyes locked at
Christophe with a light in them which he could not bear.

I promise to do nothing rashly," he said, his face

quivering with strong emotion ;  " I promise My God !

what is that; what are any promises in return, when she is
dying for me? Dying! What am I, that such as she

should die for me ? I never knew  I never guessed

Ah, Yvonne ; dear, sweet Yvonne !" sobbed the lad, carried
quite out of himself by gratitude, grief, admiration, and a
pity, which, for the mount, awoke in him a passionate

feeling for the stricken girl, which he had never felt for her
in health. " Must thou really die ? I think it will break
my heart 1 think "

'hush!"

His sudden outbreak of feeling, though she did not for a
moment estimate it above its real value, sent a quiver of
answering emotion through the heart of the dying girl.
If he could only have loved her ! Ah ! what paradise it
would have been. Would Genofa ever be to him what she
could have been ? But no ; she must not think of that.
Yet, though she put it from her, the emotions awakened
were too much for the ebbing life. Yvonne clasped her
hands convulsively, and grew very pale.

I can say no more," she whispered in a voice of
exhaustion ; " talk to Dom Clemcnoz ; he thinks as I do.
Call the others, please. Oh, if Bernezz were but here !"

Frightened at her looks, Christophe summoned the others,
who came in and stood or knelt around the bed, while
Ninorc'h, with tears streaming down her face, moistened
the poor white lips with wine.

For a long time, Yvonne lay in perfect silence; then she
revived a little, turned with a little flickering smile towards
Christophe and Genofa, who were kneeling beside her,
lifted a hand of each, and held them together in both of
hers, with a look which Christophe at least understood
better than words.

God bless you ! " she murmured.

Then suddenly her eyes lit and she turned them eagerly
towards the door.

He is coming," she said, in a stronger voice" he is
coming I hear him ! Ah, quick let him in !"

The watchers looked at each other with awe-stricken
faces. All had the same thought, and no one moved to
open the door, for each thought in his heart" 'Tis the
Angel of Death : her soul hears him, though we cannot."

Still the girl listened eagerly.

Why do you not open," she said again, " do I not tell
you he is coming ?"

But still no one stirred ; only the old priest murmured
the prayers for the dying, and the others crossed themselves
and watched her face. The wind moaned round the house,
and the fire crackled on the hearth. Then, in the silence,
three knocks sounded on the door. The watchers started
with a great fear. Genofa gave a smothered shriek.

Can you not open ?" said the dying voice again, with a
touch of impatience in it, "he is come to me, and will you
shut him out ?"

Then the old priest rose, took the Crucifix from the
wall, and walked towards the door. "In God's name,
then," he said solemnly, and undid the bolts.

Ninorc'h and Genofa hid their faces, they did not dare
to look on what might enter. The Chevalier and Antonn
crossed themselves and gazed with eyes of fear. Only the
girl showed no sign of terror. She stretched out her arms

and smiled. A dark figure entered, looked neither to right
nor left, but went straight to the bed, opened his arms also,
and the two met in a close embrace.

I kneiv it was thou, my Bernezz," she said, with soft
content. "Ah, thank God, for now my last prayer is
granted !" She fell back with a soft smile, and lay looking
at him and holding his hand.

'sit was a dream," he said, in a strange, still voice 
"a dream. I saw thee lying here, Yvonne, and I could
not rest till I had come."

"It was God murmured the girl, and then she shut her
eyes, and her lips moved. '' Bernezz," she went on
presently, in a dreamy voice, " old grandfather is dead !
he died this afternoon. Dost think God will let his soul
wait somewhere out there till mine is free, that we may goto
Him together ? Ah ! Bernezz, is it not good of God to
spare me till the dear old man was gone ? What could he
have done without me ?"

There came another pause ; then the girl spoke again.
Bernezz, dear, just tell me once that thou art not discontent
with me still, because I could not tread in the path which
thou hast chosen? Brother, dear, the old man wanted me,
and  my heart was not given that way  I could never have
been happy in a convent. But  ah ! Bernezz, do not think
that I have not tried to serve Him where I was  my God,
my God 1"

She added the last words softly, with an upward look of
beautiful love, as though she had quite forgotten that her
question had been addressed to man, and had had her
answer straight from God.

"Ah, yes, she is truly a saint, dear child!" murmured the
old priest ; but the young one said nothing ; only he knelt
down by the bed and let his brow fall upon his sister's hand
with a gesture of intense abasement ; for he felt in that
hour that all his hard-won sanctity was as nothing in
comparison of that which this simple maiden had attained
to, all unknown to herself, in the sweet unselfishness of a
simple life.

It was Bernezz who kept the last watch by the bed of his
dying sister. After awhile the presence of the others
seemed to disturb her, for the pain returned upon her from
time to time, and she seemed unable to bear the sight of
their pitying eyes, and of the anguish which her sufferings
caused them.

It was Bernezz who accompanied her pure spirit to
the brink of the dark river  who prayed for her the
beautiful old prayers which have supported so many
faltering steps into the dread shades of death, who held
the Crucifix before her glazing eyes, and signed the calm
dead brow with holy water !

What she said to him in that last hour, none knew; but
when, after all was over, the young priest closed the door

of the death-chamber behind him, and came into the
presence of the assembled watchers in the inner room, all
the stern austerity which had marked him from boyhood
had passed from him, and his face wore the soft humility
of a little child.

PROBATION.

Vou might have turned and tried a man,
Set him a space to weary and to wear,
And prove which suited most your place
His best of hope or his worst despair."

R. Browning  ' By (he Fireside."

"I HAVE a message for thee, Christophe," said Bernezz,
after the first burst of grief which followed his announcement
was over. *'I met the young Seigneur on my way
here at the head of a band of peasants. They had just
succeeded in routing a detachment from Auray, who had
attacked the Chateau and were carrying off Madame la
Comtesse and her daughter, and he bid me tell thee that
if, as the leaders thought, Monsieur le Chevalier were with
thee, thou and he were to join him and the ladies at Sainte-anne
without delay. For some reason or other they areas
bent on catching thee as the Seigneur himself, and he
wants to dispatch thee as escort to his uncle and the ladies
to the English Isles'' I would have told thee sooner,

only " His voice failed him as he thought of the scene

he had just passed through.

And could we have gone before ? Could we have left

- The Channel Islands are so-called in Brittany

Tier ? Ah ! Bernezz, dost thou know it was / who cost thy
sister her life ? Canst thou ever forgive me ?"

"Hush, I know: but do not let us speak of that, or
we shall lose strength for action. Do thy duty, lad, by the
family of our Seigneur, and set off at once. I will see to
things here."

But Bernezz, thou art a proscribed priest; thou art in
danger ?"

"We are in God's hands, cousin."

But  Bernezz, how can I leave the father and mother 
andGenofa?"

They, too, are in Heaven's keeping ; besides  I am
better informed than thou  I know on good authority that
peasants such as they, are in no danger  not yet at least.
Father Clemens and I will remain in the neighbourhood,
somewhere out of sight, as long as possible ; and if there
be any danger, I will despatch Genofa and the old people
to thee ; though I believe it would well-sign break Uncle
Antonn's heart to leave the farm and the stock ; and as for

Aunt Ninorc'h " He glanced at her as she sat weeping

by her linen-chest ; and Christophe understood without
more words.

So the situation was briefly explained to the others,
and Christophe kissed his foster-father and mother, wrung
the hand of the younger priest, and knelt for the old
man's blessing. Then he turned to Genofa, who was
sitting apart from the rest, stupefied by grief and horror,

and hardly able to understand that her old companion
had returned, and was going away again, all in the one
night.

It was no time for explanations, for promises given and
exchanged. Christophe felt, as he held the two little
hands and looked into the flower-face, drooping like a
blossom after rain, that, much as he longed to draw her
to his heart, he 'had no right to pledge himself as yet.
He had still to debate the matter with himself, to weigh
the dying counsel of Yvonne, to seek the advice she had
recommended to him, to do what in him lay to find out
the will of God and do it. Full well he knew that in
such stormy times as these the parting might be for ever ;
that he and his bonnie love might meet no more in this
world. But that interview with Yvonne, as she lay a-dying,
had strengthened the young man to do what was right,
and he resisted the temptation.

So he only pressed the little hands in his, and asked
a blessing on the golden head ; then, with one last look
at the peaceful face of the dead, he took his father by
the hand, and they two went forth into the darkness?.

On better thought you break, as ,you ought,
sows  words, no angel set down  some elf
Mistook for an oath, an epigram 1 "

" The Wurt of It."

The Future I maj face now I have proved the Past."

R. Browning. " Rahhi Ben Ezra."

And did they meet again ?

An answer to this and other questions may be found
among the papers of the De Kerdec'h family.

Lying with old deeds and parchments, dating back to
the dimmest antiquity, are two letters of comparatively
modern date, one written by Christophe de Coetmor to
his cousin and foster-brother Aymon de Kerdec'h, the
other an answer to it.

The present representatives of the families will pardon
me if I transcribe them here.

Sf. He Hers, Jersey, 1793.
Dear Cousin and Foster-brother,

I am no good writer, kloiirek though I be (or rather
I should say, have been, since, by Dom' Clement 9z's advice,
I have finally resolved not to enter the priesthood), but I
have that to say to thee which I must try and write, and
thou wilt forgive the manner.

Dear Aymon, thou hast always been as a brother tome,
even when we knew of no blood-relationship between
us, and I can never forget thy reception of me when I
told thee my story by the sacred fountain of Madame
Sainte-Anne d'Auray. My share in thy father's death
was so frankly forgiven \ my peasant blood, by the mother's
side, so nobly overlooked, my future claim to half the
heritage, which has been as thine own, so generously
admitted. (Aymon, that claim troubles me, and were it
not that my father is the rightful Count de Coetmor, now
his marriage is established, I would fain thou hadst still
the title.)

jMy brother (for that is a nearer and dearer name than
cousin), wilt thou receive as kindly what I have now to tell
thee ? Wilt thou pardon me if I bring in more peasant
blood into the house of which thou art the head ?

I have my father's blessing and sanction  give me thine
too, brother, and say thou wilt welcome our little foster-sister,
Genofa, as my wife ?

If thou wilt, it will set the crown on our happiness ;
but if thou wilt not  brother, I will be frank  in any case I
cannot give up Genofa. Now that my own heart and Dom
Clemency have shown me that Yvonne was right in saying
that, feeling as I do, I must never be a priest, I belong to
Genofa. Honour and love alike pledge me to her. And 
ah ! brother, since I have seen her again, I know that I love
her more than ever, if that were possible.

"Thou mayest have heard that Dom Clemens judged
it wiser to bring her over here with the dear foster-father
and mother? Their connexion with aristocrats was
beginning to bring suspicion on them, now our dear
Brittany is the scene of war.

"AVill this ever reach thee, I wonder? I am sending
it by one I can trust j yet who knows what may happen in
these troublous times !

May God and the dear saints keep thee, my brother.
Yours,

Christophe de Coetmor."

the reply.
Dear Brother Christophe (for, indeed, thou hast
always been my brother, since the days when we lived
with the wrens under the dear old thatch of Father
Antonn's farm).  Thy letter has reached me, after some
wanderings back and forward, and now finds me  poor
screech-owl that I am  encamped in a wood with other
Chouans, waiting to cut off a detachment of Blues. We
have had stirring times since we parted at Sainte-Anne.
Cigarette and I.a Rochjacquelin have led us to many
victories, and have shared with us all our sufferings ;
they have been great, especially after the defeat at
Mans ; but I will not speak of that. All Brittany and
La Vendee are now in arms, and will yet have vengeance
on the murderers of the King.

VOL. \\\. M

Yes, Christopher, dear brother, you need not fear that
/ will oppose your marriage with our sweet little foster-sister.
She is, as I once said before, pretty enough to
tempt Saint Anthony himself; and as for her peasant-blood,
since I have been a Chouan, I have learned that
no aristocrat can excel our Brittany peasants in all that
is best and bravest. Yes, we are all of one blood, we
Bretons, and should not hold ourselves so much apart.
If we could live more as brothers, and this, I think, our
present troubles will teach us to do, we need have no
revolutions. So kiss Genofa for me, Christophe, and
tell her I greet her as a sister. Don't let us speak of
the land. If God prosper us, and the King enjoy his
own again, there will be enough for both of us ; and if
not ? Well, in that case, there will be none even to
quarrel over ! So set thy mind at rest, my brother of
the menhir. Alas ! perhaps, even, we may never live to
meet again ! I have seen so much of death and the
chances of war during these last few months ; but for
one thing I can truly thank God, that, if He please to
take me, thou art there, Christophe, to be a son to my
poor uncle and mother, and a brother to little Hence
Yes, thank God for that, Christophe.

Death has come near us, very near us already, for
he has taken our dear Bernezz. I cannot tell you what
he has been to us since we have been on this campaign
tending the wounded, giving the last Sacraments to

the dying, exhorting the living so to live that death may
find them ready ; and so tenderly, so gently, he might
have been the humblest among us sinners, instead of a
saint, as he truly was.

Christophe, I can scarcely tell thee. One day he ventured
too far to see a dying man, whom we had been compelled
to leave in a village behind on our march. The Blues
took him, and he was shot  shot like a dog, Christophe
We revenged him  yes ; but what of that ? It could not
bring our sainted priest back to us again. A little to take
away the grief of this news, I may as well tell you that
Monsieur de Er-Gwen" has at least been impartial, for he
has made away with thy old father, Matelinn Gourven, as
well. It seems that he and that rascal Tonykk, our old
lackey, had been hatching blue plots together in our
neighbourhood for some time before the final break-up.
Tonykk discovered that the klaskervara fellow had not kept
honour even among thieves, but had been hoodwinking
and trying to steal a march on him. As soon as he dared,
therefore, he denounced him to the authorities, and old
Matelinn was speedily snuffed out by the guillotine \
Richly he deserved it for his murder of my poor father
and treatment of you and Uncle Raoul. The Republic
practised legality there at all events ; and will practise it
again before long on Citoyen Postik, as he calls himself, or
I am much mistaken ; for they say that his day of power

Death.

is waning, and that he is beginning to be " suspect To
every dog his day, as the proverb has it.

"Christophe, I have mentioned my father, and, having
done it, I must just add one thing. Of his conduct to
your father and mother, I, his son, w(mld rather not speak.
But this I will just say, that, if I can atone to you by a
brothel's devoted love for all your sufferings, I will do so.
May God help me, and have mercy on my poor father's
soul ! Amen.

Don't tell mother, but those rascally Blues have sacked
and half burned our dear old home, the Chateau de
Kerdec'h. Well, we must hope to build it up again some
day ; and meantime, when our country is burning, we must
not think too much of our houses. Adieu, Christophe 
they say the Blues are approaching, and I must lay down
the pen for the gun. Kiss the dear ones for me I

Your Brother,

Aymon de Kerdec'h."

Wrapped round these two letters, is a paper, inscribed
with the following dates : 

Christophe de Coetmor married Genofa Comorre at
Saint Helpers, Jersey, Jan., 1794."

Aymon de Kerdec'h arrived in Jersey, after the final
defeat of the Royalists, May, 1795."

Raoul de Kerdec'h, Count de Coetmor, with his son
and daughter and their children, returned to Chateau
Coetmor in 1814.

I, Aymon de Kerdec'h, returned at the same time with
my mother and sister to Hve in that part which is still
habitable of our poor old Chateau de Kerdec'h.

"Neb.  If we poor emigres ever become rich enough
again, I bequeath it to my descendants to rebuild the
Chateau."

