CHAPTER I.

How shall I gain

The right to disdain 1

The right to look down

With a saint-like frown

Upon sorrow and sin 1

How shall I win

The right to scorn

My brother forlorn,

Or pass him by

"With reproving eye,

As much as to say,
Get out of the way,

And taint me not

With the poison spot

That comes from thy heart, thy face, thy
brow,

To me, much holier than thou !'"  C. M.

Late in the afternoon of the next day, when
Gerald had returned from the bank, Lina and
her stepmother made their promised call.
Mrs. Peele was a Httle woman, plain in face
and quiet in manner, evidently relying on
and looking up to Lina, just as Marjory had

VOL. II. B

seen done by all the world, ever since the first
day of their acquaintance. As Lina entered,
Marjory was struck afresh by her great
beauty. She was dressed plainly enough ina
pink striped cambric robe  fashionably
made, however  a black silk jacket, fitting
tightly to her form, and a black hat with
drooping feather. This morning costume
suited her no less well in its way than the
flowing white at the concert. It would have
been difficult to say on which occasion her
loveliness showed to best advantage.

Marjory was in her favourite place beside
the window, where Lina joined her. Mrs.
Peele sat in the large arm-chair near the
hearth, and chatted with Gerald. But continually,
in the intervals between remarks
upon the weather, the cathedral, the respective
merits of the College Yard and Albion
Square  which were all that he and Mrs.
Peele could find to talk about  those large
gray eyes of his, full of a strange, reverential
light, were straying across the room to that
face beneath the shady hat. Marjory observed
it, and thought that he might be
making a study of Lina's features. Lina
did not so interpret those dreamy looks ;
but she felt an attraction which was new to

her. Adoration was her natural atmosphere,
and she held it cheap; flirtation she abhorred.
But those eyes gazing, gazing, at her now,
were not like other eyes. She found Marjory
a little tiresome. She would have liked
to rise, and change places with her stepmother.


But this under-tone of inclination was in
no degree discernible. She continued talking
to her former schoolfellow, with the most
affable composure, of old times, mutual acquaintances,
and so forth. Meanwhile, Marjory
also was not wholly absorbed in the
words which she heard and uttered. She
was trying to conquer a strange reserve,
never felt before  to introduce a certain subject
without embarrassment. She could not
command her manner with Lina's ease ; she
could not help seeming absent and pre occupied
; till at length, apropos to nothing, out
she came with the thought in her mind.

Lina, you remember my telling you about
Mr. Hugh  Mr. Vivian I must call him now.
He is here, living at Alton."

The sudden stiffness which she had observed
at Eockswold,a year before, came again
over Lina's countenance.

I knew it. I knew that you would see
B 2

him sooner or later. I thought it better not
to warn you beforehand."

But why, Lina ? Pray tell me." She
lowered her voice, speaking more eagerly
than she herself was aware. " Is he the Hugh
Vivian whom you knew at Bullingham ?"

''He is," replied Lina, in a cold, clear
tone.

You are quite sure we are speaking of
the same person?"

'the militia quartermaster," answered
Lina, with an infinitesimal touch of scorn :
*' I recognised him soon after our arrival at
Albion Square ; and a short time later I
heard his history, and knew that he must be
your old acquaintance."

Mrs. Carberry told you his history ?"

She did. She is a kind person, but given
to chatter."

"And, when you asked her to call on
me, did you tell her that I had known him
before?"

"No. Why should I ? There was no
occasion to mention his name."

I am glad of that, because I said nothing.
But, Lina "

Well ? "

You called him a black sheep."

He was one, at Bellingham. He may
not be so, particularly, now. I have heard
nothing, since we came to Alton, against his
moral character."

'' Why do you say specially, ' his moral
character ? ' "

Because one point against him I have
heard : that he sneers at all religion."

"Poor fellow," said Marjory, with an involuntary
sigh. She sighed because she was
thinking of the past, of Hugh's past ; but
Lina looked severe.

You know, Marjory dear, I told you at
school, that you were too latitudinarian.
There are limits to tolerance ; and compassion
may become sentimentality."

'' Oh, yes : but you did not know him in
the old days. You are hard on him, Lina.
I am forgetting, though,  you said that he
had once done you a great injury," said
Marjory, looking somewhat wistfully into
Lina's beautiful eyes.

I told you, at the same time, that I did
not know  exactly  what the injury was;
and I have no means of proving it. I cannot
explain myself, but I must beg that you will
mention this to no one at Alton. There are
plenty of gossips, who might ferret out

things better forgotten. I should not wish
anybody here to know that I have any special
cause for resentment against Mr. Yivian."

She spoke with strange disturbance of her
usual calm, and Marjory hastened to assure
her that she need not fear her repeating anything
forbidden by Lina.

Only Mr. Vivian was in my mind when
I questioned you. I did not wish to think
him so very bad."

I do not say that he is very bad," said
Lina rigidly : "I have no concern with anything
he may be at present. The past, as I
said, is better forgotten. And now let us
speak of this no more.  You have been
to Thorne, you said. Did you find any
changes ? "

You know nothing, then ? Oh, I will
tell you "

Lina ! " said Mrs. Peele  *' Is it not time
for us to be going ? "

'' Yes, the children will expect us," said
Lina : " I suppose, Marjory, you would hardly
care to walk part of the way home with
us?"

A blankness which had shadowed Gerald's
face, passed like a cloud. He started up,
exclaiming :

Yes, Marjory ! a capital idea. Get your
hat, and I'll come too, to bring you back."

Unsuspecting Marjory departed, thinking
Gerald very kind. When she returned, five
minutes later, equipped for the walk, he and
Lina stood together at the table, looking over
her album of photographs.

Who is that ? " Lina was saying as she
entered : ' I know the face."

'' I did not mean to leave that there," said
Marjory. It was a loose photograph, which
she had mechanically slipped between the
pages of her album on the previous evening,
when intent on Hugh Yivian*s card :  the
portrait of Jessie in her bridal dress, beautiful,
happy, beaming.

Please give that to me, Lina ; 1 must
put it away. It is poor Jessie. Bellhouse
gave it to me last night."

So the Jessie of your Thorne fairy tale is
married ! How unsuitably she is dressed !
A pretty face, nothing particular in it. Whom
did she marry ? "

' A Mr. Russell," said Marjory shortly.

She had by no means decided how much
or how little to tell Lina of Jessie's sad
history. Bellhouse would hardly wish that
it should spread further than was necessary.

But Lina was not of a curious disposition,
and asked no troublesome questions. Her
inquiry as to the husband's name answered,
she said no more.

And now, as they set forth, Marjory found
herself walking alone with Mrs. Peele, while
Lina and Gerald went before. This seemed
indeed to happen naturally, since the crowded
pavement of Saturday prevented their remaining
undivided. Marjory, behind, was
pleased to see, from the manner in which her
brother and her friend conversed, that Lina
appreciated Gerald.

I have not seen your pictures, after all,
Mr. Stanhope. We were hurried to-day ;
but I must hope for it next time I
come."

My pictures," repeated Gerald, slightly
colouring; 'you are very good to dignify
them by that name ! I hope you will not
expect true pictures, though, or the contrast
will make them seem even poorer than they
are."

"I do not think there is any chance of
their seeming poor ; I have heard all about
them from Marjory."

'' Marjory is partial, you know. I do hope,
I confess, to attain to pictures some day;

at present my performances are only  what
shall I call them ?  efforts, perhaps."

And what are the grandest pictures but
efforts ? " said Lina  " efforts towards perfection
; some nearer to it than others, but
none attaining it."

Gerald looked at her with all his soul in
his eyes.

The ideal ! " he said, musingly : " Shall
we ever reach it, I wonder ? Here, I know
we never can, but hereafter ? And, if we do,
what then ? "Will success satisfy us ? or will
another ideal, undreamt of before, rise like a
mountain-peak beyond ? "

There is nothing, I think, to be gained
by such speculations," said Lina, in her
decided tone. " We have not capacities for
them at present."

Or, rather, our capacities are not unfolded
at present ; we have them, but they
are asleep."

You must take care that you do not get
too dreamy," observed Lina. She felt a
great interest in this young man, and wished
to influence him for his good. " So much
talent goes to seed, it seems to me, because
talented people are so often unpractical, or
waste their powers in abstractions. The

point is, not what we are to be and have,
but what we are and have now ; to be industrious,
and make the best of our present
powers."

Only dreams minister to work," said
Gerald : '' They are inspirations sometimes."

Dangerous ones," said Lina, sententiously.


'' Does that follow ? The best part of life,
so far, is unseen ; and no one can reach the
highest type of art, whether in poetry, music,
or painting, unless he realises the unseen asa
fact, learns to live consciously in its presence.
Because, you know, copying is by
no means the whole of art. Faithful copying
of outward detail is a great deal ; it maybe
called the body ; but the bringing out of
the unseen is the soul. And so dreaming, as
you call it, becomes part of an artist's
practical work. When the dream in his own
mind is complete, the picture is half done."

'' As for me, Mr. Stanhope, I fear that my
art sympathies are sadly defective. I am a
great admirer of fine pictures, and of really
good music ; and that is all I can say. When
you speak of the soul, and so forth, I do not
follow you. Surely, to copy nature is in all
art the principal aim."

Yes ; but what is nature ? Something
more comprehensive than one realises at first
sight. Certainly no great effect can be
gained without command of form and colour ;
but form and colour are servants, even then."

You must show me your own pictures,
and then, perhaps, I shall understand you
better," replied Lina.

To Marjory she would have replied : " This
is nonsense ;" but she already esteemed
Gerald too highly to suspect any nonsense
in him.

'' My own pictures ! There it is again,"
said Gerald, smiling. '' Talking is one thing,
and practice is another. I have not myself
even attained so far as correct drawing."

'you are very humble."

'' No ; only clear-sighted. I am all astray
for want of a master."

You will have one some day, no doubt.
Patience and resolution work wonders."

Hackneyed words ! embodying one of the
maxims which formed the unbending rule of
Lina's life; but, spoken by those beautiful
lips, they were a bugle-note to Gerald.

'thank you," he said; "I shall try to
be patient and resolute. It will be easier if
I can see you sometimes."

How simply and naturally was this sentence
spoken !  so simply, that Lina did not
at first take it in. But a moment later the
rich colour deepened on her cheeks. She
was accustomed to the compliments of young
men ; but this was not like a compliment.
She felt, for once in her life, embarrassed,
and unable to reply.

CHAPTER 11.

A cold and clear-cut face

Perfectly beautiful : let it be granted her : where is the

fault 1

* * *

Faultily faultless, icily regular, splendidly null,

Dead perfection, no more ; nothing more."  Tennyson.

It was a relief to turn from the bustle of the
streets into the cool of Albion Square. The
acacias and horse-chestnuts were so green,
spreading, and shady; the central gardens
looked bright, yet peaceful; the whole had
an air of seclusion. A bird was singing, as
birds sing in the country, in the heights of
the boughs.

Somehow the atmosphere of the place appeared
to Gerald an emblem of Lina's life 
that calm, high life as he regarded it, apart, as
it were, above the world. Only just round the
corner roared the town, with its stir and
traffic ; this quiet square was close to it, and
yet far removed. Just so were that serene

face and palm-like form among the throng of
work-a-day men and women.

High amid starlike saints,
Radiant and calm,
Girded with golden crown,
Bearing green palm."

These words were floating in this mind ashe
walked on in silence, casting a glance
at Lina now and then,  seeing her always,
whether he glanced or not. Presently they
reached the gate of the white house, with the
geraniums blazing on either side the door.

'' You must come in and have some tea,"
said Mrs. Peele : '' We always dine early, and
drink tea at this time, on account of the
children."

'rare you too busy, Gerald?" asked
Marjory, hesitating. But Gerald did not
even look at his watch; he only thanked
Mrs. Peele, and they went in.

The interior of the house was the essence
of neatness and propriety. At school, Lina
had always been held up as a pattern of these
virtues ; and her careful hand was equally
visible here. That excellent rule  " A place
for everything, and everything in its place"
seemed scrupulously obeyed. The books

were all in the book-cases, excepting a few
arranged, after the usual fashion, upon the
round table in the drawings-room. No stray
volume lap on a sofa or smaller table, as if
thrown hurriedly down at a sudden call. It
was plain that, if books were ever read in
this household  and of this Marjory felt
sure, for Lina was a person of high education
 they were replaced in their respective
niches immediately after use. The music
was all in the music-stand ; the needlework
out of sight in box or basket; even the
chairs and foot-stools had each its own spot.
No one could have imagined that the house
contained a number of children boys in the
majority.

The drawing-room upstairs had large
windows, overlooking a lawn, with a few neat
flower-beds and a garden-seat under a mule
Beyond the green palisade was
an extensive view over Heathcroft, with the
river winding past the grand stand, and the
villa-like houses rising among their shrubs
on the opposite bank.

How nice this is ! " said Marjory, standing
in one of the windows. " You can see
all that goes on on Heathcroft."

We see a great deal too much sometimes,"

said Lina. "It is most unpleasant
during the races."

I should have thought you were not near
enough for any unpleasantness."

We are near enough to hear the noise,
and the cheering of loud, coarse voices ; and
the bare sight, however distant, of the booths
and the low people is repugnant to me."

She is too high and pure to bear even
the knowledge of anything that is not so,"
thought Gerald. Marjory felt somewhat
guilty as she privately acknowledged that,
for her, such scenes would have an undoubted
fascination, though not unmixed with pain.

Her thoughts were diverted by the children,
who entered prepared for tea, their
hair well brushed, their hands spotless  two
girls of seven and eight, and three boys from
nine to twelve. The youngest boy was a
day-boarder with Mrs. Myers and Miss Wilmington;
the others attended the cathedral
school ; and the little girls had also at Easter
become pupils at a day-school in the square.
Mrs. Peele would have preferred to educate
her girls herself  at least, till they were
beyond her powers ; but Lina had overruled
this fancy. '' The discipline of school
was excellent," she said ; " and children found

their own level among others. So to school
Lizzie and Bertha were sent, their mother
meekly repressing the disappointment which
would arise when she remembered that from
their birth she had planned to keep them in
her own hands to the age of fourteen. At
present the holidays were not yet over ; but
Lina superintended an hour or two of holiday
tasks each morning after breakfast.

These were the second Peele family. Of
the first, Lina was considerably the youngest ;
the only son dead, as has been seen ; the
other daughters married. Mrs. Peele, gentle
and timid, had always been the most admiring
and submissive of wives. She was now
equally admiring and submissive to Lina, who
was in every way a striking likeness of her
late husband, and his favourite child.

Tea was laid out in the neat dining-room
below : a regular meal  with thick bread and
butter for the two elder boys, and three
basins of bread and milk for the others.
The children did not like bread and milk ;
but Lina said that it was the proper fare for
children ; therefore it was daily prepared, and
they were obliged to eat it. Mrs. Peele had
lately taken the bold step of adding a small
piece of bread and butter by way of reward,

VOL. II.

when the basins had been duly emptied ; but
she always looked deprecatingly at Lina, in
dispensing this indulgence, knowing that
Lina regarded it with severity. Lina poured
out the tea, and sat at the head of the
table. She had not taken off her hat ; as she
was going afterwards, she told Marjory, to
Evensong at Saint Philip's.

The children were all marvellously proper
and well behaved. They were handsome
children, with the clearly cut, regular features
which characterized the Peeles. Only the
youngest little girl resembled the mother,
being plain, light-eyed, and under-sized ; but
Marjory liked her the best. The others,
children though they were, had a cold and
critical aspect, of which this little girl was
devoid ; and she was evidently her mother's
pet. Her brothers and sisters all had high,
narrow foreheads, and manners of perfect self-possession.
This child had a square freckled
forehead and a broad head, and was shy and
awkward.

'' Lina, may I go with you to the orphanage,
and hear the children sing ? " Marjory
heard her murmur, under cover of conversation
between Mrs. Peele and Gerald.

Not to-night, dear. You must stay to

mend that dress. You neglected it before
tea."

Because, Lina I heard mamma say
that she wished the lilies were not over in our
garden, and I was thinking, and I remembered
my sixpence, and I got Charley to take
me to the nursery gardens, and I bought
some lilies for mamma's vase, to surprise her ;
and, when I had arranged them in the vase,
it was time to get ready for tea. I'll get up
early, and do the dress before breakfast on
Monday, Lina."

'' No, dear, you know the rule : that, when
you tear a thing, you mend it at once. You
will stay at home and do it."

The little thing grew red, and shuffled,
and winked to hide a tear, as she gulped
down the unpalatable bread and milk. Marjory
felt a keen sympathy with her; but Lina,
behind the urn, was immovable.

Towards the end of the meal a single bell
began to sound, somewhere in the direction
of the town, with a shrill and steady clang ;
and, directly they left the table, Lina said
that it was time to start for Saint Philip's.
Somewhat to Marjory's surprise, Gerald proposed
that they should accompany her. So
they bade good-bye to Mrs. Peele, whom
c 2

Marjory caught soothing little Bertha by a
whispered promise to read to her while she
worked. The other girl, handsome Lizzie,
walked beside Lina; the boys escaped to play.

I am sorry that the boys do not care
for the daily services," said Lina pensively :
On Wednesdays and Fridays I insist upon
their attendance ; but I do not like to force
them too much'*

You cannot expect every one to be like
yourself by nature," said Gerald, reverentially.
Marjory stared at him ; then felt irritated,
she could not have told why, and said with
some sharpness :

They would be extraordinary boys,
indeed, if they preferred St. Philip's to the
open air in such weather."

'* I do not wish to see them ordinary boys,"
said Lina, calmly.

There was but a sprinkling of worshippers,
mostly women, in the church. The sexes
were divided. Gerald sat a little to the rear of
the places into which Lina, Marjory, and
Lizzie went on the opposite side : choosing
the best prospect of Lina's face, with its
beatified expression of devotion. The service
was short, but hearty. Marjory could not
but feel that it had more of the fitting atmosphere

of worship than the clock-faced church
had known in the old days. The ugliness,
the commonplace aspect everywhere, was
done away. The surpliced choir, reverent
and attentive, appeared a fit emblem of the
holy worshippers above, and of what
those hearts should be that strive to worship
here. Nothing ludicrous or wearisome
marred any portion of church or service. If
one could not assert that more of the essence
of spirituality was here than had been in the
past, here, at all events, was more appearance
of it. Outward reverence was in perfection ;
the grandeur, the beauty, of religion were
brought into prominent place. All things
tended to realisation of the Divine Presence,
of the fact that this was His Temple. That
fact seemed forced upon all present, whether
they entered feeling it, or no.

The outward display of devotion in which
certain of the congregation indulged was,
nevertheless, slightly surprising to Marjory ;
but she remembered that minds are cast in
various moulds, and refrained from condemnation.
Lina was most punctilious in these
observances. She curtseyed at every Gloria,
bent low in certain parts of the Creed, and
frequently crossed herself.

Many eyes were bent on her as lie passed
from the church, seeming to light the whole
place with her beauty. Among the rest,
Marjory saw that one of the clergy, a young
man in a cassock, stole a long look as he
strode past her in the porch, bowing slightly
as she caught his eye, but not stopping to
speak. He went hastily on, after a string of
children in red cloaks, who were crossing the
street, headed by a sister.

That is Mr. Throckmorton," said Lina ;
*'I have a singing-class at the orphanage, so
I must say good-bye. It will be their bedtime
in half an hour."

Good-bye," said Gerald. '' Are you going
to Mrs. Carberry's party ? "

I hope so. Then I shall meet you and
Marjory ? That will be very pleasant.  I
must come and see your drawings next week,
Mr. Stanhope. Good-bye, Marjory dear.
Come, Lizzie ! "

She took the child's hand, and, with a
graceful bow and smile, went off towards the
orphanage. The door closed behind her with
a clang. Gerald, who had looked after her,
turned at the sound, and a shadow settled on
his face.

What fellows those parsons are ! " he

said; '' They are like tame cats ; no one interferes
with anything they do."

"Was it poor Mr. Throckmorton who
gave rise to that remark ? " said Marjory,
laughing : *' Pray what has he done to deserve
interference ? I only saw him walk, most
unoffending, into the orphanage ! "

That's just it," said Gerald, wrathfully :
Wherever they wish to go, they can : they
have it all their own way. Now, that fellow
he can meet Miss Peele as often as he
likes ; so long as it is at a school or an
orphanage, no one will say a word."

I thought he had such a nice face ! " said
Marjory  " so good and earnest."

Yes. No doubt others think the same.
It's just the face that women adore."

'' That depends upon the woman ! " said
Marjory ; '' Lina is not the sort of girl to adore
any man."

"There I am sure you are mistaken,"
cried Gerald, warmly : " She is the sort who
would give up everything in the world for a
man whom she really loved  die for him, if
needs were."

My dear Gerald ! how can you know so
much about her in this short time ? "

I see it in her face," said Gerald  " In

her eyes. She has one of those strong,
devoted natures. Only she is so high and
pure, she would not care for just any man.
Such a nature looks out for something above
this world  something like itself : rarer than
it supposes. That is why fellows like that
Throckmorton are so dangerous ! It is his
business to teach and preach, and hide his
humanity as much as possible ; and so he
seems like a saint, which he isn't. A good
fellow, no doubt,  but not that.  Why are
you laughing, Marjory ? "

' I am laughing at your lively imagination.
Who would think, to hear you talk,
that the very existence of this unfortunate
Mr. Throckmorton was hardly known to you
till to-day ?"

'' There are things one can see through at
a glance. Not that I wish to undervalue
him. No doubt he's an excellent fellow;
only he is a man, not an angel."

'' I know Lina better than you do," persisted
Marjory ; " and I have come to the
conclusion that she is one of the most essentially
unromantic people I ever knew; far
too sensible to think him, or any other, an
angel."

Never mind," said Gerald.  " I must

look up your old letters, Marjory. You used
to write me volumes about her, once."

'* Yes ; I used to think her perfect  too
good for this world. But now, in spite of
her beauty . . . Gerald, what is it that seems
wanting in her face ? "

'' I see nothing wanting in it. Nothing at
all. It is a wonderful face," he repeated,
half to himself ; '' Almost divine. Se is an
angel, if you like ! "

Marjory, half troubled, half perplexed,
watched him as he walked by her side, with
that poet's face of his, and the light in his
gray eyes. She thought of Lina, and contrasted
the two countenances. Hers was a
perfectly cast mould, she thought ; his was
full of spirit  a spirit rapt, aspiring, struggling,
not rightly understanding itself or the
world  imprisoned, craving for outlet. The
look in Shelley's eyes, in John Keats' eyes 
of both there was something; and with it
something wholly his own.  something that
she remembered evermore, as Gerald's look,
only Gerald's.

I hope you won't be disappointed anymore,
my Gerald ! " she thought ; '' You
have had so much disappointment, all your
life."

She changed the subject after this ; and
they spoke of Lina no more. When they
reached the house, Gerald said :

*' I must paint this evening, Marjory ; I
have been idle lately."

He went straight to the attic. Marjory
also shut herself up, and worked at her story
till bedtime.

CHAPTER III.

"God! God!
How weary, stale, flat and unprofitable,
Seem to me all the uses of this world !
Fie on't ! ah, fie ! 'tis an un weeded garden."

Shakspeare.

The next day was Sunday; a summer Sunday,
of sunshine, calmness, peace. The atmosphere
was all vocal with the chiming of bells
from the churches in the town. How populous
that town must be ! how the people
came streaming, streaming, through the
College Yard ! The other churches, of which
there were upwards of twenty, here and
there, had each doubtless its own congregation
; but all together must have been but a
tenth part, Marjory thought, of the congregation
in the cathedral. She and Gerald had
gone early, warned by Miss Pilkington, and
had been fortunate in finding a friendly
verger, who placed them in a vacant stall.
There she sat, and watched the people flock
by, every variety of face, form, expression.
The carved faces above seemed to look down

upon them compassionately. '' "We have gone
through all," their calm eyes said. '' We
know what life is. We remember." Then
the organ pealed forth through the midst,
echoing from pillar to pillar ; the voice of a
human soul, who had long passed on higher,
but had left in these harmonies, expression
of what countless other souls would fain express
also, if they could.

The stream of people had scarcely ceased
when the long white-robed procession of
choristers, lay-clerks, minor canons, canons,
the dean, vergers with staves, the bishop,
filed in from the chapter-house. After that
Marjory tried to think of the people no more.
She had scanned the faces with double attention
in the thought that among them might
appear one seldom absent, during the last
few days, from her mind. But Hugh Vivian
was not of that multitude.

In the evening, alter the second service,
the brother and sister went a quiet walk by
the river-side, and sat down in a peaceful
place in a green field beyond the town.
Marjory had her '' Christian Year ; " Gerald
also had a book ; but he did not read. He
sat with his chin on his hand, looking out
over the water towards the Shelburn hills.

What was lie thinking of? Margery wondered.
He seemed lost in a dream of happiness and
peace. The glow fell on his face ; it was difficult
to discern what of it was from the
sunset, and what from his own musings. A
village peal was ringing in the country, faraway
; a dragon-fly, among the reeds by the
river, was humming of its new life. A hush
was over all things. They sat on till the
sunset was ended and the glow had melted
into transparent green. It had been a time
to remember and look back upon, thought
Marjory, as she turned homeward.

A little shy, but happily expectant, on the
following afternoon, she found herself, with
Gerald, crossing the lawn of Mrs. Carberry's
garden. The garden was large, with trees
and bright flowers, and a magnificent croquet-ground;
where, beneath a gaily striped
awning, Mrs. Carberry was seen presiding
over tea and servants  smiling, bowing, and
making herself agreeable. The Carberrys
were rich, childless, and hospitable ; Mrs.
Carberry in particular was never, as she
truly said, so happy as when surrounded by
guests. She was always planning to bring
friends together, to make prosperous matches,
to prepare surprises for youths and maidens.

Kind to the heart's core, she seemed to live
chiefly in the amusement of other people : 
in their amusement ; nothing much deeper.
Perhaps she was not herself sufficiently deep
for more.

'' How do you do, Miss Stanhope ? so glad
to see you ! And this is your brother. I
am delighted to make your acquaintance.
]sow you must have some tea to refresh you
after your walk : or perhaps Mr. Stanhope
will prefer claret-cup ? Please both sit down.
You see I have collected a charming assembly
of young friends. I am so glad we have a
fine day ! and, Mr. Stanhope, I owe you an
obligation."

"Indeed?" said Gerald.

Yes, indeed. I feel certain it is to you
that I owe it. I have never been able to
get Mr. Vivian here before ; but now, having
taken a fancy to you, he has actually promised
to come. I expect him every moment.
Seventeen times. Miss Stanhope, have I invited
him since he settled in Alton ! to eight
dinner-parties, five garden-parties, and four
picnics ; and he refused them all. But now,
the eighteenth time, he accepts ! Yes, Mr.
Stanhope, it is your doing ! My dear Lina,
here you are !  and dear Mrs. Peele ! how

good of you to come !  and the dear boys
too. Welcome all ! Now what will you have 
tea or claret-cup ! "

Mrs. Carberry's attention was quickly'
diverted  Gerald's also, as he hastened to
place a chair for Lina : neither thought again
of Mr. Vivian. But Marjory sat abstracted,
lost to the outer world. She heard indeed a
hum of voices, a flutter of dresses, a clinking
of cups and spoons ; she saw a confused
array of bright colours. But this was as a
dream. The real part was a blithe young
voice of the past, a light laugh, two dark
eyes, a young soldier riding along a shady
lane, with an air of careless grace.

'' Mrs. Carberry has spoken to you three
times, Marjory."

I beg your pardon ! " cried Marjory,
with a start.

What do you say to a game of croquet,
my dear ? Lina and your brother have just
agreed to join four other young friends.
Shall I find a partner for you in the same
game ? or shall we form another ? "

If I may, I would rather look on ; I do
not know the game," said Rocks wold-bred
Marjory.

'' Not know croquet ! " ejaculated Lina

and Gerald in one breath. Gerald added in
his kind, brotherly way :

Why, Marjory ! you never told me that.
I'll soon teach you, if you will come."

No, I should only be stupid ; and the
rest would not like it," whispered Marjory,
as she saw two thorough-paced croquet
players impatiently awaiting the end of this
discussion : one armed with a private mallet,
vaguely formidable in her ignorant blue
eyes.

Well, my dear ! this is Liberty Hall.
Do exactly as you like. Here is a comfortable
seat, where you can see all that goes
on ; and I will find a young friend for you
directly," said good natured Mrs. Carberry.

A bevy of new arrivals fortunately averted
the fulfilment of this promise ; and Marjory
was left free to enjoy her favourite part of an
unobserved spectator. The lawn was dotted
with gay parties, the sun was shining, the
flowers were sweet, every one seemed happy.
The dark side of life was hidden to-day, and
ignored. To the young like Marjory, it
seemed as a bad dream, which after all one
might easily escape. She was smiling to
herself, when Mrs. Carberry suddenly tapped
her on the shoulder.

My dear ! allow me to introduce Mr.
Vivian."

She looked up into Hugh Vivian's face.

Her heart had begun to beat like some live
creature ; the blood rushed in a vivid flame to
her face. She felt a choking in her throat,
a longing to cry, as the little girl of old
might have cried  " Mr. Hugh, I am so very
sorry for you ! "

But she was a little girl no longer, she was
a grown-up young lady ; and this was not
Mr. Hugh, this was Mr. Vivian : a man, and
not a youth  a man of the world, with a sarcastic,
bitter face. Her self-command returned
as suddenly as it had left her. She
bowed smilingly in answer to Mr. Vivian's
raised hat ; and then, by a mutual involuntary
movement, they shook hands. Good-natured
Mrs. Carberry saw in this nothing
peculiar. Her attention was greatly divided,
her kind little eyes had strayed to another
quarter of the ground, where she espied
advancing arrivals.

'' Miss Stanhope will no doubt introduce
you to her brother. You came only to meet
him, I know. Very unkind ! but I forgive
you. I bear no malice. Oh, there is sweet Mrs.
looked ! and that elegant Miss Maddox, 

VOL. II. D

and dear Mr. Pollock too  how truly kind !
I must fly ! Pray make yourself quite at
home, Mr. Vivian."

She was gone ; and Hugh Vivian sat down
at some distance, on Marjory's bench.

Why am I supposed to be so anxious to
meet your brother ? " he said, with a touch
of a smile ; " I shall be highly honoured, of
course, by his acquaintance. But I came to
meet you. I knew you, in one moment, at
the concert."

And I knew you  not in one moment,
but soon."

Did you ? I thought I was changed beyond
all knowledge. As for you, you are not
changed at all. Your face carries me back
how many years ? "

'' Eight years this month," said Marjory.

'' Eight ! Eighteen hundred  eighteen
thousand  an eternity, isn't it ? Fancy your
turning up again, and here ! Do you know
it was all I could do, the other night, to help
going up to you and saying : ' Well, little
Marjory ! ' Only you are not Marjory now ;
you are Miss Stanhope."

As he spoke, more and more of the
Mr. Hugh of yore awoke in his face ; a
softened expression dawned upon it, the

bitterness gave way, as lie looked into Marjory's
blue eyes.

'' I suppose you know about poor old Lady
Thorne ? " lie said, after a long pause.

"Yes, I went to Tliorne last week, and
saw Bellhouse."

She told you everything ? "

'eyes."

A sob rose in Marjory's throat, and half
choked her. She looked away, over the
croquet-ground, afraid to meet the dark
glance, once so sunny.

*eyes?  Well!  Was it somebody in the
Bible who said : 'The Almighty hath dealt
very bitterly with me ? ' "

It was Jacob. But he was comforted
afterwards."

Was he ? A lucky fellow ! Never mind.
How do you come to be here ? "

At this croquet-party ? "

"No, at Alton. I thought you lived
somewhere two or three hundred miles
away."

Yes, but Gerald, my brother, got a clerkship
in this bank, and I am keeping him
company in his lodgings."

Then you are going to stay ? "

I hope so. Till if "

D 2

CC {

Till  if  ; ' have you any special hope
of living anywhere else ? "

*' Some day, perhaps, if I succeed in a
plan. I mean, if Gerald can ever afford to
give up the bank and go to London or Rome,
I shall go with him."

'' That is all you mean ? Pray excuse my
rudeness. I can't help remembering old
days, when I might ask you anything I
chose ; and I thought, perhaps, when you
said ' Till  if  ' so modestly, that you might
be "

*' What ? " said Marjory, staring.

'' Looking forward to somethingevenbetter
than life with Gerald."

There could be nothing better to me, if
he were only an artist. That is my dream
still. It used to be, if you recollect, eight
years ago."

"I recollect," said Hugh, perceiving that
she had caught no glimpse of his meaning ;
eyes more fancy-free than those which met
his own at this moment could not exist : "I
thought of it when I saw you with him."

' How could you tell that he was
Gerald?"

I felt sure that he was your brother,
from the likeness. Then I set to work

to ferret him out, hoping to find you. How
do you like your lodgings ? "

' Very much. I am to pay for my share
in them, by teaching the little boys."

Are you indeed ? Is that necessary ? "

Quite, if I live with Gerald ; and I want
to live with him, and make him happy  if I
can. Besides, I shall enjoy it. Why are you
disgusted ? "

Oh, nothing ; only you don't look as if
you were made for a drudge."

I shall not be a drudge ; it is only for
three hours. After twelve o'clock I shall
have all my time to myself."

'' And what have you been about, all these
years ? "

I have been living at Rocks wold," said
Marjory.

Far ' up country,' isn't it ? "

Yes, in  shire, eight miles from the
nearest town. Everything here seems quite
exciting after it."

Ah, that is how you have kept the same
face, I suppose ! You have lived ' far from
the madding crowd.' I suppose nothing
ever happens at Rockswold ? What did you
do all day?"

*' Endless things, I was never dull one

minute. I should be much more likely to
grow dull here in the town, if it were not for
Gerald, and my plan."

I wonder what this wonderful plan maybe
! Something in * Gerald's ' behalf, of
course."

You would laugh at it," said Marjory :
You used not to look so scornful ! "

The words slipped out unawares ; she bit
her lip, and blushed.

'' No, that was my ignorance."

I don't understand," said Marjory, repelled
by his manner.

'' My ignorance of this world, I mean ;
and the people and affairs of it. I took it all
for a very different concern. But enough of
that ! I want to hear about you. So you
have really gone on, ever since I saw you
last, nowhere but at Rocks wold ? "

*' Yes, I have never been even on a visit.
I went to a day-school for eighteen months ;
but that was at Rockswold too. It was there
I met Lina."

I beg your pardon ! "

Lina Peele. You know her, I think ? "

He looked across the croquet-ground to
where Lina, calm and beautiful, stood, mallet
in hand, awaiting her turn. As he looked.

lie was cold and bitter again in a moment ;
the softened expression was gone.

'miss Peele ! Yes. I had once the misfortune
to be under her father. He was
manager of the BuUinoham bank, and I a
junior clerk. That was part of the style of
thing, Miss Stanhope, which opened my eyes
as to the world."

'' Did he know your history ? "

Yes, that was my chief offence. An idle
cross between a soldier and a country gentleman
! nothing could be more objectionable.
Your school-fellow, Miss Peele, who is his
living picture, would say the same."

She seems to have adored her father. I
thought, from her description, that he must
have been a delightful man," said Marjory,
hesitating between sympathy with Hugh, and
a certain vague doubt of him, inspired by
Lina's innuendoes.

'' The Peeles all thought each other perfect.
That was the family characteristic. He
could be delightful, perhaps, on occasion 
to certain people. He was a rigid kind of a
man, formed on rules, with a handsome face,
carved into faultless lines, like his character.
If I am not uncommonly mistaken, Miss
Peele is just such another."

But don't you admire lier ? she is so
lovely ! " said Marjory, gazing meditatively
at Lina, with the sting of conscience which
troubled her when she feared to be disloyal
to her friend.

'' I acknowledge that she is lovely; and I
should perhaps admire her as much as, I
suppose, she deserves, if it were not that,
when I look at her, I see Mr. Peele ; and that
is enough for me."

'you seem to have disliked him very much!"

'' I simply hated the fellow. And I had
cause to hate him."

His face looked dark and hard, like that
of some fallen spirit. Marjory remembered
that fierce passion which had filled her with
such horror at Thorne ; which had given rise
to the little prayer offered nightly since that
time. Would that prayer ever be answered,
she wondered ?

More of that pitying wonder than she
knew, was discernible in her eyes. He saw
it, and again the hardness softened, as he
looked upon that face which seemed a ray
from a by-gone paradise.

You think me very horrible," he said,
with a melancholy smile ; '' I fear I am hardly
fit to talk to you."

I don't think you horrible at all," said
Marjory, colouring; *' Only I am sorry that
you dislike the Peeles. Lina and I were such
great friends at school."

'' I remember what a child you were for
beauty 1 You thought her an angel because
she had perfect features; that was all."

Not all, I hope. She is very good and
clever, much better in every way than I am.
I could not help looking up to her."

She is a saint, no doubt. But you know
there is a certain coldness in saints ; and the
Peele saintliness is peculiarly icy. As to her
father, he was made of ice ! I can't imagine
how he got through so many summers."

"And Lina's brother  Eichard  what was
he like?"

Why did Marjory ask this question ? She
did not know if she were right to ask it ; for
therewith came the recollection of that mysterious
wrong, connected, Lina had said,
with her brother. Was it a breach of friendship
thus to seek information concerning
him, from the person by whom that wrong
had been done ?

Richard," he repeated : " Well, he was
a splendid-looking fellow  the handsomest
of the lot ; and that is saying a good deal.

In his own family lie passed as a paragon to
the last. His father believed in him almost
as implicitly as in himself: that is saying a
good deal, too ! "

And Lina was devoted to him, though
she mentions him so seldom. Did you know
him well ? "

'' I saw a good bit of him ; he used to be
in and out of the bank. Yes, and I knew a
good bit about him too. His father and
sister would have been slightly astonished atone
or two things I could have told them."

But was he not what they thought
him?"

As to that, if he were half they thought
him, he must have been more than man. I
ought to be, and am, the last in the world to
blame a fellow for having a little more human
nature in him than marble statues find necessary
! But hypocrisy is another thing."

'' Are you sure he was a hypocrite ? Poor
Lina ! You are mistaken, I hope," said
Marjory, reproachfully.

"Never mind  I don't want to condemn
him, I'm sure; he is dead, and there is an
end of it. I was never more surprised than
when I found his name below Mr. Peele's, in
the BuUingham cemetery ! "

Was that the first you knew of his
death ? "

Yes," said Hugh : " I had been away
out of England  nearly two years. I went
back, on my way here, for an hour, to Bullingham,
to see my mother's grave."

He paused. Marjory, glancing at him, was
struck with the world-weary look which she
had observed at the concert. Dark memories
seemed to flock about him. He seemed
tired, not in body but in soul.

Life is a mystery," she said dreamily.

'' It is indeed. And a cruelty."

Oh, don't say that ! " cried the girl, with
a pain in her heart.

'' To some, I meant. Not to all, perhaps.
I hope it will not be so to you," he added,
softening, with his old kindness, as he met
her troubled eyes.

"It is a mystery only :  indeed  I feel
sure," said Marjory, as if pleading : '' If
people had only patience  just to wait and
see "

Pardon me, have you ever gone through
a great trouble ? "

I was often very unhappy, as a child,
when my uncle and aunt were so poor. As
to a great trouble  I don't know."

That is quite sufficient. Wait till you
do know, and answer me then."

But that poor old woman at Thorne 
Bellhouse  she has gone through awful
troubles,  I don't know how I could have
borne half !  and she does not think life
cruel."

Unfortunately, we are not all old
women."

'' You consider faith an old-womanish
quality, then ? "

'' I don't go into abstractions. I am thinking
of facts. You remember my mother ? "

Yes," said Marjory, under her breath.

'' Can you fancy what it must have been
to see her shut up in two close little rooms,
in a provincial town, suffering every hour for
want of things which had been daily bread
to her all her life, and dying by inches because
I had no money to get proper medical
help  help which might have saved her !
Dying by inches, painfully, all through a
long, hot summer and autumn. Can you
fancy it ? "

He went on as if half to himself.

The sky deaf, blind, dumb, all the while,
no pity in Heaven or Earth : and she in
tortures,  until at last I was almost glad to

see lier die. After that, I think it is small
wonder if I can't say much about faith ! "

A long pause followed : Marjory sat deep
in thought. Meanwhile the blue sky beamed,
like one great smile, on the sunlit garden ;
clear young voices, merry laughter, rang
across the velvet lawn ; happy faces glowed ;
flowers bloomed ; gnats danced in magic
measures in the balmy air ; a lark soared upward
into the ether, singing as if mad with joy.

'ris it all a mockery ? " cried Marjory, of
a sudden. '' No ! I will not believe it. Mr.
Vivian, I could say what I think  only I will
not, because you tell me I have suffered too
little to have any right. I wish I too could
go through some great sorrow  as great as
yours  if that would teach me to convince
you!"

"Don't wish that! "he exclaimed, earnestly.
'' You don't know what you say. Why should
you take my words to heart so ? I am nothing
to you."

You and Jessie ! " she said, hardly hearing,
and going on with her thoughts. '' You
two whom I saw together on my first view
of Thorne ! You both seemed so happy that
day, so light-hearted. And now she is gone 
no one knows where ; and you ! "

When did you see Jessie and me together
? " inquired Hugh.

*' In the lane by the plantations. You were
riding, and Jessie was getting burdocks."

She blushed crimson, suddenly remembering
Jessie's request and her own promise.


Surely poor Jessie must be dead ! " she
went on abruptly, ' or she would have written
to her mother."

'' I don't see that that follows," said Hugh.
Marjory glanced up quickly, surprised at his
tone. He, too, had coloured ; a hot flush
had mounted to the roots of his hair.

'' You seem to have an unlimited belief in
goodness, divine and human ! In my opinion
Jessie would write or keep silence as suited
her own purposes. She was not overburdened
with heart."

Were you at Bullingham when she disappeared
? "

''No, I was gone."

"You saw her sometimes, I suppose, as
you knew the Bulkleys. Had she seemed
unhappy or unsettled ? When did you see
her last? " asked Marjory, running on with
her eager questions.

He frowned, as at some bitter recollection,

and observed gloomily : " You seem very
much interested in Jessie."

I can't help it ; and her disappearance
was so strange ! Yes, she inst be dead :
but why did not her husband write ? "

Don't talk of her ; you remind me of
painful things," said Hugh : '' I wish I could
lose my memory ! "

As he spoke, one of the games of croquet
had come to an end ; the players dispersed ;
some of them,laughiDg and chaffing, advanced
over the turf. Mr. Vivian muttered to Marjory
some hasty excuse, and walked off in an
opposite direction.

CHAPTER IV.

In the years I've changed,
Far and wide my steps have ranged,
And many sins and errors have been on me avenged."

Alexander Smith.

The croquet was over ; it lead grown dusk ;
the greater number of the guests were gone :
but hospitable Mrs. Carberry had laid hands
on a few, and carried them in to hear her new
piano. She did not play herself, she said;
but her young friends played. It was a rich
treat to hear them. Dear Lina must give
her opinion of the instrument, and sing to it
one of her lovely songs. Twilight was music's
hour ! the lamps need not be lighted ; dear
Lina required no notes. So they sat, sprinkled
here and there about the drawing-room, the
low windows opened widely, admitting balmy
fragrance. All were silent, while Lina's
beautiful fingers explored the tones of the
new piano. Hugh Vivian had entered among
the rest, and sat alone in deepest shadow.

A tiny ante-room adjoined the drawing-room
; the window of this also was open ;

and here Marjory's favourite star was visible,
brightening the twilight sky. Marjory, from
her station near the door, looked at this
window with longing ; at length, unnoticed,
she rose, and slipped away to a low chair
beneath it. The music came softened from
the further room ; it seemed to come from
the sky  from that star, thought Marjory.


*' Now, Lina, my love, treat us to that
charming little song which I admired so
much the other day," said Mrs. Car-berry.


Lina struck a few light chords, and obeyed.
The simple words, set to a sweet and plaintive
air, rang out in her clear voice through
the stillness.

When the balmy breath of Spring
Wakens nature into gladness,
When a thousand voices sing,

Even mine forgets its sadness ;
When the shady paths I tread,
Where the pine-trees wave overhead 
O forest green and fair,
O pine-trees waving high !
How sweet your cool retreat, how full of rest !
Here, free from care and pain,
Gay as a child again,
Peace and contentment reign within my breast

VOL. II. E

Oh, how sweet in forest glade,

When the mid-day sun is shining,
Underneath the leafy shade,

On a bank of moss reclining,
Lulled by many a murmuring stream,
Through the long bright hours to dream ! 
O forest green and fair !
O pine-trees waving high !
How sweet your cool retreat, how full of rest !
Here, free from care and pain.
Gay as a child again,
Peace and contentment reign within my breast !"

forest green and fair ! pine-trees
waving high 1 " Was it a cry from some
spirit imprisoned among close streets and
high walls, and pining for places far away, in
the country that it loved ? Marjory's eyes
wandered from the calm star to the shadowy
room which she had left. Sitting alone, like
herself, half hidden by the folds of a curtain,
she saw Hugh Vivian. His head was thrown
a little back ; his hands were clasped behind
it : he was looking far into the past, Marjory
felt certain. She knew how, in the semi-darkness,
his eyes were burning like fires in
gloom. She saw the vision upon which they
rested :  a dingy room in a dingy street, the
air close and full of din ; and her, that beautiful,
proud lady, her majestic face flushed

and contracted by pain  lying on a liard sofa,
among ugly surroundings, and thinking of
Copelandss, her home.

'' O forests ! pine woods ! " rang the
cry ; ''0 world of suffering ! multitude
of aching hearts ! " Tears, unnoticed by herself,
stole down Marjory's face, as she looked,
and thought, and listened.

Suddenly Hugh Vivian was beside her.
He sat down on a chair opposite her own,
resting his elbow on the window-sill.

'' What are you thinking about ? " said he.
'you are just like your old self!  creeping
away alone, and looking on from the background."


'you startled me," said Marjory: "I
saw you in the drawing-room just now !  I
can hear the music better here. And see ! " 
she pointed to the star.

"I know that star well," he said, gazing
at it with a strange forlornness of expression.
" It was shining, just as it is now, on
the night when my mother died. She noticed
it  told me to look. Where is she now, I
wonder ? "

Somewhere far up beyond it," said Marjory,
softly.

"You have still that old innocent belief, I

UNIVERSITY OF

see. Well I I wouldn't disturb it for the
world ; it must be so delightful.

' There is beyond the sky
A 'Even of joy and love.'

How poor old Lady Thome's school-children
used to drone that out ! "

'' It is true ; I believe it more firmly than
ever," said Marjory's earnest voice.

I wish it were within the range of
balloons," said Hugh. " Behold Miss Peele !
Depend on it, she is advancing to rescue you
before your mind is finally corrupted."

Lina had indeed risen, her song ended,
decidedly declining further performance ; and,
while Mrs. Carberry persuaded another dear
young friend to replace her, she, tall and
graceful, and with a purpose, made her way
to the ante-room.

'' Let me offer you a chair," said Huo-h.

"No, thank you  I will sit here," said
Lina, coldly, stationing herself upon an ottoman
close to Marjory. " How pleasant it is,
Marjory, here !  cooler than in the drawing-room."


I wish it were light enough to look at the
books," said Marjory : " Here is a table quite
covered by them."

'you don't lose much by not examining
those," said Lina ; " Mrs. Carberry is not
very discerning in her choice. She buys
every book that she hears talked of  nice, or
not nice."

'' Might we be honoured by a definition of
the word ' nice ? ' " said Hugh.

You and I would hardly agree respecting
it," remarked Lina, with the same cold distance
; " Miss Stanhope  to whom I was
speaking  knows what I mean."

'' Do you. Miss Stanhope ? Pray explain
it to me then," said Hugh. "What do you
call 'a nice book? ' "

A nice book ! " repeated Marjory, a little
nervous, as she observed Lina's manner ;
'' I think a new definition of that word should
be given in the next edition of Johnson's
Dictionary. I myself should call a book
nice, if it were interesting, pleasant ; in fact,
if I liked it. That is how the word is used
nowadays."

''I mean not merely that," said Lina;
I could not call a book nice if it were irreligious,
or in any way improper."

'' Oh, of course not ! " exclaimed Marjory.
But does Mrs. Carberry buy such books as
those ? "

Hugh all the while sat listening, his lip
slightly curling in a smile.

That paper on the table now  " pursued
Lin a, with a gesture of her finger, her head
a little higher than usual  " ' The Lynx.' If
I were Mrs. Carberry, I should be quite
afraid to leave it lying here."

"You would dread the effect on your
housemaid ? " inquired Hugh.

Fortunately, it is beyond a housemaid's
comprehension. I say all this for your sake,
Marjory, because I know that your appetite
for reading is omnivorous ; and it does not
do to rely implicitly upon Mrs. Carberry.
She would offer to lend you any number of
books or papers if she heard you express the
least desire for them : and therefore I think
it well to warn you."

And pray may I ask how the ' Lynx '
incurs peculiar condemnation ? " said Hugh.

I really do not care to discuss the point,"
said Lina, frigidly ; " Marjory, if you doubt
my judgment, glance over  do not read  its
last article on ' Modern Fiction ; ' and you
will see what I mean."

Do just have the goodness to mention
what special points you disapprove in that
article," said Hugh, with some eagerness.

*' Yes, do," said Marjory. " I won't read
it, if it is bad. I would rather hear your
report."

And, then, there is so much less trouble
in forming one's opinions at second-hand,"
observed Hugh.

'' Since you ask it, Marjory, I will explain
myself a little more clearly," said Lina. 'the
articles are undoubtedly very able, though
caustic and unpleasant in tone. They profess
to take a bird's-eye view of the range of
popular fiction, dividing modern novels into
classes, and picking them to pieces at the
rate of a class a week. This week it is ' The
Goody Class ; ' the name alone is significant !
but what I myself think peculiarly shocking,
is an attack on the doctrine of a special Providence,
which the critic remarks to be ' the
leading idea,' urged with absurd familiarity,
in the religious novel. After quoting various
passages illustrative of his assertion, and
giving each a ludicrous turn, he goes on to a
general discussion of the principle : and anything
more irreligious I never read."

Perhaps he is an atheist," said Marjory.

An atheist without doubt; and worse."

What do you consider to be worse than
an atheist, Miss Peele ? " said Hugh.

'* One who is not satisfied with his own
unsettled opinions, but does his best to unsettle
those of others," said Lina, severely ;
'' I imagine the critic in question to be a badman,
who has brought upon himself various
misfortunes, and lays them to the charge of
his Maker."

Before you imagine anything further,"
said Hugh, " I had better tell you that I am
the man."

'you ! " exclaimed Marjory, aghast.

Lina showed no surprise ; she simply
appeared to petrify, saying nothing.

'depend upon it," said Hugh, warming in
proportion,  not with a pleasant warmth ; he
looked another person from the Mr. Hugh who
had talked of old days to Marjory ;  " depend
upon it, people who have courage to speak
out their minds on these subjects merely echo
the minds of myriads who are too cowardly
to speak, and so smoulder away in silence."

To put it plainly, then, you think that
the majority of professing Christians disbelieve
in a Providence," said Lina, with slow
distinctness.

She would have disdained, but for Marjory,
to answer him ; but Marjory's principles
must be protected.

As to comfortable Christians of no particular
fibre, and little to try it if they had,
I don't pretend to say. But for the multitude
of poor wretches who knock about in
the world, keeping their heads above water
as best they can, I do think  and I not only
think, I am certain  that the majority of
those, whatever stock of ready-made beliefs
they may start with, soon find by stern experience
that Providence helps them just
as much, and as little, as they help themselves."


Cela va sans dire," said Lina, sententiously
; " That is a proverb, you know."

'' Exactly. A very soothing proverb for
those who start fair, with plenty of health
and strength, a capital, and perhaps helping
hands  'interest,' as people call it. Such
fortunate beings have only to be industrious,
keep their eyes well open, and off* they go !
The lookers-on clap, and cry, ' Tally-ho ! '
They are pointed out as examples ; probably
it is all set down to a habit of rising at five,
A.M., or of supping on oatmeal porridge;
such practices are supposed to be specially
blessed by superior powers. Altogether,
they prosper, grow sleeker every year, and
go at last, like ' the blessed gentleman in the

white waistcoat,' in oak coins, with silver
handles, to Heaven. Happy fellows ! they
believe in Providence, no doubt."

I think you hardly know what you are
talking of, Mr. Yiviai]," said Lina.

Marjory said nothing ; she was absorbed
in listening, in watching Hugh's face through
the twilight.

Just let us look at the other side ; there
is a different kind of start: the multitude
who set out with no money."

That is their parents' fault. Poor people
have no business to marry."

'' Human nature is stronger, I fear, than
poverty. Never mind whose fault it is,  there
is the fact :  multitudes turned upon the
world, without money, perhaps without
health, without much education, without big
friends to give them a push or a pull,  in
short, without anything in particular  except
mouths which must eat, hearts which must
beat, bodies which must suffer, and brains
which must form their own conclusions.
Multitudes of them. You ignore them, perhaps,
but I tell you that they are here, all
round you," said Hugh, fiercely ; '' Some of
them sink, no doubt, at an early stage, into
nonentities, or beasts of the earth ; but

millions are of a different stamp,  they struggle
and strive, on and up, do the best they can ;
but what they can, is not what they would ;
and they make no way. Circumstances
sweep them off into hospitals,  into workhouses,
into the slums of great towns, into
niggardly homes. There they die out, like
sparks which flickered, and so ended, for
lack of fuel. If they had a little money, ora
little more strength of body, or a special
talent for some useful art, Providence might
interfere. Having nothing of this, they have
no Providence :  can you blame them, if they
question its existence ? Only, as I said just
now, very few dare to own such questioning."


I can express no opinion about unbelievers,"
said Lina ; '' They, and their tenets,
are not desirable subjects of thought. I do
not think it at all right that Miss Stanhope,
who is young and inexperienced, should hear
such conversation."

'' Then Miss Stanhope had better cut me
from henceforth," said Hugh, starting up ;
I am not at all ashamed of my colours. I
am an unbeliever. I do not see how any one
in my circumstances can be otherwise. Unbelief
must at least be less demoralising than

submission to such a Power as that wliicli
you call Providence."

Had an evil spirit entered into him, to
utter its blasphemies ? Marjory trembled.
She felt an impulse to rise, and fly from the
presence of this man, who was Mr. Hugh no
longer. The same feeling, not as an impulse,
but a principle, had moved Lina. She rose
in silence, with quiet grace, gave one look,
as summoning Marjory to follow, and walked
majestically from the room. In the doorway
she turned, expecting Marjory ; but Marjory
had never stirred. She remained in her
place, her head showing like a shadowy
carving against the opal background of sky :
alone with Mr. Vivian.

For one second she had been on the point
of following Lina ; but suddenly, like a flame,
a passion of pity arose within her. She forgot
herself, what she was, where she was ;
and thought only of him, of the fiery furnace
into which his soul had been cast. What
wonder if the devils had taken advantage, to
blind his eyes, and whisper in his ears ? 
Long ago she had caught a glimpse of a dark
side in his nature ; now it had been quickened,
by misery, to an unnatural life. But
the better side, which had so charmed her,

was not dead. She thought of her prayer
and took courage.

'miss Peele is gone. Why don't you go?"
he said, turning suddenly upon Marjory. He
was angry; there was wickedness in his eyes.
She would have shrunk away ; but that pity
held her back.

"Why should I go ? " she asked, speaking
half unconsciously ; it seemed less she, than
that pitying spirit, who spoke.  " It is only
because you don't understand.  Oh, how
I will pray that God may make you
understand ! "

She paused and checked herself, afraid of
a sneer ; but no, he only looked at her ; and
his expression softened. Gradually the evil
spirit seemed to fade into some inner gloom.
He did not speak ; but suddenly he turned to
the window, and, resting his head upon his
arm on the opened sash, looked out again
towards the star. Marjory could not see his
face ; she sat motionless and silent. Thus
full five minutes went by.

'' I must go," he said, turning abruptly
back, and holding out his hand : " Goodnight.
 Thank you."

The next moment he was in the drawing-room,
shaking hands with Mrs. Carberry?
and then he was gone.

CHAPTEH V.

I pray, sir, tell me, is it possible
That love should of a sudden take such hold 1 "

Shakspeare.

The Peeles had risen ; Gerald rose likewise,
and looked about for his sister.

'' Come, Marjory ! We shall have a pleasant
walk. Do you see how bright the
moon is ? "

'' Marjory," said Lina, at her elbow, '' I
wish to speak to you alone. Ask your
brother to walk in front with mamma."

Gerald looked suddenly blank, but acquiesced
; offering his arm to Mrs. Peele. Mrs.
Carberry made voluble adieux, full of hopes
for future meetings ; and the party set forth,
Marjory growing nervous as she entered
upon her tete-astute with Lina. Gerald,
attentive to Lina's least wish, remained resolutely
in front, doing his best to maintain
conversation with Mrs. Peele. The boys
were still further in advance, and thus they
all passed through the iron gates of Mr Car-berry's

domain, and under the shrub-bordered
wall, towards the town.

*' I am anxious to give you a hint, Marjory,"
said Lina, in a low voice : " You must
not be offended. At Rockswold, as you
know, you saw little of the etiquettes of
society."

Well !" said Marjory, not over-graciously.

I went into the ante-room, much as I
dislike that Mr. Vivian, for your sake. You
see, Marjory, dear, it would pain me no less
than yourself, if  through ignorance, mind,
I know quite well, only through ignorance 
you should be talked about."

'' I don't understand you one bit."

'your understanding will enlarge, when
you have lived here a little longer ; at present
I suppose I must speak plainly. Do
you know, dear, it is not at all the thing fora
young lady to sit alone with a gentleman
in a room separate from others ? "

'why, everybody saw us! we were close
to the drawing-room," cried Marjory, crimson.
Besides, he came; I could not help it."

I know ; but, when he came, it would
have been better if you had gone. ' A word
to the wise is sufficient.' You will remember
another time."

I don't know that I shall," said Marjory;
*' I can't bear the thought of such nonsense
between Mr. Vivian and me ! Lina, I wish
you had not put it into my head ! It is only
that I can't forget old times, or his kindness
when I was a lonely little child. I should
hate to forget it ! and if it does him good,
after his troubles, to talk to me about past
days, how can I repulse him ? It would be
quite wicked, when neither of us means any
harm,  just for stupid etiquette ! "

Etiquette is very necessary," said Lina :
'' and there is another point. He is no way
a fit companion for you. I was simply astonished
that you could remain in the room
with him, after his talking in that shocking
manner ! I myself could not have stayed
another moment."

You never knew him in former years,"
cried Marjory, much excited. " If you had
seen him as he was atThorne,and atCopelands,
his home, you could not help pitying him."

"It is sometimes a painful duty to set
pity aside," said Lina calmly. " When pity
and duty clash, no right-minded person
should hesitate. We must be faithful; we
must deliver our own souls; and then weare
free."

"But suppose you care for the wicked
person, and want to help him ? " cried
Marjory, on the verge of tears. " That is
all very well if one thinks only of one's own
soul, and of being ' faithful ' in a rigid kind
of way ; but suppose one is longing to help
him ? " repeated Marjory, passionately.

*'Ah, there is the danger!" said Lina,
quite unruffled. "When we allow personal
feelings to place themselves in competition
with duty, we cannot tell where they may
lead us. You make me afraid for you,
Marjory," she added with composure. "Do
read Abercrombie ' On the Moral Feelings,'
and Locke * On the Understanding,' once
more. You know your failing, and how I
have cautioned you on the importance of
self-government."

Yes, I know, but It is no use ! I
could not make you understand what is in
my mind.  Why is it that you hate Mr.
Vivian so?" asked Marjory, with sudden
change of tone.

"Marjory I" said Lina, in mild reproof;
I hate no one ; I merely have reasons for
believing Mr. Vivian to be a bad man ;
and I fear lest you should suffer from his
society."

VOL. II. F

** I wish you would tell me your reasons."

I may, perhaps, some day. Meanwhile,
I hope that you will take my advice, and have
as little as possible to do with him. Now I
have delivered my conscience; this unpleasant
subject may close."

She was evidently comfortably assured of
having performed a duty; and ere long she
was chatting with her mother and Gerald,
while Marjory walked in silence alongside,
smothering a tempest in her heart. Marjory
felt, with a strangely sudden intensity, that
Lina and she could never again be real
friends.

Between their natures a great gulf was
fixed ; she had partially suspected it before ;
now she saw it ; there it was  full of ice and
snow  yearning at their feet ! She had not
discovered it in the innocent school-days,
because her mind had been dazzled by the
light of Lina's statuesque beauty, streaming
from its other side. Was Gerald dazzled now
in the same way ? thought Marjory, with a
sudden pang.

She glanced at him ; his cheek was flushed ;
his gray eyes shone with that new radiance,
which she had noticed of late. He seemed
to hang upon Lina's words  upon her

looks,  when she smiled, this whole face
glowed.

'' Oh, my Gerald ! " thought Marjory, witH
a stab at her heart. The annoyance on her
own score was forgotten ; she was full, not
of herself, but of those two  Hugh on one
hand, Gerald on the other. But Hugh Vivian
repelled no less than he attracted her, she
thought ; pity alone maintained her vivid
interest in him ! while Gerald  somehow her
whole life seemed bound up in Gerald. As
lie looked at him, now, that new pang of
anxiety sharp within her, she felt that she
could cheerfully die for him.

They had soon reached the college-yard ;
but Gerald insisted upon escorting the Peeles
to their square. Marjory went in alone.
The lamp was lighted in the little sitting-room,
and the table prepared for supper;
but she would not sit down without Gerald ;
and she felt too restless to settle to books or
work. The thought struck her that she
would beguile the time by looking at his
pictures ; she lit a candle, and mounted to
the attic.

The low window, still open, had no blind.
She seemed almost on a level with the starlit
sky, stretching away before her. Setting
F 2

down lier candle, sie knelt within the framework,
and looked out, her elbows on the sill.
Far below, by the river-side, a tall lamp was
burning; a policeman was slowly pacing
along the towing-path ; the opposite bank lay
like a shadow-land, still, mysterious. It
seemed to her as if again that cry were
ringing 

forests green and fair !
O pine-woods waving high !
How sweet your cool retreat, how full of rest ! "

Somehow, intermingled with those words,
came thoughts of Gerald. If she should ever
be compelled to see Gerald suffering, as Hugh
had seen his mother, powerless to help, even
relieve  what would it be to her ? to her
hope, to her faith ? She shrank from the
mere idea ; and with that shrinking rose new
pity for Hugh. What was she, she thought,
to condemn him ?  she who had never known
what anguish meant ! What if she yet should
know ?

She shrank again, and moved from the
window. In doing so, her eyes fell upon
Gerald's substitute for an easel. Upon it
rested a picture ; not the imperfect sketch of
the '' Bridge "  another, complete in colours.

Raising her candle, she recognised at once
the painting which had been turned to the
wall : that of the sculptor, gazing at the
vision of his ideal, for which Gerald had
vainly so long sought a face to satisfy his
fancy.

Marjory looked in astonishment. The
features were no longer a blank; the face
was filled in. A brush, from which the paint
had not been washed, lay on the boards supporting
the easel. The light of the candle
streamed full upon the upraised eyes, half
wondering, half enchanted, of the sculptor;
upon the shining robe and bright hair of
the floating figure ; upon the countenance,
etherealised, beatified, which that bright
hair crowned.

Beatified, yet familiar ! A startled cry
broke from Marjory. That face, so true, yet
so untrue, in its portrayed, was the face of
Lina.

CHAPTER VL

"And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts."

Longfellow.

No knight of olden time, riding full tilt into
the tournament, his lady's colours at his
helm, felt his courage quickened by a brighter
or more disinterested flame than that which
fired Marjory's heart, when she began her
commonplace work in Mrs. Myers' schoolroom.
It was a hot August morning ; and
the sun, high betimes, shone through big
bare windows upon boarded floors, long
deal tables, wooden forms, a flock of little
boys of all ages from six to eleven ; upon
Miss Pilkington, walking to and fro, with a
magisterial air and full eyes ; upon Mrs.
Myers, gently striving to keep order, as she
dealt out slates and copy-books from a cupboard.
In upon this scene came Marjory,
with blue eyes bright and shining, and a face
all aglow with hope and purpose. The rampant
little boys regarded her with pleasure,
opining that she was young and ' up to

larks," like themselves. Miss Pilkington,
too, was pleased, and felt that lie had every
cause for satisfaction in her new assistant.

Yet all the while, deep in the girl's heart,
beneath the upper radiance, rankled a sting :
the remembrance of that face in Gerald's
picture. She resolutely assured herself that
she was a foolish girl, full of fancies  that
Lina's face had without doubt a beauty
worthy to be reverenced,  that admiration
was one thing, love another  she herself admired
much that she did not love. Why
bring love at all into the question, she
asked :  but then the sting rankled more
sharply than before .

As days passed on, however, she saying
nothing to Gerald, and he nothing to her,
of the alteration in the painting  the poignancy
of that discovery lost its power. She
felt free of care again, and accused herself
of making a mountain from a molehill. '' It
is my quiet Blocks wold life," she thought,
which has made me morbid, and inclined
to take everything au grand series. I am
glad I have come out of it, if only for a
while, into the realities of active life. I have
no time now for imaginations."

Her hours were indeed amply filled. She

and Gerald both rose early, and sometimes
went out before breakfast ; at other times
Marjory read, sitting in her window, the
river flowing beneath, the meadows, in their
morning freshness, stretching beyond, the
dew upon the grass. From nine to twelve
she was busy in the school, soon becoming
greatly interested in her pupils, studying
their respective characters, and winning their
hearts apace. In these few hours of teaching
she had no sense of drudgery,  only of pleasurable
occupation, which she soon learned
to love for its own sake.

Then, from twelve to one, came a free
hour, spent sometimes in music or reading,
sometimes in the cathedral. She often went
into the cathedral, and sat alone, looking up
into the vastness, toward the immortal figures,
motionless, yet full of inspiration. Sometimes
the organist was practising ; sometimes
a young boy's voice, reciting an anthem solo,
rang from behind the screen. Then life and
all things in it became transfigured; and
that transfiguration often lasted throughout
the day, sometimes into the next day, and
gave her new and wonderful ideas in her
work for Gerald. That work, her book, was
in these days the principal thought in her

mind : all else seemed subordinate to it.
She was continually dreaming about it, seeing
its people and its scenes, as living pictures,
though visible to no other. Between the
afternoon and evening, she generally contrived
to get four hours for the mechanical
part, the writing. At this time her mind
was so full that she had only to sit down,
and the sentences, bad or good, flowed quickly
from her pen to the paper. She was young,
and strong, and healthy, and felt as though
she had a power of almost unlimited work.
Gerald came home at one to their early
dinner, which was over by 1.30, and as soon
afterwards as was possible Marjory sat down
to her desk.

In the evening, in the cool of the day, the
brother and sister went long rambling walks
together ; sometimes into the country, sometimes
about Heathcroft, sometimes through
the streets, where human life teemed with
never-failing interest for Marjory. Perhaps,
when they came back, there was space for
another hour of writing ; perhaps it was already
half-past nine, the hour of supper, the
most cheerful meal of the day. After supper
they would sit and talk  talks treasured in
Marjory's memory; or they would read,

Gerald in the arm-clair, and Marjory on a
stool at his feet ; or, by mutual consent 
for there were times when both were too full
of ideas for aught else  Gerald would go to
his attic, and paint, and Marjory would return
to her writings.

Of outward society they had fully as much
as they desired. Several ladies called upon
Marjory, acquaintances of Lina or of Mrs.
Carberry : kind people, who felt a benevolent
interest, not unmixed with pity, for the two
young workers alone in lodgings : they did
not know how little such pity was needed ! 
Lina had contrived to convey a strong impression
of the gentility of her friends : although,
she said, from peculiar circumstances,
Miss Stanhope had chosen to help her brother
by a little light teaching, while sharing his
home. Thus the brother and sister were
received favourably, and as equals, into the
town society, which, as a rule, was naturally
inclined to classify new-comers by a standard
based upon possessions rather than personalities.
In this instance, the rule was
waived, in deference to Lina : who, though
her Alton residence had been of no longstanding,
was already deemed an authority
in social matters, an oracle of good-breeding 

intimacy with whom was an acknowledged
criterion of caste. From her emanated a
lustre which, without her, gentle little Mrs.
Peele could not have possessed ; but by this
reflected radiance the whole family shone as
luminaries in the town society  the town
society as distinguished from the cathedral
society, which disdained the town, associating,
beyond its own pale, mainly with county
magnates. Even Lina's empire could not
penetrate to these sacred precincts.

Invitations came often to Gerald and
Marjory through the bright days of summer
and early autumn : to croquet parties  for
in those times croquet was rampant  to
picnics, to evening assemblies, concluded by
a dance. Sometimes Marjory fancied that
her brother was more anxious than he had
need to be, than from his letters, and her
first knowledge of him, she should anticipate,
to accept these invitations. She herself regarded
them as interruptions, both to his
work, and her own : and often persuaded him
to refuse one or another, and spend the time
thus redeemed in painting or sketching, orin
studies conducive to the same. But
Gerald, as he said, '' Well ! I suppose you're
right ! " and turned from the tempting note,

sometimes checked in its birth a sigh which
Marjory could not bear. Then on the next
opportunity, without consulting him, she
would write unqualified acceptance ; and no
one, when the time came, was happier in these
social meetings than she ! Her enjoyment
was untinged by any alloy of worldliness or
self-exaltation.

The change from her daily routine was
novelty and pleasure : for the rest, she regarded
herself, and Gerald also, as they had
once agreed, as members of " the working
classes"  whose special aim was at once above
and below conventional ambitions ; and she,
for her own part, had, as she believed, no
personal aim at all  living solely in and for
Gerald, that Raphael of the future.

Sometimes at these parties she met Hugh
Vivian, sometimes not. It was a little
strange, she thought, when her whole life
was centred so entirely in Gerald, that anyone
unconnected with him should have power
to interest her as she felt that Hugh Yivian
did. He had certainly a strange fascination
for her ! the fascination of those days at
Thorne. It was on account of Thorne, she
thought, that this fascination was so vivid.
In the Alton society, such as it was, she

quickly became a favourite. Every one liked
and welcomed her, and she, as a rule, liked
every one. She had soon struck up a variety
of friendly acquaintanceships, and not only
among her own sex : she was an amusing
companion, her smile was bright, and her
blue eyes were greatly admired. The young
men of Alton made much of her, and circled
round her, wherever she went ; and she enjoyed
their society well enough  but not one
of them excited in her anything at all resembling
her feeling for Hugh. When she
found him among the guests, or, as sometimes
happened, he came in towards the end
of the evening, she was at once in a new
atmosphere : one which she could not have
analysed, had she tried : and she did not
try. She knew only that it had a strange
enchantment.

She believed that she enjoyed it because
it acted with inspiring influence on her story.
Certainly it did so act ;  on such occasions,
she always went home full of what she called
"the spirit:"  a magical state of double existence,
in which the world of her fancy appeared
at least as real as that of sense, its inhabitants
living and moving before her mental
eyes, like figures in a theatre. Church-bells

transported lier to this state ; music, sunset
clouds, certain pictures and poems, had the
same peculiar witchery ; and she supposed it
was because a corresponding halo transfigured
her memories of Thorne, that the presence of
one, in these so prominent a figure, brought
with it a charm no less potent. It was a
charm of exactly the same nature ; half
bright, half melancholy. Those eyes, once
so full of lightness and of sunshine, had a
strange power now to make her heart ache.
That look of half sarcastic philosophy, stamped
on the face by experiences fraught with anguish,
kindled within her a yearning that was
almost pain. She had a craving for a quiet
talk with him : a craving always baffled, and,
for this very reason, increasing more and
more.

After that hour in Mrs. Carberry's anteroom,
he had never touched upon subjects
ol importance beyond the moment. He
seemed to enjoy chatting with Marjory, when
they met, much as he had enjoyed it years
before, when she was a child who amused
him. She amused him still, apparently ; he
had a pleasure in drawing out her opinions,
and rallying her upon them, with something
of the old badinage : only, the old undercurrent

of gaiety had ceased its flow, and instead
was continually evident a similar current
of an opposite nature, tinging all his
views of men and of things. Sometimes,
unexpectedly, Marjory found him watching
her from a distance, with an expression which
she could not fathom ; whether cynical, or
compassionate, or both, she felt unable to
decide.

He knew everybody in Alton, and was one
of the very few townspeople invited more
than once a year to dinner-parties, or 'eat
Homes," in the College Green. In past years
all the higher dignitaries there had been on
intimate terms with his family ; and the
acquaintance was not forgotten, although
maintained at some distance now, as befitted
his altered circumstances. He himself, with
his quick pride, made no attempt to lessen
that distance. On the contrary, he appeared
in these houses at intervals only just sufficient
to avoid rudeness; and the same in the
county  where, indeed, from his mother's
haughtiness, his parents had never been
great favourites, and where death or years
had already severed the few real friendships
they had formed.

So, by degrees, the mothers with marriageable

daughters, who at first had guarded
them, nervously watchful, from his approach,
found in him no danger, and grew instead to
regard him, while still under thirty, as a confirmed
misogamist. In the town, where his
history was universally known, and where
many still remembered the grand, beautiful
Mrs. Yivian, driving in state through the
streets, once a week or so, with the air of a
queen, his acquaintance was considered an
honour ; the more so, since it was difficult to
obtain, and he was reported to have inherited
his mother's '' high way." Had he made himself
more common, the prudent among the
citizen-mothers would doubtless have dreaded
the penniless quartermaster no less than did
the mothers of county and college. As it
was, his cold reserve encircled him with an
atmosphere of interest, which caused him to
be courted almost in proportion as such
courting was by him ignored ; and every
lady felt a sense of having secured a prize, if
by chance he said yes, instead of no, to her
oft-repeated invitation. And, indeed, the
distinguished air, relic of his high breeding,
which had clung to him through every privation,
singled him out at once among all other
young men who, in his absence, shone

supreme ornaments of Alton society ; and
who, in other circumstances, might have
regarded a militia quartermaster as beneath
any notice beyond patronage.

But Lina cared nothing for the eclat which
kindled the Alton mind. That was all of the
world, worldly, she thought; and she was
above the world. She disapproved of this
man. Had she not, deep within her stately
heart, special reasons for such disapproval 
over and above that general reason, of his
religious scepticism ? To set society against
him by innuendoes was beneath her ; besides,
she had no proof by which to convince the
world. But Marjory, at least, should not be
deceived by him. Thus continually, when
alone with Marjory, Lina would throw out
hints concerning that mysterious wrong of
which Hugh Vivian had been guilty. At
such times there was something in the steady
gaze of Lina's beautiful eyes which made
Marjory blush, and shrink into herself, she
knew not why, and prevented her crying, as
she longed to cry,

Lina, speak out in plain words ! and tell
me all the truth."

Something, moreover, in that gaze excited
the question : *' What right have I, after all,

VOL. II. G

to trouble myself about him ? " And so,
day after day, she was silent, though, all the
while, the consciousness of that secret which
Lina knew, quickened unawares her interest
in him, and made her think about him far
more than otherwise might have been.

But this was all an under-current. Uppermost
were thoughts of Gerald. She had
made it her first business, when the boys
returned, to search out the Lewis Harding
of the caricatures ; and had found him in a
red-headed pickle of ten years old,  an advanced
age in this juvenile community,  in
spite of which he was the wooden spoon of
her class. Marjory soon contrived to introduce
him to Gerald, who first overwhelmed
him with confusion by producing the caricatures,
then struck a match, and burned them
in his presence. Thereupon they became
sworn friends ; and Gerald discovered that
Lewis's chief desire was to be artist to a fleet
of discovery  should any such office exist ;
thus to combine the achievement of two
modest aims to visit all the countries in the
world, and to beat Uncle Tom hollow in
painting. The '' Uncle Tom " thus mentioned
proved, as Gerald had thought possible, to
be Harding, the great artist, of world-wide

fame ; a relationship of wliicli Mrs. Myers
and Miss Pilkington explained their ignorance
by the fact of Lewis's having been only
half a year in the school ; while the name
was so common, and the boy  as they
opined  so stupid, that such a connection
had never entered their minds.

The good ladies gladly sanctioned the
friendship between Gerald and the pickle,
when they found that his pleasure in Mr.
Stanhope's society provided at once a threat
and a persuasive, in regulating his conduct.
Henceforth, the whilom reprobate was never
so happy as when  at moderate intervals 
he was allowed to accompany Gerald in a
walk, or to creep up into the attic in an
evening, to watch him paint, volunteering
saucy criticisms, and answering questions
about his uncle; for Gerald delighted in
drawing forth tales of the great master's
private idiosyncrasies. Mr. Harding was at
present in Scotland, studying scenes from
the hills ; scenes which, in any other hands,
would have been hackneyed, but from
his would come forth in the glow of a
beauty only then interpreted. His nephew
hoped that, in returning home, he would
make a divergence to Alton, where he had
G 2

long intended to complete a sketch, from the
western end of the cathedral. Lewis had
even, in his most illegible scrawl, indited an
epistle as follows : 

Dear Uncle Tom, There is a most
wonderful Cleaver fellow hear who can draw
Anything you would Stair if you saw him
he ought to be in the Academy and he wants
awfully to see you so please come soon your
affectionate Replied."

Of this, however, Gerald knew nothing.


If only he could see Gerald's drawings,
he would devise some way to help him ; he
would recognise the power in them, and wish
to free it," said Marjory one day to Lina.
This was a matter in which Lina sympathised.
None of that repellent chill which checked
the mention of Hugh Vivian, extended to
Gerald. Indeed, Marjory's hopes respecting
him were much strengthened by Lina's
opinion ; for Lina was highly educated, had
travelled, and had visited, with the eye of a
connoisseur, many Continental picture-galleries.
Her judgment, too, was known to be
dispassionate, unaffected by partiality ; therefore
Marjory's heart was stirred by joy and
triumph when Lina, sitting in Gerald's attic,

pronounced this work to bear the undoubted
stamp of power.

Lina had called alone one afternoon, when
Gerald was at the bank ; and Marjory had
caught at the opportunity to ransack his pile.
The picture of the 'ideal" had been removed
from the easel; and the " Bridge," now nearly
finished, was restored to its place. Otherwise
Marjory would never have taken Lina upstairs
! Somehow she would not for the
world have Lina know of that portrait. Even
now the former pang shot through her in
remembering that Gerald had taken it, as
she had privately discovered, to his own
room; where, although by day it remained
hidden from profane curiosity, she felt sure
that at night, and in the early morning, he
sought from it inspiration for his work.

Before the easel Lina paused. Gerald had
been busy of late in perfecting the figures.
The young hearts, hot and restless ; the
old, subdued and slow "  both were here
magically true. Into this quiet attic, so high
above the bustle of the world, a portion of
that world seemed to have come,  to be there
living and moving. What depths of fire
burned in that young man's eyes, unconsciously
so like Gerald's own ! How weary,

disappointed, yet patient, was the gait of that
toil-worn figure behind him ! How ardent,
yet half fearful in their ardour, were those
young lovers, pressing on hand in hand !
How divine seemed the inspiration of that
poet, who had paused as if to listen ! How
careless was the glance of that bright-eyed
child, throwing petals from its nosegay into
the water, and watching them float away !
How the tide flowed  how the water foamed !
One could almost hear it dash against the
buttresses ! Surely this was not a picture ;
it was a page of real life, caught and fixed.
Its power seemed to move Lina as she gazed.
Marjory had never before seen in her such
enthusiasm.

Marjory, this is more than mere cleverness.
Your brother will be famous some
day."

And yet he is not satisfied even with
this," cried Marjory ; " He says the drawing
is not correct."

He is right not to be satisfied ; the true
artist's motto is always ' Excelsior,' you
know. And perhaps he is right about the
drawing. Yes, I could point out defects."

Marjory's face clouded.

*' That arm is too long ; and the turn of

that foot is scarcely natural : then the colour
is not smooth enough, and the shading is
too decided ; but these are minor points. If
he could have a little practice under a good
master, such faults would soon be gone. The
spirit that breathes through all has the stamp
of greatness."

And now that changeful face of Marjory's
was all aglow once more.

'' Thank you, dear Lina  thank you ; you
make me so happy ! Now, sit down, and I
will show you others. Some of these little
sketches, when he was a boy,  I think they
are really wonderful."

So Lina sat down, and Marjory knelt on
the floor, picking out the choicest treasures
of the large heap. Here a face, a mere outline,
but still a true human face, stamped
with the expression of the moment ; here a
group of rustic figures, each in itself a study ;
here a bit of moorland landscape, with a gray
old stone, on which a sunset ray was slanting
; here a fishing-boat sailing out at twilight
upon a lonely sea ; here a scene from some
novelist or poet. Lina did not grow tired,
although the stock seemed endless, and
Marjory was continually saying, '' Just one
more ! "

CHAPTER VII.

"And whether, so you're just and fair,
Other folks are so, you don't care ;
You who profess more love than others
For your poor sinful human brothers."

Arthur H. Clough.

Steps below, and Gerald's voice calling " Marjory
! " announced his return from the bank.
She jumped up, scattering her drawings, and
ran, intending to summon him to the attic ;
but an instant later she came back, crestfallen.


'' How tiresome ! he has brought some one
with him. Lina, we must go down."

Never mind, I have seen a good deal :
and, Marjory, I must just say one thing."

Marjory paused in collecting the scattered
drawings, and looked up into Lina's face.

Keep up your heart ; don't lose courage ;
persevere in trying your utmost to free your
brother from that unfortunate debt. From
all I have seen to-day, I feel a conviction that
there is more in him than even you are aware."

Marjory could only exclaim, " Oh, Lina ! "

between laughing and crying. Then, the
drawings restored to their box, the two girls
went silently downstairs, each absorbed in
her own thoughts. Lina walked first.
Marjory, behind, wondered, as they reached
the sitting-room, to see her face suddenly
change and grow rigid. The mystery was
speedily solved. It was Hugh Vivian who
had entered with Gerald.

I met your brother at the door," said he,
as he shook hands with Marjory : " I have
never before succeeded in finding him at
home ; and even now it was a near-run
thing ! "

Marjory scarcely answered. She felt herself
a coward ; yet how could she be otherwise
beneath that gaze of calm and penetrating
severity ? Here was altogether a different
person from the Lina of five minutes past.
Marjory had loved her then, had felt for her
something of the old enthusiasm. Now she
almost disliked her ; the chill of that unfathomable
gulf struck her once more.

Gerald, we have been looking at your
drawings," she said nervously, turning from
Hugh to her brother. Gerald did not reply ;
he was absorbed in Lina, placing a chair for
her, begging her to sit down.

'' I have been working hard all day," marjory
heard him say. " Do stay and give me
some refreshment."

He looked, indeed, tired and harassed, and
Lina seemed to soften. Perhaps she was
contrasting all she had just seen, with those
many hours of uncongenial toil ! She sat
down ; and Gerald sat near her, leaving his
visitor to Marjory's sole charge. Marjory
was not sure that he had not altogether forgotten
that any one beside himself and Lina
was present.

*' What a nice room you have here ! " said
Hugh Vivian : '' Certainly there are lodgings
and lodgings. This is rather a contrast to
my den in the High Street ; it looks like
home."

*' It is home," said Marjory, involuntarily
" Wherever Gerald was would be home tome."


I wonder how many such devoted sisters
there are in the world ! I should think they
might easily be counted. If I had had a sister,
now, I feel convinced that she would have
married long ago ; or, if not, she would be
sighing to be married  watching daily, like
Mariana, for some one to come and deliver
her from my moaned grange."

'' I am sorry you have so bad an opinion
of sisters in general."

Bad ! Not at all. It's human nature,
isn't it, to prefer a husband to a brother ?"

Not my human nature," said Marjory,
laughing. '' Besides, I should think it wrong
and treacherous to have any such ideas
until " She stopped suddenly.

'' Until what ? Why won't you tell me your
deep plan in Gerald's behalf?"

Why should I ? It would be nothing to

you."

'' Yes, it would. Your devotion to him
interests me as a psychological phenomenon ;
and it is pleasant to find that I have any
power of interest left."

I dare say ! You want to pry into the
most sacred part of my life, that you may
make a ludicrous study of it, like those books
you are pleased to call ' goody.' "

You think I would do that to any feeling
of yours ? You misjudge me. 'No,  I haven't
forgotten the days when we were friends at
Thorne."

As he spoke, he was looking at her in a
half dreamy way, which suddenly made Marjory
blush. At this moment she felt Lina's
eyes on her, and started to her feet.

By-the-bye, talking of Thorne," she said,
going to the table  " I wonder whether you
have seen this ? "

Hugh followed : and took from her hands
the album open at a page whence that sad
portrait of poor vanished Jessie smiled in
proud consciousness of exalted station, from
its bridal robes. "When he received the book,
that dreamy expression had not faded ; the
hardness in his eyes was softened, as so often
with Marjory :  but one glimpse of the photograph
acted with magical effect. At once
his face clouded; he winced visibly, and
closed the album.

"Yes, I have seen it," he said shortly.

Marjory's blue eyes widened in surprise,
then glanced instinctively at Lina. Lina was
gazing at Hugh, with an expression beyond
Marjory to fathom. It was not only dislike,
but cool observation, and mistrust,  and
something else  as if a sudden notion had
struck her. Hugh did not observe it. He
was looking down, gloomy and bitter again.

Is that book yours ? " he inquired, after
a pause.

"Yes."

Why do you keep that photograph there ?
I wish you would take it out."

Why should you wish that ? " said Marjory,
mystified.

She had nothing in common with you.
You believe in her, because of her face. No
doubt many others have believed in her : and
found their mistake.  I tell you, I can't bear
to see that face of hers there, in your book ! "
He spoke with suppressed passion.

What do you know against her ? " said
Marjory  '' She was vain and foolish ; but,
I hope, nothing worse."

' You hope . "  he repeated cynically :
' Charity loveth all things :' but I fear it
is often disappointed."

'' I would bear that, to be on the side of
charity ! How changed you are ! I remember
you were never more irritated than by
suspicious  'codgers,' you used to call them."

You are not changed, at any rate," he
said, suddenly smiling : " You are just the
same as eight years ago, only intensified.
You had that same devotion for ' Gerald,'
even then. I'm glad your friendship for a
party who shall at present be nameless," he
added, lowering his tone  "has failed in
transforming you."

I only wish I were half as good as she
is," said Marjory, reproachfully.

He smiled again.

*' What constitutes goodness ? Sancti-copiousness
 or scandalisation  or what ?
Is disagreeableness a necessary component
of it ? or is such a pair ever to be allowed,
as goodness and toleration in harness ? "

Think of dear old Lady Thorne ! She
was good :  a saint in its best meaning,"
said Marjory.

Yes, but she was old ; she had had long
acquaintance with the world and all manner
of its people. Young saints must be intolerant,
I suppose !  If tolerant, they would not be
saints ; if saints, not tolerant."

'* Your experience has evidently been unfortunate."


'' It has at least been this :  that if a
man's religious views happen to differ from
the generality never mind his heart, brains,
morals, anything else,  he is anathema, of
no account, a leper, straightway, to true
saints. I suspect you are not a saint.  Are
you?"

'' No, indeed : I wish I were ! "

Don't wish that ! If you became a saint,
you would have no more to do with me."

'* I should be all the more anxious to "

To convert me ? No doubt :  but suppose

you found that impracticable. Now
mark what I say ! If you are hungry, ill, or
homeless, saints will help you :  they add to
their fund in the Heavenly bank, you know,
by that. But if you have difficulties of another
kind  mental doubts, for instance, inability
to swallow all their beliefs,  if you
are at all ' unsound,' and therefore, I should
have thought, from their own point of view,
more to be pitied than any other class of
sufferer  in such cases, the saints will scout
you, glance at you from the other side of the
street, with mild contempt ;  in fact, regard
you as pitch, of which the mere touch would
defile."

'' You have met with unfavourable specimens,"
repeated Marjory.

Have I ? Your friend over there is one :
and you consider her a favourable one," said
Hugh, again lowering his voice : ''If you
listen to her, I feel sure she will persuade
you that, in holding any intercourse with me,
you commit a mortal sin. But I hope you
will not listen to her ; in that respect at least."

At this moment Lina rose to depart.
Hugh rose also, suddenly remembering an
engagement, and, making hurried adieux,
strode off, walking against time. Lina also

lead an engagement at a neighbouring house,
and could not accept Gerald's proposal that
lie and Marjory should escort her home.
When he returned from conducting her downstairs,
he found Marjory in a dream at the
window. 'anything wrong?" he asked,
coming up behind her.

Xo  I was only thinking," said Marjory,
with a start : '' What were you and Lina
talking about ? You seemed to find your
conversation very interesting."

'did we ?" said Gerald, with heightened
colour. " Somehow, it did seem interesting ;
and yet we were talking of nothing particular
-just any little thing that came up."

"Not about your pictures?" cried Marjory.
" We had just been looking at them."

I dare say she thinks them rubbish. I
wish you would let them alone, Marjory :
you will sicken her," said Gerald, irritably :
She said not a word on the subject ; so that
speaks for itself."

On the contrary," cried Marjory, " I
never saw her so enthusiastic before. She
was delighted with them."

Nonsense," said Gerald.

You unbelieving boy ! I will tell you her
very words. Remember ! She never pays

compliments, and lie is never lavish of
praise."

Then she repeated what Lina had said : 

'' This is more than mere cleverness. Your
brother will be famous some day."

'' She said that ! " Gerald exclaimed.
Marjory looked at him, startled by his tone.
A flush of joy, of rapture even, had risen to
his very temples. He could scarcely have
seemed happier, had Raphael himself pronounced
the verdict !

For the first time Marjory's unselfishness
failed her. It could hardly be for its intrinsic
worth that he thus valued Lina's praise !
And, if not, why should this have such power,
when her own so often failed,  or, if not utterly
failing, proved powerless to arouse more thana
feeble gleam of hope ? Why ? There was
the question !

Marjory thought again of the Ideal :  and
her heart ached.

VOL. IT.

CHAPTER Viii.

So strangely, mysteriously, "wonderfully

Her presence seized upon my inner life ;

* * *

Beloved at once, I felt graved on my heart
'Tis she, or none on earth."  Schiller.

But such pangs were not of long continuance
in Marjory's generous nature, and she soon
forgot them in devotion to her work.

Gerald, may I read my story to you ? *'
she said one evening, entering the little parlour.
The lamp was just lighted ; Gerald sat
at the table, sketching in pen and ink some
fancy which had come into his head.

I can't work always alone ; I don't know
how I am getting on,  I am tired," said
Marjory : " Would it plague you, Gerald, to
listen ? "

"My dear Marjory, you work too hard,"
cried Gerald, starting up. " You must not
overdo yourself ; how selfish I am to let you
toil in this way ! And after all "

He paused, and drew the arm-chair to the

table, that Marjory might rest, the light
falling on her manuscript.

'' After all, to no purpose, perhaps  you
mean that. Yes, I know  I know very well !
But remember what I told you the first night
I came here. It is that which makes me
hopeful, Gerald ! "

She stopped, on the verge of tears, the
reaction from over-excitement.

'' Now let me hear the story," said Gerald,
soothingly.

He sat down again, and resumed his pen ;
and she turned to the beginning, and read.
Presently she half forgot that the story washer
own, and felt interested, as in the work
of another. Gerald also looked up from his
etching : the pen lay idle in his hand : soon
he laid it down altogether, and turned towards
Marjory, his elbow on the back of his
chair. Now and then he said : " Capital,
Marjory ! " or, " Well done ! " or, '' I never
knew you could write like this ! "

She stopped at last, out of breath.

That is not all ? " said Gerald.

No, a good deal more is finished ; but I
had better leave it for another time. Do
you really like it, Gerald ? "

"Like it ! Why, Marjory, it is first-rate, far
H 2

beyond my hopes. It is better than nine
novels out of ten."

He lead risen, and was walking up and
down the room.

'' Yes, indeed," he repeated : "I have read
fifty not half equal to it ! and yet they get
published, somehow; and, if they, why not
this ? "

He paused in his walk, stooped, and kissed
her : a very rare occurrence.

'' I am not worthy of such a sister," he
said. Some inward compunction seemed to
strike him.

Marjory laughed and clapped her hands,
with almost childish glee.

You have made me as happy as Mr.
Harding would make you if he said that you
might turn out a second Michael Angelo ! "
she cried : " It's not that I dream of becoming
famous, or a great author  only just of
writing books which will sell ! After all, that
is a modest aim enough."

''If it succeeds, I will return all you earn
for me  with compound interest, I trust. Tome
the debt will only change hands ; but
there lies all the difference ! Now that I
have heard your story, I almost dare to
hope."

"You ought to hope, Gerald. Because
you know it is not only my work I am
depending on."

There was an enthusiasm about this girl,
which was strangely infectious. Certainly
she read her Bible with the heart of a child !
but was not that the right way to read it ?
Gerald felt rebuked ; some voice within him
whispered that it was not possible for such
faith to be disappointed.

They sat up late that night  Gerald asking
to hear more, if she were not tired, after
supper. Marjory, in all the first delight of a
tyro in authorship, cared little whether she
were tired or no ! At the end, Gerald proposed
that they should meet for the same
purpose, every week.

'' It will help me very much," said Marjory,
The work will be less lonely. And you can
criticise."

'' Not that my criticisms are worth much !
you should go to Miss Peele for those."

She has not seen it, yet. I have often
meant to consult her : only, somehow, I am
afraid. It is foolish to be so impressionable ;
but I can't help it. If she should throw
cold water on it, I should feel out of heart at
once."

' But she would not; she would help you.
Her advice would be invaluable."

In one way. But in another  Gerald,
don't you see it in Lina ? She is so passionless
!  like a still lake, which cannot sympathise
with tides. It seems to me that she
has a certain fixed standard ; and whatever
comes up to it is right in her eyes ; but
whatever differs from it, however beautiful,
or true, is wrong. I can't quite define my
meaning; but  Gerald, don't you understand?"


'' I think I do. But, I suppose  we
should call an angel passionless, shouldn't
we?"

'' Not exactly in Lina's way ! I'll give you
an instance :  Mr. Vivian ; she is so terribly
hard upon him ! she condemns him utterly,
seems incapable of entering into  oh, Gerald,
I have told you about his troubles :  you
don't think him utterly hopeless ? "

Suddenly it had struck her  what if
Gerald should agree with Lina on this point,
as on others ? She looked at him, distressed
by that fear ; but his kind smile reassured
her : that smile so strangely kind and quiet,
for so young a face. But Gerald continually
seemed to her less like a young man, just

entered upon the battle of life, than like one
"who, after long fighting, has reached a height
whence he can turn with friendly eyes, to
encourage weaker combatants.

I think him hopeless, dear ! I should bea
hopeless prig myself, to think anything of
the kind ! Few men come out deathless
from such trials ; and only those who have
gone through them can judge of them. But
as to Miss Peele  she is so far above all this
kind of thing that she cannot comprehend
it. She is too perfect herself to be capable
of making due allowance for the force of
temptation in lower natures."

At this expression, Marjory's spirit rose
in indignant championship.

Mr. Vivian's is not a low nature," she
cried  '' I am quite sure of that, little as I
know of him now."

I said lower,  not low," said Gerald,
musingly : " No man could ever have been
born with such a nature as hers. Women maybe
half angels sometimes ; but men, never.' "

Then you think Lina half an angel ? "

"I?" said Gerald, suddenly crimson : 
My thoughts are of no consequence. You
know what she is, or you ought to know,"
he added with an under-tone of reproach.

He rose as he spoke, taking his bed-candle;
and Marjory felt herself reproved.

'don't be angry with me, Gerald," she said.

"I'm not angry," said Gerald ; ''I only
think you must take care that your sympathy
with Vivian does not blind your eyes to the
beauty of real goodness  of a spirit that has
never known pollution. You know it is only
natural that such spirits should shrink from
a baser touch."

I suppose it is," said Marjory, humbly ;
perhaps, after all, I should feel the same,
if I were as good as Lina.  But I am not."

It might have been only fancy  but she
thought that this admission made Gerald's
good-night" more than usually affectionate.
He did not contradict it ; and they parted
without further words.

When he was alone in his own room, he
went to the window, leaning with folded arms
against the panes, and looking out. The
sky was not cloudless ; but the clouds were
soft, gray, and timid, like one who does not
dare to indulge his stormy passions in the
presence of a higher and calmer being, who
sits with him in his home. For the sky in
which those gray clouds floated, was of a
still, dark blue, silent, grand ; and high enthroned

in it shone the three quarters' moon,
with a light only too cold to be radiant.
Beneath it the city slept, the dark houses,
the closed factories :  only the river seemed
alive, with its incessant washing ripple.
Gerald remembered when, on, many such a
night, he had sat in his little room in the far
north, a craving, ambitious boy, with a restless
heart, and had watched the sky, and
wished that he could paint it, thinking of the
great masters of old, and then again had
wished that he had wings to fly from his
trammels  and suddenly had found his cheeks
wet with tears from unfathomed depths.

ISTo tears came now ; yet he felt much as in
those past days. He longed  he longed  for
what ? What was this new feeling, overpowering
that which so long had been his
master-passion, making his worship of Art
second to another worship, leading him for
the first time to regard Art as a means of
advancement to something else?  " O Art,
my Art, thou art much, but Love is more ! *'
Why did those words haunt him ?

Gerald had never been subject to those
coarser temptations which seem sometimes
strangely interwoven with the artistic nature.
He was fastidious, almost to a fault, hard to

please,  or, rather, hard to satisfy ; and it
was well that a kindly nature, almost morbidly
sympathetic, kept these qualities duly
balanced. Hugh Vivian, when two or three
years younger than Gerald's present age,
might have said with more or less truth, 

Many a one I have loved for a minute 
Worshipp'd many a face I've seen : " 

though he could also with truth have added
the latter part of the verse. But Gerald had
never loved in this sense, even "for a
minute ; " he would have thought himself
cold and invulnerable, had it not been for the
dreams of his imagination, which taught him
that the object, not the capacity, was wanting.
'one needs must love the highest," he
thought ; and hitherto he had entertained
small hope of finding that highest,  within
his reach at least. But what Schiller had
written long before  what the young Prussian
prince felt, when he saw for the first time,
Louisa, his angel-queen:  this had Gerald
felt, when he saw Lina on the evening of the
concert, in her white robes, the jessamine in
her hair :

'Tis she  or none on earth !"

Ever since, lier face had floated before his
mental eyes, as a vision fair, sweet, pure,
beyond expression  something which he
could hardly realise as verily existing upon
earth. At first he had been content to adore
from a distance ; but, as the fancy deepened,
its poetic calm had passed into something
less calm than fever  something that filled
him with vague craving, making him sometimes
happy, sometimes wretched, never
actually at peace. Now, as he stood in his
window, a strange ache at his heart, he was
thinking that the moon, so serene, so high,
was like Lina, and he like one of those gray
clouds  illumined a little by the pure rays,
but not really near her, or worthy so to be.
In his fancy, he saw Lina standing in the
sky, those jessamine stars still in her hair ;
he gazed toward her, as Dante gazes at
Beatrice in the picture. Unconsciously he
began to plan a picture of his own  of a
maiden standing even thus, and her lover on
earth, looking up with vain devotion.

The lover has no wings, and the maiden is
rising  up  where he cannot follow. The
moon shines, the stars shine, the maiden
shines ; the lover alone, far below in shadow,
is dark and of the earth. Suddenly a voice

says, " I will help you." Through the shade
comes a figure with Marjory's face ; but she
is not Marjory : she is Art. She comes with
hands outstretched ; slowly a new power endues
the lover's frame. He also has wings ;
he rises into the light, reaches the shining
maiden : she turns, looks at him, and smiles.
Oh, unutterable rapture !  and with this
Gerald opens his eyes. Tired in body and
in brain, he had fallen asleep as he stood at
the window, his head resting on his arms.

Now awaking, he found himself still on
prosaic earth ; but the brief dream had
chased away his heart-sickness ; he was
cheered, his hopes were renewed. He felt
that in him which needed only space to become
power, fame, glory. Hitherto he had
worshipped art for its own sake alone. Stow
he craved not only for art, but for fame :
that he might lay it as an offering at her
feet. And, as to Marjory, she should never
repent her unselfish devotion. Not in money
alone would he repay her ; he would find in
addition a thousand better ways to prove his
gratitude. Despite his fatigue, his castles in the
air kept him long awake, imagining, planning.

CHAPTER IX.

Nay, yet there's more in this.
I pr'ythee speak to me as to thy thinking,
As thou dost ruminate, and give thy worst of thoughts
The worst of words."  Shakspeare.

The autumn proved unusually fine ; and, as
the year advanced, Marjory found continual
pleasure in the changes of sky and trees.
She had seldom time, in these shortening
days, for country walks ; but the first novelty
of the town, with all its world of human life,
had not yet lost its charm ; she was living
still in the magic dream which had encompassed
her since leaving Rockswold. The
distant hills beyond the river were tinted
with soft lights  changeful, but only in
beauty ; sometimes purple shadows, sometimes
golden ones slanted across them ; in
the morning they were hidden in haze, through
which their outlines grew gradually back to
clearness. The elms in the College Green
were rich in tints ; now and then, already,
a leaf fell gently, and floated to 'its rest

beneath the parent shade." The rooks cawed
on, and never missed it.

Often, in the afternoon, Marjory would sit
for half an hour on one of the benches placed
at intervals below the trees, watching, and
listening to the cathedral music in the service
of evensong. She went in to the service
sometimes ; sometimes it suited her better
to sit without, and drink in the thoughts
which at such hours seemed often less
thoughts than voices from the invisible
world. She was a strange, solitary girl,
living her own life alone in this large city ;
yet not conscious of loneliness, not yet
awake to the longing for a companion
spirit.

One day she was sitting thus, when the congregation
dispersed, streaming away in units
or twos, seldom more, to their respective
abodes. A few quiet ladies, with shady
hats and dark-coloured garments, came out
through the cloisters, taking no notice of anyone
or anything, as they passed towards the
venerable houses skirting the Green. A few
more, of a different stamp, younger, brighter,
daughters of the canon in residence, and
of the dean,  walked together, fashionably
dressed, with young, clear voices, fashionably

accented, and light laughs, echoed back bj
the hoary towers. These did just glance
at Marjory ; one girl a little older than herself,
glanced a second time, and met the
gaze of her bright blue eyes.

"Do you know who that girl is, Mr.
Vivian ?" she asked, as Hugh Vivian, walking
with swift soldierly tread, as was his
wont, appeared by way of Chad's Tower:
the whole party stopped to shake hands,
having known him from their childhood : 
*' I have seen her often lately here, or in the
cathedral. She looks so nice, and her eyes
are lovely."

Mr. Vivian gave one quick glance towards
Marjory, who had risen, and was moving
away.

"She is a Miss Stanhope," he said, shortly.

What a nice name I They must have
come quite lately. I'll make mamma call.
Where do they live ?*'

Miss Stanhope lodges with her brother,
who is a clerk in the old bank, at Mrs.
Myers' school."

"Oh" The "oh" spoke a volume of
disappointment  " I hoped that they were
a pleasant family, come to live here. We
want some more nice girls at Alton."

Miss Stanliope is a very ' nice girl,' and
a perfect lady," said Hugh Yivian. '' To
be sure, she teaches  three hours daily, I
believe  in the school. Do you still think
her eyes lovely?"

*' You look very satirical, Mr. Vivian. I
never understand you. Good-bye. What a
charming afternoon ! "

She nodded gaily, Hugh bowed, and they
went off in different directions. Mr. Vivian,
who was hurry hug after Marjory, slackened
his steps when he saw her otherwise approached.
Lina Peele had joined her ; they
turned together towards the seat which she
had recently quitted. As he met them, he
merely raised his hat, and passed on like a
whirlwind.

His expression is quite evil ; I know
no other word for it," remarked Lina, after
an instant's silence. Marjory made no reply.
She was squeezing her wrist, which she had
been told would check a blush.

I thought, when the maid said you were
not at home, that I would look for you here.
I want particularly to speak to you," said
Lina.

I have been sitting on this seat for half
an hour, enjoying all the loveliness. Just

look at the hills, and the calm light on the
river ! '*

It is very nice ; I shall come and sketch
it some day ; but I cannot stay long now,
Marjory, and I want your attention."

'eyes!"

I have had a thought in my mind for
many days, of which I cannot get rid ; at
least, that would require an effort which I
am not sure it is desirable to make. Did
you not say that that silly Jessie Bellhouse,
whom you knew at Thorne, was lost ? "

'' I believe I did."

What did you mean ? "

'* She has disappeared ; her mother heard
only once from her after her marriage."

Was not there something mysterious
about that marriage ? I forget what you told
me."

'' She eloped from Ripley, and was married
secretly in London."

Her mother had no ideas about the husband
? "

None ; Jessie only wrote that he was a
gentleman. I remember, at Thorne, she was
always prophesying that she should be a
lady some day. I was too joung then to
understand her, but I do now. She knew her

VOL. 11. 1

beauty, and trusted to it to win some great
person's heart."

'' Perhaps even then she had won the
heart  or what answered to it  of someone
whom she considered great ; and that
might have been her reason for talking so
foolishly."

'' I think not ; it was only vague chatter.
I fancy her head was full of novels, which
she applied to herself."

'rand Bellhouse could not hear of any
Mr. Russell  that was the name, you said ?
in the neighbourhood of Ripley ? "

'' No, Miss Bulkley knew of none. Jessie
must have met him in some underhand way.
She must have been altogether underhand, I
fear, when I look back."

'you acknowledge that? Suppose she
agreed with her husband in adopting a
feigned name ? Such devices are of everyday
use, you know ; and in this case there
may have been some excellent reason for
concealing the truth."

"The thing is possible, of course; but,
Lina, why should you suggest it ? It sounds
so uncomfortable, so horribly deep. I can't
bear to think of it."

"We are obliged to think sometimes of

disagreeable truths," said Lina, inexorably;
Truth is truth, and ought to be brought to
light. You will find directly that I have a
purpose in all this ; I want only to ask you
one more question. Eight years ago you
were a child, but now you are wiser ; look
back, and try to remember. Did you see in
those days any signs of a flirtation between
Jessie and Mr. Vivian ? "

'' Oh, Lina ! " indignantly cried Marjory,
hot all over. She could say nothing more
at the moment, for the choking in her throat.

Did you ? " Lina repeated.

*' You have no right to ask such questions.
I am not bound to answer."

'every well," said Lina, in the frigid tone
which betokened offence ; *' But you must
remember that silence gives consent."

''Lina, Lina!" cried Marjory, rising.
'' Ashy will you put such hateful ideas into
my head ? What is your spite against Mr.
Vivian ? If you ask me so much, I have
surely a right to ask something in return."


'' I am surprised at this' display of temper,
Marjory," said Lina, who, having risen likewise,
was pacing the gravel path in calm
dignity by Marjory's side. '' It does no good,
I 2

I can assure you, to Mr. Vivian's cause; and
merely shows "

She paused.

"What does it show?"

Lina was silent.

'' I ask you, what does it show ? " repeated
the girl, losing her self-control. " I hate
innuendoes and underhand dealing. Pray
speak out at once ! You madden me."

So it seems," observed Lina, calmly.
'ras to underhand dealing, I am surprised
that you should mention any such meanness
in connection with me. I suppose it is because
we were talking of Mr. Yivian, whose
dealings have been very much so, I fear, 
and with reason, if one may say it. "What
does your excitement show, you ask ? I
reply, it shows a strange interest in Mr.
Vivian and his concerns."

'' You have no right to speak in this way !
You are unkind; you are not what I thought,"
cried poor Marjory, fairly bursting into tears.
She was no stately, self-contained person
like Lina ; she was under nineteen, passionate,
girlish, impulsive. '' You vex me more than
I can say. There is nothing strange or
wrong in my interest in Mr. Vivian. He
was kind to me years and years ago, when

lie was ricci and liiglily thought of, instead
of being poor and trampled on as he is now.
I was a poor, lonely little thing, and he was
good to me ; and I am grateful to him still.
I won't believe the horrible things that you
insinuate."

I insinuate nothing," said Lina, quietly.
But, since you accuse me of it, I will speak
plainly at once. I observed Mr. Vivian's
expression when you showed him that wedding
photograph. A singular, a striking
change came over it ; he had evidently some
most painful association with the face. I
was struck instantly by the conviction that
he knew, or had known, something of Jessie.
Afterwards I thought all the circumstances
over, and my conviction was confirmed."

'' Well, tell me the worst that you suspect.
I would rather know what is in your
mind."

'' You ought to know it. ' Forewarned,
forearmed ! ' I suspect this :  At least," said
Lina, correcting herself with her usual precision
 " * suspect' is not perhaps the word.
I will say merely that I shall not be surprised
if, in time, it appears that Jessie's Mr. Russell
is no other than Mr. Vivian himself."

'' And for this  this  imagination, you

have no better origin than a change in Mr.
Vivian's face ! "

A most remarkable change," interposed
Lina. ''I was watching him closely. It
was a look of painful recollection, of mortified
pride, as if he were sting  and something
indefinable behind. Any unprejudiced person
who had observed him would say the same.
Then, as I told you, I thought things over
things you know nothing about. I recalled
the time when, from your account, Jessie
vanished. A little while before, Mr. Vivian
had vanished also from Bullingham  no one
could tell where. I remember hearing my
brother and others remark on his leaving no
address ; his landlady brought one or two
letters which came for him, to my father, not
knowing where to forward them. Nothing
was ever heard of him in Bullingham again.
And it was at that very time  soon afterwards,
at least If I could find out the

whole truth, it might prove, might account
for "

She stopped suddenly, in unwonted agitation.


'' What is the matter, Lina ? " said Marjory,
beginning to soften, as she saw her
friend distressed.

Marjory, you remember my telling you
that, as I believed, Mr. Vivian had done our
family  one in it especially, now dead "  her
voice trembled  " a great wrong. This idea
about Jessie seems to throw some light, in a
way which I cannot yet explain, upon circumstances
which, if fully revealed, might
clear "

She hesitated ; the, perceiving that Marjory
was closely observing her, made a sudden
effort, became again calm and stately, and
said, in her usual tone :

I will tell you what I mean, at some
future time ; not at present."

After this both were silent for the length
of the green quadrangle.

'' I should not have mentioned this notion,
Marjory," said Lina, as they turned the
corner, " if I did not trust to your good sense
not to talk about it."

Talk about it ! " cried Marjory, hotly ;
I should think it wicked to breathe a word
of such suspicions to any one ! For he is
innocent, Lina, I am quite positive. I would
not believe anything else for the world."

'' Not if he were proved to be guilty ? "
said Lina, quietly.

*' He never will or can be, I am sure  quite

sure. There is absurdity on the very face of
it ! If he married Jessie, why is he not with
her ? And where is she ? "

That is for him to answer. My imagination
is not powerful enough to fill in the
details. I only at present feel certain of
this one point : that between him and this
Jessie some mystery existed, which the sight
of her photograph recalled. At all events,
there is no more to be said on your side
than on mine. If I am mistaken in accusing
him, you have no reason to constitute yourself
his champion."

'' He was so kind to me in past days. He
was so devoted to his mother. He had
faults, but his heart was good : I am sure 
sure of it," she repeated, the more emphatically,
as she realised her inability to prove
her assertions.

That is your feeling respecting him ;
more you cannot call it. Mine is just the
reverse. All that I heard of him at Bellingham
placed him in an unfavourable light.
My father's opinion of him I know; and my
father's judgment was universally respected.
At the time when you say he was so kind,
you where only a little child; what does a
child know of character, except as affecting

itself ? Look at him now ! what is he ?
An infidel, writing blasphemous articles,
scoffing at all that is holy. I know for a
fact that he never attends any place of worship.
What can you expect of such a one ?
Consider ! whose opinion is borne out by
the facts ? Yours or mine ? "

But why should you say all this to me ?
Why should you make me wretched ? If
he were twice as bad as you say, I
could not help it : how does it concern
me?"

You know best," replied Lina promptly.
'that it does concern you is evident; otherwise
it could not, as you own it does, make
you ' wretched.' I have said all this simply
as your friend, as wishing your eyes to be
opened to  well, let us say, to his possible
character. Time will prove how far I am
right. Meanwhile, I only ask you to observe
for yourself his manner as regards Jessie.
You can draw from it what inferences you
please ;  only be candid ! You have been
partial, hitherto,  and, Marjory dear, if you
will forgive me,  I fear, too much interested
in Mr. Yivian."

Again Marjory's face was crimson to the
roots of her hair; but she said nothing,  partly

from confusion, partly from anger, which
choked her when she tried to speak.

Lina paused, hesitated, continued:

'' He seems to wish to flatter you ; from
motives of his own, doubtless. Don't be
deceived by him, Marjory ! It would grieve
me to see a friend for whom I have such
affection, and  and  your brother's sister  
led away by him."

You need not alarm yourself," said Marjory
gruffly, moved, despite herself, by Lina's
earnestness. " My heart and mind are bound
up in Gerald. I have none,  of any consequence,
 for any one else."

That is right," said Lina, approvingly.
Then don't be led by mere feeling ; let
reason come first. Good-bye, dear Marjory.
Think it over."

Marjory could not respond, '* Good-bye,
dear Lina! " She took the hand extended to
her, received its pressure ; and, without another
word, Lina was gone.

CHAPTER X.

Roaring torrents have breached
The track, the stream-bed descends
In the place where the wayfarer once
Planted his footstep  the spray-boils
o'er its borders ; aloft,
The unseen snow-beds dislodge
Their hanging ruin ;  alas,

Havoc is made in our train !

* * *

The gaunt and taciturn Host

Stands on the threshold, * *

* * and asks

* * *

Whom in our party we bring 1
Whom we have left in the snow ?
Sadly we answer : " We bring
Only ourselves."

But thou would'st not alone
Be saved, . . . alone
Conquer and come to thy goal,
Leaving the rest in the wild."

Matthew Arnold.

The river's shining ripple was just visible
beyond gray walls ; the elm-trees stood high
and still in their autumnal glow ; the cawing

rooks answered from height to lieigbt ;
the great cathedral rose towards the sky ;
the cloister arches led away into mysterious
shades : the venerable houses stood roundabout,
showing no sign of the ever renewed
life within them. How sad it all looked,
Marjory thought ! She had not thought so
an hour before. But now, suddenly, life
seemed to her a terrible thing, full of deceit,
of guile. The distant murmur of the town
seemed like the troubled waves of a sea of
bad and stormy passions, on which human
life is tossed.

Issuing from one of the silent houses, came
a little old maiden lady, in a mushroom hat,
and a little trim bachelor gentleman, clerically
attired, both with mild and precise old
faces. They were a canon, twenty years installed
here, and his sister. Arm in arm
they walked, with short, prim foot-steps,
'' taking a little turn " before their quietly
luxurious dinner. Here they were, and herein
the surrounding homes, were many more,
such as they, retired from the shores of that
great sea, ignoring its power ! Were they
human beings at all  these gentle, dear,
kindly-looking old people ?  or were they a
mild species of nonentity, incapable of any

strong feeling ? Otherwise, how could they
so ignore forces so terrible ?

Such at least was Marjory's thought as
she sat, bewildered, where Lina had left her,
and looked round at the gray old buildings,
and strove with the ferment at her heart.
Around this peaceful quadrangle were gathered
an estimable and amiable assembly,
richly gifted in money, in position, in influence,
yet more or less shut up amid these
gifts  their eyes and their ears closed to the
very existence of some of the world's mightiest
moving powers. This or that was shocking,
was improper, was undesirable to be considered
: therefore they turned their backs toit,
while its surge rolled in, and swept away
millions of human creatures, less favourably
placed. Marjory could hardly have told why
with such indignation, such compassion, she
watched the placid little gentleman and lady
as they paced round and round the quadrangle.
But the contrast between the seclusion,
the hallowed calm, and that awful gulf
called Vice, of which her talk with Lina had
opened a glimpse, seemed almost to overwhelm
her.

Yes, that gulf, with its lurid flames, lies
close to us all. We may ignore it, but it is

there : and our choosing thus to ignore, our
fastidious shrinking, may be the unconscious
means of plunging in its depths some less
fortunate fellow-being, whom otherwise we
might have warned. Under our feet, only
severed by a thin crust from the strata
which we call Society, that black gulf burns.
Close to you and to me. Perhaps, mercifully,
we ourselves are safe from it, but
others  some very near to us, are not safe ;
and let us not forget, we might have been as
they ! How the flames roar and rage as one
goes near ! we may shrink from them in
abhorrence ; but, for some, those flames
have an attraction. A magic veil is over
their eyes : perhaps a little care from
us, a little watchfulness, a little sympathy
mixed with our condemnation, a tender
hand stretched out at the right time, might
charm that veil away. Meanwhile we shut
ourselves up in our refinement ; the flames
roar on : down into them go the precious
bodies and souls, made for so different a
purpose ! They are swallowed up, perished ;
we know nothing, and so care nothing.

Nothing yet. A time when we shall know,
and care, is to come.

Marjory's imagination, easily fired, had

derived from Lina's suspicions a whole new-world
of thoughts. At first she resolved
that she would cast those suspicions from her.
But then the question would force itself,
What if they should be true ? and, if true,
what manner of man must this Hugh Yivian
be ? Such stories of deception, of desertion,
were to be found every day in the papers :
of common occurrence, in one class or
another, in life. How should she dare to
assure herself that, because he could be
pleasant, because he seemed to be kind-hearted,
because he was unhappy, and interesting to
her, he was beyond possibility of crime.
He had not religious faith to guide him, she
remembered, with a stab at her heart. Perhaps
Lina was right in calling her partial.
Something in him had taken her fancy, from
the time when she was a child at Thorne.
Thorne had been an Eden to her memory ;
now sorrow had come into that Eden, and
treachery, as into the Eden of old. Was
this what she had read in books of the
hollowness of life ? Were there, after all, no
such things as real happiness or purity ?
Once more she recalled that scene when,
even in those days, he had horrified her.
Ah, that had been a glimpse into the passion

of his nature  a nature wliicli years had
strengthened, which infidelity had robbed of
restraint.

Then, as to Jessie. She could not have
analysed, she did not try to analyse, this
sharp pain at the thought of Jessie. Yes ;
she remembered now ! Now, alone, old
memories came thronging, old words rang in
her ears. Once more she was a weary child
in Miss Evie's bed, and Jessie's face was
bending over her pillow. '' I'll be so much
obliged if you won't mention to mother that
you saw me in the plantation." The very
look, the very tone ! had the air spoken,
putting on a form of long ago ? Marjory
looked round, half fearfully ; but all was still.
Only the old canon and his sister were still
pacing around that calm quadrangle.

Why had those words never struck her in
the same sense before ? Had she been blind,
deaf, stupid ? or only simple ? even now,
what was the truth? Had he felt but a
passing fancy for Jessie ? or, if more, how
deeply had it struck ? There was no sure
ground in those ' trifles, light as air," which
she remembered : yet, coupled with that look
which Lina, and she also, had observed, they
had a double significance. Yes  she also

had wondered, many a time, at that look, as
of some burning recollection, caused in a
moment by the mention of Jessie's name,
however Lightly before he had been talking.

And she could not think of one fact to
prove that it did not mean what Lina suggested.
Lina appeared to know him, in someways,
more intimately than she did. Lina
was too calm, too reasonable, to suspect anyone
of actions of which she had no cause to
judge him capable. Marjory had pitched,
rather than condemned, his religious scepticism,
on the score of his trials ; but now it
occurred to her that this scepticism might
arise from indifference, together with a
natural disinclination to confess truths which
would condemn his own life. It might be
that, through all these changeful years, he had
been growing more corrupt in heart. It
might be that he had drifted ever further
from all that is best and highest. And yet,
if so indeed it had been, where was her
prayer ?  that little prayer to which she had
been so constant ?

The autumnal afternoon was closing in.
Beyond the hills a band of yellow light was
gradually widening ; a shiver swept the
heights of the elms : it was suddenly colder.

VOL. II, K

Marjory rose, and turned slowly homeward.
She had felt so happy, so peaceful, when she
came out, only two hours ago. Now all
seemed changed,  the tints more sad than
beautiful,  the river, as it flowed along, had
a melancholy tone. The first little rift had
begun to show itself in the lute of her Alton
life. She resolved that she would try not to
dwell upon Lina's notion, and, if she could
forget it, think of it as absurd. Yet all the
time she knew that that awful possibility
would never be long absent from her
mind.

Six deep, deliberate strokes pealed from
the cathedral tower. She quickened her
pace, ashamed to find that she had forgotten
Gerald. He was not, however, at home when,
out of breath, she reached their sitting-room.
He had come in at his usual time, Priscilla
said, but had gone out again ; and Marjory
had taken ofi* her things, and had made the
tea, which was usually half an hour earlier,
before his step was heard.

Entering, he threw himself back in the
easy chair, looking fagged and out of spirits.

'' Gerald, I am so sorry!" cried Marjory ;
I wont be so late again."

"It doesn't matter," said Gerald, listlessly :

I wanted a turn. Give me as strong a cup
as you can, please."

'where did you go?"

To look for you. Priscilla said tliafc Miss
Peele had called, and I thought you might
have gone up to Albion Square."

He was bending forward over his tea,
stirring it slowly ; Marjory did not observe
the flush upon his face.

'' Lina followed me to the College Green,
and then went home alone. She had an
engagement."

I can tell you where it was," said Gerald,
gulping his tea down : "Another cup, please,
I'm awfully thirsty."

 "Why, did you meet her ? "

I walked behind her all down the Friars,
and to the orphanage. And soon after,"
said Gerald, rising, and going to the window,
'' I saw her in the orphanage garden with
that fellow Throckmorton. I wonder how
often he joins her there. Things are certainly
convenient for parsons ! "

He is very musical, you know. He
superintends the singing, and Lina helps
him."

She does, does she ? " said Gerald. He
had put down his second cup of tea, untasted,
K 2

in the window-seat, and was leaning against
the frame, his back to Marjory.

What chance could any fellow have
against a parson ? " he observed in a gloomy
undertone.

Are all parsons so very irresistible,
then ? " said Marjory, laughing.

It's very well for you to laugh, Marjory;
but Throckmorton would be more than human
if he didn't make due use of his opportunities.
That orphanage is a famous cat's-paw,"
said Gerald, savagely, drinking his tea as if
scalding were a relief.

Gerald, what a shame ! " cried Marjory .
You wouldn't have him neglect his work ?
Lina would be shocked, and think you profane,
if she heard."

"To me it seems much more profane to
make a rendezvous of the orphanage. She
doesn't ! I don't mean that she does," cried
Gerald, excitedly, as Marjory was about to
speak  " She is quite innocent, I know, of
all but the highest motives ; but, if there be
nothing else in him, he's more than man, 
as indeed she considers him."

She doesn't care a straw for him ; of
that I am sure. The eldest orphan is going
to service, and Lina has heard of a place.

She was telling him about that, no doubt,
when you saw them in the garden."

But you can't pretend to say, Marjory,
that you haven't noticed Throckmorton's
admiration ? I won't call it more than
admiration  at present. What it ends in,
remains to be proved."

'' He certainly does admire her. But so
does almost every one''

Almost!' Who does not?" said
Gerald, half angrily :  he was in a strange,
excited state, this afternoon, thought Marjory:
'' You have something behind, Marjory 
I see it. Tell me at once. Is she engaged
to Throckmorton ? "

My dear Gerald, what an imagination !
Nothing of the kind. It is only, since you
ask, that I have once or twice thought he
did seem rather smitten. But I don't believe
he has any intention of proposing to her, or
to anybody. He is strong upon the celibacy
of the clergy."

'' That I think nothing of whatever. Many
a man is that, until he is forced to change
his mind. You have noticed it, then ! It is
not my fancy.  I may as well give up all" 
he checked himself suddenly.

Mr. Stanhope ! Mr. Stanhope ! " cried

a cracked voice, followed bj a rush of noisy
boots. Marjory opened the door ; and in
burst Lewis Harding : his red hair in dire
confusion, his jacket dusty, his inky fingers
holding an open letter.

Mr. Stanhope, quick ! Sally's after me !
Sally said I mustn't come till I'd ' cleaned
me ; ' but I couldn't wait. Head this ! "

He thrust the letter into Gerald's hand,
and instantly disappeared under the table*
Marjory had no attention for this manoeuvre;
she had caught sight of the signature, and
flew to look over Gerald's shoulder.

Dear Lewis, 

I shall be at Alton in a day or two,
and will look in on you ; and you can introduce
me to your friend.

Your affectionate uncle,

Thos. Heeding."

' My friend ' means you, Mr. Stanhope,"
said a squeaky voice beneath the table-cover.
Marjory clasped her hands in a rapture, and
gazed at Gerald. She had thought that he
would be half transported with joy ; but he
did not look as she expected. A flush had
indeed risen to his face ; but anxiety  the
anxiety from which his recent words had

sprung  was still its prominent expression.
He seemed hardly to take in the meaning of
the note, his thoughts were but half with it.

Perhaps, thought Marjory, he could not
realise at once that he was truly to meet the
great master  an interview with whom, as he
had once told her, he would have begged his
way to London to obtain ! Here was his
wish close at hand :  and was it no more to
him than this ?

"Is Harding here?" said Miss Pilkington's
manly voice at the door.

CHAPTER XI.

*' Then a voice cried, ' Rise, master !
From the burning brand of oak
Shape the thought that stirs within thee !'
And the startled artist woke."  Longfellow.

Thomas Harding, R.A., was a great master
in his art : great both in natural gifts, and in
the labour which improved them. In some
respects he was altogether original, forming
a school of his own ; in which he trained a
choice assortment of disciples. To be numbered
among these was in itself a proof of
artistic merit : for he was fastidious in his
selections, undertaking none who were not of
decided talent. The sham of it shrank away
at his approach ; on pretentious stupidity, it
must be confessed, he was even unnecessarily
severe.

He lived not only by his art, but for it and
in it. A bachelor, his movements were untrammelled,
and they varied in accordance
with his work ; but the place he loved best
on earth was Rome, where he had a studio,
and where every year, as his friends observed,

he lingered longer. His chief English, tie
was the boy Lewis, only child of his only
brother, whose widow had married again ;
and for Lewis's sake alone had he consented
to give Gerald the benefit of his opinion.
From the obscure young man himself he
expected nothing ; and indeed it had so often
been his painful duty to discourage presumptuous
aspirants, that this duty had, by
practice, ceased to be painful, and had almost
become a pleasure ! His character for plain,
even blunt speaking, was widely known ; and
Gerald was well aware that the truth, neither
more nor less, would now be told to him.

'' To-day I shall know whether I am an
artist or not," he said to Marjory, on the
morning when Mr. Harding was expected.

But you don't mean to give up hope if
his verdict is against you ? He is not infallible."


He will be, to me," said Gerald ; " I have
perfect faith in him. And, if he says that I
have mistaken enthusiasm for talent, I shall
not be surprised."

*' Gerald," said Marjory, timidly, as he
started for the bank  " that picture of the
Ideal ; ' you have taken it away. I do want
Mr. Harding to see that."

The quick fliisli which Gerald lead not
yet outgrown, came in a moment, red and
hot, all over his face.

"No," he said, "I can't. These that I
have chosen are enough."

He stooped to fasten his boot-lace as he
spoke, and then was gone, while Marjory
was still casting in her mind how to persuade
him without betraying her discovery.

The eventful hour arrived. Mr. Harding,
escorted by Lewis, entered the little sitting-room,
wound up to be patient and forbearing.
He was a tall man, with an abundance
of gray hair, and a powerful frame which
gave no evidence of sedentary occupation.
He might, from his appearance, have been a
mighty wrestler, a second Goliath. Were
this remarked to him, he would have said,
So much the better ! that the business to
which he devoted himself was no poetic
dream, but real work; worthy of strength
and substance in its workers.

Beside him, Gerald looked younger and
more boyish than usual ; but there was ever
an unconscious dignity in Gerald, beyond the
power of circumstance. No one ever despised
or looked down upon him, though the
reason might not always appear. Marjory,

trying to scan him from Mr. Harding's point
of view, felt satisfied, and proud of her
brother. His clear gray eyes met the critical
eyes fearlessly, yet with reverence ; their
expression recalled to Marjory the old lines :  

He either fears his fate too much,
Or his desert is small,
Who dares not put it to the touch,
To win or lose it all."

Through long years Gerald had been learning
how sublime it is to suffer and be strong.
He did not fear his fate, now that, at last, he
felt it about to be decided. As to his desert,
there was no doubt of that, Marjory thought
if only Mr. Harding would think the
same !

After a brief introduction, straight to the
point went the great artist ; for he held time
to be precious.

'' My nephew has told me that you desire
my opinion on your drawings."

I should value it more than I can say."

Only Marjory, who knew him so well,
could see that his heart was beating faster
than usual.

But, first, I must warn you  I have often
had to offend people," said Mr. Harding, a

kindliness, not previously apparent, growing
in face and voice; ''I shall tell you nothing
but the truth."

The truth is what I want, sir; I am prepared
for the worst."

Yery well then, worst or best, let us
have it," said Mr. Harding, rising; "Where
are the  drawings, or whatever you call
them?"

Marjory felt somewhat indignant at this ;
but Gerald only smiled, and brought four
paintings which he had chosen as specimens.
Then he fell back a little, and waited.

A silence of full five minutes followed  five
minutes of painful suspense. When, at
length, Mr. Harding spoke, his voice seemed
strangely sudden :

Is this a copy? "

"No, sir."

Entirely your own ? "

"Yes."

You are an ambitious young dog, at any
rate. Let's see the next."

Neither Marjory nor Gerald could tell
what was in his mind, as he turned to the
second picture.

"You are entirely self-taught, I think?
No school of art, or anything of that kind ? "

I have learned nothing but what I
could pick up, sir, from books and engravings."


*' Hand over," said Mr. Harding.

Another silent interval, while the third
picture was studied. Then came the fourth,
the 'abridge."

** That arch is out of drawing."

A great deal is, I fear, sir ; but I meant
to alter that," said Gerald. He cast a look
at Marjory ; and she saw that his heart was
sinking.

You had found it out, then ; that's
something. Where did you get all these
faces?"

They are faces I have seen, chiefly ;
some I imagined."

"Dreamed of them, eh? Well!" He
looked again into the picture, as if studying
every part. Marjory expected a mingling of
approval and disparagement; Gerald, a
sentence of hopeless mediocrity. Neither
was at all prepared for his actual words, ashe
turned from the table.

I wish you were my son ! " he said,
laying his hand on Gerald's shoulder.

Sir ! " said Gerald. Marjory, more clear-sighted,
started to her feet, all aglow.

*' I tell you, I wish you were my son.
You should have been the first artist in
Europe ! "

You are making game of me," said
Gerald, bewildered.

I am not. I said I should tell you the
truth, and that is it. You have great
powers ; you must open your eyes to them.
Somebody says there are two ways of finding
one's own level. Yours is higher than you
take it for; you are too modest, boy," said
Mr. Harding, who was now pacing the room,
while Lewis, transported with delight, danced
privately in a corner : '* It is dishonesty to
waste our gifts. I tell you, you have genius
in you; I see it in every one of those
pictures. There are faults, crudities, both
in colouring and in form ; but there is
genius. Think of that ! Why, my young
fellow, I know men who have been daubing
away for forty years, and have made very
fair names, and fortunes, too, who would
give their lives for one spark of genius.
And here you have a stock of it, ingrain !  to
be made the most of, sir ; mind that ! "

How can I make the most of it .'*" said
Gerald, speaking as in a dream.

Give yourself up to it, body and soul.

There are plenty of bank-clerks in the world :
throw this up ; it is a case of Pegasus in the
pound. You've already lost time enough,
and too much. Send in your notice tomorrow
morning  to-night, if possible ; and,
when you are free, come along up to me in
London."

For a moment, while the great artist spoke,
Gerald's face flushed high ; but, as quickly,
the colour faded.

Mr. Harding," said he, in that quiet way
which covered  only Marjory knew how
much: ''I have not words to tell you how
I wish that this could be. But it cannot.
I have no money."

Well, I guessed you were not overburdened
with that ; else why on earth should
you be a bank-clerk?" said the artist. "But
it would be a downright sin that a talent
like yours should be lost for lack of money !
I tell you what, young fellow ; you come tome,
and I will teach you all I can, without
a farthing of money : the fact is, I shall find
it a pleasure. For the rest, while you are
my pupil, I will engage that you earn enough
in the way of your work to give you bed and
board, and something over, if you are careful.
This for a couple of years or so, and then

you will be independent of me, or any one.
Now, what do you say?"

I thank you inexpressibly ; but I have
more than daily necessities to think of. I
am hampered by a debt, which I am bound
to pay before I can consider myself free."

A debt ! That's bad. How comes a
young fellow like you to be in debt ? " said
Mr. Harding, fixing his keen eyes on Gerald.

It's not my own, sir ; it was bequeathed
to me. I would explain, only I might try
your patience. It is 200, with interest.
Here, with care, I can pay 28 a year of it ;
but I could not be sure of doing that regularly
if I left the bank. You see, sir, if I
were dependent upon your kindness, you
might die  forgive such plain speaking; or
I might not turn out as you expect ; and,
then, what of the debt ?"

Mr. Harding meditated a second or two,
his eyes still fixed on Gerald. Then, in an
abrupt manner, he rose and looked at his
watch.

Well ! my time is gone. I am due to
this young fellow "  putting his hand on
Lewis's shoulder : " But I can't leave the
matter so. You dine with me at * The Sun '
to-night, and we'll go thoroughly into it."

Gerald thankfully acquiesced ; and, with a
hasty bow to Marjory, the artist went his
way.

'* Gerald," said Marjory, coming to the
table where he stood, still as in a dream,
there is no doubt now about your vocation.
It shall not fail. You shall be set free."

Then she kissed him, and went away alone
to her room.

They did not meet again until his return
from '* The Sun." Marjory had sat up for
him, writing. When he entered, a feverish
excitement had flushed his cheeks and brightened
his gray eyes. Marjory jumped up,
and drew the arm-chair into its place for
him, seating herself on a low stool at his
feet to hear his story. This was their frequent
attitude in an evening, when their
work was done and Gerald was tired. He
was generally tired at night, after his hours
of uncongenial toil ; and Marjory had often
felt a little anxious, when at such times she
saw on his young face a careworn look which
made it almost haggard. But in the morning
he was always fresh again, and ready for his
task.

Marjory ! " he exclaimed now, '' That
Harding is  I can't say what more than I

VOL. n. L

ever thought him. Such a vision I have had
to-night ! Fancy learning under him ; first
in London, among all the life  real life, not
vegetation  then, better still, at Munich,
Venice, Rome. To go where the great
masters worked  to follow them. Oh, to
imagine it seems half enough ! If only our
poor grandmother could come back, with her
wider knowledge, and free me from that
debt!"

Did you tell Mr. Harding all about it ? "

Yes ; and he would actually have lent
me the full sum : but I would not consent."

Oh, Gerald ! are you sure you were
right?"

Quite sure. It would only be to exchange
the debt without the same security
of payment. I have a fixed salary here ; all
else is uncertain. I showed him clearly that
I am bound for the present. Then he told
me, if I could in any way get free towards
the end of next year, to write to him ; and
that, in such a case, he would take me, with
a party of select pupils  select as to art, you
understand  forth rest they maybe butchers,
or bakers, or candlestick-makers, for aught
he cares  to winter at Rome ; stopping at a
few principal places, for pictures or sculpture,

on the way. Some of his best pupils go with
him in this manner every year : they pay
him a good premium, but he would take
nothing from me. I would be his slave
through life," cried Gerald, with enthusiasm,
'' if that would repay him ! So there is that
hope, that chance rather  if by any means
I could get free before the end of next
year. But, oh, how mad I am even to dream
of it!"

No, Gerald  it may be possible. Listen
to me. I have been thinking, and calculating.
You know I hope that my book maybe
finished, and published, by the spring.
Lina knows a young authoress who got 80
for her first book ; and it was not at all a
remarkable book, either : and for her second
she got more. Can you tell me any reason
why I may not at least hope for the same ?
Then, by this time next year, you will have
saved, at your present rate, about 40 :
there would be 120 at once. And, if the
book succeeded, the publisher would agree to
take another ; 80 more in prospect ! and so
the whole 200 would be made up."

The days of miracles are past," said
Gerald, with a smile.

'* This would not be a miracle ; it would
L 2

be only ordinary success. Or say, if you
like, that I get, not enough to clear the debt
but to reduce it so far as that the balance
may be safely left to be paid off from your
work with Mr. Harding."

That does sound more practicable," cried
Gerald, warming. '' He guaranteed that I
should earn a certain amount.  "Well, Marjory,
perhaps  I do not know  it may be
enough to found a hope on. It all depends
on this : whether your writing succeeds, or
no."

I do think it must succeed. I have taken
such pains !  and, Gerald, I have prayed for
success so earnestly. It is the fashion now
to scoff at prayer, and to call it irreverence
to speak of God, as the Bible speaks of Him,
as our Father in Heaven. But you don't
agree in this, Gerald ?  Gerald, are those
promises nothing ? "

This girl, brought up in the loneliness of
nature, among hills, and woods, and fields,
with little other company beyond books and
her own thoughts, had grown to realise the
unseen Presence which encompasses the
world, almost as though it were seen. There
was no cant in her, no extra assumption of
religion. It was simply that, to her, spiritual

existences were not a fancy, not a superstition,
not a theory to be dutifully accepted :
but a reality, warm and living.

'' Well ! " said Gerald at length : " I suppose
I may at least hope !  And what it will
be to me," he added, suddenly brightening,
''if you do succeed, words cannot say."

'' That's right ! " It does me good to see
you smile like that. Hope ? I should think
so, indeed ! After such encouragement, who
could help it ? "

Such wonderful encouragement," repeated
Gerald : '' Only it is like a dream. I
have sometimes dreamed of words like those
he said to me, and when I woke everything
was a blank. But this is no dream. Oh,
Marjory, what might life be ! It seems tome
that through all these years I have
caught only a faint glimmer of it ; and now
it lies open before me. What the human
soul is made for !  the beauty and glory to
be attained even in this world ! The bare
possibility of inheriting it is enough, just
now. I shall owe it all to you, if it comes.
I see no other deliverance. How shall I
thank you ? "

There can be no question of thanks between
you and me, Gerald. When I see you

an artist, in your own place, the joy of that
alone will be almost too much for earth."

"WTiat a treasure you are, Marjory, even
to me !  and what a wife you will be, some
day!"

A wife, Gerald !" cried Marjory, scarlet :
"What can make you think suddenly of
that ? I shall never marry. I want to Hve
always with you."

Thank you, dear," said Gerald. Her
quick ears detected a change of tone. She
glanced at him : his eyes had grown dreamy,
looking far away.

CHAPTER XII.

Once ; and only once, and for one only,
So to be the man and leave the artist."

Robert Browning.

What are you thinking about, Gerald ? "

The flush deepened on his face.

'' I was thinking . no matter what. I
am a fool.  Marjory, you were too young to
remember our father and mother ? "

Yes : I have no idea of them, except in
imagination."

I remember both. Our mother was very
pretty, you know. She died first. I recollect
seeing her lie looking, as I thought, like
an angel. I fancied she was asleep ; but
after that I saw her no more. A year later
our father died; I missed him terribly.
When he was at home, he had me constantly
with him ; I respected him immensely, and
thought him perfect. Then our grandmother
came, and took me away :  it was all strange
and lonely. You were gone too. The suffering
of that time is keen even now, when I
look back*'

'' You never told me of all that, Gerald."

'' I am not often so talkative as to-night !
Mr. Harding has been like champagne to me.
Well, you know, our parents made what is
called an imprudent marriage. My grandmother
was constantly harping on it ; but it
would have turned out well enough, if he had
not died. He was rising fast as a barrister
highly thought of in head quarters, I have
found lately. Long before this, he would
have been rich and flourishing : it was
stopped only by Death."

They lived always in London, did they
not?"

Yes : at first in lodgings. I once saw
an old letter of our mother's  it was lost
afterwards  written from those lodgings.
Such a happy letter !  one glow of brightness,
such as I see in you, Marjory, sometimes.
I have often thought of it since we
have been here, and fancied that their life
might have been a little like ours. They
were poor, but not oppressively poor,
and growing always better ofi*. Both had
plenty of work ; but they were very happy.
They both loved books, music, pictures, and
congenial friends : and they had some of all.
It must have been a pleasant life. At all

events, it was life  active and vivid, while it
lasted.

A long silence followed : Marjory musing,
Gerald looking irresolute, as if in debate with
himself.

According to some people," he said abruptly,
'rit is dishonourable to propose to
any girl before making her a home."

I can see no dishonour in the matter,"
said Marjory. 'rit is just a question of a
long engagement ; and, if a girl really loved
a man, she would surely rather wait for him
than marry any one else."

But suppose he were not sure of her
feelings ? Ought he, under those circumstances,
to try to make her love him ? "

He might be doubtful without cause ; it
might be a mutual mistake. Many a girl
would rather die than betray love for a
man who had never asked for it. How
could she be certain of his love unless he
spoke ?"

"But a girl can generally tell when a man
cares for her ? "

I think that depends on the kind of girl,"
said Marjory : "1 speak only from guesswork
; and yet I think I am right. I believe
that there is many a woman who is either too

proud or too humble to build any confidence
upon a man's affection unless lie has actually-told
her of it. And then, perhaps, if he
thought, as you say, that he should be dishonourable
to speak before he could marry 
then especially if he went away  she might
think she had been mistaken in fancying that
he showed signs of caring for her ; and then
she would suffer agonies of mortification, and
do her utmost  the kind of woman I mean
to regard him only as an ordinary acquaintance.
Most likely, as time passed on, she
would succeed; and perhaps would marry
some one else : and yet, after all, the first
might have been the one who was really meant
for her, and she for him. No doubt there
have been many such cases."

'' And all the time a mutual mistake, as you
expressed it," said Gerald : " The first poor
fellow nursing the thought of her in his mind,
hundreds of miles away ; working for her,
building castles in the air about her : till suddenly
he takes up a newspaper,  there's her
marriage to So-and-so of So-and-so, at ,
by So-and-so, assisted by So-ands
;  and so it all ends."

But why didn't he speak ? " cried Marjory,
reproachfully ; then laughed at her involuntary

earnestness, Gerald laughed too,
a little, and observed that lie had better
weave the fancy into her story.

But how did we come to talk of all this ? "
said Marjory, " when our minds were full of
Mr. Harding?"

' It shows their feebleness, I fear," said
Gerald, rising. '* We had better go to bed
and refresh them."

'rit is very late ; and yet I do not feel as
if I could sleep. Oh, Gerald ! what a day
this has been ! "

You are not sleepy ? " said Gerald, putting
down the candle which he had begun to light :
If you like, I'll tell you something."

'' Tell me anything you like," she replied,
her heart throbbing with an indefinable fear.
He remained standing by the mantel-piece,
his back to Marjory, who had not left her
stool ; and, resting his elbows on the marble,
his forehead on his folded hands, looked down
into the fireless grate.

'' Marjory, I am going to ask you a question.
Women know each other best."

He hesitated.

Would Miss Peele be disgusted if I told
her that  that I cared for her ? "

A long pause followed. At length, in a

tone of forced composure, Marjory answered :
There is nothing in you to disgust any one."

Is that all you can say ? "

I  I don't know. I am sure that Lina
likes you very much ; and she respects you.
She does not respect every one."

"Do you think is it possible that  that
she could ever grow to care for me ? "

Once more Marjory was long silent, struggling
with herself.

** Yes," she said at last; " I think it is."

'' You really think so ? " cried Gerald,
turning flushed and eager, and sitting down
opposite his sister. " You really and truly
believe that I might have a chance ? "

'' I do. I feel almost sure of it."

'' Marjory, you frighten me. I am afraid
to let myself hope. You  you don't think
she cares for any one else ? "

The sight of his anxiety, of that agitated
face, usually so quiet and dreamy, touched
Marjory to the quick.

'' I not only ' don't think '  I am certain 
that she cares, in that way, for no one else in
the world."

"Well, now, listen, I'll tell you," said
Gerald, shading his eyes with his hand : "The
first moment I saw her, at that concert, I felt

that I had found my ideal ; and ever since
the feeling has grown, till I am altogether
bound to her. It seems as if even to become
what Mr. Harding said  the first artist in
Europe  would be as nothing to me without
her."

Oh, Gerald ! " had nearly broken from
Marjory's lips. She restrained herself justin
time for her chances of continuing his
confidante.

"If you feel that, it must be strong indeed,"
she said.

I tell you it is my life. I never did live
before. Well, I meant to go on and bear it,
as I have borne other things ; but lately I
have thought I couldn't stand it much longer,
especially when that Throckmorton "

Your poor innocent bugbear ! "

Nonsense, Marjory ; I know more of
these things than you do. Yesterday I made
up my mind that Harding's opinion should
decide it one way or the other. If he had
said that I could never expect to be more
than I am now, I would have given up all
hope of her for ever. But now  if I can
feel sure of any chance  I'll speak at once,
and ask her if at least I may strive to win
my way up to her. That hope and the other

can rise or fall together ! That's all I dare
expect, as yet, I suppose ; but even that would
be an insanity to me."

Oh, Gerald, I only hope she is worthy of
such devotion ! "

'worthy!" cried Gerald; "She is an
angel. You have but to see her face to tell
that. Many and many a time her face has
been a heavenly inspiration to me."

"So it was once, to me," said Marjory.
She did not add the rest that was in her
mind. But Gerald observed no omission.

It strikes me that she is one of those
women you spoke of, who would sooner die
than show any affection for a man who had
not asked them for it."

"As to dying, I don't know," said Marjory:
Lina's feelings are very well governed.
But I am sure that she would not allow herself
to love any man who did not love her."

Exactly. And if he did not speak  as
you said, how could she know ? I could wait
better, if it were not for St. Philip's. There
she is at that end of the town  and we at
this end !  seeing him constantly, while I
have only stray chances, and scraps of time.
It makes me half mad :  I must put an end
to it, Marjory. I'll tell her; and face the worst.

Marjory looked at him with an ache at her
heart, and saw in his face all that he did not
speak. He craved, with craving unutterable,
after Lina. He would be thankful for whatever
she would give him.

'' After all, if I were to her but a hundredth
part of what she is to me, she would not feel
it hard to wait three years or so. It might
not be more than three years."

No, it might not. It will not, if you can
accept Mr. Harding's offer. Lina is of a
very calm nature. Waiting would do her no
harm."

'' And, if I succeed  some day, I will more
than make it all up to her ! How I shall
delight to surround her with everything she
cares for, everything that is brightest, best,
most beautiful, on earth ! I will work for
her, live for her; she and my art will be
blended together in my mind. They will
inspire me alike, and I shall serve them both."

In his restless mood he had resumed his
former place, Marjory still at his feet. He
could not see her blue eyes filling, again, and
yet again, with tears which she as regularly
forced back, or brushed away with her hand.
He did not see the blank look which had
gathered on that young face, whose brightness

but a short time before had strengthened
and refreshed him. As she sat silent
on her stool, listening to his rhapsodies, it
seemed to her that the sunshine was dying
out of her life, and leaving only twilight.
She had been so full of plans for Gerald  so
looking forward to life with him some day, 
life in a world of art, of beauty, of noble
work, where she would watch his talent grow,
and minister to it, enjoy his triumphs, and
see the dream of years fulfilled. Yes, that
was barely an hour ago ; and now  this was
what she must work for ! For Gerald to
marry Lina ; to prepare Lina a home : Lina,
Lina was everything to him, everything that
his art could not supply.

Marjory saw clearly, without morbidness,
her own place in his life. He felt a tender
and grateful affection for her, as his dear
and good sister ; he found in her a congenial
companion ; ' and there it ended. Whereas,
so long as she could remember, Gerald had
been a part of her inmost existence. She
could not fancy life without him, and her
dreams for him. And now, if independently
of her, he could pay off his debt, would he
miss her at all, should she die, or go from
him for ever ? An affectionate regret he

would feel ; but, so long as lie lead Lina,
would there be any real blank in this days ?
She could not face the thought, and crushed
it down. At that moment the cathedral
clock struck one, with a deep peal, resounding
through the night. Gerald rose quickly.

I had entirely forgotten the time," he
said, as Marjory looked up : " That startled
me. I thought it was a passing bell ! "

'you are over-excited," said Marjory, the
self forgetting instinct reviving : " Come, you
must go to bed at once ; you will be quite
worn-out tomorrow."

She lighted his caudle and her own, and
bade him good-night. As she did so, he held
her hand for a moment, and said :

Marjory, you believe in temporal prayers.
"Will you pray that she may not reject me ? "

Marjory paused a moment, looked down to
hide those troublesome tears, then answered
gently :

'' Gerald dear, I will pray that God may
give what is best for you."

'' That would be best," he said: " Think
how it must raise a man to have an angel
always with him ! "

Marjory's heart was too full for speech.
She smiled; and he took the smile for assent.

VOL. II. M

Chapter XIII.

*' Life is strong, and still
Bears onward to new tasks and sorrows new,
Whether we will, or no."  Archbishop Trench.

The next afternoon, Marjory passed, with the
little stream of worshippers and curious
strangers, through the deep-perched door of
the cathedral. All things seemed always
clearer to her in that grand atmosphere.
Far above sat the still figures in majesty of
conquest. One, with a crown, was looking
downward : it seemed to Marjory that he
looked at her, gravely, and in rebuke.
Another, near, looked upward with steadfast
gaze. Hundreds of years he had sat there,
one hand between the leaves of a book, open
upon his knees, his face, with purely chiselled
profile, turned upward, rapt. Earth's clamour
was here stilled for a while. Help
came to Marjory, and fellowship, in the
battle which she bad been fighting alone.
Others had fought before her, had endured,
had trampled this same jealous agony under
their feet, and passed on, to the crown. She

knelt in a shadowy place, lier face hidden ;
for tears were falling fast : the tears of a
young girl's first grief. She had no human
friend to pity them : Gerald least of all must
have any suspicion of her feelings. In such
case he would wonder at her, despise her,
she thought : he would not know her for his
Marjory, his helper. So she struggled with
herself. While it lasted, the battle was
sharp,  but it was not long. She would
have fiercer ones to fight some day, perhaps.

'' How much of self there has been in
me ! " she wrote afterwards, in a little book
in which she sometimes effervesced : "I am
ashamed  I am horrified at myself ! I
thought that all I wanted was my Gerald's
well-being : if this will further it  and he
says it will  why am I so wretched ? It is
horrible, mean egotism. My one comfort is,
it does not hinder my wish to work for him ;
that is as strong as ever.

"Yes  I can go on working, in spite of
this hateful pain. I had forgotten the element
of pain that must be in all life. All
has been so bright, so full of hope, since I
came to Alton :  and I have been so happy.
This life with Gerald has been a dream fulfilled
 and Mr. Harding's encouragement
M 2

seemed to crown it ; and now the change
has come. It is like the change in that old
dream of Thorne, where Mr. Hugh was a
fairy-tale prince. I have learned, in books
and sermons, that such things must be ; but
learning of them is different from living
them.

Well, if I am wretched, I suppose I can
bear it, as others have had to bear. But
what pains me most of all is, that I ought
not to be wretched. I ought to be unselfish:
and I can't."

Here the effervescence ended abruptly.
A cab had stopped before the door, and a
note was sent in to Marjory.

'' Dear Mae joey "  it said 

*' I want to see you. I send a cab,
that you may come at once.

Your affectionate friend,

Caroline Peele."

It was almost six o'clock, and the day was
waning ; but Marjory had seen nothing, since
their early dinner, of Gerald. As she read
this note, she guessed where he had been ;
she put on her hat and jacket again, and ran
downstairs. Without orders, which she forgot

to give, the man drove straight away to
Albion Square. The streets were full of
people, returning from their work ; the gas
in the shops was lighted ; " the busy world
a thousand ways " was still hurrying on.
The repose of Albion Square struck Marjory
now, as always, in contrast to the stir and
din. The trees were sad-coloured, growing
bare; the paths strewn with leaves  which
all the old square-keeper's labours could not
keep under. A robin, with a sad autumnal
note, was singing in the acacias.

The door of No. 25 was speedily opened,
and Marjory was shown upstairs, into Lina's
bedroom. Like everything pertaining to
Lina, that room was a picture of propriety.
Marjory had never yet seen there a book ora
garment out of place; it was plain that
Lina's well-governed mind was never so
ruled as to forget or disobey the rules of
order. The housemaid too was evidently
under her complete control ; no speck of
dust was at any hour to be found in this
model temple : the priestess of which now
advanced to welcome Marjory.

There was an unwonted flush on Lina's
face : not fitful, like the flushes to which
Gerald and Marjory were prone, but a fixed

glow, decided as lier character. She looked
more beautiful, less statue-like, than usual ;
her dark eyes were brighter, her mouth was
somewhat relaxed from its firm lines.

'' I sent for you, Marjory, because I felt
that, under the circumstances, I could not
come to see you. Your brother tells me
that you knew of his intention."

I knew what was in his mind ; I did not
know that he had come to you this afternoon."


'' I had a note from him early, asking if
he could see me ; and he came about four
o'clock."

"Where is he now ? " cried Marjory, in
her impetuous way.

I fancy he went towards Heather oft. I
asked him to leave me for a time. I wished
to be alone  to consider,  and then it
occurred to me to consult you. Marjory,
you have your brother's interests warmly at
heart; and you know him, of course, far
more intimately than I as yet can. Do you
think, from your experience of his character,
that, if I consented to an engagement, it
would help, or hinder, his work ? "

'' He says it would be the greatest help
that he could have."

But does lie deceive himself ? It might
go on for years. Would not such a tie hamper
him ? "

All his own doubt is, whether it would
be fair to you."

To me it would make little difference.
I have plenty of occupation here : indeed I
do not know how the St. Philip's clergy
could manage at present without me. Therefore,
for my part, I should much prefer the
waiting ; and I hope, besides, that I should
never fret at what is inevitable."

Your calmness is wonderful ! " exclaimed
Marjory.

I never allow myself to be otherwise
than calm ; and I should maintain the same
principle in my engagement. But, as regards
your brother, I do wish for your candid
opinion. Would the double aim hinder him
in his artistic work,  when he enters on it,
I mean ? because, if so, I should not think
it right to be the means of spoiling his prospects."


'' Is this love ? " thought Marjory. *' I
know little about it,  only what I have read.
Is this what love ought to be ?  and the
other, that I have read of, a mere dream ? "

She sat silent, staring at Lina.

Come, Marjory, speak ! I only wish to
act for this true good. Would he have power
to concentrate himself in his work, keeping
his hopes about me in their proper place,
as secondary to the others ? Has he the
requisite self-control ?  because, if not, I am
convinced I should only hinder him."

Oh, Lina, I don't know," cried Marjory :
'' He does control himself wonderfully ; and
yet  he is not like you,  he is not calm,
evenly balanced, as you are. I don't know
what to say. You must decide :  only dodo,
accept him, if you can. If you can care
for him, the rest will right itself. I don't
mean only ' care for him : ' that sounds too
cold,  but  T can't say it,  if you feel it,
you will know," cried Marjory, flushed and
quivering, far more excited than Lina herself.
Lina sat perfectly motionless, her hands folded
in her lap.

'' As to that," she said slowly, " one cannot
measure real life by novels and poems.
Papa always taught me that sober sense,
not romance, should guide us in all important
assails. I sent for you, because I was anxious
to come to a sensible conclusion. If I had
chosen to be led by feeling alone, I may say 
since you are his sister  that I think more

iiighlj of Mr. Stanhope than of any one on
earth. Now that I find what power is in
him, I am quite surprised by his patience and
humility, shown for so many years. Mr.
Harding's opinion, however, has only confirmed
my own impressions. I believe that
your brother has, mentally and morally, the
makings of a great man. I believe that he
is destined to be a great man : and that the
time will come, when any woman, even the
highest, might feel proud to become his wife.
If I engage myself to him, it will be from a
far better feeling than romantic love : from
true esteem, and soundly based affection : 
and, even in a worldly point of view, I shall
not consider it foolish, because, so soon ashe
can enter on his own path in life, his fortune
will be secure. All that I desire is not
to check the greatness which ought to be
free to developed itself, and to advance him ashe
deserves."

'' You are noble, Lina  you are great too 
worthy of him," cried impulsive Marjory,
throwing her arms round her friend : "Now
let me go and bring him in, that you may
tell him everything, and leave him to decide."

Marjory, it is growing dusk ;  it is too
late for you to be out alone," cried Lina;

but Marjory snatched up lier hat, and dashed
away. She walked swiftly, almost running,
towards Heathcroft, thinking only of Gerald.

Heathcroft was no longer a place for
holiday strollers. The breeze blew damp
and sharp from the river ; and there on the
bank was Gerald, walking aimlessly up and
down. She knew his figure from afar, and
guessed all the suspense, all the anxiety, that
he was feeling.

Gerald, Gerald ! come back," she cried,
clasping his arm.

Why, Marjory ! " he exclaimed. How
pale he looked ! how large and clear were
his gray eyes in the fading light !

'' I have been with Lina  I am come to
take you back. She has told me all that is
in her mind. I think there will be no difficulty
; only come at once."

He turned, mechanically, and in silence ;
and they retraced their steps to the square.

I was watching for you," said Mrs.
Peele, opening the door : " Mr. Stanhope, will
you step into the dining-room ? "

Leaving Marjory in the drawing-room on
her way, she went to summon Lina : whose
stately dress was shortly heard sweeping
downstairs.

' Lina is gone to him," said Mrs. Peele,
rejoining Marjory : " She must decide this
business for herself. I will not deny to you,
Miss Stanhope, that I am taken quite by surprise.
She generally treats these things so
coolly :  they have occurred, as you may
know, before :  and now  I am sure I like
your brother so much  he is a most superior
young man :  but but  one cannot help
feeling uneasy."

Because he is so poor, you mean. But
you have heard Mr. Harding's opinion ? "

'eyes  yes  very hopeful, I am sure.
Enough perhaps to justify an engagement.
It will be a sadly long one, I fear  her poor
papa would hardly approve : and yet  Lina
is so like her papa : I have every confidence
in her judgment. I trust her sisters will not
blame me."

'' I don't see how they can."

Well, no I hope not: they know that
Lina is her own mistress. The house, and
even the children, seem often more like hers
than mine. I am not afraid, either, that the
long engagement will hurt her; she never
allows herself to worry. She is training the
children in the same way ; Lizzie is wonderfully
like her already. Poor little Bertha is

more like me ; and I can't help worrying.
That is a weakness, I quite feel. Lina is
above such weakness. Yes, I am sure she
is fully competent. We will trust her decision."


Marjory set herself to relieve Mrs. Peele's
evident anxiety, by various glowing prognostications
concerning Gerald's future: in which,
as she was rewarded by seeing, the little
woman began presently to believe.

*' I have never wished to be worldly," said
Mrs. Peele : ''I do not approve of worldliness
: " and, this admission made, the whole
affair assumed a more cheerful aspect.

Thence the conversation diverged to Mrs.
Peele's own personal matters; which she
found it exceedingly refreshing to discuss
with so sympathetic a listener. By degrees,
as their tete-astute, in common with that
downstairs, continued long, she began to
talk of old times at Bullingham, and of her
husband.

' Mr. Peele, in his best days, was very
like Lina : just that calm, superior nature : 
which made it the more painful to see him
at last, quite broken down by trouble. He
had been intensely proud of his son ; so you
may guess what a blow all that was to him."

What did all that mean, Marjory wondered
? The words were accompanied by a
look of intelligence, as though Mrs. Peele
never doubted their clearness.

To tell you the truth," she said, bending
forward, and lowering her voice,  ' I may
confess it to you, since, if things turn out
as I expect, you will be like one of the
family,  I always mistrusted Richard. I
hardly know why ; and I feel that my judgment
is not to be depended on; but there
was something I cannot define.  I never
mentioned this ; and Lina has no idea of it,
though she thinks I did not appreciate him ;
but I was less surprised than any one, when
the blow came."

I don't understand," said Marjory.
*' This is something of which I have not
heard."

Mrs. Peele's expression changed suddenly;
she looked red and startled.

Indeed ! I thought, as you had been her
friend for so long, you would be sure to know.
Pray ask me nothing ! Don't let Lina suspect
that I have alluded to it."

Marjory hastened to promise this ; and,
Mrs. Peele, with nervous abruptness, changed
the subject. But these vague allusions had

seemed to throw some additional light upon
Lina's mistrust of Mr. Vivian. The sting of
that mistrust, and of the suspicion with
which it was coupled, began to rankle more
deeply in Marjory's mind, as she sat beside
Mrs. Peele, answering and listening, yet
thinking all the while of these other things.

Suddenly steps came up the stairs ; Gerald
entered. His whole face seemed transfigured.
Instantly Marjory knew that all was decided,
that Lina had accepted him. Mrs. Peele
rose ; but Marjory sat still, gazing at him, a
choking in her throat.

Mrs. Peele," he said, " Lina wished me
to tell you that we are engaged. She has
promised to let me work my way up to her.
You must not be vexed with me  or afraid."

I am certainly not vexed ;  it is very
natural," said Mrs. Peele, nervous and agitated
: '' And I will try not to be afraid.
Lina knows best, of course. I am sure I
wish you all happiness."

She pressed his hand, and, by a sudden
impulse, raised her face to kiss him. Gerald
looked deeply gratified, thanked her, and
returned the pressure with a warmth which
caused the little scene to end in an irrepressible
cry from poor Mrs. Peele ! She hastened

away to Lina; and the brother and sister
were left alone.

Gerald, I am glad  very glad, and thankful
 for your sake," was all that Marjory
could say.

She felt as though the words were cold ;
but they were not cold to Gerald. The whole
world was couleur de rose to him. He might
have been insulted, ever so savagely, and he
would only have laughed. He seemed hardly
able to contain himself. He sat down by
Marjory, and spoke of Lina  of what she
had said, how she had smiled.

'' I begin to believe that I shall really be a

great man some day ! If she is with me, I

may be anything. I feel sure now that the

difficulties will all be conquered : they seem

half gone already. This day ten years  even

this day five years, Marjory  who knows ? "

Who knows ? " Marjory repeated.
* * *

Some hours later, when the young
Stanhope were starting on their homeward
walk, Lina drew Marjory aside.

"Marjory dear, just one word, "she said;
I won't keep you a moment.  I watched
from my window, when you left me, this
evening, to find your brother; and I observed

that you ran across Heathcroft. Please don't
be vexed  but I feel it better to say that it
does not look well for a young lady to run ina
public place. You have lived so long at
Eockswold  I thought I would mention it.
That's all, dear. Good-night."

Good-night," returned Marjory, and
followed Gerald, not knowing whether to
laugh or to cry.

CHAPTER XIV.

The look, the air, that frets thy sight,
May be a token that below
The soul has closed in deadly fight

With some infernal fiery foe,
Whose glance would scorch thy smiling grace,
And cast thee shuddering on thy face."

Adelaide A. Proctor.

Now had begun a new phase in Marjory's
life. She worked with double vigour  often
to the extreme limits of her strength ; thinking,
composing, writing. As time went on,
she noticed that Gerald watched her progress
with ever more of anxiety. He guarded her,
with jealous care, from casual interruptions ;
brightened when she felt herself ' inspired ! '
was visibly depressed, when  rarely enough
her courage seemed to flag. She trembled
sometimes when she realised how much
depended on her exertions. Yet, on the
whole, she felt that the cause was less her
own, than His who had created Gerald, his
talents, his aspirations ; never doubting but
that she was furthering the purpose for which

VOL. II. N

Gerald had been born into the world. Let
those who will, laugh at her simple faith !
Such was the fact of it.

But, nevertheless, these days were far from
happy days to Marjory. She felt lonely, as
she had felt long ago, when she was a little
child in this same Alton. She loved Gerald
so much, so absorbingly: she had not known,
till now, how she loved him. It was not the
commonplace love of ordinary sisterhood ; it
was an idealised devotion, with an element
not unlike that which he, in his turn, lavished
upon Lina. His genius, his whole character,
seemed to her beyond compare. She would
willingly have been his servant, his slave
even, counting her service a joy, if she might
have been also his friend  necessary to his
happiness.

She was not morbid. It would not have
occurred to her to question how much, or how
little, she was to him, had not that question,
as it were, forced itself. For now she could
not but see  although reproaching the pain
which came with the sight  how entirely he
was wrapped up in Lina. It seemed as
though he could not live one day without
Lina now. When he was away from her, he
was dreaming of her, silent, preoccupied;

sometimes not hearing Marjory's answers
when he spoke, often not caring to speak at
all, unless of her. One afternoon, when the
three were together, Lina suddenly observed :
I looked out last night, at half-past eleven,
to find what constellations were visible ; and
there, in the road, was a man, staring up at
my window. It is not the first time that
this has happened. I think I shall speak to
the policeman."

Marjory glanced at Gerald; his face told
its own tale. She slipped out of the room,
that he might be free to explain. He had
been parted from Lina all the previous day,
restless all the evening. He could not sleep
without gazing at the light which betokened
the beloved presence !

'* I am tied to very thee

By every thought I have ;
Thy face I only care to see,
Thy heart I only crave."

Those old words of two centuries past
seemed now uttered for the first time, in
every look, every action, every tone, of Gerald
towards Lina.

And as for Marjory  he seemed sometimes
to forget her existence ! It was all very
N 2

natural, no doubt, but no less a trial: especially
as she was often harassed by a fear as
to Lina's power of appreciating such devotion.
Lina had no idea of the perseverance
with Which Marjory studied her: scanning
her every word and gesture, with regard to
Gerald. In some points the result was satisfactory;
there was no question but that Lina,
as she expressed it, was " very fond " of
Gerald. She esteemed him highly, behaved
to him graciously, and was well pleased to
receive his homage. But Marjory, who had
her own ideas of that, to her, mysterious and
beautiful world called love, felt something to
be wanting ; and was continually haunted by
that mournful old French saying about 'Vun
qui aime, et Vun qui se laisse aimer,  "Was
that saying invariably true ?  a truth of
necessity ? If she were in Lina's place, she
thought, her feeling would be very different
from Lina's ! It would be joy almost beyond
earth, joy to make her tremble, to be thus
loved, thus worshipped  and by such an one.
Lina took everything, from the beginning,
quite naturally, with even composure. Allowance
must certainly be made for differences
of temperament ; but Marjory could not help
inwardly reiterating her first inquiry  '' Is

this love" and, after a while, "Will this
always satisfy Gerald ? "

A deep sadness followed that last thought.
For just now, in the freshness of his joy,
Gerald was satisfied only to realise that they
were engaged, that she had promised to give
herself wholly to him, some day  some blessed
day, dim and distant, but sure  too blessed
not to be sure. Only to sit by her, to hold
her hand, to gaze into her face, to call her
Lina, to hear her call him Gerald; this alone,
as yet, fully satisfied him. But Marjory
knew him well enough to feel certain that ina
little while he would want something more.
And would he ever receive more than at
present ? Was Lina capable of more ?  Ah!
that was the question :  one which Marjory
could not answer. Lina herself would have
said that the answer, whatever it might be,
was no concern of Marjory's.

Throughout those waning autumnal days,
the sense of loneliness deepened. Marjory
grew more silent, more absorbed in her own
thoughts, read a great deal to herself. Subscription
to the city library was one of the
very few luxuries in which the brother and
sister indulged. Marjory indeed regarded it
not as a luxury, but a necessity, to cultivate

her mind for her work. Now, as at Rocks-wold,
her books supplied the human companionship
which was lacking ; and in the busy
town, surrounded by a multitude of fellow-creatures,
this girl, young, healthy, full of
life, led more and more the existence of a
solitary student.

There was another also in this town, who
lived secluded in the midst of numbers ;
and often now, as Marjory sat alone in the
little parlour, or walked alone by the riverside,
and round the College Green, her
thoughts would unconsciously wander to that
other, whose life had once been so different :
she would find herself pondering over Hugh
Vivian, the change in him, the cloud which Lina
had conjured,  over Mrs. Peele's allusions,
and " the blow " in which he seemed to have
had a share. Sometimes she found herself longing,
with an almost passionate desire, to be
able to ask him himself what he had done in
those days at Bullingham,  whether, indeed,
he knew anything of Jessie and her marriage.
Despite her anger against Lina's suspicions,
she could not, when she next met him, help
a certain restraint of manner, the necessary
result, to her open nature, of the doubts
which had been excited. Her eyes did not

meet this with the same freedom; her tone
had a coldness which he tried at first to
rattle away by his usual light badinage ; but
Marjory, though she laughed and chatted,
still maintained an indefinable distance. Then
he tried a little coldness on his own part;
but this had no effect. The sudden barrier,
of whatever nature, seemed impenetrable.

Hugh Vivian spent more thought on it than
he would have cared to confess ; sat in his
dingy lodging-parlour, speculating on its
cause; went through his daily work, wondering
about it. One evening he contrived to meet
Marjory at Mrs. Carberry's house; and walked
straight to the corner where she was chatting
with two girls of her own age, determined to
fathom the mystery.

Marjory could not help colouring, as he
sat deliberately down upon an ottoman at her
elbow : the more so, as the girls, foolish and
somewhat vulgar, glanced at each other, and
simpered ; and one of them whispered to
her  'you won't want us now ! "

She glanced hurriedly at Mr. Vivian, afraid
lest he should have heard ; but he was deep
in his own thoughts. That, in some way,
those thoughts concerned herself, she could
not but perceive. Her eyes met his, and the

colour deepened on lier face ; for lie did not-withdraw
them  only looked at her more
pointedly, with a half questioning, half
gloomy expression. Her own eyes fell, and,
greatly to her annoyance, she found that the
objectionable girl had observed this pantomime.
She touched her companion,  who
giggled ; both hastily rose, and, shuffling
behind chairs and tables, removed to a distant
quarter. Marjory, seriously vexed,
would fain have followed, could she with
dignity have done so ; but, this being impossible,
she was obliged to remain alone on
her chair.

"I did not expect to see you to-night, Mr.
Vivian," said Marjory, coldly, doing her best
to look calm and unconscious.

'Unpleasant surprises will sometimes occur, ' '
said Hugh Vivian, in a provoking tone : ''I
had a spare hour, and it seemed a favourable
opportunity to prepare for a series of studies
I am meditating, from second-rate society."

You are extremely polite," said Marjory.

If I had thought you second-rate, I should
not have used the expression."

Thank you at least for condescending to
exempt me, if you condemn my companions."

'' You are very caustic to-night, Miss

Stanhope. Another time you would agree
with me'*

In what?"

In my opinion of the present company."

*' Then I should be very ungrateful, when
Mrs. Carberry is so kind."

'' Kindness is beside the point."

But not gratitude."

I stand rebuked. Perhaps we all ought
to feel exceedingly grateful to Mrs. Carberry
for collecting us together, and giving us at
least the amusement of a mutual stare.
Nevertheless, I rather doubt the obligation,
seeing that such assemblies are her favourite
pastime. But I do confess to some gratitude
for the pleasure of meeting you."

'thank you for another compliment,"
said Marjory.

Thankfulness misplaced again ! I was
merely stating a fact. You, wrapped up in
your ' Gerald,' have no idea of what that
pleasure is to me ! When I see your face,
I forget for the time that this world is a
deceitful old blunder. Years roll back  I
am a foolish cornet again  wood-pigeons
are cooing, and thrushes singing, in those
trees at Thorne. I see the old house rise ;
the drawing-room windows are open ; old

Brush is lying outside in a lazy doze : inside,
my mother and Lady Thorne are sitting,  and
you are with them, looking at old pictures."

He broke off, to hide a quiver in his voice.

Brush  Oh, where is old Brush ?" said
Marjory, dreamily.

'* Dead and gone, like the rest. Poor old
fellow ! he was a faithful friend to me. Yes,
he * went off,' three or four years ago  ' like
a lamb,' as the old women say  in his sleep.
He was worn out, and it was time he was
done with : but I missed him a good bit. I
thought all that I ever cared for was gone.
Then suddenly one day I saw you. I have a
fancy sometimes that it saves me from withering
up, heart and brain, and all, like a dried
leaf, to look at you now and then."

He was looking at her as he spoke;
and Marjory, meeting his eyes once more,
felt her whole soul stirred by pity  pity, and
something deeper, which seemed to thrill all
through her. Suddenly, like a rush of cold
water, came the dread instilled by Lina.
Suppose he should be only a skilful hypocrite
! Her face, transparent as a child's,
showed the doubt. Hugh paused ; and the
gloom, which had melted, returned and
deepened.

*' I see how it is," he said abruptly :
'' That friend of yours, old Peele in petticoats,
has set you against me. I don't
know why I should care, either,"  he muttered,
half to himself : '' But I do. I care
terribly."

'' It is wrong to be set against any one
without good reason," said Marjory, incoherently.


** Exactly. Very wrong. So don't give
in to it," said Hugh, with a sudden relapse
into his half-jesting manner : *' Though, at
the same time, I won't deny there may be
very good reason for such as you to be set
against such as me. But I should like to
know, what particular crime Miss Peele has
contrived to ferret out ? "

She did not tell me of any crime," said
Marjory, simply.

'' But she has insinuated that she could, if
she would. Ah ! the fox is unearthed at last.
I see ! I've a good mind to summon her for
libel."

Innocent people need not fear what anyone
says of them," observed Marjory, adopting
his own tone, to cover the confusion
which, at his correct guess, had dyed even
her throat with crimson.

'' I'm not so sure ! That depends on to
whom it is said. Suppose some one whom he
respects believes the scandal ? I suppose he
would mind then."

I think he need not. His innocence
would be sure to come out at last."

'' You have a firm faith, then, that justice
will eventually win the day."

So firm, that I could never for one moment
doubt it," said Marjory.

' It is an intuitive conviction, I suppose ?
It cannot be based upon experience, for two
good reasons."

And pray what are they ? "

"Number one  you are too young.
Number two, experience, I fear, proves
something rather different."

Shortsighted experience, perhaps  or
what people mistake for experience : taking
a part for a whole, and judging without
patience."

Severe, and slightly vague," observed
Hugh.

Vague, I dare say, because I can't express
myself: but it is true, nevertheless,"
said Marjory, nodding her head.

'' What an oracular nod ! Only that your
physiognomy and that of an owl are so dissimilar,

I should think you were the bird of
wisdom itself. Well, according to your belief.
Miss Peele may some day discover that
there is not so very much less iniquity incertain
of her models of excellence than in
me, whom she sets down as ink-hued forever
! Only perhaps the iniquity is somewhat
different in kind."

'' I know Lina is prejudiced."

You have found that out at last ?
Hurrah ! "

She may not be prejudiced in your
case."

'' May not : the barest possibility, be
pleased to observe. Miss Stanhope. Remember,
I make no pretension to be considered
a saint "

'' Certain people are quite as vain of not
being saints, as others of the reverse."

'' Again such severity ?  I had no idea you
were capable of it.  I am not one of those 
no, indeed," cried Hugh, with sudden earnestness
: " I say, simply as a matter of
honesty, that I know well I am not a saint :
in other words, that I have a terrible capacity
for badness. But, granted all of which
any one may accuse me, I alone can estimate
my own excuses ; and, on the faith of a gentleman,

I must say that if Miss Peele  by
breach of faith in others  can mention any
particular sin in my wretched Bellingham
life, I, on the other hand, could tell you of
special circumstances of temptation which,
however unmerciful she might be, would
win, I know  I am certain  pity, at least,
from you."

His impassioned tone struck Marjory.
She looked at him, and if before she had
doubted, she now was sure, of the existence
of some secret  something of which he was
ashamed  connected with his time at Bullingham.
What could that secret be ? She
trembled as she thought of Jessie.

'* Well ? '' he said, as she continued silent ;
gazing at her as if he longed to pierce the
veil which hides soul from soul. "Well?
won't you believe me ? "

Their eyes met again : again that indefinable
thrill ran through her.

*' Yes," she said ; '' I am not your judge ;
and  I do  I do believe you. But may I
ask just one question ? There is nothing now
is there ?  nothing that  no concealment
that I must condemn if I knew it, now ? "

As she spoke, her innocence of crime stood
her in good stead : she coloured only a little

lier blue eyes looked straight into this,
only slightly shadowed, as the eyes of a child
might be, if it were indefinitely told that a
friend had committed some wickedness. A
mingled expression of reverence and pride
filled Hugh Vivian's fearless eyes, as he
looked back.

'' Nothing whatever," he answered.  " If
your faith in all kinds of inscrutable mysteries
be so complete, you may surely place
some in me ! There is nothing whatever in
my present life, or connected with it, that I
should be ashamed to confess to you or to
any one."

His tone satisfied her entirely. A heavy
weight fell from her mind. The thought of
Jessie hidden  deserted  she knew not what
had struck her momentarily with horror
unutterable. Now she felt certain that, as
regarded Jessie at all events, he was guiltless.
How otherwise could he speak thus
decidedly, knowing of Bellhouse's blighted
old age, of the suspense which only news of
Jessie could end ?  knowing that any news,
even of her death, would be better than this
blank silence ! No  however else, in the
past, he might have sinned, he was innocent
of this. It was a baseless, a wicked suspicion

:  wicked, though originated by
Lina.

You are glad I can say that ? Then you
have some interest in me," he said, with an
indescribable mixture of pleasure and gentleness,
watching her face.

I am glad," Marjory replied, though
blushing deeply. '' It would be painful to me
to think you so very bad, because  because
of old times," she concluded, made nervous
by his gaze. '' Now let us talk no more of
such disagreeable subjects."

'' And we are friends again ? " said Hugh
Vivian.

'' I don't know what you mean."

Yes, you do. You know quite well that
you have frozen me up into Nova Semble
itself, whenever during the last month I have
spoken to you. Now you mustn't let your
next interview with Miss Peele bring it all
back ; that would be, to say the least, deplorable
weakness of mind. You see an immense
deal of her now, of course ? "

** Gerald does," said Marjory, smiling.


I ought to have congratulated him long
ago ; but somehow the words stuck in my
throat. You'll forgive the confession, knowing

what you do know. I suppose your
brother adores her ? "

He thinks her too perfect for this world :
and so she might be, from her face."

"Ah, faces are unsafe guides ! I learned that
long ago, in a lesson I shan't easily forget."

From Lina ? "

'* Oh, no. She was too exact a copy of her
father to endanger me ! No, I learned that
from another face, more beguiling than hers,
because more childish and innocent. It looked
almost like an angel's face, and proved 
more like a demon's."

Miss Stanhope, cary I prevail ? " said
Mrs. Carberry, extending in one hand a roll
of music, and pointing with the other to the
piano : "Or are the charms of conversation
such conversation  too powerful ? "

Marjory started up, and hastened to the
music-stool. She saw no more of Hugh
alone that evening ; but her mind was very
full. She did not like to think of that mysterious
face which had deceived and undeceived
him ; but her prevailing impression
was certainly not one of pain. Certain words
rang on in her ears,  " I do care terribly ! "
The unpremeditated manner of their utterance
heightened their effect.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XV.

weary heart of mine,

Is there ever a truth for thee ?
Will ever a sun outshine

But the sun that shines on me 1
Away, away through the air

The clouds and the leaves are blown ;
And my heart hath need of prayer,
For it sitter alone, alone."

George Macdonald.

The sad autumn days rolled by, and merged
into winter. In the country, the change was
plainly marked. Stacks of bare hop-poles
rose from the heavy soil ; the trees spread
long-branched and bleak. A little late apple-picking
and '' swede " gathering lingered
on : whence the women returned half frozen,
with faces red and rough under their cotton
bonnets, and chilled limbs which would long
avenge themselves in rheumatism and other
aches. For the rest, there was little fieldwork
; dull brown ridges stretched for many
an acre, in the place of pleasant clover or
golden corn. Mud lay ankle-deep in all the
lanes ; the cottage gardens had lost their

gaiety ; only a few clirysantliemums or
Christmas roses brightened some,  and the
holly berries were ripening.

There was no such striking difference in
Alton. Work there went on much the same 
buying, and selling, and manufacturing, from
morning to night. Bat the gas was lighted
early ; the streets were less crowded ; and
in the College Green the elms stood, like
the country elms, bleak and bare ; the decay,
at first so lovely, had finished its work, and
only one or two dead leaves were left, to
flutter in the heights when east winds were
blowing. The river was now no more a refreshing
contrast to heat and dust ; the air
that breathed from it was cold, as though it
had swept over fields of ice. Yet it was
beautiful still, that mighty river ; its tide
flowed on, regardless of change : still it reflected
the lights of sunset and of sunrise,
and the moonbeams at night ; and still Marjory,
now wrapped in winter garb, liked to
walk beside it and listen to its music.

The long evenings were very favourable to
the progress of her story. She wrote for
hours at a stretch, in the little sitting-room,
by lamplight. She had grown accustomed
to Gerald's absence. When his evenings


were not spent in Albion Square, lie was
working in his attic, where of late his time
had been occupied on a statue of Lina,
modelled from clay : Lina standing, a book
in her hand, her face half raised, as if she
caught the sound of music. The book was
one of devotion  such was his idea ; in studying
it, her ear had become attuned to
heavenly harmonies ; " she heard what is
not granted to souls more earth-bound.

But this was not his only study of Lina.
Marjory in these days was almost weary of
the incessant reproduction of that countenance,
to him so peerless. He painted
Lina looking down, Lina working, Lina
gathering flowers, Lina  as he had found her
once  reading German with her young sisters,
Lina walking in a moonlit garden, Lina
as an angel, reflected against a sunset sky,
Lina everlastingly. And Lina was quite content
to be thus pourtrayed, to be thus adored
and idolised by this gifted boy. Some day, she
thought, a serene smile hovering around her
classical mouth, her name would shine in
stories told of the great painter's early life,
as his guiding-star, his inspiration. She
thought of it calmly, with no conscious
vanity, as a fact of the future.

These were halcyon days to Gerald, one
long bright dream  a poet's dream of paradise.
Even Marjory had no conception of
the intensity, the still rapture, of the romance
in which he was living. Its charm was too
entrancing to admit any fear as to the stability
of such a condition. He was enfolded in an
atmosphere of one idea, too happy to question
his happiness. That November had passed
into December, was nothing to him. He
had a summer of his own, safe from external
changes. Night after night he worked on,
in the fireless attic, kept warm by the glow
of his inner life  so that he laughed to scorn
Marjory's remonstrances.

Meanwhile, the dull sky brightened into a
frosty blue. There was sliding and skating
upon Heathcroffc,  which had been lately
flooded, and then crusted with ice,  in the
meadows where hay was made a few months
before. The weather was very seasonable,
said every one; the shops were gay with
Christmas decorations, rich with Christmas
fare ; the old bells rang continually in the
city, welcoming the joyous season ; and thus
Christmas Day came and passed, and the
days went on to the New Year.

Mrs. Myers and Miss Pilkington were

spending their vacation with ricci relatives,
Benjamin and Ambrose in train. The two
houses were very silent now : on many an
evening they had no inmate but Marjory
upstairs ; and, below, Priscilla and Priscilla's
mother  to whose charge the establishment
was temporarily committed. The other servants
were gone like the rest. Gerald and
Marjory had been invited to spend Christmas
at Rockswold ; but they had no money to
spare for travelling : every penny now, with
jealous care, was hoarded or made much of.
Nevertheless, Marjory enjoyed her holidays,
making diligent use of the long spare mornings
in reading as well as in writing, playing
and singing for her own benefit, and dreaming
over her story  composing no less at such
times than when she sat at her desk.

On the last day of the year, after her early
dinner, she started for a walk by the river.
The towing-path was deserted now ; she
wandered, with increasing pleasure in the
loneliness, into the empty fields. It was
something of the pleasure felt long ago in
that summer's day walk to Thorne ; she went
on all alone, meeting no one. The river,
flowing with its quiet ripple at her side,
seemed somehow to deepen the stillness ; the

fields stretched out before lier, bare and cold
beneath the winter sky. The day was very
calm ; a robin's clear note resounded from
a hedge ; all else was silent.

It was long since Marjory had found herself
so far from the stir of numbers. She
strayed along, watching the river, thinking
of its ceaseless tide, of the quiet continuance
of its journey, ever on, to the great sea, 
the same in these solitary meadows, as in
the life-teeming town. Why, on a sudden,
did she remember that pause in the lane near
Thorne  when she had listened with vague
awe to the approaching horse-hoofs ? Why,
but by one of those mysterious influences
which affect us all, though, as yet, from a
source beyond our fathoming. Here, unobserved
before, in her musings, sitting on the
stile which divided this meadow from the
next, was Hugh Vivian, deep in thought.
Marjory hesitated, ready to turn back;
but he saw her, and sprang from his
seat.

He had looked gloomy and miserable
before ; now, as he raised his hat, his whole
face brightened ; and something in the glance
of his dark eyes brought the colour to Marjory's
cheeks.

I did not expect to meet sou, Mr.
Vivian ! "

I am not so happy, or so conceited, as to
suppose that. But what brings you all this
way from home ? Do you know that you
are between two and three miles out of
Alton?"

'' Am I indeed ? I came on and on without
considering."

'' An old habit of yours, I remember."

One can think so nicely in a long walk.
But I must turn back now, or it will be dark
before I get home."

'' I'll come a little way with you, if I may.
You rouse my curiosity ; but I suppose you
would not gratify that for the world ! "

What are you curious about ? "

"Your late remark respecting a long walk.
I wonder what you can have to think so
much of."

'' Just like a man, especially a critic, to
wonder that a girl can think ! "

I was not questioning the possibility 
only inquisitive about the subject."

"As to that, I have more subjects for
thought, perhaps, than you know of ! but I
don't see how they concern you. Still, if
they were fewer, there is surely nothing

strange in any one's being thoughtful today."


The last day of the old year ! " said
Hugh : " A melancholy day, isn't it ?"

That depends," said Marjory.

Well, after all, it is not more so than
tomorrow will be  the first of the new one.
Another step into fate, another plunge into
the unknown  there to be made a sport of 
by what?"

Is this only talk ? " said Marjory : " ordo
you really feel as you speak ? "

If you mean, do I really feel that life is
a mistake, and every renewal of it a pity, I
must plead guilty. What will happen in
this coming year ? how many hopes will
come to nothing ? how many happy young
fellows will wake up, as I woke once, to find
themselves ruined  not only in money, mind !
And these are only a small part."

And how much happiness there will be
too," cried Marjory : " how many joyful surprises
! how many deliverance of all kinds
how much cause to thank God ! "

Hugh looked at her, smiling to himself.


"It is a good thing to be hopeful, at any
rate," he said : " Were you anticipating all

this pleasant fortune, as you walked on in
that rapt sort of way ? "

I did not know that I seemed rapt," said
Marjory, blushing : ''I was thinking how
much this past year had brought to Gerald,
and to me : and how much more may come
in the next, if only I succeed."

The words had slipped out unawares.
Hugh took them up.

I wish I knew what you are so anxious
to succeed in ! "

 Why should you care ? "

'' Perhaps I am of an inquisitive turn of
mind. I have seen for months that you have
an object in life : and I guess "

'' Well ? "

'' Don't be angry ! I guess it is a literary
object."

Marjory hung her head in some confusion,
as she felt the scrutiny of keen eyes.

Not exactly," she faltered, with no more
"proper pride" than she had known eight
and a half years before.

'not exactly, because its ultimatum is
help for your Juggernaut, Gerald. You are
writing a book to get money for him."

At this plain statement of the fact, a
strange mixture of feelings swept over Marjory.

Partly vexation, partly shyness, partly
a sudden hopelessness of success. Her
ambition, thus embodied in words, by other
lips, sounded absurdly daring. How would
her poor venture seem, when tried in the
unsparing balance of the critics ?

"You are not offended?" said Hugh, as
she continued silent.

'' I don't know. I don't care that all the
world should know my private affairs."

"Am I ' all the world ?' "

You are a man of the world. This,
which I spoke of by mistake, concerns only
Gerald and myself."

Don't be afraid, I'm not given to gossip ;
and least of all could I gossip about you ! I
only wanted to say that, if I can ever be of
use to you, in this or any other matter, I
hope you will let me know."

I should not dare to show my writing to
you. I did so pity the authoress of that
book in your last review ! You see things ina
jaundiced light."

I hope you won't take me off in your
story ! "

Don't talk about it any more, please ! "
cried Marjory, imploringly : " No doubt you
think me ridiculously vain ! but I should not

dare even to dream of success, if it were not
for one hope."

'' You make me curious again ; but I will
ask no more questions."

A sudden thought struck Marjory. Should
she indeed succeed, in spite of all her ignorance
and inexperience, of the many chances
against her, might he not be forced to own
that God does answer prayer ? "

I will tell you what I mean," she said,
after a momentary hesitation. " I am praying
for success, night and day."

Is that your hope ?" said Hugh, With a
mingling of compassion and amusement :
If you choose to pray for the moon, then,
I suppose you will expect to get it."

I didn't tell you, to make you scoff, either
at me or at sacred things," cried Marjory,
pained : '' But you won't understand,  not
can't, but won't."

'' You do me injustice," said Hugh : '' I
had no intention of ' scoffing.' It is only
that I know what disappointment is, after
months of hope  hope bordering on certainty;
and I should not like you to know
the same."

It seems impossible, then, to you, that I
could write well enough to succeed ? "

*' Not in the least," said Hugli, warmly :
On the contrary, from my knowledge of you,
though I never had the honour of seeing
your writings, I should think it very possible
indeed that you might, in time, have great
success. Only mind ! it would be in time.
If you are counting on success at once, it is
a risk, to say the least. In publishing, the
first steps are hard to achieve at all, and, when
achieved, uncertain. Don't misunderstand
me : I say this only that you may know the
dark side as well as the bright one."

Thank you, that is very kind," said Marjory
: '' But I knew it all before ; and indeed
my heart would sometimes sink altogether,
if it were not for what I have told you. I
do hope  I may say, I do believe, that my
prayer will be heard."

"I prayed once," said Hugh. His face
changed, became dark and gloomy again;
a crowd of painful memories seemed to pass
like a storm across his mind.  "Yes, I prayed,
as you say you are doing, day and night, for
something that was life or death to me, and
the heavens were like stone to my prayer.
IVe given it up now."

Perhaps what you asked was not God's
will," said Marjory, gently*' God's will isbest."

But, even as she spoke, a sudden quiver
ran through her. Oh, what if that Will
should run counter to the desire of her own
heart ! But it must, perforce, be the Creator's
Will that the thing created should fulfil the
purpose of its existence ; and Gerald was
a Heaven-made artist. Thus by a rapid process
of reasoning, so often repeated that it
had now become habitual, the momentary
dread passed from her.

** Yes, yes, those hackneyed phrases  I
know them by heart," said Hugh, with something
of his old fiery impatience. " ' God's
Will,' ' All for the best,' and so forth. They
are easy enough to echo, and cost nothing :
no efibrt, no struggle, no heart's blood, drawn
by drops. You have heard them from childhood
upward, and therefore you accept them
as truths. It does not occur to you to question
their foundation ; I hope you will never
be forced to do so."

Forced ? " said Marjory.

*' Forced by some practical contradiction
of them, turning upside down your life and
all you had taken on trust in it. After that,
you might not be so positive in asserting
what you have not proved. I hope this will
never happen to you. But I can tell you,

all you peaceable religious people, ' there are
more things in heaven and earth than are
dreamt of in your philosophy.' "

No doubt," said Marjory ; '' I feel it.
Infinitely more. But nothing really, whatever
in appearance, to shake our faith in God."

Isn't there ? " said Hugh, half to himself,
still with that bitter smile.

'nothing; nothing at all. I am certain.
I would lay down my life for that certainty."

As she spoke, her eyes shone with that
half-inspired light which kindled them at
times  that light which had often strengthened
Gerald. She looked like a young enthusiast,
who would verily, as she had said,
lay down her life for her faith.

*' You put things in your own way," said
Hugh, glancing at her with a kind of gloomy
admiration : '' You have just the same old
stock of assertions as all other religionists ;
but they don't irritate me so much, from you."

'rand why should they irritate you at all? "
cried Marjory.

For the reason I mentioned. Because
most of those who utter them know nothing
of the other side. You yourself know nothing
of it. I don't suppose, though, that will
make much difference in the end."

*' Meanwhile, do you think it kind to 
shake my faith ?"

'' I am innocent of any such endeavour.
I merely said what occurred to me, in answer
to your remarks. That might not have
been ' kind ' exactly ; but I don't know.
Your faith may yet be shaken more roughly."

Have you any faith at all, Mr. Vivian ? "

' In the accepted notions of religion ?
ISTot much, I fear ; and what I have is negative.
For instance, I believe that the world
did not come from ' a fortuitous concourse
of atoms ;' but exactly how, or why, it came,
seems a mystery to me."

What a miserable state to be in ! I
don't wonder you are unhappy."

It is rather dreary, certainly," said Hugh,
with a dreary smile.

'' How did you get into it ?"

'' Ah ! that would be a long story. I got
into it through circumstances  the circumstances
which formed my views on Providence,
so horrifying to Miss Peele."

'' And to me too."

'' Yes, I see that. But I have had to toss
about the world as best I could ; and, if I
had been sure of the other side, I would
long ago have been out of it. There, I suppose,

was a bit of my negative faith : I
never did dare to take the final plunge.
But as to 'a kind Providence  any Being
who cared one atom whether I fought through
or perished like a dog ; or worse, how
many of my poor mother's nights and
days might be consumed in anguish unutterable
 I can't say I saw much sign of that."

'* We are told that we must ' walk by
faith, and not by sight,' " said Marjory.

Oh, yes, I know all we are told. But
meanwhile, unfortunately, we are blessed,
or cursed, by the possession of brains and
hearts  ingenious compounds of nerves and
other capacities. If those could be suspended
at will, ' walking by faith ' might be another
matter. But, as it is, when the heart compound
has endured to a certain point, the
brain compound cannot help beginning to
reason; to wonder why this should be; if
there be no way of stopping or alleviating ;
if an Almighty Power could not find a way ;
whether, if that Power be Almighty, it can
be kind ; if kind, Almighty : and so on to
questions more complicated than any one
who had not thought of them could imagine.
And the end of all that is, one does not
know what to believe; and one feels  at least

VOL. II. p

I feel  that the enigma of our existence remains
yet to be solved. The Sphinx derides,
if it does not devour, those hapless mortals
who attempt to solve it."

*' Do you ever read the Bible?" said
Marjory.

*' Not often now. I have read it."

'' And how did it strike you ? "

I believe it is a collection of very remarkable
books, written by various remarkable
men  enthusiasts chiefly."

*' Have you ever studied the evidences for
their inspiration, and weighed both sides ? "

I can't say that I have," said Hugh,
smiling.

"Would it not be worth the trouble to
study them, praying all the time that, if there
be a God," said Marjory, shuddering at her
own words, '' He will reveal the truth about
them to you? "

'' I am afraid of being duped. I have suffered
so much. I have gone down into such
depths  if there be a God, He forsook me.
I am afraid of coming to a false conclusion,
and having it all over again. I tell you, I
did pray," he repeated, gloomily : " I did at
least try to believe in prayer ; and it was all
of no use  and worse, because it misled me."

I can't tell what to say to all that. I
wish you would go to a clergyman."

'' Heaven defend me ! No, thank you,
I'll fight out my own battles. You don't
know half how bad or rebellious my spirit
is. Miss Stanhope. I am beyond the help of
any parson."

It did, indeed, seem that he was beyond
help and hope. Marjory was silent. For the
first time she realised man's impotence to
reach his brother's soul.

'' Don't vex yourself about me," said Hugh,
in a softened tone, as, observing the pause,
he looked at her, and saw the trouble in her
face : '* You are too kind to be happy, I fear,
in this world. I'm sorry I've been such a
fool as to talk so to you."

'' I wish you could be happy ! " said March,

I had settled down into a state
endurable enough  stagnation, calm at any
rate. I shall get back to it, I hope, some
day. I'll confess that seeing you has unsettled
me. Your face is so exactly the same ;
it has seemed to bring back old times, and
made me think of all that might have been,
and all I have lost  possibilities as well as
realities. Never mind. I am like a spoiled
p 2

baby, crying for what can't be. I stall get
over it soon."

He stopped abruptly, said '' Good-bye,"
and turned back across the wintry fields.

Marjory went on alone, pondering. She
could not fully understand bis last words.
"Why, as he uttered them, had his dark eyes
met hers with that strange, yearning, yet
bitter look? She ought not to feel this
attraction for him : it would surely be wrong
to admit him, holding such views on the most
sacred of all concerns, to any intimacy beyond
mere acquaintance ! And yet had he
not already  by virtue of old times, she
supposed  come to occupy in her heart and
interests a place far closer than that ?

Well, it would not do to Analyse ; she
only became thereby more puzzled as to
right or wrong. As to liking him, she could
not help it ; her pity for him amounted to a
passion ; and, so long as she continued that
nightly prayer, how could she feel toward
him as to a stranger ? The Saviour Who ate
and drank with publicans and sinners, would
surely not condemn her for not altogether
separating herself from this lost child of
His, this prodigal son who had suffered so
deeply.

And now lie seemed bound up with that
other object so near her heart  her work for
Gerald. They were linked together now.
She had seen that, but for his peculiar feelings
towards her, his full powers of satire would
have been brought to bear upon her presumptuous
hopes. If success were granted to
her, must he not be forced to confess what
she owed to prayer ? She remembered how
of old the Israelites went forth, few and
feeble, against mighty foes, and yet came
home in triumph.

In Thy lame, Lord, we go forth
against this multitude." Such was the feeling
in her heart.

Later, as she sat alone in the bright little
parlour, she thought over all the past year.
How it had opened at Rockswold, in the
usual monotony; Gerald far away in the
north, only a dream as yet. She had regarded
the outer world then as something in which
she had no part : that one quiet corner was
all she knew, except from books, of the great
universe. Now she was here, in the swarming
life of a city, surrounded by human beings
and their relics ; working, in the midst of
workers. The star of her hope had risen ; it
was rising still. She looked no more for

unclouded happiness, even in Gerald ; lie
had learnt of late that she must give up a
good deal, suppress a good deal, if she would
be to him, under present circumstances, half
that she had desired. But the fortitude
which had characterised her childhood was
strong within her now ; and she looked into
the coming months through the halo of her
purpose.

Was it not even possible that, when the
new year closed, she might be with Gerald
at Eome, in some quaint artist's lodgings,
such as she read of? Among such inspiring
associations, how well she could write, and
how much better her writings would succeed,
coming from Rome ! Lina would be here,
contentedly waiting till he could return to
bear her off in triumph ; and meanwhile,
Marjory thought, with self-reproaching happiness,
she would have him all to herself. It
would be over  the uncongenial work, the
hardship, the long waiting : only progress
would be before him. Marjory sat in the
window, alone, and without light save such
as the myriad stars imparted, gazing on this
blessed dream-land, and hearing the bells
ring out the old year.

They were sad, no less than sweet, those

bells. They told not only o joy, but also
of death and parting. But '' things always
turn out better than one expects," thought
Marjory : and so the old year died out. The
bells paused; the cathedral clock struck
twelve with its deep note : then out clanged
all the bells again,  and the new year was
begun.

CHAPTER XVI.

*' There is none like her, none.
And never yet so warmly ran my blood
And sweetly, on and on,
Calming itself to the long-wish'd for end.
Full to the bank, close on the promised good."

Tennyson.

An't Gerald was with Lin a. They were
sitting over the dining-room fire, in the house
at Albion Square, while here, as at the
cathedral end, the bells filled the air with
music. A midnight service was going on at
St. Philip's ; but Lina had a slight cold,
which she would not run the risk of increasing,
and therefore she remained at home.
Punctilious regard to health was one of her
points of conscience. She felt quite well,
however, and graciously acceded to Gerald's
request that she would see the old year outwith
him. So they sat by the warm fire,
hand in hand. At least Gerald held her
hand in a strong clasp, where she suffered it
passively to lie. A beautiful and shapely
hand it was : and always cool.

Gerald's heart and mind, like Marjory's,

were full of thoughts to-night. He sat long
silent, looking into the ruddy coals, and
clasping that hand which he loved.

'' This next year will probably decide my
fate," he said at last. His tone had a strange
solemnity.

Yes, if you find means to free yourself
from the bank, you will be, this day year,
with Mr. Harding. I quite expect it," said
Lina, in a matter-of-fact manner.

' I hope it, inexpressibly," said Gerald ;
'' but, if not, Lina  how then ? "

'' Is there any particular use in thinking
of that before the time ? " said Lina,
cheerfully.

*' How can one help it ? Lina, I hope I
have not been selfish."

Selfish in what way ? "

In asking you to bind yourself to me.
My whole heart was so full of you  perhaps
I did not give due weight to the other side.
I must not let you forget that, after all, it is
only a chance. I may be obliged to decline
Mr. Harding's osier, and go on here at the
bank."

You may. I am quite aware of that."

But, in such a case, how would it be, Lina?
Do you," he hesitated, and went on with

heightened colour  ''do you love me enough
to bear poverty with me ? or should you give
me up ? "

What would Marjory have done in Lina's
place, had she been Marjory still  only not
his sister, but his lover ? Would she not
have thrown herself upon his neck, and cried:

Better death than to give you up !"

But Lina pondered calmly, weighing the
question ; and finally replied :

It would depend on circumstances."

The blood rushed up into Gerald's face ;
he was silent, still looking into the fire. He
did not relinquish the unresponsive hand, but
his hold on it relaxed. Then suddenly he
clasped it tighter ; the light returned to his
eyes.

She does not love me, yet, as I love her.
But it will come," he thought :  '' I will
conquer her. I will make her love me."

'' If only I am not selfish towards you,"
he repeated, aloud.

"Certainly not," said Lina, reassuringly;
I have told you the same before."

'' The goodness of your heart makes you
say so."

Once for all, understand me, Gerald. I
never allow my heart to conquer my reason.

And in this special matter I am quite old
enough, and experienced enough, to judge
for myself. I have weighed all the pros and
cons. It is my belief, founded on observation,
not on fancy, that a distinguished career is
before you. We are both young ; I have a
comfortable home to wait in, and plenty of
work to fill up the time. Eight-and-twenty
is, in my opinion, quite soon enough to enter
on the cares of married life."

Eight-and-twenty ! " said Gerald, laughing
; " and you are just twenty-one. Seven
years ! Why, seven years seems an eternity.
I shall have a home for you long before then,
if I am to have one at all."

"Not so very long," said Lina, quite seriously
; ' I shall expect it to be five years, at
the least, before we can prudently begin."

Well, I am glad that you have made up
your mind to the worst ! " said Gerald,
smothering a sigh : "It is being on the safe
side at any rate. But, when 1 once get a
start, I shall not be long in making my way.
Only  suppose I don't get a start, Lina!"

We won't suppose anything of the sort,"
said Alma ; and with this he was obliged to
be satisfied.

There is something I have not yet

fathomed in lier," lie thouglifc ; " I wonder if
I shall ever attain to that sublime patience!"
Then again he was long silent, still holding
fast her hand ; and the bells rang on.

'' Perhaps a day will come," he said at
length  some New Year's Eve like this,
when I shall look back to this suspense as a
dream that is gone, and you will be my wife :
wholly my own for ever. I can hardly
imagine such blessedness; or that I could
feel it and live. Have you ever thought,
Lina, what a wonderful thing joy is ? I have
borne a great deal of trouble ; I don't know
whether I could bear joy so well."

'' It is better neither to allow oneself to
be unduly elated or depressed. The middle
path is the safest."

Can you always govern yourself so ? "

Certainly, if I make an effort," replied
Lina; "And I always do make the effort."

*'I don't know," said Gerald, thoughtfully ;
I doubt whether such matters depend upon
effort entirely. You are of a high, serene
nature, my darling; you are like an angel.
The heights and depths of this lower life are
alike beneath your atmosphere."

It is not that. It was my father," said
Lina  '' who taught me to be reasonable and

well balanced. You could learn the same,
if you would try."

'' At least I may hope to grow less unlike
you, when I am with you always. Meanwhile,
you must not despise me  only bear
with me ; and some day I will try to make
things up to you. Some day," he repeated,
rising, and pacing the room. ** If I win
fame and glory, Lina,  and I may  yes, I
may !  the chief joy will be to offer all to
you. I dreamed last night that some one
crowned me with a laurel wreath, and I knelt
at your feet, and laid it there, and left it."

"What a foolish dream ! " said Lina, not
ill pleased.

'' Perhaps less foolish than you think.
When I awoke, it seemed a prophecy."

One is often not quite oneself on first
awaking. You must not let yourself live forme,
you know. You must work, not for me,
but for duty."

That is the joy ! they will be blended,"
said Gerald : *' My wife and my duty will be
one. You will be, even more than now, my
guiding-star. What may I not become ! "

shark!" said Lina: 'the bells have
stopped ; the hour is going to strike."

Then the twelve strokes which Marjory

heard alone, pealed more faintly on the ears
of these two lovers. Not from the great
cathedral only : all the clocks, on all the
churches in the town, struck one after
another. The last farewell of the dying
year. Out clashed the bells again : they
had sped the parting, they must welcome
the coming, guest.

'' A happy new year to you, Gerald," said
Lina, rising. He came up to her, and suddenly
clasped her in his arms.

Let us begin it so," he said : " Close
together :  my darling  my beloved ! "

Lina permitted his embrace, passionate yet
reverential. His gray eyes gazed at her as
if he adored her ; well satisfied, Lina noted
their expression, which lighted all his face.
It was the face of a poet, of a divinely inspired
artist : of one whom the Gods love.

'* You are too vehement, Gerald," she
said ; but her tone was sweet and gentle :
*' And now you must just wish mamma a
happy new year, and go."

'must I go?"

Of course you must. Think of your
work tomorrow ! and I, too, am quite
sleepy : and then mamma must not be kept
up ! "

So they went, Gerald reluctantly enough,
to the drawing-room : where Mrs. Peele was
slumbering on the sofa.

Is it so late ? " she cried, starting to her
feet : ''I have been thinking of old times."

Dreaming of them, you mean, mamma,"
said Lina. Then Gerald wished her both in
one a happy new year and a good night :
and quietly took his leave.

Eut, an instant later, he reappeared in the
doorway.

** Lina ! one moment."

She went out to him in the dark passage :
and found herself again in his arms.

Do you know," he said, " suddenly the
thought came to me, ' Where shall I be
when another year begins ? ' and then I felt
that I must wish you good night once
more."

'' Good night, you foolish boy," said
Lina.

All the way through the streets, as he
walked home, the bells were ringing, the
stars were shining.

I shall be at Rome, perhaps," he said to
himself, answering that sudden question :
A thousand miles between us  and how I
shall crave for her ! But it will be paving

the way to have her always with me. I shall
look at those same stars, and think of tonight.


So he returned to his lodgings, and found
Marjory still up, waiting to wish him a happy
new year.

CHAPTER XVII.

Good name, in man and woman, dear my lord,

Is the immediate jewel of their souls :

Who steals my purse steals trash; 'tis something, nothing.

But he that filches from me my good name

Robs me of that which

makes me poor indeed."

Shakespeare,
i

"I SHOULD have thought," said Marjory,
that you were superior to the gossip of the
town."

*' It is one thing to countenance gossip,"
said Lina, '' and another to remain indifferent
while the name of one's future sister-in-law
is bandied about."

But, after all, what have they said ? "
cried Marjory, indignant and excited : '' Only
just that  that "

*' That Mr. Vivian is paying you marked
attention ; and that you do not repulse him.
This, in my opinion, is equal to saying that
you encourage him. In fact, he probably
takes your manner for encouragement. Just
hear me out, dear," as Marjory, crimson,

VOL. II. Q

and on the verge of angry tears, was about
to speak : '' Do not excite yourself. I will
tell you the facts of the case. It is remarked
that Mr. Vivian, who, before you came,
seldom went out at all, is now to be met
wherever you are invited. If you are not
present, he looks black, is barely civil, and
takes the first opportunity to escape ; if you
do arrive, he brightens visibly, talks to no
one else, and, in short, makes his feelings
universally apparent. Mind ! these are not
my own words  I am repeating what I have
heard, not from one alone, but from many.
I should have mentioned it sooner, only I
was afraid of putting notions into your
head."

Why, despite the unpleasantness of forming
a butt for the Alton gossips, did a sudden
thrill of wild joy rush through Marjory's
heart? If she guessed the reason, she did
not own it, even to herself.

Well, unless I altogether give up going
out, Lina, I really don't know how I am to
help Mr. Vivian's talking to me ; and if
people choose to interpret it so, I cannot
help that, either. You confess the worst
thing said of me, is that I do not repulse
him?"

Yes, I rejoice to say I have heard nothing
worse. You are popular, fortunately ; and
therefore you have not been accused of
flirting."

That is not the only reason," cried Marjory,
warmly : " I have not flirted with him,
or with any one ; and so I could not be
accused of it."

When you have more knowledge of the
world, dear Marjory, you will see that persons
are sometimes accused unjustly. I am
warning you only as a true friend. Lookers-on,
you know, see most of the game. If
there were no other objection to Mr. Vivian,
he is much too poor to marry ; and I don't
suppose that he has any prospect  like
Gerald  of increasing his income."

' Lina, do stop ! I hate it. I hate to
imagine and speculate on such objects. Why
will you go on in this way ? "

'* Because I think it is time that you
should decide in your own mind what attitude
you ought to adopt towards Mr. Vivian. I
do not say * wish '  but ' ought.' "

Oh, dear ! " cried Marjory, with a hunted

feeling : "I wish to adopt no attitude

towards anyone. I wish to be free, as I feel

at the moment ; and to take people as they

Q 2

are. I don't consider all mj conduct beforehand,
as if I were acting a part."

'' It might be better, if you did. In this
at least, I will try to make you consider. I
am really seriously afraid, Marjory, of some
entanglement between you and Mr. Vivian.
You are little more, in many ways, than an
inexperienced child ; and I regard myself at
present in the light of your elder sister. I
shall stand by you as long as I can'*

'' I would rather stand alone' said Marjory,
proudly.

Very probably ; but that is not desirable.
To save you from what might end in lifelong
repentance, I will tell you what I have
never before told anyone  even Gerald. It
seems that only facts will convince you."

The girls were walking towards a suburb
of the city  an uninteresting walk enough ;
but Lina had business with a dressmaker in
this quarter, and had called in the College
Yard on her way to request Marjory's company.
It was eleven o'clock on a frosty
morning ; Gerald was at the bank : Lina, in
making the request, had announced that she
had something to say. Marjory's heart began
to beat with passionate quickness. What
was she about to hear ? Was it anything

that must separate her altogether from 
but she must steel herself, and listen.

You have heard of my brother Richard,"
said Lina, after a momentary pause, paler
than usual, her head very erect, a proud
determination on her features : " Your affection
for Gerald has often reminded me of
mine for him. In looks I have heard him
compared to the Apollo Belvedere ; he was
like an old Grecian statue  tall, finely formed,
a beautiful face. He was exceedingly clever,
too ; but unfortunately he could not makeup
his mind in the choice of a profession.
After he left Oxford, he was at home for
some time, helping my father in the bank,
but otherwise in a state of indecision."

Be it observed that Mr. Richard Peele was
probably not the only person, born to earn
his bread, who has found it difficult to decide
how to combine a maximum of enjoyment
with a minimum of work !

He was much older than you, was he
not ? " asked Marjory.

Nine years. You will imagine how I
looked up to him ; and my father, no less
than I, thought him perfect. It was a blow
when he resolved to go to Australia ; but he
had a fancy for travelling, and my father

hoped that he would return some day, with
sufficient capital to settle down comfortably
at home. So we made all preparations for
his going, and  it will be six years ago, next
April  he bade us good-bye, and sailed, as we
believed, from Gravesend."

What a trial it must have been ! "

'' It was, indeed. We little knew that
worse was to follow. The month before, Mr.
Vivian had left Bullingham. His mother had
died in February, and he went in March :
disappeared, as I told you."

'' But what had that to do with your
brother ? "

'' Wait a little while ! There was a certain
Mr. Bulkley, a large shareholder in our
bank "

'' Mr. Bulkley ! I saw him at Thorne.
Poor Jessie was with his sister."

' Yes. He was exceedingly rich ; and
almost equally careless in money matters.
I often heard my father complain of his 
habits, and say that he might
be robbed three times over, and not discover
it till too late. The clerks were all aware of
this ; it was a proverb among them. No
one can tell what harm such a person may
do ! "

'' Mr. Bulkley would never do intentional
harm, I am quite sure. He was the kindest,
most generous old man."

'too generous : lavish, I should imagine,"
said Lina, coldly. " Well, a fortnight or so
before Eichard left us, Mr. Bulkley had been
suddenly summoned to his brother  another
oddity, like himself, from all accounts  who
lived at St. Petersburg. He was detained
some months in Russia ; first through his
brother's lingering illness, and then to wind
up affairs after his death ; and all that time,
I suppose, he never looked at his banking-accounts,
although they were forwarded to
him regularly. If only he had found out the
the  mistake, as he should have done, at
once, how much misery might have been
spared ! "

What mistake was it ? "

'' One day in the August of that year, Mr.
Bulkley called upon my father. They were
closeted together for a very long time. It
was in my holidays ; papa and I were just
starting for a walk, when this interrupted us.
I shall never forget my father's face, as he
came away from that interview. There had
been a robbery  " Lina paused for one moment;
afterwards her tones seemed more

distinct, as though she were forcing them to
calmness. " Several forged cheques had been
presented at the bank in Mr. Bulkley's name.
Some were for small, and some for large,
amounts ; the whole affair had been most
artfully contrived. The total sum came to
seven or eight hundred pounds''
How annoying for your father ! "
The whole business seems indelibly
branded on my mind. I shall never forget
what we felt concerning it, he and I. He
had always been unimpeachable as a manager;
everyone had depended on him, had
looked up to him. The bank directors honoured
him inexpressibly; there had never
been a blot, not on his name only, but on
his business capacities. And now for this
to happen ! He was most anxious that the
matter should be thoroughly sifted ; and it
was placed in the hands of detectives. The
forgeries were traced to  Richard."

Lina's voice did not tremble, her resolution
did not flinch, as these words were uttered ;
but no one looking upon her could doubt
how terrible such utterance was to her. A
momentary spasm contracted her features ;
her colour had faded; her lips were pale;
but she held up her head, like a queen defying
the world.

"Yes, it was proved' she went on, steadily,
looking straight before her : " We would not
believe it at first; but it was said to be
proved beyond a doubt. I did not understand
the details ; and now I cannot recall
them ; but even we were obliged to confess
that there was every cause for suspicion.
You have no lack of imagination, Marjory ;
I need not try to describe what this was tous."


Something beyond words," said Marjory,
whose heart ached in sympathy.

My father was always just and honourable
; it was his death-blow, but he made no
resistance ; he placed both Richard and himself
in Mr. Bulkley's hands. Mr. Bulkley,
however, remembered all his services, and
would not lay on him unnecessary shame.
He did his utmost to hush up the affair, refusing
to prosecute ; I need not say that my
father insisted on refunding the full amount.
There, as concerned the outside world, the
matter ended. Mr. Bulkley was as cordial
as ever, and made a point of being peculiarly
civil to my father."

Just like Mr. Bulkley  like my remembrance
of him, I mean : so noble and generous
! " cried Marjory.

'' But sadly lax. He was so easy, I believe
lie felt it no effort to pass things over. My
father lead written instantly to Richard ; and
we could not help hoping that he might be
able to clear himself  if not to the world's
satisfaction, at least to ours. We felt, as I
feel still, that the circumstances were not
fully known to us. But they may be discovered
yet."

The peculiarity of Lina's tone, as these
words were spoken, struck Marjory with a
vague apprehension.

'' What do you mean ? " she asked.

'' My father was firmly of opinion that
Richard was not the only one concerned in
the forgeries. Indeed, knowing him as I did,
I often think that his share may have been
infinitesimal, compared to that of another
person. We cannot tell how his kindness
may have been wrought upon; or perhaps,
even, the supposed proofs of his guilt were
raised on a false foundation. My father's
justice was so uniform that, even in behalf
of his own son, he would not have imputed
blame to any one, without good cause. Marjory,
the person whom he suspected, was Mr.
Vivian."

'' Lina ! "

*' I knew you would look horrified, but you
must listen a little longer. We were all in
such grief, that I was allowed to remain at
home for one quarter, instead of returning
to school. Poor mamma is not much of a
companion, you know ; and I was my father's
confidante. We went long walks together,
when he told me much that he uttered to
no other being. He spoke continually of
Richard, and the disgrace ; his mind was
full of it ; but he looked forward with increasing
hope to Richard's reply to his letter.
He felt, he said, sure that it would bring us
comfort ; perhaps Richard might even return,
and clear himself in person. My father had
begged him to spare no one from false
generosity, saying that truth, for all parties,
was best. Always, after talking about this,
I observed that his mind would turn to
Mr. Vivian. He would wish again and again
that he could obtain some clue to his whereabouts.
His extreme dislike, and even contempt,
for him were evident. One day I
inquired their cause."

'' What did he say ? "

'' He said, most emphatically, that he had
solid reason to distrust the young man, and
to think badly of his general character. Also

that, montis before, he would have been
publicly exposed, but for a weak leniency on
Mr. Bulkley's part. Papa could not tell me
the facts of that case, having promised Mr.
Bulkley  which he now regretted  to conceal
them ; but he felt that they fully justified
his present suspicion, which was heightened
by Mr. Vivian's disappearance."

'' Some day I will ask him where he was
at that time," said Marjory.

*' No doubt he would give some plausible
account of himself; but that would prove
nothing. Well, to go on : by Christmas time
we had begun to expect Richard's letter.
We had heard of the safe arrival of the ship ;
but no letter came. My father was almost
ill from anxiety. He went steadily on about
his work, hiding all he felt, lest it should increase
the harsh judgments on Richard. At
length we heard that an Australian mail was
lost; and this lightened the load a little.
Then I went back to school."

It must have been a terrible time."

*' It was, indeed ! A fever broke out at
school, early in the spring, and we were all
sent home. One day, about a week later, I
was reading in my father's study, when the
afternoon postman went by. Some minutes

later the hall-door opened; I heard papa
come in. He paused outside the study,
fumbling at the lock. I jumped up to open
it, and he entered, and crossed the room to
the mantelpiece. His face was flushed, and
strangely altered, drawn down on one side.
He rested his elbows upon the mantelpiece,
his head upon his hands, and said, without
looking at me : 

'' ' Lina, I have heard from Eichard ; his
letter has been sent to me ; he is dead  at
Capetown. The letter tells me all  I consider
it all owing to Vivian.'

*' He said this, Marjory, in a thick, confused
tone, and then fell down unconscious.
It was paralysis ; he was carried to his bed,
and never rose again."

Was he ill long ? " said Marjory, softly.

*' Ten days. He was never quite himself;
but he talked a good deal, and often very
connectedly. As I sat all day by his bed, I
heard much that I have treasured in my
mind. Again and again he would say such
things as these :  ' I knew it  I warned
Bulkley ; I told him it would be a bad precedent
 exposure was his duty.' Then, ' I
felt sure it was Vivian's fault  Vivian's fault
he ought never to have come into the

bank.' Or sometimes, ' Never mind, it shall
be known, Billiard; they shall hear your
excuse. It was a strong temptation.' That
particularly, I often observed: 'It was a
strong temptation.'

'' Once he was so coherent that I asked him
one or two questions ; but he only looked at
me, and said : ' It was as I suspected, Lina
that affair of Vivian's '  He never finished
the sentence."

But had he really heard from your
brother?"

'' Undoubtedly ; but one of our chief trials
was that we never found the letter. He was
not sufficiently himself to tell us where he
left it. I think now that it must have been
accidentally burnt, since he was standing close
to the fire."

'' Then you could not even know how it
was that your brother died at Capetown ? "

'' Yes. Enclosed in the envelope, which
we found upon the study floor, was a note
from a Capetown clergyman to my father,
breaking the news of Richard's death. It
said that he had been put ashore, from a
French trading-ship, two or three months
previously, ill of fever; that he had lain in hospital
ever since; that the fever was followed by

rapid decline, of which, in January, he died.
At first lie bad been most uncommunicative,
and had not given his true name ; but a fortnight
before his death his state of mind had
changed ; he had seemed overwhelmed with
grief, the cause of which he would not disclose
; and had written by degrees the letter
to my father, which the chaplain had sealed
in his presence,  although, by his own
request, it was not posted till after his
funeral. How he came to be on board a
French trading vessel, instead of, as we supposed,
in Australia ; or what had become of
his outfit and other possessions, we had no
idea. The chaplain mentioned nothing as
belonging to him. You may imagine how
earnestly we searched for the letter, and
what a bitter disappointment its loss was tous.
In a 'few days my father had another
stroke : after which he spoke no more.

Did you write to the Capetown chaplain?"


Mamma wrote, begging for more particulars.
My married sisters and I saw that
she asked all we desired. We had a very
kind note in reply; but he could tell us
nothing further. Richard had not spoken to
anyone of his private affairs. It was evident.

the chaplain said, that he had much on his
mind, but he would answer no questions.
About the same time my father's letter
to Australia was returned from the Dead
Letter Office."

' I cannot bear to think of such dreadful
sorrow."

'yet in some ways I now feel thankful
for it. My experiences of those months did
much to strengthen and mature my character.
I learned to stand alone, to command myself
in trouble ; for, during the whole time, we
had to show a brave front to the world.
Everyone, of course, had heard reports
about Richard ; we did our best to silence
them by our manner and conduct ; and in
this way many came to conclude that they
had no real foundation. I longed from the
first to leave Bullingham, and mamma would
have gone when my father died ; but I persuaded
her that it was best to stay till we
had lived down the storm."

And you were only sixteen ? " exclaimed
Marjory.

I was always old of my age ; and constant
intercourse with papa had given me more
wisdom than is usual. Before we came here,
the affair had ceased to be mentioned. But,

Marjory, it lias all made, as I said, an indelible
impression on me. The disgrace was
the worst part. It was hard to lose my father;
but his life had been blameless ; he died
respected by all, and I knew that he was at
rest. Besides, the loss of parents is in the
nature of things ; the blow must have fallen
some time, if not then. And again, Richard's
death alone would have been a great sorrow ;
but we should have got over it, as people do
get over bereavements. But the disgrace !
that was beyond bereavement. The blot on
our stainless name'*

She paused. In that face, usually so passionless,
the stab o wounded pride was
plain.

It had been our glory that ' a black
sheep,' so called, had never been known
among the Peeles. We could not boast, like
you and Gerald, of high ancestry. We were
always a middle-class family, and aspired to
nothing more. Our respectability was our
escutcheon ; and that had been unimpeached.
Marjory, it was the disgrace which killed my
father, and which sank so deeply into me.
And I have always felt, as I told you, that
part of it, if not all, might be wiped off, could
we know the whole truth. If ever an oppor-

VOL. II. R

unity soult come, Marjory, you may be
sure that Mr. Vivian will not be spared at
Richard's cost."

Hard, frigid, fixed in resentment  was
this the face of Gerald's angel, thought
Marjory ?

And lately  I will tell you all, while I am
about it  I have thought that I might find
a clue. Jessie Bellhouse disappeared from
Eipley a little while after Mr. Vivian left
Bullingham. It is evident that he knows 
or knew  something, painful to himself, concerning
her. In Bullingham he was penniless
; he and his mother lived in the poorest
way, in inferior lodgings ; how could he afford
to throw up his appointment, and go  no
one knew where ? We don't know how he
may have tempted poor Richard, to secure
his own ends ; or, on the other hand, how
craftily he may have contrived that the blame
should be thrown on one who, when discovery
came, would not be on the spot to defend
himself. I repeat, Marjory, that I owe it to
my own name, my father's name, Richard's
name, not to spare Mr. Vivian, if my suspicions
should ever be proved true."

She ceased ; and, finding Marjory still
silent, added proudly :

That is all. Only remember, I have
warned you to be careful how you are drawn
into increased intimacy with a bad man."

'' Lina," said Marjory, gently, after a
lengthened pause, " it pains me more than I
can tell, to think of all you have suffered.
But yet it cannot be right deliberately to
condemn Mr. Vivian when there is really no
proof that he was at all concerned in the
affair."

'there we differ. My father's word is
proof to me."

'' But it does not seem clear what your
father meant. That is a mystery. I think
we ought to be content so to leave it."

'' We shall never agree upon this subject,"
said Lina; "It may as well be dropped."

Have you told Gerald ? "

All this ? Certainly not. I have only
told you from a sense of duty."

May I tell him ? " asked Marjory.

'you may do as you like. To me the
subject is too painful to be gone all over
again ; and perhaps it is fit that he should
know the blot on our name."

Oh, Lina ! don't say that. Your name
is stainless."

"No," said Lina, firmly and proudly;
R 2

'' Not at present. It was stainless ; and it
may be so again. But that time is to
come."

Then, with an ease simply inexplicable to
Marjory, she passed to other subjects.

CHAPTER Xvii

"A growing fear possesses me,
An anxious thought distresses me ! 
'Tis but a look, a tone, an air,
And yet I wonder what is there ! 
Is it a cloud that's creeping up !
A dash of bitter in the cup ?

# # # #

Yet if I ask me what 1 or why ?
No ready words give quick reply."

John Jerninghams Journal.

As for Marjory, she was miserable, sorely
perplexed  indignant, yet afraid.

'' If I could know," she cried ; '' if I could
know the truth ! I may be deceived in him ;
and yet, I cannot believe it."

She was in her room alone as these words
broke from her; but solitary musing brought
to her no relief. She mistrusted her own
judgment, and felt that she could not rest
till she had talked all over with Gerald. On
Gerald's opinion she would rely. He would
be at least equally partial to Lina's side of
the question as to that of Hugh Vivian;
and yet he would not be unjust.

That very evening the opportunity came.
Lina was gone out to dinner ; and Gerald,
being not in a mood for work, settled down
with a book in the cheerful sitting-room.
Marjory established herself in her favourite
place at his feet, and poured out the whole
story.

He listened with deep interest : that interest,
full of sympathy and of intelligence,
yet silent, which was peculiar to Gerald. At
the end followed a pause of some moments,
during which he sat deep in thought. At
length he said, 

'' How she has suffered ! Oh, that I could
make it all up to her ! "

You think only of Lina, Gerald."

Who could help it ? " said Gerald,
colouring. " No one who knew her could
doubt what an awful blow this must have
been to her, especially when she had all but
adored that brother."

" You think, then, from the circumstances,
there could be no doubt of his guilt ? "

None whatever, it seems to me. You
say it was hunted out by detectives ; and
then  his pretending to go to Australia, and
the rest."  '' My poor darling ! " he was
adding in his heart.

*' But what do you think of the part about
Mr. Vivian ? "

Vivian ! That must be a mistake. If
there had been any evidence against him,
the detectives would have scented it, and
Mr. Peele would certainly not have hesitated
to expose him'*

'' Then why should Mr. Peele talk of him
as if he must have been mixed up in it ? "

I pity Mr. Peele more than I can express.
No doubt it was natural that he should catch
at any straw to excuse his son."

'' And you think that was all ? "

Anything real must have been discovered.
Mr. Peele seems to have had  or fancied he
had  some previous cause to distrust Vivian ;
but that proves nothing."

I wonder what that cause could have
been ? "

Something connected with Mr. Bulkley's
affairs, I imagine, from what you tell me ; no
concern of ours, at any rate, and long gone
by. If Mr. Peele were alive now, he would
no doubt confess that he had been wrong in
indulging such a suspicion, and still more
so in talking of it, though only to Lina.
But he must have been ill and harassed, and
his nerves unhinged by the blow."

I wish you would say this to Lina."

Why should she be reminded of all those
details ? I shall try to help her to forget
the whole business."

"Yes, if she only will. But she is relying
even now on those suspicions of her father's,
and hoping that some day she may succeed
in transferring the guilt to Mr. Vivian."

You put it in too hard a way, Marjory,"
said Gerald, warmly; "you mean, she cannot
help hoping that her brother's memory may
yet be cleared."

Cleared at Mr. Vivian's expense," persisted
Marjory; " that is her idea."

Well, it is natural that she should respect
her father's opinion. In any ordinary case,
his opinion was no doubt of great value."

"But, you think, not in this ? "

In this, at least, we have one rule : England
holds every man innocent till he is
proved to be guilty."

That is just what I feel, Gerald ; only 
it makes me nervous to remember what Mr.
Peele said after reading Richard's letter."

Of course, it is now impossible to know
his exact meaning. But when he said that,
he was on the point of paralysis ; we should
be very wrong to accuse Vivian, or anyone

else, even in thought, on no better
ground."

*' That is really your opinion ? "

It seems to me the only opinion possible
to any impartial person."

I wish Lina would think so," cried Marjory.


*' She will, in time. In such deep natures,
wounds strike deep ; and then consider her
faith in her father ! I have often thought
how beautiful that is."

I should hardly call it beautiful in this
case."

Gerald looked hurt.

* You are not like yourself to-night," he
said, with a vexed frown.

Dear Gerald, don't be angry  I will confess
the truth  I think Lina is unjust to
Mr. Vivian. It is Mr. Vivian I am thinking:
of ; I can't help liking him : you know I
have liked him for years and years. Whatever
his faults may be, I have felt sure that
he was kind and true  a noble character
wrecked by trouble, but perhaps yet to come
safe to shore. But if he were what Lina
thinks him, he would be neither kind, nor
true, nor noble,  but a coward, mean, and
cruel  to speak plainly, a blackguard altogether.

Lina believes all this of him ; and
she wishes me to believe it: and I  I 
cannot."

Her voice broke off on a sudden; but
Gerald could not see her face.

I don't know why you should vex yourself,"
he said, kindly. " If she be mistaken,
as I cannot but think, she will some day bethe
first to own it."

"And meanwhile ?" said Marjory, anxiously.

'meanwhile, you must agree to differ."

Marjory was silent. How could she make
Gerald understand the magnitude of that
difference ? She sat for a long time speechless,
gazing into the fire. The red coals
burned ; the clock ticked ; Gerald had gone
off into a dream.

Gerald," she said at last, " I
wonder "

'Lyell?"

'' I wonder if you really know Lina ? "

'' I have known her better every day since
our engagement," he said, with a sudden
glow ; '' And the more I know, the more
admirable she seems to me, and the less
worthy I feel myself of her."

A chill passed through Marjory's spirit 
the chill of separation, of a gulf beginning

to widen between herself and Gerald. She
must not speak out all her mind to him. She
dared not  would not if she dared.

*well!" said she, with a forced laugh;
I am glad, at any rate, that you don't think
it my duty to cut Mr. Vivian."

To me it seems much more your duty to
forget those suspicions, and thank God that
you have not to battle with them, as my poor
Lin a must. They are a temptation, to be
resisted."

You speak as though even to you it were
a temptation to hope he might be guilty ! "

Gerald paused : then, very quietly and
gravely  " It might become one in time," he
said, " if I dwelt upon it, in my longing to
clear her brother. But in that case my eyes
would be blinded, and I should not see facts
as they are. Now, let us try to put this subject
altogether out of our minds."

As he spoke, he turned resolutely to his
book. Marjory went to the piano, and began
to play snatches of airs, stray chords, remnants
of songs, just as they came to her.
Only music suited her present mood; she
could not settle to any occupation.

Every one was against him, she thought :
every one except herself  even Gerald. That

which he called a temptation, which to
Lin a seemed a duty, which to herself was
simply horrible  for Gerald it had attractions
! It was evident that he would be glad
if the dead man's guilt could be found to
appertain to Hugh Vivian. He was
nothing to any of them ; nothing, it
appeared, to any one in the world  only
to her.

As she listened to the wild sounds which
rang from beneath her fingers, it seemed
to her that life also is a medley of disconnected
notes, of discords that should be
harmonies, of melodies separately full of
beauty, but hateful in their clash. She had
heard, as from afar, of life's conflict; she
beoan to realize it now.

But gradually, as she grew calmer, she
felt comforted by Gerald's judgment, and all
the more from its variance with his feelings.
It would apply equally, she felt assured, to
those other suspicions touching Jessie, which
she could not bring herself to breathe to
him, but which had still, at times, a nightmare
power to trouble her. He would dismiss
them, as he dismissed the rest; and
her determination to despise them would be
strengthened.

Thus, as before, she fortified her faith in
accordance with her desires ; and awoke from
a night of youthful sleep, resolved to make
no change in her intercourse with Mr.
Vivian.

Chapter XIX.

Out of the mist into sunlight,

I have sent a white-winged shaft ;
Out from the shore on the ocean,

1 have launched a tiny raft."  Edith Flower.

Line said nothing more on the obnoxious
subject; and Marjory carefully abstained
from mentioning Hugh's name in her presence.
The holidays came to an end ; the little
boys returned; and the mill of work went
on busily as ever. In these days work was
Marjory's life; she was almost unnaturally
active. Her story was approaching its close ;
her characters were continually with her;
she saw their faces, heard their voices, felt
an intimate acquaintance with them and their
concerns. Meanwhile, the winter merged
into spring; the air was gradually milder ; the
elms in the College Green began to sprout ;
the grass grew, and brightened into green,
in the meadows beyond the river.

Marjory fancied, when she had leisure to
observe them, that Gerald's spirits were less
even than they used to be. He was not so

much with Lina, more frequently slit up
in his attic : often he lost himself in fits of
dreamy thought  not happy fits, judging
from his countenance. It might be, Marjory
fancied, that he was anxious about her book :
the supposition doubled her energies.

She seldom now spent an evening from
home ; her evenings were too precious !
Some invitations, however, she was obliged
to accept ; and sometimes she still met Hugh
Vivian. But whether the reports mentioned
by Lina had reached his own ear, or for any
other reason, he no longer sought opportunity
for tete-astute conversation. She
might, indeed, have feared that she had
offended him unawares, and she would certainly
have concluded that he felt for her no
peculiar liking ;  but that at times, looking
up suddenly, she met his dark eyes fixed on
her from some lonely corner, with an expression
which, though she did not fathom it,
quickened her heart, and sent the colour in a
flame to her cheeks. He always looked away
when their eyes met ; that gaze was clearly
involuntary, and not intended to attract her
attention. But she could not help thinking
of it afterwards, when she was alone at home ;
and then she would see it again, and again

would come the quick thrill and the rush of
colour. She did not know how much of
piquancy that recollection added to her daily
toil.

One evening, early in March, when the
wind was howling round the cathedral,
making strange wails and moans through
the arches and in the cranks of the ancient
doors, driving wild gusts of rain against the
windows, Gerald, painting alone, heard Marjory's
steps fly up the attic stairs,  she
burst in upon him, a large roll of foolscap
in her hand, crying :

'' Gerald, Gerald ! it is finished."

"Your story?"

I have this moment written the last
line. Can you listen ? I must just read the
end."

She sat down on an old box, as she spoke,
and began forthwith. In this final chapter,
she had felt " the spirit " strong upon her ;
and with her joy mingled a pardonable pride,
as she saw the impression produced on
Gerald. He had laid down his brush, and
was seated on an opposite box to her own.
As she finished, her eyes wandering from the
page to his face, he exclaimed : 

Marjory, it is beautiful ! "

Gerald ! that repays me for all."

** And now comes the tug of war ! I
wonder when our fate will be decided."

I must correct and copy the whole, you
know, before I send it off. But that work
will only be mechanical."

I do, indeed, hope for success now. Yes,
that last part is really beautiful. Just let
me see it."

He took the manuscript, became interested,
and pored over it for half an hour, while
Marjory, tired out, rested on her oars. That
half-hour seemed but five minutes to her, in
its multitude of glad visions. The wind
raged, and the rain beat ; in the intervals,
the river, swelled by recent floods, flowed
with a rushing sound. But Marjory heeded
nothing of all this. It was as though Eden
had dawned again in this dusty attic.

For a month from that day she worked
harder than ever, perfecting her task. Towards
the end she was visibly thinner and
paler ; and Gerald had often to compel her
to rest. But always at night she slept the
sweet sleep of girlhood, awaking refreshed ;
and by day she was constantly saying in her
heart :

God helps those who help themselves."

VOL. II. s

So, at the month's end, the book was
ready.

It was on a soft spring afternoon that she
set forth, with her own hands to post the
manuscript. Her publisher had been long
chosen  one whom, from literary biographies,
she knew to be merciful to young authors,
quick to encourage all that seemed worth
encouraging. A short note, requesting his
consideration, had been speedily written;
she walked swiftly through the busy High
Street, for once seeing, without observing,'the
conflicting streams of men, women, children,
each with an individual history, a separate
purpose in life. As she passed among them,
the names of great masters, whom Gerald
aspired to follow, were ringing in her ears ;
before her eyes was '' the eternal city," with
its halo of fame, and Gerald working in the
studio they had dreamed of.

Still thus absorbed, she reached the postoffice,
and went mechanically through the
commonplace matters of weighing and stamping.
Then, with reluctance, she had to leave
her precious burden to the tender mercies of
a clerk  since it was too bulky for ordinary
postage.

You will be sure that it goes ? " she said.

All right, Miss," said the clerk, transferring
his attention to another customer.
Marjory gave one more anxious glance, and,
with lingering step, passed back into the
street. Some one followed her. Looking
up, half startled, she intercepted an amused
twinkle in two dark eyes.

''So the great undertaking is launched ! "
said Hugh Vivian, shaking hands.

*' Mr. Vivian, you are very impertinent."

You must forgive me,  I couldn't resist
it ! I have been intensely interested for the
last five minutes."

I hope he won't forget to post it," said
Marjory, still thinking of the clerk.

'' I hope he won't be tempted to look into
it ! " returned Mr. Vivian : '' There would be
no saying what he might not forget, under
such fascination."

'' I wish I could think it were half so
taking ! However, if it will only sell, fascination
may go to the winds."

'' If I could secure a sale, it would sell by
wildfire. But you have scorned even such
small aid as I might have given ! "

I dare say that, so far from aiding, you
will hinder it some day, by cutting it up ina

reviews

2

Now that is too bad, Miss Stanliope.
More probably it will cut up me ! I shall
look out in it for a sinful quarter-master,
who had known better days."

'' I would rather not talk about the book,
even in fun*' said Marjory ; ''I cannot tell
you what anxiety, hope, and fear, are mixed
up with every thought of it. I dare not
realise all that depends on it ! that frightens
me too much."

She looked up with something of entreaty,
as she spoke ; and Mr. Vivian's expression
changed.

'* Well ! I wish it all success. I cannot
say more. If I had your belief in prayer,
I would join you in praying."

He pitied the wistful young face, which
told the old tale of the battle with the world
so often apparently a losing battle. He
felt a sort of anger, of despair, that such
earnest spirits should be left, as it were, to
their fate, to suffer with the guilty.

Perhaps you will believe in it some day,"
said Marjory, looking full at him, and smiling.
He thought that it was almost a heavenly
smile ; it seemed to rest his wearied heart.
The wistfulness had faded ; in its place was
a radiance not of earth. AVith that smile she

left him, saying a hasty " Good-bye," as her
rapid young feet sped away. He stood still,
and watched till she was out of sight; and there
was something almost of adoration in his eyes.

Marjory went straight on to the cathedral.
The nave was empty. She knelt down where
she could see that crowned figure who had
conquered, that other figure with face upturned
from his book. "Help me! help me,
God !  and glorify Thyself ! " she cried ina
passion of supplication. Gerald, and all
lie prized on earth  Hugh Vivian, and all he
might yet gain in Heaven  herself, her aims,
her longings, were bound all together in that
prayer. All in His Hands ! the Hands of the
Great Ruler, Who has said that He will grant
the prayer of faith. The spirits of men as
reeds under His control  He could bless her
labours, He could guide that publisher's
judgment. She asked no miracle : other
works, far inferior, had been accepted, sold,
had earned that precious money which she
could gain by no other means.

She had never prayed so earnestly before ;
she felt sure that God would hear her. Peace
was in her heart when, an hour later, she
rose at length, and went home. Yes, without
doubt, she must be heard.

In the course of a few days, arrived a
formal note, acknowledging the receipt of
her manuscript. That the final decision
should be delayed, was a relief; she waited
willingly, and rested. The Easter holidays,
suspending lessons for a fortnight, came at
the nick of time. Marjory quickly recovered
the strength impaired by her month's hard
labour ; and Mrs. Myers ceased to remark, in
dismay, that Miss Stanhope was growing
thin.

CHAPTER XX.

What a day it was that day !
Hills and vales did openly
Seem to heave and throb away
At the sight of the great sky :
And the silence, as it stood
In the glory's golden flood,
Audibly did bud and bud."

Elizabeth Barrett Browning.

During this period, as if to reward her spell
of toil, came a day, ever remembered by
Marjory as a halcyon day  though in after
times much saddened the recollection. The
brother and sister had long looked forward
to spending the Bank Holiday, Easter
Monday, upon the Shelburn Hills; an anticipation
only clouded by possibilities of cold or
wet. But nature favoured them. No cold
or wet marred this day : it was the perfection
of a day in spring  warm, but without oppression,
the atmosphere a joy to all living things.
The sky was one expanse of blue blue soft
and serene  as if unfolding a warm heart
above its new-born world. Gerald and
Marjory met Lina at the station, each armed

with various materials for employment.
Lina had a roll of lace work, designed for
sale in behalf of St. Philip's ; Gerald, his
sketching tools, also sandwiches and similar
provision for the outer man, in his knapsack:
Marjory had Carlyle's " Heroes'' Palsgrave's
Golden Treasury," and a little MS. book
in which to dot down any ideas suggested by
the hills.

The railway journey was short  too short
for Marjory. She sat in a corner of the
carriage, absorbed in the landscape, meadows
of fresh young grass, and hedges renewed in
bloom, little lambs frisking beside their
mothers, trees, oak and ash only in bud as
yet, the rest clad in spring's exquisite green
cottages, scantily sprinkled, with gardens
beginning to be gay, and orchards all in
blossom. Marjory was sorry when, after
some minor stoppages, the train steamed
into the Shelburn station. The platforms
were crowded with excursionists; the trio
threaded their way through a loud-voiced
and elbowing multitude, passed a throng
engaged in clamorous bargains with cabs and
omnibuses ; and went quietly on towards
the hills.

There, beyond the straggling houses and

climbing terraces of Shelburn, the hills rose,
grand and still. Changeless, above the world
to look at them raised the heart. The air,
too, was not like other air; it was life-giving,
fall of vigour. All the three felt ready for a
walk of fifty miles, as they started from the
station ! It was one continuous ascent : first
a road, bordered by villa-like houses, with
gardens, conservatories, and a general bright
air of well-being ; then the town, with its
fashionable shops  not one shabby or dingy
among them ; then bona fide hills, where the
party were beset by donkey-boys, vendors
of local photographs, and the like ; then,
leaving all these, a narrow sheep-path, winding
into loneliness and silence.

Here they scrambled on, the way at times
so steep, that all attention was absorbed in
maintaining a footing, until at length they
reached a spot where was no sight or sound
of man  only a stray sheep grazing peacefully,
looking up as they approached, and
moving a step or two, then pausing to graze
again. A knoll of heathery moss formed a
tempting resting-place, where, by mutual
consent, they sat down. The mountain air
made them thankful for the luncheon which
kind little Mrs. Peele had provided. The

limits of Gerald's knapsack alone lead
restrained her generous contrivance ; and, as
it was, Marjory exclaimed that this repository
must have changed into Fortunatus' bag, as
its stores were unpacked and spread upon
the grass.

It was a merry meal. Marjory chatted
wildly, in excitement and delight ; even Lin a
made one or two quiet jokes ; and to Gerald
all was elysium. Hunger and thirst appeased,
Lina took out her lace, and, leaning back
against the green hillside, applied herself to
her task. Gerald, full-length on the turf
beside her, rested his tired young limbs, free
for a while from cramping desk-work ; gazing
sometimes at her deft fingers, as the needle
sped to and fro, sometimes away, to the
surrounding loveliness. Marjory sat on his
other side, drinking in all the fair sounds
and sights. The grass was very short and
soft ; wild bees hummed over the thyme ; the
silent hill rose behind, and sloped below ; ina
narrow valley, far beneath, a wild brook
babbled over rough stones. Beyond it a
sterner hill towered, craggy and steep, a
mass of gray rock jutting at intervals from
the green, a coppice of young firs slanting
towards its base. Beyond, again, were other

hills  all around were hills, wonderful in
repose. What was it to them that '' the
busy world, a thousand ways," hurried below?
Their business was not to hurry, but to be
still, taking counsel of no man, fearing no
man. Between came visions of the surrounding
plain ; very fair, like the plain that
tempted Lot ; rich in meadow-land, in flocks
and herds, in orchards, in wood and water.
Amid these the tower of Alton Cathedral
rose afar, conspicuous in a small cluster of
spires and chimneys. Smaller towns were
dotted here and there in the blue panorama ;
and villages, with farm ricks, and curing
smoke rising like threads into the air. Marjory,
as she gazed, saw ever more and more
etherealized, as objects in a dream.

'' I can understand," she said, musingly,
the feelings of the old monks who shut
themselves in on some mountain, alone with
nature. One almost forgets, up here, that
one is in the world."

And worldly cares seem trifles," said
Gerald. " Why do we feel in our element, I
wonder, in peace and beauty like this,  and
yet have to wrestle our way down yonder
among smoke and sordidness ? "

*' All is rightly ordered," said Lina, sententiously.

" These things are meant to rest
us, not to live in."

"And the world is too full of work for one
to stay here long, contentedly," said Marjory
; ' Only I meant that I could understand
the old idea, selfish perhaps, of such height
and solitude being best for one's own soul."

*' One would soon lose all ideas in it,"
said Lina.

Oh, no  no ! " cried Gerald ; " Ideas
would grow here. In this stillness, one
could think."

*' And what would there be to think
about ? " said Lina. " We could hardly think
of this hill, for instance, or the sky, or the
plain there, for ever ! "

'' It would certainly be some test as to how
far our minds were kingdoms," observed
Gerald, smiling.

But if they were kingdoms at all, those
kingdoms would enlarge," said Marjory.

'' Suppose we were the first people in the
world ! " said Gerald, after a pause, " come
to life here on this silent hill-side, on just
such a morning. What strange imaginations
would visit us ! It would be just the place
to inspire a whole mythology."

Such a mythology as the old Scandinavian

one, perhaps," said Marjory. 'doesn't
it seem to you, Gerald, as if one could lookup
at these hills, and all but see one of those
mighty giants, resting after battle? And
there beyond, in the plain, when the sun is
setting, and bathing it in yellow light, might
be Asgard, the city of the gods."

"I see a vision now," said Gerald : " A
young man, with fair hair, flowing over his
shoulders, and wild eyes : he is looking out
from that height, towards Asgard. The
giants stole him from Asgard in his babyhood,
and reared him among them, until he
is almost a giant himself. But in soul he has
remnants of a god, and he is watching the
yellow light; and wondering why it makes
him crave, as though it were his home ? "

"How fanciful you are, Gerald?" said
Lina.

Her tone had something of affection, but
something also of superiority.

But I see it ! " said Gerald, with so intent
a gaze, that Marjory, half startled,
glanced in the same direction. Then their
eyes met ; and they laughed merrily.

Listen to the echo ! " cried Marjory.

The giants are laughing back from their
cave under the hill," said Gerald.

'' I propose," said Lina, " that we each
repeat a piece of poetry; to keep us from
talking nonsense."

The suggestion was favourably received ;
although scarcely, perhaps, from the motive
supplied by Lina. Gerald began with a
sonnet which, he observed, had been long at
intervals running in his head 

*' sing, clear Brook, sing on, while in a dream
I feel the sweetness of the years go by !

The crags and peaks are soften'd now, and seem
Gently to sleep against the gentle sky ;

Old scenes and faces glimmer up and die,

With outlines of sweet thought obscured too long ;

Like boys that shout at play far voices cry ;

sing ! for I am weeping at the song.
I know not what I am, but only know

1 have had glimpses tongue may never speak ;
No more I balance human joy and woe,

But think of my transgressions, and am meek.
Father ! forgive the child who fretted so, 

His proud heart yields,  the tears are on his cheek !"

Is not that by Robert Buchanan ? " asked
Marjory. " Do say it again."

Something in those last lines had brought
to her mind one who, indeed, was seldom
long absent there.

Father ! forgive the child who fretted so, 
His proud heart yields,  the tears are ou his cheek !"

Wlij, what an impressionable thing you
are, Marjory ! " cried Gerald, catching the
hand which she had raised to brush away a
sudden tear of her own. She shook her
head at him, and turned her face aside, that
Lina might not see.

"Do you know 'My Kate,' by Mrs.
Browning ? " asked Lina, quite unconscious.
'' 'Tis a simple little thing, but you may
like it."

She was not as pretty as women I know,
And yet all your best made of sunshine and snow
Drop to shade, melt to nought in the long trodden ways,
While she's still remember'd on warm and cold days 

My Kate.

Her air had a meaning, her movements a grace ;
You turned from the fairest to gaze on her face :
And when you had once seen her forehead and mouth,
You saw as distinctly her soul and her truth 

My Kate.

Such a blue inner light from her eyelids outbroke.
You looked at her silence and fancied she spoke :
When she did, so familiar, yet soft, was the tone,
Though the loudest spoke also, you heard her alone 

My Kate.

She never found fault with you, never implied
Your wrong by her right, and yet men at her side
Grew nobler, girls purer, as through the whole town
The children were gladder that pulled at her gown 

My Kate.

None knelt at her feet confessed lovers in thrall,
They knelt more to God than they used  that was all;
If you praised her as charming, some asked what you

meant.
But the charm of her presence was felt as she went 

My Kate.

I wish I could know some one just like
her," said Marjory. Gerald appeared to
marvel at his sister's obtuseness !

Sometimes angels are entertained unawares,"
he said, dreamily gazing at Lina.

Such heroines are more plentiful in fiction
than in real life, I fear," observed Lina, in
her matter-of-fact manner ; "I learned the
piece at school. Now comes Marjory."

The other day I read a little translation
from Uhland, which took my fancy wonderfully.
Gerald, I wish you would illustrate it."

Well, let me see whether it takes my
fancy, too," said Gerald.

Marjory paused a moment, looking towards
the plain. When she spoke again, her voice
had an undertone of almost passionate sympathy.


In a sunlit garden walking,
Two lovers go hand in hand.
Two shadowy forms, uot talking,

They roam through the flowery land.

They sit 'neath the trees together,

They kiss on the hands and mouth,
They clasp in their arms each other 
And back come their health and youth.

Two little bells ring shrilly 
The vision is gone and fled ! 
She lies in the cloister chilly 
He far on his dungeon bed."

All were silent for a moment or two, when
the pathetic young voice had ceased. It was
like a discord clashing upon music, when
Lina impassively inquired :

Where can be the use of writing, or reading,
such a melancholy thing ? "

Is it melancholy ? " said Marjory ; " what
an idea that is  of spirits meeting in a dream !
If it be really possible, what an assurance of
immortality ! "

' I trust that we need no such fancies to
convince us of our immortality," observed
Lina.

Marjory glanced at Gerald. It seemed to
her that he winced ; but he said nothing.

The party were soon on the move again,
exploring and resting by turns. The day
sped by like magic. When the bells of Hepburn
Abbey Church rang out five o'clock,
even Lina was taken by surprise. A band

VOL. II. T

was playing in the distance, as they went back
down the hill ; the long horn-blasts wound,
mellowed, through the still air. The herald
glow of the spring sunset pervaded all things,
and made the sky, as Marjory had said, like
Asgard, city of the gods. Through the windows
of the railway carriage, Marjory watched
it, kindling trees and meadows, transfiguring
quiet sheep and homely cottages. But before
the short journey was ended, it had given
place to the first subdued tints of twilight
; and the air was growing chilly.
The trio felt all quite ready for the comfortable
dinner which awaited them at the house
in Albion Square.

CHAPTEH XXI.

O God, God ! The great floods of the soul
Flow over me ! I come into deep waters
Where no ground is !"  Arthur dough.

'' I WONDER when you will hear from that publisher,"
said Gerald, one morning.

The Easter holidays were over ; it was a
month since the manuscript had departed :
but the delay caused no alarm to Marjory, 
she regarded it as a favourable sign.

'' A refusal would have come long ago. He
is considering the matter. I feel more hopeful
every day."

'' I am the same," said Gerald, smiling.
You have infected me ; at least I have
more hope now, than fear."

Marjory laughed for very lightness of heart,
as she went off to her little boys. The three
hours of steady teaching did not sober her ;
when they were over, she ran back with the
same joyous step. In the doorway of the
sitting-room stood Priscilla, a letter in her
hand.

T 2

'' If you please, ma'am, I was just bringing
this," said the high-pitched voice. " The
postman overlooked it."

Upon the flap of the envelope a name was
stamped. The answer was come at last.

Marjory passed on into her own room,
closed the door, put down her books, and
paused. Now that the die was cast, she
dared not open this cover where her fate lay
hidden. The distant roll of the town came
through the open window ; the soft air stole
in, stirring the blind. Marjory could hear
her own heart wildly thumping; her hand
trembled as she severed that ominous flap.

No.  , Paternoster Eow,

May  , 18.
Madam,

*' We beg to thank you for the offer
of your manuscript, which we regret that weare
not able to accept. We trust that you
will pardon our delay, caused by an error.
The manuscript is this day forwarded, per
rail, to your address.

* We are, madam,

Yours obediently,

Was the world the same  was the sky the
same  was she herself the same girl as one
half-hour before ? Oh, what a sudden blow !
forth moment dulling all sensation,  what
a heavy cloud, blackening all life ! Where
could she go to hide herself and the note from
Gerald ? Gerald would be at home very soon.
She thought of his countenance as she saw
it last  the shadow lifted, the look of hope ;
his voice, with that cheerful ring in it, sounded
in her ears. Instinctively she snatched up
her hat and jacket, crushed the letter down
into her pocket, and went out. She could
not face him.

Quickly, past the cathedral, to the towing-path,
she sped on by the river-side, towards
Heathcroft. Her heart and mind were filled
by a blank despair ; all that she had relied
on seemed to have vanished, snatched from
under her feet. She was alone in a sea of
doubt, amazement, misery. She had made
a mistake, a life and death mistake. All
this time she had thought that God was supporting
her, was giving her hope and courage.
Had He not pledged His Word to answer
the prayer of faith ? and had not she faith ?
blind, unquestioning  which had been deceived,
awfully deceived.

Where was God ? Where ? Had he heard
her, indeed ? What did those Words in
which she had trusted, mean? Was all a
mockery ? Oh hollow world ! Oh, coldly-smiling
sky ! Oh for a voice, a hand to help
her ! On and on, beside the ever-flowing
river, she went, past the warehouses and
factories, past the stream of human beings
who met her, one after another, one after
another. Surely each of those faces had a
stamp which she had never observed before ;
care  anxiety  sickness  sorrow  hardly
one was utterly free. She thought of Hugh
Vivian. She was very near him now, very
near the black floods which had engulfed
him. She heard their roar; she saw their
hopeless depths. Where was God ? How
could she live without Him ? She had
trusted in His Word ; and she had been disappointed.
The world might say, " No wonder!
" might call her fanatical, presumptuous ;
but her guiding-star had not been of the world.
Far beyond that cold, hard world, that star
had shone : had it shone only to deceive her ?

All this while, to passers-by, she looked
like one walking with an object  hurrying,
perhaps, to keep some painful appointment.
She was pale ; a blank despair had chilled

the blue eyes usually so radiant. Presently,
she had reached Heathcroft, following a
narrow path which skirted the railings, enclosing
a wide space destined for hay. To
her left flowed the river, passing her  away,
away. The human beings were left behind ;
here was only the still grass, slowly ripening.
She paused under the friendly shade
of a great tree which stood alone on the
bank. Two hours ago, those fresh young
leaves, musical with the hum of busy insects,
would have spoken to her of joy, of hope, of
never-failing renewal. But now nothing was
joyous, nothing hopeful. As she rested
against the trunk, her heart was like a stone
within her. ,

Oh that she could plunge into the water,
and be hidden, while the world went by
above, and took its own course  which she
had no power to alter. To lie still and forget
her pain ! and perhaps Gerald would
work his way without her ; and if she knew
anything in those depths, she would know
some day, it might be, of his fame. Such
wild thoughts flitted through her brain,
followed at length by tears ; she had never
shed tears so bitter. There was no healing
in them ; they were but misery embodied.

Presently, through their mist, she became
aware of an advancing figure ; a moment
later, she saw that it was Mr. Vivian, in his
quarter-master's uniform. He had distantly
recognised her, half an hour ago, as she
passed below the militia drilling ground ;
and the instant that he was free, yielding to
an attraction which kept him always hankering
for her presence, he strolled down to the
river, pursuing the path by which she had
disappeared. Now, as he approached the
tree, he saw her fair hair shining in contrast
to the gnarled old trunk, her face at first
hidden, as in uncontrollable grief. He was
about to turn, and go back in silence ; but
at a second glance, he paused  hesitated 
went forward.

Marjory looked up, met his eyes  those
kind, dark eyes of a vanished fairyland ; "a
flood of thoughts *' rushed over her at the
sight ; she turned away, struggling for self-command.


'' Marjory  Miss Stanhope ! " said Hugh
Vivian, with a quick movement towards her,
but instantly drawing back, his hand falling
to his side, and clenched with an iron firmness.
" Can I  how can I help you ?  what
can I do?"

*' You can do nothing," said Marjory, low-but
passionately; " Please go."

But  but I can't leave you like this.
Are you sure ?  I would do anything  anything
in the world ! "

Through all her wretchedness, his tone
brought the blood to Marjory's cheek, and
quickened her heart.

Forgive me  I don't mean to be impertinent
; but couldn't you tell me what is the
matter ? Indeed, I might find some means
to help you."

Tell him ! and how would he answer ?
Would he not say : '' It is as I foretold.
Prayer ! that old woman's fable ! Did I not
warn you that it would prove a broken
reed ? " Yes ; thus he would say in his heart,
if not aloud. And she had hoped to convince
him, to prove to him his error. How could
she tell him, and sink him lower ?

'' No," she said, looking towards the

river : '' I must bear it alone. At least "

she paused, and her eyes, still wet, had unconsciously
a wild appeal : "I and Gerald
must bear it. If I could but keep it from
Gerald ! "

She mastered herself by another strong
effort ; then glanced at Hugh, trying to smile.

*' Never mind," she said, as he still stood
watching her, with a look as of some struggle
at work within his own breast : "You are
very kind; but don't trouble yourself. Please
go home ; and forget all this."

'' And you  where are you going ? "
'' I must stay here for some time longer 
till Gerald is safe in the bank again. I cannot
meet him yet ; he knows nothing of this
trouble."

But you will be faint from want of food."
Oh, no, I shan't ; I can wait. I shall sit
down and rest."

She turned as she spoke, nodding goodbye
to him, and went on a little way  only
a little way  for she felt almost worn out.
Very soon she sat down, as she had said, on
the bank of the river. It was very still ; all
the Alton folk who were not at work, were
at dinner or luncheon ; she sat in a stony
quietness  not weeping any more, only thinking.
Now and then a water-hen splashed,
or a fish rose and made a circle ; birds chirped,
insects hummed, a cow lowed in the distance.
The sky looked very blue and soft, amid a
rippling of gentle little clouds. On the surface,
peace and beauty ; beneath, misery and
conflict : that was life, thought Marjory.

Ste did not know how long she had been
resting, when quick steps came down the
grassy footpath ; and here again was Hugh
Vivian, flushed and breathless, still in his
uniform. He knelt on one knee beside her ;
and before Marjory, taken by surprise, could
speak, a paper of sandwiches and a little flask
of wine were unfolded, and laid in her lap.

Mr. Vivian ! How did you get these ? "
she cried, as he rose, and, pausing, looked at
her with the kind smile that she remembered.

'' I have not stolen them ; so don't suspect
it," he said, lightly : '' I went up to the town.
Now, at any rate, you won't be famished."

"But how good of you ! and how quick
you have been ! how could you manage it so
quickly ? "

'' Well, I ran part of the way ; you see I
was short of time,  and now I am due at
the depot."

He was off* before Marjory, between confusion
and gratitude, could utter another
word ; only turning to cry :

Mind you eat every one of those sandwiches
; or I shall find some way to punish
you."

A real smile came in reply ; and her heartfelt
a little, very little, lightened. It was a

commonplace matter enough ; yet it recalled
to Marjory that cherishing tenderness of
devotion which had charmed the child of
nine years before, in Mr. Hugh's intercourse
with his mother. As the food and wine
refreshed her, her thoughts recurred again
and again to his long walk  run, rather  of
two miles each way, through this heat, and
in his heavy uniform. Afterwards she felt
less utterly cast down ; a spark of the old
fire revived and stirred, though feebly, among
its ashes. She sat long by the quiet river,
thinking, thinking. It might be that this
disappointment had been sent to " try her
faith." She had read much in religious books
of such trial, without perhaps deeply considering
the meaning of the phrase. Perhaps
this temporary failure was only intended
to enhance the joy when the blessing came
at length !

All at once she started to her feet. A
sudden thought had struck her. She would
go herself to the station, fetch her parcel,
and send it straightway on another venture ;

and she would say nothing to Gerald.
   

Well, Marjory ! You are a nice young
woman. I come home late for dinner, and

find only Priscilla, who informs me that
Miss Stanliope is out. I dine alone ; then
wait to the last moment  but no Miss Stanhope
! I began to think you had gone back
to Eockswold.

I only went a long walk," said Marjory,
smiling faintly.

You are tired to death, I can see. I
hope you had your dinner comfortably, when
you did come home. And now I've something
to tell you: I've heard from Mr.
Harding ! "

Oh, Gerald ! What does he say ? "

"Marjory, you shall go no more such
walks. Do promise ! You look quite ill,"
said Gerald, anxiously.

*' Never mind  I want to hear about Mr.
Harding. I'm only tired, Gerald dear," she
added, as he looked at her, still anxious, and
somewhat puzzled.

Well, you mustn't do it again, mind !
Here's the note. It is to remind me of his
proposal. I was half afraid he might forget,
but he seems really to wish to have me."

Marjory contrived to smile once more ; but
the effort to speak seemed to choke her.

I need not send a decided answer till
September. That gives us plenty of time.

you see. Long before then you will have
heard from the publisher. I think, after tea,
I'll go down to the Square, and show the
note to Lina."

"It is very kind," said Marjory, handing
it back. She longed to be alone ; her spirit
was sick with a deadly sickness.

*' Perhaps next spring," said Gerald, looking
out  " Marjory, who knows ?  I may no
longer be cooped up at a desk, through all
this heavenly weather."

No ; you may be free. I hope it  I do
hope it," was all that she could answer.
Within herself, again she was praying that it
might be,  that it might be.

When the next spring came indeed, Marjory
remembered sitting there, and breathing that
agonized petition in her heart, while Gerald
gazed into the calmness of the evening.

CHAPTER XXII.

Ruins ! Ruins ! let us roam
Through what was a human home,
What care we

How deep its depths of darkness be ?
Follow! follow!
* * *

Ruins ! Oh ! ye have your charm ;
Death is cold, but life is warm ;
And the fervent days we knew
Ere our hopes grew faint and few,
Claim even now a happy sigh,
Thinking of those hours gone by."

Hon. Mrs. Norton.

It was she very weather for a pic-nic, declared
Mrs. Carberry,  moreover, the very
time  just as the militia was disbanded. A
pic-nic was accordingly arranged by her for
the day following the review, about a week
after Marjory's poor story had again gone
forth to try its fate. The officers were all
invited  some of the younger ones postponing,
solely on this account, their return to distant
homes. To meet them mrs. Carberry collected a
large party, the Peeles and the young Stan-hopes
among the rest. A ruined castle, some

six miles from Alton, was the rendezvous
appointed, whither it was decided to drive
in the morning, returning by water at night.
Mrs. Peele would chaperon Marjory ; Gerald,
with a fellow clerk, was to row up the river
after bank hours.

When the carriage, lent by some friend of
the Peeled drew up in the College Yard, it
proved to contain not only Mrs. Peele and
Lina, but Mr. Throckmorton, whom Mrs.
Carberry, through divers manoeuvres, had at
length triumphantly secured. Foolish Marjory,
always living for Gerald, seeing with his
sight, feeling with his feelings, felt a sting of
vexation, as she remembered that the carriage
must have passed the bank, and that Gerald,
like herself, had perhaps observed Mr. Throck-
morton and Lina deep in conversation.

'' Welcome, Marjory ! Now I shall have
some one to speak to," said Mrs. Peele, as
Marjory, very fresh and charming in her white
dress and brown straw hat, came to her place
in the carriage.

Why, mamma ! what a poor compliment
! " said Lina.

Not at all, my dear. I never presume to
interfere with you and Mr. Throckmorton, 
you have so many important subjects to

discuss. Yery proper, I am sure ; but meanwhile
I shall enjoy a little chat, less elevated,
with Marjory."

You'd better turn into an orphan,
mamma, and then they would attend to you,"
observed Johnny Peele, from the box. '' I
forgot, though  you are one already ! so, if
I were you, I'd claim my rights."

*' Johnny ! " said Lina, severely.

You must forgive me, Mrs. Peele, if I
talk shop too much," said Mr. Throckmorton,
with a pleasant smile. " One seldom finds
so congenial a companion in Church matters,
as Miss Peele ; and perhaps I presume upon
this."

Not at all not at all," said Mrs. Peele ;
"I'm sure I never meant my trivial remark
to be noticed," she added, nervously; for
Lina was regarding her with rigidity.

'isn't it a lovely day?" cried Marjory,
changing the subject. " The first of June !
I hope the whole month will be the same."

One can hardly expect that," said Mr.
Throckmorton, smiling again at the eager
girl. Something in his tone made her look
at him more closely than before ; and, as she
looked, she ceased to wonder at Gerald's
sensitiveness concerning him. His face was

VOL. II. u

very kind, self-controlled, earnest  thin and
a little worn, but with an air of rest to-day,
as if he were glad of his holiday, and meant
to make the most of it.

How you must enjoy getting out into
the country for a few hours, Mr. Throck-
morton !" said Mrs. Peele. " Those horrible
Branksome back streets must be so trying
in this weather."

'' And yet I don't know that I could have
a much worse trial than to be offered a
country church," said Mr. Throckmorton.

A trial ! " exclaimed Mrs. Peele.

'' Because I might feel, or fancy, that I
ought to accept it ; and life in the country
would be very painful to me."

'' But why ? " said Mrs. Peele.

*' For one thing, from the stagnation in
church affairs ; and, for another, I could not
get on without plenty to do."

But would not you have plenty to do ? "
asked Marjory, with diffidence.

"As to that," said Mr. Throckmorton,
smiling again, *'I suppose one might make
plenty anywhere ! But this would seem
strange to me, fresh from the problem of
how to keep the work from treading on one's
heels."

Yes, it would be sad indeed for you
to be thrown away on the country ! " said
Lina.

Marjory was of a different opinion ; but
took it not upon her to speak.

*' I suppose the military element will muster
strong to-day," said Mr. Throckmorton, byway
of passing to lighter topics.

*' If you call the militia military," said Lina.

'' By-the-bye, I hear that they will have to
find a new quarter-master," said Mrs. Peele.
** Mr. Yivian is going to leave Alton."

Marjory exclaimed involuntarily, then cut
herself short. Lina refrained from more
than a glance at her.

It is merely a report, mamma. We have
no authority to state it as a fact."

Well, my dear, I heard Captain Morris
lamenting it at the review ; and saying that
the whole regiment regretted it."

*' There must be some good stuff in
Vivian," said Mr. Throckmorton, who was
chaplain to the militia. " He has certainly
the power of attaching people ; the men of
the regiment are devoted to him."

** That is hardly desirable, I should fancy,
his opinions being as we know them," said
Lina, coldly.

u 2

I have never found that he tries to spread
his opinions," said Mr. Throckmorton.

What a blank there would be when he was
gone, Marjory was thinking ! Would their
paths ever cross again, in the desert of the
world ?

At Mrs. Carberry's gates had gathered a
motley throng of vehicles ; a large break,
rapidly filling, a high dog-cart with a freight
of young officers, a wagonette, Mr. Car-berry's
barouche and pony-carriage, and two
or three open flies. Mrs. Peele's party drove
into the midst of a tumult of chaff and
laughter, greetings and introductions.

So delightful to see so many young
friends ! " Mrs. Carberry was reiterating.


'' My dear, have we got all the hampers ? "

'' I don't know, I'm sure ; ask Baker,"
said Mrs. Carberry. " You good Mrs. Peele,
here you are ! And my dear Lina too ! We
could not enjoy anything without Lina. And
dear Marjory Stanhope! Oh, and Mr.
Throckmorton ! That is an honour. Truly
kind. Welcome all."

Jack," cries a young lady ; " where's my
sketching-block ? "

Mrs. Carberry," says another, '' we've

brought our croquet set. There's a capital
flat place in the old banquetting-hall."


'every well, my dear, anything you like !
We'll take another set. Baker ! a box of
croquet ! Captain Andrews, you promised
to bring Mr. Vivian  faithfully, faithfully ! "
cried Mrs. Carberry, shaking her finger at
the dog-cart.

If I could get him, I said, Mrs. Carberry ;
and I couldn't get him."

You naughty man, I wish I hadn't trusted
you ! " said Mrs. Carberry.

The whole party were quickly in motion,
a gay cavalcade, exciting interest among foot-passengers,
and followed for some distance
by a train of street-boys, cheering and shouting.
Soon they had reached the country
lanes, making strange clatter in the quiet
places. All things were beautiful, with the
beauty of early summer. It was too early
for wild roses ; but the hedges were white
with may; the scent of lilacs floated from
cottage gardens ; and the orchards were pink
with apple-blossom. Suddenly there was an
outcry, and a clamour of voices.

< Why, there he is ! " '' What a sly dog you
are, Vivian ! "  and, from Mrs. Carberry 

"You naughty fellow, to steal a march upon
us in this way ! '*

Hugh Yivian was walking leisurely along
the foot-path. He stopped at the cry, and
looked up, laughing, raising his straw hat.

I'm sure you ought to be much obliged
to me  or the horses ought. They are pretty
well laden, as it is."

No, no, nonsense ! get in, Mr. Vivian, I
beg ! " cried Mrs. Carberry, her hand on the
carriage door. " There is abundance of
room, indeed."

'' Thank you, I'd rather walk. I shall be
there almost as soon as you are. I know of
a short cut."

So, with many waving hands and nodding
heads, they passed on, and left him behind.
But Marjory had seen him look from carriage
to carriage, until his eyes met hers. Lina
had seen the same ; she glanced at Marjory
again ; and, this time, her glance spoke
volumes. Marjory did not much care ; it was
with a strange mixture of joy and pain that
she drove on through the peaceful landscape.

Presently the road, crossing a bridge,
turned to follow the windings of the river :
overlooking which, on rising ground, appeared
the hoary pile of ruins. The castle had been

of JSTorman architecture, commanding a wide
view of the surrounding country. One massive
tower still remained in good outward
preservation, although ivy had almost choked
the loopholes which lightened the winding
staircase within. To the left of this tower
the massive gateway, once containing the
portcullis, and still almost intact, framed
in the further view of ancient halls and
chambers, laid open to the light of day.
Their floor was now the green grass, their
roof the sky ; and the walls, which had once
seemed eternal, were slowly crumbling.

The carriages drove into the field which
sloped from the grassy ditch, once the moat,
to the river, and disembarked their load.
The silent place was soon dotted over with
gay figures, and resonant with mirth, as the
whole party mounted the hill, and passed
beneath the gateway into the ruined court.
Lina walked beside Mr. Throckmorton, Marjory
with Mrs. Peele.

*' How dreary ! " said Mrs. Peele, looking
about her with a shudder, " I should be
frightened to death to come here at night ! 
or even by day, alone. And one feels as if
the walls would tumble on one ! "

"It is solemn," said Marjory. She paused,

looking up and around. These walls, grand
in decay, seemed alive, though dumb. A
presence, indescribable yet real, encompassed
the place.

*' I wonder what the old barons would say,
if they found us making free of their fastnesses
in this way?" observed a young lady.

They would invite you all to luncheon,
I feel sure," said Mrs. Carberry, waving her
hand to where the servants were spreading
cloths and unpacking hampers. " I have no
scruple in using their dining-room ! "

Meanwhile Mrs. Peele had been joined .by
an acquaintance, and Marjory stole away
alone. Her mind was busy in the far past,
amid possible scenes enacted in this very
spot, centuries upon centuries ago. She
tried to hear the voices, to see the bygone
forms ; she wondered it should seem so hard
to realize that they had been.

'* You are in your element, aren't you?"
said Hugh Vivian, at her side. '' You can
dream and moralize as much as you like
here  plenty of material ! "

I didn't see you come," said Marjory,
colouring.

"I came this way," said Mr. Vivian, pointing
to a low archway in her rear; *' Just

beyond lies the entrance to the turret staircase,
which is wonderfully complete, leading
up to a small octagon room, once some lady's
bower. I'll take you there, after luncheon,
if you like ; it has a glorious view."

You know this place, then ? "

Rather ! " he said, smiHng. " As to that,
there are few places I don't know about
Alton. I might turn cicerone to the county,
perhaps, if other trades failed."

Luncheon ! Luncheon ! " cried Mrs.
Carberry, tinkling a little bell. "Mr. Vivian,
you seem bent on surprising us ! I had no
idea you were arrived."

Really I had no idea that I was of
sufficient importance for Mrs. Carberry to
notice whether I arrived at all  much less
the exact moment," said Hugh, as he moved
towards her.

"You not of importance ! Naughty man !
when you know quite well that, seldom as
you deign to oblige me, I think no party
complete without you."

I ought to feel highly honoured, I am
sure," said Hugh.

Sit down, then, and make yourself
agreeable. We are all dying to hear whether
Mr. Carberry is right in saying that these

interesting ruins were built by an ancestor
of your own."

I believe lie is," said Hugh, carelessly.

Every romantic young lady of the party
gazed with new interest upon him. Marjory
gazed also, in surprise.

*' To think of your never telling us ! "
cried Mrs. Carberry.

Was there any particular reason why I
should tell you ? " inquired Hugh. *' I give
you a hearty welcome to my former domains,
if that is your desire."

'' Hugo de Vivian, elder brother of the
de Vivian who settled at Copeland," said
Mr. Carberry, from the end of the long table.
At the name of Copelandss, a slight shadow
crossed the present Hugh Vivian's brow.
It passed in a moment ; he looked up in
answer to Mrs. Carberry.

'' Yes  that branch of the family was here
till the Wars of the Roses, when the castle
was taken by Yorkists, and the baron killed."

'rand wasn't there some romance?" said
Mrs. Carberry. " The Baron left a baby son,
who eventually married "

His second cousin, the heiress of Cope-lands,"
said Hugh, as all looked to him for
reply. " He was smuggled off to Copelandss

by an underground passage, when the castle
was stormed ; and the family there adopted
him."

And so he got the Copelandss estate  a
splendid one in those days," said Mr. Car-berry.
" If he fell, he fell on his legs, that
youngster ! He was not without compensation."


Hugh's silence plainly signified that he
found the subject distasteful ; whereupon
several tongues, which had been painfully
mute, snatched their opportunity, and the
conversation became general. Marjory's
neighbours did not find her an entertaining
companion ; she had more than ever to think
of now, as she looked at the ruined
walls.

For the rest, as always in Mrs. Carberry's
parties, care and sorrow seemed like things
of a dream ; she certainly had the knack of
banishing their outward aspect. Chatter,
merriment, and flirtation, was the order of
the hour. Luncheon over, indefatigable crop
hastened to plant their hoops ;
chaperones pitched their camp-stools, and
sat down to fancy-work and gossip; sketchers
hunted for picturesqueness ; others explored
the ruins ; a musical minor canon produced

a portfolio of glees, and enlisted a party for
their performance.

Meanwhile Hugh, escaping from Mrs.
Carberry, repeated his proposal to shew
Marjory the view from the turret. She had
a consciousness of Lina's eyes bent on her
from afar, and knew that a lecture was in
store. But if he were going indeed, she
might never more be with him in this way.
She would be happy while she coukl, she
thought in a kind of desperation. Without
so much as a glance at Lina, she strolled by
his side, towards the archway.

The staircase, once vaulted, was now
unroofed like the rest ; and although on the
side of the banqueting-hall, the wall rose to
great height, on the other it was partially
ruined, revealing, far beneath, a network of
chambers, with here and there rough steps
leading down to dark hollows  cellars or
dungeons. Marjory, with her fancy for adventure,
enjoyed the climb, aided on occasion by
Hugh Vivian's strong hand. Presently they
emerged on the octagon landing-place of
which he had spoken. In front the stonework
had crumbled away ; a vast extent of
country lay open. They might have thrown
a pebble into the river, as it flowed immediately

below them; they could trace its course,
a silver thread," far on through the well-clothed
meadow land. At some distance, a
singular feature in this pastoral landscape, a
tall chimney rose, surrounded by low buildings.
Around these, for some space, the
trees had been felled : even here, their forlorn
aspect was evident.

That is Copelandss," said Hugh, quietly.

Marjory could not answer. She could only
gaze, her eyes filling, a choking in her throat.
She saw again, as if with physical sight, the
fair mansion of other years ; its park sloping
below it to the river, its woods flanking it in
summer glory.

Do you see how the trees have been
butchered ? I remember, just about the
time when you were a child at Thorne, I
fancied that my father was too reckless about
the timber, little guessing what was to come !
I never knew, in those days, that he wanted
money ; he let me have all I asked for, and
I squandered it without any thought. If you
were there now, you would find a great bare
place, dotted with hideous sheds and huts,
the grass gone as well as the trees. That is
a ruin of the present age, as this of the past.
I fancy, if my old ancestors could come back

to their castle, the sight would pain them less
than it would pain my father and mother to
rise, and wander back to Copelandss."

This world is a strange mystery' said
Marjory.

*' You have found that out at last ? Yes,
Copelandss is done for ; and there is Thorne,
the same as ever, and no one of the name to
inherit it ! Do you see it ?  that white
gleam among the trees."

And the gray church tower. Yes, it all
looks just as I first saw it from under the
sycamore tree on the Alton-road."

'' After Copelandss, there has been to meno
place like Thorne," said Hugh, musingly.
'' Even now I feel the better for standing
here, and seeing it in the distance. But I
must try to cast off this foolish clinging to
old associations."

"It is true, then. You are really going
away?"

"Yes, I am going. I have thought of it
for some time ; and now I have made up my
mind. This very morning I sent in my
resignation."

Oh ! " said Marjory, blankly.

She felt vaguely that a chilling change
was coming upon her life ; that the assertions

which she had read and heard of earth asa
desert drear " were true ; that joy was a
passing dream, after all. She stood silent,
gazing towards that place so long her Eden.

'rand you will stay on here, I suppose,
with Gerald, and marry some fascinating
Alton parson, who will teach you to look
back on me, if at all, with a pious horror."

'' I don't suppose I shall ever marry," said
Marjory ; " I never think about marrying."

"You are something of a child still, I
verily believe ! but every year you will grow
older. Well, I hope, at all events, you will
have a happy life, if I cannot. I hope I
have not taught you to mistrust happiness?"


Why do you say that ? "

"Because I have noticed in your face
sometimes, of late, a kind of response to my
gloomy speeches, which is new to it. You
must not pay any attention to my experiences
of life ; very likely yours will be quite different.
I fear I have been wrong to talk in
such a manner before you."

No ; I have liked you to talk freely. It
is not that  we must all have troubles of
some kind."

I hope that special one of yours has

blown over?" said Hugli, after a slight
hesitation.

I  I don't know," said Marjory. Her
tone was less hopeful than she intended.
Raising her eyes, she met his own, looking
down on her with real solicitude. It struck
her suddenly, that she would lose a true
friend when he was gone.

*' How soon are you going ? " she asked,
somewhat abruptly.

'' I can't tell ; I suppose it will depend on
how soon they supply my place. Shall you
ever think of me, I wonder ?"

''I thought of you often at Eocks-
wold."

'' And your thoughts now will be just of
the same kind, I suppose. Well ! I ought
not to wish them otherwise. Never mind,
we'll talk no more about my going ; it is a
hateful subject to me."

'' Then why will you go ? I have heard
that the militia will be so sorry to lose you."

"The fact is, 1 ought to have gone months
ago," said Hugh, sternly. " I have been a
fool, and if I stayed I should be worse. There
is no help for it but going."

' And where ? " asked Marjory.

Where ? I haven't thought of that. Too

far to come back. You and I will probably
never meet again."

I hope we shall meet in Heaven, some
day," said Marjory.

A vague prospect ! "

It need not be vague."

"Vague or not," he said, with sudden
passion, " it cannot save me from the craving
to be with you here."

The words had escaped him ; they were no
sooner spoken, than he coloured hotly, even
to the roots of his hair. Marjory, with quick
instinct, seemed not to observe him, and
turned in another direction.

Some one is calling me ! " she said.
"It is Lina's voice. We had better go
down."

All right," said Hugh, shortly.

He led the way, and she followed  the
descent, more difficult than the upward climb,
precluding conversation. Below, Lina, detached
from her satellites, was perambulating
the court, in search of Marjory.

How can you be so imprudent ? " said
she, low but censoriously, drawing the girl
aside ; "I have far more regard for you than
you have for yourself."

'* I don't know what you mean, Lina," said

VOL. II. X

Marjory. " Don't come with me  let me go
-I want to be alone."

She shook off Lina's serene hand, and
darted away, as an arrow from a bow. Hugh
Vivian had disappeared, and Lina, having
effected the separation, made no attempt to
detain her. She ran off, round an angle of
the ruins ; a low wall stretched before her ;
she passed through a gap to its other side,
and sat down out of sight. Here tears, of
which she knew not the source, came thick
and fast ; the whole world seemed bitter.

*' How can I live with Lina ? " she thought.
'* How can I stay at peace with her ? Either
I must cramp myself up into something that
is not myself  unutterably icy and narrow 
or else we must be constantly disagreeing.
And Gerald adores her ! I must choose either

to be separated from Gerald, or to  to

Well, it is better that he should go away !"

He " did not mean Gerald. The look in
her eyes, the throbbing of her heart, the crimson
on her cheeks, were not for Gerald. She
felt a wild craving, a consciousness that she
had it in her to give up everything  Lina's
good opinion Lina's ? that was a small
matter!  the whole world's  all that she
had ever cared for, short of Heaven  only to

be near him, to comfort him, to cast in lier
lot with his ; here, or at the antipodes, it
mattered not.

For the moment, she had a glimpse of her
own heart. She shrank from it, trembling.

X 2

CHAPTER Xxii.

"0 cold one, and I round thee
Revolve, round only thee,
Straining ever to be nearer
While thou evades still,
Repellent still, O cold one.
* * *

The inevitable motion
Bears us both upon its line
Together, you as me,
Together and asunder
Evermore. It so must be."

Arthur H. Clough.

When the scattered party reassembled for
tea, the hush of evening was stealing over
the place. The cows in the field below the
castle were being driven home; the birds
were gathering to their nests, the bees to
their hives. The deep blue of the sky was
softened ; the ivy on the ruins was stirred
by a gentle breeze ; the prevailing spirit
seemed to have inspired the wood-pigeons
of a neighbouring coppice, so full of rest
was their cooing.

'but where is Mr. Vivian?" said Mrs.

Carberry, surveying her flock with small,
benevolent eyes.

'*I forgot to tell you, my dear he is
gone," said her husband. *' He commissioned
me to make his apologies, as he could not see
you at the moment."

"Oh, but how ungallant!" cried Mrs.
Carberry. " Why did he not wait to help in
escorting these young ladies ? "

He had business at the depot," said Mr.
Carberry. "You know even young ladies
must yield occasionally to business, my dear."

Even, it appears, the one young lady
whom Mr. Yivian does not consider beneath
his notice," observed Miss Return, in a
pointed aside, intended for Mrs. Carberry
alone. But Marjory, at a little distance,
heard no less plainly, and bestowed inward
benedictions on an awkward boy who, at this
instant, spilled his tea over her dress. The
slight bustle thus occasioned might account
for the blush she strove vainly to repress.

Is that Mr. Vivian anybody in particular?"
asked a loud-voiced girl, a stranger in
Alton. " He seems an awful swell."

Eight years ago his family was one of
the first in our county," said Mrs. Carberry,
in a sepulchral voice.

A fact that lie never forgets," observed
Miss Hepburn. " He can be pleasant enough,
when it suits him ; but he has always the
heavy swell air."

Poor, poor fellow ! his reverses have
been great indeed," said Mrs. Carberry, still
exceedingly sepulchral.

' Is not your pity rather lavish, Mrs.
Carberry ? " said Lina, who sat opposite
Marjory. " People have seldom any but
themselves to thank for reverses of that kind."

Oh, my dear Lina ! is there no such
thing, then, as misfortune ? " cried good-natured
Mrs. Carberry.

Persons are self-indulgent and extravagant,
and attribute the result to fortune,"
observed Lina.

True, true, every word ! " cried Mr. Car-berry,
from the other end of the table. " But,
surely, a little severe for so young and
charming a judge ! "

Our dear Lina is somewhat misanthropical
just at this moment," said Mrs. Car-berry,
nodding and making signs. '' Never
mind ! I feel sure it is all right, my love,"
she added ia a stage whisper to Lina.
'' Baker ! do go and see if there is any
token of a boat."

Lina turned sublimely away.

Oh, by-the-by ! Surely Gerald should
have been here ere now," said Mrs. Peele to
Marjory.

Marjory looked across at Lina, wondering
if it were any subject of real concern to her
whether Gerald came or not. Gerald himself,
as Marjory knew, had for days looked
forward to the quiet hour among these
picturesque old ruins with his idol, and to
the homeward row afterwards in the cool.
Lina was listening to Mr. Throckmorton,
who was recounting old traditions of the
neighbourhood.

'' A colony from the monastery at Evesham
 " Marjory heard. '' Part of the chapel
is still perfect."

Ten minutes later she became aware that
various enthusiastic young ladies were beseeching
Mr. Throckmorton to take them  
somewhere ; she had not caught the word.

We shall have time, Mrs. Carberry,
shan't we ? Oh, it will be so nice ! "

'' Plenty of time, my dears," said Mrs.
Carberry, '' if you don't go rhapsodizing, and
forget that daylight won't last for ever. Mr.
Throckmorton, I can trust you, I know. It
will do if you are back in an hour."

'' Where are tliej going ? " asked Marjory.

I thought you were somewhere in the
clouds. Miss Stanhope ! " cried Miss Return,
with a significant laugh. "So you never
heard Mr. Throckmorton's description of the
dear, delightful, old, ruined chapel in the
fields ? He is offering to take us all over it,
and explain its history."

Throckmorton, you won't be mean
enough to leave us behind ? " said one of the
young officers. " I vote we make a party of
it, and hear him hold forth."

Let the party be as large as it will," said
Mr. Throckmorton, pleasantly, " so long as
we don't forget what place we are going to
see."

Marjory looked at him with growing
respect, as he turned again to Lina, in Avhom
alone he appeared to find congenial company.
A general movement followed ; every one
left the table; and Mrs. Carberry's voice
arose, lamenting loudly, as at this instant
Gerald appeared.

'My dear Mr. Stanhope, come at last ! How
can I express my apologies ? Here have we
finished tea without you ! but really we had
all but given you up. And where is good
Mr. Allen ?  no  naughty Mr. Allen ! for

he is not with you, I see. What ! walked
all the way ? No !  Lina, Lina, come here. I
commission you to scold Mr. Stanhope. Here
has he walked all the way ! "

Gerald, very hot and tired, was fresh
from a series of contretemps. First he had
been unusually detained, burning with suppressed
impatience, in the bank ; then, when
at length he and his fellow-clerk had hurried
to the quay, they found their boat gone on
in mistake, with those bespoken by Mrs.
Carberry, and no other disengaged. It was
growing late ; and Mr. Allen, who had no
Lina to attract him, fought shy of the long
walk ; therefore, Gerald had come alone,
fearing the while that he might, after all, be
too late to row his divinity home. He had
forgotten the existence of tea, and had tasted
nothing since his mid-day chop at an eating-house.
Now, as his looks made evident, he
needed both food and rest.

You are sadly tired, dear Gerald, are
you not ? " said Lina. " Foolish boy ! why
did you come, when the boat was missing ?
You should not have attempted it."

Never mind," said Gerald, smiling. " I
would do it again, six times over, for the
same reward."

Yes, this was amends for all ! How
beautiful, how cool, calm, sweet, she looked !
only to see her was refreshment.

'all's well that ends well," cried Mrs.
Carberry, bustling about the table. '' Now,
come and refresh yourself  Baker, the claret-cup
! or here is cider-cup, if you prefer it.
Boiling water, Baker !  Lina, my dear, I
must turn over the tea-making to you.
Mrs. Peele and I have to compare notes in
this new stitch."

Mrs. Carberry thought herself very clever
in thus paving the way for the lovers to meet
in comfort. She and Mrs. Peele would sit
near, to appease propriety; and, Gerald's
hunger satisfied, there would still be time to
steal away for a brief ramble among the
ruins. She was thinking sentimentally of
very old days, when she and Mr. Carberry
had been glad of such small opportunities ;
and Gerald felt quite affectionate to the good-natured
lady. She had turned to Mrs. Peele
as she spoke ; he and Lina stood alone beside
the table.

"Baker is an excellent tea-maker," observed
Lina. " Mrs. Carberry shall commend
you to his good offices. The chapel party
are just starting; and I must go."

The chapel party ! What chapel ? " said
Gerald, blankly.

'' A ruined chapel, half a mile on, formerly
served by a branch from the monastery at
Evesham. Mr. Throckmorton has promised
to escort us. I shall find you quite rested
when I come back."

'' And then it will be time to start,  and
I shall have seen nothing of you ! Why did
you think I came ofi* here, in the heat and
dust ? Lina, I was counting the minutes 
and now are you going off with all those
people?"

'' I cannot lose Mr. Throckmorton's information,"
said Lina, with that quiet feature
of her character which she mistook for firmness.
" You are unreasonable, Gerald ; but
it is owing to your fatigue. Here, sit down,
and Baker shall make your tea."

What do I care about tea ? " said Gerald,
passionately. '' I shall come with you."

He hastily filled a glass from the claret-cup,
and drank it off.

There, that's all I want," he said bitterly.
'' Now I'm coming."

'' I think it is very imprudent," said Lina,
with a serene expression.

Then, stay with me, darling," he said,

his tone changing to entreaty. "Dearest
Lina, stay nth me, and let us have one hour
at least together among all this beauty ! Or,
if you like it better, I'll take you to the
chapel ; only let it be alone,  let us wait a
little, till all this crowd are gone."

My dear Gerald ! We see plenty of each
other at Alton. I would not for the world
lose this opportunity of valuable information."

Yery well," said Gerald, proudly.

Lina glanced at him in gentle concern, and,
murmuring once again the name of Baker,
repaired to Mrs. Carberry. A moment or
two later, Gerald became conscious that this
worthy lady was pirouetting about him, and
talking  he did not hear what she said.
The chapel party were walking away, in a
business-like manner. Gerald watched them
as figures in a play; Mr. Throckmorton's
long black coat and clerical wide awake  the
young men in their light summer suits ; the
merry girls. Lina had vanished in the crowd.
Off they all went, across the grass, in the
still evening air ; soft hues were deepening
in the west ; a blackbird was singing among
the ruins. Baker, the excellent tea-maker,
appeared in an archway, with a kettle of
boiling water.

What ! No tea, Mr. Stanhope ! No tea ?
Oh, let me persuade you. You will really be
quite exhausted,  tired Nature cannot endure
for ever. At least some cold chicken and
claret ! "

But Gerald refused everything. Mrs. Car-berry
would have suspected a lovers' quarrel,
only that he smiled, and was unusually pleasant,
chatting  a little at random  upon
casual subjects, with her and Mrs. Peele.
She had never before seen the dreamy, silent
young fellow so generally agreeable. She
did not know that he had but little notion
of what he was saying. He wanted only,
by a proud instinct, to hide his pain from
the world. Presently he said that he would
go and scramble about by himself. Mrs.
Carberry suspected a secret rendezvous, and
signed and nodded, somewhat to Gerald's
surprise.

He was resting, half leaning, half sitting,
against a gray old buttress, a strange fire
glowing on his cheek, and lighting his eyes,
when near him, a little timidly, a voice
said" Gerald ! "

He glanced in its direction, and saw Mare

Gerald, don't be vexed  I followed you.

I saw what happened ; at least, 1 guessed.
Gerald, pray don't be unhappy ! "

'* Unhappy ! what does that matter ? I
don't care about that. It is "

He stopped short, looking out over the
fields.

' I'm not a baby, Marjory  nor a mere
lovesick boy. I have borne plenty in my
life ; I hope I can bear plenty yet. But it
is the fear lest I have been mistaken that
drives me mad."

Mistaken in  in her ? "

Don't ! " he exclaimed, starting up suddenly.
'' I must battle with this thought !
I can't stand it  it's a fancy of the devil.
Marjory, you're very good ; but I must fight
it out. Go back  I'U come soon  go to the
others."

As he spoke, he turned from her, and
strode away ; and she was left alone by the
buttress. Of all the varied emotions of the
day, this was the most painful  this heartache
for the brother whom she loved. She
felt like a bird in a snare, which sees its
young ones taken, and flutters, and strains
its wings, but cannot reach them.

When the missing party came streaming
back over the fast-closing daisies, they were

all somewhat subdued, fresh from the combined
influences of the sacred ruin and Mr.
Throckmorton ; who, all unconscious of the
storm that had raged in his absence, looked
full of meditative calm. Lina had expected
to find Gerald watching, slave-like, for her
return ; but it was not until five minutes
later that he came up in another direction,
and, without noticing her, proceeded to relieve
Mrs. Carberry of various unimportant
items which, for reasons not easy to divine,
she had seen fit to bring ; and to transfer
them, from the camp-stools and stones where
they lay strewn, to a capacious bag.

Gerald, dear, how sadly imprudent you
have been ! " said Lina, at his side. " Mrs.
Carberry tells me you would eat nothing."

It would have choked me," said Gerald,
shortly, " Lina, I have something to say to
you."

Can it be that you were so childish as
to take offence because I did not make your
tea ? "

Now then ! Now then ! " cried Mrs.
Carberry' s voice. " Young people all ! You
will every one catch cold. Not one will
escape. There will be a perfect hospital
tomorrow."

They trooped away, like a flock of sheep,
to the river, where the boats were waiting.
One after another, as it was filled, pushed
off. Marjory went in a large " four-oar,"
with a merry party, who did her good despite
herself, distracting her attention. The river
was like a poem, she thought ; a bright sunset
glowed behind the trees, and cast crimson
reflections on the water. The oars sped
lightly with an even splash ; from the banks
came more decided music  the notes of
sweet birds, welcoming the hush and cool.
The rich glows faded into softer lights ; the
evening star shone out ; the moon rose.
Some of the party struck up a round, which
rang with unwonted clearness over the water.
Marjory preferred to listen, sitting in the
bows, in a dreamy stillness which, after the
burden and heat of the day, seemed rest
unutterable.

Meanwhile Gerald, far behind, was alone
with Lina. It had been arranged, the day
before, that Mrs. Peele should accompany
them ; but Mrs. Peele, being pleasantly engaged
in conversation, had forgotten this,
ensconcing herself in a larger boat with her
friends. She remembered when too late,
and looked back in perplexity at the receding

bank ; but seeing Gerald in the act of assisting
Lina's stately footsteps into the boat 
which seemed to her alarmingly small  she
supposed that all was right, and congratulated
herself on her safer position.

Lina, however, had no desire for a tete-tete
with Gerald. She would rather have
left him alone to recover himself, as, in her
mind, she expressed it. But while she looked
calmly around her for Mrs. Peele, that little
lady, at some distance, was embarking.

'' Mamma has gone on, I see," said Lina,
with perceptible annoyance.

"Yes, I am glad of it," said Gerald. " I
should have no other chance of getting you
alone."

Lina made no reply ; and they were presently
on the river  Gerald sculling in so
leisurely a manner that the other boats were
soon out of sight.

'' That peep would make a pretty sketch,"
observed Lina, looking towards the bank.
I shall come again, and attempt it, some
day."

Lina, I told you that I had something to
say. I shall be glad if you will listen, and
take it in."

She glanced at him, struck by his tone,

VOL. II. Y

and met this gray eyes gazing on her, not
with their usual adoration, but deep in
thought  thought not untouched by sternness.


*' Do you love rae ? " he said abruptly.

Is that all ? " she returned, smiling
serenely : for this question seemed only a
new symptom of captivation. '' That is not
very hard to take in ! "

Perhaps more so than you suppose,"
said Gerald. " Lina, I don't ask foolishly.
I want you to answer. I would rather know
the truth."

'' I should not have engaged myself to you
without affection."

Affection ! I want something more than
that. I have given you my whole heart, and
I want yours."

'' You are like Marjory, romantic and impulsive,"
said Lina, calmly. " If you expect
romance from me, I cannot give it. I have
always aimed instead at common sense."

That is begging the question. It was
very good of you, no doubt, to engage yourself
to me  my best prospects being so uncertain,
with long waiting, and perhaps little
to come of it. That is the worldly point of
view, and, in one way, true enough : you

have been unworldly in consenting to such an
engagement. But then, on the other hand,
you have always seemed to me above the
world. And you may talk of romance as
you like ; but this is sober fact ;  when two
people really love each other, questions of
money, and society, and so forth, are as
nothing in comparison. What they want is
one another ; and so long as they have
enough to live upon, without debt or distress,
they will be satisfied  yes, and thankful.
And if either is richer than the other, or might
have made " a better marriage," that more
fortunate one, if it be real love, drill feel himself,
or herself, doubly fortunate, because it
is thus possible to give up something for the
other's sake ; I was going to say  sacrifice
something : but in such a case there can be
no real sacrifice. To apply all this to you
and me, Lina, that fact  for, I maintain, it
is a fact  goes far to equalize our respective
positions.  That is, if you do indeed love
me."

'' I am at a loss to understand why you
think it necessary to make these remarks,"
said Lina.

I wish to God we could change places'*
said Gerald, sternly, ' and that I were the
Y 2

superior in outward position ! Oh, if only I
could be rich, or powerful in any way, you
would see how I should glory in laying all at
your feet !' Yes, you are smiling  it sounds
hackneyed  but God knows that I mean
every word. And there may yet come a time
if I can have fair play  when I shall have
something, even in this world's sight, to offer
to you."

He stopped suddenly, and rowed on in
silence, looking not at Lina, but beyond her.
Somewhere in that direction, however distant,
lay Venice and Eome ! Yes, there, to
him attainable, lay a treasure beyond the
reach of wealth or rank. He seemed to hear
the music of their bells, to see their streets
transfigured in the sunset. Oh for those
magic sandals which had carried Perseus so
swiftly over sea and land ! Oh, that this moment
he could start southward !

Lina's voice, cold and calm, disturbed his
musings.

I shall be glad, Gerald, to hear why you
have chosen to impress all this on me just

now."

Because, as I asked that question, it
struck me that some might say  ' You selfish
brute, what right have you to set up such a

claim ? Lie, who might marry anybody !
and you, a penniless bank-clerk ! ' I suppose
these few qualifying circumstances soothe my
pride."

*you know too, very well, that I have
never accused you of presumption. Indeed,
the idea has not occurred to me ; your family,
though poor, is good, and can be traced for
centuries before ours was ever heard of. I
have mentioned this to my friends in speaking
of my engagement. Then I always look
forward to your future renown. Your talent
is undoubted. It would be quite another
matter if you were merely, as you say, a
bank clerk. At the same time, I always feel
that there are things of more importance
than money. I should be quite ashamed to
look down on you because you happened to
be poor."

Yes, you are above such looking down as
that ! But, meanwhile, you have not understood
me  no, I can see it  and I have had
no answer to my question."

'' It is such a very foolish question," said
Lina, good-humouredly superior. '' Of course
I love you."

Not ' of course ' at all  the love that I
mean  that I want."

'' Your expectations are too liigli flown for
reality."

For ordinary experience, perhaps. But
before ever I thought it possible to meet with
one like you, I felt that it was not in me to
be satisfied with any ordinary woman."

'* Ordinary women allow their feelings to
govern them, instead of governing their feelings.
My aim is higher."

*' In one sense, yes. But height is not
coldness."

'' The highest mountains have always snow
on them," said Lina, proudly.

'' But the sun is above even those ; and
there is nothing of snow in the sun. I have
felt from the first that you did not love me
very much ; but I thought it would come intime.
Lately I have had a horrible misgiving
that perhaps it may never come. If
it does not, if it cannot, it may be best that
we should part."

Certainly, if you wish it," said Lina.

I wish it ! " repeated Gerald, with a look
of mingled reproach and passion. '' The
thought is agony to me."

Then why go on in this uncomfortable
manner ? "

'' Just listen, Lina.  I was counting the

hours, as I said, till I could get to you this
evening. I knew we should have only a
short time ; but even that seemed worth five
times the walk ; and I fancied, fool as I was,
that you were looking forward to it too.
What with dust and weariness, the road
seemed endless ; but at last I was with you ;
and there, not caring one farthing for me,
you were off to see some publishing old
ruin."

Gerald ! you speak so of a chapel ? "
I can't help it. Just to hear a dry
oration from Throckmorton 1 I tell you,
if I didn't know you were above all that,
I might have suspected you of running after
him."

'' Gerald, you are quite vulgar."
I tell you I knew you were above it,"
said Gerald, passionately. '* Above every
kind of suspicion. But why did you do it,
Lina ? Why did you raise such a storm in
me ? You might have known that it would
try me beyond endurance."

'' Indeed," said Lina, '' I had no idea that
you were so unreasonable."

Unreasonable ! Good heavens ! What
fellow would not be unreasonable in such
circumstances ! Why did you do it, I say ? ' '

'' I have already answered that question,"
said Lina, frigidly. '' I thought it a good opportunity
for variable information."

Valuable ! For one shilling I'd buy you
a handbook which would tell you all you
heard from him, and more. But it all
hinges on one point. You don't love me. 
Well ! I could bear that patiently, and wait
for it, as I have waited, if I were but
sure  if I could get rid of this horrible
doubt "

*' Pray explain yourself," said the lofty
Lina.

'' A doubt which has troubled me before 
but specially to-night,  whether you have it
in you even to understand the love of my
visions."

Visions are nothing," said Lina.

The love that I feel within me, as a fact,
at this moment. Your face  it is the face of
an angel ! there are heights and depths in
it beyond my fancy. Surely it has not
deceived me."

If you mention deceit in connection with
Me, Gerald, I shall be seriously offended. I
have never in my life deceived anyone."

Not that sort of deceit," cried Gerald,
with sharp pain in his tone. " But you won't

understand ! perhaps you can't : there is no
use in talking any more."

I think not, indeed," said Lina.

Then they went on in silence : while the
sunset paled, and the music of the rounds,
far ahead, floated back on the evening
air.

I am quite ready to break off our engagement,
if you desire it," said Lina, with slow
distinctness.

He looked at her, half mystified, half doubting
; and, looking, his expression changed.

I cannot give you up  I cannot," he
cried. " My darling, let it pass  never mind
I won't worry you any more."

"And you confess that you have been in
the wrong ? "

'' I confess nothing : except that you have
enthralled me, heart and soul."

At any rate you must remember that I
cannot submit to be cross questioned," said
Lina, propitiated by his manner. '' And now
let us go to other subjects."

Marjory was comforted, when they met at
the landing-place, to find her brother and
Lina apparently on excellent terms. It was
only afterwards, at home, that she observed
him to be still preoccupied and grave ; and

felt sure that his mind was not at rest, however
the outward dispute might be.

Immediately after supper he went to the
attic ; and Marjory, waking as the cathedral
clock struck two, heard him only then come
downstairs on his way to bed.

CHAPTER Xxii.

Truly He cannot, after such assurance,
Truly He cannot and He shall not fail ;
Nay, they are known, the hours of thine endurance.
Daily thy tears are added to the tale."

Frederic W. H. Myers.

The day of the pic-nic lead been fortunately
chosen ; the morrow was rainy,  a gentle
rain, but steady and persevering. The reaction
from strong excitement weighed
heavily on Marjory, making her school work
burdensome. It was just over, and she was
standing in the window of the sitting-room,
wishing that rain were not a necessity of
nature, when a cab, which had driven slowly
round the corner, drew up in front of the
door. Possible visions of Mr. Harding, of
her uncle, flitted wildly across her brain ; she
stood watching, and saw the driver help
some one out  some one who seemed ill or
disabled. One glance : and, the blood rushing
from her face to her heart, she turned,
and flew downstairs.

Gerald ! Oh, what has happened ? "

Don't put yourself about, miss ; the
young gent has only had a bit of a accident,"
said the cabman.

I'm all right, Marjory," said Gerald himself:
but he spoke faintly, and, having
entered, sat down on the stairs, as if in too
much pain to go further.

It appeared that he had climbed upon some
movable steps, to reach a high shelf in the
bank; the steps, which needed repair, had
given way; a quick spring had saved him
from falling,  but in springing he had somehow
hurt his knee  strained it, he thought ;
and the pain, instead of going off, had become
more violent, causing faintness. Leave of
absence was granted him, and he had felt at
first revived by the fresh air ; but, in walking,
the faintness returned, and he was compelled
to take advantage of a passing cab.

I'm so thankful it is nothing worse ! "
cried Marjory. " I was afraid you were ill.
You'll soon be better, Gerald dear, when you
get upstairs; you shall lie on the sofa and
rest."

'' I'll come at once," he said, rising, with
a firm grasp of the banisters. Aided by
these and Marjory's arm, he was soon in the
sitting-room ; but the effort had been so pain-fill,

that lie was once more quite faint, and
glad to lie back upon the sofa cushions. A
little cold water refreshed him ; and he sat



What a fool I am ! " he said, impatiently,
though with a smile : " I wish you'd just
run in to Miss Pilkington, and ask her to lend
me a pot of ointment, or something. She
doctors all the little chaps."

Marjory obeyed, and returned accompanied
by Miss Pilkington herself, who prescribed
cold-water bandages.

But, I say ! how shall I get back to the
bank, swathed up in cold water ? "

'' You can't think of going back to-day ;
'tis out of the question," replied Miss Wilmington.
" If you'll write a note to say so, I will
send it."

'' This is a bore," said Gerald, meditatively,
when she had left them. " I was
going down to Albion Square after bank
hours."

"I'll go for you, dear, and bring Lina
here to tea."

What a blessing you are, Marjory ! But
it is raining."

I don't mind rain ; you know I never
did : if Lina does, she must come in a fly.

I promise anyhow to bring her : and now
I'll see about the bandages."

The cold water relieved Gerald to some
extent ; he was soon more free from pain.
But his knee felt strangely weak, and in
himself he was languid and somewhat feverish.

If you are not better tomorrow, we
must send for a doctor," said Marjory.

*' A doctor for a strain ! He would
laugh at us. Besides, it would never do to
make a hole in my instalment for Grove and
Carter. I mustn't leave too much for your
wonderful book, you know ! "

Marjory returned his smile, though at his
words her heart sank. She had never told
him ! If a second refusal came, what could
she do ?

Lina suspended the lecture on attention to
health, with which Marjory's wet walk inspired
her, on learning its cause. She would
not, however, for her own part, run any such
foolish risk ; and a fly was ordered forthwith.
The flush of sudden joy with which Gerald
received her far more than repaid Marjory's
trouble. She retired to her own room, leaving
the lovers alone.

Out of doors the silent rain was falling,
falling ; sky and river were both of one dull

hue ; the Shelburn hills were blotted out in
mist. Which was the true type of life, 
this, or yesterday's bright summer ? Marjory
took up her Bible ; it opened naturally at the
passage she desired to see : 

'* Whatsoever ye shall ash in My Name,
that loll I do, that the Father may he glorified
in the Son '' If ye shall ash anything in
My Name, I will do it."

Yes, there it was ! without possibility of
mistake : a promise. So vivid was Marjory's
realisation of the unseen, that while she read
the words she seemed to hear the heavenly
voice speak them  as other mortal ears had
heard indeed. Taking time as a whole, it
was not so very long ago ! eighteen hundred
years and odd  less than twice the years
sincerer Norman Conquest. The same sky was
spread to-day as then ; the same sun was
shining ; the very ground on which He stood,
when he spoke, was still existing in that land
of Judas. If certain theories of sound were
correct, the very words might be still vibrating
through space. And whose words ?
Some had called Him a Deceiver ; but
Marjory would have died the most terrible of
deaths rather than doubt His truth. That
Hebrew of the Gospels, the Divine Man,

was living still. He could not have forgotten
the promises which He had spoken.

No ; all was right,  all must be right. It
was only that she must wait : just as an insect
born to-day would have to wait till tomorrow,
till the rain was past, before it could
see the sunshine of which its fellows might
tell.

When Marjory returned to the sitting-room,
she found Lina bending over her photographic
album, open at the page where
Jessie's radiant loveliness shone from among
the other faces, as a diamond among garnets.
Lina, seated at a low table near the sofa, was
looking intently at this special portrait. As
Marjory entered, she just raised her eyes, and
then continued the study.

Marjory ! " she said, suddenly : '' Do you
remember, last year, my remarking thai: I
knew this face ? ' '

'' Yes ; but I thought you were mistaken."


'' I could not feel sure about it. But now
I am quite sure that I have seen elsewhere
the very photograph."

Lina ! have you not dreamt it ?"

'' I do not take dreams for reality ! Yes,
it comes back more clearly as I think. It

was years ago  before I knew you. The
photograph was in a small album  a vulgar
album, bound in mauve. It could not have
been a lady's. Where was it ? "

She pondered, her eyes fixed in concentration.
She had evidently, for whatever
cause, an earnest wish to verify these
fleeting reminiscences. Marjory came to
look over her shoulder, eagerly awaiting the
result of her musings.

'' Could you have seen it at Bullingham ?
Jessie might easily have had acquaintances
there."

"Neo, it was not at Bullingham. I was
somewhere on a visit; and I called, with
some lady, at the house where I saw the photograph.
Of the lady, I only recollect that
she had black hair and a white bonnet ! and
that she sat on a sofa, talking to the person
of the house, while I looked through the
album. It was a little square room, clean
but common, with a small round table and
bead mats."

That reminds me of the little parlour in
Mrs. Hammond's lodgings."

Lodgings ! " repeated Lina. "Yes ! A
lodging-house it was. I remember. The
lady had called to engage rooms for a

VOL. II. z

sick servant. "Where could it have
been''

She pondered again, knitting her brows.
Had Marjory not herself been deeply interested,
she would have wondered at this
interest on Lina's part. But her mind was
full of Bellhouse, and of that terrible mystery.
What if this recognition should lead to its
being solved ?

'* Was anything said about the photograph
? " she asked, as Lina gazed on in
silence.

'' No, they were talking and did not notice
me. I remember thinking how foolish any
person must be to be taken in her wedding
dress. That is all. I can recall no more."

She closed the book suddenly, and moved
her chair from the table.

 Why, you look ' quite in a way,' as Priscilla
says," observed Gerald, who had lain
silently watching her. He smiled as he
spoke ; but Lina did not smile.

Think of all that might depend upon these
recollections ! " she said.

'weather a weak 'might'" said Gerald.
Probably the mistress of the house, whoever
she may have been, was a friend of Mrs.
Bellhouse, or of the girl herself, and the

photograph was given to lier, as to Marjory.
It is a curious coincidence, certainly."

'' We may yet discover it to be beyond a
coincidence," said Lina. '* At all events, I
shall keep it in my mind."

'' I suppose there would be no use in telling
Bellhouse ? " said Marjory to Gerald.

'* Not without something more definite.
Unless, indeed, it were she who gave the
photograph, the doubt and mystery would
only make her restless."

Besides," interposed Lina, " if there be
any clue to search out, we had better keep
our own counsel."

Marjory failed to comprehend this speech ;
and, as Lina went on to talk about other
things, she sat thoughtfully pondering it
meaning. Suddenly an idea struck her. Suspicions
which she had striven to forget rushed
back upon her memory ; she recalled Lina's
hope of clearing her family honour  at whose
expense ? There was a plan in her mind,
Marjory felt sure, with vague foreboding.

But after tea, when Lina, entreated by
Gerald, opened the piano and sang, the foreboding
vanished. Marjory, tired, leaned back
in the arm-chair, and watched, and listened.
Almost she could have dreamed the old
z 2

sclioolgirl dream, and thought Lina once
more the personification of all that is lovely.
Every line of form and countenance was full
of grace, harmonizing to perfection with the
music ; sight and hearing alike were charmed.
Marjory could not wonder at Gerald's absorbed
gaze. He had forgotten his pain,
forgotten the thoughts which yesterday had
half maddened him. Visions of pictures, of
fair faces, Eden-like landscapes, floated before
his mind ; and Lina was their invoking spirit.
He felt full of anger against himself for having
dared to doubt her  and not last night only,
although of this no other human being was
aware.

And meanwhile Lina, on her music-stool,
was all unconscious of her power. Her
attention was solely occupied by her singing-master's
rules for correct intonation and
expression ; she was endeavouring, conscientiously,
to do them justice, despite the
inflexibility of the English tongue.

CHAPTER XXV.

Well, it is earth with me ; silence resumes her reign ;
I will be patient and proud, and soberly acquiesce.
Give me the keys. I feel for the common chord again,

Sliding by semitones, till I sink to the minor Yes,

And I blunt it into a ninth, and I stand on alien ground,
Surveying a while the heights I rolled from into the deep."

Robert Browning.

Hugh Vivian was going away ! This was
the thought with which Marjory awoke on
the next morning. It was not yet time to
get up ; and that thought filled all her mind.
He was going away. Perhaps, throughout
her earthly life, they would meet never again.
Perhaps she would never know, in this world,
whether her prayer for him were granted.
She would be left, as before, with only a
remembrance of him : but now that remembrance
would be twofold. The young soldier,
rejoicing in his youth, and in all good things
of this world ; and that dark and bitter face ;
with the cynical smile, veiling a deep heartsickness.
Which face would haunt her most ?
or would each alike appear as a dream ?

Oh, to be a little cliilcl again  able to clasp
his hand, and say, " Mr. Hugh, I want you
to be happy ! " A child who belonged to
him, to go with him, to wait upon him. She
wanted him ; she craved for his presence, 
his voice, his smile. Even that bitter smile
she had power, now and then, to lighten
it. What would he grow into as the years
rolled on ? Would he harden still more in
scepticism ? Would he lose at last all self-respect,
like some of whom she had read 
and seek in evil, forgetfulness, if not comfort?
Would he sink downward, and be
lost ?  he seemed already half lost sometimes
:  and then, what of the next life ?
If she never saw him again on earth, would
they meet indeed, as she had said, in Heaven ?
And . . . if not, would this longing ever be
stilled ? Would she ever be able to forget
him all through Eternity ?

Meanwhile, Alton was not Heaven ! and
what would Alton be when he was gone?
What interest would have passed from her
life ! She had not known till now, how
deep an interest. Always she had felt the
consciousness of his presence not far off; had
known that, whenever she went out, she
might meet him ; had hoped that some day

he might come to her and say,  " You were
right,  I begin to see that all was for the
best." Then she had been aware, though
secretly, that she possessed no less attraction
for him than he for her ; that she was to him,
as he to her, just what no one else was, in all
the world : and this inward consciousness
had imparted an unutterable sweetness to
her life. His sceptical opinions formed, she
thought, an impassable barrier between them ;
but it might be, although she knew it not,
that the idea of this barrier had obscured the
need of guarding her own heart.

Now, as she strove to realize her life as it
would be when he was gone out of sight and
sound of it, a feeling of utter dreariness came
over her. She still might, and would, devote
herself to Gerald ; and, had Gerald responded
as once she hoped, this would have given her
comfort. But Gerald was bound up in Lina ;
she could help him only by working for him ;
and her work could as well be done at a distance.
If she left him, he would miss her
very little ; and, when he did miss her, he
could go to Lina and be more than consoled.
Life and the world had grown arid, like
Branksome in that fiery summer. Marjory
longed to get away to green woods and fields.

to the speechless soothing of Nature. She
would go back to Eockswolcl, she resolved, ina
little while, and forget the past year like a
dream.

At breakfast, Gerald looked flushed and
jaded ; confessing that he was still in pain.

I shall be better at my work," he said :
'' Coddling will do no good. Pain is always
worse if one thinks about it."

But, Gerald, you look so tired ! I wish
you would let me send for a doctor."

*' My dear Marjory, I never had a doctor
in my life ; our grandmother considered them
an extravagance ! and to begin for a trifle
like this would be absurd. I can't think
what makes me so stupid ; but somehow I
did not sleep : and my thoughts were hardly
soothing. Work will be my doctor."

Marjory looked at him as he sat opposite,
drinking coffee, but his plate empty ;  and
her heart sank. The sign of care borne
silently, on that broad young brow, struck
her with a pang almost physical. If she
could but see into his mind, she thought !
But she could only guess at the musings of
that wakeful night.

If only I might hear to-day that my book
is accepted, and tell him of it this evening

when he comes home ! He will sleep rather
better, then ! "

A short time ago the strong desire would
have kindled a corresponding hope ; but now
Marjory had begun to learn something of the
sickness of hope deferred.

*' You are a Httle lame, Gerald," she said,
as he rose. *' Will not walking make it
worse ? "

'rit is not much of a walk. My knee is
stiff; but that will go off as I use it."

It did not, however. At night he was no
better, and unable to hide the pain of which
he, nevertheless, made light. He lay again on
the sofa, and began a series of small designs
for future pictures ; while Marjory read. He
was in one of his silent moods ; and she
would not worry him with chatter. When
Priscilla, with the supper-tray, broke the
monotony, he closed his sketching-book, and,
folding his arms, looked before him, deep in
thought.

"Marjory," he said, as the door closed on
the little maid, " they are very long in answering
about your book."

"Yes," said Marjory, blankly.

I would write to them, if I were you,
unless you hear within three or four days."

"Yes," said Marjory again.

'' You have not lost hope, have you ? "

** Oh, no, Gerald. Why do you ask ? "

'' You sound unlike yourself. But sometime
ago you thought the silence favourable''


*' I will write at any rate, as you say, if I
don't hear soon."

' I wish you would. I shall be glad for
the suspense to end, one way or the other.
It will be better for us all."

' For us all ! " More thoughts than one
were troubling him, through these silent
hours. In her heart she cried : "0 God !
have pity on us, and help us ! " But outwardly
she only composed her face to cheerfulness,
and talked of other things.

Gerald was no better the next day, or the
next, or the next ; and the welcome news
which would have been his best medicine
did not come. With a steady resolution
which at times seemed almost obstinacy, he
went as usual, for a full week, to his work.
Every morning Marjory hoped to find him
better ; every evening she feared that he
was on the verge of an illness. Miss Wilmington
seconded her entreaties for a doctor ;
but Gerald refused to listen,  declaring

further, that if the sent for one without his
consent he should decline to see him.

But at the end of that week, one afternoon,
when he had dragged himself upstairs
with frequent pauses, he sank down on the
sofa, his face crimson, his brow damp,
utterly spent.

*' It's of no use, Marjory," he said : ' I've
done my best to battle it down ; but I must
give in. You may get a doctor as soon as
you please."

*' I can't tell you how glad I am ! " cried
Marjory : '' Now you will soon be well."

And she ran off to consult with the ladies.

An hour later, a cheerful man of middle
age, Eobinson by name, was ushered in by
Priscilla. Mrs. Myers and Miss Pilkington
had extolled him as infinitely the best surgeon
in Alton,  a reputation not new to
Marjory. As he entered, he looked keenly
at Gerald ; and the penetration of his eye
seemed at variance with the almost jaunty
manner. Marjory followed his glance. Even
in one week, she thought, Gerald had grown
much thinner ; he had plenty of colour, but
his gray eyes were surely brighter and
clearer than they should be.

But only when, after rapid questioning.

the knee was examined, did Marjory become
aware of its true state. Gerald had said so
little, and her touch in applying bandages
had been so light, that she had not discovered
the extreme tenderness of the joint.
Now, under the surgeon's hand, he bit his
lip and flushed, in the effort to repress any
sign of pain ; but one involuntary groan
escaped him.

That will do," said Mr. Eobinson, resuming
his seat. Gerald lay back, and the
flush faded into paleness,

He ought not to be so weak, ought
he ? " said Marjory : " It is only a strain ? "

There is some slight injury to the joint,"
said Mr. Robinson, cheerfully : '' Nothing
whatever to alarm you ; but the knee must
have rest. Poultices at night, and a lotion,
which I will send, by day. I will also send a
little mixture, to be taken every four hours ;
and the diet must not be too low, if you
please. His strength must be kept up."

*' He is not going to be ill, is he ? " cried
Marjory, in anxiety beyond control.

''HI? Nonsense!" said Gerald, with a
reassuring smile. Mr. Robinson smiled also ;
and looked the picture of good spirits.

'' I anticipate no near change from what

we see at present. Please attend very carefully
to my directions : I will call again in
two or three days."

'' But surely I shall be all right by then ?"
said Gerald, looking blank : " I must get
back to my work."

'* You have stayed at your work rather
too long, you see," said Mr. Robinson, with
a smiling nod : " Nature will have its
revenge."

He was out of the room before Gerald,
taken by surprise, could ask another question.
Marjory flew after him.

'' It is nothing serious, is it ? " she said,
her blue eyes full of trouble. Mr. Robinson
seemed a little graver than he had shown
himself in Gerald's presence.

Don't alarm yourself," said he. '' These
injuries to the joint are sometimes tedious.
I shall judge better when I see him again.
Please keep up his strength in every way."

And how soon will he be well ? "

That," replied Mr. Robinson, smiling
again,  "it is impossible to say. Sooner or
later, according to circumstances. Good
afternoon."

Marjory turned into her own room, to
struggle for the composure with which she

would meet Gerald. The surgeon's manner,
his evasions, even his smiles, had filled her,
despite his injunction to the contrary, with
vague alarm.

It was on the following day that, returning
from foraging for Gerald's supper, she
saw at once that something had happened.
He was sitting on the sofa, his knee up,
books and drawing materials within reach,
as she had left them an hour before. They
did not appear to have been touched ; he was
very still, with a strange, fixed look. As
Marjory approached, she saw an envelope
crushed in his hand.

Gerald, have you had a letter ? "

'' It is for you," he said : " Marjory, come
here. I want you."

Without speaking, she drew a chair to his
side.

'' Marjory, can you bear a disappointment
? " said Gerald. His tone was so kind,
so full of thought for her, that she had almost
broken down. A lump rose in her throat ;
tears filled her eyes.

'' Oh, Gerald ! I know  I can guess. It
is my book."

Never mind, dear," he said gently :
Don't fret yourself. It cannot be helped."

Then she saw on his other side, thrust
into a corner of the sofa, the well-known roll
of manuscript on which such pains had been
spent. Gerald had not opened the letter ;
the parcel had told its own tale. Buta
wild hope shot through "Marjory's brain : 
it might merely have been returned for correction
or alteration ! She seized the envelope.
No ! Here was the same polite refusal,
couched in almost the same terms as that
of a month ago. She sat beside Gerald,
motionless, dumb : he had spoken to her
twice, before she heard.

'' What did you say, Gerald ? "

'' I was telling you not to give up hope.
While you were out, I thought it all over.
We will try again. Even ' Vanity Fair ' was
refused at first, you know ! "

No answer. She sat staring into vacancy,
with a blank hopelessness which never
before had been seen upon that face.

Why, Marjory ! It is not like you to be
discouraged at the first onset."

Oh, Gerald, Gerald  it is not the first. I
did not tell you  I could not bear to vex you
so  this is the second refusal."

She knelt down by him, and buried her
face.

'' Gerald, I can't bear it. It is not myself
I care for :  it is you ! And I prayed so
earnestly ! "

He said nothing at the instant ; but lie
felt his hand laid lightly on her head.

Don't fret, Marjory," he repeated, after
a long silence. " I thank you all the same.
We must make up our minds to it."

To what, Gerald ? To utter disappointment
? "

Don't call it that. It may turn out better
than we expect. I hope so. But it is
clear that we must give up all thought of
my going with Mr. Harding,"

Was it his illness  or what ?  that gave
him this strange strength ?  that made his
tone so quiet, so self-contained ? Marjory
raised her head, and looked at him, half in
wonder, half in despair.

But I prayed, Gerald  I prayed. I
should never have dared to hope so, if I had
not prayed. I can't understand it."

There are many things one can't understand.
You will have to accept that as a
fact ; I did, long ago. Your enthusiasm was
infectious," he added, with a faint smile :
I should never have allowed myself to build
on such a mere chance, if I had not caught

it of you ! At least, I think not  I hardly
know. Lately I have lived in a dream ; and
now I must come out of it."

'ris it all a dream, Gerald ? Is the real
world so dark and cold, then ? Perhaps I
have lived in a dream all my life : and yet 
Oh, Gerald, Gerald ! "

She clung to him almost convulsively. He
soothed her, stroking her hair with a touch
more like a father's than a brother's.

''No," he said: "The world is not all
dark. But we can't have our own way in
it. I fancy some of us have to be content
scarcely ever to get our own way. Don't
think of me, Marjory ; I shall manage very
well, dear. I was not quite unprepared.
I'll write to Mr. Harding at once : then the
matter will be settled. I was a fool ever to
dream of such joy ! "

The last words seemed to escape him unawares.
They struck on Marjory's heart like
a knell.

Is joy really a delusion ? " she thought.
She would not say it ; she would not, more
than could be helped, vex Gerald with her
conflicts. He had enough to bear.

Tell me all about it," he said, after

VOL. II. 2 a

another pause, with his kind smile. That
smile did not seem an effort ; it came naturally,
at the sight of her trouble.

She told him the whole history : how her
book had returned a month ago, and had
been sent out again forthwith.

And you have had this on your mind all
that time ? How brave you have been ! I
never guessed it."

' I meant it for the best; but now it
seems cruel. I have let you hope on, to no
purpose."

Never mind," he said quietly : " It is
just as well. It comes now when I have a
few days of rest, and time to think things
over. You must not look on this as an unmitigated
blow, Marjory. After all, though
I did hope too much, it was not all hope, by
any means ! Now, if you'll give me my desk,
I'll write to Mr. Harding."

'' Shall not I try just once more ? "

'' Another publisher ? No, Marjory, no.
There would only be another long suspense ;
and I could not stand it. Both these publishers
are just and kind, you know, as well
as wise ; don't you remember what we heard
of them ? I suspect you want more practice

to succeed in such an over-stocked market.
After all, there's nothing so very wonderful
in a young girl of nineteen's not succeeding
all at once, like a genius in a novel ! The
wonder would be the other way. I'm
afraid I forgot your age : you were so sanguine,"
he added, smiling again.

'what will Lina say?" cried Marjory,
hardly conscious that she spoke aloud.

"I don't know," said Gerald. "I must
think,  I have a very great deal to think
about."

As he spoke, he was opening his desk,
which Marjory had placed beside him. He
took out blotting-book and paper, and, with
a steady hand, addressed an envelope to Mr.
Harding.

The sight was too much for Marjory's fortitude.
She turned to leave him.

*' Marjory ! " said Gerald, as she was going
away.

' Yes ? "

Don't lose heart, dear  and don't give
up your work. Perhaps it will thrive all the
better if you do it for its own sake, instead
of for mine. You may be a great author
yet. Who knows ? " he said smilingly.

'*I don't care to be a great author," said
Marjory, sick at heart : " I wanted only to
help you."

She shut the door without another look at
him ; and went away alone.

END OP VOL. II.

WTXIK i.ND sons, fBIKtEES, G&BA.T QtEBy STSEBT, t.OIfDO:f.

3 0112 041680148

i i i

 I i

I I

(J i

OF THE
UN IVLR.5ITY
or ILLINOIS

8 as
cGasam

V.3

A STUDY.
IN THREE VOLUMES.

BY

THE AUTHOR OF "JAMES GORDON'S WIFE."

Do not fear to hope ! Can poet's brain
More than the father's heart rich good invent ?
* * * * 

Be bounteous in thy faith, for not misspent
Is confidence unto the Father lent.

George Macdonald.

VOLUME III.

LONDON :

WYMAN & SONS, 74-75, GREAT QUEEN STREET,

lincoln's-inn fields,

1880.

ALL BIGHTS Reserved.

Marjory.

CHAPTER I.

my own Lord,
What is it we must do 
Is it, then, all untrue ?"

Arthur H. Clough.

I CANNOT bear it  I cannot bear it," cried
Marjory, throwing herself upon her bed.

I cannot bear it," she repeated aloud 
that vain cry so often uttered by young hearts.
It went out disregarded into the summer
air ; and found nothing to soothe or stay it.
As Gerald said, she must accept the fact.
The fact that her hope had failed. That her
prayer had been refused. That she could
not help him. That he must continue plodding
here, that gifted spirit fettered,  for
how long ? who could tell. It would have
been better, she thought now, that Mr.
Harding's offer had not come. It had but
served to brighten a mirage which had seemed

VOL. III. B

reality. Now that the mirage had faded,
what was the world to her ?

What was the world ? Had she ever truly
known it ? or had she seen it, all her life,
through her own colouring ? She had known
trials before  outward trials ; poverty, and
privation. But these things had not disturbed
her confidence that the universe was
ruled by love. Now an avalanche had overwhelmed
all to which she had clung. She
knew no longer what to believe ; or where to
turn.

Hugh Vivian had smiled at her credulity
in building literal hopes upon prayer ; and
she had prayed the more, that thus his error
might be proved to him. But now  had he
been right ? What did those words of promise
mean ? They must mean something, if worthy
of credence at all; something definite, dependable.
If, as some said, they could be
explained away into some misty emptiness of
metaphor, where was their use ? If they
were not to be relied upon in the practical
life of this world, the daily life where help
and guidance are so sorely needed, why were
they spoken ? Could a Saviour delude us
so ? Or were they a cruel fable, of human
invention ? was the Bible a merely human

composition, a tissue of lying philosophies ?
Marjory's whole soul cried out against the
possibility ; and yet  where was God  the
God in whom she had trusted ? It was as
though God did not care ; as if He had left
them to themselves :  Gerald's whole life 
her anxious toil  Hugh Vivian, and all he had
valued. As she lay in tearless anguish,
looking mechanically towards the sky, she
realized suddenly, with awful force, as a fact,
all the sorrow, pain, care, sin, of this mysterious
world. And God could help it all, if
so He willed 1 for He is omnipotent. As this
thought pierced her mind, she almost wondered
that some voice from the world of
spirits did not answer it. She raised her
head ; but all was silence in those far blue
heights. Hearts break, reasons give way,
souls go on to destruction : and still silence !
A kind of terror came over Marjory : terror
of life, of fate.

She remembered all that she had learned,
of " all for the best," and so forth. But this
trouble seemed all for the worst. The whole
purpose of Gerald's existence seemed to be
thwarted ; his powers wasted, his work shut
up out of his reach. All his life he had been
disappointed. He had not rebelled ; he had
B 2

nerved himself, shouldered his burden, and
struggled on : and yet all things were against
him.

And how could Hugh Vivian's sorrows befor
the best ? His whole nature had suffered ;
he had lost hope, faith, love ; and none interfered.
And herself  was it for the best
that her acceptance of Christ's words should
end in doubt and fear ? Was she in a better
or a worse frame of mind now, than this time
last year, when she had cheered Gerald, and
encouraged him to trust in God ?

No  she could not understand ; she could
not see. She was alone in thick darkness.
Now she understood, as never before, Hugh
Vivian's experiences. It had been easy
enough, he told her, to preach and theorize.
Now her turn had come. God had not helped
him, he said : God was not helping her.

Then followed wild rebellion. Why was
the world thus ? If Gerald had not been
within hearing, she would have wailed and
moaned aloud. It was hard, it was terrible.
She tried to pray; but no comfort came.
She did not know how to pray to this inflexible
God ! He could not really love the
world, she thought : or how could he leave
it so ?

Until now, she had had no notion of the
depths of her own nature. She found in herself
capacities of hell, of which she had never
dreamed. After all, she thought, the happiest
way might be to let everything go ; to believe
in nothing, hope nothing, fear nothing, and do
the best one can for oneself. Presently she rose
and went back to the sitting-room, and rang
for tea, as though nothing had happened ;
but all the while her warm life and hope and
faith seemed to have turned into a cold and
heavy stone, dragging down her heart.

Gerald, meanwhile, was very silent, still
with that strange, fixed look. Later, when
all was quiet, Marjory perceived that he had
fallen asleep. Seen in repose, his face seemed
very wan and thin ; his stern command of it
relaxed ; that stone within her grew colder,
as she marked the careworn lines of his
mouth. Presently his countenance brightened
; he was evidently dreaming. He
smiled, and murmured some word which
sounded like " Wonderful ! " Awakened by
his own voice, his eyes opened, full of a
blessed peace ; he looked dreamily round ;
then the peace faded, as a glow fades on a
landscape, and the resolute fixedness returned.

Gerald ! what were you dreaming ? "

I thought I was at Venice. A passage
which I read once, and have never forgotten,
shaped itself into a vision. This passage said
that ' an all-pervading presence of light
and ' a suffusion of rich colour glowing
through the deepest shadows,' were ' the
very life and soul of Venice.' I saw the
light, and I saw the colour  a sunset glowing
on the water, gondolas floating slowly, a
vine-tree climbing round an ancient archway,
a great hall, golden in the evening rays, hung
with Titian's pictures. Our disappointment
seemed like a dream ; all my hard work was
over : I stood in the hall with Mr. Harding,
and he said  'Here we will learn the secrets
of the great master ! ' "

'' It is a great mystery, Gerald."

"What?"

That life is so against you : I mean, not
looking at second causes, but at Providence.
Why IS it? 'Why?"

We may say ' Why,' for ever. These
things are beyond us. It is waste of time
and energy to dwell upon them."

'' But suppose one cannot help it ? "

You don't know what you can do till
you thy, Marjory," said Gerald, with rather a
wintry smile ; " I advise you to strive your

utmost to make up your mind to the
inevitable."

' But how ? "

'' To begin, don't waste your strength in
railing at it. Complaints can do no good.
And don't invent bright visions, and mistake
them for truth."

'have I done that?"

I fear so ; and I blame myself for
encouraging you in it. I should have
remembered that long ago I had resolved to
give up castles in the air :  years and years
ago, when I left school."

When first you were sent to the bank ? "

'' Yes, I fought out the battle, and thought
I had conquered ; but the same delusions
crop up again in different forms. I shall be
more on the watch for them now. At that
time I spent one whole day alone in the
woods, and faced my future ; and I determined
 once and for ever, as I fancied  to
take life as it came, whether it came as I
would have it, or no."

You might determine ; but people cannot
crush out their individuality in that way."

''No, but they can keep it under. They
can submit. Looking at life as a whole, one
can't help seeing that there are bright lots

and dark lots. It seems appointed that certain
people should never succeed. Till I
talked to you last year at Rockswold, I felt
convinced that I was one of those."

He did not speak despairingly, or with
self-pity ; there was nothing unmanly or
mawkish in look or tone. On the contrary,
he had never, to Marjory's eye, seemed more
manly, more courageous.

'' But what a paralyzing creed!" she cried.

Not at all. It has never paralyzed me.
I have never been any less determined to do
my best, so far as Fortune would let me.
But I believe that the truest wisdom lies in
calm acceptance of one's fate  not turning
away and repining, like a spoilt child, but
facing it like a man."

'' But you would escape such a fate if sou
could ? "

If I could ! " repeated Gerald, a little
impatiently. A momentary fire flashed in his
gray eye, but it was as speedily quenched. 
I cannot : and that is enough. It is those
ifs ' that make it so unbearable. I have
returned to my old conviction, that life is not
to be a success for me. If I should find the
contrary, I shall be too glad to own the
mistake 1 But I have made up my mind to

the worst again; and I have done with
dreams."

His tone was cold ; but a slight, a very
slight, quiver of his lip did not escape Marjory.
She felt that she could not rest without
knowing more.

Gerald," she said, timidly, "Don't answer
if you would rather not : but I should
like to know  Will this have any effect on
your engagement ? "

He was silent for a minute, shading his
face with his hand.

'' I am not sure," he said at last : " That
must depend on circumstances. It may be
I can't count upon it  but it may be, that
I shall find other means, more certain, of
getting sooner free from the debt. Perhaps
your friend Vivian might find me a little
work in the way of illustrating books or
magazines."

I am sure he will, if he can. Only he
is going away."

Yes, but if he could get me a start, that
might open the way for more. And I might
hit upon one or two other ways of turning an
honest penny in my evenings. Altogether,
I don't despair of shortening my payments
by a couple of years."

"Well," said Marjory; for he had paused
suddenly.

Well ! if Mr. Harding should not have
forgotten me by then, I might yet win some
sort of footing. I could never be a great
artist, without travel or cultivation ; but I
might make enough to keep the pot boiling,
as they say."

'' And the point is, whether you and Lina
think all this sufficient certainty to wait
for?"

He paused again.

The point is,"  he returned, his tone
very low and firm  '' whether she loves me
enough to make it worth her waiting."

Marjory knew not how to answer. She
had never felt more strongly that Gerald's
ideal was scarcely less of a dream, than the
success of her own story had been. He
waited for a reply ; but, when none came ;
'' I shall find out some day," he said, in the
same low tone : " Don't mention this anymore,
Marjory. I shall find out."

CHAPTER II.

If e'er, when faith had fall'ii asleep,
I heard a voice, ' Believe no more ;'
And heard an ever-breaking shore
That tumbled in the godless deep ;

"A warmth within the breast would melt
The freezing reason's colder part,
And, like a man in wrath, the heart
Stood up, and answered, ' I have felt.' "

Tennyson.

So long as thou doest well unto thyself,
men shall speak well of thee." Marjory's
hopefulness had inspired even Lina with corresponding
expectation. But now, when informed
of the failure, she expressed no surprise,
rather censuring the presumption of
building hopes upon so insecure a basis.

'' Your usual way, you know, dear Marjory
! jumping at conclusions. You would
be less disappointed, had you remembered
that possibilities are not certainties."

'' But, Lina, you yourself encouraged me !
and I thought the more of that, because you
are really qualified to judge."

"Well, there was certainly promise in your
story ; but so, I dare say, there may be in
many other writings whose authors come to
nothing. Just think of the competition in
the literary world ! And competition proves
one's level."

Marjory felt too utterly cast down to reply.
She bore in silence the half contemptuous
verdict.

Was Lina disappointed likewise ? Marjory
could not tell ; she doubted whether
Gerald could tell, either. He made no further
confidences ; and, only when all was
settled, did she discover that he had written
to Hugh Vivian, receiving first a kind answer,
and shortly afterwards an order for
illustrations. The sum offered appeared to
Marjory poor payment for so much labour ;
but Gerald made no objection.

"Every little helps," he said: ''I must
creep before I can fly."

His visible feeling, that he had now no resource
beyond his own unaided exertions,
vexed her to the heart. But this also she
bore in silence.

It was the harder to bear, since exertion was
evidently an efibrt to him. He never complained
; and to guess how much he suffered

was not easy; but that lie did suffer continually,
Marjory felt certain. Now and then, as day
followed day, and yet there was no relief, he
would express a languid doubt as to whether
Mr. Robinson understood his case : but he
said nothing further. Only he obeyed every
direction with a care in itself significant,
consenting without remonstrance to sit hour
after hour, his knee supported on the sofa ;
an involuntary contraction of his brow
showed movement to be painful.

One evening the bank manager called upon
him ; and, from their conversation, Marjory
learned that he had written to request employment
at home. For the present the
request was granted ; and thenceforth he
was laboriously occupied during the greater
part of the day. How long such an arrangement
could continue, Marjory dared not
question. Surely, surely, it would not belong
needful !

Meanwhile Mr. Robinson did not commit
himself to any positive verdict. He paid
frequent visits, short and cheerful, leaving a
cheerful impression : but when this had
faded nothing solid remained. To Marjory's
questions he always replied : " We must
have patience;" "These cases cannot be

hurried ; " or, *' Keep up his strength, if you
please." She had as yet no definite understanding
of the ailment  beyond the fact,
reiterated by Mr. Robinson, that there was
some slight injury to the joint."

In these days Gerald saw but little of
Lina. He could no longer in the evenings,
after hurrying through his tea, stride away to
Albion Square ; and perhaps it was more
seemly that Lina should not too often visit
him. This, however, was not her excuse
to Marjory  or to Gerald himself. To them
she pleaded her avocations at St. Philip's ;
the daily services, with additional ones on
Wednesday and Friday,  the orphanage,
the day and night schools, the decorations
and altar-vases,  besides church needlework,
cassocks to be made or mended, altar-linen,
and the like. Undoubtedly she had abundance
of such work on her hands ; the question
was, whether a part of it could not be equally
well done by some one else. Lina herself
thought not.

She had besides to superintend Mrs. Peele,
and the household generally, to attend Philharmonic
practices, to pay calls, and accept
invitations  conferring thereby honour and
benefit of which she would have been sorry

to deprive lier acquaintance ! Altogether but
little space in her life was left for her betrothed
husband, now that he could no longer
make it for himself. She had no time to
cheer his imprisonment, or to dispel his
dreary thoughts  drearier from loneliness
and weakness. Gerald would not for the
world have hindered her in any duty ; it was
not at first that he questioned how much of
her routine came from duty, how much from
something else. Only every day and every
night he felt it less bearable to lie craving
for her, dreaming of her, tormented by doubts
concerning her and their prospects.

Meanwhile the glorious summer had expanded
into fulness of beauty. Again, as
last year, in the long evenings, Heathcroft was
thronged ; boats full of youths and maidens
sped up and down the river ; the toilers of
the great city found sweet refreshment, after
the heat of the day, upon its banks. Marjory
was to have spent her summer holiday at
Eockswold ; but when the time arrived Gerald
was still confined to the sofa ; Mr. Robinson
was still repeating that these cases required
patience. She could not leave him : and
would not if she could.

As at Christmas, Mrs. Myers and Miss

Pilkington departed with their pupils ; and
the two houses were once more very quiet.
The good ladies left Marjory carte-blanche to
read their books, gather their roses, and make
free use in every way of their possessions.
Others were also kind, sending fruit and
similar delicacies ; and carriages were offered
for Gerald, He did drive out once ; but
with such increase of pain, that the experiment
was not again attempted. Gradually,
the utmost that he could do was to get out
into the strip of walled garden behind the
house ; but the exertion of dragging himself
up and down stairs seemed to counteract the
benefit of the air. One evening the pain
which followed was so violent, that he would
not risk its repetition. After this Marjory
went out, in the garden, as beyond it, alone.
Yet he would not hear himself called ill.
The '' strain " was exceptionally troublesome;
but it was only, he said, the confinement and
the lack of fresh air which made him weak
and out of sorts. Lina appeared to be of
the same opinion ; at all events, she was not
anxious, or fretted in any way by his condition.
In her occasional visits, she seemed
no less immovable than ever. " How are you
to-day, Gerald?" she would say with her

usual serenity ; and sit composedly down to
chat like any ordinary acquaintance.

And meanwhile, Gerald's gray eyes would
be fixed on her with a gaze which had in it a
whole world beyond her powers. After she
was gone, he would seem still to see her,
looking silently towards the window, as if
she had flown from the chair vacant by his
sofa, to the cathedral roof. When she was
long absent, he would write to her. Marjory
would have given a great deal to read those
letters ; they would have told her infinitely
more than they told Lina.

So the summer days went on. In the
evenings, while Gerald worked at his illustrations,
Marjory sang and played. All her
heart found vent in that music ; she was not
of his silent nature,  a vent of some kind
she must have. Those songs were voices
crying in vague language ; some were French
voices, Italian voices, German voices,  the
deepest these last. How wonderful that they
spoke for Marjory, that they uttered her
soul ! she would sing on, forgetting where
she was, almost what she was ; and Gerald
would not notice how time was going. Only
at last the twilight would grow dimmer ; and
a star would twinkle out above the cathedral

VOL. III.

tower. And then lie would stop, wish a
craving, not all painful, in her heart.

The beauty of a summer's evening has in
it something mysterious, suggesting infinite
possibilities. We reach vaguely towards
them, but they cannot be grasped  or even
comprehended : yet, as we turn away, the
work-a-day world seems cold. Often, on
these special evenings, Marjory's young heartfelt
like a bird imprisoned within her. At
last, on one of them, when Lina was with
Gerald, she took some paper, and began to
write once more : hardly, at first, knowing
what she wrote. But by degrees it shaped
itself; and thenceforth, frequently, she sought
the same relief. Soon a new story grew
beneath her hand, reflecting her own experiences.
All those terrible doubts and fears
flowed out in it. This time she did not
dream of publication or success : she wrote
because her heart was full.

One morning, Gerald had retired to his
own room to avoid the sun which, before
mid-day, shone too powerfully upon his sofa ;
and she, in her turn alone, was sewing at a
set of new shirts for him, when Priscilla
announced " Mr. Vivian."

Marjory's first glimpse of him revealed a

deepening of the old bitterness. He looked
careworn, thin, and sick of all things : far
more so, than when she had seen him last.
But his brown face flushed a little, his eyes
flashed with sudden brightening, as they met
hers.

'' I did not expect to see you at this time!"

You forget that these are my holidays.
Do you want Gerald ? "

'* I have some instructions for his pictures,"
replied Hugh, drawing a note from his 
: '* I hope he is better, as I don't
find him here ? "

Marjory shook her head.

'* He is working in his own room. Til tell
him."

She returned almost instantly, saying that
Gerald would be thankful if Mr. Vivian
could wait a little while. Then she took up
her shirt again, and hemmed busily.

He has some pressing work this morning,"
she said, to break the silence, while
Hugh Vivian sat watching, as in a dream,

'' I think his pluck is wonderful. I suppose
he is patient by nature ? "

I don't know. That hardly describes
him. I think it is more that, for so many
years, he has forced himself to be patient."
c 2

*' And now lie finds it easy ? "

I don't know," repeated Marjory : " He
is very silent. He has had trouble and disappointment
all his life." She bit her lip to
check the rising tears.

Have your prayers been heard yet ? "
said Hugh suddenly.

Was it he, the Mr. Hugh of old, or a
scoffing demon, who spoke ? The very tone
seemed in itself to say : '' Where is now thy
God ? *' Yet something in Marjory's own
heart echoed it. She could not look up and
answer him, as she had done before. This
was the time of which he had spoken, some
months ago  a time when all foundations
seemed to be overturned. She did not look
at him directly; she turned towards the
window. There was the silent sky,  so blue
and hard.

Ah, your turn has come now ! " said
Hugh.

Then she did look. His eyes were reckless,
mocking.

Are you yourself? " said Marjory, involuntarily
: " I can hardly believe it."

'' What self do you mean ? The self of
that old dream at Thorne ?  or the one you
have known lately ? They are two."

' I could almost think so, now," said Marjory.
'' But I will not. The old self that
kind, happy, pleasant nature  you try your
best to kill it ; but it is not dead."

Yes, it is," he said, almost rudely : *' I
am altogether another man from the fool you
knew. I have learned wisdom  in a hard
enough school."

Is despair wisdom ? " said Marjory.

He went on as if he had not heard.

'' One wouldn't wonder so much, perhaps,
at a selfish young dog, such as I was, having
to suffer. But a fellow like your brother 
whose life has been perfect ! And you ! " he
added, with a sudden change of tone 
'you!"

He rose, and walked to the window.

'' Yes, if prayer had any reality, yours
must have been heard," he said moodily.

A battle was fighting itself out in Marjory's
heart. She was thinking of the triumph, the
blessing to him, which she had anticipated,
when she should tell him, that she, so young
and crude, had succeeded  of this, and of her
prayer for him, of so many years. Blackness
of darkness seemed around her. But her
glance fell upon that bitter and hopeless face.
She had wished to raise him,  and should

lie sink him instead ? For his sake she
would gather courage.

'' Mr. Hugh ! "

He smiled faintly.

'' That old name I " he said : '' I had half
forgotten it."

*' I forgot, too  Mr. Vivian, I meant.  Will
you listen for one moment ? "

For any number of moments."

It is quite true that my prayers seem not
to have been heard. I  I had better confess
it : my plan has failed."

*'Yes!"said he, gently, too delicate to
question, but comprehending at once, as she
saw.

'' I have disappointed Gerald, as well as
myself. It is very painful."

She paused, to choke down a sob.

'' And you had entire faith," he said.
'' You took those promises literally  that
according to your faith so it should be : and
found them a mockery."

''I cannot understand it," said Marjory;
But it IS mystery, not mockery. I cannot
understand. But I loll go on tripping to
believes

This was all she could truthfully say ;
and hitherto she had not been able even

to say this. It was the fear of adding
to his despair that strengthened
her.

Yes  for his sake, she would go on trying:
to believe.

CHAPTER III.

Oh for a draught of vintage, that hath been

Cool'd a long age in the deep-delved earth,

Tasting of Flora and the country green,

Dance, and Provencal song, and sunburnt mirth I
# * * *

That I might drink, and leave the world unseen,
And with thee fade away into the forest dim :

Fade far away, dissolve, and quite forget

"What thou among the leaves hast never known."

Keats.

' If I had you out at Thorne, sir, begging
your pardon, I think I could do you more
good than doctors. Miss Stanhope here
will remember how clever her ladyship
was, in herbs and them. 'Tis wonderful
what healing the Almighty has put in the
fields and lanes about our feet, if we will
just take pains to seek it ! "

Thus Bellhouse : who had called to see
Marjory, after a morning's shopping in the
town.

And the old place, ma'am, is looking

lovely. There's nothing like the country,
sir ! and upon times I think there's no
country like the country about Thorne. Her
ladyship's garden  it is a picture ; all the
roses out ! I don't know when her Gloire
de Dijon in especial  you've not forgot it,
Miss Stanhope, my dear ?  has come to such
splendour. And the birds do sing beautiful
of evenings, in the grove. You'll remember
the thrushes, ma'am, and the wood-pigeons,
no doubt."

"Don't talk of it any more, Mrs. Bell-house,"
said Gerald, " or you will start me
off forthwith ; and the walk would hardly
improve my strain."

*'No, sir  and I'm hindering your writings,
too. But if you should find yourself a little
weakly, when you get about again, and feel
a fancy for country air, I know of a good
lodging in Thorne village; and not out of
the way expensive, neither."

'i'm afraid it is more than a strain. Bell-house,"
said Marjory, when she had taken
her old friend away for a quiet talk.

You're not anxious about him, ma'am, I
hope?"

Yes, I am ; very anxious. I may tell
you ; I have had no one to tell anything of,

lately. It is six weeks since Ms knee was
hurt ; and he is worse, not better. I know
he is worse, though he tries to hide it.
Bellhouse, isn't there some dangerous complaint
which comes in the knee ? "

You're not fretting yourself, thinking of
that. Miss Stanhope, my dear ? " said the
old servant, tenderly. Her motherly heart
yearned over the girl, in whose face she had
quickly read the signs of trouble.

'but isn't there ? I would rather
know. I have not dared to ask any one,
before."

I knew a young boy, many years
ago, who had a white swelling, my dear.
But he was weakly from birth ; and
it was a mercy, every one said, when the
Almighty took him. Your brother's not
like him. Miss Stanhope, my dear."

We won't talk of this any more," cried
Marjory.

She left the subject, resolutely.

And everything is going on well at
Thorne?"

*' Yes, ma'am. It's very quiet,  but allas
natural as ever ; and often of an afternoon,
when I am sewing, it seems as if they was
only gone out, and I should hear their voices

presently in the passage. I sit in that old
room you remember, ma'am, and live things
over again, like reading an old story. And
many lessons I learn so, which I missed at
the time. Yes  it will be a sore trial to
leave the old place ; but I must make up my
mind to it."

Why ? What has happened ? "

Mr. Crawford wrote word, ma'am, a week
ago, that the estate was put up for sale, and
I must hold myself in readiness to show the
house, at any time required. When I remember
Copelandss, Miss Stanhope, my dear,
my heart sinks within me. To be sure, Mr.
Crawford did say, when he was over, that
he would never sell the place but to those
who would know how to value it ; but no
one can say how money might tempt him !
It's a pity but he could be content to live
there, himself. Her ladyship is sorely missed
in the village ; a squire's family would be
welcomed by one and all."

To think of Thorne for sale ! " said
Marjory, musingly. It seemed another mark
of the dreariness of the world.

Does Mr. Vivian know ? "

"Yes, he knows  poor young gentleman !
He was over the other day, and he said he

supposed he must find some other place for
his pictures  those her ladyship left to him,
ma'am. I thought he seemed thin and worn ;
my heart grieved for him, when I remembered
the petted boy he used to be. Why, Miss
Stanhope, my dear, if he but scratched his
finger, Mrs. Vivian was all anxiety ! and
every wish he had, be it costly or cheap, it
must be satisfied to the minute. I fear he
don't look to the Almighty as he might ; and
he has no one else, now, to care for him.
He didn't say much about Thorne; but I
saw him leaning on the terrace wall, watching
the house, and thinking, ever such a
time!"

You know that he is going away himself?"


Yes, ma'am. I asked him if it was true,
and he said he was bound to go,  that he
hated it, but couldn't help himself. It struck
me. Miss Stanhope, my dear, to wonder if
there was a lady in the case ? I hope you
won't think me very bold for such fancies ;
the thought flashed into my mind, of a
sudden."

'' How hot it is ! " said Marjory, bending
fi:*om the window.

Yes, ma'am, a very sultry day  and.

begging your pardon, you're heating yourself
the more by leaning out in the sun. I wish
I could get you to Thorne,  you and your
brother. But, as I was saying  poor Mr.
Hugh, he has looked that wretched of late,
and reckless with it, as if he tried not to
care, and yet his heart was half broken ! He
always was a boy to crave after anything he
set his mind on. Whether it was a dog, ora
pony, or what not, he'd think of it night
and day. Partly his parents spoiled him sono
doubt, because he couldn't brood denial ;
and partly, too, if I don't mistake, that's
why the Almighty has seen fit to try him.
But I should be glad if he might be spared
any more. 'No one can tell what that proud
and masterful young spirit of his, Miss Stanhope,
has suffered ! "

No," said Marjory.

And it seemed to me, the other evening,
I saw a look on his face, uncommon like
what I remember long ago, when he was seton
anything, and  seldom enough  by some
mischance, couldn't have it. A deal more
hopeless than the old look, but yet the same
in kind ; and that, and the way he spoke,
set me wondering."

Does he often go over to Thorne ? "

'i've often heard of his being about the
park, and places, when I've not seen him
myself; and upon times he comes to the
house. Maybe he's fretting to think that
he will soon be no less of a stranger at Thorne
than at Copelandss. It will be a sore trial to
him, if Thorne is sold : he has known every
inch of the ground from his babyhood. I
remember, ma'am, as if it was yesterday,"
said the old servant, rambling from one topic
to another, " when Mr. Hugh was born : and
the grand doings over at Copelandss. It was
shortly after I married, when I was living in
Thorne village. Yes  that little house where
Bellhouse and me lived so happy, and where
my Jessie was born,  that is gone like the
rest  pulled down these three years. Else I
should have been very well content, if I was
turned out, to go back there."

All is vanish'd now, and fled 
Some are married  some are dead !"

The plaintive little song resounded in Marjory's
mind. Bellhouse was wiping away a
few patient tears ; when they were gone, she
looked out quietly, with her usual calm
gravity, over the river.

Perhaps Thorne may be bought by some

nice family who will be only too glad to keep
you."

'' I don't know, my dear ; some has a
great objection to old servants situated like
me  and I won't deny but with reason,  as
I myself have seen in former days, when
young brides have first come home, and suchlike.
Airs have been shown, and liberties
took, that I have been grieved to see, ma'am,
particular in respectable servants : but I
hope the Almighty's grace would keep me
back from that. Still, the family oughtn't
know but I should be so : or they themselves
oughtn't be such as I could bear to see in my
lady's old rooms, using her furniture and
picking her flowers. Oh, that would be a
bitter pill to me, Miss Stanhope, my dear !
Strangers couldn't be expected to reverence
her ; but I doubt I should be best away."

*' I wish I could save you this fresh trouble,
Bellhouse," said Marjory earnestly.

Thank you, my dear : You were always
pitiful, from a child. But I leave it with
the Almighty."

That strong and simple confidence in '' The
Almighty ! " no canting form of speech, but a
living truth. Somehow, when Bellhouse was
gone, Marjory no longer felt that doubt, to

her so terrible, of the very existence of the
God to whom she had prayed. To " walk in
darkness, and have no light;" and yet to
believe :  some such possibility dawned other.

In the evening, her thoughts found their
usual vent : she sat in her window, and
wrote. All the town was out of doors, after
the long day's heat; voices and footsteps,
and the splash of oars, came up from below.
Marjory longed to be walking with Gerald,
as in the happy evenings of last summer.
As she watched the river in the crimson light,
she thought of Paradise, and '' the river of
God," and wished that all were over, and
they safe there. When would they walk
again on earth together  she and the brother
whom she loved ?

Bellhouse's suggestion of a visit to Thorne
had taken a strange hold of Gerald's fancy.
By degrees it gathered all the strength of
a sick man's feverish craving. But, when
Marjory spoke of possibilities, he said he had
already been so troublesome to the bank,
that he felt it out of the question to ask fora
holiday, before his time. If he lost his

situation, what would become of him and

He stopped short, with a heavy sigh : most
painful to Marjory.

A season of dry and sultry weather had
set in, like the Branksome summer, years ago.
All who were able went off to the sea or
other seasonable resorts ; those too busy or
too poor to leave the town, panted and endured.
The streets seemed baked to scorching
; every one longed for the evenings, when
at least the sun went down : but earth and
air were often so thoroughly heated, that
even these were oppressive. To look at the
river was to desire to plunge into its dark
depths ; and Marjory thought with envy of
Kingsley's "Water Babies." Below her
windows, however, it had become shallow,
and was less refreshing than elsewhere ; and
boats ran aground, and boys waded from
shore to shore.

But this limited tract was all that Gerald
could see of it, or feel of the cool air from its
waters. For him there was no escape from the
imprisoning house. He bore it very patiently,
until the Peeles departed to Aberystwith.
Lina said that she was too busy to remain from
home beyond a fortnight ; but that fortnight
seemed in anticipation an eternity to Gerald !

I suppose I shall get through it somehow,"
he said drearily, as she sat, on the
last evening, beside his sofa.

VOL. III. D

Oh, yes ; it will pass in due time. You
used not to be so impatient ! "

I don't know. Perhaps I was much the
same : only I could keep it under. I suppose
this long confinement tries my nerves ;
and you are my one gleam of brightness."

Marjory, at the other end of the room,
looked at him, and then at Lina, with swelling
breast. If she had been Lina, could
she have borne to leave him, to add to his
trial ? He looked very thin to-night, with a
brightness in his eye, a fever on his cheek,
which troubled Marjory. The physical pain
alone, which her watchfulness knew to be
incessant,  how would his constitution bear
it, if it went on ?

'' Well, I shall hope to find you better
when I return," said Lina ; " perhaps you
will be at the station to meet us."

'' I don't know ; a month ago, I should
have said. Of course : but nothing moves
this aching. What a log I am ! To think
I can't see you off tomorrow !  You're not
going ? "

I have to look in at the orphanage," said
Lina, drawing on her gloves imperturbably,
with a sweet smile.

I wish I were an orphan  in the

hospital ! Do stay just ten minutes  only
ten minutes ! I'll look at my watch."

Marjory was discreetly leaving the room,
and heard no more ; but it could not have
been two minutes later, when the door again
opened and closed, and she heard Lina's step
on the stairs.

'' Oh, Lina ! You are really going so
soon f

My dear Marjory, it would be foolish to
encourage Gerald in the habit of such constant
intercourse. It cannot go on through
all our long engagement ; and it is false
kindness. My duties must not depend on
impulse : I should soon lose all method."

"You don't realize what it is to him to lie
there all day; and he listens so for your step ! "

Every one is ill sometimes, dear ; and
Gerald is not a child. I shall be late, as it
is, at the orphanage. Good-bye.'

She kissed Marjory, smiled another sweet
smile, and went gracefully away. Gerald,
painful though movement was to him, had
dragged himself to the window."

'' Let's see,  what did old John of Gaunt
grant to Sir Roger Burgoyne ? "  he said,
with a strange smile, when the vision was
gone by :

D 2

All Sutton and Cotton,
Until the world's rotten.'

The world's rotten already, I think."

'' I hope not ! " cried Marjory.

Perhaps only my corner of it," said
Gerald.

The next morning she found him, with
Bradshaw's map spread open, studying the
route to Aberystwith.

"What a log I am!" he repeated, as
Marjory poured out his tea; "or, rather, I'm
shut up in one. My mind is all alive, and
craving to be out and away : and my body is
a log."

"You will forget all this, when you are
better."

When ! " re-echoed Gerald.

He was very silent during breakfast ; but
afterwards he plodded as usual through his
day's work. In the evening, when work
was over, he leaned wearily back against the
sofa cushions. Upon his face was written
heartache, and anxious thought.

"You are tired, Gerald," said Marjory,
gently smoothing the fair hair from the careworn
young brow. He turned his head restlessly
away.

Tired ! Yes  tired and sick, of the

world and everything in it. Things were
bad enough before, Marjory ; but at any rate
I wasn't a log."

How that horrible word haunts you ! "

"I have horrible dreams, sometimes. I
dreamed last night that I vas a cripple for
life."

'' Oh, Gerald !  it was nothing but a
dream."

I hope so. After all, Flaxman

But no, that's a delusion. What time is it,
Marjory ? "

The cathedral clock was striking.

*' Only eight ! How this day has dragged !
Fourteen more,  to say nothing of the
nights."

Good times, and bad times, and all times
pass over," quoted Marjory, as cheerily as
she was able.

All times," repeated Gerald, with another
strange smile : " Lifetimes amongst the rest.
But, if a fortnight seem so unendurable, what
of a life ? "

Why will you worry yourself with
fancies ? "

'' I am a coward," he said suddenly :
Marjory, are you going to play ? Just hand
me that book at your elbow." And while

she strove by her music to charm him back
to peace, he read steadily, as since morning
he had worked steadily. The habit, strengthened
by necessity, of self-command, had
imparted to him, throughout the past weeks,
a fortitude which filled her with wonder.
But now, from day to day, during Lina's
absence, she saw that he was failing. Whether
the excitement of those visits  few and short
though they were  and their anticipation,
had helped to sustain him ; or whether he
were harassed by thoughts in connection
with her, Marjory could not tell ; but a
constant fever, physical and mental, consumed
him. The hot weather seemed intolerable to
him ; his work was performed amid painful
pauses for rest, which yet was not rest.

Lower and lower into the depths, Marjory
felt herself sinking. She was alone; Gerald's
silence was one of her trials ; if only he
would tell her of his mind, she thought, she
could bear all things better. Or if she could
talk to him ! He had always been kind,
sympathising as any woman, in all that
troubled her ; but she would not add to his
present misery by speaking of her own share.
Neither would she write gloomily to Rocks-wold.
Her uncle was fully occupied by

parish cares, and her aunt was always
delicate. She was alone : she must bear on
alone, as best she could.

She too, in this scorching weather, pined
for the country. If not sick in body like
Gerald, she was sick at heart ; and in the
country, as she was well aware, was healing.
The breeze gently stirring in shady heights ;
the singing of brooks  such as the brook at
Thorne ; bees with their soothing hum ; the
meadows rising and falling in daisies knolls ;
the fertile hedgerows ; the creatures in field
and wood : she thought of all with longing
which none can feel, who do not know and
love them.

There was a song which she often sang
on these close evenings : the same which
had been sung by Lina, a year before, at
Mrs. Carberry's party, and to which she had
seen Hugh Vivian listen with that intensity
of remembrance. And Gerald in his turn
would listen, half closing his book, and looking
away, as if he saw the place ; and then he
would beg for it again,  Marjory cared not
how often.

O forest green and fair !
pine-trees waving high !

"Marjory, would you get me my sketching-block
?

Lulled by many a murmuring stream,
Through the long bright hours to dream 

Oil, if we could be there, at this moment,
on that ' bank of moss ! ' Fancy the forest
darkening all around, and the pine-trees
above : care would seem light  one would
come back able to bear it. lever mind ! 
drawing it is next best. Go on, Marjory."

And for a while he was happy, listening,
and embodying that to which he listened,
until it seemed to him that he was almost
there. But, afterwards, the small sitting-room,
pent about by houses, seemed the closer.

One evening, when he had extra work, and
wished to be quiet, Marjory strolled out into
the fields. She did not fancy the Heathcrofb
throngs, and turned in the opposite direction
 into those meadows where, on New
Year's Eve, she had encountered Mr. Vivian.
The scene so recalled their conversation, that
it seemed only natural when once again she
found him at her side.

'' You don't generally walk so slowly," he
said ; '' I calculated that I should overtake
you about the end of that next field. This

is the third evening I have been watching
about for you ; I am glad I have succeeded
at last."

Why did you not come to the house ?
I am in most of the day."

Yes, but I wanted to see you alone. I
have a great favour to ask of you."

You raise my curiosity," said Marjory.

'well, then,  I have been thinking of
what you told me a week or two ago ; and
I want to know if you will let me help you."

In what way ? "

In the plan you hoped to carry out,
which you said had failed. I use ambiguous
language, for fear of offence ; but you know
that I know that you know that I know
what you meant."

Mr. Vivian, how absurd you are ! " said
Marjory, smiling in spite of herself.

You see we are old friends : nine years
ago, I am sure you would not have minded
coming to me if I could help you through
any scrape. Now this is not a scrape, only
a difficulty ; and you ought not to give way
to such pride."

'you must speak more plainly," said
Marjory.

You give me leave ? Then, to put it

as plainly as possible, you cannot publish
your book. Well, you fought shy of me
before ; but I've had a good bit of experience
in these ways, and I believe I could give
you a hint. Only, to make this possible,
you must show me the story."

Marjory's colour came and went like a
flickering flame ; she had all the first shyness
of a young author ; but she thought
of Gerald  remembered the critic's power 
and hesitated.

' How could that hurt you in any way ? "
he went on. '' I will breathe no word of
it to any one. Do believe me. I have no
object but to help you."

*' What would you do when you had read it?"

I should see at a glance, without reading
every part of it, whether it could be made
marketable, and how ; and afterwards, if
you AYOuld let me, I would find a publisher."

'' I cannot afibrd to throw away such
help," said Marjory, after a pause. " There
is another story, much shorter than the
first, which I have been writing lately. It
is not finished, but it will do for a specimen ;
and I think it is the better of the two. If you
see either, it ought to be the best : such a
critic as you ! " she added with some malice.

You will never forgive me for being, a
critic ! Well, it is settled, then ? I will call
at your door tomorrow, or perhaps to-night,
for the manuscript."

'' You are very kind," said Marjory.

Kind, am I ?  No ! the kindness is on
your side."

She blushed hotly; and, to change the
subject, proceeded, after a somewhat awkward
pause, to talk of Thorne.

'' I should think that fellow Crawford
must be mad," said Hugh ; *' But to him, I
suppose, it is only a dull old piece of rustication."


'' To me it has seemed a Paradise on
earth ! "

'' And it might seem something not far
from that, if I had it now, to me. I did not
feel this always, though," he said, musingly ;
'you know the old song ?

When all the world is young, lad 

And all the trees are green 
And every goose a swan, lad,

And every lass a queen 
Then hey for boot and horse, lad,

And round the world away !
Young blood must have its course, lad.

And every dog his day."

That was just like me in those days when
you saw me at Thome."

'' Do you know I have often thought of you
when I sang it?" said Marjory. As she
spoke, she had a vision of the gay young soldier,
riding so carelessly on his beautiful
chestnut, down the shady lane. And Jessie !
she, too, was in that vision.

'' Every goose a swan, lad  And every lassa
queen ! " he repeated. Could he bethinking
of Jessie ? " Yes, that was the way with
me, then. I should have thought it hard
lines indeed to be confined to Thorne, or to
Copelandss either ! How strangely times
bring one down ! "

In the same dreamy manner he went on
with the other verse : 

When all the world is old, lad 

And all the trees are brown 
And all the sport is stale, lad 

And all the wheels run down :
Creep home and take thy place there,

The maimed and halt among 
God grant you find one face there

You loved when all was young !"

As he said the last words, he glanced at
Marjory.

'' It would be difficult to find any face so

unchanged as yours," lie said, as if half
unconsciously ; " But the home is gone." 

'you may have one again, some day,"
said Marjory, with a passionate longing to
comfort him.

It will have to drop from the skies, then !
I can make enough for what are called the
necessaries of life  life in lodgings ; and that
is about all. If I set to work at once to save
and screw, it might just keep me from the
parish in my old age."

Mr. Vivian ! "

'' I mean it literally. Then this criticism,
which makes me such a bugbear ! if I were
one of the regular clique, I might get a good
bit out of that. But then I can only do that
sort of thing by fits and starts. I can't
depend on myself enough to make a paying
trade of it."

I think it is wonderful that you made
anything of it, considering "

'* Considering my empty-headdress in
years past, you mean ? Yes, it is true that I
was terribly idle. I was never made to work ;
and I learned nothing that could be of use
afterwards. I should think there was never
a more helpless young fellow than I, when I
was first thrown loose on the world, with my
mother to support."

"I know very well low you must have
felt," said Marjory; *' I myself "

"Yes ? " said Hugh, attentively.

'rit seems selfish to trouble you in this
way with my own affairs. I was only going
to say that I know what it is to be anxious.
I am often anxious now about Gerald's bank-work.
The present arrangement cannot
last ; and yet he will not be able to go back."

You fear that he will have to give up his
situation ? "

'' I do fear it  at least, for a time."

Hugh meditated.

It will be only a small amount of help,"
he said ; " but still some. If this should
happen, and he should care for a little law
copying, I could put him in the way of it.
Perhaps he'll let me know."

You are too kind," Marjory exclaimed :
"We ought not to accept so much from

you."

There comes in your pride ! " said Hugh,
smiling ; " Not the dirty pride of scorning
the work  but another quite as real. It is
simply that I know a good fellow here, a
solicitor, who has not enough work for two
clerks, and yet more than his one clerk can
manage. He would be glad to hear of a clear

hand like your brother's ; and he is too much
of a gentleman to publish it among the Alton
gossips."

*' Though, as to that, I don't think we
should care," said Marjory ; '' Gerald and I
have long numbered ourselves among the
working-classes. I wish I could get him into
these fields," she added, somewhat irrelevantly.


'' He feels the heat very much ? "
'' That and the pain are wearing him out.
Sometimes our little room seems to me like
a prison, Mr. Vivian. It is far worse to see
another suffer, without power to help, than to
suffer oneself ! I long to get him away, and
give him all he craves for, and yet I cannot."
It is strange  I have noticed that you
seem to be now almost exactly circumstanced
as I was at this very time, or a little later,
seven years ago."

Seven years! were you at Bellingham?"
Yes," he said, his countenance shadowed
by some painful memory : "At Bullingham,
in lodgings, with my mother. All through
that summer she was ill, and in pain  agony
sometimes. She pined, as your brother does,
for country air ; and I longed to get her to
the sea. A little money was left to us ; and

I hoped it might be : but there was some
hitch  and we did not get the money. I got
it afterwards : too late."

And your mother  I remembered her 
she was like a queen. And she died at those
lodgings ! "

'' In the next winter. It will be seven
years in February. Yes : she died there."

"Oh, if my Gerald should die!" cried
Marjory.

The words broke from her in a passionate
sob; she felt that she must get away, by
herself, if she would escape a burst of
weeping.

Good-bye," she said hurriedly : " I can't
talk any more. I want to be alone."

It was wonderful, she thought afterwards
at the time she noticed nothing  how instantaneously
Hugh Vivian understood ! He
stood still, quite silent, and let her pass.
Five minutes later, when she had conquered
herself, she looked back ; but he was not insight.


CHAPTER TV.

* Conrad: How now? Who more than she, in faith
and practice, a living member of the communion of
saints ?" Charles Kingsley. (" Saint's Tragedy")

It was as though Major's anticipations had
carried with them their fulfilment. The very
day after her talk with Mr. Vivian, the
manager of the bank called again on Gerald, to
offer now, instead of later, the month's holiday
expected in October, adding, that should
its close find him still disabled, his post must
be otherwise filled.

The present holiday was a great relief; and
Marjory felt more hopeful; for Gerald now
consented to indulge his craving for the
country. An idea had come upon him that
country air was in fact the sole remedy he
required.

It will be a bore to break into my fund,"
he said ; " but this is a case of penny wise,
pound foolish."

The fund in question was the money laid
by from the sale of his illustrations,  a

VOL. III. E

limited sum enough, though increasing ; but
on the other hand, the Thorne lodgings
were, to town ideas, surprisingly cheap.
Mr. Eobinson pronounced the experiment to
be well worth a trial, and himself undertook
to superintend the difficulties of removal.


Mrs. Myers and Miss Pilkington had returned
; the holidays were almost over ; but
Marjory's share was extended by the kind
ladies. They, like Gerald, hoped great things
from the change ; and prophesied that he
would return " quite himself." Meanwhile
Lina, from Aberystwith, had proceeded to
stay an extra week with a friend, and Marjory
wondered at the equanimity with which
this was endured by Gerald, until she found
that he had written both to Lina and Mrs.
Peele, pressing them to join him at Thorne.
Mrs. Peele, who was still at Aberystwith, had
promised her consent conditionally on Lina's.
From Lina no answer had yet arrived.

I feel hardly any doubt of her coming,"
said Gerald : ''I wrote most urgently. I
told her all that depended upon this change.
The other day Robinson warned me against
worry, and said that rest of mind was more
important to me than medicine. I told her

this too, because I thought it would induce
her. She knows what would give me rest ! ""

I did not know Mr. Robinson had said
that. Oh, I hope she will consent ! "

I can't doubt it  I won't doubt it," said
Gerald : "If you had seen my letter, you
would not. If she cares for me, she will
come."

The last words were added after a pause,
and in a different tone. Marjory knew not
how to reply.

Now sing, Marjory  don't let us dwell
on anything disagreeable. I want to be
happy for once. I want to think about
Thorne."

So Marjory sang ; and Gerald listened,
and dreamed. His own expectation seemed
to be that the free air, combined with Lina's
presence, would act like magic ; that the
pain would cease, the fever pass away ; that
he would quickly gain strength, and roam
with Lina through those fair places  hope
and health alike renewed. So ran his vision ;
and Marjory breathed no word to gainsay it :
only her heart ached strangely, as she sang
the songs that he loved.

The next day, enclosed to Gerald, came
the following note : 
E 2

university nc

The Lawn, Meddlesome,

August  , 18.

My dear Marjory,

*' I think you have my book of Old
English Songs. Pray send it to me by post,
as I wish to choose one for the Infirmary
Concert here. I have been asked to sing,
and must therefore postpone my return once
more. You will, of course, see that this prevents
my accepting your and Gerald's kind
invitation. I never intended to be so long
from home ; and I fear that I shall find
much neglected at St. Philip's; but this
concert is in need of a good voice, and the
Infirmary must not suffer. I hope that you
will enjoy your visit to Thorne, and that
Gerald will be greatly benefited, and, in
haste,

Believe me, dear Marjory,

Your affectionate friend,

Caroline Peele.

"Pes.  Be sure that you remember the
Songs."

For full half an hour Marjory sat on in
Iter room, the note in her lap, afraid to go'
back to Gerald. Her thoughts were full of
Lina. Lina professed to aim at the highest
standards ; to live an exalted life, governed
by reason and religion ; to do always her
duty, neither more nor less, superior to impulse.
And the result was a block of ice !
marble rather,  for ice can melt. More and
more she had hardened in her rigid mould ;
Marjory could look back and trace the process.
Could it be that Lina, in her small
way, was fashioning herself after the divine
model ? Was God but an infinite expansion
of the same idea  pursuing one unswerving
track, unmoved by the cries of His creatures ?
Almost it might seem so, Marjory fancied, as
she remembered her prayers  Hugh  Gerald.
But, if God indeed were but an antitype of
saints such as Lina, she thought that she
would rather be cast out with Hugh Vivian,
than in Heaven with Him and them. It was
one of those wild and desperate thoughts
which had troubled her lately : which had
made her shrink in fear from the untried
possibilities of her nature.

In the sitting-room all was still. Gerald
had not moved since she left him. She went

silently past him to the piano, and began to
hunt for the book of songs.

"You can see my letter' said Gerald:
'* There is nothing in it that the whole world
might not see."

Marjory took it, turning her back on him
as she read. By the gentle reproofs and hints
with which it was interspersed, she guessed
the nature of that to which they replied.
Gerald was exhorted to be calm, to study
self-government, and thus to place himself
in a condition to derive all possible benefit
from the change.

'eon yourself, far more than on me, dear
Gerald, that benefit would in any case
depend," was the tender warning.

Marjory made no remark, as she returned
the letter ; but afterwards she slipped away
again, and wrote herself to Lina.

The answer reached her, by return of post,
in the lodgings at Thorne.

The Lawn, Meddlesome,

"August, 18.
Dear Mae joey,

I am sorry that I cannot satisfy
your  forgive me  exaggerated appeal. My

arrangements are now past alteration, even
if that were desirable. I think you are mistaken
in encouraging Gerald in what I cannot
but regard as weak-mindedness. I shall
quite hope to find him a different person
when we meet again at Alton.

*' Believe me, dear Marjory,

Your affectionate friend,

Caroline Peele."

It was much as Marjory had expected ; but
she felt it none the less. She tore the note
into a hundred pieces, saying nothing to
Gerald, and burned it in the farmhouse
kitchen.

For they were lodging in a farmhouse, old-fashioned
and substantial, every corner of it
spotlessly clean, every article in it polished
to the maximum of brightness. Wholesome
odours of hay, of new milk, of homely
flowers, pervaded the atmosphere ; sounds of
lowing cows, of sheep, of poultry, made,
from early morn to " dewy eve," a melody of
their own. The rooms engaged by Bellhouse
were in a gable older than the rest large
and cool, with dark panels and deep window-seats,

the windows overlooking the garden,
where flowers, herbs, and vegetables grew in
comfortable unanimity. Beyond, a part of
the park and of the adjoining churchyard
were visible. The music of the brook below
the churchyard wall, that brook sought outby
Marjory nine years before, was clearly
audible in these rooms when the windows
were open,  and at present they were open
day and night.

The drive from Alton, notwithstanding
Mr. Robinson's skilful escort, had been followed
by severer pain ; and more than once
Marjory wondered whether, after all, their
coming had been wise. Still the craving for
the country was satisfied. Gerald could not
wander at will among fields and lanes,
sketching according to his fancy; but he
was in their midst; they, and not streets,
surrounded him : he could step straight
through a glass door into the garden, where,
under an ancient apple-tree, Marjory had improvised
a couch on which he spent the
greater part of each day. The farmer's wife
overflowed with genial kindliness ; dainty fare
of all rural kinds abounded ; and if cream
and butter, new-laid eggs, and delicate fowls
could have cured him, he would speedily have

been well. But, as day by day went onlie
seemed to Marjory worse instead of
better.

She could not seek sympathy from Bell-house
; for, a day or two before their arrival,
Bellhouse had been summoned to a distant
county, to the death-bed of her last surviving
sister. So, when Marjory could leave
Gerald, she roamed about the old park, as in
her childhood, alone. Constantly an elevation
in the ground, a turn among the trees,
disclosed the grand old house, lying lonely
and silent. She would sit at the foot of one
of the mighty oaks, and watch that house of
her dreams, as it rose beyond her, its many
chimneys, gray and smokeless, standing out
against the blue of the sky. Here she lived
again the times when it had been full of gay
company, and she, a stranger child, had
admired from afar those denizens of the
great world. She heard again their voices,
the words they said, the songs they sang.

Then further into the past went her
thoughts. She saw the children of whom
Bellhouse had told her, flitting along the
terraces, chasing each other through the gardens,
picking wild flowers in the park. Miss
Evie's face looked out from that window of

yore, and smiled as if it knew her. The little
old lady came again in her black mushroom
hat, and asked, "What little girl is this?"
Where were they now, all these ? Were they
thinking still, loving still  somewhere ? It
seemed to Marjory that she had come into
a world of phantoms ; that the silent house
and the park around it, the old trees, the
wood-pigeons cooing from the grove, were
themselves a part of that phantom world,
and would presently fade like the rest.

She understood now all she had read of
this fleeting world, of life's pilgrimage. A
pilgrimage ! but how long ? How many
miles of desert country ? She was nineteen,
and Gerald was twenty-three: just beginning,
as it were ! How could she bear the
desolate years ? As many a time before, the
question struck her: If prayer bring no
comfort for this world, where is its help ? In
Heaven no comfort is needed.

CHAPTER V.

'* Enough ; so let us go, mine eyes

Are blinded by their tears ;
A voice speaks to my soul to-day

Of long forgotten years.
And yet the vision in my heart,

In a few hours more,
Will fade into the silent past,

Silently as before."  Adelaide A. Procter,

One evening Gerald and Marjory were sitting
under the old apple-tree. The day had been
very hot ; now the sun was gone down, and
in the far west all manner of soft colours
glowed, changed, melted into one another.
The air was full of fragrance, and very still.
Now and then a leaf rustled, a thrush sang :
while the brook, shallow, but still musical,
trickled over its pebbly bed.

'' What rest this is, after the town noises !"
said Marjory. A book was open on her
knee ; but for the last quarter of an hour her
hands had been clasped over the page, her
eyes and ears, with unconscious soothing,
drinking in the quiet beauty around.

It might be rest  it ought to be," said
Gerald.

Marjory looked at him anxiously.

"Gerald, I cannot bear to see you like
this ; and it is very bad for your health.
How can you get well while you are so
wretched ? "

How, indeed ! " he answered with a smile.
I suppose it is impossible. It seems so."

But what is it ? I only half understand.
Are you fretting because  because
Lina "

He frowned, and turned away his face.

Gerald, I can't bear it," cried Marjory,
passionately : '' I can't bear this silence any
longer. You opened your heart to me before
; and why not now ? What is this
between you and Lina ? "

'' Nothing but what you know,  or might
know."

You mean her coolness ? Do tell me,
dear Gerald  do pray tell me what is in your
mind ! "

'' I can't talk about it  it maddens me.
If I didn't keep it under, I should be a torment
to you as well as to myself."

Not to me, dear Gerald : never to me,"
cried Marjory, her eyes filling.

You love me better thai she does ; I can
see it. I have been a fool to close my eyes
so long. But I thought  I thought "

He broke off abruptly.

Marjory, you mean it well, and I am
grateful; but please question me no more.
I am like a sick dog, turning savage if he is
disturbed. Just leave me to myself, and
forget me."

As to forgetting  that is nonsense.
But I will leave you to yourself, if you wish
it."

I do wish it. I am very sorry,  I pity
you for being tied to such a companion. I
will try to be pleasant. Only don't mention
Lina to me. Some day  when I have
had it out with her  you shall know the
result."

From that evening he exerted himself to
be more talkative, less absent, and to show
interest in the simple things around. But
Marjory was not deceived ; she saw, moreover,
that the effort was beyond his strength.
The fever-flush burned more brightly afterwards
: he was more tired, more worn, when
night came.

Gerald," she said at last, on one of these
nights, '' I am sorry I asked you any questions.

Please be as silent as you like. I
won't interfere again."

"I beg your pardon," he said, wearily;
but the fact is, I am not myself; and, what
is more, I cannot be till I have talked to
Lina."

'* She is at home now."

"Yes, I know. I suppose Would it

disappoint you very much if we went back
a little sooner than we intended ? "

No, not that. What disappoints me is
seeing you no better."

I shall never be better with such a weight
on my mind. I don't want to be selfish,
Marjory ; but the pain saps my strength  I
can't master myself as I used. This gives
me no rest, day or night."

She did not definitely understand ; but remained
true to her promise : and questioned
him no more.

"If she had been with us ;  if she had  had
all would have been different. In that
case, I should have been quite strong again
by this time."

I hardly think that," said Marjory,
gently.

I am sure of it," repeated Gerald, with
unwonted irritation ; " And now, if I can see

her, and get this settled, I shall soon improve.
I feel that Mr. Eobinson was right. This
worry is poison to me."

 Very well ; I will send him a note tomorrow,
when Mr. Brown goes to market ;
asking him to fetch you home."

'' But not if it vexes you ? " said Gerald,
with sudden compunction.

It could not vex me half so much as to
keep you here against your will. So don't
add that to your worries," said Marjory,
forcing a bright smile.

Afterwards, alone in her room, she cried
herself to sleep.

Almost the whole of the next day she was
out of doors, making a farewell visit to her
old haunts. Strangers would soon be in
possession of those beloved places ; she might
see them never again, she thought, except in
memory. In returning, she paused long
near the familiar white gate, in the lane
bordering the plantation. A gentle breeze
stirred the tops of the larches, which had
grown into tall trees since days of old ; a
squirrel hopped from bough to bough, and
now and then a rabbit scudded through the
brushwood. No human sounds were there ;
but Marjory saw once more, Jessie, in her

young beauty, searching for burdock roots,
and beard ber clear voice sing : 

He will return  I know he will 
He will not leave me here to die."

Had those words proved strangely suitable
to Jessie's future ? Sbe turned from the
thought, oppressed by the sense of mystery.
It was pleasant to recall the other figure,
the Mr. Hugh of that old time, chatting
lightly to the fair girl in the plantation. But
Marjory hardly knew why so sharp a pang
pierced her spirit as the scene came back to
her.

The wood-pigeons were cooing in the
evening calm, when she went home. The
farmer had returned from market, bringing
word that Mr. Robinson would call for
Gerald next day. Gerald was in better
spirits than throughout their visit, as they
sat for the last time under the apple-tree.

"If an earthly Paradise were possible,"
he said, " this would be a fitting scene for it.
One might spend a very contented life here,
far from the madding crowd.' Even death
seems less gloomy than elsewhere ; that
old churchyard might have a tempting aspect
to any one who longed for rest."

You don't long for rest, Gerald ? " cried
Marjory, quickly, struck by something  sHe
hardly knew what  in his tone.

'' I ? Not in that sense ! No, what I long
for is life.

'Tis life, 'tis life, for which we pant,
More life, and fuller, that we want :'

and I fret sometimes, because I can't get
it."

You may get it yet, perhaps," said Marjory,
with a gleam of her old hopefulness ;
"Why, Gerald, nearly all the great artists 
poets, musicians, painters  have gone through
an apprenticeship of trouble ! No doubt,
when they were in the thick of it, things
seemed as dark, as often now to us. They
could foresee the end no more than we can ;
and yet what an end was in store for many of
them ! It may be the same for you."

'' I suppose it ma?/," said Gerald, dreamily.

Think of what Mr. Harding said in
answer to your note ! I remember every
word : ' Don't lose heart  the true stuff is
in you, and somehow or other it will win its
way.' Gerald, you have not forgotten ? "

No," said Gerald, in the same dreamy
tone.

VOL. III. y

He was watching the sunset light, as it
widened and deepened upon the old churchyard
wall. Why, at this moment, did it
kindle a moss-grown stone, whose inscription
Marjory had to-day deciphered amid the
stains of age.

''He asked life of thee; and thou gayest
him a long life; even for ever and ever

So ran the words ; she could not see them
now, but, while the old stone glowed, they
sounded, as if spoken, in her ear. She looked
in a kind of tremor at Gerald ; he was only
intent upon the light.

"I should like to catch that effect," he
said : " How curiously the silent radiance
widens ! There  it is going ! If we sat
here every evening for a whole summer, we
might never see a glow like that again."

CHAPTER VI.

Farewell ! thou art too dear for my possessing,
And like enough thou know'st thy estimate :
The charter of thy worth gives thee releasing,

My bonds in thee are all determinate.

* * *

Thus have I had thee as a dream doth flatter ;
In sleep, a king ; but, waking, no such matter."

Shakspeare.

The town seemed very close and dusty after
the old farmhouse ; and Gerald was much
exhausted by the drive.

It was a pity that you could not stay
longer," said Mr. Robinson to Marjory;
Under the circumstances, I fear the move
has done him more harm than good."

Nevertheless, at breakfast the next morning,
he was in his usual place. His gray
eyes were shining, his cheeks were burning,
his face was set in stedfast resolve.

*' I wish you had not got up, Gerald," said
Marjory.

Lina is coming. We must make haste.
I expect her very soon."
F 2

"Why does she come so early ? "

"She had no other time to spare," said
Gerald, shortly. Not a word more passed
between them throughout the meal. When
it was over, Marjory quickly vanished, leaving
Gerald alone.

Was Lina struck when she entered, some
half an hour later? Did she see anything
of an omen in those eyes which met hers ?
If she loved him, did not her heart beat
faster as he clasped her hand? An old
proverb says, " None are so deaf as those
who won't hear." Another, equally truthful,
might say, " None are so calm as those who
don't feel."

I had hoped to find you looking better,"
she remarked, in her clear tones ; ''I fear
you came back too soon."

'' It would have killed me to stay longer.
I could not rest till I had seen you."

So you told me in your note ; but do
you know, I think it is a pity ? I think we
should school ourselves to bear separation.
How would it be if you went, as you planned,
to Rome ? "

If ! " repeated Gerald, with a strange
mixture of longing and despair. "It is not
the separation, Lina. I am not quite such a

poor creature ! Ko  it is something to be
decided, which has weighed on my mind,
night and day. You see I cannot boast your
self-controls*' he added, with a touch of
bitterness. '' My feelings are not so completely
under my thumb, as to be summoned
or dismissed at will."

They are rather too much the other way,
I fear," said Lina, sweetly : '' Well ! what
has troubled you so much ? I shall be glad
to know."

You have often reminded me, as a motive
for calmness, that our engagement is
not likely to be short. No more it is. But
the question in my mind is not as to the
shortness or the length of it, but whether
there had not better be an end."

Lina looked at him. His eyes were fixed
upon her, eagerly and with strange impatience.
Her own beautiful eyes were not
eager  nor perturbed. They were a little
surprised,  a little  very little  offended :
nothing more.

'' Well ? " he said quickly : "Well ? won't
you answer ? "

I did not know that you expected me to
answer. It rests with yourself. I am willing
to go on with the engagement, or not, as you
think best."

' Is that all ? " cried Gerald, passionately:
Lina, I cannot make you out. Is it that
you are supernaturally perfect in the government
of your feelings ? or have you no feeling
os to govern ? I'd rather know the truth.
Speak out, and tell me."

'' Gerald, you are really unpolite," said
Lina, the shade of offence deepening : " I
must beg you to explain yourself. In
what have I shown any want of feeling
? "

' You won't understand : or you can't ; I
don't know which. Lina, when I asked you
to marry me, some day  far off, but real,  I
was full of hope, though all was uncertain.
Harding's praise had opened to me a future
beyond my utmost dreams ; I thought that
there might be a few years of waiting  perhaps
very few, and, if you loved me, they
would soon pass  and that then  then I
should be able to ." He paused.

'' Oh, the visions I had ! But never mind.
Only, if they had come true, your position as
my wife might be not altogether unworthy,
even of you. I thought that, for the honour
you had done me, I would give you honour
again  that I would win riches, success, glory,
and offer all to you ; and it seemed  if you

loved me  I must repeat that,  I did you no
wrong in what I asked."

'' I have told you frequently that I have
no objection to the long engagement," said
Lina. She was about once more to repeat
that her time was fully occupied at St.
Philip's ; but Gerald interposed.

'' Well, let that pass ! Things are altered
now, Lina. The fates are dead against me.
Poor Marjory's scheme has come to nothing :
I have new plans of my own ; but my health
hinders them. Here I am, a wretched log 
unfit for work of any kind. To own that fact
is terrible ! yet a fact it is. My bank appointment
is as good as gone. What we
shall do next, Marjory and I, Heaven knows
or when this knee of mine will be well.
Sometimes I think it is a mere strain ; and
sometimes "

You are too desponding," said Lina.

'* Am I ? you could soon change that !
I'll tell you what, Lina ; You said it rested
with me,  it rests with you. I am only
putting things before you. If you wish still
to stick to me"  his voice trembled, with a
sudden possibility of joy  *' you may, after
all, not regret it. The tide may turn : surely
it is nearly at its lowest  and then it may go

up. Often I think that, if my mind were at
rest about you, I should get all right. Or,
if not, and if you cared for me enough to
bear it, I would just as soon lose my leg.
There might be no other cure."

'' My dear Gerald, what portentous views
you take ! "

A peculiar smile passed over his face.

'' If you had felt for five minutes the pain
I feel all day, your views might be portentous
too ! At any rate it is enough to
convince me that this may have to be, that I
may become a cripple ;  I am only preparing
your mind. But, when once the worst was
over, I might soon be healthy and strong
again ; and, if Mr. Harding were still friendly,
my dreams might even yet come to pass. It
is possible : I dare not say more. So, Lina,
now you see ! Do you love me enough to
face all this : or not ? "

He looked at her, first red, then pale.
Lina was silent.

'' I must know," said Gerald : " I must
have a final answer. The suspense and the
bodily pain together are more than I can
stand. It's not that I care so much about
suffering ; but I do care about my hopes : I
can't let them go without a fight. I can't be

contented to die, when I might Hve. I must
know the worst, or the best. If the best, I
sometimes think that would cure me at once.
If the worst, please God I will yet face it like
a man. More than a man I can't be ; if you
are more than a woman."

His voice quivered as he spoke these last
words ; and Lina seemed slightly to melt.
I do not wish to pain you in any way," she
said graciously.

' Don't think of that, Lina," cried Gerald,
with sudden warmth: ' Not for one moment !
I would not for the world go on with this,
but of your own free choice. When people
really love each other, I know, through experience,
parting is the one thing unbearable.
But without love, without great love, it
would be bondage indeed to be tied to such
as I now am. I would not for the world
expose you to it. And often lately, Lina, I
have fancied that you had no such love forme."


You are like Marjory, far too fanciful."

Am I ? Then I may have fancied more :
I may have fancied you other than you are.
I have thought, If such be the face, what
must the soul be ? what to have such a soul
devoted to me, united with me ! The idea

alone was rapture  till  till, slowly, other
thoughts dawned. Mind ! I am not complaining
; I am only telling you what has
filled my mind."

I suppose you feared that I should break
my word," said Lina proudly.

*' I did not. I knew you were honour
itself. I knew, unless I spoke, we should
drag on as we have done lately. But I can
bear even the worst better than that."

'' I do not know what you mean by dragging.
Certainly, as you say, our prospects
are far from favourable ; but, as regards your
health, I have myself no doubt but that you
will recover, without anything so portentous
as you suggest."

And what is your answer to my
question ? "

*'My answer is, that I am willing, if you
are the same, to continue without change for
the present."

'' For the present ! What does that mean?
On the chance that things may better themselves?"


'' In that hope. I fully expect that you
will some day be a celebrated artist. Of
course, if this became impossible "

'' If I had no other prospect but to be tied

for life to a bank, for instance," broke in
Gerald.

Exactly. Should this eventually seem
certain, it would be wiser, then, to part. In
such a case you could never be rich ; and,
although I shall have a moderate income,
it is never desirable that the husband should
depend upon the wife."

'' I see," said Gerald ; " At last I see your
heart. I thank you, Lina. You have spoken
plainly, now."

You asked me to speak plainly."

Yes ; and I am glad. I am glad to
know. Once more, thank you. We should
have had to part, sooner or later, no doubt ;
and now you have made me willing for it."

'' What do you mean ? " inquired Lina,
with calmness.

I mean that I release you. You need
not fear that you have broken your word,
I give it freely back."

You wish at once to break off the
engagement ? "

''I do. There is no such thing as * for
the present,' with me, in such a case. It
must be for ever, or not at all. Yes, it is
all over."

Certainly, since you desire it," said Lina,

rising ; " But you would have done better to
tell me your intention at first, and so save
this discussion."

My intention ! I had none ; except to
find out this one thing, which now I know.
I thought you were an angel, Lina ! I
blessed God for the day I first saw you.
And now  this is worse than hell."

Gerald, you quite shock me ! I see
that it is all for the best. If I had known
you more thoroughly, I should never have
consented to link my fate with so ungoverned
a nature."

Good-bye," was all that Gerald answered.
As she rose, he had risen, forgetting his
pain. Now, before Lina was aware, he had
clasped her in his arms, with one long
passionate kiss.

The last for ever and ever," he said,
letting her go : '' Good-bye, Lina."

He turned from her, with iron self-control ;
and in stately silence she quitted the room.

When, her serene head somewhat higher
than usual, she had traversed the long streets
to Albion Square, she went straight to her
own apartment, and found relief in shedding
a few tears. Their source, which she did
not analyse, was complex ; they were soon

wiped away ; and afterwards lie was quickly
herself again. She washed her hands,
smoothed her hair at the glass, and repaired
to the drawing-room.

*' Mamma," she said, " I wish to mention
that my engagement is broken off."

My dear ! " exclaimed Mrs. Peele, in
utter bewilderment. None of the ups and
downs, too well known to Marjory, had been
apparent in Albion Square. The Peeles had
grown to regard Lina's engagement in the
light of an institution ; fixed, and of indefinite
duration  a pity, but irrevocable.

Yes," said Lina, " Gerald thinks it wise ;
and of course I can only agree with him.
His health and other uncertainties considered,
the change, no doubt, is prudent. In mentioning
it to our friends, mamma, I beg you
will explain that there has been no breach of
promise on my part."

'' My dear child ! " cried tender-hearted
Mrs. Peele, temporarily moved from her
respectful awe of Lina : " I sympathise with
you so deeply ! All has been so unfortunate !
I trust you will not fret yourself ill."

'' Pray do not feel uneasy, mamma," said
Lina ; "I hope I know better how to meet a
trial than to fret myself ill."

As she spoke, she sat down at the piano,
to practise for the Philharmonic Society.
Occupation, as her father had taught her,
was the best cure for sorrow ; and a well-disciplined
mind would never permit itself
to brood over grief.

CHAPTER Ir.

*' I was not sad to die, for there was now
Nothing left in the world ;  but in a dream
I suffered j

and I thirsted more and more,
Burning and craving.

Again, again through all the long dark hours,
Always the thirst, the striving, and no drop
Once tasted. Was it hours, or days, or weeks ?
And once I came unto myself, and all
"Was agony, past thinking and past speech."

Harriet E. Hamilton King.

All through the long afternoon, Gerald had
been locked up in his room. More than once
Marjory had listened outside ; but all was
silence. Meanwhile the world went on as
usual ; the blue sky stretched above the
cathedral tower,  the bell chimed for evensong,
 the quiet little congregation, ladies
chiefly, passed through the low north door.
The rooks cawed to one another; wheels
rattled ; footsteps tramped ; the river flowed
with its wonted ripple. There was no pause
in the great hum of life, because of one
man's sorrow.

In the evening some relief came  a break
in the silence. Gerald, after tea, remained in
the sitting-room ; and presently he spoke,
unasked, and told her something of what
had happened.

*' There was no use in its going on," he
said : "It has been a delusion all along. I
can't make out, even yet, whether she has it
not in her  or only not for me : but the
result is the same."

She is not worthy of you, Gerald," said
Marjory.

I am little enough to be worthy of! "
said Gerald, bitterly : " But worthy of all I
have felt for her, she certainly is not. Marjory
! if I could but throw it off ! "

'' Throw off what, dearest ? "

My fascination for her. I can't help it,
any more than she can help the other. While
she seemed so high, so angelic, it ennobled
me ; but now it is only a clog. She is not
what I thought her, and yet  yet  still I
want her : I want her for my own."

Dear Gerald, shall I go and see her ?
Shall I try to make it up ? " asked foolish
Marjory, thinking only how to bring him
present soothing.

''No  No," he said passionately : 'what

are you dreaming of ? I did it of my own
free will. I should have done it long ago, if
I had known  if I had been certain. Many
a time I have had misgivings ; but I wanted
courage to face them. I have my art still :
that I can't be robbed of. I will reverse the
poet's decision. ' Love, my Love, thou
wert much, but Art is more.' That is my
opinion, Marjory  directly opposite to Mrs.
Browning's."

He laughed as he spoke ; and she
thought that she would sooner see him
silent.

'' If I could get her out of my head  forget
I had ever seen her ! If she were truly
what I thought her, whatever came between
us, I would remember her evermore. But
she is altogether another person. The ideal
I dreamed of is as far off as ever. To think
I should go mad about one like her ! and
yet I cannot help it."

As he talked on, Marjory doubted whether
he were indeed himself. The wildness of
manner, the fever of cheek and eye, seriously
alarmed her. With some difficulty she persuaded
him to go early to bed ; and hoped
to find him better in the morning. But,
when morning came, he was very ill.

VOL. III. G

In reply to her anxious questionings, as
she stood beside his bed, he could not tell
whether he had slept or no. He had had a
strange night, he said, full of visions. Even
now he rambled, spoke strange thoughts
aloud, or appeared to answer some person
invisible to Marjory. One fact alone seemed
certain,  he was in pain : pain so great that
the mental anguish was lost in it.

'' My knee is a burning fiery furnace," he
said, turning his head restlessly, the fair hair
tossed over the feverish brow : '' Ten thousand
flaming serpents with iron teeth !
gnawing all night, and yet not satisfied.
Who's that ? "

Dear Gerald, it is I  Marjory."

'* Just get Eobinson to cut it off. The
serpents are too much entangled  it must all
come off together. They are writhing, I tell
you ! and their fangs burn. What have I
been saying ? Marjory ? "

'Yes, my Gerald," said poor Marjory at
his pillow.

Was I wandering ? " he asked in his
natural voice : *' I'm so thirsty ! "

Marjory ran to the sitting-room, where
breakfast was waiting, and returned with a
cup of tea ; but he was all astray once more.

Serpents  serpents," lie repeated :
Burning and blazing. The cool sea, with
tossing waves  and Venice in a flood of light.
Too hot  the streets burn ! I want water."

She gave him the tea in silence, feeling
numbed at the heart.

'thank you," he said, lying down again :
*' That was refreshing. I could sleep now,
if these brutes  My head is all confused.
What are these red-hot tongs at my knee ?
The worm that never diet 1 ' I'm not in
hell, am I ? Where are they  in my knee or
my brain ? "

He muttered on, unconscious that Marjory
had flown in search of Miss Pilkington.
Help was quickly at hand; Mr. Eobinson
summoned : and Marjory knew the worst.
Violent inflammation of the joint had set in ;
an abscess, long smouldering, had been
quickened to active mischief.

"You see he would not keep himself quiet,"
said the doctor : '' The knee has not had fair

play."

And is he very ill ? " inquired Marjory
white but tearless.

I hope he will soon be better, with careful
nursing. In a few days I shall lance his
knee ; and that will relieve him."
G 2

Mr. Eobinson, I beg of you to tell me.
Is it a white swelling ? "

It is of that nature."

And incurable ? "

'decidedly not incurable at present. I
will not deny that he is in a critical state ;
but I see no reason against eventual recovery.
In these cases so much depends upon the
strength of the constitution."

I will do all that is possible to strengthen
him. Will he be long iU ? "

'' I fear it may be a long business altogether.
This acute attack we can subdue ;
but the rest will take time. A few months
more or less."

'' A few months ! " Whence would the
money come, to say nothing of other matters,
for those months, with all involved in them ?
But she had no time to think of this now.
She must at once set to work to carry
out Mr. Robinson's directions for relieving
Gerald.

Relief was slow in coming. Through nine
long days Gerald lay racked in pain. At intervals
he was quite himself, struggling to
hide his agony, that Marjory might not be
distressed. More often, as at first, he wandered
amid delirious fancies, all coloured by

the feelings in his knee. And sometimes,
most distressing of all, he moaned, his head
turning from side to side, his arms tossing,
his hands clenched, as if the anguish were
unbearable.

Marjory would murmur, '' Oh, my Gerald !
Can I do nothing to help you?" Then he
would come at once to his right mind, and
say : "I beg your pardon  I am sorry I was
so impatient."

But a few minutes later he was moaning,
half unconscious, as before.

It was very terrible. All day, mechanically,
her heart was crying, " God, strengthen
me ! help me to bear it ! " No visible answer
came  no feeling of wonderful support  such
as she had read of. Yet she did bear it,
without breaking down, without distressing
Gerald by weeping or complaint. Therefore,
in the future, she believed that her cry had
been answered. But, in the present, her feeling
was  '' All Thy waves and billows have
gone over me ! " Hopes of the past came
back as though to mock her. As to Another
long ago, mocking spirits whispered : " You
trusted in God that He would deliver you !
let Him deliver you now, if He will have
you." In such a furnace had Hugh Vivian's

faith been destroyed : must the remnant of
hers go too, she wondered ? Thinking of
him  as much for his sake as her own  she
kept firm hold of it ; and prayed, into what
seemed empty air, that it might not utterly
perish.

Tidings of Gerald's increased illness had
rapidly spread ; and friendly inquiries poured
in from the outside world. Fruit and other
sick-room delicacies were sent in abundance ;
and Mrs. Peele came to offer help in the
nursing.

You are very good," said Marjory ; '' but
I don't know how he would bear to see you.
It would remind him too much of Lina."

'' Ah, yes, poor dear fellow ! He has acted
very sensibly ; but I feared he would suffer.
Lina told me that he could not feel it wise
to continue the engagement under present
circumstances."

*' That is her view of it ! " exclaimed Marjory,
biting her lip, the next instant, at her
unwary words. But Mrs. Peele did not observe
them.

After all, my dear, we must confess, when
we think of it, that all is for the best. Lina
does not allow herself to grieve. Such self-control
may be beyond the reach of some ;

but none the less should we admire it. And,
since she bears up so well, I cannot but
feel grateful for your brother's unselfish conduct."


Marjory felt strangely lonely as she listened
to these polite gratulations. They were glad
to be rid of Gerald, with all his wealth of
talent and of self-devotion  better worth, as
it seemed to Marjory, than mines of this
world's riches. They could not appreciate
him : only she in all the earth wanted him,
and clung to him, and felt that death, to say
nothing of poverty, would be joy in comparison
to life without him. Kind and sympathetic
though Mrs. Peele intended to be,
and was, her visit left Marjory sadder than
before.

She had taken it upon her to write to the
manager of the bank, and had received from
him a civil acknowledgment of Gerald's resignation,
and a cheque for the amount due
of his salary. From her uncle at Eockswold
she had also received what money he could
spare : a small contribution,  but welcome.
He had sent it, he said, instead of coming,
as a better means of aid : she might some
day need him more than at present,  he
would put off coming until then. Marjory

knew not why at these words a nervous chill
ran through her ! She tore up the note, and
burned it, to get them out of her mind.

One day during this period another note
reached her. Her colour deepened as she
glanced at the signature.

'' Dear Miss Stanhope, 

It has grieved me, more than you
would perhaps believe, to hear of your
brother's illness. If I can in any way be of
use to you or to him, pray remember that I
shall be thankful to know it. Meanwhile, I
am anxious to tell you that I have read your
MS., and am more glad than surprised to
find it full of promise. I think you would
be surprised if you knew what a hold it has
taken of me ! When I see you, I can give
you a hint as to re-casting certain parts ; but,
first, will you let me have the end ?

Yours very sincerely,

''H. Vivian."

Here was a gleam of comfort ! giving her
hope, even yet, for brighter times. She
clasped the letter in her hand, as the renowned
drowning man clasps his straw. Her story

was almost finished. She had been going on
with it, by snatches, as she felt inclined ; and
now, while Gerald slept or lay silent, she
wrote its final pages. She had no time to
correct her work ; it had come naturally,
in the rough, fi:'om her mind  and so was
left. She had written, as she was living, in
the dark, " out of the deep," yet clinging
tremulously, though with resolution, to the
hope that somewhere beyond the darkness
was light. Her meaning was confusedly expressed,
she afterwards feared ; but, such as
it was, the manuscript went off* to Mr. Vivian
within a few days from his note.

Meanwhile, the crisis of Gerald's suffering
was at hand. We read of great pain  we
hear of it ; but do we ever realize it until for
ourselves felt or seen ? Marjory, watching,
found a new world revealed : a fearful world,
enshrouded in mystery. Whence comes this
capacity for pain, implanted in humanity ?
There are times when bodily pain is despised ;
it seems as nothing beside mental anguish.
But see it in its intensity, and who will not
own that even bodily pain is a formidable
thing, an awful thing ? Gerald's powers of
endurance were weakened, his nerves overwrought
; he could no longer strive for self-command.

In the night he would cry out,
would start up in his bed, calling aloud on
God to deliver him. Then, seeing Marjory
beside him, he wrung her hand, and begged
her to pray that he might die.

'' And then you would be rid of me, too,"
he added, with a smile which cut her to the
heart.

The opiates were increased, and gave him
some rest ; but, when he woke again, the
struggle revived. As at first, his mind constantly
wandered.

'*Lina!" he said, one day, '' Lina 
Lina- ''

Then came a pause, a deep-drawn sigh.

'' Do you want anything, dear Gerald ? "
asked poor Marjory.

He raised his head slightly, looking round
with something of expectation. This fading,
he turned his face away and closed his
eyes.

'' I thought Lin a was here," he said ; "I
only want Lina. If she could lay her hand
upon my forehead," he went on, after long
silence : " her cool, soft hand  it would heal
me ! The serpents would quail before her,
drop away and die. I should sleep as in
old days. I slept once, and walked about,

like other men, and worked, and lived. I
was not always here among the flames."

*' It cannot go on much longer," said
Marjory.

*' Would Mrs. Peele bring Lina to seeme
? '* he asked, recalled by her voice.
"The time has dragged so heavily since I
saw her last. Would she come ? "

You would not wish it, after all that has
happened," said Marjory, gently.

Happened ! " he repeated. '* Has anything
happened?" Then, suddenly: "I
forgot," he said, in a dreary tone. '' No 
of course, she can never come again. It is
all over."

As before, he turned his face away, and
lay silent till the next paroxysm of pain.
Marjory remembered how endless, a little
while ago, even a fortnight had seemed to
him. Now, as he had said, the separation
would be, not for a fortnight, but a lifetime.


At length the worst was past. On the
tenth day Mr. Robinson performed an operation
upon the knee. Afterwards, for hours,
Gerald slept, as he had not slept through
all this time : a quiet, dreamless slumber.
Awaking, he said, with ineffable relief, that

he was free from pain ; asked for food, and
slept once more.

There is a good deal of vitality in his
constitution," said Mr. Robinson, standing
over him. '' He will do now. Only build
up his strength and keep him quiet."

And Marjory felt with thankfulness that
the last injunction might now have some
chance of fulfilment.

CHAPTER Yin.

Father ! forgive the child who fretted so, 
His proud heart yields,  the tears are on his cheek !"

Robert Buchanan.

Hugh Vivian's final departure lead been accidentally
delayed ; but, shortly after Marjory
had despatched the second part of her manuscript,
she heard that he was absent on
matters connected with some foreign adjutant
for which he had applied. September
was well on its way before he returned. The
excessive heat had long been over ; already
the early mornings and late evenings were
sharp and chilly ; and the first rich tints of
autumn glowed on the trees. Marjory was
alone, correcting divers scrawling exercises,
when unexpectedly his name was announced.

I did not know you were come back ! "
she exclaimed, with a thrill of joy.

"I came back late last night ; and now  "
He paused. '' How is your brother ?"

*' Thank you, I hope he is better. I think
so ; and yet  I am not sure. At first he
got on so well,  I was so hopeful ! but

lately he has seemed at a stand-still. The
pain is now very slight, and yet his strength
does not increase. I wish he could be
moved."

"And he cannot ?"

"No. They wrote from Rockswold to
beg that we would go home ; but Mr. Robinson
will not hear of it."

I am very sorry. All this is not fit for
you to be going through alone."

Oh, as for me, it doesn't matter," said
Marjory.

He looked as if he thought that nothing
mattered so much ! but he did not speak.

I have wanted to tell you," she went
on, abruptly and nervously, " that lately I
have understood your difficulties as never
before. I know now, as I could not then,
what is meant by the battle of life ; and how
presumptuous those who only know it by
hearsay are, to judge and lecture others in
the thick of it. If I have ever talked pragmatically
to you, I hope you will forgive me'*

You never have," said Hugh.

It was as though, for some reason, he
could not trust himself to say more. Marjory
had shrunk back with a hot blush ; and
a pause ensued.

All this time you must have thought that
I had forgotten your MS./' said Hugh, suddenly
rousing himself: '* But the truth is,
I have been reading it again and again, 
studying and thinking over it."

You mean that really ? " exclaimed
Marjory, half incredulous, half delighted.

I do, indeed. There is a great deal in
it : more perhaps than you yourself know.
I am thankful to have seen it. You will find
that I have marked certain passages needing
attention."

He unrolled the manuscript, which he had
brought in his hand, and went in a businesslike
manner into the subject ; criticizing,
with here and there a touch of satire that
made Marjory wince, but giving her valuable
help.

All this is my trade, you see," he said
at the end : "I am pretty well skilled in it
by this time."

He then told her of a publisher to whom
he proposed to recommend the story.

'* I shall prepare him to receive it in a

few weeks from now ; and, if you can alter

these few points, I think it will be accepted."

I will rewrite it altogether, and take the

greatest pains. I don't mind how I work."

Still at your old dream of helping
Gerald ! " He leaned back in his chair and
looked at her, with a smile, half amused,
half melancholy.

It has been a dream, indeed, lately! But
now you have given me hope. I don't know
how to thank you."

If I have been of any service to you,
that is beyond thanks. I am glad to carry
the thought with me : as a possibility at
least."

'when are you going?" asked Marjory,
with a sudden pang.

He paused a second, as if struggling to
command his manner: then answered very
quietly : 

''I am going to-night."

It was Marjory's turn to struggle now !
to battle, with womanly instinct, against any
betrayal of what these tidings were to her.
Her heart seemed to stop beating, but he
was looking at her,  she must speak.

To-night ? " she repeated.

It seems sudden ; but it must have come
some time. Yesterday evening, when I returned,
I found waiting for me a letter from
an old friend in Russia. He says that he can
find me work, if I will go to him at once.

The letter had been waiting several days ; so
there is no time for delay."

' And he does not mention any particulars
of the work ? You must have great confidence
in him."

I have  the greatest. He knows exactly
what I am, and what I want. Granted the
popular idea of Providence, his writing just
now might well be called Providential."

' It is a long way to go," said Marjory.

'' Yes ; but that is for the best. I was up
almost all night, thinking things over. If I
leave Alton, I may as well leave England :
otherwise I might be tempted to come back,
which would be worse than foolish."

Before Marjory could answer, Gerald's
crutch sounded in the passage. She started
up to meet and help him; and the tite-a4ete
was ended. Mr. Vivian stayed a little while
not long  talking to her brother. At last
he looked at his watch, and rose to go. He
shook hands warmly with Gerald ; she heard
Gerald wish him all good fortune ; then came
her turn. Speech failed her, shadows darkened
before her eyes : she only felt her hand
clasped fast and long, as if that hold could
not loosen.

'' Good-bye," he said.

VOL. in. H

She bowed her head slightly ; but still she
could not speak. Suddenly he raised her
hand to his lips  for one instant : and was
gone.

When, a minute later, Marjory turned round,
Gerald, with his back to her, was looking out
of the window; he did not seem to notice
her, as she slipped away, leaving the exercise
books strewn over the table. She must be
alone, she felt. Why did she care so much ?
why was the whole world suddenly dark to
her ? It had been twilight before ; now it
was dark ; she was sick of it, of everything.
For eight years she had been happy without
him : why had he crossed her path again, to
pass as he came, changing all life ? If she
could still speak to him now and then, could
know how he was, and where, could see his
face at a distance, she thought that she should
be content. But to live quite without him,
without any knowledge of him  how could
she bear it ? And yet she must !

Already, by a habit which had become
fixed, she was mechanically listening for his
knock, his step on the stairs. And this craving
must go on throughout her life : through
long years slowly rolling  each made up of
long months, weeks, days, hours. She had

plenty of work, of other interests ; but this
would haunt her through them all. And,
when earth's life was ended, would she meet
him, even then ?

"Alas for divided hearts !

For the dreams that were only dreams !
One taken, the other left  '

O saddest of human themes !

I hear a spirit wailing 

Heaven is no Heaven to me,
While I strain my eyes with gazing
O'er the parapet for thee.' "

idolatrous words ! doubtless the true
language of many a human heart,  but true
for a time only, while we measure Heaven by
earth. How must those who have reached
Heaven indeed, marvel at that earthly childhood,
which uttered cries so blind ! Yet Marjory's
heart uttered them now, with a passion
that terrified her. The cathedral bell had just
ceased tolling for the four o'clock service.
Her hat and gloves lay at hand ; mechanically
she took them up : and sought a refuge in
the calmness of God's shrine.

As she entered noiselessly, the congregation
were beginning the Confession : 

'' We have erred and strayed from Thy ways
nice lost sheep :

H 2

We have followed too much the devices
and desires of our otvn hearts :

'' We have offended against Thy holy latvs.*

Who was that in a side aisle, kneeling with
bowed head  joining in those words  praying,
undoubtedly praying ? It seemed to
Marjory that she heard our Saviour's question,
spoken once again as of old :

thou of little faith, wherefore didst
thou doubt ? "

She had feared that her prayer was lost, 
her childish prayer, begun nine years before
that little prayer, never forgotten, night or
morning, for Mr. Hugh.

But now here he was at last, come home

to his Father's House. Now, when she had

felt most despairing, she saw him, kneeling

before God.

* * *

All through the service Marjory was constantly
looking towards that distant form in
the side aisle. The hard and bitter expression
had faded from his face ; it might return,
but for the time it was gone. He was
the Mr. Hugh of yore ; only older, graver,
"come out of great tribulation." Only a
little while ago, the unbelief in his heart had
seemed like a marble wall. He had breathed

in her hearing no suggestion of any change.
Lina had told her that he never entered a
place of worship ; and this he had confirmed,
observing that, whatever he might be, at least
he was not a hypocrite. Marjory longed to
know the cause of the transformation ; but
she would have no opportunity of asking.
It might be that she would never know, in
this world.

The service over, while the music of the
organ rolled in glory from choir to nave, still
he knelt, with hidden face. He did not know
that any human eye observed him : rising at
last, he looked neither to right nor left, but
walked quickly away, with his soldierly tread,
and through a distant door.

Then Marjory, reaching her own room unseen,
thanked God with tears which, though
her heart still ached, were sweet : a sweetness
less of earth than of Heaven.

CHAPTER IX.

The warm sun is failing, the bleak wind is wailing,
The bare boughs are sighing, the pale flowers are dying,

And the year
On the earth her death-bed, in a shroud of leaves dead,
Is lying.
Come, months, come away,
From November to May,
In your saddest array ;
Follow the bier
Of the dead cold year,
And like the dim shadows watch by her sepulchre."

/SJtellei/.

How to find money, not only for the exigencies
of illness, but for common necessaries,
had been of late a problem of painful anxiety.
Gerald would have had Marjory return to
Eockswold ; but of this she would not hear.
By extending her help in the school, which
had been recently increased, to three additional
hours, she was now able to provide for
his lodging as well as for her own. The
small but certain amount which he himself
could earn, through his illustrations, and the
law writing recommended by Hugh Vivian,

was also useful ; and from time to time some
further help was sent by Mr. Stanhope. But,
even with all these resources, they could not
have paid their way, had not Marjory, after
due consultation, been allowed to sell out a
hundred pounds of her small capital. This
necessity was equally deprecated by the uncle
and by Gerald ; but, that a necessity it was,
she succeeded in convincing Mr. Stanhope
at least. Gerald, however, announced that
he should regard it as a loan, to be repaid
when better days should come ; and Marjory,
smiling to herself, permitted the delusion.


Meanwhile, she worked hard and steadily
in remodelling her book. Her progress was
slow ; for the afternoons were no longer her
own,  and Gerald could not be neglected.
But some progress she did make daily, and
this work was an oasis in her life : both for
its own sake, and for the hope which, phoenix-like,
seemed about to rise from its ashes.

So the autumn weeks went by ; the leaves
deepened in hue, and floated away, " each to
its rest ; " and the old age of the year drew
on, surely, though in silence.

Since his attack, Gerald had suffered no
violent pain ; it was now a chronic aching.

wearing but bearable. Sometimes, if lie refrained
from moving, lie would feel little of it
for hours. Marjory was continually expecting
bis strength to increase ; ber fears took
no definite form, as the slow weeks went
on.

Slow they were, despite ber work : time
dragged upon bis course. Sbe bad to strive
against an eiinid of spirit wbicb made ber
weary of Alton, of ber walks, of the faces
around ber, of the whole world. Sometimes
a step in the street, a voice at the door, would
cause a throb at ber heart ; but in the same
moment recollection came with almost physical
faintness. He for whom sbe craved
bad passed into utter silence. He wrote to
no one in Alton ; it was as tbougb be wished
to be forgotten. Her only comfort lay in the
secret hope of a meeting, one day, beyond
the grave. Yet, when that dim and far-off
meeting came, might it not find him without
any memory of her ? Perhaps long before
then, some other might be all in all to him,
might make him a fresh home, and comfort
him for bis troubles. Sbe ought to hope it ;
and yet  oh, it was bitter, and bard to bear,
this longing for a vanished face !

One afternoon, early in November, sbe and

Lina met accidentally on Heathcroft : the
first time, since the breaking of the engagement,
that Marjory had seen this object of
her school-girl adoration. She had occasionally
heard of her, as well and busy, and to
all appearance unaltered. '' Dear Lina bears
up most beautifully," Mrs. Carberry had said,
with mysterious nods and mournful smiles, in
the course of a morning call. '' It was all for
the best, my love ; and your dear brother's
conduct was beyond praise," she added presently,
in a whisper, in the passage. Gerald
had certainly heard ; but when, the visitor
dismissed, Marjory glanced at him, his face
was cold and impenetrable. She could not
tell if he were pleased or displeased, or
neither, by the gushing remark.

She blushed hotly, feeling not a little awkward,
in encountering Lina to-day. But
Lina looked serene, lofty, gentle ; she might
have been magnanimously forgiving some
offence in Marjory, as she stopped and held
out her hand.

How is Gerald ? " she asked with unmoved
countenance; "I am sorry he recovers
so slowly."

'rare you contented," said Marjory impulsively,
as they walked on together, " to live

year after year, and never see him, except asa
stranger, any more ? "

This is rather a peculiar question to come
from you. Some might consider it insulting."

*' Insulting ! " repeated Marjory, aghast.

It was Gerald, and not I, who broke off
the engagement. I was quite willing to
continue it for the present ; his health might
have improved. The sudden end was by his
own desire."

Marjory stared at her, saying nothing.

You would never have been a wife for
Gerald," she was thinking : " Never, never,
if there were but you and he in the
universe."

To change the subject," said Lina, " Do
you know what has become of Mr. Vivian ? "

''He is gone to Russia," said Marjory;
He told us that work had been offered to
him there."

Have you any other authority for this ? "

His word is enough for me," said
Marjory, proudly.

After a pause, significantly long, Lina
continued :

A short time before he left Alton, I happened
to sit next him at a dinner-party. I
do not know which of us was most disgusted

at first ! but, on consideration, I found it a
good opportunity to sound him about that
photograph of Jessie Bellhouse."

'' How ? " asked Marjory.

You know I told you that I had seen it
before, but could not remember where. I remember
now. It was in some house at Dover."

'' By-the-by, you have a married sister at
Dover ?"

Yes, I am going to her very soon, for a
long visit. When I am there, I will hunt
out that photograph ; and more than that, if
lean."

But what did you say to Mr. Vivian ? "

I told him, casually, of my recognition
of the portrait ; and he laughed in his scornful
way, and said that Jessie was probably
not the only bride who had thus perpetuated
her splendours. I replied that it was the
face, not the dress alone, which haunted my
recollection. And, in that very instant, I
thought of Dover ! It had not occurred tome
before."

And you mentioned Dover to him ? "

*' I did,  adding, that I intended to do my
utmost to find some clue to the girl. I
remarked, that you had told me of her disappearance,
and that the story interested me :
which is true ! "

"What did he say ?"

"His whole face darkened. Even you,
partial as you are, would have been struck
by it. Some bitter thought seemed to sting
him."

I have seen that look," trembled on
Marjory's lips ; but she did not say it.

He observed, cuttingly, that I was
extremely kind thus to interest myself in a
stranger, but that he should doubt the advisability
of my scheme. I asked whether he
thought that the girl's mother would be of
his opinion ? He replied, that the question
was, whether the girl's mother would be in
any way benefited, if her present ignorance
were enlightened."

Perhaps he fears that Jessie may have
come to some painful end."

I do not pretend to know what he fears,"
said Lina, coldly : "I know only that his
manner has more than ever convinced me of
some mystery in his past life connected with
Jessie."

I cannot see what concern it is of ours."

Of yours, I should hope, none. I only
tell you to give you fair warning. It is
curious, to say the least, that he should
vanish so soon after hearing of my intentions."

'' He has not vanished at all," said
Marjory, '* He is gone to Russia. And he
sent in his resignation in May."

'' It seemed quite providential," said Lina,
ignoring this remark, " that I should happen
to meet him. His friends lately have been
observing that he had fallen back into all his
unsociable habits. I was sorry, dear Marjory,
to hear, from more than one, that this change
seemed curiously synonymous with your close
attendance on Gerald. This special dinner
was at the militia Colonel's ; so I conclude
that Mr. Yivian made an exception in his
favour," said Lina, sarcastically.

Again and again, when Marjory was alone,
this conversation recurred painfully to her
thoughts. And sometimes, at night, she
dreamed of the Thorne plantations, and of
Jessie gathering burdocks.

Meanwhile, each one of these waning days
found Gerald more silent. What was he
thinking about, Marjory wondered, as he
sat hour after hour in his old position, surrounded
by his materials for writing and
drawing  working sometimes, pausing sometimes
; as time went on, the pauses grew
longer. In the evening, when his work was
done, she would watch him, often for long

together, without his finding it out; and,
as she watched, a swelling gathered in her
throat, her eyes ached with tears suppressed
until finally she was forced to turn away.
At this hour a book was usually open on his
knee, and now and then he read ; but more
frequently sat gazing into vacancy, his arms
folded, or his elbow resting on the back of
the sofa, his head upon his hand. Those
hands had still their look of nervous power,
but they were very thin ; his eyes had their
old clearness, but with it blended a strange
transparent light. His colour, though faint,
was higher than in the days of his health ;
and sometimes it rose to a bright flush,
which Marjory had grown to recognize as a
signal of increased pain. Often, as he sat in
that impenetrable silence, his Expression was
stern and resolute, as though he were dwelling
upon some hard experience, and nerving
himself to face it like a man. At other times
it softened to a dreamy wonder, a musing
speculativeness, which, more than all the
rest, for some unanalyzed cause, filled Marjory
with a nameless apprehension. Sometimes
again, fixed melancholy, as of a baffled craving,
would be for hours the predominant
expression. Marjory passionately longed

that he would open his heart to her  that
she might know, if but a part, of that hidden
world ; but she would not worry him by
questionings.

One evening he had been glancing through
the newspaper daily lent by Mrs. Myers.
Presently, with abruptness, he laid it down,
and turned from it, leaning his head upon
his hand. Marjory, who had observed him,
stole softly to his side, and ran her eye over
the paper. The following paragraph fixed
her attention : 

'' The distinguished artist, Mr. Harding,
Ea., sailed this morning from Folkestone,
with a select number of pupils. The party
will proceed to Rome, vm Brussels, Munich,
and Venice."

More followed ; but this was enough :
Marjory also laid down the paper. As she
glanced at that face which she loved, so
young, but so careworn  so full of genius,
yet blank with the blankness of hope
crushed down, her heart swelled in unutterable
pity. The world's tide had been too
strong for him : with all his wealth of cargo,
he was swept away into the cruel waters :
and no hand was stretched out to help. She
stood at the window, her back to Gerald,

looking out behind the blind. The moon
shone with a steady light above the cathedral
tower. How many wrecked Ives had ere
now been looked down on by that cold and
smiling face !

Twenty minutes later, she turned again
to Gerald, and found him still in the same
attitude, still with the same hopelessness on
his face.

Gerald," said Marjory gently, turning
back into the room : " Are you worse tonight?"


'' Not that I know of," said Gerald.

I guess what you are thinking about, 
I have seen the paper. Oh, dearest Gerald,
do not let us give way like this ! I think weare
both too faint-hearted. Why should we
cast off all hope ? You can't go this year ;
but, at this time next year, you may be welland
strong, and on your way. You may !
Only think that it is possible."

But it is not possible," said Gerald.

"You will not try to cheer up," said
Marjory, reproachfully.

'' It is not a question of will, but of facts :
I must accept them, and so must you. I
have said to myself over and over again, of
late : I can never be a great artist  I can

never realize my ideal  I can never be strong.,
or health, any more."

'' You think that you will not get better ? "
said Marjory, very white.

'' I don't think I am going to die  if you
mean that. I feel nothing like death in me.
But the spring of my strength seems dried
up ; I shall be better than I am now, no
doubt,  in fact, I am better already. Creaking
doors last for ever, you know. I may
yet get through a quantity of bank business !
but it will be as a poor lame wretch, always
obliged to coddle and take care."

As he spoke, he met Marjory's eye, and
smiled : a smile that said more than tears.
Gerald," said she, '' if your theory be
true,  that some are fated not to succeed,
where is God ? ' '

It does not shake my faith in God in the
least," he replied : "It is His Will in the
management of this world."

But why ? why ? " she asked wildly.

That is not for you or me to ask. We
might ask for ever, and never find out :
beating our heads against a rock. His Willis
enough,  ought to be enough. It shall
be, if I can manage it," he added, half under
his breath.

VOL. III. I

He is nearer Heaven than I ! " thought
Marjory : but her heart was still rebellious.

One day, a fortnight later, he said suddenly
: " Did I hear you tell Mrs. Carberrv
that Lina was going to Dover ? "

'' She goes next week."

I should like to wish her good-bye," said
Gerald calmly.

Marjory looked at him, perplexed and
troubled.

You need not be afraid," said he, returning
the look : " It is only because we may
laye removed to Rockswold  you and I 
when she comes back ; and, after all that has
been, I should be glad of a more peaceful
parting."

Marjory could not follow his injunction
against being afraid ; she was afraid  and
anxious : but she undertook to make his
desire known to Lina  who, somewhat to
her surprise, responded readily.

'' I have specially wished," she said, " to
prove to Gerald that I have no resentful
feeling towards him. There is no reason
why henceforth we should not meet quite
comfortably, as friends."

It will not be too painful to you ? " said
Marjory, with some inward malice.

I hope I have better command of myself
than that," Lina replied.

She accompanied Marjory forthwith to the
College Yard, observing that no time was like
the present. When they approached the
house, Marjory ran on to prepare Gerald ;
but the meeting had been so much in his
thoughts, that he was not taken by surprise.
He laid down his book quietly, and looked
up : the glow upon his face alone revealing
that this was no common visit.

*' Pray stay, Marjory," said Lina, as Marjory
was moving towards the door ; ''I may
not see you again before I go."

So Marjory remained, and forced herself
to converse on ordinary topics. Lina's comportment
was exemplary ; she was affable,
gentle, and serene. She condoled with Gerald
on his long imprisonment, informed Marjory
of various devices which were to beguile to
St. Philip's the blank of her absence; she
remarked on the weather, on town affairs,
all with unruffled self-possession. Was
it acting, or reality, or both ? Was nothing
deeper underneath ? or was all too
deep to be revealed ? Had she forgotten
Gerald's passionate love, his hopes wrapped
up in her ? or could she banish their remem-
I 2

france at will? All the force that Gerald
possessed was needed, Marjory saw, to maintain
his calm of countenance, to withhold his
voice, his eyes, from saying what he would
not say in words. He could only answer
yes or no, or make now and then some trivial
remark. But Lina's easy conversation never
flagged throughout the half-hour of her stay.
She stayed an exact half-hour, measured
by her watch. At its termination she rose ;
and for the first time, save in casual glances,
her eye met Gerald's. Suddenly even her
composure appeared about to give way.
Those gray eyes were so bright, so clear, as
though a spirit from another world were
gazing through them ; the flush upon the
thin young cheek had an unearthly radiance ;
the fair hair clustered round a brow stamped
early by thought and suffering. This young
man who had loved her, was no ordinary
man. That thought struck her with renewed
power. Did it strike her also that he was
one to be clung to for life or for death ? that
death itself could not part a soul like his from
a kindred heart that loved him ? At all
events she coloured, and seemed moved ; and
therewith the old craving woke again in
Gerald's face. In another moment, had she

responded ever so little, lie would have
clasped her hand, and cried  " Come back
to me, Liu a  Lina ! " But, even while the
rose hue deepened upon her face, her calm
voice spoke and said :

Good-bye, Gerald. It is a great satisfaction
to feel that we can now meet on comfortable
terms."

He made some inarticulate answer. She
pressed his fingers, with conventional touch,
kissed Marjory, and, turning at the door to
bow and smile, passed affably away.

'marjory," said Gerald, suddenly, the
same evening, as he lay looking out at the
stars : " If I were skilled in sculpture, I could
take a block of stone and carve it into a
beautiful face, and impart to that face a look,
as they say, ' full of soul.' And yet, all the
time, beneath, would be stone  only
stone."

And the stone could not help itself," said
Marjory, vaguely.

"No  and one could not blame it. Or, if
one did blame it, where would be the use ?
But suppose it were so life-like that some
poor fool set his heart upon it, thinking ita
woman ? He would have to own his
mistake at last; and yet the power and

the charm of it, deception tbougli it were,
might have grown too strong to be castoff."


It seemed to Marjory that her brother
drooped more visibly from that day.

CHAPTEH X.

Take me away unto Thy sleep, God !
I thank Thee it is over."

Arthur H. Clough.

On one of the last days of November, Gerald
had worked harder than usual, to complete a
copy required by the solicitor before the
evening post. It was finished and sent off,
and he was resting, when a sudden faintness
seized him. Marjory, alarmed, at once despatched
Priscilla for Mr. Eobinson; Miss
Pilkington meanwhile administered remedies;
but the faintness was slow to yield. They
conquered at length, however ; colour and
life returned : and he rebuked Marjory for
troubling the doctor.

I was only a little over-tired ; I am all
right now," he said.

He would not go to bed, and, when Miss
Pilkington had retired, sat reading quietly,
his sofa drawn near the fire. Marjory, seeing
him content, forgot her anxiety in a pleasant
dream of her own. That very day her story

lead been posted to the publisher recommended
by Hugli Vivian. Her second venture
was made ; and, as she thought of it,
she felt more hopeful than for months before,
Gerald did not yet know what she had done ;
and now, as she sat opposite to him, she was
picturing his pleased surprise when, in a week
or two, he should find that at length she had
gained an entrance to the world of literature.
At last, at last, " after many days," might
come the object for which she had toiled.
Surely, when Gerald found that she had begun
to succeed, he would take heart again, and
with renewed hope his health would revive.
She was smiling to herself at the thought,
when Mr. Robinson's ring was heard. She,
too, as she looked at Gerald, thought that it
had been hardly necessary to send for him
to-night.

He entered with his usual cheerfulness, but
looking keenly at his patient, and, drawing a
chair into the glow of the firelight, sat down
to hear Marjory's report.

He has been working too hard," he said,
when it was finished : " that's the secret.
He is not up to much closeness of application."

'' But I have often done three times as
much  and since my illness' said Gerald.

"That may be. You can't do it now,
though. You see lie is very weak," he added,
turning to Marjory.

I wish you would give him some exact
rule, Mr. Robinson. He is so obstinate : I
can't manage him."

He ought to do nothing for which he is
not inclined ; and sometimes nothing at all :
he should go entirely by his feelings. Mind !
your physical feelings, I mean," said the
doctor, smilingly, to Gerald ; " Your mental
feelings are not to be depended upon."

Mr. Robinson's visits were never of long
duration. In a few minutes he rose to go,
leaving medicines to be administered, should
the faintness return, and promising to " lookin
" next day. Something indefinable in his
manner, as he looked at Gerald, had sent an
awful apprehension through Marjory. She
followed him from the room.

'* Mr. Robinson," she said breathlessly,
pausing at the head of the stairs, " I want
you to tell me the whole truth about my
brother."

"It is late now," said the surgeon, looking
at his watch. " I will see you tomorrow."


I cannot wait till tomorrow  I can't

bear the suspense. I implore you to tell meat
once  the whole truth."

Truth is sometimes painful," said Mr.
Robinson, gravely. He still looked carefully
down, as if not wishing to meet her
eye.

Marjory trembled from head to foot.

'' You mean that Gerald is very ill ? " she
said, clasping the banisters.

While there is life, there is hope," replied
Mr. Robinson.

"And that is all you can say ? "

' He will be spared much pain," said the
doctor, evasively. ' He could never have
been strong again."

And  and  how long ? " gasped Mars

With care he may go on two or three
months. But very great care is required."

He paused a second. Then, as Marjory
made no answer, he looked at her at last
with true concern.

You insisted on my speaking plainly.
Miss Stanhope."

She bowed her head.

You need not be alarmed  I mean, there
will be nothing sudden."

Then, turning, he went quietly away. How

often before had a like task devolved on him !
To him this fleeting life was only one among
many. But to her !

She stood aghast, dumb and motionless,
as he had left her : until Gerald's voice called
from the sitting-room.

'' Marjory ! Are you there ? I want you."

Mechanically she went.

Gerald had thrown his book aside ; his
eyes were shining. He looked as he had
looked when Mr. Harding praised his genius,
when Lina promised one day to be his
wife.

'marjory," he said again, " the door was
a little open ; and I heard. Come here tome."


In the same mechanical manner she obeyed,
and stood before him. The colour was all
gone from her face, even from her lips.

'you are glad ? " she gasped, meeting his
eyes. For he looked glad : he looked even
transported with gladness.

Yes," he replied. " How can I help it ?
I don't want to be selfish  yet it is not altogether
selfish,  for this will be better for you
too. Yes  when it is over, when you are
used to it  far better ! Marjory, how can 1
help being glad ? "

As lie spoke, lie took her hand, and drew
her to a seat at his side.

Listen to me, dear Marjory. Only think !
I could never have been strong again : he
said it,  and I have felt it, many a time. A
weak woman is bad enough; but a weak
man !  and a man forced to struggle with
the world, even with starvation  and in that
struggle to crush down the cravings for higher
things which all my life have been my blessing,
and yet my sorrow. My heart has sunk
within me, thinking of it, realizing the future.
What is there in this world worth livings
for, Marjory, to me? I have tried  I
have fought and struggled to resign myself
to God's Will; but now I find that
God has been better than my fears. The
cup that seemed so bitter is taken away, 
the worst is over  beyond are rest and
Paradise,  Marjory, how can I help being
glad ? "

But Marjory threw her arms around him,
and clasped him passionately, as if to hold
him back from the grave.

'' Gerald ! Gerald ! " she cried, " My
book went off only this morning ; and this
time there is every hope for it, and I had
thought  I had meant  Oh, even if you

could not be strong, you might have been,
happy yet ! Oh, it is hard  it is cruel."

'' My dear Marjory, I would pray to live,
if only for your sake. But I think it would
be asking a miracle."

'' Oh, yes ; there is no use in praying 
none ! I can never believe in it anymore."


Then she sat up suddenly, startled by her
own words. Gerald laid his hand on her
shoulder, with that touch which had soothed
her so often.

'' You are over-tired," he said, affectionately
; ''I wish you had not spoken to
Mr. Robinson. Do go to bed, dear Marjory,
and forget it for to-night. I am so sorry 
you are tired and worn-out."

*' I won't make you worse, at any rate,"
said Marjory. By resolute effort she commanded
herself, went with him to his room,
and bade him good-night as usual. But
afterwards, when she was shut up alone, the
storm had its vent. She threw herself upon
the floor, and lay there prostrate in her
agony.

"My God! my God! why hast Thou
forsaken me ? "Why hast Thou deluded
me ? " she cried. It seemed to her that she

was alone  alone in the universe. Her sobs
and tears went forth into the silence of the
night. Like a wave, she dashed herself
against the rocks without impression. There
was none to heed; and the great world
rolled on.

CHAPTER XI.

"The fame is quenched that I foresaw,
The head hath miss'd an earthly wreath."

Tennyson.

The young life, in itself so gifted, so blighted
in outer circumstances, was passing away ;
not painfully,  its chief pain, whether of body
or of spirit, was over :  passing from a world
which had dealt roughly with it. Continually
was Gerald's mind now haunted by the words,
*' The days of thy mourning shall be ended."
For him those days had been many. From
the time when, in early childhood, he had
been parted from his home, and all whom
his baby heart had loved, he had found life
an uphill way, full of disappointment, of
care, of uncongeniality. Now, as he looked
back, he remembered his boyish efforts towards
the paths of the great masters in art,
his discouragements, the strong purpose
which had gradually died into less of a purpose
than a hope  a hope unsteadily glimmering
until at length he had striven to
think of it no more. All now appeared to

him as in manhood appear the troubles and
dangers of infancy. Those " days of his
mourning " would never have seemed so
terrible had he known how closely they were
numbered. The bitter cup had been bitter
unto death ; but now it was almost drained.
He felt like one on a weary journey, expected
to prove long as weary, who turns an 
corner of the road, and, lo 1 his
home is in sight.

That feeling of fulness of life was still
powerful within him. His brain was unaffected,
and even clearer than in the days
of his health. No fear or shrinking shadowed
the newly-kindled radiance ; he had suffered
too much in this world to dread the change
to another.

One afternoon, Marjory, when she left the
school, found him absorbed in a book, and,
leaning over his shoulder, read these lines
from Keats : 

*' Bards of Passion and of Mirth,
Ye have left your souls on earth !
Have ye souls in heaven too,
Double-lived in regions new ?

Yes, and those of heaven commune
With the spheres of sun and noon ;

With the noise of fountains wondrous
And the parle of voices thunderous ;
With the whisper of heaven's trees
And one another, in soft ease
Seated on Elysian lawns,
Browsed by none but Dean's fawns ;
Underneath large bluebells tented.
Where the daisies are rose-scented,
And the rose herself has got
Perfume which on earth is not ;
Where the nightingale doth sing
Not a senseless, traced thing.
But divine, melodious truth ;
Philosophic numbers smooth ;.
Tales and golden histories
Of heaven and its mysteries.

Thus ye live on high, and then
On the earth ye live again ;
And the souls you left behind you
Teach us, here, the way to find you
Where your other souls are toying.
Never slumber'd, never cloying.
Here, your earthborn souls still speak
To mortals, of their little week ;
Of their sorrows and delights ;
Of their passions and their spites ;
Of their glory and their shame ;
What doth strengthen and what maim : 
Thus ye teach us, every day,
Wisdom, though fled far away."

"That is a fine thought," said Gerald,
repeating, as he pointed to the page, 

VOL. 111. K

' Where the daisies are rose-scented,
And the rose herself has got
Perfume which on earth is not.' "

How wonderful ! " lie said, dreamily,
leaning back in his chair.

Marjory noticed what joy was shining
through the clear gray of his eyes. A thought
struck her. She had prayed for his happiness
: was not the prayer answered ? Not
as she had hoped, but no less certainly.
She could not rejoice ; her heart was still
as a cold stone : but she acknowledged the
fact.

Here is another," said Gerald, turning
over the leaves.

* My days among the Dead are past ;
Around me I behold
Where'er these casual eyes are cast,
The mighty minds of old :
My never-failing friends are they,
With whom I converse day by day.' "

'' Southey is speaking of his books there,"
said Marjory, drearily.

Yes, of the soul in them. ' The mighty
minds of old.' I couldn't explain to you,
Marjory; I have no words to utter my
wonder when I think of those ' mighty

minds '  all the hosts of them : and that I
shall soon be with them. I try to realize
it; but the marvel grows like a dream.
Great artists, poets, philosophers  great
spirits of all kinds. Here is so much delusion
!  but there, none. No disappointment
no false ideals. What will it be ? It is
beyond conception !"

Again a thought struck Marjory. Would
he have known this happiness if her prayer
had been answered literally,  if he had been
in the way to gain his heart's desire, a brilliant
earthly future before him ? How would
death have seemed to him then ?

As though he read her thought, he spoke
and answered it : pausing at times, as ideas
crowded on his mind.

*' Marjory, the time of our death is fixed
of old, from the beginning. God knew that
I was to die early, so He prepared me for
it. All my life has been leading on to this.
God has been very merciful  far beyond
my thought : far beyond yours, Marjory.
He would not let me grow wedded to this
world ; He spared me that hard wrench.
Suppose I had been on the point of
going to Rome; suppose Lina  Lina had
been all I dreamed of, death would have
K 2

been the King of Terrors indeed ! Now lie
has no terrors."

Marjory was long silent, resting her head
upon her hand.

Yes' she said at last, '' I see that. But
God is Omnipotent. He could have given
you success and life both."

"But, after all, what is success in this
world ? " said Gerald, dreamily : '' Always
some flaw in it, some bitterness, some care.
No perfectness in oneself, or in others, orin
things. Oh, Marjory, far better to leave
it, and seek success in heaven !"

So he felt, to the depths of his heart. All
ambition was gone from him : or rather, it
was already transplanted to the paradise for
which he was bound. Once more Marjory
remembered her passionate entreaties that
Gerald might be blessed, honoured, glorious.
She had feared, a while ago, that they were
lost. But now, as she watched him fading,
all that was mortal of him dying as it were
by inches, yet content, with a contentment
often rising into rapture, the past forgotten
like a dream :  now, evermore and more, she
saw that they were not lost, Par beyond
their dim scope they had been answered, with an
answering which would echo through eternity.

'' I thought my love for him and my
prayers for him were all unselfish," she cried;
But no  they were selfish to the core."

And still, as she went about her daily
work, her heart felt like a stone.

Meantime Gerald wanted for nothing
which the kindness of friends could supply .<
As before, outward sympathies abounded;
while at home, the good ladies were ever
ready to help or advise. Marjory was
thankful for all ; but these things brought
her no comfort. She could never, she thought,
feel comforted again.

Letters, frequent and tender, came from
Rockswold; and Mr. Stanhope promised to
hold himself in readiness for her summons.
But Marjory as yet assured herself that any
need for such summons was far distant.
One day, soon after the declaration of Mr.
Robinson's verdict, she received a note from
Miss Peele, announcing that, if Gerald had no
objection, Mr. Throckmorton would like to
call upon him. No question of clerical interference
was involved, since the rector of
the College Yard district was non-resident ;
Gerald accepted the offer ; and thenceforth
Mr. Throckmorton visited him regularly. A
magnetic attraction, founded, as Marjory surmised,

in mutual sympathies respecting Lina,
drew them together. At one time Gerald
had mistrusted the priest ; he now discovered
that this mistrust had been wholly unfounded.
On the other hand, Mr. Throckmorton  who
had approached the young bank clerk through
a medium of patronising compassion  grew
to reverence him with reverence not unmingled
with wonder, and often, when he
left him, felt that he had gained more than
he imparted  that a spirit higher than his
own was here in training for Heaven. In
various points of ecclesiastical theology, their
opinions differed; Mr. Throckmorton thought
Gerald dangerously tolerant,  Gerald thought
Mr. Throckmorton narrow. But the great
essentials, which cannot change, formed common
ground, where they met in perfect
unity. Mr. Throckmorton's range of vision
widened in more directions than one, as he
found the growth to which a soul can attain,
independently of certain aids which he had
hitherto esteemed indispensable. Moreover,
although Lina's name was never directly
mentioned, his intercourse with Gerald revealed
certain facts regarding her, which led
him to doubt whether his criterions of holiness
had been altogether correct !

One anxiety still troubled Gerald's mind :
the payment of his debt. The will had provided
that, should he die prematurely, deficits
must be supplied from Marjory's legacy.
This necessity grieved him sorely ; the more,
since her small capital had been already reduced
in his behalf. But one December
afternoon, he was equally mystified and surprised
by a note from the solicitor, Mr. Grove,
informing him that the debt was paid. The
transaction was under seal of strictest confidence
; Mr. Grove was only at liberty to
say that the sum in full had been sent to
him by one who wished it to be regarded asa
tribute of respect to Mrs. Wilton.

Perhaps some old friend of our grandfather's,"
said Gerald, when he and Marjory,
vainly striving to elucidate the matter, had
gone over the whole list of their acquaintance.


'' I cannot at all make it out," said Marjory
; " Are you sure that we are right in
accepting it ? "

*' We have no alternative," said Gerald;
'* The thing is done. Here, you see, is the
formal receipt."

'' I suppose our grandmother had old
friends who might have done it ? "

' Ob, yes  she used to talk of no end ; old
sailors, too, shipmates of our grandfather's ;
some were at her funeral. Perhaps one of
those has come into a fortune,  I can think
of no one else.  But how wonderful, that
this should happen now ! "

It is too late," said Marjory.

Don't say that," said Gerald, gently ;
It has taken an unutterable load ofiP my
mind. This debt was the one anxiety I had
left, and now it is gone."

Marjory made no reply. She only rested
her head upon the arm of his chair, that he
might not see her face.

I have no anxiety about you," he went
on, after a long pause ; " You will be happy."

Still she did not answer. Happy ! There
was no such word for her, now.

'' I feel as sure of your earthly future, as
of my own beyond earth. Things which you
don't dream of are in store for you."

Are you turning into a prophet ? " said
Marjory, trying to smile. She would let him
have his way. It was better that he should
not even guess at her desolation.

Over and over again, for days, he was
saying : '' What a relief that the debt is
paid ! " More than once he said : '' Marjory,

you used to pray that this might be ; and
here is the answer."

I prayed  but not for this," said Mar-not

for this ! " she repeated, from inmost
depths of agony. It seemed almost
a mockery that the answer should come
now !

One day she asked Gerald if she should
write to Lina, telling her of his state. He
hesitated a moment ; then a flush, like a
sunset cloud, crossed his brow.

No," he replied ; '' I'd rather not. She
would answer ; and it would only revive
He paused.

*' I shall be disenchanted in Heaven, Marjory,"
he said, with a sudden smile; "But
never, quite, till I am there."

About this time his pictures were brought
down from the attic, and, as he had strength,
he looked over them, arranging all in order.
Many he wished to burn ; but Marjory would
not hear of this ; every line of every one was
sacred to her. The " Bridge " was still unfinished
; and thus it must be left ; he would
never paint again on earth. The " Ideal,"
filled in with Lina's face, was in a cupboard
in his room. He took it out, and gazed long

on it in silence. Then, turning to Marjory,
lie showed her the figure's uplifted hand.

You see it points higher," he said,
calmly, and laid the picture aside among the
rest.

He referred in no way to Lina any more.

Towards the middle of December the publisher
wrote, accepting Marjory's story, and
offering liberal terms. She laid the note
down upon the table, and turned away sick
at heart. But Gerald took it up, and his
whole face lighted with pleasure.

Marjory ! this is famous ! Did I not
tell you that you would succeed at last ? "

'' I don't care for it now," said Marjory.
She could not say more ; she went away to
her own room, and shed tears that seemed
like blood drops wrung from her soul.

She remembered that Hugh Vivian had
told her of some help which he had hoped
for, and prayed for, in vain ; and which had
come afterwards, too late.

Too late !

*' Lord, if I lose all else, save my faith ! "
she cried, as those bitter tears flowed on.

CHAPTER XII.

My blood makes shuddering leaps, as alone in my dark

I think
Of my own white stag whom the pitiless archers wounded

sore,
My royal eagle whose plumes were all bedaubed in

gore.
My strong one whose prideful locks of glory and power

they shore 
And the iron enters deep to my soul, and I shudder and

shrink,
And the bitter and awe of death are in the cup that I

drink."

E. H. Hickey.

In a sick room, life appears as a dream. The
days of the past, the commonplace days,
with their employments, interests, joys, and
sorrows,  days of health, when sickness was
to us an empty name, pitied from afar : these
are all as a vision that is gone. The busy
world without, of which we hear the sound,
seems but a pageant  a temporary stage, on
which the players come and go. To this
they will all come, sooner or later ; to these
four walls, this helplessness, this slow decay,
with Eternity beyond. Or else they will

pass suddenly into that Eternity, find suddenly
how vain was the show. Eternity !
In a room of sickness, nigh to death, what is
anything in the whole great world beside
Eternity ?

Realities close around us like mighty shapes,
as hills emerge from twilight into dawn. The
petty ambitions and conventionalities, the
civilities and slights, melt into nothingness.
How did we care so much for them ? When
this beloved one, by whom we watch, is gone,
and we return to them, how small they will
seem ! What is it to this fading life whether
in our world it were high or low ? If such
and such a grandee of earth favoured or cut
him dead  if so and so called on him, asked
him to dinner, or the reverse,  either way,
how does it matter ? What child's play all
alike seems here ! Whether this or that
plan or speculation succeeded,  whether he
gained such or such office or high place 
what does any of it signify now ?  What the
Judge, before whom he is summoned, will
say : this is the one point now. What is
written of him in the great Book above, how
the high ones of Heaven will regard him, 
where they will place him : nothing short of
this matters now,  to him.

Slowly, and by degrees, as the days went
on, and, holding Gerald's hand, she went
beside him ever deeper into the Valley of the
Shadow of Death, the fact already suggested
impressed itself on Marjory's mind : that
God had answered her prayers for Gerald ina
way higher than she had dreamt of, than
she could even as yet comprehend : a way
that for him was " far better," if not for
herself :  and she had wished not to think
about herself.

More and more clearly, with her reason,
she saw it ; yet with her heart she could not
rejoice : that stone-like anguish did not melt.
She traced the Hand of God, but could not
acknowledge it to be a Hand of Love. The
path of pain in which so often it is His Will
to work, excited a feeling of despair, of mute
rebellion, which she controlled, but could not
conquer. All the other breaking hearts in
this wide world, all the other lifelong partings,
all the other blighted hopes, all the
other dying beds, arose as in a vision before
her. It seemed to her that the ways of God
were hard, were terrible. She could no
longer think of Him as " Our Father."

Towards the end of December, very cold
weather set in ; an icy wind blew, followed

by snows and frosts. Many said that this
was all the better, that there would be "an
old-fashioned Christmas;" and healthy people
seemed the healthier from the bracing of the
clear sharp air. Marjory saw bright girls,
wrapped in furs, and glowing with exercise,
walk briskly through the College Yard. She
saw athletic young men, and rosy boys,
brimful of life and vigour, their spirits
heightened by the combat with the cold.
But Gerald withered and drooped beneath
the severity of the change ; it seemed to her
that each day since it began, had made him
a little weaker, a little thinner. Still, Mr.
Eobinson had spoken of two or three months
two or three months, with great care.
And had he not had great care ?  the very
tenderest, the most watchful. But if possible,
that care was redoubled now : she would
hold him back as long as she could. The
thought of parting with him grew continually
more terrible. All through the last few
weeks he had been so kind, so gentle, so sympathizing
: he was so considerate of her, so
careful to save her, so anxious that she should
not be over-tired ! How she would miss
him ! She could not realize, she dared not,
half what that missing would be.

About this time she received a letter from
Bellhouse,  a letter not remarkably legible,
but full of motherly kindness. It came like
a waft from a far-off Eden, but only sent a
sharper pang through Marjory's heart, as she
remembered how little in those Eden days
she had guessed at the weary life before her.
In the course of the letter Bellhouse mentioned
that a purchaser had turned up for
Thorne. Mr. Crawford had been down, and
had said that there was little doubt of a final
arrangement ; but the gentleman was obliged
to wait some weeks before deciding. He had
not mentioned the gentleman's name.

I hope it is some one who will care for
the old place," said Gerald, dreamily : " Marjory,
I have so often thought of that old
churchyard at Thorne."

She sat motionless, staring into the
fire.

I should like,  if it did not cost very
much  I should so much like "

Marjory burst out suddenly, with an irrepressible
cry.

"I understand," she said. "You shall
have all you wish. But, oh, Gerald, don't !
I cannot bear it ! "

He laid his hand gently on her head, as

she sat on lier old stool beside him. After
that they were both long silent.

The Christmas holidays began ; and Lewis
Harding came from the other house to wish
his hero good-bye. Gerald had a parting present
for him,  a cast-off paint-box, brushes,
and drawing book ; and Marjory went to her
own chamber, leaving the two alone. Sometime
afterwards she heard the boy steal
softly out of the sitting-room : and caught a
stifled sob.

Good-bye, Lewis, "she said, going out to
him. He was leaning on the banisters, a
spotted handkerchief in his hand.

Hollo ! " said he, looking round, with an
effort at bravado : " Miss Stanhope, you
must have cats' feet ! I never heard you.
Good-bye. I say  Miss Stanhope ? ''

'eyes!"

He'll be better "  the red head jerking
towards the sitting-room door ; " He'll be
better, won't he, when we come back ? "

Marjory tried to answer ; but words failed.
The boy turned sharply, and choked in his
spotted handkerchief, and shuffled out of
sight to hide the tears he could not restrain.

The place was, as usual, very silent when
the boys were gone. Mrs. Myers and Miss

Pilkington remained, for Marjory's sake.
She saw little of them, but there they were 
ready to help when help was needed : had
they gone also, she would have been desolate
indeed.

Christmas Day came, and passed. In the
morning the sun shone brightly on the snow,
and for one instant Gerald opened the window
to hear the organ in the cathedral. Marjory
fancied that in doing so he caught cold.
Certainly, a few days later, she saw that
his breathing was oppressed  and that he
coughed :  he had never coughed before.
He seemed weaker too, but for her sake
fought against it, forcing himself to rise by
nine o'clock each morning, and to sit up, as
usual, until night. Marjory never knew how
great was the relief when she proposed that
he should lie in bed for a day, to nurse his
cold." For the last forty-eight hours he
had felt hardly able to hold up his head ; butin
bed he was quite comfortable ; a cheerful
fire blazed in his room, and Marjory made it
very pretty and bright, placing pictures and
books to the best advantage, with flowers
from Mrs. Carberry's hothouse, and the easy
chair wheeled from the sitting-room.

'' This rest will do me all the good in the

VOL. III. L

world," lie said : '' I shall be ten times better
in a day or two''

He smiled as lie spoke, and looked altogether
so bright, that the sick pain in her
breast was lightened. Who knew whether
the two or three months might not go on to
five or six  or more ?  with such care as
this!

At her solitary breakfast next morning,
she found a letter from Lina : and opening
it, felt thankful that Gerald was not in the
room. Those platitudes concerning his illness,
even the anticipated end of his illness 
those condolences, regrets, comfortable committals
of him and Marjory to higher powers,
would hardly have seemed to him so soothing
as Lina had designed. They were the
reverse of soothing to Marjory. She ran
them speedily through ; and turned the page.

You will be interested to hear that I
have found a clue to the unfortunate Jessie
Bellhouse."

What was this ? Marjory's breath seemed
almost stopped ; the blood rushed up into
her face. The letter trembled in her hand,
as she read.

One day last week, the very lady in
whose company I first saw that photograph,

called upon my sister. I recognized the face
directly, and soon found that her remembrance
of me was clearer than mine of her.
Her name is Miss Steamer ; she spends only
a few months yearly at her Dover house, and
hence it is that I have met her but once
before. She reminded me of a shopping
expedition on which she had escorted me,
one day when I was here as a young girl,
and my sister could not go out. Thus much
recalled, I remembered more, and asked if
on the same occasion she had been seeking
lodgings for a sick servant. She replied
that she had; and, to make a long story
short, I obtained the address of two houses,
which we had visited on that day. Yesterday
I contrived to call alone at the first of these
houses ; and I had no sooner entered the
little parlour, than the whole scene came
back. Before me was the sofa, the table
with the bead mats, the album itself, bound
in mauve ! I took it up ; and surely enough
there was the bridal photograph. Opposite
was the photograph of a child ; a boy of
about four years old, with handsome features,
the resemblance unmistakable. While I
was looking at this, a young person came in,
apologizing for the absence of her sister, the
L 2

mistress of the house, and asking if I wished
to see the rooms. I replied that I would
call again when Mrs. Jelly, the said mistress,
was at home, and then inquired, as if from
pure curiosity, whether the little boy were
the son of the bride on the opposite page ?
The young woman hesitated ; then finding,
I conclude, from my face, that I was not a
person to be mistrusted, she said : ' Yes,
poor little fellow  'tis a sad case; his ma
was deserted by her husband.' I asked
what had become of the child ; she opened
the door, calling a name which I did not
distinguish : and the boy himself ran into
the room. I certainly never saw a finer
child, quite bearing out all you have told me
of his mother's beauty. He is now between
five and six years old.

Finding me interested, the young woman
told me that ' his ma,' Mrs. Russell  as she
called herself  died suddenly in these lodgings,
leaving the baby, six weeks old, utterly
friendless. She had only been here a day or
two, and had informed Mrs. Jelly  who is
evidently, if foolish, benevolent  that her
husband had left her in France, many months
before, and had never known of the childbirth
; that she had written to a friend who

might be able to find bim,  and that bethought
when be beard of the child, be
would surely come. Mrs. Jelly therefore for
some time expected bim to appear ; but no
word, either of bim or of * Mrs. Russell's '
antecedents, bad ever reached her. Tbe
young woman concluded her account by
remarking : 'It's just like a novel, miss,
isn't it ? ' I replied that I feared it was
often owing to foolish novels that young
girls made careless marriages, ending in
misery like this. Mrs. Jelly is still from
borne ; but she is expected shortly : and
when I see her, I will obtain all particulars.
Meanwhile I trust to your honour to keep
this strictly private. I will only add that
the young woman and her sister believe the
name Russell to be assumed : and that the
hoy's christian name is Copelandss.

Believe me, dear Marjory,
Yours affectionately,

'' Caroline Peele."

What would follow next ? Why should
the boy's name be Copelandss ? Marjory
pressed both bands upon her heart to still
the throbbing pain. A deadly fear bad seized

her. Old scenes, old words, old looks, came
flocking back, fitting strangely one with
another : expressions of Hugh Vivian's face,
tones of his voice, which she had thought to
be forgotten. Oh, that Lina had either not
written at all, or had put it off until the
whole truth were known !

' I will not believe it  I will not," she
said to herself; but that deadliness of dread
did not abate. Yet could he have been
allowed to fall  so deeply to fall  when all
the while, every morning and every night of
every year, that prayer was going up for
him ?

Almighty God, bless Mr. Hugh ! and
make him good."

Yes, all the while, as at quiet Rockswold
she grew from childhood into girlhood, knowing
only of him that he was somewhere
under the eye of God. And could he have
been left to himself  to the devils  like this?
When she saw him at the cathedral, when
she watched him praying at length for himself,
could it be that so terrible a secret lay
hidden in his heart ? As the one relief to
the anxiety Which consumed her, she fell on
her knees, and cried : " God, Thou knowest
! " ' Thou Thou knowest," she repeated

again and again. Then, yet again :
God, if it be true, forgive him ! God,
if there be any reality in prayer, if Thou art
at all  forgive him ! "

Too soon she had to rise, to compose herself,
to go calmly, as if nothing had happened ,
into Gerald's room. What a contrast to the
atmosphere of crime which had been suggested,
 that room so pure and bright !  and
Gerald, his gray eyes full of peace, lying
there, waiting for Heaven.

Marjory, are you very cold ? " he asked.
She caught a glimpse of herself in the glass,
and saw that she was paler than ever, to her
own knowledge, in all her life before.

"No, I am not cold."

'' Come here," said Gerald, stretching out
his hand. " Come to me."

She obeyed ; and he drew her down to a
seat beside his bed.

It will all come right," he said gently,
stroking her hair. '' It will all come right,
dear Marjory :  never mind."

She looked at him, astonished at what
appeared a gift of prescience : but she saw
that he knew nothing definite  he was speaking
only to the trouble in her face.

*' You are worried and overdone just now ;

and everything seems dark : but it will passover.
Marjory, remember  and take this
in :  it will all pass over."

"What shall I do when you are gone?"
said Marjory in a smothered voice, resting
her head upon his pillow. Almost she had
opened her heart to him : but no ! she would
not disturb his calm brightness.

CHAPTER Xii

And when
I saw his soul saw,  jasper first, I said,
And second, sapphire ; third, chalcedony j
The rest in order,  last, an amethyst."

Elizabeth Barrett Browning.

Lying in bed had. not, as Gerald expected,
made him stronger. At the end of the second
day he was weaker ; decidedly weaker. On
the third day he was very drowsy, dozing
continually. Any slight noise, or movement
in the room, would awake him ; he would
just smile at Marjory, or gaze dreamily
towards the window, and his eyes would
close once more. Marjory felt very lonely
as she sat beside his fire : she was glad when,
towards night, he revived, and began to
talk.

He told her of strange visions which had
come to him in slumber  of beautiful forms
and faces floating before him  of music heard
as in a trance.

*' Sleep is a wonderful thing," he said, 
and how soothing when one is weak ! "

Two or three times throughout that night
she stole into his room, and found him always
peacefully sleeping, his position unaltered.
At length she herself slept soundly: when
she awoke, the last day of this eventful year
had dawned.

Mr. Robinson called after breakfast ;
Gerald was once more asleep. For several
minutes the doctor stood beside his bed  felt
his pulse gently, without awakening him :
then laid down the passive hand.

'' Miss Stanhope," he said. " Could I speak
to you in the other room ? "

She went with him ; he hesitated, paused.

'ris he worse ? " said Marjory, grasping
the back of a chair.

'' I should advise you to send for your
uncle."

'' You said  you said two or three
months "

I thought, then, that it might be so ; butin
these cases one cannot speak with certainty.
He will not suffer.  I will send you
help," he added abruptly ; and hurried away
from the pain he could not ease.

Marjory remained long motionless in the
place where he had left her. Then, half
mechanically, half in obedience to a voice in

her heart, crying " Gerald ! Gerald ! "  she
returned to the sick chamber. This time he
did not look up and ask if she were cold.
She sat down beside the bed, and watched.
Surely Mr. Robinson was mistaken ! He
looked just as usual, as he had looked for
long past : only calmer, happier, more like a
thin and weary child that, having cried itself
to sleep, sleeps sweetly.

After a while he turned on his pillow;
his eyes, unclosing, met Marjory's, and he
saw in hers the expression unconsciously
strong.

Marjory, don't be anxious," he said,
touching her hand. " I feel better  much
better : I shall be able to get up soon."

Almost as the words were spoken, he was
lost once more in that irresistible slumber.

Marjory was ere long aware of the entrance
of Miss Pilkington, followed by the old woman
who had assisted in the nursing some months
before. She came, bundle in hand, evidently
prepared to remain. Marjory said a mechanical
" Good-morning," and resumed her
absorbed watch. It was a relief when Miss
Pilkington, behind her, breathed, in a deep
whisper : " Now you  don't you worry about
anything. I'll settle all that is necessary

with Mrs. Levett. Just see to your brother
and no more'*

Marjory looked mutely up at her : thanks
would not come in words.

*' Please don't telegraph  it will startle
Aunt Lucy," she said presently, as an afterthought,


"I will write instead," said Miss Pilkington;
and the outer world vanished as before.

Still, through the greater part of the day,
Gerald slept ; waking at intervals, and taking
food, then dozing off again. Often during
that sleep he smiled, and exclaimed as if in
joy or in wonder.

Where could I find colours ? " he said
once: "Would Mr. Harding know ? This
is brighter than the colouring of Venice."

Another time, as if in a dream, his eyes
still closed, he said : 

If I could paint it, when I got well again,
I should soon be glorious ! But I never
could. Just to remember it, will be more
than enough."

I wish you could tell me what you have
seen," said Marjory, bending over him.

I will some day," he murmured drowsily :
and sank again into slumber.

'' I will some day." Was it a prophecy ?

Were days indeed in store, when in the fields
of Paradise he would tell her the history of
these strange hours ? But oh, what might
lie between  for her  between that blessed
time and now ? "What a long waste of years !
what dreary loneliness ! The cherished dream
of her life gone like a mirage; the faces
which she had loved gone likewise  Gerald
in heaven, she here. Her whole being seemed
contracted into a pain as the silent hours
went by.

The early twilight deepened into darkness.
The stars came out, and the moon : it was
a clear and frosty night. Mr. Eobinson called
again, but said little or nothing. Marjory
was barely conscious of his presence, as he
stood beside the bed. Later came Mr. Throck-
morton, and remained a long time, hoping
that Gerald would awake; but Gerald neither
opened his eyes, nor heard when his name
was spoken. The clergyman was obliged to
leave him, promising to return very early
next day. After this, all was quiet. Marjory
persuaded the old nurse to rest in the
next room ; she herself plaited ber hair,
and lay down in her dressing-gown, on a chair-bed
at Gerald's side. The room was very
still. The fire flickered, subdued yet ruddy ;

the lamp was turned low. Marjory had drawn
up the blind ; she lay wakeful, looking at
the stars.

How calmly they shone ! how distant in
the deep ether ! Would Gerald be among
them soon ? Would he find out what they
were ? How wonderful his knowledge would
be ! how small earth and its concerns would
seem to him ! As she mused the bells rang
out in the town ; the old year was drawing
to its close. First one peal, then another ;
some far away, like echoes ; some silvery ;
some old and deep. The air was full of
melody. Marjory could almost have imagined
that some of it came from above, from those
stars shimmering in the heights. Presently
Gerald stirred, opened his eyes, and spoke.

Marjory, is anything the matter ? "

"It is only the bells ringing out the old
year, dearest. Did they wake you ? "

'' I don't know ; it does not matter. I
have slept a long time. How beautiful they
are ! "

Both lay silent, listening. In the dim
light Marjory could see his gray eyes gazing,
as hers had been, towards the stars : she
saw the expression of his face  thoughtful,
yet full of peace.

"Marjory," he said, suddenly, " Why
should we imagine that our talents end with
earth ? They are of the soul, not of the
body. T often remember Goethe's speech :
This life, gentlemen, is much too short for
our souls.' I am thinking now of my one
talent, my art. It is a part of me  I feel
sure of that ; it cannot die."

So used I to argue," said Marjory, with
a smothered sob.

'* Yes, for earth ; and why not for heaven?
This craving to devise and imitate beauty,
which was born with me, which has never
let me rest,  it has come to nothing much
here, but only God knows what work there
may be for it in the future. I can't tell
how, or where  I must leave all that. But
it is too strong to die, Marjory."

She could not answer. She only clasped
his hand, and laid her face against it ; and
the bells rang on.

Patience  it is patience we want," he
said dreamily : " ' Though it tarry, wait for
it ; in the end it shall surely come  it shall
not tarry.' You were puzzled about your
prayers, and our Saviour's promise. It seems
to me that I see it all now. That promise
is not only for this world ; sometimes it goes

on into the next. ' Only believe '  believe
unto death ! What is death ? Just a portal,
as I have read somewhere, joining the two
lives."

Or dividing them," broke from Marjory's
sore heart.

'' So it seems now to you. It will seem
differently soon ; you will look back to these
miserable days as a dream. You have prayed
for me, and I have prayed for you, Marjory.
I know that you will be comforted very
soon."

Marjory's tears fell thick and fast upon
his hand. He felt them, and tightened the
clasp.

Don't cry, Marjory," he said gently.

I can't help it. Oh, Gerald, how can I
live in this weary world without you ? "

Think of our Saviour, dear Marjory.
Think of our Saviour," he repeated in his
calm tone.

As he spoke the bells ceased. All was
silence. Then, one after another, all the
clocks in the old city struck twelve.

''A happy New Year to you, Marjory,"
said Gerald, as the bells clashed out once
more.

*rand to you, my Gerald  to you," she

cried, rising, and clasping him in lier
arms.

Drifting away into an unknown future 
beyond the grave. Oh, might he find a
happy new year  a happy new life there !
The Hfe that knows no ending -the tearless
life."  Happy? Oh, the impotence of words !

Lord, I see it. I see that I have been
selfish, striving to keep him from Heaven.
Forgive me 1 I will try to rejoice that he
should be so blessed."

As this cry burst from Marjory's heart,
the stony hardness softened. Her tears still
flowed ; but something of their bitterness
was past. Before her eyes a door had opened;
she had looked in and caught a glimpse of
her Gerald's bliss.

She rested her head on his pillow, her
arms still about his neck. When he spoke
again, his tone was more feeble than before.

'' This time last year," he said dreamily 
"just about this hour, I was walking from
Albion Square, and thinking about Eome.
I thought that when this day came, I should
perhaps be there. But Heaven is best."

'heaven is best ! " Yes, Marjory saw
it. She stilled her sobs, that he might not
be grieved.

VOL. III. M

He had said to her : " Think of our
Saviour." Yes  that Blessed One had
suffered, as she was suffering now. He also
had gone down into earth's depths. The
moon, yonder shining on her anguish, had
shone on His. She remembered that in that
hour He had prayed : '' Not My Will, but
Thine be done ! " Not in faith alone, but in
full knowledge, thus He prayed : and on His
knowledge our faith may rest.

From the stormy wanderings of her
wretchedness, Marjory had come at last, like
a stray child returning home, to her old
childish confidence.

'' God knows best ! Let Him manage all
for me, for Gerald, for every one, in His
own way."

She lay more calmly now, though still
clasping Gerald, as if her hold would stay
him. The bells all clanoed together in one
final peal ; then ceased ; and their echoes
died away. Gerald had relapsed into perfect
stillness ; she would have thought that he
was again asleep,  only, when she looked at
him, she still saw his eyes, open, and full of
life and thought, as in the days of his
health, looking fixedly out towards the
stars.

She herself was sinking into a doze, when
suddenly he spoke.

Precious stones," he said, dreamily ;
'All manner of precious stones. The first
jasper; the second , sapphire; the third, a
chalcedony ; the fourth, an emerald ; the
fifth, sardonyx ; the sixth, sardius ; the
seventh, chrysolite ; the eighth, beryl ; the
ninth, a topaz ; the tenth, a chrysoprasus ;
the eleventh, a jacinth ; the twelfth, an
amethyst.  And the twelve gates were twelve
pearls ; every several gate was of one pearl ;
and the street of the city was pure gold, as
it were transparent glass"* "

He paused, and smiled ; a calm, a heavenly
smile : of perfect peace.

Then  '' Thank God," she heard him say;
'' Thank God for my Marjory ! "

As he spoke, he turned his face upon the
pillow, and closed his eyes. Marjory half rose,
and listened ; she could not hear his breath.

A hurried call summoned the old nurse.
She entered, raised the lamp ; and, bringing
it to the bedside, turned its rays upon
the pillow.

*' Whom the gods love, die young !"

This face lying here, was plainly the face
of such an one ; and it was dead.
M 2

"He is gone," said the nurse, gently.
Marjory did not answer. Her eyes returned
from the still form beside her, to the stars,
striving to pierce the ether  to trace the
upward track on which her Gerald's spirit
was soaring.

CHAPTEH Xii.

Beating heart and burning brow, ye are very patient

now,

Toll slowly.
And the children might be bold to pluck the kingcups

from your mould
Ere a month had let them grow.

In your patience ye are strong, cold and heat ye take
not wrong,

Toll slowly.
When the trumpet of the angel blows eternity's evangel,
Time will seem to you not long."

Elizabeth Barrett Browning.

But Paradise is silent, invisible ; and though
for a moment it seems at times to open, too
soon that moment fleets, and the dividing
gulf is drearier than before. When all had
been set in order in Gerald's room, the blind
drawn down, and the still form composed
upon the bed, no longer a bed of suffering :
a time of anguish unutterable came to Marjory.
''He is with Thee;  but I am alone 
alone," she said to God. Her tears flowed
unceasingly.

'' Gerald, Gerald  I want you  I want
you," her heart was crying. The speechless
darkness was awful to her. She could not
remember the time when Gerald had not
been the chief object of her dreams, of her
hopes. She could hardly realize that he was
gone ; that he was not.

I don't want to be selfish,  I would not
call him back; but how can I bear it?"
she sobbed again and again ; "I am young
and healthy,  I cannot die like him ; I must
live on and on  perhaps for fifty, sixty
years ! "

So she wept and wailed into the silence.
He could not be near, she thought  he must
be far, far distant  or in some way he would
send her some token. She remembered his
kind touch upon her head, upon her shoulder ;
she would not be afraid, she thought, if she
could feel that touch again.

Afraid ? Oh, no  only glad, thankful ! But
there was no sign, no supernatural appearance.
When she went into his room, the
calm figure lay as if carved in marble ; as
still, as cold. The gray eyes could no more
open and gaze at her ; the kind young voice
could no more speak to her, begging her not
to cry.

There was plenty of work to be done in
these sad days. Mr. Stanhope, who had
arrived on the New Year's evening, was
anxious to return speedily, having left his
delicate wife far from well. So Marjory had
to pack, and prepare for removal, all her
own and Gerald's possessions. When those
things had been unpacked, how happy, how
full of hope, was her heart ! how bright
had all the world seemed, when she first
entered these rooms which now she was
leaving !

Arrangements were made for the funeral
in that quiet spot where Gerald had desired
to be laid. It so happened that Mr. Crawford
was spending a few hours at Thorne ;
the circumstances came to his knowledge ;
and a day or two after his return to London,
Mr. Stanhope received a kind and civil note,
placing the house at his and Marjory's disposal,
for so long as they could make it of
service. Mr. Stanhope, however, saw no
reason to accept this hospitality ; he hoped
immediately after the funeral to drive on
with Marjory to a quiet country station,
where an afternoon train stopped at a convenient
hour for the journey to Rockswold.

The pretty sitting-room was dismantled at

last ; the boxes were packed ; the coffin-lid
had been closed : all was over. The river
flowed on as Marjory had so often watched
it ; the quiet fields stretched away on its further
bank : Nature remained the same,  it
was only the human lives dwelling among
these scenes, which had undergone revolution.
The hearse was at the door ; the coffin was
carried down the stairs and away. So went
Gerald forth from the house which Marjory
had hoped to be but, as it were, the portal
of a long and prosperous life.

It was a still day, calm and cold ; as they
drove out into the country, the snow lay in
half thawed patches over the fields, and on
the cottage-roofs. The stir of the town was
soon left far behind. But Marjory could
not realize that she would not drive back in
the evening, and find Gerald waiting for herby
the familiar fire, the table spread, the
lamp lighted, as usual, the past weeks of
anguish vanished as a dream.

That dreamlike feeling prolonged itself,
and deepened. After a while they came
within sound of a bell, distantly tolling. The
slow knell came ever more clearly upon the
frosty air : she knew, yet could not realize,
that it tolled for Gerald. The carriage

slackened its pace ; she recognized the lane :
now they were passing the plantation,  the
larch firs, green where all else was leafless 
the spot where Jessie had stood with her
basket and her trowel. Some one was riding
again, as in those days long gone, through
the lane. As the carriage approached, he
reined in his horse, and drew to one side tolet
it pass. Something  she hardly knew
what  in the figure, stirred Marjory with a
sudden thrill : it died away again the next
moment, as she remembered.

Suddenly the tolling ceased; the village
bells, after an old custom in those parts,
broke into a chime : as if to welcome the
weary one who was coming to sleep beneath
their shade. Marjory was conscious that the
carriage had stopped, that her uncle was
helping her out : then that, leaning on his
arm, she was following the long coflSn, carried
reverently by rustic bearers. In the
church she knew that a voice was reading ;
she did not hear the words which it said.
Her eyes were fixed upon that silent coffin,
where her life, she thought, was buried.

Soon afterwards she stood by an open
grave : into which that coffin had been
lowered. As the earth clods fell heavily

upon the lid, words read long ago sounded
in her ears : 

Sleep in peace, thou blest one, within thy narrow room !
My heart I also lay beside thee in the tomb."

Three o'clock was barely past ; but already,
in the west, a crimson light betokened a
frosty sunset. The air was very cold ; but,
below the churchyard wall, the brook rippled
over its stones, just as it had rippled
in the summer  and in that other summer,
long ago, when Marjory went in quest of it.
How little she had thought, then, that the
same brook would ripple thus for ever past
Gerald's grave! The yew-trees stood dark
and sad in the still atmosphere ; the other
graves, closed long ago, clustered roundabout.
A few rustic figures, scattered here
and there, looked on in respectful pity : if
curiosity mingled with this, it was not obtrusive.


That, when we shall depart this life, hoe
may rest in Him*  read the clergyman 
as our hope is, this our brother doth. . . .
and receive that blessing which Thy well
beloved Son shall then pronounce to all that
love and fear Thee, saying. Come, ye blessed
children of my Father, receive the kingdom

prepared for you from the beginning of the
worlds

'' Oh, that that time were come ! " thought
Marjory : " Oh, that it could come at once !
that I were there, with my Gerald ! "

The service was ended : silence followed.
She stepped forward, to look again into the
grave. The last look: "the last forever."
All that story of Marjory's life was ended
here : here she must leave her brother sleeping.
She stood still,  her uncle waited 
the crimson light grew redder in the west 
the brook rippled on. Some one who,
throughout the service, had been standing
behind her, came gently forward, and stood
at her side, over the grave. Once more
that strange thrill ran through Marjory ; she
looked up : it seemed only a natural continuation
of her dream, that she was looking into
Hugh Vivian's face. The dark eyes of old
met hers with an indescribable expression :
which said, with more power than could be
uttered in words  " I would lay down my
life, if that could comfort you ! " She saw
it mechanically, all other things around her
growing more indistinct. Gradually the
strength seemed fading from her limbs, from
her brain ; she thought that she was sinking,

down, down, into the grave, to Gerald. In

reality she had staggered, and would have

fallen, but for her uncle's arm, stretched

quickly forward.

* * *

After long unconsciousness, Marjory opened
her eyes. Had the years rolled back, or had
they never been ? Was she still, or again, a
child ? She lay once more in Miss Evie's
little bed ; the lamp was lighted ; the chintz-covered
arm-chair stood in its old place. On
the walls shone the bright birds and flowers
which had charmed her childish fancy ; and
beside the bed stood Bellhouse : her glance,
after its first wandering survey, rested upon
that kind and homely face.

How did I come here ? " she asked, still
dreamily.

Don't you think about that, or anything
else, my dear," said Bellhouse, soothingly :
Here's some nice hot soup been waiting for
you this hour."

She turned to the fireplace, as she spoke ;
a ruddy blaze was casting gleaming lights
on the old furniture. Ah, this was no summer's
evening ! the years had been no dream.
The dreary present, with its weight of grief,
came back, and stared Marjory in the face.

She took silently the food provided for her ;
and then repeated her question.

Your uncle and the doctor brought
you here, my dear, in  the carriage. You
were in a dead faint at first ; and when that
left you, you fell into a heavy sleep. I saw
that the only thing was to get you to bed as
soon as possible ; and Mr. Robinson  he said
it would be as much as your life was worth
to take a long journey at present. Then,
when your poor uncle was perplexed what to
be at, your aunt being ill alone, and expecting
him to-night,  Mr. Hugh said that Mr.
Crawford had seen him in London, and had
sent a message to beg once more that this
house might in all ways be made use of, as
if it was your own. As for me. Miss Stanhope,
my dear, I assured your uncle that
greater care could not be taken of you, if 
begging his pardon, ma'am, and yours  you
were a child of my own : and the end was,
being indeed a case of necessity, he agreed
to leave you for a day or two at the least.
Mr. Robinson is to call the first thing in the
morning, to see how you are. So now,
ma'am, you know all about it ; and I hope
you will make your mind easy ; for you are
no more fit to travel than your poor aunt

herself: and a greater satisfaction than the
nursing of you will be to me, my dear, I
couldn't desire."

You are very kind," said Marjory gently.
It seemed, then, that all she had to do was
to be still ;  all indeed that she could do, 
for her strength was utterly gone. For
weeks she had been under a continual strain ;
the wonder was, that she had not broken
down long ago ! She felt weary, aching in
every limb,  much as she had felt when she
first lay down in this little bed, nine years
and a half before. Where the tired child
had lain, the tired girl, on the verge of
womanhood, rested. It was not a child's
heart, but a woman's, with a woman's cares,
a woman's griefs, a woman's capacity for
loving and for suffering,  which beat now
beneath Miss Evie's coverlet.

She had been silent for more than an hour,
and Bellhouse had sat down to sew, in the
chintz arm-chair, when she said faintly :
'' Bellhouse, where is Mr. Vivian ? "
Gone back, ma'am, to Alton. He will
be at the * Sun,' he told me, for the present."
'' But when did he come from Russia ? "
Only a few days ago, my dear : so I
understand. He took me altogether by surprise.

I had not heard a word of his being
expected."

Marjory relapsed into silence, closing her
eyes ; and Bellhouse hoped that she was
sleeping once more. But in the middle of
the night, when the old nurse had risen softly
from her own bed in an adjoining room to
visit her patient, she found her awake 
crying, crying, as if her heart would burst.

"My dear Miss Stanhope  Don't, don't you
fret so, my dear : you will wear yourself out."

Gerald  Gerald  I want Gerald," sobbed
Marjory.

''He is happier where he is, my dear,"
said Bellhouse softly, sitting down at her side.

'' I know  I know  But I want him so.
There are things I want to talk over  I want
to consult him, as I used. I cannot bear it."

'' It is hard, my dear. Yes, I know it is
hard," said the grave and gentle voice : ''I
know what it is  I know well."

Unconsciously, the passion of Marjory's
sobs abated; some faint sense of soothing
breathed upon the storm.

Bellhouse, my way is darker than you
know. I am perplexed ; there is no light."

'' Light will come," said Bellhouse : '' Oh,
my dear ! I do not say it ignorantly ; I am

speaking of what I have found. You trust
in the Almighty, and wait ; and light will
come. Only wait  perhaps it won't be much
longer now'*

Perhaps it won't be much longer now."
The words chimed in strangely with those
words of Gerald's.

Things which you don't dream of are in
store for you." It was a comfort to banish
thought, and cling to that vague promise.

'' Do go back to your bed, Bellhouse,  you
will be so tired," she murmured, true to the
unselfish instincts ever strong within her.
But the old nurse would have been deeply
gratified, had she known how great was the
relief when she answered 

I tired, my dear ! T must be a poor
creature indeed, if this would tire me ! " and
stayed at her post.

After a while she began softly to sing an
old lullaby, familiar in years long past to
the children of her charge. To Marjory it
seemed like a bit of babyhood returning,
with no less power to soothe than if she
were a babe indeed. She lay quite silent,
the tempest hushed ; and presently a sweeter
slumber than she had known for months stole
upon her weary young brain.

CHAPTER XV.

Mother, dear Mother ! the years have been long,
Since I last hushed to your lullaby song.
Yet with strong yearning and passionate pain,
Long I to-night for your presence again.

** Over my heart in the years that are flown,
Ko love like mother-love ever has shone ;
No other worship abides and endures
Faithful, unselfish, and patient as yours."

Florence Percy.

For many days Marjory lay passive in Miss
Evie's little bed. Nature was taking its
revenge, said Mr. Robinson ; who forbade
her to be disturbed. She would sleep for
hours  wake, and lie silently watching Bell-house's
quiet movements  then sleep again.
The only sign shown by her, throughout this
period, of interest in the outer world, was
when Bellhouse told her,  sometimes twice,
always once, on each day  that Mr. Yivian
had called to ask after her. Then a flush
would rise to her cheek, a light would shine
in her eyes : a light strangely mingled, 
partly of pleasure, but partly also of pain.

VOL. III. N

As time went on, Bellliouse understood Hugli
Vivian very well ; but she could not understand
Marjory.

The girl was sorry when she felt the
strength reviving in her limbs, the life in her
whole frame. '' I would rather have died,"
she thought ; but that reviving went steadily
forward. At last she was able to dress, and
sit in the large arm-chair.

The fire blazed cheerily, a pleasant contrast
to the wintry landscape  over which
an icy wind was blowing, the leafless branches
waved strangely by its blast. No breath of
it was suffered to touch Marjory ; windows
and doors fitted perfectly ; all in the room
was comfort. But it was hard not to remember
with shrinking, that Gerald lay in
the churchyard. Though only his mortal
body was there, the bitter weather heightened
the pain.

Marjory was very weak ; she lay back in
her chair, and gazed into the fire. Books
and work were near ; but she had forgotten
them : she did not observe how time was
passing. Bellhouse, after helping her to
dress, had left the room ; and she had since
seen only Kitty  who had made for her
aunt some excuse, heard without attention by

Marjory. But as the cuckoo clock in the old
passage struck three, she realized, suddenly
startled, that Bellhouse had been absent
five hours.  The shock which all these days
she had dreaded  was it at hand ?

She had risen, and was vaguely listening
she knew not why  when Bellhouse herself
entered. Marjory glanced at her, and
sank back into the chah% her breath failing.
Bellhouse's complexion, always pale, was
now of an almost ashen hue ; her eyes alone
were red,  swollen with crying. Crushed in
her hand was a letter.

My dear Miss Stanhope, how I have
neglected you ! But you will forgive me,
when you know all."

You have heard from  from Dover ? "

Bellhouse bowed her head, struggling for
composure. Then, without a word, she laid
the letter in Marjory's lap.

The telegraphy, calm and clear, was easily
recognized ; the writer introduced herself asa
friend of Miss Marjory Stanhope : through
whom, she said, her interest had first been
excited by the circumstances concerning
which she wrote ; and to whom, but for the
late bereavement, she would have committed
her present painful task. The substance of
N 2

her previous letter to Marjory, was then recapitulated.
Marjory passed quickly to the
following page, her hand trembling as she
turned the leaf.

Mrs. Jelly had at length returned home ;
Lina had seen her, and had learned all that
she could tell of poor Jessie. The facts were
here stated briefly ; the story in full, as
Marjory afterwards heard it from Mrs. Jelly's
own lips, was as follows. 

On a moonlight night in summer, five
years and a half before the present time,
'' Mrs. Russell," the Jessie of Thorne, had
come to Mrs. Jelly's door, a baby of six
weeks, or so, in her arms ; and had asked fora
lodging. She had offered to pay in advance
; and Mrs. Jelly, a young widow, but
lately embarked on her profession, had been
only too glad to receive her. From the first
she had been very silent, and had seemed
very ill; but Mrs. Jelly *' took to her" at
once, because she was so pretty. " As lovely
a creature as eyes could look upon," Mrs.
Jelly said,  " only so pale and thin."

She engaged two rooms for a week, saying
merely that she might require them longer,
or she might not ; it would depend on her
husband.

When lie spoke of lier husband, ma'am,"
said Mr. Jelly, " she had the air of a born
princess. I could see at times that she was
not out and out, as you may call it, a lady ;
but she might have been a queen, and her
husband a king, when he was mentioned."

Two days of the week were gone when,
one afternoon, '* something took her all of a
sudden." Mrs. Jelly, much alarmed, sent
for a doctor. He came, and afterwards in
private informed Mrs. Jelly that she was far
gone in fatal heart-disease. She ought to be
with her own friends, he said ; the end might
come at any time. Mrs. Jelly felt sorely
perplexed, not knowing whether the young
woman were aware of her condition, and
fearing to alarm her.

In the evening she seemed better, and
when the baby was asleep,  '' as good a
baby," observed Mrs. Jelly, by the way, '' as
eyes could wish to see,"  its mother sat up,
writing letters. But at night Mrs. Jelly
found her lying exhausted upon her bed ;
the table strewn with papers.

I felt so faint," she said ; '' But my
letters are finished, ready to be posted tomorrow."


Mrs. Jelly helped her to undress, and

afterwards, alarmed by her pallor, remained
with her ; the fell into conversation, and
Jessie, her heart opened, no doubt, by the
good woman's kindness, presently told something
of her history. She said that she
had only just crossed over from France,
where she had lived for many months in
great trouble,  her husband having left her
seven months before the baby's birth, and
never having returned. Mrs. Jelly asked if
she had no friends in England, to whom she
might have written ? She answered, yes 
she had a good mother ; but hers was a runaway
marriage ; and she could not endure
the thought of telling her mother all that
had befallen her, or of the scorn and the
shameful reports which might be whispered
about, should she return before the baby's
birth, deserted by her husband. Many, she
said, had been jealous of her in her old home,
and had prophesied that she would come to
no good ; and what would they say if she
went back in such a plight ? So she remained
in France, supporting herself as best
she could. Her husband had left her some
money, and she had savings of her own ; and
she was clever with her fingers, and found employment
fancy shops in the neighbourhood.

She seemed uncommon quick and handy
in every way, I could tell by her talk," said
Mrs. Jelly.

For many weeks she had refused to believe
that her husband would not return. He
was " a real gentleman, thoroughbred,"
she told Mrs. Jelly. The baby was born ina
French hospital ; and she crossed to England
so soon as she was able to travel, feeling
that she could no longer support herself,
and that, should her last effort to find her
husband fail, she must go back to her mother.
This last effort she had been turning over in
her mind for some time before the baby was
born. There was a certain friend whom she
had formerly known, and who had known
her husband ; circumstances led her to suppose
that this friend might find a clue to his
whereabouts. She had to-day written to
beseech that he would exert himself in the
matter ; she had also written to her husband,
and if the friend could discover his address,
she believed that her letter would bring him
back. He had parted from her in anger,
through some misunderstanding which she
had here endeavoured to explain. Moreover,
he had not known that there was any
idea of the baby. When he heard of its

birth, she hoped, she believed, that he would
surely come.

If not," she said  ' or if my friend
cannot find him  I shall be driven to write
to my mother."

'' If you follow my advice," said Mrs.
Jelly, ' you'll write to your mother at once.
You just send your marriage certificate ; and
no one can scoff" at you then."

'that was the worst," said Jessie,  she
had no certificate. Her husband had taken
it away, and she did not know the name
of the church where she was married. It
was some old church in London ; she knew
nothing of the locality : she had trusted all to
him, reaching London, by his direction, only
on the morning of their marriage. He had
met her at the station, and had taken her to
friends of his own : in whose house she had
dressed  because, she said, she was resolved
to look like a bride, since she was one !
Thence they had gone straight to the church,
and had been married by licence ; afterwards
she had been photographed, to complete
her glory : and then they had started for
the Continent. Here they had travelled
from place to place, living luxuriously, and
seeing all that was to be seen. She had

written to lier mother sometimes : not often,
but still sometimes : but be bad always
promised to post the letters, and sbe thought
now that be bad not done so ; for sbe bad
received no answers. At the end of five
months they quarrelled ; and be left ber.

After telling thus much, Jessie bad seemed
to ponder ; and then bad said that  sbe felt
so strange, at times  it might be well, incase
anything should happen, to let Mrs.
Jelly know that ber husband, for certain
reasons, bad married her under an assumed
name. His real name sbe did not disclose.
Sbe also pointed out a small tin box, with a
curious lock  which ber husband, evidently
by mistake, bad left behind him. It contained,
she said, papers of importance to him
alone, with secrets which no others should
know ; and she begged Mrs. Jelly to promise
that, in case of ber sudden death, the box
should not be opened until news came of
him : but should be delivered, as it was, into
bis bands. This promise Mrs. Jelly gave
readily ; and took occasion to hint at the
doctor's verdict.

Jessie did not seem startled : only replied
that sbe had suffered so much  no wonder
ber heart was affected ! that the world bad

been a sad mistake for her, and she should
be glad to leave it. If anything of the sort
did happen before her husband came, Mrs.
Jelly must write to her mother.

You don't seem afraid at all," said Mrs.
Jelly.

'' ISTo," said Jessie : '' I am not afraid. If
you write to mother, tell her that her prayers
have saved me."

Later, Mrs. Jelly had asked for her
mother's address.

I will write it down tomorrow," she
replied ; '' Just now I am too sleepy."

In spite of their conversation, it did not
occur either to Mrs. Jelly, or to Jessie herself,
that for her no earthly morrow might
come. But in the morning, when Mrs. Jelly,
hearing the baby cry, went hurriedly to her
room, only Jessie's body lay there. She
must have died quite painlessly, in her sleep,
the doctor said.

Among her clothes was found sufficient
money to pay for decent burial ; Mrs. Jelly
followed her to the grave, and thenceforth
nothing more was heard about her. No
husband, no friend, had appeared ; and, as to
the mother, even her name was unknown.
The clergyman of the district, a busy and

hurried man, but half believing the dead
woman's story, had inserted in various papers
advertisements, such as might strike the
husband's eye, to satisfy Mrs. Jelly. But no
result had followed : and here inquiry had
ceased.

Mrs. Jelly, who then had recently lost both
her husband and her newborn child, had kept
the baby : whose beauty, like his mother's,
attracted her. She had never repented it,
she told Lina ; and a better child was never
seen. But now she was about to be married
again, and he was growing fast; much as
she loved him, it seemed hardly right, she
thought, that he should burden her new husband
: who was a widower, with boys of his
own. Thus Lina's discoveries had been
opportune ; and Mrs. Jelly thankfully accepted
her proposal to write to Bellhouse. The
photograph was enclosed in the letter. On
that last sad evening Mrs. Jelly had seen and
admired it ; and Jessie had said that she
was welcome to keep it, as she had several
more of the same. There had been little
opportunity for presentations of the portrait
taken in such exulting pride ! It remained
a tragical memorial of all that poor Jessie's
folly had brought on her.

But Lina's envelope contained another
enclosure : a letter which had. been discovered
among the papers scattered on
Jessie's table. She had written two letters,
she told Mrs. Jelly ; but only this one could
be found : and Mrs. Jelly, after a fruitless
search, concluded that she had made a
mistake, and that the other had been posted
in the morning, when Mrs. Russell had gone
out for a little while. This conclusion
appeared the more probable, since the present
envelope had no address beyond a name :
bearing out what Jessie had said of the
letter destined for her husband.

The envelope was fastened, but not sealed :
Mrs. Jelly in the doctor's presence, opened
it ; and the contents, as both believed, decided
the matter. " My dearest hushaiid, the
letter began, continuing with piteous entreaties
that he would return, and acknowledge
her and his boy before the world. It was
restored to its cover, and sealed ; and thus
Mrs. Jelly had kept it. The nature of its
contents, secondhand from Mrs. Jelly, was
briefly described by Lina ; but the name 
the husband's name  was not mentioned.
When Marjory, her heart throbbing hard
and fast, had reached the well-known signature,

" Caroline Peele," lie looked again
into the envelope for that enclosure : but it
was gone. She longed to ask Bellhouse
about it at once, without a moment's delay ;
but the words would not come.

And Mrs. Jelly and the boy are now on
their way here ! "

So it says, ma'am, as you see. I can
hardly believe it : I feel like in a trance.
May the Almighty for ever bless that good
young lady. Miss Peele ! To think of her
advancing the money for the journey, and
settling it, and all ! Oh, ma'am, if she had
not had that forecast, I could not have
rested ! I should have had to start off
straight away. Only for leaving you, Miss
Stanhope, my dear ! "

Dear Bellhouse, I wonder you can have
any thought for me at such a time. Did you
find the letter waiting when you left me this
morning ? ' '

Yes, ma'am, there it was, just as if it
had been any other  on the table in the
housekeeper's room. Oh, my Jessie ! how
often have I seen her there at play, with her
toys just where that letter was lying ! "

As the recollection rose before her, she
broke down, and wept bitterly, hiding her face.

Oil, Bellhouse, if I could do anything to
comfort you ! Oh, that I could ! " cried
Marjory.

Something in her tone went to the heart
of the unselfish old nurse. She dried her
eyes, and sat down at Marjory's side.

Miss Stanhope, my dear, don't you vex
yourself," she said tenderly ; " You have
plenty of sorrow of your own. Don't you
fret about me ; I've looked the worst in the
face, these hours since the letter came : and
after all, this is no new thing, in one way,
for I knew my Jessie was dead : I felt assure,
as certain of it, as that I myself was
alive. It's all over now  all over now ; and
she's safe with the Almighty."

I am so glad Lina remembered to tell
you of her saying that your prayers had
saved her."

Yes, ma'am. Oh, how I thank the Almighty
for those words ! Miss Stanhope,
did I not say to you that no prayer is ever
lost ? iow  now I find the truth of it. I
have prayed in the dark for years and years ;
aud many's the time my heart has failed me.
But she said my prayers had saved her !
Oh, when I've just got over the first shock,
those words will be like summer sunshine

in my heart, ma'am, till the end of my
life."

The tears were flowing again, but gently.
After a while, Bellhouse's face being turned
aside, Marjory got courage to ask the question
which had trembled on her lips 

'' Bellhouse  have you got the letter which
was found on Jessie's table ? "

There was a long pause.

Ah I that's another trouble, ma'am  a
sore trouble. I hope though, Miss Stanhope,
my dear, it will make no difference to you,
except so far as you're sorry for other people.
That letter, ma'am, was addressed to Mr.
Hugh."

Marjory grew only a little whiter, as she
sat, her blue eyes fixed on Bellhouse.

I could not have believed it, only there
was my Jessie's writing. It gave me a turn,
as if something had risen out of a grave, to
see that writing again. It was all weak and
scrawled, but plain enough,  ' Hugh Vivian,
Esq.' "

Did you open the note ? "

"No, ma'am. I sent it straight away;
straight, as it was, by the gardener's boy, to
him that it was meant for."

"To Alton?"

'' I did, ma'am ; and I'm thinking that he
will be here directly. That is, he will be
here unless  But no ! I mustn't doubt it."

'' Bellhouse, do you think it can be true 
that he really married Jessie ? "

I don't know what to think, ma'am.
That is the long and the short. I don't
know what to think."

She had dried her tears, and sat looking
into the fire, pale and subdued, but thoughtful
; calmly considering the matter, as only
one long accustomed to school her own impulses,
and to act justly by all men, could,
under such circumstances, consider. She
went on, reasoning to herself.

There's a deal that seems against him.
The little darling called ' Copelandss,' and all.
If it was any one I did not know, I should
believe it for certain. But Mr. Hugh  as
I've known from a babe ! He was spoiled
from the first, and a bit wild ! and I fear me
he had little thought of serving the Almighty.
But he was as kind as he could be, always,
to all things. I never remember him selfish,
not where it pained other people. He might
have run ofi* with my Jessie, and he might
have married her." Marjory winced, but
uttered no sound. " There was that wildness

in him, and that passionateness, I feel
lie might have done that : but leave her in
such a way  think of her no more  and then
come and settle close to me, and tell me so
kind that he was sorry about it, as he's done
more than once. Oh, ma'am ! " cried Bell-house,
suddenly, as facts thronged upon her,
"it's more than I can bear to believe ! It
would be wickedness past fathoming."

Yes," said Marjory ; " there is no doubt
of that. If he has done this he must be
utterly wicked."

I feel almost wicked myself, ma'am, for
thinking it possible. And yet  oh, my dear,
I remember, in bygone times  I was getting
very anxious about Mr. Hugh and her. And
it was partly through my dear lady suspecting
he had a fancy for her, that she sent her
away. Then Bullingham, that he went to,
is but eight miles from Ripley; and when
my Jessie disappeared, I remember, Mr. Hugh
was gone too,  we never knew where. My
dear lady often said how grieved she felt
that he had never written. No one heard
anything about him for a long, long while :
there's no denying that. Oh, Miss Stanhope,
my dear, my mind misgives me ! Somehow
it does seem to fit in altogether."

VOL. III.

It did, indeed. Too plainly Marjory saw
it. She could have added, if she would, to
Bellhouse's sad list. She could have told of
the manner, the expression, which had fixed
Lina's suspicions, which had vaguely troubled
herself, when Jessie's name was mentioned
in his presence. And yet, in a tenfold sense,
she '' could not bear " to believe that he was
guilty.

There was long silence, meditative on Bell-house's
part, while Marjory struggled for
self-control. Her voice must not tremble,
her face must not show the agony in her
heart.

I have thought it my duty, ma'am, if
you will excuse the liberty, to say all this
to you. There's no doubt but that one who
was bad enough to act in such a way would
think nothing of denying it : and so it will
be your duty, my dear, as far as you can, to
make up your own mind. Because, excuse me,
ma'am, it is plain that, whatever may have
been in the past, his whole mind is fixed
now upon you ; and every day lately he has
asked how soon he will be able to see you.
So you must look it all well in the face,
Miss Stanhope, my dear, and pray to the
Almighty to guide you. Oh, my dear, forgive

me  you have no mother ; and my poor
Jessie and her bitter sufferings rise up before
me for a warning. Even if he don't deny,
if he confesses all  you couldn't ever be
happy, married to one who would act so.
I must forgive him, if it's he, because the
Almighty commands it ; but oh, ma'am, it
will be like hell torment to look upon his
face !"

Bellhouse, you need not say any more.
Don't be afraid. Not his face only, but his
very name, will be that to me, if what we
fear is true 1"

At this moment there was a knock at the
door. Kitty looked in.

"Aunt," she said, " Mr. Vivian wants to
see you this minute. I don't know what's
the matter ; but his horse is all of a steam."



CHAPTER XVI.

This is no my ain life,

And I peak and pine away,
Wi' the thoughts o' hame, and the young flow'rs

I' the glad green month o' May.

There's nae place like our ain hame ;
Oh, I wish that I was there ! 
There's nae hame like our ain hame

To be met wi' ony where ! 
And, eh ! that I were back again

To our farm and fields so green ;
And heard the tongues o' my ain folk,
And was what I hae been !"
From 'manse Watch's Autobiography."  Blackwood's
Magazine, 1826.

*' Oh, how could I wish to keep Gerald in
such a world ? " cried Marjory. She was
standing alone in the window, looking out
over the slopes of snow ; too restless, too
sorely racked by suspense, to sit still any
longer. She pressed her forehead against
the pane ; her heart was beating violently.

"Lord God  remember how I have prayed !
Remember Thy Promises ! " she murmured,

straining lier eyes towards the leaden
sky. The keen wind, sweeping through the
trees, seemed typical of those painful influences
by which human souls are whirled
along, to wretchedness here and hereafter.
On they go,  away, away, fleet the souls 
and with them, who can tell how vast a number
of hopes, of loves, of  of prayers ? do
the prayers perish like the rest ?

An hour had passed, it might have been
a day, for all Marjory's observance of time ;
when Kitty entered with lights, and with a
message from her aunt to beg that Miss
Stanhope would go to bed. Aunt was very
sorry that she could not come herself ; she
would come presently.

*' Where is she ? " inquired Marjory.

She has been with Mr. Vivian, miss, till
just this moment ; and now Mr. Vivian is
writing in the housekeeper's room, and aunt
is gone upstairs."

There was nothing to be learned from
this! nothing remained but to wait. Marjory
was thankful to creep under the clothes, and
hide herself from the world. If bad news
came ere long, she could bear them better so.
Thus when Kitty, somewhat later, reappeared,
carrying a tea-tray, she found Marjory

safely settled in the little chintz bed, her fair
hair flowing over the pillows.

'' I can't say as you look none the better
for being up, miss," remarked Kitty : *' The
gentleman did send up these ; but may be,
as you seem so tired, I'd best lay 'em on the
mantelpiece till tomorrow."

'' What are they ? " cried Marjory, instantly
all alive. Then she saw a small packet on
the tray ; and a note, addressed to herself.
She took quick possession of them, holding
them fast, while Kitty arranged her little
tea-table.

Did Mr. Vivian ask for an answer to this
note?"

No, thank you, miss ; he said nothing,
only would I take it to you ? I suppose it's
what he was a writing,  for he's finished
now, and gone. At least he's walking about
in the park, in all the wind and cold," said
Kitty, eyeing Marjory. Perhaps she had her
own private suspicions on the matter. Marjory
smiled and nodded cheerfully, to disarm
them.

'that will do, Kitty, thank you. Tell
your aunt not to hurry herself ; I am quite
comfortable."

She felt weak and worn no longer ; life

and excitement had revived. As the door
closed, and she found herself alone, she
hastily opened the packet. Within was a
small manuscript book, with a dark leather
cover. The note would explain it : she
opened that also, and read :

Forgive mj troubling you at such a time,
with my own affairs : I cannot help it. I see
from Miss Peele's letter, that you have heard
this horrible charge against me ; you have
long known, she says, of her suspicions. I
have been wondering what right or reason
she could have  before these last events  to
form any such suspicions at all. It strikes
me that at times, I may have shown by my
manner, that Jessie Bellhouse's name was
painful to me. It has been painful to me for
years ; but as to the cause, I ask you, before
you judge, to read this old journal of mine ;
it will explain things better than I can. I
may be a coward  but there were times in
my past life, which I cannot well bear to
speak of;  the shame, I may say the agony,
which they still raise in me, I cannot express
in words. No wonder if my face has shown
it,  or something of it !

'' I have told Bellhouse a part of what you
will read  a part only, for her daughter's

sake, no less than for my own. I confess to
you that, years ago, when I was a foolish
boy, I thought I had a fancy for Jessie. It
never came to more than a fancy  excited
solely by her beauty. In those days I
imagined that she was smitten with me : I
now believe that she was smitten with my
position, and had at times a dream that I
might marry her, and make her ' a lady.'
When I sank into a penniless bank-clerk, I was
nothing any more in her eyes : as you will see.
As to this crime laid to my charge, I am
ready to swear to you by all that is sacred
on earth or in heaven, that I am utterly
innocent. I never even knew of Jessie's disappearance,
until nearly two years after it
took place. There is some inexplicable mess
which I hope to unravel in time. Meanwhile,
I only ask you to believe in me : and
when I speak of Heaven, let me say that
Heaven is no longer an empty name to me.
"When I can see you, I shall have much to
tell you, if you will listen.

*' Hugh Vivian."

Again and yet again, Marjory read the
hurried note : of which the handwriting bore
evident trace of the agitation wherein it was

penned. Then, by an irresistible impulse,
sbe raised it to her lips.

'' He is innocent ! He is innocent ! " she
repeated to herself. '' Yes, if the whole
world doubted him, I would believe in him.
I do not understand it : but he is innocent."

The strength had come back to her countenance,
to her heart ; her blue eyes shone
with a light which they had not known since
the days when she had yet hope for Gerald.
Still holding fast the precious note, she turned

to the journal.

   %

The first entry bore a date in the second
summer after that of Marjory's childish
adventures at Thorne : when Mr. Vivian, the
father, had been dead almost a year, and
Hugh and his mother were living together
at Bullingham. He must have been about
two-ands twenty when this volume was begun,
and Marjory a little girl just entered on her
teens  living a free and happy life at quiet
Rockswold, planning her plans for Gerald,
and never dreaming of the deep waters overwhelming
the bright young soldier who had
played so prominent a part in the fairy world
of Thorne.

The Journal.

*' June20tli, 18 .My mother ill all day.
I never saw her anything like it before. A
sultry, gasping kind of day. She kept talking
about the Copeland woods ; she seemed
hardly herself at times.

June 28th.  I heard a sermon to-day on
the power of prayer,  I wonder how much
of it is true. At any rate one can but try :
I will try it for my mother.

"June 29th.  I am not a good hand at
prayers. I don't know that I ever said any
before, except the one my mother taught me
for night and morning, when I was a little
chap  and at church, out of the Prayer-book.
I make a poor business of it when I have to
find W' words out of my own head ; but according
to the parson, that don't matter. At
least I am trying my best  for my mother's
sake. Will anything come of it, I wonder ?

'' July 4th.  Night after night I kneel at
my window, praying or trying to pray,  I
am more practised in it now. I begin to
hope it may be answered ; if there is any
truth in any of it, there must be pity for my
mother. I thought she seemed better yesterday
; but to-day she is as bad as ever.

July 7tli.  That old Browning is a fool,
half quack and half old woman. Clearly
he doesn't understand my mother's case. I
shall quarrel with him some day  that's a
certainty. Broiling hot : these rooms are
stuffy past conception. If I had my old
chestnut, wouldn't I make up for all this time
I've been longing for a canter ! We would
soon be out of sight of Bullingham,  then
I'd slacken my rein, and feast my eyes on
the green fields and lanes. Prime weather
for eels ! I'd lay a wager that those Jackson
fellows are setting eel-traps this moment, now
I'm not there to catch them ! These must be
fine days for all rascals round about Copelandss.

July 12th.  My mother had a paroxysm
of downright agony this evening. Sent for
old Browning, and made him tell me the
truth. He suspects some inward formation,
but cannot speak with certainty. If I could

but take her to London, to consult H !

There is no hope for her here.

1 A.M.  Just left her room,  she has
fallen asleep at last. I sat by her bed three
hours, fanning her, and reading to her when
she could listen. Is it cruel to wish to keep
her in such a world ? Yet when she blessed
me to-night, and fell asleep with her cheek

against my hand, I felt that life would be
hell to me without my mother.

"July 16th.  Heard to-day the wonderful
news that my godmother, old Lady Waters,
has left me 100. 'Now I can save my
mother. She shall go to London, have the
best advice,  then to the sea. I wonder
when I shall get it ?

July 17th. I begin to believe in prayer ;
this legacy was quite unexpected,  I have
tried to thank God. I am burning with impatience
to get the money. It is left free of
legacy duty ; that was thoughtful of the old
girl. My mother a little better to-day  if it
comes soon, I shall save her.

''July 18th. Miss Valley called. My
mother thinks her patronising, but that is
only a diseased fancy,  I wish she would not
give way to it. It would do her so much
good to go to Ripley for a month, as Miss
Bulkley proposes,  but she fancies it an act
of charity on Miss Bulkley's part, and v/ill
not hear of it. Never mind ! there's a good
time coming ! it will be jolly at the sea, alone
with my mother, when I get the 100. Jessie
was on the box ; she looked as bewitching as
ever. I felt weak about her, as usual ; but
I doubt whether she's over-gifted with heart.

She did not look at all distressed, though she
heard me tell Miss Bulkley about my mother.

July 21st.  Peele's airs drive me downright
mad. In our county he'd have been as
proud as twenty peacocks, if  which is not
likely  he could have scraped an acquaintance
with my father. Here he lords it over us,
treats me barely as a gentleman, and as to
my mother !  ' He is sorry my mother has
never been able to see Mrs. Peele,  Mrs. Peele
would have been happy to give her one or two
good introductions.'  Introductions, forsooth!

I had some idea of the pettiness of these
second-rate townspeople ; but nothing near
the truth. The women at least, seem to live
for tittle-tattle ; my mother and I are prime
game. Richard Peele has now and then the
impudence to repeat some of their speeches.
I gather that my mother is thought ' stuck-up,'
because she chooses not to leave her
own station ; and for our poverty  the refined
condescension on that score is grand to
behold ! ' Such is Life.' A few of the Bulk-less'
friends have called upon us; but it
goes no further. My mother has neither
health nor money for society now  even if
she had heart. But when I look back a year
or two  Well ! it gives one a lesson on ' the

world.' I shall be a first-rate philosopher intime,
if this kind of thing goes on.

*' July 31st.  Mj mother very bad again,
pining for sea air. When will this legacy come?

August 3rd.  That mean little sneak,
Lord Waters, is disputing his mother's will.
There is to be a law-suit ; and no legacies
can be paid till judgment is given. A delusion,
after all ! I have not had the heart to
tell my mother.

Aug. 4th.  Last night I went off alone,
out of the town, to work off my madness.
I did feel mad,  I should have killed that
Waters, if I had met him ! I found a quiet
little place, beyond the houses ; there was a
rick of new hay,  I lay down under it. The
stars were shining  the sky looked still and
kind. I thought of what that parson had
said about trials of one's faith ; I prayed
again. Oh, if there be a God, He will hear
me ! I prayed to Him, with all my heart, to
save my mother. If the law-suit be settled
quickly, it may yet be in time. To-day I
told her the horrible news. She tried to
cheer me, said she felt a little better. I
never knew before, what she is to me.

'' Aug. 12th.  Cooler  a fine day for the
grouse. Old Brush looks so desponding, one

would almost fancy he remembered our jolly
party on that blue moor near Aberdeen, this
day twelvemonth. That was in my last week
of happiness : four days after came the telegram.
Well ! whining will bring nothing
back. ' It's all over, old Brush,' I say, as he
sidles up to me. He seems to understand,
and shuffles away under the sofa, as if he
were in disgrace.

I found out a queer secret last night. I
don't know whether I ought to keep it secret
may be not, but then  I only half trust
my own motives. That little coquette, Jessie,
seems to be privately engaged to some one
unknown  a gentleman, she says ; and she
knows a gentleman as well as anybody. The
fellow certainly looked one, at a distance.
He looked like  confound it, what am I coming
to, breaking out in such dirty suspicions ?
I had been a good walk across the fields, and
found myself within two miles of Ripley, 
turned in a hurry, afraid my mother might
be anxious, and took French leave with a
short cut through the plantations. The path
was winding, and a gap in the trees revealed,
some way on, Jessie and this same unknown
gentleman,' who was in the act of kissing
her hand. She stood half a foot from him,

the "hand extended, after the manner of
royalty. This ceremony performed, he turned,
and disappeared in no time. I don't know
why I should have felt so mad,  I am a
precious fool ! She came on, smiling to herself,
her head held high, and that rose-bloom
I know of old, like paint upon her cheeks. I
took her by surprise, confronting her suddenly
; but she was not in the least confused :
and when I taxed her with what I had seen 
He is my fiance,  replies her Royal Highness,
as cool as a  what shall I say ? cucumbers
would be torrid to it ! However, she
presently so far lowered her dignity as to
request me not to mention what I had seen ;
and, while I parried this point, other facts
came out. His name she would not reveal ;
but he was ' a captain in the army of good
family ; their acquaintance was of some
months' standing  they met at Alton, in the
spring, when she was at Thorne with Miss
Bulkley. He was passing through Alton on
business, saw her in a shop, followed up the
acquaintance, and traced her here. They
would be married so soon as he saw his way
to it without displeasing his friends ; till
then they must wait in secrecy,  she had not
even told her mother. But I would make

no promises, and came away, leaving the
Lady Jessie in high dudgeon.

'' The fact is, I want time to think. Is it
fair to keep old Bellhouse in darkness ? and,
then, who is this fellow ? To be sure, I
know no girl more cool-headed, or better able
to take care of herself, than Jessie : so why
should I meddle ? I am half afraid of being
a sneak unawares. That little minx thought
something of me, once, when I was at Cope-lands
: but what is a poor bank clerk, beside
this mighty ' Captain ? ' Well !  I must let
the question be for the present. It shall lie
in my mind, and digest.

'' Aug. 15th.  A note from Jessie, in a fine,
pointed hand, demanding a written promise
that I will not mention her engagement until
such time as the ' Captain ' gives leave. I
have answered in three lines, that I would
promise to say nothing without warning her
but no more. The little ungrateful being-observes
that, if the facts were discovered,
her mother would get her back to stupid old
Thorne, to die of the dumps. Stupid old
Thome, indeed ! Oh, to wake, and find it alla
dream, and myself riding up to the door
of that same Thorne  the old house basking
in the sunshine, and the dear old lady coming

VOL. III. p

in her miisliroom hat across the park. .  .
But here we are in stuffy Bullingham, and
here am I a clerk in a shabby coat,  and, if
I don't take care, I shall slouch like any
desk-slave of them all  so I'll be off, and
post my note.

'august 18th. Sultry ; and my mother
droops. I fear she is very lonely when I am
at the bank : and she is too weak to wait
upon herself, and misses her maid terribly.
To think of my mother, always used to first-rate
servants, left now in her illness quite
alone, except for mj clumsy offices ! She is
worse,  I cannot deny it : and no wonder !
Heat even at Copeland was terrible to her,
and here are no alleviations. She cannot
walk  or bear the rattle of the Bullingham
flys : she lies all day near the window, but
no fresh air seems to reach her. The streets
are baked through and through ; the opposite
houses send back a volley of stuffiness. I can
go out and escape ; but there is no escape
for her.

August 21st.  Browning has spoken
more of his mind than ever before. He says,

as I suspected, that H is my mother's

one chance  that he can save her if any one
can, and, so far, it is possible. But the disease

is making sucH rapid strides, that every day
is of importance. If that confounded legacy
would come ! she might have to stay sometime
in London,  she would need every comfort
; and we have only just enough to live
upon, as it is. Lady Thorne is ill, and cannot
attend to business, or I would ask her
to advance the 100. I have not given up
praying,  I cannot help hoping that God will
hear me yet.

"August 23rd.  Up all night with my
mother. Her agony was terrible. Oh, how
it maddens me to remember the money I
have squandered ! If I had but foreseen
this, I could have laid plenty by. Yet God
foresaw it. Why did He send no sign ?

August 24th.  My mother will die. I
cannot bear it. No relief  no help  It is
unutterable.

*' August 27th.  I have done a dreadful
thing. But I was driven to it. God knows
I was driven to it. Yet I have lost my honour
my self respect,  I am no longer what I
was. Oh, if I had some friend to talk it
over with 1  but I have none. I must write
instead  that will be some relief. I can
burn it afterwards, if I choose : or keep it asa

warming.

p 2

It was this morning  I was alone in the
bank,  we have seldom much business on a
Thursday. Phillips, the senior clerk, was
out  the other ill at home  old Peele closeted
in the private room, with some important
person. It was twelve o'clock ; the sky was
blue and hot ; I was thinking of my mother
and the sea. Again she had been ill all night,
I had left her quite broken down  tears
rolling down her cheeks from mere weakness,
my stately, queenlike mother ! I built a
castle in the air, to soothe myself, of the

legacy, of H , his cure  and then a new

life. The swinging of the door startled me ;
old Bulkley came in, looking just as he used
to look at Thorne  so large, portly, kind.
Well, Yivian,' he said ; ' How are you ?
How's your mother ? I've not a minute  an
appointment at home in half-an-hour. Only
want to get rid of these  Just enter them,
there's a good fellow ! ' Then, waving his
glove in his old way, he was gone before I
could open the packet left in my hand. It
was a roll of notes  200 in amount. How
can I write this ? Yet I will  the pain will
help me. For I may be tempted again,  and
if I were once such a weak, mean wretch,
who can tell what I might be a second time ?

i don't know what came over me,  a voice
in my ears said, ' It will be only for a little
while.' Yes, I felt sure, at that moment,
of the legacy  that in a month or so, I could
pay back the money. I knew Mr. Bulkley's
careless ways, and that he would never find
out. All in a moment, somehow, I had paid
half the notes into the till, and the other half
were in my own pocket,  then I entered in
the books 100 to Mr. Bulkley's account.
Just as I wrote the figures, the private door
opened, Mr. Peele showed out his visitor ;
and at the same moment Phillips came back 
I was alone no longer, and the deed was
done.

'' Well, I should fancy hell  if there be a
hell  must be something like what I felt in
the next few hours, when I remembered the
money in my pocket  and that I had stolen
it. I say when ; but in reality the thought
was never out of my head ; till I wondered
if it would drive me mad. I knew that I
was a thief. I could hardly stand it : yet I
said to myself that it was for my mother's
sake, and that I would pay back every farthing.
When I went home to luncheon, my
mother was free from pain, but exhausted 
lying as usual close to the window, the door

open,  panting for air. I said, * Mother,
If I could but get you to the sea ! ' She
answered faintly, smiling,  ' That would
soon cure me ! ' I would have given my life
at that instant, if so I could have got her
there. But honour is dearer than life. I
thought  ' Yes, I have sacrificed more than
life, for her.' But the thought gave no relief.
Then I remembered what I used to be  Yes,
I thought myself a gentleman, once  more
of one than most. How proud I felt at that
review in Hyde Park, when the Queen herself
asked who was that noble-looking young
officer ! But all that is over now. I noble ?
Oh, many a one whom I have thought below
me, would scorn to be what I was to-day !
To call it borrowing was merely a farce  I
must give it its true colours, I was a thief.
How could I look any fellow of our regiment
in the face, with that consciousness upon
me ? I who prided myself upon my honour !
Now I can understand the temptations of
the poor wretches who pick pockets in the
streets ; I have been next door to them ! I
have done all I can to retrieve it ; but that
fact can never be retrieved.

When I had been back in the bank about
an hour, I felt I could bear it no longer.

The notes were still in my pocket,  I resolved
to put them in the till with the rest,
and there would be an end of it : an end,
if I could but alter the entry in the book.
I was alone again for a minute ; I found the
place in a desperate hurry ; but, like a fool,
my hand shook, so that I made a great blot :
I mopped it up with blotting-paper, and
stupidly dried the strokes which changed
the 1 into 2. There they were, faint and
blue, quite different from the bold 1 which
I had made in the morning  which stood
out, black and uncompromising, witnessing
against me. I took the pen to blacken the
rest again, but before I could do it, the door
opened once more, old Peele came in, and
my chance was over. He saw my confusion,
looked hard at me, and came behind my
shoulder. ' Is that figure a 1 or a 2,
Mr. Vivian ? ' said he stiffly. It struck me
that he might choose to corroborate my answer
by forthwith counting the money in
the till ; and the extra notes were still in
my pocket. I answered, ' One.' He looked
again hard at me, and observed, ' You will
do well to be more careful ; if I mistake not,
you wrote 2 at first.' There he was out ;
but I said nothing. For the rest of the day

he watched me closely, and I had no chance

to act further in the matter.

   'ik

' I had to stop here ; and now it is late.
But I will write the whole horrible story. I
wish to suffer  I wish to brand it in upon my
mind. I was almost in despair at first, when
old Peele cut off my repentance ; but presently
a new thought occurred to me. After
dinner, for which I forced myself to stay,
that my mother might not be anxious, I
started at once to Ripley. It is eight miles ;
but the walk seemed nothing. I reached
the house about nine, and was shown into
Mr. Bulkley's study. On the way I met
Jessie, going towards the staircase ; she
looked at me curiously, and seemed about to
speak, but this the servant's presence, I suppose,
prevented. As for me, I saw her without
seeing, and should not remember it only
for what happened later. In a few minutes
Mr. Bulkley came to me. I don't think,that
if I studied the matter for years, I could
find words to express his kindness ; it was
simply inexpressible. I gave him the 100,
told him the whole truth, told him also that
he could prosecute me if he liked, or expose
me in any way : only I should be thankful

if he would wait until my mother was better.
It was some time before he spoke, and I
went through tortures, till I ventured to
look at him, and saw that he was struggling
to command his voice : he was sorry, not
angry, it turned out. There's no need to
write what he said : no fear of my ever forgetting
it ! Oh, if God refuses to bless me
and my poor mother, at least He will bless
him ! He must. Not only did he freely
forgive me, refuse even to say a word in exposure
; but he actually prayed and entreated
me to keep the money. Of course I declined,
it would have choked me ; and my mother,
who must never know the facts, would not
have consented to use it. His forgiveness
alone was enough,  far more than enough 
to overwhelm me utterly. I did not tell
him all, or half, our distress, or the force of
my temptation ; I could not bear to snivel,
or beg. But he saw how terribly cut up and
ashamed I was  and perhaps he guessed at
what I could not say,  I hope so. Fine,
noble, princely, old fellow; I would lay
down my life for him, if that could do him
service.

Well, I had left him, with my heart full,
and was starting on my way home, when

some one called my old name  ' Mr.
Hugh '  and there was Jessie, running
after me. I stopped till she caught me up,
all out of breath and heated : I never knew
that any girl, least of all she, could look so
vindictive !  ' I got your letter, Mr. Hugh,'
she panted, as soon as she could speak :
You would make no promises, you said.
But now, I fancy, you'll change your mind ;
it shall be tit for tat.' I asked what she
meant. ' I mean that I know all about you,
all you have done ; I heard all that you
and Mr. Bulkley said :  I was listening at
the door.' ' Listening at the door, you
mean little wretch ! ' I cried. ' Who are
you to talk of meanness ? ' said she : ' I
listened because I thought you had come to
tell of me, and I wanted to defend myself;
but now you are as much in my power, as I
am in yours.' She laughed as she spoke. It
seemed a horrible dream. I should not have
known her for Jessie  the Jessie I fancied
myself smitten with, at Thorne. Talk of
the worldliness of towns ! no town can surpass
the worldliness ingrain in those country
girls, who look so smiling and so simple ! If
I were still Hugh Vivian of Copeland, she
would never speak so to me. I was thunderstruck,

answering nothing; lie went on
more quietly. ' I don't want to be hard on
you, Mr. Hugh;  I shouldn't have said a
word  only the thought of being sent back
to that dull old Thorne, and my engagement
broken off, drives me to it. This is all your
own fault, for not promising what I asked.'
Still I did not speak : it was all I could do
to keep back language which afterwards I
should have repented. ' If you knew what
it is to me,' she proceeded, ' to think that I
am to be a lady, to take my proper place in
the world, the place a pretty woman ought
to have;  not to be obliged to work and
knock under, and feel I am a servant, anymore,
 to have plenty of money, and do
justice to my taste in dress  not to mention
all the multitude of other things :  you'd
understand better.' ' Your fine Captain
would hardly feel flattered if he could hear
you, Jessie,' said I. ' That is nothing to the
point, Mr. Hugh,' said she, with her old toss
of the head : ' The Captain is handsome
and grand enough for any lady to feel proud
of him, and I shall feel proud to become his
wife. That's enough to satisfy any man.
And now all I want is to make a bargain,
you give me the promise I asked : and in

return I'll give you one  never to mention
what I heard. But if you refuse to promise,
mark my words ! the truth shall be told.
Every one about Copelandss and Thorne  and
elsewhere, for what I care  shall know that
you robbed Mr. Bulkley ; and that only his
pity and charity saved you from jail.'
Jessie ! ' I felt myself thunder : then out
came the oaths which I had struggled to
keep in before. I could not help it,  I don't
know what I said,  nothing fit to be said
to any woman. Yet  oh, what a fiend inhuman
form Jessie seemed then to me ! Oh,
to be under her power  dependent on her
mercy ! Oh, what a maddening thought
still ! It was all I could do not to lay hands
on her,  I wonder how I managed it ! it was
from nothing in the world but the thought
that I was a man, and she a girl. If she
had but been a man like myself! The past
rushed back upon me,  my lost place in the
world, in life, in honour. And she  a
servant  a child of servants,  low in birth,
and in nature. Well, it won't bear dwelling
on ! But I can understand now, how some
men murder some women. Oh, there is
power of stinging in a woman ! I never half
knew it before. For a minute I felt inclined

to give lier leave to say her worst : anything
seemed preferable to being under an obligation
to her. But then I remembered my
mother ; the blow would kill her,  our means
of support too would be gone, for old Peele
would have no mercy on such disgrace.
Well, that's enough : the long and the short
was, that I had to stoop to promise what she
required,  never to mention one word of my
discoveries respecting her and this precious
Captain,' until she herself chose to publish
the engagement. On this condition alone
she promised equal secresy on her side ; and
so we parted.

I am degraded  lower than words can
say. I cannot but feel myself more or less
at that creature's mercy ; for she would be as
likely as not, if it suited her, to break her
promise. Or if not that, can either she or I
ever forget what passed to-night ? I suppose
I shall grow used to the burden of it in time :
just now, it seems almost unbearable. Oh,
what would my mother feel, if she had any
idea, either of what I had this day sunk todo
and be, or of the thread my good name
hangs on ! And to think that I once madly
admired that girl, and thought her worth
fifty of any in my own station ! Now I hate

her, and despise lier,  even lier face is detestable
to me ; and if ever there were a lie on
earth, that face is one.  I will go to bed,
and try to shut its mocking smile out of my
mind.

"August 28th.  There has been a new
chapter to the story one that I never
dreamed of. When I went to the bank this
morning, I thought old Peele looked rather
queer ; but I was too sick at heart to take
much notice of him. Towards eleven o'clock
I was summoned to his private room : I
went;  there, looking kind and concerned,
stood Mr. Bulkley, and, open before old Peele,
was the book with my unfortunate blotted
entry. I wondered for a moment whether
Mr. Bulkley had betrayed me, after all ; but
no,  Mr. Peele spoke in his measured tones,
and said that he had felt it his duty to request
Mr. Bulkley' s personal attendance in
investigating a certain matter. The fact was,
the rigid old party had observed my confusion
yesterday, turned it over afterwards in his
mind, and later, examining the entry, and
comparing it with my former figures, concluded
that something was wrong. He talked
for some time, in most correct language ; but
this, so far as I made out, was the pith : followed

by a direct inquiry of Mr. Bulkley as
to the exact sum paid by him into my hands.
Mr. Bulkley, that fine old English gentleman,
who never in his life told a lie, I am very
sure,  hummed and hawed for a second :
during which I saw, by Mr. Peele's face, that
his suspicions were more than confirmed : 
and then began to say something about * all
right '  but I stopped him by making a clean
breast of it, and telling Mr. Peele the whole
truth. I felt desperate, as if I hardly cared
whether or no I were exposed before the
whole town : till suddenly I remembered my
mother ; that thought kept me from defying
him, in words at least. Then went on a
discussion, stormy at times, between him and
Mr. Bulkley. I listened as if it concerned
any one else ; my brain seemed numbed,
somehow. Mr. Peele wanted to dismiss and
disgrace me ; he almost urged Mr. Bulkley
to prosecute. As to the dismissal, if Mr.
Bulkley were not so important a shareholder
by far the largest in the bank, fortunately
for me  I could see that Mr. Peele would not
have listened to him for one moment. As it
was, he heard against the grain, and soon the
truth came out  the truth I have long suspected.
He said that he had disliked from

the first, my admission into the bank ; that
young men of antecedents such as mine, were
invariably idle and dissipated, that, knowing
this, he had always mistrusted me, and feared
the worst ; and, though I could not be accused
of any neglect of business, he could see that
application was a struggle to me, only maintained
by a sense of its pressing necessity.
Here Mr. Bulkley broke in, and said  ' Well
now, Peele, I should have thought that a
feather in his cap ! if the boy does his best
in spite of difficulties, why reproach him ?'
I was very near making a fool of myself at
those kind words ; and to break down before
old Peele would have been too terrible ! It
was a relief when he froze me up again, with
his rigid voice : ordering me out of the room
while he and Mr. Bulkley discussed the matter.
I wonder how high a fellow's blood can boil
without anything coming of it ? I never
knew, in Copeland days, what it was possible
to go through. Only for my mother, I would
not one instant have remained dependent on
that fellow. But there would be nothing, to
buy her bread even, if I were out of work.

It was almost an hour before they sent
for me again. Then I found that old Peele
had been forced to yield : and that Mr. Bulk-ley

lead not only induced him to keep me on
in the bank, but had drawn from him a promise
not to disgrace me by publishing ray
offence. ' Indeed,' says Peele, ' I have no
need to promise that : the credit of the bank
is too precious to me.' It was a bitter pill
to him to keep me, I could see,  and no
wonder, perhaps : he cannot see into my
mind, or know how sorely I repent. He
loaded me with warnings and exhortations,
finally saying that, such faint trust as he had
in me, being now entirely gone, his vigilance
over me henceforth would be incessant and
minute : therefore, for my own sake, I should
do well to avoid any further transgression.
You mustn't be too hard upon him, Peele,'
said old Bulkley : * The poor boy has had
many trials.' I tried to thank Mr. Bulkley,
but I made a sad mess of it ; I wished I could
have knelt down, and kissed his great kind
hand. Mr. Peele, too, I had to thank ; that
was easier. I said to him  ' Mr. Peele, if it
were not for my mother, nothing should induce
me to annoy you by my presence in the
bank. But I give you my word of honour
that you shall never have cause to doubt mein
any way again.' When I spoke of my
honour, he smiled:  so low have I sunk !

VOL. III. Q

'' Aug. 29tli.  If mj mother were not here,
I would not trouble, but go comfortably onto
the dogs. It would be a jollier life than
my present one. No news of the legacy, and
my character gone  at best, kept only by
sufferance of old Peele and Jessie.  Yes, I
would soon be off! and give myself full
swing."

CHAPTER XVII

With fiercer heat than flamed above my head
My heart was hot within me ; till at last
My brain was lightened when my tongue had said 
Christ is not risen !
Christ is not risen, no 
He lies and moulder low ;
Christ is not risen."

Arthur H. C lough.

Journal continued.

'' Sept. 3rd.  I am keeping straight only
by iron efforts. Continually an impulse
comes on me to get dead drunk, and forget
my own existence ; or to throw up my post,
and enlist; or to break out in some other
way, and astonish all the solemn faces which
look at me as if I were the most inky-hued
of sheep. I feel half mad at times ; I think
it is indeed a kind of madness,  but one look
at my mother, or one thought of her, quiets
me in a moment. She is certainly thinner ;
and that flush, so unnatural to her lily-like
complexion, comes every day. I watch the
post and the papers, with anxiety which half
Q 2

sickens me :  but no news. Surely the inventors
of our law were made of iron ! the
delays are endless. I still pray constantly
to God; and the sermons tell us that God
appears to discourage us sometimes, when
He is merely waiting for the right moment.
If this be true, He may have help in store
for us, and I may yet see my mother welland
strong, and begin perhaps a new life
in a new place, the troubles here forgotten.

Sept. 11th.  Mr. Peele's bad opinion of
me seems invincible. I try to be attentive
and industrious,  a model of angelic submission
I feel myself, sometimes !  but nothing
makes any impression upon that adamantine
prejudice. The whole town bows down before
the Peele family ; they are standards of
excellence. They are considered also great
aristocrats, and their society is courted by
all the tuft-hunters of Bullingham. Wherefore,
I know not : for the other day, from a
chance allusion, I discovered that they themselves
regard ' county families ' as stars of
superior magnitude  and feel honoured by
the possession of ' a bowing acquaintance '
with one or two. Yet they evidently look
down upon my mother and me, on account
of our small way of living. My mother, the

queen of her own county ! But what rot it
all is, after all !

'' Sept. Isti. That fine Richard, the swell
A 1 of Bullingham, is hardly so perfect as
Mr. Peele supposes. I, who am such a black
sheep, would have scorned to deceive my
father as he deceives his. I felt sorry today,
even for rigid old Peele, when I saw how
admiringly he looked at the fellow, and heard
him say to a friend something which showed
what a son to be proud of he thought him.
That handsome girl too, who is her father in
petticoats, and chooses to eye me with an
imitation of his scandalized propriety,  she
simply adores her brother. She has been at
home for a few days, from her school, to celebrate
his birthday ; I saw her walking about
with him everywhere, holding his arm, with
the air of a devotee. I fancy, if I had an
innocent girl clinging to ray arm, and thinking
all that of me, I would try to be a little
more deserving of her ! I don't know, though
perhaps I shouldn't. It is easy enough
to be deceived in one's self.

*' Sept. 15th.  I feel like the man in the
iron cage. The weather is so glorious, but
I am shut up nearly all day, and cannot enjoy
it. Old Brush whines and cries every morning

when I leave him, and never learns that
there is no help for it ; he always expects to
be taken out, and is always disappointed. In
the evening we have a run ; but I don't like
to be long away from my mother. She is so
much alone all day, and she grows worse 
her weakness frightens me. Still I have not
given up hope. The lawsuit comes on in a
day or two ; I think we are sure to win. If
I could keep my mind from dwelling on home,
I should be less discontented : but I cannot.
It will come,  in dreams at night even more
than by day. The wide changeful sky that
stretched so gloriously over the land,  that
view which I saw with fresh joy whenever I
went back,  the woods  they must be beginning
to tint, and the shooting is in full force.
Yes, and cub-hunting has begun by this time.
How melancholy the old house must look,
though  all gutted and forsaken. How
strange it is to think of a world gone by
and dead, as if it had never been ! A world
to me and my mother : -nothing to any one
here.

Sept. 17th.  If I were at home now, I
would be out from morning to night. Oh,
for one long day at home ! But if my mother
could have some country drives in a comfortable

carriage, I should not care about myself.
People tell her how well she looks, and say
she should go out more, &c. I can fancy
how these Bullingham ladies, who seem in
perpetual motion, always in and out of each
other's houses, or their own kitchens, or the
shops, or the market,  how their gossiping
tongues clack about my mother ! They think
her an indolent fine lady, I can see, and her
weakness half nerve and fancy. Well, fortunately
their thoughts make no difference to
her ! for the rest I only wish they were right.
But that flush and brightness, which they
take for health,  I dare not think what is
their true meaning !

'' Sept. 30th. It is all over. The judgment
was in to-day's paper. The codicil is
pronounced null and void.

'oct. Ist.The 100 was all a myth.
No hope, no help, for my mother. There
must be a curse upon us.

Oct. 3rd.  I shall have to stand by and
see her die, as a pauper dies, for want of
skill. I dare not look forward, lest I should
grow desperate  and then what would become
of her ? Mother  mother !

Oct. 6th.  For days I had given up
prayer ; but my mother's agony drives me toit

again. If no other help come, at least a
merciful God cannot deny some ease to her
sufferings. The pain is in His Hands  He
can still it.

' Oct. 9th.  It is terrible to watch intense
pain, and be powerless to relieve it. When
one of these paroxysms of anguish comes on,
it will have its way  its omnipotent, raging
way. When at last it wears itself out, she
is so exhausted that her life seems nearly
gone. I stint in every possible manner to
get her wine, brandy, beef tea, jelly, &c. 
and those preserve her strength in some
measure  at least wind her up for the next
turn on the rack. I wish I could manage
altogether without meat ; but I find I cannot
: and it would never do for me to strike
work.

'' Oct. 12th. The Bulkleys left England
yesterday for the winter. One feels rather
forlorn, to have no friend within reach. But
I breathe more freely when I think of a
thousand miles between me and Jessie.

'' Oct. 20th.  Browning told me, as gently
as possible, that I must try to give up hope.

Even H could not save her now. It is

only a question of time.  I cannot realize
it. She is easier, too, to day.

'' Oct. 22nd.- What will it be in this world,
when my mother is in another? My one
friend gone. Gone into that impenetrable
silence which swallowed up my father. I
was spoiled, I may say idolized, for twenty-two
years.  Fate is making up for it now.

Oct. 30th.  If I saw even a worm in
torture, I would rescue it. And here is nota
worm, but a human being, a human organization
of body and mind, finely strung,
with infinite capacities for suffering  capacities
intensified by the habits of the position
in which it was born,  here is this being
racked and torn with anguish, and its Creator
Who alone can help it  seems deaf and
blind to all. God forgive me if I speak
irreverently !  but oh, why is it ?  why,
why, why ? I pray continually. How easy
it would be to Him to send relief! Some
say that pain is sent to purify the soul. But
if God be Omnipotent, why should He choose
so fearful a method of purify mg ? If He be
merciful, as they say, how can He look unmoved
upon such torture of a tender woman ?
If I could suffer it instead, that would be
another matter. Or even if I did not pray ;
but I do. Oh, that sky  so blue, so silent,
so cold !

Nov. 4th.  Snow in the air, and my
mother feels it sadly. These rooms are now
as draughty as they were close in the summer.
A kind note from Lady Thorne, inviting
her there. But she could not travel ;
she can scarcely cross the room now, without
pain.

Nov. 7th. To-day, as I sat by her, she
asked me to fetch her Bible. She said that
she must find out something of the world to
which she was going. I could scarcely get
into the passage before I burst out crying
like a baby. Sometimes, womanish as it is,
I catch myself wishing that I were indeed
a babe once more, and could cry it all out on
her breast.

'' Nov. 15th.  Every day the sun rises and
sets ; and the stars come out at night : otherwise
I should sometimes think that God had
forgotten the world. Yet what egotism to
think the world forgotten, because one's own
small centre-point is ruffled ! An atom more
or less, what is it ? Yet each of those atoms
can suffer ; and some of them suffer doubly,
a thousandfold, in seeing each other suffer.
Are we atoms to God ? doesn't He care, as
His great purposes sweep on their way ? 
His purposes shall ripen fast, unfolding

every hour.' I can hear our old Copeland
voices piping that out now, in the old church !
Ah, those words were nothing to me, then.
Now, as I think of them, a stern, relentless
power rises, high and calm, doing His own
Will, at all hazards to poor humanity. Yet
is not humanity the work of His Hand ? I
will pray still : though every day it is harder.

Nov. 22nd.  A sky of gray ink,  all the
ugly houses rising like glum ghosts in their
rows  sludge in the streets  a few sad-coloured
leaves forlorn on the long-armed
trees. This without : and within, my mother,
day after day, night after night, in pain.
Poor old Brush is gloomy like the rest. I
work on like a coffee-mill, to grind the family
food.

*' Christmas Day. I went to church in
saintly fashion, to please my mother. What
mockery it all seemed ! The church dressed
up with holly and ivy  the Bullingham
families, sleeker than ever, in attendance 
boys and girls come home from school, allas
pleased as Punch. One young fellow
reminded me of myself,  old Browning's son,
on leave from his regiment. He looked as I
felt, the Christmas before last  as if care
were a popular delusion. The organ pealed,

the hymns and chants were all praise : it
was more than I could stand. I slipped out
before the sermon, in spite of old Churchwarden
Peele glancing daggers from his seat
near the door. I should have made a fool
of myself, if I had stayed ; that cursed desk-work
must unhinge my nerves. The sky
was wonderfully blue  crystal gems of frost
on the trees. I don't know where I went, 
but away from Bullingham ; and I saw
Copelandss all the time  and our old church
bright with holly-berries  and the people
curtseying and pulling their forelocks, as we
came out at the door, and wishing us a
merry Christmas,  and the pool prime for
skating,  and my father and mother looking
on, while I opened their Christmas presents.
I seemed to be walking in a dream ; when I
went back, my mother from her sofa smiled,
and beckoned me to kiss her, and gave me a
little packet  a curious seal which she had
hunted up from old treasures. She was free
from pain, then, and almost happy ; but my
brain and heart felt frozen like the earth.
Next Christmas, where will that white face
be, which smiled at me from the sofa ?

'' Jan. 25th.  What a month has gone by!
How much longer can this misery last ? I

have prayed till I could pray no more : but
never any pity.

Feb. 2nd.  A dreadful night ; and today
I cannot leave her. She is hardly herself
at times  but she always knows me ; and it
soothes her to hold my hand. If it were
not selfish, I would to God that I could keep
her even as she is now. But I am shipwrecked
 and my one plank is floating from
under me.

'' Feb. 5th.  Pain  pain  pain. Oh,
mother, would that I could bear it for you !
Or if I could ease you by fifty years of penal
servitude, I would gladly give them. But
there will be no rest for you till you are in
your grave, mother, my cherished mother !

'' Feb. 7th.  She is sinking ; and it is
almost peace, after all that she has suffered.
Peace at least for her : her pain is gone.
Her life is ebbing gently. Oh, that I could go
with her !

"Feb. 8th.  There was a star, one large
bright star, glowing and paling, in a calm
winter sky. She saw it from her bed, where
she lay propped up with pillows  and pointed
to it as she held my hand, and smiled faintly.
Still watching it, her eyes closed, and she
seemed to sleep. The last time, oh, my

mother, that I should see those eyes which
loved me so well. Who will ever love meas
she did ? I sat on by her, watching that
cold bright star, as she had watched it, a
lump like a stone in my breast. I was glad
that she should sleep after her pain : I never
dreamed that it was death. But the star
seemed to smile and mock me. Perhaps it
did : who knows ? There is no mockery like
that mocking sky. I looked at her to see
if she were waking, and found that her
breathing had ceased. I put my hand upon
her heart ; it was beating no more. My
other hand was still clasped in hers  I drew
it away, but she made no movement, as
before, to take it back. No  she was gone.
She is sleeping there still, a sheet over her
face.

Feb. 13th.  They laid her in her grave
to-day. The sleet pattered on the coffin.
Some one behind me whispered, ' Poor
young fellow ! " I did not wonder when I
came home, and, standing over the fire,
caught sight in the dull mirror, of a dark
thin young chap, and found he was myself.
My mother's sofa was there  her work-basket
and scent-bottle lying beside it on the table.

The sleet still beat against the windows ;
but all beside was silent. As I looked
drearily round the room, old Brush sidled
from under the table-cover, and looked up at
me and whined.

' Feb. IGth.  Come back to me, come
back to me, my mother. Oh, where are
you, mother, my beloved ? Through all our
troubles hitherto, at least we were together.
But now blackness of darkness lies between
us  a gulf I cannot fathom. Mother 
mother  my heart aches  my life is a pain.
I am afraid to sleep, because when I wake it
comes with such startling force upon me.
And the world goes on, the dreary Bulling-ham
world,  and I have to go out into it 
and when I come back, there is the empty
sofa, and the whole silent room.

*' Feb. 21st.  An unexpected letter from
Jem Waters. He has come into the title 
his brother died last Christmas in a fit,  I
was too miserably taken up, to notice it.
Jem insists on paying the legacies cut off by
his brother's meanness : he says he knows,
whether his mother's mind were infirm or no,
that such were her intentions  and especially
as regarded ourselves. Indeed, hearing of
our misfortunes, she had begged just at last

to add another hundred, which he encloses.
So here I have it in my hand,  a cheque for
200. It is good and honourable of old
Jem. But oh, when I think of the past !
What would this money have been to me,
five months ago ? Oh, I must go out I must
get away  the thought maddens me.

"Feb. 22nd.  I sat up till two o'clock,
revolving my plans. My mind is made up.
I will go abroad, and live on this 200 till it
is gone,  then find some other work. At
the worst, I can enlist  though I haven't
heart for it, yet. Here I am alone among
strangers  some, downright enemies, or as
bad. How can I be anything but a black
sheep while old Peele and his cronies look
at me day after day in this way ? I will go, 
and get quit of them all.

"March 12th.  Fortunately Mr. Peele hasa
friend whose son is ready to step into my
place : so I shall be free in a fortnight. He
informs me that I need not apply to him fora
character  or whatever they are pleased to
call it. He says he cannot forget what,
against his better judgment, he consented,
for Mr. Bulkley's sake, to condone. I
managed my tongue, and that was all : at
the moment he looked old and tired, or I

believe I might have knocked him down.
Afterwards I went away out of the town,
and ran for a mile without stopping, and even
so could hardly work off my rage. Then I
lay on her grave for an hour in the dark,
thinking of her, and father, and home.

"March 26th. The Bulkleys have come
back. I went to day to wish him good-bye ;
he is 'a fine old English gentleman, all of
the olden time.' Yes, I would die for him,
if that would do him any good. As I left
the house, I saw Jessie looking from an
upper window. I stalked on, without noticing
her. Oh, that T could forget her existence !

March 27th. I left a wreath of lilies,
my mother's favourite flower, on her grave.
Daisies are springing up in the grass ; the
marble cross is finished, and in its place. It
seemed so strange to think that she was lying
close by me, and could not hear my voice
when I bade her good-bye, or know that I
was going ! This 200, come too late, might
have saved her. I never forget that thought,
night nor day.

"April 18th.  I have found a quiet room
in a Swiss valley, with a clean woman, who
asks no questions, and lets me live as I like.
I live roughly enough  eking out my money.

VOL. III. R

Every day, for hours and hours, I sit alone
on the mountain side, and think. My ideas
they have all been shaken up and confused
I am trying to collect them. What am I ?
What is my future life to be ? Where are
my father and my mother ? What became
of those fruitless prayers in which all my
strength went out ?

ic April 25th.  I never knew in old days
that the soul was capable of such anguish.
I have paroxysms of it sometimes, like my
mother's physical paroxysms. I wake in the
night, and all is still, and the great mountains
rise around me :  my heart cries,
Mother  mother '  and then suddenly, all
fresh again comes the sense that she is not.
Last night I could not bear it  I felt overwhelmed
 I could hardly help crying aloud,
like a hysterical girl. I opened my window,
and jumped out,  it is only a few feet to the
ground : then I went away alone to the
mountain. There was a sound of waters
falling down the gorges : no other. The
stars shone in full glory, but no moon. Just
below, in the shadow, lay the little burial-ground
of the hamlet, its wooden crosses
standing up like spectres of the night. What
stories of sickness, death, parting, cluster

round those crosses ! If they could speak,
and tell each its own tale ! This world, this
awful world, seems formed to be a plaything
for some malignant spirit, who creates for
the pleasure of torturing : just as I have seen
bullying fellows of old school-days. There's
such a sarcasm in it all  a grim making game
of human creatures, and all they love best.
Yesterday I heard some men talking about
an avalanche last winter  how it came down
in the night, on the other side of the mountain,
and swept a whole village away. And
yet in the same breath these unthinking peasants
speak of ' le bon Dieu ! ' But I am
fast, from all I feel and see, coming to the
conclusion that our Creator, be He whom
He may, has never verbally revealed Himself
to man : that our common beliefs are only a
new form of the old heathen mythologies 
that the God our theologians describe so
glibly, is a grand Myth :  perhaps suggested
by that very spirit who is allowed such sway,
to the minds he revels in deluding.

May 4th.  There was a storm to-day,
and I was out in it, among the mountains,
watching the lightning play, and hearing the
thunder. I should not much have cared if
one of the great flashes had struck me,  1
E 2

feel too desperate to care, either way. It was
grand : the sudden flame lighted up all the
snowy peaks, and was gone : and then the
thunder rolled from height to height. It
spoke  to me  of something terrible in
Nature, something relentless. What are we,
against that Omnipotence ? Puny specks,
with heads and hearts infinitely too great for
us, busy about our little schemes, hoping,
planning, praying. And there above us, it
moves on its way  awful, unchangeable : like
the avalanche, which regards not the bereaved
 or the thunderstorm, which has no
mercy for frightened women. We cling to
one another ; but that Power sweeps along 
and we are torn asunder  one left, the other
vanished. We may defy Fate, but it only
mocks us, and makes it ridiculous to ourselves
and others. The only way to endure
life is to care for nothing : but then, is that
possible ? There is the question ! Oh, this
mysterious instrument of torture, the human
heart !

'' May 6th.

Ah, Christ, that it were possible

For one short hour to see
The souls we loved, that they might tell us
What and where they be !'

Sometimes it seems to me that if there were
pity in that Power unknown, this aching desire
for my mother could not remain unsatisfied.
Oh, it is more than desire,  it is
sehnsucht '  it is anguish. She would speak
to me if she could ; if she could escape, she
would come to me. ' Ah, Christ ! ' those
words begin. Without doubt Christ existed,
but what was He ? Only a man : otherwise
He would help. The story of Hi life is so
beautiful,  He was so kind, so pitiful, so
gracious ! Yes, if this world were in His
Hands, as some pretend, help would soon
come. He was a wonderful Man  but impotent
like the rest. He suffered. He strove, 
but He too was swept away in the storm.
Only His Nature was so exquisite  so full of
fortitude, yet of sweetness  so deeply reverential
to the Being in Whom He trusted, 
that He did not rebel, as I do. I am not
holy, like Him ; but weak and passionate : 
only a little like Him in suffering. He believed,
and converted others to His Belief :
but what came of it ? He could not really
have risen again; He cannot be indeed at
God's Right Hand : or He would contrive
help, some way or another. No, it was a
dream  a delusion,  brought about by some

means now too long past to penetrate. Oh,
that it had been true 1 that He were alive
indeed, and had seen my mother suffer ! I
should not now be what I am.

May 20th. I see strange things in my
wanderings. In the lower forms of Nature,
endless means and diversities of suffering;
the creatures prey upon each other, as men
do, but without men's restraints : the strong
devour the weak ; the weak lead lives of
terror, and die daily a hundred deaths. A
mask of beauty covers all : to those who do
not think, how lovely the world is ! It was
lovely once to me, and seemed all that I
desired. But even the little flowers are
trampled down and overshadowed by stronger
forms of vegetation. Mioht makes rio;ht in
this universe ; lives rise and fall in proportion
to their inherent power of fighting. Caprice
and disorder are everywhere. I am sick of
it all : yet I believe that this gloomy mood
would melt like a dream, if only I could find
myself at Copelandss, with my mother, strong
and well, in her old place.

"October.  B in Italy.  I have made

up my mind. I will face my life like a man,
expect the worst, and harden myself. I

have learned bitter lessons ; I must take
care to profit by them. I put my faith in
prayer ; and it disappointed me. I believed
in that girl, Jessie ; and she has turned out
all but a fiend. I, for my part, should be a
fool, if I allowed myself to trust in anything
any more. If I can crush out all heart, I
shall manage pretty well. A new means to
make an honest penny has turned up. I
have got lately into the habit of scribbling ;
and a month ago, as my money began to
dwindle, I worked up one or two sketches of
queer scenes observed in my travels, and

sent them to the editor of the . To-day

comes a cheque, and a polite note requesting
more. I see plenty now which I can turn
in this way to account ; and it is jolly  if
anything could ever be jolly again  to be
roaming about by myself, as the spirit moves
me. Not one of my old cronies knows where
I am ; the Peeles are no longer scandalized
by sight or sound of me.

Dec  Saw in the distance Miss Bulkley,
fat as ever, driving with a friend. No doubt
they are wintering abroad again ; probably
that serpent is with them ; also in these
parts I may meet other friends, at this
season, if I stay. I will accept that travelling

correspondency, and be off at once to
America.

"Feb. 8th.  (Fourteen months afterwards.)
England once more. I am sick of travelling.
I must settle somewhere, if only in a
hole. To-morrow I go by the first train to
try for this berth at Alton. I thought my
heart was almost stamped out ; but here in
its native soil it torments me as of old.
Last night, the second anniversary of my
mother's death, I stood beside her grave.
It was late, but the moon had not risen ; I
pulled my hat over my eyes, and muffled my
chin in a comforter  and no one recognized

me ; I walked eight miles from W , and

went straight to that quiet cemetery. The
marble cross had lost its newness ; the grass
was green and thick. How still it was ! the
old longing rose and cried ; the old silence
struck with the same chill. Is she dust by
this time, I wonder ? is nothing left of the
mother whom I loved ? The star which I
remembered was there, looking just as two
years ago. All came back to me in a flash,
as though it had only just happened; my
travels seemed like a dream. I stood therefor
a long time  I don't know how long, 

all the rest of the world was to me unutterably
forlorn ; my one broken fragment of
home was under my feet. I had to go at
last ; as I turned away, another white stone
stared me in the face ; I caught the name of
Peele,  paused and read two names :  old
Peele's and Richard's. Both dead and gone,
like my mother ! Mr. Peele in March of last
year, eleven months ago ; Eichard, two
months before him. I feel still like a man
in a nightmare."

CHAPTER Xvii.

'Twill end, girl, end ; no cloud across the sun
But passes at the last, and gives us back
The face of God once more."

Charles Kingsley.

The record ended abruptly as it began ; and
Marjory was free to meditate. She turned
the leaves of the little book over and over,
noting once more the hurried and blotted
entries, telling their own tale of tumult in
the mind from, which they came. She longed
to be a child again, that she might run to
him and tell him  many things ; her heart
was throbbing with a strange medley of fear,
of hope, of sympathy that was almost pain.
It was long since any one had been near her ;
but she did not feel lonely ; she did not even
observe how time was going. When at
length a knock came at the door, she heard
it as in a dream.

"Miss Stanhope, my dear, are you
awake?" said Bellhouse, softly. In her
arms was a child, a beautiful boy of five
years old or upwards. As Marjory gazed at

him, the eyes that looked back appeared to
blend with her dream. They were hazel eyes
Jessie's eyes  the same which had gazed
down on her that first evening, as she lay in
this very bed ; which had sparkled so brightly
while the foolish young tongue ran on about
Lady Burleigh. Fair eyes ; of which  and
their visions  these their counterpart were
all that remained.

Here, too, was the chestnut hair, admired
by little Marjory ; rippling across the childish
forehead in waves like those which Jessie
had exultingly noted, when she numbered
her attractions in the glass. The whole face
was an infantine copy of Jessie's, differing
only in expression  which was simple, open,
innocent, as befitted its age. Withal, it had
a look of another face  a likeness which
Marjory saw vaguely, but could not decipher.

'' Here he is, ma'am," said Bellhouse,
looking from the child to Marjory, and then
at the child again, with a mixture of sorrow,
yet of pride : *' And it's wonderful, and what
I call a mercy from the Almighty, to see
how he takes to his old grandmother ! "

As she spoke, she kissed him fondly,
while he, enthroned in her arms, passed a
chubby hand around her neck, and rested

his chestnut head against her, still staring
with wide-open eyes at Marjory.

"The longest thing that ever was ! He
had his tea so comfortable ! sitting on my
lap : the jam won his heart straight off.
That good woman, Mrs. Jelly, she must have
talked to him, and incensed him, and now
he don't look on me like a stranger. Oh,
Miss Stanhope, my dear, it's past belief!
the years seem to have gone back ; and here
am I with my Jessie a child again ! Only
he's in a way more loving than Jessie ever
was, even as a little one."

She looked at him again, and hugged him
again ; and then the tears gushed forth ; but
amid her tears she smiled. Healing had
fallen at last upon this tried and widowed
heart ; even earthly healing, come in the
course of nature, in God's good time.

"I've been so grieved. Miss Stanhope, my
dear, to leave you for so long ! but I thought
it would be best to keep away for a bit after
seeing Mr. Hugh. I didn't know what to
believe, and what not ; and I felt flustered
alike ; afraid of turning your mind the wrong
way, be it the one way or the other. So I
just shut myself up alone, and prayed to the
Almighty."

Bellbouse," said Marjory, earnestly, " I
am quite certain that Mr. Vivian is utterly
innocent. I have had a note from him, and
something else which explains  I'll tell you
all I can, tomorrow."

Well, my dear, well ! I trust it may be
so ; I do trust it  and I do wish it ;  that
he knows. He'll be coming back just now,
to see Mrs. Jelly ; and it seems to me,
ma'am, that one look at this darling must
melt his heart, and make him tell the truth,
if he hasn't told it already. I can't think as
any mortal could resist him ! "

How long has Mrs. Jelly been here ? "

About an hour, ma'am. I would have
sent you word, but I was so taken up. She
is all agog to see Mr. Hugh ; and waiting for
him now by my fire ; and I've got my poor
Jessie's little crib all ready for the darling."

'' Bellhouse, you will be sure to come
afterwards, and tell me what has happened ?
And will you give Mr. Vivian this from me ?"

She had torn a scrap of paper from his
own envelope, and in pencil had hastily
scribbled on it these words : 

I believe in you utterly. M. S."

She twisted it into a tiny billet, and pressed
it upon Bellhouse.

Very well, ma'am," said the good old
nurse, after a slight hesitation ; *' I will give
it  I know you would do nothing but what
is right."

Marjory thanked her, kissed the pretty
boy, and was soon once more in solitude.

'' He shall bring forth thy righteousness
as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday."
Those words floated continually
before her, bringing, at least in some degree,
confidence and peace. Surely the deep waters
would not always overwhelm that spirit,
shown by its own confessions to be in reality
so good and true, capable of such depth of
devotion,  so noble, however faulty. Now,
when she had cause to hope that his lost
faith was reviving, he would surely not be
suffered to sink a second time ! help would
arise  proof would be found of his innocence.

Another hour, almost two hours, had gone
by, before Bellhouse's step was heard again
in the passage. As the door softly opened,
Marjory started up in her bed.

Well, Miss Stanhope, my dear ; it is all
right. Everything is explained ; and Mr.
Hugh is as innocent as you are."

Thank God ! " cried the girl, sinking
back. Until this moment she had not known

low heavy was the weight on her mind.
The relief, proportionately great, now almost
overwhelmed her. She could ask no questions ;
she could only gaze at Bellhouse, waiting to
hear her story.

I can't bear to excite you, my dear, at
this time of night," said Bellhouse, anxiously ;
but I know you would not sleep if I did
not tell you ; so I must make it as short as
I can. Well, ma'am, Mr. Hugh came in ;
and first of all, I gave him your scrap of
paper ; and whatever you wrote on it,
ma'am, I can't say, but the moment he read
it, his face changed, and he looked somehow
as if it was nothing to him any more, what
any of us thought of him. That gave me
my first hope ; and then, when he set his
eyes on the child, I felt that I could not
believe him guilty. It was the way he looked
at the darling,  not struck, or moved in his
conscience  only a bit curious, and surprised
to see such a likeness of my Jessie. Oh, my
dear ! if he had done as we feared, not the
being his child alone, but the living picture
of its mother as it is  that must have cut
him to the heart ! But after the first glance,
he took no more notice ; and then he and
Mrs. Jelly began to talk ; and when I came

back, after taking the little one to his bed,
there they were with a tin box before them,
and Mr. Hugh just about to open it.

* Bellhouse,' he says, ' Mrs. Jelly has
delivered this box to me, in my character as
your daughter's husband. If I be her husband,
I have a right to open the box, which,
as she told Mrs. Jelly, is full of his private
papers.'

I had not known of this, my dear ; for
you'll remember it's not spoken of in Miss
Peele's letter ; but Mrs. Jelly nodded to me
that all was right ; and I could see a look in
her face as if she was sorely puzzled, and
half believed in him herself, though she
could not tell how the mistake arose."

"Yes!" said Marjory, listening breathlessly.


Then, ma'am, he opened the box. It
was hard work ; for the lock is not a common
one  and the key was rusty, through
lying unused. But at last, open it came :
Mrs. Jelly and me standing by. And there,
my dear, at the very top lay a blotting-book
belonging to Mrs. Jelly, which she knew ina
minute, and had missed since the day before
my poor Jessie died, when it was lying on
Jessie's table. She had hunted high and

low, and never could think what became of
it ; but now it seemed plain that Jessie had
opened the box, while she was writing on
that last evening, and in her hurry, when she
was taken faint, locked up the book in a
mistake."

'' Then she might have locked up some of
her own letters ? "

'' So Mr. Hugh said ; and Mrs. Jelly and
me, we saw it directly. The faintness came
on all of a sudden, and no doubt she locked
the box, for fear her husband's secrets should
be spied. Well, inside the book, was half-a-dozen
sheets of writing paper ; and among
them, ma'am, a letter  looking just like the
one which came directed to Mr. Hugh. It
was the same coloured foreign paper, and
all : only the envelope was one size smaller.
Mr. Hugh  he turned it over, and we saw
the address  ' To my husband.'

Mrs. Jelly and me, we looked at one
another ; and Mrs. Jelly said  ' Please,
sir, to open it.'  He did so ; and there
came out the mystery ! The letter inside
was to Mr. Hugh in his own name. The
date was from Mrs. Jelly's lodgings, the
same as the other ; and then followed the
beginning :  ' Mr. Hugh,  I beg you to

VOL. III. s

excuse the liberty I take in writing to you
all proper, and as it should be. It seems,
ma'am, that in times past, Mr. Hugh had
known her husband ; and she thought that
he might find a way of getting his right
address : you see, Mr. Hugh and she  they
played together as children, and she had
known him all her life, and knew his kindness.
It appears that she had somehow
offended him while she was at Eipley ; for
first of all in the letter, she begs his pardon,
and humbles herself in a way which  oh, my
dear ! I was thankful to the heart's core to
find. And yet, ma'am, it cuts me too to
think how that proud spirit must have been
lowered ; but the Almighty knew best. My
prayer that she might have a humble heart 
Yes, He took His own way to form it in
her ! "

She paused, her voice carried away by
the tears which flowed afresh, as she realized
in some degree, the extent of her Jessie's
sufferings. But the momentary agitation
past, she continued with her usual calmness.

Well, ma'am, after the apologies, she
gives particulars about her marriage and her
husband, and begs of Mr. Hugh to bring or
send him to her at Dover. She says that

the boy's second name  the name by which
she intends him to be known  is Copelandss :
chosen partly as atonement for her offence
whatever that might be,  and partly to
remind Mr. Hugh of the past : thinking that
if ever he were rich again, as, some day, she
said, might happen,  and if she died,  he
would be a friend to the poor baby, called
after his old home. Then she goes on to
mention that she encloses a letter for her
husband ; which, if it cannot be delivered to
him, she begs returned. No doubt, ma'am,
that was the letter found in the box. I told
you, if you remember, that the envelope was
a smaller size  just fit to enclose in the
other."

'rand she had put each letter in the
other's envelope ! "

There can be no question, ma'am, but
that was it: especially as in her letter to
Mr. Hugh, she says her husband's name :
quite a different person altogether from Mr.
Hugh himself,  and one. Miss Stanhope, my
dear, that we had best forget ; for he is gone
to his judge : he died, ma'am, long ago."

'then Mr. Vivian's innocence is proved
beyond any possibility of doubt ? "

"Certainly, ma'am: and if more proofs
2

was wanted, which it isn't, there is the box.
The rest of the box is filled with papers, as
my poor Jessie said  all in that name as she
told Mr. Hugh : letters from all manner of
people, bills unpaid, memorandums, and the
like. I saw enough of them to find that the
most were far from to his credit, and that
there was little wonder my poor girl wished
to hide them. A pretty state, I doubt not,
he was in, when he found he had left that
box behind him !  but may be he never
remembered where  and the Almighty took
safe care of it. The Almighty knew, Miss
Stanhope, my dear, that it would come in
useful at the last. Poor dear Mr. Hugh ! I
could willingly have begged his pardon on
my knees : and Mrs. Jelly, she downright
cried."

Oh, I am so glad ! I am so glad ! " Marjory
could not help repeating, again and
again, like a child. Her heart was brimming
over with thankfulness, relief, a thousand
nameless feelings. The vague fear which for
so long had troubled her, had melted into
nothing. He was clear, not in her eyes only,
but in the eyes of all the world. Neither
Lina, nor any other, could cast in this matter
the shadow of a stone at him, any more.

*' There was one thing beside, ma'am, which
I should Hke you to see," said Bellhouse,
after a pause. " I'll just show it to you tonight
; and then I need never trouble you
with this sad business again."

She handed to Marjory a paper partly
covered by poor Jessie's writing,  a faint
and feeble scrawl, too clearly showing the
sickness of her heart.

Oh, mj dear mother," it said '' how I
have wanted you !  and yet I have never
written to you since my trouble, and you do
not know where I am. Mother, when I
married, I believed that I should soon come
to you in silks and jewels, with servants of
my own, and show that my old fancies were
not so foolish as you had thought them. I
often looked forward to that day, when I
should come as a lady to Thorne :  and when
I was left, as you will hear, alone in a far
country, I could not bear that you should
know how low I had fallen. Then he had
taken the marriage register, and I thought,
if I went home, there was no telling what
folks might say  some of them that were so
nasty, when I lived with you. That stuck-up
Davies, and Jane at the Parsonage, and
a many more ; I knew they would all glory


over me. So I have gone on, from day today

and week to week, hoping for my husband
to come back. It was mainly through
jealousy  but a fancy, after all,  that he left
me. He is a real gentleman, mother, of high
birth  and so grand and handsome ! though
he did deceive me by saying his name was
Russell. I never knew his real name till he
was gone, and I looked into a box of his
papers. But never mind, I forgive him ;
and, mother, my troubles are nearly over. I
feel it in my chest, and the doctor says it ;
so I hope you will forget my badness, and
take care of my poor baby when I am gone.
You have been a good mother to me; and
many's the time I've thought of your prayers,
and at last I thought I would pray too.
Yes, mother, I disappointed you in all else ; 
and I did not want your prayers to be disappointed.
So I have gone Where you taught
me, for mercy ; and I think I have found it.
I am easy now in my mind, mother ; and I
believe I am forgiven."

This was all. Whether written merely asa
vent for an overcharged heart, or as the
beginning of a letter to be sent some day, was
not apparent ; but be this as it might, the
words had filled a blank which Bellhouse had

never thought to see filled on earth. And
now at the close of this day of varied emotions,
peace was on her brow ; her eyes,
though swelled with crying, were calm ; her
whole countenance was that of one from
whom a load has passed away. Her erring
child was safe, waiting to welcome her, among
the others who had gone before ; her prayers
of long ago shone back on her, rich in
blessing. And she was alone in the world no
longer ; another child of her own blood had
come to brighten her old age.

Involuntarily, when Marjory gave back the
blotted paper, she clasped her arms around
Bellhouse's neck, as she had done when a
child.

I can never forget your kindness. Miss
Stanhope, my dear," said Bellhouse.

Nor I yours," responded Marjory.

Neither would she ever forget the lesson
which she had learned this night : that, albeit
after many days  days however stormy  it
shall be well at length with them that fear God.

Bellhouse had taken her candle, and was
turning to go, when Marjory called her back.

'' Bellhouse, one question  I was thinking

so much about the others, that 1 forgot

to ask the real husband's name ? "

'' My dear, I kept from mentioning it on
purpose, lest it should put you about. Ita
very sad thing ; and strange : but there'll
be no need, as he's dead and gone, to publish
it."

But pray tell me  or I shall be wondering
all night.

Well, my dear," said Bellhouse, coming
close to the bed  " I'm grieved beyond everything
for the young lady  and she so kind
too ! it will be a heavy blow for all the family.
But the name in my poor Jessie's letter to
Mr. Hugh, and likewise on all the bills and
papers,  that name," said Bellhouse, lowering
her voice  '' was the name of Richard
Peele."

CHAPTER XIX.

Now, by experience taught, . . assured
That God, who takes away, yet takes not half
Of what He seems to take ; or gives it back,
Not to our prayer, butter beyond our prayer."

Wordsworth.

The sun shone brightly after the storm ; the
bitter wind was silent : the blue sky stretched
above the leafless trees. Marjory went downstairs
this morning ; and Mr. Robinson, who
called early, gave permission for her journey
to Rockswold on the following day but one.
She could not have told, if questioned,
whether such permission made her sorry or
glad : she was conscious only of a strange
fondness for the old house, and a sad regret
in thinking that she must leave it, to enter
it perhaps never more. In each solitary room
by turns, occasional fires were lighted ; today
there was a fire in the hall, in the billiard-room,
in the old library ; Marjory wandered
to and fro among them, thinking of days
gone by, peopling the empty places with
forms long smouldered into dust.

Bellhouse and Mrs. Jelly sat together in
the old servants' hall. Mrs. Jelly was to
remain at Thorne a day or two, until the boy
was accustomed to his new surroundings ;
and in his behalf the housekeeper's room
was exchanged for this barer but more
spacious region. The wide uncarpeted floor
formed a splendid playground for the little
one, who raced to and fro, with his wooden
horse and his ball, while the two women,
now one and now the other, looked constantly
from their work to watch and admire. Here
also, as in the day, was calm after storm.
Marjory had looked in upon it, with a glow
of pleasure ; but now, as she roamed about
the silent house, the contrast made it more
lonely.

The sun was shining full through the long
windows of the billiard-room : which, like
those of the drawing-room and dining-room,
opened upon the terrace. Marjory sat in
one of the deep old window-seats, and looked
about her. There was a faintly musty odour
in the room ; the long billiard-table was
covered with holland, under which the net
pockets were turned up. She remembered,
as a child, knocking the balls about, and
watching, with strange fascination, the

polished orbs roll from end to end of the
table. From the opposite wall, old portraits
stared fixedly upon her. There was one of
a dark, belted soldier of the Roses, which
had often chilled her childish blood, as she
met his stern, deep gaze. He was gazing
still, just the same, his hand on the hilt of
his sword ; she felt again a shadow of the
same shrinking :  ghostly presences seemed
all about her, broad daylight though it were.
The step of a living man in the hall, came
with a sense of relief. That quick tread, so
light, yet so strong,  surely she knew it !
He had entered through the glass door in
the drawing-room, and was going towards
Bellhouse's domains when, in passing the
billiard-room, he saw Marjory. He stopped
short, flushing all over his brown face, his
dark eyes suddenly lightened.

Miss Stanhope ! You here ! May I come
in ? " In another moment her hand was held
fast in his familiar clasp : his, for whom she
had so craved and pined during those dreary
months at Alton. Just thus his image had
stood often in her dreams ; now he himself
was here : how kind he looked, she thought
how strong, how full of life ! But a little
while ago, youth and the world had seemed

dead to her : and now here they were reviving,
the old fire was springing up, merely
at the sight of his face, the sound of his
voice, the touch of his hand.

"I thought Ishouldneverbeabletoseeyou,"
he said. " The time has seemed unbearable."

'' Mr. Robinson kept me upstairs, but I
am free now ; and I am going home the day
after tomorrow."

If you don't catch cold meanwhile,
wandering about this old house. How
dreary it all is, isn't it ? at least, it has been
dreary, until now ; but now you bring back
life. It seems only the other day that you
were sitting just here in this same place,
staring at yonder soldier as if you expected
him to come down and devour you."

I was just thinking of it," said Marjory :
'but it doesn't seem 'the other day' tome
; it seems long, long ago. How different
everything is, since then ! The whole world
is changed."

"Don't say that," he said, drawing one
of the old leather-covered chairs near her
window. " Not in that tone. Perhaps the
change is only seeming."

As he paused, she looked up at him, and
met his eyes : fixed upon her with a strange

intensity of gaze. It was as if they had
long been craving for the sight of her,  at
least as much as hers for the sight of him.

''I have to thank you for something,"
said he : '' That little scrap of a note yesterday
evening  I shall keep it for ever and
ever."

It was nothing," said Marjory, blushing
deeply : "I could not help writing it ; I
would have said it instead, if I had seen
you."

'' And that was before the certain proofs
came out ; so I prize it more. Have you
read what I sent you ? "

Every word of it." She took the little
book out of her pocket, as she spoke, and
gave it back to him.

It has not made you despise me ? "

Despise you ! " echoed Marjory. She
was not herself aware with what emphasis
her blue eyes exclaimed against any such
possibility. But he looked as if a weight
had fallen from his mind ; evidently the question
had not been without real foundation.

I was almost afraid you would, when
you knew all. I can tell you I have often
despised myself The bare sound of poor
Jessie's name has been hateful to me ever

since, because it recalled that time  and that
scene with her."

As he spoke, Marjory, remembering all her
imaginations concerning those indications
which had so often shown in him some painful
association with Jessie's name  felt that
she had suddenly a new conception of what
it must be when two spirits parted on earth
by misunderstanding, meet in Paradise face
to face.

'' You were so strongly tempted," she
said : " I don't wonder you yielded for the
moment."

"No temptation can excuse swindling in
an English gentleman. Remember, I was a
swindler for a little while."

It is all over now," said Marjory : " You
must try to forget it."

I don't think I can ever forget it," he
said : " But I am thankful that it has not
disgusted you."

Mr. Vivian, may I ask you one question ?
You said in your note  ' Heaven is no longer
an empty name to me.' Is that true ? "

His whole countenance deepened and
brightened, with a steady brightness ; as
from some inward sunshine lately dawned,
and full of inward cheering.

It is true' lie said reverently : " THank
God it is true." He paused. Then, very
gently

' I owe it all to you."

To me ! " cried Marjory, her blue eyes
widening.

Yes," he answered, looking at her with
something not far from adoration  " If rather
a long story will not tire you, I will explain."

Marjory could have listened to him forever,
without growing tired, she thought ;
although this she did not exactly say. He
stood up, a little nearer to her, leaning
against the window.

'' Miss Stanhope, when you were a little
child, and saw me here years ago, I was a
foolish young fellow, spoiled from babyhood,
with strong passions of every kind, and
thinking, if I thought at all, that I was only
created to gratify them. I had always been
accustomed to my own way ; I was rich, as
I fancied ; at any rate, I had plenty of money.
Somehow I was a favourite in the regiment
as well as at home, and altogether life was
a summer's day to me. I never dreamed
of its becoming anything more  or less."

I remember how bright and sunny you

were."

'' Because I lead my own way ; that was
all. Often since then, I have wondered how
I managed to live so entirely without thought;
but I had never been trained to thought, and
it had not yet been forced upon me  and everyday
brought some enjoyment or excitement
to drive it away. It was at that time, whenas
a matter of course, I thought pretty girls
formed to be flirted with, that I had that
foolish fancy for Jessie. As to love, I kne\"
nothing about that ; I had never felt it, or
anything near it, then."

The unconscious emphasis of his tone
once more raised Marjory's colour. She was
not thinking of herself ; yet involuntarily the
colour came.

'* Religion I took, as I suppose nine out often
young fellows take it, for granted. I
was taught what was considered ' the thing,'
taken to church on Sundays, and the rest.
I supposed it was all very proper, and never
troubled my head further about it. Well,
then, into the midst of my self-indulgent
life, full of luxury, ease, and all that seemed
earthly good, came crashing that thundering
blow, my father's death, and the loss of all
we had. I cannot tell you what it was to
find all that I did find, when I came home at

a minute's notice  my world and everything
I cared for in it, suddenly split up to shivers.
At first I was too utterly stunned to realize
it ; that came by degrees ; every day I
seemed to go down deeper into the gulf."

It must have been terrible."

I was quite unused to judge for myself
in anything of real importance ; my poor
father had made it his business that I should
never have a care. I did not know what todo,
or how to manage. Lawyers came about
me like harpies ; I mistrusted them, and yet
had to ask their advice. Then it seemed tome
hard and cruel that my father should
have been taken so unexpectedly, and when
I was so young before, as I regarded it, I
had got anything to speak of, out of life. I
felt utterly rebellious against fate, against
Providence  I did not call it God. I had todo
my best to be a man all at once, instead
of a petted boy, to take care of my mother,
and hide what I felt from her as much as
possible ; for she was ill, worse every day.
It was an awful time."

'' It must have been, indeed."

Then at last I was launched at Bulling-ham
; and you know what our life was there,
and how I turned to prayer as a last re-vol.

III. T

source. I see now that I prayed in the spirit
in wliicli I had grown up all my life  that of
a spoiled and wilful child, who thinks it unjust
if he cannot have all his own way. I
demanded of God what I desired ; whenas
I thought, no answer came, I stormed
and was angry. You would see from that
old journal how I drifted on, until I had no
faith left."

How sorry I should have been if I had
known ! "

Would you have cared, even then ? Ah,
if I had been with you, young as you were, I
might never have grown so bad ! But of the
religious people whom I did see, most appeared
to teach one thing and practise
another. I believe there is some book
called ' Modern Christianity, a Civilized
Heathenism.' Just so seemed their religion
to me. I had been down into the depths of
reality, and 1 was sickened of humbug evermore.
I thought : ' If those smooth lives
could be broken up like mine, where would
their religion be then ? ' Some saintly persons
were shocked at me, and showed it :
that maddened me the more. I thought how
cold and unsympathetic religion was ! and
how odious it made people. I gave up all

prater ; I tried never to think of the next
world : religious platitudes in books, sermon,
or speech, filled me with loathing. I was
wicked, wretched, lost. Then you came to
Alton."

He stopped, and looked again at Marjory, as
if a flood of recollections rushed in upon him.

'' I saw your face at the concert. It was
not changed  only intensified  more mind
in it, more ardent. It acted upon me like
the wand one reads of in the old fairy-tales ;
at the sight of it, the ice in my heart began
to thaw. All that night I dreamed of
Thorne, of the days when I had played with
you as a pleasant pastime, as a new sort of
pet ; those days when the world was young
and fair to me. Then I met you ; and when
you found me changed, you did not seem
repelled. I felt in your presence as I had
never felt in my whole life before ; there was
no unreality about you ; you were in every
way genuine, consistent. You were not full
of yourself; I discovered very quickly your
objects in existence  more quickly than you
supposed ! I was interested, as a study, in
watching them. You were so fresh and
natural, so thoroughly in earnest, an oasis
in a dried-up world."

T 2

' I had no idea you thought all that of me."

*'I know you had not,  that was one of

the charms. You were wrapped up in "

he hesitated.

In Gerald," said Marjory, gently. She
shaded her face with her hand, to hide the
starting tears.

I soon found out your enthusiasm in
religion. I wondered whether you would
have a rough awakening some day, or tame
down into formality like others. I watched
to see : then after a time, a change came on
your brightness.  Miss Stanhope, do you remember
wishing that you might go through
the same as I, if by that means you could
convince me of the truth of your religion ? "

I remember," said Marjory ; '' How often
I have thought of it ! I did not know what
I wished ! "

ISTot then. But you knew afterwards.
Have you noticed in that journal, the wonderful
likeness between your experiences and
mine ? Sometimes, as I watched you sinking
lower into the depths, at those Alton
lodgings, I used to imagine that some mocking
spirit had taken up your words, and was
working them into facts, to please his sardonic
fancy."

What an awful idea ! "

'' Only one among many of the same kind,
which tormented me in those days. Then, at
other times, when I saw your utter confidence
in prayer, I questioned  If there be anywhere
a God of Love, can the faith of this simple
child be disappointed ? *'

Fancy your thinking so much about me ! "
said Marjory.

 Why, I have simply lived in you lately.
Then I had to stand by and see you suffer,
and I could not help you. It half maddened
me sometimes. But when I found your
prayers all denied, and yet you trusted, and
clung on to your faith  that gave me a new
idea. Not so much anything you said to me
but the practical faith in your life; that
gave me my first lift upward. I was used to
words, but not to seeing words lived out.
More and more the question forced itself :
Why did my faith go so soon ? Then I saw
that I never had what the Bible of the Christians
calls faith ; only just a lazy acceptance
of what was taught me by others. At last
the thought haunted me by night and by day ;
Have I ever really known anything about
true religion ? In spite of all your troubles
which seemed so hard for one so young

and pure  you never gave way ; to you faith
was no mere name, but a real support ; as
though unseen help held you up. I began
to think that there must be a God,  a Creator
I never doubted  but a living God ; and that
He was near to you."

When was this ? "

About the time I read your story. That
it recorded your own experience, was clear
enough  to me who had so watched you.
I read it again and again, and thought of it
continually. It was of value to me because
it was real  not conventional, or copied.
Then I remembered that you had once asked
if I did not think it worth while at least to
examine the evidences of the truth of the
Bible ? I had always scoffed before at the
cant phrase, as I thought it, ' faith ; ' but
now I had been forced to own that there
might be more in it than I thought. I resolved
to follow your suggestion, and study
the external proofs of the authenticity of our
Bible. I was surprised  and thunderstruck
at my own folly  when I found how abundant,
and how convincing, they are. Then
do you remember a little prayer which you
put into some one's mouth in your story ? "

a think I do."

*' It was : 

Lord Jesus, if Thou art, reveal Thyself
to me ! '

'' I felt that the New Testament had at
least sufficient warrant to make it worth a
trial. Night after night, for hours at a time,
I prayed those words, or something like
them.  More I need not tell you now  except
that the prayer was answered.

And was it after that, you went to the
Cathedral?"

Why, how did you know I went there ? "

I was there myself," said Marjory.

How well she remembered the mingled
agony and joy of that autumn afternoon !

I had no idea you knew anything about
it ! I did not tell you, from fear of a mixed
motive. Yes, then I had begun dimly to
realize that the God of the Bible is no fable,
but a living fact : and I thought, before I
left Alton, perhaps for ever, I would ask His
blessing in His House which I had despised."

He paused ; Marjory also was silent, lost
in wonder. Now upon all that seemed so
cruel, so mysterious, light had dawned !
Some day she would have a tale of her own
to tell ; some day he should know of that
childish prayer so long persevered in  "0

Almiglity God, bless Mr. Hugli, and make
him good'* She could not speak of it now ;
she was lost in the realization that through
her means, her bitter sufferings, that prayer
had at length been answered ; and the work
she undertook for Gerald, had been for him
instead.

As she raised to him her blue eyes, all
bright and shining with that thought, he
came involuntarily nearer ; the next moment,
he was holding her close and fast. Not in
the rapture of mere earthly passion did these
two hearts which had suffered so deeply,
come together at length, but drawn also by
a higher and a firmer bond  one which
eternity itself cannot sever.

Dearest Marjory  my beloved  I can't
tell you what you are to me  there are no
words for it,  but if you will let me try to
show you, if the devotion of my whole life
can give you any idea."

For answer, Marjory only laid her hand in
his, and rested silently within those strong
arms. She could not, if she would, have
spoken ; her heart was too full ; she could
not even at this instant utter her thankfulness
to God.

Some one has said that there are moments

of which the bare remembrance might render
it worth while to have lived ! One of such
moments had arisen upon Hugh Vivian and
Marjory. Here in this deserted house, this
silent room, while the by-gone faces gazed
grimly from the walls  here the misery, the
restlessness, the craving of the past, were all
forgotten ; fleeting like dreams before the
blessed reality of the present.

Chapter, XX.

Ah ! dearest, with a word he could dispel
All questioning, and raise
Our hearts to rapture, whispering all was well,

And turning prayer to praise.
And other secrets too he could declare,

By patterns all divine.
His earthly creed retouching here and there,
And deepening every line."

John Henry Newman.

The great bell in the court-yard, which still
rang, as in the time of the little old lady, atone
o'clock, startled them back into everyday
life.

'' Bellhouse will be wondering where I
am," cried Marjory.

And I must go," said Hugh : " I must
manage to live without you till tomorrow."

Not so very long  considering the time
you have lived without me hitherto ! " said
Marjory smiling.

No, but that must be made up for now.
It has been horrible enough, without repetition.
To-day, though, I have business
which won't wait. By-the-bye, has it never

struck you as at all peculiar that I should
turn up again in this sudden way, after
wishing you good-bye for ever ? "

'' I have wondered how it was. Did you
lose your work in Russia ? "

Not exactly : but it led to work in
England. You must have seen why I had
to go away ;  if I had stayed, I might have
been mean enough, after a while, to make
love to you in spite of my poverty."

I don't think it would have been mean
at all. But are you less poor now ? "

*' My darling I You were ready to face it,
then?"

I am used to poverty, you know ; and I
thought perhaps I might help you a little by
my writing."

Steadfast to your old dreams ! " said he :
** No, dear, we shan't need that; I shall have
enough for us both, and something to spare.
I'll tell you all about it tomorrow."

You'll come as early as you can ? you
know I go home the next day."

'' I am going with you." Then, as Marjory's
eyes flashed in delightful wonder 

I have arranged it all with your uncle.
I wrote for leave to escort you, and he replied
that if you had no objection, he had none."

No fear of my objecting ! " said Marjory,
with a blush : " I shall have some one to see
to my luggage."

The next day was again fair and bright ;
and when Hugh Vivian arrived, he found
Marjory walking up and down on the terrace.
After his long years of loneliness, what joy
to meet the welcome in her eyes !

"I thought you would never come," she
said with her usual naivete.

*rand I thought the train would never get to
Alton," said he, drawing her hand within his
arm. "The train!"

I have been to London, and back, since
I saw you. I left Haddington at three a.m."

Oh, how tired you must be ! " cried
Marjory, full of compunction.

'' I never felt fresher in my life. And
now I have something to tell you."

Something about your appointment ? "

Have you any idea what the ' appointment
' is ? A commercial traveller ship, in
the tallow line, do you think ?  as I come
from Russia."

Or in metal chairs and tables, like Mr.
Anywise, perhaps," said Marjory : " I hope
it's nothing of that kind, because then you
would have to leave me so often !"

Marjory, how much could we marry
upon ? Three hundred a year ? "

Just as you think best," said Marjory.

'' Well, supposing that we are very careful,
and that you worked hard at your writing,
and that I sat up at night to review books,
and that my salary had a promise of future
increase, dare we try it upon 250 ? "

I should not be afraid," said Marjory.

"But 50,000 would be better, wouldn't
it?"

Fifty thousand ! "While we are building
castles, let us say at once, a million and a
landed estate," cried Marjory.

"Ko  it is only fifty thousand and the
estate," said Hugh quietly.

Something in his tone made her stand still
and look at him. His dark eyes seemed all
on fire, his face was full of joy ; he looked
hardly able to contain himself.

What do you mean ? " she asked gazing.

'* Marjory, I went to London to meet Mr.
Crawford. I had only waited till I could see
you, to settle with him finally. It is all done
now; and I have bought Thorne of him. 
Thorne is mine ! and 50,000 a year besides :
' and all that's mine is thine,' Marjory ! "

When Marjory had in some degree recovered
her bewilderment, she heard the history
of these wonderful tidings. It was from
Mr. Bulkley  who, with some difficulty, had
sought out Hugh's address  that the summons
to Russia came. Miss Bulkley having
died abroad, the survivor had sold his Ripley
property, and had gone to reside at St.
Petersburgh, where he was interested in
commercial undertakings, bequeathed to him
by a brother. The kind old man, now alone
in the world, was thus at liberty to carry out
a long cherished idea : that of making Hugh
Vivian his heir. He had been deeply touched
by the misfortunes of the boy whom he had
known in such different circumstances ; when
the proud young fellow came to him, full of
shame and remorse, to cast himself upon his
mercy, that large and tender heart was completely
won, and wrung with a generous
longing to make amends for all this suffering.
It was then that the notion above mentioned
had occurred as a pleasing fancy; the old
man's nature had a romantic spot, and he
had pleased himself by imaginations concerning
this unexpected joy. These he talked
over with his sister ; and Jessie had doubtless
overheard some part of their con sensation

 resulting in lier tacit recommendation
of lier boy, by the name of Copelandss. She
knew, and probably exaggerated, Hugh's
transient admiration ; she knew also the
generous nature which would make him
charitable, even beyond his wont, to any
child of hers, from the dread of any shadow
of retaliation against the offence she had
implored him to pardon.

When Mr. Bulkley, who had long suffered
from an incurable disease, was warned by his
doctor that he had but a few months to live,
his first step after finding Hugh, was to offer
him work at St. Petersburgh : designing thus
to obtain some knowledge of his present character
before committing himself by signing
his will. Had Hugh, on further acquaintance,
disappointed him, the fortune would have
been divided among charities ; but further
intimacy only served to deepen the liking
conceived long ago. Towards the end of
November, the old man, somewhat suddenly,
fulfilled his doctor's expectations : Hugh
Vivian, whom he had but a few days previously
informed of his intentions, waiting
upon him like a son, and soothing by all
possible means the lonely yet peaceful end.

Since then Hugh had been weekly hoping

to return to England ; but endless hindrances
had arisen to delay him ; and he had only at
length reached London on the eve of Gerald
Stanhope's funeral. Of this he had heard
from Mr. Crawford, with whom he had been
in correspondence concerning Thorne. Hugh
Vivian was the possible purchaser mentioned
by Mr. Crawford to Bellhouse ; but his name,
by his own special request, had been disclosed
to no one : since, little as she then knew it,
the final decision depended upon Marjory.
Had she refused him, as he afterwards
told her, he would have left England forever.


But now all uncertainty was ended ; and
Marjory would soon become the mistress of
this her ideal world. Copelandss was spoiled
beyond recovery ; but here in the familiar
spot which Hugh had loved next best, a new
and better life would begin. Here he would
found another home, to take the place of the
old ; here in these deserted walls would
again be happiness, and glad voices, and
brightness, and love.

Before we go in," said Marjory, when
they had walked long in the wintry sunshine,
while again and again she felt unable to believe
that she would not presently awake

and find herself dreaming,  '' Before we go
in, I want to see  the churchyard'

'' Aren't you tired ?  won't it be too much
for you ? " said Hugh tenderly.

No  I shan't be able to come out again
to-day, and tomorrow we start. I must see
it once before I go."

So he said no more, and they went away
through the park, to the palings where, years
ago, they had stood together. There was a
little gate in the palings now ; Hugh opened
it, and Marjory entered silently, while below
her the brook, swollen by the snow, rushed
on over its pebbles. No one was in the
churchyard, and no cottages overlooked the
quiet part where Gerald's grave had been
made. It was very near the spot where that
other grave, of that other brother, buried long
ago, had been : but that was old now, and
lost among the rest. Here was Gerald's, new
and alone. The white marble cross planned
by Marjory, was not yet in its place ; nothing
marked it from the other rustic mounds. A
little patch of snow, still unmelted, lay upon
the grass ; the sods were bound down by
osiers.

A long while Marjory stood in perfect
silence, gazing on that silent turf. Hugh,

VOL. III. u

standing near, would not speak or move to
disturb her. He knew what it is to stand
thus above a new-made grave, and yearn with
impotent craving for some word, some sign,
from the beloved who is gone ! Only at last,
in a low tone, he spoke his thoughts aloud.

'* If this had but come a year sooner, he
should have had the desire of his heart."

Then suddenly Marjory clung to him, in a
passion of weeping.

At once all had flashed upon her, 
Gerald's genius, his hopes, their slow disappointment.
Now she was to be rich and
prosperous ; the money for which they had
longed, would be plentiful around her ; she
would have all that earth could give : while
Gerald lay mouldering here.

Not Gerald. No. A moment later she
remembered. His dying words came back
to her : *' Heaven is best." Ah, he would
smile at her now, for pitying him !

'' Heaven is best  and God's Will is best,"
she said, looking up at Hugh ; "I see it
now."

Soon afterwards they turned away. Marjory
paused at the palings, with one last
lingering look.

'' It would not seem so hard to leave him,"

she said, ''if it were summer. The graves
look so dreary out there in the bitter
cold."

"Do you remember some words of your
own," said Hugh, 'years ago, when you
were a little child ? We were just in this
very place, coming up from the churchyard ;
and I have never forgotten what you said : 
It's always summer weather in Paradise.' "

So, with that thought, they left him, alone
in his calm rest. He had been cut off in his
youth, and for them life and joy had opened
afresh. But which of them had the better
part, was known to none but God.

V 2

CHAPTER XXr.

*' Serenely purest of her sex that live,
But wanting one sweet weakness  to forgive."

Byron.

And what of Lina ?

Lina was still at Dover, basking in the
consciousness of verified wisdom. That
Hugh Vivian's guilt in the matter of Jessie
was clearly proved, she conceived to be
beyond question ; her mind was now intent
upon the next step  how best to trace the
connection between this crime, and the
forgeries  falsely, she opined, attributed to
her brother  through which she believed
Mr. Vivian to have procured the needful
funds for the luxurious foreign sojourn. She
thought it was by a special interposition of
Providence, that so much mental employment
had been provided for her just at the period
of Gerald's death. The blow, she felt, was
thus softened. Yet, from time to time, recollections
of his gray eyes as they gazed at
her, of the tone of his voice, when he spoke
to her, of his visions concerning her, came
floating back with a vague sadness, a sense

of some treasure gone. Would she ever
again be thought of as Gerald had thought
of her ?  ever loved as he had loved her ?
Imprudent as, in looking back, the whole
history of their engagement appeared, and
clear of blame in any respect as she felt
herself to be  yet somehow, something of a
glory had faded with Gerald from her earth.
She had not known that the glory existed ;
until lo, it was gone.

And now Mrs. Jelly had to return to
Dover, and the Peele family to be informed
of the unfortunate facts disclosed by the
contents of the box. Bellhouse*s joy in her
grandson was somewhat damped by the fear
of their possible proceedings ; she knew not
what power they might possess to take her
darling from her. But this she was now
more than ever willing to '' leave to the
Almighty ; " and Marjory, full of deepest
sympathy and consideration for Lina, wrote,
every word guided by these sentiments, to
break the tidings ; enclosing Jessie's letter
to Hugh Vivian, found in the box, in which
her husband's name and family were clearly
mentioned. Of the box itself Mrs. Jelly
took charge, promising to deliver it safely at
the house of Lina's sister.

Not until some time later, Marjory heard
tHat the result had been a conclave of Peeles ;
who, after much discussion, and examination
of Mrs. Jelly, concluded that Richard was
undoubtedly guilty, and that the affair had
better be hushed up. They agreed to pay
an annual sum, through a lawyer, to Bell-house,
until the boy should be one-and-twenty;
in other respects, his existence, being
a family disgrace, must be by them ignored.

So, among the elder members of the
family, the matter rested ; and Bellhouse,
well content, remained sole guardian of her
treasure. But Marjory was somewhat horrified,
one day in March, to receive a letter
from Lina, stating that she felt it her solemn
duty to urge her friend to reconsider her
intended marriage with Hugh Vivian ; that,
the more she thought of the past, and of
Richard's general character, the stronger became
her conviction of  somewhere  a deep
plot ; that although of this no present proof
could be found, Richard was innocent,  the
box and papers had been stolen from him,
and the letter purporting to be written by
Jessie, was a forgery.

If a person can forge one document, he
can forge another," wrote Lina.

The supposition was wild in the extreme ;
and had the circumstances been transferred
to some other family, Lina would be the
first to counsel silent contempt as its one
answer. But Marjory could not bear that
any such suspicions, ridiculous though they
were, should lurk in any mind concerning
Hugh. A day or two later he came to
Eockswold, on one of his constant visits ;
and then she showed him the letter, and told
him of all that fabric of imaginations by
which Lina had so seriously disturbed
her peace, in that winter day's walk at
Alton.

He listened more gravely than she had
expected. Once or twice, while she spoke,
his face clouded, as though some word struck
home ; at the end he was silent for a time,
and then sighed heavily.

'' Ah ! " he said, '' there is no telling what
may come of one false step in life ! You
know now, Mr. Peele's reason for doubting
me ; and, by the way, Mr. Bulkley told meat
St. Petersburgh, that my leaving Bulling-ham
just at that particular time was unfortunate,
for the father had evidently a strong
suspicion that, in some way, I was mixed up
in Richard's forgeries'*

'' How unjust! " cried Marjory, indignantly.

It was the man's nature. ' Give a dog
a bad name, and hang him '  that was his
maxim,  and he has handed it down to Miss
Peele. My dear old friend Bulkley told me
that he had to advise him to wait till he had
something to go upon, before dragging my
name into the matter. After that, he became
more cautious ; but Mr. Bulkley saw that he
was strong on my scent ! He found out
nothing, though."

For the very good reason that there was
nothing to find," replied Marjory, still indignant
: 'but was it only from the wandering
of his mind, I wonder, that, after reading
his son's letter, he said to Lina  ' It is just
as I thought"'

''I strongly suspect," said Hugh, "that
that letter was a confession of the whole
affair  Jessie and everything  and that this
caused Mr. Peele' s illness. As to the remark
you mention, it seems not unlikely
that Richard's knowledge of Mr. Bulkley's
leniency to me, gave him courage in his own
proceedings. His father told him everything
in the way of business. That idea is possible,
at least."

I wish the letter could have been found ! "

cried Marjory : " I do so long for Lina to see
your innocence ! "

As to that, flights so purely imaginative
are really not worth a thought," said Hugh,
with something of a smile : 'but how was
the letter lost ? tell me again about it,
darling."

Marjory repeated the story, branded only
too deeply on her memory ; and a day later
Hugh went off to Bullingham, to examine
the room which had once been Mr. Bulkley's
study.

The house was now portioned into offices :
the young surveyor who rented the room in
question, was very civil to his distinguished-looking
visitor; a new-comer, he had little
knowledge of past affairs in Bullingham. On
hearing of the missing letter, he pointed out
a crack in the mantel-piece, observing that
he could not tell how large, or how small, it
had been all those years ago ; it was scarcely
noticeable when he engaged the room  but
had widened.

Hugh examined the place : the crevice lay
between the wood of the old-fashioned ,
and the wall. Marjory had repeated
Lina's description of her father's attitude :
had the crack indeed been then wide enough

to receive the letter, it was quite possible
that thus it had dropped from his nerveless
fingers. His elbows, resting heavily upon
the shelf, must for the moment have widened
the aperture : which afterwards, as the wood
sprang back to its place, might easily escape
observation.

A mason was sent for, and the mantel-piece
removed. And there, in the debris behind
it, among dust, plaster, crumbling mortar,
and a variety of small papers, which, in the
course of years, the crack at first indiscernible,
had swallowed  lay Richard's letter.

Just as it was, unread, in the surveyor's
presence, Hugh Yivian transferred it to an
envelope addressed to Lina : which, with a
brief note of explanation, he sealed, and
posted forthwith. Then, with many thanks
to the friendly young surveyor  who was
secretly glad of the opportunity for repairing
his mantel-piece !  he started by the next
train, back to Marjory.

'' Oh, Hugh, my dearest Hugh, if we
could only know what is in that letter ! "
cried Marjory.

She had not long to wait. In a few days
she heard from Lina.

Very touching, to Marjory at all events,

despite some pride aud rigidity, were Lina's
words. As she read them, the tears came
hot and fast to her blue eyes.

For Lina was convinced at last. She
regretted, she said, her mistake ; she would
thank Marjory to make known that regret
to Mr. Vivian. Richard, writing from his
death-bed, had owned himself guilty. His
tale corroborated Jessie's. He had named
her from a low lodging-house in London,
and had lived with her on his stolen hoard,
until it was nearly exhausted : then  weary,
moreover, of her  he had picked a pretended
quarrel, and left her to fend for herself.
She did not know, he said, his true name ;
unless indeed he had left with her certain
papers which he found to be missing, and
through which she would learn it. Other
adventures were related, ending at length in
his engaging himself as a common sailor to
work out his passage to the Cape. Thence,
if no profitable employment turned up, he
had intended to go on to the diggings : but
was stopped as we have seen.

The letter was deeply repentant ; the fear
of death had touched him. He beersfed his
father to advertise for Jessie, to inform her
of his death, to supply any needs that she

might have, and to restore her safely  if lie
were not with her already  to her mother.
He had destroyed the marriage certificate,
but gave the name of the church, and the
date, that a fresh one might be obtained.
These particulars Lina copied for Bellhouse.

Finally, as an after thought, Richard had
added that the ready exculpation of young
Vivian had first suggested to his mind the
possibility of imposing on Mr. Bulkley.
Hugh's surmise was thus correct. It was,
however, but too clear that, had Mr. Bulkley
been a less easy victim, some other would
have supplied his place ; and Lina abstained
from any further recrimination.

Richard had disgraced their father's name,
she wrote, and caused his death ; and she
disowned him as a brother. If the boy's surname
could be changed from that of Peele
to the false one borne by his parents, it
would be, she added, a relief to her feelings.
She then wished Marry happiness : and
concluded.

A month later she wrote from Albion
Square, to ask if she might come for two
days to Rocks wold. She had been very
busy, she said assisting her mother to prepare
for the removal which the vicinity of the boy

Russell rendered necessary. They had taken
a house in a distant county, and she desired
for old friendship's sake, to see Marjory once
more before her marriage.

So to Rockswold she came ; and Marjory
was struck by the change in her. Her face
looked years older than the face of Gerald's
ideal; her beauty, though unimpaired, seemed
colder and more rigid : and lines quite new
to it, crossed the high, fair forehead. But
her manner, though a trifle graver, was otherwise
as usual. When she spoke of Hugh
Vivian, her tone had yet a certain covert
dislike ; still she said that she wished him
well, and hoped with unmistakable sincerity,
that he and Marjory might live long and
happily together. Her wedding gift to
Marjory was a vignette, beautifully painted,
of Gerald, enlarged from a photograph of
ordinary size, and richly framed. Seeing
Marjory's eyes fill and her lips quiver, in
receiving it, she said :

Marjory, I do not pity you. Every year
you will feel more comfort in remembering
your brother ; every year I hope more completely
to forget mine."

So they parted.

Once again, casually, they met, after many

years. Lina was then a Sister of the English
Church, head of an orphanage. Still beautiful
and stately was the face framed in by the
white cap, but set in lines of elevated narrowness
 the face of one whose life moves
in a groove, ignoring the great world. Still,
in that groove, she did much steady work, as
the weeks and months, each so like the
others, rolled by. On some of those children
whom she was ever training, her training
doubtless answered well ; and they went
forth from her to live pure and truthful
lives, and do their duty in quiet. But others
went forth to practise bigotry, and, where
they could, to teach it  scorning alike the
rival bigotries, and that freer life where
grooves and goodness are not identical.

And some, we may fear, found in the
world, hitherto to them a blank letter, charms
too powerful to be despised in the wholesale
fashion set forth to them ; and contradictions
impossible to reconcile with that which they
had learned as truth : and in the reaction,
failing to discriminate, were caught amid
varying currents, and wrecked  if not forever,
for this earth at least, with all they
held most precious.

But nothing of all this was anticipated by

Lina, as, straight in lier course, fixed in her
principles, in her confidence in herself and
her system, she went serenely on, day by
day. What human beings ought to be, this
system ought to make them ; if it failed,
they only were to blame. Had the system
in question been that of a Methodist, or even
of a Shaker, she would have pursued it, as
she pursued her very opposite one  the one,
with firmness never varying. Not till
hereafter she wakes to find it but a thread of
the great rope, will any conception dawn
on her, that there are things (of any consequence)
in Heaven or on earth, not
dreamed of in her philosophy.

CHAPTER XXII.

Wait : my faith is large in Time,
And that which shapes it to some perfect end."

Tennyson.

It was on an ideal spring day  one of those
days in which, however grumbling folk may
talk or write, we do still every year rejoice
that Hugh and Marjory were married.
Mrs. Stanhope had not wished this event to
take place until Marjory was out of mourning
; but Marjory's health, formerly so
vigorous, had not come unimpaired through
the long ordeal of anxiety and sorrow ; in the
monotonous life at Rocks wold, when Hugh
was not with her, she drooped ; and the
doctor who had known her from childhood,
advised that the wedding should not be
postponed. Marjory secretly suspected that
Hugh, who had paid him a private visit, was
not wholly without a voice in this counsel ;
but she kept her suspicions to herself, and
made no demur. In her heart she knew
that Hugh's presence only, of all earthly
things, had power to soothe the sick craving

for Gerald,  which here, in these familiar'
places haunted, at every turn, by her lifelong
hopes, at times almost overwhelmed
her.

So they were married on a balmy morning
in the second week of May. Earth and
sky alike were bathed in sunlight, orchards
were rich in blossom, bees were humming in
the young green of the sycamores, lilacs and
syringa scented the air,  when the bride and
bridegroom came forth from the gray old
church into the new world opening before
them. Under other circumstances, Hugh
would have taken his wife abroad ; but Marjory
could not as yet have borne the sight of
those longed-for places, scenes of so many
aspirations buried in Gerald's early grave.
Instead, they went a quiet tour among some
of the English lakes. The perfect weather
glorified the loveliness at all times beyond
words to describe ; the proverbial rain was
suspended. Since those days Marjory has
seen beauty of wider fame ; but to her nothing
has ever surpassed that first vision of
Grasmere, the calm heights rising around
the still blue lake, and Rota's clear stream
watering the peaceful spot where, with his
people, Nature's great poet sleeps among

VOL. III. X

the mountains that he loved. She has never
quite lost her first impression, as they drove
in the spring sunset through the village,  of
a little foretaste of that Eden where the
ground shall no more be cursed, and perfect
blessedness shall reign on earth as in heaven.

Such scenes seem in themselves specially
fitted for the healing of minds diseased ; and
when to their influences was united the constant,
watchful devotion of such love as
Marjory now found to exist not only in day-dreams,
 no wonder that health and mind
alike speedily recovered their tone, and the
craving, hopeless as painful, left by her loss,
died gradually away.

Meanwhile Hugh, who had thought that
life, for him, was over ; that joy was a chimera
the whole world dead and dry : could only
be compared to a person who has been buried
by a winter avalanche, and, in summer delivered,
finds around him a new universe full
of endless beauty, and of delight to which
before he was blind. Constantly he felt that
had all been as he would have it, in the days
of his thoughtless youth, he could never have
known such happiness as was lavished on
him now. In those days he had had no experience
of the deep things of life ; he had

skimmed, like a brilliant dragon-fly, along'
the surface of the waters. A storm had
convulsed that surface  black clouds had
hidden the sun  he had been swept into dark
and fearful places :  now it was over  he
had come back into the light :  and all
things were changed to him !

One day during their sojourn in the Vale
of Keswick, he found in an old book some
lines which haunted him long afterwards, as
embodying the thought in his heart.

Blessed Lord, if Thou hadst led me

As I foolishly desired 
All the good I shunned forbid me,

Given all that I required, 
Hadst Thou punish'd me by granting
All that I believ'd was wanting 
Thou alone couldst count the cost
Of the treasure I had lost !"

Conclusion.

.There was great festivity when the new
squire brought his bride home to Thorne,
and such a warm welcome as Hugh had never
thought to see again. Farmers and cottagers
alike rejoiced to see a resident landlord once
more among them ; and Hugh from his childhood
had been a favourite in the place. He
X 2

made a far better landlord than would have
been possible, had he succeeded his father, in
the natural course, at Copelandss. Habits of
conventional selfishness and luxury had been
sternly broken ; and in his buffetings about
the world, he had learned to realize both
sides of many social questions : a discipline
of which those dependent on him, reaped now
more advantages than one.

Marjory's first pleasurable experience of
the benefits of wealth, consisted in placing
her kind uncle and his delicate wife beyond
the reach of pecuniary anxieties. On the
anniversary of their wedding-day, which fell
within a week of her own, she sent them, by
Hugh's contrivance, a present of certain title-deeds
of building property in London, which
had been among Mr. Bulkley's possessions, 
and which, besides the certainty of yearly
increase, more than doubled their present income.
The happiness caused by such a gift,
in the quiet parsonage where life had so often
been a struggle, was only equalled by that of
Marjory, in its anticipation.

She had early in her engagement discovered
that the anonymous friend who had discharged
Gerald's debt, was no other than
Hugh himself : disguised beneath that ambiguous

description which, although in one
sense true, had limited their suspicions to
Mrs. Wilton's personal friends. Hugh had
casually learned, during his intercourse with
Gerald, the name of the lawyer to whom the
payments were made ; and his first act, after
Mr. Bulkley's death, had been to ascertain
particulars of the sum : and so discharge it.

Marjory would have repaid him from her
own small capital ; but this he laughed to
scorn ; and she knew too well the joy of
giving to the beloved, to press the point :
she was content to owe all to him. Instead,
she carried out a suggestion of his own, and
sent the few hundreds remaining after the
expenses of her quiet wedding and her trousseau,
to Mr. Harding ; in trust for the next
poor artist of real talent, who might come in
his way. Mr. Harding's answer, accepting
the trust, contained also an expression of
true sympathy, speaking of Gerald and his
genius in terms which Marjory, with a
mingling of pride and tears, will remember
throughout her future life.

And now she filled the place of the little
old lady, as mistress of Thorne. It was her
daily prayer to fill it worthily : a prayer evermore
abundantly answered, as the years

went by. All the energy, the brightness,
the ardour of her nature, found ample scope
in her varied duties as lady of the manor.
And truly it might be said of her, that " her
price was far above rubies ; the heart of her
husband did safely trust in her ; strength and
honour were her clothing; she opened her
mouth with wisdom ; and in her tongue was
the law of kindness. Her children rose up
and called her blessed; her husband also,
and he praised her''

Thorne became one of the most popular
houses in the neighbourhood, leo unnecessary
state was maintained there  nothing-was
done for mere show ; but hospitality of
all kinds abounded  to the poor no less than
to the rich. Its owners had known the sting
of poverty ; they regarded their wealth as a
trust, to be shared with their fellows. It
was their aim to minister, not merely to the
so-called '' poor people;" but also to those
of gentle life : devising help, either anonymous,
or of such a kind as not to wound the
tenderest delicacy. The skill to which, by
patient study, they in this respect attained,
was wonderful at length ! the multitude to
whom in the course of years their helping
hands were stretched, will not be

known until the day when secrets are
revealed.

Marjory's story was published about the
time of her marriage ; and met with good
success. She continued to write at intervals,
as she had opportunity : often she was
too busy for writing,  and sometimes she
acted merely as her husband's secretary.
For Hugh still cultivated the gift which his
adversity had developed. His reviews and
essays had been known as those of an author
tinged with scepticism. Now, entering the
lists in an opposite direction, he did his
umtost to gainsay all that he had ever said
unfavourable to Revelation. Replies, bitter
as talented, from those with whom he had
formerly agreed, were hurled back at him
through the press ; but the faith which he
had won through such sore conflict was nevermore
to be shaken.

To those who, like Hugh and Marjory,
have had practical experience of the existence
of a living God, the cries for this or
that sign of it, are beneath attention. The
sometime sick who have proved within themselves
the efficacy of a special medicine,
carry within themselves the best of answers
to theories proclaiming its imposture.

And Bellliouse had no need to leave the
house to which she had clung. She stayed
on, honoured and beloved, inhabiting her
accustomed rooms, keeping up her old habits :
the backbone, Marjory often said, of the
household. Xo one could tell over how
many trifling difficulties she enabled the
young wife to steer safely. Her wisdom and
experience were invaluable ; and her fidelity
to her new master and mistress was no less
constant than to the little old lady of yore.
Bellhouse is still in every way the same ;
even in looks she is little altered. She still
talks of " The Almighty," and says often,
with a thankful countenance, that her trust
has not been disappointed. The sun of her
days is going down in peace ; her boy is all
she can desire. Copelandss is not, like his
mother, ambitious ; his highest aspiration is
to become Mr. Vivian's steward. He takes
kindly to farming and other country pursuits ;
and it is not improbable that this aspiration
will one day be realized.

And there are children once more in Miss
Evie's nursery. The eldest is a dark-haired
boy, born two years after the marriage. He
is the counterpart of his father at his age,
bright, careless, yet passionate. Marjory

trembles a little, sometimes, as she watches
him, remembering the stern discipline that
his father has had to bear. But she remembers
afterwards that, as Bellhouse says,
'' The Almighty knows best " : and puts the
future from her.

She has only two other children, twins,
three years younger, than their brother.
They are a boy and girl, reminding her of
Gerald and herself. The boy, too, strangely
resembles Gerald, both in appearance and
in nature ; and she fancies that already he
shows signs of artistic talent. She cannot
restrain some dreams concerning him, after
the fashion of former days ; but she does
not indulge them too freely. She has
learned wisdom since those dreams of her
youth.

And Gerald's face, with those gray eyes,
so clear and beautiful, hangs where she can
see it constantly, by day and by night. Not
long ago, she took her children to the house
in the College Yard : where Mrs. Myers and
Miss Pilkington still reside, amid a new
generation of little boys. Suddenly a craving
came on her to see once more the old attic
which Gerald called his workshop. She got
permission; and climbed the well-known stairs.

It looked much as in the time she remembers
; dust had gathered thickly on the
old boxes,  but they remained still as
Gerald had piled them, when he built his
easel.

'' Mother," says her elder boy, creeping
after her. '* Is this the place where uncle
Gerald used to paint? "

Marjory tries to answer ; but the words
will not come : her throat swells,  her eyes
fill with tears long strange to them. She
has turned to the window : there the familiar
river flows, with the same rushing sound, 
just as she saw and heard it in the days of
her passionate girlhood. There beyond, are
the meadows  and the Shelburn hills, with
the old lights and shades. All is the same.
Only Gerald  where is he ? Where has he
been, through all these silent years ?

The child has roamed away again ; and
the tears, unrestrained, flow faster, blinding
her eyes. But suddenly a quick step comes
behind her ; her husband's arm clasps her
waist ; his bright kind voice says 

'marjory! Why are you here alone?
You should have told me."

She rests her head upon his shoulder;
and the moment of bitterness is past.

Cometh sunshine after rain,
After mourning joy again ;
After heavy bitter grief,
Dawned surely sweet relief !

Though to-day may not fulfil
All thy hordes, have patience still ;
For perchance tomorrow's sun
Sees thy happier days begun.
As God willet, march the hours,
Bringing joy at last in showers,
And whate'er we asked is ours."

THE End.

WVJAN iN;. ;J0.V3, ri; ,XTi:aj, cheat QILEN SXHtCT, London.

(NEAR THE INNS OF COURT AND THE BRITISH MUSEUM.)

 WYMAN & SONS,

llfl PRINTERS AND PUBLISHERS,

IPlJj iH  Undertake Every Description of

WOOD & Copperplate ENGRAVING, LITHOGRAPHY, & BOOKBINDING.

npO AUTHORS AND OTHERS. Messrs. WYMAN & SONS,
- Printers, Engravers, Stationers, Bookbinders, and Publishers,
invite the attention of Authors to the Facilities offered by their Establishments for the
COMPLETE PRODUCTION of BOOKS of every description, all Departments of
the Business being carried on tinder the immediate Personal Superintendence of the Firm.
Inclusive Estimates promptly forwarded, and liberal arrangements miide with Authors
for the publication of their MSS., whether Scientific, Artistic, or Works of Fiction.

Demy 4to., price 6s.

Tables of Roman Law.

By M. A. Panton, Docteur en Droit. Translated and edited by C. W. LAW, of the

Middle Temple, Barrister-at-law.
Here, in fifteen Tables, we have the four books of the Institutes of Justinian, as to the ancient Roman
hwv regarding persons, things, and actions. The first book gives some general notions respecting the
meaning of the words Izistitia and y2is, and treats of persons. The second, relating to things,
treats of the means of acquiring particular objects, of successions to deceased persons, legacies, and
trusts. The third deals with inheritances and obligations. The fourth treats of obligations and
actions. The tables seem to be well translated and clearly arranged. "  The Builder.

Third Edition, royal 8vo., cloth, price 5s. ; post-free, 5s. 4d.

A Manual of the Statutes of Limitation.

Showing the time within which the ownership of property must be asserted and exercised,
or actions commenced to prevent the operation of these statutes, viz.  Barring the
remedy for obtaining or extinguishing the right to such property. By JAMES
Waiter, Esq., Member of the Incorporated Law Society.

Cap. 8vo. , cloth gilt, price 2s. 6d.

King Alfred, and other Poems.

By PERCY RUSSELL.

We not only read through the volume, but thoroughly enjoyed the reading. Mr. Russell has poetic
feeling, and does not offend one's ears with false quantities."  Brief: the Week's News.

\

I 74, 75, Great Queen Street, London, W.C.

A MOST ELEGANT PRESENT FOR A LJ)J)Y.

An Entirely Novel Work on Table Decoration. In Folio, with 24 Original Designs in

Cliromo-Lithography, Price Thirty Shillings.

Floral Designs for the Table :

Plain Directions for its Ornamentation with Cut Flowers and Fruit, Classified Lists of
Suitable Plants, Leaves, Berries, iS:c. ; and Twenty-four Original Coloured Designs for
decorating Breakfast, Luncheon, Dinner, and Supper Tables at a moderate cost.

"We have no hesitation in saying that the work of Mr. Perkins now before us is one of the
most elegant and useful gift-books of the present season. The very cover of it is a model of design
and execution, and the whole get-up of the book does infinite credit to the Messrs. Wyman & Sons,
who are the printers and publishers of it. Most, if not all, the designs are quite novel, and many
of them are to be commended as much for their extreme simplicity as for their exquisite elegance."
T lie Queen.

The production of this most beautiful and instructive volume is most opportune. It consists
of a series of directions for the ornamentation of the table with leaves, flowers, and fruit, and it
contains also classified lists of suitable plants, berries, and leaves for that purpose. Some of the
designs are most beautiful ones, and the work, as a whole, is a most unconditional success. We
can recommend any of our readers who are in want of a book on this subject to obtain one and
judge for themselves. Many of the single designs are worth, to host or hostess, the money asked
for the entire volume. The binding of the work is most handsome, forming in itself a table
ornament."  Laid aid Water.

"This richly-ornamented volume comprises a series of original coloured designs, with directions
for table decoration with leaves, flowers, and fruit ; and, by the assistance of the letterpress, the
reader will have no difficulty in perceiving the effect that is intended."  Daily News.

Crown 8vo., cloth gilt, price 12s.

Russia in 1870.

By HERBERT BARRY, late Director of the Chepeleffsky Estates and Iron Works in
the Governments of Vladimir, Tambov, and Ninny Novgorod, Empire of Russia, Author
of " Russian jSIetallurgical Works."

Contexts : On Mr. Dixon's Book " Free Russia" ; Old Abuses and late Reforms
The People ; Towns and Villages ; Priests, Church, and Emperor ; Sports and Pastimes
Manufactures and Trade ; Ways and Communications ; Siberia ; The Great Fair of
Ninny Novgorod ; The Central Asian Question ; Conclusion.

Second edition, demy 8vo., price is. ; post-free, is. lid.

The England of the Pacific ; or, New

ZEALAND as an English Middle-class Emigration Field. By ARTHUR Laden,
Author of "The Revolt of the Field."

There are Eight Full-page Illustrations, a Reprint of the Letters to the Daily News
on the " English Agricultural Labourer in New Zealand," a Narrative of a Ride on
Horseback through the North Island, Sketches of Settlers' Homes, and a variety of ,
interesting particulars respecting New Zealand.

TO FREEMASONS.
Now ready, is. 6d., blue cloth ; post free, is. yd.

Masonic Points,

Being Authorized Cues in the Masonic Rituals of the Ea., Fac., and Mem. Degrees,
and of those in the Royal Holy Arch. T By Brother JaDU.

Copy 0/ Communication from I I.R.I I. the M.W.G.M.

" Freemasons' Hall, London, W.C.
25th October, 1876.
"Dear Sir and Brother,  I have this morning received a note from Mr. F. Knolls, Private
Secretary to the Prince of Wales, requesting me to convey to you the thanks of his Royal Highness
for the book you have been good enough to send him  a request with which I have much pleasure in
complying.  I am, dear Sir, yours fraternally, "JOHN HERVEY, Gas.

"To Bro. Jade, 74, Great Queen-street, W.C."

74, 75, Great Queen Street, London, W.C.

Crown 8vo., cloth, price 6s., post free. In paper cover, price 2S.

The Felthams ; or, Contrasts in Crime.

A story of thrilling interest. By FRANZ.

A powerful story of the Charles Reade school The situations are unusually strong, and
quicken the reader's pulse as they pass before him."  Bookseller.

It is a welcome relief to have a melodramatic tale, with its vivid contrasts and its rapid changes of
scenery and persons In 'The Felthams ' there is not a little of force and literary skill, and
the whole tone of the story is excellent The tale is lively and attractive" Z/Vrrtry /Ktr/.

"There is no lack of incident in this novel, and the attention of the reader is closely held throughout;
nor is he likely to anticipate, as in many works of fiction, the course and mal development of the plot,
which is skilfully constructed, and in some of its situations is most thrilling."  Capital and Labour.

There is much variety in the incidents, and we think it will be regarded as one of the best novels of
the year."  News of the IVorld.

'* The story is told with considerable ingenuity."  City Press.

"The result is a tale which exhibits considerable power."  Broad Arrow.

Is readable throughout, and neither so extravagant nor repulsive in its incidents as might be
conjectured from its title."  Queen.

The plots are well conceived and cleverly worked out ; the characters, too, are drawn with a
skilful hand The denoiionent being most dramatically told."  Pictorial IVorld.

' The Felthams,' a story by Franz, is published in novelette form-that is, in a single volume 
but its length exceeds, nevertheless, that of most three-volume novels. It is a tale of strong interest,
but too much crowded with melodramatic and painful details to suit the tastes of quiet readers." 
TrrttA.

Full of changeful incidents of a highly sensational realistic kind, * The Felthams ' carries its
readers briskly along from chapter to chapter, strengthening the interest as it goes, and is just that
kind of story in which novel-readers are likely to take most delight. The character of Tightdraw,
the unscrupulous spider-like lawyer, and his equally unscrupulous clerk, Snigge, are amongst the most
strongly-drawn in the volume, which will probably become popular."  Illustrated Sporting aid
Dramatic News.

"A novel in one portly little volume, moving briskly amongst its well-defined characters, with
incidents diverse and varied in their nature and action, is tolerably sure to be a favourite with
most novel-readers. It is exciting without being morbidly sensational, and never falls into the other
extreme of milk-and-water tameness 'The Felthams' is likely to be popular."  Walter
Plains Illustrated Joiirfial.

"This novel will enchain the reader's attention from the first to the last page."  Brief.

"The story is thoroughly wholesome in tone, at the same time displaying signs of genuine power." 
Public Opinion.

The plot is well sustained throughout, and young and old will find an excellent moral in the tale." 
Weekly Times.

A tale of the present period, full of incidents of a more or less startling character. Some  indeed,
several  of the scenes in the story are powerfully and vividly depicted. The interest in the principal
personages is so well maintained throughout that the reader never tires over the pages of a somewhat
portly volume, and that because its contents are entertaining."  Reynolds's News.

"Among stories of a sensational or melodramatic character 'The Felthams' is entitled to a respectable
place There is good stuff in the book."  Sunday Times.

This is the work of a writer belonging to the school which the productions of Miss Brandon have
made so popular, and in the present instance there is sufficient of mystery and plotting to satisfy the
most exacting, while the details arc so clearly and unobtrusively worked out that the attention of the
reader is secured to the end The novel cannot fail to please all who admire vigorous and
powerful description, accompanied by appropriate and well-written dialogue."  Clcrkcnwell Neivs.

The ' crime ' which figures in the title is far less in both quantity and quality than that which engages
the attention of the readers of lady-novelists' works. The nervous but repressed character of the chief
heroine is thoroughly well drawn A double thread of love-interest runs through the book,
brightening and enlivening it as only such interest can do The young girl, Ellen, is a most
admirable bit of work ; she and the old foster-mother of Ralph stand out with a prominence that may
serve to indicate to Franz where his truest talent lies. The story is clever, interesting, and carefully
worked out."  Sylvia's Home Journal.

"On the whole the work has considerable merit We think it gives good promise of a
future performance. At least two of the characters, those of the lawyer, Mr. Tightdraw, and Mr.
Pelham are well drawn."  Liverpool Albion.

"The interest is well maintained throughout the tale. The judicious .arrangement of so intricate
a plot marks undoubted capabilities for story-telling" 5/rw/<j-/rrt;// Daily Gazette.

"the Felthams' is characterized by some strong and many good points Crime is
contrasted in a very effective way."  Edifibiirgk Daily News.

Franz shows considerable dramatic power There are other characters drawn with a
skilful hand The story is skilfully told, and some smart pieces of character delineation
occur in the book."  North British Daily Mail.

It cannot be said the story is a very pleasant one, though those who delight in fiction of a strong and
exciting kind will probably read it with \n\.ftT&sX " Newcastle Weekly Chronicle.

74, 75, Great Queen Street, London, W.C.

Library Edition. Demy 8vo., doth, price los. 6d. Cheap edition, crown 8vo., price 2S.

Convict Life ; or, Revelations concerning

CONVICTS AND CONVICT PRISONS. By a TICKET-OF-LEAVE MAN.

If only half of the startling disclosures made by this intelligent convict be true, he
has made out a strong case for Government interference."

The author claims to be a good authority on the subject, because he is now a ticket-of-leave man. A
terrible domestic affliction drove him into dissipation, and the end of his madness was that he committed
the crime which made him a convict for seven years. His remarks are exceedingly valuable. He shows
himself to be a man of keen perception, and a good deal of sound common sense, and it is strictly true
that he makes out his case in the majority of the charges which he considers it necessary to bring against
the present convict system. . . . When the ' Ticket-of-leave-Man ' was serving his time, tv. o of his
associates were preparing the details of a plan which threatened ruin to foreign bankers, principally upon
the American continent."  Standard.

Is a very remarkable book. It is written by a person who has had six years' experience of prison life,
so that he writes about his subject with the knowledge that springs from painful familiarity. . It is
unquestionably an able, a suggestive, and powerful book."  Daily Telegraph.

It may, at all events, be said that the author's statements are definite, even painfully minute and
specific; and that many of his suggestions for improvement must commend themselves to the commonsense
of readers. Our prisons, according to the writer, practically corrupt rather than improve their
inmates. It would seem, at least, that the police authorities should be interested in the writer's disclosures."
 Daily News.

The author is evidently a man of good education, and he has contrived to shape his complaints into a
well-written and interesting book. Many strange stories of prison life, and many heartrending details of
progress in crime are given. Like most painful subjects this has its ludicrous side, and one cannot
repress a smile at the 'dodges' which the old hands are 'up to ' in order to avoid work and get into the
infirmary."  Morning Post.

"Wholesale accusations of favouritism and cruelty are brought against warders and governors, and the
most dogmatic opinions are expressed with respect to the whole system of prison discipline. . . . If only
a portion of the revelations are founded on facts, Portland must be a scene of great corruption."  Daily
Chronicle.

Despite the Interesting nature of some of the author's experiences in prison, and although his literary
talents by no means despicable, the affectation of superiority which pervades the narrative is infinitely
irritating. "  Globe.

A ' Ticket-of-leave Man' furnishes some remarkable statements  statements which will be found
exceedingly unpalatable in certain quarters, and not a little alarming in others, and which are given with
.1 vigour of enunciation and absence of reserve which should betoken conviction. There is a strong case
here for further investigation."  AtJienceiim.

The book is not without great value. There can be no excuse for leaving matters as they are. The
classification of criminals, the enforcement of real solitary confinement, and the dismissal of dishonest
officials, offer no difficulty whatever. . . . The suggestions contained in this book are well worth the
consideration of the whole tax-paying public, and will, we trust, obtain the attention they deserve." 
Kxaininer.

There are one or two cases in which he brings charges against certain officers who could be easily
identified, and these charges certainly should be examined into. If they are proved to be false, the
author should be prosecuted for libel, and his book suppressed. If they are proved to be true, he will
have done good service."  Saturday Review.

After the perusal of this volume, we think that the reader will come to the conclusion that, as regards
our prisons, there is much need for reform, that they cost a great deal too much money, and do a great
deal too little good. It is the merit of this book that in it the author shows how persons enter prisons
mere novices in crime, and by the fostering care of a paternal government in these high schools of
rascality, leave it thorough adepts in the arts of thieving."  Litc7-ary World.

The author is, he assures us, a ticket-of-leave man, and his chapters unquestionably indicate an
intimate acquaintance with the inner life of Portland and Dartmoor. His object is to show that our jails
and penal settlements are ' hotbeds of crime ' ; and his facts bearing on this point are startling."  Truth.

What a hell upon earth a convict prison must be ! It would be a wholesome step if the Government
would buy the copyright, print a cheap edition, and distribute the book broadcast throughout the land 
in every counting-house, in every office, in every manufactory', nay, in every school. Assuredly no manor
boy, after reading these pages  more dramatic than any drama, more tragic than any tragedy  would
allow himself even to think of crime."  Whitehall Rei.'iev.

It is powerfully written, and is, we emphatically sap', one of the most startling and terrible works
ever placed before the public. To our thinking, the Ticket-of-Leave Man's words bear marks of
veracity."  Vanity Fair.

"The book may find many readers, for it is as interesting as revelations of crime and prison-life can
well he" Mayfair.

What we most admire is the writer's honesty of purpose."  Brief.

74, 75, Great Queen Street, London, W.C.

Fourth edition, crown 8vo. , boards, price 2S. ; post-free, 2S. 3d.

Marston on Cholera :

Symptoms and Treatment of Malignant Diarrhoea, better known by the name of Asiatic
Cholera, as treated in the Royal Free Hospital during the years 1832-3-4, 1848 and 1854.
By WM. Garden, M.D.

Demy 8vo. ; price is.

Marston on Cancer :

The Treatment of Cancer and Tumours by Chian-Turpentine, Caustics, Excision, and
other Methods. To which is added a Short, Practical, and Systematic Description of all
the Varieties of this Disease, and Remarks on the Nature and Treatment of Ulcers. By
ALEXANDER Garden, M.D., F.R.C.S.

DemySvo., boards, price 2s. ; wrappers, is. 6d.

The Potato Disease, and how to prevent it.

By FREDERICK Lavender, author of " How to Prevent Famines in India," &c.
Demy 8vo., paper covers, price 2s. ; post-free, 2s. 2d.

Mont-Dore (Auvergne), and its Mineral

WATERS, recommended for CONSUMPTION BRONCHITIS ASTHMA. By
DR. EMILE Edmund, Consulting-Physician at the Springs of Mont-Dore.

Crown Svo., cloth, price 3s. 6d. ; post-free, 33. pd.

Snatches of Song.

A Collection of Humorous, Sentimental, and Descriptive Pieces. By F. B. Moreton,
Crown Svo., cloth, price is. 6d. ; post-free, is. 8d.

Searches, a Romance of Athens.

By J. W. WILLIAMS.

Crown 8vo., cloths price is. 6d. ; post-free, is. 8d.

Emilia, a Drama of the Fourth Century.

By J. W.

Demy Svo., paper, price is. ; post-free. Is. il.

Obstructions, Amendments & Elections.

A New Method of dealing therewith. A Rejected Article. Also The Conduct of the
Business of the House. A Rejected Letter.

74, 75, Great Queen Street, London, M.C.

WYMAIV's TECHNICAL SERIES.

Crown 8vo., cloth, price 5s. ; post-free, 5s. 5d.

Printing Machines and Machine Printing

Being a Guide for Masters and Workmen. Containing Valuable Hints in the Selection
of Machines Practical Guide to Making Ready Preparing Cuts Cutting Overlays-rollers
 Useful Hints in Management of all kinds of Printing Machines  Details of the'
Construction of Machines, &c., &c., &c.

Crown 8vo., cloth, price 5s. ; post-free, 5s. 4d.

Stereotyping and Electrotyping:

A Guide for the Production of Plates by the Papier Mace and Plaster Processes. With
Instructions for Depositing Copper by the Battery or by the Dynamo Machine. Also
Hints on Steel and Brass Facing, &c. By FRED. J. WILSON, author of " Printing-machines
and Machine Printing."

Second edition, crown 8vo., cloth, price 5s. ; post-free, 5s. 4d.

The Grammar of Lithography.

A Complete and Practical Guide, for the Artist and Printer, in Commercial and Artistic
Lithography, Chromo-Lithography, Biography, Engraving on Stone, Photo-lithographic,
and Lithographic Machine Printing, with an Appendix containing original
Recipes for preparing Chalks, Inks, Transfer Papers, &c., &c. By W. D. RICHMOND.
The proof-sheets of this work have been revised by some of the most eminent,
men connected with the Art of Lithography, the result being a complete and reliable work.
"Up to the present time there has been no handbook of the art of lithography worthy in any way of
the attention of the practical man, except the English translation of the original treatise of Senefelder
himself. The reproach has now been wiped away, and the trade, as well as amateurs, will ever be
indebted to the enterprise and judgment which have produced this book. It was compiled under circumstances
unusually favourable to accuracy and completeness. The writer, Mr. W. D. Richmond, formerly
a country lithographer, with experience of every class of work, had studied the correlated sciences, such
aschemistrj-, with a view to understand and expound the principles upon which lithography depends.
His manuscript was set up in t>-pe, and proofs forwarded to a number of experts in different departments
men of great technical ability, like Mr. Hansard, and of artistic skill, like Mr. Louis Hague. The
corrections and additions thus gained were considered and incorporated together by the editor of the
Printing Tithes mid Lithographic. If the book be tested in any particular, the great advantage of this
process will be apparent. The Grammar is thorough in every detail ; and, in fact, may be recommended
as a model of a handbook of the kind. "We ought to mention, also, that there are not a few original
methods brought before the trade now for the first time, besides many improvements on previously
known ones. In fact, all that can be imparted relative to the lithographic arts by verbal instruction is
here lucidly and succinctly presented."  Printers' Register.

Biographers and the Printing trade in general are greatly indebted to the care and practical
supervision which have been bestowed upon this work, which may be received as the only complete
handbook of this artistical branch of the Printing business which has yet appeared. The Grammar
is very elaborate and complete, and enters into every necessary detail of the art, together with many
modem improvements as yet but little known. Part I. is confined to drawing, transferring, and Printing ;
Part II. touches machines and machine printing. The book is tastefully got up and excellently printed,
and altogether is most creditable to the firm which has issued it to the trade."  Press News.

In Preparation.

A Glossary of Technical Terms used in

CONNECTION WITH PRINTING MACHINERY, giving upwards of 500 Definitions
of Words and Phrases employed in the Machine-room, together with a Description
of the various Mechanical Motions used in Printing Machinery and its Adjuncts.
Illustrated by numerous carefully-prepared Diagrams. The first Dictionary of Technical
Terms used in the Printing Machine-room which has ever been attempted,

74, 75, Great Queen Street, London, Vic.

WYMAN'S TECHNICAL SERlES-couiinued.

Crown 8vo., cloth, price 2S. 6d. ; post-free, 2S. lod.

Spelling and Punctuation.

A Manual for Authors, Students, and Printers ; together wth a List of Foreign Words
and Phrases in common use and their Explanations. By HENRY BEADNELL,
Printer, author of " A Guide to Typography : Literary and Practical," " A Key to One
of the Main Difficulties of English Orthography," &c.

Second Edition, price 6d. ; post-free, yd.

A Key to one of the Main Difficulties of

ENGLISH ORTHOGRAPHY : Being an Alphabetical Collection of nearly 3,000
Words resembling others in Sound, yet differing in Sense, Spelling, or Accentuation.
Compiled and arranged by HENRY BEADNELL.

Medium 4to., cloth gilt, bevelled boards, price los. 6d, Also Second series, price los. 6d.

The Cabinet Makers' Pattern Book.

First Series. Being Examples of Modern Furniture of the Character mostly in demand,
selected from the Portfolios of the leading Wholesale Makers. To which are added Original
Designs by First-rate Artists, comprising various Designs for Hall Furniture, Library
Furniture, Dining-room Furniture, Drawing-room Furniture, and Bedroom Furniture.
This will be found an invaluable work by the Master Cabinet-Maker and Upholsterer."

Crown 8vo,, cloth, price 4s. ; post-free, 4s. 4d.

The Practical Cabinet-Maker :

Being a Collection of Working Drawings of Furniture, with Explanatory Notes. By
A WORKING MAN.

New Edition, crown 8vo., cloth, price 2s. ; post-free, 2s. 2d.

Workshop Management.

A Manual for Masters and Men, being practical remarks upon the Economic Conduct
of Workshops, Trade Charities, &c. By FREDERIC SMITH.

Crown 8vo., cloth, price 2s. 6d. ; post-free, 2s. 8d.

How to Manage a Steam-engine.

A Handbook for all who use Steam-power. Illustrated with examples of different types
of Engines and Boilers, with Hints on their Construction, Working, Fixing, &c.,
Economy of Fuel, &c. By M. Powys BALE, M.Inst.C.E., author of " Hardworking
Machinery, its Progress and Construction, "

New Edition, crown 8vo., cloth, price is. ; post-free, is. id.

English China and China Marks :

Being a Guide to the Principal Marks found on English Pottery and Porcelain. With
Engravings of upwards of 150 Marks.

Crown 8vo., cloth, price 2s. ; post-free, 2s. 2d.

Professional Book-keeping.

A Treatise for Non-Traders, designed to meet the special requirements of Legal, Medicine,
and similar Professions. By WILLIAM JOHN GORDON.

74, 75, Great Queen Street, London, W.C.

Second Edition, price 2S. 6d., cloth, flush.

The Law of Mutual Life Assurance.

By THOMAS BRETT, Esq., LL.B. (Lord. Univ), of the Middle Temple, ,
late Scholar and Student, Trinity College, Dublin. Reprinted with considerable
additions from the Review of October, 1871. To which are appended full Reports of
the Decisions of Lord Cairns in the Kent Mutual Society's Case, and of Mr. Justice
Fry in Miss Winston's Case in the Winding-up of the Albion Life Assurance Society
&c., &c.
Any one interested in Mutual Life Assurance has a clear, reliable, and comprehensive statement of
the law upon the subject open to him which is a boon at any time, and especially after the decision in
Winston's case."  sidney Market Revisit.

Mr. Justice Lindsey, in his admirable book of the Law of Partnerships, has paid Mr. Brett the
compliment of referring to the present work and correcting his own by it. It supplies a very distinct
and long-felt want in an entirely satisfactory manner. It is a work which we cordially commend to the
attention of all who are interested in assurance societies, and it will certainly become indispensable to
the managers and other officials of such societies."  Birmingham Daily Gazette.

With Illustrations of Furniture Designs and Working Drawings.

Every Saturday, price 4d. Yearly Subscription, including postage, dos. ; Half-yearly, los.

payable in advance.

The Furniture Gazette.

AN ILLUSTRATED WEEKLY JOURNAL, TREATING OF ALL BRANCHES
OF CABINET-WORK, UPHOLSTERY, AND INTERIOR DECORATION,
BOTH AT HOME AND ABROAD.

Art Editor, CHRISTOPHER DRESSER, Ph.D.

INDISPENSABLE TO THE NUMEROUS TRADES CONCERNED.
Useful alike to the Connoisseur, the Antiquary, and the Householder.

The Publishers beg to call the attention of those who are not Subscribers to the
Furniture Gazette to the strong claims of this Journal on the support of all who are interested
in the Furniture, Upholstery, and Decoration Trades.

The Furniture Gazette has completed the Eleventh Volume of the New Series, and
is the recognized organ of the important industries it represents  a fact shown not only
by its continually increasing circulation, but by the steady demand for space both in its
Literary and Advertising Departments.

Neither labour, care, nor expense is spared in the conduct of this Journal to secure
matter of special practical value and interest to its Subscribers. Information carefully
selected as to technical and artistic matters, as well as to the commercial, scientific, and
mechanical branches of the numerous Trades within the province of the Furniture
Gazette, may always be found in its pages. Amongst the subjects thus generally treated
of and watchfully recorded in its columns, the following may be indicated : 
The various Manufactures appertaining to Furniture,
Upholstery, and Decoration, in all their
numerous branches of Wood, Metal, Porcelain,

Woven Fabrics, Paper, &c., with the
Materials, Tools, and Appliances peculiar to
each.

Working Drawings from Practical Authorities.

The state of Home and Foreign Markets,
with a special view to Imports and Exports,
and the fluctuations of Supply and
Demand.

Suggestions for Useful and Attractive Novelties
in Materials and Manufactures.

Recent Patents and Improvements.

Scientific Principles, Inventions, and Discoveries
affecting Manufactures, Materials, or Machinery.


Decorative Works in progress or newly completed,
with careful and accurate Descriptions,
illustrated, where necessary, with
Wood Engravings.

Changes in Fashion, Actual and Prospective.

Ecclesiastical Furniture and Decoration.

Art Exhibitions, Art Schools, and Reports of
Lectures on Art in connection v/ith Furniture
and Upholstery Manufactures.

Current Prices, Trade Reports, Tables of Exports,
and minor Trade Fittings.

Legal and Police Intelligence affecting the represented
Trades. News, Notes, and Comments.
Useful Hints. " Short Ends Corner"
for Workmen. Practical Papers by Practical
Workmen, &c. Correspondence. Answers to
Correspondents, &c.

74, 75, Great Queen Street, London, W.C.

FOURTH YEAR OF PUBLICATION.
Crown 4to., price 2S. 6d., stiff boards.

The Furniture Gazette Diary and Desk-book

FOR 1880.

A complete and useful Office Diary and Desk-book, interleaved with blotting-paper,
adapted to the requirements of the Cabinet, Upholstery, and Decorative Trades throughout
the Country. The Diary contains, in addition to the usual business information, a
carefully-compiled and authentic Directory of the Trades allied to Furnishing, reprinted
from The Furniture Gazette.

"This is a well got-up work. Plenty of space and good paper are given In the diary, the almanac
and tabular matter are carefully compiled, and a useful classified list of the furniture, upholstery, and
allied trades is given."  Building Nczus.

"Ought to be on the desk of every one engaged in any department of the furniture trade. Besides an
excellent diary, with the ordinary general information of such publications, we have a good bibliography) hy
pf furniture and decoration, and a pretty full and classified list of the furniture, upholstery, and allied
trades."  Iron.

Will be found of service to all engaged in the trade to which it specially refers."  Lloyd's Weekly
London Newspaper.

This is a portly quarto volume, containing a mass of special trade information, as well as matter of a
general character" CzVj/ Press.

It contains a mass of useful matter of the nature likely to be required bj the members of the furniture
and allied trades. The diary, which is capitally arranged with regard to probable commercial requirements,
is interleaved with blotting-paper."  Eiiropcan Mail.

This is a well got-up diary, which, besides the usual leaves for writing purposes, contains a large
quantity of useful information on matters of special interest to the trades for whose use it is issued." 
English Mechanic.

"The information part of the work is so concise, liberal of facts, well arranged, and useful;
and the blank, blue blotting-paper interleaved portion, devoted to scribbling, presents so commendable
a surface for the pen, that we wish the Diary * many happy returns,' year by year" Figaro.

"This is a new and useful addition to the stock of publications of its sort. The special information
given by it is indicated by its title."  Weekly Dispatch.

"This is a tastefully got-up business diary, interleaved with blotting paper."  Draper.

It is very tastefully got up, and should find favour with the extensive trades for which it is Intended."
Timber Trades' Journal.

"We have no hesitation in saying that It Is a very useful work."  Builders' Weekly Reporter.

So far as we can judge of the requirements of those engaged In the several trades in whose behalf It
has been issued, it is likely to become a popular annual."  Wakefield and West Riding Herald.

It is well got up, is interleaved with blotting-paper, and contains a great deal of useful information.
Warehoieseinan attd Drapers' Trade Jo7(fnal.

This is one of the completest trade diaries and almanac we have seen for some time. Besides
containing all the information common to a first-class almanac, it is a directory to the furniture trade.
To our Bethnal-green readers, now the furniture manufacturers for half the world, it will be invaluable."
Eastern A rus and Retinal Green Times.

"Irrespective of the valuable information contained in this annual, through which it is a veritable
manual for the furniture and cabinet trades, it is one of the best diaries of the day for the general public.
Excellent paper with interleaved ' blotting,' and lots of room, are its characteristics" //ac<y/ and
Kingsland Gazette.

The diary and almanac is most creditable to the enterprise and public spirit of the publishers. It
will be found exceedingly useful" F/tr/r Northern Ensign.

Issued in Monthly Parts during the Session. Price 2s. 6d. to Non-Members.

Transactions of the Ethnological Society

OF GREAT BRITAIN.

Communications for the Editor of the " Transactions" to be addressed under cover to
the Publishers,

Messrs. Wyman & Sons, 74 & 75, Great Queen Street, London, W.C.

74, 75, Great Queen Street, London, Msf.C.

A CONTEMPORARY HISTORY OF THE WORLD.

Brief: the Week's News.

AN EPITOME OF THE PRESS FOR THE HOME CIRCLE, TRAVEL
Less. AND RESIDENTS ABROAD.



Published in "Weekly Numbers, price Twopence ; and in Half Yearly Volumes,
Vol. I., cloth gilt, price 10s. Vols. II. to V., cloth gilt, 8s. each.

Volumes I. to V. embrace the period from November 1877, to June, 1880.

These Volumes form a popular summary of the sayings and doings of the time, a I
short record of all noteworthy events, and a compendium of the manifold wit and'
wisdom of the entire press. A careful Index being published with each volume, they are
most valuable as Works of Reference, and indispensable additions to all well-appointed
libraries. ,

EVERYBODY'S WEEKLY PAPER.

Every Friday, price 2d, Ann. Sub. (in advance), los. lod., post-free.

Brief: The Week's News.

An Epitome of the Press, for the Home Circle, Travellers, and Residents Abroad.

Brief: The Week's News is a Popular Summary of the Sayings and Doings of the
Current Week ; a short Record of Noteworthy Events ; a Compendium of the manifold
Wit and Wisdom of the entire Press ; and a useful, handy Repertory of Facts, Dates,
and Opinions, ready for future easy reference.

Brief: The Week's News aims to be a Journal alike for the busy and the idle ; for
him who has not time for much reading, and for him who has not inclination to read
much ; so that, without the labour of turning to one publication after another of the
periodical Press, the reader of but slender leisure may, almost at a glance, keep himself
abreast of all passing events, and fairly informed on all the questions of the day.

Brief: The Week's News is a necessary outcome of our very busy age. Brevity in
speech and writing has become a necessity rather than a luxury. Multum in faro is
everywhere the order of the day. Condensation and compression meet us on all sides.
And as in the material world, so in our literature. The hydraulic press is applied to the
Press. Packing, not padding, is sought. It is the age of glances and glimpses ; of terse
phrases ; of the news of the day " in a word ;" of only half-hours with even the best
authors ; of French in four lessons, and all things in manuals. Letters have dwindled
down to notes and memos, to p>ostcards and telegrams.

Brief: The Week's Nexus, presenting the Press compressed  concentrated essence of
Press, in fact  giving a bird's-eye view of the contents of many Journals ; marshalling
together the different opinions of various Leaders of National Thought ; impartially
representing all Parties and Schools of Politics, Literature, Science, and Art, must appeal
to a very large number readers, and, while indispensable to many, prove acceptable to all;
Brief: The Week's News offers to the Advertiser at once a wide range and a
long succession of the most eligible readers  not only in England, but also in the
Colonies, India, and in all Countries where the English language is spoken.
As a companion to the press, Brief: the IVcek's Nc7os deserves the highest praise."  Daily Chronicle.
"This well-conducted journal, giving as it does the opinions of the leading newspapers on the important
topics of the day, together with a good summary of the chief events occurring, forms a handy
record."  City Press.

Brief: the Week's Ne7vs is the title of a weekly newspaper which gives a capital summary of intelligence,
and the work is so well done that those wishing to have a record of current history could scarcely
do better than obtain it regularly."  Hampshire Advertiser.

"In its half-yearly as well as its weekly form, Brief: the Week's News is an excellent epitome of
everything worth recording. It is the best edited and epitomised paper of its kind ever issued. We
commend it strongly to public notice as well entitled to patronage, from its general utility and the facility
it gives for reference to matters of the past."  Brighton Examiner.

74, 75, Great Queen Street, London, W.C.

The Printing Times and Lithographer.:

A Technical and Fine-Art Journal, devoted to Typography, Lithography, and the Reproductive
Arts.

The Printing Times and Lithographer is a medium of communication between all
who are associated with the Art of Printing in its manifold forms. Having no separate
interests to serve, it is not the organ of any one class or trade, but deals with every topic
impartially and fearlessly. It has gained a high reputation for the great value and interest
of its contents. Writers of experience and special knowledge are its contributors ;
while gentlemen well known in the Scientific and Art World co-operate with the conductors
to render the Journal a complete and authoritative exponent of the current progress
of the Graphic Arts.

All new Works of interest to the Printing Profession receive an early and impartial
criticism. Especial attention continues to be paid to the new modes of Automatic
Engraving which are constantly being introduced in Great Britain and Abroad ; and
illustrations of their capabilities, with details of their practical working, are given.

Amongst the many subjects treated of are the Press, as it is affected by the restrictions
placed upon it from time to time by Government Departments, &c. ; the Law of Copyright
as it affects Newspaper Proprietors, Authors, Publishers, Type-Founders, &c. ; the
advances made in the Art of Printing ; the production of New Publications ; an account
of all New Inventions ; a chronicle of Passing Events ; the management and progress of
the various Trade Charities ; the operations of Workmen's Unions and Combinations
among Manufacturers, &c. Its pages are open to the free discussion of all questions
upon which its readers may desire to interchange opinions by way of Correspondence.

The Printing Times and Lithographer derives its information from, and circulates in,
all parts of the World ; and no pains are spared to ensure the accuracy of its intelligence,
and to render it in every respect worthy the support of Biographers, Letterpress Printers,
Artists, Antiquaries, and Literary Men generally.

Being a thoroughly-establislied Journal  one which is both carefully read and preserved
 and possessing a large and increasing circulation at Home and Abroad, the
Printing Times and Lithographer presents an exceptionally good medium for the publication
of the Announcements and Advertisements of Type Founders, Printers' Engineers,
Inventors, Manufacturers, and of all who are associated with the Art of Printing in its
various branches.

Published on the 15th of each Month. Price 6d. Annual Subscription (payable in
advance), 7s. 6d. post-free.

THIRD YEAR OF PUBLICATION.
Crovm 4to., price 2s. 6d., stiff boards.

The Printing Trades' Diary and Desk-book

FOR 1881.

The Printing Trades' Diary and Desk-book for 1881 is compiled with a view to meeting
the everyday requirements of Principals, Overseers, and Managers, connected with the
Letterpress Printing, Lithographic, Stationery, Bookbinding, and Auxiliary Trades. In
addition to the usual General, Commercial, and Legal Information, it will contain : 
A Diary, three days on a page, interleaved with Blotting-paper ; the London Compositors'
Scales of Prices for News and Bookworm, Revised and Annotated ; Abstracts of the
Scottish and Provincial Scales of Prices ; an Epitome of the Law of Libel and Copyright,
as affecting Printers and Newspaper Proprietors ; Tables for the Printers' Warehouse,
relating to the Sizes and giving out of Paper, Cardboard, &c. ; Tables for the Storeroom,
the Economy of Types, Materials, &c. ; Various Useful Forms, Recipes, Memoranda,
S:c. &c. Merely elementary information is avoided, as the aim of the compilers
is to present, in a convenient and accessible form, only useful matter, which, gift the course
of his ordinary occupation, the master tradesman may at any time require. All the
Reference Tables have been carefully compiled, and the Recipes actually tested.

74, 75, Great Queen Street, London, Wag.

Second Edition, crown 4to., price is. ; post-free, is. id.

Wyman's Dictionary of Stationery and

COMPENDIUM OF USEFUL INFORMATION.
For the Office, Counting-house, and Library.

FOURTEENTH YEAR OF PUBLICATION.

PRICE SIXPENCE. PUBLISHED IN OCTOBER OF EACH YEAR,
In an Illuminated Wrapper, beautifully printed in Old-Style Type, on Toned Paper,

Everybody's Year-book for 1881.

A Useful and Popular Annual, containing Something for Everybody all the Year Round.

The Cheapest and Best Gift-book of the Day.

C02srT:E]IsrTS :

Fixed and Movable Festivals ; Holidays at the Public Offices ; Date of Creation of some
Festivals ; Jewish Calendar ; Mahometan Calendar ; Law Sittings ; Law Terms ; University
Terms ; Eclipses ; Transfer and Dividend Days ; An Almanac and Calendar of the Events of the
Year ; Story of the months ; Age of the Moon ; Rising and Setting of the Sun ; Time of High
Water at London Bridge ; Phases of the Moon ; Things to be borne in Mind ; Astronomical Notes
of the Month ; Table of High Water at nearly 200 of the principal Ports ; A Perpetual Almanac
for finding the Day of the Month ; Table for Calculating Interest ; Family Ready-Reckoner ;
Interest Table ; Tables of the Sovereigns of England and Scotland ; The Royal Family ; Sovereigns
of Europe ; The National Debt ; Archbishops and Bishops of the Established Church ; Supreme
Court of Judicature ; Her Majesty's Ministers and Chief Officers of State ; Her Majesty's Household
; H.R.H. The Prince of Wales's Household ; Her Majesty's Privy Council ; Lords Lieutenant
of Counties in the United Kingdom ; Officers of the Houses of Parliament ; British and Foreign
Ambassadors ; Consulate Offices in London ; Metropolitan County Courts ; Assessed Taxes ; Stamp
Duties ; Corporation of the City of London ; School Board for London ; Metropolitan Board of
Works ; Bank of England ; London Banks ; Cab Regulations ; Postal Information ; English Weights
and Measures ; How to make your Will ; Distribution of Intestate Estates ; Languages and
Alphabets ; Prevailing Winds ; Money and Coinage ; Foreign Moneys and their English Equivalents
; French Weights and measures ; The Sportsman's Calendar ; Multum-in-Parvo Guide to the
Principal Places of Amusement and Chief Points of Interest in London and its Suburbs; List of
the Principal London Restaurants ; List of Seaside Resorts ; Mode of Addressing Persons of Rank ;
The Ball Room Guide ; and a large amount of Information Useful to Everybody AH the Year Round.

Most people will invest sixpence in ' Everybody's Year-Book for 18S0 ' when they see it, for it is full
of information, admirably printed, and just the book to have by you."  Whitehall Review.

A practical work of general interest."  Daily Chronicle.

Contains a vast amount of interesting matter" Weekly Tithes.

It should be in every household."  Brighton E.vaviiner.

Contains a large amount of matter of a varied and interesting character."  Edinburgh Courant.

Affords a very large amount of ' information for everybody'"  Reynolds s Newspaper.

The book should be in the hands of every one."  The Walsall Free Press.

Is replete with information on a great variety of subjects."  ]V at erf ord Daily Mail.

It includes a large amount of miscellaneous information, in addition to the customary and necessary
almanac matter, and will be found handy for reference on a great variety of subjects. A copious index
makes reference easy."  Halifax Courier.

"Is a useful and popular annual, with much curious and miscellaneous information" .S"r/a Times.

Its contents are more useful, more closely packed, and better arranged than ever. The amount and
variety of information embodied in the pages of the annual are well fitted to maintain and extend its
popularity."  Edinburgh Daily Review.

*j* OzoitJg to the constant demand for complete sets, the Publishers will be happy to exchange
the current issue of Everybody's Year-book for copies of Everybody's Year-book for 1874.

74, 75, Great Queen Street, London, W.C.

3 0112 041680155
