CHAPTER I.

lobby's circus,

'AGE

I

CHAPTER II.

ALONE IN THE WORLD,

CHAPTER III.

MR FACULTY FOGG ADDRESSES THE OUTCAST,

CHAPTER IV.

THE MYSTERY OF STAPLEFIELD HALL,

CHAPTER V.

CAPTAIN LEONARD MALLANDAINE VISITS TH
COTTAGE, .

CHAPTER VI.

THE AVENGER OF DISHONOUR,









CHAPTER VII.

PACK

THE FIRST KISS OF LOVE, . . . .96

CHAPTER VIII.

THE LOSS OF A DIAMOND NECKLACE, . . . Its

CHAPTER IX.

NELLIE'S POSITION IMPROVES, . . . . 14I

CHAPTER X.

THE ACCOMPLICE IN A CRIME, . . . . 156

CHAPTER XL

THE FOOTPRINTS IN CUT-THROAT LANE, . . 178

CHAPTER XII.

THE LIVING SHADOW, . . . . . 185

CHAPTER XIII.

Digger's ADVICE, . . . . . I98

CHAPTER XIV.

THE NEW GROOM, . . . . . dio

CHAPTER XV.

A CRUEL VENGEANCE, . . . . . 231

CHAPTER I.
lobby's circus.

There be some with serpent eyes,
Hearted like the snake which Thes
Cold beneath warm summer skies.'

'AIN everywhere. Nothing but
rain. It had fallen for days
and weeks in dreary, drizzling
showers, so that people talked of
fine weather and sunshine as if they belonged
to another planet, and had naught in common
with this earth of ours.

The inhabitants of the little village of
Brooksmere, a secluded spot in the pastoral
county of Devonshire, shook their heads,
thinking of the troubles and losses of the

VOL. I. A

"

agriculturalists, the prospect of a bad harvest,
the ruin of the hay crops, the blight of the
hops, the bad state of trade, and the miserable
season.

When would this unfortunate rain cease ?
It descended in sluggish unconcern for the
welfare of those whose fortunes it was destroying.
It soaked the lanes and fields,
and from drenching the hawthorns in May,
it spoilt the corn in September.

Some wiseacres in the Brooksmere village
declared that two planets were nearer the
sun than usual ; others foretold a great wave
of heat that would speedily reduce us all to
the pleasant condition of cinders.

Bishops and priests had prayers offered
up in their churches and chapels for fine
weather, with very little result save a few
fierce Promethean storms.

It was now falling, this pitiless rain, on
the sixteen golden cars and limp, if glorious,
flags comprising a portion of Lobby's magnificent
and world-renowned Imperial Circus,
that was about to entertain the villagers
of Brooksmere with a performance to last
three days only.'

It was dropping on the sixteen golden cars
in which the animals were being conveyed
to their destination in a wet corner of the
common called ' Mad Acre End.' It angered

the elephants, giving violent influenza
to the ' Baby a mild young party
called Alonzo, shaping later on to be a very
promising specimen of elephantine artistic
training. Even the tigers looked on more
sulkily than usual at their damp bars, and a
very magnificent lion, ' Marengo,' one of the
leading attractions of ' Lobby's Imperial
Circus,' had been heard to cough in a more
distressingly consumptive manner than altogether
favoured the hope of his obtaining
longevity.

The dead leaves were strewing the road
in little fluttering heaps as the sixteen cars
passed onwards. The band tried to be lively,
and with the aid of a cornet, gave several
weird and unearthly variations on an air resembling
' Grandfather's Clock,' for the sixteen
cars, with their long-tailed horses and
well-trained ponies, and numerous employs
were bound to pass on their way, if not exactly
rejoicing, at least with outward philosophical
precision and serenity.

Among the women who formed more or
less star artistes and astronomical luminaries
of the great circus was one pre-eminent above
all in daring, if not in grace. She had beauty
of the full-blooded kind, however, that gives
redness to the cheeks and thickness to the
skull ; the same, we may see, that the great

Flemish painter delighted in  a gross, boneless,
unintellectual order of loveliness.

A curious woman, this Madame Juanita,
tall of stature, with a somewhat broad waist,
that had of late proved fatal to the grace of
her equestrian performances, features well-cut
and regular, a cold, crafty smile, a harsh and
cruel mouth. She was Spanish, and had the
low, retreating forehead of the south, suggesting
heavy ignorance and dulness; there might
be fire in her large dark eyes, but it was not
lit from the soul. The fire was kindled by
spite or passion, or ignoble triumph. Her
hair was jet black, waxed and gummed to
perfection  she always wore it neatly plaited
and plastered down, and if it were not quite
so clean as it might have been, it shone as
nicely as well-polished ebony.

A sensualist might have pronounced her
charming  a fine woman. ' Ah, belle femme I '
for, as regards the senses, we invariably like
those who resemble ourselves, and a wife is,
or ought to be, the counterpart of her spouse.

This was Juanita Dalton, the circus master's
wife, and the protectress of Nellie
Raymond.

The sixteen cars were now encamped on
that delightful corner of the common called
Mad Acre End,' and Madame Juanita was
helping herself to huge slices of a well-baked

grouse pie, to which she seemed to be doing
ample justice.

The tents were pitched, the rain defied, the
lions were roaring, the clown was feeding his
motherless baby in one of the stalls set apart
for the Chesterfield colt  a superb stallion
that Jack Dalton advertised had been presented
to him by the Emperor of China 
when Nellie passed along by the Arabian
horse's hoofs and approached Ludovico  the
assumed name of the clown  a reckless,
good-hearted fellow. His real cognomen
was Ben Morton.

Nellie's form, height, and complexion
were of the purest* English type. Picture a
clear, oval face, a broad and candid forehead,
shaded in with an abundance of brown curls,
touched here and there with burnished gold,
falling about a pair of shoulders and small,
exquisitely modelled bust. There was nothing
solid, prim, or majestic in her girlish figure ;
it seemed rather to have been cramped and
starved in extreme childhood, so that maturity
must arrive late, or as if the childish
eyes had waited so long for happiness to
come into them that the often repressed tears
had gathered into a cloud, and gave that
mournful look to the iris.

Touches of rare sweetness and feeling
came and went about the lips, and softened

the lines of the mouth that was so chiselled
by nature's master-hand, it seemed made for
kisses. Full, rather pouting lips that took
away the peculiar spirituality of the brow,
gave Nellie the appearance of possessing
more materialism and liveliness than the
thoughtful, wearied expression indicated at a
first glance.

You seem very fond of the baby,' Nellie
said, as she watched Ludovico dip a
leaden spoon in some sopped bread and
milk.

The clown was always puzzled by Nellie's
ways and looks and manner of speech.
She never swore or drank, or made love to
any one. There was no leer in her large
dark blue eyes, with their modest luminance.

Why shouldn't I be fond of him, bless his
little 'part ? ' the clown remarked, his left
eye straying towards the open tent where
Madame Juanita was licking both the inside
of the platter and her own dusky fingers
alternately.

Nellie sat down on a rough and hastily
manufactured manger apportioned to the
Chesterfield colt, that gentlemanly but eccentric
stallion not having yet put in an appearance,
and having been a little awkward
and aggressive on the road, had broken a
stationers large plate-glass window, and

kicked a well-meaning crossing-sweeper and
his broom into a drain.

I never remember any one being kind tome,
Ludovico,' Nellie said after a pause ;
not even when I was quite a little girl. I
do so often wonder who I am, and where my
father and mother are.'

Oh, my dear, wot can that matter now ?
It's wot we do at the present which signifies.
I essays you came out of a union,' said
Ludovico, lifting his thin, bloodless hand,
and shaking the baby to make it the better
swallow a piece of soaked crust, ' or mebbe
one of yer parents was 'hung.'

I can only remember Madame Juanita all
these long years. She gave me my first
lessons on the tight-rope, and the marks of
the rope she thrashed me with, because I fell
twice, made me learn to count my numbers
up to ten. That was how I first learnt
figures. There were two other acrobats
besides me. One died. I wished, oh, how
I wished, it had been me.'

Poor child,' said the clown, ' wishing ain't
no good. For instance, you might be afraid
o' performing' with Herebus and Don Pedro
in public. I sees ye among 'em plucky
enough when we are by ourselves, but we'd
'ave to do it, Nellie, straight away, if you
was ordered. We'd wish and wish Madame

Juanita might die, and never beat you anymore,
and never want ye to show yourself
to a big audience with Herebus and Don
Pedro, but wishing won't  '

Nellie sprang from the manger, every trace
of listlessness and indifference in her manner
at an end.

Ludovico, don't say it  don't say she
means to make me perform with the tigers,
because my breath comes and goes so quickly,
and my heart beats, and their eyes will seem
to have a different meaning then, and oh,
Ludovico, I am afraid  '

Why, Nell, my gal, afraid ? That's a
pretty word for our best and boldest rider.
The Chesterfield colt ain't here, and so  '

It isn't the horses nor the ponies that I
mind, and I'd trust the lions  they're blind
and old and tame, but there's something in
the others, in their very movements and
their walk, even when they crouch, so fierce
and untameable that I dread, and they know
it. They're waiting for me  they will kill
me.'

She's but a girl,' said Ludovico. ' It's
natural, and they're ugly beasts. I'm clean
again' such tricks and performances, Nellie.

I remember seeing two pictures long ago
in a shop window in Regent Street, which
gave me this bad turn, and set me against

the business,' said Nellie, her voice trembling.
' One was the picture of a place,
something like our circus, except that fine
ladies and gentlemen were all in boxes
around, and somebody had dropped a rose
near the lions, and a girl in white went into
pick it up ; but that picture didn't upset
me like the other, for I'd have done the
same.'

Nellie now waved her arm in the air to
give better effect to her words.

This other picture was like a circus, too ;
but it made my blood curdle in my veins to
look at it. There were lions and tigers, just
like ours, but they were fierce and savage
beasts from the deserts, and they were mangling
human forms ; bones lay about, arms and
hands wrenched and torn. A beautiful girl,
with her hands tied, afforded a meal to one ;
an old man, with white hair, for another, and
I shrieked out all of a sudden, Ludovico  I
don't know why  I'd never seen a picture of
our animals before, and I never quite knew
their nature, but a horror of the circus seized
me. A young gentleman who was passing
watched me. He was very kind, for when I
fainted he took me safely home in a cab. I
was always seeing that beautiful young girl,
and the blood on the tiger's tusks, even in
my dreams. It gave me an illness. No, I

will never perform in public with Erebus
and Don Pedro. Never at the bidding of
a woman I hate  '

Nellie Raymond, come here ! '

It was Madame Juanitas voice.

Is this a nursery?' she said, with a dry, bitter
curl of the lip, addressing the clown. ' Is
there nothing better for you to do than dawdle
and feed a brat, and idle your time away witty
Nellie '. And now, miss, a word with you.'

She carried a small riding-whip in her hand,
which she brought down several times in succession
on Nellie's white shoulders.

Thus much for your idleness. So you
hate me, do you ?'

Long repressed rebellion and pain forced
angry words from Nellie's lips.

She wheeled round on her tyrant, and
clasped her slender hands,

1 do hate you ! A crueller mistress, a
more barbarous woman  a greater fiend inhuman
shape cannot exist.'

Hush, Nellie, hush,' another voice here
cried, coming behind them. ' It's only
bilious spite, child.'

This was Lepelletier, a ' character,' a mesmerist,
a man of science, deemed half mad or
crazed by the troupe the fortunes of which he
had never shared, having merely travelled
with them for a caprice.

You hear her ?' cried madame, addressing
Lepelletier.

The scene had still a curious eastern tone.
Madame Juanita was of herself a picture, with
the sullen rage on her heavy brows.

I will not stay with you,' said Nellie
more quietly. * Why not leave the very
hardest lot fate could deal one ?'

Excellent,' said the mesmerist. ' That Is
logic. The girl has reason ; dearest Juanita,
be patient.'

He laid his hand on her shoulder.

Nellie, now looking up, saw a man, hardly
taller than herself, his features suffused with
fury. This was a Cuban, Ferrara by name,
part manager of the circus ; Dalton's bosom
friend, money-lender, and ally.

Lepelletier, stepping back, also saw this
savage face, dark and swarthy with passion.
Madame Juanita, true coquette and type of
her race, gloried in the Cuban's fury. It was
purely physical, and to her taste.

Why do you touch her shoulder ?' the
Cuban hissed.

Ah, Ferrara, is it you ?' said the mesmerist,
lightly.

He subjugated the tyrant Juanita mentally,
the other by sheer brute force.

Yes, It is I, and some day you will answer
for this with your life.'

Madame Juanita smiled.

Alon ange said Lepelletier, disregarding
the Cuban's words, believe me, you look
handsomer in your rage ; in correcting this
rebellious girl just now, that narrow, yet ivory
brow seemed to expand with hate and wrath.
You were superb, brutal, destructive, but when
you smile you may look elated and content,
but commonplace  believe me, commonplace.
You perceive how I cherish your glances,
actions, and tones.'

Tzi est bite' cried Madame Juanita, who
was just then more in the mood to appreciate
the attentions of Ferrara ; she turned and left
the stable with him.

Lepelletier now glanced at Nellie. She
had understood the subtle contempt in his
voice.

The mesmerist scrutinised the girl more
closely.

I suppose you believe that the time has
come for you to strike for liberty,' he said,
addressing her suddenly.

Yes,' said Nellie stolidly, ' I mean to go.'

And if caught and again caged, remember
you are hers by the law as much as she is
Dalton's by marriage. You were apprenticed
to her, you are her slave,  nearly as
much so as any African bought of old in the
market. She has fed and clothed you for

years, given you her protection,  I see by
the curl of that pretty Hp it has not pleased
you,  had you instructed in a profession
which, if not one of the noblest and most
elevating, will provide you with means of
living, and yet you are ungrateful.'

I will leave her,' said Nellie, half distracted
with doubts and fears. ' I will go to
a magistrate, show him some of her blows,
tell him of her vices, her lawless  '

Bah ! An employer may chastise her
apprentice when she sees fit, and a magistrate
is not a Lycurgus or a Solon. You
have no case. You are not particularly
starved-looking, or pale, or withered. This
arm is plump, so also is the neck and throat.
Stay and endure your lot.'

Lepelletier seemed amused with the quivering
lights and shades passing so quickly in
succession over Nellie's features.

So you don't admire Madame Juanita ?
That superb, that majestic form, imperial asa
Juno or Lucretia, inspires you with no
admiration ; the neatly-dressed ebon hair
(yours is, I see, very straggling and untidy ;
but you English girls, if clean, are so careless),
glossy as one of the tiger's coats, never
makes you envious of her superior trimness,
  never makes you see the superiority of
her charms over yours, you poor, tender,

romantic, unformed child ! Think of those
chiselled features,  the flashing teeth, the
red cheeks, the coquettish dimples, and
then say, Nellie, whether I, as a sometime
favoured admirer, do not run a serious risk
of meeting my death at the hands of the
amorous Cuban ? '

Monsieur Lepelletier, why do you stay
with us ? ' said Nellie. ' Your life must be
detestable.'

Du tout! he answered. ' See, then, I am
forty-five, and am the heir to a marquisate.
I have lived, like all Frenchmen, with beautiful
disregard of fine codes, and then I fall
in love. I am mad, wretched, impassioned ;
I am a gambler and mesmerist, and come to
a circus instead of a madhouse, because there
is change, freedom, excitement, and beauty.
Think of madame ! My dear child, she is
calling for you at this very moment.'

He turned to draw a cigarette from his
pocket, lighted it, and nodding farewell to
Nellie, sauntered towards a caravan of
panthers.

He will not stretch out a helping hand,'
murmured the girl ; ' he is as heartless as
the rest'

ALONE IN THE WORLD.

She whose nude shoulders and long golden hair,
Slow cradled by the undulating tide,
Shone in the early sunlight of the dawn.'

and

Madame JUANITAwas not alone
when Nellie obeyed her summons
and entered the tent. The
Cuban sat writing at a little table,
madame was engaged in melting down
some fresh gum and wax for her hair, the
rain having soaked through a light wicker
basket in which she carried the various aids
and appliances set apart for her peculiar
beauty, and spoilt the contents of a neat-looking
little pot, over the destruction of
which she heaved some deep and tragic sighs.
Nellie looked very youthful and fair in
her timid hesitation and rich, varying colour,
as she entered the tent. The weals on her
white neck were still there, bright red lines

swollen above the surface of the skin ; but
there was something new in her expression
to be read even by such a mere animal as
Madame Juanita. Dulness and ignorance
have often keen instincts. Madame swore
a few brutal oaths to herself in Spanish as
she summoned Nellie to her side.

You called me ? ' said Nellie, indifferently.

'Insolent!' muttered the Spaniard, fanning
herself ' Do you forget who you are
speaking to ? '

The girl had no physical fear of any thing
created. Her dread lay deeper than this ;
for she had learnt to shrink from the malice
of that severe and vindictive eye, the perfidious
leer, the intelligence of the low,
narrow forehead. How could she contend
against the low forces of the small, cramped
mind  the invisible agency of characteristics
beyond her ken ?

Madame Juanita had turned her short
neck round very rapidly as she addressed
Nellie, and the hectoring tone she invariably
adopted increased in fury. The Cuban
lifted his head and glared at Nellie with
marked displeasure.

M. Lepelletier, still smoking his cigarette
outside, lounged towards the tent, smiling,
and unperceived by those inside, listened to
every word.

It Isn't likely I should forget that,' said
Nellie, her lip quivering.

She was naturally nervous and excitable.
The flame of her rage and impulse
was dying out, leaving her cold again.

Are you aware that you will perform in
public to - night with Erebus and Don
Pedro ? ' asked the Spaniard, In measured
tones.

Nellie turned deadly pale, and griped
the edge of the table. A sullen glance of
triumph In this mute agony was read by
Nellie, and rekindled the flame. Walking
towards to her torturer, she said, clearly and
distinctly, 

I wish to leave the circus to-night, and
I will.'

She set her teeth hard. Madame's triumphant
glance died out in malice.

You will, will you ? Pretty words ! 
nice temper ! *

Nellie shrank back a little, partly from
habit ; but her mettlesome heart soon conquered
the timidity engendered by long ill-usage.
She went on now quite calmly, 

This is England. It is a free land ; and
I lead a dog's life. Soon it will kill me. I
do not wish to die, for I am young. I have
worked years for you without wages, often
without food. Now you seek to murder me,

VOL. I. B

and I will not stay ; you may find another
apprentice.'

The changes in madame's face grew still
darker and more tragic as Nellie spoke.
That free, wild spirit of the wretched girl
addressed her in a new fashion. If it was
English it was very strange ; it must be
crushed.

 I only wish you were an animal gasped
Madame Juanita. 'How I'd pay you out
then ! Santa Madonna ! '

She took down a powerful horsewhip
hanging above her head, and cracked it two
or three times in an ominous manner in the
air, and still the colour rose brighter in
Nellie's cheeks, and a furious fire burnt in
her ever mournful eyes.

Only let her touch me,' thought Nellie ;
she shall find her match at last'

You will not take Erebus and Don Pedro
into the circus ? You decline to obey me 
you, my apprentice, bought with good gold
when you were a whining brat ! '

Her fury here nearly choked her, and the
lash of the whip just touched Nellie's golden-brown
curls.

Without an instant's hesitation the girl
rushed up to her, wrenched the weapon from
her hand, bent it on the ground, broke it
into three separate pieces, and threw them at

her. She was sobbing with passion, her look
quite wild and overwrought.

Lepelletier now advanced a step. He had
been a witness of the whole proceedings.

Devilish plucky little thing !' he muttered,
and lit a fresh cigarette.

The Cuban had thrown down his pen, and
running up to Nellie, seized her hands, and
tried, but ineffectually, to tie them behind
her back.

Strange to say, Madame Juanita was now
calm and controlled. She was laughing
under her breath  not pleasantly, but with
the sort of mirth we might suppose a well-fed
boa-constrictor might indulge in when
looking at a lamb, and too lazy to descend
the tree to kill.

I think we had better leave her alone,'
said Madame Juanita, as Nellie's breast
heaved and fell.

Like all tyrants and bullies, she was a
coward.

Nellie now advanced again to the Spaniard,
the tone of her voice harsher and more
metallic.

I told you that I wished to leave the
circus to-night, and I will ; but I have changed
my mind about the tigers. I will undertake
to promise the public a fine entertainment 
rare sport  excitement, novelty, sensation !

Oh, great heaven, that it must only end one
way !'

She sank down on her knees, her hands
clasped, the autumnal light on her features,
the rain still dripping on the canvas of the
tents with incessant downpour.

This is carrying blackness too far,*
muttered Lepelletier. ' I will not allow this
girl with her nimbus of golden-brown hair
to be mangled like a martyr. I must try
and find her a home.'

Juanita,' now called a voice from a distant
tent, ' do you know what time it is ? Why,
in another hour the performance will begin.
Nellie Why, where's Nell ? '

It was Jack Dalton who spoke, patting the
arched neck of the Chesterfield colt, which
slashed out its hind legs and tried to make
its white teeth brand the circus-master's
muscular arm.

Ain't he a pretty villain ! ' asked Dalton,
his hat on one side. ' Oh, beautiful ! Look
at his points ; there ain't a 'horse in any living
equestrian troupe and variety entertainment
in all England as '11 beat him.

The magnificent Juanita, her scowling
brows as dark as night, now approached the
Chesterfield colt, passing her hand first over
his hocks and then fetlocks, like a professional
vet.

I think you better let me ride him,' she
said, meaningly. * I know I carry flesh, but
I'm not yet cursed with no more figure thana
sponge, and he wants riding, yes, and my
fancy bit. I tell you what, Jack,' she continued,
winking her eye, which indeed gave
it a very diabolical twist  it was of the
large, well-opened, indolent kind  ' Nellie's
one too many for us ; she flew at me today,
and broke a horsewhip into pieces, and
threw them into my face.'

You allays was a deuced sight too 'ard
on the girl. Ain't she a-going' to appear ?
She draws, there's no denying' it  just seventeen
 and that gold-brown 'air, it's worth
anything over white muslin. I 'ope Nell
won't cut the pro  '

Obstinate and insolent little minx ! '

Madame Juanita hated this praise ; it was
gall and wormwood to her vanity.

But she'll go to Pontett's troupe if she
leaves us. Pontett '11 bid double ; he'll keeper
in clover, I tell ye, and d'ye think Nellie's
such a fool as to stay to be whipped by
you ?'

Madame Juanita found these questions
unanswerable. She returned to her tent and
prepared her toilet for the evening, and then 
some strong, black coffee, swallowing grounds
and all in her anger.

Meanwhile, Nellie, on her knees before a
little trunk, was looking over some articles
relics and presents, maybe, but all of a
simple, humble sort  a sticky valentine, sent
years ago by a young lover, a boy rider,
who had loved her, and died of a heavy
fall.

Poor Artie ! ' the girl muttered, ' he was
very good to me ; he used to talk of the
time when we should both be grown-up, and
could be married. I remember how he died
alone in the garret, holding my hand.'

She kissed the valentine softly, and replaced
it in the trunk. Turning round, she
saw Jack Dalton, the circus-master. Her
neck and arms were bare, for she was in
the midst of dressing for her performance
with the tigers, but superfine feelings of
bashfulness were never encouraged in the
circus. Nellie did not blush ; why should
she ? She looked upon the brawny-armed,
muscular Jack Dalton as a semi-guardian and
protector.

Got the miserable, 'ave you, little Nell ? '
he said thoughtfully. ' So you've quarrelled
with Juanita. Well, she is a brute, I know
it  who better ? '

She is your wife, sir,' Nellie ventured to
remark.

And don't I know that to my cost, too ?

What an armful, but a fine woman, eh,
Nell?'

Yes, sir,' Nellie responded indifferently,
preparing to curl her hair, prior to donning
her muslin frock.

She was thinking of the picture in Regent
Street, of the man who had seen her safely
home, and left her with a languid smile ; a
man very different to the set who patronised
Lobby's Circus. Nellie had even tried to
draw his features from memory on the fly-leaf
of a faded copy of Milton's Comzcs, which
she had found knocking about one of the
tents.

Jack Dalton thought Nellie's one of the
fairest faces he had ever gazed on ; but he
had never sought any disreputable means of
perverting her innocence. The circus-master
had stood her friend and protector all these
years, and although she could remember no
life associated with the circus, its grossness
and brutality had never obliterated the
natural grace and innocency of her nature.

So I 'ear you're going' to leave us,
Nellie. I'm sorry for it, but I 'ope you've
got a few kind farewell words for me ere
parting.'

I have, indeed, sir,' said Nellie, gratefully
extending her hand.

He thought her strangely pale  what he

termed * queer' in her ways and looks tonight,


I want to ask you one thing before I go,
sir,' NelHe went on quickly. ' Madame
Juanita never would answer me fair. Tell
me, before we part, something about the
mystery of my lot  something about my
father and mother, and how you came with
your apprentice.'

Dalton burst into a hearty laugh.

There's romance for ye. Want to 'ear
yer family 'history ? Fancy, perhaps, ye're
descended from the Plantagenet, or the
Montmerancis, and that fry. Why, my dear,
you come out of a cellar ! '

'A cellar?' re-echoed Nellie; then shaking
her head, ' I don't believe it'

Well, leastways, we bought ye out of
one. A young woman was a nursing' ye, and
an old 'un a lookin' on. I says, " We wants a
kid to rear for the pro," and the two looks
at one another, and the old 'un ups
and says, " Take Nellie ; we're off to
America, and don't want the brat ; no
onely inquire or make a row. That'll yer
give :

Wanted, Nellie Raymond,' here a boy's
voice called.

I must go,' said Nellie. * Good-bye, Mr
Dalton ! '

She offered him her hand. He was
startled at hearing himself also volubly called
by his wife, and ran out into the open
shed.

I shall die,' muttered Nellie, lingering
a moment, and drawing her hand over her
brow, ' and better so. Born in a cellar to
die in a circus  '

Nellie Raymond, are you coming ? ' again
shrieked the boy. ' The audience are stamping
like mad.'

She hesitated no longer, but passing
quickly by the Arabs, saw the large cage in
which Don Pedro and Erebus were walking
restlessly to and fro. The paper garlands
and wreaths were near ; the red hoops and
their glittering stars shone in the gaslight.
Nellie made her customary bow to the
audience, kissed the tips of her fingers to
them amid deafening applause, and looking
herself like a picture of Lieth  but, alas !
exiled from Paradise  with her golden-brown
curls floating below her waist, ascended the
steps and entered the cage.

My, she's a beauty ! ' a young man remarked,
pensively, contemplating Nellie's
profile.

It makes one's blood run cold, though,
to see her with the tigers, don't it ? '

Oh, my dear, she's used to it, depend

upon it. They've all had their teeth pulled
out, and been drugged with opium, or stunned
with red-hot pokers.'

These were some of the remarks passing
round.

At that moment Erebus, shaking himself,
slightly yawned. The great grim teeth
flashed before their eyes. It was Nellie's
business to make this sulky brute jump
once more through the last hoop. Don
Pedro had resigned himself with all the
philosophy of the noble savage to his fate ;
he had allowed himself to be crowned with
laurel wreaths till he almost resembled some
antique Roman conqueror, and he looked
at Nellie with quite a benevolent air, as if
the whip she flourished over his head were
a plaything.

The audience at this point cheered vociferously.
Nellie already felt relieved 
all might end well. Erebus alone eyed her
savagely, even defiantly. She held the hoop
and dealt him a rather smart blow with the
whip for his unwillingness to leap through
it, but at that moment, looking up, Nellie
caught sight of the same man she had seen
in Regent Street when watching the picture
of the blood-stained arena and the martyrs'
bodies, and all her old horror and nervous
agony seized her.

The whip fell from her hand, Erebus
growled, Don Pedro blinked amiably, and
shook off four wreaths in succession ; people
started to their feet ; some shuddered.
Jack Dalton, looking on from the wings, saw
something wrong had happened.

Come and save her ! ' he roared to several
men grouped round, and was just rushing
on to the circus when Erebus sprang at
Nellie, struck her down, and clawed her
shoulder.

The audience screamed, women sobbed 
they saw the dark stream of blood flowing
over her neck as Jack Dalton bore her in
his arms senseless from the cage.

The man who had caused Nellie's emotion,
and witnessed the accident, now appeared
with a doctor who offered his services.

Bah ! a mere scratch ! ' sneered Madame
Juanita, in her tight black velvet riding-habit,
patting the neck of the Chesterfield colt.

The wound is not very deep, and she will
do well,' the doctor said, taking out a case of
instruments, and requesting some warm water
and a sponge to be quickly brought.

Nellie shivered, opened her lips, and
then her eyes  to meet a grave, thoughtful
glance ; but the shock had been too severe.
She fainted again.

C5

The man glided away, and was soon lost

amidst the crowd. He had not recognised
in NelHe Raymond the same young girl who
had been seized with an hysterical attack in
Regent Street, and to seek for romance
among those attached to a circus was about
the last thing he desired.

After Nellie had been conveyed to her
little rough bed in one of the distant tents,
the wound carefully dressed, and some stimulants
applied that thoroughly restored her
senses, she glanced round with that determined
air which announces a purpose to
be carried out.

Nellie was not subject to fainting. This
was, indeed, the second time only in her life
that collapse had taken place ; but she was
nervous by temperament, quick-witted, and
excitable. Great mental distress had undermined
her nervous system, but physical
fear she knew not.

And now, raising herself on her hard flock
pillow, what does she resolve ?

To escape  to cover her bespangled
muslin frock v/ith that heavy cloak hanging
across some ropes and hoops, and flee into
the darkness and rain. She had a horror
of being again cowed into submission by
Madame Juanita.

Now is my only chance,' muttered Nellie,
her face pale with the pain of her torn

shoulder. ' I will escape, and trust to chance
to save me from destruction.'

It still rained, and * Mad Acre End' looked
the very reverse of a tempting spot in which
to plunge through the driving rain and impenetrable
darkness ; but Nellie, covered
with the heavy cloak, rushed into the night,
pausing once to look back at the circus, the
subdued lights of which through the canvas
making it resemble some pale moon amid
ebon surroundings.

Her hair, drenched and soaked with the
rain, lay matted about her throat, fever in
her veins, rebellion in her heart. She was
in the mood of that fair Stanza who had
taken a boat and drifted over the waveless
seas, praying death might come ; only Nellie
wanted to reach the village. She had a few
shillings in the little leather purse she had
placed in the bosom of her dress, and to
secure some humble night's lodging washer
present intent. But Nellie did not understand
the route. The windings of the
heath and common puzzled her ; her feet
ached from contact with the harsh stubble
and swampy parts, till she feared she might
sink and be engulfed.

Presently a dim haze appeared; It was a
river, and here the girl's strength failed her,
for by this river she paused, staggered, and fell.

MR FACULTY FOGG ADDRESSES THE OUTCAST.

What is this feeling makes me so glad?
Pain that delights me ? How can it be 
Pleasure that pains me, fettered though free ? '

HEN Nellie awoke from her
swoon, she saw that she had left
the reedy swamps of the common
far behind. The azure gleams
of morning v ere just touching the wavelets
of the river, clouds of pale, diaphanous hues
were drifting lazily above her head, and
soft winds came and went dreamily, fitful
as Diana's breath and kisses when she woke
Endymion from his slumber  heralds also
of liberty and freedom.

Yes, here at last was liberty  escape from
a hateful doom, coarse voices, vulgar scenes,
degrading vices.

To wander to the village, to expend her
few shillings in buying food and shelter, and

then to seek a situation  this was the only
plan presenting itself to her mind.

Jack Dalton's words regarding her birth
and parentage had, in truth, robbed the girl,
of any hope she may have cherished as to
his affording her some clue to the lives of
those people to whom she owed nothing but
her bare existence.

Abandoned by father and mother, and
sold to a circus proprietor, she could
find no intricate web in which to seek her
relatives, and whether the daughter of a
duchess or a beggar, she at least knew that,
like other slaves, she must submit to the
exigencies of circumstances and necessity.

What shall I do for a living ? ' she
asked aloud, in a dreary monologue. ' End
my troubles and difficulties in the river like
other homeless ones, or pass onward to the
village, and see what fate has in store forme
there ? '

No, she could not die. The fulness of
life in her young body pronounced its veto
against the sin of self-destruction. The
blood coursing through her veins was highly
charged with a vitality so passionate and
intense, that the mere physical sense of the
enjoyment of the morning air fanning her
brow, was sufficient to keep her safe on
these slimy, oozy river banks without plunging

beneath the stream ; grave, mournful
eyes flitted before her memory ; she saw
that dark-haired man watching her among
the audience, as though a spell drew her
to him.

I believe if he spoke to me I should
kneel and sob at his feet,' Nellie muttered,
half ashamed of her foolishly sentimental
mood that did not harmonise well with the
hunger attacking her frame.

She possessed no accomplishments that
could be turned to account in respectable
households, but she had picked up smatterings
of foreign tongues during their roving
Bohemian encampments ; she had seen gaily-dressed
peasants dance wild Spanish dances
under the shady chestnuts ; she knew the
sound of the Bolero, the music of the castanets
; and with her refined and peculiar
susceptibility, she hated the thought of
service acutely.

Wet and dismal roads, a swampy common,
paths full of briars, tangled fern, and brushwood
surrounded her, as she shook back her
loosened hair, and tossed the water over
her burning brow.

Her shoulder still ached and throbbed from
the wound inflicted by the tiger's teeth, but
less painfully than at first, and she had no
fear of Madame Juanita's seeking her out or

compelling her to return ; and at that moment
an honest milkman, swinging his cans,
passed by the river, intent on delivering his
morning allowance of milk and cream at the
various houses of the good people of Brooks-mere.


Nellie started off at once in pursuit of
him, and touching his arm, said quickly, 

Could you manage to spare me half-a-pint
of milk ? I am so faint and worn-outs

Giving Nellie a mild, bull-like stare, he
merely ejaculated a very vulgar ' Oh, my ! '
doubled himself in half, as if seized with
violent cramp in his stomach, remaining a
moment in this dervish-like attitude ere lifting
his head.

In truth, Nellie, with her pale, beautiful
face and feverish-looking eyes  her torn
spangled muslin dress and heavy cloak, all
drenched with the niorht dew and stained
with river mud, might have brought disordered
fancies before the most reasonable of
God's creatures.

Lor , child, you've never got a wee bit of
a baby 'hidden under that there cloak, 'ave ye,
and been a-crying' to drown it in the river ? '
he gasped, bringing down his cans with a
fierce clatter on the pathway.

Nellie's look of surprise reassured him,
and she smiled, opening her cloak wide to
VOL. I. c

convince him that no young head, doomed for
destruction, was concealed in her arms.

But 'ow come ye with that rum gown ?
A ballet-gal, ain't ye, or sommat o' that sort ? '

Never mind who or what I am,' said
Nellie, a little sharply. ' I asked you for a
drink of milk. If you don't mean to let me
have any  I can buy it of you  why, say so,
and  '

That's the way with you women,' said the
milkman, sarcastically. ' If only one man
'as used ye ill, ye fly at all the rest. Of
course, ye're welcome to the milk, if ye don't
mind drinking out of a little can.'

What makes you think some man has ill-treated
me?' asked Nellie, after a pause,
holding the can to be re-filled.

A pretty lass like you must allays 'ave
a lover of some sort. What d'ye say
to a biscuit with the milk ? Ye seem fairly
clammed.'

Nellie seized the biscuit, gratefully offering
him sixpence in payment. She shivered a
good deal in an odd, convulsive way not lost
on the milkman.

I won't take no money from ye, lass.
Strikes me you'll want every penny soon ;
but I must now be off to my work  families
'full be a- waiting for their breakfast'

Nellie thought this man looked kind,

perhaps he might care to Hasten to her story.
She would make one effort to interest him in
her welfare.

Suppose you know that a fellow-creature
may be starving for want of food, and that
she'd ran away from cruel treatment,' Nellie
began, her voice trembling, ' would you
let her have some little stray corner in your
house to be in for a time, and she'd work
hard and eat little, and be grateful  oh, so
very, very grateful always ? '

Nellie s face kindled as she spoke ; some
new, yet overmastering dread was conquering
her. It was far more terrible to be
starving and forsaken out in the world than
she had imagined.

The milkman's expression had changed as
she pleaded. To be generous to a nondescript
kind of beggar in a spangled frock and
heavy cloak is one thing ; to take that nondescript
under your cottage roof, and be
exposed yourself to the sharp cross fire of a
jealous female's tongue, is another.

You might not please the missus,' he said
shortly, turning away. ' She's mortal particular
about her maids' character.'

Nellie shuddered. Was this how they
would answer all her appeals ?

Some tatters of torn white lace still hung
about her bodice and sleeves. Her rose-like

breast palpitated with indignation. She
wound the rent lace quickly through her
fingers, tore it off finally with a jerk, and
nearly sobbed.

'He is human,' Nellie muttered. ' Why
should I expect miracles or kindness or
consideration ? I used to wonder once why
people thieved and murdered and got put
into prison, and died on the gallows. I know
now. They suffered and were treated as I
shall be  misunderstood and trampled on year
after year. How I hate everything human ! '

She spoke aloud, and was startled by hearing
a soft laugh that made her turn round suddenly,
and then run forward with a cry of joy.

So you hate humanity,' the voice said ;
and what are you doing soliloquising in that
theatrical way by a river ? Don't be wild
and foolish, Nellie.'

Monsieur Lepelletier, is it really you ?
Where have you sprung from ? '

You've given me a fine night of it, you
wilful little wretch. Patent boots soaked
through traversing swamps and puddles, rain
trickling down one's back, umbrella blown
inside out, all discomforts Incurred through
searching for you. I meant to have arrived
in time to prevent your failure with the
tigers, but Ferrara, you must know, was very
spiteful. He informed me I was a villain,

and bene over-anxious not to be outdone in
telling a lie, I told him he was a gentleman.
He attacked me with a dagger in his hot
Spanish way. I managed to defend myself,
and escaped with a few scratches, arriving
too late to save you, and now I find you
raving like some youthful female Lear by a
river.'

I ran away,' said Nellie, glancing up at
him under her long eyelashes.

Of course, I knew that. It was the sort
of foolish proceeding to be expected from
such a sprite. You little blind infatuated
mole, what good comes of going to extremities
? Bah ! do you live in an age of
Arabian legends ? All is real, tough, and
practical enough. Your thin shoes are wet
through. Your hair looks like tow, all that
haze of gold seems washed out of it. Your
cloak is drenched ; as for your Hebe-like
arms and shoulders they are perfectly disgraceful
in their charming nudity. Are you
o-oinof to test the tender mercies of some
British matron in that attire ? See what she
will say, and yet you expect a respectable
milkman, full of the sanity of remembrances
connected with a pump  you see, I overheard
some of your conversation  to take you into
his employ.'

Nellie's eyes filled.

8 A Romance of Regent Sleet.

Get rid of that sensitiveness, child, if
you have to earn your bread and butter.
Now, what will you do for a living ? Perhaps
you anticipate some magnificent proposal
from me ? Already in your mind's eye
you may behold some gaily-furnished villa 
a drawing-room suite of the best cretonne,
and you richly attired in the latest fashion 
at my expense. You have heard or read
how Miss Hardie Montmorency drives a pair
of thoroughbreds in the Row, drinks wine 
guinea a bottle port  owns fine diamonds,
and leads some doting, titled imbecile nicely
by the nose. If you look upon me as a
promising victim, please undeceive yourself


You know very well that you don't suspect
me of anything of the kind,' said Nellie,
gravely ; bat she was used to his flights of
speech, and her trustfulness in others, if rudely
shaken, had never been quite dispelled.

It amused M. Lepelletier to tease and
wound her. Of course he meant no harm.
She had not yet learnt to calculate ; she only
trusted.

He took out a delicately-scented handkerchief
and shook it in the air.

Now, here is my proposal, and for the
present, Nellie, I can think of no other
plan for you. I am staying at a romantic

retreat called * The Lodge,' and with my
usual eccentricity, I have a small but neatly
furnished room set apart for me ; whether
with the circus people or polishing my
classical tastes, or devoting myself to mesmerism,
to this small sanctum do I retire
when I choose. Here all the mistakes of
my life and the weakness of my intellect are
unexposed to public view.'

Yes ; you think too much,' said Nellie,
softly.

The lodge, my sympathetic angel, is inhabited
by two estimable and respectable old
fogies called Mr and Mrs Faculty Fog.
They are, at least, fifty years behind the age.
Beyond driving in a tax-cart to Exeter, and
monitor about the Cathedral, or touting for
bargains in hosiery, Mrs Faculty has few
experiences. Mr Fog is gardener to some
people living in a large mansion called
Stupefied Hall. He and his wife, like
twin Herbert at the lodge, guard the gates
and the long drive leading to it. The Squire
of Brooksmere, Mr Stephen Mallandaine, his
wife, and his son, Captain Leonard, all reside
at Stupefied Hall  a dismal old place
enough, I think, but the family prefer the
dismal and go in for clouds and vapours,
not the earth and its inhabitants.'

M. Lepelletier's voice had changed since

he mentioned the Mallandaines  emotion
vibrated through it.

NelHe felt surprised and deeply interested.


And will this gardener and his wife care
to receive me, sir  a lost waif and stray ? '

M. Lepelletier smiled.

We shall see, Nellie ; we can but try.
I rather think  indeed, I may say I flatter
myself that Faculty will do anything to oblige
me, and Mrs F. is but his echo.'

And what must I do for the gardener and
his wife ? '

You will have to sweep their floors, dust
the rooms, peel the potatoes, and occasionally
roast some simple but delicious joint  for
instance, the British leg of mutton on Sunday,
served with onion sauce.'

Then I shall be a servant,' said Nellie
quietly  ' with or without wages ; and I hate
service.'

I perceive the evil spirit of rebellion
again at work in you, Nellie. You must
have no hates, no loves, no anything. You
are an outcast  with luxuriant beauty, I
admit, but a homeless girl ; and don't think
of appearing before the worthy Faculty Fog
in that haute ecole costume of spangles and
tinsel. Allow me the pleasure ot purchasing
you two modest cotton dresses. Let me

cover that golden - brown hair and classic
head with the traditional straw bonnet or hat
so necessary for the traditionally virtuous
young woman seeking her first situation.
Let me be the humble friend in lieu of the
gay seducer  the champion of honour instead
of the plotting libertine.'

She glanced up at him with a quick and
grateful smile.

How does the programme suit, Nell ? '

Excellently, sir.'

Well, then, step out and let us make for
the village, so that you shall appear " clothed
and in your right mind again." I almost
wish I were a painter, Nellie ; I should
like to sketch you as you stand at this
moment, all tattered and torn ; and the best
of you is, that I'm never tempted to fall in
love with you ; you are too fragile.'

It was now eight o'clock, a clear and
lovely morning. Nellie's spirits revived ;
she could even contemplate herself black-leading
the gardener's best parlour grate or
kitchen stove, or basting a lee of Devonshire
mutton with exemplary patience.

One thing, Nellie, I must warn you
about,' the Frenchman said, after a pause, ' is
that chapel-going is the chief object of the
Foggs' lives ; object to that unseen paradise
and you will be lost.'

They were now in the village of Brooks-mere,
and Baker, the solitary llnendraper,
was setting out his little shop to the best
advantage. He clearly expected a good
order from the well-dressed gentleman, with
his jewel - headed Malacca cane and the
handsome diamond studs and ring.

When the spangled dress had been
changed for the simple cotton garb, and the
hair was roughly plaited under the straw
hat, Lepelletler requested to look at some
cheap black cloth jackets, and Nellie saw
herself very rapidly transformed .into a neat,
quiet-looking maiden, very different from the
siren of the circus, with her floating tresses
and sylph-like form in clouds of serial tulle
and net.

I often warned you, Nellie, that you
might regret the change,' he said, as if reading
her thoughts. ' All will be quiet and
dry-adust at the cottage. You may ultimately
find your elective affinity in an
honest yokel. No lights, no audience, no
horses, no applause ; bedtime at ten, supper
of bread and cheese and cold water  instead
of drunken merriment and noisy sprees.
Choose, Nellie. There is yet time forme
to take you back to the affectionate
embraces of Madame Juanita.'

I have chosen,' said Nellie, with one

final survey of herself in the black cloth
jacket and thread gloves. ' Take me to the
gardener's cottage. I will work for them.'

Bravo!' he cried. ' I am pleased. Come,
Nellie, if you're ready, and I will introduce
you to your employers at the lodge,
you little golden-haired Peri.'

M. Lepelletier's untiring vitality affected
Nellie with no corresponding flow of spirits
to-day. She had not yet recovered from the
shock of the accident, and how could she
look forward to her life at the cottage with
pleasure ?

Nellie's girlish thoughts strayed to an
unbidden memory,  her first meeting In
Regent Street with the man who exercised
some unseen yet magnetic influence over her
organisation. The grand and rugged brow,
the grave, handsome face, with something
sweet but melancholy In its expression, like
a wearied god's. Why did it haunt her
dreams ?

Could a wrecked hope or secret sorrow
hold him in bondage ?  and the night previous
he looked still more unhappy than at
their first meetlnof. Nellie had ever disdained
coarse admiration, but the first physical
contact with this unknown stranger in
Regent Street, and the curious pitying pain
that contact had roused, unconsciously

affected her, and stole upon her brain with
sensuous, fatal power.

I hope you'll be happy, Nellie Levels
said. * I like you for that substratum
of good-breeding and intelligence
you possess ; but we can only take our goods
to market and sell them at the price offered.
The worth of anything is just what it will
bring. Why, I daresay if poor old Milton
had lived in this age, he'd have cultivated
his voice and moustache, gone in for the
light tenor business, and been more amiable
to more wives, or he'd have given
over classics to turn his attention to the
profitable development of light fiction, and
hound the prose of railway novels pay better
than his immortal verse.'

Nellie felt a little anxious as well as
tired as they approached the lodge. It
was a pretty-looking rustic cottage, but from
its appearance the rooms must be very small
and by no means lofty.

She took stock of the windows ; monthly
roses were placed in crimson pots along the
sills, two large cats were purring in the sun,
ivy trailed over the failings, and fine horse-chestnut
trees bordered the drive to the hall,
and yet Nellie fancied she would regard
this quaint spot with the same feeling an
eaglet might have for its cage.

'Where's your enthusiasm, NelHe? I
expected a volley of admiring exclamations.'

It seems lonely, sir, and I'm going to
strangers.'

Upon my word, there's no pleasing you,
Nellie. I warned you it was not a prospect
of Utopian ease and pleasure ; but just
take a look at the old hall, embowered in
trees, to your right ; that is Squire Allan
home. They are friends of mine.'

He sighed drearily ; it was evident all
mention of the Mallandaines fretted his restless
nerves.

Why are those windows to the left all
barred and closed like a prison ? ' asked
Nellie. 'Are the family away from home?'

M. Lepelletier made no reply, and turned
the subject hastily. Nellie thought the
old mansion had a desolate and neglected
look ; it lacked the trimness or display
usually bestowed on similar dwellings.

He opened the narrow gate leading to the
cottage and startled Mrs Faculty, who was
peeling potatoes, by a brisk tap on the
window.

Eh, dearie me, sir, we expected you last
night, but Faculty said what with the rain
and other things, you couldn't get back intime.
He went to chapel, and now I'm
getting dinner ready.'

Nellie found herself in one of the tiniest
rooms she had ever seen ; an old-fashioned
clock, belonging to Faculty Fog's grandfather,
appeared afflicted with asthmatical
weakness in its works ; the books were bound
in the fashion of fifty years ago, with the
exception of the ' Pilgrim's Progress,' and that
choice nursery epic, ' Tulliver's Travels.'
There was a bit of rare ' blue ' on a shelf
that a connoisseur in old china must have
yearned to purchase, a small picture of a
soldier after the battle of Malplaquet hung
in one corner, facing a young gentleman
in velvet, with very long hair and leather
shoes ; dried grasses were placed on the
mantelpiece in real Sevres vases, and smirking
shepherdesses grinned at each other,
and at various love-lorn shepherds with
crooks in pleasant meadows. An aged and
toothless dog, called ' Smut,' looking as if
he sadly wanted a severe dose of strychnine,
snapped at Nellie-sand then gnawed the
hearth-rug.

Mrs Pigg was an unusually stout little
woman, her neck having long sunk into the
regions of her shoulders, like an isthmus
swallowed by an ocean ; she wore a spotless
chemisette folded and refolded over a capacious
bosom.

Who's that girl ?' asked Mrs P" acuity, not

unkindly, motioning Nellie to a seat, and
fanning herself with a duster.

She looked a picture after the good woman's
heart, the astute Frenchman having clothed
her to the exact taste of the brightest luminary
among the ' WInniford Brethren.'

This young girl will, I hope, be acceptable
to you as a helper In your household,' he said,
watching her expression.

Eh, dearie me ! but It's what Faculty will
say,' murmured the Echo, en attendant,

Here he Is to answer for himself,' said the
Frenchman, going to the door ; ' and hale and
hearty he looks, too, for his age.'

The gardener came slowly along the drive
leading from the hall to the lodge, and entered
the cottage.

He wore light leather gaiters round his
particularly thin legs. A high collar, white
cravat, and black suit of clothes gave him the
air of a Methodist preacher. He had long
passed into a theoretical stage of horticulture,
for he merely directed the efforts of the six
under-gardeners employed by the squire, playing
the tyrant with the quiet enjoyment that
all injustice gives to the domineering.

Nellie had risen to her feet at this extraordinary
apparition.

Well, Faculty, how are you ?' said Levels
'You see Fve brought the girl I was

speaking to you about. Mrs Faculty wants
assistance. Now you can both have your
breakfasts in bed, and NelHe will wait on
you.'

Ah, sir, you run on so ; it isn't likely we'd
begin idle ways at our age,' said Faculty, who
took everything au series, ' and set the
young woman a bad example.'

Nellie, who had seen Madame Juanita
eat rump-steak and oysters in bed at mid-day,
washed down with double stout, wondered
what this old man would think of her experiences.


Faculty scrutinised her closely. He could
see nothing to displease him in her attire, and
the large dark blue eyes were uplifted with an
appealing look. Some odd fascination rose
from those deep wells peculiarly witching to
the masculine intelligence.

What's your name, young woman ?' Faculty
asked severely, determined not to betaken
in.

Nellie Raymond, sir.'

Do you understand housework ?'

M. Lepelletier's active fingers here spelt
Yes.

Oh, of course, sir,' said Nellie, cheerfully.
Where have you been employed ?'
There was a pause, in which M. Lepelletier

did not come to her aid.

I have been all my life in a circus.'

Faculty gave a little cry, and the thin legs
uncrossed automatically, like a frog's practised
on by artificial means as an experiment.

Mrs Faculty's superb bosom quivered like
a huge aspic jelly.

Eh, dearie me ! Used to jumping in and
out of tubs and 'oops, and the high saluting*
tight-rope business.'

Silence, wife,' said Faculty, aghast at the
Echo's audacity ; * let me address the young
woman.'

I ask you, as a favour to me,' said M.
Lepelletier earnestly, ' to give this young
girl a fair trial. She is thoroughly honourable
and trustworthy ; she was thrown from
babyhood amid a class she hated; she escaped
after gross ill-treatment.'

Nellie Raymond,' said the gardener, ' I
am under obligations to this gentleman, and
I am willing to oblige him. I have two
questions to ask. Do you read your Bible,
and do you object to chapel ?'

I shall be quite willing to go to chapel,'
said Nellie, in her sweet submissive way 
he fancied tears were in her eyes  * and I read
the Bible.'

Then, Nellie Raymond, I engage you as
our helper. As for the members of that
evil abode presided over by the arch-fiend 

VOL. I. D

the Jezebels and infidels of the circus, pray
for them, that they may be rescued from the
everlasting flames.'

The gardener's voice had risen to his
metallic chapel tones ; he looked the idealistic
preacher so dear to his hysterical devotees.

Follow Mrs Faculty ; she will show you
the room appointed unto you,' he said, catching
a glimpse of the plaited tresses.

A pretty girl, isn't she ? ' said the Frenchman,
rubbing his hands as Nellie disappeared.


The heart is deceitful above all things.
We must teach her to eschew evil, for beauty
is a sure bait to the godless,' said Faculty
reproachfully ; M. Lepelletier's morals being
terribly lax in the gardener's judgment.

After Mrs Faculty had conducted Nellie
to a room redolent of dried lavender and
camphor scents, and spotless linen sheets
were taken down to be aired, the girl, once
alone, impetuous as ever, and now apparently
heartbroken, flung herself down by the
open window, while the leaves of the vine
and clematis flowers shook beneath the grasp
of her hands.

It was a lovely autumn morning. Cornfields
lay to the left, Stupefied Hall and
park were before her, the humming of insects
among the vine leaves, the lowing of cows,

and the deep bay of a hound alone broke the
silence.

Her eyes, lit with sombre yet feverish
brightness, alighted on the barred windows
of the left wine of the mansion.

I shall be so lonely,' sobbed Nellie ;
it will be like a prison, and all from seeing
that picture in Regent Street setting me
against the business  Why did his eyes
follow me last night, turning my thoughts,
making me wretched, driving me here ? I
have heard of a glance, a sigh, or frown
bringing misery or joy. Who can this man
be, I wonder, and shall I ever see him
again ? '

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS Library:

THE MYSTERY OF STAPLEFIELD HALL.

FTER M. Lepelletler left the gardener
and his wife, he sauntered
leisurely towards Stupefied Hall.
It was a large and magnificent
building in the Gothic style of architecture,
and of a solemn and imposing character.
The windows were picturesque ; a grand
array of old trees, from which rooks cawed
and flew, stood out darkly on each side like
aged sentinels guarding the lonely old place
from ruin. It had a dreary, haunted look ;
every quaint tale relating to wandering ghosts
occurred to the fancy viewing it. It seemed
separated from the world as a place peopled
by the dead.

And yet its splendour gave it the appearance
of being some ducal home rather than
one belonging to a Simple squire, but the
Mallandaines were reputedly wealthy ; they

dated their ancestry from Charles the First.
Stupefied had belonged to the family for
centuries ; in many respects it was as historic
as Warwick Castle ; the picture galleries were
crowded with matchless works of art. Paintings
by Vandyke, Holbein, Murillo, Andre
del Sarto, besides pictures of the modern
school, hung from the noble walls.

Squire Mallandaine was a patron of art.
He would write a cheque for a thousand
guineas to purchase some rare gem of genius
and study with more pleasure and satisfaction
than any other outlay could produce.

The hall door was open as M. Lepelletier
ascended the steps, and two gentlemen were
evidently in deep discussion of some very
grave subject of interest. One of these, he
perceived, was the family doctor, Mr Chester,
the other Captain Mallandaine, the Squire's
son and heir.

M. Lepelletier seemed decidedly at home,
for, without waiting to be announced, he
nodded lightly to the young man and entered
the library, where he proceeded to coolly
light a cigarette, and taking up the Quarterly,
turned its pages leisurely over.

The library had a gallery running round
it, oak-panelled and antique ; broad terraces
jutted out on either side of the mansion,
on the edge of which were fine ferns and

flowers, and peacocks plumed themselves on
the velvet lawns, in the smoothness of which
Faculty Fog and his colleagues took the
highest pride.

When M. Lepelletier laid down his book,
he saw Leonard Mallandaine approaching
from the drawing-room, and the two men
shook hands coldly.

Well, Captain, here I am, just returned
from Spain. Any better news of the mysterious
and interesting invalid you were
telling me of ? ' he asked lightly. ' I saw
the doctor with you just now, and from your
very deeds converse together, and your
extremely anxious expression, I fear you
have scarcely had good news.'

Our relative is worse to-day,' Captain Mal-landing
answered quietly. ' Grave fears are
entertained of her living through the night.'

Leonard was tall, pale, and broad-chested,
with something ardent and intense
in manner and expression, that not all the
effects of modern philosophy and cynicism
could subdue.

It was a passionate face, for all its sombre
gravity, and it bore the shade of anguish.
Thoughts were at war with each other,
emotion seemed bound and chained ; it was
a struggle between the natural and the ideal
the senses and the intellect.

And do you not think in these cases
death is often a release ? ' the mesmerist
asked slowly.

Captain Mallandaine shivered a little, and
threw himself down in an arm-chair by the
side of the Frenchman. Did he shrink from
too close and steady a scrutiny ?

What is death ? Is it a calamity or a
blessing ? '

Lepelletier shrugged his shoulders.

You might as well ask, What is truth ?
But, candidly, you are in too morbid and
Hamlet-Vik a mood. Have we not been
friends for years ? Did I not love your
adorable sister, Aurelian, whom religious craze
and superstition drove into a convent to die,
making me a visionary and a wreck ? And
you, Leonard, with youth, wealth, vigour,
and every advantage of birth and position,
are bent upon eschewing all these, shutting
yourself up in a place dull as Locksley Hall,
and desolate as a grave.'

There's no denying it's dull,' Captain
Mallandaine answered.

Duller, too, since this mysterious invalid
and relative appeared, eh, Leonard ? ' asked
the other, searchingly. ' Now, what really is
the matter with her ? Has she a suicidal
mania, that you bar the windows ? Is there
a lunatic hidden in the west wing ? '

Captain Mallandalne rose, touching the
other's arm.

I have before asked you to refrain from
these questions,' he said reproachfully. ' What
is it to you ? Say it's sentiment  remorse 
affection ; that we suffer, you know. There
are mysteries and secrets in the dark recesses
of many households.'

The Frenchman laughed, a harsh, grating
laugh, in which was little pity and less mirth.

Leonard, I am a mesmerist ; I owe you,
perhaps, small love for the influence you
exercised over your sister Aurelian where I
was concerned.'

You were scarcely fitted for her husband,'
the Captain answered, with the faintest
mockery in his tones.

I say I have the power of lifting this veil,
of piercing this mystery. If you will once
let me look at this person  this victim of
hysteria  this pale, phantasmal being, devoured
by disease, then I will not bring
science or mesmerism to my aid.'

Leonard Mallandaine rose and shook his
head. There was a tinge of severity, almost
cruel, now in his expression.

No, Lepelletier, we do not permit you
this request.'

But I insist, in the name of justice 
yes, Leonard, and of the law. I demand

that I am once permitted, in the interests of
humanity, to see this person you deliberately
shut away from the world ; if not  '

The Captain's strong hands clenched together
once fiercely, as if he were stifling out
some enemy's life.

And if not  what then ? '

The law shall either be put in force, or I,
by the aid of mesmerism, will lift the veil.'

And your motive ? ' asked Leonard, crushing
down his satire. ' I do not appeal to
your gratitude  the memories of years that
unite us  the incessant kindnesses shown to
you from boyhood by my people. Must our
name be bandied in a court of justice, and the
papers rake up every incident of dishonour
that may have darkened our family's annals ?
You were fond, you say, of Aurelian  leave us
our clouds and shadows, take your pleasures
like a butterfly.'

Fond of her ! It was adoration. But if,
as you say, Leonard, this invalid is some poor
obscure relative, what is your objection to
my seeing her  I, the friend of the family ? '

She is in a very weak state, refusing food,
sleepless, languid, prostrate. Every kindness
and attention are hers ; we pass hours with
her ; but any intense mental excitement
might be fatal.'

Lepelletier's face changed ; he checked

his next question at the prompting of an afterthought
; but the look he turned on Leonard
was not pleasant, it had a low and vindictive
meaning.

Your arguments are all-powerful,' he said
suavely. ' I accept your explanation  as far
as I am concerned, you may cultivate a colony
of lunatics. But, to change this dreary
theme, what kind of a London season has
Timon enjoyed ? Much flirting, drinking,
gambling  any follies and delirium . '

As regards gambling, I hate it, ditto
drinking, flirting most of all'

What, are all women objectionable ?
Have you no Oriental proclivities for damask
lips and sparkling eyes 1 Never played the
Grand Mogul, Leonard } You want cheering
up. Just the fellow to be seized with the
tender melancholy, and then to say to some
timid ingdnue, I loved you not, when both
your hearts are beating in unison. At least,
try and fall in love.'

And find existence embellished by sighs,
dreams, fancies, and jealousy  passion commencing
with the illusion trust, to end in
the pitfall marriage

The Frenchman laughed again, this time
like a scheming Mephistopheles.

Marriage! But not at all. If you are
hungry, do you rush into a shop and buy

enough joints to last all your life ? No, you
take a cutlet, a cake, a cherry, a sandwich,
and don't, for gracious sake, be cynical. At
your age, you should long with Byron, that
womanhood had but one rosy mouth, so that
you could embrace splendid variety in one
grand unity. Leave cynicism to one who,
after copious brandy-drinking and reflection,
has discovered that all women are by nature
hypocrites  slaves in love, angels in suffering
fair, ineffable, and false.'

There are times, Lepelletier, when dreams
and care  '

Then you are in love ! Blind mole that I
was not to perceive it. Your melancholy and
moodiness proclaim it. You are philosophic
only in theory  you are intellectual, but you
are not wise. I combine the two. I have
loved, as you know, your sister Aurelian, far
more madly than you, with your British
phlegm, could ever love a woman. I plunged
into the ideal, the infinite ; I was distracted
and sad, but, nevertheless, I reflected, life is
short, time passes, age must come, digestion
fail, and so I let fair lips, whose pressure
brings relief, salute my throbbing brow.'

The Captain lifted his dark and heavy
eyes.

You are a wonderfully practical race, even
in your loves, your cuisine, your economy,

your amusements, your everything. Can
you get rid of a little lowness of sentiment,
too? If Hamlet had been a Frenchman,
Ophelia would have been his mistress. You
are not false, but mobile  not fickle, but
playful  not immoral, only philosophic'

Why do you speak so bitterly ? '
Perhaps I have good reason.'

My dear Leonard, I am trying to reform
you ; spare your metaphysics. I see a charming
young man all women must admire, with
the head and shoulders of a god, a broad and
noble chest. I know you are splendid, but
you are dying by Inches. I say, therefore,
Fall in love. Believe me, at your age,
love is necessary to you.'

The Captain smiled.

H e remembered, perhaps, carelessly enough,
the shy dread, the quivering agony of the
fair wounded girl, whose eyes had opened to
meet his as she lay on some rough straw Ina
circus stable  that exquisite golden hue
on hair like burnished wheat, those slender
but rounded limbs, the eyes with deep,
amorous lids and lashes, that shot a mystical
light into his, in spite of her maddening pain ;
he could see the blood streaming over a breast
and shoulder fair as Daphne's ere the laurel
poison darkened their loveliness, the mouth
like a closed blossom  pale and tortured 

that yet, he knew, had tried to smile just
once on him.

Love ! ' he echoed, after Lepelletier had
left, and he was alone. ' To be the slave of
some capricious beauty. I can be philosophic
as he over the ordinary ills and disappointments
of life ; but what armour could shield
my heart . '

CAPTAIN LEONARD MALLANDAINE VISITS THE
COTTAGE.

The desire of the moth for the star,
Of the night for the morrow,
The devotion of something afar
From the sphere of our sorrow

HEN Nellie awoke the following
morning at the cottage, she
felt wonderfully refreshed after
a sound and delicious slumber.
The perfumed linen sheets seemed to have
embraced and comforted her wearied frame,
the pillow encouraged repose, the half-opened
window had permitted sweetest air, heavy
with the scent of honeysuckles and roses, to
enter and play about her temples and tresses
and half-bared, warm, white limbs.

She looked fair as some wild flower near a
pleasant fountain, fresh as the herb growing
by a stream. Her excessive weeping had
cleared her brain, and sleep came soothing

as the lullaby of the west wind amid pine
forests, or as a lover's kisses on the brow of
the woman lying on his breast.

It was early when Nellie rose, and,
drawing aside the white dimity curtains of
the window, looked out at the gardens and
lawns of the Hall. Faint wreaths of dew
rested on the box-edging and roses, and on
the various fruit bushes and cabbages along-the
borders of Faculty Fog's cottage garden.
Being a servant, she considered it her
duty to rise promptly  no sinking again amid
the lavender-perfumed bed-clothes, no coy
pressure of the pillow with small hands
thrown above the golden head In physical
enjoyment of the repose of mere sensation.

A smart tap at the door also aroused hen
It was M. Lepelletler, who was up earlier
than usual.

Come, Nellie, no idling. Let them
see how active my protege can be. The
worthy couple are at present snoring as
loudly as any member of Circe's herd of
swine.'

Nellie laughed. His voice had the
friendliness of old acquaintance In It, and
something wistful rose to her features that
proved how fatally impressionable and sympathetic
was her nature ; how soon moved
by joy or pain. She was glad her master's

metallic tones had not called her on this
her first morning of service.

She gathered the golden hair that fell far
below her waist in one hand, while she
brushed the stray curls off her forehead with
the other.

And thus she stood, fair as Vashti, innocent
as Emeralds, passionate as Juliet  a
being formed to represent loveliness triumphant
over an unjust fate ; loveliness to be
caressed and prized, to reign supreme over
men and women, vanities, luxuries, pleasures,
seductions, and yet her lips were cold, her
eyes tearful, her heart sad ; she was a
symbol of all things nameless, homeless,
and accursed.

She shook back the hair loosely straying
about her shoulders once ere rolling it into
the smooth, hard coil which service and
slavery demanded, and began that everlasting
process of washing and dressing.

The Foggs breakfasted in the kitchen,
and Nellie had received orders to prepare
the meal in this little white-washed room,
set apart for morning prayers and hot coffee,
eggs and bacon. After she descended below
she saw the Frenchman reading a book on
the sofa. He beckoned her towards him.

Do you believe in ghosts ? ' he asked,
throwing it aside.

Nellie looked both surprised and alarmed.

Why, sir, is the cottage haunted ? '

Cottage ? No. Poverty and ghosts have
no connection ; the incorporeal spirit has the
same preference for mansions as though it
were still some golden thorn in the flesh.
But look yonder, child.'

Stupefied Hall looked gloomy as ever in
the pale morning light. The autumnal haze
still enveloped it, it seemed literally buried in
mists, the aged trees of the park were conscious
of some lazy sense of awakening, for a
few leaves fluttered in the wind and fell off,
and were slowly carried down the waters of
a narrow lake, that also had a stagnant,
vitiated look.

Do you see that place, NelHe  Staple-field
Hall ?'

Hardly, sir, as yet, through the heavy
mists and trees.'

Avoid it as if it were a pestilence.
It is haunted with ruined hopes, ruined
lives, ruined souls. It is the symbol of
a world only to be governed and bought
by gold. Two years ago I was a poor
man  nearly destitute, living from hand to
mouth, crouching with the abjectness of
some beaten cur, my hand against every
man's, and then, Nellie, I cursed Staple
field Hall.'

VOL. I. E

The light had faded out of her face at the
passion of his tones. Was she, too, dreading
this haunted mansion and its untold secrets
and mysteries ?

But the ghost, sir  Is it really haunted ?'
His half-closed eyelids opened, and he

smiled sardonically.

I mean to unveil it to-day, at all events,
if one exists.'

You, sir ?'

She was terrified. Strange beings had at
times visited him, of whose conversation and
doings she had stood In awe  even Madame
Juanlta had trembled a little, and said he
knew where the dead were, and could talk to
spirits of the departed, and even tell her where
she had been on certain days.

Yes, I  by the aid of mesmerism. There
may be murder, ay, and madness, under the
roof of Stupefied Hall.'
' And the people ? ' asked Nellie, amazed
at his vehemence, so different from his usual
mocking tone.

The people are  Hush ! I'm going too
far. Some day I may tell you the mystery
of my life, but take my advice, have nothing
to do with any one connected with the place,
for they will surely bring you sorrow.'

You spoke, sir, of a young man  a Captain
Leonard, the only son  '

Of course you'd remember that, or you
wouldn't be a woman. Captain Leonard is
my enemy  he always was ; he objected to
my principles and my poverty  bah !  and
he says Aurelian died.'

His voice fell away to a whisper.

Is Captain Mallandaine a wicked young
man, sir ?'

What do you mean by wicked, little sprite?
He's what the moralist would call, I suppose,
a good man ; in other words, a hypocrite, most
likely. He'll turn up his nose at the face and
figure of the finest woman in the world to talk
about some ugly little wretch's brow or ardent
soul, or humbug of that kind. He's one of
your cold, severe critics  cares nothing for
burlesque and opera-bouffe!

I think some people must be descended
from monkeys,' said Nellie, drolly, 'because
they like antics so, and black their faces and
grin and dance like apes, and do absurd
things ; they hate cleverness, because they
are so dull and blind. Perhaps he's too
grand for that.'

She was interested in this scornful and
god-like soldier, and she dreaded his enemy's
malevolence.

Did you ever see a real, aristocratic love-letter,
eh, Nell?' he asked, with one of his
quick transitions of mood. ' Look at this

magnificent crest  feel the texture of the
paper  why, it's worth sixpence a sheet ! 
and the signature with its bold, characteristic
flourish. Well, I don't mind your seeing it ;
it isn't very likely you'll ever meet Laura
Transcribe.'

Indeed, sir, I don't care in the least
about it'

Come and kiss me this moment, Nellie,
like a good, obedient child. So you don't
want to be corrupted by hearing of naughty
love-letters ? I think, though, a man must
be a very unsatisfactory sort of a husband if
his first wife elopes with an Austrian wine-merchant,
and the second is ready to elope
with me, having an eye, of course, to my
fortune, and the marquisate in perspective.'

People seem as bad and false in the great
world as in a circus,' said Nellie, glad he
had not kissed her.

Get to your work and sweep,' he said
cruelly, detecting her aversion. ' Are you
not a servant ? If you give me any airs, I'll
walk you off again to the people who purchased
you. Sweep as I bid you  to be sure
it won't improve your pretty hands. How
Laura would like to copy them for her study
of Hebe ! It's a shame such an angel should
have to work instead of rejoicing in carriages,
flunkies, dresses, gold and silver, and the

homage of mankind. Perhaps all these glories
may yet be yours. Laura Branscombe's a
pretty name, isn't it, and she's a real genius,
too ? '

In what, sir, is she a genius ?'

In art  she paints pictures like a man 
none of your mock-modest ones ; they're hot
and cold, and coarse, and refined, and cynical,
and classical, and all the rest of it ; just like
Lollie herself.'

And this lady loves you. She must be
very wicked and unhappy  a traitor to her
husband and to you.'

To me ? No, that's the best of It. I'm
only her friend. I find her models and draperies,
correct her drawing, suggest position,
bring her music and gifts, sing her Sicilian
songs to a guitar in the twilight, get her the
best horses and wines her husband's money
can buy, and he's positively grateful, is Branscombe,
that I save him worry.'

He laughed, tossing Laura Branscombe's
letter on to the table ; he then tore It into little
pieces, followed Nellie into the kitchen, and
threw them into the grate.

Burn them, Nellie. I'm past the stage
of wearing a love-letter next my heart. Thus
it is to be rich,' shrugging his shoulders ;
women pester one so.'

But you said, sir, you were in love.'

Ah, with an Image  a dead image, over
whose memory I weep tears bitter as Pygmalion's
over his lost goddess, or Petrarch's
over his muse. Why am I heartless and
wretched, save through love ? '

Nellie had never heard him speak with
such fervour.

Would she, too, ever understand this
wondrous awakening to another's influence ?

Yes,' she said gently, ' you told me about
him. He was a poet  his sorrow was lifelong
and real. Yours mere sentiment, hollow
and worthless.'

Daring and audacious Peri,' he said, his
mood suddenly changing. ' Petrarch had,
however, his consolation in the joys of a
somewhat contracted domestic sphere. But
I must hurry off to London, for I mean
to bring an enemy to account.'

Nellie started. If she could only save
this Captain Leonard from his malice. She
felt the same mystical mingling of joy and
pain as the peasant Elsie amid the rose
gardens felt for Prince Henry, ere she
offered up her pure young life in sacrifice
for him.

Lepelletier drank off half a tumbler of
milk, looked at his watch, kissed Nellie
lightly on the brow, and long before the
worthy Faculty had descended, was out on

the long winding road leading to Brooksmere
village.

Once alone the girl sighed. This man
horrified her with his gifts, his sorrow, his
sorcery. Others had disgusted her ; him
alone she feared.

She feared also for this unknown Captain
Leonard, heir of a noble race. What crime
or misery could be concealed behind the
desolate walls of the lonely old mansion ?

As if love could ever forget or be
concealed,' muttered Nellie, thinking of
Petrarch, and then sighed again, remembering
Recent Street.

Yes, she saw it all so clearly  the splendid
large plate-glass windows of the fashionable
picture-dealer's shop. The crowd around it
on one side landscapes, on the other
simpering women's faces, at which women
stared and men smiled, and then, in the
middle, the terrible, ghastly painting of the
Christian Martyrs,' with blood on the wild
animal's fangs, on the fair, mangled girl's body.

She remembered how that choking sensation
had risen in her throat  how the sun
had burnt her brain  she was so wearied
and famished  and then falling on the hard,
sun-baked stones of the Regent Street pavement,
vanquished by hunger and nervous
weakness.

'And now for work cried Nellie, looking
about for that necessary article, a broom.

The old clock endeavoured to chime six ;
the dog crept up to her side ; she patted his
aged head, and flung him a chicken bone in
mild propitiation, and leaving him in the
kitchen, returned to the little parlour.

Silence everywhere  grave, solemn silence
save that she fancied certain dull snores
issued from the bedroom set apart for the
conjugal repose of the Foggs.

The morning sky grew rosier as day
dawned, the air blew briskly about her brow
as she opened the little cottage window.

Her wounded shoulder had ceased throbbing,
but Nellie accepted pain as her
destiny. It was quite wonderful not to be
beaten, bruised, and scorned. Heavens !
whose voice was this singing stray fragments
of a beautiful air  a mournful, plaintive
voice, rich and deep, with which an
Apollo or Hermes might have bewitched
mankind 1

Nellie, looking like some lovely Vashti,
turned by mistake into a rustic Cinderella,
through the wicked sorcery of a nether
sphere, arched her delicate eyebrows, and
with suspended breath listened.

Mille volte sul cainpo donor' sang the
voice, always sad, always musical. Never

/ o

had she heard so rich, so cultivated an
expression.

'And yet a person must be happy and
have no cares or enemies to dread if
they sing,' thought Nellie, in her young
ignorance.

The footsteps were coming nearer. Had
she some weird prescience who this man
was that she hated herself in her prim,
cotton dress, linen collar and apron, wishing
romantically that she could be applauded
before him for risking her life, and looking
pretty and smiling in semi-angelic attire.

Nellie opened the window wider, and
then crouched on a corner of the sofa, waiting
to hear more.

But only a few careless bars of the melody
were hummed, and the singer threw himself
down on the garden seat under the window,
and, taking out a book, began to read.

She could hear him turn the pages rapidly
over, and caught the faint reflex of a sigh,
and knew that the vines and clematis and
passion flowers shook as he carelessly crushed
them against the wall.

Fruits were ripening in the morning sun ;
young rabbits scudded away into the park ;
monstrous flies and insects hummed and
buzzed around ; bees and wasps, heavy with
the early spoils of fruits and roses, beat

against the window panes ; large yellow
plums rolled off over-ripe on to the warm
mould but a few yards distant from where
he sat within the shade of the passion flower.

Why did Nellie wait and listen ? What
of her duty to the Foggs ? The little copper
tea-kettle clearly ought to have been filled,
the fire lighted, the rooms swept. But
she was a Bohemian, with the brand of
the circus upon her, and no young lioness,
drowsy in the mid-summer heat, ever waited
more carelessly indifferent to the approach
of human beings, amid the long, lush grasses
of the forest than did Nellie at the present
moment.

Her thoughts were filled with an image 
her soul was ruled by a memory, and when
our thoughts are thus concentrated, we are
ever alert, expectant, watchful, although we
may look in vain a thousand times at one
window, or constantly traverse a certain
street, amid careless crowds, seeking the one
we adore.

Nellie listened, governed by a spell, a
physical, almost barbarous instinct, replete
with fancy and bewildering dreams. In all
tenderness is magnetism, often inspiration.
We dread any thought that may be alien to
or counteract that supreme clinging. For
this is love's creed.

Nellie had never trembled more in dumb
and helpless terror under the lash of the
Spaniard than now when this man's voice
caught her ear, for he had ceased singing,
and was speaking aloud, reading something
from a book, and every word seemed to
her as If falling from the lips of a god.

Her hands tightened, her breast heaved,
all that Lepelletier had told her of Stupefied
Hall and its occupants recurred to her, and
this man had clearly come from those gloomy
portals.

Captain Mallandaine was a bad sleeper ;
it was his habit to rise early and wander
about the grounds and park, and this is what
he read aloud, Nellie listening intently to
every syllable, 

For it is the property of crime to extend
its mischief over Innocence, as it is of virtue
to extend its blessings over many that deserve
them not, while frequently the author
of one or the other is not, as far as we can
see, either rewarded or punished.'

He paused here, tossed the hair from his
brow as if forming a dauntless resolution,
but some struoforle full of darkness checked
him.

Heaven help me,' he muttered, ' if my
just vengeance has been instrumental in
adding to Aurelian's agony ! '

Aurelian ! Who could this woman be
whose name caused him such keen emotion ?
Was it some girl he had loved ? '

Nellie knew now that the stranger who
had come to her assistance amid the crowd
on the Regent Street pavement, and who
had appeared among the audience at the
circus, watching her in the tigers' cage, could
be none other than the son of the Squire of
Brooksmere  Captain Leonard Mallandaine.
And Nellie, with the infatuated folly of
girlhood, believed that light and bliss were
about to shine on her path.

She could see him from the corner in
which she had squeezed herself, with the
bloom of the purple passion flowers around
him  a strong, dark, stately head thrown back
among vines and green leaves, a cold, scornful,
passionate face, like a painting by one of
the old masters  a beautiful face, lit with the
glow of intellect and feeling  a noble nature,
and yet devoured by some unseen bitterness.

So entirely centred were his thoughts on
one idea, a hidden dread, he seemed to have
lost all sympathy with the world. His
passions, fiery and strong, were, therefore,
locked in or drugged to rest by it. He
walked in a world apart, indifferent to all.

It would perhaps have justified Mrs
Fog's predictions of Nellie's future had

she seen the girl stealing out at the front
door on tiptoe. She wanted to watch Captain
Leonard, herself unseen, and from the
angle at which she stood she was hidden
from his view.

She did not know he had risen as she left
the little parlour. They both, therefore,
stood face to face by the porch, Nellie
longing to beat a rapid retreat indoors
again.

Languid and careless, he took in every
detail of her luxuriant loveliness, the golden-brown
hair, wavy from curliness, about her
brow the flash of pearly teeth between red
parted lips, the rise and fall of her bosom,
and the quick changing blushes that came
and went under his gaze. Then suddenly
she turned pale. She forgot she was beautiful,
and she knew she was a slave.

Captain Mallandaine recollected where he
had last seen her lying wounded in the
circus stable, with the dark crimson stain
upon her neck and shoulders-and

how on earth have you found your
way here ? ' he said, smiling. ' A night or
two ago you were braving the fury of the
wild beasts.'

It is through you,' said Nellie, passionate
under new emotions, and speaking the
truth in her ignorance.

He regarded her with amused surprise,
her eyes uplifted to his as they had been
when the crowd waved before her in Regent
Street ; as they had been when her courage
failed her in the tigers' cage, and the magnetic
power he possessed over her had
seemed to give a glory to death, a charm
to pain, rapture to despair.

How am I responsible ? *

I don't know,' Nellie answered, her eyes
burning, * but  '

Can you walk a little with me down this
path ? ' he asked, smiling again.

He was in the mood to catch at any incident
to change monotony, to caress any shy,
timid animal that was pleased at his notice,
to find solace in the society of any unreasoning
human creature.

Nellie obeyed. She could no more resist
him than a purple butterfly could help
the delicate poise of its wings in the air and
sun.

He said gently,  'You have a history
to relate.'

It was all through Regent Street,' said
Nellie, half tearfully.

She knew what that memory had cost her.

Regent Street ! ' echoed Captain Allan
surprised.

I had been starved for days, and I ran

away. I crossed many squares and streets.
A great thirst seized me. I had a longing to
steal, to do something wicked, and be put in
prison. It would be an end. I knew if I
went back I should be kicked and beaten,
and made to work. Some people stood
around a large shop. I followed too, and
looked, and in looking a great terror seized
me. I was starving. The fruits and flowers
in the next shop had maddened me with
longing for them, but my terror changed all
that. Now you understand. Ah, surely
you remember } '

The Captain shook his head. Nellie had
clasped her hands, her head bowed.

I fell down on the hard, hot pavement,
and you pushed the people away and came tome,
lifted me in your arms, and took me
home. I prayed then, and thanked heaven
for the first time in my life, and then the
other night you looked at me again. I
remembered it all. It was a living dread
to me, and I ran away  this time never to
return.'

He was silent. This clinging, supplicating
manner and voice touched him. Perhaps he
read something underneath it that did not
displease him. It had vibrated through the
electric chain of feeling.

How did you come to Fog's cottage ? '

'Through Monsieur Lepelletier. He has
been good to me.'

Leonard shrugged his shoulders.
You will hate domestic life ? '

I shall not mind  it will not be so
hard if'

What was the name of the woman at the
circus who rode the *' Chesterfield colt ? " '

Madame Juanita Dalton.'
Did she ill-treat you ? '

Always.'

He looked at her musingly.

Nellie Raymond ! ' cried a harsh metallic
voice.

She started, but she feared not. She
was too happy now to care what these
people might say.

You will not let them beat or starve me,
will you ? ' she said, gazing up at him with
languid joy, and a sense of safety and protection.


I ? My dear child, you are very strange.
You had better run in now and do your
work.'

Nellie Raymond,' said the gardener, coming
upon them with measured footstep and
intent. ' Thou imp of Satan, wherefore art
thou not employed ? I'll have no circus
tricks here, and the daughter of the wanton
shall have no home under our roof.'

Faculty said Captain Mallandaine, ' I
alone am answerable for this young girl's
idleness. I will not have her punished,
harassed, or over-worked. Be kind to her.
I command it.'

Ah, but, master, young wenches want a
deal of talking to and looking after, and ne'er
a room touched nor breakfast seen to  '

The Captain laid his hand on her golden
hair.

Obey him, child, and be patient.'

VOL. I. F

THE AVENGER OF DISHONOUR.

I love her though her thoughts are straying
To one who sleeps the dreamless sleep

Of death, though 'mid her sighs are playing
The hopes o'er which her visions weep.'

HEN the Frenchman left NeHie,
and turned his steps in the direction
of Brooksmere village, his
mind was absorbed with two resolves
 to discover the name of the woman
concealed behind those barred windows of
the west wing of Stupefied Hall, and to
ascertain what caused Captain Mallandaine's
gloom.

Two years ago the Captain's sister, Aurelian
Mallandaine, had been living with her parents
and brother at the Hall, when Levels
offered her marriage ; he was then
bitterly poor, she a spirited, dashing girl of
rare beauty and brilliant gifts. It was reported
a duke had aspired to her hand, and

then again, in defiance of her father's wishes,
it was stated she had resolved to be an
actress ; others declared her the authoress of
some remarkable poems that had made considerable
sensation in literary and artistic
circles ; then again it was said she had
eloped with a sculptor, and lastly came the
news that Aurelian Mallandaine was dead.

She was in her nineteenth year when she
dismissed her poor suitor with very little
compunction. He was, at least, twenty years
older than herself; he was poor, eccentric,
and obscure. Lepelletier left the Hall in a
hot fit of rage, certain that Leonard had indirectly
influenced his sister against him, and
naturally hating him in consequence, he left
Brooksmere, vowing never to return. He
travelled, drank, and gambled, nearly died
of destitution, but speedily revived on hearing
that a large fortune had been left him by
a distant relative, of whose existence he had
barely ever heard.

Aurelian also went away, and he learnt indirectly
that the dashing beauty had changed.
She was suffering, so it was given out, from
a species of religious melancholia ; she was
in the hands of priests and nuns ; she had
given over writing poetry to pen prayers ;
she fasted and saw visions ; she meant to
take the veil.

He heard that she ultimately did so ; and
he, in passing afterwards through Italy, was
shown a lonely grave, where they told him
Sister Aurelian ' was buried, having died of a
fever peculiar to the climate. The sisters at
the Convent of the Bleeding Heart had wept
bitterly at her mention.

Lepelletier honestly believed this story till
lately, when, returning suddenly to England,
he visited the Mallandaines, and the mystery
of the humble relative suggested thoughts
and fears.

Lepelletier had but few relatives, but there
was one  a distant cousin  a certain Colonel
Oscar de Beriot, in the Hungarian service,
who had been passionately in love with
Aurelian Mallandaine, and Lepelletier had
reason to believe the girl had favoured this
cavalry officer in preference to himself. Oscar
de Beriot was a lawless, mocking, heartless
Lothario, the terror of husbands, the
idol of women, the hero of drawing-rooms,
brave as a lion, without conscience, heart, or
honour. This man had been killed in a duel
on the Belgian frontier, and Lepelletier had
reason to believe Aurelian had withdrawn
into a convent in consequence of his death.
That Oscar de Beriot had met his death
in a duel at the hands of some injured
man, whose honour he had outraged, was

about the most likely end to be expected
of him.

Lepelletier had hated Colonel Oscar de
Beriot as the poor hate the rich ; the soldier
had snubbed his despised cousin, ridiculed him
on many occasions, laughing sarcastically at
his beating male. Lepelletier felt he had now
the best of the situation, for he was rich, and
Oscar de Beriot had perished at an enemy's
hands. What enemy ?

Lepelletier, like most of his race, could
console himself with the pastime of love-making
in the society of two such antitheses
as Madame Juanita, the circus rider, and
Laura Branscombe, the perfect and splendid
woman of fashion, but his passion for Aurelian
Mallandaine had possessed a touch of fanaticism,
increased by his own naturally morbid
illusions, and he was now by no means sure
that the young poetess rested in her convent
grave.

As he entered the village, he saw his
former enemy, the Cuban, approach. He
was dressed in deep mourning, and instead
of passing him by with vindictive glances,
he uncovered his head and held out his
hand.

We can afford to be friends,' the Cuban
said mournfully, his hand on his heart.

Have you come to request a loan of me ? '

Lepelletier asked, smiling as he tilted his hat
on one side.

Alas, non ami ! Have you not heard
Juanita is dead ? *

Since when ? '

Since last night. Killed by a fall from
the Chesterfield colt. She would ride him
bare-backed in defiance of all.'

Poor Lucretia ! and died in harness after
all.'

She fell on her head, broke an arm, and
expired instantly from congestion of the
brain.'

What an end ! '

Shake hands  English fashion,' said the
Spaniard, with effusion. ' She was a fine
woman. I know she favoured you latterly ;
she wanted those rare diamonds you once
showed her. Dalton had five hundred
pounds to marry her, so they say. The
poor fellow's quite cut up, and he's talking
about Nellie Raymond. He knows something
about her history, and he says if
she had her rights  '

Rights be hanged ! Wrongs rule the
day  besides, she will amuse me by-and-by.
Try a cigarette ? No .' Well, mon ami,
I'm sorry to hear of your loss. Fate might
have spared our Juno ; but she made sadly
too much flesh lately, and I always thought

the Chesterfield colt  he was your gift, you
know  would be too much for her. He'd a
touch of the wild and savage mustang breed
about him, and not all the bits in Christendom
can rule them.'

He shook hands with the Cuban, and went
on his way. Some doctors would be expecting
him about three o'clock at a house in
Southampton Row.

He caught an express train, and arrived at
the London terminus about half-past one,
and after lunching, presented himself at the
house where he was expected exactly at the
hour arranged. Two bearded, silent, dark-visaged
men received him in the hall, and led
the way to a room at the back of the house on
the second floor, where a young girl, apparently
about nineteen years of age, was lying
on a couch in a corner near the window.
The doctors glanced towards her. She
made neither sign nor movement, and had a
strange, somnambulistic air.

Lepelletier,' one of the doctors said slowly,

this is the second occasion of our meeting.

Give me your hand.'

The Frenchman shivered faintly, his

eyes fixed on the pallid features of the

woman.

His hand glided into the doctor's without

further speech, while the spectral features of

the sleeper quivered, and, for a moment, a
kind of tremor passed over her lips and eyelids.


The other doctor merely watched them
indifferently from time to time with the coldness
of a Trismegistus.

The man who had addressed Lepelletier
took the woman's hand.

You may ask her any question now, and
she will answer,' he said quietly.

Lepelletier had turned deadly pale, his
tongue could scarcely form a sentence.

Who is living in the west wing of Staple-field
Hall,' he asked,  near the village of
Brooksmere, Exeter ? '

There was a minute's silence ; the doctor
again bent over her.

A woman,' the voice answered, clearly and
distinctly.

Describe her.'

She is young and beautiful ; she suffers,
and now she prays aloud on her knees. I
cannot follow the words ; the words are
senseless, so also is she. Great grief has
brought her to the state in which she now
is. There are two people with her ; one is
her brother.'

Aurelian, then, lives ! ' cried Lepelletier ina
hoarse voice, ' and it is she ! '

Tell us of her thoughts,' said the doctor.

Impossible. They are often veiled and
shapeless, but there is one name she repeats
incessantly  Oscar de Beriot.'

The Frenchman trembled from head to
foot, drawing his breath hard.

The traitor ! ' he muttered. ' The pitiless
traitor ! Oscar de Beriot is the cause of
Aurelian's anguish.'

She is praying aloud before a crucifix,'
the woman continued, in the same soft
tones.

And what does she say ? ' he asked breathlessly.


There was a pause, and then the dreamy
tones again caught his ear.

" That is our marriage bell. Do you not
hear it, Oscar . To-day is the bridal. Listen
to the bells. We will be buried together,
dearest. No, no, he comes  the murderer !
Leonard, you have killed my lover  you
have killed your sister, and he loves me. I
must kiss his brow once  just once  and his
lips. Oh, my tears ! Why am I not dead
and quiet in the grave ? " '

Lepelletiers terrible presentiment then
was true. Oscar de Beriot was a traitor,
and Leonard Mallandaine, finding he had
forsaken his unhappy sister, had challenged
him to a duel and killed him.

It was all horrible, ghastly, and true.

Aurella, with her instincts of sacrifice, had
been the slave of a passion.

That splendid mind, then, Is a wreck ; but
I will see her again,' he muttered. * Leonard
shall not dare to keep her thus concealed from
my view ; but once  great heaven !  just
once to behold her ! '

A sad history,' said the doctor, who had
not hitherto spoken.

It is the story of a good many women's
lives,' the other answered.

The somnambulist now arose, the doctor
having passed his hand over her brow, and
she retired, leaving them alone.

When a woman has genius, love Is often
fatal,' the doctor continued ; ' it brings torment.
The mind cannot overthrow or conquer
Its sinister Influence.'

I could have learned to reconcile the
thought of her buried in a convent grave,'
Lepelletier muttered. ' I could have pictured
her as the guileless. Innocent saint,
penetrated with divine Influences in keeping
with her purity and refinement. That she
has been destroyed, and by him, will impart
a spring of bitterness to my every thought.
Blessed would have been the sleep of death ;
terrible must be the visions of anguish during
the vigils of the night.'

He rose, shook hands with the two mysterious

doctors, and passed down the stairs
into the noisy streets and the Hght of day.

As he turned the corner of Tottenham
Court Road, a magnificent barouche and pair
dashed up to the kerbstone, and two ladies
bowed most graciously, one with a hot flame
on her well-powdered cheek, and the other
with a pretty, but studied smile.

The elder of these was Laura Branscombe,
the younger her step-daughter Vivian, with a
skin of satin, and pale brown hair tightly
drawn back off her low, retreating brow.

She was a fashionable beauty, or rather, as
she wished to impress on her admirers, a
professional beauty, which implied greater
distinction and honour ; her eyebrows were
faultlessly pencilled, so also were the dark
shadows under the lashes.

She had been presented at court by her
aunt, Lady Annersley ; her photographs
sold at three and sixpence a-piece ; a short
review of her life had been given in various
papers, the greater part of which was false ;
she was described as musical and romantic,
when she was more indifferent than intellectual.


All that could be said in her favour was
that her head possessed the necessary smallness
fashion demanded, that her dark blue
riding habit fitted to perfection, and that she

rode like a trooper. She was very tired of
everything, and bored by admiration, although
she craved it with an appetite sharpened by
success.

So delighted to see you Mrs Branscombe
cried. ' Of course you'll come to dinner
to-night at Prince's Gate ? '

Mrs Branscombe's dress was composed
of the richest pompadour silk, trimmed
with coquettish little bows, a mantilla of
Spanish lace was fastened on one side
with a flower, and a duchess hat with
saffron-tinted feathers completed her toilet.

The ladies had been shopping, Vivian
having taken a fancy to having her boudoir
refurnished, choosing pure white panelling,
with white gilded furniture. As an acknowledged
belle, Vivian Branscombe was capricious,
and her wealthy father indulged her
tastes in every way. Whether buying two
guinea bouquets or two hundred guinea
thorough-bred, she never thought of the
value of money, and in applying belladonna
to her eyes, or veloutine to her delicate
pearl-like skin, she was always serene and
inflexible, seldom enthusiastic, even over
millinery.

Lepelletier pressed Laura Branscombe's
well-gloved hand lightly as he declined her
invitation to dinner. He was in no mood

for worldliness, he felt morbid and depressed.


My father was asking to-day after Captain
Leonard Mallandalne,' Vivian said, with
the faintest show of interest in her manner.
Is he well ? '

'He is still devoted to a solitary life,'
Lepelletier answered.

Some one, he was sure, here laughed ashe
spoke. He glanced up quickly and saw
a dark, pock-marked woman seated behind
the ladles with the footman. She wore a
large black bonnet and cloak ; her face was
veiled, her thin hands beat nervously together.


Did you not hear a laugh, Miss Branscombe
? ' he asked.

Get down at once, nurse,' said Vivian
haughtily ; ' go into that shop and ask them
why they have not sent home the sewing
machine I ordered.'

The nurse descended slowly, and the look
she turned on the spoilt beauty Vivian was
not pleasant. The narrow, serpent-like eyes
gleamed, and then turned dull with pain.

Old servants are quite too horrid and
dreadful,' said Vivian sharply, so that the
woman could hear. * If I'd my way I'd send
her to the union.'

Oh, would you, my lady, indeed ? ' muttered

the nurse to herself, and laughed again,
this time quite rudely.

Mrs Sidewing,' implored the footman, * do
mind your manners. You're getting as fond
of liquor as Bob himself.'

Mrs Sidewing scrambled to her feet, choking
for breath, and as the footman approached
her and touched her arm, she shook him off
fiercely.

I'll have no help, I want nothing o' you,
you powdered dandy-loafer ! I'll just go
back the way I come.'

Mrs Branscombe, the creature positively
defies us,' said Vivian languidly, appealing to
her step-mother, and leaning back in her soft
laces and grenadine costume of palest rose-colour,
her little hands encased m gris perle
gloves, and her hat of fine white straw, with its
trimmings of rose-coloured satin, well over
that pearly falsehood  her narrow brow.

Lepelletier was whispering something into
Mrs Branscombe's ear ; she was too absorbed
to listen to Vivian's querulous remarks.

There was a look of fury in the nurse's
face, as if some passion, kept down for years
by dogged patience, was slowly coursing
through her veins.

Is it only for this,' she muttered brokenly,
that I have slaved and lied and sinned all
these years, and loved her and kept silent ?

Ah, to give body and soul, and receive but
taunts, and I want to kiss her when I touch
her'  shivering  ' I want to kneel to her
sometimes, and fold her to my heart. Dear
heaven, it is cruel to have worked and lived
a miserable life only for this all these long
years.'

THE FIRST KISS OF LOVE.

Nothing is more loving than the entreaty of her gaze,
No lily on a tendril more tender than her grace ;
Than he, no one more stricken, such the gloom upon his
face

HEN Nellie re-entered the cottage,
after parting with Captain
Mallandaine, she saw her master,
Faculty Fog, take down a
gigantic Bible covered with red cloth off a
shelf, and gaze at her with the air of a Brutus
about to sacrifice his firstborn, as he turned
the pages deliberately over. She knew by
instinct she should never like her master ;
his cottage already seemed like a prison, for
she had been used to a life of emotion, an
prosaic occupation, with a faint jingling
of fame and applause generally going on
around her, and Faculty Fog, with the Ten
Commandments written on his iron visage,

petrified her, as a poet might be chilled by-contact
with a grave digger armed with a
practical spade or trowel amid the flowers of
some woodland plain.

Mrs Faculty seemed less objectionable, for
she had addressed some kind words to the
outcast, but as she descended to-day in a
pale slate-coloured gingham morning-robe,
carrying some new laid eggs and raspberries
in a little wicker basket, Nellie saw an
angry glitter in the green eyes, such as an
elderly woman's might reflect who, expecting
a nice, comfortable hot cup of tea, finds
neither fire nor kettle prepared.

A pretty thing, indeed, Nellie Raymond,'
said her mistress crossly, * for us to comedown
to our breakfast and find you gallivanting
about with the Captain.'

There were sundry pleadings and palpitations
of that capacious bosom, which the
chapel-goers of Brooksmere regarded in the
light of some handsome if fleshly envelope
enfolding the unseen spiritual loyalty of the
soul.

I'll have a word with her by-and-by,'
said Faculty, briskly.

Eh, dearie me, and not even the fire
lighted, or a bit o' wood chopped,' gasped
the Echo, venturing again on an assertion
unprompted by her husband.

VOL. I. G

Nellie Raymond said Faculty, severely,
crossing his legs and addressing the culprit,
come here. I see you have evil yearnings.
I find you have neglected your duties  after
supper and slumber, too  under our roof.
You, therefore, leave our situation this day
week. The godless heathen who brought
you hither, may remove you quickly from
our sight. Wife, fry me a slice of bread
with the bacon ; I think I could relish it.'

Ah, but, Faculty, give the girl another
chance,' said Mrs Fog, who saw the tears
start to the dark blue eyes with their curling
lashes.

I know,' said the gardener, turning over
Proverbs with a black-marble expression of
countenance, * that if Nellie Raymond lives
with us, I may be tempted to be harsh with
her, and endeavour to eradicate the sins,
which I can see are too apparent.'

Oh, sir, let me stay. Give me just
another chance,' said Nellie, sobbing outright.
' I'll really work hard, and be a good
girl and obedient. I've no home in all the
world, no fr  '

Silence, Nellie Raymond. I look into
the future. I see you walking with our
young master, the Captain, and I'm a deal
too attached to the family to let a pretty
young wench get hold over him to give

another stab at his father's heart'  Faculty
here wiped his eyes with a crimson bandana
handkerchief, and Mrs Fog, looking at the
ceiling, spied a cob-web, which annihilated
sympathy and sentiment as speedily as water
on a bee's wing sends him off a flower 
and you were talking freely to him, such
as no modest girl would do to a stranger
and a superior ; and young men will be
young men. I shall, therefore, send you
out of the reach of all danger and harm,
for you have beauty of a certain kind. Ita
snare to the flesh, and a sure temptation
to the senses.'

Is that my fault ? ' said Nellie, piteously.
I can't help being pretty any more than you
can help being ugly. I'm not a toad, or a
newt, or a lizard,' twisting her cotton apron
into all sort of shapes.

She almost hated her beauty, as something
constantly thrown in her teeth as a
reproach.

Faculty started to his feet enraged.

Go out of our sight ! ' he roared, flaming
all over.

Very well, sir, I'll go,' she answered.
'Tisn't likely there would be any kindness in
the world for me. You can read the Bible,
and send me out of your house, and think
you'll go to heaven all the time. Why,

thieves and murderers couldn't be harder to
a poor girl'

You hear her, wife ; there's insolence.
She's been used to speak her mind and mix
with a bad set, the scum of the earth, lawless
criminals. We shall next have her setting
the place on fire.'

When am I to leave ? ' asked Nellie,
coldly, checking her sobs.

After all it was a miserable sort of place.
To toil and moil here from morning to night
would be horrid, and Captain Leonard, fanning
her rebellion, had told her she would
hate domestic life.

This day week. In the meantime I'll
look about for a place for you. I'm not so
harsh and unjust as you think. I'm not
going to turn you out to starve. It's for
your good I am sending you away. I'll
inquire down in the village, or maybe at
Exeter tomorrow, and see whether you can
be employed.'

Don't send me far away,' said Nellie,
in a dull, low voice, clattering the knives and
forks on the kitchen table, and then burning
pages of the Exeter Gazette in her excitement
as she endeavoured to light the fire.

Anywhere near the man with the ivory-pale
cheeks and brow, any hopes of seeing
him pass to and fro, any chance of a kind

word, a look, a smile. Yes, it had already
come to this. Nellie felt the keenest
interest, an undefinable sympathy in the
welfare of the grave soldier with the dark,
shadowy hair, command in his eyes, yet
oppressed by gloomy scorn. She was in
that chrysalis stage of amatory development
when a girl does not know what to do with a
passion tincturing every thought like invisible
poison fumes, or volcanic smoke finding its
way unknown into every corner of the heart.

She rushed hurriedly from the room, considerably
startling Faculty by her sudden
exit. How she hated him, sitting there  so
hard and prim and grave ! Nellie was in a
curiously vindictive mood. Faculty's greatcoat
was hanging on a peg behind his bedroom
door ; some barbaric instinct made
her rush at and slaughter this harmless
garment by cutting the lining in several
places.

I'll be as wicked and as bad as ever I
can be,' she thought, flinging herself on
her little bed in a passion of hysteric sobs.
Work for him !  no, the old hypocrite,
and his poor simpleton of a wife afraid of
him, too. They may turn me from their door
to-day ; they may kill me, or I'll kill myself.
I don't care which.'

She was glad she had cut the coat-lining ;

she wanted the irreproachable Christian to
be enraged on Sunday. How angry he
would be at chapel  leading with a hymn,
too, before addressing the Winneford Brethren
 when he found stray flapping of loose
lining around him like wings with broken
pinions.

There was no breakfast, no work for
Nellie to-day ; instincts of rebellion were
rife within her ; she looked out of the ivy-decked
casement, beyond the red roses and
passion flowers, and saw Captain Allan
the primary cause of her mutiny,
standing on the centre lawn with a magnificent
deerhound at his feet.

She seized her little straw hat, flew down
the corkscrew staircase, nearly breaking
her neck in her speed, and ran towards him.

He was rather annoyed this time at Nellie's
approach. He was smoking a strong
cigar just after having swallowed a cup of
cafe noir, and he was reading a letter from
Vivian Branscombe, inviting him to join a
select party on board her father's yacht, the
Comet, at a certain time off Southey.

Vivian's elegantly pointed Italian hand
was very agreeable telegraphy, and Vivian
herself, cold, fashionable, and uninflammable,
charmed him by her very contrast to himself.
She was the very last woman living to make

his sorrow hers, or care for his grief, or
enter into his hopes, and yet Leonard Heed
to watch the Hght eyelashes sweep the delicate
oval cheek, and feel the sorttldge of her
soft, satiric speeches, and her strange, careless
grace.

The hound started to his feet and growled
as Nellie approached.

To heel, sir,' said Leonard, angrily,
saluting Eros with his boot, and holding him
by the collar, determined to snub, if necessary,
this very youthful and eccentric helper of the
Foggs.

He gave me notice,' said Nellie, looking
pleadingly into his face, ' because I
spoke to you '  she never called him ' sir,* 
it seemed to her with her tender homage and
reverence, as if he must read and understand
all in the humility of her tones and manner 
and says I must leave this day week.'

For what reason ? '

He spoke coldly, watching that deep flush
of colour rise under his gaze, and wondering
if the development of the mind and senses of
a little savage beauty might repay him the
trouble.

Leonard was an emotional epicure ; he
had, as he declared, no Oriental weaknesses ;
flashing eyes, and melting lips, and * ruinous
lilies in languid hair,' for him had no lure,

but for the patient, striving spirit, the piercing
fancy, the kindly sympathy, he had the keenest
admiration ; perhaps he required more
highly strung mental evolutions of rapture
and despair than the ordinary unthinking
sensualist and fool.

And Nellie answered, impetuously 

Because he said I was pretty. Do you,'
demurely  ' think so, too ? '

Leonard considered this question demanded
quick reproof.

You have no right to ask any one that,
and even if I thought so, how would it affect
you ? You had better go back to your work
and duties in the cottage.'

Oh, don't send me away from you so
soon!' said Nellie, sobbing again. * It
can't harm you letting me be with you now
and then, can it ? And it makes me want to
live. If there was anything I could do for
you  if it was in laying down my life to save
you an hour's sorrow, I'd do it. I'm only a
poor, ignorant girl, I know. Be kind to mea
little as you are to your dog.'

Her voice vibrated like chords, and her
face was pale and set. She had something
else to say besides appeal. It was about
himself and his enemy, but speech was very
difficult, since he had turned away his head,
watching the rays of the morning sun alight

on corn fields, park, and woodland till a dusk
flame seemed to warm them anew.

The man who brought me here is no
friend of yours,' said poor Nellie, trying
to interest him. ' He said'  lowering her
voice, and looking towards the barred windows
of the west wing of the gloomy mansion
"that he would find out who you locked
up there," ' pointing to the house. ' Who is
Aurelian } '

The Captain drew the cigar from his lips.

Aurelian ! And how did you hear that
name .- '

You spoke it aloud as you sat on that
seat by the window, and I listened and heard
it. Is she'  hesitating  'some one you are
fond of, that you shut her away from the
world ? I think,' said Nellie, quivering,
*if I loved any one, Td be jealous of the
very wind that touched their brow, and of
the air they breathed.'

Is this some romantic simpleton seeking
a hero ? ' thought the Captain, flinging his
cigar away.

He remembered Vivian Branscombe as
Nellie spoke  Vivian, the heiress and
beauty  cold, passionless, successful Vivian,
who snubbed her step-mother, and ridiculed
her paintings, and got on so well with her
father, Bernard Branscombe, who made a

pet of her, and showered gold on her every
caprice.

He intended to marry Vivian some day,
if she would have him, and, glancing at the
letter she had written him, he did not think
there would be much difficulty about that.

Nellie was patting the hound in defiance
of both teeth and growls. Vivian would have
shaken a three-guinea point cT Alengon handkerchief
scented with ' Parfait Amour,' and
requested Eros should be removed or shot,
had he evinced similar hostility at her
overtures.

Mind he doesn't bite you,' said the Captain,
glancing at her shoulder.

It had been nude and bleeding when he
had last seen her, lying in the rough circus
stable ; but how fair the skin beneath the
crimson stain  how glorious the golden-brown
tints of the sunny, flower-wreathed
hair! He remembered he had helped to
remove a false but glittering necklace from
her throat, and it was then the velvet-lidded
eyes had opened, and she had tried to smile.
Their looks mingled once again, and in
mingling they had loved.

But Leonard did not understand this. We
often wait hours, days, and weeks to thrill
beneath the music of the symphony that
fatal prelude announces.

rd never care for a dog's bite,' said
Nellie, fondling him. 'Once, when I was
very little, one of our performing poodles 
Marengo, they called him  bit me on the
arm ; but Jack burnt it all out with a red-hot
iron while they held me down.'

Eros can be very nasty,' said Leonard
quietly. * Don't try him too far.'

He likes me. He's not savage really.
See how he's changing. It was only when
you came that night among the audience,
and looked at me in a searching way that
I felt frightened, and something fluttered in
my throat. What was it } '

After all, she is but a poor, ignorant girl,
accustomed to speak her thoughts,' he mused.

The vibrations of her voice were, however,
blending with and stirring rare under-currents
of feeling, thrilling his senses unconsciously.


'You see me now,' said Nellie, 'in a
hideous cotton frock. How could you think
me pretty ? I wish you could see me in
my white muslin dress all spangled, and gold
shoes, and my hair undone. Then you might
not want to send me away quite so soon, but
teach me something about another beautiful
sort of life, such as you think of when you
are not sad.'

Nellie,' said Captain Mallandaine, smiling

In spite of himself, * do you so often
think of me ? '

She pointed to the lake, on which dead
leaves were falling one by one, borne along
by the stream.

I thought just now you were like that
lake, and I a happy leaf dead on its breast,
but so happy, because I was near you. Then
again in Regent Street, when you carried
me to the cab, I felt a mad longing to thank
you and put my arms about your neck 
just once ; but a sort of dumb trembling
stopped me speaking. A long time ago I
jumped into the river because I hated my
life, and some boatmen took me out ; but
I never felt glad  only sullen and wretched.
There was no joy in finding myself alive 
then.'

I little dreamt of meeting a siren of this
description here,' thought Leonard, ' ready
to meet me with innocent love in her eyes
and voice. She doesn't understand good
and evil, right or wrong. No young slave
of ancient Rome, no wild witch of Asia, no
Helot before her Greek master could be
more untutored in civilised ways. Piave
you ever been to school ? ' he asked, wondering
why he felt elated at her worship.

Never. I learnt to count through being
beaten for falling off the tightrope, and

once, when I had a dreadful fall through
a net breaking, I was laid up ten weeks,
and the doctor came and sat with me, and
lent me books and explained things, and then
an old woman with thin hands came, and
sat and mumbled to herself and talked to me,
and said perhaps she'd come again and take
me away ; but we moved on so quickly
from place to place that I never saw her
afterwards.'

Did no one else instruct you ?'

Yes, Jack Dalton taught me to write
and read on Sundays when his wife was
tipsy. He never let people be rough tome,
and kept me mostly to the horses.'

Of course, you ride superbly ', '

Oh, if you could let me show you how
I can ride,' said Nellie, enthusiastically,
you might like me better then.'

Like you better ! My dear child, there
can be no question of liking between us.'

Nellie shuddered. It expressed better
than words the force of the insanity possessing
her.

But if I did you a great service,' she
said, again tearful, ' and saved you from
your enemies, or died for you, would you
quite forget me . '

He glanced at her warily and incredulously.
She amused him as a wanderer

in a desert might welcome some rare
bird with golden plumage, that longed to
hop on his hand and be fed with smiles.
She cared nothing save as he was pleased.

I never minded when the people hissed
or jeered in the circus, or I got a knock
or a bite ; but I do so care,' said Nellie,
touching his arm, ' that you will let me see
you sometimes. I'll go to Exeter and work
in a shop, as they want, but to look into
a thousand faces for long years and never
see yours, why, better be a leaf, a happy
little dead leaf on the lake there.'

'Nellie,' he said, softly, 'why do you
care for me like this ? '

Because you are great and kind, and
you are sad. You hate foolish antics and
fine women who are false and cruel  Monsieur
Lepelletier said so. He's quite different.
I am very ignorant, but all that seems
clear to me ; and why shouldn't I, who
have no home or friends and hate everybody,
learn at last to think of one personas
men think of the sun in heaven T

Poor child ! '

'If I'd been very common, or quite unlike
you, I should have liked stupid dances and
jokes and horrid men, and made hateful of
money. They offered me gold to sit for my
portrait, and Jack Dalton wanted to take me

away to live with him ; but no, they told
me I was pretty  that gave me hopes, and
I remembered you.'

Ignorant and barbaric as she was, he
felt implicit faith in her. Had she been
less innocent she would have locked up
her secret, and adopted artful wiles and
laid her little plots to win him. A more
vulgar and artful nature must have been
entrapped by greed and gain.

Nellie,' he said, throwing a pebble into
the waveless waters of the lake, ' I can
trust you. Tell me what Lepelletier meditated
doing against me.'

He meant to use sorcery  mesmerism
he called it  to find out who the woman
was you had hidden away. Do you,'
hesitating, * live alone at the Hall ? '

At present I am alone. Would you like
to come and see my home ? I will take
you through the picture galleries.'

Like it. Oh, so much ! ' she said, with
a little tremulous laugh, and followed him
across the dewy lawns, where the stately
peacocks were pluming themselves in the
sun.

He took her first to the stables. Three
magnificent thoroughbreds and two hunters,
with dark, glossy coats and fiery eyes, met
their view. They were faultlessly groomed.

as the stillness of their arched necks
testified.

NelHe's face beamed with pleasure. She
might be able to show him now that she
could do at least brave and daring acts.

In the paroxysms of her weeping, the
hard coil had been shaken down, and the
golden rain fell in splendid showers about
her arms and bust.

Vivian Branscombe, her fortune and
fashion, faded out of his mind. Conventionalism
did not fascinate at that moment.

Are these your horses ? ' she asked
passing her little dimpled hand professionally
over their sinews.

Yes, they are. Two are hunters. I
send them to the borders of Exmoor when
in the mood for a red stag hunt. Exmoor
is one of the loveliest spots in Devonshire.
The beauties of river, woodland, and cascade
are frequently comprehended in one
view.'

Why couldn't I go to Exmoor and hunt
too ? ' she asked, after a pause.

Nellie, that is naughty. You must never
ask such questions. If you are going to
be my little friend, you must try and learn
something beyond riding.'

The horses are lovely,' said Nellie,
characteristically, and as she spoke she

sprang on one like the little wild Arab that
she was.

Mind, he's a brute to kick,' said Captain
Mallandaine, feeling the situation ridiculous,
for his two grooms, Musgrove and Barney
O'Flynn, were looking on and grinning from
the harness-room.

Nellie, in her cotton frock and dishevelled
hair, rosy, panting, and breathless, seated upon
Rosicrucian, that had made his teeth meet
last week in Barney's arm, was certainly a
strange sioht.

Rosicrucian curled back his lip and dropped
one ear in a singularly vicious way ere biting
the manner and lashing out with his hind-legs.


Oh, he's a beauty, and isn't he playful ?'
said Nellie, proud of her feat. ' How we
would race the red stag at Exmoor together,
and chase him into the river !' she murmured,
forgetting the Captain's reproof.

Is master a-going' to take up with that
there young heathen Chinee, I wonder ?'
asked the sober-minded coachman, Percival,
who had served the family, man and boy, for
the last forty years.

H officers are that queer in their ways and
whims, they're like so tired, ye see, of grand
widen, an' ballet gals, drink, an' cards,'
said Musgrove, winking at Barney. * Depend

VOL. I. H

upon It this Is some pretty tramp our Captain's
picked up off the common.'

Faith, an' she's a rale beauty Entirely,'
said Barney, approvingly. * Only got to dress
the child up a bit, and instead o' dancing on
that brute's back, why, begorra, she'd make
the men dance a pretty tune after her.'

Get down, Nellie  don't be absurd,' said
Leonard, who had overheard some of their
remarks.

But at that identical moment, Nellie,
flushed, excited, and mischievous, unknown
to the Captain, had saddled the thoroughbred,
and wheeling him round, galloped out
of the stable-yard, leapt a low fence, and was
taking him round the park at the speed of a
plater.

Gad ! she's off, and no mistake,' said Perclval,
who had joined the grooms.

Faith, an' it's sorra a halfporth that Faculty
'full bless the little vixen,' said Barney, delighted
at the scene. ' Sure, she rides like
a jockey. 'Deed, an' he'll pack her off pretty
quick, for the dill must be In a wench to
make the savage baste obey her at all at all.'

The Captain's brow darkened. He was
very angry with Nellie. He found admiration
for unconventional ways, and beauty had
its limits.

It's the last time she shall ever dare do

that,' he muttered, calling to Eros, who seemed
inclined to follow the thoroughbred.

And yet he could not help admiring Nellie s
riding, the ease, the grace, the rapidity, and
the daring of it all.

She took the viciously-disposed horse three
times round the park at full gallop, and then
brought him up to the stable door, where the
Captain awaited her.

There, I'm better now,' she said, flinging
herself to the ground. ' That was a capital
spin, and done him no harm. He wanted it
taken out of him.'

The horse's sides were flecked with foam,
and he was in that pleasant condition of being
what equine critics emphatically call * blown.'

The grooms grinned at each other, as well
they might.

There's work for you, Barney,' said the
coachman. ' He's all of a white lather.'

Leonard did not commence his lecture in
the hearing of his servants. He banged the
stable door to, again called to the hound,
and followed Nellie through the yard to the
park.

Do you know that you have made me
ridiculous, and been most disobedient ?'

Nellie trembled from head to foot at the
tones, but this time no tears came. She was
too excited to weep. Her worship and her

homage were too over-mastering, and she had
so hoped he admired her skill.

I wanted you to see how I could ride,'
she said, timidly, half-turning her head, and
pale at his chiding.

I knew that was among your accomplishments
when you came out of a circus,' he said,
furiously.  I was going to take you over the
Hall, but you'll be doing some other wild and
silly tricks. If you ever ride my horses without
permission, I'll never see or speak to you
again, or have anything more to do with you.'

Nellie's face had undergone many changes
as he spoke. All the light died out of it.

Was "t so wrong ?' she asked, piteously.
Oh, forgive me ! I was never taught. Hard
words from you I cannot bear. Forgive me.
I meant no harm.'

She had clasped his hand unconsciously.
Her idol had reproached her.

You break my heart when you speak so,'
said Nellie, shivering all over, and looking
like a rose shaken by a winter wind.

She was trying to roll up the ends of her
hair with one hand in the hard knot which
Mrs Fog approved of.

Won't you say you forgive me . ' she
pleaded. ' I'll never go near the horses
or make you angry again.'

So lovely were those fresh young lips

pleading for pardon, so infinite was the grace
of her ways, so entrancing the effect of her
physical beauty, and the alternate charm of
rebukes and humility combined, that Captain
Mallandaine yielded for once to an ungovernable
impulse.

He anticipated her yearning for love by a
kiss which thrilled both their lips and hearts
like two worlds approaching, by some magnetic
process, nearer together, moved and
warmed by a radiant sun whose burning rays
hasten the oncoming of summer. And in the
first flush of all passion we can never fathom
the difference between the past and present
states of feeling when there exists the
memory of a kiss.

THE LOSS OF A DIAMOND NECKLACE.

Vivian BRANSCOMBE is sitting
before the lace-decked mirror in
her dressing-room, her chin buried
in her hands, apparently oppressed
with thought. Is the spoilt belle in love ?
Has the favoured ' beauty woman ' found
some careless lover disdainful of her charms ?
Has all the gold showered upon her from
her extreme youth brought mere weariness
and vexation of spirit ? Can there be a limit
to the enjoyment of dressing, riding, and
flirting ? Her exquisite shoes of fine kid,
buttoned at the side according to the
latest fashion, have been kicked off in
sudden disgust and ennui, and when a
beauty's restless feet deal havoc to her
shoes, we may be sure that floods of tears
or furious words, or the frantic perversity
of the spoilt child of wealth and fashion,

are about to culminate in some tremendous
anti-climax.

Leonard has never answered my note,'
Vivian murmured, driving her silken-covered
foot again into the despised shoe. * Why
does he keep away from me, and shut himself
up in Stupefied Hall ? I almost wish
there would be a war, and then we could
read an account of his bravery in action.'

Shall I dress your hair, miss, for your
ride '. ' asked the lady's-maid, Morton, respectfully,
her young lady's tantrums being
clearly revealed to her astute observation.

I don't know,' answered Vivian, abstractedly,
and sighing.

If you please, miss, a gentleman begged
me to leave this for you to look at,' said
Morton, who had pocketed a sovereign by
the transaction. ' He waylaid me as I was
crossing the road, and he says, '' Do you
come from that angel, the beautiful Miss
Branscombe ? " '

So ridiculous,' muttered Vivian, looking,
however, delighted, and sparing the other
shoe.

'And I says, *' Yes, sir, I'm her maid."
Then, says he, '' Give her this, and tell her
one as watched her last night from her box
in the theatre, and dreams of her by night
and by day, begs  " '

Oh, how many more, I wonder ? ' the
beauty cried, stretching her lovely arms
above her head. ' The fellow's a pickpocket,
I daresay. These adventurers are always
on the look-out for something to turn up to
their advantage. What is it  a begging
letter, a likeness, or some idiotic poetry } '

Vivian opened a crumpled envelope, and
read these lines : 

Alfred de Lancy entreats the favour of
an interview with the beautiful Miss Branscombe.
He played the part of Claude Melnotte
when she visited the Prince's, and is
ravished with the memory of his charmer's
eyes. He feels that Miss Branscombe must
be either his death or destiny. If he could
only be a servant in her household, even a
footman, or groom  '

Here, Morton, that's more than enough,'
said Vivian, laughing. ' The very idea of
such insolence ! Groom, indeed ! He'd
better not try any nonsense on of that kind,
or I'll have him worshipped.'

She put the letter in a box on her
dressing-table, and thought no more of the
matter. Morton also pocketed de Lancy s
sovereign, and meant to appropriate more.

Vivian's step-mother, Mrs Branscombe,
writing letters in the library, and Bernard
Branscombe, busy in his study, signing contracts,

settling mortgages, and buying up
old country mansions long gone to rack and
ruin, were hardly what the moralist would
call choice specimens of the model couple so
sweetly embodied in that charming ballad,
John Anderson my Jo

The Branscombes were still at Prince's
Gate, though the London season had long
ended, but they intended yachting very
shortly, and the ladies evinced no particular
desire to retire to Bernard Branscombe's
fine old country seat, Beechwood Manor.

Vivian flung open her wardrobe door, and
selected the newest riding-habit she possessed
; it was splendidly finished by a West-end
tailor, and was composed of the finest,
darkest blue cloth. All the snobs and toadies
of Vivian's acquaintance, and various young
idiots of good birth and no money, having an
eye to Branscombe's gold, paid the spoilt
heiress that exaggerated homage which only
accompanies the promptings of self-interest.

Branscombe's faculty for money getting
and Vivian's hauteur and beauty formed a
safe and amusing topic for the toadies, and
whether Vivian were lolling indolently back
in her father's carriage or flashing past them
in the Row on her dark chesnut mare, there
were plenty of admiring ' by Loves ' and * by
Georges,' and * ohs ' and * ais,' which Vivian

regarded no more than the Princess of Wales
might pause to consider the value of mincemeat
for the Christmas pies.

As the heiress lifted her riding-habit some
impulse made her open her Coromandel wood
dressing-case, and taking a small gold key
attached to her chain, she opened the box
and ran her eye carelessly over the jewels.

Presently she started and hastily turned
the gems out on her dressing-table. A very
fine and valuable diamond necklace of small
but rare rose diamonds was missing.

A curious tremor seized the girl ; it seemed
as if a spectre had laid its icy grip upon her.
Vivian was not constitutionally nervous 
quite the contrary  but she had a prescience
of coming ill, of something unsound and
dangerous about her path, connected with
the loss of the diamond necklace. She
uttered a low, smothered cry of fear, and her
face had an ashy pallor, not from a sense of
loss, but from a hidden and impending dread.

Morton,' cried Vivian, imperiously, ' you
remember my diamond necklace  the one I
always wore with my violet and white velvet
dinner dresses  well, it's gone ; no mistake
about that'

She flew downstairs and rushed into the
study in which Bernard Branscombe, her
father, sat among his deeds and papers, in

o

company with Mr Warrington, the family
lawyer.

My dear Vivian,' said her father, motioning
her to a chair, ' whatever is the matter ?
My nerves never could stand the banging of
doors.'

Bernard Branscombe was a very small and
slender man, with a thin, keen face, an
aquiline nose, and small, shifting, pale blue
eyes. Why he was so rich must have astonished
any physiologist or phrenologist
regarding his organs and faculties, but is
it mind that is necessary in getting on ?
Decidedly not. Given lucky chances, gross
unscrupulousness, and no feeling or imagination,
and the successful soap-boiler, contractor,
or merchant will coin wealth like others of his
kind in a world which makes money without
pleasure to itself.

His little blue eyes seem to open and shut,
and retreat back again into his head like
those of a sleepy alligator. An honest
citizen, a thorough man of business, always
in a hurry in his office, and fond of charging
columns of closed envelopes with a paperknife,
he was decidedly not a pleasant man, nor
one to be taken too familiarly by the hand.

Papa,' cried Vivian, forgetting to salute
the lawyer, * only think, my diamond necklace
has gone.'

Then she stopped. She had been pale
when she entered, but now the colour darted
all over her face with rage.

The rose-diamonds gone ? ' said Bernard
Branscombe, adding up some interest. ' Why,
they were my wedding gift to your mother,
Vivian, when she was Emily Gregson, and
before she did me the honour to elope with
my bosom friend, Hubert Rudersheim.'

I hate to hear of my mother's name,' said
Vivian, savagely ; ' it enrages me. Think,
papa, how she disgraced us.'

Pardon me, my dear Miss Branscombe,'
said the lawyer, taking up cudgels on behalf
of the absent lady. * Your mother is
now very happily married to Mr Hubert
Rudersheim, and I don't like to hear her
traduced by her daughter.'

Did she care what became of me ? ' said
Vivian, passionately. * Did she not forsake
me soon after I was born, and leave me to
the care of strangers ? '

Emily had no maternal instincts,' murmured
the forsaken spouse, who had long
consoled himself.

If it had not been for my dear father's
goodness in sending for and adopting me,
and reinstating me in my true position as his
heiress, I should have drifted on the world a
creature of chance. I don't forget that I was

born pending the separation and divorce of
my mother and Mr Branscombe, and that
she left me to the tender mercies of miserable
mendicants.'

Emily was always thoughtless and selfish,'
said Mr Branscombe, wearily ; ' yes, and
weak, I don't know why all women should
strike me in that light. And why did I send
for our child ? Because I found my second
wife Laura as incompatible with me in her
tastes and disposition as my first.'

You are singularly unlike your mother,'
the lawyer said thoughtfully, addressing
Vivian, ' she was weak and yielding to a
fault, but she spoke kindly even of her
enemies ; she always tried to repair any
injury she had worked. There'  pointing
to a large oil-painting over which was hung
a velvet curtain, which he drew aside 
is the ideal portrait of Emily Gregson in
all her youth and loveliness ere your father
married her. Look at the sweetness of the
lines of the mouth, the satin-lidded eyes, the
arched brows, the golden hair ! Tell me,
Branscombe, did you ever see eyes with so
dark and lovely a shade of blue ? '

Yes, Emily was very beautiful,' calmly
replied the husband who had lost her.

I'm very glad, indeed, I don't resemble
my mother,' said Vivian haughtily. ' There

was nothing to admire in her conduct, not
even in a worldly point of view. But now,
papa, we won't rake up stale dead and gone
memories re-covering the portrait. ' It's
about my diamond necklace  it's gone to a
certainty, and some one must have stolen it.'

Stolen it ! ' echoed both men, in a breath.

Oh, nonsense, Vivian,' said her father.
You've mislaid it, my dear, and will find it
in some corner of your room.'

I tell you, papa, I've long had reasons to
suspect the woman you have such implicit
confidence in. Nurse Sidewing defies me to
my face, and drinks terribly, all the servants
say. She and her wretched husband have
no right to be encouraged in our household.'

But I'm partial to old servants,' said Mr
Branscombe, quietly. ' She knew the people
at the house your mother fled to, and where
you were born. For a long time I resolved
never to see you, but I must do Mrs Side-wing
the justice to say she left no stone
unturned to reinstate you in your proper
position under my roof.'

But now, papa, about my necklace. I've
a strong suspicion Sidewing has stolen it,
and, if so, you will not spare her because she
is simply an old servant. You will let justice
be done and make an example of her ? '

Mr Branscombe looked uncomfortable.

I hope there will be no need of anything
of the kind,' he said ; * but suppose, my dear,
you ring the bell and order Mrs Sidewing to
come to us here.'

At this moment Laura Branscombe, wearing
a rich gros-grain black silk with robins
of pale blue satin, glided softly into the room.

She was a maonificent-lookine woman
between thirty-eight and thirty-nine years of
age, her complexion that of a clear brunette,
her hair blue-black and drawn off a wide, low
brow.

An air of sadness, but one of resolute and
dauntless spirit and determination, was reflected
in the lustrous brilliancy of her dark
eyes ; she suggested the idea of a woman of
genius, whose life was broken or incomplete.

Laura Branscombe had none of the
splendid ingratitude, the cold sensuality, the
selfish forgetfulness of a woman of a merely
fashionable circle ; she had a man's talent
with her sex's fatal weakness of organisation,
hence the struggle of her life.

Laura,' said her husband, in an acrid
voice, in which, however, was command,
how was it you came home so late last
night after all the household had retired to
rest ? Although my room is at the back of
the house, I heard you come up the stairs.'

Vivian smiled, glancing at the lawyer.

Does Mr Branscombe desire to know
where I was last night ? ' asked Laura, with
an abstracted look. ' At my sister's, in
Grosvenor Square. Some young people
looked in, and somehow we knocked up a
little dance. She sent me home after in her
carriage. It was a nice change.'

Were you alone ? '

Mr Branscombe, I did not come here to
be cross-questioned in this way,' said Laura,
angrily, her large brows darkening. ' No, I
was not alone.'

Mr Warrington looked grave. He had
often pitied the passionate, beautiful woman
t'cd to this little cold, dry-adust man of
business, who ought to have married a very
mild ' Rosa Matilda ' sort of person with the
average pretty female feebleness.

And who had the honour of bringing my
wife to my door at three in the morning 
London, remember, is not Rome or Naples 
but the charming Frenchman, my friend
Lepelletier ? I heard the leave-taking, it
was worthy of French comedy  the kiss on
the extended unloved hand, the tender 7jia
chere, the smothered reproof. I know I'm
not a too careful or jealous husband, but one
objects to this sort of thing, you know ; it's
past all bearing when one's wife is brought
home by her lover.'

So you dare at last to insult me, and before
them, too,' said Laura, coming a step
forward.

Lepelletier will be Marquis de Rochelle
some day said Mr Branscombe, coolly.
He's an utter scamp, always remember thai
a man of words, morbid, because soaked
in absinthe, noisy, heartless, and selfish to
the core, and in the sere and yellow leaf of
aee, such men are worse than in their hot
youth.'

Mr Branscombe was not quite a dullard ;
he might have been so unlucky as always
to marry the wrong woman, but he could
estimate high-sounding commonplaces at
their just value.

Laura had sunk into almost pathetic
silence.

The lawyer lifted his hands in mild protest.
The family trials of the Branscombes had
already put many pounds into his pocket.
He now sees in the future a probable scandal,
and in the present a brisk conjugal passage
of arms.

When I married you from off the stage,
Laura, in defiance of the advice of all my
friends, it was part of your trade to assume
any part. I was warned you were extravagant
'  Mr Branscombe shuddered  'still
extravagance does not affect me, but why

VOL. I. I

will you persevere in acting still ? One of
these days your social play will have a sorry
ending. Spare me in the meantime any
domestic melodrama, or else leave my house
altogether.'

Laura's blue-black hair contrasted strangely
with her pallor. She griped the back of a
chair for support, her bosom heaved. The
lawyer darted forward, and, seizing a bottle
of Vivian's smelling salts, offered them to
Mrs Branscombe with a few kind words.

It was a painful scene ; it somehow excited
his compassion.

Must I pay the price,' he heard her gasp,
or forget Gustave ? '

Burning tears were in her eyes, a sort of
feverish rage seized her ; he thought of
Phaedra as she swept from the room.

A valuable helpmate,' said Mr Branscombe,
with unpleasant irony, his little eyes
retreating into their sunken orbits ; ' there's
conjugal sympathy and affection ! '

You are unlucky in the selection of your
wives, my dear Branscombe,' the lawyer
said gravely. ' Mrs Branscombe is a clever
woman  I almost said a woman of genius ;
her paintings deserve to be immortalised.
You wanted a homely fool, a pleasant,
common-place person, too dull to doubt anything.'


All artists are peculiar,' said Vivian ;
they are so exacting, and expect such a
fuss made about them.'

If Lepelletler has turned her head  he's
one of your fast Parisian scoffers, a gambler,
and a duellist Into the bargain  Laura will
be ready for any madness, and when her
pride becomes secondary  Oh, yes, my dear
Warrington, you'll have plenty more work
with us besides mortgages and contracts.
And now let us see about Vivian's loss of her
diamond necklace.'

Vivian rang the bell sharply, and It was
speedily answered by the young footman
Joyce.

'Say we desire to see Mrs Sidewlngatonce,'
Vivian said, shaking the laces on her sleeve.

Joyce was absent a few minutes, and then
returned, looking graver than before.

If you please, miss, nurse Sidelong refuses
to come.'

Ah, Vivian, you and that woman never
did get on well together. Humour her, my
dear child, humour her by all means,' said
Mr Branscombe, anxious for peace.

I hate her,' said Vivian, vindictively ;
and if I find It Is she who has stolen my
necklace, may I not have the matter looked
into, and give the thief in charge of a
policeman !'

We could not permit dishonesty among
our servants, but I fancy, Vivian, If your
diamond necklace has gone, you will have to
look further a-field for it.'

Vivian meanwhile left the room, and descended
Into the servants' hall.

She found the nurse knitting a pair of
woollen stockings, and partaking of a lunch
of bread and cheese.

You refused to obey my orders,' said
Vivian, haughtily.

Mrs SIdewing moved her head so suddenly
that her heavy black lace cap rolled sideways.
She seemed half-dazed as Vivian spoke.

She still kept her eyes fixed on Vivian, and
as she looked, that former catching of the
breath paralysed her speech, and the thin
hands began their old nervous trick of beating
restlessly together.

Oh, yes, I hear you,' she said, seizing her
knitting-pins.

Are you aware that my diamond necklace
Is missing ? ' asked Vivian, coming a step
nearer.

The servants all started, and glanced from
one to the other.

Missing, Is It ? Well, I daresay it 'full be
found again soon,' said the nurse, with the
scant courtesy she usually gave her young
mistress.

Is that the way you speak to me ?' cried
Vivian, losing all self-control. * Do you know
that I have my father's permission to track
and punish the thief who has stolen my necklace
? I know it is stolen '  she paused, with
her usual self-satisfied air,  * and I shall most
certainly send Joyce with a note to the chief
inspector at Scotland Yard, and ask him to
step up and make inquiries and investigations
here.'

As Vivian named Scotland Yard, Mrs
Sidewing had shifted her former position.
Crimes and mysteries were as familiar to
the clear-sighted officials there represented
as audacious romances to French dramatists.

The woman had by this time shuffled onto
her feet, and put her hands before her
eyes.

Come here, miss, a minute, will you,
please ?' Mrs Sidewing said, moving quietly
away from the servants' hall. ' I want a word
or two with you as private as possible.'

There was now a look in her eyes that
Vivian had never remarked before, and which
literally frightened her. How can we account
for that sudden flash of instinctive terror,
unrevealed, save through the medium of expression
?

Mrs Sidewing understood she was getting
a mental mastery over Vivian, and smiled.

All the girl's grand airs of assumption and
superiority faded, and she actually followed
the nurse meekly out of the servants' hall into
the sumptuously furnished dining-room, with
its dark crimson curtains, its panelled walls,
and rich velvet furniture.

Mrs Sidewing seated herself very composedly
on the crimson velvet couch, and
then the threatening look again darted from
her eyes.

She's a coward, after all, like him,' she
muttered, so low that Vivian could not catch
the words.

I've borne your insults a long time,' said
Mrs Sidewing, wearily, and calculating the
effect of every tone. ' Please remember this.
Well, then, I tell you to mind what you're
about, for I'm like a snake that can  ' Vivian
stared at her in dead silence, her heart beating
strangely, but there was more to hear.
A snake with poison, as 'full be the ruin of
you and your grandeur, and your hopes, assure
as ever you come the policeman dodge
over me.'

Oh heaven ! what do you mean ?' cried
Vivian, trembling all over.

And then, where's your fine lover Captain
Mallandaine's promises, and where's all your
friends as dances about you as if you were a
queen ? '

' I repeat, what would you imply ? ' murmured
Vivian, trying to keep her mind perfectly
clear.

\A/'hat I says. No more nor less. Leave
me alone ; don't flourish your nonsense over
my 'eat afore the servants, and master, and
missus, and I'll leave you alone. I've been
kind to you. I was fond of you, but you've
a black, bad, bitter 'part, my dear, and some
day, miss  oh, my 'eat, 'ow it do throb  that
there snake-like nature in me 'full get the
better of me, and I'll be sorry after, but I shall
spring and strike you down.'

Vivian had ceased trembling. She knew
there was danger  an awful, invisible, and
yet tangible danger known only to this terrible
old woman, towards whom she had been
always so hard and merciless.

Mrs Sidewing started to her feet, and
rushing over to Vivian, threw herself sobbing
by her side.

Oh, dearie, dearie, a little love, a little
kindness, for pity's sake ! Oh, my dear, I'll
not 'arm a 'air of yer 'eat ! I'm so ill and
weak, an' he's a bad 'husband to me, is Bob.
He's got a cruel 'part, an' a bitter tongue ;
and a bad 'husband is a trial, miss, ain't it '. '

You must be mad, nurse Sidewing,' said
Vivian, trembling again.

The existence of some fearful and destructive

secret unknown to her, and which yet
might bight her Hfe and hopes, had been
revealed in that lightning flash of passion in
the woman's words, and Vivian was at heart
a coward.

She had a peevish sense of injury and
anger, but she would like the curtain folded
well over the secret, and not force the hand
of destiny in removing it.

I must smooth her down, and keep my
temper,' the heiress reflected.

All her swaggering manner had gone ; she
was cowed and overawed.

Nurse, did you really take the necklace . '
said Vivian, prepared to let her keep it, and
send for no policeman, sooner than again
hear those fearful threats.

No, dearie  I took no necklace. Why
can't you say a kind word to your poor
old nurse as cared for you when you was
a little 'un ? '

A new terror seized Vivian. Something
in the woman's manner and tones, allied
with her past warnings, had brought a fresh
train of thouQ-ht and suspicions.

Nurse,' said Vivian, lifting her hands to
her brows, * am I really like my mother  like
that blue - eyed simpering doll in the old
painting . '

The nurse's thoughts wandered to the

memory of a sick young child, with a broken
arm, and dark, lustreless, wan eyes, uplifted
entreatingly for love  a child that shivered at
the harsh tones in which it was addressed,
and that had cried through weary nights,
praying to die.

No, my dear  you're not like your
mother. She left you in the care of an old
woman at Exeter, and paid her a good sum
to take care of you ; and then I talked to
your father, and he quarrelled with Madam
Laura  she's got the temper of a dozen fiends
and he sent me to find you, so as to spite
Madam Laura, and made you his heiress. I
went to Exeter'  her face here changed
again and quivered  ' and I brought you
back to your father's roof.'

Nurse,' said Vivian, pale again, ' I was
wrong to be so unkind to you, but I never
quite understood how  how good you've
been to me, nor how bad it was of my
mother to forsake me.'

And you'll leave poor nurse Sidewing
alone in future, dearie, won't you, and not
want to send her to gaol ? And here's Bob,
I do declare, a-staggerin' at the area gate,
and over he'll be and no mistake, for he's as
drunk as a lord, as the saying' goes.'

Mrs Sidewing darted after her objectionable
husband  a gentleman who invariably

levied black - mail whenever he found a
chance  and drew him into a little room
adjoining the kitchen.

Bob was a drunken actor whom Mrs Side-wing
 then Martha Appleby  had fallen
deeply in love with years ago and had married,
prior to the occasion of some festivities given
on the return of Mr Branscombe and his
second wife, Laura, to Beechwood Manor.

Well, wife,' said Bob, throwing a limp
tie on the table, 'I am as usual in want
of money, and money I'll have, or I'll find
out where our girl is, or what she died of.'

Mrs Sidewing felt in her pocket, and ultimately
produced a brown leather purse, out
of which she deposited ten sovereigns.

Capital ! Quids, and good 'uns, I'll be
bound ! '

He spun a sovereign in the air.

Don't ye want to know 'ow I got 'em.
Bob ? Oh, my 'eat ! It'll burst one of
these days.'

I never ask impertinent questions of
ladies,' said Bob, slyly. ' Don't you want
to know how yours truly has been getting
along ? Models have a hard life. I've sat for
vQ cavaliers, Martha  one combing his hair,
another on a pair of high steps, the others
mostly military parties preparing for a
charge.'

You've never done a proper day's work
for years.'

Bob threw himself Into a telling attitude.

When our little girl was born you were
only Martha Appleby. You were a good
ten years older than me, and uncommon
loving. Don't forget I made an honest
woman of you afterwards ; and now get
me some beer.'

And why did you marry me ? Because
of the thousand pounds from master, never
to let his bride 'ear of that child born at
Exeter afore the divorce, but after, when
they quarrelled, he was very glad to adopt
her ; and she's a real beauty, Is Miss
Vivian.'

Bob snapped his fingers In his wife's face.

It was never very clear to me, my dear,
how you got rid of our little daughter,' said
Bob, looking at the money  ' no, nor where
she was burled, nor what she died of ; but
as long as you pay me I'll not rake up bygones
; but I sometimes think our little 'undid
not die, and that you may have changed
the children  you're bad enough for anything
 and that her they call Nellie
Ray'

Hush ! ' cried Mrs SIdewing, starting up.
I thought I heard a cry.'

A pale, horrified girl had listened  a

shrinking form staggered backwards as these
words were uttered.

Can she have stolen the diamond necklace
to pay him ? ' muttered Vivian, a light
breaking in on her.

And with a piercing shriek, she fell senseless
to the ground.

Nellie's position improves.

Know you not
Such touches are but embassies of love ?'

Captain M ALLAN DAI NE declared
to himself that Nellie was
pretty ; he may even have gone
further, and used the latest modern
phrase of drawing-room slang to express his
feeling, ' quite too awfully pretty,' as she
reddened in surprised delight after that
dangerous kiss.

But never again,' muttered this son of
Mars, shaking his dark head. Men, when
they first begin to tumble over head and ears
in love, always say ' never again,' in recalling
some fatal amatory skirmish. ' Never will
I give another chance to the enemy of our
souls in leading us both neatly to perdition.'

Easier to stop Ixion's wheel than the
multitudinous fancies of love. Like a man

who sees rare and golden fruit ready for his
hand to gather, but to grasp which he must
needs wade through dark and sodden pools,
so the Captain resolved to close his eyes and
heart against the fatal fascinations of this
half-gipsy girl, unlike other gipsies, however,
in the fair, Greuze-like tints of her complexion.


He saw ' Danger' written in capital letters ;
Rocks Ahead ' of an alarming character, and
one never exactly knows what form or dimensions
temptation and mischief will take
after that first indefinable sympathy has been
aroused between two of an opposite sex, on
a bright autumn morning, with delicious
wall fruit ripening in a mild sun, and a
thousand fragrant scents wafted around by a
pleasant south-west wind.

Especially, too, when a pretty little
simpleton, who doesn't know what it is to be
heartless, lifts big blue eyes, shaded in with
dark curling lashes, like a Venetian beauty,
and seems to beg to be petted like a kitten 
an adorable little simpleton, anxious to tell
you, quite innocently, of course, after perhaps
a few more interviews of a like agreeable
character, that she thinks a person ought
to be ready to sacrifice body and soul, if
necessary, for the sake of an earthly love.

By Jove ! she's what one would call

intense, I suppose,' he thought walking
towards the home of his ancestors.
Case of ignorance and intensity combined,
watching Nellie's little heels peeping in and
out under her cotton gown as she rushed
along the path back again to the cottage.'

The Captain was not unacquainted with
splendid ladies of rank and fashion, attired
in the latest aesthetic costumes or duchesse
hats ; women of a very different world
and stamp to the divas of South Belgravia
and St John's Wood, and yet who were
anxious to 'out Herod' these in eccentricity
of dress, luxury, and display. He understood
women fairly well, not with the exquisite
subtlety and platonic grace of a Balzac, but
with more than the careless analysis of the
ordinary man of the world. He could unveil
love's hypocrisies, and knew when fair lids
drooped from passion or coquetry, and when
alabaster necks rose and fell from emotion
or design. But he had never met with a
perfect, all-absorbing devotion.

Darling little dunce ! ' he mused. ' I
daresay she's never learnt the catechism, or
looked at a fashion-plate, or even wondered
how she should dress her back hair. She's
natural as Eve in the garden of Eden before
the serpent  in other words, the world  set
her teeth on edge with the apple.'

The Captain's recollections of Regent
Street, its handsome shops, its elderly habitude
and various young members of the upper ten,
its wickedness, assignations, and demi-monde
were not of the embarrassing nature attending
many men's. Regent Street was now to him
the centre of a romantic train of thoughts,
and already a certain gloom seemed lifted
from his spirits ; a street pre-eminent in vice,
had yet brought romance to him in which
faint mystical pain and longing mingled.

He had been generous, brave, and unselfish;
he had avenged a beloved and injured
sister's honour ; he had become a soldier
instead of a littdratettr loving the shadowy
dreamland of thought and fantastic idealism
to please the proud and aged father, who
was so fond of boasting the Mallandaines
were a fighting race.

Why should he resign romance, innocent
love, an embodied poem '. Why fling aside
a flower, even it had been thrown in his path
and fallen at his feet, among the gaudy peonies
of the vice-trodden stones of Regent Street ?

Should he let Nellie fall more utterly in
love and amuse him, as if she were some new
but lovely specimen of original young female ?

But no ; this was not his way.

He was not selfish, but terribly tired and
hopelessly depressed.

It would not be so very difficult to fall
idiotically in love with Nellie for herself,
but the heir to ten thousand a-year proposing
to a girl who had never heard of ' Butters'
Spelling Book,' or the History of England, of
five-fingered exercises for the piano, would be
about as insane an act as that of the duke who
married an American oyster-girl.

The best way will be never to see her
again,' thought Leonard.

But what is this languorous charm stealing
over his senses, dispersing ennui and care ?
Nellie's little speeches had indirectly cheered
him, the innocent revelations of her thoughts,
her wild enthusiasm and latent poetic despair,
forced itself on a mind rich in that ideal faculty
which, if it makes not a painter or a poet in
creation, at least does so in appreciation.

Whatever will become of her ?' he mused.
She'll never stay with the Foggs, but be
perpetually running away after me, like a dog
that nobody wants, and that will not bear a
chain, and what on earth am I to do with a
girl who says she's willing to die for me, and
thinks it all perfectly right and natural ?'

Captain Mallandaine thought of breakfast
for the first time.

He rang the bell, ordered fresh relays of
strong black coffee, glanced indifferently at the
newspaper, seizing at last one of his strongest

VOL. I. K

cigars, and, answering Vivian Branscombe's
letter, tried to forget the memory of Nellie
Raymond, the soft pressure of her lips, and
the witchery of the sweetest voice and eyes
in the world.

Poor old Vi,' he muttered. ' Wants me
to join them in the yacht, and talk about art
and poetry, which she religiously hates, as the
great green waves roll by, and the moonlight
throws up her pearl-like complexion. No,
my dear Vivian, I am too susceptible to the
marvellous utterances of the ocean. Your
worldliness would clash  you pretty mixture
of dynamite and clay  and I should be thinking
of my poor little dunce Nellie here, who
is like one of dear old Burns' poems  a jewel
in a rough setting, but, oh, how precious to
the heart'

When Nellie returned to the cottage, the
gardener rushed out into the passage, caught
her by the shoulder, and dragged her into the
room, his face white with rage. Black-legged
and terrible, he resembled one of those caricatures
of Don Quixote attacking a windmill,
so dear to the popular intelligence.

Mrs Faculty was wringing her hands and
crying.

Little devil,' said Faculty, using strong language.
' Little monster,' spinning Nellie round
and round like a top, * what have you to say for

yourself? To come here and eat and drink
with us, and then to destroy our property  '

Three pounds gone  Literally wasted
sobbed Mrs Faculty, who was a saving
woman, and slept with a stocking full of
sovereigns under her pillow every night.
Might as well ave pitched it into the
gutter, and me a train' to draw the seams
together  a pretty thing, indeed, to cut the
master's best coat to pieces.'

And then to see her flvin' through the
park on Rosicrucian  why, he won the Dart-more
Stakes last week  and our Captain
looking as cross and crlnm as could be. She

o o

shall go to a reformatory.'

Faculty's strong hands were very painful.
Nellie shuddered  she had before heard of
a reformatory, and pushed the golden masses
of hair off her forehead with a cry.

Her little ears were scarlet.

Faculty had pulled them deliberately between
his sentences, as if they were aggressive
commas, bidding him pause, and Nellie
was shut up in her room for the rest of the day.

The next morning a loud double knock

o

resounded on the modest green-painted
door, and a splendid curricle and pair was
being driven away towards the Hall stables.

Mrs Fog had opened the outer door, and
was welcoming their eccentric lodger with all

the effusion that a woman who had read
Pilgrim's Progress' twice through during her
sixty-five years could manage to express.

It's well, indeed, sir, you've come,' said
Fog, going out into the passage, and altering
his former bass tones for the more flute-like
and metallic whine that made women weep
in chapel, and even startled refractory infants
into silence.

Ah, welcome as the flowers in May ! ' said
the future Marquis de Rocheville, who had
not yet heard the sequence.

He looked like a glittering basilisk, accustomed
to courts from boyhood.

M. Lepelletier was now dressed with the
perfect chic of a modern French dandy.

He was a true Parisian, a member of the
Jockey Club, and since he had come into
a fortune he generally backed all the wrong
horses with an enthusiasm incredible in a
man who hardly ever won ; he had the nose
of a bird of prey, and dark, swarthy skin ;
he was slightly rouged, and his moustache
had been so constantly gummed and oiled
by various brilliantly and cosmetics that
it now darted out all over his mouth like
the prongs of a thin garden rake ; he wore
a black tie and blue frock coat, his boots
were new, and he was what the French
themselves would call ' tres beau jargon!

This agreeable individual, in developing
his dandyism, had endeavoured to forget
his granite passion for Aurelian Mallandaine,
but he had resolved on insisting that Leonard
should grant him an interview with the unhappy
victim of his cousin's treachery. In
indulging his natural taste for dress, he forgot
heroics, and wished simply to appear asa
gentleman of the first rank and fashion
combined. If Aurelian were sufficiently sane,
she might then appreciate the mistake she
had made in having preferred the cavalry
officer, De Beriot, to himself. It was not a
very delicate way of looking at the matter,
but a man who has been severely snubbed
and fifth-rate for years, naturally remembers,
and the free use of absinthe and liqueurs, and
cigars had dulled the not too keen sensibility
of the beau jargon.

Fog's eyes took in this extraordinary
picture at a second glance ; the gardener
had never seen so marvellous a metamorphosis.
Where had vanished the slouch hat,
the thick dogskin gloves, the long hair and
blackened pipe ? He understood M, Levels
was rich, but the arrival of the curricle
and pair, and of himself so transformed,
startled Fog out of his usual passivity. The
Frenchman was more cynical than ever, but
this time he dazzled  and he was beloved

by a woman whose genius should have enchanted
the world.

Some knowledge of Laura Branscombe's
enslavement may have given fresh light to
his eyes, jaundiced as they so often were ;
some sense of her extravagant worship may
have banished that moral spleen which
poisoned his life.

This young girl you brought to us as
helper, sir,' said the gardener, morosely, * does
no end of harm.'

He looked delighted, and his expressive
eyes flashed warm admiration on
Nellie ; that blonde loveliness was finer
than the ordinary pink-and-white prettiness
of others.

Wants teaching, eh, Faculty ? ' he said,
airily taking out a silver cigar-case, inlaid
with fine tortoiseshell, ' and breaking in, and
that sort of thing ? What a complexion the
girl's got  superb ! '

Wants locking up, sir, in a reformatory,
and a good whipping. Just look how she's
cut my best coat to pieces.'

'Oh Nellie, Nellie,' said M. Levelled
laughing, * is this the way you mean to
renounce the world, the flesh, and the devil ?
Well, Fog, don't look sulky. What's the
damage ? Will five pounds square it }
And now tell me in what hath thy servant

sinned ? Sit down, Nellie, and don't
cry. I'll take care of you  always meant to,
parole dWionneitr. Dry your tears with your
pocket-handkerchief, and be happy.'

Alas ! she does not possess that necessary
article. Her cotton sleeve goes to her
poor little eyes again.

]M. Lepelletler good-naturedly throws her
his own superb cambric one, delicately
scented, and possessing a large coat-of-arms,
resembling a small Stilton cheese turned upside
down, with a Latin motto in one corner,
the whole worked by Laura Branscombe's
own fair hands.

Nellie dives after this splendid work of art,
and seems afraid to touch It ; she then sits
down demurely, thankful that he seemed Inclined
to befriend her.

When we came down yesterday morning,
sir, expecting our breakfast, and a fire lighted,
who should we see but that saucy minx
walking with but Captain Leonard.'

So soon } ' said Lepelletler, shrugging his
shoulders. * Timon clearly Improves.'

Fog had never heard of that misanthropic
heathen. He continued effectively, 

I went after her, sir, directly, just as I'd
knock a wasp off a pear, and when she came
in I reproved her sharply, and gave her
notice, telling her I would find her employment

away from here  I hope, sir, I know
my duty  when she runs upstairs and cuts
my coat-hning-, and, hang me ! dances off
again after the Captain, persuades him to
show her the horses, and then tears away
on one Hke a jockey three times round the
park.'

Nellie, is this true ? ' said M. Levelled
looking still more delighted  indeed,
quite loving.

Yes, sir.'

Nellie here hung her head.

Cheer up, little girl. I've an idea.'

She refused to cheer up, and again burst
out crying.

How would you like to go to school and
be taught beautiful things like a young lady,
eh, Nell ? Go in for the light genteel,
and all that  beginning with ABC and
ending with champagne suppers.'

He was very glad to find this last 'moral
gun ' had missed fire as far as Fog was
concerned.

I should like it above everything,' said
Nellie, thinking of her idol, and longing to
surprise him with her cleverness.

Well, then, being rich, I can afford
to be generous. I'll pay for your education.
Give her a glass, madame, of
your best cowslip wine,' addressing Mrs

Fog, whose apple-green eyes had again
sought the cobweb, ' and look upon Nellie
as my little protege. Perhaps we'll make
her a singer, or a dancer, or  heaven knows
what ! '

Fog here appeared to be praying silently,
horrified at the Frenchman's levity. Mrs
Fog tried to look sympathetic as she picked
up the five pounds and nimbly conveyed
them to a long brown silk purse, from which
they would ultimately rest in her grandfather's
stocking.

Tell the old boy you're sorry, child,'
whispered M. Lepelletier, going up to
Nellie and offering her a rose from his
coat.

No, that I won't,' flushing scarlet, ' now
you've paid him. He's a horrid old wretch,
and I hate him.'

'Impassable cried the Frenchman. 'She's
delicious  raudace, toujours Vaudace, I'll
make her the fashion by-and-by.'

Nellie was afraid lest those thin dark
spikes surrounding his mouth meant to descend
on her head. Mrs Fog had hospitably
brought out long-necked wine glasses,
seedy cake,' and cowslip wine in a cut-glass
decanter, all of which the future marquis
declined with the air of a prince. He had
lunched sumptuously at the ' Woman in

White'  the one hotel In Brooksmere  off
hashed duck and beans an hour ago, washed
down with Moselle.

He hated Leonard for keeping his sister
here in secret, although he was particularly
grateful to him for killing de Beriot. And he
meant to see Aurelian again. He wanted to
study the ravages time and anguish had
effected in her supreme loveliness.

He was as subtle in his intelligence and
feeling as Rousseau, and there was morbid
satisfaction in beholding the wreck of the
glowing beauty who had dared to despise
him.

Mesmerism had revealed the hopeless
misery of the woman he had loved so madly,
and now he had come resolved on an interview.
He must behold the sweet brow
and eyes, with their terrible stamp of grief.
He must carry away the memory of a word,
or tone, or gesture with which to soothe his
imagination when absent from her.

Her mind had given way, but she was not
utterly mad. She would remember him, and
he fancied that, attired as a man of fashion,
some faint resemblance might be traced in
his features to those of his cousin Oscar de
Beriot.

At that moment quick steps were heard
outside on the narrow path.

Nellie knew whose they were, and
coloured, and spilt her cowslip wine over her
apron with an involuntary tremor of the
hand. It was Captain Mallandaine.

Lepelletier went out rapidly to meet
him, but the two men did not shake
hands.

Who am I like ? ' said Lepelletier, in a
dull whisper. ' Ah, you know, Leonard.
Do I not resemble the man whom you slew
in your just rage one grey morning amid
the Flemish fields ? You are alone answerable
for his death. Am I not like him 
your enemy  Aurelian's lover  Oscar de
Beriot ? '

A buttermilk curled about the Captain's lips.

I see you know all,' he said coolly,
Acres?'

I have come, Leonard, to see her  your
sister  the woman I still adore, the woman
you have shut away in there,' pointing to the
old Hall, ' and I insist on an interview.'

I know you never spare,' said Leonard
slowly, kicking a pebble from the path.

The hour he had so long dreaded had at
last come. He breathed heavily, and leant
against the clinging ivy encircling the cottage
walls.

And the day Aurelian sees you she will
die,' he murmured, and turned away.

THE ACCOMPLICE IN A CRIME,

SO refined
miserable

DRUNKEN actor, who in his
time has played Hamlet to
crowded audiences years ago,
when actors were by no means
as now, in descending to play the
part of model to various careless
painters, who regard him with the same indifference
they might bestow on a cat or a
parrot to be limned by them, naturally looks
about for some more agreeable way of increasing
a strictly limited income.

Bob Sidewing strongly objected to the
mild nagging bestowed on him by his landlady,
Mrs Maloney, when his modest earnings
had been expended in whisky instead of
in defraying the expenses incurred by the use
of an attic on the fifth floor  a wretched
little room, in which poor Bob took his meals
and counted the woodlice climbing on the

decomposed paper pattern, and smoked strong
tobacco, as he cursed his fate and the evil day
on which he made Martha Jane Appleby an
honest woman.'

That creature's been the ruin of me,' Bob
would say, sitting on the edge of his little
iron bedstead, while Mrs Maloney cooked his
penny bloater. ' I know she's a bad 'un. I
feel sure she'd stick at little short of murdering
me if I nose again about Exeter and rake up
the past ; but to Exeter I'll go, nevertheless,
as soon as ever Mr Brook's finished his study
of me as Sir Peter Teazle. Lord ! how sick
I am of painters and painting, and the cramp
and backache.'

Bob had one solace besides his pipe, and
it was an ancient violin. Wonderful strains
of music would float amid the attics  pastoral
melodies, bringing before the tired sufferer's
memory visions of covered fields, green garden
lawns, and pale lilac clusters. Without
his pipe and his violin Bob must have surely
paid a visit long ago to old Father Thames,
and gone to sleep amid the slime and mud.

His music spread its charm even over
the stuffy first-floor apartments, and Mrs
Maloney would invite Bob occasionally
downstairs into her kitchen, to be regaled
on dried haddock and hot sprats, when she
had visitors who could appreciate Shake-special

recitations and the melodies he would
draw out of the beloved instrument, which
he had picked up a bargain  in Ardour
Street.

But something besides music and whisky,
penny bloaters and studies of ' old men had
now occurred to Bob. He had remarked
that whenever any allusion was made to a
little daughter supposed to have died and
been buried while Bob visited the United
States, his wife shuffled his questions and
evaded his replies as if she feared detection.
Detection in what ? The daughter, to be
sure, had been born before Bob bestowed
his name on Martha Jane ! but she had
always been passionately fond of the child 
almost, one might say, insanely fond of it 
and he never forgot the surprise his wife
manifested when, after an absence of six
years from England, he had suddenly appeared
before her, and was decidedly received
with the * cold shoulder ' women
invariably offer to men they have learned to
hate.

I tell you, Bob,' Martha Jane had said,
in deep contralto tones, strongly resembling
those of a certain Mrs Macgregor who had
played Lady Macbeth in Connecticut, ' that
I'm sorry to see you. You've blighted my
life and broken my heart. I wish I'd never

worn your wedding-ring. I wish you were
dead ! The wild love I gave you years ago
has grown Into hatred.'

To do him justice, Bob believed his wife
was half-demented. He never tried to soften
her hatred, to win back her tenderness. She
had frightened him with her murderous look
and low-breathed words of vengeance.

And now he fancied he had this Implacable
woman In his power  that the snake was
tame and trapped. Possessed with this delusion.
Bob Sidelong had waited the due
completion of ' Sir Peter Teazle,' and was
now sitting in the small back parlour of that
highly-respectable public-house, the Roebuck,
with his old friend and crony of years gone
by  William Diggers, the landlord, who had
lived for the last five-and-twenty years In the
Crooked Billet,' a stray corner of Brooks-mere
village.

Bob Sidewing had, like other men, done a
good many foolish things In his time, but he
had never successfully robbed anybody, or
made money out of the misfortunes or weakness
of others. The man who blunders, and
robs his neighbours unsuccessfully, especially
If he happen to be poor, Is sent to prison,
but Bob hadn't the capital or the chance
given him to make a magnificent failure 
ruin his butcher, tailor, and friends, and then

drive a beautiful carriage and pair ever after.
He had not the least intention of going to
prison or coming within the affectionate embraces
of Jack Ketch. He had both heard
and read of unfortunate men having their
heads jerked off under the mal adjustment of
ropes and drops, and Bob's head was too
handsome and marketable an object to sell
to painters for their ' Sir Peter Teazle,' and
dying musicians, and old bric-a-brac men, for
him to run any risk of having it mangled or
otherwise maltreated.

But still, like the traditional roaring lion
seeking whom he may devour, the ex-actor
resolved to keep both his eyes and ears wide
open for any smart piece of business going
that might prove a gold mine to him. He
had never robbed, but why should he not
levy blackmail on the rich ? Family secrets,
like family diamonds, sold well. Social
poachers of Bob's stamp could have a rather
good time of it, he knew, without being
under the painful necessity of sitting for
troublesome baronets and stupid old bric-abra
connoisseurs.

He had been a very ' merrier,' jolly soul
in the good old times when he enunciated,
You should not have believed me. . .
I loved you not,' and brought roars of
applause from the gods in the gallery, while

his ' Alas, poor Yorick ! I knew him well,'
arrested the last succulent morsel of the
juicy orange from gliding satisfactorily down
the throat of some youthful chimney-sweep.

But now he was old  age must come 
and his back ached cruelly from the various
positions in which his natural tormentors,
the painters, insisted in putting him for a
shilling an hour. Bob had even been insane
enough to try his hand at light fiction at a
farthing a line ; but his powerful, sensational
story, although it had three double murders
and suicides, was not too well received, and
the * Inspired Fiend ; or, the Mystery of a
Love Charm,' went ultimately to light Mrs
Maloney's copper fire on a frosty morning in
December.

Bob had, moreover, discovered that there
was a certain ' loose screw,' a sort of revolving
peg, which he thought in the future might be
turned to good account, somewhere in that
superb mansion of the Branscombes at
Prince's Gate, with its three enormous
drawing-rooms, all leading into one vast
apartment through the withdrawal of slides
and panels.

Like Israel's king, Bob had found there
was little good under the sun, but that peg
was worth driving at, and on to this loose
screw, over which Martha Jane Sidewing,

VOL. I. L

his better half, presided, would he attach
himself, and extract therefrom those nice
golden guineas, that promised better things
than sprats and bloaters, cheap whisky and
mouldy jam, from which Bob's artistic soul
revolted.

I made an honest woman of Martha Jane
he would say in reference to that objectionable
female. ' It's only fair she should try
and keep an honest man of me, and times are
so extremely bad, and Copenhagen Street is
so extremely musty, that if Martha Jane don't
wish that loose screw in the Prince's Gate
household to tumble out, she must behave
generously, or I shall be driven to harsh
measures, and make more inquiries in a certain
matter my beloved M. J. seems singularly
anxious to avoid.'

Thinking of this, Bob had come to Exeter,
and moved by a still more virtuous desire of
investigation, he had journeyed to Brooks-mere
village, and was still seated on a
large wooden chair behind a basket of white
clay pipes, at the Roebuck, when the two
men Percival and Musgrove entered.

There was also another man outside in
the porch, bearing the appearance of a tramp
or gipsy, in a dirty, loose white jacket, fustian
trousers a good deal the worse for wear, and
a billycock hat, who took stock of Bob's

o

handsome head and profile through the
parlour windows above, especially when that
head was bent over some golden coins, which
Bob imprudently filtered through his fingers,
to startle Diggers the landlord.

Bob had scarcely perceived the man. He
only thought of Mrs Sidelong's donation often
pounds, and how very useful and pleasant
money was at all times and seasons. He
did not recollect Martha Jane's laugh, nor her
words of rage as she clenched her hand and
cursed his ascending form up the area steps.

A passionate woman, this ill-used wife of
his, he admitted, though plain and pockmarked
 with a decided touch of the diabolical.


Bob regarded the two new arrivals with
but languid interest.

To descend to the varied excitement and
amusement of a rat-fight in the back premises
of the Roebuck might suit these men, but
hardly an actor, for rats were brisk, lively
little brutes, he knew, with a knack of flying
at a man's throat when too hard driven.
Bob was in truth no sportsman. He handled
a gun like a true Cockney, keeping his eyes
on the barrel as if it meant to explode.

What d'ye think o' that cider. Bob ? '
asked Diggers, as he was drawing some prime
bitter six for the other two men.

Well, I can't say, my friend, that cider's
much in favour with me, for when one's
teeth are shaky, and the best of 'em can betaken
in and out, why, cider's bad stuff to
swallow,' said Bob, with the air of a man who
has a wine-cellar at home of rarest vintages.
Come, I'll pay for a bottle ; so square up,
and let's have a drink before the battle.'

Bob paid for the ordered bottle of the best
*47 out of his wife's recent donation ; and
as he spun the sovereign in the air, he
paused, and recollected Martha Jane's wiry
form and little weasel-like eyes, with their
fiery glow, as if the whirlwind of passion had
so convulsed speech that nothing was left for
the utterance of thought but gesture and expression.


How long could he calculate on fresh
donations ?

The tramp outside, who had drawn some
water in a cup out of Diggers's pump in the
yard, looked in again at the parlour.

Do any of you fellows know anything
about the Branscombes of Prince's Gate ? '
asked Bob, indifferently, after each had
drained his second glass.

Branscombe ? ' echoed Percival. 'Why,
ain't that the name of the people our Capon
visits in the season ? '

Ay,' said Bob, replenishing their glasses ;

that's it. Try a smoke, you chaps. The
rats and dogs can rest a bit, and won't eat
their heads off by waiting.'

He handed round a pouch full of strong
tobacco, inwardly blessing Martha Jane and
her money.

The tramp outside laughed. He had got
hold of the tough end of a stale mutton chop
given to him by some well-meaning cook in
the village, and his laugh was not pleasant.

Ah, Bob, you're so generous with your
money when you've got any,' said Diggers,
pocketing six shillings for the wine, ' that
your friends must look after you that you
don't come on the parish.'

Friends ! ' echoed Bob, lifting his glass.
My only friends are my guineas.'

Didn't some one move outside ? ' asked
Bob, opening the window and looking out.

The tramp remembered his trade.

For pity's sake, sir, a little bread or a
stray copper, just to 'help a poor man on 'is
way. Six starving infants, gents all, an'
sick wife.'

Bob flung him a shilling.

The tramp thanked him, calling on all the
blessed saints to protect and save him, shouldered
his basket, and then sat down on a
little rustic seat near a gnarled oak in that
charming portion of Diggers's grounds set

apart for pleasure, and called, * Tea-gardens ;
bowling-green ; hot water always ready,' and
where young couples watched the moon rise
above the mountains and feathery firs, with
their arms entwined, and congenial sentiments
were interchanged, often ending in
hot water ' and a breach of promise case.

Didn't old Bernard Branscombe's first
wife leave him, and elope with an Austrian
wine merchant ? ' asked Bob, who knew
every particular.

So they say. I wish to heaven mine
would ! ' said Percival, who, after a third
glass was apt to enunciate strong anti-matrimonial
views.

Well, heaven be praised ! ' said Bob,
theatrically, taking out another sovereign,
and spinning it round on the table, ' I've as
good a wife as ever man was blessed with
here below. To be sure, she's not what
you might call much to look at.'

Wot's looks ? ' cried the other two men.

Diggers said nothing. He was addicted
to sultan weaknesses, the neighbours said.
No one had ever seen a Mrs Diggers, but
the landlord of the Roebuck admitted that he
had been disappointed in love, and was not a
marrying man.'

A man wants a tidy wench as 'full scrub
is floors, and cook a decent dinner, and put

by money for a rainy day, but a woman with
a dozen kids at her heels, a-screamin' and
a-yellin', and never one of 'em taken off, and
not a quiet corner for a man to 'ave 'is glass
or smoke a pipe in after 'is work, why, better
be a single man like Diggers 'ere.'

Still Diggers never spoke. This rural
Lothario thought of his Calistas with a smile,
although he ought to have looked guilty.

Oh, but looks count, my friends,' said
Bob wickedly. ' Don't you like the feel of
your arm round a pretty waist, and a pair
of red lips pressed against yours, and the
glance of a merry eye ? '

Diggers nodded slyly. He quite understood
Bob, only he was too prudent to
avow it.

Without love,' said the actor, with suppressed
emphasis  ' oh, believe me, without
love this world of ours is but a wintry plain
a summer without birds and flowers  a
garden of weeds at the best.'

But the worst o' pretty ones is they're
only fit to look at,' said Musgrove, who had
married a plain party, a green grocer's widow,
with savings in the county bank. ' There's
that young lady's likeness hanging in Capon's
study  as pretty a gal  and, mind, I know
wot the quality ought to be  as ever you set
eyes on ; but I wouldn't trust that there

young woman with the life of a kitten  if I
loved it.'

Wouldn't ye, now ? ' said Diggers, on
neutral ground at last. ' That's very
curious.'

What's her name ? ' inquired Bob, indifferently.


Miss Vivian Branscombe. I saw it written
under the portrait when I came for orders
about the 'enters going' down to Exmoor.'

Vivian Branscombe ! ' echoed Bob, and
smiled to himself as he took stock of his own
likeness in the glass. ' Engaged, is she ?
And mighty fond of the Captain, I suppose
? '

Ah, but she's not got 'im yet. He's
a rum 'un, is master ; not like officers mostly
are, but they do say he fights like a lion,
and as for pistol and sword exercise, he's
quite A I.'

Is Miss Vivian Branscombe engaged to
your master ? ' again asked Bob. And in
spite of himself there came an odd tremor
in his trained voice which Diggers alone
perceived.

That I dunno ; but it's supposed, when
we was in town for the season, they were
engaged ; for Cap'n, he dined there pretty
well every night, and took her to the opera,
and treaters, and concerts. I should say,'

said Musgrove, taking a fresh pipe, ' he loved
ser ; but all that's no sign, d'ye see, to go by,
after all  quite the contrary ; for real lovers
play 'ide-and-seek with each other, and go
white and red for nothing, and pass each
other with their 'eats up, an' a-lookin' away,
while all the time they're longing to jump
into each other's arms.'

Did you ever hear of a Nellie Raymond
in these parts ? ' said Bob, after a
pause.

Nellie Raymond '. Why, that's the name
of the pretty gal in Faculty Fog's cottage.'

Bob had retired into the regions of his
mental arithmetic, but he had gained a point.
The revolving peg was again threatened.

Well, you fellows, ain't you a-going' to
bring out the rats, and let's 'ave a bit of
sport ? ' asked the coachman.

Bob shuddered. It was a question of rats,
not pegs, this time. He drew a piece of
strong twine out of his pocket, tying his
shabby trousers tightly round the ankles.
The rats should not devour his calves, at
any rate.

Sidewing don't like the job, that's clear,'
said Diggers, laughing. ' Why, if he hasn't
gone and tied his legs in. Can't ye give
us a bit of Hamlet in that costume, Bob ? '

But the sight of the dogs, and the aspect

of a dozen or so large rats in a cage, to be
let loose in a deep pit, were more than sufficient
for the actor.

Keep back the little dawg/ cried the
tramp, who had ventured to join the party.

Don't like that fellow's looks at all,' said
Diggers ; * a regular cut-throat sort of a
chap he seems. I'll drive him off my
premises.'

Murder seems in the air to-day,' said Bob
carelessly, pointing to the dogs.

As Diggers drove the tramp roughly off,
he looked back once at Bob in a way that
that must have considerably puzzled that
philosophic soul had he seen him.

How am I to do it, now, and earn the
gold ? ' muttered the tramp, throwing his
stick after a white rabbit scudding across his
path. ' 'Taint so easy to stick to a man like
a pig, an' get off, but if he comes this way
when it's dark, an' he's a bit easy in liquor,
why, then  '

Murder was truly in the air. How often
men speak the truth in jest, and blunder
blindfold to their fate !

A bolt was now drawn back from the cage,
and the rats darted into the pit, the last one,
however, bolting into a drain, from which
he defied his persecutors, and blinded the
plucky little terrier.

But Percival, suddenly pushing Bob aside,
drew on his gloves, and kneeling down, put
his arm and hand into the drain, and with
practised coolness, dragged out the rat by
his tail, but the little wretch, nothing daunted,
flew at his enemy, and biting him clean
through the finger, still hung on like grim
death.

Call that sport ? ' cried Bob, who was often
chicken-hearted on occasions, beating a rapid
retreat into the back parlour. ' All I can
say is, it's sickening. I'd rather be excused
from one of the little devils flying at my
throat.'

The rat darted up a shed. Musgrove hit
at it and it fell stunned, and was polished
off by one of the dogs.

The dead rats were thrown from the pit,
and the men thought of returning home, the
terrier limping and whining piteously from a
wound in his foot.

It's a disgusting sight,' said the benevolent
Bob from the porch, ' and I hope never to
witness such another. What do you say to
another bottle ? '

Bob wanted to hear more of Nellie Raymond,
but he did not wish his hearers to be
aware of this ; his profession as actor was in
his favour ; he could disguise emotion by
manufactured light-heartedness, while his

heart beat with anxiety. The bottle was
brought and paid for, Diggers himself taking
his fair share of the wine this time. The
'47 ' vintage seemed to overcome Percival,
for, after a few vain attempts at speech, his
head fell back, and as Musgrove threw a
cloth over his face, he began to snore like a
trooper.

But at that moment Bob gave a great
start. He had never seen any face or form
so fair as the one before him. Yes, long
ago he remembered to have seen her equal
so very long ago  nearly eighteen years !
Warm admiration kindled in his eyes.

Who was this girl in a straw hat and
cotton frock, with some wild poppies and
cornflowers, blue and tender as her eyes,
fastened on the side with careless grace.

Bob had seen a great many young women
going cheap at a shilling an hour as models,
but never one to equal this ; and why were
the curling lashes black instead of being
dead-gold coloured like her hair '. and the
eyes, were they darkest blue or violet ?

If you please,' said the voice, clear and
flutelike, and that sent cold shivers down
Bob's spine to listen to, ' can you tell me
the best way to get back to Mr Faculty
Fog's cottages I'm so sorry to trouble
you, but I've lost my way.'

Bob knew her now. This was NelHe Raymond,
the girl he had been so long seeking,
the instrument through which he had
meant to make a fortune. Martha Jane
had told him their little child was dead, but
Bob fancied after all she might have been
forsaken in some mad fit of rage by her
mother, and that he might find her again.

But all this was mere surmise, after all ;
he must go on safer ground. Safer ground !
Alas, poor Bob ! when the tramp, by the
common's side, will wait patiently hour after
hour for his prey, and turn his knife in the
moonlight, and think of the golden sovereigns
he means to steal from a dead man's body 
the plenteous golden sovereigns promised to
him by a wicked woman if Bob is slain.

Lost your way, have you ? ' said Bob,
puffing away slowly at his pipe ;  but you're
not far out. You must go straight across
Wincherly Common, pass the four crossroads,
and that will bring you close to
Stupefied Hall.'

Why, bless me,' cried Percival, waking
himself by a too musical snore, ' if that isn't
the young child that rode Rosicrucian ! How
came you here ? '

Because I'm going to be a lady,' said
Nellie, with a smile.

An' d'ye think a lady's a ready-made

piece o' goods ? It takes years and years to
be a lady, and a father and mother to name
'er, and lots o' schooling, and sweet ways,
and money, and never say wot you rely
mean, an' never 'ave wot you rely want,'
sneered Percival, who was a true Conservative,
and stood up for the interest of the
landed gentry.

Perhaps, then, if I was a servant I should
do better,' said Nellie mischievously, with a
wilful pout.

Shouldn't wonder at all if ye stood out
for a good price, and tossed yer 'eat,' said
Musgrove sarcastically. ' 'Tisn't all the full
bags that stand up stiff and straight as men
like, and a lady's a pore creature when times
are bad, and there's something else wanted
besides screaming' at a pinner, and novel-reading,
and shopping.'

A lady ? ' echoed Bob. ' Well, I should
say you were one of nature's ladies, my dear,
and don't want much making.'

It's nature that 'as to be driven out of a
lady,' said Percival, laughing.

Oh, but it will be so lovely to be taught,'
said Nellie, 'and I'm going to school, and
shall never be very much scolded any more.'

Why, when were you scolded ? ' asked
Bob, who saw an opening that might lead to
the information he wanted.

At the circus, when I was tired.'

Circus ! ' echoed both the other men ;
but, there, we might ha' known it. Only
a natural born jock could a-ridden our
thoroughbred without a bridle.'

What circus, my dear ? ' asked the watchful
Bob. ' Don't be shy ; we'll do ye no
harm. Come and sit down by me, and rest
before your nice long walk over Wincherly
Common.'

I never liked the circus,' said Nellie,
innocently, evading his question, ' and that's
why I ran away.'

And who were your father and mother,
my dear ? 'Tis a wicked thing to let a pretty
lass like you be exposed to the temptations
of cities, which are ravenous and destroying
as wolves.'

Bob drained his glass of port, and both
looked and felt for once extremely virtuous.
He was on the right track at last ; the loose
screw could be safely threatened.

I never had any regular parents like
other girls,' said Nellie, sighing. ' I don't
know anything about them. Madame Juanita
Dal ton made me call her "mamma" once,
when she wanted some money out of a funny
little gentleman she called Duke Tommy,
and there was an old woman, with very
small eyes and awfully pock-marked, who

came to see me when I fell through the net
and was laid up. She gave me stories about
Mrs Potiphar and a coat of many colours,
and said she'd come again, but she never
did.'

Bob's teeth suddenly assailed his nether

lip.

You said little eyes and pock-marked.
Perhaps she was your grannie, my dear.'

'And now I must run away,' said Nellie,
for they'll wonder where I am. Of course
you know I'm not going to work any more,
but be a lady, and wear lovely silk dresses
like you see in the beautiful shops in Regent
Street.'

Another Duke Tommy, I suppose ? ' said
Percival laughing, ' or, rather, friend o' the
family. Who's going to pay for 'em, I
wonder ? ' winking desperately at Bob, who
endeavoured to look shocked and failed.

Nellie did not hear them. She was
busy arranging her hat at the glass. A sort
of half-drunken desperation seemed to have
seized Bob Sidewing as she glided from
their sight.

The likeness ! ' he muttered, ' the marvellous
likeness ! Oh, Martha Jane, you smiling
serpent, you shall pay for this ! Let me
starve, will you, and tell me ten pounds is
the last penny I'll ever get ! Ten pounds !

Pah ! a thousand wouldn't make me hold my
tongue now. I'll have an annuity out of you
and Miss Vivian Branscombe, or I'll let in
daylight and somebody else at the same
time.'

VOL. I. M

THE FOOTPRINTS IN CUT-THROAT LANE.

pONG after Percival and Musgrove
had left the Roebuck did Bob and
 Diggers prolong their sitting.
They drank a great deal more
than was prudent, but the landlord enjoyed
Bob's society, which, in its way, was, when
he liked, brilliant and refined ; and Diggers
found Bob a good listener, and many were
the bonnes histories the two men recounted
till their tongues beoan to cleave ominously
to the roofs of their mouths, while
their lips became parched, and a fiery spark
seemed to dart like a snake in their throats.

A fine night,' said Diggers, opening the
window, and watching the silver moonlight
spread over mountain and woodland. ' No
need to osier you a lantern this time, old
friend, to find your way back to Brooks-mere.'


Bob was astonished to find the difficulty
he had to reach his hat and put it straight on
his head.

Diggers had by this time Halted an oil
lamp, and held it up over Bob, while Bob
was possessed with the insane delusion of
trying to light a twopenny cigar through a
rush light shade placed on a shelf in the landlord's
table.

Why not stay the night, Sidewing ? '
asked his friend. * There's the blue room
at your service.'

No,' said Bob, ' I'm all right, fresh as a
buttercup. I'll maybe look in tomorrow before
I go to Exeter.'

He had now attacked a small mulberry
tree with his knotted stick.

I thought I was running against Farmer
Oats' black wall,' said the actor, with sundry
see-saw movements. ' Good-night, Diggers.
Give us your hand.'

The hand was extended, and the two
men parted with indistinct but kindly leave-taking.


Bob walked on very rapidly the first quarter
of a mile past the corn fields and meadows,
then he began to loiter about. He fancied
the moonlight was too strong for him, for
what made his eyesight all misty and queer ?
He mistook a large oak tree for a church,

and thought he should Hke to go to sleep in
the trunk with the squirrels.

Lord ! how strong Diggers's wines are ! *
muttered Bob, throwing off his hat, and sitting
down by the tree.

He was now, though he hardly knew it,
on the borders of Wincherly Common, before
gaining which he had to pass through a
very lonely lane with wide-spreading bushes
on each side, called by the villagers ' .'


Down this cheerful pathway, with its deep
ruts caused for years by heavy cart-wheels,
Bob passed in the moonlight, with his knotted
stick over his shoulder, and here he again
turned dizzy, though not from the moonlight,
for the overhanging bushes and trees in the
lane were too thick to permit the entrance of
any silvery rays of light.

Could you just give a pore feller a sixpence
? ' asked deep, hoarse tones at that
moment, and the voice so startled poor Bob,
who was a nervous man, and never very
brave at the best of times, that he almost
screamed.

Come, you white-livered coward, tip up
your gold, or I'll make this 'ere lane earn it's
name to-night,' said the tramp, who understood
the man he had to deal with. * I'm in
earnest. D'ye see this ? '

He had drawn out a horrible weapon from
a basket, a double-bladed sailor's knife, and
brandished it in the air.

This time Bob screamed aloud. The
tramp rushed on him, and being a very
strong and powerfully built fellow, held one
hand over Robert's mouth, while with the
other he tried  to use his own term  to
knock him silly.'

Terror and agony, combined with the
effects of the drink, were rapidly producing
syncope. A blue, death-like look spread
itself over the actor's face, his muscles
twitched, he groaned and beseeched mercy
in inarticulate accents.

He knew, in his weak, dizzy state, that to
wrestle with the robber would be worse than
useless, and those heavy thuds on the back
of his head would, he believed, end by giving
him paralysis or congestion of the brain.

There, give over whining,' said the tramp,
flinging Bob, half senseless, from him into the
ditch, ' becos, I tell ye, you're a dead man.
I've took an oath to kill you  I've sworn it.
Night an' day 'ave I been a-waiting'  waiting'
long.'

The steel blades of the knife now flashed
with deadly significance before Bob,  he
must make one last appeal, his senses were
fast forsaking him, but he remembered his

golden guineas wrung out of Martha Jane
in the back kitchen at Prince's Gate.

Take the gold said Bob, panting, and
half suffocated from the oozy moisture of the
ditch, ' and save my life. Five sovereigns 
there, you can take 'em. I never harmed
you  I never did you a wrong. I'm a poor
old man, very old and weak, and half dead
from your blows.'

There was no answer ; but where Bob was
lying a break in the thick bushes enabled
him to see a reflection of the moonlight on
the tramp's face, then he knew there was no
hope, and that he must die.

The robber took the five sovereigns from
the half dying man, and then some overmastering
fury found vent in words.

Ah, you know me now,' said the tramp,
and you know another five minutes will
settle ye ! I'm the man you 'ad took up for
stealth' your fur coat five years ago. I went
to prison. I've never found a friend since.
I've been 'united down like a mad dawn, an'
I told ye, didn't I, as I'd do for ye one day 
an' I waited. Work ! As if I could find
honest work with the brand of a gaol on me !
Friends ! As if the craven brutes 'ud put
out a little finger to save me ! Wife died o'
want, and two little 'uns followed. D'ye
know wot it is to be starving  driven from

place to place with no character  no nothing?
And I says to myself, " There's one to thank
for this  the devil that sent me to gaol and
killed my Kitty and her babes  him as
dragged me down ! " Ah, there's others as
hate ye too, but not like me ; for mine is a
burning fire night and day.' He wrenched
a woollen jersey off his chest as if that raging
fire must be slaked by human blood. * So
die  die  die ! '

He held his knife high in the air above
Bob, and brought it down on his body with
fearful force  such force that the yellow,
muddy water in the ditch turned to crimson,
and with a dying groan the wretched man's
head fell backwards on the bank.

That's done for him at last,' said the
tramp, drawing the blood-stained knife on
the dewy grass. ' He'll never 'ave the
chance to send another pore starving' cove to
quod  never. If that isn't justice, wot is ? '

He ran with all speed on to the main road,
while Bob lay forsaken and alone in a ditch.

Presently a white form crept from the
other side of the bushes, and a thin young
man  one of Farmer Oats' carters  peeped
through the prickly hedge, and saw Bob's
handsome profile upturned in the moonlight.

He was called by the neighbours Timothy
Hare, through his want of courage, but he

had a good heart, and he could not leave
that poor old man, with a face like St
Thomas the Martyr, to perish in a wayside
ditch.

A drop o' brandy might revive 'im,'
thought Hare. * I wonder, though, if he's
real dead.'

He lifted the actor in his arms  Bob was
light and spare, and thin from scanty nutrition,
work, and worry  and carried him tenderly
across the meadows back to the Roebuck,
where Diggers, mixing a final libation of hot
shrub, was now sitting tete-astute with the
baker, Mr Canary, an incorrigible night bird,
and fond of a glass.

Please, sir, he's been murdered,' said Hare,
trembling from head to foot, and staggering
under his burden.

Canary was a churchwarden, and had his
eye on him.

Murdered ! ' echoed Diggers, placing his
hand on Bob's heart ; then, as they laid the
actor on the couch, turning quickly to Hare,
Go to the village and bring back Dr Morris.
The heart still beats  faintly, it's true, but
while it beats there's hope.'

THE LIVING SHADOW.

Sleep, what hast thou to do with her 
The eyes that weep with the mouth that sings ? '

ELL IE walked very slowly back
to the cottage over Witchery
Common after her interview with
Bob Sidewing. She was free at
last. And why was she free ? Through
what magic process had she escaped the
heavy penalties exacted from the poor .''
Every slave asks this. Why were her wishes
to be unchecked  her hopes crushed  her
nature no longer checked and cramped ?

The answer was very simple. She had
taken the fancy of a rich man whom Nellie
believed possessed one of the best and kindest
hearts in the world.

All her trouble had ended ; she was going
to school, and M. Lepelletier would pay for

everything. How nice and comfortable it
sounded ! What a charmingly irresponsible
state of affairs !

She might be a singer or a dancer, or any
other agreeable fortunate nymph protected
by a wealthy friend.

Yes, this was life at last ; every one was
going to be so good to her, and she could
shower her affection on them in return, and
never be hungry or beaten any more. It
was like going to heaven  these rich, delicious
thrills of joy, these bright sparkles of
hope and pleasure on the rippling stream
of fancies in a young girl's little ignorant
soul. It began with rapture, and must end
in triumph.

'How happy I am!' cried Nellie, half
buried in the spreading fern, and gathering
a great heap of wild flowers from under a
damp hedgerow. * I cannot, I never shall
forget.'

It seemed to her, after that kiss from
Leonard's lips, that she had entered a new
world ; the whole earth and air were filled
with that marvellous electric charm the presence
of a beloved one spreads on all around.

Who is it says the best of life is intoxication,
and bids us drug our senses with ether, wine,
or love ? The confusion, the ecstasy, the
fear were almost more than she could bear.

She was a fanatic in feeling and emotion
from that hour. But this sweet revelation of
another world, this consciousness of another's
empire over her heart, completely changed
the girl.

Deep crimson blushes trembled Into life,
new aspirations awoke ; the woman's desire
to hide henceforth all token or avowal of
tenderness crushed out the girl's innocent
little speeches, and made her resolve that
by no smile, no touch, no whisper, would
she let Captain Mallandaine know how she
loved him.

And then she smiled and tore up her
poppies and field flowers, and wished Leonard
was looking just once more into her eyes 
those deep, sombre, violet eyes, dark as the
shadows on a waveless sea when the sky
is reflected therein.

Poor Nellie was awaking to the tragedy
of a woman's life at last ; she wanted to hear
more about love, and understand why she
blushed and turned pale, as if she had a
fever, and trembled for nothing. It was
really very strange. It filled her with terror.
And the strangest part of It all was that her
tears were delightful ; there was such sweetness
In this new pain, it gave her the same
sense of fulness and rapture as when she
first learnt to pray, and knelt down and never

questioned whether those In heaven heard
her  the prayers sufficed.

When NelHe returned, the superb curricle
and pair were drawn up just outside the lodge
gates, and M. Lepelletier, in an equally superb
fur-lined coat, was patting his horses' necks
as if he had not yet grown tired of money's
delights and power.

Why, Nellie, where have you sprung from
been to sleep, or what, on the common ?'
he said, laughing. ' Your eyes look large
and dreamy, as if kissed by the wandering
breeze.'

I've been thinking,' said Nellie, twisting
her hat in her hand, and cracking the cheap
straw, ' about your kindness in sending me
to school.'

How pretty and happy this girl was in her
young belief. He liked her child-like, unquestioning
nature.

With Nellie he felt at ease, refreshed, and
calmed. Laura Branscombe discomposed
him. She was like some grand firmament
in which are storms and thunder, troubled
planets and restless stars ; but Nellie was a
flower, she never reasoned or questioned,
she only grew, bloomed, and enchanted.

The tired man of the world, with his heartless
codes and butterfly wooing, could not
fathom the depths that are latent in all true

genius, but artless prettiness and fresh rosebud
lips were a pleasant distraction.

Lollie gets worrying,' he would say, rather
grimly ; ' is jealous of my every thought.
We don't want to swallow a firebrand in a
love potion -pardi  but a pleasant, cooling
drink.'

I've found you a school, Nell,' he went
on, rolling a cigarette, and flipping the large
buzzing flies off his steeds' noses. ' The
Misses Roby  Ruth and Rebecca  two
maiden ladies living at Myrtle Villa, Brooks-mere
Green. I'll drive you there in a fev/
days, and introduce you as my niece.'

And suppose I run away ?' said Nellie,
with a mischievous sparkle, cracking more
straws.

Then, ma chere, you may go to the deuce.'

Oh, sir, don't say that  I was only in
fun.'

Little ingrate, listen to me ; here is
your one and only chance of getting on in
the world. I don't think you'll ever pipe
louder than a canary bird, and you didn't
begin to study the graceful art of dancing
early enough, so what d'ye say, Nell, after
you're a little more learned, to being a dear,
pretty little milliner in Regent Street  a
charming improver  one of the ' young ladies'
who enjoy the privilege of a piano and well-selected

library when their labours are over
for the day ?'

Regent Street ! ' echoed Nellie, thinking
of Leonard, and blushing furiously.

But we'll see about that by-and-by. Now,
my little poppy-wreathed, rosy Phyllis, adieu
for the present. I shall get you some dresses
and all that. Fare thee well, Nell, my child ;
give me that white rose growing by the wall,
and now sheer off, for I'm going to drive the
horses round.'

He threw aside his cigarette, buttoned his
coat, caressed the thin spikes about his mouth,
and, gathering up the reins, drove off with his
air of prince and Samaritan combined, cursing
his groom, however, in strong French, for not
having been quicker in fetching a magnificent
tiger-skin rug, with which he covered his
well-preserved legs and patent-leather boots.

The Foggs were particularly amiable towards
Nellie to-day ; she now excited a sort
of reverential curiosity. Faculty brought
out some fine walnuts, and luscious yellow
plums and peaches, gathering himself tempting
red fruits from the orchard walls, while
Mrs Fog handed round the cowslip wine.
And Nellie who was as fond of fruit as a
gipsy or Asiatic, did complete justice to her
dessert.

As she wandered after dinner through the

gardens and park in the drowsy autumn air,
languor stole on her senses from the odour of
the fragrant sweetness of the ripening fruits
and crimson-hearted flowers. She abandoned
herself to dreams as the autumn sun went
down amid the corn-fields, and the distant
whirr of a pheasant caught the ear.

We all know the peculiar effect of that
sublime hush of the meadows, and how the
country air feels about the temples as the
crimson light tints the old woods and blue
mountains with richer, ruddier glow. Exiles
from England remember all this, and how the
shady hawthorn looked in the spring when
they saw it for the last time.

Nellie was so tired from her rambles that
she went early to bed to-night, listening to
the gardener's slow enunciation and measured
explanations of various passages as he read
a chapter from the Bible prior to bidding him
good-night.

The moon had risen in a pale silvery mass
as she undressed in the sweet odorous silence
of the little room.

She liked going to bed by moonlight,
watching the dim outline of the mountains,
and hearing the rustle of falling leaves, and had
just rested her head on the lavender-scented
pillow, when she was quite certain there was a
clear and distinct movement in the room.

She sat up in bed, her heart palpitating
violently, as the moon was passing under a
cloud, and something like a living shadow, or
fugitive spectre, seemed to grow from out
the wall. All she had heard of haunted houses,
ghosts, and, above all, the tales of the old
tragedies enacted at Stupefied Hall, occurred
to her mind. But she was too terrified to
scream. Presently something rushed towards
her, and a tall figure clothed in white, with
loose hanging hair, clutched her, and with a
smothered cry threw itself by her side.

Nellie's white breast heaved and fell like
some lovely bird in the fowler's grasp, and
then the eyes turned on her, the grip was
loosened, and the woman spoke.

Who are you ?' she asked, in one of those
rare voices in which one might almost say
are tears.

I am Nellie Raymond,' she said, shivering.


I will tell you a story,' said Aurelian,
looking curiously at Nellie, and moving one
rounded arm in the air.

There was once a fisher maiden, who
always went out to fish in the early morning,
and one day, as she threw her lines into the
ocean, she drew out a ring. This ring was
really her genius, and it gained her at last a
lover. Tram la-la! But I am not going to

sing,' said Aurelian, under her breath, the tears
this time in her eyes as well as voice.

She cannot be really mad,' thought Nellie
sighing.

They were to be married m the spring.
She loved him so dearly ; but one day, in
the winter, she found a red rose growing in
the garden. It was a sign her lover had
been killed. Never gather red roses ; let
them grow,' said Aurelian, her thoughts straying
again into cloud-land.

'After he was dead the fisher maiden
always went and sat on the lonely rock
by the sea-shore ; but she never charmed
any more lovers. She used always to seethe
red  the blood-red stain about his heart,
the low-lying Flemish fields, and the dew
and rain on his fallen head and hair  they
were like the tears and kisses of her last
farewell. And if she sang, there was no
music in the tones ; so she could only weep
weep  weep. People talk about death,'
said Aurelian, the dreamy light in her eyes,
and her voice growing passionate in spite
of its pain, ' as if it were an end ; but I know
that he is sorry for all the anguish his cruelty
brought me on earth, and that he longs to
repair it. He is waiting to say, '' Aurelian,
dearest, gather the red roses ; they will deck
our bridal path  the beautiful flower-clusters,

VOL. I. N

the purple passion-flowers blooming for us
in Eden." '

Nellie laid her hand on that restless
moving arm. She fancied that if Captain
Leonard were to quite forget, or be killed,
she, too, would abandon herself to similar
grief  grief that fastened upon the mind,
and slowly murdered it, like a venomous
insect attacking a delicate fruit needing light
and air and sun to foster its growth.

I was always seeing the red roses,' said
Aurelian, ' but I was not mad ; it was only
when I got tired of waiting, and the summertime
tortured me, that I began to weep 
when women weep much their brain goes 
an incurable despair took possession of me ;
death was in my soul. Do you understand ?
Ah, no ! you are too young and fair.'

Yes, yes, I know,' said Nellie tenderly,
turning to kiss her. ' Tell me more  it may
comfort you.'

The pallid face looked still more bloodless
after Nellie's embrace.

The world seemed a huge wilderness
after that red rose grew, but it will not befor
long, for I am going home very fast ; all
my rings slip off my fingers, they're so thin.'

Nellie's nerves quivered. It seemed to
her as if the evil fate that had triumphed
over the wreck of this young life might

also descend on her. Was this what love
brought ?

I should have died long since,' she said
in a hushed voice.

Because you are weak. I was strong,
that was the worst of it. Weak people give
no trouble, but we who are strong, we linger
for years ; every part of us dies slowly and
by degrees. They shut me up because they
were afraid I should kill myself. I do
sometimes want to hasten the end, but when
I touch my fingers they get thinner, and
my cough is worse, so Tm content to wait
till the end. *' Take care of her life," the
doctors said. My life ! Ah, they little know.'

Some impulse made Nellie lay her arms
around Aurelian. She wanted her to believe
how sorry she was, and Nellie, being a
loving little soul, was now weeping in sympathy.
She had slipped from the bed, and
in her white night-dress, her hands clasped,
looked like one of Lippe's golden-haired
angels.

Other women when they are like I am
are shut away with strangers  that must be
terrible, but I think Leonard, who killed
my lover, never could have the heart to do
that. If they shut my folly from the world,
was not that sufficient ? You are fair, but
you are not like the woman he loved better

than me, she who stole my ring. She was
beautiful and wicked, and had sapphire-like
blue eyes  mine are dark and have lost their
light. She wore blue velvet and a collar
of diamonds the first night I saw her at
the theatre. She was coarse, ignorant, and
grovelling, but for all that she was a sorceress
; all beautiful women are. They brew
poison in their cauldrons, and drug men to
a deadly stupor that steals away their senses,
aims, hopes, and ambitions, and destroys
them body and soul, till both are shrivelled
and lost. She smote me unto death, though
I pleaded with her. Yes,' cried Aurelian,
looking spectral again, ' though I humbled
my pride to entreat her to see him no more,
to leave me my lover. But she only smiled
at me in her cold, cruel way, and then turned
aside, and kissed him again on the mouth,
binding him closer in those crushing chains
and I shall be alone unto the end.'

It is unjust,' burst out Nellie, still kneeling.
* Why are such things permitted ? '

There is no such thing as justice on the
earth ; it only lives and burns within our
souls, and the craving for it consumes them.
What was left to me } Vanities, visiting,
idling, hollow amusements, even art or ambition
 how could I bear that false life of
utter emptiness 1 Better be the peasant

woman with her babe in her arms, walking
by her husband's side, than such a creature
as I. But I never feel really mad till I see
red roses, so when I die bury me deep in
them, my hands crossed on my breast, holding
masses of them, all heaped around.'

There was a movement on the stairs.
Nellie heard Mrs Fog's voice, and the
sepulchral tones of her husband.

They have come for me said Aurelian,
shaking back her hair, and, opening the door,
looked out and listened. ' Keep the ring,'
she muttered, tossing one off her finger to
Nellie, 'and now  farewell.'

She held out her wasted hand. Nellie
seized it, pressing it reverently to her lips.

diggers's advice.

FTER the doctor arrived, and
Bob's wound had been dressed
and all danger pronounced over,
he sunk into that profound slumber
which is considered a very favourable
symptom of future restoration. The actor
had escaped by one of those singular chances
that occasionally happen to frustrate a
murderer's fell design. He felt that after
remaining a few days with his old friend
Diggers it was his duty to return to town,
with, however, the melancholy reflection that
he was considerably poorer in pocket than
when he started for Devonshire.

I've had a blow, friend  a terrible blow,*
murmured Bob, rolling his head, which still
ached, from side to side on the chair railing,
and what's more, there's foul treachery somewhere.
There was a woman's hand at work

in the business, I'm sure, and I firmly believe
my wife prompted and designed the murder.'

That's the worst o' widen,' said Diggers,
lighting his pipe as the two men sat together
in the porch, ' you never know what they're
up to. Now, a man he'll mostly swear some
good round oaths, or he ups and fights you,
and you can protect yourself, but the widen
are weak, and so they scheme. Yes,' cried
Diggers, recollecting how one of his housekeepers
had had him up for breach of promise,
' they lie and scheme.'

And now said Bob, thoughtfully, ' what
shall I do ? I'm poor as a church-mouse.'

You're getting an old man,' Diggers
answered, re-filling his pipe ; * you want to
take it easy a bit. Will you follow my
advice ? Checkmate your enemies by artfulness.
Let 'em believe you're dead, but all
the time be up and doing  have your spies,
and spy yourself, and to do this you must be
disguised.'

Ah, a good move. I'll be even with them,'
said the actor. * Mine is such a capital face
to make up.*

Diggers had now plunged under the table,
and was opening a drawer in a cupboard,
from which he extracted a box covered with
sawdust.

A very remarkable wig was now drawn

from under silver paper, one that the great
Sheridan might have exulted over for one of
his low comedy gentlemen.

Try It on, Bob,' said Diggers, glorying In
his Idea ; ' and come before the glass to fix It.'

What would Mr Brooke think of me now
as Sir Peter ? ' cried Bob. * Why, It would
delight his soul to paint me In this wig as an
old Jew. He's long been trying to get such
a curiosity. The public like to remember
Shy lock, for old Jews go off like snuff in
pictures, as fast as they're painted. " Any
shun you wants, sir, for good security, and
only forty per sheets"' cried Bob, wheeling
round In his wig, so that Diggers was convulsed
with laughter.

Stick to the wig, friend, If you want to
be thoroughly disguised.'

I'm dashed If Mrs Maloney would know
me now,' said Bob, laughing ; ' or my bloodthirsty
spouse, either. I'm going to make
inquiries about our little girl who died when
I was away in America, so she said, and I'll
find out what became of her, and where she
was burled. I believe Martha's been up to
some bad tricks, and if I find there's been
foul play, and that the child has been got rid
of by underhand means, I'll land Martha
Jane In Queer Street, as sure as my name Is
Robert Sidelong.'

His voice shook with suppressed rage, and
in his new appearance of the Jew, he looked
so much Hke Shylock bargaining iov Antonio s
flesh that Diggers again laughed heartily.

A pair of false eyebrows will perfect you,
and those you can get anywhere, and since
we must part to-day  heaven only knows
when to meet again  let's have a final glass
for auld lang syne, while you put this thirty
shillings in your pocket.'

Bob extended his thin hand gratefully.

Heaven bless you, Diggers ; you've been
a good friend to me,' he said, huskily.

And mind you write when that's gone for
more If you're stumped. Alas ! my Shylock'
cried Diggers, patting his shoulder ; * you
remind me of my young days, when I was a
merry spark, and Israel rejoiced over my
bonds and parchments.'

I feel very weak and wretched,' said Bob,
stretching himself. ' Fancy leaving fresh
linen, and all the sweetness and poetry of
your hostelry, grand scenery, yonder avenue
of chestnuts, the still, hushed groves, and the
music of fallen leaves and cascades, for my
musty den In Copenhagen Street, earning a
bare existence as a model. Isn't it hard,
Diggers, what flesh and blood have to come
to In this world ? '

The good-hearted landlord had packed up

a large hamper full of provisions for Bob on
his arrival at his lodgings, in which Devonshire
mutton and Yorkshire hams collided,
and Guinness's double stout rattled among
biscuit tins and pots of cream.

After the wine had been quaffed, the goodbye
said, and Bob, carpet-bag in hand, was
again on the march, Diggers returned somewhat
saddened to his hostelry.

A man of talent, that any one could see,*
he muttered, watching Bob slowly disappear
down the avenue of chestnuts, where he got
smaller by degrees, and then wholly disappeared,
' lost through his own follies.
Bob's one mistake always was, he never had
enough conceit to push others out of his
road, and it's your conceited ones that get the
world to call 'em fine names and worship
'em. It's not what people's worth really
is ; it's the wally they put on themselves, and
the price they mean to get, and some prefer
brass to gold  it makes more noise.'

Bob's reflections were interrupted by the
sound of a loud railway whistle. He found
he was very near the railway station, and
soon overtook Diggers's boy, who had been
sent on with the hamper. It was rather a
singular coincidence that, as Mrs Sidewing
was looking at the five sovereigns, all marked
by herself, and handed to her by Dick as

proof of her husband's death, Bob should be
comfortably seated in a third-class carriage,
en route for London, smoking strong tobacco
and shaping his plans.

Meanwhile Nellie was being driven to
Myrtle Villa, and when M. Lepelletier and
his ' niece ' descended from the curricle, the
two Misses Roby, maiden ladies of the most
indisputable respectability, both rushed to
the window with the natural impetuosity of
gushing young things ' of five - and - fifty.
How could they forget the polished grace
with which the Frenchman had bowed over
their ringlets hands, and ever so gently
squeezed their finger-tips.

Look, sister,' cried Rebecca, bobbing her
little head, adorned by its modest wisp of
hay-coloured hair, over the blind, ' there he
is again, and the girl with him.'

Miss Ruth Roby missed three stitches in her
crochet antimacassar, and clasped her hands
behind her back, a habit of hers when excited.

Looks a sweet creature,' cried Miss
Rebecca, greeting her new pupil with effusion
in the drawing-room.

Mesdames,' said M. Lepelletier, with a
smile, * here is the young girl, my niece, who
will come to you after the holidays. With
you I know she will be safe, both as regards
her physical and moral welfare.'

The two sisters were making a graceful
charge at Nellie in the form of cross-examination.
Alas ! she knew very little ; had
no idea of William the Conqueror, nor had
ever heard of the Gunpowder Plot. But it
was a comfort to think Nellie would not
cry for three days, and refuse her dinner, and
have to be shut up in the spare-room till she
found her appetite.

A most docile girl said the Frenchman.
My dear dead sister, the Countess D'Arcy's
only legacy to me.'

'How very touching!' murmured Miss Ruth,
lifting her handkerchief to her faded eyes. * A
countess ! Yes, she looks quite thoroughbred.'

M. Lepelletier here threw down a bundle
of five-pound notes on the table.

Help yourselves, ladies,' he said, with
his gallant air, so different from that horrid
Mr Stedman, the retired soap boiler, who
doled out half-sovereigns when he paid his
bill, and always took off five shillings and
sixpence for his daughter Carrie's pew-rent.

The sisters modestly clawed three five-pound
notes.

Does that include everything, mesdames ? '

Yes, every extra.'

You'll find my niece very ignorant, I fear,'
gracefully apologetic. ' She was kept so
constantly at her mother's side.'

Precisely  so very natural came the
answer, in the form of a duet.

Nellie looked from one to the other in
unfeigned surprise.

Ah, ma belle' he whispered, resting his
hand affectionately on her shoulder, as the
sisters retired  one to fetch a receipt stamp,
and the other to shove him a coloured map,
the work of Carrie Stedman, their cleverest
pupil, ' you must be surprised at nothing.
Who were your parents ? How should I know,
and what need you care ? You interest me ;
petite blonde attx yeux bleiix, and when I'm
interested -pardieu  I'm practical'

M. Lepelletier yawned. He felt somewhat
weary of benevolence and Nellie's
society, so he made an excuse to get rid of
her, and after leaving the villa drove off alone.

Nellie sauntered leisurely homewards, oppressed
with a secret weight. Just as she
swung back the large gates leading to the
lodge, she saw Captain Mallandaine, his hat
tilted over his eyes, sitting on the same rustic
seat by the cottage window as on the morning
after her arrival at Brooksmere ; he had often
thought of her since that first kiss of love.

Nellie was very pale. She tried to avoid
him and escape through the open cottage
door, up the cork-screw staircase to her little
room, but this he would not permit.

His thoughtful eyes fastened on hers, and
then he nodded in a friendly way, very
re-assuring to Nellie, and beckoned her to
his side.

She looked so beautiful and wistful in her
pale agitation, that Leonard's heart went out
to her once more in spite of all his resolves.

Nellie abandoned herself to the bewildering
fascination of the moment. This slow throbbing
under a gaze was delightful, she could
not speak, but looked grave and pensive.

Come,' he said gently, ' and sit down herewith
me.'

Those dark, glittering eyes are again looking
into her troubled ones. His hand is
touching the sleeve of her dress ; the passionflower
waves above their heads. The little
leaves fall one by one. The soft velvet
lawns are bathed in sunlight, and they are
alone.

Nellie, have you no welcome for me
to-day ? Not a word ? '

Nellie cannot speak. She thinks of
Aurelian and the lost ring, the fisher maiden,
and the red rose.

Who so timid as she who loves ? Silence
is love's empire. He lives in dreams.

The place is hushed and calm, veiled with
the rising of faint, white mists, and Nellie,
with a complexion like the creamy fairness

of a sun-warmed white flower, is lifting black
silken lashes, on which tears tremble. She
remembers that they must soon part.

Where have you been all this time ? ' he
asks.

She is certainly a dear little thing, and her
wet eyes, dewy like large violets in the sunrise,
look even more kissable than these
quivering lips ; and yet he is trying to forget
Nellie, and break himself of the delight of
thinking of her.

Wandering about. I'm going to school
soon.'

Indeed ! '

And I shall work so hard.'

What  or rather, who  has changed your
destiny ? '

She notices now the least drawl in his
tones. Nellie hesitates, and then she says
abruptly, 

Monsieur Lepelletler.'

Our evil genius,' with a shrug.

Isn't he a very kind gentleman ? '

 Oh, very,' sarcastically ; then, sotto voce,
The cursed spider ! Why doesn't he stick
to his wasps ?'

Leonard tilts his hat this time straight over
to his eyes, and sighs.

Why do you dislike him '. '

Because I happen to know a thing or two

about him that are not exactly kind and
Christian-Hke, to say the least.'

'Do you, mori cher?' said M. Levelled
who had driven round the other way,
and hearing voices in Fog's parlour, sat on
the sofa by the window and quietly listened ;
bien obliged!

He's a duellist to begin with

So are you Nellie answers hastily.

Eh ? Pon honour, you mistake. I can
defend myself  that is all, and if one is challenged,
one can't refuse, can one  especially
under certain circumstances ? Lots of fellows
nice fellows, too  have cut Lepelletier. I
don't know why. He wins heavily at cards
sometimes ; but never mind him ! Tell me
about yourself.'

How he enjoys watching her! Passion
goes through many processes in its development
; in its first stage looks suffice.'

Ah, mon chert mutters the Frenchman,
so you court the little rustic beauty, do you ?
Parole honneur ; it's hardly fair -perfide
Albion I and he's a soldier, too. Deuce
take him ! '

There's nothing to tell,' Nellie says
shyly.

Nothing?'

Well, very little.'

M. Lepelletier rises, chips some of the

dried grass In the vase Into pieces, shakes
himself, and caresses the thin spikes about
his mouth.

Is he getting old ? Nonsense ! Vogue la
galere. Well, there's always Laura Branscombe
and the best cosmetics.

You little fairy, you've positively bewitched
me,' says the captain.

And this time he has drawn Nellie to
him, and an arm is around her waist, while a
black moustache Is pressed on the golden
curls about her temples.

'Oh, don't, please, don't!' cried Nellie,
with a little wild cry, struggling and trembling
In his embrace.

Why not ? ' asks Leonard exultingly, with
a lover's thrill. ' Love me a little, Nellie,
do ! I'm so tired of everything, so miserable,
don't you know, and all that. Be my dear
little pet, won't you, child ? and then, perhaps,
some day  I must kiss you ; I can't help it,
you little darling  some day all may change,
and  '

Hullo, Leonard ! Where have you got
to ? ' asks Lepelletler, coming round by the
cabbages, and smoking a cigarette. ' Ah,
mon cher, spoilt a tete-astute, I'm afraid !*

"mm

VOL. I.

THE NEW GROOM.

And when she took a ride in the park,
Equestrian lord or pedestrian clerk
Was thrown into an amorous fever.'

Actually refuses my invitation
on board the yacht,' Vivian
was saying, with a sickening
heart, as she read the little trite
note in which Captain Mallandaine, in acknowledging
her charming portrait, yet declined
to come within physical contact of its reflection.
* I wish I'd never written to him, or
sent him my likeness. It never pays to run
after men,' ended Vivian, ruefully, looking
very pretty and girlish in her morning robe of
light blue toile d'Asie,  a loosely-fitting morning
robe that encased her slender body like a
blue firmament, from which her throat rose
like a fair pillar, or delicate white flower.
She renounced all idea of yachting since

Captain Mallandalne had declined her invitation.
She was as much in love as a very
fashionable court beauty, the leading belle of
the season, nourished on vanities and admiration,
can well be.

And won't I snub him when he does deiofn
to call thought the beauty ; and something
that stood in the place of ' soul ' darted out
of her eyes,  a spice of the devilry latent in
every true daughter of Eve.

But the tears, after all, would come, and
the throat twitched. Was she not positively
forgetting to flirt scientifically ? What was
this wretched kind of weariness and despair,
producing the extremes of languor or vexation,
and sapping the charms of everlasting
amusement ?

Vivian had successfully resisted all other
worries and discomforts till now, but the
pangs of love were unconquerable in their
violence. She loved the dark-haired soldier,
with his strong codes of honour, his indifference,
his gloom.

She gloried in the eager demonstrations he
had received on his return from a tedious
war, and had herself been present, wearing a
rich violet duchesse satin, made did la Pompadour,
at a reception given in his honour, when
all the tenants, young and old, on his father's
estates, were regaled on the beef and beer so

dear to every true-born Briton, followed by
copious allowance of tea and plum-cake supplied
to all the old women and children on
the place, the entertainment winding up with
a dance, in which Leonard waltzed with her
in a carpeted barn, to the amazement and
delight of the tenants, who had never seen a
Pompadour costume. The music of the village
yokels had made her shriek and shudder
a little in good-natured horror. It was so
very different, she whispered, from the Maelstrom
band, or those of the Guards, or
loth Hussars.

She remembered the flags and triumphal
arches, the speeches of various friends, the
emotion of Leonard's father, his own simply-worded
replies, and the tremendous volleys
of cheering that had deafened her, while it
enraptured.

All women glory in ovations to their heroes,
and Vivian thrilled like some Greek or Roman
maiden when the victor's crown is flung at
the feet of the god of the hour.

Can he have taken a fancy to some unpresentable
neglected girl who doesn't know
how to enter a room ? ' mused Vivian, sitting
before her white and gold mirror, dark lines
under her eyes, and feverish spots on her un-powdered
cheeks ; * some blundering Phyllis
out of a villa or cottage, whom he has caught

in a pretty attitude at church ? I believe
heaps of fellows fall in love at first sight in
church. Men are so idiotic. Given fair
opportunities, lawn-tennis and a nice display
of white muslin, pink cheeks, and a good
head of hair, and it's all up with the simpletons.
Oh, Leonard  dear Leonard ! I'm
longing to torture you, pay you out, and
make you miserable, and all the time some
hateful village belle down in Devonshire, who
can't ride or dress a bit, is perhaps winning
your heart because you are tired and have
nothing else to do.'

Vivian had never heard of the tragedy that
had wrecked Aurelian Mallandaine's life. She
was supposed to have died abroad among the
nuns at the Convent of the Bleeding Heart.

I suppose Ld better ride to-day ? ' said
Vivian, speaking aloud.

She was very pale, and looked worn. The
anguish of uncertainty, the dread of some
danger about her path, were imperceptibly
preying on her spirits.

Never since the loss of the diamond necklace,
and the low-muttered words of Bob
Sidewing, had Vivian Branscombe felt the
same. She never alluded to the loss of that
diamond necklace, but had one made exactly
like it in the finest imitation paste possible,
ordered in Paris of the most famous jewellers

of the Palais Royal, so that none but a
connoisseur or dealer in gems could have
detected the difference, and somehow the
sight of this hateful Imitation necklace made
Vivian turn hot and cold, and feel sick and
broken, as if her life resembled it, and that it,
too, was false and glittering  a mockery,
like those paste diamonds in the old velvet
case, all hollow and unsound beneath.

You careless girl,' Bernard Branscombe
had said lightly to her, as she told him the
necklace had only been mislaid ; ' didn't
I tell you it would be found ? And you
actually wanted poor old Martha Jane Side-wing
taken up for the robbery.'

Vivian smiled, but said nothing.

Before ordering round her horse. Kingfisher,
this morning from the stables, Vivian
paid a visit to her step-mother, Mrs Branscombe,
who was painting in her studio when
Vivian entered.

Pale glimmers of golden light stole through
the blinds, and Laura, in her black satin
dressing-gown, trimmed with robins of rich
ruby velvet, looked almost as fresh and
brilliant as the likeness of herself, twenty
years ago, that met the eye on entering,
when there had been jewels in her hair and
natural roses decked her corsage, and the
blue-black tresses, escaping from a diamond

aigrette, had fallen In ebon waves about the
girlish bust and lily-white neck and arms 
the portrait of Laura as Juliet, before her
heart had withered as Bernard Branscombe's
wife.

Why, how pale you look, Vivian,' Mrs
Branscombe said, going on with a background.
' Don't you sleep, or have you
been dosing yourself with that dreadful chloral
you seem so fond of ? '

The studio was a magnificent room of
sixty feet in length. Laura had designed
and painted all the frescoes herself It had
a dark oak-stained floor, with costly Turkey
rugs thrown down here and there ; rare and
valuable plants and exotics stood in every
corner ; large vases in Dresden and majolica
were arranged on carved oak pedestals ; Indian
jars, of inestimable value  the presents
of a Rajah who had fallen slightly in love with
Mrs Branscombe on the occasion of his visit
to Prince's Gate  ornamented the mantelpiece,
which was composed of the finest tiles
money could buy, and the goddess who
reigned in this palatial room, with its
tapestries, flowers, and pictures, might have
sat for Cleopatra, Boadicea, Helen of Troy,
or any of the grand, passionate women of
old who were queens and adored by men.

It was a room adapting itself to those of

refined and artistic tastes. The clock itself
was antique and a poem. The room was
voluptuous, like its owner. Here the opium-eater
might have sunk Into soft slumber,
ravished with sweet sounds and perfumes ;
the musician have dreamt of immortal harmonies
; the artist interpreted his fairest
rhapsodies ; the singer Intoxicated his senses
with emotional enchantment  in this room
was the only possible life for Laura Branscombe,
whose strange duality of being made
her differ from others. Here all the vivid
intensity and passion of her soul rioted in
colour, sentiment, expression, and form.
She was too grand and cold for the trash of
ordinary ballads and libretti. She had not
the patience to perfect her gifts as a singer
or a player, and be merely the passive exponent
of others' ideas. No ; she must create
poems in colour or words  create beauty Inform
and expression, aided by the highest
ideal art. Musical composition was beyond
her, so she found small delight in music. In
this room all the struggles of an emotional
temperament found vent, and the pride and
glory of her genius expended itself in painting.
Fashionable gaieties, dinners, balls, y/i", and
dress were Insufficient distractions for one
who felt a pitying contempt for their votaries.
Do I look pale ? ' said Vivian, glancing

towards the yellow streaks of light. ' Oh, it's
because everything here is so brilliant and
splendid.'

She almost envied her step-mother her
gift. It might even bring forgetfulness.

Miss Branscombe looks ill, nurse, I think,'
said Laura gently addressing Mrs Sidewing,
who was peacefully knitting on the raised
platform artists use for their models.

She might have been painted for one of
those terrible old knitting women of Paris
seated around the blood-stained guillotine,
when the fairest land in all the world killed
its children by thousands, and was laid waste
by tyrants and assassins.

Oh, there's nothing in the least the matter
with me said Vivian, sinking gracefully
back on a velvet couch.

It was the one terror of her life lest her
repressed anxiety should be perceived.

I've been painting nurse's head this
morning,' said Laura, bringing out a large
picture. ' It's such a remarkable face, I
think. Poor dear old soul ! she looks so
haggard to-day. It is lined with suffering
and the ravages of grief, isn't it, Vi ? I'm
painting her as a dying Niobe  worn and
aged and ill ; not the cool, blonde, 
young woman, with tears
running down her face, one usually sees.

She must be old  Niobe wasted with anguish
and weeping at seventy

Vivian shuddered a little at this likeness.
She was really absurdly nervous to-day. It
was painted with marvellous force and power.
One seemed to fancy Niobe beating those
thin hands restlessly together as she looked
on at some long-contemplated revenge.

Mrs Sidewing looked less like a Niobe
than a murderess, or a serpent thought Vivian,
longing to mount Kingfisher and ride away
her nasty fit of the blues.

Why, my dear Vivian, you're positively
trembling,' said Mrs Branscombe, who had
some idea Captain Mallandaine's note had
upset Vivian at breakfast  women in love
are so keen over these things ; ' and I declare,
nurse,' feeling the girl's hand, ' she's
quite feverish.'

Lor', ma'am, what a fright you've made
me 1 ' cried Mrs Sidewing, who had never
before seen any resemblance of herself.

Fright ! ' echoed Mrs Branscombe enthusiastically
 all true artists are enthusiasts.
That's high art. It ought to make people
cry to look at it. Can't you fancy how that
hair slowly turned grey, how often the
thin, parted lips must have quivered through
those long seventy years ? Yes, Vivian,
put it away and go for your walk.'

The new groom has come, so I ride to-days
said Vivian, wearily. ' He's Morton's
brother.'

The new groom was In reality the actor,
Alfred de Lancy, whose guineas had been
all-powerful with the lady's-maid. If poor,
ignorant women look about for promising
male fish to be landed by making the most
of their opportunities, faces, and figures, why
should not poor talented men, who are just
as much adventurers in their way, do the
same ?

Vivian Branscombe, the beauty and heiress
combined, pleased his taste, indeed he was
madly In love with her. She had never
given another thought to the hare-brained
letter he had sent her.

It had occurred to De Lancy that if he could
only be brought within shade of her magic
presence, or feel the light, springy foot on his
palm as he flung her into the saddle, he
might have an opportunity of worshipping
and secretly watching over a woman he could
never possibly have met In the society in
which she moved.

Take my advice, Vivian, and walk ; It
will do you more good,' said her step-mother
kindly. ' Just a nice stroll through the park,
and you'll feel quite another being.'

Vivian had grown of late remarkably

obedient. Her narrow eyes opened a little
wider as she returned to her room In sheer
self-amazement.

'What has come to me?' muttered the
girl. ' I've actually given over quarrelling
with Mrs Branscombe.'

She forgot to wonder if she resembled In
every point and detail the figure of the last
new fashion-plate  forgot how the wind or
dust might affect her complexion, and summoning
her maid, selected a simple black
velvet costume trimmed with sable, and hat
to match, and thus attired, sallied forth
towards the park, at a time when, as the
papers say, ' everybody who Is anybody Is
out of town.'

Just as she was crossing the road leading to
Hyde Park, her crimson silk lace-trimmed
parasol up, although there was a very sickly
sun In the heavens  a bilious, surface
sun, shining as if he begrudged his
light and warmth, especially In enlivening
poor old London  she saw an ill-tempered,
dark and swarthy face coming too close to
hers to be pleasant.

With her Maltese pet, Skye, at her heels,
her three-guinea parasol, her ten-button
gloves, and seven-guinea hat  Vivian knew
she was superb.

But she was easily frightened now. Her

heart beat quickly, till she saw the nose of
a very small terrier peeping behind the man's
arm. This youthful canine specimen reassured
her. The man only wanted, of
course, to sell the dog.

Might yer ladyship wish to buy a little
dawn . ' asked the man, holding the terrier
in turn by the ear, tail, and leg.

I don't want any dogs,' said Vivian
haughtily, lifting her chin.

Lord Portmore had given her Skye the
last season. He was a duchess's pet, whom
the large man had purchased at an alarming
sacrifice of blue china.

As she spoke, she caught up her favourite
and crossed rapidly over the road  ladies
generally do rush on to the opposite pathway
when irritated and incensed.

But, to her horror, the man, nothing
abashed, followed.

If you annoy me further I shall speak to
a policeman,' said Vivian, turning hot and
cold.

Beg pardon, yer ladyship,' said her enemy,
*but I seed ye a walking' with a little stiff
old party in a large bonnet the other day,
and so I made free to ask ye, if ye won't
buy the dawn, to take a bit of a note to
'er. I'm 'er son, yer ladyship, come back
from the war.'

Certainly not,' said Vivian, angrily shaking
herself, but with a certain nervous trembling
of the lips. ' She never had any son.'

Oh, then yer ladyship knows 'er, I can
see, and ye won't buy the little dawn? There,
take 'im for ten guineas, miss. He's cheap,
an' a beauty, an' a ornament to any diningroom
or carriage in the kingdom.'

Vivian hesitated ; her heart again beating
rapidly. The mystery, the hateful secret
Mrs Sidewing had half threatened her with,
was it here revived ? She would rather pay
then and there for this hideous little terrier
a mongrel, she was sure, with painted legs
and tail  than touch that dirty folded piece
of paper, or convey it to Mrs Sidewing from
this miserable-looking tramp ; then curiosity
got the better of her resolve.

What does he want ; what can he have
to say to nurse?' thought Vivian, flushing
crimson. ' And how will it affect nne f '

If you are really her son,' said Vivian,
warily mastering her agitation, ' I don't mind
buying the little dog out of charity.'

She opened her Russian leather purse,
counted out ten sovereigns, handed them
to the man, receiving in exchange the black,
shiny-coated terrier and that sinister, ill-folded
note.

Vivian went home in a strangely excited

state  a fever of desperation had seized her
she could have sobbed Hke a child. Why
had she bought this hideous little terrier that
had twice fought her darling Skye, and been
jeered at and stoned by all the little vulgar
boys she met, and why be holding that
ominous piece of paper sealed with the
odious red wax ?

Sitting in her white and gold boudoir, her
ringed hands pressed to her temples, Vivian
knew danger threatened her, that a shadow
dogged her steps, a spectre called Fear
turning all her joys and hopes Into dust and
ashes.

She could not rise above an influence, at
once searching and indefinable, that harassed
her shallow brain, and made even conceit lose
its self-satisfaction.

Something sooner or later would be revealed,
and all waiting is torment to women
of her temperament. She broke the seal
with a reckless despair of consequences that
must have been tragic in a grander soul, and
this is what she read : 

Mari,  I done it at last. Meet me at
corner of V. Batt's Chapel Today night,
an I'll prove my words.'

'Done what?' echoed Vivian, closing the
note with trembling fingers. ' O heaven !
what is this mystery hidden from me, of

which this man and this woman alone hold
the clue ? '

She lighted a taper, melted the wax, sealed
it down again, and rang the bell. Would the
day ever come when there would be no bells
to ring, no servants to scold, no grand pianos
to deal savage blows through chords that
crashed under the fierce touch, no fifty-guinea
costumes, no. men to torture, or women to
madden ? Extremes meet, reflected poor
Vivian, whose portraits were selling well, and
who had been positively driven to flirt with
her singing master as a distraction. Vivian
had not perfectly mastered the shake, though
she paid a guinea a lesson, and Signor Adagio
told her she might arrive at great things.
Vivian had been quite amiable and condescending
to every one since her empire had
been threatened, and the supple Italian, whose
mother was a washerwoman in Naples, could
charge her six shillings for each of his own
compositions, selling elsewhere at sixpence,
without her being aware of the overcharge,
he flattering himself, meanwhile, that the
beautiful Miss Branscombe had found his
fiery gaze, fine wristbands, octave passages,
and passionate crescendos too much for her
imagination.

Tell Mrs Sidewing I want to see her
said Vivian to the servant who answered her

summons. ' Yes, and bring me some strong
tea. I'll not take any luncheon to-day ; and
tell every one who calls that I'm out.'

It was nothing unusual for Vivian, when in
her tantrums or hysterics, to retire to her bed
for three days, and giving herself the air of
an invalid, take chicken-broth or beef-tea
freely, till she felt so bored by working point-lace
in sweet seclusion that she often dressed
herself hastily, ordered her horse, and rode
for three hours, taking a warm bath on her
return, that seemed quite to restore her good
humour.

But the days of caprice were over ; a
new doubt had come that fastened on
rose diamonds, and spoke in hard-breathed
accents, and was terrible aud prophetic, requiring,
maybe soon all her stratagems,
worldliness, and tact to defeat.

Mrs Sidewing came in herself with the tea
on a costly silver salver,  the tea service was
of the finest Dresden,  a present from Mr
Branscombe to Vivian on her last birthday.
She began to prize for the first time all these
tokens of affection and of wealth.

Ah, is it you, nurse } ' said Vivian, leaning
back languidly in her chair, feeling like
some condemned criminal obliged to look
grateful and penitent when she is longing to
be obstreperous.

VOL. 1. p

It was wonderful how Vivian's manner had
changed, and with what respect she treated
the woman she had once so bitterly reviled.

Yes, dearie, it's me. So your 'eat aches,
does it ? Maybe the walk was too much for
you to-day ? '

Vivian eyed her keenly, a new terror
moving her to the depths of her soul.

Nurse,' she said, in a whisper, spreading
her hands before her face, ' I fear you. I
don't know why, but ever since the diamond
necklace went, and you spoke to me in that
fierce, strange way, I've had no rest or peace
of mind. It's hardly fair, is it ? ' said Vivian,
faintly, her thin lips twitching through the
effort to keep back her tears, ' that I should
be punished like this for something I've never
done or deserved ? I'm so tired of never
sleeping, but lying awake hour after hour,
watching the light steal through the blinds,
thinking of the necklace, and what you said,
and what I heard Bob whisper before I
fainted.'

Again that ghastly gleam of malice came
into the nurse's eyes,  a dreadful dazed look
that made Vivian cry out as if something
were strangling her,  as if the nurse were
trampling out a feeble life that had yet been
dangerous to her own existence.

She pillowed Vivian's aching head on her

breast, smoothing back her hair, and fondling
her, and Vivian submitted because she no
longer dared resist.

Never you 7nind notJiink about him J said
the nurse in a whisper. ' He'll never worry
us any more, dearie. He's gone back to
America, the villain, and 'uU never set foot
again on English shores.'

Was he cruel to you, nurse ? ' asked
Vivian, holding back the note.

No, she was too frightened to give it to
her just yet. She must wait and question
further.

Cruel ain't the word, miss. It was nag,
nag all day. Nagging at me for knowing
nothing, and not being fit to receive 'is friends,
and a precious set they were, too,  and
nagging 'cos I was ugly and pock-marked, 
which, miss, is an affliction sent from above
as we can't avoid,  and nagging 'cos he could
get no money out o' me to spend on his
actresses,  a set o' painted days, I'd teach
them,' said Mrs Sidewing, bringing her strong
hand fiercely down on the dainty white and
gold table where Vivian, with pale lips,
sat.

You must have got very tired of such ill-treatment,
nurse ? ' said Vivian, cautiously,
after a pause.

A new passion seized the woman, the more

alarming as it contrasted with her usually
quiet, repressed manner.

I loved 'im once,  oh, how I loved him !
He was a fine, tall, 'handsome man, but when
he married me for the sake of a bit o' money
master gave me for coin' my duty to you and
'is first lady wot left 'im, then Bob changed.
Poverty and neglect are bad to bear when
you're young, dearie, aren't they ? an' to 'ave
to go back to service through a gay 'husband,
why, it 'ud rile anybody. I've sat an' waited
an' seen 'im with them girls an' their painted
cheeks outside the theater, an' I could a
killed ere a one of 'em. I knew it was my
money Bob spent like water. I spoke to a
magistrate. *' It's very 'ard," I says, " sir, to
'ave a man take yer money and spend it on
other women," I says, " an' me not be able to
get rid of 'im neither," for I couldn't prove
nothing, and he never struck me.'

Still the note shook in Vivian's delicate
hand. What was the deed here foreshadowed ?
Could it be murder ? And could this objectionable
husband be the victim ?

When I went out to-day,' said Vivian,
pausing between her words, and sipping her
tea, ' a rough fellow spoke to me, and he 
he said he knew you  that he was your son.
Of course I knew that was false, because you
only had a little daughter'  Vivian's voice

lingered here and vibrated  ' who died ; but
still I bought the little dog of him, and he
gave me this.'

She held the note up, the pink shell-like
tints of her complexion paling to ashy whiteness,
and threw it on the table.

Mrs Sidewing examined the seal, saw, as
she believed, that the red wax had not been
tampered with, and put the note In her pocket.

Read it said Vivian, hoarsely, yielding to
a sudden Impulse under the excitement of
pain,  physical pain that dragged at her heart,
and almost stopped its beating.

No, miss. It 'full keep,' said Mrs Sidewing,
coolly. 'I never worries overnothink, I don't.'

But I have read It,' said Vivian, haughtily,
a deadly sickness overpowering her. ' I
know what it contains. It alludes to some
deed that has been done at last.'

'What!' cried Mrs Sidewing, staggering
backwards.

Ah, you tremble now ! The deed, nurse,
the awful deed ! The necklace went ; I bore
that and said nothing, but now  O heaven ! '
smiting her hands,  * I must know. Is it,'
standing up and lowering her voice, ' is it
murder 1 '

Still Mrs Sidewing never spoke, but she,
too had paled to a deathly hue ; her lips
worked, but she was silent.

Speak ! ' said Vivian, Imperiously, clutching
her shoulder, her old hatred mastering
her, and giving her unnatural strength
and courage ; ' don't you know you're a servant,
paid by my father, and must obey ? Speak !
I'll make you, or expose you. I'll send for
papa and Mrs Branscombe and the servants.
You know me ; I'm no saint ; a thief you
are ; but a murderess  no, no, no, it's too
horrible. But speak ; for if I am myself to
be ruined and destroyed by you in the world
which I love, I swear before heaven that I'll
have the truth out of you this day ! '

The nurse seized the paper, tried to read
the first few lines, but failed, and with a wailing
cry fell like a stone at Vivian's feet.

A CRUEL VENGEANCE.

lUg'iND SO TImon Is at last enslaved,'
 l M. Lepelletier is saying, leaning
 back In one of the easiest armchairs
he can find In the library at
Stupefied Hall. ' And Venus, after all. Is
to be worshipped. Ah ! ah \ parole honneur.
It was a pretty scene ! Where had vanished
your gloom then, mon cher ? Once I believed
In your cynicism, now I cannot doubt
your hypocrisy.'

Leonard never takes his eyes off the
changes In this dark face, gleaming fitfully In
the afternoon shadows ; but he does not
speak. Those soft crimson lips, that golden-bronze
hair, the sweet subjection, the wilfulness
and romance of Nellie's love, are fascinations
he has begun at last to brood over.

Pretty, Isn't she ? ' the cold voice goes on,
but most decidedly wild ; and where could

you find roses to compare with her lips and
blushes ? Are you not grateful to me for
bringing Nellie Raymond to Brooksmere ?
Suppose I've got a benevolent fit on me 
call it caprice  what you will  and that I'm
interested in the girl and have taken a fancy
to her.'

Still no answer.

M. Lepelletier did not admire this silence ;
his pale face grew a trifle paler, he lit a cigar
and smoked on silently.

Presently he rose, and came over to where
Captain Mallandaine was seated.

And now, Leonard, a word with you on
another topic he said quietly ; ' the motive
that brought me once more under your roof.'

Something like a vicious scowl stole over
his long brows, that deepened the furrow
between his eyes. Leonard laid down his
cigar, looking his enemy straight in the
face.

Ah, mon cher cried Lepelletier, * this
will never do. I want to make you talk, and
you persistently decline to answer.'

I've been doing my best to cut you for
years,' answered the Captain, coolly lifting his
eyes and meeting the other's insolent stare.

'Another insult cried the Frenchman,
starting to his feet. * Viable ! this is insufferable.'


*Why don't you challenge me to a duel,
Lepelletier ? You're fond of frightening
editors and raw boys. I will tell you 
because you dare not.'

Dare not ! ' he echoed, looking dangerous,
but keeping quiet. ' This is mere
childish fooling, beneath my contempt. I
can strike you in a far more vulnerable
part still. I can prove who you are hiding
away in the west wing of Stupefied Hall,
and one of the proudest families in Devonshire
will have its skeleton drao-Qred from its
cupboard.'

How would this affect or benefit you ? '

It is part of my revenge. I have learnt
the truth. Your sister Aurelian is here
concealed, and I have come to insist on an
interview.'

Insists'

Well, it comes to nearly the same thing.
I intend to see Miss Mallandaine some time
to-day, or I shall give notice to the authorities
of the law that you are acting illegally.'

And your motive ? '

Oh, mon cher, that is easily understood.
When I loved your sister with an adoration
approaching madness, and every thought was
torment, both you and she insulted me in the
most heartless manner possible. Now, when
I still love and admire your sister, but hate

her, too, I want to see what a wreck the
scornful beauty has become.'

Leonard's face darkened still more.

Trust me, Leonard, I shall be very
gentle ; I may not even speak. Confess she
owes me some slight reparation for all the
pangs of misery she has inflicted. Think of
my jealousy and fury when Oscar de Beriot
triumphed where I had failed, and won a
heart that to me would have been the most
prized treasure earth could have held.'

Did you not have your revenge before ?
You could not bear your disappointment like
a man, but like a demon. Who brought
Signora Firmiani to De Beriot's lodgings,
and made her sing to him, and study every
art to bewitch and entrap him ? You see, I
am well informed.'

Lepelletier had puffed away coolly at his
cigar, but here he again started to his feet on
the point of denying the accusation.

Yes,' said Leonard, in the cold voice that
made feverish throbbing assail the other's
brain, * it was you  false friend  pitiless
lover  unscrupulous foe. Madame Firmiani
was at your mercy, and you left no stone
unturned in aiding her to dazzle De Beriot.
He swore this to me with his last breath 
dying men speak the truth.'

All's fair in love or war, mon chert said

the Frenchman, sipping his wine. ' I had
that one card to play, and I played it well.
I had but one weapon to strike with, and I
sent it home  to the heart.'

Then why do you persist in haunting and
disturbing us ? My father was kind to you
when you were friendless, and received you
with hospitality and consideration ; you fell
passionately in love with my sister Aurelian ;
you say you date all your sufferings from the
hour in which you were rejected. It was not
your poverty we loathed, but your principles
your poverty has gone, your principles
remain.'

There was a gleam of fury in Leonard's
expression, a scintillating fire such as may be
seen springing from iron beaten by a hammer.

Diantre! But you are candid.'

When my sister was engaged to your
cousin, and the marriage settled on, you
brought temptation, craft, and all your infernal
jugglers to suborn a weak-minded
man, and you succeeded ; you looked on
coolly, like a gambler watches a game in
which human souls, not gold, are lost and
won ; you studied every move of a base
revenge, and you knew what sort of nature
Aurelian had  the deep wells of emotion, the
bright, poetical fancies, the sensitive tenderness.
Yes, you had read all these like open pages.'

Lepelletler folded his arms, and looked
dreamily across the swaying boughs of the
avenue of chestnuts beyond the lawn. That
cold voice had a menace, and he had no idea
that Captain Mallandaine had so perfectly
comprehended his actions,

'And now the sequel  Aurelian's mind
slowly gives way  I do not say she is insane
(it is false), but heart-broken. De Beriot has
acted treacherously. I insist on reparation,
and I will do him justice so far, that he
was no coward, for when I smote him
across the face, he was quite ready to
fight me  a duel was the consequence, in
which he was mortally wounded, and admitted
the justice of his doom. You are the
cause of all this misery and bloodshed, and
now have the audacity to say you have
triumphed, and insist on seeing the poor dying
girl.'

Lepelletier laughs cynically.

I suppose you call that strong English ? *
he said, coming close to Leonard with noiseless
step. ' Yes, I have endeavoured to crush
and degrade you all ; her anguish is my
triumph. I swore she should suffer agony of
agonies. Ciel f Was I to let her go free,
and die myself inch by inch ? Always
hatred, always irony, always contempt directed
against me. It was a war.'

Lepelletler, you are a most unmitigated
villain.'

Still strong language. I said to myself,
this lovely girl, with her poet's soul and peerless
beauty, shall daily feel like I  the hurricane
of fevered thought  I, though she hates
me, shall yet be her fate  I, though less than
the dust under her feet, still claim her sacrifice.
I exult in her despair. Yes, Leonard, I have
waited day by day, month by month, sustained
by this one thought. She despised
me. It was not that she could not love me,
but she made no allowance for my jealousy
and passion, which she regarded as insults,
that I could never forgive, and through that
have I made her degradation and yours
complete.'

I had hoped,' said Leonard still coldly,
but the fire kindling again in his eyes, * that
Aurelian might have died ere she beheld your
face again.'

You laid your plans well ; you schemed
to mislead me, but you find I have learnt the
truth, and I shall see her  this very hour.'

You are wealthy,' said Leonard, making
one last appeal, ' why not let the good
fortune lately showered on you suffice, and
leave those whose lives you have ruined in
peace ? '

Desold not to be able to take your view of

the matter, but I have set my mind on seeing
your sister. You are right, I am wealthy,
but what of that ? Wealth came to me by
the merest chance. An obstinate old fool,
who had neglected me all through my best
days, quarrels with those natural toadies
around him  his relatives, and endows me
with his money. I never could have made a
fortune, and have none of the elements which
constitute the successful men, the Croesi of
this world.'

Leonard crossed the room and bent over
his enemy.

Be generous for once, resist this desire to
see my sister, trouble us no more, but leave
her to die in peace.'

A crimson flush mounted to the other's
cheek.

No, Leonard, no. Am I to be baulked
of my revenge ? I must see her this very
day.'

Very well,' answered Leonard, * you shall
see her, but  '

Take me to her,' cried Lepelletler hoarsely,
and at once. Oh, my love, my angel, will
you be changed, I wonder ? The smile
gone from your lips, the radiance from your
gaze ? '

His words tortured Leonard beyond endurance.


Wait,' he said, as Lepelletier made for the
door.

I must have my triumph ; I have earned it.'

Villain ! ' muttered Leonard, between his
teeth, * I warn you, If you persevere in these
visits and your cruel conduct, I will find
means to unearth your past, to unveil your
crimes. People shall shrink from and avoid
you. Remember, you have been black-balled
at two West-end clubs ; your continental
roving also terminated suddenly. When I
was at Munich last year, a woman was found
mysteriously murdered on her doorstep in the
early dawn ; it was known you had been her
lover. Will you recollect how you left
Munich ?'

Pardieu ! we are wasting time said
Lepelletier, shrugging his shoulders, his complexion
assuming a leaden hue. * These are
mere idle ravings  you are talking nonsense.
Come and take me to the room in which
Aurelian weeps.'

Without another word, Captain Allan
led the way through a long dark corridor,
at the end of which was a heavy
baize-covered door.

Lepelletier paled still more as they approached
the entrance to this west wing.
They crossed the picture galleries and turned
to the right. Here they came upon a wall

in the middle of which was a door. Leonard
pushed this door open, and entered slowly.

And now behold your work,' he whispered,
pointing to a white-robed figure in a distant
corner of the room.

She was sitting before a piano as they
entered, her hands hanging lifelessly over the
keys. Never was ruin more complete. She
rose to welcome Leonard as usual, but seeing
Lepelletier by his side, she uttered a loud and
piercing scream, clinging to her brother s arm
in pallid agitation.

Aurelian's aspect bore that unmistakable air
of lassitude and exhaustion in which is the
awful weakness of decay  weakness produced
by long, sleepless nights of fever and despair.

There is something in her grief worn look
and spectral aspect that has strange charm
for Lepelletier's imagination ; his eyes grow
glassy while regarding hers.

But for him she would have been Oscar de
Beriot's wife ; but for him that breast pierced
with the fatal sword-thrust, and lying cold in
death, must have pillowed her dark head.
This helpless anguish is too terrible to witness
long.

Do you know me ? ' he asks, approaching
her.

Yes,' Aurelian answers, looking into the
pale wicked face of her destroyer, ' and I am

dying very fast  I am going away ; you will
not smile at me much longer.' Then to
Leonard, ' Why did you bring this man hereto
me ? '

'Aurelian,' said Lepelletier, still with that
horrible smiling hatred in his eyes, in which
was ill-disguised pain, ' I told you when you
despised my love that you would one day
regret it. Do you remember ? We were in
the garden alone, and the sun was setting,
I implored your pity, your compassion ; I
told you my love was self-destroying, and
that, rejected, it might also scheme your
ruin. Mine was the passion that leads a
man to murder the woman he adores, and
kiss her when dead, and put her arms about
his neck, and die too.' He paused, breathing
hard. ' You disregarded the danger
about your path, you saw no tragedy beneath
you were the spoilt, proud beauty ; why
should you care for a poor man, ugly, too,
and despised ? But you were walking all
the time on the edge of a grave.'

Leonard, spare me this,' cried Aurelian,
throwing herself into her brother's arms.

Lepelletier's voice had now sunk to a low,
dull murmur.

Why should you value my love ? You
did not, and you are destroyed. You thought
me submissive under your contempt and dis-vol.
I. Q

pleasure ; no, no  never. I vowed then that
if you were not mine  my wife to cherish
and adore, that you should be none other's.
Have I not kept my word ? '

She looked at him in horrified surprise ;
her lips moved, but she made no reply ; she
was too weak to suffer more.

So have I plotted against you, and held
you in my power all along. I killed your
mind  I could picture your tears and anguish,
your lonely nights and days. You would
have been a brilliant woman  a poet, a
writer. English, too. Well, I hated all that
I claimed you as a sacrifice. Is this not
revenge ?

Aurelian had wrenched herself from her
brother's grasp  supernatural strength seemed
granted her at this crisis  she rose, her steps
no longer languid, and crossed over to where
Lepelletier stood, his arms folded in a gloomy
attitude by the window, and she laid her
hand on his arm.

Her light touch thrilled him, tremors
passed through his frame.

And are you content ? ' she asked in her
silvery, tearful tones. * Does it make you
any happier ? Do you recollect how we
nursed you after that fall from your horse,
and I sat and read with you, and brought
you fresh flowers every day ? You, I see.

have brought me a red rose.' She Hated her
hand and drew a flower from his coat. It
was a half-crushed rosebud, which he had
forgotten had been fastened there by NelHe.

You were my idol,' he burst out passionately.
*0 heavens, that I should love
a woman so ! '

If there's any pity or remorse in your
heart, think of it  think of it. And now,
Leonard, take me away ; I'm tired, and must
rest.'

As Leonard drew her towards him, her
eyes grew more dim, and with a faint cry,
she stretched out her arms and fainted.

Are you not satisfied ? ' asked Leonard,
coldly, pointing to the door. ' Go  all malice
must have its limits, even yours.'

Lepelletier staggered to the door, stood
irresolute for a second, then closed it softly,
and was on the point of yielding to a great
burst of emotion in the form of tears when
he saw Nellie coming across the lawn towards
him.

'After all, if Aurelian had loved me, she
would have been always tremendously tragic,
and that is such a deuce of a bore,' said the
light-hearted Frenchman characteristically,
checking his tears. ' Laura, I am sure, will
be the same, but then Laura loves me, and is
ready for any madness  these English women

are so absurdly intense. Talk about Medea !
What a time that poor beggar Jason must
have had of It, to be sure ! '

M. Lepelletler was so grateful to Nellie
for thus coming to the rescue at a painful
crisis, that he went forward hastily to greet
her.

Well, child, what is it ? ' he asked.

*A lady has called to see you,' she
answered, while as she spoke Leonard came
down the steps reading a letter.

Captain Mallandaine found it a very
strange and mysterious communication Indeed.
He had to read it over several times
before he understood Its contents, and then
thought Branscombe must be growing more
eccentric than ever.

This letter alluded to Leonard's bravery
in having saved his (the writer s) life on the
Alps some years ago, in terms of almost
fervent gratitude. He also entreated
Leonard to return at once to London, and
wound up by saying his health was by no
means satisfactory, and that he Intended to
travel.

A lady ! * echoed Lepelletler, not altogether
unprepared for this news. ' What a
reception is in store for me ! '

He walked quickly towards the cottage,
and saw a well-cut profile, which he recognised

as that of Laura Branscombe. She
was thickly veiled, and was standing by the
mantelpiece In Faculty's best parlour.

Gustave Laura cried, throwing off her
veil, * I could bear It no longer. I was told
you were seen with a young, golden-haired
girl, whom you had met at a circus.'

'And your husband, chere madame?' he
inquired, enjoying her agitation.

He has gone away for a few days. Vivian
is at home. Ah ! they must never know  '

Of course not,' answered Lepelletier,
laconically. ' How could you be so wild, so
imprudent, Laura, as to come at all ? '

* Ah, why ? ' she said. ' And you can ask
me that ? '

Still tragedy, still agony ! When would it
end ? Whenever, of course, he pleased.

Ah, 77ia chere, you take it too much to
heart,' he said tenderly. ' You'll be quite ill
with all this agitation.'

111, Gustave ! I shall positively die if
this sort of thing goes on much longer. I
thought love was cruel enough to bear, but
what Is it to the pangs of jealousy ? '

His shallow nature was just stirred on the
surface as he listened to the depth of her
sad utterance.

And then my remorse ! ' clasping her
hands. ' The dreadful struggle, day by day,

to bear up, and be patient, forget you, and
endure my husband.'

Oh, he's a horrid little cad, ma cherel said
the lover. ' Don't talk of him.'

But I am not heartless, Gustave. I have
submitted to the conventionalities of society,
and passed years of cold alienation from Mr
Branscombe, believing In honour and duty
till I met you. One glance, one smile, and
the very essence of my soul fled to you, and
has been yours to torture. What devil gave
you this hold over me ? You are not a goodman.
I am sure you are cruel and callous,
and yet I am fascinated, enthralled, and
lost'

Pardi, I've been devoted,' he said, with
the faintest shrug. ' Now, ma belle  for
beautiful you are, and mine also, or soon will
be  go home quietly without a scene, and as
befits a woman of education and the world, to
Prince's Gate. Your husband may be on the
watch. No golden-haired rival need you fear.
Besides, I detest girls. To my mind, a woman
isn't worth a fig under forty.'

Gustave, have you any pity ? Are you
still cold or angry with me ? '

Oh, mori ange, you're charming In your
new character of a jealous woman ; the
gloomy passions suit your style.'

It must be the climate makes the English

take life so seriously he reflected, hoping
Mrs Branscombe would catch the express.

And when shall we  shall I see you
again ?'

To-morrow without a doubt.'
He bent down and kissed her on the
mouth.

A mouth made for songs and love,' he
whispered.

If you forsake me or are false I shall die,'
Laura said, with a sweet wintry smile, drawing
her veil over her face, and fastening her
sables and velvet. ' I've something proud
in me, Gustave. I could not sink to the level
of those I despise.'

You've a long and tedious journey, Laura,'
glancing at his watch.

But I've seen you, and now farewell,' she
cried, holding out her hand. * When love
becomes ungovernable, it must be very near
to death,' she murmured. ' Don't you think
so ? And that may be expiation. Yesterday
I read these lines : 

Sweet is true love, though given in vain  in vain ;
And sweet is death that puts an end to pain."

If, Gustave, an innocent child thought this,
what must a guilty woman feel ? I shall be
ready to meet my doom.'

She had glided past him, waving her hands,
and was soon lost from view.

Ciel / It would never do to trifle with
her he muttered, then laughing and touching
his brow. ' Parole honneur ! Another
lunatic ! '

CHAPTER I.

lobby's circus.

There be some with serpent eyes,
Hearted Hke the snake which Les
Cold beneath warm summer skies.'

AIN everywhere. Nothing but
rain. It had fallen for days
and weeks in dreary, drizzling
showers, so that people talked of
fine weather and sunshine as if they belonged
to another planet, and had naught in common
with this earth of ours.

The inhabitants of the little village of
Brooksmere, a secluded spot in the pastoral
county of Devonshire, shook their heads,
thinking of the troubles and losses of the

VOL. I. A

f

agriculturalists, the prospect of a bad harvest,
the ruin of the hay crops, the blight of the
hops, the bad state of trade, and the miserable
season.

When would this unfortunate rain cease ?
It descended in sluggish unconcern for the
welfare of those whose fortunes it was destroying.
It soaked the lanes and fields,
and from drenching the hawthorns in May,
it spoilt the corn in September.

Some wiseacres in the Brooksmere village
declared that two planets were nearer the
sun than usual ; others foretold a great wave
of heat that would speedily reduce us all to
the pleasant condition of cinders.

Bishops and priests had prayers offered
up in their churches and chapels for fine
weather, with very little result save a few
fierce Promethean storms.

It was now falling, this pitiless rain, on
the sixteen golden cars and limp, if glorious,
flags comprising a portion of Lobby's magnificent
and world-renowned Imperial Circus,
that was about to entertain the villagers
of Brooksmere with a performance to last
three days only.'

It was dropping on the sixteen golden cars
in which the animals were being conveyed
to their destination in a wet corner of the
common called ' Mad Acre End.' It angered

the elephants, giving violent Influenza
to the ' Baby,' a mild young party
called Alonzo, shaping later on to be a very
promising specimen of elephantine artistic
training. Even the tigers looked on more
sulkily than usual at their damp bars, and a
very magnificent lion, ' Marengo,' one of the
leading attractions of ' Lobby's Imperial
Circus,' had been heard to cough in a more
distressingly consumptive manner than altogether
favoured the hope of his obtaining
longevity.

The dead leaves were strewing the road
in little fluttering heaps as the sixteen cars
passed onwards. The band tried to be lively,
and with the aid of a cornet, gave several
weird and unearthly variations on an air resembling
'Grandfather's Clock,' for the sixteen
cars, with their long-tailed horses and
well-trained ponies, and numerous employed,
were bound to pass on their way, if not exactly
rejoicing, at least with outward philosophical
precision and serenity.

Among the women who formed more or
less star artistes and astronomical luminaries
of the great circus was one pre-eminent above
all in daring, if not in grace. She had beauty
of the full-blooded kind, however, that gives
redness to the cheeks and thickness to the
skull ; the same, we may see, that the great

Flemish painter delighted in  a gross, boneless,
unintellectual order of loveliness.

A curious woman, this Madame Juanita,
tall of stature, with a somewhat broad waist,
that had of late proved fatal to the grace of
her equestrian performances, features well-cut
and regular, a cold, crafty smile, a harsh and
cruel mouth. She was Spanish, and had the
low, retreating forehead of the south, suggesting
heavy ignorance and dulness; there might
be fire in her large dark eyes, but it was not
lit from the soul. The fire was kindled by
spite or passion, or ignoble triumph. Her
hair was jet black, waxed and gummed to
perfection  she always wore it neatly plaited
and plastered down, and if it were not quite
so clean as it might have been, it shone as
nicely as well-polished ebony.

A sensualist might have pronounced her
charming  a fine woman. ' Ah, belle famine ! '
for, as regards the senses, we invariably like
those who resemble ourselves, and a wife is,
or ought to be, the counterpart of her spouse.

This was Juanita Dalton, the circus master's
wife, and the protectress of Nellie
Raymond.

The sixteen cars were now encamped on
that delightful corner of the common called
Mad Acre End,' and Madame Juanita was
helping herself to huge slices of a well-baked

grouse pie, to which she seemed to be doing
ample justice.

The tents were pitched, the rain defied, the
lions were roaring, the clown was feeding his
motherless baby in one of the stalls set apart
for the Chesterfield colt  a superb stallion
that Jack Dalton advertised had been presented
to him by the Emperor of China 
when Nellie passed along by the Arabian
horse's hoofs and approached Ludovico  the
assumed name of the clown  a reckless,
good-hearted fellow. His real cognomen
was Ben Morton.

Nellie's form, height, and complexion
were of the purest* English type. Picture a
clear, oval face, a broad and candid forehead,
shaded in with an abundance of brown curls,
touched here and there with burnished gold,
falling about a pair of shoulders and small,
exquisitely modelled bust. There was nothing
solid, prim, or majestic in her girlish figure ;
it seemed rather to have been cramped and
starved in extreme childhood, so that maturity
must arrive late, or as if the childish
eyes had waited so long for happiness to
come into them that the often repressed tears
had gathered into a cloud, and gave that
mournful look to the iris.

Touches of rare sweetness and feeling
came and went about the lips, and softened

the lines of the mouth that was so chiselled
by nature's master-hand, it seemed made for
kisses. Full, rather pouting lips that took
away the peculiar spirituality of the brow,
gave Nellie the appearance of possessing
more materialism and liveliness than the
thoughtful, wearied expression indicated at a
first glance.

You seem very fond of the baby,' Nellie
said, as she watched Ludovico dip a
leaden spoon in some sopped bread and
milk.

The clown was always puzzled by Nellie's
ways and looks and manner of speech.
She never swore or drank, or made love to
any one. There was no leer in her large
dark blue eyes, with their modest luminance.

Why shouldn't I be fond of him, bless his
little 'part } ' the clown remarked, his left
eye straying towards the open tent where
Madame Juanita was licking both the inside
of the platter and her own dusky fingers
alternately.

Nellie sat down on a rough and hastily
manufactured manger apportioned to the
Chesterfield colt, that gentlemanly but eccentric
stallion not having yet put in an appearance,
and having been a little awkward
and aggressive on the road, had broken a
stationer's large plate-glass window, and

kicked a well-meaning crossing-sweeper and
his broom into a drain.

I never remember any one being kind tome,
Ludovico,' Nellie said after a pause ;
not even when I was quite a little girl. I
do so often wonder who I am, and where my
father and mother are.'

Oh, my dear, wot can that matter now ?
It's wot we do at the present which signifies.
I essays you came out of a union,' said
Ludovico, lifting his thin, bloodless hand,
and shaking the baby to make it the better
swallow a piece of soaked crust, ' or mebbe
one of yer parents was 'hung.'

I can only remember Madame Juanita all
these long years. She gave me my first
lessons on the tight-rope, and the marks of
the rope she thrashed me with, because I fell
twice, made me learn to count my numbers
up to ten. That was how I first learnt
figures. There were two other acrobats
besides me. One died. I wished, oh, how
I wished, it had been me.'

Poor child,' said the clown, ' wishing ain't
no good. For instance, you might be afraid
o' performing' with Herebus and Don Pedro
in public. I sees ye among 'em plucky
enough when we are by ourselves, but we'd
'ave to do it, Nellie, straight away, if you
was ordered. We'd wish and wish Madame

Juanita might die, and never beat you anymore,
and never want ye to show yourself
to a big audience with Herebus and Don
Pedro, but wishing won't  *

NelHe sprang from the manger, every trace
of listlessness and indifference in her manner
at an end.

Ludovico, don't say it  don't say she
means to make me perform with the tigers,
because my breath comes and goes so quickly,
and my heart beats, and their eyes will seem
to have a different meaning then, and oh,
Ludovico, I am afraid  '

Why, Nell, my gal, afraid ? That's a
pretty word for our best and boldest rider.
The Chesterfield colt ain't here, and so  '

It isn't the horses nor the ponies that I
mind, and I'd trust the lions  they're blind
and old and tame, but there's something in
the others, in their very movements and
their walk, even when they crouch, so fierce
and untameable that I dread, and they know
it. They're waiting for me  they will kill
me.'

She's but a girl,' said Ludovico. ' It's
natural, and they're ugly beasts. I'm clean
again' such tricks and performances, Nellie.

I remember seeing two pictures long ago
in a shop window in Regent Street, which
gave me this bad turn, and set me against

the business,' said Nellie, her voice trembling.
* One was the picture of a place,
something like our circus, except that fine
ladies and gentlemen were all in boxes
around, and somebody had dropped a rose
near the lions, and a girl in white went into
pick it up ; but that picture didn't upset
me like the other, for I'd have done the
same.'

Nellie now waved her arm in the air to
give better effect to her words.

This other picture was like a circus, too ;
but it made my blood curdle in my veins to
look at it. There were lions and tigers, just
like ours, but they were fierce and savage
beasts from the deserts, and they were mangling
human forms ; bones lay about, arms and
hands wrenched and torn. A beautiful girl,
with her hands tied, afforded a meal to one ;
an old man, with white hair, for another, and
I shrieked out all of a sudden, Ludovico  I
don't know why  I'd never seen a picture of
our animals before, and I never quite knew
their nature, but a horror of the circus seized
me. A young gentleman who was passing
watched me. He was very kind, for when I
fainted he took me safely home in a cab. I
was always seeing that beautiful young girl,
and the blood on the tiger's tusks, even in
my dreams. It gave me an illness. No, I

will never perform in public with Erebus
and Don Pedro. Never at the bidding of
a woman I hate  '

Nellie Raymond, come here ! '

It was Madame Juanita's voice.

Is this a nursery?' she said, with a dry, bitter
curl of the lip, addressing the clown. ' Is
there nothing better for you to do than dawdle
and feed a brat, and idle your time away with
Nellie 1 And now, miss, a word with you.'

She carried a small riding-whip in her hand,
which she brought down several times in succession
on Nellie's white shoulders.

Thus much for your idleness. So you
hate me, do you ?'

Long repressed rebellion and pain forced
angry words from Nellie's lips.

She wheeled round on her tyrant, and
clasped her slender hands.

1 do hate you ! A crueller mistress, a
more barbarous woman  a greater fiend inhuman
shape cannot exist.'

Hush, Nellie, hush,' another voice here
cried, coming behind them. ' It's only
bilious spite, child.'

This was Lepelletier, a ' character,' a mesmerist,
a man of science, deemed half mad or
crazed by the troupe, the fortunes of which he
had never shared, having merely travelled
with them for a caprice.

You hear her ?' cried madame, addressing
Lepelletier.

The scene had still a curious eastern tone.
Madame Juanita was of herself a picture, with
the sullen rage on her heavy brows.

I will not stay with you,' said Nellie
more quietly. ' Why not leave the very
hardest lot fate could deal one ?'

Excellent,' said the mesmerist. ' That is
logic. The girl has reason ; dearest Juanita,
be patient.'

He laid his hand on her shoulder.

Nellie, now looking up, saw a man, hardly
taller than herself, his features suffused with
fury. This was a Cuban, Ferrara by name,
part manager of the circus ; Dalton's bosom
friend, money-lender, and ally.

Lepelletier, stepping back, also saw this
savage face, dark and swarthy with passion.
Madame Juanita, true coquette and type of
her race, gloried in the Cuban's fury. It was
purely physical, and to her taste.

Why do you touch her shoulder ?' the
Cuban hissed.

Ah, Ferrara, is it you ?' said the mesmerist,
lightly.

He subjugated the tyrant Juanita mentally,
the other by sheer brute force.

Yes, it is I, and some day you will answer
for this with your life.'

Madame Juanita smiled.

Mon ange' said Lepelletier, disregarding
the Cuban's words, believe me, you look
handsomer in your rage ; in correcting this
rebellious girl just now, that narrow, yet ivory
brow seemed to expand with hate and wrath.
You were superb, brutal, destructive, but when
you smile you may look elated and content,
but commonplace  believe me, commonplace.
You perceive how I cherish your glances,
actions, and tones.'

Tt est bete' cried Madame Juanita, who
was just then more in the mood to appreciate
the attentions of Ferrara ; she turned and left
the stable with him.

Lepelletier now glanced at Nellie. She
had understood the subtle contempt in his
voice.

The mesmerist scrutinised the girl more
closely.

I suppose you believe that the time has
come for you to strike for liberty,' he said,
addressing her suddenly.

Yes,' said Nellie stolidly, 'I mean to go.'

And if caught and again caged, remember
you are hers by the law as much as she is
Dalton's by marriage. You were apprenticed
to her, you are her slave,  nearly as
much so as any African bought of old in the
market. She has fed and clothed you for

years, given you her protection,  I see by
the curl of that pretty Hp it has not pleased
you,  had you instructed in a profession
which, if not one of the noblest and most
elevating, will provide you with means of
living, and yet you are ungrateful.'

I will leave her,' said Nellie, half distracted
with doubts and fears. ' I will otq to
a magistrate, show him some of her blows,
tell him of her vices, her lawless  '

Bah ! An employer may chastise her
apprentice when she sees fit, and a magistrate
is not a Lycurgus or a Solon. You
have no case. You are not particularly
starved-looking, or pale, or withered. This
arm is plump, so also is the neck and throat.
Stay and endure your lot.'

Lepelletier seemed amused with the quivering
lights and shades passing so quickly in
succession over Nellie's features.

So you don't admire Madame Juanita ?
That superb, that majestic form, imperial asa
Juno or Lucretia, inspires you with no
admiration ; the neatly-dressed ebon hair
(yours is, I see, very straggling and untidy ;
but you English girls, if clean, are so careless),
glossy as one of the tiger's coats, never
makes you envious of her superior trimness,
never makes you see the superiority of
her charms over yours, you poor, tender.

romantic, unformed child ! Think of those
chiselled features,  the flashing teeth, the
red cheeks, the coquettish dimples, and
then say, Nellie, whether I, as a sometime
favoured admirer, do not run a serious risk
of meeting my death at the hands of the
amorous Cuban ? '

Monsieur Lepelletier, why do you stay
with us ? ' said Nellie. ' Your life must be
detestable.'

Du tout! he answered. * See, then, I am
forty-five, and am the heir to a marquisate.
I have lived, like all Frenchmen, with beautiful
disregard of fine codes, and then I fall
in love. I am mad, wretched, impassioned ;
I am a gambler and mesmerist, and come to
a circus Instead of a madhouse, because there
is change, freedom, excitement, and beauty.
Think of madame ! My dear child, she is
calling for you at this very moment.'

He turned to draw a cigarette from his
pocket, lighted it, and nodding farewell to
Nellie, sauntered towards a caravan of
panthers.

He will not stretch out a helping hand,'
murmured the girl ; ' he is as heartless as
the rest.'

ALONE IN THE WORLD.

She whose nude shoulders and long golden hair,
Slow cradled by the undulating tide,
Shone in the early sunlight of the dawn.'

Madame JUANITAwas not alone
when Nellie obeyed her summons
and entered the tent. The
Cuban sat writing at a little table,
and madame was engaged in melting down
some fresh gum and wax for her hair, the
rain having soaked through a light wicker
basket in which she carried the various aids
and appliances set apart for her peculiar
beauty, and spoilt the contents of a neat-looking
little pot, over the destruction of
which she heaved some deep and tragic sighs.
Nellie looked very youthful and fair in
her timid hesitation and rich, varying colour,
as she entered the tent. The weals on her
white neck were still there, bright red lines

swollen above the surface of the skin ; but
there was something new in her expression
to be read even by such a mere animal as
Madame Juanlta. Dulness and ignorance
have often keen instincts. Madame swore
a few brutal oaths to herself in Spanish as
she summoned Nellie to her side.

You called me ? ' said Nellie, Indifferently.

'Insolent!' muttered the Spaniard, fanning
herself ' Do you forget who you are
speaking to ? '

The girl had no physical fear of any thing
created. Her dread lay deeper than this ;
for she had learnt to shrink from the malice
of that severe and vindictive eye, the perfidious
leer, the intelligence of the low,
narrow forehead. How could she contend
against the low forces of the small, cramped
mind  the Invisible agency of characteristics
beyond her ken ?

Madame Juanlta had turned her short
neck round very rapidly as she addressed
Nellie, and the hectoring tone she invariably
adopted Increased In fury. The Cuban
lifted his head and glared at Nellie with
marked displeasure.

M. Lepelletler, still smoking his cigarette
outside, lounged towards the tent, smiling,
and unperceived by those inside, listened to
every word.

It isn't likely I should forget that said
Nellie, her lip quivering.

She was naturally nervous and excitable.
The flame of her rage and impulse
was dying out, leaving her cold again.

Are you aware that you will perform in
public to - night with Erebus and Don
Pedro ? ' asked the Spaniard, in measured
tones.

Nellie turned deadly pale, and griped
the edge of the table. A sullen glance of
triumph in this mute agony was read by
Nellie, and rekindled the flame. Walking
towards to her torturer, she said, clearly and
distinctly, 

I wish to leave the circus to-night, and
I will.'

She set her teeth hard. Madame's triumphant
glance died out in malice.

You will, will you ? Pretty words ! 
nice temper ! '

Nellie shrank back a little, partly from
habit ; but her mettlesome heart soon conquered
the timidity engendered by long ill-usage.
She went on now quite calmly, 

This is England. It is a free land ; and
I lead a dog's life. Soon it will kill me. I
do not wish to die, for I am young. I have
worked years for you without wages, often
without food. Now you seek to murder me,

VOL. I. B

and I will not stay ; you may find another
apprentice.'

The changes In madame's face grew still
darker and more tragic as Nellie spoke.
That free, wild spirit of the wretched girl
addressed her in a new fashion. If It was
English it was very strange ; it must be
crushed.

I only wish you were an animal gasped
Madame Juanita. * How I'd pay you out
then ! Santa Madonna ! '

She took down a powerful horsewhip
hanging above her head, and cracked it two
or three times in an ominous manner in the
air, and still the colour rose brighter in
Nellie's cheeks, and a furious fire burnt in
her ever mournful eyes.

Only let her touch me,' thought Nellie ;
she shall find her match at last.'

You will not take Erebus and Don Pedro
into the circus 1 You decline to obey me 
you, my apprentice, bought with good gold
when you were a whining brat ! '

Her fury here nearly choked her, and the
lash of the whip just touched Nellie's golden-brown
curls.

Without an instant's hesitation the girl
rushed up to her, wrenched the weapon from
her hand, bent it on the ground, broke it
into three separate pieces, and threw them at

her. She was sobbing with passion, her look
quite wild and overwrought.

Lepelletier now advanced a step. He had
been a witness of the whole proceedings.

Devilish plucky little thing !' he muttered,
and lit a fresh cigarette.

The Cuban had thrown down his pen, and
running up to Nellie, seized her hands, and
tried, but ineffectually, to tie them behind
her back.

Strange to say, Madame Juanita was now
calm and controlled. She was laughing
under her breath  not pleasantly, but with
the sort of mirth we might suppose a well-fed
boa-constrictor might indulge in when
looking at a lamb, and too lazy to descend
the tree to kill.

I think we had better leave her alone,'
said Madame Juanita, as Nellie's breast
heaved and fell.

Like all tyrants and bullies, she was a
coward.

Nellie now advanced again to the Spaniard,
the tone of her voice harsher and more
metallic.

I told you that I wished to leave the
circus to-night, and I will ; but I have changed
my mind about the tigers. I will undertake
to promise the public a fine entertainment 
rare sport  excitement, novelty, sensation !

Oh, great heaven, that it must only end one
way !'

She sank down on her knees, her hands
clasped, the autumnal light on her features,
the rain still dripping on the canvas of the
tents with incessant downpour.

This is carrying blackness too far,'
muttered Lepelletier. * I will not allow this
girl with her nimbus of golden-brown hair
to be mangled like a martyr. I must try
and find her a home.'

Juanita,' now called a voice from a distant
tent, * do you know what time it is ? Why,
in another hour the performance will begin.
Nellie Why, where's Nell ? '

It was Jack Dalton who spoke, patting the
arched neck of the Chesterfield colt, which
slashed out its hind legs and tried to make
its white teeth brand the circus-master's
muscular arm.

Ain't he a pretty villain ! ' asked Dalton,
his hat on one side. * Oh, beautiful ! Look
at his points ; there ain't a 'horse in any living
equestrian troupe and variety entertainment
in all England as '11 beat him.

The magnificent Juanita, her scowling
brows as dark as night, now approached the
Chesterfield colt, passing her hand first over
his hocks and then fetlocks, like a professional
vet.

I think you better let me ride him she
said, meaningly. * I know I carry flesh, but
I'm not yet cursed with no more figure thana
sponge, and he wants riding, yes, and my
fancy bit. I tell you what, Jack,' she continued,
winking her eye, which indeed gave
it a very diabolical twist  it was of the
large, well-opened, indolent kind  ' Nellie's
one too many for us ; she flew at me today,
and broke a horsewhip into pieces, and
threw them into my face.'

You allays was a deuced sight too 'ard
on the girl. Ain't she a-going' to appear ?
She draws, there's no denying' it  just seventeen
 and that gold-brown 'air, it's worth
anything over white muslin. I 'ope Nell
won't cut the pro  '

Obstinate and insolent little minx ! '

Madame Juanita hated this praise ; it was
gall and wormwood to her vanity.

But she'll go to Pontett's troupe if she
leaves us. Pontett '11 bid double ; he'll keeper
in clover, I tell ye, and d'ye think Nellie's
such a fool as to stay to be whipped by
you ?'

Madame Juanita found these questions
unanswerable. She returned to her tent and
prepared her toilet for the evening, and then 
some strong, black coffee, swallowing grounds
and all in her anger.

Meanwhile, Nellie, on her knees before a
little trunk, was looking over some articles
relics and presents, maybe, but all of a
simple, humble sort  a sticky valentine, sent
years ago by a young lover, a boy rider,
who had loved her, and died of a heavy
fall.

Poor Artie ! ' the girl muttered, ' he was
very good to me ; he used to talk of the
time when we should both be grown-up, and
could be married. I remember how he died
alone in the garret, holding my hand.'

She kissed the valentine softly, and replaced
it in the trunk. Turning round, she
saw Jack Dalton, the circus-master. Her
neck and arms were bare, for she was in
the midst of dressing for her performance
with the tigers, but superfine feelings of
bashfulness were never encouraged in the
circus. Nellie did not blush ; why should
she ? She looked upon the brawny-armed,
muscular Jack Dalton as a semi-guardian and
protector.

Got the miserable, 'ave you, little Nell ? '
he said thoughtfully. ' So you've quarrelled
with Juanita. Well, she is a brute, I know
it  who better ? '

She is your wife, sir,' Nellie ventured to
remark.

And don't I know that to my cost, too ?

What an armful, but a fine woman, eh,
Nell?'

Yes, sir,' Nellie responded indifferently,
preparing to curl her hair, prior to donning
her muslin frock.

She was thinking of the picture in Regent
Street, of the man who had seen her safely-home,
and left her with a languid smile ; a
man very different to the set who patronised
Lobby's Circus. Nellie had even tried to
draw his features from memory on the fly-leaf
of a faded copy of Milton's Co7nus, which
she had found knocking about one of the
tents.

Jack Dalton thought Nellie's one of the
fairest faces he had ever gazed on ; but he
had never sought any disreputable means of
perverting her Innocence. The circus-master
had stood her friend and protector all these
years, and although she could remember no
life associated with the circus, Its grossness
and brutality had never obliterated the
natural grace and Innocency of her nature.

So I 'ear you're gold' to leave us,
Nellie. I'm sorry for It, but I 'ope you've
got a few kind farewell words for me ere
parting.'

I have. Indeed, sir,' said Nellie, gratefully
extending her hand.

He thought her strangely pale  what he

termed * queer in her ways and looks tonight.


I want to ask you one thing before I go,
sir,' NelHe went on quickly. ' Madame
Juanita never would answer me fair. Tell
me, before we part, something about the
mystery of my lot  something about my
father and mother, and how you came with
your apprentice.'

Dalton burst into a hearty laugh.

There's romance for ye. Want to 'ear
yer family 'history ? Fancy, perhaps, ye're
descended from the Plantagenet, or the
Montmerancis, and that fry. Why, my dear,
you come out of a cellar ! '

A cellars*' re-echoed Nellie; then shaking
her head, * I don't believe it.'

Well, leastways, we bought ye out of
one. A young woman was a nursing' ye, and
an old 'un a lookin' on. I says, " We wants a
kid to rear for the pro," and the two looks
at one another, and the old 'un ups
and says, " Take Nellie ; we're off to
America, and don't want the brat ; no
onely inquire or make a row. That'll yer
give'"

'Wanted, Nellie Raymond,' here a boy's
voice called.

I must go,' said Nellie. ' Good-bye, Mr
Dalton ! '

She offered him her hand. He was
started at hearing himself also volubly called
by his wife, and ran out into the open
shed.

I shall die,' muttered Nellie, lingering
a moment, and drawing her hand over her
brow, 'and better so. Born in a cellar to
die in a circus  '

Nellie Raymond, are you coming ? ' again
shrieked the boy. ' The audience are stamping'
like mad.'

She hesitated no longer, but passing
quickly by the Arabs, saw the large cage in
which Don Pedro and Erebus were walking
restlessly to and fro. The paper garlands
and wreaths were near ; the red hoops and
their glittering stars shone in the gaslight.
Nellie made her customary bow to the
audience, kissed the tips of her fingers to
them amid deafening applause, and looking
herself like a picture of Lieth  but, alas !
exiled from Paradise  with her golden-brown
curls floating below her waist, ascended the
steps and entered the cage.

My, she's a beauty ! ' a young man remarked,
pensively, contemplating Nellie's
profile.

It makes one's blood run cold, though,
to see her with the tigers, don't it ? '

Oh, my dear, she's used to it, depend

upon it. They've all had their teeth pulled
out, and been drugged with opium, or stunned
with red-hot pokers.'

These were some of the remarks passing
round.

At that moment Erebus, shaking himself,
slightly yawned. The great grim teeth
flashed before their eyes. It was Nellie's
business to make this sulky brute jump
once more through the last hoop. Don
Pedro had resigned himself with all the
philosophy of the noble savage to his fate ;
he had allowed himself to be crowned with
laurel wreaths till he almost resembled some
antique Roman conqueror, and he looked
at Nellie with quite a benevolent air, as if
the whip she flourished over his head were
a plaything.

The audience at this point cheered vociferously.
Nellie already felt relieved 
all might end well. Erebus alone eyed her
savagely, even defiantly. She held the hoop
and dealt him a rather smart blow with the
whip for his unwillingness to leap through
it, but at that moment, looking up, Nellie
caught sight of the same man she had seen
in Regent Street when watching the picture
of the blood-stained arena and the martyrs'
bodies, and all her old horror and nervous
agony seized her.

The whip fell from her hand, Erebus
growled, Don Pedro blinked amiably, and
shook off four wreaths in succession ; people
started to their feet ; some shuddered.
Jack Dalton, looking on from the wings, saw
something wrong had happened.

Come and save her ! ' he roared to several
men grouped round, and was just rushing
on to the circus when Erebus sprang at
Nellie, struck her down, and clawed her
shoulder.

The audience screamed, women sobbed 
they saw the dark stream of blood flowing
over her neck as Jack Dalton bore her in
his arms senseless from the cage.

The man who had caused Nellie's emotion,
and witnessed the accident, now appeared
with a doctor who offered his services.

Bah ! a mere scratch ! ' sneered Madame
Juanita, in her tight black velvet riding-habit,
patting the neck of the Chesterfield colt.

The wound is not very deep, and she will
do well,' the doctor said, taking out a case of
instruments, and requesting some warm water
and a sponge to be quickly brought.

Nellie shivered, opened her lips, and
then her eyes  to meet a grave, thoughtful
glance ; but the shock had been too severe.
She fainted again.

The man glided away, and was soon lost

amidst the crowd. He had not recognised
in NelHe Raymond the same young girl who
had been seized with an hysterical attack in
Regent Street, and to seek for romance
among those attached to a circus was about
the last thing he desired.

After Nellie had been conveyed to her
little rough bed in one of the distant tents,
the wound carefully dressed, and some stimulants
applied that thoroughly restored her
senses, she glanced round with that determined
air which announces a purpose to
be carried out.

Nellie was not subject to fainting. This
was, indeed, the second time only in her life
that collapse had taken place ; but she was
nervous by temperament, quick-witted, and
excitable. Great mental distress had undermined
her nervous system, but physical
fear she knew not.

And now, raising herself on her hard flock
pillow, what does she resolve }

To escape  to cover her bespangled
muslin frock v/ith that heavy cloak hanging
across some ropes and hoops, and flee into
the darkness and rain. She had a horror
of being again cowed into submission by
Madame Juanita.

Now is my only chance,' muttered Nellie,
her face pale with the pain of her torn

shoulder. ' I will escape, and trust to chance
to save me from destruction

It still rained, and ' Mad Acre End' looked
the very reverse of a tempting spot in which
to plunge through the driving rain and impenetrable
darkness ; but Nellie, covered
with the heavy cloak, rushed into the night,
pausing once to look back at the circus, the
subdued lights of which through the canvas
making it resemble some pale moon amid
ebon surroundings.

Her hair, drenched and soaked with the
rain, lay matted about her throat, fever in
her veins, rebellion in her heart. She was
in the mood of that fair Stanza who had
taken a boat and drifted over the waveless
seas, praying death might come ; only Nellie
wanted to reach the village. She had a few
shillings in the little leather purse she had
placed in the bosom of her dress, and to
secure some humble night's lodging washer
present intent. But Nellie did not understand
the route. The windings of the
heath and common puzzled her ; her feet
ached from contact with the harsh stubble
and swampy parts, till she feared she might
sink and be engulfed.

Presently a dim haze appeared; it was a
river, and here the girl's strength failed her,
for by this river she paused, staggered, and fell.

MR FACULTY FOGG ADDRESSES THE OUTCAST.

What is this feeling makes me so glad ?
Pain that delights me ? How can it be 
Pleasure that pains me, fettered though free ? '

E N Nellie awoke from her
swoon, she saw that she had left
the reedy swamps of the common
far behind. The azure gleams
of morning w ere just touching the wavelets
of the river, clouds of pale, diaphanous hues
were drifting lazily above her head, and
soft winds came and went dreamily, fitful
as Diana's breath and kisses when she woke
Endymion from his slumber  heralds also
of liberty and freedom.

Yes, here at last was liberty  escape from
a hateful doom, coarse voices, vulgar scenes,
degrading vices.

To wander to the village, to expend her
few shillings in buying food and shelter, and

then to seek a situation  this was the only-plan
presenting itself to her mind.

Jack Dalton's words regarding her birth
and parentage had, in truth, robbed the girl.
of any hope she may have cherished as to
his affording her some clue to the lives of
those people to whom she owed nothing but
her bare existence.

Abandoned by father and mother, and
sold to a circus proprietor, she could
find no Intricate web In which to seek her
relatives, and whether the daughter of a
duchess or a beggar, she at least knew that,
like other slaves, she must submit to the
exigencies of circumstances and necessity.

What shall I do for a living ? ' she
asked aloud. In a dreary monologue. ' End
my troubles and difficulties In the river like
other homeless ones, or pass onward to the
village, and see what fate has in store forme
there ? '

No, she could not die. The fulness of
life in her young body pronounced Its veto
against the sin of self-destruction. The
blood coursing through her veins was highly
charged with a vitality so passionate and
intense, that the mere physical sense of the
enjoyment of the morning air fanning her
brow, was sufficient to keep her safe on
these slimy, oozy river banks without plunging

beneath the stream ; grave, mournful
eyes flitted before her memory ; she saw-that
dark-haired man watching her among
the audience, as though a spell drew her
to him.

I believe if he spoke to me I should
kneel and sob at his feet,' Nellie muttered,
half ashamed of her foolishly sentimental
mood that did not harmonise well with the
hunger attacking her frame.

She possessed no accomplishments that
could be turned to account in respectable
households, but she had picked up smatterings
of foreign tongues during their roving
Bohemian encampments ; she had seen gaily-dressed
peasants dance wild Spanish dances
under the shady chestnuts ; she knew the
sound of the Bolero, the music of the castanets
; and with her refined and peculiar
susceptibility, she hated the thought of
service acutely.

Wet and dismal roads, a swampy common,
paths full of briars, tangled fern, and brushwood
surrounded her, as she shook back her
loosened hair, and tossed the water over
her burning brow.

Her shoulder still ached and throbbed from
the wound inflicted by the tiger's teeth, but
less painfully than at first, and she had no
fear of Madame Juanita's seeking her out or

compelling her to return ; and at that moment
an honest milkman, swinging his cans,
passed by the river, intent on delivering his
morning allowance of milk and cream at the
various houses of the good people of Brooks-mere.


Nellie started off at once in pursuit of
him, and touching his arm, said quickly, 

Could you manage to spare me half-a-pint
of milk ? I am so faint and worn-outs

Giving Nellie a mild, bull-like stare, he
merely ejaculated a very vulgar * Oh, my ! '
doubled himself in half, as if seized with
violent cramp in his stomach, remaining a
moment in this dervish-like attitude ere lifting
his head.

In truth, Nellie, with her pale, beautiful
face and feverish-looking eyes  her torn
spangled muslin dress and heavy cloak, all
drenched with the night dew and stained
with river mud, might have brought disordered
fancies before the most reasonable of
God's creatures.

Lor, child, you've never got a wee bit of
a baby 'hidden under that there cloak, 'ave ye,
and been a-crying' to drown it in the river ? '
he gasped, bringing down his cans with a
fierce clatter on the pathway.

Nellie's look of surprise reassured him,
and she smiled, opening her cloak wide to
VOL. I. c

convince him that no young head, doomed for
destruction, was concealed in her arms.

But 'ow come ye with that rum gown ?
A ballet-gal, ain't ye, or sommat o' that sort ? '

Never mind who or what I am,' said
Nellie, a little sharply. ' I asked you for a
drink of milk. If you don't mean to let me
have any  I can buy it of you  why, say so,
and  '

That's the way with you women said the
milkman, sarcastically. ' If only one man
'as used ye ill, ye fly at all the rest. Of
course, ye're welcome to the milk, if ye don't
mind drinking out of a little can.'

What makes you think some man has ill-treated
me?' asked Nellie, after a pause,
holding the can to be re-filled.

A pretty lass like you must allays 'ave
a lover of some sort. What d'ye say
to a biscuit with the milk ? Ye seem fairly
clammed.'

Nellie seized the biscuit, gratefully offering
him sixpence in payment. She shivered a
good deal in an odd, convulsive way not lost
on the milkman.

I won't take no money from ye, lass.
Strikes me you'll want every penny soon ;
but I must now be off to my work  families
'full be a-waiting for their breakfast.'

Nellie thought this man looked kind,

perhaps he might care to listen to her story.
She would make one effort to interest him in
her welfare.

Suppose you know that a fellow-creature
may be starving for want of food, and that
she'd ran away from cruel treatment,' Nellie
began, her voice trembling, ' would you
let her have some little stray corner in your
house to be in for a time, and she'd work
hard and eat little, and be grateful  oh, so
very, very grateful always ? '

Nellie's face kindled as she spoke ; some
new, yet overmastering dread was conquering
her. It was far more terrible to be
starving and forsaken out in the world than
she had imagined.

The milkman's expression had changed as
she pleaded. To be generous to a nondescript
kind of beggar in a spangled frock and
heavy cloak is one thing ; to take that nondescript
under your cottage roof, and be
exposed yourself to the sharp cross fire of a
jealous female's tongue, is another.

You might not please the missus,' he said
shortly, turning away. ' She's mortal particular
about her maids' character.'

Nellie shuddered. Was this how they
would answer all her appeals ?

Some tatters of torn white lace still hung
about her bodice and sleeves. Her rose-like

breast palpitated with indignation. She
wound the rent lace quickly through her
fingers, tore it off finally with a jerk, and
nearly sobbed.

He is human,' Nellie muttered. * Why
should I expect miracles or kindness or
consideration ? I used to wonder once why
people thieved and murdered and got put
into prison, and died on the gallows. I know
now. They suffered and were treated as I
shall be  misunderstood and trampled on year
after year. How I hate everything human ! '

She spoke aloud, and was startled by hearing
a soft laugh that made her turn round suddenly,
and then run forward with a cry of joy.

So you hate humanity,' the voice said ;
and what are you doing soliloquising in that
theatrical way by a river } Don't be wild
and foolish, Nellie.'

Monsieur Lepelletier, is it really you ?
Where have you sprung from ? '

You've given me a fine night of it, 3'ou
wilful little wretch. \ Patent boots soaked
through traversing swamps and puddles, rain
trickling down one's back, umbrella blown
inside out, all discomforts incurred through
searching for you. I meant to have arrived
in time to prevent your failure with the
tigers, but Ferrara, you must know, was very
spiteful. He informed me I was a villain,

and being over-anxious not to be outdone in
telling a lie, I told him he was a gentleman.
He attacked me with a dagger in his hot
Spanish way. I managed to defend myself,
and escaped with a few scratches, arriving
too late to save you, and now I find you
raving like some youthful female Lear by a
river.'

I ran away,' said Nellie, glancing up at
him under her long eyelashes.

Of course, I knew that. It was the sort
of foolish proceeding to be expected from
such a sprite. You little blind infatuated
mole, what good comes of going to extremities
? Bah ! do you live in an age of
Arabian legends ? All is real, tough, and
practical enough. Your thin shoes are wet
through. Your hair looks like tow, all that
haze of gold seems washed out of it. Your
cloak is drenched ; as for your Hebe-like
arms and shoulders they are perfectly disgraceful
in their charming nudity. Are you
going to test the tender mercies of some
British matron in that attire ? See what she
will say, and yet you expect a respectable
milkman, full of the sanity of remembrances
connected with a pump  you see, I overheard
some of your conversation  to take you into
his employ.'

Nellie's eyes filled.

Get rid of that sensitiveness, child, if
you have to earn your bread and butter.
Now, what will you do for a living ? Perhaps
you anticipate some magnificent proposal
from me ? Already in your mind's eye
you may behold some gaily-furnished villa 
a drawing-room suite of the best cretonne,
and you richly attired in the latest fashion 
at my expense. You have heard or read
how Miss Hardie Montmorency drives a pair
of thoroughbreds in the Row, drinks wine 
guinea a bottle port  owns fine diamonds,
and leads some doting, titled imbecile nicely
by the nose. If you look upon me as a
promising victim, please undeceive yourself.'


You know very well that you don't suspect
me of anything of the kind,' said Nellie,
gravely ; but she was used to his flights of
speech, and her trustfulness in others, if rudely
shaken, had never been quite dispelled.

It amused M. Lepelletler to tease and
wound her. Of course he meant no harm.
She had not yet learnt to calculate ; she only
trusted.

He took out a delicately-scented handkerchief
and shook it in the air.

Now, here is my proposal, and for the
present, Nellie, I can think of no other
plan for you. I am staying at a romantic

retreat called * The Lodge,' and with my
usual eccentricity, I have a small but neatly
furnished room set apart for me ; whether
with the circus people or polishing my
classical tastes, or devoting myself to mesmerism,
to this small sanctum do I retire
when I choose. Here all the mistakes of
my life and the weakness of my intellect are
unexposed to public view.'

Yes ; you think too much,' said Nellie,
softly.

The lodge, my sympathetic angel, is inhabited
by two estimable and respectable old
fogies called Mr and Mrs Faculty Fog.
They are, at least, fifty years behind the age.
Beyond driving in a tax-cart to Exeter, and
moonino about the Cathedral, or toutinor for
bargains in hosiery, Mrs Faculty has few
experiences. Mr Fog Is gardener to some
people living In a large mansion called
Stupefied Hall. He and his wife, like
twin Herbert at the lodge, guard the gates
and the long drive leading to It. The Squire
of Brooksmere, Mr Stephen Mallandaine, his
wife, and his son. Captain Leonard, all reside
at Stupefied Hall  a dismal old place
enough, I think, but the family prefer the
dismal and go in for clouds and vapours,
not the earth and Its inhabitants.'

M. Lepelletier's voice had changed since

he mentioned the Mallandaines  emotion
vibrated through it.

NelHe felt surprised and deeply interested.


And will this gardener and his wife care
to receive me, sir  a lost waif and stray ? '

M. Lepelletier smiled.

We shall see, Nellie ; we can but try.
I rather think  indeed, I may say I flatter
myself that Faculty will do anything to oblige
me, and Mrs F. is but his echo.'

And what must I do for the gardener and
his wife ? '

You will have to sweep their floors, dust
the rooms, peel the potatoes, and occasionally
roast some simple but delicious joint  for
instance, the British leg of mutton on Sunday,
served with onion sauce.'

Then I shall be a servant,' said Nellie
quietly  ' with or without wages ; and I hate
service.'

I perceive the evil spirit of rebellion
again at work in you, Nellie. You must
have no hates, no loves, no anything. You
are an outcast  with luxuriant beauty, I
admit, but a homeless girl ; and don't think
of appearing before the worthy Faculty Fog
in that haute ecole costume of spangles and
tinsel. Allow me the pleasure ol purchasing
you two modest cotton dresses. Let me

cover that golden - brown hair and classic
head with the traditional straw bonnet or hat
so necessary for the traditionally virtuous
young woman seeking her first situation.
Let me be the humble friend in lieu of the
gay seducer  the champion of honour instead
of the plotting libertine.'

She glanced up at him with a quick and
grateful smile.

How does the programme suit, Nell ? *

Excellently, sir.'

Well, then, step out and let us make for
the village, so that you shall appear "clothed
and in your right mind again." I almost
wish I were a painter, Nellie ; I should
like to sketch you as you stand at this
moment, all tattered and torn ; and the best
of you is, that I'm never tempted to fall in
love with you ; you are too fragile.'

It was now eight o'clock, a clear and
lovely morning. Nellie's spirits revived ;
she could even contemplate herself black-leading
the gardener's best parlour grate or
kitchen stove, or basting a leg of Devonshire
mutton with exemplary patience.

One thing, Nellie, I must warn you
about,' the Frenchman said, after a pause, ' is
that chapel-going is the chief object of the
Foggs' lives ; object to that unseen paradise
and you will be lost.'

They were now in the village of Brooks-mere,
and Baker, the solitary linendraper,
was setting out his little shop to the best
advantage. He clearly expected a good
order from the well-dressed gentleman, with
his jewel-headed Malacca cane and the
handsome diamond studs and ring.

When the spangled dress had been
changed for the simple cotton garb, and the
hair was roughly plaited under the straw
hat, Lepelletier requested to look at some
cheap black cloth jackets, and Nellie saw
herself very rapidly transformed .into a neat,
quiet-looking maiden, very different from the
siren of the circus, with her floating tresses
and sylph-like form in clouds of aerial tulle
and net.

I often warned you, Nellie, that you
might regret the change,' he said, as if reading
her thoughts. ' All will be quiet and
dry-adust at the cottage. You may ultimately
find your elective affinity in an
honest yokel. No lights, no audience, no
horses, no applause ; bedtime at ten, supper
of bread and cheese and cold water  instead
of drunken merriment and noisy sprees.
Choose, Nellie. There is yet time forme
to take you back to the affectionate
embraces of Madame Juanita.'

I have chosen,' said Nellie, with one

final survey of herself in the black cloth
jacket and thread gloves. ' Take me to the
gardener's cottage. I will work for them.'

Bravo!' he cried. ' I am pleased. Come,
Nellie, if you're ready, and I will introduce
you to your employers at the lodge,
you little golden-haired Peri.'

M. Lepelletier's untiring vitality affected
Nellie with no corresponding flow of spirits
to-day. She had not yet recovered from the
shock of the accident, and how could she
look forward to her life at the cottage with
pleasure ?

Nellie's girlish thoughts strayed to an
unbidden memory,  her first meeting in
Regent Street with the man who exercised
some unseen yet magnetic influence over her
organisation. The grand and rugged brow,
the grave, handsome face, with something
sweet but melancholy in its expression, like
a wearied god's. Why did it haunt her
dreams ?

Could a wrecked hope or secret sorrow
hold him in bondage ?  and the night previous
he looked still more unhappy than at

their first meetings Nellie had ever dis
>

gained coarse admiration, but the first physical
contact with this unknown stranger in
Regent Street, and the curious pitying pain
that contact had roused, unconsciously

affected her, and stole upon her brain with
sensuous, fatal power.

I hope you'll be happy, Nellie Levels
said. * I like you for that substratum
of good-breeding and intelligence
you possess ; but we can only take our goods
to market and sell them at the price offered.
The worth of anything is just what it will
bring. Why, I daresay if poor old Milton
had lived in this age, he'd have cultivated
his voice and moustache, gone in for the
light tenor business, and been more amiable
to more wives, or he'd have given
over classics to turn his attention to the
profitable development of light fiction, and
hound the prose of railway novels pay better
than his immortal verse.'

Nellie felt a little anxious as well as
tired as they approached the lodge. It
was a pretty-looking rustic cottage, but from
its appearance the rooms must be very small
and by no means lofty.

She took stock of the windows ; monthly
roses were placed in crimson pots along the
sills, two large cats were purring in the sun,
ivy trailed over the failings, and fine horse-chestnut
trees bordered the drive to the hall,
and yet Nellie fancied she would regard
this quaint spot with the same feeling an
eaglet might have for its cage.

Where's your enthusiasm, Nellie? I
expected a volley of admiring exclamations.'

It seems lonely, sir, and I'm going to
strangers.'

Upon my word, there's no pleasing you,
Nellie. I warned you it was not a prospect
of Utopian ease and pleasure ; but just
take a look at the old hall, embowered in
trees, to your right ; that is Squire Allan
home. They are friends of mine.'

He sighed drearily ; it was evident all
mention of the jMallandaines fretted his restless
nerves.

Why are those windows to the left all
barred and closed like a prison ? ' asked
Nellie. 'Are the family away from home?'

M. Lepelletier made no reply, and turned
the subject hastily. Nellie thought the
old mansion had a desolate and neglected
look ; it lacked the trimness or display
usually bestowed on similar dwellings.

He opened the narrow gate leading to the
cottage and startled Mrs Faculty, who was
peeling potatoes, by a brisk tap on the
window.

Eh, dearie me, sir, we expected you last
night, but Faculty said what with the rain
and other things, you couldn't get back intime.
He went to chapel, and now I'm
getting dinner ready.'

Nellie found herself in one of the tiniest
rooms she had ever seen ; an old-fashioned
clock, belonging to Faculty Fog's grandfather,
appeared afflicted with asthmatical
weakness in its works ; the books were bound
in the fashion of fifty years ago, with the
exception of the ' Pilgrim's Progress,' and that
choice nursery epic, * Tulliver's Travels.'
There was a bit of rare ' blue ' on a shelf
that a connoisseur in old china must have
yearned to purchase, a small picture of a
soldier after the battle of Malplaquet hung
in one corner, facing a young gentleman
in velvet, with very long hair and leather
shoes ; dried grasses were placed on the
mantelpiece in real Sevres vases, and smirking
shepherdesses grinned at each other,
and at various love-lorn shepherds with
crooks in pleasant meadows. An aged and
toothless dog, called ' Smut,' looking as if
he sadly wanted a severe dose of strychnine,
snapped at Nellie-sand then gnawed the
hearth-rug.

Mrs P'ogg was an unusually stout little
woman, her neck having long sunk into the
regions of her shoulders, like an isthmus
swallowed by an ocean ; she wore a spotless
chemisette folded and refolded over a capacious
bosom.

Who's that girl ?' asked Mrs Faculty, not

unkindly, motioning Nellie to a seat, and
fanning herself with a duster.

She looked a picture after the good woman's
heart, the astute Frenchman having clothed
her to the exact taste of the brightest luminary
among the ' Winniford Brethren.'

This young girl will, I hope, be acceptable
to you as a helper in your household,' he said,
watching her expression.

Eh, dearie me ! but it's what Faculty will
say,' murmured the Echo, en attendant.

Here he is to answer for himself,' said the
Frenchman, going to the door ; ' and hale and
hearty he looks, too, for his age.'

The gardener came slowly along the drive
leading from the hall to the lodge, and entered
the cottage.

He wore light leather gaiters round his
particularly thin legs. A high collar, white
cravat, and black suit of clothes gave him the
air of a Methodist preacher. He had long
passed into a theoretical stage of horticulture,
for he merely directed the efforts of the six
under-gardeners employed by the squire, playing
the tyrant with the quiet enjoyment that
all injustice gives to the domineering.

Nellie had risen to her feet at this extraordinary
apparition.

Well, Faculty, how are you ?' said Levels
* You see Fve brought the girl I was

speaking to you about. Mrs Faculty wants
assistance. Now you can both have your
breakfasts in bed, and NelHe will wait on
you.'

Ah, sir, you run on so ; it isn't likely we'd
begin idle ways at our age,' said Faculty, who
took everything au serzeux, * and set the
young woman a bad example,'

Nellie, who had seen Madame Juanita
eat rump-steak and oysters in bed at mid-day,
washed down with double stout, wondered
what this old man would think of her experiences.


Faculty scrutinised her closely. He could
see nothing to displease him in her attire, and
the large dark blue eyes were uplifted with an
appealing look. Some odd fascination rose
from those deep wells peculiarly witching to
the masculine intelligence.

What's your name, young woman ?' Faculty
asked severely, determined not to betaken
in.

Nellie Raymond, sir.'
Do you understand housework ?'
M. Lepelletier's active fingers here spelt
Yes.'

'Oh, of course, sir,' said Nellie, cheerfully.

Where have you been employed ?'
There was a pause, in which M. Lepelletier

did not come to her aid.

I have been all my life in a circus
Faculty gave a little cry, and the thin legs

uncrossed automatically, like a frog's practised
on by artificial means as an experiment.

Mrs Faculty's superb bosom quivered like
a huge aspic jelly.

Eh, dearie me ! Used to jumping in and
out of tubs and 'oops, and the high saluting'
tight-rope business.'

Silence, wife,' said Faculty, aghast at the
Echo's audacity ; ' let me address the young
woman.'

I ask you, as a favour to me,' said M.
Lepelletier earnestly, * to give this young
girl a fair trial. She is thoroughly honourable
and trustworthy ; she was thrown from
babyhood amid a class she hated; she escaped
after gross ill-treatment.'

Nellie Raymond,' said the gardener, ' I
am under obligations to this gentleman, and
I am willing to oblige him. I have two
questions to ask. Do you read your Bible,
and do you object to chapel ?'

I shall be quite willing to go to chapel,'
said Nellie, in her sweet submissive way 
he fancied tears were in her eyes  * and I read
the Bible.'

Then, Nellie Raymond, I engage you as
our helper. As for the members of that
evil abode presided over by the arch-fiend 

VOL. I. D

the Jezebels and Infidels of the circus, pray
for them, that they may be rescued from the
everlasting flames.'

The gardener's voice had risen to his
metallic chapel tones ; he looked the idealistic
preacher so dear to his hysterical devotees.

Follow Mrs Faculty ; she will show you
the room appointed unto you,' he said, catching
a glimpse of the plaited tresses.

A pretty girl, isn't she ? ' said the Frenchman,
rubbing his hands as Nellie disappeared.


The heart is deceitful above all things.
We must teach her to eschew evil, for beauty
is a sure bait to the godless,' said Faculty
reproachfully ; M. Lepelletier's morals being
terribly lax in the gardener's judgment.

After Mrs Faculty had conducted Nellie
to a room redolent of dried lavender and
camphor scents, and spotless linen sheets
were taken down to be aired, the girl, once
alone, impetuous as ever, and now apparently
heartbroken, flung herself down by the
open window, while the leaves of the vine
and clematis flowers shook beneath the grasp
of her hands.

It was a lovely autumn morning. Cornfields
lay to the left, Stupefied Hall and
park were before her, the humming of insects
among the vine leaves, the lowing of cows,

and the deep bay of a hound alone broke the
silence.

Her eyes, lit with sombre yet feverish
brightness, alighted on the barred windows
of the left wing of the mansion.

I shall be so lonely,' sobbed Nellie ;
it will be like a prison, and all from seeing
that picture in Regent Street setting me
against the business  Why did his eyes
follow me last night, turning my thoughts,
making me wretched, driving me here ? I
have heard of a glance, a sigh, or frown
bringing misery or joy. Who can this man
be, I wonder, and shall I ever see him
again } '

<fSfi

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS Library

THE MYSTERY OF STAPLEFIELD HALL.

FTER M. Lepelletler left the gardener
and his wife, he sauntered
leisurely towards Stupefied Hall.
It was a large and magnificent
building in the Gothic style of architecture,
and of a solemn and imposing character.
The windows were picturesque ; a grand
array of old trees, from which rooks cawed
and flew, stood out darkly on each side like
aged sentinels guarding the lonely old place
from ruin. It had a dreary, haunted look ;
every quaint tale relating to wandering ghosts
occurred to the fancy viewing it. It seemed
separated from the world as a place peopled
by the dead.

And yet its splendour gave it the appearance
of being some ducal home rather than
one belonging to a Simple squire, but the
Mallandaines were reputedly wealthy ; they

dated their ancestry from Charles the First.
Stupefied had belonged to the family for
centuries ; in many respects it was as historic
as Warwick Castle ; the picture galleries were
crowded with matchless works of art. Paintings
by Vandyke, Holbein, Murillo, Andre
del Sarto, besides pictures of the modern
school, hung from the noble walls.

Squire Mallandaine was a patron of art.
He would write a cheque for a thousand
guineas to purchase some rare gem of genius
and study with more pleasure and satisfaction
than any other outlay could produce.

The hall door was open as M. Lepelletier
ascended the steps, and two gentlemen were
evidently in deep discussion of some very
grave subject of interest. One of these, he
perceived, was the family doctor, Mr Chester,
the other Captain Mallandaine, the Squire's
son and heir.

M. Lepelletier seemed decidedly at home,
for, without waiting to be announced, he
nodded lightly to the young man and entered
the library, where he proceeded to coolly
light a cigarette, and taking up the Quarterly 
turned its pages leisurely over.

The library had a gallery running round
it, oak-panelled and antique ; broad terraces
jutted out on either side of the mansion,
on the edge of which were fine ferns and

flowers, and peacocks plumed themselves on
the velvet lawns, in the smoothness of which
Faculty Fog and his colleagues took the
highest pride.

When M. Lepelletier laid down his book,
he saw Leonard Mallandaine approaching
from the drawing-room, and the two men
shook hands coldly.

Well, Captain, here I am, just returned
from Spain. Any better news of the mysterious
and interesting invalid you were
telling me of ? ' he asked lightly. ' I saw
the doctor with you just now, and from your
very deeds converse together, and your
extremely anxious expression, I fear you
have scarcely had good news.'

Our relative is worse to-day,' Captain Mal-landing
answered quietly. * Grave fears are
entertained of her living through the night.'

Leonard was tall, pale, and broad-chested,
with something ardent and intense
in manner and expression, that not all the
effects of modern philosophy and cynicism
could subdue.

It was a passionate face, for all its sombre
gravity, and it bore the shade of anguish.
Thoughts were at war with each other,
emotion seemed bound and chained ; it was
a struggle between the natural and the ideal
the senses and the intellect.

And do you not think In these cases
death is often a release ? ' the mesmerist
asked slowly.

Captain Mallandaine shivered a little, and
threw himself down in an arm-chair by the
side of the Frenchman. Did he shrink from
too close and steady a scrutiny ?

What is death ? Is it a calamity or a
blessing ? '

Lepelletier shrugged his shoulders.

You might as well ask, What is truth ?
But, candidly, you are in too morbid and
Hamlet-MVi 3, mood. Have we not been
friends for years ? Did I not love your
adorable sister, Aurella, whom religious craze
and superstition drove into a convent to die,
making me a visionary and a wreck ? And
you, Leonard, with youth, wealth, vigour,
and every advantage of birth and position,
are bent upon eschewing all these, shutting
yourself up in a place dull as Locksley Hall,
and desolate as a grave.'

There's no denying It's dull,' Captain
Mallandaine answered.

Duller, too, since this mysterious Invalid
and relative appeared, eh, Leonard ? ' asked
the other, searchingly. ' Now, what really Is
the matter with her ? Has she a suicidal
mania, that you bar the windows ? Is there
a lunatic hidden in the west wing ? '

Captain Mallandaine rose, touching the
others arm.

I have before asked you to refrain from
these questions,' he said reproachfully. ' What
is it to you ? Say it's sentiment  remorse 
affection ; that we suffer, you know. There
are mysteries and secrets in the dark recesses
of many households.'

The Frenchman laughed, a harsh, grating
laugh, in which was little pity and less mirth.

Leonard, I am a mesmerist ; I owe you,
perhaps, small love for the influence you
exercised over your sister Aurelian where I
was concerned.'

You were scarcely fitted for her husbands
the Captain answered, with the faintest
mockery in his tones.

I say I have the power of lifting this veil,
of piercing this mystery. If you will once
let me look at this person  this victim of
hysteria  this pale, phantasmal being, devoured
by disease, then I will not bring
science or mesmerism to my aid.'

Leonard Mallandaine rose and shook his
head. There was a tinge of severity, almost
cruel, now in his expression.

No, Lepelletier, we do not permit you
this request'

But I insist, in the name of justice 
yes, Leonard, and of the law. I demand

that I am once permitted, In the interests of
humanity, to see this person you deliberately
shut away from the world ; if not  '

The Captain's strong hands clenched together
once fiercely, as if he were stifling out
some enemy's life.

And if not  what then ? '

The law shall either be put in force, or I,
by the aid of mesmerism, will lift the veil.'

And your motive ? ' asked Leonard, crushing
down his satire. * I do not appeal to
your gratitude  the memories of years that
unite us  the incessant kindnesses shown to
you from boyhood by my people. Must our
name be bandied in a court of justice, and the
papers rake up every incident of dishonour
that may have darkened our family's annals ?
You were fond, you say, of Aurelian  leave us
our clouds and shadows, take your pleasures
like a butterfly.'

Fond of her ! It was adoration. But if,
as you say, Leonard, this invalid is some poor
obscure relative, what is your objection to
my seeing her  I, the friend of the family ? '

She is In a very weak state, refusing food,
sleepless, languid, prostrate. Every kindness
and attention are hers ; we pass hours with
her ; but any intense mental excitement
might be fatal'

Lepelletier's face changed ; he checked

his next question at the prompting of an afterthought
; but the look he turned on Leonard
was not pleasant, it had a low and vindictive
meaning.

Your arguments are all-powerful,' he said
suavely. ' I accept your explanation  as far
as I am concerned, you may cultivate a colony
of lunatics. But, to change this dreary
theme, what kind of a London season has
Timon enjoyed ? Much flirting, drinking,
gambling  any follies and delirium " '

As regards gambling, I hate it, ditto
drinking, flirting most of all.'

What, are all women objectionable ?
Have you no Oriental proclivities for damask
lips and sparkling eyes 1 Never played the
Grand Mosul, Leonard } You want cheering
up. Just the fellow to be seized with the
tender melancholy, and then to say to some
timid ingdmie, I loved you not, when both
your hearts are beating in unison. At least,
try and fall in love.'

And find existence embellished by sighs,
dreams, fancies, and jealousy  passion commencing
with the illusion trust, to end in
the pitfall marriage.'

The Frenchman laughed again, this time
like a scheming Mephistopheles.

Marriage! But not at all. If you are
hungry, do you rush into a shop and buy

enough joints to last all your life ? No, you
take a cutlet, a cake, a cherry, a sandwich,
and don't, for gracious sake, be cynical. At
your age, you should long with Byron, that
womanhood had but one rosy mouth, so that
you could embrace splendid variety in one
grand unity. Leave cynicism to one who,
after copious brandy-drinking and reflection,
has discovered that all women are by nature
hypocrites  slaves in love, angels in suffering
fair, ineffable, and false.'

There are times, Lepelletier, when dreams
and care  '

Then you are in love ! Blind mole that I
was not to perceive it. Your melancholy and
moodiness proclaim it. You are philosophic
only in theory  you are intellectual, but you
are not wise. I combine the two. I have
loved, as you know, your sister Aurelian, far
more madly than you, with your British
phlegm, could ever love a woman. I plunged
into the ideal, the infinite ; I was distracted
and sad, but, nevertheless, I reflected, life is
short, time passes, age must come, digestion
fail, and so I let fair lips, whose pressure
brings relief, salute my throbbing brow.'

The Captain lifted his dark and heavy
eyes.

You are a wonderfully practical race, even
in your loves, your cuisine, your economy,

your amusements, your everything. Can
you get rid of a little lowness of sentiment,
too? If Hamlet had been a Frenchman,
Ophelia would have been his mistress. You
are not false, but mobile  not fickle, but
playful  not immoral, only philosophic'

Why do you speak so bitterly ? '

Perhaps I have good reason.'

My dear Leonard, I am trying to reform
you ; spare your metaphysics. I see a charming
young man all women must admire, with
the head and shoulders of a god, a broad and
noble chest. I know you are splendid, but
you are dying by inches. I say, therefore.
Fall in love. Believe me, at your age,
love is necessary to you.'

The Captain smiled.

He remembered, perhaps, carelessly enough,
the shy dread, the quivering agony of the
fair wounded girl, whose eyes had opened to
meet his as she lay on some rough straw ina
circus stable  that exquisite golden hue
on hair like burnished wheat, those slender
but rounded limbs, the eyes with deep,
amorous lids and lashes, that shot a mystical
light into his, in spite of her maddening pain ;
he could see the blood streaming over a breast
and shoulder fair as Daphne's ere the laurel
poison darkened their loveliness, the mouth
like a closed blossom  pale and tortured 

that yet, he knew, had tried to smile just
once on him.

Love ! ' he echoed, after Lepelletier had
left, and he was alone. ' To be the slave of
some capricious beauty. I can be philosophic
as he over the ordinary ills and disappointments
of life ; but what armour could shield
my heart 1 '

CAPTAIN LEONARD MALLANDAINE VISITS THE
COTTAGE.

The desire of the moth for the star,
Of the night for the morrow,
The devotion of something afar
From the sphere of our sorrow

HEN Nellie awoke the following
morning at the cottage, she
felt wonderfully refreshed after
a sound and delicious slumber.
The perfumed linen sheets seemed to have
embraced and comforted her wearied frame,
the pillow encouraged repose, the half-opened
window had permitted sweetest air, heavy
with the scent of honeysuckles and roses, to
enter and play about her temples and tresses
and half-bared, warm, white limbs.

She looked fair as some wild flower near a
pleasant fountain, fresh as the herb growing
by a stream. Her excessive weeping had
cleared her brain, and sleep came soothing

as the lullaby of the west wind amid pine
forests, or as a lover's kisses on the brow of
the woman lying on his breast.

It was early when Nellie rose, and,
drawing aside the white dimity curtains of
the window, looked out at the gardens and
lawns of the Hall. Faint wreaths of dew
rested on the box-edging and roses, and on
the various fruit bushes and cabbages alone
the borders of Faculty Fog's cottage garden.
Being a servant, she considered it her
duty to rise promptly  no sinking again amid
the lavender-perfumed bed-clothes, no coy
pressure of the pillow with small hands
thrown above the golden head in physical
enjoyment of the repose of mere sensation.

A smart tap at the door also aroused her.
It was M. Lepelletier, who was up earlier
than usual.

Come, Nellie, no idling. Let them
see how active my protege can be. The
worthy couple are at present snoring as
loudly as any member of Circe's herd of
swine.'

Nellie laughed. His voice had the
friendliness of old acquaintance in it, and
something wistful rose to her features that
proved how fatally impressionable and sympathetic
was her nature ; how soon moved
by joy or pain. She was glad her master's

metallic tones had not called her on this
her first morning of service.

She gathered the golden hair that fell far
below her waist in one hand, while she
brushed the stray curls off her forehead with
the other.

And thus she stood, fair as Vashti, innocent
as Emeralds, passionate as Juliet  a
being formed to represent loveliness triumphant
over an unjust fate ; loveliness to be
caressed and prized, to reign supreme over
men and women, vanities, luxuries, pleasures,
seductions, and yet her lips were cold, her
eyes tearful, her heart sad ; she was a
symbol of all things nameless, homeless,
and accursed.

She shook back the hair loosely straying
about her shoulders once ere rolling it into
the smooth, hard coil which service and
slavery demanded, and began that everlasting
process of washing and dressing.

The Foggs breakfasted in the kitchen,
and Nellie had received orders to prepare
the meal in this little white-washed room,
set apart for morning prayers and hot coffee,
eggs and bacon. After she descended below
she saw the Frenchman reading a book on
the sofa. He beckoned her towards him.

Do you believe in ghosts } ' he asked,
throwing it aside.

Nellie looked both surprised and alarmed.

Why, sir, is the cottage haunted ? '

Cottage ? No. Poverty and ghosts have
no connection ; the incorporeal spirit has the
same preference for mansions as though it
were still some golden thorn in the flesh.
But look yonder, child.'

Stupefied Hall looked gloomy as ever in
the pale morning light. The autumnal haze
still enveloped it, it seemed literally buried in
mists, the aged trees of the park were conscious
of some lazy sense of awakening, for a
few leaves fluttered in the wind and fell off,
and were slowly carried down the waters of
a narrow lake, that also had a stagnant,
vitiated look.

Do you see that place, Nellie  Staple-field
Hall r

Hardly, sir, as yet, through the heavy
mists and trees.'

Avoid it as if it were a pestilence.
It is haunted with ruined hopes, ruined
lives, ruined souls. It is the symbol of
a world only to be governed and bought
by gold. Two years ago I was a poor
man  nearly destitute, living from hand to
mouth, crouching with the abjectness of
some beaten cur, my hand against every
man's, and then, Nellie, I cursed Staple
field Hall'

VOL. I. E

The light had faded out of her face at the
passion of his tones. Was she, too, dreading
this haunted mansion and its untold secrets
and mysteries ?

But the ghost, sir  is it really haunted V
His half-closed eyelids opened, and he

smiled sardonically.

I mean to unveil it to-day, at all events,
if one exists.'

You, sir ?'

She was terrified. Strange beings had at
times visited him, of whose conversation and
doings she had stood in awe  even Madame
Juanita had trembled a little, and said he
knew where the dead were, and could talk to
spirits of the departed, and even tell her where
she had been on certain days.

Yes, I  by the aid of mesmerism. There
may be murder, ay, and madness, under the
roof of Stupefied Hall.'

And the people ? ' asked Nellie, amazed
at his vehemence, so different from his usual
mocking tone.

The people are  Hush ! I'm going too
far. Some day I may tell you the mystery
of my life, but take my advice, have nothing
to do with any one connected with the place,
for they will surely bring you sorrow.'

You spoke, sir, of a young man  a Captain
Leonard, the only son  '

Of course you'd remember that, or you
wouldn't be a woman. Captain Leonard is
my enemy  he always was ; he objected to
my principles and my poverty  bah !  and
he says Aurella died.'

His voice fell away to a whisper.

Is Captain Mallandaine a wicked young
man, sir ?'

What do you mean by wicked, little sprite ?
He's what the moralist would call, I suppose,
a good man ; in other words, a hypocrite, most
likely. He'll turn up his nose at the face and
figure of the finest woman in the world to talk
about some ugly little wretch's brow or ardent
soul, or humbug of that kind. He's one of
your cold, severe critics  cares nothing for
burlesque and opera-bouffe!

I think some people must be descended
from monkeys,' said Nellie, drolly, ' because
they like antics so, and black their faces and
grin and dance like apes, and do absurd
things ; they hate cleverness, because they
are so dull and blind. Perhaps he's too
grand for that.'

She was interested in this scornful and
god-like soldier, and she dreaded his enemy's
malevolence.

Did you ever see a real, aristocratic love-letter,
eh, Nell ?' he asked, with one of his
quick transitions of mood. ' Look at this

magnificent crest  feel the texture of the
paper  why, it's worth sixpence a sheet ! 
and the signature with its bold, characteristic
flourish. Well, I don't mind your seeing it ;
it isn't very likely you'll ever meet Laura
Branscombe.'

Indeed, sir, I don't care in the least
about it.'

Come and kiss me this moment, Nellie,
like a good, obedient child. So you don't
want to be corrupted by hearing of naughty
love-letters ? I think, though, a man must
be a very unsatisfactory sort of a husband if
his first wife elopes with an Austrian wine-merchant,
and the second is ready to elope
with me, having an eye, of course, to my
fortune, and the marquisate in perspective.'

People seem as bad and false in the great
world as in a circus,' said Nellie, glad he
had not kissed her.

Get to your work and sweep,' he said
cruelly, detecting her aversion. ' Are you
not a servant ? If you give me any airs, I'll
walk you off again to the people who purchased
you. Sweep as I bid you  to be sure
it won't improve your pretty hands. How
Laura would like to copy them for her study
of Hebe ! It's a shame such an angel should
have to work instead of rejoicing in carriages,
flunkies, dresses, gold and silver, and the

homage of mankind. Perhaps all these glories
may yet be yours. Laura Branscombe's a
pretty name, isn't it, and she's a real genius,
too?'

In what, sir, is she a genius ?'

In art  she paints pictures like a man 
none of your mock-modest ones ; they're hot
and cold, and coarse, and refined, and cynical,
and classical, and all the rest of It ; just like
Lollie herself.'

And this lady loves you. She must be
very wicked and unhappy  a traitor to her
husband and to you.'

To me ? No, that's the best of It. I'm
only her friend. I find her models and draperies,
correct her drawing, suggest position,
bring her music and gifts, sing her Sicilian
songs to a guitar in the twilight, get her the
best horses and wines her husband's money
can buy, and he's positively grateful, is Branscombe,
that I save him worry.'

He laughed, tossing Laura Branscombe's
letter on to the table ; he then tore it Into little
pieces, followed Nellie into the kitchen, and
threw them Into the grate.

Burn them, Nellie. I'm past the stage
of wearing a love-letter next my heart. Thus
it Is to be rich,' shrugging his shoulders ;
women pester one so.'

But you said, sir, you were in love.*

Ah, with an image  a dead image, over
whose memory I weep tears bitter as Pygmalion's
over his lost goddess, or Petrarch's
over his muse. Why am I heartless and
wretched, save through love ? '

Nellie had never heard him speak with
such fervour.

Would she, too, ever understand this
wondrous awakening to another's influence ?

Yes,' she said gently, * you told me about
him. He was a poet  his sorrow was lifelong
and real. Yours mere sentiment, hollow
and worthless.'

Daring and audacious Peri,' he said, his
mood suddenly changing. ' Petrarch had,
however, his consolation in the joys of a
somewhat contracted domestic sphere. But
I must hurry off to London, for I mean
to bring an enemy to account.'

Nellie started. If she could only save
this Captain Leonard from his malice. She
felt the same mystical mingling of joy and
pain as the peasant Elsie amid the rose
gardens felt for Prince Henry, ere she
offered up her pure young life in sacrifice
for him.

Lepelletier drank off half a tumbler of
milk, looked at his watch, kissed Nellie
lightly on the brow, and long before the
worthy Faculty had descended, was out on

the long winding road leading to Brooksmere
village.

Once alone the girl sighed. This man
horrified her with his gifts, his sorrow, his
sorcery. Others had disgusted her ; him
alone she feared.

She feared also for this unknown Captain
Leonard, heir of a noble race. What crime
or misery could be concealed behind the
desolate walls of the lonely old mansion ?

As if love could ever forget or be
concealed muttered Nellie, thinking of
Petrarch, and then sighed again, remembering
Regent Street.

Yes, she saw it all so clearly  the splendid
large plate-glass windows of the fashionable
picture-dealer's shop. The crowd around it
on one side landscapes, on the other
simpering women's faces, at which women
stared and men smiled, and then, in the
middle, the terrible, ghastly painting of the
Christian Martyrs,' with blood on the wild
animal's fangs, on the fair, mangled girl's body.

She remembered how that choking sensation
had risen in her throat  how the sun
had burnt her brain  she was so wearied
and famished  and then falling on the hard,
sun-baked stones of the Regent Street pavement,
vanquished by hunger and nervous
weakness.

And now for work,' cried Nellie, looking
about for that necessary article, a broom.

The old clock endeavoured to chime six ;
the dog crept up to her side ; she patted his
aged head, and flung him a chicken bone in
mild propitiation, and leaving him in the
kitchen, returned to the little parlour.

Silence everywhere  grave, solemn silence
save that she fancied certain dull snores
issued from the bedroom set apart for the
conjugal repose of the Foggs.

The morning sky grew rosier as day
dawned, the air blew briskly about her brow
as she opened the little cottage window.

Her wounded shoulder had ceased throbbing,
but Nellie accepted pain as her
destiny. It was quite wonderful not to be
beaten, bruised, and scorned. Heavens !
whose voice was this singing stray fragments
of a beautiful air  a mournful, plaintive
voice, rich and deep, with which an
Apollo or Hermes might have bewitched
mankind }

Nellie, looking like some lovely Vashti,
turned by mistake into a rustic Cinderella,
through the wicked sorcery of a nether
sphere, arched her delicate eyebrows, and
with suspended breath listened.

Mille volte stcl campo d'o7ior sang the
voice, always sad, always musical. Never

had she heard so rich, so cultivated an
expression.

And yet a person must be happy and
have no cares or enemies to dread if
they sing,' thought Nellie, in her young
ignorance.

The footsteps were coming nearer. Had
she some weird prescience who this man
was that she hated herself in her prim,
cotton dress, linen collar and apron, wishing
romantically that she could be applauded
before him for risking her life, and looking
pretty and smiling in semi-angelic attire.

Nellie opened the window wider, and
then crouched on a corner of the sofa, waiting
to hear more.

But only a few careless bars of the melody
were hummed, and the singer threw himself
down on the garden seat under the window,
and, taking out a book, began to read.

She could hear him turn the pages rapidly
over, and caught the faint reflex of a sigh,
and knew that the vines and clematis and
passion flowers shook as he carelessly crushed
them against the wall.

Fruits were ripening in the morning sun ;
young rabbits scudded away into the park ;
monstrous flies and insects hummed and
buzzed around ; bees and wasps, heavy with
the early spoils of fruits and roses, beat

against the window panes ; large yellow
plums rolled off over-ripe on to the warm
mould but a few yards distant from where
he sat within the shade of the passion flower.

Why did Nellie wait and listen ? What
of her duty to the Foggs ? The little copper
tea-kettle clearly ought to have been filled,
the fire lighted, the rooms swept. But
she was a Bohemian, with the brand of
the circus upon her, and no young lioness,
drowsy in the mid-summer heat, ever waited
more carelessly indifferent to the approach
of human beings, amid the long, lush grasses
of the forest than did Nellie at the present
moment.

Her thoughts were filled with an image 
her soul was ruled by a memory, and when
our thoughts are thus concentrated, we are
ever alert, expectant, watchful, although we
may look in vain a thousand times at one
window, or constantly traverse a certain
street, amid careless crowds, seeking the one
we adore.

Nellie listened, governed by a spell, a
physical, almost barbarous instinct, replete
with fancy and bewildering dreams. In all
tenderness is magnetism, often inspiration.
We dread any thought that may be alien to
or counteract that supreme clinging. For
this is love's creed.

Nellie had never trembled more in dumb
and helpless terror under the lash of the
Spaniard than now when this man's voice
caught her ear, for he had ceased singing,
and was speaking aloud, reading something
from a book, and every word seemed to
her as if falling from the lips of a god.

Her hands tightened, her breast heaved,
all that Lepelletier had told her of Stupefied
Hall and its occupants recurred to her, and
this man had clearly come from those gloomy
portals.

Captain Mallandaine was a bad sleeper ;
it was his habit to rise early and wander
about the grounds and park, and this is what
he read aloud, Nellie listening intently to
every syllable, 

For it is the property of crime to extend
its mischief over innocence, as it is of virtue
to extend its blessings over many that deserve
them not, while frequently the author
of one or the other is not, as far as we can
see, either rewarded or punished.'

He paused here, tossed the hair from his
brow as if forming a dauntless resolution,
but some struggle full of darkness checked
him.

Heaven help me,' he muttered, ' if my
just vengeance has been instrumental in
adding to Aurelian's agony ! '

Aurelian ! Who could this woman be
whose name caused him such keen emotion ?
Was it some girl he had loved ? '

Nellie knew now that the stranger who
had come to her assistance amid the crowd
on the Regent Street pavement, and who
had appeared among the audience at the
circus, watching her in the tigers' cage, could
be none other than the son of the Squire of
Brooksmere  Captain Leonard Mallandaine.
And Nellie, with the infatuated folly of
girlhood, believed that light and bliss were
about to shine on her path.

She could see him from the corner in
which she had squeezed herself, with the
bloom of the purple passion flowers around
him  a strong, dark, stately head thrown back
among vines and green leaves, a cold, scornful,
passionate face, like a painting by one of
the old masters  a beautiful face, lit with the
glow of intellect and feeling  a noble nature,
and yet devoured by some unseen bitterness.

So entirely centred were his thoughts on
one idea, a hidden dread, he seemed to have
lost all sympathy with the world. His
passions, fiery and strong, were, therefore,
locked in or drugged to rest by it. He
walked in a world apart, indifferent to all.

It would perhaps have justified Mrs
Fog's predictions of Nellie's future had

she seen the girl stealing out at the front
door on tiptoe. She wanted to watch Captain
Leonard, herself unseen, and from the
angle at which she stood she was hidden
from his view.

She did not know he had risen as she left
the little parlour. They both, therefore,
stood face to face by the porch, Nellie
longing to beat a rapid retreat indoors
again.

Languid and careless, he took in every
detail of her luxuriant loveliness, the golden-brown
hair, wavy from curliness, about her
brow, the flash of pearly teeth between red
parted lips, the rise and fall of her bosom,
and the quick changing blushes that came
and went under his gaze. Then suddenly
she turned pale. She forgot she was beautiful,
and she knew she was a slave.

Captain Mallandaine recollected where he
had last seen her lying wounded in the
circus stable, with the dark crimson stain
upon her neck and shoulders-and

how on earth have you found your
way here } ' he said, smiling. ' A night or
two ago you were braving the fury of the
wild beasts.'

It is through you,' said Nellie, passionate
under new emotions, and speaking the
truth in her ignorance.

He regarded her with amused surprise,
her eyes uplifted to his as they had been
when the crowd waved before her in Regent
Street ; as they had been when her courage
failed her in the tigers' cage, and the magnetic
power he possessed over her had
seemed to give a glory to death, a charm
to pain, rapture to despair.

How am I responsible ? *

I don't know,' Nellie answered, her eyes
burning, * but  '

Can you walk a little with me down this
path ? ' he asked, smiling again.

He was in the mood to catch at any incident
to change monotony, to caress any shy,
timid animal that was pleased at his notice,
to find solace in the society of any unreasoning
human creature.

Nellie obeyed. She could no more resist
him than a purple butterfly could help
the delicate poise of its wings in the air and
sun.

He said gently,  ' You have a history
to relate.'

It was all through Regent Street,' said
Nellie, half tearfully.

She knew what that memory had cost her.

Regent Street ! ' echoed Captain Allan
surprised.

I had been starved for days, and I ran

away. I crossed many squares and streets.
A great thirst seized me. I had a longing to
steal, to do something wicked, and be put in
prison. It would be an end. I knew if I
went back I should be kicked and beaten,
and made to work. Some people stood
around a large shop. I followed too, and
looked, and in looking a great terror seized
me. I was starving. The fruits and flowers
in the next shop had maddened me with
longing for them, but my terror changed all
that. Now you understand. Ah, surely
you remember ? '

The Captain shook his head. Nellie had
clasped her hands, her head bowed.

I fell down on the hard, hot pavement,
and you pushed the people away and came tome,
lifted me in your arms, and took me
home. I prayed then, and thanked heaven
for the first time in my life, and then the
other night you looked at me again. I
remembered it all. It was a living dread
to me, and I ran away  this time never to
return.'

He was silent. This clinging, supplicating
manner and voice touched him. Perhaps he
read something underneath it that did not
displease him. It had vibrated through the
electric chain of feeling.

How did you come to Fog's cottage ? '

Through Monsieur Lepelletier. He has
been good to me.'

Leonard shrugged his shoulders.
You will hate domestic life } '

I shall not mind  it will not be so
hard if'

What was the name of the woman at the
circus who rode the " Chesterfield colt ? " '

Madame Juanita Dalton.'

Did she ill-treat you ? '

Always.'

He looked at her musingly.

Nellie Raymond ! ' cried a harsh metallic
voice.

She started, but she feared not. She
was too happy now to care what these
people might say.

You will not let them beat or starve me,
will you ? ' she said, gazing up at him with
languid joy, and a sense of safety and protection.


1 ? My dear child, you are very strange.
You had better run in now and do your
work.'

Nellie Raymond,' said the gardener, coming
upon them with measured footstep and
intent. ' Thou imp of Satan, wherefore art
thou not employed ? I'll have no circus
tricks here, and the daughter of the wanton
shall have no home under our roof.'

Faculty said Captain Mallandaine, ' I
alone am answerable for this young girl's
idleness. I will not have her punished,
harassed, or over-worked. Be kind to her.
I command it'

Ah, but, master, young wenches want a
deal of talking to and looking after, and ne'er
a room touched nor breakfast seen to  '

The Captain laid his hand on her golden
hair.

Obey him, child, and be patient.'

VOL. I.

solves-the

AVENGER OF DISHONOUR.

I love her though her thoughts are straying
To one who sleeps the dreamless sleep

Of death, though 'mid her sighs are playing
The hopes o'er which her visions weep.'

HEN the Frenchman left NelHe,
and turned his steps in the direction
of Brooksmere village, his
mind was absorbed with two recto
discover the name of the woman
concealed behind those barred windows of
the west wing of Stupefied Hall, and to
ascertain what caused Captain Mallandaine's
gloom.

Two years ago the Captain's sister, Aurelian
Mallandaine, had been living with her parents
and brother at the Hall, when Levels
offered her marriage ; he was then
bitterly poor, she a spirited, dashing girl of
rare beauty and brilliant gifts. It was reported
a duke had aspired to her hand, and

then again, in defiance of her father's wishes,
it was stated she had resolved to be an
actress ; others declared her the authoress of
some remarkable poems that had made considerable
sensation in literary and artistic
circles ; then again it was said she had
eloped with a sculptor, and lastly came the
news that Aurelian Mallandaine was dead.

She was in her nineteenth year when she
dismissed her poor suitor with very little
compunction. He was, at least, twenty years
older than herself; he was poor, eccentric,
and obscure. Lepelletier left the Hall in a
hot fit of rage, certain that Leonard had indirectly
influenced his sister against him, and
naturally hating him in consequence, he left
Brooksmere, vowing never to return. He
travelled, drank, and gambled, nearly died
of destitution, but speedily revived on hearing
that a large fortune had been left him by
a distant relative, of whose existence he had
barely ever heard.

Aurelian also went away, and he learnt indirectly
that the dashing beauty had changed.
She was suffering, so it was given out, from
a species of religious melancholia ; she was
in the hands of priests and nuns ; she had
given over writing poetry to pen prayers ;
she fasted and saw visions ; she meant to
take the veil.

He heard that she ultimately did so ; and
he, in passing afterwards through Italy, was
shown a lonely grave, where they told him
Sister Aurelian ' was buried, having died of a
fever peculiar to the climate. The sisters at
the Convent of the Bleeding Heart had wept
bitterly at her mention.

Lepelletier honestly believed this story till
lately, when, returning suddenly to England,
he visited the Mallandaines, and the mystery
of the humble relative suggested thoughts
and fears.

Lepelletier had but few relatives, but there
was one  a distant cousin  a certain Colonel
Oscar de Beriot, in the Hungarian service,
who had been passionately in love with
Aurelian Mallandaine, and Lepelletier had
reason to believe the girl had favoured this
cavalry officer in preference to himself. Oscar
de Beriot was a lawless, mocking, heartless
Lothario, the terror of husbands, the
idol of women, the hero of drawing-rooms,
brave as a lion, without conscience, heart, or
honour. This man had been killed in a duel
on the Belgian frontier, and Lepelletier had
reason to believe Aurelian had withdrawn
into a convent in consequence of his death.
That Oscar de Beriot had met his death
in a duel at the hands of some injured
man, whose honour he had outraged, was

about the most likely end to be expected
of him.

Lepelletier had hated Colonel Oscar de
Beriot as the poor hate the rich ; the soldier
had snubbed his despised cousin, ridiculed him
on many occasions, laughing sarcastically at
his beating male. Lepelletier felt he had now
the best of the situation, for he was rich, and
Oscar de Beriot had perished at an enemy's
hands. What enemy '.

Lepelletier, like most of his race, could
console himself with the pastime of love-making
in the society of two such antitheses
as Madame Juanita, the circus rider, and
Laura Branscombe, the perfect and splendid
woman of fashion, but his passion for Aurelian
Mallandaine had possessed a touch of fanaticism,
increased by his own naturally morbid
illusions, and he was now by no means sure
that the young poetess rested in her convent
grave.

As he entered the village, he saw his
former enemy, the Cuban, approach. He
was dressed in deep mourning, and instead
of passing him by with vindictive glances,
he uncovered his head and held out his
hand.

We can afford to be friends,' the Cuban
said mournfully, his hand on his heart.

Have you come to request a loan of me ? '

Lepelletier asked, smiling as he tilted his hat
on one side.

Alas, mori ami ! Have you not heard
Juanita is dead ? *

Since when ? '

Since last night. Killed by a fall from
the Chesterfield colt. She would ride him
bare-backed in defiance of all.'

Poor Lucretia ! and died in harness after
all.'

She fell on her head, broke an arm, and
expired instantly from congestion of the
brain.'

What an end ! '

Shake hands  English fashion,' said the
Spaniard, with effusion. ' She was a fine
woman. I know she favoured you latterly ;
she wanted those rare diamonds you once
showed her. Dalton had five hundred
pounds to marry her, so they say. The
poor fellow's quite cut up, and he's talking
about Nellie Raymond. He knows something
about her history, and he says if
she had her rights  '

Rights be hanged ! Wrongs rule the
day  besides, she will amuse me by-and-by.
Try a cigarette ? No } Well, non ami,
I'm sorry to hear of your loss. Fate might
have spared our Juno ; but she made sadly
too much flesh lately, and I always thought

the Chesterfield colt  he was your gift, you
know  would be too much for her. He'd a
touch of the wild and savage mustang breed
about him, and not all the bits in Christendom
can rule them.'

He shook hands with the Cuban, and went
on his way. Some doctors would be expecting
him about three o'clock at a house in
Southampton Row.

He caught an express train, and arrived at
the London terminus about half-past one,
and after lunching, presented himself at the
house where he was expected exactly at the
hour arranged. Two bearded, silent, dark-visaged
men received him in the hall, and led
the way to a room at the back of the house on
the second floor, where a young girl, apparently
about nineteen years of age, was lying
on a couch in a corner near the window.
The doctors glanced towards her. She
made neither sign nor movement, and had a
strange, somnambulistic air.

Lepelletier,' one of the doctors said slowly,
this is the second occasion of our meeting.
Give me your hand.'

The Frenchman shivered faintly, his
eyes fixed on the pallid features of the
woman.

His hand glided into the doctor's without
further speech, while the spectral features of

the sleeper quivered, and, for a moment, a
kind of tremor passed over her lips and eyelids.


The other doctor merely watched them
indifferently from time to time with the coldness
of a Trismegistus.

The man who had addressed Lepelletier
took the woman's hand.

You may ask her any question now, and
she will answer,' he said quietly.

Lepelletier had turned deadly pale, his
tongue could scarcely form a sentence.

Who is living in the west wing of Staple-field
Hall,' he asked, ' near the village of
Brooksmere, Exeter ? '

There was a minute's silence ; the doctor
again bent over her.

A woman,' the voice answered, clearly and
distinctly.

Describe her.'

She is young and beautiful ; she suffers,
and now she prays aloud on her knees. I
cannot follow the words ; the words are
senseless, so also is she. Great grief has
brought her to the state in which she now
is. There are two people with her ; one is
her brother.'

Aurelian, then, lives ! ' cried Lepelletier ina
hoarse voice, ' and it is she ! '

Tell us of her thoughts,' said the doctor.

Impossible. They are often veiled and
shapeless, but there is one name she repeats
incessantly  Oscar de Beriot.'

The Frenchman trembled from head to
foot, drawing his breath hard.

The traitor ! ' he muttered. ' The pitiless
traitor! Oscar de Beriot is the cause of
Aurelian's anguish.'

She is praying aloud before a crucifix,'
the woman continued, in the same soft
tones.

And what does she say 1 ' he asked breathlessly.


There was a pause, and then the dreamy
tones again caught his ear.

'' That is our marriage bell. Do you not
hear it, Oscar 1 To-day is the bridal. Listen
to the bells. We will be buried together,
dearest. No, no, he comes  the murderer !
Leonard, you have killed my lover  you
have killed your sister, and he loves me. I
must kiss his brow once  just once  and his
lips. Oh, my tears ! Why am I not dead
and quiet in the grave ? " '

Lepelletier's terrible presentiment then
was true. Oscar de Beriot was a traitor,
and Leonard Mallandaine, finding he had
forsaken his unhappy sister, had challenged
him to a duel and killed him.

It was all horrible, ghastly, and true.

Aurelian, with her instincts of sacrifice, had
been the slave of a passion.

That splendid mind, then, is a wreck ; but
I will see her again,' he muttered. * Leonard
shall not dare to keep her thus concealed from
my view ; but once  great heaven !  just
once to behold her ! '

A sad history,' said the doctor, who had
not hitherto spoken.

It is the story of a good many women's
lives,' the other answered.

The somnambulist now arose, the doctor
having passed his hand over her brow, and
she retired, leaving them alone.

When a woman has genius, love is often
fatal,' the doctor continued ; ' It brings torment.
The mind cannot overthrow or conquer
its sinister influence.'

I could have learned to reconcile the
thought of her burled in a convent grave,'
Lepelletler muttered. * I could have pictured
her as the guileless, innocent saint,
penetrated with divine influences in keeping
with her purity and refinement. That she
has been destroyed, and by him, will impart
a spring of bitterness to my every thought.
Blessed would have been the sleep of death ;
terrible must be the visions of anguish during
the vigils of the night.'

He rose, shook hands with the two mysterious

doctors, and passed down the stairs
into the noisy streets and the light of day.

As he turned the corner of Tottenham
Court Road, a magnificent barouche and pair
dashed up to the kerbstone, and two ladies
bowed most graciously, one with a hot flame
on her well-powdered cheek, and the other
with a pretty, but studied smile.

The elder of these was Laura Branscombe,
the younger her step-daughter Vivian, with a
skin of satin, and pale brown hair tightly
drawn back off her low, retreating brow.

She vas a fashionable beauty, or rather, as
she wished to impress on her admirers, a
professional beauty, which implied greater
distinction and honour ; her eyebrows were
faultlessly pencilled, so also were the dark
shadows under the lashes.

She had been presented at court by her
aunt, Lady Annersley ; her photographs
sold at three and sixpence a-piece ; a short
review of her life had been given in various
papers, the greater part of which was false ;
she was described as musical and romantic,
when she was more indifferent than intellectual.


All that could be said in her favour was
that her head possessed the necessary smallness
fashion demanded, that her dark blue
riding habit fitted to perfection, and that she

rode like a trooper. She was very tired of
everything, and bored by admiration, although
she craved it with an appetite sharpened by
success.

So delighted to see you,' Mrs Branscombe
cried. ' Of course you'll come to dinner
to-night at Prince's Gate .''

Mrs Branscombe's dress was composed
of the richest pompadour silk, trimmed
with coquettish little bows, a mantilla of
Spanish lace was fastened on one side
with a flower, and a duchess hat with
saffron-tinted feathers completed her toilet.

The ladies had been shopping, Vivian
having taken a fancy to having her boudoir
refurnished, choosing pure white panelling,
with white gilded furniture. As an acknowledged
belle, Vivian Branscombe was capricious,
and her wealthy father indulged her
tastes in every way. Whether buying two
guinea bouquets or two hundred guinea
thorough-bred, she never thought of the
value of money, and in applying belladonna
to her eyes, or veloutine to her delicate
pearl-like skin, she was always serene and
inflexible, seldom enthusiastic, even over
millinery.

Lepelletier pressed Laura Branscombe's
well-gloved hand lightly as he declined her
invitation to dinner. He was in no mood

for worldliness, he felt morbid and depressed.


My father was asking to-day after Captain
Leonard Mallandaine/ Vivian said, with
the faintest show of interest in her manner.
Is he well ? '

'He is still devoted to a solitary life,'
Lepelletier answered.

Some one, he was sure, here laughed ashe
spoke. He glanced up quickly and saw
a dark, pock-marked woman seated behind
the ladies with the footman. She wore a
large black bonnet and cloak ; her face was
veiled, her thin hands beat nervously together.


Did you not hear a laugh, Miss Branscombe
? ' he asked.

Get down at once, nurse,' said Vivian
haughtily ; * go into that shop and ask them
why they have not sent home the sewing
machine I ordered.'

The nurse descended slowly, and the look
she turned on the spoilt beauty Vivian was
not pleasant. The narrow, serpent-like eyes
gleamed, and then turned dull with pain.

Old servants are quite too horrid and
dreadful,' said Vivian sharply, so that the
woman could hear. ' If I'd my way I'd send
her to the union.'

Oh, would you, my lady, indeed ? ' muttered

the nurse to herself, and laughed again,
this time quite rudely.

Mrs Sidewing,' implored the footman, ' do
mind your manners. You're getting as fond
of liquor as Bob himself.'

Mrs Sidewing scrambled to her feet, choking
for breath, and as the footman approached
her and touched her arm, she shook him off
fiercely.

I'll have no help, I want nothing o' you,
you powdered dandy-loafer ! I'll just go
back the way I come.'

Mrs Branscombe, the creature positively
defies us,' said Vivian languidly, appealing to
her step-mother, and leaning back in her soft
laces and grenadine costume of palest rose-colour,
her little hands encased m gris perle
gloves, and her hat of fine white straw, with its
trimmings of rose-coloured satin, well over
that pearly falsehood  her narrow brow.

Lepelletier was whispering something into
Mrs Branscombe's ear ; she was too absorbed
to listen to Vivian's querulous remarks.

There was a look of fury in the nurse's
face, as if some passion, kept down for years
by dogged patience, was slowly coursing
through her veins.

Is it only for this,' she muttered brokenly,
that I have slaved and lied and sinned all
these years, and loved her and kept silent }

Ah, to give body and soul, and receive but
taunts, and I want to kiss her when I touch
her '  shivering  ' I want to kneel to her
sometimes, and fold her to my heart. Dear
heaven, it is cruel to have worked and lived
a miserable life only for this all these long
years.'

THE FIRST KISS OF LOVE.

Nothing is more loving than the entreaty of her gaze,
No lily on a tendril more tender than her grace ;
Than he, no one more stricken, such the gloom upon his
face.'

HEN Nellie re-entered the cottage,
after parting with Captain
Mallandaine, she saw her master,
Faculty Fog, take down a
gigantic Bible covered with red cloth off a
shelf, and gaze at her with the air of a Brutus
about to sacrifice his firstborn, as he turned
the pages deliberately over. She knew by
instinct she should never like her master ;
his cottage already seemed like a prison, for
she had been used to a life of emotion, an
prosaic occupation, with a faint jingling
of fame and applause generally going on
around her, and Faculty Fog, with the Ten
Commandments written on his iron visage,

petrified her, as a poet might be chilled by-contact
with a grave digger armed with a
practical spade or trowel amid the flowers of
some woodland plain.

Mrs Faculty seemed less objectionable, for
she had addressed some kind words to the
outcast, but as she descended to-day in a
pale slate-coloured gingham morning-robe,
carrying some new laid eggs and raspberries
in a little wicker basket, Nellie saw an
angry glitter in the green eyes, such as an
elderly woman's might reflect who, expecting
a nice, comfortable hot cup of tea, finds
neither fire nor kettle prepared.

A pretty thing, indeed, Nellie Raymond,'
said her mistress crossly, *for us to comedown
to our breakfast and find you gallivanting
about with the Captain.'

There were sundry upheavlngs and palpitations
of that capacious bosom, which the
chapel-goers of Brooksmere regarded in the
light of some handsome if fleshly envelope
enfolding the unseen spiritual loyalty of the
soul.

I'll have a word with her by-and-by,'
said Faculty, briskly.

Eh, dearie me, and not even the fire
lighted, or a bit o' wood chopped,' gasped
the Echo, venturing again on an assertion
unprompted by her husband.

VOL. I. G

Nellie Raymond said Faculty, severely,
crossing his legs and addressing the culprit,
come here. I see you have evil yearnings.
I find you have neglected your duties  after
supper and slumber, too  under our roof.
You, therefore, leave our situation this day
week. The godless heathen who brought
you hither, may remove you quickly from
our sight. Wife, fry me a slice of bread
with the bacon ; I think I could relish It.'

'Ah, but. Faculty, give the girl another
chance,' said Mrs Fog, who saw the tears
start to the dark blue eyes with their curling
lashes.

I know,' said the gardener, turning over
Proverbs with a black-marble expression of
countenance, 'that if Nellie Raymond lives
with us, I may be tempted to be harsh with
her, and endeavour to eradicate the sins,
which I can see are too apparent.'

Oh, sir, let me stay. Give me just
another chance,' said Nellie, sobbing outright.
' I'll really work hard, and be a good
girl and obedient. I've no home in all the
world, no fr  '

Silence, Nellie Raymond. I look into
the future. I see you walking with our
young master, the Captain, and I'm a deal
too attached to the family to let a pretty
young wench get hold over him to give

another stab at his fathers heart'  Faculty
here wiped his eyes with a crimson bandana
handkerchief, and Mrs Fog, looking at the
ceiling, spied a cob-web, which annihilated
sympathy and sentiment as speedily as water
on a bee's wing sends him off a flower 
*and you were talking freely to him, such
as no modest girl would do to a stranger
and a superior ; and young men will be
young men. I shall, therefore, send you
out of the reach of all danger and harm,
for you have beauty of a certain kind. Ita
snare to the flesh, and a sure temptation
to the senses.'

Is that my fault ? ' said Nellie, piteously.

I can't help being pretty any more than you
can help being ugly. I'm not a toad, or a
newt, or a lizard,' twisting her cotton apron
into all sort of shapes.

She almost hated her beauty, as something
constantly thrown in her teeth as a
reproach.

Faculty started to his feet enraged.

Go out of our sight ! ' he roared, flaming
all over.

Very well, sir, I'll go,' she answered.

'Tisn't likely there would be any kindness in
the world for me. You can read the Bible,
and send me out of your house, and think
you'll go to heaven all the time. Why,

thieves and murderers couldn't be harder to
a poor girl.'

You hear her, wife ; there's insolence.
She's been used to speak her mind and mix
with a bad set, the scum of the earth, lawless
criminals. We shall next have her setting
the place on fire.'

When am I to leave ? ' asked Nellie,
coldly, checking her sobs.

After all it was a miserable sort of place.
To toil and moil here from morning to night
would be horrid, and Captain Leonard, fanning
her rebellion, had told her she would
hate domestic life.

This day week. In the meantime I'll
look about for a place for you. I'm not so
harsh and unjust as you think. I'm not
going to turn you out to starve. It's for
your good I am sending you away. I'll
inquire down in the village, or maybe at
Exeter tomorrow, and see whether you can
be employed.'

Don't send me far away,' said Nellie,
in a dull, low voice, clattering the knives and
forks on the kitchen table, and then burning
pages of the Exeter Gazette in her excitement
as she endeavoured to light the fire.

Anywhere near the man with the ivory-pale
cheeks and brow, any hopes of seeing
him pass to and fro, any chance of a kind

word, a look, a smile. Yes, it had already
come to this. Nellie felt the keenest
interest, an undefinable sympathy in the
welfare of the grave soldier with the dark,
shadowy hair, command in his eyes, yet
oppressed by gloomy scorn. She was in
that chrysalis stage of amatory development
when a girl does not know what to do with a
passion tincturing every thought like invisible
poison fumes, or volcanic smoke finding its
way unknown into every corner of the heart.

She rushed hurriedly from the room, considerably
startling Faculty by her sudden
exit. How she hated him, sitting there  so
hard and prim and grave ! Nellie was in a
curiously vindictive mood. Faculty's greatcoat
was hanging on a peg behind his bedroom
door ; some barbaric instinct made
her rush at and slaughter this harmless
garment by cutting the lining in several
places.

I'll be as wicked and as bad as ever I
can be,' she thought, flinging herself on
her little bed in a passion of hysteric sobs.
Work for him !  no, the old hypocrite,
and his poor simpleton of a wife afraid of
him, too. They may turn me from their door
to-day ; they may kill me, or I'll kill myself.
I don't care which.'

She was glad she had cut the coat-lining ;

she wanted the irreproachable Christian to
be enraged on Sunday. How angry he
would be at chapel  leading with a hymn,
too, before addressing the Winneford Brethren
 when he found stray flapping of loose
lining around him like wings with broken
pinions.

There was no breakfast, no work for
Nellie to-day ; instincts of rebellion were
rife within her ; she looked out of the ivy-decked
casement, beyond the red roses and
passion flowers, and saw Captain Allan
the primary cause of her mutiny,
standing on the centre lawn with a magnificent
deerhound at his feet.

She seized her little straw hat, flew down
the corkscrew staircase, nearly breaking
her neck in her speed, and ran towards him.

He was rather annoyed this time at Nellie's
approach. He was smoking a strong
cigar just after having swallowed a cup of
cafe noir, and he was reading a letter from
Vivian Branscombe, inviting him to join a
select party on board her father's yacht, the
Comet, at a certain time off Southey.

Vivian's elegantly pointed Italian hand
was very agreeable telegraphy, and Vivian
herself, cold, fashionable, and uninflammable,
charmed him by her very contrast to himself.
She was the very last woman living to make

his sorrow hers, or care for his grief, or
enter into his hopes, and yet Leonard Heed
to watch the Hght eyelashes sweep the delicate
oval cheek, and feel the sortie of her
soft, satiric speeches, and her strange, careless
grace.

The hound started to his feet and growled
as Nellie approached.

To heel, sir,' said Leonard, angrily,
saluting Eros with his boot, and holding him
by the collar, determined to snub, if necessary,
this very youthful and eccentric helper of the
Foggs.

He gave me notice,' said Nellie, looking
pleadingly into his face, ' because I
spoke to you '  she never called him ' sir,' 
it seemed to her with her tender homage and
reverence, as if he must read and understand
all in the humility of her tones and manner 
'and says I must leave this day week.'

For what reason ? '

He spoke coldly, watching that deep flush
of colour rise under his gaze, and wondering
if the development of the mind and senses of
a little savage beauty might repay him the
trouble.

Leonard was an emotional epicure ; he
had, as he declared, no Oriental weaknesses ;
flashing eyes, and melting lips, and ' ruinous
lilies in languid hair,' for him had no lure.

but for the patient, striving spirit, the piercing
fancy, the kindly sympathy, he had the keenest
admiration ; perhaps he required more
highly strung mental evolutions of rapture
and despair than the ordinary unthinking
sensualist and fool.

And Nellie answered, impetuously 
Because he said I was pretty. Do you,'
demurely  ' think so, too } '

Leonard considered this question demanded
quick reproof.

You have no right to ask any one that,
and even if I thought so, how would it affect
you ? You had better go back to your work
and duties in the cottage.'

Oh, don't send me away from you so
soon ! ' said Nellie, sobbing again. * It
can't harm you letting me be with you now
and then, can it ? And it makes me want to
live. If there was anything I could do for
you  if it was in laying down my life to save
you an hour's sorrow, I'd do it. I'm only a
poor, ignorant girl, I know. Be kind to mea
little as you are to your dog.'

Her voice vibrated like chords, and her
face was pale and set. She had something
else to say besides appeal. It was about
himself and his enemy, but speech was very
difficult, since he had turned away his head,
watching the rays of the morning sun alight

on corn fields, park, and woodland till a dusk
flame seemed to warm them anew.

The man who brought me here is no
friend of yours,' said poor Nellie, trying
to interest him. ' He said'  lowering her
voice, and looking towards the barred windows
of the west wing of the gloomy mansion
"that he would find out who you locked
up there," ' pointing to the house. ' Who is
Aurelian . '

The Captain drew the cigar from his lips.

Aurelian ! And how did you hear that
name ? '

You spoke it aloud as you sat on that
seat by the window, and I listened and heard
it. Is she'  hesitating  'some one you are
fond of, that you shut her away from the
world ? I think,' said Nellie, quivering,
if I loved any one, I'd be jealous of the
very wind that touched their brow, and of
the air they breathed.'

Is this some romantic simpleton seeking
a hero ? ' thought the Captain, flinging his
cigar away.

He remembered Vivian Branscombe as
Nellie spoke  Vivian, the heiress and
beauty  cold, passionless, successful Vivian,
who snubbed her step-mother, and ridiculed
her paintings, and got on so well with her
father, Bernard Branscombe, who made a

pet of her, and showered gold on her every
caprice.

He intended to marry Vivian some day,
if she would have him, and, glancing at the
letter she had written him, he did not think
there would be much difficulty about that.

Nellie was patting the hound in defiance
of both teeth and growls. Vivian would have
shaken a three-guinea point cTAlenfOit handkerchief
scented with ' Parfait Amour,' and
requested Eros should be removed or shot,
had he evinced similar hostility at her
overtures.

Mind he doesn't bite you,' said the Captain,
glancing at her shoulder.

It had been nude and bleeding when he
had last seen her, lying in the rough circus
stable ; but how fair the skin beneath the
crimson stain  how glorious the golden-brown
tints of the sunny, flower-wreathed
hair! He remembered he had helped to
remove a false but glittering necklace from
her throat, and it was then the velvet-lidded
eyes had opened, and she had tried to smile.
Their looks mingled once again, and in
mingling they had loved.

But Leonard did not understand this. We
often wait hours, days, and weeks to thrill
beneath the music of the symphony that
fatal prelude announces.

I'd never care for a dog's bite,' said
Nellie, fondling him. ' Once, when I was
very little, one of our performing poodles 
Marengo, they called him  bit me on the
arm ; but Jack burnt it all out with a red-hot
iron while they held me down.'

Eros can be very nasty,' said Leonard
quietly. ' Don't try him too far.'

He likes me. He's not savage really.
See how he's changing. It was only when
you came that night among the audience,
and looked at me in a searching way that
I felt frightened, and something fluttered in
my throat. What was it ? '

After all, she is but a poor, ignorant girl,
accustomed to speak her thoughts,' he mused.

The vibrations of her voice were, however,
blending with and stirring rare under-currents
of feeling, thrilling his senses unconsciously.


'You see me now,' said Nellie, 'in a
hideous cotton frock. How could you think
me pretty ? I wish you could see me in
my white muslin dress all spangled, and gold
shoes, and my hair undone. Then you might
not want to send me away quite so soon, but
teach me something about another beautiful
sort of life, such as you think of when you
are not sad.'

Nellie,' said Captain Mallandaine, smiling

in spite of himself, *do you so often
think of me ? '

She pointed to the lake, on which dead
leaves were falling one by one, borne along
by the stream.

I thought just now you were like that
lake, and I a happy leaf dead on its breast,
but so happy, because I was near you. Then
again in Regent Street, when you carried
me to the cab, I felt a mad longing to thank
you and put my arms about your neck 
just once ; but a sort of dumb trembling
stopped me speaking. A long time ago I
jumped into the river because I hated my
life, and some boatmen took me out ; but
I never felt glad  only sullen and wretched.
There was no joy in finding myself alive 
then,'

I little dreamt of meeting a siren of this
description here,' thought Leonard, ' ready
to meet me with innocent love in her eyes
and voice. She doesn't understand good
and evil, right or wrong. No young slave
of ancient Rome, no wild witch of Asia, no
Helot before her Greek master could be
more untutored in civilised ways. Have
you ever been to school ? ' he asked, wondering
why he felt elated at her worship.

Never. I learnt to count through being
beaten for falling off the tightrope, and

once, when I had a dreadful fall through
a net breaking, I was laid up ten weeks,
and the doctor came and sat with me, and
lent me books and explained things, and then
an old woman with thin hands came, and
sat and mumbled to herself and talked to me,
and said perhaps she'd come again and take
me away ; but we moved on so quickly
from place to place that I never saw her
afterwards.'

Did no one else Instruct you ?'
Yes, Jack Dalton taught me to write
and read on Sundays when his wife was
tipsy. He never let people be rough tome,
and kept me mostly to the horses.'

Of course, you ride superbly ? '

Oh, if you could let me show you how
I can ride,' said Nellie, enthusiastically,
you might like me better then.'

Like you better ! My dear child, there
can be no question of liking betvveen us.'

Nellie shuddered. It expressed better
than words the force of the insanity possessing
her.

But if I did you a great service,' she
said, again tearful, ' and saved you from
your enemies, or died for you, would you
quite forget me .' '

He glanced at her warily and incredulously.
She amused him as a wanderer

in a desert might welcome some rare
bird with golden plumage, that longed to
hop on his hand and be fed with smiles.
She cared nothing save as he was pleased.

I never minded when the people hissed
or jeered in the circus, or I got a knock
or a bite ; but I do so care,' said Nellie,
touching his arm, ' that you will let me see
you sometimes. I'll go to Exeter and work
in a shop, as they want, but to look into
a thousand faces for long years and never
see yours, why, better be a leaf, a happy
little dead leaf on the lake there.'

Nellie,' he said, softly, ' why do you
care for me like this ? '

Because you are great and kind, and
you are sad. You hate foolish antics and
fine women who are false and cruel  Monsieur
Lepelletier said so. He's quite different.
I am very ignorant, but all that seems
clear to me ; and why shouldn't I, who
have no home or friends and hate everybody,
learn at last to think of one personas
men think of the sun in heaven T

Poor child ! '

If I'd been very common, or quite unlike
you, I should have liked stupid dances and
jokes and horrid men, and made hateful of
money. They offered me gold to sit for my
portrait, and Jack Dalton wanted to take me

away to live with him ; but no, they told
me I was pretty  that gave me hopes, and
I remembered you.'

Ignorant and barbaric as she was, he
felt implicit faith in her. Had she been
less innocent she would have locked up
her secret, and adopted artful wiles and
laid her little plots to win him. A more
vulgar and artful nature must have been
entrapped by greed and gain.

Nellie,' he said, throwing a pebble into
the waveless waters of the lake, ' I can
trust you. Tell me what Lepelletier meditated
doing against me.'

He meant to use sorcery  mesmerism
he called it  to find out who the woman
was you had hidden away. Do you,'
hesitating, ' live alone at the Hall ? '

At present I am alone. Would you like
to come and see my home ? I will take
you through the picture galleries.'

Like it. Oh, so much ! ' she said, with
a little tremulous laugh, and followed him
across the dewy lawns, where the stately
peacocks were pluming themselves in the
sun.

He took her first to the stables. Three
magnificent thoroughbreds and two hunters,
with dark, glossy coats and fiery eyes, met
their view. They were faultlessly groomed,

as the stillness of their arched necks
testified.

Nellie's face beamed with pleasure. She
might be able to show him now that she
could do at least brave and daring acts.

In the paroxysms of her weeping, the
hard coil had been shaken down, and the
golden rain fell in splendid showers about
her arms and bust.

Vivian Branscombe, her fortune and
fashion, faded out of his mind. Conventionalism
did not fascinate at that moment.

Are these your horses ? ' she asked
passing her little dimpled hand professionally
over their sinews.

Yes, they are. Two are hunters. I
send them to the borders of Exmoor when
in the mood for a red stag hunt. Exmoor
is one of the loveliest spots in Devonshire.
The beauties of river, woodland, and cascade
are frequently comprehended In one
view.'

Why couldn't I go to Exmoor and hunt
too } ' she asked, after a pause.

Nellie, that is naughty. You must never
ask such questions. If you are going to
be my little friend, you must try and learn
something beyond riding.'

The horses are lovely,' said Nellie,
characteristically, and as she spoke she

sprang on one like the little wild Arab that
she was.

Mind, he's a brute to kick,' said Captain
Mallandaine, feeling the situation ridiculous,
for his two grooms, Musgrove and Barney
O'Flynn, were looking on and grinning from
the harness-room.

Nellie, in her cotton frock and dishevelled
hair, rosy, panting, and breathless, seated upon
Rosicrucian, that had made his teeth meet
last week In Barney's arm, was certainly a
strange sight.

Rosicrucian curled back his lip and dropped
one ear In a singularly vicious way ere biting
the manger and lashing out with his hind-legs.


Oh, he's a beauty, and isn't he playful ?'
said Nellie, proud of her feat. ' How we
would race the red stag at Exmoor together,
and chase him Into the river !' she murmured,
forgetting the Captain's reproof.

Is master a-going' to take up with that
there young heathen Chinee, I wonder ?'
asked the sober-minded coachman, Perclval,
who had served the family, man and boy, for
the last forty years.

H officers are that queer in their ways and
whims, they're like so tired, ye see, of grand
widen, an' ballet gals, drink, an' cards,'
said Musgrove, winking at Barney. ' Depend

VOL. I. H

upon It this is some pretty tramp our Captain's
picked up off the common.'

Faith, an' she's a rale beauty intirely,'
said Barney, approvingly. * Only got to dress
the child up a bit, and instead o' dancing on
that brute's back, why, begorra, she'd make
the men dance a pretty tune after her.'

Get down, Nellie  don't be absurd,' said
Leonard, who had overheard some of their
remarks.

But at that identical moment, Nellie,
flushed, excited, and mischievous, unknown
to the Captain, had saddled the thoroughbred,
and wheeling him round, galloped out
of the stable-yard, leapt a low fence, and was
taking him round the park at the speed of a
plater.

Gad 1 she's off, and no mistake,' said Percival,
who had joined the grooms.

Faith, an' it's sorra a halfporth that Faculty
'full bless the little vixen,' said Barney, delighted
at the scene. ' Sure, she rides like
a jockey. 'Deed, an' he'll pack her off pretty
quick, for the civil must be in a wench to
make the savage baste obey her at all at all.'

The Captain's brow darkened. He was
very angry with Nellie. He found admiration
for unconventional ways, and beauty had
its limits.

It's the last time she shall ever dare do

that,' he muttered, calling to Eros, who seemed
inclined to follow the thoroughbred.

And yet he could not help admiring Nellie s
riding, the ease, the grace, the rapidity, and
the daring of it all.

She took the viciously-disposed horse three
times round the park at full gallop, and then
brought him up to the stable door, where the
Captain awaited her.

There, I'm better now,' she said, flinging
herself to the ground. ' That was a capital
spin, and done him no harm. He wanted it
taken out of him.'

The horse's sides were flecked with foam,
and he was in that pleasant condition of being
what equine critics emphatically call * blown.'

The grooms grinned at each other, as well
they might.

There's work for you, Barney,' said the
coachman. ' He's all of a white lather.'

Leonard did not commence his lecture in
the hearing of his servants. He banged the
stable door to, again called to the hound,
and followed Nellie through the yard to the
park.

Do you know that you have made me
ridiculous, and been most disobedient ?'

Nellie trembled from head to foot at the
tones, but this time no tears came. She was
too excited to weep. Her worship and her

homage were too over-mastering, and she had
so hoped he admired her skill.

I wanted you to see how I could ride,'
she said, timidly, half-turning her head, and
pale at his chiding.

I knew that was among your accomplishments
when you came out of a circus,' he said,
furiously. ' I was going to take you over the
Hall, but you'll be doing some other wild and
silly tricks. If you ever ride my horses without
permission, I'll never see or speak to you
again, or have anything more to do with you.'

Nellie's face had undergone many changes
as he spoke. All the light died out of it.

Was '/. so wrong ?' she asked, piteously.
Oh, forgive me ! I was never taught. Hard
words from you I cannot bear. Forgive me.
I meant no harm.'

She had clasped his hand unconsciously.
Her idol had reproached her.

You break my heart when you speak so,'
said Nellie, shivering all over, and looking
like a rose shaken by a winter wind.

She was trying to roll up the ends of her
hair with one hand in the hard knot which
Mrs Fog approved of.

Won't you say you forgive me } ' she
pleaded. ' I'll never go near the horses
or make you angry again.'

So lovely were those fresh young lips

pleading for pardon, so infinite was the grace
of her ways, so entrancing the effect of her
physical beauty, and the alternate charm of
rebukes and humility combined, that Captain
Mallandaine yielded for once to an ungovernable
impulse.

He anticipated her yearning for love by a
kiss which thrilled both their lips and hearts
like two worlds approaching, by some magnetic
process, nearer together, moved and
warmed by a radiant sun whose burning rays
hasten the oncoming of summer. And in the
first flush of all passion we can never fathom
the difference between the past and present
states of feeling when there exists the
memory of a kiss.

THE LOSS OF A DIAMOND NECKLACE.

Vivian BRANSCOMBE is sitting
before the lace-decked mirror in
her dressing-room, her chin buried
in her hands, apparently oppressed
with thought. Is the spoilt belle in love ?
Has the favoured * beauty woman ' found
some careless lover disdainful of her charms ?
Has all the gold showered upon her from
her extreme youth brought mere weariness
and vexation of spirit ? Can there be a limit
to the enjoyment of dressing, riding, and
flirting ? Her exquisite shoes of fine kid,
buttoned at the side according to the
latest fashion, have been kicked off in
sudden disgust and ennui, and when a
beauty's restless feet deal havoc to her
shoes, we may be sure that floods of tears
or furious words, or the frantic perversity
of the spoilt child of wealth and fashion,

are about to culminate in some tremendous
anti-climax.

Leonard has never answered my note,'
Vivian murmured, driving her silken-covered
foot again into the despised shoe. * Why
does he keep away from me, and shut himself
up in Stupefied Hall ? I almost wish
there would be a war, and then we could
read an account of his bravery in action.'

Shall I dress your hair, miss, for your
ride ? ' asked the lady's-maid, Morton, respectfully,
her young lady's tantrums being
clearly revealed to her astute observation.

I don't know,' answered Vivian, abstractedly,
and sighing.

If you please, miss, a gentleman begged
me to leave this for you to look at,' said
Morton, who had pocketed a sovereign by
the transaction. ' He waylaid me as I was
crossing the road, and he says, '' Do you
come from that angel, the beautiful Miss
Branscombe ? " '

So ridiculous,' muttered Vivian, looking,
however, delighted, and sparing the other
shoe.

And I says, ** Yes, sir, I'm her maid."
Then, says he, " Give her this, and tell her
one as watched her last night from her box
in the theatre, and dreams of her by night
and by day, begs  " '

Oh, how many more, I wonder ? ' the
beauty cried, stretching her lovely arms
above her head. ' The fellow's a pickpocket,
I daresay. These adventurers are always
on the look-out for something to turn up to
their advantage. What is it  a begging
letter, a likeness, or some idiotic poetry ? '

Vivian opened a crumpled envelope, and
read these lines : 

Alfred de Lancy entreats the favour of
an interview with the beautiful Miss Branscombe.
He played the part of Claude Melnotte
when she visited the Prince's, and is
ravished with the memory of his charmer's
eyes. He feels that Miss Branscombe must
be either his death or destiny. If he could
only be a servant in her household, even a
footman, or groom  '

Here, Morton, that's more than enough,'
said Vivian, laughing. ' The very idea of
such insolence ! Groom, indeed ! He'd
better not try any nonsense on of that kind,
or I'll have him worshipped.'

She put the letter in a box on her
dressing-table, and thought no more of the
matter. Morton also pocketed de Lancy s
sovereign, and meant to appropriate more.

Vivian's step-mother, Mrs Branscombe,
Writing letters in the library, and Bernard
Branscombe, busy in his study, signing contracts,

settling mortgages, and buying up
old country mansions long gone to rack and
ruin, were hardly what the moralist would
call choice specimens of the model couple so
sweetly embodied in that charming ballad,
John Anderson my Jo

The Branscombes were still at Prince's
Gate, though the London season had long
ended, but they intended yachting very
shortly, and the ladies evinced no particular
desire to retire to Bernard Branscombe's
fine old country seat, Beechwood Manor.

Vivian flung open her wardrobe door, and
selected the newest riding-habit she possessed
; it was splendidly finished by a West-end
tailor, and was composed of the finest,
darkest blue cloth. All the snobs and toadies
of Vivian's acquaintance, and various young
idiots of good birth and no money, having an
eye to Branscombe's gold, paid the spoilt
heiress that exaggerated homage which only
accompanies the promptings of self-interest.

Branscombe's faculty for money getting
and Vivian's hauteur and beauty formed a
safe and amusing topic for the toadies, and
whether Vivian were lolling indolently back
in her father's carriage or flashing past them
in the Row on her dark chesnut mare, there
were plenty of admiring ' by Loves ' and ' by
Georges,' and * ohs ' and * ais,' which Vivian

regarded no more than the Princess of Wales
might pause to consider the value of mincemeat
for the Christmas pies.

As the heiress lifted her riding-habit some
impulse made her open her Coromandel wood
dressing-case, and taking a small gold key
attached to her chain, she opened the box
and ran her eye carelessly over the jewels.

Presently she started and hastily turned
the gems out on her dressing-table. A very
fine and valuable diamond necklace of small
but rare rose diamonds was missing.

A curious tremor seized the girl ; it seemed
as if a spectre had laid its icy grip upon her.
Vivian was not constitutionally nervous 
quite the contrary  but she had a prescience
of coming ill, of something unsound and
dangerous about her path, connected with
the loss of the diamond necklace. She
uttered a low, smothered cry of fear, and her
face had an ashy pallor, not from a sense of
loss, but from a hidden and impending dread.

Morton,' cried Vivian, imperiously, ' you
remember my diamond necklace  the one I
always wore with my violet and white velvet
dinner dresses  well, it's gone ; no mistake
about that.'

She flew downstairs and rushed into the
study in which Bernard Branscombe, her
father, sat among his deeds and papers, in

company with Mr Warrington, the family
lawyer.

My dear Vivian,' said her father, motioning
her to a chair, ' whatever is the matter ?
My nerves never could stand the banging of
doors.'

Bernard Branscombe was a very small and
slender man, with a thin, keen face, an
aquiline nose, and small, shifting, pale blue
eyes. Why he was so rich must have astonished
any physiologist or phrenologist
regarding his organs and faculties, but is
it mind that is necessary in getting on ?
Decidedly not. Given lucky chances, gross
unscrupulousness, and no feeling or imagination,
and the successful soap-boiler, contractor,
or merchant will coin wealth like others of his
kind in a world which makes money without
pleasure to itself.

His little blue eyes seem to open and shut,
and retreat back again into his head like
those of a sleepy alligator. An honest
citizen, a thorough man of business, always
in a hurry in his office, and fond of charging
columns of closed envelopes with a paperknife,
he was decidedly not a pleasant man, nor
one to be taken too familiarly by the hand.

Papa,' cried Vivian, forgetting to salute
the lawyer, * only think, my diamond necklace
has gone.'

Then she stopped. She had been pale
when she entered, but now the colour darted
all over her face with rage.

The rose-diamonds gone ? ' said Bernard
Branscombe, adding up some interest. ' Why,
they were my wedding gift to your mother,
Vivian, when she was Emily Gregson, and
before she did me the honour to elope with
my bosom friend, Hubert Rudersheim.'

I hate to hear of my mother's name,' said
Vivian, savagely ; ' it enrages me. Think,
papa, how she disgraced us.'

Pardon me, my dear Miss Branscombe,*
said the lawyer, taking up cudgels on behalf
of the absent lady. ' Your mother is
now very happily married to Mr Hubert
Rudersheim, and I don't like to hear her
traduced by her daughter.'

Did she care what became of me ? ' said
Vivian, passionately. ' Did she not forsake
me soon after I was born, and leave me to
the care of strangers ? '

Emily had no maternal instincts,' murmured
the forsaken spouse, who had long
consoled himself.

If it had not been for my dear father's
goodness in sending for and adopting me,
and reinstating me in my true position as his
heiress, I should have drifted on the world a
creature of chance. I don't forget that I was

born pending the separation and divorce of
my mother and Mr Branscombe, and that
she left me to the tender mercies of miserable
mendicants.'

Emily was always thoughtless and selfish,'
said Mr Branscombe, wearily; 'yes, and
weak, I don't know why all women should
strike me in that light. And why did I send
for our child ? Because I found my second
wife Laura as incompatible with me in her
tastes and disposition as my first.'

You are singularly unlike your mother,'
the lawyer said thoughtfully, addressing
Vivian, ' she was weak and yielding to a
fault, but she spoke kindly even of her
enemies ; she always tried to repair any
injury she had worked. There'  pointing
to a large oil-painting over which was hung
a velvet curtain, which he drew aside 
is the ideal portrait of Emily Gregson in
all her youth and loveliness ere your father
married her. Look at the sweetness of the
lines of the mouth, the satin-lidded eyes, the
arched brows, the golden hair ! Tell me,
Branscombe, did you ever see eyes with so
dark and lovely a shade of blue ? '

Yes, Emily was very beautiful,' calmly
replied the husband who had lost her.

I'm very glad, indeed, I don't resemble
my mother,' said Vivian haughtily. ' There

was nothing to admire In her conduct, not
even in a worldly point of view. But now,
papa, we won't rake up stale dead and gone
memories re-covering the portrait. ' It's
about my diamond necklace  it's gone to a
certainty, and some one must have stolen it.'
Stolen it ! ' echoed both men, in a breath.

Oh, nonsense, Vivian,' said her father.
You've mislaid it, my dear, and will find it
in some corner of your room.'

I tell you, papa, I've long had reasons to
suspect the woman you have such implicit
confidence in. Nurse Sidewing defies me to
my face, and drinks terribly, all the servants
say. She and her wretched husband have
no right to be encouraged in our household.'

But I'm partial to old servants,' said Mr
Branscombe, quietly. * She knew the people
at the house your mother fled to, and where
you were born. For a long time I resolved
never to see you, but I must do Mrs Side-wing
the justice to say she left no stone
unturned to reinstate you in your proper
position under my roof.'

But now, papa, about my necklace. I've
a strong suspicion Sidewing has stolen it,
and, if so, you will not spare her because she
is simply an old servant. You will let justice
be done and make an example of her ? '

Mr Branscombe looked uncomfortable.

I hope there will be no need of anything
of the kind,' he said ; ' but suppose, my dear,
you ring the bell and order Mrs Sidewing to
come to us here.'

At this moment Laura Branscombe, wearing
a rich gros-grain black silk with robins
of pale blue satin, glided softly into the room.

She was a magnificent-looking woman
between thirty-eight and thirty-nine years of
age, her complexion that of a clear brunette,
her hair blue-black and drawn off a wide, low
brow.

An air of sadness, but one of resolute and
dauntless spirit and determination, was reflected
in the lustrous brilliancy of her dark
eyes ; she suggested the idea of a woman of
genius, whose life was broken or incomplete.

Laura Branscombe had none of the
splendid ingratitude, the cold sensuality, the
selfish forgetfulness of a woman of a merely
fashionable circle ; she had a man's talent
with her sex's fatal weakness of organisation,
hence the struggle of her life.

Laura,' said her husband, in an acrid
voice, in which, however, was command,
how was it you came home so late last
night after all the household had retired to
rest ? Although my room is at the back of
the house, I heard you come up the stairs.'

Vivian smiled, glancing at the lawyer.

Does Mr Branscombe desire to know
where I was last night ? ' asked Laura, with
an abstracted look. * At my sister's, in
Grosvenor Square. Some young people
looked in, and somehow we knocked up a
little dance. She sent me home after in her
carriage. It was a nice change.'

Were you alone ? '

Mr Branscombe, I did not come here to
be cross-questioned in this way,' said Laura,
angrily, her large brows darkening. * No, I
was not alone.'

Mr Warrington looked grave. He had
often pitied the passionate, beautiful woman
tied to this little cold, dry-adust man of
business, who ought to have married a very
mild ' Rosa Matilda ' sort of person with the
average pretty female feebleness.

And who had the honour of bringing my
wife to my door at three in the morning 
London, remember, is not Rome or Naples 
but the charming Frenchman, my friend
Lepelletier ? I heard the leave-taking, it
was worthy of French comedy  the kiss on
the extended unloved hand, the tender ma
chere, the smothered reproof. I know I'm
not a too careful or jealous husband, but one
objects to this sort of thing, you know ; it's
past all bearing when one's wife is brought
home by her lover.'

So you dare at last to insult me, and before
them, too,' said Laura, coming a step
forward.

Lepelletier will be Marquis de Rocheville
some day,' said Mr Branscombe, coolly.
He's an utter scamp, always remember that
a man of words, morbid, because soaked
in absinthe, noisy, heartless, and selfish to
the core, and in the sere and yellow leaf of
ap-e, such men are worse than in their hot
youth.'

Mr Branscombe was not quite a dullard ;
he might have been so unlucky as always
to marry the wrong woman, but he could
estimate high-sounding commonplaces at
their just value.

Laura had sunk into almost pathetic
silence.

The lawyer lifted his hands in mild protest.
The family trials of the Branscombes had
already put many pounds into his pocket.
He now sees in the future a probable scandal,
and in the present a brisk conjugal passage
of arms.

When I married you from off the stage,
Laura, in defiance of the advice of all my
friends, it was part of your trade to assume
any part. I was warned you were extravagant
'  Mr Branscombe shuddered  ' still
extravagance does not affect me, but why

VOL. I. I

will you persevere in acting still ? One of
these days your social play will have a sorry
ending. Spare me in the meantime any
domestic melodrama, or else leave my house
altogether.'

Laura's blue-black hair contrasted strangely
with her pallor. She griped the back of a
chair for support, her bosom heaved. The
lawyer darted forward, and, seizing a bottle
of Vivian's smelling salts, offered them to
Mrs Branscombe with a few kind words.

It was a painful scene ; it somehow excited
his compassion.

Must I pay the price,' he heard her gasp,
or forget Gustave ? '

Burning tears were in her eyes, a sort of
feverish rage seized her ; he thought of
Phaedra as she swept from the room.

A valuable helpmate,' said Mr Branscombe,
with unpleasant irony, his little eyes
retreating into their sunken orbits ; ' there's
conjugal sympathy and affection ! '

You are unlucky in the selection of your
wives, my dear Branscombe,' the lawyer
said gravely. ' Mrs Branscombe is a clever
woman  I almost said a woman of genius ;
her paintings deserve to be immortalised.
You wanted a homely fool, a pleasant,
common-place person, too dull to doubt anything.'


All artists are peculiar,' said Vivian ;
they are so exacting, and expect such a
fuss made about them.'

If Lepelletier has turned her head  he's
one of your fast Parisian scoffers, a gambler,
and a duellist into the bargain  Laura will
be ready for any madness, and when her
pride becomes secondary  Oh, yes, my dear
Warrington, you'll have plenty more work
with us besides mortgages and contracts.
And now let us see about Vivian's loss of her
diamond necklace.'

Vivian rang the bell sharply, and it was
speedily answered by the young footman
Joyce.

'Say we desire to see Mrs Sidewingatonce,'
Vivian said, shaking the laces on her sleeve.

Joyce was absent a few minutes, and then
returned, looking graver than before.

If you please, miss, nurse Sidewing refuses
to come.'

*Ah, Vivian, you and that woman never
did get on well together. Humour her, my
dear child, humour her by all means,' said
Mr Branscombe, anxious for peace.

I hate her,' said Vivian, vindictively ;
and if I find it is she who has stolen my
necklace, may I not have the matter looked
into, and give the thief in charge of a
policeman !'

We could not permit dishonesty among
our servants, but I fancy, Vivian, if your
diamond necklace has gone, you will have to
look further a-field for it.'

Vivian meanwhile left the room, and descended
into the servants' hall.

She found the nurse knitting a pair of
woollen stockings, and partaking of a lunch
of bread and cheese.

You refused to obey my orders,' said
Vivian, haughtily.

Mrs Sidewing moved her head so suddenly
that her heavy black lace cap rolled sideways.
She seemed half-dazed as Vivian spoke.

She still kept her eyes fixed on Vivian, and
as she looked, that former catching of the
breath paralysed her speech, and the thin
hands began their old nervous trick of beating
restlessly together.

Oh, yes, I hear you,' she said, seizing her
knitting-pins.

Are you aware that my diamond necklace
is missing ? ' asked Vivian, coming a step
nearer.

The servants all started, and glanced from
one to the other.

Missing, is it ? Well, I daresay it 'full be
found again soon,' said the nurse, with the
scant courtesy she usually gave her young
mistress.

Is that the way you speak to me ?' cried
Vivian, losing all self-control. ' Do you know
that I have my father's permission to track
and punish the thief who has stolen my necklace
? I know it is stolen '  she paused, with
her usual self-satisfied air,  ' and I shall most
certainly send Joyce with a note to the chief
inspector at Scotland Yard, and ask him to
step up and make inquiries and investigations
here.'

As Vivian named Scotland Yard, Mrs
Sidewing had shifted her former position.
Crimes and mysteries were as familiar to
the clear-sighted officials there represented
as audacious romances to French dramatists.

The woman had by this time shuffled onto
her feet, and put her hands before her
eyes.

' Come here, miss, a minute, will you,
please ? ' Mrs Sidewing said, moving quietly
away from the servants' hall. * I want a word
or two with you as private as possible.'

There was now a look in her eyes that
Vivian had never remarked before, and which
literally frightened her. How can we account
for that sudden flash of instinctive terror,
unrevealed, save through the medium of expression
?

Mrs Sidewing understood she was getting
a mental mastery over Vivian, and smiled.

All the girl's grand airs of assumption and
superiority faded, and she actually followed
the nurse meekly out of the servants' hall into
the sumptuously furnished dining-room, with
Its dark crimson curtains, Its panelled walls,
and rich velvet furniture.

Mrs Sidewing seated herself very composedly
on the crimson velvet couch, and
then the threatening look again darted from
her eyes.

She's a coward, after all, like him,' she
muttered, so low that Vivian could not catch
the words.

I've borne your Insults a long time,' said
Mrs Sidewing, wearily, and calculating the
effect of every tone. ' Please remember this.
Well, then, I tell you to mind what you're
about, for I'm like a snake that can  ' Vivian
stared at her In dead silence, her heart beating
strangely, but there was more to hear.
A snake with poison, as 'full be the ruin of
you and your grandeur, and your hopes, assure
as ever you come the policeman dodge
over me.'

Oh heaven ! what do you mean ?' cried
Vivian, trembling all over.

And then, where's your fine lover Captain
Mallandaine's promises, and where's all your
friends as dances about you as if you were a
queen } '

' I repeat, what would you imply ? ' murmured
Vivian, trying to keep her mind perfectly
clear.

What I says. No more nor less. Leave
me alone ; don't flourish your nonsense over
my 'eat afore the servants, and master, and
missus, and I'll leave you alone. I've been
kind to you. I was fond of you, but you've
a black, bad, bitter 'part, my dear, and some
day, miss  oh, my 'eat, 'ow it do throb  that
there snake-like nature in me 'full get the
better of me, and I'll be sorry after, but I shall
spring and strike you down.'

Vivian had ceased trembling. She knew
there was danger  an awful, invisible, and
yet tangible danger known only to this terrible
old woman, towards whom she had been
always so hard and merciless.

Mrs Sidewing started to her feet, and
rushing over to Vivian, threw herself sobbing
by her side.

Oh, dearie, dearie, a little love, a little
kindness, for pity's sake ! Oh, my dear, I'll
not 'arm a 'air of yer 'eat ! I'm so ill and
weak, an' he's a bad 'husband to me, is Bob.
He's got a cruel 'part, an' a bitter tongue ;
and a bad 'husband is a trial, miss, ain't it '. '

You must be mad, nurse Sidewing,' said
Vivian, trembling again.

The existence of some fearful and destructive

secret unknown to her, and which yet
might bight her life and hopes, had been
revealed in that lightning flash of passion in
the woman's words, and Vivian was at heart
a coward.

She had a peevish sense of injury and
anger, but she would like the curtain folded
well over the secret, and not force the hand
of destiny in removing it.

I must smooth her down, and keep my
temper,' the heiress reflected.

All her swaggering manner had gone ; she
was cowed and overawed.

Nurse, did you really take the necklace ? '
said Vivian, prepared to let her keep it, and
send for no policeman, sooner than again
hear those fearful threats.

No, dearie  I took no necklace. Why
can't you say a kind word to your poor
old nurse as cared for you when you was
a little 'un . '

A new terror seized Vivian. Something
in the woman's manner and tones, allied
with her past warnings, had brought a fresh
train of thought and suspicions.

Nurse,' said Vivian, lifting her hands to
her brows, * am I really like my mother  like
that blue - eyed simpering doll in the old
painting .* '

The nurse's thoughts wandered to the

memory of a sick young child, with a broken
arm, and dark, lustreless, wan eyes, uplifted
entreatingly for love  a child that shivered at
the harsh tones in which it was addressed,
and that had cried through weary nights,
praying to die.

No, my dear  you're not like your
mother. She left you in the care of an old
woman at Exeter, and paid her a good sum
to take care of you ; and then I talked to
your father, and he quarrelled with Madam
Laura  she's got the temper of a dozen fiends
and he sent me to find you, so as to spite
Madam Laura, and made you his heiress. I
went to Exeter'  her face here changed
again and quivered  ' and I brought you
back to your father's roof.'

Nurse said Vivian, pale again, ' I was
wrong to be so unkind to you, but I never
quite understood how  how good you've
been to me, nor how bad it was of my
mother to forsake me.'

And you'll leave poor nurse Sidewing
alone in future, dearie, won't you, and not
want to send her to gaol ? And here's Bob,
I do declare, a-staggerin' at the area gate,
and over he'll be and no mistake, for he's as
drunk as a lord, as the saying' goes.'

Mrs Sidewing darted after her objectionable
husband  a gentleman who invariably

levied black - mail whenever he found a
chance  and drew him into a little room
adjoining the kitchen.

Bob was a drunken actor whom Mrs Side-wing
 then Martha Appleby  had fallen
deeply in love with years ago and had married,
prior to the occasion of some festivities given
on the return of Mr Branscombe and his
second wife, Laura, to Beech wood Manor.

Well, wife,' said Bob, throwing a limp
tie on the table, ' I am as usual in want
of money, and money I'll have, or I'll find
out where our girl is, or what she died of.'

Mrs Sidewing felt in her pocket, and ultimately
produced a brown leather purse, out
of which she deposited ten sovereigns.

Capital ! Quids, and good 'uns, I'll be
bound ! '

He spun a sovereign in the air.

Don't ye want to know 'ow I got 'em,
Bob ? Oh, my 'eat ! It'll burst one of
these days.'

I never ask impertinent questions of
ladies,' said Bob, slyly. ' Don't you want
to know how yours truly has been getting
along ? Models have a hard life. I've sat for
five cavaliers, Martha  one combing his hair,
another on a pair of high steps, the others
moody military parties preparing for a
charge.'

'You've never done a proper day's work
for years.'

Bob threw himself Into a telling attitude.

When our little girl was born you were
only Martha Appleby. You were a good
ten years older than me, and uncommon
loving. Don't forget I made an honest
woman of you afterwards ; and now get
me some beer.'

And why did you marry me ? Because
of the thousand pounds from master, never
to let his bride 'ear of that child born at
Exeter afore the divorce, but after, when
they quarrelled, he was very glad to adopt
her ; and she's a real beauty, is Miss
Vivian.'

Bob snapped his fingers in his wife's face.

It was never very clear to me, my dear,
how you got rid of our little daughter,' said
Bob, looking at the money  ' no, nor where
she was buried, nor what she died of ; but
as long as you pay me I'll not rake up bygones
; but I sometimes think our little 'undid
not die, and that you may have changed
the children  you're bad enough for anything
 and that her they call Nellie
Ray'

Hush ! ' cried Mrs Sidewing, starting up.
I thought I heard a cry.'

A pale, horrified girl had listened  a

shrinking form staggered backwards as these
words were uttered.

Can she have stolen the diamond necklace
to pay him ? ' muttered Vivian, a light
breaking in on her.

And with a piercing shriek, she fell senseless
to the ground.

Nellie's position improves.

Know you not
Such touches are but embassies of love ?'

Captain MALLANDAINE declared
to himself that Nellie was
pretty ; he may even have gone
further, and used the latest modern
phrase of drawing-room slang to express his
feeling, 'quite too awfully pretty,' as she
reddened in surprised delight after that
dangerous kiss.

But never aoain,' muttered this son of
Mars, shaking his dark head. Men, when
they first begin to tumble over head and ears
in love, always say ' never again,' in recalling
some fatal amatory skirmish. ' Never will
I give another chance to the enemy of our
souls in leading us both neatly to perdition.'

Easier to stop Ixion's wheel than the
multitudinous fancies of love. Like a man

who sees rare and golden fruit ready for his
hand to gather, but to grasp which he must
needs wade through dark and sodden pools,
so the Captain resolved to close his eyes and
heart against the fatal fascinations of this
half-gipsy girl, unlike other gipsies, however,
in the fair, Greuze-like tints of her complexion.


He saw ' Danger' written in capital letters ;
Rocks Ahead ' of an alarming character, and
one never exactly knows what form or dimensions
temptation and mischief will take
after that first indefinable sympathy has been
aroused between two of an opposite sex, on
a bright autumn morning, with delicious
wall fruit ripening in a mild sun, and a
thousand fragrant scents wafted around by a
pleasant south-west wind.

Especially, too, when a pretty little
simpleton, who doesn't know what it is to be
heartless, lifts big blue eyes, shaded in with
dark curling lashes, like a Venetian beauty,
and seems to beg to be petted like a kitten 
an adorable little simpleton, anxious to tell
you, quite innocently, of course, after perhaps
a few more interviews of a like agreeable
character, that she thinks a person ought
to be ready to sacrifice body and soul, if
necessary, for the sake of an earthly love.

By Jove ! she's what one would call

intense, I suppose,' he thought walking
slowly towards the home of his ancestors.
Case of ignorance and intensity combined,
watching Nellie's little heels peeping in and
out under her cotton gown as she rushed
along the path back again to the cottage.'

The Captain was not unacquainted with
splendid ladies of rank and fashion, attired
in the latest aesthetic costumes or duchesse
hats ; women of a very different world
and stamp to the divas of South Belgravia
and St John's Wood, and yet who were
anxious to 'out Herod' these in eccentricity
of dress, luxury, and display. He understood
women fairly well, not with the exquisite
subtlety and platonic grace of a Balzac, but
with more than the careless analysis of the
ordinary man of the world. He could unveil
love's hypocrisies, and knew when fair lids
drooped from passion or coquetry, and when
alabaster necks rose and fell from emotion
or design. But he had never met with a
perfect, all-absorbing devotion.

Darling little dunce ! ' he mused. * I
daresay she's never learnt the catechism, or
looked at a fashion-plate, or even wondered
how she should dress her back hair. She's
natural as Eve in the garden of Eden before
the serpent  in other words, the world  set
her teeth on edge with the apple.'

The Captain's recollections of Regent
Street, its handsome shops, its elderly habitude
and various young members of the upper ten,
its wickedness, assignations, and demi-monde
were not of the embarrassing nature attending
many men's. Regent Street was now to him
the centre of a romantic train of thoughts,
and already a certain gloom seemed lifted
from his spirits ; a street pre-eminent in vice,
had yet brought romance to him in which
faint mystical pain and longing mingled.

He had been generous, brave, and unselfish;
he had avenged a beloved and injured
sister's honour ; he had become a soldier
instead of a littdrateur loving the shadowy
dreamland of thought and fantastic idealism
to please the proud and aged father, who
was so fond of boastings the Mallandaines
were a fighting race.

Why should he resign romance, innocent
love, an embodied poem ? Why fling aside
a flower, even it had been thrown in his path
and fallen at his feet, among the gaudy peonies
of the vice-trodden stones of Recent Street ?

Should he let Nellie fall more utterly in
love and amuse him, as if she were some new
but lovely specimen of original young female ?

But no ; this was not his way.

He was not selfish, but terribly tired and
hopelessly depressed.

It would not be so very difficult to fall
idiotically in love with Nellie for herself,
but the heir to ten thousand a-year proposing
to a girl who had never heard of ' Butters'
Spelling Book or the History of England, of
five-fingered exercises for the piano, would be
about as insane an act as that of the duke who
married an American oyster-girl.

The best way will be never to see her
again,' thought Leonard.

But what is this langiiorous charm stealing
over his senses, dispersing enmti and care ?
Nellie's little speeches had indirectly cheered
him, the innocent revelations of her thoughts,
her wild enthusiasm and latent poetic despair,
forced itself on a mind rich in that ideal faculty
which, if it makes not a painter or a poet in
creation, at least does so in appreciation.

Whatever will become of her ?' he mused.
She'll never stay with the Foggs, but be
perpetually running away after me, like a dog
that nobody wants, and that will not bear a
chain, and what on earth am I to do with a
girl who says she's willing to die for me, and
thinks it all perfectly right and natural ?'

Captain Mallandaine thought of breakfast
for the first time.

He rang the bell, ordered fresh relays of
strong black coffee, glanced indifferently at the
newspaper, seizing at last one of his strongest
VOL. I. k:

cigars, and, answering Vivian Branscombe's
letter, tried to forget the memory of Nellie
Raymond, the soft pressure of her lips, and
the witchery of the sweetest voice and eyes
in the world.

Poor old Vi,' he muttered. ' Wants me
to join them in the yacht, and talk about art
and poetry, which she religiously hates, as the
great green waves roll by, and the moonlight
throws up her pearl-like complexion. No,
my dear Vivian, I am too susceptible to the
marvellous utterances of the ocean. Your
worldliness would clash  you pretty mixture
of dynamite and clay  and I should be thinking
of my poor little dunce Nellie here, who
is like one of dear old Burns' poems  a jewel
in a rough setting, but, oh, how precious to
the heart'

When Nellie returned to the cottage, the
gardener rushed out into the passage, caught
her by the shoulder, and dragged her into the
room, his face white with rage. Black-legged
and terrible, he resembled one of those caricatures
of Don Quixote attacking a windmill,
so dear to the popular intelligence.

Mrs Faculty was wringing her hands and
crying.

Lite devil,' said Faculty, using strong language.
' Little monster,' spinning Nellie round
and round like a top, * what have you to say for

yourself? To come here and eat and drink
with us, and then to destroy our property  '

Three pounds gone  Literally wasted,'
sobbed Mrs Faculty, who was a saving
woman, and slept with a stocking full of
sovereigns under her pillow every night.
Might as well 'ave pitched it into the
gutter, and me a train' to draw the seams
together  a pretty thing, indeed, to cut the
master's best coat to pieces.'

And then to see her flying' through the
park on Rosicrucian  why, he won the Dart-more
Stakes last week  and our Captain
looking as cross and glum as could be. She
shall go to a reformatory.'

Faculty's strong hands were very painful.
Nellie shuddered  she had before heard of
a reformatory, and pushed the golden masses
of hair off her forehead with a cry.
Her little ears were scarlet.
Faculty had pulled them deliberately between
his sentences, as if they were aggressive
commas, bidding him pause, and Nellie
was shut up in her room for the rest of the day.
The next morning a loud double knock
resounded on the modest green-painted
door, and a splendid curricle and pair was
being driven away towards the Hall stables.

Mrs Fog had opened the outer door, and
was welcoming their eccentric lodger with all

the effusion that a woman who had read
Pilgrim's Progress' twice through during her
sixty-five years could manage to express.

It's well, indeed, sir, you've come,' said
Fog, going out into the passage, and altering
his former bass tones for the more flute-like
and metallic whine that made women weep
in chapel, and even startled refractory infants
into silence.

Ah, welcome as the flowers in May ! ' said
the future Marquis de Rocheville, who had
not yet heard the sequence.

He looked like a glittering basilisk, accustomed
to courts from boyhood.

M. Lepelletier was now dressed with the
perfect chic of a modern French dandy.

He was a true Parisian, a member of the
Jockey Club, and since he had come into
a fortune he generally backed all the wrong
horses with an enthusiasm incredible in a
man who hardly ever won ; he had the nose
of a bird of prey, and dark, swarthy skin ;
he was slightly rouged, and his moustache
had been so constantly gummed and oiled
by various brigantines and cosmetics that
it now darted out all over his mouth like
the prongs of a thin garden rake ; he wore
a black tie and blue frock coat, his boots
were new, and he was what the French
themselves would call ' tres beau garfOJiJ

This agreeable Individual, in developing
his dandyism, had endeavoured to forget
his grande passion for Aurelian Mallandaine,
but he had resolved on insisting that Leonard
should grant him an interview with the unhappy
victim of his cousin's treachery. In
indulging his natural taste for dress, he forgot
heroics, and wished simply to appear asa
gentleman of the first rank and fashion
combined. If Aurelian were sufficiently sane,
she might then appreciate the mistake she
had made in having preferred the cavalry
officer, De Beriot, to himself. It was not a
very delicate way of looking at the matter,
but a man who has been severely snubbed
and fifth-rate for years, naturally remembers,
and the free use of absinthe and liqueurs, and
cigars had dulled the not too keen sensibility
of the beau jargon,

Fog's eyes took in this extraordinary
picture at a second glance ; the gardener
had never seen so marvellous a metamorphosis.
Where had vanished the slouch hat,
the thick dogskin gloves, the long hair and
blackened pipe ? He understood M. Levels
was rich, but the arrival of the curricle
and pair, and of himself so transformed,
startled Fog out of his usual passivity. The
Frenchman was more cynical than ever, but
this time he dazzled  and he was beloved

by a woman whose genius should have enchanted
the world.

Some knowledge of Laura Branscombes
enslavement may have given fresh light to
his eyes, jaundiced as they so often were ;
some sense of her extravagant worship may
have banished that moral spleen which
poisoned his life.

This young girl you brought to us as
helper, sir,' said the gardener, morsels, * does
no end of harm.'

He looked delighted, and his expressive
eyes flashed warm admiration on
Nellie ; that blonde loveliness was finer
than the ordinary pink-and-white prettiness
of others.

Wants teaching, eh, Faculty ? ' he said,
airily taking out a silver cigar-case, inlaid
with fine tortoiseshell, ' and breaking in, and
that sort of thing ? What a complexion the
girl's got  superb ! '

Wants locking up, sir, in a reformatory,
and a good whipping. Just look how she's
cut my best coat to pieces.'

'Oh Nellie, Nellie,' said M. Levelled
laughing, ' is this the way you mean to
renounce the world, the flesh, and the devil ?
Well, Fog, don't look sulky. What's the
damage ? Will five pounds square it ?
And now tell me in what hath thy servant

sinned ? Sit down, Nellie, and don't
cry. I'll take care of you  always meant to,
parole d' honneur. Dry your tears with your
pocket-handkerchief, and be happy.'

Alas ! she does not possess that necessary
article. Her cotton sleeve goes to her
poor little eyes again.

M. Lepelletler good-naturedly throws her
his own superb cambric one, delicately
scented, and possessing a large coat-of-arms,
resembling a small Stilton cheese turned upside
down, with a Latin motto In one corner,
the whole worked by Laura Branscombe's
own fair hands.

Nellie dives after this splendid work of art,
and seems afraid to touch It ; she then sits
down demurely, thankful that he seemed Inclined
to befriend her.

When we came down yesterday morning,
sir, expecting our breakfast, and a fire lighted,
who should we see but that saucy minx
walking with but Captain Leonard.'

So soon '. ' said Lepelletler, shrugging his
shoulders. ' TImon clearly Improves.'

Fog had never heard of that misanthropic
heathen. He continued effectively, 

I went after her, sir, directly, just as I'd
knock a wasp off a pear, and when she came
In I reproved her sharply, and gave her
notice, telling her I would find her employment

away from here  I hope, sir, I know
my duty  when she runs upstairs and cuts
my coat-Hning, and, hang me ! dances off
again after the Captain, persuades him to
show her the horses, and then tears away
on one Hke a jockey three times round the
park.'

NelHe, is this true ? ' said M. Levelled
looking still more delighted  indeed,
quite loving.

Yes, sir.'

Nellie here hung her head.
Cheer up, little girl. I've an idea.'
She refused to cheer up, and again burst
out crying.

How would you like to go to school and
be taught beautiful things like a young lady,
eh, Nell ? Go in for the light genteel,
and all that  beginning with ABC and
ending with champagne suppers.'

He was very glad to find this 'last * moral
gun ' had missed fire as far as Fog was
concerned.

I should like It above everything,' said
Nellie, thinking of her idol, and longing to
surprise him with her cleverness.

Well, then, being rich, I can afford
to be generous. I'll pay for your education.
Give her a glass, madame, of
your best cowslip wine,' addressing Mrs

Fog, whose apple-green eyes had again
sought the cobweb, ' and look upon Nellie
as my little protege. Perhaps we'll make
her a singer, or a dancer, or  heaven knows
what ! '

Fog here appeared to be praying silently,
horrified at the Frenchman's levity. Mrs
Fog tried to look sympathetic as she picked
up the five pounds and nimbly conveyed
them to a long brown silk purse, from which
they would ultimately rest in her grandfather's
stocking.

Tell the old boy you're sorry, child
whispered M. Lepelletier, going up to
Nellie and offering her a rose from his
coat.

No, that I won't,' flushing scarlet, ' now
you've paid him. He's a horrid old wretch,
and I hate him.'

'Impassable cried the Frenchman. 'She's
delicious  raudace, toujours raudace. I'll
make her the fashion by-and-by.'

Nellie was afraid lest those thin dark
spikes surrounding his mouth meant to descend
on her head. Mrs Fog had hospitably
brought out long-necked wine glasses,
seedy cake,' and cowslip wine in a cut-glass
decanter, all of which the future marquis
declined with the air of a prince. He had
lunched sumptuously at the ' Woman in

White'  the one hotel in Brooksmere  off
hashed duck and beans an hour ago, washed
down with Moselle.

He hated Leonard for keeping his sister
here in secret, although he was particularly
grateful to him for killing de Beriot. And he
meant to see Aurelian again. He wanted to
study the ravages time and anguish had
effected in her supreme loveliness.

He was as subtle in his intelligence and
feeling as Rousseau, and there was morbid
satisfaction in beholding the wreck of the
glowing beauty who had dared to despise
him.

Mesmerism had revealed the hopeless
misery of the woman he had loved so madly,
and now he had come resolved on an interview.
He must behold the sweet brow
and eyes, with their terrible stamp of grief.
He must carry away the memory of a word,
or tone, or gesture with which to soothe his
imagination when absent from her.

Her mind had given way, but she was not
utterly mad. She would remember him, and
he fancied that, attired as a man of fashion,
some faint resemblance might be traced in
his features to those of his cousin Oscar de
Beriot.

At that moment quick steps were heard
outside on the narrow path.

Nellie knew whose they were, and
coloured, and spilt her cowslip wine over her
apron with an involuntary tremor of the
hand. It was Captain Mallandaine.

Lepelletier went out rapidly to meet
him, but the two men did not shake
hands.

Who am I like ? ' said Lepelletier, in a
dull whisper. ' Ah, you know, Leonard.
Do I not resemble the man whom you slew
in your just rage one grey morning amid
the Flemish fields ? You are alone answerable
for his death. Am I not like him 
your enemy  Aurelian's lover  Oscar de
Beriot ? '

A bitter smile curled about the Captain's lips.

I see you know all,' he said coolly,
'Acres?'

I have come, Leonard, to see her  your
sister  the woman I still adore, the woman
you have shut away in there,' pointing to the
old Hall, ' and I insist on an interview.'

I know you never spare,' said Leonard
slowly, kicking a pebble from the path.

The hour he had so long dreaded had at
last come. He breathed heavily, and leant
against the clinging ivy encircling the cottage
walls.

And the day Aurelian sees you she will
die,' he murmured, and turned away.

THE ACCOMPLICE IN A CRIME,

DRUNKEN actor, who in his
time has played Hamlet to
crowded audiences years ago,
when actors were by no means
so refined as now, in descending to play the
miserable part of model to various careless
painters, who regard him with the same indifference
they might bestow on a cat or a
parrot to be limned by them, naturally looks
about for some more agreeable way of increasing
a strictly limited income.

Bob Sidewing strongly objected to the
mild nagging bestowed on him by his landlady,
Mrs Maloney, when his modest earnings
had been expended in whisky instead of
in defraying the expenses incurred by the use
of an attic on the fifth floor  a wretched
little room, in which poor Bob took his meals
and counted the woodlice climbing on the

decomposed paper pattern, and smoked strong
tobacco, as he cursed his fate and the evil day
on which he made Martha Jane Appleby an
honest woman.'

That creature's been the ruin of me,' Bob
would say, sitting on the edge of his little
iron bedstead, while Mrs Maloney cooked his
penny bloater. * I know she's a bad 'un. I
feel sure she'd stick at little short of murdering
me if I nose again about Exeter and rake up
the past ; but to Exeter I'll go, nevertheless,
as soon as ever Mr Brook's finished his study
of me as Sir Peter Teazle. Lord ! how sick
I am of painters and painting, and the cramp
and backache.'

Bob had one solace besides his pipe, and
it was an ancient violin. Wonderful strains
of music would float amid the attics  pastoral
melodies, bringing before the tired sufferer's
memory visions of covered fields, green garden
lawns, and pale lilac clusters. Without
his pipe and his violin Bob must have surely
paid a visit long ago to old Father Thames,
and gone to sleep amid the slime and mud.

His music spread its charm even over
the stuffy first-floor apartments, and Mrs
Maloney would invite Bob occasionally
downstairs into her kitchen, to be regaled
on dried haddock and hot sprats, when she
had visitors who could appreciate Shake-special

recitations and the melodies he would
draw out of the beloved instrument, which
he had picked up a bargain  in Ardour
Street.

But something besides music and whisky,
penny bloaters and studies of ' old men had
now occurred to Bob. He had remarked
that whenever any allusion was made to a
little daughter supposed to have died and
been buried while Bob visited the United
States, his wife shuffled his questions and
evaded his replies as if she feared detection.
Detection in what ? The daughter, to be
sure, had been born before Bob bestowed
his name on Martha Jane ! but she had
always been passionately fond of the child 
almost, one might say, insanely fond of it 
and he never forgot the surprise his wife
manifested when, after an absence of six
years from England, he had suddenly appeared
before her, and was decidedly received
with the ' cold shoulder ' women
invariably offer to men they have learned to
hate.

I tell you, Bob,' Martha Jane had said,
in deep contralto tones, strongly resembling
those of a certain Mrs Macgregor who had
played Lady Macbeth in Connecticut, ' that
I'm sorry to see you. You've blighted my
life and broken my heart. I wish I'd never

worn your wedding-ring. I wish you were
dead ! The wild love I gave you years ago
has grown into hatred.'

To do him justice, Bob believed his wife
was half-demented. He never tried to soften
her hatred, to win back her tenderness. She
had frightened him with her murderous look
and low-breathed words of vengeance.

And now he fancied he had this implacable
woman in his power  that the snake was
tame and trapped. Possessed with this delusion,
Bob Sidewing had waited the due
completion of ' Sir Peter Teazle,' and was
now sitting in the small back parlour of that
highly-respectable public-house, the Roebuck,
with his old friend and crony of years gone
by  William Diggers, the landlord, who had
lived for the last five-and-twenty years in the
Crooked Billet,' a stray corner of Brooks-mere
village.

Bob Sidewing had, like other men, done a
good many foolish things in his time, but he
had never successfully robbed anybody, or
made money out of the misfortunes or weakness
of others. The man who blunders, and
robs his neighbours unsuccessfully, especially
if he happen to be poor, is sent to prison,
but Bob hadn't the capital or the chance
given him to make a magnificent failure 
ruin his butcher, tailor, and friends, and then

drive a beautiful carriage and pair ever after.
He had not the least intention of going to
prison or coming within the affectionate embraces
of Jack Ketch. He had both heard
and read of unfortunate men having their
heads jerked off under the mal adjustment of
ropes and drops, and Bob's head was too
handsome and marketable an object to sell
to painters for their * Sir Peter Teazle,' and
dying musicians, and old bric-a-brac men, for
him to run any risk of having it mangled or
otherwise maltreated.

But still, like the traditional roaring lion
seeking whom he may devour, the ex-actor
resolved to keep both his eyes and ears wide
open for any smart piece of business going
that might prove a gold mine to him. He
had never robbed, but why should he not
levy blackmail on the rich ? Family secrets,
like family diamonds, sold well. Social
poachers of Bob's stamp could have a rather
good time of it, he knew, without being
under the painful necessity of sitting for
troublesome baronets and stupid old bric-abra
connoisseurs.

He had been a very ' merrier,' jolly soul
in the good old times when he enunciated,
You should not have believed me. . . .
I loved you not,' and brought roars of
applause from the gods in the gallery, while

his * Alas, poor Yorick ! I knew him well
arrested the last succulent morsel of the
juicy orange from gliding satisfactorily down
the throat of some youthful chimney-sweep.

But now he was old  age must come 
and his back ached cruelly from the various
positions in which his natural tormentors,
the painters, insisted in putting him for a
shilling an hour. Bob had even been insane
enough to try his hand at light fiction at a
farthing a line ; but his powerful, sensational
story, although it had three double murders
and suicides, was not too well received, and
the 'Inspired Fiend; or, the Mystery of a
Love Charm,' went ultimately to light Mrs
Maloney's copper fire on a frosty morning in
December.

Bob had, moreover, discovered that there
was a certain ' loose screw,' a sort of revolving
peg, which he thought in the future might be
turned to good account, somewhere in that
superb mansion of the Branscombes at
Prince's Gate, with its three enormous
drawing-rooms, all leading into one vast
apartment through the withdrawal of slides
and panels.

Like Israel's king, Bob had found there
was little good under the sun, but that peg
was worth driving at, and on to this loose
screw, over which Martha Jane Sidewing,

VOL. I. L

his better half, presided, would he attach
himself, and extract therefrom those nice
golden guineas, that promised better things
than sprats and bloaters, cheap whisky and
mouldy jam, from which Bob's artistic soul
revolted.

I made an honest woman of Martha Jane
he would say in reference to that objectionable
female. ' It's only fair she should try
and keep an honest man of me, and times are
so extremely bad, and Copenhagen Street is
so extremely musty, that if Martha Jane don't
wish that loose screw in the Prince's Gate
household to tumble out, she must behave
generously, or I shall be driven to harsh
measures, and make more inquiries in a certain
matter my beloved M. J. seems singularly
anxious to avoid.'

Thinking of this. Bob had come to Exeter,
and moved by a still more virtuous desire of
investigation, he had journeyed to Brooks-mere
village, and was still seated on a
large wooden chair behind a basket of white
clay pipes, at the Roebuck, when the two
men Percival and Musgrove entered.

There was also another man outside in
the porch, bearing the appearance of a tramp
or gipsy, in a dirty, loose white jacket, fustian
trousers a good deal the worse for wear, and
a billycock hat, who took stock of Bob's

handsome head and profile through the
parlour windows above, especially when that
head was bent over some golden coins, which
Bob imprudently filtered through his fingers,
to startle Diggers the landlord.

Bob had scarcely perceived the man. He
only thought of Mrs Sidewing's donation often
pounds, and how very useful and pleasant
money was at all times and seasons. He
did not recollect Martha Jane's laugh, nor her
words of rage as she clenched her hand and
cursed his ascending form up the area steps.

A passionate woman, this ill-used wife of
his, he admitted, though plain and pockmarked
 with a decided touch of the diabolical.


Bob regarded the two new arrivals with
but languid interest.

To descend to the varied excitement and
amusement of a rat-fight in the back premises
of the Roebuck might suit these men, but
hardly an actor, for rats were brisk, lively
little brutes, he knew, with a knack of flying
at a man's throat when too hard driven.
Bob was in truth no sportsman. He handled
a gun like a true Cockney, keeping his eyes
on the barrel as if it meant to explode.

What d'ye think o' that cider, Bob ? '
asked Diggers, as he was drawing some prime
bitter six for the other two men.

Well, I can't say, my friend, that cider's
much in favour with me, for when one's
teeth are shaky, and the best of 'em can betaken
in and out, why, cider's bad stuff to
swallow,' said Bob, with the air of a man who
has a wine-cellar at home of rarest vintages.
Come, I'll pay for a bottle ; so square up,
and let's have a drink before the battle.'

Bob paid for the ordered bottle of the best
'47 out of his wife's recent donation ; and
as he spun the sovereign in the air, he
paused, and recollected Martha Jane's wiry
form and little weasel-like eyes, with their
fiery glow, as if the whirlwind of passion had
so convulsed speech that nothing was left for
the utterance of thought but gesture and expression.


How long could he calculate on fresh
donations ?

The tramp outside, who had drawn some
water in a cup out of Diggers's pump in the
yard, looked in again at the parlour.

Do any-of you fellows know anything
about the Branscombes of Prince's Gate ? '
asked Bob, indifferently, after each had
drained his second glass.

Branscombe ?' echoed Percival. 'Why,
ain't that the name of the people our Cap'n
visits in the season ? '

Ay,' said Bob, replenishing their glasses ;

that's it. Try a smoke, you chaps. The
rats and dogs can rest a bit, and won't eat
their heads off by waiting.'

He handed round a pouch full of strong
tobacco, inwardly blessing Martha Jane and
her money.

The tramp outside laughed. He had got
hold of the tough end of a stale mutton chop
given to him by some well-meaning cook in
the village, and his laugh was not pleasant.

Ah, Bob, you're so generous with your
money when you've got any,' said Diggers,
pocketing six shillings for the wine, ' that
your friends must look after you that you
don't come on the parish.'

Friends ! ' echoed Bob, lifting his glass.
My only friends are my guineas.'

Didn't some one move outside ? ' asked
Bob, opening the window and looking out.

The tramp remembered his trade.

For pity's sake, sir, a little bread or a
stray copper, just to 'help a poor man on 'is
way. Six starving infants, gents all, an'
sick wife.'

Bob flung him a shilling.

The tramp thanked him, calling on all the
blessed saints to protect and save him, shouldered
his basket, and then sat down on a
little rustic seat near a gnarled oak in that
charming portion of Diggers's grounds set

apart for pleasure, and called, ' Tea-gardens ;
bowling-green ; hot water always ready,' and
where young couples watched the moon rise
above the mountains and feathery firs, with
their arms entwined, and congenial sentiments
were interchanged, often ending in

hot water ' and a breach of promise case.

Didn't old Bernard Branscombe's first
wife leave him, and elope with an Austrian
wine merchant ? ' asked Bob, who knew
every particular.

So they say. I wish to heaven mine
would ! ' said Percival, who, after a third
glass was apt to enunciate strong anti-matrimonial
views.

Well, heaven be praised ! ' said Bob,
theatrically, taking out another sovereign,
and spinning it round on the table, ' I've as
good a wife as ever man was blessed with
here below. To be sure, she's not what
you might call much to look at.'

Wot's looks ? ' cried the other two men.

Diggers said nothing. He was addicted
to sultan weaknesses, the neighbours said.
No one had ever seen a Mrs Diggers, but
the landlord of the Roebuck admitted that he
had been disappointed in love, and was not a

marrying man.'

A man wants a tidy wench as 'full scrub
is floors, and cook a decent dinner, and put

by money for a rainy day, but a woman with
a dozen kids at her heels, a-screamin' and
a-yellin', and never one of 'em taken off, and
not a quiet corner for a man to 'ave 'is glass
or smoke a pipe in after 'is work, why, better
be a single man like Diggers 'ere.'

Still Diggers never spoke. This rural
Lothario thought of his Calistas with a smile,
although he ought to have looked guilty.

Oh, but looks count, my friends,' said
Bob wickedly. * Don't you like the feel of
your arm round a pretty waist, and a pair
of red lips pressed against yours, and the
glance of a merry eye '. '

Diggers nodded slyly. He quite understood
Bob, only he was too prudent to
avow it.

Without love,' said the actor, with suppressed
emphasis  * oh, believe me, without
love this world of ours is but a wintry plain
a summer without birds and flowers  a
garden of weeds at the best.'

But the worst o' pretty ones is they're
only fit to look at,' said Musgrove, who had
married a plain party, a green grocer's widow,
with savings in the county bank. ' There's
that young lady's likeness hanging in Cap'n's
study  as pretty a gal  and, mind, I know
wot the quality ought to be  as ever you set
eyes on ; but I wouldn't trust that there

young woman with the life of a kitten  if I
loved it'

Wouldn't ye, now ? ' said Diggers, on
neutral ground at last. * That's very
curious.'

What's her name ? ' inquired Bob, indifferently.


Miss Vivian Branscombe. I saw it written
under the portrait when I came for orders
about the 'enters going' down to Exmoor.'

Vivian Branscombe ! ' echoed Bob, and
smiled to himself as he took stock of his own
likeness in the glass. * Engaged, is she ?
And mighty fond of the Captain, I suppose
? '

'Ah, but she's not got 'im yet. He's
a rum 'un, is master ; not like officers mostly
are, but they do say he fights like a lion,
and as for pistol and sword exercise, he's
quite A I.'

Is Miss Vivian Branscombe engaged to
your master ? ' again asked Bob. And in
spite of himself there came an odd tremor
in his trained voice which Diggers alone
perceived.

That I dunno ; but it's supposed, when
we was in town for the season, they were
engaged ; for Cap'n, he dined there pretty
well every night, and took her to the opera,
and treaters, and concerts. I should say,'

said Musgrove, taking a fresh pipe, ' he loved
'er ; but all that s no sign, d'ye see, to go by,
after all  quite the contrary ; for real lovers
play 'ide-and-seek with each other, and go
white and red for nothing, and pass each
other with their 'eats up, an' a-lookin' away,
while all the time they're longing to jump
into each other's arms.'

Did you ever hear of a Nellie Raymond
in these parts ? ' said Bob, after a
pause.

Nellie Raymond .- Why, that's the name
of the pretty gal in Faculty Fog's cottage.'

Bob had retired into the regions of his
mental arithmetic, but he had gained a point.
The revolving peg was again threatened.

Well, you fellows, ain't you a-going to
bring out the rats, and let's 'ave a bit of
sport . ' asked the coachman.

Bob shuddered. It was a question of rats,
not pegs, this time. He drew a piece of
strong twine out of his pocket, tying his
shabby trousers tightly round the ankles.
The rats should not devour his calves, at
any rate.

Sidewing don't like the job, that's clear
said Diggers, laughing. * Why, if he hasn't
gone and tied his legs in. Can't ye give
us a bit of Hamlet in that costume, Bob ? '

But the sight of the dogs, and the aspect

of a dozen or so large rats in a cage, to be
let loose in a deep pit, were more than sufficient
for the actor.

Keep back the little dawn,' cried the
tramp, who had ventured to join the party.

Don't like that fellow's looks at all,' said
Diggers ; * a regular cut-throat sort of a
chap he seems. I'll drive him off my
premises.'

Murder seems in the air to-day,' said Bob
carelessly, pointing to the dogs.

As Diggers drove the tramp roughly off,
he looked back once at Bob in a way that
that must have considerably puzzled that
philosophic soul had he seen him.

How am I to do it, now, and earn the
gold ? ' muttered the tramp, throwing his
stick after a white rabbit scudding across his
path. * 'Taint so easy to stick to a man like
a pig, an' get off, but if he comes this way
when it's dark, an' he's a bit easy in liquor,
why, then  '

Murder was truly in the air. How often
men speak the truth in jest, and blunder
blindfold to their fate !

A bolt was now drawn back from the cage,
and the rats darted into the pit, the last one,
however, bolting into a drain, from which
he defied his persecutors, and blinded the
plucky little terrier.

But Perclval, suddenly pushing Bob aside,
drew on his gloves, and kneeling down, put
his arm and hand into the drain, and with
practised coolness, dragged out the rat by
his tail, but the little wretch, nothing daunted,
flew at his enemy, and biting him clean
through the finger, still hung on like grim
death.

Call that sport ? ' cried Bob, who was often
chicken-hearted on occasions, beating a rapid
retreat into the back parlour. ' All I can
say is, it's sickening. I'd rather be excused
from one of the little devils flying at my
throat.'

The rat darted up a shed. Musgrove hit
at it and it fell stunned, and was polished
off by one of the dogs.

The dead rats were thrown from the pit,
and the men thought of returning home, the
terrier limping and whining piteously from a
wound in his foot.

It's a disgusting sight,' said the benevolent
Bob from the porch, ' and I hope never to
witness such another. What do you say to
another bottle ? '

Bob wanted to hear more of Nellie Raymond,
but he did not wish his hearers to be
aware of this ; his profession as actor was in
his favour ; he could disguise emotion by
manufactured light-heartedness, while his

heart beat with anxiety. The bottle was
brought and paid for, Diggers himself taking
his fair share of the wine this time. The
'47 ' vintage seemed to overcome Percival,
for, after a few vain attempts at speech, his
head fell back, and as Musgrove threw a
cloth over his face, he began to snore like a
trooper.

But at that moment Bob gave a great
start. He had never seen any face or form
so fair as the one before him. Yes, long
ago he remembered to have seen her equal
so very long ago  nearly eighteen years !
Warm admiration kindled in his eyes.

Who was this girl in a straw hat and
cotton frock, with some wild poppies and
cornflowers, blue and tender as her eyes,
fastened on the side with careless grace.

Bob had seen a great many young women
going cheap at a shilling an hour as models,
but never one to equal this ; and why were
the curling lashes black instead of being
dead-gold coloured like her hair ? and the
eyes, were they darkest blue or violet ?

If you please,' said the voice, clear and
flutelike, and that sent cold shivers down
Bob's spine to listen to, ' can you tell me
the best way to get back to Mr Faculty
Fog's cottages I'm so sorry to trouble
you, but I've lost my way.'

Bob knew her now. This was Nellie Raymond,
the girl he had been so long seeking,
the instrument through which he had
meant to make a fortune. Martha Jane
had told him their little child was dead, but
Bob fancied after all she might have been
forsaken in some mad fit of rage by her
mother, and that he might find her again.

But all this was mere surmise, after all ;
he must go on safer ground. Safer ground !
Alas, poor Bob ! when the tramp, by the
common's side, will wait patiently hour after
hour for his prey, and turn his knife in the
moonlight, and think of the golden sovereigns
he means to steal from a dead man's body 
the plenteous golden sovereigns promised to
him by a wicked woman if Bob is slain.

Lost your way, have you ? ' said Bob,
puffing away slowly at his pipe ;  but you're
not far out. You must go straight across
Wincherly Common, pass the four crossroads,
and that will bring you close to
Stupefied Hall.'

Why, bless me,' cried Percival, waking
himself by a too musical snore, ' if that isn't
the young child that rode Rosicrucian ! How
came you here .' '

Because I'm going to be a lady,' said
Nellie, with a smile.

An' d'ye think a lady's a ready-made

piece o' goods ? It takes years and years to
be a lady, and a father and mother to name
er, and lots o' schooling, and sweet ways,
and money, and never say wot you rely
mean, an' never ave wot you rely want,'
sneered Percival, who was a true Conservative,
and stood up for the interest of the
landed gentry.

Perhaps, then, if I was a servant I should
do better,' said Nellie mischievously, with a
wilful pout.

Shouldn't wonder at all if ye stood out
for a good price, and tossed yer 'eat,' said
Musgrove sarcastically. ' 'Tisn't all the full
bags that stand up stiff and straight as men
like, and a lady's a pore creature when times
are bad, and there's something else wanted
besides screaming' at a pinner, and novel-reading,
and shopping.'

A lady ? ' echoed Bob. ' Well, I should
say you were one of nature's ladies, my dear,
and don't want much making.'

It's nature that 'as to be driven out of a
lady,' said Percival, laughing.

Oh, but it will be so lovely to be taught,'
said Nellie, 'and I'm going to school, and
shall never be very much scolded any more.'

Why, when were you scolded ? ' asked
Bob, who saw an opening that might lead to
the information he wanted.

'At the circus, when I was tired.'

Circus ! ' echoed both the other men ;
but, there, we might ha' known it. Only
a natural born jock could a-ridden our
thoroughbred without a bridle.'

What circus, my dear ? ' asked the watchful
Bob. ' Don't be shy ; we'll do ye no
harm. Come and sit down by me, and rest
before your nice long walk over Wincherly
Common.'

I never liked the circus,' said Nellie,
innocently, evading his question, ' and that's
why I ran away.'

And who were your father and mother,
my dear ? 'Tis a wicked thing to let a pretty
lass like you be exposed to the temptations
of cities, which are ravenous and destroying
as wolves.'

Bob drained his glass of port, and both
looked and felt for once extremely virtuous.
He was on the right track at last ; the loose
screw could be safely threatened.

I never had any regular parents like
other girls,' said Nellie, sighing. ' I don't
know anything about them. Madame Juanita
Dal ton made me call her "mamma" once,
when she wanted some money out of a funny
little gentleman she called Duke Tommy,
and there was an old woman, with very
small eyes and awfully pock-marked, who

came to see me when I fell through the net
and was laid up. She gave me stories about
Mrs Potiphar and a coat of many colours,
and said she'd come again, but she never
did.'

Bob's teeth suddenly assailed his nether

lip.

You said little eyes and pock-marked.
Perhaps she was your grannie, my dear.'

'And now I must run away,' said Nellie,
for they'll wonder where I am. Of course
you know I'm not going to work any more,
but be a lady, and wear lovely silk dresses
like you see in the beautiful shops in Regent
Street.'

Another Duke Tommy, I suppose ', ' said
Percival laughing, ' or, rather, friend o' the
family. Who's going to pay for 'em, I
wonder ? ' winking desperately at Bob, who
endeavoured to look shocked and failed.

Nellie did not hear them. She was
busy arranging her hat at the glass. A sort
of half-drunken desperation seemed to have
seized Bob Sidewing as she glided from
their sight.

The likeness ! ' he muttered, ' the marvellous
likeness ! Oh, Martha Jane, you smiling
serpent, you shall pay for this ! Let me
starve, will you, and tell me ten pounds is
the last penny I'll ever get ! Ten pounds !

Pah ! a thousand wouldn't make me hold my
tongue now. I'll have an annuity out of you
and Miss Vivian Branscombe, or I'll let in
daylight and somebody else at the same
time

VOL. I. M

THE FOOTPRINTS IN CUT-THROAT LANE.

kiiiONG after Percival and Musgrove
had left the Roebuck did Bob and
Diggers prolong their sitting.
They drank a great deal more
than was prudent, but the landlord enjoyed
Bob's society, which, in its way, was, when
he liked, brilliant and refined ; and Diggers
found Bob a good listener, and many were
the bonnes histoires the two men recounted
till their tongues began to cleave ominously
to the roofs of their mouths, while
their lips became parched, and a fiery spark
seemed to dart like a snake in their throats.

A fine night,' said Diggers, opening the
window, and watching the silver moonlight
spread over mountain and woodland. ' No
need to offer you a lantern this time, old
friend, to find your way back to Brooks-mere.'


Bob was astonished to find the difficulty
had to reach his hat and put it straight on
his head.

Diggers had by this time lighted an oil
lamp, and held it up over Bob, while Bob
was possessed with the insane delusion of
trying to light a twopenny cigar through a
rush light shade placed on a shelf in the landlord's
table.

Why not stay the night, Sidewing ? '
asked his friend. ' There's the blue room
at your service.'

No,' said Bob, * I'm all right, fresh as a
buttercup. I'll maybe look in tomorrow before
I go to Exeter.'

He had now attacked a small mulberry
tree with his knotted stick.

I thought I was running against Farmer
Oats' black wall,' said the actor, with sundry
see-saw movements. ' Good-night, Diggers.
Give us your hand.'

The hand was extended, and the two
men parted with indistinct but kindly leave-taking.


Bob walked on very rapidly the first quarter
of a mile past the corn fields and meadows,
then he began to loiter about. He fancied
the moonlight was too strong for him, for
what made his eyesight all misty and queer ?
He mistook a large oak tree for a church,

and thought he should like to go to sleep in
the trunk with the squirrels.

Lord ! how strong Diggers's wines are ! '
muttered Bob, throwing off his hat, and sitting
down by the tree.

He was now, though he hardly knew it,
on the borders of Wincherly Common, before
gaining which he had to pass through a
very lonely lane with wide-spreading bushes
on each side, called by the villagers ' .'


Down this cheerful pathway, with its deep
ruts caused for years by heavy cart-wheels,
Bob passed in the moonlight, with his knotted
stick over his shoulder, and here he again
turned dizzy, though not from the moonlight,
for the overhanging bushes and trees in the
lane were too thick to permit the entrance of
any silvery rays of light.

Could you just give a pore feller a sixpence
? ' asked deep, hoarse tones at that
moment, and the voice so startled poor Bob,
who was a nervous man, and never very
brave at the best of times, that he almost
screamed.

Come, you white-livered coward, tip up
your gold, or I'll make this 'ere lane earn it's
name to-night,' said the tramp, who understood
the man he had to deal with. * I'm in
earnest. D'ye see this ? '

He had drawn out a horrible weapon from
a basket, a double-bladed sailor's knife, and
brandished it in the air.

This time Bob screamed aloud. The
tramp rushed on him, and being a very
strong and powerfully built fellow, held one
hand over Robert's mouth, while with the
other he tried  to use his own term  to
knock him silly.'

Terror and agony, combined with the
effects of the drink, were rapidly producing
syncope. A blue, death-like look spread
itself over the actor's face, his muscles
twitched, he groaned and beseeched mercy
in inarticulate accents.

He knew, in his weak, dizzy state, that to
wrestle with the robber would be worse than
useless, and those heavy thuds on the back
of his head would, he believed, end by giving
him paralysis or congestion of the brain.

There, give over whining,' said the tramp,
flinging Bob, half senseless, from him into the
ditch, ' becos, I tell ye, you're a dead man.
I've took an oath to kill you  I've sworn it.
Night an' day 'ave. I been a-waiting'  waiting'
long.'

The steel blades of the knife now flashed
with deadly significance before Bob,  he
must make one last appeal, his senses were
fast forsaking him, but he remembered his

golden guineas wrung out of Martha Jane
in the back kitchen at Prince's Gate.

Take the gold said Bob, panting, and
half suffocated from the oozy moisture of the
ditch, ' and save my life. Five sovereigns 
there, you can take 'em. I never harmed
you  I never did you a wrong. I'm a poor
old man, very old and weak, and half dead
from your blows.'

There was no answer ; but where Bob was
lying a break in the thick bushes enabled
him to see a reflection of the moonlight on
the tramp's face, then he knew there was no
hope, and that he must die.

The robber took the five sovereigns from
the half dying man, and then some overmastering
fury found vent in words.

Ah, you know me now,' said the tramp,
and you know another v minutes will
settle ye ! I'm the man you 'ad took up for
stealing' your fur coat five years ago. I went
to prison. I've never found a friend since.
I've been 'united down like a mad dawn, an'
I told ye, didn't I, as I'd do for ye one day 
an' I waited. Work ! As if I could find
honest work with the brand of a gaol on me !
Friends ! As if the craven brutes 'ud put
out a little finger to save me ! Wife died o'
want, and two little 'uns followed. D'ye
know wot it is to be starving  driven from

place to place with no character  no nothing ?
And I says to myself, " There's one to thank
for this  the devil that sent me to gaol and
killed my Kitty and her babes  him as
dragged me down ! " Ah, there's others as
hate ye too, but not like me ; for mine is a
burning fire night and day.' He wrenched
a woollen jersey off his chest as if that raging
fire must be slaked by human blood. * So
die  die  die ! '

He held his knife high in the air above
Bob, and brought it down on his body with
fearful force  such force that the yellow,
muddy water in the ditch turned to crimson,
and with a dying groan the wretched man's
head fell backwards on the bank.

That's done for him at last,' said the
tramp, drawing the blood-stained knife on
the dewy grass. ' He'll never 'ave the
chance to send another pore starving' cove to
quod  never. If that isn't justice, wot is ', '

He ran with all speed on to the main road,
while Bob lay forsaken and alone in a ditch.

Presently a white form crept from the
other side of the bushes, and a thin young
man  one of Farmer Oats' carters  peeped
through the prickly hedge, and saw Bob's
handsome profile upturned in the moonlight.

He was called by the neighbours Timothy
Hare, through his want of courage, but he

had a good heart, and he could not leave
that poor old man, with a face like St
Thomas the Martyr, to perish in a wayside
ditch.

A drop o' brandy might revive 'im,'
thought Hare. * I wonder, though, if he's
real dead.'

He lifted the actor in his arms  Bob was
light and spare, and thin from scanty nutrition,
work, and worry  and carried him tenderly
across the meadows back to the Roebuck,
where Diggers, mixing a final libation of hot
shrub, was now sitting tete-astute with the
baker, Mr Canary, an incorrigible night bird,
and fond of a glass.

Please, sir, he's been murdered,' said Hare,
trembling from head to foot, and staggering
under his burden.

Canary was a churchwarden, and had his
eye on him.

Murdered ! ' echoed Diggers, placing his
hand on Bob's heart ; then, as they laid the
actor on the couch, turning quickly to Hare,
Go to the village and bring back Dr Morris.
The heart still beats  faintly, it's true, but
while it beats there's hope.'

THE LIVING SHADOW.

Sleep, what hast thou to do with her 
The eyes that weep with the mouth that sings ? '

ELLIE walked very slowly back
to the cottage over Wincherly
Common after her interview with
Bob Sidewing. She was free at
last. And why was she free ? Through
what magic process had she escaped the
heavy penalties exacted from the poor .''
Every slave asks this. Why were her wishes
to be unchecked  her hopes crushed  her
nature no longer checked and cramped ?

The answer was very simple. She had
taken the fancy of a rich man whom Nellie
believed possessed one of the best and kindest
hearts in the world.

All her trouble had ended ; she was going
to school, and M. Lepelletier would pay for

everything. How nice and comfortable it
sounded ! What a charmingly irresponsible
state of affairs !

She might be a singer or a dancer, or any
other agreeable fortunate nymph protected
by a wealthy friend.

Yes, this was life at last ; every one was
going to be so good to her, and she could
shower her affection on them in return, and
never be hungry or beaten any more. It
was like going to heaven  these rich, delicious
thrills of joy, these bright sparkles of
hope and pleasure on the rippling stream
of fancies in a young girl's little ignorant
soul. It began with rapture, and must end
in triumph.

'How happy I am!' cried Nellie, half
buried in the spreading fern, and gathering
a great heap of wild flowers from under a
damp hedgerow. * I cannot, I never shall
forget.'

It seemed to her, after that kiss from
Leonard's lips, that she had entered a new
world ; the whole earth and air were filled
with that marvellous electric charm the presence
of a beloved one spreads on all around.

Who is it says the best of life is intoxication,
and bids us drug our senses with ether, wine,
or love . The confusion, the ecstasy, the
fear were almost more than she could bear.

She was a fanatic in feeling and emotion
from that hour. But this sweet revelation of
another world, this consciousness of another's
empire over her heart, completely changed
the girl.

Deep crimson blushes trembled into life,
new aspirations awoke ; the woman's desire
to hide henceforth all token or avowal of
tenderness crushed out the girl's innocent
little speeches, and made her resolve that
by no smile, no touch, no whisper, would
she let Captain Mallandaine know how she
loved him.

And then she smiled and tore up her
poppies and field flowers, and wished Leonard
was looking just once more into her eyes 
those deep, sombre, violet eyes, dark as the
shadows on a waveless sea when the sky
is reflected therein.

Poor Nellie was awaking to the tragedy
of a woman's life at last ; she wanted to hear
more about love, and understand why she
blushed and turned pale, as if she had a
fever, and trembled for nothing. It was
really very strange. It filled her with terror.
And the strangest part of it all was that her
tears were delightful ; there was such sweetness
in this new pain, it gave her the same
sense of fulness and rapture as when she
first learnt to pray, and knelt down and never

questioned whether those in heaven heard
her  the prayers sufficed.

When Nellie returned, the superb curricle
and pair were drawn up just outside the lodge
gates, and M. Lepelletier, in an equally superb
fur-lined coat, was patting his horses' necks
as if he had not yet grown tired of money's
delights and power.

Why, N ellie, where have you sprung from
been to sleep, or what, on the common ?'
he said, laughing. * Your eyes look large
and dreamy, as if kissed by the wandering
breeze.'

I've been thinking,' said Nellie, twisting
her hat in her hand, and cracking the cheap
straw, ' about your kindness in sending me
to school.'

How pretty and happy this girl was in her
young belief. He liked her child-like, unquestioning
nature.

With Nellie he felt at ease, refreshed, and
calmed. Laura Branscombe discomposed
him. She was like some grand firmament
in which are storms and thunder, troubled
planets and restless stars ; but Nellie was a
flower, she never reasoned or questioned,
she only grew, bloomed, and enchanted.

The tired man of the world, with his heartless
codes and butterfly wooing, could not
fathom the depths that are latent in all true

genius, but artless prettiness and fresh rosebud
lips were a pleasant distraction.

Lollie gets worrying,' he would say, rather
grimly ; * is jealous of my every thought.
We don't want to swallow a firebrand in a
love potion -pardi  but a pleasant, cooling
drink.'

I've found you a school, Nell,' he went
on, rolling a cigarette, and flipping the large
buzzing flies off his steeds' noses. ' The
Misses Roby  Ruth and Rebecca  two
maiden ladies living at Myrtle Villa, Brooks-mere
Green. I'll drive you there in a few
days, and introduce you as my niece.'

And suppose I run away ?' said Nellie,
with a mischievous sparkle, cracking more
straws.

Then, ina chere, you may go to the deuce.'

Oh, sir, don't say that  I was only in
fun.'

Little ingrate, listen to me ; here is
your one and only chance of getting on in
the world. I don't think you'll ever pipe
louder than a canary bird, and you didn't
begin to study the graceful art of dancing
early enough, so what d'ye say, Nell, after
you're a little more learned, to being a dear,
pretty little milliner in Regent Street  a
charming improver  one of the ' young ladies'
who enjoy the privilege of a piano and well-selected

library when their labours are over
for the day ?'

Regent Street ! ' echoed Nellie, thinking
of Leonard, and blushing furiously.

But we'll see about that by-and-by. Now,
my little poppy-wreathed, rosy Phyllis, adieu
for the present. I shall get you some dresses
and all that. Fare thee well, Nell, my child ;
give me that white rose growing by the wall,
and now sheer off, for I'm going to drive the
horses round.'

He threw aside his cigarette, buttoned his
coat, caressed the thin spikes about his mouth,
and, gathering up the reins, drove off with his
air of prince and Samaritan combined, cursing
his groom, however, in strong French, for not
having been quicker in fetching a magnificent
tiger-skin rug, with which he covered his
well-preserved legs and patent-leather boots.

The Foggs were particularly amiable towards
Nellie to-day; she now excited a sort
of reverential curiosity. Faculty brought
out some fine walnuts, and luscious yellow
plums and peaches, gathering himself tempting
red fruits from the orchard walls, while
Mrs Fog handed round the cowslip wine.
And Nellie who was as fond of fruit as a
gipsy or Asiatic, did complete justice to her
dessert.

As she wandered after dinner through the

gardens and park in the drowsy autumn air,
languor stole on her senses from the odour of
the fragrant sweetness of the ripening fruits
and crimson-hearted flowers. She abandoned
herself to dreams as the autumn sun went
down amid the corn-fields, and the distant
whirr of a pheasant caught the ear.

We all know the peculiar effect of that
sublime hush of the meadows, and how the
country air feels about the temples as the
crimson light tints the old woods and blue
mountains with richer, ruddier glow. Exiles
from England remember all this, and how the
shady hawthorn looked in the spring when
they saw it for the last time.

Nellie was so tired from her rambles that
she went early to bed to-night, listening to
the gardener's slow enunciation and measured
explanations of various passages as he read
a chapter from the Bible prior to bidding him
good-night.

The moon had risen in a pale silvery mass
as she undressed in the sweet odorous silence
of the little room.

She liked going to bed by moonlight,
watching the dim outline of the mountains,
and hearing the rustle of falling leaves, and had
just rested her head on the lavender-scented
pillow, when she was quite certain there was a
clear and distinct movement in the room.

She sat up in bed, her heart palpitating
violently, as the moon was passing under a
cloud, and something like a living shadow, or
fugitive spectre, seemed to grow from out
the wall. All she had heard of haunted houses,
ghosts, and, above all, the tales of the old
tragedies enacted at Stupefied Hall, occurred
to her mind. But she was too terrified to
scream. Presently something rushed towards
her, and a tall figure clothed in white, with
loose hanging hair, clutched her, and with a
smothered cry threw itself by her side.

Nellie's white breast heaved and fell like
some lovely bird in the fowler's grasp, and
then the eyes turned on her, the grip was
loosened, and the woman spoke.

Who are you ?' she asked, in one of those
rare voices in which one might almost say
are tears.

I am Nellie Raymond,' she said, shivering.


I will tell you a story,' said Aurelian,
looking curiously at Nellie, and moving one
rounded arm in the air.

There was once a fisher maiden, who
always went out to fish in the early morning,
and one day, as she threw her lines into the
ocean, she drew out a ring. This ring was
really her genius, and it gained her at last a
lover. Tram la-la! But I am not going to

sing,' said Aurelian, under her breath, the tears
this time in her eyes as well as voice.

She cannot be really mad,' thought Nellie
sighing.

 They were to be married m the spring.
She loved him so dearly ; but one day, in
the winter, she found a red rose growing in
the garden. It was a sign her lover had
been killed. Never gather red roses ; let
them grow,' said Aurelian, her thoughts straying
again into cloud-land.

'After he was dead the fisher maiden
always went and sat on the lonely rock
by the sea-shore ; but she never charmed
any more lovers. She used always to seethe
red  the blood-red stain about his heart,
the low-lying Flemish fields, and the dew
and rain on his fallen head and hair  they
were like the tears and kisses of her last
farewell. And if she sang, there was no
music in the tones ; so she could only weep
weep  weep. People talk about death,'
said Aurelian, the dreamy light in her eyes,
and her voice growing passionate in spite
of its pain, * as if it were an end ; but I know
that he is sorry for all the anguish his cruelty
brought me on earth, and that he longs to
repair it. He is waiting to say, " Aurelian,
dearest, gather the red roses ; they will deck
our bridal path  the beautiful flower-clusters,

VOL. I. N

the purple passion-flowers blooming for us
in Eden." '

Nellie laid her hand on that restless
moving arm. She fancied that if Captain
Leonard were to quite forget, or be killed,
she, too, would abandon herself to similar
grief  grief that fastened upon the mind,
and slowly murdered it, like a venomous
insect attacking a delicate fruit needing light
and air and sun to foster its growth.

I was always seeing the red roses,* said
Aurelian, ' but I was not mad ; it was only
when I got tired of waiting, and the summertime
tortured me, that I began to weep 
when women weep much their brain goes 
an incurable despair took possession of me ;
death was in my soul. Do you understand ?
Ah, no ! you are too young and fair.'

Yes, yes, I know said Nellie tenderly,
turning to kiss her. * Tell me more  it may
comfort you.'

The pallid face looked still more bloodless
after Nellie's embrace.

The world seemed a huge wilderness
after that red rose grew, but it will not befor
long, for I am going home very fast ; all
my rings slip off my fingers, they're so thin.'

Nellie's nerves quivered. It seemed to
her as if the evil fate that had triumphed
over the wreck of this young life might

also descend on her. Was this what love
brought ?

I should have died long since,' she said
in a hushed voice.

Because you are weak. I was strong,
that was the worst of it. Weak people give
no trouble, but we who are strong, we linger
for years ; every part of us dies slowly and
by degrees. They shut me up because they
were afraid I should kill myself. I do
sometimes want to hasten the end, but when
I touch my fingers they get thinner, and
my cough is worse, so Tm content to wait
till the end. " Take care of her life," the
doctors said. My life ! Ah, they little know.'

Some impulse made Nellie lay her arms
around Aurelian. She wanted her to believe
how sorry she was, and Nellie, being a
loving little soul, was now weeping in sympathy.
She had slipped from the bed, and
in her white night-dress, her hands clasped,
looked like one of Lippe's golden-haired
angels.

Other women when they are like I am
are shut away with strangers  that must be
terrible, but I think Leonard, who killed
my lover, never could have the heart to do
that. If they shut my folly from the world,
was not that sufficient ? You are fair, but
you are not like the woman he loved better

than me, she who stole my ring. She was
beautiful and wicked, and had sapphire-like
blue eyes  mine are dark and have lost their
light. She wore blue velvet and a collar
of diamonds the first night I saw her at
the theatre. She was coarse, ignorant, and
grovelling, but for all that she was a sorceress
; all beautiful women are. They brew
poison in their cauldrons, and drug men to
a deadly stupor that steals away their senses,
aims, hopes, and ambitions, and destroys
them body and soul, till both are shrivelled
and lost. She smote me unto death, though
I pleaded with her. Yes,' cried Aurelian,
looking spectral again, ' though I humbled
my pride to entreat her to see him no more,
to leave me my lover. But she only smiled
at me in her cold, cruel way, and then turned
aside, and kissed him again on the mouth,
binding him closer in those crushing chains
and I shall be alone unto the end.'

It is unjust,' burst out Nellie, still kneeling.
' Why are such things permitted ? '

There is no such thing as justice on the
earth ; it only lives and burns within our
souls, and the craving for it consumes them.
What was left to me ? Vanities, visiting,
idling, hollow amusements, even art or ambition
 how could I bear that false life of
utter emptiness .' Better be the peasant

woman with her babe in her arms, walking
by her husband's side, than such a creature
as I. But I never feel really mad till I see
red roses, so when I die bury me deep in
them, my hands crossed on my breast, holding
masses of them, all heaped around.'

There was a movement on the stairs.
Nellie heard Mrs Fog's voice, and the
sepulchral tones of her husband.

They have come for me said Aurelian,
shaking back her hair, and, opening the door,
looked out and listened. ' Keep the ring,'
she muttered, tossing one off her finger to
Nellie, 'and now  farewell'

She held out her wasted hand. Nellie
seized it, pressing it reverently to her lips.

diggers's advice.

FTER the doctor arrived, and
Bob's wound had been dressed
and all danger pronounced over,
he sunk into that profound slumber
which is considered a very favourable
symptom of future restoration. The actor
had escaped by one of those singular chances
that occasionally happen to frustrate a
murderer's fell design. He felt that after
remaining a few days with his old friend
Diggers it was his duty to return to town,
with, however, the melancholy reflection that
he was considerably poorer in pocket than
when he started for Devonshire.

I've had a blow, friend  a terrible blow,'
murmured Bob, rolling his head, which still
ached, from side to side on the chair railing,
and what's more, there's foul treachery somewhere.
There was a woman's hand at work

In the business, I'm sure, and I firmly believe
my wife prompted and designed the murder.'

That's the worst o' widen,' said Diggers,
lighting his pipe as the two men sat together
in the porch, * you never know what they're
up to. Now, a man he'll mostly swear some
good round oaths, or he ups and fights you,
and you can protect yourself, but the widen
are weak, and so they scheme. Yes,' cried
Diggers, recollecting how one of his housekeepers
had had him up for breach of promise,
* they lie and scheme.*

And now,' said Bob, thoughtfully, ' what
shall I do ? I'm poor as a church-mouse.'

You're getting an old man,' Diggers
answered, re-filling his pipe ; ' you want to
take it easy a bit. Will you follow my
advice ? Checkmate your enemies by artfulness.
Let 'em believe you're dead, but all
the time be up and doing  have your spies,
and spy yourself, and to do this you must be
disguised.'

Ah, a good move. I'll be even with them,*
said the actor. ' Mine is such a capital face
to make up.'

Diggers had now plunged under the table,
and was opening a drawer in a cupboard,
from which he extracted a box covered with
sawdust.

A very remarkable wig was now drawn

from under silver paper, one that the great
Sheridan might have exulted over for one of
his low comedy gentlemen.

Try It on, Bob,' said Diggers, glorying In
his Idea ; * and come before the glass to fix It

What would Mr Brooke think of me now
as Sir Peter ?' cried Bob. * Why, It would
delight his soul to paint me In this wig as an
old Jew. He's long been trying to get such
a curiosity. The public like to remember
Shy lock, for old Jews go off like snuff in
pictures, as fast as they're painted. *any
shun you wants, sir, for good security, and
only forty per sheets"' cried Bob, wheeling
round in his wig, so that Diggers was convulsed
with laughter.

Stick to the wig, friend, if you want to
be thoroughly disguised.'

I'm dashed if Mrs Maloney would know
me now,' said Bob, laughing ; ' or my bloodthirsty
spouse, either. I'm going to make
inquiries about our little girl who died when
I was away in America, so she said, and I'll
find out what became of her, and where she
was buried. I believe Martha's been up to
some bad tricks, and if I find there's been
foul play, and that the child has been got rid
of by underhand means, I'll land Martha
Jane in Queer Street, as sure as my name is
Robert Sidewing.'

His voice shook with suppressed rage, and
in his new appearance of the Jew, he looked
so much Hke Shylock bargaining iox Antonio s
flesh that Diggers again laughed heartily.

A pair of false eyebrows will perfect you,
and those you can get anywhere, and since
we must part to-day  heaven only knows
when to meet aoain  let's have a final orlass
for auld lang syne, while you put this thirty
shillings in your pocket.'

Bob extended his thin hand gratefully.

Heaven bless you, Diggers ; you've been
a good friend to me,' he said, huskily.

And mind you write when that's gone for
more if you're stumped. Alas ! my Shylock'
cried Diggers, patting his shoulder ; ' you
remind me of my young days, when I was a
merry spark, and Israel rejoiced over my
bonds and parchments.'

I feel very weak and wretched,' said Bob,
stretching himself. ' Fancy leaving fresh
linen, and all the sweetness and poetry of
your hostelry, grand scenery, yonder avenue
of chestnuts, the still, hushed groves, and the
music of fallen leaves and cascades, for my
musty den in Copenhagen Street, earning a
bare existence as a model. Isn't it hard,
Diggers, what flesh and blood have to come
to in this world ? '

The good-hearted landlord had packed up

a large hamper full of provisions for Bob on
his arrival at his lodgings, in which Devonshire
mutton and Yorkshire hams collided,
and Guinness's double stout rattled among
biscuit tins and pots of cream.

After the wine had been quaffed, the goodbye
said, and Bob, carpet-bag in hand, was
again on the march, Diggers returned somewhat
saddened to his hostelry.

A man of talent, that any one could see,*
he muttered, watching Bob slowly disappear
down the avenue of chestnuts, where he got
smaller by degrees, and then wholly disappeared,
' lost through his own follies.
Bob's one mistake always was, he never had
enough conceit to push others out of his
road, and it's your conceited ones that get the
world to call 'em fine names and worship
'em. It's not what people's worth really
is ; it's the wally they put on themselves, and
the price they mean to get, and some prefer
brass to gold  it makes more noise.'

Bob's reflections were interrupted by the
sound of a loud railway whistle. He found
he was very near the railway station, and
soon overtook Diggers's boy, who had been
sent on with the hamper. It was rather a
singular coincidence that, as Mrs Sidewing
was looking at the five sovereigns, all marked
by herself, and handed to her by Dick as

proof of her husband's death, Bob should be
comfortably seated in a third-class carriage,
en route for London, smoking strong tobacco
and shaping his plans.

Meanwhile Nellie was being driven to
Myrtle Villa, and when M. Lepelletier and
his * niece ' descended from the curricle, the
two Misses Roby, maiden ladies of the most
indisputable respectability, both rushed to
the window with the natural impetuosity of
gushing young things ' of five - and - fifty.
How could they forget the polished grace
with which the Frenchman had bowed over
their ringlets hands, and ever so gently
squeezed their finger-tips.

Look, sister,' cried Rebecca, bobbing her
little head, adorned by its modest wisp of
hay-coloured hair, over the blind, ' there he
is again, and the girl with him.'

Miss Ruth Roby missed three stitches in her
crochet antimacassar, and clasped her hands
behind her back, a habit of hers when excited.

Looks a sweet creature,' cried Miss
Rebecca, greeting her new pupil with effusion
in the drawing-room.

Mesdames,' said M. Lepelletier, with a
smile, ' here is the young girl, my niece, who
will come to you after the holidays. With
you I know she will be safe, both as regards
her physical and moral welfare.'

The two sisters were making a graceful
charge at Nellie in the form of cross-examination.
Alas ! she knew very little ; had
no idea of William the Conqueror, nor had
ever heard of the Gunpowder Plot. But it
was a comfort to think Nellie would not
cry for three days, and refuse her dinner, and
have to be shut up in the spare-room till she
found her appetite.

A most docile girl said the Frenchman.
My dear dead sister, the Countess D'Arcy's
only legacy to me.'

'However touching!' murmured Miss Ruth,
lifting her handkerchief to her faded eyes. * A
countess ! Yes, she looks quite thoroughbred.'

M. Lepelletier here threw down a bundle
of five-pound notes on the table.

Help yourselves, ladies,' he said, with
his gallant air, so different from that horrid
Mr Stedman, the retired soap boiler, who
doled out half-sovereigns when he paid his
bill, and always took off five shillings and
sixpence for his daughter Carrie's pew-rent.

The sisters modestly clawed three five-pound
notes.

Does that include everything, mesdames ? '
Yes, every extra.'

You'll find my niece very ignorant, I fear,'
gracefully apologetic. * She was kept so
constantly at her mother's side.'

Precisely  so very natural came the
answer, in the form of a duet.

Nellie looked from one to the other in
unfeigned surprise.

Ah, ma belle' he whispered, resting his
hand affectionately on her shoulder, as the
sisters retired  one to fetch a receipt stamp,
and the other to shove him a coloured map,
the work of Carrie Stedman, their cleverest
pupil, ' you must be surprised at nothing.
Who were your parents ? How should I know,
and what need you care ? You interest me ;
petite blonde aux yeux bleu, and when I'm
interested -pardieu  I'm practical.'

M. Lepelletier yawned. He felt somewhat
weary of benevolence and Nellie's
society, so he made an excuse to get rid of
her, and after leaving the villa drove off alone.

Nellie sauntered leisurely homewards, oppressed
with a secret weight. Just as she
swung back the large gates leading to the
lodge, she saw Captain Mallandaine, his hat
tilted over his eyes, sitting on the same rustic
seat by the cottage window as on the morning
after her arrival at Brooksmere ; he had often
thought of her since that first kiss of love.

Nellie was very pale. She tried to avoid
him and escape through the open cottage
door, up the cork-screw staircase to her little
room, but this he would not permit.

His thoughtful eyes fastened on hers, and
then he nodded in a friendly way, very
re-assuring to Nellie, and beckoned her to
his side.

She looked so beautiful and wistful in her
pale agitation, that Leonard's heart went out
to her once more in spite of all his resolves.

Nellie abandoned herself to the bewildering
fascination of the moment. This slow throbbing
under a gaze was delightful, she could
not speak, but looked grave and pensive.

Come,' he said gently, ' and sit down herewith
me.'

Those dark, glittering eyes are again looking
into her troubled ones. His hand is
touching the sleeve of her dress ; the passionflower
waves above their heads. The little
leaves fall one by one. The soft velvet
lawns are bathed in sunlight, and they are
alone.

Nellie, have you no welcome for me
to-day 1 Not a word ? '

Nellie cannot speak. She thinks of
Aurelian and the lost ring, the fisher maiden,
and the red rose.

Who so timid as she who loves ? Silence
is love's empire. He lives in dreams.

The place is hushed and calm, veiled with
the rising of faint, white mists, and Nellie,
with a complexion like the creamy fairness

of a sun-warmed white flower, Is lifting black
silken lashes, on which tears tremble. She
remembers that they must soon part.

Where have you been all this time ? ' he
asks.

She is certainly a dear little thing, and her
wet eyes, dewy like large violets in the sunrise,
look even more kissable than these
quivering lips ; and yet he is trying to forget
Nellie, and break himself of the delight of
thinking of her.

Wandering about. I'm going to school
soon.'

Indeed ! '

And I shall work so hard.'

What  or rather, who  has changed your
destiny ? '

She notices now the least drawl in his
tones. Nellie hesitates, and then she says
abruptly, 

Monsieur Lepelletier.'

Our evil genius,' with a shrug.

Isn't he a very kind gentleman ? '

Oh, very,' sarcastically ; then, sotto voce,
The cursed spider ! Why doesn't he stick
to his wasps ?' -

Leonard tilts his hat this time straight over
to his eyes, and sighs.

Why do you dislike him ? '

Because I happen to know a thing or two

about him that are not exactly kind and
Christian-Hke, to say the least.'

'Do you, mon cher?' said M. Levelled
who had driven round the other way,
and hearing voices in Fog's parlour, sat on
the sofa by the window and quietly listened ;

bien obliged!

He's a duellist to begin with

So are you,' Nellie answers hastily.

Eh ? Pon honour, you mistake. I can
defend myself  that is all, and if one is challenged,
one can't refuse, can one  especially
under certain circumstances ? Lots of fellows
nice fellows, too  have cut Lepelletier. I
don't know why. He wins heavily at cards
sometimes ; but never mind him ! Tell me
about yourself.'

How he enjoys watching her ! Passion
goes through many processes in its development
; in its first stage looks suffice.'

Ah, mon cJierl mutters the Frenchman,

so you court the little rustic beauty, do you ?
Parole honneur; it's hardly fair -perfide
Albion I and he's a soldier, too. Deuce
take him ! '

There's nothing to tell,' Nellie says
shyly.

Nothing?'

Well, very little.*

M. Lepelletier rises, chips some of the

dried grass in the vase into pieces, shakes
himself, and caresses the thin spikes about
his mouth.

Is he getting old ? Nonsense ! Vogue la
galere. Well, there's always Laura Branscombe
and the best cosmetics.

You little fairy, you've positively bewitched
me,' says the captain.

And this time he has drawn Nellie to
him, and an arm is around her waist, while a
black moustache is pressed on the golden
curls about her temples.

Oh, don't, please, don't!' cried Nellie,
with a little wild cry, struggling and trembling
in his embrace.

Why not ? ' asks Leonard exultingly, with
a lover's thrill. ' Love me a little, Nellie,
do ! I'm so tired of everything, so miserable,
don't you know, and all that. Be my dear
little pet, won't you, child ? and then, perhaps,
some day  I must kiss you ; I can't help it,
you little darling  some day all may change,
and'

Hullo, Leonard ! Where have you got
to ? ' asks Lepelletier, coming round by the
cabbages, and smoking a cigarette. ' Ah,
mon cher spoilt a tete-a-tete I'm afraid !'

VOL. I.

THE NEW GROOM.

And when she took a ride in the park,
Equestrian lord or pedestrian clerk
Was thrown into an amorous fever.'

Actually refuses my invitation
on board the yacht,' Vivian
was saying, with a sickening
heart, as she read the Httle trite
note in which Captain Mallandaine, in acknowledging
her charming portrait, yet declined
to come within physical contact of its reflection.
' I wish I'd never written to him, or
sent him my likeness. It never pays to run
after men,' ended Vivian, ruefully, looking
very pretty and girlish in her morning robe of
light blue toile d'Asie,  a loosely-fitting morning
robe that encased her slender body like a
blue firmament, from which her throat rose
like a fair pillar, or delicate white flower.
She renounced all idea of yachting since

Captain Mallandalne had declined her invitation.
She was as much in love as a very
fashionable court beauty, the leading belle of
the season, nourished on vanities and admiration,
can well be.

And won't I snub him when he does deign
to call,' thought the beauty ; and something
that stood in the place of ' soul ' darted out
of her eyes,  a spice of the devilry latent in
every true daughter of Eve.

But the tears, after all, would come, and
the throat twitched. Was she not positively
forgetting to flirt scientifically ? What was
this wretched kind of weariness and despair,
producing the extremes of languor or vexation,
and sapping the charms of everlasting
amusement ?

Vivian had successfully resisted all other
worries and discomforts till now, but the
pangs of love were unconquerable In their
violence. She loved the dark-haired soldier,
with his strong codes of honour, his indifference,
his gloom.

She gloried in the eager demonstrations he
had received on his return from a tedious
war, and had herself been present, wearing a
rich violet duchesse satin, made a i / Pompadour,
at a reception given in his honour, when
all the tenants, young and old, on his father's
estates, were regaled on the beef and beer so

dear to every true-born Briton, followed by
copious allowance of tea and plum-cake supplied
to all the old women and children on
the place, the entertainment winding up with
a dance, in which Leonard waltzed with her
in a carpeted barn, to the amazement and
delight of the tenants, who had never seen a
Pompadour costume. The music of the village
yokels had made her shriek and shudder
a little in good-natured horror. It was so
very different, she whispered, from the Maelstrom
band, or those of the Guards, or
loth Hussars.

She remembered the flags and triumphal
arches, the speeches of various friends, the
emotion of Leonard's father, his own simply-worded
replies, and the tremendous volleys
of cheering that had deafened her, while it
enraptured.

All women glory in ovations to their heroes,
and Vivian thrilled like some Greek or Roman
maiden when the victor's crown is fluor at
the feet of the god of the hour.

Can he have taken a fancy to some unpresentable
neglected girl who doesn't know
how to enter a room ? ' mused Vivian, sitting
before her white and gold mirror, dark lines
under her eyes, and feverish spots on her un-powdered
cheeks ; * some blundering Phyllis
out of a villa or cottage, whom he has caught

in a pretty attitude at church ? I believe
heaps of fellows fall in love at first sight in
church. Men are so idiotic. Given fair
opportunities, lawn-tennis and a nice display
of white muslin, pink cheeks, and a good
head of hair, and It's all up with the simpletons.
Oh, Leonard  dear Leonard ! I'm
longing to torture you, pay you out, and
make you miserable, and all the time some
hateful village belle down in Devonshire, who
can't ride or dress a bit. Is perhaps winning
your heart because you are tired and have
nothing else to do.'

Vivian had never heard of the tragedy that
had wrecked Aurella Mallandalne's life. She
was supposed to have died abroad among the
nuns at the Convent of the Bleeding Heart.

*I suppose I'd better ride to-day?' said
Vivian, speaking aloud.

She was very pale, and looked worn. The
anguish of uncertainty, the dread of some
danger about her path, were imperceptibly
preying on her spirits.

Never since the loss of the diamond necklace,
and the low-muttered words of Bob
Sidewing, had Vivian Branscombe felt the
same. She never alluded to the loss of that
diamond necklace, but had one made exactly
like it in the finest imitation paste possible,
ordered in Paris of the most famous jewellers

of the Palais Royal, so that none but a
connoisseur or dealer in gems could have
detected the difference, and somehow the
sight of this hateful imitation necklace made
Vivian turn hot and cold, and feel sick and
broken, as if her life resembled it, and that it,
too, was false and glittering  a mockery,
like those paste diamonds in the old velvet
case, all hollow and unsound beneath.

You careless girl,' Bernard Branscombe
had said lightly to her, as she told him the
necklace had only been mislaid ; * didn't
I tell you it would be found ? And you
actually wanted poor old Martha Jane Side-wing
taken up for the robbery.'

Vivian smiled, but said nothing.

Before ordering round her horse. Kingfisher,
this morning from the stables, Vivian
paid a visit to her step-mother, Mrs Branscombe,
who was painting in her studio when
Vivian entered.

Pale glimmers of golden light stole through
the blinds, and Laura, in her black satin
dressing-gown, trimmed with robins of rich
ruby velvet, looked almost as fresh and
brilliant as the likeness of herself, twenty
years ago, that met the eye on entering,
when there had been jewels in her hair and
natural roses decked her corsage, and the
blue-black tresses, escaping from a diamond

aigrette, had fallen in ebon waves about the
girlish bust and lily-white neck and arms 
the portrait of Laura as Juliet, before her
heart had withered as Bernard Branscombe's
wife.

Why, how pale you look, Vivian,* Mrs
Branscombe said, going on with a background.
' Don't you sleep, or have you
been dosing yourself with that dreadful chloral
you seem so fond of ? '

The studio was a magnificent room of
sixty feet in length. Laura had designed
and painted all the frescoes herself It had
a dark oak-stained floor, with costly Turkey
rugs thrown down here and there ; rare and
valuable plants and exotics stood in every
corner ; large vases in Dresden and majolica
were arranged on carved oak pedestals ; Indian
jars, of inestimable value  the presents
of a Rajah who had fallen slightly in love with
Mrs Branscombe on the occasion of his visit
to Prince's Gate  ornamented the mantelpiece,
which was composed of the finest tiles
money could buy, and the goddess who
reigned in this palatial room, with its
tapestries, flowers, and pictures, might have
sat for Cleopatra, Boadicea, Helen of Troy,
or any of the grand, passionate women of
old who were queens and adored by men.

It was a room adapting itself to those of

refined and artistic tastes. The clock itself
was antique and a poem. The room was
voluptuous, like its owner. Here the opium-eater
might have sunk into soft slumber,
ravished with sweet sounds and perfumes;
the musician have dreamt of immortal harmonies
; the artist interpreted his fairest
rhapsodies ; the singer intoxicated his senses
with emotional enchantment  in this room
was the only possible life for Laura Branscombe,
whose strange duality of being made
her differ from others. Here all the vivid
intensity and passion of her soul rioted in
colour, sentiment, expression, and form.
She was too grand and cold for the trash of
ordinary ballads and libretti. She had not
the patience to perfect her gifts as a singer
or a player, and be merely the passive exponent
of others' ideas. No ; she must create
poems in colour or words  create beauty inform
and expression, aided by the highest
ideal art. Musical composition was beyond
her, so she found small delight in music. In
this room all the struggles of an emotional
temperament found vent, and the pride and
glory of her genius expended itself in painting.
Fashionable gaieties, dinners, balls, //i", and
dress were insufficient distractions for one
who felt a pitying contempt for their votaries.
Do I look pale '. ' said Vivian, glancing

towards the yellow streaks of light. * Oh, it's
because everything here is so brilliant and
splendid

She almost envied her step-mother her
gift. It might even bring forgetfulness.

Miss Branscombe looks ill, nurse, I think,'
said Laura gently addressing Mrs Sidewing,
who was peacefully knitting on the raised
platform artists use for their models.

She might have been painted for one of
those terrible old knitting women of Paris
seated around the blood-stained guillotine,
when the fairest land in all the world killed
its children by thousands, and was laid waste
by tyrants and assassins.

Oh, there's nothing in the least the matter
with me,' said Vivian, sinking gracefully
back on a velvet couch.

It was the one terror of her life lest her
repressed anxiety should be perceived.

I've been painting nurse's head this
morning,' said Laura, bringing out a large
picture. ' It's such a remarkable face, I
think. Poor dear old soul ! she looks so
haggard to-day. It is lined with suffering
and the ravages of grief, isn't it, Vi ? I'm
painting her as a dying Niobe  worn and
aged and ill ; not the cool, blonde, 
young woman, with tears
running down her face, one usually sees.

She must be old  Niobe wasted with anguish
and weeping at seventy.'

Vivian shuddered a Httle at this likeness.
She was really absurdly nervous to-day. It
was painted with marvellous force and power.
One seemed to fancy Niobe beating those
thin hands restlessly together as she looked
on at some long-contemplated revenge.

Mrs Sidewing looked less like a Niobe
than a murderess, or a serpent thought Vivian,
longing to mount Kingfisher and ride away
her nasty fit of the blues.

Why, my dear Vivian, you're positively
trembling,' said Mrs Branscombe, who had
some idea Captain Mallandaine's note had
upset Vivian at breakfast  women in love
are so keen over these things ; ' and I declare,
nurse,' feeling the girl's hand, ' she's
quite feverish.'

Lor', ma'am, what a fright you've made
me ! ' cried Mrs Sidewing, who had never
before seen any resemblance of herself.

'Fright!' echoed Mrs Branscombe enthusiastically
 all true artists are enthusiasts.
That's high art. It ought to make people
cry to look at it. Can't you fancy how that
hair slowly turned grey, how often the
thin, parted lips must have quivered through
those long seventy years ? Yes, Vivian,
put it away and go for your walk.'

The new groom has come, so I ride to-days
said Vivian, wearily. * Hers Morton's
brother.'

The new groom was In reality the actor,
Alfred de Lancy, whose guineas had been
all-powerful with the lady's-maid. If poor,
Ignorant women look about for promising
male fish to be landed by making the most
of their opportunities, faces, and figures, why
should not poor talented men, who are just
as much adventurers in their way, do the
same ?

Vivian Branscombe, the beauty and heiress
combined, pleased his taste, indeed he was
madly in love with her. She had never
given another thought to the hare-brained
letter he had sent her.

It had occurred to De Lancy that if he could
only be brought within shade of her magic
presence, or feel the light, springy foot on his
palm as he flung her into the saddle, he
might have an opportunity of worshipping
and secretly watching over a woman he could
never possibly have met In the society in
which she moved.

Take my advice, Vivian, and walk ; It
will do you more good,' said her step-mother
kindly. ' Just a nice stroll through the park,
and you'll feel quite another being.'

Vivian had grown of late remarkably

obedient. Her narrow eyes opened a little
wider as she returned to her room in sheer
self-amazement.

'What has come to me?' muttered the
girl. ' I've actually given over quarrelling
with Mrs Branscombe.'

She forgot to wonder if she resembled in
every point and detail the figure of the last
new fashion-plate  forgot how the wind or
dust might affect her complexion, and summoning
her maid, selected a simple black
velvet costume trimmed with sable, and hat
to match, and thus attired, sallied forth
towards the park, at a time when, as the
papers say, ' everybody who is anybody is
out of town.'

Just as she was crossing the road leading to
Hyde Park, her crimson silk lace-trimmed
parasol up, although there was a very sickly-looking
sun in the heavens  a bilious, surface
sun, shining as if he begrudged his
light and warmth, especially in enlivening
poor old London  she saw an ill-tempered,
dark and swarthy face coming too close to
hers to be pleasant.

With her Maltese pet, Skye, at her heels,
her three-guinea parasol, her ten-button
gloves, and seven-guinea hat  Vivian knew
she was superb.

But she was easily frightened now. Her

heart beat quickly, till she saw the nose of
a very small terrier peeping behind the man's
arm. This youthful canine specimen reassured
her. The man only wanted, of
course, to sell the dog.

Might yer ladyship wish to buy a little
dawn ? ' asked the man, holding the terrier
in turn by the ear, tail, and leg.

I don't want any dogs,' said Vivian
haughtily, lifting her chin.

Lord Portmore had given her Skye the
last season. He was a duchess's pet, whom
the large man had purchased at an alarming
sacrifice of blue china.

As she spoke, she caught up her favourite
and crossed rapidly over the road  ladies
generally do rush on to the opposite pathway
when irritated and incensed.

But, to her horror, the man, nothing
abashed, followed.

If you annoy me further I shall speak to
a policeman,' said Vivian, turning hot and
cold.

Beg pardon, yer ladyship,' said her enemy,
'but I seed ye a walking' with a little stiff
old party in a large bonnet the other day,
and so I made free to ask ye, if ye won't
buy the dawn, to take a bit of a note to
'er. I'm 'er son, yer ladyship, come back
from the war.'

Certainly not,' said Vivian, angrily shaking
herself, but with a certain nervous trembling
of the lips. ' She never had any son.'

Oh, then yer ladyship knows 'er, I can
see, and ye won't buy the little dawn ? There,
take 'im for ten guineas, miss. He's cheap,
an' a beauty, an' a ornament to any diningroom
or carriage in the kingdom.'

Vivian hesitated ; her heart again beating
rapidly. The mystery, the hateful secret
Mrs Sidewing had half-threatened her with,
was it here revived ? She would rather pay
then and there for this hideous little terrier
a mongrel, she was sure, with painted legs
and tail  than touch that dirty folded piece
of paper, or convey it to Mrs Sidewing from
this miserable-looking tramp ; then curiosity
got the better of her resolve.

What does he want ; what can he have
to say to nurse ? ' thought Vivian, flushing
crimson. ' And how will it affect me ? '

If you are really her son,' said Vivian,
warily mastering her agitation, ' I don't mind
buying the little dog out of charity.'

She opened her Russian leather purse,
counted out ten sovereigns, handed them
to the man, receiving in exchange the black,
shiny-coated terrier and that sinister, ill-folded
note.

Vivian went home in a strangely excited

state  a fever of desperation had seized her
she could have sobbed Hke a child. Why
had she bought this hideous little terrier that
had twice fought her darling Skye, and been
jeered at and stoned by all the little vulgar
boys she met, and why be holding that
ominous piece of paper sealed with the
odious red wax ?

Sitting in her white and gold boudoir, her
ringed hands pressed to her temples, Vivian
knew danger threatened her, that a shadow
dogged her steps, a spectre called Fear
turning all her joys and hopes into dust and
ashes.

She could not rise above an influence, at
once searching and indefinable, that harassed
her shallow brain, and made even conceit lose
Its self-satisfaction.

Something sooner or later would be revealed,
and all waiting is torment to women
of her temperament. She broke the seal
with a reckless despair of consequences that
must have been tragic in a grander soul, and
this is what she read : 

Mari,  I done it at last. Meet me at
corner of V. Batt's Chapel Today night,
an I'll prove my words.'

Done what ? ' echoed Vivian, closing the
note with trembling fingers. * O heaven !
what is this mystery hidden from me, of

which this man and this woman alone hold
the clue ? '

She lighted a taper, melted the wax, sealed
it down again, and rang the bell. Would the
day ever come when there would be no bells
to ring, no servants to scold, no grand pianos
to deal savage blows through chords that
crashed under the fierce touch, no fifty-guinea
costumes, no. men to torture, or women to
madden ? Extremes meet, reflected poor
Vivian, whose portraits were selling well, and
who had been positively driven to flirt with
her singing master as a distraction. Vivian
had not perfectly mastered the shake, though
she paid a guinea a lesson, and Signor Adagio
told her she might arrive at great things.
Vivian had been quite amiable and condescending
to every one since her empire had
been threatened, and the supple Italian, whose
mother was a washerwoman in Naples, could
charge her six shillings for each of his own
compositions, selling elsewhere at sixpence,
without her being aware of the overcharge,
he flattering himself, meanwhile, that the
beautiful Miss Branscombe had found his
fiery gaze, fine wristbands, octave passages,
and passionate crescendos too much for her
imagination.

Tell Mrs Sidewing I want to see her
said Vivian to the servant who answered her

summons. ' Yes, and bring me some strong
tea. I'll not take any luncheon to-day ; and
tell every one who calls that I'm out.'

It was nothing unusual for Vivian, when in
her tantrums or hysterics, to retire to her bed
for three days, and giving herself the air of
an invalid, take chicken-broth or beef-tea
freely, till she felt so bored by working point-lace
in sweet seclusion that she often dressed
herself hastily, ordered her horse, and rode
for three hours, taking a warm bath on her
return, that seemed quite to restore her good
humour.

But the days of caprice were over ; a
new doubt had come that fastened on
rose diamonds, and spoke in hard-breathed
accents, and was terrible aud prophetic, requiring,
maybe soon all her stratagems,
worldliness, and tact to defeat.

Mrs Sidewing came in herself with the tea
on a costly silver salver,  the tea service was
of the finest Dresden,  a present from Mr
Branscombe to Vivian on her last birthday.
She began to prize for the first time all these
tokens of affection and of wealth.

Ah, is it you, nurse ? ' said Vivian, leaning
back languidly in her chair, feeling like
some condemned criminal obliged to look
grateful and penitent when she is longing to
be obstreperous.

VOL. 1. p

It was wonderful how Vivian's manner had
changed, and with what respect she treated
the woman she had once so bitterly reviled.

Yes, dearie, it's me. So your 'eat aches,
does it ? Maybe the walk was too much for
you to-day ? '

Vivian eyed her keenly, a new terror
moving her to the depths of her soul.

Nurse,' she said, in a whisper, spreading
her hands before her face, * I fear you. I
don't know why, but ever since the diamond
necklace went, and you spoke to me in that
fierce, strange way, I've had no rest or peace
of mind. It's hardly fair, is it ? ' said Vivian,
faintly, her thin lips twitching through the
effort to keep back her tears, ' that I should
be punished like this for something I've never
done or deserved " I'm so tired of never
sleeping, but losing awake hour after hour,
watching the light steal through the blinds,
thinking of the necklace, and what you said,
and what I heard Bob whisper before I
fainted.'

Again that ghastly gleam of malice came
into the nurse's eyes,  a dreadful dazed look
that made Vivian cry out as if something
were strangling her,  as \{ the nurse were
trampling out a feeble life that had yet been
dangerous to her own existence.

She pillowed Vivian's aching head on her

breast, smoothing back her hair, and fondling
her, and Vivian submitted because she no
longer dared resist.

Never you mind no think about him! said
the nurse in a whisper. * He'll never worry
us any more, dearie. He's gone back to
America, the villain, and 'full never set foot
again on English shores.'

Was he cruel to you, nurse ? ' asked
Vivian, holding back the note.

No, she was too frightened to give it to
her just yet. She must wait and question
further.

Cruel ain't the word, miss. It was nag,
nag all day. Nagging at me for knowing
nothing, and not being fit to receive 'is friends,
and a precious set they were, too,  and
nagging 'cos I was ugly and pock-marked, 
which, miss, is an affliction sent from above
as wee can't avoid,  and nagging 'cos he could
get no money out o' me to spend on his
actresses,  a set o' painted days, I'd teach
them,' said Mrs Sidewing, bringing her strong
hand fiercely down on the dainty white and
gold table where Vivian, with pale lips,
sat.

You must have got very tired of such ill-treatment,
nurse ? ' said Vivian, cautiously,
after a pause.

A new passion seized the woman, the more

alarming as it contrasted with her usually
quiet, repressed manner.

I loved 'im once,  oh, how I loved him !
He was a fine, tall, 'handsome man, but when
he married me for the sake of a bit o' money-master
gave me for coin' my duty to you and
'is first lady wot left 'im, then Bob changed.
Poverty and neglect are bad to bear when
you're young, dearie, aren't they ? an' to 'ave
to go back to service through a gay 'husband,
why, it 'ud rile anybody. I've sat an' waited
an' seen 'im with them girls an' their painted
cheeks outside the theater, an' I could a
killed ere a one of 'em. I knew it was my
money Bob spent like water. I spoke to a
magistrate. *' It's very 'ard," I says, " sir, to
'ave a man take yer money and spend it on
other women," I says, " an' me not be able to
get rid of 'im neither," for I couldn't prove
nothing, and he never struck me.'

Still the note shook in Vivian's delicate
hand. What was the deed here foreshadowed ?
Could it be murder } And could this objectionable
husband be the victim ?

When I went out to-day,' said Vivian,
pausing between her words, and sipping her
tea, * a rough fellow spoke to me, and he 
he said he knew you  that he was your son.
Of course I knew that was false, because you
only had a little daughter'  Vivian's voice

lingered here and vibrated  ' who died ; but
still I bought the little dog of him, and he
gave me this.'

She held the note up, the pink shell-like
tints of her complexion paling to ashy whiteness,
and threw it on the table.

Mrs Sidewing examined the seal, saw, as
she believed, that the red wax had not been
tampered with, and put the note in her pocket.

Read it,' said Vivian, hoarsely, yielding to
a sudden impulse under the excitement of
pain,  physical pain that dragged at her heart,
and almost stopped its beating.

No, miss, it 'full keep,' said Mrs Sidewing,
coolly. 'I never worries over nothing, I don't.'

But I have read it,' said Vivian, haughtily,
a deadly sickness overpowering her. * I
know what it contains. It alludes to some
deed that has been done at last.'

What ! ' cried Mrs Sidewing, staggering
backwards.

Ah, you tremble now ! The deed, nurse,
the awful deed ! The necklace went ; I bore
that and said nothing, but now  O heaven ! '
smiting her hands,  * I must know. Is it,'
standing up and lowering her voice, ' is it
murder '. '

Still Mrs Sidewing never spoke, but she,
too had paled to a deathly hue ; her lips
worked, but she was silent.

Speak ! ' said Vivian, imperiously, clutching
her shoulder, her old hatred mastering
her, and giving her unnatural strength
and courage ; 'don't you know you're a servant,
paid by my father, and must obey ? Speak !
rU make you, or expose you. I'll send for
papa and Mrs Branscombe and the servants.
You know me; I'm no saint; a thief you
are ; but a murderess  no, no, no, it's too
horrible. But speak ; for if I am myself to
be ruined and destroyed by you in the world
which I love, I swear before heaven that I'll
have the truth out of you this day ! '

The nurse seized the paper, tried to read
the first few lines, but failed, and with a wailing
cry fell like a stone at Vivian's feet.

A CRUEL VENGEANCE.

ND SO Timon is at last enslaved,*
M. Lepelletier is saying, leaning
back in one of the easiest armchairs
he can find in the library at
Stupefied Hall. ' And Venus, after all, is
to be worshipped. Ah ! ah \ parole (fho7ineu7\
it was a pretty scene ! Where had vanished
your gloom then, mon cher?
lived in your cynicism, now I
your hypocrisy.'

Leonard never takes his
changes in this dark face, gleaming fitfully in
the afternoon shadows ; but he does not
speak. Those soft crimson lips, that golden-bronze
hair, the sweet subjection, the wilfulness
and romance of Nellie's love, are fascinations
he has begun at last to brood over.

Pretty, isn't she ? ' the cold voice goes on,
but most decidedly wild ; and where could

Once I be-cannot
doubt

eyes off the

you find roses to compare with her lips and
blushes ? Are you not grateful to me for
bringing Nellie Raymond to Brooksmere ?
Suppose I've got a benevolent fit on me 
call it caprice  what you will  and that I'm
interested in the girl and have taken a fancy
to her.'

Still no answer.

M. Lepelletier did not admire this silence ;
his pale face grew a trifle paler, he lit a cigar
and smoked on silently.

Presently he rose, and came over to where
Captain Mallandaine was seated.

And now, Leonard, a word with you on
another topic,' he said quietly ; ' the motive
that brought me once more under your roof.'

Something like a vicious scowl stole over
his long brows, that deepened the furrow
between his eyes. Leonard laid down his
cigar, looking his enemy straight in the
face.

Ah, mon cher' cried Lepelletier, ' this
will never do. I want to make you talk, and
you persistently decline to answer.'

I've been doing my best to cut you for
years,' answered the Captain, coolly lifting his
eyes and meeting the other's insolent stare.

'Another insult,' cried the Frenchman,
starting to his feet. ' Viable ! this is insufferable.'


'Why don't you challenge me to a duel,
Lepelletier ? You're fond of frightening
editors and raw boys. I will tell you 
because you dare not'

Dare not ! ' he echoed, looking dangerous,
but keeping quiet. * This is mere
childish fooling, beneath my contempt. I
can strike you In a far more vulnerable
part still. I can prove who you are hiding
away in the west wing of Stupefied Hall,
and one of the proudest families in Devonshire
will have its skeleton dragged from its
cupboard.'

How would this affect or benefit you ? '

It is part of my revenge. I have learnt
the truth. Your sister Aurella is here
concealed, and I have come to insist on an
interview.'

Insist ?'

Well, it comes to nearly the same thing.
I intend to see Miss Mallandaine some time
to-day, or I shall give notice to the authorities
of the law that you are acting illegally.'

And your motive ? '

Oh, 77ton cher, that Is easily understood.
When I loved your sister with an adoration
approaching madness, and every thought was
torment, both you and she Insulted me In the
most heartless manner possible. Now, when
I still love and admire your sister, but hate

her, too, I want to see what a wreck the
scornful beauty has become.'

Leonard's face darkened still more.

Trust me, Leonard, I shall be very-gentle
; I may not even speak. Confess she
owes me some slight reparation for all the
pangs of misery she has inflicted. Think of
my jealousy and fury when Oscar de Beriot
triumphed where I had failed, and won a
heart that to me would have been the most
prized treasure earth could have held.'

Did you not have your revenge before ?
You could not bear your disappointment like
a man, but like a demon. Who brought
Signora Firmiani to De Beriot's lodgings,
and made her sing to him, and study every
art to bewitch and entrap him ? You see, I
am well informed.'

Lepelletier had puffed away coolly at his
cigar, but here he again started to his feet on
the point of denying the accusation.

Yes,' said Leonard, in the cold voice that
made feverish throbbing assail the other's
brain, * it was you  false friend  pitiless
lover  unscrupulous foe. Madame Firmiani
was at your mercy, and you left no stone
unturned in aiding her to dazzle De Beriot.
He swore this to me with his last breath 
dying men speak the truth.'

All's fair in love or war, mon chert said

the Frenchman, sipping his wine. ' I had
that one card to play, and I played it well.
I had but one weapon to strike with, and I
sent it home  to the heart.'

Then why do you persist in haunting and
disturbing us ? My father was kind to you
when you were friendless, and received you
with hospitality and consideration ; you fell
passionately in love with my sister Aurelian ;
you say you date all your sufferings from the
hour in which you were rejected. It was not
your poverty we loathed, but your principles
your poverty has gone, your principles
remain.'

There was a gleam of fury in Leonard's
expression, a scintillating fire such as may be
seen springing from iron beaten by a hammer.

Diantre! But you are candid.'

When my sister was engaged to your
cousin, and the marriage settled on, you
brought temptation, craft, and all your infernal
jugglers to suborn a weak-minded
man, and you succeeded ; you looked on
coolly, like a gambler watches a game in
which human souls, not gold, are lost and
won ; you studied every move of a base
revenge, and you knew what sort of nature
Aurelian had  the deep wells of emotion, the
bright, poetical fancies, the sensitive tenderness.
Yes, you had read all these like open pages.'

Lepelletier folded his arms, and looked
dreamily across the swaying boughs of the
avenue of chestnuts beyond the lawn. That
cold voice had a menace, and he had no idea
that Captain Mallandaine had so perfectly
comprehended his actions.

'And now the sequel  Aurelian's mind
slowly gives way  I do not say she is insane
(it is false), but heart-broken. De Beriot has
acted treacherously. I insist on reparation,
and I will do him justice so far, that he
was no coward, for when I smote him
across the face, he was quite ready to
fight me  a duel was the consequence, in
which he was mortally wounded, and admitted
the justice of his doom. You are the
cause of all this misery and bloodshed, and
now have the audacity to say you have
triumphed, and insist on seeing the poor dying
girl.'

Lepelletier laughs cynically.

I suppose you call that strong English ? '
he said, coming close to Leonard with noiseless
step. * Yes, I have endeavoured to crush
and degrade you all ; her anguish is my
triumph. I swore she should suffer agony of
agonies. Ciel ! Was I to let her go free,
and die myself inch by Inch ? Always
hatred, always irony, always contempt directed
against me. It was a war.'

Lepelletier, you are a most unmitigated
villain.'

Still strong language. I said to myself,
this lovely girl, with her poet's soul and peerless
beauty, shall daily feel like I  the hurricane
of fevered thought  I, though she hates
me, shall yet be her fate  I, though less than
the dust under her feet, still claim her sacrifice.
I exult in her despair. Yes, Leonard, I have
waited day by day, month by month, sustained
by this one thought. She despised
me. It was not that she could not love me,
but she made no allowance for my jealousy
and passion, which she regarded as insults,
that I could never forgive, and through that
have I made her degradation and yours
complete.'

I had hoped,' said Leonard still coldly,
but the fire kindling again in his eyes, ' that
Aurelian might have died ere she beheld your
face again.'

You laid your plans well ; you schemed
to mislead me, but you find I have learnt the
truth, and I shall see her  this very hour.'

You are wealthy,' said Leonard, making
one last appeal, ' why not let the good
fortune lately showered on you suffice, and
leave those whose lives you have ruined in
peace ? '

Desold not to be able to take your view of

the matter, but I have set my mind on seeing
your sister. You are right, I am wealthy,
but what of that ? Wealth came to me by
the merest chance. An obstinate old fool,
who had neglected me all through my best
days, quarrels with those natural toadies
around him  his relatives, and endows me
with his money. I never could have made a
fortune, and have none of the elements which
constitute the successful men, the Croesi of
this world.'

Leonard crossed the room and bent over
his enemy.

Be generous for once, resist this desire to
see my sister, trouble us no more, but leave
her to die in peace.'

A crimson flush mounted to the other's
cheek.

No, Leonard, no. Am I to be baulked
of my revenge ? I must see her this very
day.'

Very well,' answered Leonard, ' you shall
see her, but  '

Take me to her,' cried Lepelletier hoarsely,
and at once. Oh, my love, my angel, will
you be changed, I wonder ? The smile
gone from your lips, the radiance from your
gaze ? '

His words tortured Leonard beyond endurance.


Wait,' he said, as Lepelletler made for the
door.

I must have my triumph ; I have earned it.'
' Villain ! ' muttered Leonard, between his
teeth, * I warn you, If you persevere in these
visits and your cruel conduct, I will find
means to unearth your past, to unveil your
crimes. People shall shrink from and avoid
you. Remember, you have been black-balled
at two West-end clubs ; your continental
roving also terminated suddenly. When I
was at Munich last year, a woman was found
mysteriously murdered on her doorstep in the
early dawn ; It was known you had been her
lover. Will you recollect how you left
Munich?'

Pardieu I we are wasting time,' said
Lepelletler, shrugging his shoulders, his complexion
assuming a leaden hue. ' These are
mere Idle ravings  you are talking nonsense.
Come and take me to the room in which
Aurelian weeps.*

Without another word, Captain Allan
led the way through a long dark corridor,
at the end of which was a heavy
baize-covered door.

Lepelletler paled still more as they approached
the entrance to this west wing.
They crossed the picture galleries and turned
to the right. Here they came upon a wall

in the middle of which was a door. Leonard
pushed this door open, and entered slowly.

And now behold your work,' he whispered,
pointing to a white-robed figure in a distant
corner of the room.

She was sitting before a piano as they
entered, her hands hanging lifelessly over the
keys. Never was ruin more complete. She
rose to welcome Leonard as usual, but seeing
Lepelletier by his side, she uttered a loud and
piercing scream, clinging to her brother's arm
in pallid agitation.

Aurelian's aspect bore that unmistakable air
of lassitude and exhaustion in which is the
awful weakness of decay  weakness produced
by long, sleepless nights of fever and despair.

There is something in her grief-worn look
and spectral aspect that has strange charm
for Lepelletier's imagination ; his eyes grow
glassy while regarding hers.

But for him she would have been Oscar de
Berlot's wife ; but for him that breast pierced
with the fatal sword-thrust, and lying cold in
death, must have pillowed her dark head.
This helpless anguish is too terrible to witness
long.

Do you know me ? ' he asks, approaching
her.

Yes,' Aurelian answers, looking into the
pale wicked face of her destroyer, ' and I am

dying very fast  I am going away ; you will
not smile at me much longer.' Then to
Leonard, * Why did you bring this man hereto
me ? '

'Aurelian,' said Lepelletier, still with that
horrible smiling hatred in his eyes, in which
was ill-disguised pain, * I told you when you
despised my love that you would one day
regret it. Do you remember ', We were in
the garden alone, and the sun was setting.
I implored your pity, your compassion ; I
told you my love was self-destroying, and
that, rejected, it might also scheme your
ruin. Mine was the passion that leads a
man to murder the woman he adores, and
kiss her when dead, and put her arms about
his neck, and die too.' He paused, breathing
hard. ' You disregarded the danger
about your path, you saw no tragedy beneath
you were the spoilt, proud beauty ; why
should you care for a poor man, ugly, too,
and despised ? But you were walking all
the time on the edge of a grave.'

Leonard, spare me this,' cried Aurelian,
throwing herself into her brother's arms.

Lepelletier's voice had now sunk to a low,
dull murmur.

Why should you value my love ? You
did not, and you are destroyed. You thought
me submissive under your contempt and dis-vol.

I. Q

pleasure ; no, no  never. I vowed then that
if you were not mine  my wife to cherish
and adore, that you should be none other's.
Have I not kept my word ? '

She looked at him in horrified surprise ;
her lips moved, but she made no reply ; she
was too weak to suffer more.

So have I plotted against you, and held
you in my power all along. I killed your
mind  I could picture your tears and anguish,
your lonely nights and days. You would
have been a brilliant woman  a poet, a
writer. English, too. Well, I hated all that
I claimed you as a sacrifice. Is this not
revenge ?

Aurelian had wrenched herself from her
brother's grasp  supernatural strength seemed
granted her at this crisis  she rose, her steps
no longer languid, and crossed over to where
Lepelletier stood, his arms folded in a gloomy
attitude by the window, and she laid her
hand on his arm.

Her light touch thrilled him, tremors
passed through his frame.

And are you content ? ' she asked in her
silvery, tearful tones. * Does it make you
any happier 1 Do you recollect how we
nursed you after that fall from your horse,
and I sat and read with you, and brought
you fresh flowers every day ? You, I see,

have brought me a red rose.' She lifted her
hand and drew a flower from his coat. It
was a half-crushed rosebud, which he had
forgotten had been fastened there by Nellie.

You were my idol,' he burst out passionately.
' O heavens, that I should love
a woman so ! '

If there's any pity or remorse in your
heart, think of it  think of it. And now,
Leonard, take me away ; I'm tired, and must
rest.'

As Leonard drew her towards him, her
eyes grew more dim, and with a faint cry,
she stretched out her arms and fainted.

Are you not satisfied ? ' asked Leonard,
coldly, pointing to the door. ' Go  all malice
must have its limits, even yours.'

Lepelletier staggered to the door, stood
irresolute for a second, then closed it softly,
and was on the point of yielding to a great
burst of emotion in the form of tears when
he saw Nellie coming across the lawn towards
him.

'After all, if Aurelian had loved me, she
would have been always tremendously tragic,
and that is such a deuce of a bore,' said the
light-hearted Frenchman characteristically,
checking his tears. ' Laura, I am sure, will
be the same, but then Laura loves me, and is
ready for any madness  these English women

are so absurdly intense. Talk about Medea !
What a time that poor beggar Jason must
have had of it, to be sure ! '

M. Lepelletier was so grateful to Nellie
for thus coming to the rescue at a painful
crisis, that he went forward hastily to greet
her.

Well, child, what is it ? ' he asked.

*A lady has called to see you,' she
answered, while as she spoke Leonard came
down the steps reading a letter.

Captain Mallandaine found it a very
strange and mysterious communication indeed.
He had to read it over several times
before he understood its contents, and then
thought Branscombe must be growing more
eccentric than ever.

This letter alluded to Leonard's bravery
in having saved his (the writer's) life on the
Alps some years ago, in terms of almost
fervent gratitude. He also entreated
Leonard to return at once to London, and
wound up by saying his health was by no
means satisfactory, and that he intended to
travel.

A lady ! * echoed Lepelletier, not altogether
unprepared for this news. ' What a
reception is in store for me ! '

He walked quickly towards the cottage,
and saw a well-cut profile, which he recognised

as that of Laura Branscombe. She
was thickly veiled, and was standing by the
mantelpiece in Faculty's best parlour.

Gustave Laura cried, throwing off her
veil, * I could bear it no longer. I was told
you were seen with a young, golden-haired
girl, whom you had met at a circus.'

'And your husband, chere madame?' he
inquired, enjoying her agitation.

He has gone away for a few days. Vivian
is at home. Ah ! they must never know  '

Of course not,' answered Lepelletier,
laconically. ' How could you be so wild, so
imprudent, Laura, as to come at all i '

Ah, why ? ' she said. * And pott can ask
me that . '

Still tragedy, still agony ! When would it
end ? Whenever, of course, he pleased.

Ah, ina chere, you take it too much to
heart,' he said tenderly. * You'll be quite ill
with all this agitation.'

111, Gustave ! I shall positively die if
this sort of thing goes on much longer. I
thought love was cruel enough to bear, but
what is it to the pangs of jealousy .' '

His shallow nature was just stirred on the
surface as he listened to the depth of her
sad utterance.

And then my remorse ! ' clasping her
hands. * The dreadful struggle, day by day,

to bear up, and be patient, forget you, and
endure my husband.'

Oh, he's a horrid little cad, ma cherel said
the lover. * Don't talk of him.'

But I am not heartless, Gustave. I have
submitted to the conventionalities of society,
and passed years of cold alienation from Mr
Branscombe, believing in honour and duty
till I met you. One glance, one smile, and
the very essence of my soul fled to you, and
has been yours to torture. What devil gave
you this hold over me ? You are not a goodman.
I am sure you are cruel and callous,
and yet I am fascinated, enthralled, and
lost'

Pardi, I've been devoted,' he said, with
the faintest shrug. ' Now, ma belle  for
beautiful you are, and mine also, or soon will
be  go home quietly without a scene, and as
befits a woman of education and the world, to
Prince's Gate. Your husband may be on the
watch. No golden-haired rival need you fear.
Besides, I detest girls. To my mind, a woman
isn't worth a fig under forty.'

Gustave, have you any pity } Are you
still cold or angry with me ? '

Oh, mori ange, you're charming in your
new character of a jealous woman ; the
gloomy passions suit your style.'

It must be the climate makes the English

take life so seriously,' he reflected, hoping
Mrs Branscombe would catch the express.

And when shall we  shall I see you
again ? '

To-morrow without a doubt.'

He bent down and kissed her on the
mouth.

A mouth made for songs and love,' he
whispered.

If you forsake me or are false I shall die,*
Laura said, with a sweet wintry smile, drawing
her veil over her face, and fastening her
sables and velvet. ' I've something proud
in me, Gustave. I could not sink to the level
of those I despise.'

You've a long and tedious journey, Laura,'
glancing at his watch.

But I've seen you, and now farewell,' she
cried, holding out her hand. ' When love
becomes ungovernable, it must be very near
to death,' she murmured. * Don't you think
so ? And that may be expiation. Yesterday
I read these lines : 

Sweet is true love, though given in vain  in vain ;
And sweet is death that puts an end to pain."

If, Gustave, an innocent child thought this,
what must a guilty woman feel ? I shall be
ready to meet my doom.'

She had gilded past him, waving her hands,
and was soon lost from view.

Ciel ! It would never do to trifle with
her he muttered, then laughing and touching
his brow. * Parole honneur ! Another
lunatic ! '

END OF VOL. I.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

y-vv \:'

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

3 0112 041772234

hr.m

iLg V'

>*!v

,VVvyfkVi2

yytt'"y

:S?SSw,

i**W%

-SiiW.

,y.uy.,Kv!VWO'

M.::

gwgwwv

,v:vvv-3

jyyi

'Ws;

U

i

V. jG.A;aw,o'y:

'uWV-J.:

WWuWuvyVSK

iw.:wvu

,uv;vv

*!

s7y  --?< z''.i' .  " : .  .;  ;Uuwl/'  

.yvvw

luyyj

wggV

/"ipiyy.

LI E) RAR.Y

OF THL

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

cS394\r
V.3

lAIAM

r:ikTWAWVf/<r. I Y lAi

rf-T TALInUIL

A NO V E L.

B V ANNABEL GRAY,

Al TilOK OF 'margaret Dunbar,' ' WAIT AND WIN,' ' Amaranth
MYSTERY,' ETC.

IX THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. III.

TINSLEY BROTHERS,

CATHERINE STREET, STRAND,

LONDON.

I 88 I.
wall Rights re served. \

Discontents



CHAPTER I.

A TERRIBLE SUSPICION,

CHAPTER II.

THE AGONY OF LAURA BRANSCOMBE, .

C H AFTER I I I.

THE PARTING IN THE CENTRE TRANSEPT,

CHAPTER IV.

A DYING man's Advice,

CHAPTER V.

THE PRIZE IS GRASPED,

CHAPTER VI.

DANGER IN A NP:W QUARTER, .

CHAPTER VII.

Page

I

HUNTED DOWN,

3}





7



Contents.

CHAPTER VIII.

Image

DISCONSOLATE, . . . . .Ill

CHAPTER IX.

MRS RUDERSHEIM VISITS CAPTAIN MALLANDAINE, . 1 23

CHAPTER X.

THE RENT IN THE VEIL, . . .  2)1

CHAPTER XI.

AT THE FARM-HOUSE, . . . .-153

CHAPTER XI I.

CALLED TO ACCOUNT,' . . . . 164

CHAPTER XIII.

'the TURN OF THE DIE,' . . . . 1 74

CHAPTER XIV.

RECONCILED, . . . . . . I96

CHAPTERCHAPTER I.

A TERRIBLE SUSPICION.

Mild RUDERSHEIM had already
begun to look forward to
Nellie's visits with positive pleasure.
She experienced the agreeable
sensation of doing good to a fellow-creature,
who was one of the most charming girls in
the world, and who also alleviated the monotony
of Emily's existence when Hubert remained
later than usual in the city, or came
home with a bad headache.

If Nellie had been stupid, ill-bred, or intrusive,
Emily would have dismissed her
with contempt.

VOL. III. A



She never allowed herself to be annoyed
by vulgar people, but a girl who, by a few
skilful pinches and pins, could show her
where her dresses could be altered and improved,
or who arranged a flower with a
tastefulness that the great Celestine herself
could hardly have eclipsed, was indeed a
treasure, and it is always so much more
pleasant to be generous, kind, and Christian-like
to a thoroughly useful person.

Although Mrs Rudersheim was a placid-tempered,
lazy little lady, she had an impulsive
heart, and now and then she delighted
in manufacturing storms in tea-pots, and
going in for sentiment and scenes.

Nellie had met with so little kindness in
her life that she exaggerated the good-natured,
easy-going lady's benefits, and never
remembered how much she did for Mrs
Rudersheim in return.

On the unpleasant occasions when Emily
was seized with fits of energy or emotion,
Hubert invariably escaped to the city, and
endeavoured to retrieve his affairs, and look
that ugly spectre, ruin, which threatened him,
in the face.

How could he picture his Emily drinking
tea out of cheap crockery, or living in shabby
rooms ? The spoilt beauty would cry for her
sables and Sevres cups and saucers, her

diamonds and laces, and want champagne
instead of sixpenny ale.

He was very glad she had taken a fancy
to Nellie, for if the blow should fall, and
overwhelm them in misery and disgrace,
Nellie, who seemed so sweet and patient,
might assist his wife in a hundred ways, and
help her to bear her changed lot.

There are many men with similar wives,
who would rather put a pistol to their brains
than hint the truth to the helpmates who,
steeped in luxury and ease, turn into torturers
and grumblers when once the gilded dream is
over.

The evening after the one on which Captain
Mallandaine had taken her to Christy's
Minstrels, Nellie found herself again en route
to Mrs Rudersheim.

She wanted to tell her of this new joy
which had steeped her life in ecstasy, and
Nellie had so endeared herself to her friend
that she knew she would listen to the wonderful
story of her love with the truest sympathy.

Mrs Rudersheim had dressed, as usual, for
dinner, and was lying on her velvet couch
waiting for her husband's return from the
city.

Why was he so late ?

Emily never associated any ideas of falseness
or jealousy with the handsome Austrian.

She. would screw up her eyes, and shake her
lovely head, and call him * a naughty boy,'
perfectly certain he had been sitting for hours
with a pen in his hand, before horrid ledgers
and rows of fixtures and accounts.

Fanciful imaginings were not in the line of
either of these two very practical people.
To-nleht Hubert was later than usual in his
return from the city. Emily had drunk salvolatile
till she felt sick.

The dinner had been sent down to be kept
hot for the last two hours, which was perhaps
trying to the temper of the most extortionate
and amiable of landladies. Emily, feeling
miserable, brewed her mental storm without
the aid of the traditional teapot, and began
to cry.

Hubert's unreasonable absence already
worked a certain confusion in his wife's
brain. Could anything dreadful have happened
?

She was very restless. She rose from her
couch and walked to the window, and
listened intently for every cab.

Just as she had thrown herself down for
about the fifth time on the sofa, the door
opened and Nellie appeared.

So pleased to see you, child,' Mrs Ruder-shell
cried, holding out her hand. ' I call
you my good little fairy, and I'm so worried,

Nellie. The landlady, who has robbed us
shamefully for months, has actually sent
up her bill, and requests payment tomorrow.'

Nellie, who had always suffered from want
of money, was rather surprised that Mrs
Rudersheim should make her moan likewise.
So much elegance and display must surely
accompany a long purse. The diamond
rings on her fingers alone seemed to Nellie
to represent a small fortune.

That need not worry you, dear madam,
since you are so rich,' Nellie said with a
smile.

How do I know that ? ' cried Emily
petulantly, taking up the bill again. ' I'm
sure Hubert hates to be bothered by accounts
just now. What shall I do ? '

You might sell something,' said Nellie
thoughtfully, remembering how Madame
Juanita had sent her out one dark winter's
evening to a pawnbroker's with a lace shawl,
for which she had received three pounds.

Sell something ? ' echoed Emily, aghast
at the notion. ' No, it hasn't quite come to
that ; but tell me, you little wiseacre, what I
possess that could be most readily turned into
cash.'

'Why, the sables,' said Nellie rapidly.
Those splendid Russian furs you gave eighty
guineas for.'

My darling sables ? Part with them
indeed ! A likely case. Don't talk of anything
of the kind, Nellie, till there's' 
shivering  'a necessity to do so.'

This conversation turned Nellie's thoughts
from the love history she wished to tell. Mrs
Rudersheim was clearly not in the mood to
listen, and might feel bored.

Nellie had, however, something strange
and wonderful to relate about Miss Vivian
Branscombe which might startle the woman
who believed that Vivian was her child.

It rather pained Nellie to find Mrs Ruder-shem
apparently wrapped in a mantle of
selfishness to-night, and full of inane complaints.
Memories of Leonard and of what
he had said possessed her mind  those sweet
whispers in between the songs at Christy's,
when his breath fanned her temples, and the
feathery sprays of her golden hair brushed
his chin.

Emily wore a plain black velvet dress tonight,
and as she pushed aside her plate and
book and began another hurried walk across
the room, she looked down at the Brussels
carpets, and then at the worn velvet couches
and chairs and handsome gilt mirrors of the
furnished apartments.

Were they turned out from here, they had
no furniture or home of their own to go to.

These late absences of Hubert, his depression
and pallor, spoke for themselves.

'Oh, Nellie, I'm afraid I'm going to be
very unhappy,' she said, stopping suddenly
in her walk. * A cloud has been hanging
over us for a long time. My husband has
some great trouble he is hiding from me.'

This appeal to Nellie's sympathy was all-powerful.
She felt she could devote herself
utterly to Mrs Rudersheim, but the words
she had overheard at Prince's Gate must be
repeated to-night. She could not rest till
they were told to Mrs Rudersheim. It washer
duty to reveal all she had heard.

Do you remember that you said you
wished to hear news of your daughter Vivian ? '
asked Nellie, after a pause, drawing a low
arm-chair to Emily's side, and smoothing the
sofa pillow. ' When I went the first time to
Prince's Gate I did not see her, but the day
before yesterday she came down to the shop
and ordered another hat, so I had to call
again, and speak to her about it the same
evening.'

Mrs Rudersheim expected something disagreeable
was coming, but she wondered why
Nellie seemed so agitated and spoke so fast.

'You saw my daughter, then ?' asked Mrs
Rudersheim.

How do you know that she is your child ? '

asked Nellie, bending over her, and watching
the effect of her words.

Mrs Rudersheim, who was in her emotional
mood, started from the couch, and faced
Nellie with something wild and terrified in
her expression. She felt so guilty in having
abandoned her child that she was ready to
believe ill consequences must inevitably have
followed that deliberate deed of heartlessness
and desertion.

'Why do you speak like that, Nellie, and
look so strange?' Her fair face had lost
every atom of colour, and she grasped the
railing of a chair for support. ' Have you
anything to tell me that may lead me to think
Vivian Branscombe is not my child ? '

Yes,' said Nellie, breathing hard.

Tell me quickly, what is it ? I can hardly
bear the strain any longer ! The secret
remorse I used to suffer from is again aroused.
Oh, my child, my little child ! I abandoned
my own baby ! '

The terror Nellie's words had called forth
banished all recollections of her present
gloomy anticipations of debt and poverty.

How do you know that your daughter is
not dead ? ' Nellie asked, as Mrs Rudersheim
clasped her hands piteously together. * Little
children so often die early, especially when
they've no mother to care for them.'

Dead ! How could that be i '

She might have died,' said NelHe slowly,
and weighing every word, ' after you went
away, how could you tell what became of
her ? Who was to know except the woman
you left her with ? '

Mrs Rudersheim had regained her self-control.
These conjectures, unless based on
something more than a young earl's imaginings,
were absurd and groundless.

The woman I left her with was Sidewing,
the nurse, a most excellent and devoted
creature. I would stake my life on Side-wing's
honesty,' said Emily heroically, and
on the verge of strong hysterics.

I heard something very strange that
astonished and alarmed me,' said Nellie,
lowering her voice, * when I went last time
to Prince's Gate. I was thinking of you, and
of your longing to see your daughter, and I
tried to make up a sentence that might touch
her heart. . I forgot that I was only a
milliner's apprentice.'

Mrs Rudersheim shivered. There was
more, then, to be told. She attempted to
rise again from the couch, but sank back with
closed eyes and a tired sigh.

I fully expect all my misery will come at
once,' she said fretfully. * Fate could not goon
always sparing me. Hubert will be ruined,

and  Tell me what you heard, Nellie, and
be as brief as you can.'

Nellie kissed the hand that now shook like
a leaf.

Am I fit to bear trouble ? ' said Emily
pitifully. ' I ask you, Nellie, am I not too
weak, nervous, and delicate a being to have
great suffering thrust on me ? It will kill
me?'

I should like to stay and help you to bear
it,' said Nellie tenderly, her eyes filling with
tears. ' No woman ever loved me, and I
have so often wondered about my mother,
and. if '

She broke off suddenly here, and found
Mrs Rudersheim's eyes resting on her with
anxious watchfulness.

Try and remember every word that was
said at Prince's Gate,' muttered Emily, looking
at the reflection of herself and Nellie in
the opposite mirror. ' Great heavens ! how
she resembles me,' she thought, recalling her
husband's words when they first saw Nellie
at Madame Celestine's.

It was late when I got there,' Nellie
began.

Oh, how miserable I am,' cried Emily,
interrupting her with a burst of feeling. ' All
allusion to my daughter only adds to my
wretchedness ; it makes me feel what a wicked.

guilty creature I am. She refuses all intercourse
with me, and sometimes, Nellie, I so
long to see her that I envy the poor women
I meet in the streets when they have a
daughter with them, and I feel that I'd resign
all to look into my child's eyes, or be tended
by her soft, loving hands.'

There is a secret in Miss Vivian Branscombe's
life,' said Nellie, with unconscious
energy.

She had been treated to a severe dose of
Vivian's hauteur, who kept her standing
nearly an hour while she tried on half-a-dozen
hats.

A secret ?' echoed Mrs Rudersheim, convinced
that fate meant to torment her in
future with ruthless cruelty. The past had
been too smooth, bright, and luxurious for
earth,  life would be hard for her now that
she was getting old.

Yes, a secret,' repeated Nellie, in a tense,
eager voice. ' I saw an old woman, marked
with the small-pox, come out of a room as I
was going in, and she stared at me very hard.
They did not know I was so near, for I heard
the young lady, Miss Vivian Branscombe,
say to the old woman, before she had closed
the door, '' I will never call you mother  no,
not if I am your child. I shall hate you to
the end'"

Mrs Rudershelm uttered a low cry as
she listened, and an expression of such utter
dismay and terror dawned over her lovely
face that Nellie grew frightened.

Dear madam, you are ill. But I must
have told you this ; it was my duty.'

Nellie she said, taking the girl's hand in
her own trembling one, ' are you quite sure
you have made no mistake ? Can you swear
to me it is the truth ? '

There are strong and piercing influences
conveyed not only in magnetism, but in
glances. Emily experienced a sudden thrill
which saved her from fainting.

Should Nellie indeed be my long-abandoned
child ! ' murmured an inward voice, so
powerful that it could not be silenced.

Again and again the thought intruded,
and spread with electric force through every
depth of her soul. Were not Nellie's tenderness
and sympathy sweet as those of a
daughter '.

'Yes, I am quite sure,' murmured Nellie,
rising to her feet.

The same thought that had pierced her
mother had not struck her. She never connected
herself in any way with Mrs Ruder-shem,
only she could not bear to think that
she was deceived.

Nellie offered no cheap idolatry to the

objects of her love ; she wished to serve them
in proportion as she reverenced.
* I never heard anything clearer she went
on, ' and when I entered the room, and the
young lady saw me, she bit her lips in rage
and turned pale. She kept me standing over
an hour, and was crosser than ever. She
actually threw one hat on the floor and
stamped on it, and said, " I tell you I can pay
for the whole lot, and a dozen besides, if I
choose," and then she half sobbed, and muttered
some name that I could hardly catch,
but which sounded like " Leonard"'

Captain Leonard Mallandaine, of course,'
said Emily. * They say he means to marry
her. Mr Branscombe left him a large share
of his wealth, with, no doubt, the understanding
that he will be Vivian's husband.'

She had not been prepared for the sudden
change in Nellie's manner. She paused in
her walk, and uttered a sharp, broken cry,
and then she ran to Mrs Rudersheim, knelt
down by her side, and burst into tears.

*Why, do you know Captain Mallandaine,
Nellie?'

The fair head fell lower, the colour flooded
neck and brow, the girl hid her face in her
hands, and seemed to cling to Emily for
protection and warmth. She felt icy cold.
Mrs Rudersheim's words had hurled her from

those Elysian heights in which love's breath
wooed her, even in dreams.

'You love Captain Mallandaine, Nellie?'
said Emily, caressing the crouching figure,
and drawing the feathery rings of golden-brown
hair through her jewelled fingers.

There was no answer. Nellie only sobbed
on. Leonard was going to marry that cruel
creature who lived at Prince's Gate, and
had wealth, beauty, and homage at her
command.

How unjust, how hard was Nellie's lot!
And this man had held her in his arms, and
pillowed her head on his breast, and told
her he loved her with the tense, mad worship
which Shelley sings of in the metaphysical
labyrinth of the poet's dream in Epipsy-
coition. Were all men inherently false and
treacherous ?

'Oh, my poor Nellie, I see what It is,'
said Emily archly, with the discernment of
a woman of the world. ' This gay cavalier
has been courting you.'

No, no,' sobbed Nellie, too goaded to be
rational. * I was a miserable, starving girl,
that prayed to die, and wandered out into
the noisy streets to escape from a horrible
doom. . I was in a circus, and had to do
dangerous things which frightened me out
of my senses almost'

A circus ! ' repeated Emily, shrinking
back somewhat from NelHe at the
word.

I was sold into slavery when I was a
child, and taught to dance and sing and
ride  taught with blows, and sometimes half
beaten to death. As I wandered down
Regent Street one day in the summer, I saw
a picture that seemed to blind and madden
me all at once. It represented wild beasts
devouring human bodies. I always knew
they were fierce and terrible, but till I saw
the bloodstained arena, and the limbs all torn
and mangled, I never realised how terrible
they could be. I kept saying to myself, "They
will one day serve me the same." I hadn't
slept for nights before thinking of the tigers,
and I was famished for want of food. As I
repeated these words I fell into a half swoon
and fainted. I remember trying to repeat
them again and again as I felt the hard pavement
under my hands, and the sun burnt into
my brain ; then Captain Mallandaine, who
was passing, had compassion on me, and
lifted me from among the crowd, and saw me
safely home.'

Nellie paused for breath ; she was writhing
under the torture of believing her lover had
deceived her.

And, of course, he renewed his attentions.

and did his best to ruin your peace of mind
and pure integrity of life.'

I never saw him again till one day, when
we were encamped out on a common at
Brooksmere . . . they conquered me so far
that I forgot my fright in Regent Street, and
went into the tigers' cage.'

Emily shuddered, and regarded Nellie fora
second doubtfully.

Yes, I dressed and went into the cage. I
had to make the tigers jump through hoops,
when, looking up, I saw Captain Mallandaine
watching me with a sad, stern, indifferent
sort of look that suddenly arrested every
pulse-beat. I had always been thinking and
wondering about him, and then I remembered
that dreadful picture of the wild beasts in
Regent Street, and the bleeding bodies. I
screamed, and dropped the whip I held, and
one of the tigers seized my shoulder, but,
before they killed me, the men rushed in and
I was saved.'

Go on, Nellie, tell me all,' said Emily,
listening eagerly. * Poor little girl  what a
fearful life to have led !'

That night I ran away. I waited till all
was silent in the tents, and then I stole out
into the night, and walked miles in the pouring
rain. A friend of the circus proprietor's
wife  a Frenchman  found me lying asleep

by a river, and he took me to a gardener's
cottage, whose wife wanted help in the work.
This gardener was employed by Squire Mal-landing,
and now you know how I was again
thrown in Captain Mallandaine's way.'

I am sorry, Nellie, that your heart is lost
to this aristocratic soldier. It is given out he
will marry Vivian Branscombe, and, of course,
a man in his position would consider it a great
mesalliance to marry a girl like you. Forgive
me, child, for speaking plainly, but these
things must not be disguised.'

Should I ruin his prospects if I were to
be his wife ?' asked Nellie, her head drooping
lower.

Undoubtedly ; and, otherwise, he will only
bring you shame and misery. You must try
and forget him, and marry some honest fellow
in your own sphere of life.'

Have you ever loved, madam, and can
talk like that to me ?'

Ah, my dear, you're so romantic. You
must give up thinking of Captain Allan
; and remember the injury you would
be doing him by becoming his wife  the
nobility of sacrifice  nothing like it,' sighed
Emily, who had never denied herself one
single pleasure in all her rose-decked life.

Nellie felt too miserable to prolong the
interview, and Mrs Rudersheim's thoughts

VOL. III. B

returned to the mysterious words Nellie had
overheard at Prince's Gate.

Repeat once more to me the words you
overheard,' said Emily, who saw Nellie take
up her cloak and prepare to leave.

" I will never call you mother  no, not if I
am your child. I shall hate you to the end." '

Has there been foul play or treachery
employed somewhere, I wonder ?' cried Mrs
Rudersheim, earnestly scrutinising Nellie's
features.

Who knows ? '

I must talk it all over with Hubert  he
will advise me best ; and you, Nellie, must
give me a long account of every incident in
your life, and all you can remember, and now
for one last piece of advice. Try and forget
this too fascinating captain. He may amuse
himself with you for a time, but place no
dependence whatever on the word of any
man above you in birth and position. If you
only knew, Nellie, how deceitful and base all
men are, and how little to be relied on, even
the best of them, in their dealings with women,
you would refuse to have anything more todo
with Captain Mallandaine.'

Nellie could not answer ; her agony was
too great. She must see him once again 
just once  to tell him all had ended between
them. She moved in a heavy, listless sort of

way towards the door ; her veins swelled like
knotted cords ; her blood beat tempestuously
in every vein. She had heard love was a
madness ; she knew now that it was a scourge
and a curse.

Poor dear child, how ill you look !' said
Mrs Rudersheim. Nellie's heart bled inwardly,
and the sweet face looked worn and
even aged with pain. * I'm afraid you're
sadly too fond of this gallant officer.'

It was the loss of her belief in him which
pained her most at that moment. She could
not realise the full, bitter truth till afterwards.
She only felt helpless and stricken.

That sinking sensation in her heart of
having been deceived, the doubt oppressing
her of Leonard's falsity, brought a depressing
sense of there being no goodness to be found
anywhere in the world.

To lose Leonard must be her death-blow ;
she was sure of this. Nellie could suffer
martyrdom for those she loved ; but she had
not much strength to resist the languid sickness
and heart-broken weariness that would
lay siege to her frame.

Was he no longer noble ? Did he care
only for display, parade, and wealth ? Engaged
to Vivian Transcribe, and confessing
love for another was infamous.

She remembered Aurelian Mallandaine, and

how she had spoken of the love that kills.
The purity and power and grace of perfect
affection can, after all, have nothing in common
with the gross materialism of the stubborn
facts of everyday life.

She will see him again  her reverence and
her worship slaughtered by his treachery 
and tell him he is free ; that she will never
bring him disgrace, or injure him by becoming
his wife, as he has prayed her to be. His
wife ! Oh, the cruel mockery of it all ! He
will marry Vivian Branscombe, and share
her wealth  proud, cold, scornful Vivian, with
some shameful secret locked away from the
world, will triumph through her position and
wealth, because a man's love is such a fragile,
miserable thing, it cannot rise above the
temptation of vulgar display and sordid gain.

Nellie was very proud, in spite of the rare
and ineffable tenderness and devotion of her
nature, and she felt perplexed and confused
at the thought of infidelity.

How can we tell what any man's career
has been ?' asked Mrs Rudersheim, mildly
cynical. ' Many of the most famous men of
the age have triumphed through some masterstroke
of treachery which is never known.
Dishonour, carefully veiled, is the very breath
of their lives, and selfishness the pivot on
which every action turns.'

Good-bye,' said Nellie, awaking from her
delusion ; this man she had so loved was no
guide or protector, but one capable of deceit.
I will try to forget all, as you advise ; but I
thought him wise and grand, and it will be so
hard to change. Don't think me foolish,
please'  she broke off suddenly as Emily
caught her hand  ' but he was all the world
to me.'

A few minutes after she was out in the
noisy streets again, and the old ache was
returning to her life  the secret pain that
made the world seem a miniature ' Inferno,'
where she had to bear her penance in silence.

She crept up quietly to her little room in
Regent Street, and knelt down before the
table with clasped hands.

I will end it all tomorrow,' said Nellie,
tearless and calm. ' I was mad to dream of
happiness. What was there in a poor,
humble girl like me  nameless, too, and forsaken
 to hold him captive ? But then, I
adore him, and jealousy will be the worst
pain of all. . O Leonard, Leonard, how
can I live through the darkness of despair ? '

And she smiled once pitifully, and the
grieved lips quivered, for the dear delights of
life were dead.

THE AGONY OF LAURA BRANSCOMBE.

The worker toiled on, for his time was brief ;
The mourner was nursing her own pale grief ;
They heard not the promise that brought relief.'

'AURA severed herself completely
from the Marquis de Rocheville,
because his shallow nature had
disappointed her, and she found
he was, after all, only a superficial and commonplace
traitor. How often women find
that some demigod sinks into a creature
below the standard of even ordinary manhood
! To her impassioned words he had
offered shrugs, while the earnest solemnity
of her entreaties was repelled by that expressive
derision of which a Frenchman is
so thorough a master.

But he never believed that Laura could sofar
forget her own interests as to dissociate
from him without a word of reproach or

appeal, for he had never understood the
strength of her scorn and the immeasurable
loftiness of her contempt.

The blindness of her belief and faith was
over at last.

She perfectly recognised the egregious folly
of the love that had been instrumental in her
destruction, but she knew that a force stronger
than her own will had driven her on, and
that however profitless, dreary, and fruitless
had been that false step, it could not have
been prevented.

She smiled, sitting in some faded dress
before a miserable fire, as she recalled the
furious torrents of indignation that the virtuous
would pour on her ill-fated head, and how
the censurers would all cry, with one accord,
Serve her right ! '

His loved hand had indeed struck the blow
that was killing her, and how could he gauge
its severity ? Why was she not more mercenary,
he had often asked, as she turned
away indifferently from his gifts.

Make me your wife, Gustave, as you promised,
for the sake of the child,' she would
answer, ' and then it will be my pride and
pleasure to enjoy your wealth.'

So she rejected his offerings, while he bade
her believe in property and reality, sound,
substantial comfort, and glory in rare and

expensive articles, as being so much more
profitable and suited to the earth than ideas.
No doubt he was right, but the blow fell all
the same, and without any demonstrations of
being inconsolable or heart-broken, Mrs Branscombe
was quietly fading out of existence.

The dull anguish of her soul was growing
less acute and more chronic ; so, also, was the
cough that came with her nightly weeping,
and did not seem inclined to depart with her
daylight cheer.

The only being who interested herself in
Mrs Branscombe at this dreary period of her
life was the little actress from West Kensington,
who would not be denied.

Laura had moved to the cheerful locality
of Vauxhall, where she found cheap rooms,
and where, also, Madame Souchy daily presented
herself, bringing a chicken or some
jelly, or a bottle of good wine, with the unobtrusive
kindness we may often find in successful
women of her type, who have real
feeling hidden away beneath the frivolities
of their lives. For this very odd person,
Mrs Delamere, was growing odder everyday
 any one out of the common startled
Louisa ; indeed, so very singular and fatal
were the views she had recently held, that
Madame Souchy believed she was taking it
into her head to die by inches.

Then you will not forget to ask the dealer
to call to-day and look at my pictures ? '
Laura was saying, as Madame Souchy rose
to leave.

The contents of her basket were spread
over the table  fine Burgundy pears and
grapes (for Laura complained incessantly of
thirst), some little sweet cakes, and a book she
had fancied might amuse Laura when alone.

I think it is a doctor you ought to see
far more than a dealer,' Madame Souchy
answered.

The dealer will pay the doctor,' Laura
said, with a smile. ' It's all " pay, pay," in
this world.'

Laura's grace and sweetness had a vaorue
charm and attraction for the woman who
dwelt with some of the coarsest clay of
human-kind, and then she could not understand
Mrs Delamere, which perhaps added
to the charm. She was fascination, but how
quiet ! Louisa could have comprehended a
fury of the Hecate type, who clamoured for
vengeance and took care to dress well.

Laura imagination and oenlus had
moulded her into a being too finely wrought
for ordinary issues, and the blow she had
received, instead of disposing her to open
her heart to others, only closed and hardened
it.

I'll just look up Mr Narcissus Levite
said Madame Souchy, 'as I go home, and
send him on to see your paintings,'

Is he of the tribe of Israel ? '

Rather, but an honest-dealing man

If I could sell this picture,' said Laura,
pointing to one she had recently finished, ' I
could rest for a few weeks. I always want
to be quiet now. The least noise affects my
head.'

Madame Souchy never found Laura in
tears, discomposed or hysterical. She liked
sitting over the fire for hours, drinking strong
green tea, and sleeping away long afternoons
with her baby by her side, and she would tell
Louisa, with a smile, that she was growing
shamefully idle and always longed to sleep.
She must really exert herself to work more
and sell some pictures, while all the time the
thin white hands grew more transparent, and
seemed less able to hold brush and pallet,
while standing so many hours brought on
heavy and continuous fits of coughing.

Every week Laura saw that her dresses
required taking in, and her hair fell in handfuls,
and she, whose vitality had once been
splendid and exuberant, found difficulty
in crawling upstairs without panting for
breath.

If life could only be one long, sweet dreamless

slumber, free from dark thoughts and
half-sobbing breaths !

But, no ; life for Mrs Branscombe had
assumed another phase  the practical one.
She was no longer the wealthy, courted lady
of fashion, dreaming of love as she was
driven in a luxurious carriage and pair round
the Park, impressed by the purely sensuous
view of the sublime mystery and universal
cheat, but a poor, ailing, death-stricken
wanderer, compelled to paint pictures to add
to her slender income.

And Laura found art, regarded in a business
point of view, a far more obstinate and
disappointing affair than she could have
believed. But then brains are complex
creations,  apt to get out of order under
severe mental pressure, like the machinery of
watches disturbed by rough hands.

The wealthy and fashionable duchess who
offers a celebrated publisher three hundred
pounds to publish the sublime creations of
her soul  perfectly contented to lose the
money so long as her vanity is gratified 
might feel the difference in his manner and
reception were she to appear dethroned and
starving, in faded mourning, begging a halfpenny
a line in a purely business point of
view. The situation is more pathetic and less
profitable.

So it was with Laura in regard to her
pictures ; but then she knew her sight was
not so clear as it had been, and her judgment
and taste less sound than in the old happy,
careless days.

After Madame Souchy had retired, Laura
covered her face, and sank down trembling
on the dilapidated arm-chair.

She was very pale and wasted; pains darted
through her side, and the dark hair that persisted
in falling off was hot and dry to-day,
with the fever that was consuming her frame.

I'm afraid I'm going to be really ill,' she
muttered. ' Louisa was right. It is a doctor
I ought to see  yes, and Gustave to bid him
good-bye.'

She thought of her love and its desolate
faithfulness in those sharp, agonised moments
with something of the old tenderness and
clineinof. She wanted to feel his hand once
more in hers before it was too cold to be
touched any more.

I must try and sell that picture,' she went
on, rising, and standing opposite to it, ' then
there will be money enough to pay for the
doctor and the funeral.'

She caught up her baby and strained it to
her breast.

If I die, my angel, what will become of
thee ? ' she cried, breaking down at last, and

all the passion of her soul finding vent in the
simple words.

It was a clever picture  a young gipsy girl,
fiery-eyed and barefooted, standing under
some trees before a group of nobles. There
was rich colouring, combined with rare
originality of treatment, particularly in the
attitude of the young girl, with glittering
beads shining against her dusky skin, and
pathos in the expression of her innocent,
wondering eyes.

There was also another picture on which
Laura had bestowed immense care, time, and
patience.

It represented a woman in a poverty-stricken
room, sitting alone by a hearth,
while the form of a child-angel gleamed
through the window-panes ; snow lay outside
on the pathways, and rain beat at the casement.
Beneath this singular picture were
these lines of the poet 

A weary woman all pale and thin,
With the brand upon her of want and sin,
Heard the child-angel and took her in.'

This picture she did not mean to sell. It
would be her legacy to her destroyer. No
eagerness or anxiety dawned in her expression,
as a few hours after she waited for the
dealer's approach, and heard his step on the

stairs. Money had killed years ago her
dreams of fame ; she had sacrificed herself
for the sake of her family, whom Mr Branscombe
had assisted, and the voice of her
genius only whispered to her reproachfully
now and then.

You painted these pictures, madam ? ' the
dealer asked, after a long and silent survey.

Yes, and I wish to sell one,  the gipsy
girl.'

He did not recognise this haggard, faded
woman as the fashionable Mrs Branscombe
of Prince's Gate, whose works were well
known and fetched good prices.

I seem to be familiar with the style,' he
said slowly. ' The finish is good  decidedly
good. Where did you acquire such a combination,
eh ? Lor' you ought to do better
than live at Vauxhall in such a kennel ! '

What will you give me for the gipsy girl ? '
asked Laura indifferently.

What might you want, ma'am ? Can't be
buyer and seller both. Come to business.
Blest if I can remember where I've seen your
other pictures. Bartholomew bought 'em up,
didn't he ? That looks to me uncommonly
like a Branscombe ? '

I have been too ill to paint much lately,'
she answered evasively ; * but I want twenty
pounds for that picture.'

Twenty fiddlestick 1 Oh, ain't you
precious artful ! '

I can get twenty pounds of Bartholomew
any day,' she said, ' and it's worth fifty

The price of anything, let me tell you, is
just what it will bring.'

The allusion to the rival Hebrew, however,
had made him less impertinent, and he began
to find he might get a bargain.

Say fifteen and it's done,' responded Mr
Narcissus Levita, shaking his hat on one
side. ' I don't mind putting you up to a bit
of business too ; if you'll paint Spanish
pictures, and stick to me, mind  eight puns
a-piece, I'm your man. Give 'em the fan and
the flounces, and the neat ankles and the
tempting legs, and the smooth, gummed hair,
with just a curl so,' and Mr Narcissus shook
his hat off this time and twined one of his
own raven locks on his low-pointed forehead,
and that will pay.'

Thank you very much,' said Mrs Branscombe
coolly, * but I can't undertake any
commissions at present, and I only wish to
sell this picture. Will you give me the sum
I ask?'

Take eighteen puns, my dear, and I'll say
heaven bless you.'

'Very well, that will do, without the
blessing.*

That's what I call severe,' said Mr Narcissus
Levita, laughing, and taking out some
gold and notes. 'Well, now I'm in a buying
mood, I'll give you a tenner for the other 
the ideal one.'

That is not for sale,' she said.

Money's very useful ma'am. Leave this
kennel and come to Bayswater, or Regent's
Park, or Kensington. I'll make your fortune.
By St Peter there's some 'ego" in
you. The more I look at the gipsy girl the
more I like it. No, I shall never be tempted
to curse that or put my boot through the
canvas,' ended Mr Levita, drawing the picture
up under his arm, and preparing to depart.
I tell you, my dear, now I come to look at
you and not your pictures, that you're very
ill indeed ; that's the way with geniuses 
they're always half-dying, or in garrets, or
mad. Get a doctor, that's my advice, as
soon as you can,' ended the dealer making
his final bow.

*What am I but a slave,' she muttered,
after the door had closed, * with disgrace and
decay for my masters ? '

THE PARTING IN THE CENTRE TRANSEPT.

EAR little girl!' Captain jNIallan-
daine repeated to himself, walking
up and down, and dreaming of
Nellie as he waited for her at
their appointed trysting-place in the Crystal
Palace. ' I can imagine how she's been
thinking of the happiness of our meeting here
to-day ; but I begin to fancy she's rather
late, notwithstanding, but I suppose that's
only to tantalise me still more.'

His dark and lustrous eyes burned as he
thought of the childlike fervour and simplicity
of Nellie's love ; her depths of feeling and
reverence. As he glanced among the crowd
that was surging onwards, for a train had
just arrived, he caught a glimpse of Nellie
coming slowly along, looking white and tired.
All the colour had faded from lip and cheek,
and the glossy plaits of her golden-brown

VOL. III. c

hair seemed less carefully arranged than
usual.

Nellie had never understood the extent of
her power over Leonard, or she would have
struggled to retain him still, and dazzled him
anew with her beauty, carefully arrayed and
displayed to the best advantage. She would
have relied on the influence of physical
charms, for, in spite of love's metaphysics,
there is a fair sprinkle of grossness and
animalism side by side with its subtleties and
sophisms ; but Nellie wore her old hat and
gloves, and never thought of making play
with her lovely eyes, or of studying the
effect of a palpitating bosom. She had been
living in a fool's Paradise, and this was the
awakening.

He was surprised to find that she wore her
ordinary morning dress, that her collar and
cuffs looked tumbled, and that none of the
little coquettish attempts at pleasing him with
a new rose or ribbon were apparent.

*Why, my darling, you're unusually late
to-day, and what has drawn all the colour
from your face ? Has anything happened ? '
he asked, longing to feel the soft pressure of
her hand in his.

Still she did not answer, and the look of
entreaty which had dawned over her expression
as he first addressed her had faded,

while a pained look of keen distress had
taken its place.

A great rush of doubt, followed by the
swift darts of jealousy, surged through
Leonard's breast. Nellie's eyes half filled
with tears.

Is there any quiet place where we could
sit down and talk together for a few minutes 1 '
she stammered ; ' because I've something
serious to say to you.'

For a few minutes ? Why do you talk
of minutes ? Isn't there all the afternoon for
us to be together ? '

Perhaps not,' said Nellie, shaking her
head, and looking so piteously wretched and
broken, he hardly recognised her as the same
being.

Leonard started, and bit his lip. He instantly
thought of the Marquis de Rocheville,
their evil genius. Had he not hinted sometime
ago that Nellie was attached to him, and
was it not highly probable he had poisoned
her mind against him ? Jealousy gave him
another stab.

Nellie, you are changed towards me today,'
he said reproachfully. ' Your manner
is cold and constrained ; you are not your own
sweet, natural self.*

He would not lower himself to question
her as to the cause of her changed manner.

6 A Romance of Regent Street.

Leonard felt bitterly wounded, and when
wounded, he could be for the nonce cruel,
severe, and sometimes unjust, as a man passionately
In love often Is.

If Galatea had suddenly turned on the
sculptor who had Infused life and love into
her soul, and assailed him with the beak and
claws of some savage wild bird, he could not
have been more startled than was Leonard at
Nellie's words.

He led her to a seat a little removed from
the centre transept as she desired, and for a
few moments neither spoke.

A more fiery and Intense light, born of
anger as much as of passion, burnt in
Leonard's eyes. The grand organ music
pealed on the air, groups of careless people
passed and repassed a short distance off
from where they sat, flowers and fountains
brightened the atmosphere, while the vapoury
spray of the water made Nellie think it was
the symbol of a light, mocking love, enchanting
for a brief span, but with nothing deep or
lasting in Its effects. She did not know how
wrathful her lover had become by this time :
she believed he must rejoice at her decision.
All elasticity had left Nellie's movements ;
her young limbs felt so over weighted and benumbed
that she could hardly drag herself along
by his side, as he led her across the building.

What is it you have to say to me ? ' asked
Leonard sternly, throwing himself against
the back of the seat, and striking his boots
with his cane.

After all, what did he know of Nellie's
antecedents ? She might be thoroughly
worthless, and feigning a part all this time to
deceive and lead him on. He wished he
was not so insanely fond of her  that was
the pity of it.

Nellie could scarcely breathe. She was
thinking of the loving words he had whispered
with all the infinite tenderness of his nature
that night at the Christy's Minstrels, that
wildly happy night when she had dreamt in
her false Paradise that he cared for her alone.

She rebelled a little against the harshness
in his tones ; they jarred all through
her nerves like dissonant chords. Leonard,
being perfectly innocent of all dishonour or
wrong-doing, frowned ominously, and determined
to scold Nellie soundly and make
her suffer for this pain she was giving him.
He felt very angry with her, and fumed inwardly.


How glad he is to quarrel with me, and
get rid of me for the sake of Vivian Branscombe,'
she thought. ' Of course he despises
me, and thinks me beneath him.'

Leonard was wondering what was thai"

deeper meaning in her words at present
hidden from him.

All must end between us,' Nellie faltered ;
and then went on, resolutely, ' I know now
that you were only amusing yourself at my
expense when you said that you loved me.
I am not in the least worthy to be your wife
you who can talk of your family dating
back to the Ancient Britons.' Poor Nellie
had forgotten the ducal house Leonard had
once referred to, and nearly quoted the Picts
and Scots in her excitement. * I should have
done you the greatest injury in the world
were I to have married you, and of course'
bending her head  'you never really
meant it !'

Never meant it !' he cried furiously, his
brilliant, masterful eyes a-flame with fiery
anger. ' How dare you say that ? You
must think me a mean and dishonourable
scoundrel, then. Many thanks for your good
opinion and polite disregard of the past ; but
it's a pity, Nellie, that you did not arrive at
this opinion a little sooner.'

Nellie by this time resembled a meek young
statue cut In marble, only endowed with the
power of trembling ; her knees shook too
much for her to attempt to rise ; It was as if
a knife had been driven Into her brain. Sharp
mental gashes bring strange hoarse sounds

into the human voice. NelHe, who had been
familiarised with physical pain as long as she
could remember, had never known before
what anguish the mind can give.

She averted her face, and said, timidly, 

It will be better never to meet again. I
cannot bear it'

Nellie, it is the bitterest grief of all to
think you are unworthy.'

Yes, I am beneath you. I should disgrace
you.'

 Oh, child, there is some other reason
hidden from me, and I thought you a saint
fit for heaven. I cannot judge your motives
at present, but the future will make them clear
to me. If I find other kisses on the lips I
thought were sealed to me and sacred through
my love, I shall feel the maddening ache
that has brought men to the scaffold, to strain
you once more to my breast, and kiss you,
and kill you after.'

A smothered sob answered him. Her attitude
had grown more crouching and submissive.


It is for the best that all is ended,' she
jerked out, lifting her eyes to his like some
young wounded animal begging to be slain
and put out of its misery at once; their sadness
breathed a silent prayer.

Listen, Nellie,' he said, like a judge might

address a culprit he considers guilty and prepares
to pass sentence upon. ' My love for
you has been an infatuation  a delirium of
the senses, the sort of blind folly men of the
world lauch at and deride. I never considered
myself in the light of a social Marcus
Curtis, when I meant to run the gauntlet of
society by marrying you. I look beyond the
edicts and axioms of the world. I am a man
of honour, incapable of injuring you. I never
said to myself,  '' Here is a girl, fond of me,
with no antecedents, and picked out of a
gutter, brought up with thieves and mountebanks,
and taught the mysteries of the lowest
profession on earth. I'll make it my business
to dupe and betray her  she is only fit
to be the toy of an hour." I look upon liaisons
unsanctioned by the laws of God and
man as sinful and detestable, evils that pervert
the social atmosphere of England, and
poison the integrity and purity of society and
its relationships. But I argued, " Nellie is
beautiful, pure and good, a flower that has
escaped the contagion of evil's breath ; she
has a gentle nature free from all coarseness
or vulgarity. I love her  I cannot understand
how, when, or where this love possessed
me, but it is there  it exists  it draws us
together ;" but now, Nellie, the tie Is snapped
asunder  you have disappointed me  you

have gone too far to be forgiven, and must
suffer for It. I have done with you from
this hour !'

She uttered a low, terrified cry as he rose
and left her ; she saw him pass away from her
amid a group, and she knew she was alone.

What have I done V cried Nellie, with a
quick-drawn sob, and in the sharp, nervous
voice of one who sees her ' best gone to
worst.'

Leonard resolved to return at once to town,
and was walking rapidly through the crowd,
when he came face to face with Vivian Branscombe
and her aunt, Lady Annersley.

The two ladles instantly took possession
of him.

Ah, mon capitaine, you shall not escape
the fangs of Belisarius,' said Vivian, laughing,
and hooking her arm In his, ' for you
shall take us to the dining-rooms, and order
salmon and cucumber, and all the rest of it.
We're quite too awfully tired. This is a
dreadful place for the legs ; I'm so fagged out
I can hardly stand.'

Yes, dear Captain Mallandaine,' came the
shrill, piping treble of Lady Annersley, ' poor
Vivian has been so good to me. We've been
looking for your friend, Bertie Maitland, in
the Guards ; he's knocking about somewhere
here with the Duchess of Maraschino, inde

Tight  a delightful woman, writes poetry-after
the style of Landor.'

I saw you just now deep in flirtation, sir,*
said Vivian archly, ' with that horrid, ill-dressed
little creature out of Regent Street ;
she brings me home my chapeaux from Celestina's,
and has the impertinence to want to
chat and sit down with me. I almost boxed
her ears.'

Leonard was silent.

Is that your idol, non capitaine,  that
yellow-haired little nurse-maid ? for I declare
she looks no better than one,  that the " poor
girl " you were mildly sentimental over,  the
rustic Phyllis you unearthed in Devonshire,
and who, I suppose, has religiously tracked
you to London ? I declare I thought she'd
got on a black glazed calico dress, if there is
such a barbarism to be met with.'

Nothing of the kind,' answered Leonard,
flushing crimson. Vivian's sneers galled him
horribly. ' My rustic Phyllis may remain in
Devonshire for the rest of her natural life as
far as she concerns me.'

Vivian's face brightened considerably. Was
she not fascinating and fairy-like to-day,
lovely enough to dazzle any man ? Why
could she not win Leonard ?

But what were you doing tete-astute
with a little milliner,' Vivian asked, with

a jealous throb, ' especially at the Crystal
Palace ? '

She was a pretty girl, you'll admit. She
had missed some friends she had come to
meet here, void toztt,' he answered, dreading
another sneer, and orlancincr aside.

Don't you see the duchess yonder ? ' asked
Lady Annersley, lifting her glass. * Yes,
there she is with Bertie. I declare she's
positively drinking brandy and water ! '

Suppose we go and meet them, and all
dine together,' suggested Vivian.

And Nellie, half dead with misery, had the
satisfaction of seeing her happy rival on Leonard's
arm as they entered the dining-rooms
together, and caught the echo of her silvery
laugh. It horrified and disconcerted Nellie,
but it also convinced her that she had acted
wisely and for the best.

She waited a minute at the entrance, unseen
by them, and saw Leonard assist Vivian
in removing her costly fur-lined Sicilian
mantle.

Don't let the remembrance of your forsaken
Crista spoil your spirits,' she heard
Vivian say, in a rather shrill and excited
voice.

And he answered, smiling,  -

She may go to France for me. Isn't that
what the song says ? '

Nellie listened no longer. She was so
weak and stricken that it was some time
before she gained the station, and then, in a
little dark corner, where she was unperceived
by none save a forlorn kitten as lonely as
herself, she burst into a flood of tears that
saved her reason. This was the wretchedness
nothing could ever change.

Lost,  for ever lost, and yet he can reproach
me,' she murmured, ' and I must
forget him, and go on working every day as
usual.'

A DYING man's ADVICE.
A lovely soul formed to be blest and bless.'

ELLIE never reasoned in her
grief; she only felt that nobody
v in the world cared how miserable
she was ; she had no hope to
sustain her ; this pain of the mind was a
new experience. There was nothing left for
her to cling to  she was cast adrift on the
vast ocean of despair. No sweet thought
that, perhaps, after months of waiting, Captain
Alallandaine would return to her and
bless her with his forgiveness and love,
could linger after that ancrrv leavetakine ;
I have done with you from this hour.'

Nellie had a dull, stupefied feeling on her
that life must soon end ; her hands shook,
her eyes were dim with weeping ; she wanted
to be left alone and do nothings. Work was

so terrible in her state of mind. The artificial
flowers seemed to have even less pity
for her than the dear wild roses in Devonshire,
or the violet pansies, emblems of
remembrance, that she had gathered in the
old school garden at Brookesmere.

Never to be near Leonard, or caressed by
him ; never to be cheered by a glance or
smile ; she must keep this clearly before her,
or perhaps she would grow mad and forget
one day, and be tempted to seek him once
more in her feverish despair.

Now that he was lost, she understood the
intense absorption her love had been ; the
dry facts of everyday life, all the toil, and
drudgery, and monotony of her lot ceased
to have any meaning for her ; she only knew
she had loved some one who was lost to her
for ever.

It was, of course, inevitable. She was
poor and weak. Vivian was strong and
rich. It was not justice that settled the
destiny of human beings, it was the blind
chance that flung them helpless upon the
world. Vivian would be his wife, and reign
at Stupefied Hall, and visit the county
families, and dole out alms to the poor, as
befitted a person in her position, and Nellie
would go on living, perhaps, a long time, and
then drop down dead like a little tired bird

that had found no nest, and be buried in
some London churchyard with other nameless
creatures that hadn't taken kindly to sorrow
and disappointment.

Are there not plenty of human sparrows
to whom the beautiful air and roses and
green bowers of the earth are simply unendurable,
because their wings have soared
to a distant heaven that has made earth
a blank ?

Nellie's face burned at the memory of
Vivian. She was jealous of her and hated
her. The luxurious, dainty girl, whose
laughter was like a silvery peal of bells as
Leonard sat by her side in the dining
rooms at the Crystal Palace, was her rival
and enemy. If it had been any one but
Vivian !

Nellie thought of the ominous words she
had overheard at Prince's Gate, longing to
have the strength and will to approach Captain
Mallandaine and say, 

See if she is worthy of your love, after all.
Question her as to her secret.'

Would it not be a moral dagger to thrust
in her happy rival's breast and tear it asunder?
But then, suppose Leonard really cared for
Vivian, would it not hurt him also ?

Nellie never thought of reproaching her
lover. She was willing to press her pure,

child-like brow against the fiery ploughshares
of pain, and kiss any rod sooner than Leonard
should suffer.

It was so natural. Of course he had discovered
that Vivian would suit him better in
everyday as a wife. Mrs Rudersheim knew
the world so well, and what society meant.
Nellie's only solace consisted in thinking that
in resigning him she had saved him from the
disgrace and disadvantages of a marriage
beneath him.

Madame Celestine and the Marquis de
Rocheville were at present in Paris, both glad
to escape the autumn and winter fogs of
London. Gustave gambled considerably,
and sought new excitements to forget Mrs
Branscombe's eccentric behaviour. Celestine
wanted new patterns and fashions, and hunted
up old lace, diamonds, bric-a-brac, novelties,
and curiosities. The cafes, theatres, and
shops of Paris amused her, and the marquis
was invariably generous to a creature of dust
and dulness. Commonplace women were,
after all, so much safer and eminently philosophic.
He was tired of being set on a shrine
and worshipped apart with fervour, tears,
and the varieties of emotion that formed an
enchanted land into which he could never
enter. Celestine cheapened and bargained
and loved the sound of dice too, and screamed

with laughter at the best points In French
comedy.

The brightness and merriment of her young
companions made NelHe suffer still more.
She had never known a mother's care, and
when any great sorrow attacks us, do we not
often prefer the winter time, the cold, and
the grave, to summer, her flowers, fruits, and
sunshine ?

Nellie had felt too 111 to even visit Mrs
Rudershelm since that leave-taking at the
Crystal Palace. She had neglected her kind
friend for a whole fortnight, but this evening,
as she ascended to her room, she resolved to
make the attempt to dress and go out. Everything
seemed such an effort with the Iron wall
of silence and distance between herself and
Leonard Mallandalne,  when an earthly
heaven Is lost, we feel less affinity and sympathy
with those we knew ere It had closed
and faded,  every trifle In the dear past was
sublimated by that serene radiance.

Nellie liked looking at the faces of the
saints In the public galleries, and wondering
about other forms of human sorrow and Its
pale Images and symbols, and loved to steal
down the sombre aisles of the London
churches, listening to the solemn peals of
organ music and the voices raised In harmony.
Prayer brought her nearer to Leonard

VOL. III. D

than anything else now, for it had naught todo
with the earth, which gave her fresh pain
every day.

Waiting for a happiness that never dawns
is bitter, but it is a preparatory stage ; it is
not so fatal as the blow which kills youth and
hope at one fell stroke.

He will never think of me ; he will marry
Vivian Branscombe,' Nellie would repeat.
Ah, dear heaven ! will nothing bring merest
? '

But she must steady her voice to calmness
when she visited Mrs Rudersheim, and appear
resigned. Her nights were feverish
and sleepless ; she would lie awake hour after
hour listening to the heavy, lumbering roll of
the ocean of omnibuses, cabs, and carriages
that surged down Regent Street, as the
doomed in Paris may have once listened to
the roll of the tumbrils. Now and then the
hoarse shrieks of human voices clamouring
for gold, or drunken answers, followed by
oaths, blows, and threats, caught her ear.

Nellie began to sicken of routine, and
longed for a glimpse of the brown floral
Devonshire woods, the music of the cascades,
the sweetness of the golden summer noons.

This was Regent Street, and she began
to fade.

After Nellie had pinned a neat ruffle round

her pretty throat, buttoned her boots, and
brushed back the Hght, feathery, silken curls
ere plaiting them in rigid severity, any one
regarding her closely must have seen how
strangely changed and pale that bright, poetic
face had become during the last few days.
She looked too spiritual and fragile to support
the tedious burden of life.

Nellie felt so tired before she had gone five
hundred yards down Regent Street, that she
paused and leant against one of the projecting
ledges of the shop-windows. She had
purchased a fragrant knot of roses from a
Regent Street flower-girl as a little offering
to Mrs Rudersheim, and was turning them
over listlessly in her hand when she saw
Captain Mallandaine cross over the road.
He recognised her, but merely gave her the
cold passing glance of a stranger.

Nellie shuddered under the chill of this
indifference, but she did not raise her head ;
they were for ever parted.

The lamps were all lighted by this time,
and a soft shower of rain began to fall.
Various fops and dandies of the upper ten,
men who lived upon women, and men who
lived by their wits, had smiled and stared,
and sundry specimens of amorous old butterflies
rejoicing in their last chance of summer's
sweets, were passing on to the rich, jewelled

UNIVERSITY Of ILLiUWU

women they ' protected and who made
theatres and opera houses dazzling and gay
with their presence.

Leonard had been struck with NelHe's
pallor and look of suffering, and it was the
same Nellie who had entered the old Hall to
save him from death when fire and destruction
were close at hand, and the lurid light in
the sky had warned her that the swift flames
might be threatening him. How calm and
brave she had been in that dread hour ! It
was the same Nellie who had been carried
wounded from the tigers' cage, and smiled at
him, spite of her pain, with the love-light in
the clear violet eyes,  Nellie, with her rosebud
mouth and poetic fancies, and the rich
golden ripples of shadowy hair,  innocent
still, and fair as in her childhood's days, when
she had made necklaces of the yellow cowslips,
before she knew she had an angel's face.
He should ever love this girl, and her memory
would be like some subdued but haunting
grief,  always.

Nellie waited a long time at the door of the
fashionable apartments in Mayfair to-night.
No one seemed inclined to answer the bell,
but at last, as she rang a third time, a draggle-tailed
servant opened the door and put her
head out.

Oh, is it you, miss ? ' she said, in a hushed

voice. ' The poor dear man's dying fast.
You can never see him again, and missus is
Hke a distracted creature.'

NelHe recognised this servant to be a certain
slipshod Kate who occasionally waited
on Mrs Rudershelm.

Is j\Ir Rudershelm dying, then ? ' asked
Nellie, In low, sorrowful tones, as the girl
dragged down the chandelier In the drawing-room
and lighted It.

Yes, miss. We've had such a fearful
week of It. Master's ruined,  lost every
halfpenny In a speculation over champagne
and brandy. Missus must sell everything
she's got. It gave him a kind of a fit. He's
hardly spoken clear since, and now they've
got two of the first physicians to be
found In London, but there's no hope 
none ! '

Nellie sat down and waited. Her heart
was too full for words. That dear, kind,
light-hearted lady to suffer so cruelly seemed
too terrible to realise.

She's been longing to see you, miss,' the
girl continued ; ' for master's found something
out about you, I believe, and  '

'About me!' cried Nellie, starting to her
feet ; but at that moment Emily Rudershelm
stole noiselessly downstairs and rested trembling
fingers on Nellie's shoulder.

Nellie turned and gently kissed that fair
white hand.

Mrs Rudersheim was sobbing, and touched
Nellie with the involuntary caressing clinging
of the weak and stricken.

I am so sorry you are in such deep distress,'
said Nellie tenderly, conscious there
was more love and demonstration in Mrs
Rudersheim's manner than usual.

He is dying, Nellie,  my poor Hubert ;
but in the midst of my grief there is just
one drop of comfort,  the hope that I have
found my daughter, and that you  are  she.'

Nellie sank on her knees and kissed the
hem of Emily's robe, buried her face in the
folds of her dress, and half suffocated her with
the force of her emotion.

The words had struck that electric chord
in the human soul which hardly ever errs in
its instincts.

My mother, my sweet darling mother !
Oh, let me kiss you, dear,  let me fancy what
it is to be your daughter  once  just for once.'

Mrs Rudersheim put her arms round
Nellie's neck and smoothed her hair.

Why I believe that you are my child,
Nellie, is because he thinks so too. He did
from the very first, and he turned the thought
over in his mind without saying a word tome.
That was just like my Hubert ; so he

employed a clever detective to hunt up Side-wing's
past career, and among other things
he discovered that she had a child of her own.'

Nellie still remained kneeling ; a sense of
strange delight and fear born of expectation
and hope had taken possession of her.

If Hubert could have lived he would have
made all straight and clear for us, Nellie, but
his belief is that Vivian Branscombe is an
impostor,  that her life is a lie. He declared
he was morally convinced that she is Side-wing's
daughter. He bade me take you to
my heart as a comfort and a solace in my
affliction, and we must together unveil the
dark mystery and find a clue to the labyrinth
of the past.'

Nellie rose to her feet. Was this really
her mother  her beautiful, long-lost, unhappy
parent ? The thought was almost as
sweet and thrilling as the one that had
whispered to her that Leonard was her
lover. And then, if this wonderful surmise
should be true, would he not return to her and
bless her with the old fond devotion ?

I cannot think of you, dear Nellie, at such
a moment as this as I shall do when I'm
learning resignation,' Emily said simply.
He is leaving me, Nellie  my husband  -
my idol  and he suffers thinking that we
shall be poor and desolate without him.'

But If I am Indeed Mr Branscombe's child
muttered Nellie; 'and It can be so proved,
will there not be ease and peace and luxury
for you still ? '

A dull, wearied look stole to Mrs Ruder-shell's
expression. Nellie followed her
softly from the room, and they stood together,
with clasped hands, by Hubert
Rudersheim's dying bed.

Nellie,' he whispered, in a hoarse voice,
with the death-damps upon his brow.

She bent over him, endeavouring to catch
the faint, broken words.

Be good to your mother. I am convinced
you are her child. It could have
been proved had I lived, but since I shall
not be there to help you, you must work out
the mystery yourself. Take care, Nellie, of
my poor darling.'

Yes, oh, yes. I love her dearly,' said
Nellie, her tears falling over his half raised
hands. ' I will indeed take care of her
always, and devote my life to making her
happy if she will let me. I will do my utmost
to prove the truth, unveil the secret,
and the hidden crime. I swear to discover
the mystery attached to my birth, and to
that of Vivian Branscombe.'

Nellie's eyes darkened. She had often
been impatient of the sufferings and Injustice

so long visited on her  she was ready to
make any sacrifice and submit to any hardship
if an end were achieved that would
smite the guilty, and lay bare the falsehoods
and iniquities of years. Her ardent spirit delighted
in the challenge and combat ; her
beauty seemed transfigured ; it reflected the
solemn saintliness of a high and impassioned
purpose.

You will not be alone, Emily,' he murmured,
as his wife hung over him. ' I know
how you have longed for years to embrace
your daughter. I was the means of sundering
you both ; but be well assured that with
my last dying breath I have restored her to
you.'

She breathed her warm kisses on his lips.

You will always have Nellie with you,
dear,' he murmured ; ' do not grieve for me.'

The suffering possessing her was less keen
as she listened.

Always,' she faltered, as Nellie's little
hand stole into hers.

Nellie stood motionless ; but the highly-wrought
enthusiasm of her soul irradiated
her expression with new tenderness ; her
eyes were fixed, but dreamy, the golden
ripples of her hair were as a nimbus about a
saint's head. She infused fresh strength
into her trembling mother's thoughts, so that

she looked less dazed and heart-broken.
A great agony had indeed taken possession
of Emily's body and mind as the shadow
of death brooded in solemn silence over the
room.

A few minutes later Nellie softly withdrew,
and left them alone for a parting and
farewell that only God can change. Nellie
felt awe-stricken and bewildered. She wanted
to live now and unearth the mystery of her
life, and expose the woman who had betrayed
a sacred trust.

Vivian seemed to her like a beautiful,
gilded, cruel snake with poison in its fangs.
Nevertheless, she must be attacked, and her
power defied and broken. Vivian might be
forced to abdicate and leave her boudoirs of
rose-satin, her carriages and horses, her
jewels and splendour, and maybe the bridal
veil and the bridal dress.

'Will justice come too late, I wonder?'
asked Nellie, with a little cry. ' If so, I
shall wish it had never come at all'

THE PRIZE IS GRASPED.

Then to my eager question, answer naught
Nor seem aware that all the time my hand
Lay still within his own, forgotten there,
Like seaweed on a gold, uncaring sand,
Who had no love to give.'

I VI AN was a remarkably prudent
girl, and in her wisdom she resembled
neither of her parents,
for Robert Sidewing, down in
Devonshire, was running heavily into debt
and drinking hard  so very hard, indeed, that
the clever detective Mr Rudersheim had
employed to sift all evidence relating to Mr
and Mrs Sidewing's past career found Robert
frequently in that pleasant, if hopeless, state
of inebriation, when he would ask piteously
in between his hiccups, 

Am I not Peter the Great ? Who shays
Pm not Peter the Great, and Peter in the
wilderness looking at the sky

Riley, the detective, learnt a good deal

from this foolish Robert, but not quite all
the information he needed, for the victim
was not always tipsy, and a drunken man's peroration
must needs be taken cum giano salts.

So, if Robert, in nankeen breeches, a wide-awake
hat, and brown gaiters, addressed his
yokels and carters merrily from the top of
a straw or haystack, pitchfork in hand, and
with an eye well-opened to rats, Riley, down
below, sauntering into the farm for a chat
about the crops, or the hops, or potatoes,
knew that he must wait till the evening, when
the brandy circulated freely at Diggers's
public-house, and Robert grew lachrymose,
maudlin, and repentant, in company with other
convivial souls, over the deceptive glass.

Then did he weep, and act, and shout,
and rave ; then was he Hamlet, Shylock,
Macbeth, Colonists, the Gravedigger, and
Duncan all in turn. Riley, applauding judiciously
from time to time, drew poor Bob
out more than he quite relished, but by a
little judicious flattery the actor's weak head,
weakened more than ever by alcohol, was
soon turned, while the detective's clever criticism
delighted and encouraged him still more
in his performances.

Meanwhile Vivian, at Prince's Gate, was
in the highest spirits, but for all that she did
not forget to follow the dictates of prudence.

She saved up money in every possible
way ; she cut down her expenses, and sent
away half the servants, and hid costly jewels
away with her furs and laces, in case  well,
as she deftly expressed it, ' anything awkward
should happen.'

But just at present everything was couleur
de rose. Captain Mallandaine had written
inviting himself for an afternoon, and a smile
of triumph played on Vivian's lips. The
tone of the letter was earnest ; it satisfied
Vivian so utterly that she danced round and
round the room when she was alone, and
slipped the letter in the breast of her dress,
and made all kinds of mistakes in the intricate
lace work with which she beguiled her time.

Didn't I tell you he'd come to his senses*'
asked her mother, as Vivian exulted. ' He's
just been feeling' 'is way, my dear, and you'll be
Mrs Leonard Mallandaine afore the spring''

Fettered by fashion, and conventional by
training, Vivian began to scheme and shape
her plans. She cared little whether he loved
her with supreme affection ; she wanted to
reign at the Hall and visit the county families,
and be petted and made much of in the best
society.

Besides, it's so much safer,' she would say.

Leonard dashed up to Vivian's mansion
at Prince's Gate in a hansom cab this afternoon.

He meant to propose to her, and
ask her to become his wife. NelHe had
disappointed him, and sinned past forgiveness.
Besides, now that reason instead of
passion ruled him, he began to think it a
wiser step, on the whole. Social success
was worth something, and Vivian had the
tastes, birth, and training of a lady.

She looked wonderfully pretty to-day, as
she rose to greet him. She wore her richest,
softest velvet, a diamond cross rested on her
breast, her eyes had a dreamy, pensive sweetness
rare to them, her little feet were encased
in velvet shoes embroidered with seed pearls,
and a book of Shelley's poetry was by her
side.

Vivian hated Shelley, but it pleased Leonard
to think she appreciated the subtle,
exquisite delicacy of poets' thoughts.

You are early, ino7i capitaine,' she said,
as he retained her hand longer than usual
in his, and deep blushes fitted over her
cheeks and throat.

The brow that had burned with feverish
pain during long sleepless nights was just
touched lightly with his lips, as he said,
drawing her nearer, and plunging suddenly
in medias res 

'Vivian, I have come to ask a question
of you  to entreat you to be my wife. I

could not rest till I heard your reply. Say,
is this little hand to be mine ? '

Amazement and joy almost stupefied
Vivian's senses. There was no intensity,
no ardour in his tone or manner ; but what
did she care for these, so longs as she
secured him ?

She trembled under the magnetism of his
gaze, she thrilled at his touch with the rapture
of a woman who loves.

He wondered whv he had ever thought
her harsh and unlovable  her face seemed
to-day sweet and tender as that of a Mater
Dolores.

Oh, Leonard, if only you knew how I
have suffered,' she cried, wielding to an impulse
 ' the dreadful terror and jealousy and
maddening despair of fancying I had lost
you  that you cared for another, and someone
unworthy and beneath you.'

Leonard started, and thought of Nellie 
Nellie, who was a poem, a flower, an idol.
Vivian's words grated on his ears. She
was secretly vexed that Leonard uttered no
tumultuous adoration.

We often make mistakes,' he said coolly,
but let ours be a sound bargain, nia belle!

Oh, Leonard, are you still thinking of
another ? Is this a farce, or a comedy, or
are you in solemn earnest ? '

In solemn earnest,' he answered. ' I
ask you to be my wife. See, here is a ring
I bought in the hope that I should not have
to plead in vain.'

She trembled again, leaning heavily against
him. She had fastened a rose in the bosom
of her dress ; she kissed it, and offered it
him with a smile. He had never loved her,
but he meant to marry her ; it was a decorous,
wise, sensible act ; it would also please his
parents, so he took the rose and trifled with
it in his hand.

By degrees he plucked asunder the leaves,
and the softly-tinted innermost heart of the
flower ; Vivian loosened her hold of his hand,
and the tears stole to her eyes.

Leonard, I am so jealous of your thoughts,'
she whispered, kneeling before the fire on
the Persian hearth-rug. ' Suppose one day
you should find me tedious and stupid and
tire of me, would you rend my heart as you
have done that rose's leaves and petals ? '

'Ton my word, dearest,' he said, surprised
at the force and intensity of her words
and manner, ' I didn't think you were so
romantic and sensitive.'

He liked her all the better for this unexpected
outburst of feeling ; he had so little
love to offer himself.

I wonder, Leonard,' said Vivian, with a

charming pout and naive dash of petulance,
Mf I'd been a poor girl, badly off, and ina
humble rank of life, but very beautiful,
with eyes like Schemer's " Gretchen," would
you  '

Never wonder about anything, my dear
girl,' said Leonard philosophically ; ' take
facts as they present themselves in this
world. You are charming and very fascinating
 beautiful in my eyes ; you will be my
wife, and years will only endear us still more
to each other.'

For do not habit, routine, and custom
often make men and women settle down together
comfortably and amicably, even when
passion is a blank '.

Marriage is generally safer when it is
utterly commonplace and friendly. The
social surfeit of the honeymoon cannot last
for ever, and if a woman is tiresome and a
bore, are there not the clubs  heaven bless
and preserve them !  for husbands to fly to
as shrines and sanctuaries where the haines
asia penates cannot enter ?

But these two would be wealthy ; they
could therefore better escape from each
other's society.

Vivian understood him perfectly. She
must expect no fiery interludes of an impassioned
lover's devotion. It was rather

VOL. III. E

hard, but then the prize was really grasped
at last.

Possession, she well knew, was nine points,
and here was Leonard's ring on her finger.
So she will be worldly, and forget what is
missing. Men sometimes felt more than they
expressed on these occasions. No doubt it
was so in this case. And the pleasure his
embrace gave her atoned for everything.

If Lord Portmore had wept and prayed
night and day at her feet, she would only
have felt inclined to kick him, as a titled
juggler, with pleasant tricks of manner ; but
when Leonard's kisses touched her lips, they
seemed to burn into them with strange
amorous delight and pain.

Her body grew hot and cold, she longed
to weep with ecstasy. If he were chilly and
indifferent, she grew intoxicated with his
presence, his smile, his touch. Was that
not sufficient?

The realisation of her dream of years was
accomplished. Was it not also the desire of
Mr Branscombe's heart that she should
marry Leonard ?

How pleased papa would have been,' she
said, checking a mutinous smile, as Leonard
spoke formally and in a cool, business-like
fashion of their future arrangements, ' if he had
only lived to know that I should be your wife.'

Vivian's lawful papa, who the previous day
had fought the rural beadle of the village
church because he made some unflattering
remarks regarding Mr Sidewing's rights as a
churchwarden, had just arrived at Prince's
Gate.

Vivian lived in hourly dread sometimes
lest her affectionate parent should present
himself in his eccentric farmer's costume
and make a scene. The noisy roisterer at
Diggers's public-house did occasionally visit
London, and insisted, with drunken dignity
and obstinacy, on seeing ' his girl ' at Prince's
Gate.

We have known each other for years,'
Leonard answered, without noticing her
allusion to Mr Branscombe. * I do not think
a long engagement necessary or desirable in
our case  in fact, I hate longs engagements.
People bore you so in society with twaddle,
and etiquette, and crushing allusions to the
power of love, and all that. If you have promised
to be my wife, Vivian, could we not be
married in the spring  say March ? This,
you know, is the last month of the old
year.'

The firelight played upon the changing
shades of her face, which had grown softened
and mobile with joy.

Vivian only murmured ' Yes,' timidly ; she

did not care just then to show how she valued
her triumph.

Leonard's serenity was almost cruel in its
complete indifference. Had he come to discuss
a question of mortgage or bonds with
his solicitor, he could not have appeared
more degag.

His manner piqued while It charmed her;
so many second-rate lovers and pauperised
noblemen had approached her with tumultuous
emotions of the exhaustive kind, that had
Leonard been even rough or brutal, instead
of cool, it would not have displeased her.

Love, with Vivian, was the very essence
of selfishness ; so long as she worshipped
and felt intoxicated herself, she cared little
what her lover experienced.

It will all come right in time,' she thought,
because he's honourable and high-principled

He would never treat her as some men did
their wives to smart doses of forgetfulness
and Insults, or regard marriage as a pit to be
escaped from later on by the aid of ladders
and lanterns from the Divorce Court.

Vivian was very glad to return from transcendent
heights of bliss, and become worldly
again. That suggestion of an early marriage
was so nice and practical ; it admitted also of
allusions to a trousseau, horses, money, and
settlements.

Leonard had never dreamt of any enchantment
with Vivian ; he was thinking of Nellie's
head as it had appeared to him amid the
sombre autumnal foliage  that fair, child-like
face, and the entrancement of their mingled
kisses, all had faded into a weird dream of a
too happy past.

Soon, after a little more discussion had
taken place, Leonard withdrew, and Vivian
found herself alone, with his handsome diamond
ring on her finger.

She had many diamond rings in her jewel-case,
but none so rich and choice as this one ;
she flashed it to and fro in the firelight, and
held it against the rich and heavy folds of
her velvet, satisfied that it must have cost a
great deal. She had begun to consider the
value of everything lately.

Evil is always strong whispered an inward
voice. ' See how lucky, how wise, how
clever you are. The storms, and bitterness,
.and woe, and sorrow of this life are reserved
for that other girl, Mr Branscombe's daughter
and heiress. She may have to tramp weary
miles in the summer dust, or the winter's
snow, or die of hard work and want in a
wretched garret. Will any one arise to
proclaim her wrongs ? While your dainty
feet are pressed against silk and velvet,
your body is clothed in fine linen and

satins, and a lace-decked bed receives your
limbs.'

And yet he had forgotten to care for the
offered rose. There must always be some
bitter drop in an earthly cup, even if it is of
solid gold and cleverly stolen.

The door opened, and her mother entered ;
she glanced anxiously at Vivian.

Oh, my dear, has he really gone ?' she
asked, looking round, and sinking half speechless
into a chair.

Who ? Captain Mallandaine ? '

Why, of course. Only think that rascal
Bob has come, and cook's in 'sterics, swearing
he was her lover. He drove up in a four-wheeler,
my dear, and he's actually lying
heels-upwards in the dripping-pan, and takes-the
basting ladle for a pipe.'

Vivian's quick temper rose.

Is this all the good my money has done
the scoundrel ?' she cried fiercely, stamping
her foot. ' Did I not tell him he never
should come here ? No, not on any excuse
or pretext whatever. How am I to be safe
with that tipsy ruffian at hand ? Oh, he had
better not try me too hard, or I'll get him put
away for ever in a lunatic asylum as a madman.'


That's what we must do,' said Mrs Side-wing,
rubbing her hands, and looking wicked.

Pack 'im off to some nice quiet place, a little
out of town, where he'll never be 'heard of no
more. I believe his goings on 'ave been
scandalous lately at the farm.'

At that moment, to their intense horror,
Bob's uneven steps were heard tramping
heavily up the velvet-pile covered staircase,
and he was singing, tipsy 

King Richard was a meme soul,
His breeches cost him but a crown.'

Vivian covered her face, too disgusted to
venture on to the landing ; then suddenly
she rose and faced her father, fearful lest any
of the servants might be near, and overhear
the ex-actor's denunciations.

But only the faithful De Lancy, cleaning
one of the staircase windows at the earnest
entreaties of an under-housemaid, was at
hand, and 'what love will do' might be here
amply exemplified, for to be within twenty
feet of his mistress filled him with mysterious
raptures and palpitations ; besides, the artful
Riley had somewhat entrapped De Lancy,
and had stood him many brandies and sodas,
so that he was warned to keep his eyes and
ears open to the goings on and mysteries of
Prince's Gate. Above all, was he to be sure
and notice if a certain Mr Robert Sidewing
ever called.

De Lancy now listened to the familiar
words of Hamlet,  * You should not have
believed me'  hic-cough  * for virtue cannot
so inoculated our old stock, but we shall
relish of it  I loved you not,' which he had
himself so often declaimed ere he fell madly
in love with Vivian Branscombe.

'Hush!' cried Vivian, putting her handover
her father's mouth. ' This is not a
stage. Make less noise, I insist, or you
shall be locked up for good.'

Bob brandished the gravy ladle in the air.
He pushed by his daughter, and roared, 

Ain't I Peter the Great ? Who shays
I'm not Sir Peter  Peter  Now, what
the deuce was the cantankerous old rascal's
name V

De Lancy wondered why this very disorderly
person was not dismissed from the
mansion in charge of two policemen, and
held himself in readiness to fetch those protectors
of the peace to Prince's Gate.

He heard, however, his young mistress
bang the drawing-room door angrily to, and
speak In loud and imperious tones.

Vivian forgot that her father was as unreasonable
in his present state as any lunatic
in Maxwell.

She had never been thrown into the company
of tipsy people, and while she looked

alarmed, she was also resolute; it was her
first experience of any of the low phases of
life.

How dare you behave like this ?' she
said furiously, as Bob danced about and
threw himself into attitudes. ' Where's your
Gratitude after all my kindness and generosity
? I thought you would be safe, or at
least harmless, down in Devonshire.'

De Lancy had now left his window, his
steps, and wash-leather, and was listening
intently with his ear at the key-hole.

Listeners are always very mean people,
but after Riley's hints and his own suspicions,
he determined to gain every information
possible.

Talk of gratitude to your poor old father,
you heartless young lassie !' cried Bob, who
had gathered something of her meaning.
Why, you're my property, you impertinent
minx, and so is this house and everything in
it, even including old Mother Fox. Yes,
that's you, my dear,' he added, addressing
his Martha Jane, ' and a very nice thing
you've made out of your wickedness for
years  ay, that you have.'

He's not so very drunk after all,' thought
De Lancy, deeply interested, but considerably
staggered by the words.

If I should be ruined through such a wretch

as that muttered Vivian, turning aside with
a shudder.

I've come for some money  farming don't
pay as it ought,' Bob went on, half-sobered
by Vivian's fury, ' and who should I come to
but my dear daughter, bless her ? Let me
say, like King Lear  Cornelia  '

We must lock 'im up, dearie. It's the
only safe thing to do,' whispered Mrs Side-wing.


De Lancy meanwhile resolved to see Riley
and retail this conversation. It was not
Vivian, the heiress, courted, wooed, and,
maybe, won that very day for her gold by
the proud soldier, Captain Mallandaine, whom
De Lancy loved. It was Vivian, the fashionable
beauty, as she appeared to him daily,
whom he reverenced as a queen.

He was so infatuated by her beauty he
began to hope she might be poor and friendless,
so that he could offer humble homage
when every one else had forsaken her.

So here was another link forged in the
heavy chain that was winding round Vivian
to drag her down to misery.

I told you I would always send you money
whenever you wrote to me and wanted it, but
that I forbade you to approach me, or enter
my house,' said Vivian, in a hard, stern voice.

Hush-money, my dear  that's what I'm

paid for. Come and give your old father a
kiss, and sit on his knee. I remember dandling
you in my arms many a time when you
were a noisy little kid  eh, old Madam Fox,
don't I ?'

Vivian shivered. Her eyes were dark and
fiery with rage.

I order you to leave my house at once
she said, with a wave of her hand, ' and if
you ever dare to enter it again without my
permission, you shall have no more money
from me. Be sure, I will find means to
punish you. Father, indeed ! A nice father
you've been all these years. Branded me
with infamy, left us to starve, and only married
her,' pointing to Martha Jane, * to rob
and defraud her of every farthing.'

Oh, you little spiteful jade and spitfire !
Well, I'll go now, but remember I have the
power to come here whenever I please.
You're my property. Who says Fm not a
gentleman as highborn as any of you Brans-comes
and Annersleys '. You re not a
Branscombe, you perky little hawk. You're
a Sidewing ! Sneer as much as you may,
you can't alter that.'

'His child!' echoed De Lancy, beating a
rapid retreat down the stairs, 'and all the better.
She's less likely to be snapped up by that
dark, savage-looking officer, and all the more

likely to cotton to poor Alfred. Then  oh,
then !  when my darling is mine, will I return
to the profession of which I was the
choicest luminary. Then what passion, what
tire, will my Romeo and Claude Melnotte possess
after this gloomy interlude of suffering.'

Vivian was considerably relieved to see
her father clinging to the banisters as he
carefully descended. After the hall door had
closed, she wrung her hands and burst into a
passionate flood of tears.

Her fathers words rang in her ears like
some knell of impending doom. A sickening
presentiment of coming evil blanched her
cheek and made her heart sink.

Meanwhile, the clever detective was making
pencilled notes of De Lancy's information.

I think the birds will be nicely netted
soon' Riley said, smiling. ' We've got a
little further than salting 'em by this time.'

Vivian felt a consciousness of approaching
evil that filled her with an almost superstitious
dread.

The short of the withered rose leaves her
lover had torn so carelessly asunder, cast over
her the dim shadows of a silent despair.

Her social hopes, her wealth and position,
were all at the mercy of a drunken man's
inane and dangerous wanderings.

She opened the window and stepped out

on the balcony, but there was no caress in
the breeze that moved aside her hair. It
seemed sullen and laden with a moan that
struck her with a deadly kind of chill.

He will be my husband,' she said to her
mother, with a wintry smile, showing her the
ring as she drew aside the velvet curtains
and re-entered the room. * But see  he has
strewn the rose I gave him all to pieces, and
left dead leaves behind. Is this a bad omen
of the future ? '

DANGER IN A NEW QUARTER.

Mild RUDERSHEIM was so
smitten with grief at the loss of
her husband, that she was for
once In her Hfe utterly Indifferent
to the becoming effect or perfect fit of her
new mourning.

A sting of keen, remorseful pain darted
through her if ever she caught herself wondering
whether black really Improved the
complexion of blondes, or If her straight hair,
worn in a demure fashion, as representing
bereavement, could ever be brushed down
again In a coquettish Gainsborough fringe.
She was so utterly Inconsolable that she
cried over her best crape, and did not care
if wetting It with her widow's tears spoilt the
crispness and freshness of Its appearance.

Therefore was her grief sincere, but like
all soft elastic natures, she recovered from the

blow by degrees, and when she found NelHe,
with deep, violet eyes so like hers, watching
her with thoughtful affection, she roused herself
to drink the cups of tea she brought, and
listened to the girl's advice and suggestions,
and took an interest in the very cheap furniture
Nellie had bought to furnish their apartments
with at Peckham Rye.

The sables, and jewels, and laces, were
all swept away and sold to pay the demands
of the landlady and other pressing
debts, and also to assist in meeting daily
expenses.

Emily had never known what it meant to
be poor before, and had it not been for
Nellie's gentle ministrations and loving sympathy,
Mrs Rudersheim would have faded
out of life, not knowing how to earn a penny,
and being too proud to seek assistance from
her friends.

And the hope sustained her that Nellie's
claims to be Mr Branscombe's lawful heiress
could indeed be proved.

She had many interviews with the detective,
who begged her to be cautious. Her
want of means made it very difficult to act
in the matter, for the enemy was well off, and
fully equipped and armed with all the power
and advantages of wealth.

That fatal want of means has paralysed so

many arms uplifted to strike, and left the
wicked to rejoice in their ignoble triumphs !

They went to one of those remarkable
institutions of modern social life,  ' The Celebrated
Black Rock Furnishing Company,
Limited,' where unlimited winding did not
count. They found the chairs and sofas
stuffed with hay, and that the washing-stands
and tables  all made of light, unsubstantial
deal wood  for which they paid three times
their value, cracked and split in promising
fissures, into which one might have laid the
blade of a table knife. But Emily made
light of all these minor ills. Were they not
going to be rich soon, and what was the use
of grumbling ? There would be a trial
shortly that would make everything clear,
and reinstate Nellie in her proper position.

Emily had never been a visionary, even
in her wealthy days, and she was still highly
practical. The hay stuffing of the sofa discomposed
her when she wanted to sleep, and
the pattern peeled off the cheap cretonne
covers of the chairs.

Peckham Rye, its pleasant villas and
patient donkeys, was a starting change after
Mayfair, and though Nellie talked in her
bright way about the cricket matches that
would be held on the Rye in the summer,
and drew charming pictures of the effect of

white tents on the grass, Emily shuddered,
thinking of the shrieks of vulgar little boys,
and sighed, recalling her lost London joys.

Mrs Rudersheim had made up her mind
to take Nellie with her and call at Prince's
Gate, and thus have a personal interview with
the nurse and Vivian. The idea excited her
so much that she could not sleep. Her
dreams were filled with visions of Vivian and
Mrs Sidewing, now imploring, now weeping,
or sometimes striking her down and pouring
coarse and abusive invective on her head.

You know, dear Nellie, I've always longed
to face Sidewing, and tax her with her guilt,'
Mrs Rudersheim was saying, as she and
Nellie sat together at breakfast  the girl had
recapitulated for about the tenth time all she
could remember of the incidents connected
with her extreme childhood  'and I've made
up my mind to go to-day to Prince's Gate,
and take you with me.'

Nellie wondered if this were a wise action.
She herself rather dreaded the ordeal, or to
be brought again into contact with Vivian
till other steps had been taken ; but she knew
it was simply useless to attempt to oppose
the suggestion.

Whether this visit to Prince's Gate were
a rash and foolish proceeding or no, Emily
cared nothing. Riley, to be sure, had begged

VOL. III. F

her, in the pathetic phraseology of Scotland-yard,
* to run dark a bit longer till things
were riper and more fully formed for action ;
but one of her dangerously energetic fits was
on her, and all opposition was useless.

Yes, Nellie, I'm longing to track the old
serpent Sidewing, and watch her face as she
cowers under my accusation,' said Emily
earnestly. * What a triumph to see her taken
away to prison, as she most assuredly will
be, to suffer for her crime ! '

After the trial,' said Nellie cautiously.
It has all got to be proved first, and weare
so bitterly poor.'

She sighed, and glanced at her mother.
Nellie worked very hard just now  almost
beyond her strength. She still retained her
situation at Madame Celestine's in order to
add to their slender income.

They may resign all without any trial or
going to law,' said Emily, rising from the
table, ' after I have had my say. You will
see her tremble, Nellie, and her wicked
daughter too.'

Oh, no, you mistake them. They would
neither stick at murder to retain the wealth.
We shall be simply turned from the door asa
couple of impostors,' said Nellie sadly.

Make haste and dress, Nellie, and don't
talk nonsense, or I shall think you are a

little coward,' said Mrs Rudersheim, vexed
at Nellie's manner. ' Think what is at stake
for us  the splendid position we shall gain 
and to know that a servant's treachery has
ousted my child from her rights makes me
hardly able to contain myself Sidewing
always hated me, I now believe, though
once I thought her a sound-hearted, honest
soul, and I never guessed for a moment she
ever had a daughter, so I could imagine no
motive of hers, Nellie, that would work
badly for my child.'

Emily was almost dramatic in her excitement.
She was very tired of the hay-stuffed
chairs, the horrid little fender that tore her
crape, the cracked deal tables, the anaesthetic
crockery, the cheap apartments at Peckhara
Rye. As her grief diminished, her love of
luxury, dress, and beautiful things returned.
She knew also she was still a very pretty
and fascinating woman, utterly out of her
proper sphere at the Rye. She wanted
Nellie to reign as a bright luminary of
fashion in London, and have carriages and
horses, with her photograph, instead of
Vivian's, displayed in fashionable shops.
How pleasant the Park and the Row were
to drive through in a luxurious carriage,
instead of scrambling about the dusty streets
and lanes in thick boots and a waterproof!

How miserable and poor were the cheap
little nosegays of flowers Nellie bought to
cheer her, and placed on the mantelpiece
in ugly vases ! There was no romance in
Emily Rudersheim. She believed in the
solidity of comfort, and the dignity and importance
imparted by wealth.

She never understood the grief that was
working havoc day by day in her young
daughter's health, for Nellie was always kind
and bright and cheerful. Suspense, doubt,,
and fear alternately preyed upon her nervous
system and robbed her of rest ; a sort of
unutterable despair settled upon her since she
had lost her lover.

Such is the misfortune of possessing a
heart, especially when one is a woman, and,
above all, of putting that heart into life.

Nellie kissed her mother, and followed her
upstairs to dress for their excursion to
Prince's Gate. The girl knew what the
detective meant when he bade them act with
the utmost care and caution before arousing
the suspicions of the Shewing. There was
no feebleness of purpose in Nellie. She
remembered how she had sworn to bring
the traitors to justice by Hubert Ruder-shem's
dying bed, but she knew also there
was nothing so fatal as striking aimless blows
too soon.

The blow that must be struck in the
Prince's Gate quarter should be too terrible
.and overpowering for the enemy to recover
from.

Nellie was surprised at her mother's clinging
to the pomps and vanities of the world,
so that every thought was laden with hopes
of future worldly glories and success. In
fact, Emily laboured as much for herself as
for Nellie in crushing the impostors who had
duped Mr Branscombe so long.

What miserable rooms these are !' Emily
was saying,, as she twisted the cheap mirror
irritably in its frame. Her widow's bonnet
and veil were laid out on the bed, which was
still unmade. ' I declare, Nellie, I can find
nothing, and when I try to pull open these
drawers we got from the company, I nearly
pull them over  they are so awkward and
rickety.'

Never mind, dear,' Nellie said, putting
on her little velvet hat ; * if we win the trial,
as we are sure to do, if you are only careful,
you will have splendid wardrobes with
plate-glass doors again, and everything you
can fancy besides.'

This invariably calmed the unhappy little
lady. She endured the Peckham tram-car
without a murmur, although it made her feel
faint and bilious, and after descending from

this, they hired a cab, and told the man to
put them down at the corner of Prince's
Gate.

Vivian, who was picking dead leaves off
some autumnal flowers on the balcony, saw
these two figures, dressed in deep mourning,
cross over the road, and glanced at them
indifferently. Many poor people had presented
themselves before her supplicating
alms and aid, since she had come into vast
wealth, so it was nothing unusual for her
to be summoned to the dining-room to
preach a little lecture on the wickedness of
extravagance as she acted the part of Lady
Bountiful ; but of late Tinson, the butler,
had received orders to get rid of genteel
beggars.

As Mrs Rudersheim knocked and rang,
Vivian glanced at her snowy-white linen
collar and cuffs in the glass to see that she
was perfectly in order, suppose these ladies
were visitors.

Both were deeply veiled, but she had seen
that the young girl was very beautiful, for
Nellie had thrown up her veil as they crossed
the road.

The well-trained butler soon perceived
that they were not of the begging class, although
Mrs Rudersheim declined to deliver
a card.

He ushered them politely into the Library,
where all those he mentally ticketed ' doubtful
' were admitted, for here were no silver
spoons or salvers lying about to be readily
appropriated, and, as Tinson often said,
Your pickpockets are that well got up
they'd take in the arch-fiend himself.'

Emily saw her own likeness hanging from
the wall, for the velvet curtains had been
slightly drawn aside. That beautiful golden
hair was the living image of Nellie's.

Look, my darling, at the portrait,' she
whispered excitedly. ' That is like you are
now  the very exact facsimile of your dear
self at this moment.'

Nellie was silent. She was thinking of
that father who had died without blessing
her, and whom she had never seen. She
remembered the bitter sufferings of her
lonely childhood ; the cruel lashes from the
Spaniard's whip, the blows and falls and
dangerous feats it had been her lot to endure
and attempt ; this sentimentalism of the
pampered lady of fashion did not move herat
that moment. Why had she forsaken
her, and left her with strangers, and cast her
into unheard-of miseries and torments ?

I wish I had seen my father,' Nellie
faltered.

She was not thinking of the vast possessions

and wealth he would have left her,
nor of all she had lost in a worldly sense.
She would like to have known his loving care,
and nestled to his breast, and felt the sacredness
and tenderness of a father's blessing and
protection.

The door opened, and a pock-marked
woman, dressed in a rich black satin, and
holding a bundle of wools and knitting in
her hand, entered with uplifted head. Mrs
Sidewing enjoyed getting rid of poor, proud
suppliants for aid.

Mrs Rudersheim turned suddenly round
and faced her. Mrs Sidewing gasped for
breath as she glanced at these two  mother
and daughter. She was sure of it, though
she swore to deny it to the last. Mother
and daughter ! Was the game really lost,
after all her falsehoods and iniquities and
deceit } Lost with the prize of a grand
marriage grasped for Vivian } Another
three months and then all would have been
secured.

Mrs Rudersheim !' she exclaimed.

She had repressed a cry of horror, but a
darting spasm of agony passed through
her mind, and left its reflection on her
livid face with its look of stunned surprise.


There was an instant's silence, and then

Emily, smiting her hands together, overwhelmed
with rage and hatred at the
thought of the nurse's treachery, came close
to her and said in low, firm accents, 

You abandoned my child and tried to
kill her ! You sold her into slavery and to
fiends, base and heartless as yourself. You
promised me on your most solemn oath you
would be a mother to her, and you put your
daughter in her place. A prison awaits you
where you shall learn that justice is not
always deaf and dumb and blind. I have
brought my child, Nurse Sidewing, to take
her rightful place in her father's mansion.'

HUNTED DOWN.

RS Sewing's gloomy brows
worked. She looked more wicked
than ever. Her eyes were
riveted on Mrs Rudersheim
like those of a fiery basilisk longing to slay.
Her features bore the stamp of that terrible
uncertainty to be seen in the expression of
a wild animal hemmed in and threatened by
foes, and not knowing which will be the
safest step to take in its fear.

So you threaten me, do you ? ' she said
fiercely, and facing Mrs Rudersheim. ' Perhaps
you don't know the law don't permit o'
threats and false pretences without making
those as threaten pay for it. I shall go to
prison, shall I ? You'll have to prove those
words first.'

'Your very dress convicts you of your
guilt,' said Emily slowly. ' Is it a suitable

one for a nurse ? Would any old retainer
in a family wear rich black satin like yours ? '
Only let Miss Branscombe come downstairs
to you, and you'll both be shown the
door pretty quick. I wonder wot her lover,
Captain Mallandaine. \id say,' Mrs Sidewing
continued, off her renard. ' if he knew the

<z>

insults you've uttered her  a nice, pretty
young lady she is, too, and your own
daughter, as you ought to know by this
time.'

You can brazen out your infamy to this
extent ? ' cried Emily, petrified with the
woman's audacity.

Whv, didn't master recognise 'er as his

child, and he was 'cute enough. as you ought
to know, though you did play 'im a mean
trick in running away with that Austrian ?
Didn't Mr Branscombe bless 'er and receive
'er as his own child all these years ? '

Listen, Mrs Sidewing,' said Emily
coldly. ' I've not come here to bandy words
with a criminal such as you. of the deepest
dye. I maintain, and I can prove that the
girl you brought under Mr Branscombe's
roof, and swore to him was viy child, was
in reality your ozcn, born out of wedlock.
Her father was a drunken actor called
Robert Sidewing, and he made you his
wife because Mr Branscombe eave you a

thousand pounds. Indeed he has confessed
as much already.'

Then they've tampered with that tipsy
rascal, who'll be our ruin yet thought the
nurse, turning a shade paler at her husband's
mention. * It is false, madam  a pack of
lies. This girl by your side has either imposed
on you, or now that you've not got
a sixpence to bless ourselves with, and are
thinking of a Chancery suit, you've trumped
up a pack o' lies to steal away your daughter's
rightful inheritance. But never  never
will I see Miss Branscombe injured. I'm
her faithful servant and friend till death.
You think it 'ud be very nice to turn her
out of Prince's Gate, and live on the fat o'
the land herself, I essay.'

Emily wondered, as she read the cold
defiance of relentless hatred in look and tone,
how she could ever have trusted her baby
with such a fiend.

The fiery blood that ran in the nurse's
veins asserted itself. In a moment of ungovernable
fury, she shook her fist in Nellie's
face.

'You little impostor ! ' she said, half choked
with passion.

Nellie Raymond is no impostor,' said
Emily, watching the effect of her words.

The nurse started. It was the name she

had given the child when she left it in charge
of the farmer's wife, Mary Mathers, whereas
Mrs Rudersheim had christened her child
Vivian.'

Nellie Raymond ! ' she repeated, wondering
how much Mrs Rudersheim really
knew.

The sudden mention of this name sent a
chilly tremor through her frame. Had it not
haunted her waking and sleeping for years i
Why had not cruelty and suffering sufficed
to kill Nellie Raymond as she had prayed
they might ?

You had a child  a daughter. Take
me to the spot where she is buried, or else
prove to me that she is dead. If not, / will
prove she is here  under this roof  a swindler
and a liar ! '

Better look a little nearer 'one,' she said
insolently, evading the question. ' You're a
pretty one, too, to come and preach to me.
I've done a good part by your child as you
abandoned, you light o' love, living first with
one man and then another. If you 'ud stayed
at 'one, like an honest wife would 'ave done,
and nursed yer baby, it might a' been better
for you. You says to me, " Sidewing," you
says, pleasant as could be, and crying, too,
I've known you many a year. I'd trust
you with untold gold. Be a mother to my

babe and heaven will reward you." And a
mother I've been, in deed and in truth, all
these years. If you want to see your
daughter, madam, don't bring that creature
to the 'ouse,'  pointing to Nellie, who
listened, horror-stricken at her tones  ' unless
you want to be turned out from
Prince's Gate as impostors, both of you, with
a policeman.'

There is evidence that you left my child
in the care of a poor woman  a farmer's wife
in Devonshire, who lived with her mother.
The mother is dead, but the farmer's wife,
Mary Mathers, has since gone to Australia,
and we are tracing her. Before leaving England,
she sold the little girl, whom she called
Nellie Raymond  how does the name strike
you ? (Mrs Sidewing started, and turned
her head aside)  to a circus proprietor,
whose wife, a Spaniard, called Juanita Dalton,
wanted a child to teach and train for her
profession. She bought my daughter, as she
might buy a dog, while you lied and plotted
and schemed to place your bastard in the
place of the rightful heiress. Through some
careless slip of yours, or, maybe, a providential
interposition, a tiny vest, marked
Vivian Branscombe," was given up to the
farmer's wife, who saved it, and tossed it
into a box with other clothes when my child

was sold to the Dalton. They preserved it,
and here It is.'

As Emily drew forth the little vest from
her seal-skin reticule, and named the people
who could supply any missing links in the
chain of evidence, Mrs Sidewing knew that
all was lost. Baffled, and run to earth,
hunted down and accused, how could she
escape punishment ?

She dared not trust herself to speak, but
without another word, she rose and left the
room.

Nellie and her mother glanced at each
other for a moment in silence.

How I wish we had never come ! ' Nellie
said, in a whisper. ' Would it not have been
wiser, dear, to have left it all for the detectives
and lawyers to carry out ? '

j\Iy dearest child, you are not a mother.
You cannot imagine how I enjoy my revenge.
Did you see her crushed look of utter terror ?
She has gone to consult with her daughter.
Think, Nell, all this will be yours soon.
That sumptuous mirror, the prie-dieu chairs
that costly book-case  how well I remember
it at the eleanor !  and did you ever see a
lovelier carpet ? Only contrast it with the
hideous ones the company sent us for our
rooms ; and, oh, child, just glance at the
curtains ! '

But Nellie's thoughts had passed Into a
region where curtains aud carpets do not
enter.

Leonard was heartless and had forgotten
her. He was false, and engaged to the
nurse's child  the girl who had laughed In
scornful derision at the Crystal Palace, as If
triumphing over Nellie's sorrow.

Could it be possible that this idol she had
enshrined in her heart was mercenary, and
wooed Vivian because she was an heiress ?
This brought a deadlier pang than all. To
lose an ideal often embitters all the rest of
life. Nellie did not know the interpretation
Leonard had put on her words. He had
not read the extent of her noble self-sacrifice.
He believed her capricious and fickle.

So a dark shade fell on Nellie's spirits even
when her path was beginning to be lined with
gold. She wanted the dear old love to return
when there was no need to sigh on awakening
from sleep, and remember that her dreams
were gainer than her hopes.

She was going to be rich, but Leonard was
false. She could not bear to think that if
perhaps he knew that she, Nellie, had a
magnificent inheritance, he would long to
break off his engagement and return to her.

For then I should despise him,' Nellie
thought with a shiver.

Mrs Sidewing passed quickly up the staircase
and found her daughter still in the
drawing-room. She was turning over the
pages of a new song that the impassioned
Signor Adagio had sent her that morning
with his kind compliments and a long
account.

Heartless and capricious as are all spoilt
women, and with her late resolves of taking
a strictly commercial view of things in future,
Vivian had just come to the conclusion that
the fashionable singing master was a mercenary
being and an original humbug, when
she saw her mother making signs to her from
the door as if powerless to speak.

And now, what is this new trouble ? '
she whispered, closing the door, fearful
lest they were doomed to another visit
from her eccentric father. ' You are actually
trembling like a leaf, and your hands are icy
cold;

She half dragged Vivian across the room
towards the window, muttering strangely to
herself like a person demented.

'Nellie Raymond!' she kept repeating.
'Always Nellie Raymond! How I hate
her ! Haunted me in dreams, too ! Ah !
The nights and nights I've felt her hands
fasten round my wrist ere I flung her from
me to die ! '

VOL. III. G

Mother, what harm can Nellie Raymond
do us ? '

Vivian panted as she spoke. Her old fear
returned in new force, but Mrs Sidewing's
pallor was more ghastly than Vivian's, and of
the two the girl felt a wilder access of power
and stubbornness take possession of her.

You wonder, child, what has come to us,'
she said, in a deep, hoarse voice. ' Well,
then, I can tell you  the game's as nearly
lost as possible. The enemy's on the track.
They have found Nellie Raymond, the real
heiress. All we can fight for is to gain time ;
and you must marry Captain Mallandaine before
the spring.'

Vivian shrank under that iron grip at last ;
her breast heaved, her lips were dumb and
dry, all the objects of the room faded for a
moment before her vision ; the fatal cowardice
which was at the root of her nature
crushed alike her will and stubbornness ; a
sudden longing to escape and be heard of no
more seized her, and paralysed alike effort
and ambition, whereas her mother s dogged
determination had now returned.

She read aright the meaning of Vivian's
terror.

You ain't again' to show the white
feather, eh, dearie ? ' she asked, in a cautious
whisper.

Vivian knew so well she was guilty ; she
pictured the dreary future ; she saw her
mother, branded with a felon's mark, wearing
out her miserable days in prison, she heard
her father's drunken threats and saw his
staggering gestures.

Lost ! ' she cried, after a second's silence.
You come here and tell me we are lost 
ruined  destroyed ! Ah, great heaven, when
it wanted but a few short weeks to complete
my bliss ! '

She dashed her hands on the velvet covering
of the mantelpiece, and tore the lace
upon it into shreds. She buried her face
in her hands, but no tears came.

Keep up your spirits, Vi,' cried Mrs
Sidewing, ' and we can fight and fence a
bit longer. We'll worry 'em, and give
'em lots o' trouble yet ; we'll pay for the
finest counsel in the land, and it's a case of
heads I win, tails you lose," often enough
with the law ; and you shall marry the
captain, with all the fine Brooksmere acres
and lands, and a title, as he's the heir to.'

Oh, Leonard, have I indeed lost you,
too ? ' murmured Vivian, sinking on her
knees, and lifting her hands above her head
in piteous entreaty.

'Not at all, dearie ; a man cannot be
divorced from his wife because she's not the

right woman. " Poor thing, she's to be
pitied," every one 'full say, and you can swear
you was innocent as the babe unborn. We
must muzzle your father, and begin to save
every sovereign we can lay our hands on
from this hour.'

Vivian's eyes involuntarily turned towards
the prettily-tinted, delicately perfumed letter
accompanying Signor Adagio's account.

Where would all the toadies and hypocrites,
who had paid her homage for years
vanish, were she proved to be the illegitimate
daughter of a nurse ? The thought was too
bitter, and although she bit her lips still they
bled, the tears came in a torrent.

Would Lord Portmore continue to cringe
to her, or Signor Adagio risk making his
boots muddy by crossing over a dirty road
to press her hand then ? Ah, no. She
knew the world and its wife so well, this
poor Vivian, who was a thorough worldling
herself, and versed in all its dark, intricate
mazes. Her face flushed with shame and
horror at the contemplation of the future.

And now, what are we to say to them ? '
her mother asked, jerking her thumb in the
direction of the library. ' Nellie Raymond's
that girl as came from Celestine's with the
mourning hats for you to choose from } '

She seemed to envy me even then,' said

Vivian, glancing hopelessly around, the corners
of her mouth drooped with mental pain
and fear. ' I knew I hated her as she spoke
to me. She is beautiful, and has a timid,
refined way with her that irritated me ; some
instinct seemed to reveal to me that she was
my enemy, and to be feared. . . . And she
is more than my enemy  she is my rival
cried Vivian, a new light breaking in on her.
Is a mightier power than any belonging
to this world smiting us to the earth ?
My rival, then, all the time, was Nellie
Raymond  Mr Branscombe's daughter and
heiress.'

'Hush, don't breathe it aloud,' said < Mrs
Sidewing huskily. ' We can't leave 'em any
longer together in the library  it looks so
bad.'

Vivian raised her arms wearily from the
couch  she had thrown herself to the ground
in her tempest of despair  and, resting her
small head on the satin sofa, seemed lost
and dazed.

Oh, mother  mother ! ' she said, rising
to her feet, and with a sadness in her eyes
that made them dreamy and wistful, ' was
it wise to trade and fatten on a crime ?
Could you see to the end ? Ruin and
misery have overtaken us  the law will
punish you, the papers will chronicle every

incident of our wicked lives, and I, the
fashionable beauty, the court belle displayed
in the best shop windows, will be held upto
the public view with scorn and derision 
a nurse's child, but with a lady's instincts,
education, and tastes.'

Don't blame me, Vi  it was all through
love of you.'

I am thinking of that,' the girl said
quietly. ' How can you bear it ? You're
old now, and you will die in a prison.'

The wretched woman folded her child in
her arms, and smoothed back her hair, and
vivian no more recoiled from her touch.

Don't cry, dearie ; it looks so weak and
guilty,' she said, emptying half a bottle of
costly scent over Vivian's lace-edged cambric
handkerchief. The piteous pallor of terror
had passed from the girl's expression ; she
looked less jaded and haggard. * I loved
you, darling  I m only an ignorant woman,
but I'd 'ave risked hanging to give you
wealth. I'm old now  my miserable day is
over  but if I think of you  rich, happy,
and married to the man you love, shall I
regret the prison's fare and the prisoner's
doom ? When I hadn't money to buy a
meal for the morrow, when want and hunger
dogged my steps, when a drunkard's words
rung in my ears and maddened me, I still

aa you. r z r i : t -
as miae,'* I r - i . 

the word can g - 
if I swing for It. 1: 
so long as the fir :

'Oh, mother,
her head and g
 how many sir
Her voice was 1 : : " :
ingthenofherfT : -
for you  pair
I worth the
and infamy ?

on me is th
that he wistful
more, is
may die in pr. .

vivian.' said Mrs Side
deep breath, 'oh, my carl
you are I pity me, dull, I s
for you. Leave me a fe
for my prison Use, if it c
last; but we're not parted
time. They've got to trs:
the fanners wife, in A
might die out there, wh' : 7
and delay, and they los

Courage said \h
tones. 'I will meet :
here  this Mrs Rue 

is just dead. It was a pity I never would
have anything to do with her, and repudiated
all her overtures of affection, because I could
have gained an influence over her weak
mind. I shall rely on my own judgment
and tact in managing her at the present time.
You stay here while I go in alone.'

A deep flush spread itself over her face
as she glanced with silent, mournful self-pity
at her reflection in the gilt mirror.

So nearly grasped was the prize on which
she had staked her all and struggled so hard
to gain, and yet 

Her heart throbbed so wildly she could
scarcely breathe. At that moment a hansom
cab dashed up to the kerbstone, and Mrs
Sidewing, running to the window, looked
out, and saw a new danger.

It's the captain himself,' she cried, dropping
the lace curtain, and returning to
Vivian.

If he should meet them,' cried Vivian,
pausing for breath, and then said quickly,
' Run downstairs, and be sure that he is
shown into the dining-room ; talk to him
a little while I get rid of them.'

Vivian knew she must be brave, and
struggled to retain her self-possession.

Assuming her haughtiest air, she threw
the door open, and said, coldly 

My nurse tells me, madam, you have
come here on most extraordinary pretences.
Will you be good enough to leave my house
at once ? There is such a thing as punishment
by imprisonment for those attempting
to extort money by threats, and if you treat
me to any more of these unpleasant visits,
I shall be compelled to put the law in force.
However, knowing that you are my mother,
I trust, for your own sake, this will be unnecessary.
Yonder is the hall door  be
good enough to pass through it at once,
and quickly into the street.'

But who were you talking to when you
said, '' I will never call you mother, not if I
am your child. I shall hate you to the
end"' burst out Nellie, overwhelmed with
her contempt of Vivian.

Vivian reflected an instant, and then said,
coldly, 

How dare you, a milliner's apprentice,
listen to what ladies utter in their own
homes ? Who are you, that you venture at
all into my presence to-day ? ' cried Vivian,
imperially beautiful in her rage and disdain.
Those words you overheard were addressed
to that portrait  to that heartless mother
who abandoned me years ago, and who has
the audacity to scheme a double injury on
me. and to seek me here.'

Splendid ! ' murmured Mrs Sidewing,
who was listening. * That daughter do for
'em, if anything will. I didn't think VI 'ad
got it in her to be so ready with an answer ;
but I thought she'd show fight when it
came to the push, or she wouldn't be my
daughter.'

Mrs Rudersheim moved towards the door.

You will hear next from my lawyers,' she
said, taking Nellie's hand.

I have heard, madam, that you are In
reduced circumstances,' said Vivian, giving a
parting feminine stab of the petty kind.
People so situated often grasp at any
shadows and straws to save themselves from
the union. It's rather remarkable, isn't it,
that I've not been treated to a severe dose of
the threatening sort while you were rich ?
You will find law matters are expensive ;
while we are armed to the teeth against the
vile charges of all swindlers and impostors.
The hall door, madam, at once, if you please.
You will not have a chance, If I can help it,
of entering it again.'

She rang the bell for Pinson. Mrs Ruder-shem
saw the bitter sneer about her lips, and
believing that Vivian was capable of going
beyond insults, thought it more prudent to
retire peacefully.

Captain Mallandalne did not see Nellie or

Mrs Rudersheim as they left the mansion.
He had brought a magnificent parure of
pearls for Vivian, and he was in a brighter
mood to-day.

He did not love her intensely, but he
meant to cherish and be kind to her
always. Leonard had parted with his love-dream
when Nellie glided away, but that
was no reason why he should not make
Vivian a good husband.

My darling, here is a surprise for you,'
said Leonard, after the greetings were over.
First take the pearls to the light and tell
me how you like them. You must wear
them on our wedding day, Vivian ; and this
is a bouquet I've made myself from a quantity
of flowers sent me by poor old Fog, our
gardener, this morning. Let me fasten this
rose in your hair.'

Vivian had never known him so playful
and loving before. She let him move aside
her tresses and place the rose where he
pleased ; its perfume soothed her excited
nerves, her eyes shone with a more fiery
light than love can give.

Was she not, he asked himself again, the
very woman he ought to win as a wife i 
high-bred, beautiful, and accomplished, 
and yet he was not enraptured, but rather
bored.

Here was no intoxication or glamour or
dreams. He could have left Vivian for years
with scarce a sigh, whereas the little shabby
piece of blue velvet that had encircled Nellie's
throat, and which he found on the garden
seat, could never be viewed or touched without
pain.

So strange is love, for it speaks the
language of a child, while its veriest trifles
are so full of meaning. Vivian cared
for him more than she did for the pearls,
for she was playing her last card now.
To secure Leonard would be to secure
a worldly position as well, and in the
presence of the danger hanging over her,
he, not the pearls, was her first consideration.


I wish you loved me more, Leonard,' she
said falteringly, her breath hurried and her
brain throbbing.

This intensity was also new for Vivian.

Must I protest too much ? ' he asked,
smiling, and drawing her nearer. ' What
would you have me say to you ? and I
thought you hated spooning, and all that,
ina belle!

The spring seems so distant, Leonard. I
am jealous when you are away from me.'

'Jealous! is she going in for the Medea
style of things ? ' thought the captain. He

had always hoped Vivian would be too
worldly, cool, and well-bred to bore him to
death with the minor wails of love.

Look at the pearls, Vi, and tell me all
about the ball at Lady Annersley's ; describe
toilets, fashions, flirting, anything but the
eternal theme of lovers' sorrows.'

Vivian was thinking of her rival  the girl
who had stolen his heart, and whom she still
believed retained it.

Why need we wait for the spring ? ' he
asked, following her eyes. Never had they
shone forth so much lustre and fire. He
flattered himself her love for him caused the
hectic flush. ' Marry me this day month if
you will, Vivian, and we can begin our
New Year at Stupefied Hall.'

It certainly would be horribly lonely forme
here,' she said, with a little shrug ; ' don't
you think so ? '

Then let us be together.'

He clearly did not contemplate a respite,
but he wondered why a shade of keen anxiety
stole over her expression.

'Is she hiding anything from me?' he
wondered, trifling with some orchids, and
thinking that Nellie's complexion had resembled
the innermost blush of a sea shell,
or the pale heart of the rosebud Vivian
was placing in a specimen glass.

Was Nellie suffering, or had she forgotten
him ?

Vivian, watching him with those narrow
stormy eyes of hers, shivered. It was not
the self-abasement of a grand, loving soul
that smote her to the dust,  she had begun
to calculate.

DISCONSOLATE.

When the eastern morning grew bright and red,
Up the first sunbeam the angel fled,
Having kissed the woman and left her dead.'

N attic poet or rhapsodies must have
found his Muse very difficult to
woo in any of the small streets
in the neighbourhood of Vauxhall.
What would the noble Greek have thought
of the shrieks of the railway whistles, the
roll of the trains, the entreaties of the water-cress
old women, or the bells of the muffin
and crumpet men ?

An unconquerable dejection would have
made him long to offer himself as a sacrificial
victim at the next Grecian religious festival.

Mrs Branscombe was, unfortunately for
herself, a person with nerves, and she
possessed that keen susceptibility on which
trifles can jar and torture. The souls of
women of genius are like the strings of a

harp ; the souls of dunces are Hke pieces of
wood, that can be hammered and knocked and
kicked without sustaining any injury. Wood,
replete with physical life, can also give ugly
knocks in return  common vulgar blows
which men and women respect and fear ; but
what resistance can the strings of an exquisite
human instrument offer ?

They can only be wrenched aside and
broken while anguish quivers through them,
and they bleed inwardly. The dust of the
streets and the rain are not more fatal in
destroying a rich alabaster bust than disappointment
and despair in corroding the
beauties of a creative mind.

Laura found her rooms at Vauxhall more
dreary than those at West Kensington. Her
loneliness and despair thoroughly unnerved
her and unfitted her for work, endurance,
and drudgery. In vain enterprising dealers
called, inspected her paintings, and gave her
fresh commissions, bidding her labour for a
small niche in the sanctuary of fame. The
delicate strings of her being were snapped
asunder. The harp could respond no more
to human touch.

Fading slowly day by day, at last she took
to her bed. Her child had died of inflammation
of the lungs, and Laura had worn
herself out with great anxiety. She would

call it her little child-angel, and say that it
had winged its flight before her ; but that
it would visit her again some chill winter
morning just before the first faint streaks of
light dawned to give her the desire of her
heart.

Madame Souchy was indefatigable in her
kindness and care, and to-day, as she sat by
Laura's bedside, she saw that a change had
taken place for the worse. Feverish and
restless she had often been of late, her
magnificent frame shrinking daily, and emaciation
giving proof of the inroads of disease,
but never before had the lustrous eyes gazed
so wistfully into space, or the voice been so
faint and inarticulate. She looked like a
spirit gliding into shadowed.

Madame Souchy turned gently to Laura,
and said, softly, 

Is there anything you would like me todo
for you to-day ? Any one you wish to
see ?'

Laura's tremulous hands rested almost
eagerly on her friend's.

Yes,' she said, pausing between each
word, ' I wish to see the Marquis de Roche-ville
once more.'

The hands now were working nervously,
her voice had faded to a whisper, her brow
and neck were whiter than alabaster.

VOL. III. H

Madame Souchy rose to her feet. Laura
looked more dreamy and lifeless than ever.
Presently she said, smiling, 

Do you like poetry, or ever read it ?
I've been saying these lines of Tennyson all
day to myself, 

If the sense is hard
To alien ears,
I do not speak to these,
No, not to thee, but to thyself in me.'

Madame Souchy shook her head. She
did not quite understand Laura. She fancied
her mind was wandering.

'And when I say them, please don't think me
foolish, but I always want to see him again.'

Her eyes filled with tears, and she turned
a little on her side. She was racked with
mortal pain  the pain that heralds a release.

I will fetch him to you at once,' said
Madame Souchy, tying her bonnet-strings
hastily ; ' that is, if he will come.'

I think he will,' said Laura ; * but take
him this piece of paper.'

Madame Souchy raised the pillow, and
took out the paper, and found one word only
written on it  ' Disconsolate.'

Poor thing,' muttered Madame Souchy,
touching Laura's brow. ' When I look at
you, lying here so white and calm, I am
thankful that I never had a daughter.'

So am I,' said Laura, thinking of her
dead baby.

Again the strange far-away look crept
over her expression. She wondered if her
little child-angel would come for her soon.

Before you go, just plait my hair up,'
said Laura, twisting her head ; ' at least, what
little there is left of it.'

The heavy crown of Laura's rich black
hair had wasted away, but a long tress fell
like an inky stain over her white lightness.

Are you thirsty ? ' her friend whispered.

Very. Give me a drink of lemonade
before you go. . . . Do you know where
he is to be found ? '

Yes,' answered Madame Souchy, but did
not tell Laura.

She spared her that blow.

Go quickly, please, for I don't think I
shall live much longer. There is such a
weight, like a ton load, on my poor head.

If not to be forgotten  not at once 
Not all forgotten.

Pretty lines, are they not ? '

She's getting light-headed, I'm sure,'
thought Madame Souchy, and went to tell
the landlady to keep in the room while she
had to go out of doors.

Good-bye,' said Laura.  You've been so

good to me. How can I thank you ? Words
never could. Kiss me before you go, in case
we don't meet again. It's dreadful lo die alone
in lodgings. . . . Oh ! I cannot  cannot
think of the past.'

The only lips that kissed her were painted
nightly, and Laura was a great artist and a
passionate, loving woman. Was there justice
in this bitter, forsaken end ?

Alone again, Mrs Branscombe fell into a
fit of musing. She never regretted her abrupt
parting from the Marquis de Rocheville, and
he had never sought to soften her edict of
banishment. No letter from him had ever
reached her.

When she learnt his utter worthlessness,
callousness and treachery, realising that he
had merely amused himself for a time in destroying
her love and faith, her body and soul,
she rose above her weakness to sweep him
from her path. The grandeur of her nature
had, in truth, made her his victim, for the
revelation of love learnt at maturity had overwhelmed
her with tempestuous fury.

Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind,
And, therefore, is wing'd Cupid painted blind,
Nor hath Love's mind of any judgment taste.

Are women of genius blind } Clever, ingenious,
and heartless, this man had taught

her the subtle mysteries of love. She believed
in the honour of his protestations.
But no, the elastic-minded Frenchman did
not care for her lofty flights of fancy and
romance, he preferred Celestine, who was
solid and dull, with sublime ingratitude and
a malicious tongue.

He found Laura's sensitiveness worry him,
and the haggard anguish of her worn features
when he was cruel or neglectful was a silent
reproach. So he clung, man-like, to his creature
of wood and stone, with her satins and
velvets, and mortgages, and bargains, who
kept him in order, and whom he respected
highly.

Celestine's sneer could hold him in check
when nothing else could, for, being above
heartaches and tears herself, Gustave was
forced occasionally to cringe and play the
slave. He was like a dog that respects his
mistress the more he is beaten.

Madame la Marquise on the continent had
reminded her affectionate spouse of her existence
now that he was wealthy. She even
threatened to bring herself and her four children
and live with him again. This intelligence
rather clouded the mysterious eyes of
the marquis ; he, however, defeated her virtuous
intentions by writing her word that he
was such a very wandering person, she might

have her long journey for nothing to Paris,
Vienna, or London. He therefore sent her
quarterly cheques, and considered he had
exceeded his duty as a husband and
father.

Madame la Marquise, a big, brown-skinned
Italian, and ignorant as only an Italian woman
can be, but an honest, laborious person, remembered
that she had once been lowered by
her back hair from a window by her loving
spouse, and preferred his money to his company.


She told her little Gustave, in her peasant
patois, 

Papa was a very naughty man, but rich, and
now they could go back to their pretty villa
at Naples, and cook and eat maccaroni whenever
they liked.'

And she burnt ten candles to the Blessed
Virgin, resolving to try to learn to read and
write, so as to be better able to visit and receive
friends as befitted her rank.

Madame Souchy found the Marquis de
Rocheville smoking a cigarette in the drawing-room
of the fashionable Regent Street milliner.
He was engaged in writing a novel of the
realistic school which M. Zola has immortalised,
when he saw the little burlesque
actress at his elbow.

He recognised her at once, and said, with

the same indulgent smile he invariably
assumed when in a patronising mood, 

Be seated, madam. Have you called to
see me on business ? '

Mrs Branscombe has sent me to you,' she
answered, regarding him steadily. ' She
wishes to see you at once.'

And suppose it doesn't suit me ? ' he
returned slowly. ' So she's coming off her
high horse at last, is she ? Sapristi ! I'm
half inclined to refuse her polite invitation.'

Madame Souchy had accustomed herself to
be surprised at nothing, but even she, with
her worldly experience and knowledge of the
heartlessness and callousness of men of the
world, was startled at his tone.

Lepelletier threw down his cigarette and
lifted his delicately arched brows.

You look surprised,' he said, leaning over
the table and laughing  a low, scornful
lauch. ' Yo2i ought to know how fickle
pretty women are  ah, par exe77iple, la donna
e mobile''

Mrs Branscombe is dying,' said the other
slowly. ' She sent you this.'

The marquis ceased laughing, and took
the small piece of white folded paper from
Souchy's hand, and he read the one word
written on it, 

Disconsolate.'

He changed his careless manner directly,
a softer look came to his hard, bold eyes.

So she has taken It to heart,' he muttered,
rising. * Poor Laura ! I will see her again
I must  '

He checked his next words as Madame
Celeste came up the staircase.

Who's this woman ? ' she asked.

She Is Mrs Branscombe's messenger,' he
whispered In her ear. ' She Is dangerously ill
dying, In fact  and wishes to see me again.'

Is It true, Gustave ? '

He hated her at that moment, and shook
her hand off his arm.

It Is true that I have killed her,' he answered,
' and that we men are devils.'

He passed downstairs, followed by Madame
Souchy, and hailing a cab, bade the man drive
them quickly to Vauxhall.

He spoke no more till they arrived at their
destination. He ascended the dimly-lighted
staircase, and In a few seconds was standing
over Laura's dying bed.

" Disconsolate," ' he murmured, bending
over her and pressing his lips to her brow.
Laura, my dearest, why did you not let me
know you were ill and suffering ? '

Should he ever forget the silent pain of
those large, beseeching eyes, the grasp of
those tremulous hands ? '

She lay very quiet, till the awful dull agony
stealing over her awoke her from her trance-like
slumber.

Gustave,' she murmured, * have you really
come ? Why cannot I see you again ? Why
is the room so dark ?'

He gathered her in his arms  this beautiful
woman, once the envied object of every
fashionable assembly  his lips closed on hers
with tenderer affection than he had ever felt
before for any human creature.

It was his first experience of the terrible,
tense way some women love  to their own
destruction. If he had only known, or could
have seen to the end, he would have treated
her differently. Why, for his peace of mind's
sake, had she not been a creature of wood and
of stone ?

The picture she had painted and left him
as a legacy was before him. There was the
little child-angel at the snow-wreathed casement,
with the eastern radiance on its wings ;
there sat the lonely mourner by her cheerless
hearth.

'Laura  Laura  forgive!' he muttered,
throwing himself on his knees by the bedside
in an abandonment of remorse and eries.

But she never spoke. Her eyes only rested
on him with the wan, helpless look of despairing
love.

Dead ! ' whispered Madame Souchy, in a
hushed, awe-stricken voice.

Dead ! ' echoed the man who had murdered
her.

Only one woman had ever loved him, and
he had driven the knife home to the noble
heart.

Is it not ever so ?

MRS RUDERSHEIM VISITS CAPTAIN MALLANDAINE.

Oh, how this spring of love resemble
The uncertain glory of an April day,
Which now shows all the beauty of the sun,
And by-and-by a cloud takes all away!'

HEN Nellie and her mother returned
to their humble apartments
at Peckham Rye they found the
general servant helping herself to
slices of the cold mutton which was to form
their dinner. Emily's heart would have
burned with indignation at the robbery if her
thoughts had not been so much engrossed
with the remembrance of her visit to Prince's
Gate ; but, feeling like an exiled queen about
to be shortly reinstated in her rights, she
merely shrugged her shoulders and resigned
herself to the temporary discomfort entailed
on her by her poverty.

It's no use rowing and making a fuss,' she
said to Nellie. ' We must console ourselves

with the reflection that it will not be for
long.'

Nellie felt so ill that she could scarcely rise
from her chair. A sudden giddiness had
seized her ; her body felt hot and cold ; she
was parched with fever, and her head ached
so terribly she could hardly bear the pain.

Why, child, how pale you are ! ' her
mother said, as she noticed Nellie's hands
shake. ' Don't you feel well ? '

I've not felt well for a long time,' Nellie
answered, shivering. ' It's such an effort forme
to move. I don't seem to have any
strength left.'

Perhaps you'd rather have a cup of tea
sent up to your room, dear, and go to bed
at once.'

Nellie was very thankful to be alone.
She went upstairs slowly, wondering why
her heart beat so quickly that it brought a
choking sensation in her throat. She shut
herself in her little room, walking slowly
backwards and forwards in a restless, nervous
way.

How could she realise the bitter truth that
Leonard was engaged to the nurse's child ?
Nellie knew that she had unconsciously
pleased, even charmed Leonard  there had
been no mistaking the ardour of his looks
and words  but it could only have been a

weak and superficial regard, or else why had
he so soon forgotten ?

NelHe threw herself by her bed, sobbing
like a child. Weariness had long fallen on
her eager spirit, but now she felt broken and
wounded beyond all recovery. She wept on
in the silence, her eyes wandering round the
room with vacant, sorrowful gaze.

Mrs Rudersheim disliked having her
dinner alone, and soon came up to Nellie's
bedroom door, and tapped for admission.

The girl opened it mechanically, and
when she saw her mother outside, she
threw herself on her breast, and sobbed
afresh.

Why, my darling, what ails you ? ' Emily
asked, as Nellie's sad and wistful eyes sought
hers. ' h. new step in your life is before you.
You're oroino to be grand and bright and
happy. You will have the admiration of
everybody.'

Nellie sunk into a chair and sighed, as if
mistrusting her mother's capacity for understanding
her orief.

I think I can guess what is troubling
you, Nellie,' her mother said thoughtfully.
You heard that terrible woman, Sidewing,
declare that JNIiss Branscombe would marry
Captain Leonard Mallandaine.'

Nellie drooped her fair head still lower.

Emll) meanwhile made a mental resolve to
frustrate that marriage.

She knew nothing of Captain Mallandaine,
but she suspected that he had not treated
Nellie well. No doubt he had despised her,
thinking her some poor humble girl without
kith or kin.

Emily did not know the circumstances of
his parting from Nellie, but she determined,
at any rate, to save him from being the dupe
of Mrs Sidewing and her daughter.

Be at rest, Nellie,' she said, after a pause.
That impostor shall never win a Allan


Nellie scarcely heard or understood. The
devotion he once offered her he now cast at
the feet of another.

It was this apparent fickleness on Leonard's
part that so tortured the girl. A climax had
come in her young life. For some time
Nellie had been a prey to despondency.
Her strength failing her day by day, Mrs
Rudersheim, watching her anxiously, perceived
how very feverish and wasted she had
become.

She fetched a warm shawl and placed it
around the girl, and bathed her aching head
with vinegar and water.

Nellie appeared to be indifferent to everything.
She felt too miserable to care to live.

A few days after she was delirious. A
low fever, that often attacks the young when
In a low state of health, fastened upon her,
and for a week she huno between life and
death.

Mrs Rudershelm was half distracted with
care and anxiety. She had no Idea that
Nellie took things so much to heart, or had
overtaxed her strength, or was delicate and
nervous.

The girl was always so patient, sweet, and
kind, never complaining or making a trouble
of anything, that Mrs Rudershelm never
anticipated a serious illness overtaking her.

One day, about three weeks after Nellie's
seizure, she had so far recovered that she
could be brought downstairs, and, propped
up with pillows, reclined on a couch. Mrs
Rudershelm, who had been reading a novel
aloud to amuse her, suddenly laid down her
book, and bending over Nellie, said, 

Do you think, dear, you could bear to be
left alone for a few hours ? Our lawyers
wish to see me concerning some very Important
evidence. I have hitherto written to
them, not liking to leave you, but you are so
much better, I do not fear leaving you for a
little while.'

Go by all means,' Nellie answered, smiling.
I'm wonderfully better to-day.'

Nellie had arrived at that stage of indifference
when grief having worn itself out
through an illness, becomes a kind of negative
state of being. She liked to be alone.

The tints of health were returning slowly
to her cheeks as youth and her fine constitution
triumphed. She had accustomed herself
to the thought that Leonard was lost to her,
and she would not die now.

There had been a sharp struggle, and she
was saved.

Why should not life be sweet and sacred
still, thought Nellie, as her mother closed the
hall-door softly after her, and glided away in
the sombre lioht of that winter afternoon ?

The firelight played on Nellie's clear-cut
young features, and lighted up the warm curtains
and the simple frames of the engravings
on the walls. She wished to live for her
mother's sake, who would be lonely and
heart-broken without her.

Mrs Rudersheim had another purpose in
her mind beyond going to the lawyers' office.
She had heard that the wedding-day between
Captain Mallandaine and Vivian was fixed,
and she resolved to enlighten him as to the
character and antecedents of his promised
wife.

Leonard was, no doubt, some frivolous man
of pleasure and fashion, who had looked out

for money, and meant to make a good speculation
of his marriage.

He was not likely to fetter himself with a
wife who could be proved to be a nurse's
child. The Mallandaines were a proud race.
His pride alone must-save him from such
a dalliance. She felt irritated and embittered
against him for his treatment of
Nellie.

Her mercurial temperament made her
invariably dwell on the bright side of things,
and she felt no misgivings on the subject of
the coming trial. Success was so certain with
right and truth on their side.

Leonard had been down to Devonshire for
the past week, preparing for the reception of
his bride and himself at Stupefied Hall.

The old squire and his wife were delighted
at his choice. They had long wished that
Leonard would take unto himself a wife.

The tenants planned a wonderful reception
and welcome. The thought of bonfires,
triumphal arches, and illuminations inspired
them with daring flights of fancy, so that the
village of Brooksmere was quite in a ferment
of expectation and excitement.

The winter day made Mrs Rudersheim
shiver a good deal under her cheap furs, and
she had learnt to attribute Nellie's illness to
her love for the man who had forsaken her.

VOL. III. I

His influence over her had been so powerful
and all-absorbing, she already feared that
Nellie might suffer all her life from the
effects of this infatuation.

Leonard was staying with an aunt of his,
Lady Chances, in Park Lane, prior to his
wedding, and she had just bought Vivian a
very magnificent gold clock inlaid with
mother-o'-pearl out of Regent Street. Leonard
was admiring the exquisite taste of its design
and workmanship, when the servant
announced to him that a lady particularly
wished to see him for a few minutes on
most important business.

Mrs Rudersheim had nerved herself for the
interview. She was far from being a brave
and heroic person ; but for Vivian to wed
Captain Mallandaine was too monstrous a
wrong and injustice to be permitted without
making a decided stand against it. Let him
believe her or not, Emily had come to have
her say ; she would act honestly towards him
in saving him from a social blight. The
enemy was clearly resolved on fighting to the
last, but she, by a simple but masterly stroke
of policy, would cry ' checkmate ' just at the
moment they believed victory to be gained.

Yes, this shall be checkmate and no mistake,'
she muttered. ' They have ousted my
child from her rights by wickedness and

studied artifices for ears, but I will disarm their
power in the present instance, at any rate.'

At this moment Captain Mallandaine
entered, and bowed courteously to the
stranger in her deep mourning. Little
did he guess the object of her visit. He
imagined she had come on some ordinary
business.

Mrs Rudersheim was an impulsive woman,
and her excitement now grew so great, that
all she had determined to utter prior to his
entrance faded from her mind.

Leonard waited politely for her to broach
the object of her visit. To his extreme surprise
she suddenly rose from her chair, and
approaching him, said hurriedly, 

Do you know a girl called Nellie Raymond
? '

Did he ? The vivid flush that stole to his
brow, the quickening of his heart-beats, told
him that he was still the slave of a sweet
memory. A dreamy look came to his eyes.
What was the meaning of the wild, inexpressible
happiness darting through him and
fettering every nerve at her mention ?

Chance once threw Nellie Raymond in
my way,' he said quietly.

Where .? '

In Regent Street. She swooned on the
pavement from starvation, fright, and fatigue.'

He saw again the purple hearts of the
passion-flowers above the golden-brown head
by the old gardener's cottage window, the
glance of those violet eyes, the curves of
the sensitive mouth. He remembered that
he could hardly bear to press the yellow
leaves in the orchard walk under his feet
this year, and that the perfumes of the
ripening fruit brought a vague, unintelligible
pain.

The girl whom you rescued, fainting and
insensible, in Regent Street  the girl you
flirted with as some one beneath you, and
amused yourself with for a time as you might
with a lovely flower that could charm away
an idle hour  the girl who ran away from a
circus and came to Brooksmere, is no lost
tramp, or wandering waif and stray, as you
imagined, Captain Mallandaine ; she is my
daughter ! '

He started to his feet with a cry.

Nellie is your daughter ?' he asked, conscious
from Mrs Rudersheim's manner there
was much more to hear.

I have come to make my confession,' she
said, turning a shade paler. ' Captain Mal-landing,
you are on the point of marrying an
impostor.' Her expression changed as she
met his startled gaze. ' Do not think because
Nellie is my daughter, and you have

treated her cruelly and contemptuously, that
I have come here to make a false accusation
against your affianced bride out of
mean or petty spite. What I shall state
to you is the sacred truth, as I can swear
most solemnly before heaven.'

An impostor ! ' he echoed. He remembered
how strange and mysterious Vivian's
manner had seemed to him of late. ' How
is it all this has not been discovered before
? '

It is entirely through my selfish abandonment
years ago of my dear child, Captain
Mallandaine,' Emily said slowly. ' I am Mr
Branscombe's first wife.'

He believed her then ; he recalled the
portrait in the library. Beautiful she was
still, though no longer young, and the living
image of his lost darling.

You can see that Nellie resembles me, can
you not ? ' she said, divining his thoughts.

Here were the same delicate cut of feature
and faultless curves, the same marvellously
clear complexion and wreaths of rippling hair ;
the large violet eyes, shaded with dark curling
lashes, were exactly like Nellie's.

It was not I, madam, who cancelled our
engagement  heaven knows I always loved
your daughter, and meant to marry her  it
was at her wish that we parted.'

Because, hearing of her love for you, I,
not knowing at that time she was my child,
bade her never bring disgrace and sorrow on
the man she loved through marrying him,
when he ought to seek an equal in birth and
position. She was too noble to hold you to
your promise then, and, believing from your
manner and subsequent meeting with the
impostor of Prince's Gate, that you were indifferent
and careless, she resigned herself to
her fate.'

 Oh, Nellie, Nellie!' he cried, lifting his
hands to his brow, 'you are dearer to me
than ever. How I misjudged your motives
that days we parted ! How little did I guess
the courage and nobility that nerved your
brave heart then ! You were thinking all
the time of me and of my welfare. Oh, my
saint, my angel ! I do indeed love her still.'

He has not yet heard that she is the
heiress,' thought Mrs Branscombe, and believed
in the truth of this outburst.

Nellie has been dangerously ill lately,'
she said after a pause, during which Leonard
struggled to regain his self-control  the
generosity and depth of the brave girl who had
sacrificed herself without a word of explanation
or reproach brought hot tears to his eyes.

Had he so wounded her he loved ? He was
longing to be at her side and press her to his

heart, and bid her read worshipping love in
his every glance. He had forgotten that his
wedding-day was fixed.

111 ? ' he repeated. ' Will you let me see
her again ? Nellie must not die  she is too
dear and precious.'

He knew she could suffer and be silent
always.

You have not heard the whole of the
mystery and lie we are tracing and have
defeated,' Mrs Rudersheim continued, liking
Leonard all the better for his absorption and
bewilderment.

It was clear that he only thought of
Nellie.

He bowed his head, lost in amazement.
Was it a dream, or had this woman really
proclaimed a reality that would restore Nellie
to his arms ?

You remember. Captain Mallandaine,
hearing that Mr Branscombe desired to
adopt my child as his lawful heiress ? '

'Certainly. He told me so himself. His
hopes were centred on the girl.'

Nurse Sidewing sold my child to a
farmer's wife, who disposed of her to the
Dalton, and placed her illegitimate daughter
in the place of the heiress.'

'Vivian ! ' he echoed, with suspended breath.

Would you marry the illegitimate child of

a nurse ? ' she asked, seeing his look of horror
and disgust.

Tell me, madam, one thing  does she
know this ? Is Vivian a party to the crime ? '

She is, and therefore is anxious to hurry
on her marriage with you.'

He was powerless to speak. He could
hardly realise the overwhelming crisis of the
situation. He grasped her extended hand in
silence.

THE RENT IN THE VEIL.

S soon as Mrs Rudershelm had
indirectly implicated Bob in her
assertions that Vivian was an impostor,
the artful nurse made up
her mind to visit him at his pretty grass-farm
in Devonshire, and hear from his own
lips how far he had compromised matters, for
she was perpetually haunted with a vague
sense of impending clanger.

The terror lurking before her of imprisonment
intensified daily the force of the situation,
and made her resolve to make the
most of the time before her to escape from
England.

She dwelt on the accumulation of charges
and counterparts, the cross-examinations
and oaths that a trial would involve, till her
brain reeled under the whisht of the fear
dragging at every nerve.

She knew how fatal would be the evidence
of the witnesses that Mrs Rudersheim's
lawyers could produce, and the overwhelming
testimony to her guilt that justice now
demanded.

She had heard of the astute Riley's visits
to the farm ; she believed he had also tampered
with some of the servants at Prince's
Gate, for De Lancy had laughed in her face
a day or two before, and she dared not call
him to account for his impertinence. The
cool statements of facts, the pitiless and
searching examination that no bribes or
hush-money could repress  the unvarnished
clearness of truth from the lips of those with
right and honour to support them, all must
convict her of guilt, and condemn her to
life-long imprisonment.

And so, resolving to visit Bob to-day, and
learn how much he had compromised them,
she also determined to leave England before
the end of the week, ere the warrant for her
apprehension was issued, and the clasp of the
legal bracelets on her wrists and the tap of
the policeman's hand on her shoulder proclaimed
her a prisoner.

They're so prompt now-a-days,' she muttered,
remembering the punishment she had
incurred by her crime was penal servitude
for life.

Vivian was rather surprised to find her
mother preparing for a journey to Devonshire
on a day when her cough was unusually
troublesome, and snow lay inches deep on the
roads and houses, and the trees in the park
waved bare branches, standing out like
gaunt spectres against the dull and gloomy
sky.

Her watchful eyes scanned her mother's
face, which bore a strange, hunted look ; its
animalism had something almost pathetic as
nervous expectancy lit it up with new force
and meaning.

Vivian had entered the room unperceived
by Mrs Sidewing, and the girl started at seeing
her holding up a small bottle towards the
light with * Poison ' on its label.

She noticed also a clean wine-glass had
been placed on the little table, and that her
mother looked at it with that blankness in
her gaze which may either mean decision or
uncertainty. It frightened Vivian, and at the
same time enraged her. That weird expression
of the haggard face was compatible with
the idea of suicide, and she wanted coolness,
judgment, and worldliness at such a crisis
as this.

There was something so piteous in the
stoniness of this despair, and in the formless
wretchedness that had made the goaded creature

contemplate self-destruction, that Vivian
stood by powerless to utter a word.

Then she came towards her slowly, and
touched her wrist.

You will escape, if  if anything ugly
happens. They haven't prosecuted us yet.
There's money put by for you ; you'll be safe
enough over the water. It will be far wiser
and more prudent to go in time. Let that
bottle be reserved as a forlorn hope for the
very worst!

I'm going down to Devonshire to-day,
dearie, to see your father,' said Mrs Side-wing,
her eyes hardy and resolute once more.

To-day ? Don't 3'ou mean to leave England
in case you should be arrested ? '

Arrested ! It was a terrible word. Mrs
Sidewing glanced half reproachfully at Vivian.

No, dearie, no. I want first to see your
father, and then I'll run dark. I think of
your prospects afore my own safety. I want
to find out all he said to the detectives, and 'ow
far he's done us mischief. Saturday 'full be
time enough for me to leave Prince's Gate
for good.'

Mind you swear that I am innocent of all
knowledge of the deed. Don't lose your
head, and incriminate me, and ruin my
future. My wedding-day is fixed for Monday
week.'

Oh, I know wot I'm to stick to said Mrs
Sidewing significantly.

It isn't very likely anything will now take
place just at the eleventh hour to prevent the
wedding Vivian continued, determined to be
proof against any false sentiment or dangerous
agitation. ' The enemy will of course attack
us soon, but then if it can be proved that I
knew nothing, or at least disbelieved these
Rudersheims, I shall be pitied as a victim 
it is all I can ever hope for  but not a participator
in an infamous plot'

I tell you, child, it's only your father we've
got to fear. I'll baffle the best Queen's
Counsel going, and make all smooth and
square for you. Of course you're the victim
of a wicked, designing old woman  that's me
but, nevertheless, you'll be Mrs Leonard
Mallandaine, a person of importance in society,
with a husband as 'full ore a title soon.'

'Yes, I know,' said Vivian dreamily, 'and
yet some dark shadow still rests between me
and Leonard. His thoughts are often faraway
from me, and a real lover hangs on
every sigh and word.'

An invisible phantom waved her back from
bliss. She could see the grand old mansion,
Stupefied Hall, made ready to receive herself
and Leonard ; she pictured the homeward
drive with him on the chill January

day under avenues of leafless trees ; ice and
frost would rest on the pools and shrubs
and plants, for it was winter 

Clothed all in frieze,
Chattering his teeth for cold that did him chill,
Whilst on his hoary beard his breath did freeze.

She had heard that the tenants of Brooks-mere
were preparing a splendid reception
bonfires would be lighted on distant hills,
a. triumphal procession had been formed ;
tasteful holly and evergreen wreaths, and
others with pure white roses forming the
words, ' Welcome to the Bride,' were being
manufactured by deft young hands in the
village.

Vivian's wisdom was great in her generation,
for she limited herself strictly to three
bridesmaids ; she did not wish the marriage
to be bruited abroad in society, or to make a
great sensation, and she was far from grateful
to the worthy tenants who were unconsciously
injuring her, besides running the
risk of getting chronic bronchitis and influenza
colds at their bonfires and oratorios
and ovations. She forgot it was their love
and respect for the Mallandaines that stirred
the general fever and upheaving. Vivian, on
the edge of a precipice, did not care for the
blaze of glory and the noise of demonstration.

Still, had she not a right to be thus welcomed,
with her wealth and loveliness ? 
gifts that she brought in both hands.

The hateful awakening must, of course,
come by-and-by, but then could she not pose
for a victim, and good-natured, sentimental
kind of people whom nobody had injured
always took a generous and even sympathetic
view of painful situations.

Her voice trembled a little, and the tears
rose to her eyes. Vivian was not usually
given to the melting mood, except when
moved by self-pity. Selfishness was the
one prominent defect in her character, which
nothing could ever eradicate.

Did the wedding dress come this morning,
dearie . ' Mrs Sidewing asked. ' I 'ear
carriage wheels, so I must soon be off; but
I should like to 'ave a look at the dress and
veil before I go.'

Vivian felt herself no commonplace beauty
and heiress, as she returned to her bedroom,
followed by her mother. A magnificent
satin, with a long sweeping train of several
feet in length had been removed from a loner
box, and was now lying on the bed  a dress
that Venus herself would not have disdained.
A rich Brussels lace veil by its side  the
exact facsimile of one sold to the Princess of
Coromandel the day previously  sent even

Vivian, whose principles were nil ad7nirari,
into discreet raptures. In fact, it intoxicated
her senses almost as much as the clasp of
the bridegroom's hand or the thought of her
triumph could have done.

Lady Annersley admired it so yesterday,'
she said, drawing her white fingers over the
rich folds of the lustrous satin.

Mrs Sidewinof aoain dissolved in tears at
the contemplation of her daughter's wedding
attire.

Oh, my dear, don't it make you a bit
frightened, somehow, as you look at 'em ?
It seems as if we won too easy ; but there,
I've got a nasty low fit on me to-day ; I'm
weak as a child,' said the nurse, sinking into
a chair.

Then the sooner you're off to Devonshire
the better,' said Vivian, angrily.

Her deliberate coolness was remarkable in
one of her temperament. She had calculated
every move and turn and point of the game
she was cleverly playing ; self-preservation
gave \ir finesse and skill, and she feared the
rough emotions and awkward impetuosity of
the ignorant in a matter requiring delicate
subtlety and diplomacy, even as a court
intriguer may fear the mismanagement of a
mission on some complicated treatment of
treachery.

Vivian bent over her mother, and roused
her from her stupor.

To think that it is I who have to tell you
to be cool and brave,' said the girl, with a
little bitter laugh. ' How the tables are
turned ! Come, I shall send you out of the
room if you begin to cry. A pretty figure
you'd cut in a court of justice. I only wish
you'd not go to Devonshire, but leave England
to-day. I should feel easier in my
mind,' said Vivian, drawing a deep breath ;
for, mother, I begin to fear your breaking-up
may spoil the whole concern, and it would
be hard if my blundering parents brought
me down to some dark alley for the rest of
my days.'

No, dearie, the tears do me good. I'm
so stupidly fond of you  allays was. Ah, I
never thought you'd turn on your poor old
mother.'

This is quite too ridiculous,' said Vivian
harshly, walking away in disgust ; ' mere false
excitement. I wouldn't trust" you here on
my wedding-day for the world. No, I shall
breathe freer when you're out of England,
and feel that danger for you and me is removed,
at least for the present'

Good-bye, child,' said the nurse, checking
her tears. * I don't often cry or make a fool
of myself, do I } But when I saw your

VOL. III. K

wedding dress and veil, and you so fond of
the captain, and thought of the days and
nights I've pressed you to my part and swore
to make a lady of you, even if I swung for it,
why, it do make one  '

Good heavens ! are you going to drive
me mad with all that maudlin rubbish ?
Daughter, indeed ! If you only knew how I
hate you when you say that word.'

Vivian shivered all over, and struck her
hand violently on the white-and-gold table,
till her pretty stoppered bottles and ivory
brushes trembled.

A dread, like the bitterness of approaching
death, was stealing over her. The ashes of
Dead Sea fruit long lost and forgotten were
beneath her slippered feet, and she turned
away with a groan. It was not alone tender
worshipping love she offered the man of her
choice. It was the accomplishment of her
ambition and vanity. She was making the
most of the chances still left her before the
ruthless touch of Nemesis turned her gold to
naught, and stamped the brand of illegitimacy
on her narrow brows.

Beautiful in her rage, because passion gave
energy and force to her expression, Vivian
looked a o-irl to be feared. What malice in

o

the curves of her lips ; what devilry in the
fiery phidias eyes! It is remarkable how

many women resemble snakes In the shape
of their heads and the gleam of their eyes
when evil awakes in their breasts. The
heads of men are either too wide, or round,
or square to bear any resemblance to the
reptile.

She heard Tinson's voice ushering in
guests, and she was again Miss Vivian
Branscombe, of Prince's Gate, the bride-elect,
the great heiress and fashionable
beauty. The guests, of course, had called
to see the costly wedding presents, the bridal
dress and veil. They were naturally anxious
to criticise all the paraphernalia demanded by
society and fashion on such occasions, Including
the twenty new costumes and toilettes,
to say nothing of the endless array of hats,
bonnets, and mantles.

A few minutes after, Vivian had the satisfaction
of seeing her lachrymose parent drive
off in the brougham, and, after applying a
little veloutlne to her complexion and fastening
a dead-gold locket round her neck, she entered
the drawing-room in her rich brown velvet.

What about the Henry the Fourth toilette,
Vivian ? ' cried Lady Annersley, who had
costume on the brain. ' That princess robe
of faille Is far prettier. You know last night
you doubted how it would suit you as a
visiting dress.'

I really don't care much, dear aunt,' she
answered, yawning, ' they're an awfully slow
lot down in Devonshire,' ended Vivian, with
irreverent unconcern of the dignity of the
county families.

But I care, my dearest child ; a visiting
dress is a most important matter for a young
bride. Don't have grey, though it's ladylike,
but grey won't suit your complexion.'

l3o I look bilious, then ? ' asked Vivian,
wondering if prepared chalk were safer than
veloutine.

Bilious ! Oh dear, no, but do consider
the dresses. I spoke to Artot this morning ;
she's quite as celebrated as Celestine ; in
fact, the Duchess of Maraschino, who is
immensely chic, thinks her superior, and she
decidedly advised a toilette of rosewood-coloured
satin, with brocaded flounces,
an exquisite combination. Delicious, isn't
it?'

I don't know, aunt. I was never fond
of coloured satin,' said Vivian, looking in the
glass.

I had a long chat with Artot, for it's
always well to get these people's opinions for
nothing, and I asked her as a favour to me
to give me another pattern of lace for your
basque of Indian muslin  the long jabot is
most stylish. Her bills are simply awful, my

dear oriel, but her patterns of lace are unrivalled,
aren't they, Georgina ? '

Georgina was Lady Annersley's only
daughter, who always started when suddenly
addressed or appealed to. It was as
difficult to cure her of starts as of pimples.

Oh, yes, mamma, quite unrivalled, and
her dresses are so wonderfully original and
artistic. The new waistband was her invention,
and they say that one of the greatest
living artistes of the day, who never plays
in any costume unless it costs three or four
hundred pounds, designs Artot's fashions
Lord Portmore assured me this was a fact.
There was one costume got up in the exact
style of the Elizabethan era.'

Indeed ! Upholstery, realism, and costume
often make a piece successful,' said
Vivian, with her artificial smile, ' and in this
age of " Pink Dominoes," " Betsy," and
Patience," there is something gloomy in
trying to enjoy a classical tragedy.'

Quite so. What I like to see in a theatre
is the dresses  the heroine's woes and the
hero's sentiments never interest me.'

I hate tragedy,' said Vivian, with a little
shiver.

She knew, poor girl, she had enough of
it in her daily life.

Then you've made up your mind to have

a. quiet wedding, child, and only three bridesmaids
? It's so nice and sweet of you,
really, considering your position, not to want
vulgar display.'

I've had such a charming letter from dear
Mrs Mallandaine this morning,' Vivian said,
anxious to change the subject of the bridesmaids.
' She longs to welcome me as a
daughter, and they are making wonderful
preparations for our reception.'

Lucky girl,' murmured Georgina, gently
pinching Vivian's cheek.

And she ought to be happy,' said Lady
Annersley, impulsively. 'Money and beauty
and accomplishments. What more could any
man want with a wife? And Bernard always
hoped and expected his daughter would marry
Captain Mallandaine. I should think he's
got a temper, Vi.'

All the better,' said Vivian, laughing. * I
want a master  I've had my own way too long.'

She felt a curious wave of bewilderment
and dismay sweep over her, spite of her
defiant pride and lawless will. Her low
brows contracted, and her voice again lost
its steadiness.

When they should learn the truth  great
heavens !  how would she be then received ?
She remembered the torments of her dreams
of late, the dreadful memories oppressing her.

And now, Vivian, let us see the bridal
dress and veil again,' said Lady Annersley,
lifting her glass to her eye. ' We have
invited ourselves to luncheon, and sent away
the carriage.'

Georcrina followed her mother and Vivian
in her slow, drowsy way. Lady Annersley
scrutinised the dress in solemn silence, while
Georgina held up the bridal veil.

She dropped it suddenly with a cry.

Oh, Vivian,' she said, pointing to a large
tear in the lace, ' your veil is spoilt. Look
at the rent in it, dear, and they say it's so
unlucky.'

Vivian's eyes rested nervously on the
costly Brussels lace, some words she meant
to utter died off her lips, and then she coldly
turned the veil over with well-assumed languid
curiosity.

Some nail has done the mischief, I suppose,'
she said, as a dark flush stole to her
cheek. ' I don't believe in ill-omens, aunt,
do you ? The only thing to be done with
the veil is to send it back and order another.'

Quite so, child ; but don't let this trifle
upset you. Why, I declare, you've grown
as pale as a ghost ! '

The rent in the veil !

Vivian commanded herself admirably, although
her superstitious dread of evil to come

deepened. But, after all, she was merry at
luncheon, and drowned her fears for the time
in champagne.

When Vivian returned alone to the ,
having got rid of Lady Annersley
and her daughter sooner than she had expected,
a splendid heap of violets, in a setting
of dark green leaves, had been placed for her
acceptance in a vase by some unknown hand.
No one knew whence they came, or who had
brought them to her room, the romantic
visitor having glided in and vanished unseen
by all.

She took up some of the little fragrant
blue flowers, made them into a small cluster,
which she fastened at her breast.

Their delicate fragrance moved her with a
kind of indefinable pain. Vivian bowed her
face in her hands, and wept with a passion
that, while shaking her slight frame like a
tempest, eased the aching, ceaseless dread
of her daily life.

Will Leonard believe I am innocent ? '
she sobbed ; ' or hate and despise me as a
hypocrite ? '

AT THE FAR M-H O U S E.

Parted for aye are we 
Yes, parted like mountain streams.'

f. RAVELLING by rail takes off the
keen edie of intense mental excitement
or fears of approaching
danger far more than the old-fashioned
travelling by stage-coach could
ever have done.

There must have been so much delay on
the journeys In those ' good old times,' of
sound cursing and two-bottled gentleman, irrepressible
duellists, and affable highwaymen.
Notes avon change tobit cela. The murderer
flies by the fastest express train towards
Dover, or Liverpool, or Southampton.
The thief maintains his dignity as he hides
his face behind his Ties or Whitehall Review,
certain of no unpleasant survey by rude
postboys or chattering coachmen. The absconding

bankrupt can enjoy his soothing
weed in a first-class smoking carriage and
pose for a grand seigneur in some costly fur-lined
coat. The only crime is to be poor
now-a-days.

So Mrs Sidewing, wrapped In a comfortable
warm shawl, and her feet reposing on a
hot-water bottle, thoroughly appreciated the
ease and luxury of modern travelling. Her
spirits rose. She sipped the brandy from her
pretty silver flask, and offered cakes and pears
to some children who were her companions.

Having to make a rapid escape from England,
she took an interest for the first time
in its scenery, but no green hedgerows or
meadows bathed in golden light met her gaze
on this chill, winter day in bleak December.
No crimson glow flooded the sky. A mist
rested on the purple hills and woods. A kind
of weird decay seemed to cling to the wild
ferns and heather, the copse and tangled
brushwood of the country.

Mrs Sidewlnor fell into a reverie as the
fleet express dashed onwards. She remembered
the time when she thought it a fine
treat to be taken for a drive in a ' post-shay'
by her father on the rare occasions when she
had a new tippet or book given her as a
reward for the number of ' Methodyy ' hymns
she could repeat by heart.

DO

That far-off childhood and its memories
returned with almost fantastic force. How
little she had ever imagined that her brain
could concoct and carry out any daring plot
in the future !

Could it have been the work of some
fierce but temporary madness that had suggested
the crime of putting her child in
another's place ? No, it was her hatred
of the rich, of those who rule in high places
and punish the poor. It was the wrath
born of wrongs and injury received at the
hands of the man she was now seeking  her
husband  Robert Sidewino-.

How she had loved him once ! She was
old now, and they had been parted for years ;
but, hardened and world-wearied as she had
become, some echoes of the bye-past sweetness
of youth when she had been innocent of
all crime, save of ' loving much,' returned,
and smote her aching heart with deeper woe.

Brooksmere station was reached at last,
and huge hampers and boxes full of Christmas
presents and fare were brought forth
from the dark recesses of the luQo-aore vans.

She would have to spend her Christmas
Day in Spain, or Italy, or Switzerland, quite
alone with foreigners.

Alone  quite alone, for evermore, as she
must surely lie one day in the grave, and she

was old. Age is the greatest sorrow in the
world.

She wended her way slowly over the misty
fields, coughing and sneezing violently at
intervals. She knew exactly where the little
farm-house was situated, and already a faint
line of smoke met her view.

It was a rambling old cottage, its walls
covered with ivy which was the growth of
years. She wished at that moment Bob
could have been safely caught and caged in
an asylum, so that her Christmas Day might
have been spent agreeably in England with a
considerable portion of it allotted to the enjoyment
of turkey, roast beef, and plum pudding.

Robert, smoking by his roaring kitchen fire,
little expected a visit from his wife to-day.
He had engaged a pretty young housekeeper
called Marjory to cook for him and take care
of him, for why should not his daughter,
Vivian, who despised and hated him, pay
handsomely for her papa's comfort and his
material, if not moral, welfare ?

Pretty Marjory, with her beautiful smile
and clustering masses of auburn hair, had
made her master a small glass of hot punch,
when Mrs Sidewing's umbrella lifted up the
seldom-used knocker of the hall-door, on
which icicles glistened, and brought it down
with one loud knock.

Diggers was shaking the snow off his
boots at the back-door as the girl glided away
to answer the summons.

Bob peeped through the window, and called
out to Diggers, as he sunk into his chair, 

Good heavens, Diggers, here's my wife ! '

Diggers, who was not a marrying man, buta
universal lover, laid his pipe carefully down
on the dresser, and gazed pitifully at the
married victim  the victim who had enriched
himself on his wife's money, and deserted
and forsaken her for years !

Poor thing ! ' said Diggers, ' what a day
for an elderly person to travel all the way from
London to pay you a visit. You're quite sure
you are sober ? '

Diggers ! ' muttered Bob, in the reproachful
tone of a Caesar crying, ' Et tu, Brute ! '

Shall I make off. Bob ? ' asked Diggers,
diving after his leather gaiters, and standing
first on one leg and then on the other.

Yes,' said Bob, with characteristic frankness.


'All right, friend,' said Diggers, disappearing
into the cellar with his gaiters and
boot.

Meanwhile Mrs Sidewing followed Marjory
into the farm-house kitchen.

Bob had pretended to doze, and had thrown
his pocket-handkerchief over his face.

Come, none o' that nonsense with me,
Master Robert,' said his wife, drawing it
quickly off. ' I saw yer looking out o' the
winder just now. I'm yer lawfully married
wife  you can't get away from that, and I've
a right to come and live 'ere for good, and
turn that impudent minx out if I please.'

Oh, Martha Jane,' cried Bob, starting to
his feet, 'have I deserved this ? Why do you
pursue me here ? Why couldn't you have
written and told us we might expect you ? '

Because my time is short,' she whispered
as Marjory retired. ' I may be arrested,
any moment, and taken to prison.'

The deuce ! Is it as bad as that . ' asked
Bob, turning pale.

You've done all the mischief,' she went on,
her eyes dilating. ' You've been as a child
in their 'ands, for they've set on detectives,
and the case is nearly ready for trial. They
treated you to drink, and made you act, and
drew the truth bit by bit out of you. I want to
know 'ow much you really 'ave said to ruin us.'

Be careful, Martha Jane,' said Bob furiously.
' Don't come the noisy, threatening
dodge over me. I could get nearly as much
out of the girl they call Nellie Raymond as
my daughter. Daughter ! The scornful
lassie ! She despised me, her own father ;
she sneered at me and snapped her fingers

in my face. Take care I don't drag her
down and trample on her haughty pride and
insolence even yet'

Mrs Sidewing was silent, thinking how
very soon Vivian would be removed from
all the danger of his malevolence through
her marriage with Captain Mallandaine.

Vivian behaved well to you, Bob she
said reproachfully. ' She takes care you 'ave
a nice little 'one 'ere in yer old age. And
you've been a bad 'husband to me.'

Did you come here to talk over the past ? '
he said restlessly.

No, Bob, I've nothing to say about the
past. You've made me wot I am  a lost,
miserable wretch. I 'ad a 'part once, which
you broke. I loved you  as I loved Vivian
with the love that is madness. To escape
a prison I must leave England. Somehow
I 'ad a sick longing just to see you again.
I can't tell why I feel like this  so weak.
Did you ever see me cry like a child afore ?
It's fear as gets the better of me. I wake in
the dead of night, fancying they've come forme
to take me to prison. 'Tisn't likely, Bob,
you and I will ever meet again in this world,
is it ? I didn't come 'ere to say 'ard things
to you, though you 'ave done all the mischief,
but only to entreat you not to leave Devonshire
till after Christmas.'

Very well,' he said carelessly. ' So you're
going away, Martha Jane  and what about
me ? Shan't I come in for imprisonment
too ? Lord ! if I thought they'd make me
dance on the treadmill I'd give my evidence
at once.'

A week  only one little week,' she said.
I will swear you were innocent of all connivance
with me in the plot if you will but leave
my darling in peace for a few days longer.'

She understood his silence to mean consent,
and for a few minutes neither spoke.
Presently Bob said, going to the dresser, 

Aren't you hungry ? Couldn't you relish
a nice little bit of cold chicken and ham ? '

The farm-house kitchen, with its low ceiling
and quaint rafters, on which rats scrambled
of a night, had a cheery, comfortable lookin
the firelight. A perfume of dried lavender
and herbs floated on the air; the wind whistled
down the wide chimney and shook the beams;
a tortoiseshell-marked cat came up and purred
against Mrs Sidewing's knees. The home-light
that had never shone, and never could
shine now for her in this world, flitted over
her eager, strongly-marked face as she sat
for the last time, and a stranger, by her
husband's fireside, as much isolated from his
life as any stray animal outside in the snow
and cutting frost.

He could not fathom the depths of the
strong, stricken, ignorant soul of the woman
sitting opposite him. There is never any
pity, tenderness, or forgiveness in the heart
of a man who has been linked for years to
a woman towards whom he has conceived
an aversion  no momentary desire to comfort
her or atone ever awakes.

The masculine nature is invariably consoled
with remarkable readiness by the ministering
affection of some more congenial spirit 
generally very near at hand and anxious to
heal wounds and sorrows.

Mrs Sidewinor shook her head in answer
to her husband's offers of hospitality. She
remembered that nothing had ever affected
his appetite. Her eyes rested on the various
articles that adorned the homely kitchen 
the antique clock that Diggers had sent,
cased in dark mahogany, and with a picture
of Joseph and his brethren on the panel
covering the works ; the blue tea-things
hanging from hooks on the dresser ; the
cleanly-washed willow-pattern plates neatly
ranged around. A few dried ei'asses shivered
beneath a flitch of bacon and a large tea-tray.
It should have been her home, for he
was her husband.

Good-bye,' she said huskily, and held out
her hand.

VOL. III. L

The snow was falling in soft, feathery
flakes as the gloom of evening descended,
and she had a journey back to London
before her.

Going already ? ' said Bob relieved ; but
he shrank from her gaze  her mute melancholy
touched him at last, just as the Insanity
of her love had done years ago.

He knew he had always been glad to
quarrel with and thrust her from him, because
he hated her for her ugliness and want
of grace. This Is ever the way with men.

But he was too Indifferent and good-natured
to be uncivil now that she rose to leave.
He would never have hung even a rat up
by Its tall to die of all the slow agonies of
starvation for eating his finest stilton. He
was never cruel when there was nothing to
be gained and his selfish Interests were not
threatened. Hanging a rat will not restore
the stolen cheese.

Good-bye, Martha Jane,' he said with his
hollow theatrical courtesy. ' You can write
to me If you like  from Spain.'

Her eyes had lost their blankness, and had
the lustre of ice in the sunshine.

Ah ! if I ever get there,' she said, and
soon after turned into the night.

The back-door, which Diggers had left
ajar, was opened noiselessly, and the astute

Riley caught the last words, which were
sufficient to make him listen to the sequence.

Bob often fancied for days after he saw
that haggard face, with its pallid scowl, leaning
over him in the winter twilight.

Riley closed the door, and passing through
the farmyard, looked in once at the strange
pair, and then went on his way. He must
telegraph to his colleagues at Scotland Yard.

Did she dream the nets were woven, that
the steps of criminals were dogged, and their
every action known ? She thought, in her
ignorant blindness, that she could escape,
when the warrant was being signed for her
arrest.

called TO ACCOUNT.'

Leonard was haunted by the
vision of NelHe, ill and suffering,
and he longed to be at her side
to comfort her with whispers of
his love. But how could he seek Nellie
when, in a sudden pique of anger and despair,
he had engaged himself to Vivian, and now
had resolved to break off that engagement ?
Marry Vivian, an impostor and cheat, the
daughter of a nurse, a girl who had deceived
him, when Nellie was an angel, whom he
had misjudged and misunderstood, but ever
loved ? Impossible !

Captain Mallandaine remained for an hour
in deep thought after Mrs Rudersheim left
him, dreaming of Nellie and her sweet flowerlike
loveliness.

He drew the little piece of faded blue
velvet from his pocket-book and pressed it

to his lips ; he took out a letter she had
written him ; and told himself he had been
cruel in his reproaches and blind in his
judgment.

The earl had resigned him of her own freewill,
because she feared to injure him socially
by becoming his wife. Was ever anything
in the annals of feminine history more sublime
? And she had since faded day by day,
never once murmuring or complaining, but
working on in humble patience, cheered
by hope.

Nellie, who would be proved a wealthy
heiress  the neglected daughter of his honoured
and beloved friend, Bernard Branscombe
 had loved him, and instead of waiting
true to love's dictates, which command,
above all truth, loyalty, and faith to the
absent, he had resigned himself to Vivian,
who had caught him in a moment of weakness,
and thought to seal both their fates.

He went downstairs to the dining-room,
and glanced at the magnificent gold clock his
aunt had recently purchased as a wedding present
for Vivian. How close at hand was this
wedding-day, and how painful would be the

denouement awaiting his bride-elect on the
morrow !

He glanced at his watch ; it was exactly a
quarter to seven. Vivian, he knew, was going

to the Olympic Theatre this evening with
some friends, and expected he would join
them in their box.

The scene he dreaded  for he hated scenes,
and, above all, women's tears and suffering
  must, therefore, stand over till tomorrow.

A weight was lifted from his heart ; it had
always been an effort to Leonard to woo
Vivian, and his courtship had been at its best
but of the clumsy, everyday kind; but now he
could dream again of Nellie  pale and wasted,
it was true, but waiting for a smile and the
clasp of his hand to restore her to health.

Nellie, ten times dearer for her noble sacrifice,
and mute, uncomplaining grief  his equal
in birth and position  wronged, slighted, and
betrayed, but queen of his heart for ever.

The firelight shone on his dark, thoughtful
face, lit up with a vague under-current of joy.
This girl, unlike all other girls  for she 
idol  might yet be his.

It must, indeed, have been a heart-cutting
sorrow that had brought her fair young life
to the brink of the grave. How foolish, how
blind he had been !

He smiled, contrasting his conventional
conversations with Vivian with the brief but
exquisite little dialogues he and Nellie had
once interchanged. It never occurred to Leonard
to pity Vivian for the blow awaiting her.

He believed her guilty of treachery and
deceit, and was sure she was a party to the
shameless plot. He understood now the meaning
of things that had till now been enigmas
to him ; he interpreted aright her hastily
finished phrases and curious tricks of manner.
She had been playing a cautious game and
calculating every move.

Vivian enjoyed herself fairly well at the
theatre this evening, although she wondered
from time to time why Leonard had not
appeared. No miserable misgivings occurred
to her that evil would overtake her on the
morrow.

Forebodings of ill were not in her line
when handsome Guardsmen lounged into the
Duchess of Maraschino's box and amused her
with choice and highly flavoured stories of
court scandal and intrigue, as she admired
the new lace on her basque of Indian muslin,
and talked about her three bridesmaids.

She made great fun of the strong points of
the piece, for Vivian had caught the cynical
tendency of the age, and rather startled the
young Guardsmen by her satiric derision of
romantic passion, just on the brink of her
own wedding-day, too ; in fact, they rather
pitied Captain Mallandaine, and one said to
his friend, 

Bai Jove, a girl may have too little heart

don't you know. I hate gush, and all that,
but to cut up that poor fellow's best sentence
is rather a shame. I don't believe myself
she cares a for for Mallandalne.'

o

The duchess made no comment on Vivian's
expressions. She always kept up her character
for intellectuality in public, and listened.
A poetess inspired by brandy is often unsociable,
especially when her Phaon is flirting
elsewhere.

Mrs Sidewing was sitting over the library
fire when Vivian returned from the theatre.
She had fallen into a half sleep, for the return
journey from Devonshire had proved more
fatiguing than she could have believed.

All in the dark, mother,' said Vivian
lightly, sweeping her long Indian muslin train
across the floor.

A string of pearls was round her neck ; her
bracelets, all studded with brilliant gems,
flashed in the embers of the dying fire.

Was he there, dearie } ' asked the nurse,
grasping that jewelled arm.

'No,' said Vivian slowly; 'and it rather
surprised me ; but he's often lazy of a night,
and perhaps didn't care to turn out after dinner.
And now, what news from Devonshire V

None, Vi ; he couldn't remember a word
he had said ; but I don't believe he'll annoy
us by coming to Prince's Gate.'

Vivian beoan takinor'down her honor hair
almost mechanically ; it fell over her shoulders
with a diamond aigrette clinging to one dishevelled
tress.

Let's go to bed,' she said, yawning. * I'm
tired out, and so must you be.'

I wish your lover had come to the
theatre,' said Mrs Sidewing

Vivian laughed. She felt secure and defiant.
Leonard's absence could be easily
accounted for, of course. Lady Chances
had coaxed him to remain at home.

She slept sound', and awoke as usual
about eight o'clock by her maid bringing hera
cup of tea and her letters. She ordered
her horse at ten, determined to have a nice
long ride all round Richmond Park before
luncheon.

De Lancy had learnt to make himself useful
to his beautiful mistress in small things,
and fluncr her into the saddle with more grace
and dexterity than an ordinary groom could
have done. Vivian had also fallen into the
habit of chatting at intervals with him when
they were far away from London, and found
there was nothing amiss in letting him ride
by her side with a slackened rein in Richmond
Park. De Lancy, who had often represented
a lord on the stage, owing to his
thoroughbred, faded, languid air, gave a

romantic account of his career, and interested
Vivian in spite of her cool disdain of inferiors.
De Lancy had made an audience sob by his
moving appeals both as a distracted lover and
a heart-broken father, and could put feeling
into his voice not wholly manufactured. In
fact, he loved her madly. He cared nothing
for her money or position. It was indeed
the folly that makes a man act like an idiot
to the ruin of his prospects, and had brought
an intelligent actor to the level of a groom.

It was a splendid morning, cold, but clear,
and all the fog had disappeared. Vivian
looked magnificent on horseback  the tight-fitting
dark blue riding-habit showed off her
slight frame to the best advantage.

De Lancy sat his horse as it encased in a
coat of mail, but after they were some distance
from Prince's Gate, he rode up to her
side, pretending something was wrong with
the mare's martingale, and he kept there for
the rest of the expedition. Vivian was a
born coquette. She knew she had turned
the unfortunate young man s head, and fully
expected he would be found some morning
drowned either in the Serpentine or cistern.
Homage from even a groom flattered her, and
this man declared he was the son of a large
landed proprietor.

Just as Vivian returned, all the brighter inspirits

and warmed throughout by a brisk
gallop, reining up her horse with the dashing
skill she loved to display, a cab stopped at
the corner, and, to her horror, she saw her
father descend.

De Lancy was leading away the horses,
and also saw Robert Sidewing ; a climax, he
knew, was now at hand.

Bob's stubbornness of disposition had here
again displayed itself. He resolved to follow
his wife to London by the next train. There
would be comfort in knowing which turn
things were taking.

He ran the hall door bell a few minutes
after Vivian entered the mansion. Mrs
Sidewing had gone out for a walk, and Bob,
ushered in civilly by Tinson, found himself
sitting on an easy and luxurious faiUeuil in
the divine-room.

Bob could not be said to be entirely sober
to-day. He invariably drank of a morning,
and what with the cold weather, and the long
journey, and no breakfast, he had found himself
obliged to refresh his jaded spirits by
whisky. Hence he apostrophised a bust of
Pygmalion and Galatea as though the subject
exercised a strange fascination over his
muddled brain. He skipped round it, and
clasped his hands, and attitudinised before it
as if he thoroughly sympathised with the

blind sculptor and the ideal who had been
his ruin.

Captain Mallandaine, who, unknown to
Vivian, had arrived a few minutes prior to
Bob's entrance, had been shown into the
library, and hearing the curious tones of
Bob's crescendo, left that room and entered
the dining-room to see an elderly, grey-haired
man, with a military air, uttering odd phrases
and walking restlessly to and fro.

Bob tried to steady himself at once when
Leonard's dark eyes flashed, as he thought,
angrily and suspiciously on him. He had a
vague idea who this tall, broad-chested man
was, with the dark flush mounting to his
brow.

This was Captain Mallandaine  his daughter's
lover and affianced husband.

A longing to escape suddenly seized Bob.
He wished he had never come ; he mistrusted
himself and the effects of his whisky-drinking.
He tried to bow in solemn silence,
and sincerely desired to be taken for a respectable
undertaker calling for future patronage
and recommendation.

At that moment a slight rustle of silk was
heard outside, and Vivian entered the room
and stood between them. It was an awful
moment for her, and quick, questioning looks,
but no words, greeted them.

'Vivian, who is this man ?' Captain Mal-landing
asked gently, deep distress in his
expression.

She could not answer, but sank lifelessly
into a chair. Something in Leonard's voice
told her all had ended. She was trembling,
but her eyes flashed and she breathed fast.
Terror kept her speechless, while the hatred
in the glance she turned on her father, whom
she believed had ruined her, was so overmastering
and venomous, that Bob uttered a
little cry. Her fury perished in cold despair,
and her face was grey and ashy as Leonard
said, holding her hands in a vice, 

Tell me, Vivian, were you innocent of all
connivance in the crime for which you must
suffer ? '

"

'the turn of the die.'

S Leonard held Vivian's hands in
his strong grasp, and she staggered
backward Hke a person
under the spell of some horrible
nightmare, she knew that the miserable deception
she had so long acted before the
world must soon be at an end.

There was an unconscious irony in Leonard's
voice which she clearly interpreted, in
spite of his evident distress in giving her
pain. Something dark and threatening
underlaid the smooth surface of his gentleness,
even as the fitful quietness of a dimpling
sea may indicate the future angry roar
of rising waves and the stormy currents of
the back wash of the tide.

Her thoughts were in the past even as she
trembled at his words. She had always been
in awe of Leonard's displeasure from her

childhood's years, for he never stooped to
flatter, and his indifference brought with ita
sense of. mild injury which was almost
pleasurable. His indolent contempt had
made Vivian long to conquer him ; it always
left something to be desired and overcome.

Bold and often insolent towards others,
Vivian would be meek as a chidden child
with him, and his disdain made her more
than ever eager for his approval.

But now her very life seemed ebbing from
every nerve and vein, sobs rose to her
throat, but she strangled them ere they
escaped and burst into utterance ; she conquered
the woman's weakness that impelled
her to trust to entreaty and confess the
truth.

Vivian faced him with a dull, frozen stare
as of one absorbed in some dreamy, unearthly
contemplation. The violence of her disappointment
robbed her of utterance.

Why will you not speak,' he said sternly ;
and confess everything ? '

There was less irony and more reproach
now in his tone, and it was so decided, that
it seemed to imply that all remonstrance
or appeal would be thrown away on so
hardened a culprit, but he did not fathom
the meaning of Vivian's repression and
strength, and for a moment he believed

them compatible with the notion of her innocence.
Was she either very false, or did
darkness and uncertainty surround her life s
history ?

I am at a loss to understand you, Captain
Mallandaine,' Vivian said stonily. She resolved
to carry matters through with a high
hand, and offer the appeal of tears and beseeching
as her last resource. ' I never
feign anything, and have no wish to be
victimised. Be good enough to release my
hands at once, and give me the privilege
awarded to the accused of meeting any charge
or accusation you or that person'  indicating
Bob  ' have thought fit to bring against me.'

That person ' here grinned unpleasantly,
as if enjoying this allusion to himself in
terms of sinister hostility. Terror so intoxicated
Vivian that her senses were fettered
as in a dream in which is neither
finality nor clearness.

Bob, however, tried to rise at his daughter's
words, but his animation expired when he
found his legs slipping from under him, and
as the whisky he had swallowed on an empty
stomach was of a raw and fiery nature, he
uttered some meaningless words, and embraced
with piteous tenderness the bust of
Pygmalion and Galatea in a corner, which,
thus assailed, rolled over, and wounded the

ex-actor's foot, which he commenced to rub
softly and cry over.

Leonard gazed steadily at Vivian. Was
this indeed acting, or the astute finesse of a
clever worldly woman, forcing restraint upon
herself owing to the desperate position in
which she was placed "

Vivian breathed quickly, but less heavily,
and the pallid frown that replaced her glance
of venomous hatred against her father gradually
gave way to a flush of anger and of shame.

Well,' she said gloomily, as she shook
herself free from Leonard's grasp ; * repeat
the statement and charge you are prepared
to make against me. Show me in what I
have been misled and deceived. Is there to
be a grand exposure of some mysterious
deed of the existence of which I am innocent
? Is there to be a graphic rds2tmd
of my career in every paper, accompanied by
the sneers of worldlings ? Or is your grace
anxious to break off his engagement with
me, having discovered that his heart has all
the time been elsewhere ?'

Here Bob groaned audibly as the blood
from his wounded foot trickled through his
stocking.

Answer me this one question, Vivian,'
said Leonard sternly, his brows contracting.
Who is this man ? '

VOL. III. M

Man, indeed !  a pretty way to speak of
me ! ' cried Bob, on the defensive, his vanity
and tipsiness  both a species of madness 
getting the better of his reason and prudence,
so that he forgot to posture for an undertaker
or hold his tongue.

Vivian heard those confused and threatening
murmurs. She wheeled round as though
she could strike blindness into the half-closed,
sunken eyes, and then she said,
lowering her voice, 

He'  indicating Robert  'is an old servant
of the family in whom my dear father
took a great interest ; he was so absurdly
infatuated, you know, in his likings, and this
creature will have the run of the house.'

'Ah, a kind of wandering black-beetle
difficult to crush,' said Leonard, with a slight
laugh, and scrutinising Bob's features, to
which age had not given majesty or repose.

'Servant, sir! Black-beetle, sir! Hang
me if I'll stand that from any officer. No 
not if I go back to Copenhagen Court tomorrow,'
gasped Bob, unable to endure this
affront. '/V; her father  the impudent
minx  I'm Robert Sidewing, to whom the
eminent star, Mr Blacking Corduroy, said,
Bob, my boy, you've the brain for tragedy
none of your ranters ! Gad ! you're a
clever dog, and no mistake !" '

Vivian shrank at his words ; her eyes
had grown less watchful and eager, and were
gazing into space.

There, Vi, don't look so amazing like
Ophelia in her coffin,' said her father, sympathetically.
' Don't cry, my girl ; the game
was up and lost long before I put my foot
in it.'

Vivian started up here, and lifting her
hands above her head, said, wildly, 

My father ? Impossible ! Oh, this is too
intolerable to be borne ! Leonard, you must
save me from such wickedness. Do you
believe these falsehoods '. Can you, knowing
my dear, dead father's love for me, and how
he trusted in you to protect me, accept such
gross and unprincipled statements as these
from such a creature as that } '

She had lost her haughty imperturbability
and stoutness of manner as she threw herself
on her lover's breast. She must trust now to
clinelnof and affection.

Lord, she's as fond of him as Martha
Jane once was of me,' cried the indiscreet
Robert, taking off his boot and limping back
to the sofa. ' That's the way with women ;
only got to draw back a bit, and not care for
them, and they'll break their hearts about you.
Here's a girl who had lords and dukes in
lavender kids to choose from preferring a

proud officer, who clearly hung back, and
isn't ready yet'

Leonard desired to deal with all possible
gentleness towards the unhappy girl. He
pitied her acutely.

It was the Vivian he had known and welcomed
with a kind of neutral, tepid, brotherly
affection for years  the Vivian whom his poor
deceived friend Bernard Branscombe had
received and accepted as his daughter.

Leonard hoped that Vivian was free from
all connivance in guilt, treachery, and crime,
and that she had conscientiously believed
herself all along to have been the lawful
heiress.

She may have lately heard vague hints and
rumours relating to the secret, but had remained
unconvinced.

Why should I feel remorseful and penitent,
dearest,' she sobbed, hysterically, her
white arms flung around his throat, and her
warm breath stealing to his lips, ' when I
knew nothing of this hateful man's existence
till this hour  and on the brink of my ,
too ? ' Vivian thought of the rent
in the veil, and of Georgina's affectionate
remarks ; she dreaded the stabs of society
almost more than the loss of her lover.
Why,' she cried furiously, turning to Bob
who was weeping over his foot, * if you knew

that the joys and hopes of my existence hung
on your pleasure and were at your mercy, did
you not appear sooner, instead of dragging
me down and humbhnor me to the dust at the
moment of my triumph and bliss ? What
injury have I ever done you that you come
here at the eleventh hour, and by your presence
and words declare the existence of a
secret, a fraud, and a lie ?

If exposure and insult awaited me, why
have you postponed the evil day that will
make me a mockery and a byword of scorn
on every lip ? Do you want to drive me mad
that you rob me of my promised husband ?
Oh, mv darling ! mv darling ' went on Vivian
incoherently, as she saw some severe resolve
stamp itself on Leonard's brow, ' don't give
me up, don't have done with me for what a
wretch like this says ! . . . How can I help
it ? What sin have I committed ? And you
taught me to love you so ! How, crreat
heavens, am I to bear mv joyless life without
you ? '

She dashed herself to the round, and
sunk at his feet ; her supple figure writhed
with pain, and then, raising herself, her hands
and arms twisted themselves into phidias
curves about his chest and throat, her
dishevelled hair hung about her shoulders ;
she was no longer hardy self-possessed.

and resolute. The poisonous secret which
she had fought so hard to veil  the fatal
mystery that had turned the careless joys
of her young life into a formless misery that
naught could cure  the blight and disgrace
which had assumed of late the form of a
game played by chance, and to which she had
hitherto skilfully offered checkmate, had been
revealed by the clumsy utterances of a
drunkard. How she had prayed that the
knowledge of her low birth and origin might
be kept from society's ears until she was
Leonard's wife !

Then could there have been a continuance
of balls, receptions, and dinner parties,
during which she, a lovely bride, in diamonds
and white velvet, could have fought on and
conquered still, and the affair have expired
like all other nine days' wonders, in the charms
of her choice hospitality and beauty  lures
that could surely muzzle those many-tongued
harpies, scandal and detraction.

I say you're my daughter, Vi,' Bob went
on tipsy ; ' come and kiss your poor old
father like a good girl. Martha Jane was a
cunning old fox ; I used to call her my old
serpent  ah ! ah ! ' embracing the fallen bust.
Now, don't you be proud ; I'm not proud 
I'm a gent  gentleman. Sorry you're floored,
my girl ; we must take it into court, and

capt r

can Q-Q in

one tray a: : - !

To be - : -i*

gasped Vi-/ : : : ".-zV

of the -'.  :.-. :/.: : . . . . - ;. r::

mn: . : . . T - : ;  . :- \-:-' --.r. :\  

grandfather was cr.ir 1.: ; ; -

second I .:.:  I .:"".::  :  . 

- --iiairyiiiu: ~  ' : - - :" r

'Is k fair : r 1: ;-i ?"

to iru-: : : : ttvt . : :

She . V - .:' : . f ; -:.-

tion m.-r: :r : : : :.-: r:

roman: : ' v. rr .r  :. .

cumber :: ;- ::;::: L : : ::\-

binding, as : : . :

a lofty soc. - ..

She fancied that Leonard had too high
and. chivalrous a sense of honour, and that
the associations of years and the influences of
custom must bind him too closely to her for
him to discard her through a misfortune such
as the circumstances surrounding her origin
could be proved to be.

I should judge you less harshly,' Leonard
said, shading his brow with his hand, ' if I
knew that you were innocent, and not an
accomplice and accessary in the crime that
has caused a young girl to suffer unheard-of
wrongs and martyrdom. Can you calmly
weigh the amount of the injury inflicted on
her they call Nellie Raymond, but who, in
reality, is Vivian Branscombe ? Can you
pause in your passionate pain, anger, and
disgrace, to think a little of the sufferings
of one so long exposed to bitter hardships
and unheard-of cruelties and dangers ? It is
mean and base of you not to wish to make
some atonement. Yes, Vivian, I can see you
are hard and heartless. The girl you have
injured has been trodden beneath the feet of
people not worthy to wipe the dust off hers.'

Her resentment was kindled to a red-hot
flame. Vivian had ceased acting, and shone
in her true colours at last. For once she
was indifferent to the effect of her voice,
grace, and attitude.

Leonard  Leonard ! ' she sobbed, her
tears falling Hke rain, as she winced under
the return of his scorn, * in pleading thus for
her you are pleading for yourself. You love
her. I know you love her  you always did.
This is the hardest pang to me of all. I
have lost you, and the inheritance I have
been taught to consider as mine, through the
existence of Nellie Raymond  the milliner's
assistant in Regent Street  and whom I
hated the first time I beheld her. Would
that she had died ! '

You are selfish, Vivian. You deserve
your punishment. You feel and care nothing
for others. So long as you flaunted
abroad in fine dresses, and laid on soft
couches, and were a living lie, you were
happy. You forgot what a miserable cheat
and impostor you were. You thought to
hoodwink justice, and to make me your easy
dupe. You are false to the core, I now
believe. Who so base as the debtor who is
practically a thief? Remember what you
have robbed, and still owe your rival, Nellie
Raymond.'

I know how much I owe her,' said
Vivian, lifting her head and writhing again.
Do I deserve such hard words from you,
Leonard, or so cruel a scourrimi ? And
think ! ' she cried piteously, her hands upraised

in tenderest supplication, ' what I am
losing before blaming me so harshly ! Oh,
Leonard, be generous and pitiful and loving
again ! What would you say to me ? We
were to have been married so soon  on Monday
week. Oh, think of it, and I am a girl,
Leonard  only a girl  whom you told would
be your wife ! How can I lose you or tear
your image from my heart ? How learn forgetfulness
? You never loved me  never,
never! It was only a farce, a comedy, a
caprice, all along, as I feared, and indeed
knew, whereas I, love  have patience with
me a little longer  would like you to wind
me in your arms and-hold me to your breast
and kiss me till I died.'

She was beautiful in the abandonment of
her despair, as she now stood up breathless
before him in her passion, as Medea when
she pleaded for the last time with Jason.

She was trusting in her beauty and her
love now to save her  for tears were wasted
as an animal trusts to its speed or its
courage.

I implore you, dearest,' Vivian said in her
soft voice, speaking, as it were, under protest,
'to deal honestly and justly with me,
ere you discard me from your life and love
for ever.'

Yes, Vivian,' he said gently, ' you shall

have justice. Only prove to me that you
were no party to guilt or dishonour  that
the secret wrapping you in deep disgrace has
never been whispered in your ears, and that
you were not playing a deep, dark, dangerous
game in resolving to secure me as your
husband ere exposure came ; then will 1 be
true to my word  then will I make you my
wife.'

She was ashy pale at his words ; a kind
of severe remonstrance seemed revealed in
them. It was as if a judge might say, 

I know there are extenuating circumstances
in your case. If you throw yourself
on the mercy of the court, you may not be
hanged. There is a chance of the jury
finding a verdict of penal servitude for life, if
you confess.'

She was so terrified of the insecurity of the
shattered spar on which she floated, of that
shadowy structure, the chance of concealment
which was left her, that a frightened perplexity,
which Leonard perfectly interpreted,
stole to her expression.

If he had ever been in love with her, such
are the weakness and inconsistency of menthe
possibility still remained that he might
have made her his wife.

When a man loves he forgives.

But Vivian had invariably wearied Leonard.

He felt bored in a mild, gentlemanly way by
her artificialities and conventionalism.

No imaginative dreamer, full of delicate
sentiment, cares for hollowness and intrigue.
Besides, Leonard's poetical nature made him
mysterious in his ways of loving. A look, a
word, a smile, revealed to him a heaven un-imagined
by others less mental and undemonstrative.


Vivian began to wonder why Mrs Sidewing
had not appeared on the scene, and then
again if anything serious detained her

She thought also of her savings,  the
gems, gold, furs, books, and many priceless
works of art she had stored up against a
rainy day.

Leonard talked about debts and robbery,
atonement and justice. Was she to die of
starvation or go out as a lady-help, housekeeper,
or companion ? Did he fancy, even
if she were the daughter of a nurse, that she
could take kindly to hard work and cold
neglect, after her magnificent education, and
her singing lessons of Signor Adagio ?

Perhaps that generous and expensive soul
would bring her out at concerts or marry her.
But on second thoughts Vivian realised that
he was as true a toady to wealthy women of
fashion as any laquais de place, and unable to
enjoy further her hot luncheons, Johann

and guineas, he would probably
cut her with knitted brows and a polite
stare.

I say, my lady, you'll have to come down
a bit in your pride,' said Bob with a soft
chuckle.

Vivian glared at him as a caged wild animal
at a tormentor beyond the reach of its fury.

At that moment a tramp of hurried footsteps
was heard in the hall, and as Vivian
paused in her distracted walk to listen, she
distinctly recognised the hoarse tones of Mrs
Sidewing, and the gruff utterances of male
voices.

Good God ! can they have come for her ? '
cried the girl, clasping her hands.

Why had not her wretched mother escaped
yesterday while there was yet time?

Vivian felt on the brink of fainting, but
recovered her presence of mind by a stoical
effort.

Leonard walked hastily to the door and
flung it open, when a strange sight met his
view.

Mrs Sidewing, hapless and hopeless, and
her stuff dress considerably disarranged, was
on the ground, struggling wildly between
two policemen, who vainly endeavoured to
raise her to her feet.

Vivian uttered a loud and piercing shriek

as she followed Leonard and saw her mother
in so forlorn and terrible a situation.

Bob vainly essayed to stagger after them,
putting his hands to his ears as his daughter's
manner alarmed him without his being aware
of its cause.

Don't make such a scene as this, ma'am,'
one of the policemen said, as Mrs Sidewing
flung him off with a superhuman effort. * It's
no use in the world struggling like a wild cat.
You'll have to come off with us, and you'd
better come quietly.'

As Leonard stepped forward and asked
the meaning of the arrest, the policeman,
whose knuckles were blue with Mrs Side-wing's
blows and pinches, said, releasing her
for a moment, 

I've a warrant, sir, to arrest Mrs Side-wing,
Martha Jane Sidewing,' addressing the
miserable woman, and laying his hand on her
shoulder, ' I arrest you in the Queen's
name.'

Bob had by slow degrees at last arrived
at the door, and at this painful view of his
spouse, he beat as rapid a retreat as possible
back into the dining-room.

Vivian could bear the strain no longer.
She was fast losing consciousness.

The servants had now appeared on the
scene, Vivian's maid rushing forward just intime

to save her young mistress ere she fell
fainting to the round.

De Lancy also offered prompt assistance,
but as all efforts at restoration seemed of no
avail, and poor vivian lay on the couch, her
hands folded on her breast, and her eyes
closed like some dying saint, he saddled one
of her fleetest thoroughbreds and galloped
at once for the doctor.

This is a serious charge, policeman,'
Leonard said, as the officer of the law went
back to his victim.

She had ceased struggling as the awful
words, * I arrest you in the Queen's name,'
fell on her ears.

Let some one get us a cab,' said the
other man, who had never renounced
grappling with the accused. ' She's giving
in, sir, right enough now. Old women
often give us a lot of trouble. I fancy
our hands will bear her marks a goodish
time ! '

Miss Branscombe is ready to offer bail,'
gasped Mrs Sidewing, looking very mad,
and rolling her eyes about. ' Must I go to
prison when there's bail offered to any
amount  It's all false  false  false ! '

Put your arm under her right shoulder,
mate, and hitch her up a bit,' the policeman
whispered to his confrere. * We can't lose

any more time blowing the penny gaff like
this. She's let off the steam long enough.'

Mrs Sidewing resisted no longer ; perhaps
she understood that all resistance was worse
than useless.

She averted her pallid face as she passed
Captain Mallandaine, but said slowly, in a
hoarse whisper to the policeman still holding
her by the arm, 

I'm thirsty, sir. I'd just like a drink of
something  my tongue feels parched.'

Tinson, the well-trained butler, with respectability
stamped on every gesture, bore
a stunned look of horror as he dismissed
a subordinate for a cab.

'My poor master!' he kept repeating,
shaking his head, ' it's well you're lying quiet
in the grave. To think such a good man
should have been so deceived all his life, first
by his wives, and now through a nurse's
child. Oh, it won't bear thinking of at all ! '

Mrs Sidewing's eyes had ceased rolling as
she alluded to her thirst, but a pathologist
might have traced something like insanity
in her restless gaze.

'I'll come away quiet enough with you,
sir, but I only beg two little favours. Let
me kiss the dear young lady as I've loved
so well, and been a faithful servant to all
these years, afore I go away to prison, and

do, pray, for the love of heaven, get me a
drink of water.'

Her unfettered hand stole to her breast, and
touched the little phial  the ' forlorn hope '
that rested there. Why, she would cheat
them, and justice, and the law even yet !

She burst into tears, and astonished the
policeman by resting her head on his breast.
She kept It there rather longer than was
quite consistent with emotion, considering
who he was and what he represented.

'Never mind, kind sir; it comforts a
miserable old woman. You're like a son I
lost in the wars,' she gasped, and something
like glass gleamed for a moment in the light,
while her teeth attacked a small cork.

Come, old lady, cab's at the door,' said
the policeman, who had no objection to the
tears shed over his blue coat and nicely-polished
buttons, but was anxious to obey
his colleague's beckoning.

Won't you let me kiss my young lady,
kind sir ? ' said Mrs Sidewlnor.

o

The little bottle, through some mischance,
rolled to the floor, and the policeman picked
it up  empty !

He read the label, on which was written
Poison,' and glanced at the culprit, who was
wiping her eyes with her apron, quite unconscious
of everything.

VOL. III. N

Why, what have you been up to now ? '
he asked, startled at her expression and the
shivers that convulsed her frame. * It smells
of peaches. Is it prussic acid ? '

She was silent. He put the bottle in his
breast coat pocket, and stared at her in horrified
amazement.

That's my little drop o' comfort, kind
sir. Tm subject to fits, being so very
old, and doctor he labelled it poison 'cos
it's so strong. You'll let me kiss her, won't
you ? '

The plaintive voice moved him. Heled
her to the dining-room, where Vivian lay
still unconscious on the couch.

Mrs Sidewing fell on her knees, and lifted
the lifeless hand to her lips.

Good-bye, my darling, good-bye. Perhaps
you'll be sorry for me tomorrow.'

She kissed the girl on the lips and brow ;
it seemed as if she could not tear herself
away, and then she went up to Leonard, held
out her hand, and whispered, 

Forgive a dying woman, sir, as sinned
out of love. I'm doomed right enough.'

Some water was here offered her in a
glass, and her bonnet being tied on and her
heavy cloak fastened, she was conducted by
the two strong-nerved policemen to the cab.
A small crowd had collected round the

mansion, and jeered at her. Crowds enjoy
witnessing degradation.

I'm afraid, mate, she's committed suicide,'
said one man to the other, in an undertone.

The prison doctor must see to her at once,'
he answered.

Mrs Sidewing, leaning back in the cab,
and hearing them, fastened her stealthy-glance
on their faces, and laughed.

I don't like the ring of that mirth  there's
death in it,' the policeman said, looking at
the label on the little bottle.

It's surprising how many prisoners we've
lately had who couldn't bear up against
punishment, and so gave us the slip. And
she's old.'

Yes, very old, and aged with something
besides years 

I'm glad I 'ad the strength to die plucky,'
muttered the criminal, who was still conscious,
but who talked of herself as dead,
which is often the case with the dying.

SMlA<

RECONCILED.

One bright look that woke in thine eyes
Read my dreaming and told me thine.'

ELLIE was alone when, a few
hours after Leonard quitted
Prince's Gate, he found himself
whirling in a hansom cab towards
Peckham Rye. Mrs Rudersheim had been
summoned by a telegram to the lawyers'
office, and was kept in a whirl of excitement
and expectation day after day by the urgency
of many important details relating to the
coming trial, for her lawyers had been given
to understand the girl who called herself Mr
Branscombe's heiress and daughter was determined
to take the matter into court at
all hazards and dispute Nellie's claims.

So Nellie had been left by herself in the
little parlour, her mind full of perplexing

hopes and fears, hardly daring to picture
the brightest side of things, and yet convinced
that her rights would be ultimately
established.

Nellie was a good deal changed since her
illness during the last few weeks ; despite
the expectation of coming triumph, wealth,
homage, and admiration, there was a mute
sadness in her smile still ; her eyes had a
dreamy, far-away look that may speak of
resignation, but never of happiness.

She was always thinking of Leonard, and
of their angry parting at the Crystal Palace,
which had been the death-knell of her hopes.
She could think of him with less restraint
when alone, for Mrs Rudersheim was hardly
the sort of soothing maternal being who
could enter into a young girl's rhapsodies,
fears and sorrows. Emily had always been
a practical woman, both in her loves and in
the purposes of her life ; she never indulged
in the folly of regret and weeping  at least,
not for long ; but made up her mind to
action at all hazards.

Barrows crammed with holly and mistletoe,
half covered with a snowy mantle, were being
pushed along the road by various specimens of
costermongers, now and again whistling merry
tunes and imploring custom ; two Italians
and a pianoforte organ had taken possession

of a corner of the road swept clear of slush
and snow, and played a waltz that made
Nellie picture a warm, well-lighted drawing-room,
and young girls, in all the glow of
silken sheen, whirling along in the giddy
dance ; a woman was begging alms on the
pathway with a half-starved-looking baby
huddled up under her old black shawl, and
some robins, alighting on the window-sill,
were enjoying the crumbs that Nellie had
spread for them after breakfast.

The Rye resembled some weird snowcapped
plain of the Icelandic regions, while
the faint glimmer of sunshine on the snow
suggested the passion of the north trembling
beneath the fire of some love-madness that
lights the soul to its destruction. Nellie
gazed over that snowy extent with troubled
eyes. Proud and shy, loyal and so loving,
her heart was an emblem of this white plain :
the sun of love had arisen and melted the
stoniness of her despair only to fade at midday,
leaving her lonelier and chillier than before.

Human misery was with her still ; that
starved-looking woman lingered. Nellie had
been reading these wonderful lines of the
poet 

Should I be nearer Christ,' she said,
By pitying less
The sinful living or woful dead
In their helplessness?'

They had impressed her with a profound
sense of the depth and extent of human
suffering.

NelHe wore a very charming dress to-day
a dark wine-coloured velvet that fitted perfectly,
and was finished off with rich old
lace at the neck and sleeves ; her hair was
no longer plaited and screwed round her
head in the severe knot she had worn when
in Resent Street ; it fell in one honos
golden plait below her waist, the ends
curling naturally, and fastened by a piece
of broad, dark rich velvet to match her dress.
Her little shoes were daintily made, and
fastened off with silver buckles ; in fact, her
toilette was thoroughly scinde, for Emily
took the deepest interest in her young
daughter's beauty being displayed to the
best advantage.

The snow was falling over the robins and
the hungry woman at the gate as Nellie
threw a shawl over her head, and ran down
the steps.

She had just given the woman some silver
when a hansom cab dashed up to the kerbstone,
and she saw a dark man throw away
a half-finished cigar.

It was Captain Mallandaine.

A great wave of joy took possession of
Nellie at sight of him, and she trembled allover.

His eyes met hers and riveted her
to the spot  eyes hake a dark and troubled
sea, but eloquent with the same love that
had shone in them the' first time he had
kissed her, and her lips had yielded to the
impress of his, even as a sensitive plant
quivers and closes at a touch ere it unfolds
its leaves.

Nellie was very pale, and her hands
clasped the snow-wreathed railing for support.
Her strength had not quite yet returned,
and she was afraid of falling.

There came back, as in a blinding flash,
the memory of the moonlight on the honeysuckle,
and ivy, and vine leaves, the glow
of the purple hearts of the passion-flowers,
the sound of the fall of those yellow leaves
in the old orchard walk.

But Leonard was here. He had not forgotten
!

The next instant he had sprung from the
cab, and was at her side.

Leonard was the first to speak. Nellie's
nerves were so shaken at the sudden meeting,
she could only tremble and be silent 
the silence that is more eloquent than words
the trembling that foreshadows reconciliation
and ecstasy.

My darling,' he whispered, as they entered
the house, ' I have so much to say  so much

to explain and be forgiven. Oh, Nellie, Nellie,
you are an angel ! I know now why you
bade me leave you and forget you ! It was
not from caprice or indifference, as I thought.
It was the nobility of perfect self-sacrifice.'

Nellie found herself drawn to his breast.
Her face was illumined with joy at his words.
He understood her at last!

You are not angry, then ? ' she said, with
a sweet, shy smile.

Angry, my dearest ? It is you who
must forgive me. Nellie, I come to implore
your forgiveness and your love ! I feared
another's influence had turned your heart
against me. I did not know at that time how
noble and true and brave you were. Life has
been one long torment to me since losing you.'

He bent over her again, and held her to
his heart, and swept the loose curls from her
brow as he gazed into those deep, shining
wells of love  her eyes  no longer blank and
sorrow-laden, but tender and idolatrous as
when they first reflected love and seemed lit
and kindled by the fire from his.

I have often wondered why I loved you,'
Nellie whispered.

She had forgotten now that they had ever
been parted. It was such delight to be near
him again, and hear his voice, and rejoice in
his caresses.

Say it again, Nellie,' he answered, holding
her little trembling hands in his. ' The
words have a magic that remove all the
misery we have suffered since we have last
met. You are paler and thinner, my darling,
than you used to be. Ah, if I had only
known the truth before ! '

He wondered at his own blindness. Had
he only been more patient and trusting during
their last interview, he must have divined
the meaning of her rejection instead of torturing
her by his misjudgment.

She had refused to be his wife for fear of
injuring him socially, and he had gone away
in anger and disdain and engaged himself to
Vivian  the Dallas lying patiently in wait
for him  out of pique and irritation at Nellie's
conduct.

By degrees he explained all this to her, and
Nellie had her own lite confession also to
make  how she had fretted, grieved, and
waited, being quite sure she never could
change or care for any one else. . . . She
might have gone on living a little longer, but
have died at last quietly of the love that kills.

They were so perfectly absorbed in the
sweet unity of their mutual love and the
ineffable joy of reconciliation, they scarcely
mentioned as yet the wonderful change that
had befallen Nellie's career: facts seemed

hard and unpleasant beside the dreamy
delight of love's shadows, but the return of
Mrs Rudersheim in an ulster brought them
both suddenly back again to earth. Nellie
laughed at her lover, as she said, 

I declare, I hadn't the least idea how late
it was ! It must be three o'clock ! '

Leonard went out into the hall to receive
Mrs Rudersheim.

She had resolved to be the reverse of
amiable towards him whenever they should
meet, and indeed had nearly told him that
he should never marry her daughter with
her consent.

A pretty thing for him to get my Nellie
and the money, when he wouldn't keep true
to her for six months,' she would say.

Indeed, Mrs Rudersheim fancied that
Nellie ought to mate with one of the first
nobles of the land, but she could not believe
that Leonard, in being reconciled with the
girl, had any sordid aim or end in view.

He was no schemer, but wealthy and an
only son, and many Belgravian mothers
would only have been too glad to welcome
him as a son-in-law.

Girls rich as Nellie took a deep if apparently
languid interest in Leonard, and he had
but to choose and be accepted, but Mrs
Rudersheim was not a very Spartan or strong-minded

woman, and when she saw that look
of radiant happiness on her young daughter's
face, she had more than half forgiven Captain
Mallandaine.

You see I stole a march on you,' he said,
as she came a step nearer. ' I was afraid
you might forbid me the house ; but is not
all fair in love or war ? '

I don't admire the way you've treated
Nellie,' Mrs Rudersheim said stiffly.

But if your daughter has forgiven me, and
if we understand each other ? ' said Leonard,
with a charming smile, taking Nellie's hand.

Mrs Rudersheim softened at the words,
and when Nellie came up to her and kissed
her, and laid her soft arms about her mother's
neck, she relented sufficiently to ask Captain
Mallandaine to stay to dinner  an invitation
he readily accepted, and going out to the cabman,
astonished that worthy by giving him a
sovereign and a sixpenny cigar, when his fare
at the utmost could barely have been half.

And how happy we all are,' said Nellie,
in her bright, bewitching way, wheeling the
easiest arm-chair forward for her mother, and
stirring the fire. ' We can shut out the cold
weather, and talk everything over, and
Leonard must taste my mince-pies that I
made yesterday, and we can roast chestnuts
and be merry as mice.'

Mrs Rudersheim went upstairs soon after,
she listened for a second and heard the musical
cadences of NelHe's laugh and the deep tones
of Leonard's voice blending harmoniously
together.

She saw that all opposition must be useless
in fact, unnecessary. If Nellie, who loved
him, was satisfied with his explanation and
confession, and forgave him, there was no
more to be said.

The Romance of Regent Street would,
after all, end with the music of wedding bells.

Emily was a good-hearted little woman,
and, delighted that Nellie's spirits had so
improved, put on her heavy ulster and went
out again, and prepared a choice little banquet
for the lovers, who, sitting over the fire, forgot
everything for the moment but themselves.


How sweet is love !

Never had Nellie's beauty shone with so
splendid a radiance. A vague but indistinct
entrancement seemed to linger on every tone
and glance  tremors ran through each as
they gazed at each other by the soothing
firelight. A scent of violets was in the air,
for Mrs Rudersheim had bought a quantity
of choice flowers for Nellie, and the little blue
forget-me-nots which she loved so well were
among them.

I am almost too happy to live, dear the
girl whispered breathlessly, as his arms embraced
her. ' Such bliss cannot be for earth.
It must fade.'

Only to be renewed on the morrow,
Nellie. There will be no change In our
love, dear. The world was but a vast wilderness
to me without you,' Leonard answered,
deeper passion In his utterance and warmer
light In his eyes, as the long silken lashes
drooped over her cheek, and the sweet,
flower-like head nestled again on his breast.

Is not love more prized after It has been
nearly forfeited } Does not the anguish of loss
intensify the joy of reunion, even as the dark
shadowsofapalntingthrowup the Innumerable
tints and lights and semi-tones of colour ?

The pain of despair is the background to
the rapture of reconciliation. Had Nellie
never sobbed from the heart-sickness of parting,
absence, and banishment, would these
tremulous breaths of reawakened happiness
have been so precious ?

As Emily returned home the second time
to-day, laden with purchases, she went noiselessly
upstairs, and changed her black cashmere
for an elegant gros grain silk dress, in
which becoming attire she retained a certain
freshness and youthfulness, which fine jet
ornaments increased.

She could not help sighing as she contrasted
this Christmas-time with the last,
when her husband had been alive, and they
had looked forward to many more happy
New Years together.

The vacant chair In so many households
seems especially sorrowful In times of rejoicing,
and Mrs Rudersheim's eyes were full of
tears as she lifted a miniature likeness of her
husband to her lips. Perhaps Nellle's happiness
brought her own loss more vividly
before her mind.

Leonard and Nellie were not talking as
Mrs Rudershelm entered the room, for
Leonard had been kissing her again, and
they were both started at the sound of a
voice breaking In upon their trance.

The room was now In semi-darkness  that
dense atmosphere of a true winter day,
which makes people long to light the gas of
a morning, and draw the curtains, and shut
out all contemplation of the leaden sky, which
hangs like an iron shroud above the earth.

Shan't we have some light on the subject,
Nellie ? ' her mother asked, ringing the bell.
And now. Captain Mallandaine, you must
please give a little of your attention to me.
What was the tremendous scene which I hear
took place at Prince's Gate ? '

One that I rather fancy will render a trial

unnecessary. The actor, Robert Sidewing,
declared in my presence that he was the
father of the girl who has so long enjoyed a
false position, and it is my firm belief that
Mrs Sidewing will make a full confession of
the crime she committed,' Leonard answered
thoughtfully.

She was arrested this morning, I know,'
Mrs Rudersheim continued, * and there is a
recent report that she has since attempted to
commit suicide.

'How very dreadful!' cried Nellie, who
had paled at the mention of her rival.

Leonard was silent. He could not forget
the grey, haggard face of the accused woman
as she was taken to prison that morning ; he
had remained long enough at Prince's Gate
to know that Vivian had recovered from her
swoon, and was able to reason calmly and
contemplate her position without any serious
result.

In fact, Vivian had never been so sarcastically
flippant in all her life as when she waved
him from her side. She was thinking of
securing the gold, and gems, and works of
art she had hidden away ere justice laid its
iron grip on her as well, and her time was, in
many senses, strictly limited. So engrossed
was she in thoughts of her own welfare and
comforts, and the materialism of money and

facts, that she forbore reproaches, and instead
of hating him, laughed ironically in his face
reminding him that it was always wise to
leave a sinking ship.

Thus she was strong in her hour of bitter



ness and defeat. There was a certain toughness
in her moral resistance that proved the
blow would not crush her to the earth ; it
might have been more fatal, however, had
she not known that the nice little sum of
fifty thousand pounds was safely invested in
Russian stock ; it was enough certainly to
buy her another lover by-and-by and a pretty
villa on the banks of the Thames.

She had armed herself with dishonest prudence
against a rainy day, and she could still
dance, and sing, and flirt, and laugh, and be
sure of a good supply of ' cakes and ale ' all
the year round.

If Mrs Sidewing makes a full confession
of her crime, the affair is, practically
speaking, at an end,' Mrs Rudersheim said,
glancing affectionately at her daughter, ' and
we shall at once take possession ; but please
remember. Captain ]\Iallandaine, she is no
longer Nellie Raymond  you must call her
Vivian.'

She seems to me dearer as Nellie,' he
answered tenderly, as the girl shivered at the
name  ' Nellie, as I first saw her in Reo-went

VOL. III. O

Street, when the romance of our dear love
began.'

'What's in a name?' asked Nellie, smilingly.
* Vivian or Nellie  so long, dearest,
as I am your love, I am content'

IX THE PRISON.

physical pain had reduced ?sirs

C '

Sidewino- to a state ot extreme

f3 1 weakness, but the stern expression
   on her face showed that she had
still a purpose to execute before the deadly-drug
she had swallowed reduced her to that
state of eternal coma called death, where all
purposes are ended.

I want to write something,' she muttered
in between her palpitations and semi-swoons.
I don't want no doctor or any of his rubbish.
Mebbe, I'll see the prison chaplain by-and-by,
afore I go to sleep ; but now let me
write.'

There was very little in her manner to
justify the notion of attempted suicide, so
they said. Prisoners old as she were often
subject to fainting fits, and bore that stunned,

white look of suffering.

They

brought her

the necessary writing materials, at which she
smiled, and said, 

There wasn't no School Board in my
young days. I'm a bad scholar and a poor
writer, so I must take my time over this.'

She sat for the first few minutes biting
the end of the pen ere dipping the nib in the
ink-bottle, wincing now and again under the
keen pangs of mortal agony ; she had calculated
the hours left for her in this world, even
as the condemned, waking at six on the morning
of his execution, reflects that he has
exactly one hundred and twenty minutes left
for him to breathe in.

It's worse for 'em when they're young,'
she muttered, plucking her stuff sleeve, ' and
they think o' their mothers or wives or
sisters. My girl will be rather glad I'm out
of the way.'

What a miserable affair her life had been
from beginning to end, and she had tried, in
her blind ignorance, to defy law, justice, and
society. Even yet she did not realise remorse
or penitence ; she only knew the game
was lost and that she must die. Vivian's indifference
to her fate seemed inhuman, but she
received it tacitly and uncomplainingly ; a
cloud was enveloping her reason, and making
thought difficult.

At last she dipped her pen in the ink and

wrote the following; characteristic confession.
There was more excitement now in her manner,
and a certain melancholy that gave it a
touch of pathos. She wished that her girl,
whom she had loved with the love that is
madness, had sought her here, and foro-often
for a moment that her poor old dying mother,
who sinned for her sake, was a felon.

A large blot fell first from the pen on to
the paper, and following an old habit, she
instantly applied her tongue to it, instead of
the prison blotting-pad.

That's a bad habit to get into,' a voice
here said, regarding her intently. * It might
give you a cancer on the tongue.'

Miorht it, sir ? ' Mrs Sidewine answered
quietly. ' Well, I'll be more careful next
time.'

There was a little tremor In her hand as
the pen framed these words : 

Her Majesty's Prison, Newgate.

i, Martha Jane SIdewing, do 'hereby confess
that i gave the child I called Nellie Raymond,
as was Missus Branscombe's lorful doctor, to
Mary Mathers, living' at Ivy Cottage, Wood
Lane, Exeter, and put my child in place of
the lorful alress at Prince's Gate. Been' on
the point of death, i wish to make my peace
with God, and may He be more merciful tome

than man ever was. I'm saying over a
Methodyy calm as I lent wen a girl ; i'd like
my doctor to com and see me in my coffin,
and berry me at Exeter, nere my first 'one.'

Here the paper was very much blotted,
and many words crossed out.

You are in great distress ? ' a soft voice
said, touching her gently on the shoulder.
Is there any one you would like to see ? '

The prison chaplain stood by her side, one
of those kind and sympathetic men who
indeed minister to the suffering, not by mere
lip-service, but through the heart.

If you would fold the paper for me, sir,
and put it in a bit of an envelope and fasten
it down, I'd be so much obliged to you,' Mrs
Sidewing faltered.

She had seized one of his hands, and held
it as in a vice ; her agony was so great that
a convulsion passed over her brow and
mouth, and she sunk to the ground.

Is it true,' he whispered, ' that you are
guilty ?'

Mrs Sidewing made a sign which he interpreted.
He was used to the ways of the
sinful and sorrow-laden.

Do you repent '. '

Yes, sir  oh, yes ! It was through love
for my girl, and finding every one near me

'ard as stone, and suffering' myself, and latin'
the rich. Do you think God will ever forgive
my sins ?'

He drew a Bible from his pocket and
began to read to her. He chose the beautiful
chapter where the thief on the cross
addresses the Saviour. The peculiar anxiety
of her expression faded by degrees ; she
gazed at him blankly from time to time ; her
tears had ceased to flow, and dried on her
hollow cheeks ; she understood a considerable
portion of the words the chaplain read to
her, and she muttered once, 

If any one 'ud 'ave been kind, and taught
me I was wicked, I'd never 'ave done the deed.'

The strict teaching of a severe father,
even allied with ' Methodyy ' hymns, is not
always a solace and enlightenment to certain
strong, fierce natures. He could trace nothing
hypocritical in her manner or speech.
It was mysterious, certainly, and difficult to
fathom, and he pitied her.

Presently she arose and approached him
nearer.

Would you be frightened, sir, if you 'ad
to die?' she gasped. 'Tell me the time,
please. Oh, for the love of heaven, do something
to stop the awful pain ! '

The door opened, and a tall, dark-robed
form entered.

Mother ! ' Vivian cried, horrified at the
fearful change that had taken place in Mrs
Sidewing since the morning ; ' oh, mother,
you are suffering cruelly ! '

A wild scream burst on their ears as the
wretched woman flung up her arms and
staggered towards her child.

My girl !  my girl ! '

The one passion of her life  her love for
her child  asserted its supreme force with
her latest breath. She tried to bless her
daughter ; she touched her brow " and hair
and eyes ; she felt Vivian's kiss, and then
sank lifeless at her feet.

HIS FAITHFUL HEART.

HEN Vivian returned from the
prison, grief for her mother's death
oppressed her to a certain extent,
but a sense of awe more than
sorrow was her chief experience.

She had never loved Mrs Sidewing, and
now that she was removed from earth she
regarded her in the Hoht of an enigma oro

o o

half-crazed woman, not to be judged by any
ordinary rule or standard, and therefore safer
out of the way.

Vivian was very commonplace in her
emotions when not swayed by passion, and
brought reflection  that was decidedly cool,
and almost intellectual  to bear upon the
past and weigh the future ; in fact, she
looked upon herself as being in the unfortunate
position of one who has enjoyed the
dubious privilege of ascending a greased pole,

which, being extra slippery at the top, made
her slide to the ground when it was roughly
shaken, with the display of her finest skill
and agility.

These social acrobatic performances try
the nerves, and make women hard and sceptical.
Vivian was a thorough cynic, and,
perhaps, had cause for cynicism in her present
experiences of friendship and kindness, and
the consciousness of her baffled love. Nota
soul visited her in her loneliness.

Engrossed with thoughts of her own
material comfort and safety, Vivian resolved
to leave the mansion at Prince's Gate long
before the morning broke. She had driven
away, deeply veiled, in a cab from the prison,
anxious to make arrangements for her departure,
and inwardly vowing to leave England
before many hours had passed over her
head.

None knew the amount of the money she
had saved and carefully invested in foreign
stock during the last few months, and it
would be decidedly awkward and unpleasant
to be obliged to refund it to the real heiress.

Vivian's artfulness had served her well, for
she had found hiding-places for her property
little dreamt of by others.

She had no wish to suffer anything or to
encounter the people she had known and

welcomed to her splendid home in her palmy
days of wealth. She shivered with horror
as she contemplated the frosty reception,
shrugs, and eye-classifying of Lady An-jersey
and her daughter Georgina, the cool
contempt of the Duchess of Maraschino and
the Princess of Coromandel, the deliberate
cuts ' of her admirers Lord Portmore and
Signor Adagio.

All this tortured Vivian far more than her
brief review of the death-struggle she had
lately witnessed in the prison.

I never could bear it,' she faltered, as
she returned to her white and gold boudoir,
and sat down on her costly gilded chair.

Vivian's triumphs had ended ; and on the
morrow she had a shrewd suspicion that Mr
Warrington, the family lawyer, who had always
disliked her  would present himself at
Prince's Gate, and make unpleasant inquiries
after property, money, and other etceteras.

She laughed at his letters and warnings
and threats, and threw them into the fire.
He had, fortunately for her, been too ill to
leave his house, or she must have endured
one of those visitations which are anything
but blessings in disguise.

It was wonderful how cleverly the girl had
arranged everything to escape at an hour's
notice. Unlike the British army, which

would be making vast efforts to struggle out
of barracks and get its boots on at twenty-four
hours' notice, and then fail in doing
either, Vivian had her boxes packed, and even
labelled, ready for a speedy departure. Cool
and calculating, she had played to win at
all costs.

I shall be rich still,' muttered Vivian,
smoothing her rich black velvet, and trying
the effect of a lace mantilla at her glass.
She was standing in a brooding attitude by
the fire, and thinking of her snug investments
and sundry safe little mortgages. ' I can
laugh at them and defy their malice.'

It is always more satisfactory to laugh in
diamonds and sables  the mirth is more
tuneful ; rags and wretchedness give an odd
twist to the mouth of even beauty.

Vivian had engaged the services of what is
technically termed a sharp lawyer, the sort
of man roguish companies who cheat their
shareholders employ in helping them out of
unpleasant skirmishes and scenes at City
hotels, when hot-headed shareholders howl
for their rights, but in vain, and are offered,
always politely, the proverbial oyster-shell.
This clever rogue of the ' Wholes ' type, who
was playful to smarting clients, but supported
instead of prim daughters in a damp villa,
an indecorous friend with crocus-coloured

hair at St John's wood, was loyal to Vivian
so long as it paid him to remain so, and had
taken a considerable share of responsibility
off her young shoulders.

What a comfort it is to think dear Mr
Levy is so wonderfully far-seeing and sound,'
muttered Vivian, blessing the Israelites
generally, and Mr Levy in particular. ' I
don't wonder Solomon is always quoted as a
miracle of wisdom in his generation, but
could he surpass Mr Levy in his ? '

He it was who had transacted the sales of
her pictures and gems, articles of vertu and
works of art, and had watched consols and
the money-market as anxiously as a father a
dying child.

He it was who had arranged with a kind
friend in Italy to receive the dethroned
heiress, and to hide her, \{ necessary, for a
time in the safe recesses of his marble halls.

As Vivian mused by her boudoir fire, her
servants down below were making merry.
Loudly and noisily were they talking in the
vast recesses of the servants' hall, all except
Tinson, the respectable butler, who was overpowered
with horror and amazement at the
turn affairs had taken, and De Lancy, who
was madly in love, and therefore lost to
earth.

The hour had indeed arrived when, forsaken

by all, jeered at by her servants, and
the laughing-stock of her friends, he could
come forward, like the grand seigneur in the
first act of the ' Two Orphans,' and defy
public opinion.

He only wished that he could woo her in
any form save that of groom. The notion
was gross and even grotesque, but could he
not at least convince her of his fidelity in this
her dark hour confess the truth that he was
indeed that misguided soul  that devotee to
histrionic art who had written to her months
ago in terms of passionate admiration, and
win the prize when denuded of glory and
stripped of all the gaudy allurements of
wealth, rank, and fashion ?

He pictured, with all the imaginative force
of love, her helpless despair, her unutterable
torments.

He knew that she was proud and petulant
like all other adorable spoilt beauties, but De
Lancy had not the least idea of her practicality
and wisdom. Her money had never
influenced him.

He was a mild sort of poet in his way  a
man of far too ideal taste to succeed in a
profession embellished for the most part by
the dreary, dead level of commonplace strugglers
 men who acted for their daily bread,
and he could never be what is termed, in

vulgar parlance, 'a star,' for he lacked intellectual
grasp, but he was a true artist in his
love.

He had stooped to endure insult, reproach,
and shame for Vivian's sake, in order to be
near her, and within the magic circle of her
presence.

It was he who had placed the violets for
her acceptance on the day Lady Annersley
and Georgina had lunched at Prince's Gate,
and it was he alone of all the admirers, flatterers,
and toadies who had paid her homage
in the hours of her triumphant pride who
thought of her with the same  or even more
  yearning, affection, and adoration than ever.

If I could but serve her  if she would but
condescend to confide in me,' the young man
muttered, determined on an interview this
evening with Vivian.

Lord Portmore, on being acquainted later
on with the news at his club, shrugged his
shoulders as he lighted a strong cigar.

Lucky escape, 'pon honour, for both me
and Mallandaine,' his lordship whispered to
a friend, who had once condoled with the
great man when severely snubbed by the
supposed heiress. 'She was an awfully proud
sort of girl, don't you know, and most anxious
to secure my name and title, and  aw ! 
estates in Yorkshire, but nothings like knowing

the exact time to withdraw in these
matters. Ah ! ah ! I don't deny that poor
Httle Vivian, or whatever her name is, had
good points about her  a nice, snake-ike
waist, fine ankles, and capital skin by gaslight,
but she was a regular termagant, I
hear  quite a deuce of a temper ! '

Lord Portmore was one of those agreeable
men who always speak of women with the
same unction with which they allude to wine,
but in this case the grapes had always been
sour for his lordship.

Signor Adagio, when he learnt the news
at the house of the famous Allegretto, who
was giving finishing lessons in singing to'
Georgina Annersley, and had always admired
Vivian, shook his handsome head, and heaved
some tragic and even funereal sighs.

Ah, my Niccolo,' said Allegretto, hitting
the more favoured master playfully in the
ribs, ' that girl vas excellent grist to thy mill !
Thou didst smile a long time ! '

Signor Adagio seemed on the brink of
tears  at least to any one who could not read
the mystery of his expression.

Sapristi ! Vat a fine escape for me and
my famille,' he cried, not liking the vinegar
sauce on his rival's tongue. ' She wished to
marry me, I'm quite sure. Bah ! Des
English are so queer ! If dey vere not so

very rich, I curse clem and der climate, and
der cooking all de day long.'

I think I change my leeds song now,' said
Allegretto, closing one eye. * It vil not improve
my reputation  no, not at all vit stare
ladies. I viddraw my dedication.'

The name of the celebrated grande dame,
the Princess of Coromandel, was at once substituted,
with her kind permission, and poor
Vivian's light soprano notes ran no further
risk of being ruined.

Signor Adagio, in the sacred silence of his
chamber, gazing thoughtfully at some tomato
sauce, and then at a set of fine diamond
studs which Vivian had given him for conducting
a soire during the last season at her
mansion, resolved to sell them, as diamonds
were rising, and burnt the rose he found in
his desk, which she had given him after
supper, and which he had even wept over.

Wot for I want such rubbish ? ' cried the
gifted creature, who manufactured sentimental
songs like enterprising pastrycooks
their light shilling and half-crown cakes. ' I've
too moche of des tings from de vixen.'

So he tossed Vivian's last souvenir in the
fire.

Vivian had descended to the dining-room
for a few minutes with an inward shrinking

VOL. 111. P

of the future, and all she had to dare, and
do, and checkmate, when she was aroused
from her fit of mournful brooding by a gentle
tap at the door.

She called out ' Come In ' with well-assumed
indifference, though tremors ran
through her nerves.

She had arrived at that wretched pass
when she started at every sound, and saw
danger in shadows.

De Lancy entered gracefully, for gesture
and attitude had once formed part of his
daily study as a faded young nobleman of
fashion, and Vivian roused herself from her
trance, drawing a warm shawl hastily over
her shoulders ; a trembling chilliness had
taken possession of her frame.

Why have you come to me ? * she asked
sadly. ' You have heard that I am deposed
and poor. Do you '  hesitating  ' wish to
be paid ? '

The word 'paid' was too much for De
Lancy's self-control.

She could speak of money to him. She,
who was his love, and could rekindle the
sparks of his dormant genius ! Surely this
was the unkindness cut of all to an ardent lover !

He approached his divinity a little nearer,
but timidly, bowing reverently. Vivian was
surprised at his manner, and wondered for a

second if he meant to add to her tortures by
having to be removed in a strait-waistcoat
from Prince's Gate.

What do you mean ? ' she gasped, her hand
on the bell ; she must summon Tinson if he
were really mad.

Dare I speak  dare I address you ?
faltered De Lancy, hoarse with anxiety and
fear. ' Unhappy, but, oh, superbly lovely
creature -radiant as juliet when she first
burst on Romeo s enamoured sight  beautiful
as Catiline when her reproaches maddened
the miserable Melnotte  what words can I,
the man who humbly worships as at a shrine,
utter to convince you of my deep, my hopeless
affection ? Make me your slave  let me
still be your servant  but, oh, do not banish
me from your sight ! '

Vivian's surprise defied description. This
appeal for the moment seemed to her the most
bitter drop she had yet swallowed from the
cup of shame and sorrow.

A room had dared to make a declaration
of his love 1 To what piteous depths had
she not fallen ?

And then, quick as thought, her intellect
warned her that she wanted a friend in her
hour of need  she must not despise the
humblest offering of service at this terrible
climax of affairs.

Clever people know how much good or
harm may be worked by apparently insignificant
means. Did not the cackling of
geese save the Capitol ?

De Lancy would be most useful in aiding
her escape. Her natural cowardice made
her still shrink from attempting anything
hazardous alone. She longed to put many
hundred miles between herself and England,
but to travel by herself, unprotected and
solitary, especially at such a season and under
such circumstances, depressed and even terrified
her.

If you wish to serve me,' Vivian said
cautiously, drawing a deep sigh, ' you may
remain with me for a short time longer, and
help me, but please remember that I am poor ;
you will, therefore, have nothing to gain.'

This, she thought, would be a fair test of
his sincerity and disinterestedness. Vivian
had always calculated  she did so still.

There was a wildness in his answer that
staggered her, but she was too miserable to
feel exasperated by it. She knew the rest
of her life must be embittered by the struggle
to forget Leonard, and many hearts are caught
in rebound. Tossed on a stormy sea, she
grasped the shattered spar that presented itself
to her in the wintry darkness  De Lancy's
devotion.

To gain ?' he repeated, throwing himself
by her side, but not venturing to touch that
priceless treasure, her hand. ' A word from
your lips, a smile from your eyes, is all I
implore, dearest young lady. I am not what
you believe  a low - born groom. I have
been well-educated ; I understand classical
tragedies, melodrama, poetry, and music.
Forgive me ; I went mad and loved you ! '

Loved me ? ' echoed Vivian, looking as
disgusted but more interested than Pauline
when she learnt she had married a gardener.

She was dimly conscious he was very much
in earnest, and that there was more to hear.
De Lancy little guessed the ironical derision
with which she would have banished him
from her sight for ever had she retained her
former position. As it was, she endured him.

Ah, yes, I love you, and in saying this I
must convince you that I am not despicable.
I have studied life and human nature  the
immortal Shakespeare has been my teacher
and friend. Do not despise me, and offer me
derision and scorn. Be kind and pitiful tome,
as was Mary of Scotland to Rizzio. I
am that unhappy actor who wrote to you
months ago, and signed himself De Lancy.
No reply was granted to my impassioned
appeal. I felt I must perish were we never
to meet, so I schemed to be near you. Let

me but have the privilege of serving you or
dying for you ; it is all I ask.'

This torrent of words, delivered with theatrical
finish, but true earnestness, embarrassed
and yet pleased Vivian. He was a nice-looking
fellow she had always thought, although
she doubted his capacity for riding smartly to
hounds over a stiff bit of hill country on a
hunter that pulled sixteen to the dozen, and
this romantic enthusiasm and passion for her
beauty flattered her vanity at a time when it
was sorely bruised, and when all others had
forsaken her.

Unutterable joy seized De Lancy as his
secret was breathed aloud, for the very utterance
of a love confession is sweet, even if
hope must be denied. The crimson light of
the lire played upon her hair and brow, and
on the rich folds of her sombre velvet. A vivid
flush had come into Vivian's cheek, as she
said gently, 

You have been an actor, and wrote to me .
Ah, yes, I remember now. My maid brought
me a note from you, but I always burnt those
absurd sort of things. You silly fellow ! Then
you are not Morton's brother after all ? '

De Lancy had grasped her hand after a
brief struggle, and now he stood upright before
her, forgetting that Vivian was an advanced
specimen of a nineteenth century

girl of fashion, instead of the goddess of
love and beauty his foolish fancy pictured.

No, no ; my father is a landed proprietor,'
he said hurriedly, ' who threatened to disinherit
me were I to go on the stage ; but I
had seen Kean, and the fiery spark of ambition
he kindled in my breast could not be
extinguished. What would my father say
were he to know I have been a groom ? ' De
Lancy writhed, and then flung himself again
before her.

How else could I be near you ? Let me
stay and worship ! '

He was again on his knees in an excellent
melodramatic attitude, and one that told, for
Vivian felt herself on the brink of weeping.
It was the attitude that had drawn tears from
an intelligent audience as he played a distracted
lover or broken-hearted father.

I wish to leave Prince's Gate at once,'
Vivian said, imperiously checking his rhapsodies.
'All those words are, I suppose,
very pretty, especially on the stage, but don't
you think we've almost had enough of them
for to-day ? Will you try and be composed
and practical for my sake ? It would be so
much mere to the purpose, you know, and
perhaps make me like you better.'

Thus chilled and checked, and brought
back to earth by the effect of this moral

douche,' the unhappy De Lancy expressed
himself willing to do everything in his power
to save her.

Then suppose you bring the close
brougham round to the side entrance in about
half-an-hour,' she said slowly. ' Take Perch
with you on the box  he will help with the
luesfaee and brings the carriage back. I wish
to be in Paris ere noon tomorrow.'

Vivian bean to shiver aoain, and turned
very pale as she spoke. The step she must
take was a very serious one. Hdr pride and
dignity alike revolted. To leave England
with De Lancy must compromise her fatally,
but she must cling to some one, and his
affection and devotion had touched her by
their truth.

When we are disappointed, and life is buta
desert, cheered by rippling brook or
songs of birds, the love of the poorest creature
living is valued.

Vivian's existence had hitherto been a
whirl of pleasure, and joy of some kind was
necessary to her being. She had no very
delicate tastes or refined sense of honour.
She meant to plunge into a giddy whirl of
dissipation abroad, and forget Leonard. A
lover amused her, and she had been flattered
by De Lancy's outburst. How he must have
loved her, to be sure, to risk displeasing his

Ov")

father and resign all chance of fame on the
stage to be near her. She was almost glad,
for the first time since her agony began, not
to find herself Lady Portmore or Madame
Adagio.

De Lancy's gratitude for her kindness in
allowing him to assist her expressed itself in
looks. Vivian permitted him once to lift her
hand to his lips.

What a pity it is I am so poor,' she said,
craftily watching his expression with her
eager eyes.

I bless heaven for the poverty and
wretchedness that have overtaken you,' he
interposed. ' How else could I have had
the privilege of serving you ? Dethroned,
you are still my queen. What though your
robes are soiled and the sceptre wrenched
from your grasp ? Are you not still, like
Cornelia 

Most rich, being poor ;
Most choice, forsaken ; and most loved, despised?'

But we shall want so much money to
live nicely in Paris,' she said ; ' apartments,
suppers, wines, cigarettes, theatres, toilettes,
operas. Ah, what would I give not to have
lost my fortune and the inheritance I thought
was mine ! '

I will work for you ; I will return to the

stage,' said De Lancy, with magnificent
effect. ' You shall thrill with joy at the
plaudits and ovations your lover v/ill receive.
His genius will be lit by the immortal spark
of love ; if they wept at my delineation of
pathos before I knew you, why, they shall
faint at the fury, sublimity, and passion I
can now bring to my parts. Oh, Vivian, my
future is at your mercy. Do not let loss of
gold trouble you. I will make you a position
in the world that shall bring princes to our
home.'

He really is sincere,' Vivian thought admiringly.
' How surprised he will be when
he learns that I am still rich ! '

She was doing her best to forget Captain
Mallandaine. His rejection and contempt
rankled in her mind. If her pride must be
humbled by the force of circumstances, why
not let De Lancy console her ?

There was logic and philosophy in the
reflection.

She would be very lonely in Paris without
a protector, and she meant to enjoy herself
to her heart's content.

Vivian's was a stony nature, and now that
she was indignant and smarting under a
sense of wrong she had grown reckless.

De Lancy, with flaming eyes and a dark
flush on his brow, was decidedly a handsome

man, and then how he adored her ! She had
won him, too, without traps or artifices.

Why should I not please myself,' muttered
Vivian, calculating still, but too excited to
think of danger, ' when I have fifty thousand
pounds to pay for my pleasures, mistakes and
follies ? '

WEDDING BELLS.

HE well-meaning: tenants of Brooks-mere
were compelled to postpone
their rejoicing and festivities, and
abandoned the suggestion made
by certain jovial spirits in their midst that
bonfires and illuminations should be lit on
distant hills in honour of Captain Allan
nuptials.

The tenants were but mortal, and as their
lives were uniformly dull, they had looked
forward to various merry-makings in the
village as giving an additional flavour to
Christmas joys. A bitter sense of disappointment
cast anything but a cheerful glow
over their spirits, and they began to speculate
on what was the nature of this shameful
secret and disgrace in which Vivian was implicated
in rather strong language, and lacking
the sweet; silvery ring of Devonian tones.

I thought we'd 'ave 'ad a chance of setting
the church bells a-ringin' to-day,' one smiling
rustic remarked to another, wheeling a barrow
into the village of Brooksmere; 'but summit's
up, they do say, and squire he's that 'forty
he'd like capt'n to bring over a princess fora
bride to Stupefied.'

I've 'heard this young gal is proved a
nurse's child,' was the answer, ' and that
wouldn't suit the Mallandaine pride, though
love, they say, levels everything, but the
gentry like to keep to themselves.'

The news had only spread as yet in meagre
quantities, and the tenants suspended judgment
on the case till further intelligence
arrived.

Some mentioned how gracefully Vivian
had waltzed, and how exquisitely she had
been dressed when she shone before them
in the nicely decorated barn, and waved her
lace-edged handkerchief from the top of a
bench draped in scarlet.

But when a more detailed account of the
affair at Prince's Gate reached their ears,
and they read Mrs Sidewing's confession in
the prison, and heard of the escape of the
supposed heiress, who had so nearly won her
dangerous game, and made a victim of Captain
Mallandaine, they were only too glad to
think that their idol had escaped the clutches

of that awful young person, and longed to
congratulate the real heiress with all the
warmth of an honest welcome.

It was wonderful news to talk over at their
firesides ; and even the rector and the elite of
the gentry found themselves discussing the
matter with an ardour and clan that was
usually strictly limited to parochial affairs or
village scandals.

Diggers at the Roebuck did a roaring
trade, being assailed and surrounded by
swarms of customers, for he had known
Robert Sidewing, who was involved in the
conspiracy, and who was in turn pitied asa
dupe, and then again reviled as an aider
and abettor in the crime.

Grumbling old women, who had dreamt of
red flannel, varied by unlimited cups of tea
and rows of currant buns, on being told the
wedding festivities had to be postponed,
shook their old heads at each other over
high mahogany pews, and said almost
simultaneously 

The Lord's will be done, of course,
but 'twas all very different when I was a
girl-some

of the well-to-do farmers' wives,
however, sent them slices of warm Christmas
pudding and hot mince-pies, as a slight compensation
to their wounded souls for their

missed joys, but as it made them ill and
upset the proper workings of their frozen
livers for a week, they had some cause for
grievance, as they questioned the due proportion
of cheap sultanas, treacle, and suet,
wondering drearily if the ways of Providence
were as mysterious as the compounds of
mince-meat.

Squire Mallandaine and his wife at Staple-field
Hall secretly rejoiced at the ddnottcnient
that had taken place, and which was indeed
the talk of the fashionable world.

They had always disliked Vivian, who was
too cold and artificial for their taste, and
found Nellie far more gentle and lovable.

The confession of the nurse in prison did
away with all necessity of a trial. Nellie took
possession of her rights after the delay of a
few weeks, during which various legal matters
were arranged, and after staying some time
with Squire Mallandaine and his wife at
Stupefied Hall, was received and accepted
everywhere as Mr Branscombe's daughter.

She was very leniently disposed towards
her rival, and extremely averse to any harsh
means being used where Vivian was concerned,
so that the nurse's child might consider
herself exceptionally lucky as she went
in the most reckless and extravagant of costumes
to various opera balls in Paris, and

shone amid a crowd of beauties as a bright,
particular star.

This plunge into a whirl of gaiety and excitement
suited her temperament admirably.
It was even a relief to feel that the life of
deception she had led for some months past
was at an end, and she expressed herself so
enchanted with the associations and cheeriness
of continental life, that she had no wish
to return to the hardly inspiriting existence
of life in a suburban villa in England, and
already drank her pint of wine at breakfast
like a true Parisian.

Mrs Rudersheim has been more anxious
about the wedding dress and the breakfast
than the state of the weather or Nellie's
nerves  for ever since the girl succeeded to
her rights there has been a steady and increasing
stream of visitors to the mansion,
an.! the cards that have been left have almost
overwhelmed Tinson, and made him seem
to shrink under the combined weight of respectability
and pasteboard.

Leonard's numerous relations, connections,
and friends were anxious to welcome and
recognise Mr Branscombe's long-lost daughter
and heiress, and Mr Branscombe's relations
and friends appeared equally anxious to do
the same.

Mrs Rudershelm was equal to the occasion,
and what with dinner parties, balls, and receptions,
found her place no sinecure.

There was so much fashionable visiting,
dressing, and entertaining going on, that the
lovers hardly ever found themselves alone.
Nellie grew at last wearied of hospitality
and display, and often wished she could retire
from the garish light upon her path, but the
world, being duly impressed with the splendour
of her fortune and beauty, and having
due regard for the brilliant friends and connections
of Captain Mallandaine, would not
desist in its attentions, and Nellie seemed
hardly to have a minute to herself.

She had begged for a quiet wedding, but
no one would hear of or permit such an
absurdity. Wedding presents were to be
literally showered on the fortunate yf<;/.

Lovely girls, some fair as snowdrops
by the first greeting of the sun,
others dark and flowing as the buds in a
Spanish wood in summer, were chosen as
bridesmaids, and Leonard found himself buying
handsome gold lockets for these expectant
nymphs at Messrs Hunt & Russell's establishment
with a recklessness that even aroused
the admiration of the apparently immovable
individual behind the counter, who opened
case after case of brilliant ornaments.

VOL. III. o

We shall appreciate the luxury of being-alone
together by and-by, my darling,'
Leonard was saying, as Nellie looked quite
pale and tired from the continual excitement
and strain of the last few weeks. ' Think of
tomorrow, when all the fuss is over, and
none can intrude, and we can shut out the
world at last.'

Happy, indeed, is the husband who feels
himself a lover ! Many men are lovers who
never will be husbands, but there was no disloyalty
or falseness in this union, no bitter
memories, disillusions, or regrets here intruded
to darken the glory and sacredness of the
wedding-day.

Our love has been a romance indeed,'
Nellie said, looking up at his smiling face.
It was by so mere a chance that we ever
met. If I had not wandered that hot day,
sick at heart and tired of everything, down
Regent Street, we might have been strangers
all our lives.'

Yes, my dearest ; out of evil, you see,
good often comes,' Leonard answered thoughtfully.
' Your dear, pale face haunted me for
days after you fainted in the street ; it seemed
to soothe and fascinate me like music. I
thought at first it was but a foolish fancy,
born of pity, but when we met again a kind
of spell drew me to you. Your dim, faint

eyes met mine in a trance that breathed of
love, as they do now, NelHe, when your lips
have uttered the tenderest words of trust
and affection

He remembered how this wild love of
hers had changed everything for him 
how sorrowful and dull all had seemed in his
life before she had taken possession of his
thoughts  what vague and bitter speculations
he had yielded to relating to the sad and
seamy side of things in general before love
came and illumined his path like an angel of

By this time tomorrow, Nellie, you will
be my wife he whispered, ere leaving her.

The girl remained undisturbed in her happy
reverie some time before she again heard her
mother's voice, but a few minutes after Leonard
had departed a visitor was announced.

Nellie, looking up suddenly, was surprised
to see the eccentric being who was associated
with her earlier life of misery and privation 
Gustave Lepelletier, Marquis de Rocheville.

Mori Diet, has he really gone at last ? '
asked the marquis, stealing in on tiptoe, and
laughing softly, ' because then I shall feel
more safe. I should be sorry to be called
upon to shed his blood, par exemple, and notre
cher Leonard can be very fierce. Well, petite
blonde ait yeiix bleux ' and, how are we ?

Rich, lovely, courted ! Ah, del, what daughter
of Eve could desire more ? '

He had drawn a crimson satin arm-chair
from a recess, and was holding out a perfectly
gloved hand. The effect of his cosmetics
was less striking to-day, and an odour of
fine perfume filled the air as he waved his
cambric handkerchief to and fro.

Nellie had always felt grateful to Levelled
for he had been invariably kind to her.
paying for her education at the Misses Robes
in a capricious fit of benevolence, besides being
profuse in promises.

I am very glad to see you again,' Nellie
said eagerly ; ' I always wished to thank you.'

The marquis protested against all injudicious
and impulsive gratitude by gently swinging
his grey kid glove before Nellie's face with
a pensively reproachful shake of the head.

He had now, as ever, a very wholesome
dread of Captain Mallandaine, who had always
spoken to him in a tone suggestive of ' pistols
and coffee at four in the morning,' and the
marquis had no desire to be coolly slaughtered
in the early dawn like a white ferret it was no
one's particular interest to kill.

After having witnessed that tete-astute between
Nellie and the captain in Regent
Street, the marquis, like a wise man, resigned
all his mischievous little plans and projects

in which NelHe had once figured. He felt,
indeed, no further desire to interfere in the
girl's career when she had so fiery a lover as
Leonard to protect her, for the marquis had
never disgraced himself as a clumsy bungler
in his amotcrettes, and perhaps he had worked
Leonard as much injury as he cared to
effect. But he had, as ever, a warm and
sincere admiration for Nellie  a genuine
friendship, as being more prudent, having
recently taken the place of more ardent and
lover-like feelings.

Is it possible that I have to congratulate
Miss Branscombe ? ' he went on. ' Ciel, it is
surprising what changes, what events in this
strange life of ours ! Ah, Nellie, you smile ;
believe me, something more than mere vulgar
curiosity has prompted my visit. I've been
longing to congratulate you on the restoration
to your rights. The clubs are full of the
matter. So the other poor little bird has
flown.'

He alluded to Vivian, and glanced round
the magnificent room with a sigh.

Was he thinking of another who had once
reigned here in her beauty and grace ?
Did that sorrowful ghost of his past, Laura
Branscombe, the woman he had destroyed,
return for an instant to his memory, ere
banishing it to the shades of Lethe } But

he was a Frenchman  a bright, sunny, mercurial
being, now that he had money, a title,
and the weather was warm. He disliked
to recall his victims, especially in May time ;
he banished them from his thoughts, and
speedily.

To-morrow will be my wedding - day
Nellie said, with a vivid blush. ' It seems
as wonderful, doesn't it, as the knowledge
that I am  '

Poor Branscombe's daughter and heiress,'
said the marquis. ' Sapristi ! that was a
singularly ill-used man all his life ; he was the
sport of fate when he should have defied it
as I do.'

The marquis tapped his well-padded chest,
and regarding himself in an opposite mirror,
seemed perfectly satisfied with the fit of the
celebrated army tailor, who had the honour
of supplying his clothes.

A man who can speculate on fate and the
effect of a new mixture of Scotch tweed almost
simultaneously must be above all life's
petty ills.

As I expect to be many months away
from England, my dear,' he said, grave now
almost to sadness, ' I've called to leave you a
small souvenir of my regard and friendship
in the form of a little wedding present'

This, so far, was practical and pleasant.

Nellie looked surprised. The black spikes of
his well-trained moustache were bending over
something carefully swathed in pink wadding.

The marquis gently removed the wadding
and displayed a very beautiful statuette called
The Sleep of Innocence.' It was a really
splendid work of art, and he explained the
various beauties in its composition with the
skill of a critic. Nellie expressed herself
delighted with the gift.

It was a pleasure to him to be able to bid
her good-bye with the consciousness that he
had never harmed her, whatever his intentions
to the contrary might once have been.

Ae was minor hij  in fact, he meant to
reform ; and as he devoted a considerable
portion of his time to literary composition
and the abstruse studies of mesmerism, and
had some really better promptings, besides
being anxious to embrace his children, to
whom he was a comparative stranger, he
resolved to join his wife at Naples, and
Madame la Marquise was more astonished
at the intelligence that her husband meant to
pass the summer months in her company, than
she had been at the alarming difficulties she
had experienced in learning to read and write.

One of the peculiar characteristics of the
distinguished Frenchman, was his indomitable
cheerfulness and bonhomie under the most

aggravated circumstances. He spoke now
of the endearments of family ties and joys
with the air of a social philosopher, or a
disciple of Lamartine.

He was no longer the typical vaurien  the
counterpart of a M. de Clamours  the mocking
fiend his enemies and his own fancy sometimes
painted ; he was the serenely repentant
grand seigneur, softly melancholic and sentimental,
with a soul above bought titles and
false rank, who, having found all things vanity,
yearned for the beautiful calm of home.

How long would penitence last, and
Madame la Marquise be again lowered, this
time without her black hair, from a window ?

Such men are problems to themselves as
well as to others  witty, intellectual, and
surfeited with dissipation, there is something
fatal in their influences.

Feverish excitement, however, tells on the
finest constitution, so let all lonely marquises
hope their repentant spouses may yet reappear,
anxious for forgiveness and reconciliation
as they plead med culpa, while their children
stare in amazement at the father whose
acquaintance they have but recently made.

If not one of the brightest ornaments of
the holy estate, we may be sure the marquis
returned to its sacred precincts a sadder and
a wiser man.

When the fugitives found themselves on
French soil the morning following their
escape from England, De Lancy was considerably
astonished at Vivian ordering the
coachman to drive them to the Grand Hotel,
for he knew from past experience that the
elegant dinners and charming rooms there
provided for the comfort and enjoyment of
visitors could only be procured at a certain
tariff, which, if moderate, was decidedly above
what he believed Vivian could afford.

How could the simple-minded young man
gauge the depths of a woman's schemes  a
woman, too, far from being patient and long-suffering
when performing her part in life's
drama on the pleasant bread and milk of
poverty ?

Vivian might suffer a smart dose of misery
and shame, but she had escaped the lion's
jaws, at any rate, and could order dinners and
rooms at fashionable hotels as if she were
still a wealthy heiress who defied the world.

The lovers who laughed at her poor pretensions
might have been very glad to pounce
on her pretty fortune had they only known
how much she had saved ; but Vivian resolved
to ' run dark,' as she called it, for sometime
lenten

As far as the name of marriage went, she
respected it, and held it in wholesome reverence

and dread, but for the value of the tie
itself she had a very poor opinion.

She knew how her miserable mother had
been deserted ; she had seen in high life
many lively specimens of first-class gentlemanly
sinners who cast their wives adrift
without the modest allowance of even five
shillings a week, but Vivian valued the homage
and devotion of this lover who believed

<z>

her poor, as only a worldly woman can, and
she thought of his delighted surprise when
she proclaimed her wisdom and prudence
in his ear over some nicely selected little
banquet, where champagne flowed and artistic
cookery and millinery added renewed flavour
to the cup of life.

Such a good fellow must be rewarded
thought Vivian, smiling as he entreated her
not to be imprudent, but consider her means
and his own, ' for his devotion is as rare as it
is noble.'

You can never afford the luxuries of the
Grand Hotel,' he was saying, as the cab
rolled on.

Vivian laughed heartily.

I feel so much safer once away from that
hateful old barrack at Prince's Gate,' she
said, shrugging her pretty shoulders, ' now
all here is nice and free and easy. How
surprised they'll be to find I have run away,

and who will pay the servants their wages, I
wonder ? '

That mutinous, mocking laughter sounded
very sweet and fascinating to the enamoured
De Lancy. He was, outwardly, blue and
purple with cold, but his heart was a fiery
volcano, and beat tempestuously in his breast.
His dark cloud had at last discovered its
silver lining. Vivian had promised to become
his wife !

I'm quite longing for a nice hot cup of
coffee and a bjiochc at the hotel,' said Vivian,
shivering under her costly Russian sables.
Don't worry about money and all that. I've
quite enough to meet present expenses. And
you are going to be a second Kean, you know.'

She laughed again, this time to herself,
remembering how very moderate would be
her hopes of wearing fine toilettes if they
depended upon the efforts of even genius in
an age such as this. Mr Levy, in London,
watching foreign stock and the money market,
was far better to depend onas an ally in danger
which wanted a strong-minded person to meet.

Listen, lion ami,' Vivian said, with a
touch of her old imperious manner, ' I have
been very ill-used, but I've known, at least,
how to take care of myself, if no one else did,
and rise above the mercy of the world and
society. I am still rich, Alfred; there's no need

of a subscription. Don't stint yourself in your
Beaune and Chateau Lafitte. Nothing like
checkmating an impending Nemesis in time.'

De Lancy almost fell off the cushion of the
cab in his surprise. The financial part of the
business had worried him painfully as they
journeyed along, but as he knew Vivian was
in earnest, a weight seemed suddenly lifted
from his spirits. Wealthy still. It was marvellous
 so marvellous, that it quite abashed
the impecunious young man.

I had so longed to work for you, my
beloved,' he whispered faintly, ' and now 
I know not what to say.'

There is nothing to say, Alfred, but
plenty to do,' answered Vivian archly, patting
him on the arm. * We're going to be awfully
happy together, you and 1, and my money
will pay for luxuries without your trying to
please a generous and appreciative public at
present. And here we are at the Grand
Hotel, Alfred. Take my purse, pay the cocker y
and give him a handsome /?/r-6>2r.'

De Lancy found his legs by a miracle, a
crimson glow spread itself over his face, and
the former blue and purple tints faded away.
She had called him Alfred. His idol was
rich ! For once were sincerity, devotion,
and homage rewarded as they deserved.

De Lancy was not left long to sigh in vain.

Vivian found him so useful and indispensable
to her comfort, besides being a charming-lover
and companion, that she soon rewarded
him with her hand, and as Madame de Lancashire
in Parisian society as one of those
dl(gantes arcs distinguish who can appreciate
the pleasures of continental life without any insular
prejudices and tastes interfering to lessen
their enjoyment. They lived in a very beautiful
mignonette not far from Paris ; Vivian
drove a pair of magnificent thoroughbreds
in the Bois-de-Boulogne, had a box at the
opera, and carte-blanche at a court dressmaker's,
while De Lancy cultivated the
Muses, and studied dramatic art from a
French point of view with some of those great
luminaries of the profession he had always
till now respectfully admired at a distance.

There is a certain broken-down old man who
has slowly sunk from bad to worse. Robert
Sidewing has taken to drinking heavily
whenever he can get the chance, and the
consequence is that he is more than half-way
advanced towards the union. In vain he
writes imploring letters for assistance to his
daughter, asking her piteously if she wishes
to hear that her poor old father is being
literally starved to death.

Vivian flippantly enclosed him the clever

fable of La Fontaine, which bids the luckless
grasshopper which danced all the summer
sing now ' when the evil days of winter have
overtaken it.

Bob wept at the cruel irony here displayed,
and provoked and maddened beyond
endurance, told her plainly that her father's
death would lie at her door. Bob, however,
had no intention of putting an end to even
so lean and gruesome an existence as his
own so long as he could scrape enough pence
to buy a pipe of tobacco and a glass. Drink,
with its attendant realities, poverty and
shame, had been his ruin. He had been
clever, but alcohol had sapped his mind, and
reduced him to the level of a feeble, gossiping
old man, with a vulgar swagger and an
empty pocket, left in his old age to herd with
paupers, and be denied all the respect and
ease so dear to the aged.

Bob Sidewine was one of those victims to
alcohol who are particularly pitiable when
ill-health and poverty arrive, and when at last
that harsh step-mother, the parish, drew him
to her anything but maternal breast, and he
fully realised the delights of sweet and cheap
charity, no more bitter tears ever streamed
down wrinkled cheeks than his, as he told
everybody who took the trouble to listen to
him, 

I'd have been a fine actor if I'd only had
a chance. 'Tis pitiful, truly, for a man of
genius to come to such a sorry end as this.'

Good-natured people would pat the miserable
old man on the back as they offered him
tobacco, morally convinced that this verbose
old pauper was somewhat 'cranky.'

Nellie's wedding morn broke into a clear,
balmy spring day  one of those joyous May
mornings when the responsibility of a wedding
feast, speeches, and sentiments seems
lessened by the glow of the surrounding
atmosphere. Leonard and Nellie had let
the winter drift on and be passed In happy
wooing, leaving them to the sweet delights
of mutual dreaming, ere love's sunlight in the
spring shone upon their wedding-day.

St George's, Hanover Square, is the
sanctuary In which many couples are made
one, but the sombre lio-ht through its windows
never streamed on a happier pair than the
lovers who knelt to-day before its altar, and
rarely had so lovely a bride been seen there
as Nellie In her white dress, orange-blossoms
and Honiton lace veil. For true love, which
gives touches of beauty to even plain girls,
imparted a certain majesty and divinity to
Nellie's girlish loveliness and grace.

So between smiles and tears, like the

shadows and sunshine of an April morn,
Nellie knelt by Leonard's side at the altar,
and was made his wife.

They love each other, and by that magic
light earth is a Paradise.

Later on, when the wedding breakfast and
speeches are over, and a considerable amount
of emotion has been expended, Nellie, in a
dove-coloured silk travelling dress and hat to
match, finds the carriage and pair whirl them
down Regent Street, and points to the spot
where she first saw Leonard.

Yes, my dearest,' he answers, gazing for a
second on the vast crowd surging to and fro,
it was here we met, and the sweet romance
of our lives began, for these arms, Nellie,
that drew you from that Regent Street pavement,
have now the right to hold you fast forever.'


