CHAPTER I.

Marry, sir, I am helping you to mar what God made ;
a poor unhappy brother of yours, with idleness.'

As You Like It.

Yes, sir, you will be very comfortable
at Lynion. It's a sraall inn, but Mrs. Fall
is a nice woman, and will see you have
everything right. Yes, Mr. Nugent.'

So in the sad minor that belongs
to all Cornish folk, as through long attuning
to the sob of the sea, the wail
of the wind, spoke the landlady of the
inn at Carnwith, a small fishing village

VOL. 1. B

on the Cornwall coast, to her one guest,
a young man of about thirty-two, with
a keen, handsome brown face and well-set
figure, ready for a walking excursion of
some length ; knickerbocker suit, knapsack
on back, and sketching tools under
arm.

'You've spoilt me, I'm afraid, Mrs.
Blencowe,' he returned, flinging away
his cigarette end over the pang of the
rough little terrace outside the house,
and leaning on the rail thereof. ' You
don't think we shall have rain ? '

Vain ? No, sir ; I'm not much at
weather-telling, but I don't think it will
rain awhile yet.'

Nugent looked out at the little cove,
in which the village nestled against the

orchards and corn-fields running up the
valley, behind the inn and score of
cottages which made up the sum of
Carmvitli. Everything was clear in the
sunlight of this first summer day  summer
before its time, for the end of May was
not yet. The dull red of the serpentine
chris took a richer depth against the dazzle
of the waves ; the cottages built on the
steep slope leading up by a winding ]path
to the brow of the cliff stood out white
or softer grey from the fields behind,
whose green sky-line cut sharply the
blue above, scarcely softened by the
ragged row of trees, all levelled at the top,
as by a knife, and bent towards the east ;
their strange stunting speaking, like the
voices of the people, of stormy winds rush

2

ing across the table-land from the wide
Atlantic  a continual memory, even in
softest summer, of bleakness and struggle.

There was no other hint to-day in
the scene of anything but glad spring ;
over the grey-green of the distant headlands
the long sweeps of sun and shadow
chased each other, deepening and softening
the forms of the coast ; and the sea was
clear as a new-washed beryl, with the
light blown over it in drifting sheets of
silver. Nugent was very much inclined
to stay where he was, and give up his
proposed tramp to Lynion, at least for today.
But when a man is free to follow
his own will, he has a certain shame in
changing it ; so, after a pause of indecision,
he said 

*I shall go. You'll expect me when

you see mc, Mrs. Blencowe ; some time tomorrow,
I suppose.'

Iladu't you best have a little lunch
first, sir ? ' put in his hostess nervously and
suggestively. ' There's scarce a house between
this and Lynion, and it's a matter
of fourteen miles.'

Thank you, it's not a bad idea, though
I've hardly forgotten breakfast yet.'

Mrs. Blencowe was content with this
half-permission, and in ten minutes Nugent
was summoned to his repast, surprised to
find how his appetite revived at the sight
of lobster, cold sirloin, and the golden
crescent of an omelette, brought in with
the pride of a true artist by the hostess
herself. Lie uncorked this bottle of J3ass,
and then, by the aid of knives, forks, and
spoons, diverted from their rightful uses

to those of topography, endeavoured, in
answer to his questions, to give him some
idea of his way across the waste moorland
which spread over the table-land between
Carnwith and Lynion.

You'll take the St. Osyth road, sir, at
the top of the hill, till you come to a place
where three paths start out so '  placing
forks in illustration ; ' and when they
separate again, so '  here two spoons were
set at right angles to each other, and so on,
till a winding array of table implements
joined together stopped short at the edge
of the table, leaving Nugent far more
puzzled than before.

'There, sir, you're sure you see your
way now, but whatever you do, don't come
back across the heath after dark, for fear
of the old shafts.'

Nugent looked u]) a little startled. ' I
didn't know there were any mines about
here.'

No more there are ; not that have
been worked, as folk can tell of; but the
old shafts, part of the country about
Lynion, are thick as rabbit-holes, and it's
easy enough to stray, even for people who
know the road. I never like to think how
many may have met their death in the
dark that way, and no one know of it till
the judgment.'

Mrs. Blencowe was a pale, thin woman,
with a melancholy, quiet face and eyes
which always looked scared. Now, as her
fancy called up the horror her monotonous
voice told of, her gaze grew wide as with
its vision  the confused straying across the
black moors under the moonless sky, the

stumbling steps in the tall, tangled heather,
the slip, and then the clutch and grasp for
life at the edge of the shaft, or the sudden
step over, and then the one shriek hurtling
up through the silence and thick darkness
of the pit.

I'll take care,' the young man answered
after a short pause. ' I suppose it's all
right by day. Well'  as he took his
sketching-easel, folded up into the form of
a staff  ' good-bye again.'

The way lay inland, up the valley, past
the orchards, which were as one rough sea
of rose-white foam, and the corn-fields,
where the wheat was yet thin and green.
Down below, from where a tiny stream
laughed on its way to the sea, came
the cry of a cuckoo from amongst trees,
deep-coughed and thick with leaves, in

sharp contrast to their brethren on the
hill-top, whose maimed hie was the outcome
of constant resistance to a power
from which they had no shelter, and wliicli
had robbed them aUke of beauty joy, and
use.

Yet even they would have been a relief
in the kmdscape which faced Nugent, at
the turn of the road, where it led across
the moors. There was yet no hint of the
purple glory of the heather mingled with
paler hues, as delicate as those of a pearly
shell, in the dry blossoms of last year, that
had endured all the storms of the winter,
and still rustled brown and dead on their
stems, lending a livid tint to the heath,
except where the gorse spread in a sheet
of green and gold, as gorgeous as a Paul
Veronese brocade. Here and there, in the

distance, could be seen a grey stone cottage
or hut, but even these disappeared, and all
around the young man was the wide moorland,
so lonely, it would have been sad but
for the blue gladness of the sky, the free
salt breeze, the ecstasy of a mounting lark.
As it was, the sun and air and shining
sea, of which Nugent caught glimpses
every now and then, exhilarated the
senses, and his steps grew longer, his
feeling of enjoyment keener, as the miles
of heath spread between himself and
Carnwith.

He had been in Cornwall more than
three weeks, wandering as he would from
place to place, and well content with the
impulse which had led him to forsake
town early in May for the purpose of a
month's energetic sketching, an intention

which lead been better fulfilled than such
resolves on Nugent's part always were.
Had he been poor, he might have done
much as a painter ; even now his work was
that of an artist, his love of it too real not
to make him a stern critic of its results ;
but the tyranny of a good income had
fettered him, by depriving him of the
wholesome and stern need of continual
exertion, and by leaving him free to follow
his own devices. The younger son of a
banker, who dying had left his children
well provided with this world's goods,
Stephen Nugent, as a lad, had passed
through school and coUeje before he
realised, through the pleasant crowding of
such a boy's existence, that the attempt to
arrest the beauty around him  the * 
dock ! Du hist so schu/i,' of which

the painter's instinct is an eternal expression
 might have been for him  as he
thought, still might prove  at once life's
truest work and deepest delight. But the
cares of this world, or its pleasures, and
the deceitfulness of riches had their usual
effect, in preventing a habit of work,
though not hindering more or less continued
spurts of effort, which showed that,
had Nugent not been encumbered by
2,000/. a year and the pleasant active
idleness which would often appear the
necessary consequence of such an income
with a young man, he might have accomplished
much that many men would have
held well worth achieving.

Not, however, that it would have had
much value in the eyes of his eldest
brother, who, ensconced in their father's

chair in the bank, grumbled out that * that
confounded daubing had been Steve's ruin.
If he'd gone into the army or the bar, now,
he would have had something to think
about ; or if he'd taken the share in the
bank, of which he had had the choice ; but
as it was, he'd never settle to anything, and
when he wanted to marry, he wouldn't find
his money go so far after all '  a natural
conclusion from a man whose own income
was steadily increasing, and who hoped to
find himself on the right side of 20,000/. a
year before he died.

Stephen held his own way, a pleasant
one than that of his elder brother, though
not so directly profitable to himself. If
now and then he had a rather dreary
conviction that the best years of his life
were drifting away in an aimless fashion,

he did not choose his brother George as
confessor ; and as the vague, ardent hopes
and impulses of boyhood faded farther and
farther away into the past, and his manhood
settled into the groove circumstances
and himself had made for it, the more
surely he felt the strength a definite aim
would have given him, the more certainly
he knew each year withdrew farther from
him the possibility of such an aim. The ends
which have value to an ambitious boy lose
it to a man who has passed thirty, unless
they have been steadily kept in view for
years as his goal.

Somewhere after this manner were
Nugent's meditations, as he followed the
narrow footpath between the gorse and
heather, with no change in the view for
miles, till the sea, of which he had lost

sight, shone again in the distance against
the soft willow tints of the slopes of the
headlands, and the black and red and
purple brown of their cliffs. He halted,
the silent happiness of the scene filling his
heart. The solitude was only broken by
the speck of a ship on the horizon, and the
sense of human Use so far away did not
break the spell. Nugent had met no
single soul, all the way from Carnwith
until now.

There was a figure in front of him,
crossing the moor, but whether advancing
in his direction, or following, as he was, the
road to Lynion, Nugent could not for a few
moments decide ; it was so far off, too far
yet fur him to be sure if it were man or
woman. Another minute and he saw it
was a woman, drawing nearer to him, her

form thrown out darkly against the radiance
of the sea and sky. He could not yet
see if she were young or old, but her movement
struck him ; she came on swiftly,
steadily, as blown by an even, resistless
wind, borne on with that charm of free
motion which is rare in Englishwomen.
As she approached, Nugent saw she was
young, a tall, slender figure, the grace of
strength and beauty visible in form, as in
gait ; her simply made gown of rough,
dark blue serge did not conceal how fine
where the long lines of her figure, of throat
and shoulder and arm, and then he found
she was beautiful. It was like coming
on some tall, wonderful flower in bloom
among the sere heather, to meet her on
this desolate moor ; a girl of about twenty,
clear-featured, level-browed, whose great JV

grey eyes looked out straight, neither
proud nor abashed, glad nor sad, but with
what was like fierceness in their answering
gaze, as in the set curve of the beautiful
lips and the head's poise on the rounded
shaft of throat and neck. Something as
Nugent fancied, of untamed, unconscious
maidenhood it was that gave forbiddingness
to her fairness, a mute defiance, which
withheld liii from asking her if he were on
the riijht road, with the instinct of human
fellowship which comes to most men and
women, meeting one another in a surrounding
solitude, and prevented his even lifting
his hat as she passed him, almost as unknowing
of his presence.

Involuntarily he turned to watch lier
retreating figure, secure from her looking
back. 'Queen and huntress chaste and

VOL. I. C

fair' echoed in his mind, but she was not
regnant enough for Artemis. Her face,
when she was close to him, meant, not
calm, but unrest, fixed as the features
were.

Odd,' he reflected. ' How differently
one sees things when one has nothing todo
but look at them ! If I had met with
the face in a street, or theatre, or any
crowd, I should just have said, " Very fine,"
and no more. As to beating my brain as
to what her eyes mean, and what she is
like Never mind ; I'll humour myself.'


Wherewith he sat down on one of the
boulders with which the heath was strewn,
and opened his sketch-book. He had a
knack of catching the likeness of a face
from memory, even if seen once only, and

he trir<l to set down this nrl's, as it had
Hashed fully on him in j)assin<i:.

As might have been expected, in the
effort to recall the expression he produced
Avhat was almost a caricature. Yet it was
like ; it brought her back so that he burst
out laughing, when the tense mouth and
the large eyes faced him, as if angry at
being conjured up against their own will,
and so defiant of Nugent's power over
them.

She wouldn't be flattered,' he thought.
ni tear it up.' lie looked at it again,
and the defiant gaze forbade him. 'No, it
will remind me. It's awfully bad, but no
matter. What's done is done.'

C 2

Chapter II.

Fool. * Oh nuncle, court holy-water in a dry house is
better than this rain-water out of door.  King Lear.

Lynion proved a delight to Nugent, being
unlike any part of Cornwall lie had yet
seen, in its stern ruggedness ; the great
caves ; the mingled tints of their roofs,
shining and wet in the gleam of the torches
kindled beneath them ; the creamy softness
of the stretches of sand left by the tide ;
the long Hne of each strong Atlantic roller,
as it swept in ; the sunlight striking through
the curl of its crest, before it broke, then
flashing and mingling in a crash, with the
white of the foam. He wished he had

intended to make a longer stay. If, instead
of these eternal sketches, one could paint
a whole picture on the spot, it might be
something like ; but to think one could
remember the drawing of those cries, with
only these nine-inch splashes to remind one
of the whole thing, was nonsense. At any
rate, he should stay there two days. Mrs.
Blencowe's prediction, that he would be
made very comfortable at Lynion, was, he
owned to himself, quite fulfilled ; and the
next morning he set forth to work pretty
early  to find the tide high, and the sketch
he had intended of the mouth of the cave
impossible.

He turned up a steep path, leading
along the cliff, with the world all before
him, where to choose. The sea was
rougher to-day, and the waves were foaming

and swirling, half in play, half in
anger, against and among the rocks.
Their sound and the sunlight were like
the Sirens' song, bewitching into idleness,
and Nugent had rambled two or three
miles, his way diversified by the hills,
where the cliff was broken into coves on
the slopes of which cattle, as sure-footed
as goats in their movements, were grazing
here and there on such scanty herbage
as they could find, when he came unexpectedly
on beauty which made him hold
his breath, by the surprise of its loveliness.


A little gully, up which the sea went
rushing, splashing either side of the dark
serpentine rock, thickly fringed with pink
sea thrift and green spleenwort. Down
below, the thousand tints of the breaking

foam dazed into living white, while, spanning
the rift of the cHfl's, over the snow
and the crystal green of the plunging
waters, hung a foam-bow, sweet miracle of
light and colour, born of the sun and air
and sea, its silent radiance abiding, like
a dream, above the noise and tumult of
the seething water. The young man felt
as in the presence of some enchantment ;
it seemed an abasing of such a perfect
thing, to try to render it by those dull
earths in the colour-box, yet he must
make the attempt.

He sat and painted till the foam-bow
died away and he scarcely realised he had
seen it ; but its memory was there on the
lock before him, and the rest of the sketch
he could finish as well without its delight.
As he mixed his colours, in the endeavour

to catch the odd hue of the sea-thrift,
tender yet bright, his thoughts went back
to the girl he had seen the day before, and
whom, till now, he had almost forgotten.
He wondered where she lived, for, except
the tiny inn, the coastguards' cottages, and
two or three scattered grey stone dwellings,
half farms, half cottages, with their slated
roofs almost touching the ground behind,
he had not seen a single house near
Lynion. The girl was a lady, surely, one
who had perhaps lived all her life on this
lonely coast, till something of its nature,
its sternness and solitude and wildness, had
passed into her. ' If it were so,' thought
Nugent, 'what a strange life for a girl
growing into a full and beautiful womanhood,
if '

He lifted up his eyes and saw her again

She was standing on the brow of the elifl",
some way off, as though watching a cormorant,
who was hanging over the waves
in quest of food. Her face was turned from
Nutrient, but there was something desolate
about that solitary form, "with sky beyond
and the waste moorland behind her, the
waste waters below. Her hands were
clasped in front of her ; even at this
distance Nugent could see the palms were
bent outward, with that tight pressure of
the interlaced fingers which usually tells
of an answering tension of the mind within.
He was glad she did not see him ; he
lead a foolish, unreasoning feeling of intrusion
on her, as if this place were lies by
right. Would she turn round ?

Something half-way down the cliff
below her  gull's nest or strange flower,

perhaps  had caught her eye, and she
leaned over to look at it ; another minute,
and she had let herself down over the edge
and was descending towards it. Nugent
was startled into sheer terror ; he was a
good cragsman himself, but the cliff was
one he should have hesitated to attempt,
and for a woman he would have deemed it
madness. He watched the girl with the
fascination of horror, but a moment or two
showed him that, if rash, she was not foolhardy.
He saw her step was sure, her
judgment clear, and that her perfect
fearlessness was her safety. None the less
each flutter of her skirt, each feeling for
hold of her foot, made him sick at heart.

He saw her, midway down the cliff,
carefully balance herself, stoop and pickup
something, what he could not tell.

and put it inside the loose bodice of her
dress. Then lie paused, as though doubtful
Whether to reascend, or find her way
down to the foot of the cliff, where the
tide was leaving a little strip of sand. She
took the former course, and again the
young man's breath came quickly, as the
long slender arms reached upward to
grasp some jutting point of rock, and the
supple and alert form swung itself uj) from
ledge to ledge, till at last the top was
reached. A lonjr sich of relief came from
Xugent's lips as she again stood above
and, turning away where the moor sloped
downwards, was lost to his sight. This
last glimpse of her showed her head as
bent over the treasure, whatever it was,
after wliicli lie had clambered down, and
which she now held in her hands.

Nugent could not return to his Paintings
as calmly as before ; every nerve of his
body had thrilled with fear for this girl,
and now, whenever he glanced up at the
cliff, he seemed to see her clinging with
white hands and wrists, holding tight to
the rock ; her head turned downward to
find her next step below ; the dark blue
dress and the .firmly, yet lightly planted
feet.

He meant to inquire about her when
he reached the inn, but did not, a little
ashamed of his curiosity, a little unwilling
perhaps to discover in this nymph of the
shore some very mundane being after
all.

The next day showed Lynion under a
less enchanting aspect ; a sea fog and a
Scotch mist combined made May a delusion,

and the hostess's mildly dreary declaration,
that ' when this sort of weather
set in, it lasted nearly sure for a week
at least,' did not tend to raise Nugent's
spirits.

Do you know where I can get a trap,
to take me over to Carnwith?' he inquired,
after a long morning spent in the fruitless
hope that it might clear up, and the endeavour
to peruse a beer-stained ' Western
Mercury,' a week old.

Mrs. Fall looked hopelessly at him.
No, sir, there's nothing nearer than
St. Osyth, and you ought to have written
there before last night's post. There's the
omnibus that runs between here and there
and catches the one to Carnwith, but that
doesn't go till the day after tomorrow.'
Civilisation and railways have their

advantages ; this truth came home strongly
on Nugent at that present moment.

What on earth shall I do ? ' he muttered
; ' I had meant to walk, but it's such
beastly weather. How could I have been
such a fool as to leave my great coat at
Carnwith ? '

Still, a fourteen miles tramp through
the drizzle and soaked heather was preferable
to an indefinite confinement to that
stuffy little parlour, with its decorations
of worked sampler above the mantelpiece,
and two German lithographs, highly coloured,
depicting the faithlessness of a
young lady with an enormous chignon,
turn-down collar, and very tight boots, to
a youth in an astounding midshipman's
uniform, who after a tender parting, portrayed
in the first print, returned in the

second to find his sweetheart hung with
many bracelets, as the bride of a stout
gentleman with a frilled shirt, and with
mighty rivers of gold chain meandering
across acres of white waistcoat. The intellectual
resources of the Lynion hostelry
were further represented by five books ina
symmetrical pile on a side-table, the
top one surmounted by a spiky lump of
white coral ; but when Nugent, having
examined them, had rejected 'The Wide,
Wide World ' and Hole's ' Tasso,' there
only remained for his delectation an odd
volume of Button, a cookery book, and the
Sermons of Jolin Wesley. His thoughts
went fondly back to Carnwith ; to the four
or five small but precious volumes in his
portmanteau; the goodly supply of daily
nid weekly papers, which he knew would

have arrived there for him by this day's
post, and the store of fragrant birdseye left
to abide his return. He had discovered, to
his disgust, that he had nearly exhausted
the little he had brought with him, and also
that Lynion ideas of 'baccy began and
ended with the strongest, blackest, and
rankest shag  and this last fact decided
him to start.

The heavy ground, sopping and slippery
from persistent small rain, was not as
pleasant walking as it had been the day
before, but he turned up the collar of this
light coat, and digging the iron spike of his
folded easel with some energy into the
ground with each stride, he struck up the
path he had followed the yester morning,
and which he knew led across to the
road by which lie had ' come from Carne

He fouiul the latter riiilit enouirli,
hut just where it started, he fell in with :i
venerable personage, in charge of a clock
of sheejx, of whom for better assurance he
made inquiries.

'Aye, that's one way,' assented this
worthy in a conceding tone, ' but the other,
yonder, is a deal better. It '11 save you two
miles along here, and bring you out near
a mile further on, on the Carnwith side.'

Advantages not to be despised. Nugent
satisfied himself as to his friend's reliability
by one or two more questions, and
took the path the old man advised, having
rewarded him by a gratuity, acknowledged
by a grim chuckle and the remark that ' it
would help to keep out the rheumatiz;
Stephen presumed by means of a visit to
the Lyiiion hostelry.

VOL. I. D

He himself was not disinclined to take
a like precaution against the same malady,
when, after having tramped three or four
miles across the heath, he came on a tiny
roadside inn, if indeed that could be called
inn, where one small room with a brick
floor ' served for kitchen, parlour and all
None the less cheering, however, was the
hot whisky-ands water, in front of the deep-chimney
fire, even though Nugent could
hear by the sound on the roof that the
drizzle was turning into fast, heavy rain,
and a low moan rising in the distance and
growing into a louder sob, as it crossed
over the moor, told him that the wind was
getting up. It looked very much as if he
were in for a storm, but that couldn't be
helped now.

When he left the little inn, there were

angry streaks of sunset in the west,
beyond Lynion, but the clouds were rolling
up in sullen masses, gathering together
from all parts of the sky. A lurid gleam
from the sunset struck that part of the
heath lie had crossed, and athwart it the
rain fell thick and fast. In front, the sky
grew darker every moment, in spite of the
heavy rain, and the clouds were driven
faster and faster by the rising wind.
Nugent pressed onward, in the hope that,
before the worst came, lie might find
shelter, at the point where the Carnwilh
and Lynion roads met. An idea that
he was rather a fool to have started
grew into a conviction as the darkened
sky was lit by the first glare of lightning,
and the thunder burst over the moors,
seeming to roll, in its after-mutter, across

D -2

the whole heaven. The storm-wind, after
a lull, rose with a long sough, and then
rushed fiercely from the north, bearing
with it the driving rain, and closing in the
whole day in an early darkness. Nugent
fought on against it, the flashes of the lightning
showing him from time to time that
the path still lay before him ; but he failed
to notice that he had passed a point where
two roads met, one branching north, and
the other north-west, and had taken the
latter.

The storm showed no sign of abating,
and the young man rather enjoyed it.
With the cheerful certainty of a good fire
and supper awaiting him at Carnwith, the
weird loneliness of the moor had a fascination
in its dreariness, as the lightning
from time to time flashed it into view,

showing the blankness around. It had
grown quite dark; night had fallen with
the storm, and Nugent had but a very
vague idea as to how far he had progressed
on his way.

With difficulty, and crouching under
the prickly shelter of the whigs, he managed
to Hight his pipe, and kept on in the
teeth of the wind, head bent down and
shoulders squared. A sudden gust took
his hat, snapping its guard, and carried it
he could not tell whither ; he would have
given it up for lost, had not two quick
flashes, one following the other, shown it
caught on a furze bush a little distance off.
lie made the best of his way towards it,
feeling rather proud as lie recaptured the
errant headgear and jammed it tightly on,
holding it down by his hand, as another

gust, more violent than the first, made him
twist round for a few moments, to prevent
himself being blown off his legs. Then he
turned, as he thought, back to the path 
and could not find it in that thick tangle
of heather.

The lightning had ceased for the
while, though the wind and rain were
more violent than ever. It didn't signify,
he should find the track in a minute ; but
the minute grew into a very long one, and
the prospect of a night's wandering about
the moor, chilled as he was to the bone,
grew disagreeable and probable. Perhaps it
might clear up later, and the moon would
come out ; but, as the wind and rain beat
ever more furiously against him, and a
fresh glare of lightning revealed no trace
of the path, Nugent was fain to confess

that such a hope was sanguine enough todo
credit to Mark Tapley himself. As he
stumbled against a block of granite, one
of the many bestowing the moor, the
memory of the old shafts of which Mrs.
Blencowe had warned him flashed back on
him. He was no coward, but one quick
shudder passed through him, and then came
thankfulness. He could not tell how near
he had been to such a peril, but he was safe
enough now. Even if he chose to accept
the worst of his position, he had but to stay
where he was till the daybreak ; but that
would be uncomfortable, and he did not feel
inclined to bow so far to the force of circumstances.
He determined to make one
more effort to find the pati ; so, feeling
carefully before him with this staff', he
groped onward, till at last lie discovered,

if not the road, at all events a footway. It
was very narrow, a sheep-track probably,
but even a sheep-track was not likely to
end at the mouth of a shaft, and Nugent
sped on rejoicing, taking very good care
not to stray from the path he had found,
and caring little whither it led him, in the
comfortable certainty it must lead somewhere.


CHAPTEK III.

Verily
You shall not go, a Iculy's verily is
As potent as a lord's.  The Winter's Tale.

It did lead somewhere  surely that was
the distant glimmer of a light through the
thickness of the rain. Nugent began to
realise how blessed a relief would be the
assurance of a roof over his head that
night. He had always fancied he was
accustomed to roughing it, but this was a
denned damp, moist, unpleasant fashion
of roughing it,' besides being a lonely one.
From wherever that welcome light shone
cottage, farmhouse, or inn  lie had little
doubt of finding there a lodging for the

night, if not a vehicle to carry him to
Carnwith. A very short stay in the West
Country suffices to beget a well-founded
trust in the hospitality of its children,
and Nugent's pace quickened in the direction
of the faint gleam which, ashe
neared it, grew steadier and wider,
into the square radiance of a lighted window.


It was not till he was quite close, that
the lightning; showed him for an instant
a house of some size, and, as he thought, a
distant background of tossing sea, lit into
blue by the flash's lurid glare. Feeling his
way in the renewed darkness, by the post
of the stone fence in front, he groped up
what might be a garden, with a dim, gusty
sense, more than sight, of blowing tamarisks
about him, bent almost level by the

blast ; but as lie grained the house, the light
streaming through the vindov guided him
to the door, in friendly fashion. The
knocker was stiff, as from disuse, but hi
urgent appeal to its resources was answered,
and the door opened, at last,
showing a long wide passage ; a winding
staircase, in dim perspective ; and a tall,
grim woman with the weather-beaten
look of early age, which comes to most
of the countrywomen of those parts, for
all the soft southern grace of their childhood.


He ('(ndd not tell if she were farmer's
wife, or jTvant, but her startled stare at
him was scarcely promising ; she admitted
him, however, and would have shut the
door, had not the wind forotalliMJ lier in
that ollice. Otherwise' a i)arlrv would have

been impossible, in the noise and rush of
sound.

In as few words as he could use,
Nugent explained his plight  then paused,
to see if shelter or assistance, even in the
way of guidance, would be offered him.
The woman surveyed him with a long and
rather suspicious gaze ; but, as he was about
to ask more frankly for help, she said 

I'd better ask, I suppose ; wait a
moment, sir.'

With which she opened a door, from
the room beyond which streamed forth a
glad warm radiance, and entering within,
she shut the door again, leaving Nugent
in the long passage, dimly illumined by one
small lamp. He was growing impatient,
when the door reopened and the woman
reappeared.

Will you step in, sir, and see Mrs.
Ross ? '

So, she was not mistress. Nugent entered
the room, but his eyes were so dazed
by the long darkness, that for the first moment
he could only distinguish the warmth
of the fire and candle-light, the glow of
dark red drapery on wall and table, the
air of home-comfort and of women's
presence. Then he knew that a sheepdog
couched on the hearth was barking
furiously at him, and was only stilled by
two words from a low contralto voice, and
lie saw a lady, no longer young ; faded and
delicate, with a sweet, worn face, rising
to greet him. Beyond her was another
woman's form, bent over some papers, as
though she were writing, at a table against
the drawn curtains of the further window.

and only recognising his entrance by a
momentary lifting of the head  the girl he
had met on the heath.

The older lady would fain have greeted
him stiffly, but the sight of his dripping
condition melted her frigid politeness.
Oh dear,' she exclaimed, ' you are wet
through ; you will catch your death of
cold.'

Nugent laughed a little constrainedly ;
the sense of intrusion he had so unreasonably
experienced yester ay , while watching
the girl who now sat before him, bending
over her writing, as though unconscious of
his presence, returned in greater force. If
he had meant to ask for shelter, the intention
entirely deserted him now.

Not so bad as that,' .he answered, ' but
I am really ashamed of troubling you ; if

sou would kindly lend me a lantern and
could give me any idea of ray best way
to the nearest inn, I shall only be too
grateful.'

But I couldn't think of such a thing,'
responded Mrs. Ross with energy. ' There
is nothing nearer than Lynion  and the old
mines  ' so, thought Nugent, his danger
had not been all fancy  ' and such a
night. Of course you must stay here ; but
your wet clothes  oh dear ! '  she paused,
and the young man thinking she was meditating
over the impossibility of a feminine
wardrobe supplying his needs, made haste
to answer 

Indeed I am all right  if there is anyway
of getting to Lynion,' he added with
a hesitating, perhaps half deprecating
glance at the girl, who still sat as unheeding

their words. She looked up now and
spoke briefly :

It wouldn't be safe,' the tone was
brusque, if not ungracious, albeit the voice
that which had quieted the dog  was full
and round.

No,' said Mrs. Eoss, as gathering decision
from her companion's words, ' of
course not ; but you are so wet  ' she
glanced hopelessly at his soaked and dripping
condition, with a bewilderment that
amused Nugent, as did her relief at the
girl's suggestion, indifferent but helpful :

Joshua  '

Yes ; that will do, if you don't mind,

Mr. '

My name is Nugent,' put in her involuntary
guest.

'Thank you, Mr. Nugent. Joshua is

Ruth's  our servant  husband. He
works for ois, and sleeps in the house ;
and if you wouldn't mind his things *

I should be only too grateful,' said
Stephen, who had no greater love than
most of his kind for the after-chillness of
wet raiment.

Still he felt rather shy of presenting
himself before his hostesses, after he had
been led along a flagged passage by Ruth,
into a wide low kitchen, the willow, buff-coloured
walls whereof were pleasant in
the firelight  and she had introduced him
to Joshua, bidding her husband to ' do this
best for the gentleman.' This best proved
to be a choice between Joshua's Sunday
suit, fearfully and wonderfully made, an
old pea jacket, smelling villainously of
stale tobacco, a pair of serge trousers

VOL. I. E

and a rough blue jersey, cheerfully
adorned with a large scarlet' anchor on
the breast. Nugent decided on the two
latter garments, wishing heartily he could
have remained in his own clothes, or,
failing that, could have stayed in the
kitchen and been spared inflicting hint
self on Mrs. Eoss and the girl, who he
supposed was her daughter, feeling such a
fool as he did, in his present attire. Yet
the close-fitting indigo vest, with its touch
of bright red, was no unpicturesque setting
to the young man's dark, handsome head,
with its pallor of subdued yet destined
colouring ; only unfortunately Nugent
did not see it in this light, and would
have given a great deal for an ordinary
suit of clothes.

Something of adventure stirred in his

blood, as he meditated on the chance
which lead thrown him once more against
this girl, who had shown no sign of recognition
; whose silence and coldness were as
an icy rebuff' to any inward wonder about
lier.

Supper is ready in the parlour, sir,
said Kuth, as the young man descended
the winding staircase which led down to
the kitchen, from Joshua's fastnesses above
and so he returned to the room where
his hostesses awaited him.

E 2

1 r%r II I

Chapter IV.

Her lovely eyes maintain
Their pure unwavering deep disdain.

Matthew Arnold.

The parlour was very pleasant to his eyes,
with the white cloth spread ready for supper.
Mrs. Eoss was standing by the fire,
one foot on the brass fender, and one hand
steadying her by its hold on the slender
shelf of the carved wooden mantelpiece.
The girl stood by the table intent on making
a salad ; shaking the lettuce, to free
it from moisture, in a white napkin, the
corners of which were gathered up closely
in one hand. A strength in the steady,
slight rise and fall of the arm gave

Nugent, already keenly alive to impressions
of her, the suggestion of energy hall"
unconsciously striving to find an outlet in
all ways it could. Again lie made his
apology for his intrusion, and would have
spoken his sense of their kindness, but Mr..
Ross stopped him.

Please don't say any more ; we are
only too glad you found your way here,
hut you must tell us presently how you
lost it.  Honor dear, are you ready ? '
The salad is : will you come ? '
She looked at Nugent as she spoke,
hut without any change of her set, indifferent
expression. lie could not say sir
was rude, neither was she shy : farouche
suited her better. She appeared not to
take the least interest in sirs. luss's inquiries
as to Diligent's adventures, nor in lii

answers thereto. Yet she was hospitable
in deed, if not in word ; silently passing
him whatever he might chance to need.
The supper-table was well spread, and
Nugent half suspected that the two or
three substantial that adorned it, did so
chiefly on his account ; his idea of a
woman's evening meal, in the absence of
the other sex, being tea and an egg. If it
were so, he was grateful to his entertainers
for having provided for his more masculine
appetite, which was sharpened by his tussle
with the weather and the long hours that
had elapsed since his early dinner at
Lynion. Simply as the table was laid, its
appointments had the daintiness of a long
habit of refinement ; and the room, too, was
unlike anything he would have expected
to find in the midst of that desolate heath

as unlike as were its occupants. The
]panelled walls, painted of a delicate ochre
tint, were such as are to be found inmost
of the better class of West Country
farmhouses, out of the way of railroads
and the upholsterer of the nearest town,
as were the heavy mahogany chairs and
tables of the Georgian period, bright with
hand polish, and a tall bureau, with china
cupboard above ; the quaintly set glass
doors of which, however, only screened
books. But low shelves running round the
room held more books ; the wide ledge of
the window, outside which the rain still
lashed the panes furiously, was full of ferns
and the sweetness of jonquils; and on the
wall opposite Nugent, above Honor's head,
there leaned forth, fr(m a large photograph,
the tender womanUness of the Gran

Duce Madonna, its beauty contrasting with
that of the having face beneath, almost as if
opposed to it. The girl's silence seemed to
make Mrs. Eoss nervous ; the remarks she
addressed to her had a deprecating sound ;
but though Honor only answered by ' yes '
or ' no,' her voice was sweet, and once,
Nugent fancied, her eyes were lifted to the
elder woman's, and a quick answering
smile made her mouth lovely ; the rather
full, but not thick mouth  set like a blossom
in the proud delicate face.

She helped Ruth to clear the table,
moving about with a free, noiseless grace
that bewitched Nugent's eyes, as Mrs. Eoss
asked him to turn his chair to the fire,
saying she was sure he couldn't be warm
yet. The sense of restrained power gave
the girl's actions a singular charm, as

when seeing liutli aUem})ting tu lift a too
fully laden tray, she moved her aside and
took it herself. Nugent sprang up.

'Let me,' he said, an odd beseeching in
his voice. She looked round, as startled to
lind him so near, but kept firm hold of her
burden, as if a man's proffered help were a
strange thing.

'No, thank you,' she answered, but he
did not think her eyes hard at that
moment  were they sad ? He did not
venture to press the point ; she left the
room, carrying the tray, followed by lluih.
Nugent listened to hear Honor's este])
returning to the parlour, but she did not
come back at once. Mrs. Ross's voice
roused him.

'Shall you stay much jniigcr in
Cornwall ? '

'Two or three weeks. I have enjoyed
my time down here so much, I am loth to
leave.'

In spite of your to-night's adventures ? '

'They have ended so pleasantly,' said

Nugent, his ear still alert for a step outside,

and the opening of the door that should

admit that tall, lissom form.

Thank you,' answered Mrs. Eoss, with
pretty, half-humorous courtesy. ' I might
return the compliment, even though weare
such desert islanders here, that any
forms of politeness take great importance,
and we are chary of them.'

This is a lonely part of the coast.'

It could not well be lonelier. Lynion

is the nearest village, and Polmouth and

the railway are quite twenty miles from

here. There are two or three small farms

near us, from which we get what we want,
hut we are quite out of the beaten track,
and of the way of '

Of tourists ? '

Yes ; there is no special point of the
scenery about here which they feel bound
to visit ; and if there were, there is nowhere
where they could put up.'

You must be thankful '  inwardly
hoping she did not class him with the
crowd.

'Yes, indeed,' said Mrs. Ross simply,
and evidently unconscious of her guest's
possibly fitting the cap on this own head.
Of course, in the sunder and autumn,
p(nple do pass, especially ]painters, and one
comes across them on the moors. One
young man set up his easel just in front of
this house last summer, to paint the sunset,

and Faith was so indignant, she went out
and drove him away.'
'How?'

Oh, her tongue is a mighty weapon.'
Nugent laughed. ' You make me rather
ashamed of my sketching-box and my
wanderings.'

Are you an artist  do you paint ? '
After a fashion ; but I can't call myself
an artist, hardly a worker  I wish I
could. I was wondering yesterday at

Lynion ' The door opened and Honor

entered, went straight to the table where
she had been sitting before supper, drew
her papers towards her, and was again
apparently absorbed in them. For a moment
he paused, as forgetting his thought.

'What were you wondering?' asked
Mrs. Eos.

'Whether'  the vague idea, as he
spoke, crystallising into a fixed intention 
I couldn't try at something rather less
bad tluui my usual efforts, if I stayed at
Lynion and painted the whole picture face
to face with the scene itself, and I made up
my mind to try.' He did not look at the
girl as he spoke, but he was conscious
through his whole being, that this announcement
of his neighbourhood, for the
next few weeks, would be distasteful to
her, and he felt himself in the wrontr.
Still, why should he ? They need never
meet certainly, with her gift of silence,
if they did meet, need never speak.

'I should think it would be a good
plan,' said Mrs. Loss. 'But I know so
little about painting. Slave you any
sketches with ytju ? '

This kind of display Nugent hated, but
he could not be ungracious, and was fain
to unfasten his box. He saw soon, however,
that his companion had not asked
merely from politeness, and that she had a
real, if not very critical, enjoyment of his
work. When she came on the foam-bow
sketch, with the lovely misty radiance of
the many-hued arch brooding over the
white foam, with its sun struck gleam, a cry
of pleasure escaped her. 'Oh, Honor!'
she exclaimed ; ' come and look.'

The girl, thus summoned, rose and
went to her shoulder. Her look softened,
as though a beauty, akin to that the
sketch reflected, had been a delight to her
also, and her face itself recalled the hoht
of the foam-bow on the wave. ' It is
beautiful,' she said quietly.

I have not seen one of those bows fora
long time,' said Mrs. Eoss, lier eyes
dwelling on the sketch, as with regretful
fondness.

Will you keep the remembrance of
this one ? ' asked Nugent. The sketch was
accepted with some protests, bit with
evident pleasure, by his hostess. Honor
said no more, but returned to her seat.
He wondered what her occupation was, for
her even brows were slightly drawn down,
as though in the effort to concentrate her
attention on wdiat was before her. Certainly
such a lonely life as that of which
Mrs. Ross's words had given him a glimpse,
did not in this girl's case tend to charm of
manner. Yet lie knew she was not ;tuj)id,
and the books round the room spoke to no
want of mental culture.

Ten o'clock struck, and, with a cordial
good night ' from Mrs. Eoss and a reserved
one from Honor, he was shown up by Ruth
to his bedroom. He was vexed with himself
for being so haunted by the girl. If
she had not been beautiful, he would
simply have considered her brusque and
disagreeable ; but when a woman has such
fuU-hdded eyes, shining like subdued
jewels ; such waves of brown hair knotted
into so heavy a plait behind her small
ears ; so beautiful an up-bearing line of
neck and throat, sweeping up to the pure
profile it supports  then, round her ' sweet
thoughts will crowd as bees about their
queen,' no matter if the lovely lips only
utter brief monosyllables, and the long
eyes look a steady defiance to any overtures,
even of common courtesy. The

meanings they might express arc suggested,
even more strongly because they
show no sign thereof, as a blank canvas is
always fuller of possibilities than a finished

l)it'ture.

VOL. I.

Chapter V.

Is there a voice coming up, the voice of the deep from the

strand ;

One coming up with a song in the flush of the glimmering

red ?

Love that is born of the deep, coming up with the sun from

the sea ;

Love that can shape or can shatter a life till the life shall

have fled ?

Tennyson (Becket).

The storm was dying away when Stephen
went up to bed, and he could hear through
the fainter cry of the wind the far-off
thud and long-drawn moan of the sea.
He woke with it in his ears the next morning
; but it was only a murmur now, and
the sun shone in brightly through the
diamond-paned window, its lustre seeming
the clearer after the tempestuous night.

This window looked out over the back ol'
the house, which lie now saw stood not tar
iVom a headland, su that from the window
on all sides there spread the Hashing laughter
of the sea.

What a place to build a dwelling-place
in, and to live in through winter and
summer ! There was no tree to be seen :
only a rough farm-building or two, apparently
disused, and a loose stone fence with
a row of gnarled tamarisk bushes ; beyond
them moor and crag, sea and sky.

His own clothes were ready for him.
albeit there was still a ]prevailing suspicion
<f danij) about them in spite of tinvr
hours' vigorous drying before a roaring
kitchen fire. When dressed he loitered to
the window, wondering what the time was
for his watch had stopped  when hie

F 'J

saw Honor coming across the moor
towards the house. She had been bathing,
for her hair was down, falling below
her waist as the light wind's touch
brought back its wave and colour ; and,
as she drew nearer, Nugent, screened from
sight by the curtain, saw she carried an
open straw bag, the sides stuffed out by the
robed-up dark blue garment therein. She
was not like the woman he had seen
the night before, now, with her step glad
as a girl's could be, her hair loose and
shining, and her face bright, as, in answer
to her whistle and call, her dog Dan came
springing along the heath after her, his
coat also telling of his morning's swim.
Nugent heard her laugh as the dog insisted
on a game, and it was as a new revelation
of lier to his heart. After all lie was buta

girl, with a girl's waywardness and pride,
a girl's gladness and fearlessness  surely
with a girl's sweetness as well.

He went downstairs and found her just
coming along the passage. He feared lest
her softer mood would vanish at his appearance.
It might have done so, but just
as they greeted she had to try and prevent
Pan, who bounded up to them, from overpowering
Stephen with elusive politeness.
Down, Dan, down I  I let him spring on
me,' she exclaimed, ' and so he gets into
the habit.'

lout I like it,' said Nugent. ' Here,
Dan ! '

'No, he mustn't do it with other
people, because then he might with sheep.'
The comparison was not flattering, and
Nugent could not help laughing. For a

moment Honor looked puzzled ; then there
came a sweet echo of his laugh  very
slight, but it broke the ice. 'I did not
mean to be rude,' she said ; ' but he was
never properly trained, and I always have
to prevent him rushing after them on the
slopes

She was grave again now, and Nugent
asked, ' Will Mrs. Eoss be down soon ? I
should like to thank her for her kindness
and say good-bye before I start

You must not go before breakfast ;
my aunt'  Nugent had discovered the
relation between the two women the evening
before  ' would be so vexed : she very
seldom sees anyone but me and Ruth, and
she has enjoyed your visit so much.'

The words seemed a tacit apology for
her ungraciousness the night before ; but

she evidently had no personal feeling that
made her urge him to stay ; rather did she
put away her own wishes, in favour of her
aunt's liking the little stir and excitement
of even a stranger's advent. Nugent saw
this, and knew that the change in her
manner by no means indicated a change
in her mind towards him. lie hardly
realised to himself how strong was his
heart's wish that it did.

It is very kind of her, and of you to
say so,' he began lamely, and feeling horribly
untactful, ' but I am ashamed already
of having trespassed so long on you.'

How could you help it ? ' she asked
brusquely. ' If you hadn't been here, you
must have wandered about the moor all
night, unless you had fallen down one of
the old shafts, or over the chfT.'

I had better fortune.'

I don't know,' the girl answered. Sometimes
I think that kind of death, with no
time to think or see it, would be good.' The
words came strangely from the young lips,
but it was their tone struck Nugent. There
was no affectation in it, no ' being as sad as
night only for wantonness,' but a reality
which seemed to empty the world of the
delight of youth and strength and hope.
The young man remembered with what
horror Mrs. Blencowe, a faded weary
woman, cumbered with much serving and
the cares of a continual struggle between
ways and means, spoke of such a death,
which this young girl in her loveliness,
with life yet fresh before  her, could regard
as a possible good. Honor was not looking
at him : the two were standing by the open

door, in front, and she was gazing away,
straight over the brown-green moorland, to
the morning haze beyond. He lead wondered
hist night if her eyes were sad, he
did not wonder now ; their far-off dreary
regard was sadder than would have been
any impress of sharp aching pain, wliicli
might have borne with it a hope of healing.
There was no hope and no wistful ness in
this girl's gaze across the heath, which
seemed to Nugent no unfit emblem of her
life, ' the level waste, the rounding grey,' of
these months and years spent here, with no
change except such as the seasons brought.
Nugent had gathered, from several things
Mrs. Ross said, that neither she nor lier
niece was in the habit of leaving their
luMue. A sudden stirring of this blood
made him long to let his companion know

a fairer and brighter existence. She could
not always live thus ; it was surely only
the natural yearning for other aspects of
life which spoke in the dreary voice, that
still echoed through his brain, though he
answered lightly.

I didn't see it in that way last night ;
those old mines were awful bugbears tome.'


Of course, if one thought of them, they
would be,' Honor answered ; then turned
and went into the parlour, Nugent following
her. She removed a heavy cloth, draping
something on a side table, which proved to
be a cage with a bird therein  a young
gull. As she knelt down to examine it, and
Nugent came nearer, as  if drawn by her
presence, she looked up.

It has broken its leg,' she said. ' I

found it the day before yesterday down the
cliff.

So that was the object that had carried
her down the rocks, with sure eye and
fearless foot. Nugent could not tell her
he had seen her, or how the little act of
pity touched a sudden new chord of feeling
in him. Only she was so fair, kneeling
there, by the side of the hurt bird she had
saved.

It will be all right in a few days, poor
thing,* she said, as she attended to its needs.
Then, as Ruth brought in the ,
she helped her as on the
previous night. There was a fire in the
grate, and it was not unwelcome, for the
air from the open window, pleasant as it
was, bore in the coolness of the sea.
Nugent stood thereby, feeling very useless

without the power of being otherwise.
Honor did not speak to him while she was
busy ; but when she had measured the tea
into the pot and placed the latter down
in the fender, without filling it up from
the bright copper kettle set on the fire,
it was, perhaps, the feeling his presence
a weight upon her, which prompted her
to ask 

Do you care to read ? If so, please
find a book. My aunt may be some time
yet.'

He obediently selected a volume from
the small case close to his hand, but without
noticing what it might be. Though
this eyes were apparently fixed on its pages
he could still see the girl standing by the
window, plucking at a fern leaf as if in
thought. She was still there when Mrs.

Ross and the breakfast made tlicir appearance
together.

Honor poured out the tea ; but silence
had resumed its sway over her, and
Nugent was unreasonably vexed that she
was again herself of the previous night, icy
and impassible, so that lie did not dare
attempt to break down the wall of her
coldness.

When he was starting for Carnwith,
however, it was lie who directed, clearly
and concisely, the path he was to take.
Glad enough to get rid of me,' the young
man thought, with some irritation.

Thank you,' he said, ' and good-bye.

Miss ' he hesitated, and she filled up the

pause. * My name is Ross,' she said, * like
my aunt's. Good-bye, Mr. Nugent.'

But Mrs. Ross did not part with him

with SO little regret. ' I am glad you
found your way here,' she said, ' and I
shall always value the sketch. If you are

going to stay at Lynion, won't you '

she hesitated and looked questioningly at
Honor ; but her words gave Nugent
courage. ' May I come over and see you
some day ? ' he asked.

He spoke to Mrs. Eoss, but he too looked
at Honor. It was Honor who answered,
not till after a moment's pause and a glance
at Mrs. Ross's face had shown Nugent it
was her elder's pleasure she consulted
If you wish it,' she said, ' come.'

Chapter VI.

And a bird overhead sang " follow,"

And a bird to the right sang " here,"

And the arch of the leaves was hollow,

And the meaning of May was clear.'

iJ.vx, lying in luxurious ease, cocked up his
ears and gave a short bark of recognition.
Honor, couched down amid a tall confusion
of golden ragwort and bracken and red
rol)in, heard the voice and lifted her head,
her lips grave, but a shining in her eyes.
She did not move, but listened, as the song
turned into a whistle, and then again broke
into words, in a clejir baritone, and there
came a crashing of steps through the scrub
above her, as Nugent sprang down, trampling

on the thick growth of fern and wildflower,
till he reached her side.

I hoped I should find you here,' he
said, as Honor half rose to greet him, and
Dan accorded him a delighted welcome.
He sat down below her, on the slope, so
that he could see her reclining, with the
tall golden flowers, like stars about her
head.

Have you ended work for to-day ? '

Yes ; I half hoped,' he said diffidently,
that you might have wandered my way
and seen it.'

Is it getting on ? '

Nearly finished.' There was regret in
his voice. Then he added, ' I have been
five weeks, as it is ; the rain delayed me so.'

Have you ? ' said Honor, with a little
start. * Yes, it is July now.'

'And your trarden is in full blussoni/
It was a name lie had driven this tiny eden,
to wliicli Honor Iliad one day guided liii, .-i
sheltered rift in the elifls, shadowed above
by a thick growth of blackthorn and other
shrubs on its brow, and overrun by the
lush growth of flower and bracken and
heather, whose purple llusli was beginning
now to creep over the land. From above,
a tiny stream fell down, in the trickle of
a thread of waterfall, shining under the
wreathed sprays of bramble, with their
purple leaves and tender-hued flowers,
garlanded with the graceful honeysuckle
trails. In the centre of the glen shot u\) one
tall spire of a yellow foxglove, as the heart
of the stillness, the queen of the crowd
of campion and ragwort, tangled together
in a milky way of misty hemlock flowers.

VOL. I. Ct

I should like to make a sketch of this
place,' Nugent said, looking away to where,
beyond the stretching-out crags and slopes
which shut in the glen, was a grouse of
sea, of a deeper blue than was the serene sky
overhead. ' I don't know, though ; I shall
remember it better without one. Trying
to set down every beautiful thing one
sees, is like turning all one's best life into
verse.'

I couldn't do either,' said Honor, ' so I
can't tell. Perhaps I remember better
because of that : but things are always the
same when they come back ; one may put
them away, but when one thinks of them,
it is the same as ever  for ever.'

Her tone was that which always smote
on his heart, from the capacity of pain it
showed in her, this girl whom he thought

he knew as a man can only know the
woman he loves, whom he seemed now to
have loved from that moment when he
had first seen her coming towards him,
slender, and swift, and beautiful, across the
moor.

'Is it so ? ' he questioned. ' Old scars
may throb and ache at times, but they are
not like the pain of a fresh wound.'

They would bleed again, if the person
who caused them came near,' she answered,
scarcely as recalling a fantastic legend, but
as speaking a truth.

Only with a corpse,' said Nugent.
Life holds the power of healing, and
so the wounds would close u}) with
time.'

'But the memory would always remain,'
she answered, and he could not

G 2

gainsay her ; the ugly memories of his
own life forbade him ; the ghosts of weakness
and sin and folly, which had never
hurt him as they did now, when at
times their shades would rise as accusing
and bringing him into judgment, in the
presence of those deep, clear eyes which
now looked at him, with no love, it is
true, but also with no shadow of the
defiance with which they had at first met
him  only with the pure, frank trust of a
friend.

It was much to have won this, nor had
it been gained without patience and endeavour
; very gradually, during Nugent's stay
at Lynion, had the girl softened towards
him, or, as it sometimes, seemed, relaxed a
guard kept over herself. Time after time
her silence and abruptness had returned,

but Stephen discovered that, after such
moods, she was nearly sure to make amends
by a gentler mien, when they met again. So,
as the days went on, his visit to Trebarva
as that grey lonely house on the heath
was named  grew more frequent. Now
and then, at this request. Honor would
even come to view his pictures, where he
sat painting, in a little bay, not half a mile
from Lynion ; and once she had taken him
in her boat to view a wonderful cave. He
had discovered that her favourite haunt
was this glen he called her garden, and
sometimes, when the desire to see her was
too strong to be controlled, he would wander
there, on the chance of finding her, ashe
had done to-day.

He did not deceive himself; he knew
Honor had no idea of love for him; she had

allowed a friendship to grow up between
them ; not, as he felt, without a struggle
of some sort within her own mind  whether
with reserve, pride, prejudice, he could not
tell  and even now he sometimes fancied the
reciprocity was all on his side.' He hoped
to win her, hoped passionately, with all
he renewed eagerness of youth, which had
returned to him, in this dawn of love that
had revealed life to him, as no feeling had
ever done before ; but instinct taught him,
that any word of this would, as yet, meet
with a sure rebuff, and might destroy his
cause utterly. That fierce nakedness
that had at first struck him still existed in
Honor, though it slept, and she held her
life to herself

He knew her  yes, by her look, her
actions, her voice, read by the light of his

own passion ; but she had never revealed
herself to him ; even that sadness of voice
and words that sometimes pained him for
lier was an obscuring of his knowledge
of her, for it spoke of depths in her
nature, to which he held no clue. He
knew nothing of her past life, heard
nothing of relationships, or of any links
between her and the outside world, except
such as came from books. She seemed to
have lived at Trebarva from childhood.

It certainly Alas a surprise to Nugent,
one day, when he discovered that Mrs.
Ross was one of those happy people who
have a defined object in life, which is
likely to occupy them till death. The fact
of her content in the slow current of her
existence was easily exj)hunc(l, when it
was once known that this quiet, faded lady

was a scholar and a deep one, who if,
like poor Evade, she could ' do no good,
because a woman, reached constantly at
something that was near it.' A new theory
of Hittite theology, that should prove all
existing authorities on the subject, both
English and German, but blind leaders of
the blind, kept her faculties interested and
hier pen occupied, even when she was not
employed in wading through interminable
tomes on the subject, chiefly printed in
crabbed German type. Whether her great
work, embodying all this labour, would
ever see the light seemed doubtful ; but
she had an entire faith in her theory, if not
in herself, and that contented her.

Even if I fail to prove it, someone else
will succeed,' she said to Nugent, at the
time she revealed to him this great object

of her life  somewhat timidly at first, but
wanning into enthusiasm as she went on ;
so it is all right.'

It seems sui-li an out-of-the-way
subject, for a woman to take up,' the
young man said afterwards to Honor,
telling her of his astonishment at this
glimpse into the stores of research and
knowledge, which Mrs. Ross kept, as a
rule, concealed. 'And she is so wonderfully
learned ; it came on me with a shock
of surprise.'

I don't think it is strange,' returned
Honor, with a touch of her old abruptness.
The fii\st idea of the theory was lier
husband's ; she loved him dearly, and tlicy
had only been married two years when
he died. He was very interested in this,
and had taught her to be the same; so it

was as though she was doing his work for
him, when he was dead, and she must
carry it through. She worked and read
and thought '  as if in despite of herself,
the girl's eyes brightened and her voice
took a passionate ring  ' though she was
very poor and had to earn her living at the
same time, and the one or two clever men
she asked about it laughed at her husband's
theory ; but all the same she went
on working, never giving it up, struggling
to learn what she needed to know before
she could understand her ground fully. I
don't know what it is all about, but I hope
she will prove it. Still it is not strange,
only natural ; as natural as though it were
a child he had left her to bring up. It is
all for him.'

'I see,' was all Nugent responded.

Honor, unconsciously to herself, had, in
revealing to him the mainspring of this
other woman's action, shown the woman
in her own nature. She drew back into
her shell again, directly. ' rerliaj).s I
oughtn't to have told you so much about
her,' she said, ' but I wanted you to understand.'
The last words touched Nugent
with quick pleasure ; they were the
nearest sign she had given of confidence
in him.

'July,' he repeated after a while,
when, this afternoon, they laid both sat
silent for some minutes, watching the licht
deepen in the west. ' May I walk back
with you to Trebarva this evening? It
will be nearly my last visit.'

I think Aunt !Mary expects you,'
was Honor's answer. It rather irritated

Nugent ; he would have Heed her to bid
him more directly.

Are you going away so soon ? ' lie
asked. Stephen fancied for a moment there
was regret in her voice, and it made him
bold, though he only answered 

When my work is done, next week.'

Then the passionate desire for a sign
overcame him, and he turned to look at her,
where she sat above him. ' We are friends ? '
he said, putting out his hand ; and hers answered
it. An instant quick rush of joy
made his heart swell, but she had withdrawn
her hand again, as though the instinct which
prompted her were not justified to her own
mind. ' Are we ? ' she questioned.

You know best,' Nugent returned
bitterly ; the jar of disappointment, caused
by her words, was too sudden to be

hidden. He had never so spoken to her
before, and her answer came with strange
gentleness, as though she felt a reproach :

How can we be ? you are going away,
and we live quite apart. Even if we
didn't, I could never be of any use or good
to you.'

Or I to you, you mean,' he said, the
bitterness not quite gone from his voice.

I didn't think of that '  the truth of
the words made him ashamed of this impatience.
' The thought of a friend i<
good,' he answered. ' Although one may
never see him, or hear of him. A
man's saving your life doesn't make you
friends with him ; it may do the reverse.'

She smiled, and lier smile was like a
seal of the bond between tlieiii which he
had claimed. He spoke no word of returning

to Cornwall, after he should have
left it, but the burden of the soncr
Schwerin stills , mein Bern, schwerin stilly'
was repeating itself, like a sweet refrain of
warning, within him. It was so hard to
be silent, and yet one word of love might
lose him all. Friendship he might claim
now, but love  ah ! when ? the proud
virginal curves of the Hps, the clear silence
of the eyes, forbade him, even while they
quickened his passion.

I think we ought to go home,' Honor
said, rising at last from amidst the fern.
Dan wants his supper, if we don't.'

Dan wagged his tail, in grateful acknowledgment
of his mistress's consideration,
and started away across the heath, in
an ecstasy of barking, while Honor and
Stephen followed more leisurely, and, as

they gained the to]) of the hill, turned
with one accord to look at the sunset glow,
already touching the western sea, and
lining the world with an air of glory. The
warm light fell on the curve of Honor's
cheek and neck, and brightened the softness
of her hair ; her eyes seemed to have
caught the colour of the sea, where its
depths were shadowed by the cliffs above.
Nugent had the sense of being in a dream ;
the moment was so hushed, the wild scent
of the flowers and heather at their feet so
sweet. If he could only read the future,
he thought, in the sunset, as in a magic
mirror, his future  and hers.

They turned away from the western
light, taking the narrow track towards
Trebarva, across the moors, where scattered
sheep were nibbling the scanty

turf. Presently, Honor's home faced them,
its grey walls sad and stern, but the windows
flashing back the sunset blaze, as
though on fire within. It was a large
rambling house, of more dignity than most
of the farmhouses scattered about the
country, but able to match with any in
dreariness from the absence of tree or
grass or stream ; and the garden seemed
sadder than all the rest, in spite of its
fence of tamarisk, the livid blue of the
hydrangea and the golden fire of marigolds
about the only flowers that would grow
therein, except in one corner, where clove
carnations flourished, in a thick splendour
of dusky red, filling the air with their
richness of scent. A garden without a tree
or a blade of grass, and where not a rose
will bloom, is no garden at all.

CHArTER VII.

Mais oil sont les neiges danton r  Villox.

Mrs. Ross was in the parlour, bonding over
her interminable manuscript, with one or
two piles of books for reference by her.

 Mr. Xugent has come back with me,
Mary,' said Honor, speaking in the doorway,
but not entering, as Stephen held the
door open for her. As she turned away,
she looked up at him, saying, ' Thank you,*
as though the little conventional act held
for her this once a meaning of thought
and helpfulness. A lonely life is aj)t to
foster a terrible habit of earnestness.

She went straight up to her own mom,
VOL. I. II

leaving Mrs. Boss and Stephen in converse
; there was a flush on her cheek, as
of a repressed excitement, scarcely understood
by herself, from the breaking down
of some barrier of long self-control. She
was like one coming from a dark room into
fresh air and sunlight, dazzled and confused
by the change. She threw off her hat, as
if its pressure hurt her, pressing her handover
her forehead, and pushing from it the
heavy growth of her hair ; then stood still,
the slender strong hand still propping the
head, as in thought.

His friend ! ' her memory repeated as
though pleading with herself. She could
not help it, if he willed it so; everything
had been so different - since he came ;
when he should have gone, how!  she rose
and went to the window, overpowered by

the sense of the heavy change it would ])e.
when she could no longer wonder in the
morning if the day would see him crossing
the moor to Trebarva ; when each effort
towards friendship which she had repulsed
would come back to her with the bitterness
of lost opportunity. He had tried to be
her friend all along, had been kind and
gentle in spite of her coldness and rudeness,
and now that he had conquered them, was
going away, most likely never to come
again.

She must let these few last days thai
yet remained be bright ; a thirst all at
once possessed her for what she had resolutely
put away from her this last month.
To what good had she denied herself" t hit-sweetness
of pleasant comradeship) and
friendship  how pleasant she had never

U 2

known till now that its possibility was
nearly past  and where was the unreasoning
bitterness she had felt against
Nugent at first, and had striven to maintain
? Vanished, she knew not whither ;
all that remained was a longing for the
pardon she knew he would freely give, but
which the very instinct which made her desire
it, forbade her to crave. No matter ;
they were friends now ; ' friends '  the last
word came softly unawares from her lips.

Honor ! Honor ! are you not coming
down ? '

Mrs. Eoss's voice from below startled
her. She had no time to think, and acted
on the impulse of her will, hardly knowing
what she did, as she loosened the thick coil
of her hair and, rapidly combing through
its meshes, knotted it again, in a freshly

twisted mass, low on her neck. She knelt
down and, opening the lowest drawer of
the tall, brass-handled chest, pulled therefrom
a white gown, soft and flowing, with
full ruffles of old yellow lace at throat and
assists. There was no coquetry in this, it
was but the outcome of the new-born,
passionate desire to feel the whole world
fair, for this little while ; she did not want

Mr. Xuiirent to remember her only in her
 

rough blue serge, as harsh as her manner
had been.

And so she went downstairs.

Stephen was standing talking to Mrs.
Ross, as Honor entered the parlour ; he
looked up and beheld her. a white vision,
her eyes alight with a new splendour ; her
cheeks yet faintly flushed ; the dim yellow
of the thick plaiting of lace showing

deeper against the tender hue of throat
and hands ; the trailing dress making her
appear taller than usual.

Why, Honor ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Eoss,
too taken by surprise to hide the fact.

It was so hot,' the girl said : ' I rummaged
out a cooler gown.* She did not
look at Nugent, but she felt the mute praise,
and it overcame her with an agony of
shame. She wished she had never changed
her dress. A new fear of Nugent had been
born within her, he had become her
standard of right and wrong, and the
sudden sense of foolishness and vanity in
her own heart made her feel condemned in
his.

Mrs. Eoss left the room, in order to
clear ' the mark of the beast,' as she
expressed it  i.e. ink stains  from her

fingers, and there was silence in the room.
Honor leant over the corner of the table,
out of the open window, striving to reach a
carnation which grew below it, and obviate
the need of her speaking first. A movement
of her arm pushed a pile of papers off
the table, the breeze caught them, and the
sheets fluttered all about the room, inmost
admired disorder. Nugent and lie
both stooped to pick them up, and, as they
did so, he could not help seeing the figures
and letters scribbled over the pages. Their
eyes met and they both smiled, Honor
somewhat shamefacedly.

'Surprise number two,' Steplien said.
I beg your pardon, I am very impertinent,
but I have only just overcome the fear of
Mrs. Ross which fell on me when I discovered
her pursuits, and this is worse.'

He spoke lightly, to hide his embarrassment;
for, in truth, he was a little afraid of
her resenting his discovery of her study of
the higher mathematics. The scrawled-over
sheets told their own story of steady,
severe work, before she could have tackled
those ' agreeable combinations of letters and
figures,' the very sight of which inspired
Nugent, who had hated mathematics from
his early youth, with a holy horror.

But the incident had broken Honor's
chain of feeling, and so she was thankful
for it, albeit ashamed, as girls still will be,
in spite of Girton and Mea. degrees, when
men discover them working in the ground
so long guarded and fenced against their
invasion. ' It was only', she said, ' that
anything does to occupy one.'

Was this what you were absorbed in.

that first cvcninir I came?' he asked, a
hint of satire in this tone.

Yes.' She did not add low little work
she had done since then.

You really are so fond of these things,

as to work at them without an aim ? '

then he stopped : she might have an aim,
and his question be an impertinence. perhaps
she wished to teach ; involuntarily lie
smiled at the idea, though he could scarce
have told wliy it seemed so ridiculous.

No, I'm not fond of them,' she replied
curtly, as though tired of the subject ;
but they prevent one from thinking ; ' and
at that moment Mrs. Eoss returned.

You never play ? ' Nugent said, glancing
at the aged, tall piano, in a corner of
the room. 'There seems to be more pleasure
in that than in most things.'

Never.'

Except on the old spinet upstairs,' said
Mrs. Eoss.

That was only for curiosity's sake,'
returned Honor, ' and you can't call my
strumming, playing.'

I like the spinet,' said Mrs. Eoss to
Nugent ; ' it sounds so sad  only an echo
of the music that was once played on it.'

A very flat and jingling echo,' put in
Honor.

I did not know you had a spinet,'
observed Nugent, as though his non-acquaintance
with that fact were a grievance.

Would you care to see it ? ' asked Mrs.
Eoss. ' It is in the little parlour we only
use in the winter, because it faces the west.
Will you come ? '

'May I hear it?' he said, looking at

Honor. It was the first favour he had
ever asked at her hands. She rose and
went before them, the flowing of lier white
dress drifting in front of Nugent and Mrs.
Eoss like a cloud, as she led the way upstairs.
The little parlour was a quaint
room with pale green walls and stiff,
slender-legged furniture, not very elaborate
or pretty ; across the windows was set
the spinet, its satin wood dull and tarnished
by years.

You will have to make believe very
much, I warn you,' said Mrs. Eoss, as
Honor seated herself before the discoloured
key-board.

She would have spoken truth, lead the
music it held for the young man been in
the thin tinkle of the notes, ]put it was not.
The melody was there, in the girl seated

before the old music-box, her head thrown
out in profile against the pale jasper light
of the west, the softness of her white garments
misty around her. Was it making
believe very much, to see in her, with
her strange moods, varying as the sea, a
forecast vision of tenderest and noblest
womanhood, gentler because stronger than
Raphael's sweet maid-mother, her unlikeness
to whom had struck him that first
night of his coming to Trebarva ?

I think Ruth was in the right,' opined
Mrs. Eoss, 'when she objected to the sound
of this spinet, because it was like ghosts
making a noise. But I wonder who cared
for music in these wilds a hundred years
ago ? My great-grandmother, I suppose,
or my great-grandcourt '  she glanced at
two faded, vague miniatures of high-foreheads,

long-necked ladies, in black frames,
above the mantelshelf.

Have your family been here so long ? '
said Diligent.

Much longer ; those old shafts that
you dreaded were the ]pits in which they
buried their fortunes, such as they were ;
and it was some remote great-grandfather
who left his home, near Tendance, and
built this house  I suppose to be close to
the object of this passion  the mines.'

Was his devotion rewarded f '

As most grand passions are  by ruin ;
but look at the moon rising. You will
have a lovely night for your walk home ;
as light as day.'

I like the coastguard's path best,' he
said, turning to Honor, wiio still sat at the
old spinet, fingering the notes dumbly. * It

is longer, but I share Eutli's dislike of
ghosts, and always expect to meet one,
crossing the moor.'

Don't talk of ghosts in the twilight,'
said Mrs. Eoss, ' I don't like it ; and. Honor,
you look so like one, sitting there. Come
downstairs to the lamp and supper.'

But in the parlour below Honor was not
like a ghost, with the light in her eyes and
the softness of her lips, though she hardly
spoke. As she helped Ruth, as usual, in
clearing away, Nugent forestalled her inlifting
the tray. ' You will let me take it
now, won't you ? ' he said. She made no
answer, but he had his will and carried the
tray in triumph to the kitchen, where
Joshua sat in the calm of .absolute content,
in a wooden arm-chair by the fire, playing
at ' Patience ' with the cards spread on a

trestle in front of him, and assisting his
mental struggles over this amusement by
the soothing influence of his pipe. His
tranquillity annoyed his wife from its force
of contrast with her own state of mind, a
restless activity, which, finding scarcely
sufficient outlet in the even tenor of life
at Trebarva, had vent in scolding her
husband, who showed the unmoveable
stolidity of a sailor used to storms, undcM"
the hail of Ruth's eloquence.

If you was half a man, you'd stand
outside the door and take the tray from
me,' quoth his wife, with cutting scorn ;
instead o' letting a strange gentleman, or
Miss Honor, make beasts o' burden o'
themselves in this way.'

You told me never to come nigh the
parlour o' nights,' mumbled Lier husband,

recognising Nugent's advent by an odd
salutation, half rising, half nod, and returning
to his occupation of dealing out cards
with a horny hand, and pondering over
his play, with his pipe held away from his
mouth, and one meditative finger scratching
his nose. ' Besides, your arms are
strong enough, as I know well, and so does
the broomstick.'

Oh, Balaam's ass was nought with
you, i' the way o' answering,' returned
Ruth, scornfully ignoring both the sarcastic
inuendo as to her conjugal habits,
and the fit of chuckling which the consideration
of his own wit caused Joshua, some
moments afterwards. ' If you muddled
your head less with pipes and cider and
them devil's books, there'd be some chance
o' your hearing " Well done, good and

faithful servant," at the Last Day ; but as
it is, you're like Thomas, unbelieving, and

I've done with you. What 11 you have

for supper, old man ? ' The conclusion of
this exordium reached Nugent's ears as he
was turning away from the kitchen, and
made him regard Ruth as less of a Tartar
than its beginning and plentiful seasoning
of Scripture allusions would have caused
him to do.

The front door was open, and in the
garden beyond he saw the glimmer of
a white dress, in the pale light of the
rising moon. It was Honor leaning on

O o

the gate ; she turned as his foot ground
the broken shells and pebbles of the pathway.


It was so hot,' she said, * I came out
for air. Don't you know how sometimes

VOL. L I

the feeling of being in a room almost stifles
you?'

As though it were closing in and one
must struggle to be free, like life sometimes.'
The meaning might have been
more clearly expressed, but Honor's one
intense ' yes ' told she understood him.

Only with life,' he said, ' you can't
always get into the fresh air at will.'
Then what does one do ?  die ? '
There was a cry in her voice that
frightened him.

What is much the same,' he answered,
or  I suppose the orthodox answer would
be  do our duty in that state of life,
&c. &c.'

But if one has never tried to do one's
duty, one never thinks of it.'

I don't know,' he said ; ' I have never

tried.' His own words startled him ; he lead
spoken carelessly, and they faced him like
a stern condemnation of his whole life.

Is that the punishment of not doing
right  not to know it from wrong ? '

Her eyes were questioning his face, as
though in his answer might lie the gospel.
Nugent had never endured such self-abasement
as was his now, feeling the girl
trusted, as better and stronger than hei
self, him to whom her innocence and truth
were as something awful. Simple as her
words were, he could only answer, ' I don't
understand ; ' for who was he, that he should
be a judge over her and settle for her.
questions which, it seemed to him at that
moment, he had shirked facing all his life 'f

I mean,' she explained, a timidity lending
pathos to her voice, ' if anyone has

never thought  has only gone on living,
and has to do something which one has
never dreamed of before, and couldn't
have told if it would be right or wrong ;
would one know, then ? ' Her earnestness
was painful to Nugent ; he did not answer
for a moment. Then :

'One thing,' he said, 'I have always
believed, though it isn't much good to you,
who have never known what a black
thing the wrong of the world really means,
or how terrible it would be to be part of it
oneself ; as sometimes a man feels he must
be when he thinks how he pleases himself,
how little he thinks of any other soul 
I can't help fancying that in every man's
and woman's life is a moment when they
know the choice is clear before them 
like Hercules  and, as they choose then,

SO their lives will be. The moment may-come
early in some lives, late in others ;
and its choice, if one decides right, must
be a strength from that time, helping one
in little things and great.'

But if one did not know it, and chose
the wrong ? '

Then it would be no choice ; the worst,
or best, of my faith,' continued Nugent,
with a rather cynical laugh, ' is that it
induces one to drift on very comfortably
till that redeeming moment shall come and
clear off all old scores against us ; and,
after all, it never may arrive. Oh, look ! '
his voice suddenly changing, ' how lovely
the colour of the heather is in the moonlight
 no, it is not colour, only the feeling
of it.'

She did not reply. A woman cannot

cast off the semblance of a graver mood
that has touched her as easily as can a man ;
or, at all events, a girl of twenty one cannot
do so as freely as a man of over thirty,
to whom, just then, his outward life is
sufficient. In the faint dark beauty of the
cloud of purple heather, spreading over
the moorland, in the tender air of the
summer night, the deep-hued sky, the far-off
sound and light of the moon-washed
waves  in all these, Nugent felt the charm
of the hour and the presence which he
must leave ere long. They seemed to
blend with the sense of Honor herself, and,
in them, he forgot all else, regret and
endeavour alike. Hope grew strong in his
heart ; he would surely return, surely win
her. ' Schiveig stilled mein Hers schwerin
still'

CHAPTER YIIL.

We two stood by with never a third,
But each to each as we knew full well.

By the Fireside.

Honor said ' good night ' and turned to the
house ; but Dan had no intention of retiring
to rest so soon. True, he ran back to
the door after her ; but there he halted.
His mistress turned round, and Dan, taking
this as a sign of her consent to a moonlit
ramble, gave a joyful bark and
sprang to where Stephen was still waiting
by the gate  watching them.

Shall I take him to Lynion with
me?' he asked. 'I will return him tomorrow.'


Honor had come slowly down the
garden path, and was leaning on the gate ;
the dog crouching by her side with eyes of
wistful expectancy. She shook her head,
smiling.

You would be very sorry you had
made the offer,' she answered. 'No, Dan
and I must go in, though the night is so
lovely.'

There was something of reluctance in
her tone, and she spoke the truth. The
night was lovely ; so lovely, it acted like a
charm on the young man as he stood there
gazing at Honor, slender in the whiteness
of the moonlight ; her eyes as deep and as
beautiful as by day. Was it only the
night, or his past repression and the spell
of her presence, which made him bolder
than he had ever been before ?

Wliy must you jo in?' lie asked;
Dan wants a run ; come a little way, only
a little way, with me.'

She hesitated. ' I must tell Aunt
Mary,' she said, ' or she will be frightened
that I have come to grief on the rocks.'

She vanished indoors, where Mrs. Ross
was sitting dreaming. ' I am just going to
the turn of the clin' with Mr. Xugent,' she
said. The frank carelessness of the tone
was not a blind; or, if it was, it blinded
herself. sirs. Ross looked up ; for one
moment an idea struck her, but she dismissed
it. Somehow, she could never
entertain the idea of Honor softening to
any man. 'Don't go too far,' she said,
rather anxiously ; ' it is a dangerous path.

*1 know every step of the way,' Honor
returned, with some scorn; 'Mi. XiiLrcnt

is in more danger than I am, yet he thinks
he can look after me.'

And Mrs. Eoss knew enough of Kfe to
feel sure that while a woman holds a man's
protection lightly, she is in small danger of
caring for him.

Yet, indifferent as Honor appeared,
there was a strange new pleasure to her 
of which she showed nothing  in even
such a slight service as Nugent tendered
her, in unlatching the gate as they strayed
out together across the moonlit heath.
Perhaps it was only the softness of the air,
the clear shining of the moon above their
heads, the long radiance of light on the
sea, and the sweet, far-off ' murmur of the
moon-led waters white which influenced
her so, that Stephen felt his soul swell
suddenly within him, as at some chance

Avoid lier eyes met his. The sadness of her
gaze was more wistful ; and surely there
was a new awakening in it, a strangle
yearning, childlike and tender, which made
his heart beat fast With a rapture akin to
pain : the desire to fall at her feet, and
holding those beautiful hands prisoned in
his, to cover them with kisses, and then,
oh, then to tell her how he loved her !

In another moment he had the impulse
under control, and they slowly wandered
on, side by side, down the rugged coastguard's
path, along the slopes of the cliff,
till they came to a point where it grew
impossible to walk two abreast. Here
Honor halted, as if to return.

'Oil, don't go yet ! ' he implored. ' Do
sit down here a little while and watch,
see, till that boat has passed where the

moon is on the water. We have gone a
very short way.'

'It is quite far enough,' Honor answered
; but she seated herself, watching
the distant fishing-boat, absently, intently.

Hark ! what is that ? '

A very distant sound of voices and
laughter caught their ears. Honor listened.

I suppose they are launching,' she said,
at Mary Bay. The night is so still, we
can hear all this way of.'

What is launching ? I had the little
sand-eels for breakfast one day, and thought
them very good ; but how are they caught ?
I can't make out.'

Don't you know ? You ought to have
got some of the fisher-boys to take you to
Mary Bay. Ruth and I often go down to
the little cove, where my boat is kept, and

where there is a strip of sand, and we have
it all to ourselves, with one or two of the
coastguard children.'

But does Mrs. Ruth launce ? '

Of course she does ; and it is great
fun,' said the girl, a fresh healthy amusement
brightening her face. ' You can only
launce when the moon is high and the tide
low. You go just where the waves break,
and scratch with an iron hook in the wet
sand, till you see something wriggle, and
you clutch it. That is your launce, and
sometimes it runs down into the sea, and
you run after it.'

Exciting, if damp,' returned Stephen ;
'but for Mrs. Ruth, I should think
rheum '

Don't suggest it to her,' said Honor,
or you will offend her mortally.'

It was not a romantic conversation, but
Stephen was well content with any subject
which would make Honor talk freely with
him, as now, with a curving smile on her
lips, while she sat on the rock, gathering
some sprays of heather which grew near.

How sweet your carnations are ! ' he
said, more for the sake of breaking the
silence than anything else.

She took them from her belt indifferently.
' Yes,' she answered ; ' but they
are such sultry flowers, one grows tired of
them.'

Stephen remembered Permit : remembered
too the ' Shepherd's Calendar,' with
its

Coronations and sops-incline
Worn of paramour.

He would have given the world to ask for
one of those blood-red flowers, with their

passionate, heavy perfume, and yet he did
not dare.

Do you like honeysuckle ? See, there
is some down there on the h)\ver sU)pc/
Don't get it ; your foot might sip.'
The command was an entreaty. lie
hughie, and swung himself down to where
his eye had caught sight of the tangled
wreath of blossoms dim in the moonlight.
When he came back he saw she was pale,
with a set, strained look on her face. The
red lovers and the heather she had picked
had fallen to the ground unheeded.
What is it 't' ' he asked.
'You frightened me. It was not safe.'
Stephen laughed. 'It wiu quite safe:
lout anyhow you should not blame mc.
You are far more veiiturrsomc, as our
nurses used to call it, than I am. 1 shall

not soon forget when I saw you climb
down that cliff at Lynion, after the seagull.'
A real shiver passed through him
as he recalled it.

You saw me ? '

Yes ; I was painting close by  will
you be angry with me if ?

What ? '

He made an effort to speak easily,
unconcernedly  it was not very successful.

I have no right to ask  but if you
would promise me not to risk your life
again like that.'

She drew up her head slightly, but now
that he had spoken, he had gained courage
and met her gaze fully.

Will you ? ' he asked. / You know it is
not right. You must not.'

The firm quiet tone touched her with

a sense of sweetness in submission; hci- 'I
j)roinise' was like that of a docile child.

For one l)rief and ]perfect moment it
made Stephen Nugent sure she loved him.

He dared not, however, test his faith,
and in another moment it seemed no
longer his, and the warning voice within
him cried, 'Not yet; not yet.' The fishing-boat
they were watching slid silently across
the shining track, and Honor rose.

1 must go,' she said. ' Good night."

I shall see you back,' he said quiet Iv,
in a tone that brooked no denial. They did
not speak much; Honor appeared to Ike
She held the wreath of lions



suckle in her hands as she bade him 'nod
night again at the gate. In truth, she was
pondering over his words in the garden.
Nugent turned back, tracking his path,
VOL. I. K

till he came to the point where they had
sat, and where the carnations still lay dark
on the grey turf. He picked them up,
meditating somewhat discontentedly, ' Not
that they are worth much ; she did not
give them to me.'

Still she had shattered and worn and
held them, and their fragrance was blended
with the echoes of the old spinet, the new
softness of Honor's voice and eyes. Sudden
and daring and sweet, the thought of heart
and soul took form in one word, the meaning
of which he seemed never to have
known before, and which now called up a
thousand dreams and hopes, so precious
and sacred in their rapture that they appeared
akin to the moonlight, and too fair
to bear the light of day, all fulfilled in that
one word  wife.

CIIAPTEE IX.

Cold, cold as death the tide came up

111 no manner of haste.  George Macdonald.

What are you goiii' to do, Miss Ilouor ?
Let the bird away ? '

Yes ; its leg is strong now, and it hates
the cage.'

As Honor spoke, she opened the door
of the sea-gull's prison. At first the creature
did not understand : then, as it saw
its freedom, it darted through the opening
of the cage into the air, rose and Littered
and sailed away seaward, leaving Iloiioi-
with lier eyes fixed on its fhglit and an
unreasoning sadness at lier lieait. Lie

was angry with herself for the ache within
her.

'The others will peck it to death, now ita
stranger,' observed Ruth. 'It had better
'a kept to the cage.'

'It didn't think so.' Honor turned
abruptly and went in from the garden,
leaving Ruth to meditate on the empty
cage ; she went into the sitting-room,
where Mrs. Ross was employed on her pet
occupation  delicate white embroidery 
as a relaxation from Hamath. Honor
wished feverishly she could find soothing
in cutting little holes in cambric, and sewing
round their edges; but as she could not,
she opened the drawer where lay the books
and papers which she used as an anodyne
for the unrest that would beset her, and
tried to apply herself to mathematics.

To-day, however, they failed of their
result and almost maddened her. She
hated the letters and numbers before her,
as though they lead been live things ;
taskmasters set by herself, to grind down
and keep under the life and youth which
cried within her. But this time, their
slaves rose up in rebellion against them ;
she pushed the papers away from her, with
a good dash ' that made Mrs. Eoss lookup
from her needlework. Honor gave a
tierce, short, impatient laugh. ' If I were
a little girl,' she said, ' you would tell me
to go on witii my lessons. As it is, I don't
know what to do.' She lingered sitting
there, a brooding melancholy in her eyes,
then sprang up.

I shall iro out in the boat. I want to

<et tired ; that is the only thing that does
me good.'

Honor dear ! '

The tenderness and pity of the elder
woman's face caused a pang, as of remorse,
to shoot throiiijh Honor. ' You are very
good, Mary,' she said, ' to bear with me as
you do.' Impulsively she knelt and leant
her head against Mrs. Eoss's knee, with a
childlike clinging to the unspoken, unselfish
sympathy with all her moods. The
two women rarely put their inner feelings
into words to each other. ' Good-bye,'
Honor said at the door. Then she went
out, followed by Dan, whose expectancy of
an excursion with his mistress was, however,
doomed to be disappointed.

Xo, Dan, you are too much trouble
in the boat.  Here, Ruth,' she said, opening

the kitchen door, ' will you take care
of Dan ? I am cfoinir in the boat, and don't

CO '

want him with rae.'

You're not oini: off without your
dinner,' quoth Ruth sternly ; ' leastways
you'll take it with you.'

I don't want anything, and I can't
wait,' returned Honor, but Ruth was not
to be put off so.

I remember that day the tide was
against you and you didn't come in till
ten at night, as white and spent for want
of food as you could be ; and it doesn't
happen again, Miss Honor, if I know it.'
Here louth pulled out a basket and began
to stock it. ' There's the cold duck, and
Nellie Conan brought some fresh cream
and some cherries this morning ; so you'll
have some of them.'

Farther resistance was useless, and
Honor waited till the basket was delivered
to her, and Dan, wistful-eyed and longing,
but knowing his fate for that day was
kitchen or yard, watched his mistress's
departure, feeling himself an ill-used dog,
as, from the back door, he saw Honor take
the path which led down, with many
twists and turns, to a little cove where her
boat was dragged up, high and dry,
beyond the reach of the tide. It was a
small, light craft, but strongly built and
equal to rough weather, and, with some
effort. Honor could launch it unaided.
She would have made a fine study of
supple strength and grace and energy, ina
woman's form, as she pushed the boat
down the shelving beach, till the keel,
ceasing to grate against the stones, sid

into the lucid water. She leaped in, took
up her sculls and rowed vigorously, for
some time, with a steady, even stroke
which bore her swiftly along, although she
was pulling against the tide.

The sea was clear green, unbroken on
the surface, but with a strong lazy ground-swell
which needed resistance and told of
rougher weaves, when the tide should presently
return to the shore. After a while
Honor drew in Jier oars, and resting on
them, looked dreamily down at the clear
Vater and the waving, indistinct masses of
dark sea-plants beneath, shadowed and
brightened by the softened sunlight which
pierced through the crystal So drifting
with the sea, in the summer light ; watching
the ihglit of the sea-birds, as they swept or
hovered over the sea ; listening to tlieii'

wild cry and the echoed break of the
waves on the shore, whatever unrest
troubled the girl was hushed to sleep in a
dream of warmth and radiance and lulling
motion.

With a sigh, she resumed her oars and
turned her course landward. All along the
line of coast before her, ran cruel, straight,
black cliffs, with brows frowning down on
the rocks and surf and shingle below,
which, here and there, ran out into reaches
of sand, still wet and shining from the
retreating tide. A shout from the shore
startled her, and there, hailing her from an
out-jutting rock, stood a figure she knew.
An involuntary sweet light of pleasure
crossed her face, and she turned to road
where Nugent stood awaiting her, as lie
brought her boat near him, against the

side of the rock where the water was deep
and cain.

I thought it was you,' he said, ' a long
way off.'

'How did you get here? You couldn't
have climbed down the cliffs.'

Or flown,' he returned, his gladness at
the unexpected meeting telling in his laugh.
No, I scrambled down about a mile further
along, and feel as though the shore were
mine by right of conquest. May I invite
you to land ? '

Are you painting here ? '

My picture is finished, so I am sketching
indiscriminately ; the easel is on the
other side of these rocks. I left it when I
saw you.'

He had ]put out this hand to help her in
landing, but she had sprung up on to the

rock, with that habit of self-reliance which
lie often felt as a purposed rebuff, and
holding in her hand the rope end to attach
the boat to her moorings. She looked
round, as if doubtful where to fasten it.

No, this will do,' she said in answer
to a suifyestion of Current's, that he should
take the boat round and drag it up on the
sand, near where he was painting. Lie
stuck up one of the sculls in a narrow cleft
in the rocks, where it remained upright,
tightly wedged in, and tied the rope round
it so quickly that Nugent had no chance of
helping her, beyond just testing the firmness
with which the pole of the oar was
fixed. ' Now,' she said, ' which is the way
to your kingdom ? '

I wish I had brought some food,'
observed Nugent ruefully. ' It is not a

very kingly fashion of entertaining a guest,
this. If I lead only dreamed I could meet
you, I would have prepared a royal feast 
as far as Lynion was equal to it  and we
would have had a picnic'

So we can,' returned Honor, springing
back into the boat and reaching under the
seat for the basket she had forgotten.
Ruth insisted on supplying me as if I were
off to America. Are you really hungry ? '

'Not a bit'  which was an untruth.
And you don't think I am going to rob
you ? '

There is sure to be enough for three :
Ruth's idea is always, better too much than
too little, and, as she says, one never
knows what may happen. Lie will
triumph, when I tell her of my meeting
you to-day.'

They made their way across the projecting,
craggy ridge of rocks, to where, on
its other side, was a tiny bay, circled
round by cliffs and rocks clothed in a sharp
armour of mussels, which gave them a
curious purple bloom, brightening in the
sunlight to a metallic lustre. Xugent's
easel was set up in the midst of the white,
firm sand, under the shadow of a mighty
boulder. ' This is the royal studio,' lie
said, turning round to Honor, with a grand
air of courtesy. ' I think it must serve
as drawing-room as well.'

And dining-room too,' laughed Honor.
She and Stephen had both the delightful
sense of playing at something, which
survives with most people, from their
childhood, and the indulgence whereof
seems, for a time, to bring that childhood

back, with its inconsequence and enjo}'-
nient and free happiness. Honor forgot
to think, or remember, as she inspected
Xugent's palace, and it was with a mood
akin to hers he asked 

 What time would you like to dine ?
With all deference to a distinguished guest,
the uaziuL' on the outside of that basket
makes me feel as if I had been holding out
a siege against the sea-gulls.'

Till I arrived with supplies,' lie
replied, kneeling to unfasten the basket
 But it is Pith you have to tlumk 
not me.'

To all, our thanks,' quoted Steplien.
his respect for lieth, none the less, increased
by the view of the basket's contents, even
though lie might have been considered to
err on the side of hberahty, in lier provision

for one girl. ' I fear,' he apologised, ' the
table must remain without a cloth. It is
the fashion here ; tables are so nowadays.
Do you remember Leonine and the
kitten ? '

So the royal feast was merry ; and
Honor, as queen and guest, showed a more
undimmed careless enjoyment of the hour
than she had ever done before with
Nugent. It made his heart strong within
him, and emboldened him to say when the
impromptu dinner was over, ' Don't go
yet ; wait while I finish my sketch, it won't
take long, and this is my last day. Tomorrow
I leave.'

Yes,' she assented ; but whether to his
request, or to the fact of his departure, he
could not tell. However, she sat there ashe
painted, and though they did not say

much, the minutes drifted on into hours,
and neither seemed anxious to rise and o
thence, till Honor said 

How much rougher it is, and how fast
the tide is coming in ! '

Nugent looked up, astonished to find
how near to their feet were plunging the
wild white horses, which were growing
laborer and stronger. ' You will let me
row you back ? ' he pleaded. ' It is too
rough for you alone.'

'I think I have had my boat out in
worse seas than this,' returned Honor, a
slight, amused pique in her voice ; ' but
you will have to come with me or swim.
It is too late for you to go back to where
you came down by  Pendragon, was it
not? The sea is too high already for you
to get round the point.'

VOL. I. L

I never thought of that,' he exclaimed
; ' but for you I might have been
badly off. Is there nowhere one can
climb up farther along the other way ? '

Not for nearly a mile ; you would
have a very long swim ; too long in a sea
like this. But as it is '

I can finish my sketch in safety ; that
is, if you are not tired of waiting.'

'No,' she answered, and was silent.
Despite his present security, Nugent's
words had raised before her a vision of
what struggle might have been his with
those strong waves which came beating in
in curving lines of foam. The fancy would
rise of his fighting them inch by inch ; as
inch by inch they conquered his resistance
; of the salt-bitterness of the sea,
binding sight and stifling breath ; and

then ! The reality of the dream forced a
low cry from her Hps which startled him.

Are you tired ? ' he said. ' I oughtn't
to have kept you here so long.'

She rose, and stood looking across
the Atlantic, as he folded his easel together.
' There,' he said, ' this is my
good-bye to this dear place.' The fervour
in his tone could not be restrained, and tie
same vague wonder filled both their souls,
if ever again they two would stand thus
together with their eyes fixed on those
changing, wayward, eternal waters. It
was scarcely a thought, only the feeling of
parting drawing near them as the breakers
were drawing nearer to their feet.

Then they turned away together, to
find their way back across the rocks, to
where they could see the blade of the oar

L 2

sticking up. They clambered towards it,
Honor going first, Nugent following her.
As she reached the ridge of rock, she
stared out on the sea in a hopeless, amazed
bewilderment; then faced Stephen, her
look telling all, so that he divined the
truth, ere he sprang to her side.

Whether Honor's springing back into the
boat had loosened the knot of the rope she
had believed secure, or whether the rope
itself had been rotten, and its sawing against
the edge of the rock with the swaying of
the water had broken in two, could not
now be told, but  the boat was gone, had
drifted neither knew whither  there was no
sign of her as they strained their eyes
across the sea.

CHAPTER X.

An inch from Dental's black fingers thrust
To lock you.  In a Gondola.

A MILE of pitiless cliff on either hand,
and the sea surging in faster and faster.
Whatever fear there was, neither showed
or spoke it. * We must get on as quickly
as we can,' was all Honor said.

They listened along ; but it was
difficult to proceed rapidly, scrambling up
and down those slippery rocks, whose
thick growth of seaweed and mussels told
how short a time in the day tlioy knew
sun and air. Far above Honor's and
Nugent's heads was the high-water mark of

the cliffs, and Stephen's heart beat faster
as he noted the inroads of the water.
Alone he might have struggled to swim
round to the place by which he had
descended the cliff; though, with so strong
a tide, his chance of success would have
been small, but Honor

Can you swim ? ' he asked with a vain
hope. She shook her head.

'Not far,' she answered; 'and not
against these waves.'

Then he knew if they did not succeed
in racing the tide, it meant death.

He wondered if Honor realised how near
that silent and awful presence was : looking
at her, he saw she did ; knew, too, that
she had no fear. The quick glance
between their eyes spoke all ; a new
courage, a power to fight for her swelled

up in his soul, and they pressed forward,
till after a quarter of a mile's toilsome
scrambling, they stood at the point of
which Honor had spoken. There came
over Nugent a bitterest sinking of the
heart, with the sense of how his feelings
for Honor mocked him. His helplessness to
save her faced him with that tossing fury and
foam of angry waters roaring up to the
cliff, lashed by the rocks among and around
which they rushed and whirled and sprang
as in a mad carmagnole to their own voice.

Nugent turned to Honor : ' We must
try to get across,' he said.

I don't think I can ; ' she showed no
sign of fear, except the new-born whiteness
of her face ; ' I will try,' she added.

'You cannot do it alone,' said Nugent.
You must let me help you, so ' (putting

his arm round her waist), ' keep tight hold
of my arm.'

One step into the water, which struck
with a salt chill, and the foam of the
breaking waves surged up to Honor's
breast. Instinctively he felt her shrink,
but his arm upheld her, and he said withall
the cheerfulness he could muster 

Think you are bathing, and that it is
only fun ; we will beat the sea yet.'

She gazed up at him with a dumb
terror and pain, which yet was not personal
dread, and they strove on against the
water, clutching for support to the crags,
and often being dashed against them so violently,
that Nugent half feared they would
never gain the wide, flat table of rock, at
the other side of the cove, which was their
present goal, and which, when reached.

could be but a moment's halting-place.
The blinding and stunning crash of a
great wave, followed swiftly by another,
swept over their heads, and he felt Honor
snatched from him by its force ; then he
knew lie lead her again, held in a close embrace
and saved  for that moment, at least.

But she, breathless and dazed by the
shock of water, gasped out, as he fought
on with her to the nearest rock, ' Leave
me, you can't save me, and you can swim
yourself  oh, go ! '

The cry of passion and pain in her
voice gave him strength ; her cry told something
which made death with her gladness,
and life the dearest heaven. ' We shall doit,'
he said; 'never fear!' Yet as wave
after wave broke over them, and Honor's
power of striving failed her, he doubted

his own words ; a wilder whirl than before
seized them again, lifting them off their
feet, but this time he knew he held Honor
still, even if in death ; then, that the rush
of the breaker had borne them in along
with itself, and left them clinging to the
foot of the rock they had been striving to
reach. Stunned and confused as he was,
still himself, he dragged Honor up to the
wide ledge above, out of the grasp of
the next wave. She was well-nigh exhausted,
the drenched hair and soaked
dripping garments clinging to her heavily,
her eyes still blinded by the salt water, her
breath coming in quick, faint pants. But
as he spoke to her, Nugent saw a faint
tinge of colour come to her cheeks. ' You
are better now,' he said, 'and we are safe
for a while.'

Yes, but for low long ? Beyond this
rock-where they stood, the tide had
readied the cUflTs, as far as eye could see.
Further progress was impossible. Two or
three hours might pass ere the sea rose
over this spot, but the fringe of weed
which denoted high-water mark was full
four feet above their heads, and above that,
ajiain, <]frew the tufts of sea thrift and
samphire, looking down in their passionless
safety on this man and woman, whose
youth and strength were as an idle jest, in
the face of this near peril. As the far-stretching
waste of waters met her sight, a
low bitter cry escaped her, a strange agony
borne in its despair, as she d topped down,
half kneeling, half crouching on the rock,
as though the fulness of their evil plight
had overpowered her, drowning and bewildering

both body and soul, as the saltwater
had done a few minutes since.

Honor, Honor, my child ! Don't breakdown
so. It isn't as bad as that yet.'

He hardly knew the manner or drift of
his words, but they roused her ; she dashed
the dank hair from her face, raised to his
as with a defiance of fear and death which
mingled with the anguish of her words.

It is not that  but it was my fault
the boat got loose, and I have killed you
killed you. Why didn't you try to save
yourself? It wouldn't have been so dreadful
then, but now Oh, God help us !

Does He never hear ? '

Her wild, imploring gaze turned, as to
meet whatever power there might be to
send help ; but all that met her was the
cold aloofness of the sky, the cruel rising

waste of the waves. And yet, the very
utterance of that helpless cry seemed to
bring a faith in an Unseen Strength, with a
power of endurance, even as the rush of
tears flooded her eyes and choked lier
voice, and the stifled words ' Forgive me ! '
uttered brokenly, caught Nugent's ear, and
pierced his heart.

Forgive you ! What do you mean ? '
His hand closed over hers that were so
tightly clasped, and he felt how they shook
with each throb of her tears' passion. All
his love rose within him, mighty to speak
in this last hour. ' Honor, don't you know
I'm glad to die with you  if I cannot save
you ? That is the bitterness.'

Her gaze met his, and lie saw she read
his meaning, and this heart saw too, under
her questioning, doubtful look, the dawn

of an answering fire to that which burned
within his own soul, and he cried 

Dear, if we must die, let me love you
this little while ! '

She knew then what this friendship had
meant. As a direct impulse, it flashed
upon her, strong and terrible as the hungry
sea, and found utterance through her lips :

Love ! *

A fierce short struggle tightened her
mouth and bent her brow, as if she resisted
a new passion within her ; and he, a strange,
mad hope filling his soul, forgot the nearness
of the end, as he heard her falter 

I can't help it, and it would be no good.'
Then her voice gathered strength.

Would it make you happy ? ' she questioned,
as in a delirium, half sobbing, half
glad. ' If you love me, it is easy now.'

His arms were round her, this lips
pressed to hers that yielded, then parted
with a cry, as she drew back from him.

Don't ! ' she said imploringly. ' Keep
me, don't let me be afraid at the end ; but
not so ! '

He understood something of her feeling,
and his close clasp relaxed. The arm
still held her, but only as yielding such
poor help and comfort as was possible in
this hour, such as her brother miLdit have
given ; and so, with all the old self-reliance
shone, she cluni to him. It did
not hurt him that Honor shrank from his
kiss ; the wonder was his love had met
with any response. As he looked at the
pale face so near to him, he thought he
had never seen it so young  almost like a
child's, for all its womanly beauty  with

the piteous lips and tender trusting eyes
he had once thought hard and defiant.
It was too bitter that death should claim
her, his darling, whom he had won the
right to love. The longing for life, hers
and his, rose desperately within him, as his
gaze sought that grey trembling sea. Suddenly
he started, staring eagerly across the
waters. Honor's gaze following his saw
the sail of a fishing-boat, white like a gull
against the deep-hued waters, and rounding
the coast some distance from them. Nugent
put his hand to his mouth and shouted,
but felt how his voice, even aided by
Honor's clear, vibrant cry, was carried
helplessly away landwards. The girl's eyes
had dilated, her breath came quickly from
her panting lips, and, chilled and soaked as
she was, a flush rose to her face, then

faded away as this new hope died within
her, arid lie sobbed 

It will never see us.'

Nugent turned to her, a new light on
his face.

'It shall,' he said. 'Don't be afraid,
Honor ; ' and this time he overbore her,
and her lips met his, as though seeking
strength for death. A moment, and then
she knew he had (one from her side 
whither ?

She swayed to and fro as dizzy, and
turned to seek him, only to see him again
breasting the plunging waters below. Isis
coat lay at the foot of the rock, and misunderstood
he had seized the one faint
chance of saving both their lives, by trying
to swim out to the fishing-boat, which

VOL. I. M

appeared to her excited fancy to grow
further off each instant.

Oh, come back ! ' she sobbed, stretching
out wide, wild arms, as to call him
back from that vast, horrible sea. 'Oh
God, save him ! I love him so ! ' All her
life seemed in that life which her carelessness
had endangered. Would he ever
reach the boat ? Would the men never see
him ? And she  she could do nothing but
strain her eyes, till their strings almost
cracked in her intense watch? of his
efibrt, as he combed with the climbing
waves. He would never do it. She covered
her face in misery, as she lost sight of his
head, and scarcely dared to look up again.
When she did, the boat was tacking ; they
had seen him, and her lips moved dumbly.

A mist and dizziness came over her ;

the sound of the sea surged into thunder
in her ears ; her only sense was a dim
agony of relief. She did not faint, but
her spent strength failed all at once ; her
drenched clothes struck chill about her.
She did not see the rope thrown out to
Stephen from the boat: was only half
conscious, when the boat was near her,
that he lifted her in, the words 'Thank
God, you are saved ! ' breaking from his
liss.

M 2

CHAPTER XI.

You'll love me yet, and I can tarry

Your love's protracted growing.  Pip2m Passes.

She was on board the boat, standing near
where Stephen was leaning against the
bows, wrapped in a coat belonging to the
boat's owner, a weather-beaten, straight-featured
fisherman who, with his grandson,
a lad of about sixteen, composed her
crew.

I am fated to meet you in strange
guises,' said Nugent, smiling at Honor, with
the happiness which was the gift of that
strange, stormy baptism of their love.

But no smile answered him. What did

it mean, this stern and absolute despair,
wliicli her face had never worn on tir
rock, hut which fixed its features now?
Stej)h(.'n hid liiniself lor his wonder ;
she was exhausted, overwrought ; and
Perhaps, now that life was won back,
would have recalled the avowal which had
made death soft to him. lie could trust
and wait now. He could not see her face,
it was turned away from him, as she
watched the fisherman and the boy, while
they turned the boat and drove straight
onward to Trebarva, before the wind.

It was a narrow shave, sir,' said the
old man. 'If Ben hadn't seen you when
he did, you'd scarce 'a been able to reach
us ; not but you're a good swimmer and a
strong. It's as much as I'd 'a ventured on,
when I was young.'

'Do you come from Lynion or Carne
? ' asked Nugen.

No, sir ; we're from the other side of
the coast. She's a Newly boat, as you
might tell from her build ; ' the hereditary
pride in his craft was mingled with a certain
wonder at the ignorance shown in the
young man's query. 'You'll need something
though, sir, to keep off the chill, or
you'll find yourself chattering like a magpie
and the lady too.  Where's the whiskey,
Ben?' he asked his grandson, who, since
the moment he had espied Stephen swimming
towards the boat, had been in a state
of open-mouthed amazement, which seemed
partly to paralyse his faculties, so that he
did all his grandfather's bidding as though
he were sleep-walking, his eyes fixed on
Stephen and Honor the while.

'Thank 3011,' said Stephen. He poured
out a very small dram from the stone
bottle Ben handed him, and gave it to
Honor. ' It will do you good,' he said.

She lifted her heavy eyes and shook
her head : ' I can't ! ' she answered.

Nonsense ! You are trembling? from
cold. Please drink it. That is rilit,' as
she obeyed him. ' There, you feel better
now,' as some colour came back to her lips,
pale and chill.

Yes.' She made an effort to speak, as
though her utterance were choked, rendering
speech difficult. 'Don't come to
Trebarva with me now,' she said.  1 
come tomorrow  I must see you then.'

'As you will,' he answered, determined
not to appear exacting, or wishful for more
than she was willing to give. He understood

what a dream that terrible hour of
struggle must be to her, as it was to him
now  although, to him, the deep rapture
seemed to drown the pain  and he felt she
might well be loth to realise what she had
owned then, in the face of death.

A short while and they reached the
little cove, whence Honor had but a few
hours ago launched her boat. The wishing
for fear of running aground, could
not come within some yards from the
shore. 'I must carry you to land,' Stephen
said.

She assented mutely, and stretched out
her hand in thanks and farewell to the old
fisherman and then to Ben, who appeared
afraid to take it.

Thank the Lord, miss,' said his grandfather,
' that your pretty head isn't asleep

The gentleman didn't say as miss did
it.'

'All, but I knows it's only a woman
would tie up a boat with a slip-knot.
Have a care, sir, how you get over her
side. * All right,' as Stephen, standing
below, in the surf, stretched out his arms
to take Honor and carried her to shore.

'We'll take you back to Lynion now,
sir,' the old man called out to Nugent, as
lie stood on the beach, watching Honor,
as she climbed U[) the steep with weary,
lingering steps. ' Strange,' Nugent thought,

as he returned to the boat. The look of
her eyes, as they parted, haunted him : it
was like a smothered sob.

Ben and his grandfather had, after the
fashion of their kind, begun a hymn. It
mingled, with more volume than could
have been expected, with the keen dash of
the waves round the boat, the sound of the
wind in the sails, the boy's clear, metallic
tenor being supported by the second of the
old man, perfectly true and resonant, and
osborne by the strange earnestness that
gives the singing of the Cornish fishermen
its own peculiar charm ; and so the words
struck Nugent's ears.

Most Holy Spirit, who didst brood
Upon the chaos dark and rude ;
Who midst the angry tumult cease,
And giv'st for wild confusion, peace 
Oh, hear us, when we cry to Thee
For those in peril on the sea !

CIIAPTEE XII.

Le mystery de Existence c'est le rapport de nos erreurs
avec nos peines.  Meme. de Steel.

A DREARY day, with the gulls flying low
over leaden waves touched with sullen
white ; a clouded sky, under which the
purple of the heather was like a heavy
blood-stain soaking into the moors, and
the grey walls of Trebarva showed each
weather-mark and orange lichen-stain, as
scars of ancient fight.

But no aspect of sea or sky could
have quenched the gladness of Stephen
Nugent's heart, as lie sped along the coastguard's
pati, marked by the white stones
set, from time to time, on the slopes above

the cliffs. Honor loved him, he knew that
now, despite the apparent coldness of her
manner. Her words had told him so ; and
her eyes had spoken passionately and
purely  love.

He had been little good to the world
or himself till this time ; but now, was he
not able to dare all, fight all, vanquish all,
with her by him ? His thoughts, outstripping
his steps, saw her, as she would
meet him, beautiful  how beautiful !  in
her youth, a new sweet shyness softening
her proud eyes and mouth ; and this vision
of her face absorbed him, till he reached
Trebarva.

The parlour was empty when he
entered it, but Honor had heard his step
from above. A minute or two, and
the door opened and she stood before

lira. He started forward, then stopped,
alarmed.

She wore the soft white dress he had
loved to see her in, a few evenings ago ;
but now the yellow lace at the throat
served only to show the pallor of her face,
the heavy lids of the eyes, swollen as by
sleeplessness and tears, the drooped yet
tightened lines of the mouth. Iler very
gait was altered ; it was dragging and slow.
This was no girl, but a woman with a long
heritage of pain, in that desolate aching
glance which pleaded dumbly for comfort,
while forbidding Nugent to offer it.

I told you to come,' she said,
because  because '

lie would put his fate to the touch, let
the cost be what it might.

Because I love you, Honor, aufl y(ni

love me. You said so yesterday, when you
must have spoken the truth. You would
not have cheated me in death.'

No, but then I thought there was no

hope  that we must die Her voice was

a long wail of pain, and his heart grew sick
within him.

And now ?  don't torture me,' he
spoke almost roughly.

I must tell you ; but don't be too
angry with me. You would make me like
you,' she went on, half pleading, half
defiant too. ' I tried not, but it was very
hard, and each time you were kind, I felt
it was so good to have a friend. You
know ' -passionately  ' I did all to prevent
your being friends with me : I hated your
coming, I hated liking you  though I never
thought

Honor, what is it ? What is it ? '
Only you can't judge me '  lie judge
lier, good God !  ' You don't know what
life is here ; one day grinding on after
another, and to know it must be the same
to the end: oh, can't you think? Then,
when you came, I was frightened, I did not
know why, but  I felt it was not safe. I
didn't dream I could care for you, or you
for me, this way ; only I knew that when you
were gone, it would be worse than before,
and so, if I were wise, I would not let any
pleasantness come. Oh, why did you care
for me ! '

At the wild outstretching appeal of her
hands, his own caught them and held them
closely prisoned against his breast, and his
words seemed as an echo of her own
passion.

You couldn't help my loving you,
Honor : I loved you from the moment I
saw you coming across the moor.'

You did not know,' she said, half
sobbing : ' there is nothing in me to love.
Did I love you too ? '  her eyes questioned
him. ' I thought of you always, and was
angry with myself for being rude, and
angrier when I was not ; but I only
thought we were friends  and so  and soit
went on.'

No tears came, and she struggled with
herself till the sobs were under mastery ; then
drew her hands away from Stephen's grasp
and continued, not as before wildly and extenuating,
at broken gasps, but as one
who has learned a lesson, and a hard oneby
rote :

I must tell you  I wanted to do so

very often  on that cvenin<i when you a.-ked
me why I worked at mathematics, hut I
couldn't  and now it is my punishment
and I must ; I have said so all through the
night. Oh ! '  and now the tears Hooded her
voice and eyes  ' if I had died yesterday,
with you, and you had never known '

Lie was half kneeling on the sofa, her
face hidden ; he could only see how her
frame was shaking and trembling, how lier
hands clenched closer and closer, as though
the poor girl sought to strengthen herself
by the bitter tightening of the fingers on
the palms. All his heart went forth to
meet her cry, while he felt lier so far from
him, in her desolate remoteness of pain.

'Nothing can change me!'  he coidd
say no more ; lier pain and shame were his,
his faith in her was his own.

VOL. I. X

'Nothing at last she answered, 'but

this Don't look at me I I can bear you

to hear me, but that is all '

There was a silence in the room, till
the next words broke it, like a knell on
Nugent's ear, albeit the tone of her voice,
the anguish of her eyes, told innocence of
any shame or sin such as her words might
have been supposed to imply.

'I am married. I left my husband,
oh, I can't tell you  you couldn't understands


CHAPTER XIII.

Oh dissembling courtesy ! how fine this tyrant
Can tickle, where she wounds !  Cymheline.

No, he could not understand, nor could she
tell him. How should a man comprehend
the passionate revolt by which a girl had
striven to escape from the wreck of young
life and hope, which her own fault had
brought upon her, which had led lier to
this wild coast, where she might rest
untracked, with the one woman who loved
and pitied her, and under whose name she
had sheltered herself?

Mrs. Boss had been her governess, when
she, Honor Denne, the motherless, only

> -2

child of a rich man, had been a wilful,
untamed little girl, imperious and affectionate,
and clinging to her governess with the
strength of a nature which found few other
outlets of feeling. Mr. Denne, M.P., was an
active, ambitious man, spending little time
at his house in Dorsetshire, and, when at
home, too absorbed in the work which
followed him, to devote much leisure to his
daughter. Sometimes Honor rode with
him through the leafy lanes and out along
the wide white roads, between the cornfields
and the sweet meadow-land ; and in
cne evening, when he had dined, she came
in to him, a tall, slim figure in her white
frock, with that indefinite charm and
promise of coming womanhood which is
sometimes the lovely dower of maidens of
lier case. Then Mr. Denne would realise

that Honor would be a beautiful woman  '
lie yas fond of his child, and meant when lie
was less busy and she was older, to see
more of her, to make her his companion
though not as her mother had been ;

that could not be Ah, if she had ]put

lived ! '

In the meantime he left Honor growing
apace like a flower, under sun and rain,
among the Dorsetshire woods and fields,
while he went up to London and the
session. Her life was a happy one, as free
as a girl's could well be ; perhaps too untrammelled
for a maiden of her age, whose
virtues did not include self-control. She
was Mrs. Ross's darling ; and if she was
rather her governess's ruler than Mrs. Ross
was hers, neither of them was aware of it.
The gentle lady, with her head full of

cuneiform inscriptions, was a tender and
loving friend to the motherless girl, if not a
severe mentor, and Honor Denne grew up
wayward, true, and ardent  her nature
ungoverned, though not unchecked  for
all life brings some discipline  into a
damsel of fourteen, whose gracious slenderness
and unconscious pride of beauty were
no longer only a promise. She was child
and woman at once, and the continual
contact with Mrs. Eoss's studious life had
given her an odd touch of out-of-the-way
learning she would otherwise have lacked,
for books were neglected in the life around
lier  this good life of riding and rambling
and gardening, skating in winter and
bathing in summer, in the clear, deep
trout stream running through the grounds
of Sheldon.

Then one day came strange news  in
two letters, one to Mrs. Eoss, one to Honor
Mr. Denne was engaged, and about to be
married to a Miss Rainforth. It seemed to
the child, as she read it, that a great cloud
had suddenly blotted out the sunlight forever.
But of what use was the angry,
impotent misery that had for its centre the
instinct that now she would never know
her father better, as she had thought she
would do some day? Oh! she hated this
woman  she could not help it, nor did she
try to do so.

But she hated her a thousand times
more when Mr. Denne came down to
Sheldon to make arrangements for his new
life, and so the full force of the blow broke
upon Honor. He and his wife would live
the greater part of the year in London, and

Norali, as he always called his daughter,
would, of course, be with them. To a
child who had spent all her life in the
country, there was a certain excitement in
this announcement  she had never experienced
the monotonous prison of a
London schoolroom, or the dulness of the
formal walks and dismal trots that would
replace her free rambles and rides  all this
was yet in the future.

But when the fact broke on her and
Mrs. Eoss, that they would be separated,
Mr. Denne's grave courtesy and gratitude
and regrets for the necessity, as he informed
Mrs. Eoss of the fact, had no virtue in
them to soothe her sorrow, still less to still
the tumult of grief and love and indignation
through which all Honor's nature seemed
fused in one wretched sense of her powerlessness

to help this fate which was crushing
her.

But, dear,' said Mrs. Eoss, between her
own tears, ' your father is quite right ;
Mrs. Denne will wish to have you with
her'  the girl's eyes lit into angry grey
lire  ' and you need masters and classes, as
Mr. Denne says. I am not wanted now.'
Her voice quivered, and she broke down.

But Honor did not cry ; she was too
resentful against her father to soften into
tears. She felt in her soul it was cruelly
unfair and ungrateful to the friend who
had filled her mother's place to her so
long, and was bitterly indignant with the
woman who was the cause of this wrong.

And what will you do ? ' she asked at
last, lifting her brooding eyes to Mrs. Ross's
face.

'I thought of that last night. My
brother is always writing to persuade me
to go and live with him at the old
home, Trebarva. He is all alone there
now, but I never could have left you willingly.'


Honor knew well of that grey house set
against the sea, amidst the leagues of purple
heather. She had heard, often enough,
the story of Mrs. Eoss's childhood and youth
spent there, and how it ended when she
married the young curate who, for three
months, had taken the duty of the incumbent
nearest to Trebarva, the vicar of
three or four church towns, each consisting
of a tiny church and two or three cottages ;
an innocent pluralist, whose whole income
was not above two hundred pounds.

Mr. Eoss had taken his wife far away

from Trebarva to the quiet Berkshire
village where his work was set, and since
then she had only seen the place twice,
once in the early days of her widowhood,
once during a summer holiday, when Mr.
Denne, for a wonder, had taken Honor on
a short visit to some relations in the North.
Unconsciously she lead lent a glamour to
lier descriptions of the place; and Tree
with its stern loneliness, its summer
glory of heath and hng, its deep blue sea
and great many-hued serpentine crags, was
a romance to Honor. At this moment her
heart beat first with an intense longing to
leave this life, her father and his new wife,
and throw in her lot with that of Mary
Ross.

And the yearning found expression in a
vague pledging of the future.

I shall come to you some day and live
there with you, if you will let me.'

The elder woman smiled. ' Mr. Denne
may object,' she said. ' You would be very
dull. Trebarva isn't like Sheldon ! '

As if I were ever dull with you ! '

Or with anyone : but you don't know
much of life yet, dear, or expect much ;
when you do '

I shall come,' put in the girl, her assertion
growing positive under contradiction
; and when, later on, the new facts of
her life galled her unexpectedly, and the
want of Mrs. Eoss's tender affection caused
her sharp pangs of loneliness, there would
return the thought of Trebarva, as a
haven, till it assumed the tenacity of a
fixed idea.

This was not at first. In spite of Honor's
indignation, she dared not resist her father,
when he told her she was to accompany
him to Miss Rainforth's home, to stay there
and be a bridesmaid. lie thought this
arrangement, which was the expressed wish
of his future wife, showed a sweetness and
wish to strengthen all the ties of their future
life, which made him more in love with her
than ever. Honor herself, with the quick
delight in beauty which was an instinct of
lier nature, felt her own bitterness and anger
melt away at the first vision of the exquisite
creature with fair rolled hair, in a sweet
disorder above her loadstar eyes and bewitching
smile, who stretched out her
hands to her half beseechingly as lie said,
Love me a little, if you can;' and the girl's

generous nature felt a quick remorse as
she sealed with a kiss her impulsive ' I
do

But though Miss Eainforth played her
part very prettily, none the less was that
first sight of Honor a shock to her, and one
from which she did not at once recover.
Mr. Denne had told her Honor was twelve
or thirteen, and she had imagined a child ;
but this tall, slim girl, still unformed, but
with the dawn flush of beauty giving her
the charm

Which sets
The budding rose above the rose full blown 

albeit not yet a woman, would soon be one,
and a grown-up step-daughter  not a fact
which had entered into Miss Eainforth 's
theory of her future life, for some years to
come. It faced her now as a near reality,

and quickened an ignoble grudge which
she lead already conceived against poor
Honor, without any fault on the girl's
part.

Agnes Rainforth was one of those
women whose affections can apparently find
no object worthy their devotion among
human kind, and so fix themselves with the
more tenacity on inanimate objects. Miss
Rainforth had never been troubled by that
feeling which surely brings the heartache
to those who know it  the blind unreasoning
love for man or woman ; but her father
and her mother felt no lack in her, and if
her sisters and her brother regarded Arnes's
marriage as a loss to them which was a
gain, they kept their conviction secret, and
were only inwardly amazed and amused at
the blindness of a man who could think

Agnes cared one straw for anybody but
herself.

But if she did not care for people, it by
no means followed she was without affection ;
to gain the objects whereof she had an inexhaustible
store of well-coined pinchbeck,
with which she could traffic with those
otherwise uninteresting human beings who
could give her what she needed. She never
knew herself how little men and women
meant to her ; and when, at twenty six, she
accepted, with an intense relief, the release
from the struggle after the good she cared
for, hampered, as she had been, by a small
allowance and four younger sisters, she
quite imagined it was Mr, Denne she loved,
not his large income or his rising reputation
in the House. Her lover's grave
dignity of look and manner, his old faniilj,

his courteous tenderness to lier, all satisfied
lier vanity, so that her flattered self-esteem
made so good a seni])lan(:c of love on her
part as deceived even herself.

After all these weary years of plotting
and planning, of mending gloves and refashioning
dresses, with a scanty share of
help from the one maid, who was well exercised
in the service of Mrs. Eainforth and
her five daughters, after the struggle and
the constant endeavour to shine down other
women with far more money than herself,
and to make-50/. a year do the work of
150/., it was sweet to Agnes to think these
hateful days were over for ever. Dress
was her one constant interest in life, both asa
pursuit and a means by which her vanity
could be gratified; and allied to this primary
affection was an offshoot therefrom, wlijr-h

VOL. I

had only not grown into a passion from
her inability, till now, to indulge it in
the smallest degree  a yearning after
jewels.

This was likely to be gratified now ;
already, when Honor arrived on lier visit to
her future step-mother, Miss Eainforth's
toilette table bore many dainty morocco
and russia leather cases, the contents of
which, three months ago, would have
sufficed for her entire happiness for the
time  yet here was the crumpled rose-leaf
she was powerless to smooth.

The Eainforths were old acquaintances
of Mr. Denne's, though till this summer
he had seen little of them, since his first
wife's death ; and when he had met Agnes
Eainforth this year, had been half surprised
into love, by discovering how fair

the child, lie only vaguely remembered,
had grown. lout Agnes herself had a
vivid recollection of a time, twelve years
before, when Mr. and Mrs. Denne had
come down to stay with the Eainforths fora
week, and she, a girl of fourteen  Honor's
present age  had lingered in her mother's
dressing-room the evening of a county ball,
envious of the tv/o girls who were staying
in the house to go to this dance, under Mrs.
Eainforth's wing.

As they gathered ready dressed, in
her mother's dressing-room, she hated the
contrast between her own dingy claret
merino With its ribbed holland apron, her
tightly plaited fair hair hanging in two
tails down her back, and those elder
maidens' radiant Whiteness of satin and
tulle. Agnes knew she was hv prettier



really than they were, and it was hateful
not to look so. She was noticing; how
red Emily Clinton's arms were, when the
dressing-room door opened again and
Mrs. Denne appeared.

Even now Agnes could remember every
detail of the picture she made  this other
woman whose place she was now to fill 
standing? in the soft light of the shaded
candles and the glow of the fire. She was
all in white, the tracery of rare old lace
giving richness to her satin and brocade ;
her dark hair was swept up in one coil at
the top of her head, above the pale beautiful
face ; and on the front of her dress and
starring her hair, winding round her arms
and shining on her neck and shoulders, like
streams of glittering water, diamonds flashed
and dazzled into light.

Mrs Eainforth turned round with :in
exclamation of delight and surprise.

How good of you,' lie said, ' to i)ut
them on ! I wanted to see them so.'

A penny peep-show,' answered Mrs.
Denne, and Jier voice was very sweet
and low  ' but Arthur likes me to weather.'


Tliey must be very valuable,' said
Mrs. Eainforth, remembering the cost of
her one or two small brooches, the light
of which had waned Before Mrs. Denne's
radiance.

Yes ; but you know they were my
share of my uncle's property ; lie left all
else to my In-other. I always told Arthur
it was a shame they should l)c so useless
to him ; but he likes them, so it doesn't
matter.'

All this Agnes neither understood nor
cared about ; but the dazzle of those
diamonds remained with her as a memory
for ever ; and had been an unconscious
factor in the shy, soft gladness of the
murmur with which her head sank on to
Mr. Denne's shoulder as he gathered her
into his arms, thanking? her with a fervent
kiss, for promising to fill the blank in his
life with her youth and grace and sweetness
 to be his wife and a mother to his
child.

Though you will be more like her
elder sister,' he added tenderly.

Some time afterwards he brought her as
an offering a diamond star, beautiful but
solitary ; and, as she delighted over it,
taking it to be the herald of its brethren,
she remembered so well he said  

Are YOU fond of diamonds? I wish I
had some like Honor's for you ! '

A sick chill of disappointment struck
through her. ' Honor's ? ' she questioned.

Yes ; my wife's  that her uncle left
her  they were entailed on lier child.'
Agnes mustered sufficient self-control to
ask lightly 

Are they very wonderful? '

Tliey are rather fine, and if Honor lias
no taste for them, which is hardly likely,
they would realise a small fortune. They
are worth about eiirht or nine thousand,
which is pretty well for a young woman in
her state of life.'

Her jealous heart cried silently, ' They
ought to be mine ; ' but she only asked 

When will lie have them ? '

Not till lie is twenty one, unless she

marries.' Agnes wondered if she mialit
not at least have the enjoyment of them
for some years ; but Mr. Denne's next
words dissipated this illusion. ' They are
not in my keeping, but in that of her
mother's trustees. What are you thinking
of, Agnes?' he asked jestingly, admiring
the sweet pensiveness of her fair oval face,
bent over his gift. ' Are you afraid your
new daughter will shine you down ? '

He had hit the mark without knowing
it, for that hour had sown the germ of a
bitter, jealous dislike to Honor in Miss
Bainforth's mind.

Yet, as step-mother, no fault could be
found with her. True, directly she returned
with her husband from their
wedding journey, at the end of a dull
October day, to the new house in Bryanston

Square, where Honor was waiting
them, she ground down the girl's Yie into
almost an exaggeration of the usual formal
schoolroom routine ; but then, as she
said, the poor child had been allowed to
run so wild that this was necessary, and
her manner to Honor was always sweet
and caressing, even while she bound her
every hour to a burden of duties and
studies, masters and dull walks with a
daily governess ; whose chief duty was to
superintend Honor's actions, and see that
she duly prepared the succession of
exercises and studies demanded by one
master and another.

'I feel like a tyrant,' moaned Agnes to
her husband. ' Jut you don't know how
nuich she needs, and she has so little time
now in which to make ui) for all she has

lost ; besides, she is quite undisciplined  
she has never learned to obey.'

So Honor sickened and wearied of her
life in the dull back room appointed as
schoolroom, with the rare relaxation of a
drive with Ao-nes now and then in the

o

afternoon ; or of an hour spent in the
drawing-room after dinner, if Mr. and Mrs.
Denne were alone and not going out in
the evening. She saw less of her father
than she had ever done ; and though, with
her straightforward heart-honesty, the girl
believed her step-mother had only set lier
into this dull monotony of life, which
Honor saw was much the same as was led
by most of the girls of lier age around
her, because she thought it needful, still
when Mrs. Denne would come softly into
the schoolroom, and putting her arm round

Honor's neck, as lie sat Avitli flushed face
and puzzled brows over a still German
translation, would murmur, ' Poor little
girl, it does seem liard on you,' the girl's
memory would go back to Sheldon with a
rush of longing. She almost panted for
the cool shadow of the trees and the light
and sound of the stream, for Mrs. Eoss's
voice, for liberty and affection : how sorely
she longed for these, none could know.

Mrs. Denne was right on one point ;
Honor never had learnt obedience : it was
a question if she were learning it now. A
year went on ; the Denies were back at
Sheldon, and Honor was enjoying a faint
shadow of her old life  sadly marred by
the constant companionship of a German
governess, prone to a guttural enthusiasm
over the aesthetic symbolism of nature

when Agnes's baby came and proved to bea
boy, to Mr. Denne's intense satisfaction
and this wife's secret triumph. Honor Vvould
not inherit Sheldon now.

Mrs. Denne betrayed herself unwittingly
to her step-daughter, on the day the
girl first came into her room after the
baby's birth with a bunch of autumn
violets in her hand, which she laid on the
pillow, by Agnes's pale, pretty head.

Thank you, darling, how sweet of you ! '
said Mrs. Denne ; then, with a languid
movement of the head, ' Nurse, show Miss
Denne her brother.'

A small bundle of snowy flannels, from
which peeped out an exceedingly red tiny
face, puckered up as though about to
sneeze or cry, was laid in Honor's arms, and
she held it a little awkwardly. She had

never liked babies, but this small tliinii was
so helpless and strange to her, that a new
womanly instinct of pity and protection and
tenderness stirred within her which made
her intense eyes almost fateful in their
depth. Ajznes misunderstood them ; her
superficial tact led her wrong : and reading
Honor's nature by her own, she said
with a smile, ' You are not angry with him
for taking your place?'

Honor did not understand at once ;
then a light broke in on her, illuming more
facts than one ; she looked straight at her
step-mother, surprised and hurt, with 
like scorn underlying: her astonishment.
' Xo,' she answered, lier voice
vibrating. Agnes saw she had made a
mistake, and she shrunk back from that
clear, piercing glance, with a new di>hke.

I knew you were too generous, dear,' she
said ; but that did not heal Honor's pride
at being suspected of a baseness which had
no part in her.

Six months later, Mr. and Mrs. Denne
had taken advantage of the Whitsuntide
recess to go on a week's visit to Paris, and
Honor was using one of the mornings of
her brief Whitsun holiday to scribble a
lengthy, rambling, untidy letter to Mrs.
Eoss, far away at that unknown Trebarva,
when she was interrupted by a telegram
from Paris.

Mr. Denne was dead; had died of
diphtheria ; was to be buried in Paris.
Honor's grief stunned her ; she had clung
to her father more than she had ever
shown. It must be untrue ! life could not
be cruel and leave her so utterly alone.

There was no ohio who felt iniich fur
the poor child in her ini-ery. Airnes,
widowed so early, with her throat white
aL'aiiist the blackness of her weeds, and the
yellow of her hair LrleamiiiL' throiiLdi the
long misty head dress, more like maiden's
veil than widow's rap, sat with her hay in
her arms, in the dim liLdit of her boudoir,
and quickly and irresistibly touched the
hearts of all who saw her thus. One
person who, perhaps, did not feel the pathos
and i)icturesqueness of Mrs. Denne's ]pose
and attire was her youuLrer sister, The
liainforth, who had come up from tln'
country with her mother in answer to
Allies' summons, and who, while Ir.
liainforth and her elder daughter cried in
company, sat by them, impassive and
apparently sympathising.

Of course she is very sorry to lose
him,' ran her thoughts ; ' he gave her
everything she wanted, and was kind and
good-looking, and always telling her, in one
way or another, how charming she was.
She must miss him dreadfully, but it won't
be for honor.'

Where's Honor P ' Theoo asked bluntly,
as Mrs. Denne, after a gush of tears,
stretched forth her hand to her, and murmured,
with a faint smile quivering on her
lips, that it was ' so good of her to come
with mamma.'

I don't know,' responded Agnes ; ' I
saw her this morning. She suffers very
much, poor dear, and can't bear to see my
sorrow. I fancy she is a little jealous of it ;
but that is natural  I love her for having
loved her father.'

I Avill go and find lier,' said Miss liain-
forth ; and Agnes, as Tlieo left the room,
reflected as lie lead done once or twice
before on her sister's coldness.

Theoo went straight to the schoolroom,
"where she found Honor  asleep. The
fire had burned low, and on the rug,
before it, lay the girl, at full length, her
head thrown back and resting on a footstool.
Her rich-hued hair was tossed and
disordered ; her thick black gown, with its
heavy folds of crape, lacked, for all its
newness, the freshness which marked
Agnes's yet more sombre garb.

Miss Rainforth stood looking at lier,
loth to awake lier, and with a gentle sympathy
in her face Mrs. Denne's grief lead
not called there. ' IIow handsome side
is, even like this ! ' she thought ; ' and

vol I. P

low jealous Agnes will be of her in
two or three years ! ' Theoo had had
experience of this phase of her sister's
nature.

She was turning softly away, when
Honor woke with a start ; but on seeing
Theoo, a momentary gladness crossed her
face. She did not know much of her,
but there was a truth of nature in Theoo
which Honor's own truth answered, and
she was suite Theoo liked her, though she
wondered why.

Only she needed no pity. Even if
every one where sorry for her, what good
would it be ? ' When did you come ? ' she
asked.

Theoo, before answering, deliberately
poked the fire, swept the hearth, and then
sat down by Honor. The new-born blaze

llK'kered cheerfully on both their sticks :
then she said 

A little while ago ; mamma is with
Agnes, and I came u}) here to find you.
I am sorry, though, I woke you.'

It doesn't matter,' answered Honor
heavily. ' I don't know how I dropped
wolf; I didn't sleep much last night.'

I can see that,' said Theoo, a kindly
tenderness in her voice which softened
Honor.

You know,' lie said, ' I forget for a
minute, and then it all comes back, and
I can't cry, but it spurns my eyes hkc
fuse.'

You have cried quite enough, ycni
poor child. I hate tears ; Agnes is crying
downstairs. Do you kwjw what she means

to do ? ' She asked the question to
distract Honor's mind.

She says she shall go abroad soon to
Italy or Germany, but it isn't decided
yet.'

'And send you to school, I suppose?'
Theoo's inflection was not complimentary
to Agnes.

No, papa put in his will that I was not
to go to any school ; he did not like them.
I think mamma means to take me with
her.' She spoke drearily, listlessly, as
though it mattered little to her, but Miss

 to '

Eainforth had some ado to prevent a pitying
shrug of her shoulder at Honor's prospects.
She did not envy her the fate of
being the one home companion of Agnes's
widowhood in a strange land.

But in any case she saw little chance

of Honors lot being enviable for the next
few years; so lie answered as elicerfiilly
as she could, ' Well, that will be ]pleasant
than staying in London.'

Honor did not respond at once; then
she said, with her eyes fixed on the lire-glow


I wish mamma would let me qo to
Trebarva.'

'Where on earth is that ? *

Where Mamie  Mrs. Eoss  I have
told you about her  lives  in Cornwall.'

My dear child, Agnes would never
hear of such a thing ; you may set your
licart at rest as to that. I dare say she ' 
would Wkb it,' Miss Eainforth was nearly
saying, but she checked herself and went
on  MniLdit allow it, if the world wouldn't
say it was wrong of her, and that khe

neglected you ; but every one would do
so, and Agnes is so sure all lie does is
right, she wants other' people to be sure
of it as well. I wish I were not leaving
Norland for so lonir.'

Are you going away ? ' asked Honor
wonderingly.

To India ; I am engaged to be married,
Honor ; I came partly to tell you, only it
seemed unkind when you are so unhappy.'
Theoore was a beautiful gladness in Theoo's
face that made it lovely, and her voice
sweet ; and to the younger girl, who had
never before been face to face with this
love, Theoo's few words were as a revealing
of something unknown and wonderful, and
very far away from her. It was the first
momentary glimpse of Love's paradise
caught through the opening gate, a possibility



of life never realised before, never
likely to be a living tnitli in her own.

'I am Lead,' she said to Theoo, with
izrave, awed eyes and bated breath.

Chapter XV.

Like Alexander I will reign,

And I will reign alone ;
My soul did evermore disdain

A rival near my throne.  Montrose.

So Honor went abroad with Agnes and the
child ; and Theoo Rainforth, now Mrs. Searle,
sailed for India with her husband. She
did not forget the girl, and wrote to her
from time to time ; and whenever her letters
arrived they were hailed by a fine smile
from Mrs. Denne, and some such remark
as  ' Theoo is constant still to her fancy for
you, Honor. I am so glad: I have never
known any of her likings last so long.'

But such speeches, only an example of

many others of the same kind about other
people, did not sliakc Honor's faith in lier
friend. J)y this time she lead gauged
Agnes in some ways, and lead learnt to
resist her power of insinuating that no
one was really and faithfully fond of
Honor ; if one seemed to be so it was
from caprice, or kindness, or self-interest.
Honor clung loyally to her faith in Theoo,
albeit she knew the latter's liking for her
could be but a very small fact in the young
wife's life. But Agnes's tactics did their
work in regard to other people ; the girl
grew to feel herself an Ishmael, with everyone's
lund against her, and to think that
the persons she knew were ready to say
unkind things and think uid<ind thoughts,
till with the sore, hurt ]pain of youth,
when audit to distrust what had seemed

SO winning and so kind, she felt, too, that
her hand was against every one.

Agnes never told a deliberate untruth ;
she only encouraged criticism of Honor
from her crowd of dear friends and larger
crowd of dear acquaintances, dio, as Mrs.
Denne's grief passed from sadness into
tender memory, drew her back into life,
and made her remember she was still
young and prettier than ever. She knew
many women, whose tact made them
sensible that a discriminating, and of course
kindly criticism of her step-daughter,
would not be unwelcome to her. Such
comments repeated to Honor, half laughingly,
half gravely, sometimes as being
absurd, sometimes as a warning, but always
skilfully and delicately exaggerated,
became censure under which the girl

winced ; and being too proud t( show
lier luirt, she grew farouche shy and repellent.


Despite this, Mrs. Denne was aware that
her step-daughter would be, nay, was, a
rival near lier throne, whose constant presence
would gall lier intolerably. Had
ILnor been of a meaner nature, and known
how Agnes was sometimes irritated almost
past bearing b}" some chance look or speech
of friend or admirer devoted to herself,
which told how beautiful the girl had
grown, lie might have tasted the sweets
of revenge ; but as it was, she only knew
lie was vl'etched.

So two years passed on, the winters
spent at Florence and Some, the summers
at Hamburg, the autumns at Danville or
Retreat. Agnes said it was so good for

Honor's education, ignoring the fact that
she herself was freer from the trammels of
widowhood abroad than she would have
been at home. But now that Mrs. Denne's
mourning was over, she yearned for London
and her own house, for the warmth and
prettiness and comfort, for which she had
a cat-like affection.

She made up her mind that if, for the
present, there must be bitterness mingled
in her draught of life, arising from the
presence of a younger and fairer woman
by her side, who must in many eyes eclipse
her, lie would drain the cup heroically,
and give no reason for people to sneer
or laugh, or say that she was jealous of
Honor, and kept her back. In resolving
this, she felt lier own magnanimity and
superiority to her own idea of the race of

women, so that tears stood in lier eves as
she reflected how perfectly lier (city to her
stej)-daiighter lead been fulfilled.

Honor should come out this year, instead
of waiting' till lie was nineteen, as
Mrs. Leone lead formerly intended. She
was a strange girl, poor dear, thought
Agnes, and would be far happier married.
A husband might understand her, as she,
she owned with a sigh, could not do. Mrs.
Denne's own heart, conscious of her own
charm of very womanhood, which men
found so exquisite, felt a soft ]pity for the
rash man who shoidd incline to link his
life with that intractable, fearless creature,
whose eyes would look a defiance of which
Agnes herself was afraid ; and who, lacking
the arts which are instincts to some women,
was scorned of them when exercised by

others. Beautiful as Honor was, would
any man wed her, even with her fortune ?
for Mr. Denne had provided well for his
daughter, and Agnes's memory still ached
jealously when she remembered those
diamonds. She could see how Honor's
fairness would be illumined by their
white fire ; yet it was no use putting off
the evil day which must come, and with a
supreme effort, Agnes made up her mind.
One morning, as Honor entered their room
in the hotel at Marseilles, where they
were staying on their way to England, she
smiled at her, saying, 'I have a surprise
for you.'

Honor was carrying her little brother
on her back, an amusement both she and
the child enjoyed, but the gladness of lier
eyes hardened, and she unclasped Master

Lionel's tiny linus from round her neck
as lie said, * Have you, nianuna?'

Don't you want to know what it is ? '
asked Agnes, seeing as aggrieved as the
lairy godmother niiglit have done, had Cinderella
expressed no wish to go to the ball.

You know I never can guess what you
mean.' Honor scarcely intended a sarcasm ;
]jut Agnes heard in her words the presage
of a future dien they two would ])e more
equally matched, woman to woman, and
war would be more probable than peace
between them ; but she kept these things in
her heart.

You are not over-gracious, Xorah,' she
returned, the ]pique in her voice just evident,
as though, after seeing her way to
a concession she had tliouLdit would dedit
Honor, she had met with an unmerited

rebuff. ' Never mind ; I only wanted to
tell you I mean you to come out this
spring, instead of next year. Now are
you pleased, you strange girl?' She either
arm round her step-daughter's waist,
looking up in her face with that winning
smile which had once charmed Honor, and
in which now she had no belief.

I don't know,' was all the reply.

'The Sphinx was nothing to you,' retorted
Agnes, baffled by this obstinate
ingratitude and insensibility to her efforts
to please. ' Perhaps you will condescend
to be interested in your court dress, as it
isn't a month till the May drawing-rooms.
I think of pale amber for myself. That
faint green-blue I love, they say will be so
much worn this year  which means it will
be horribly common.'

Honor made no reply ; Agnes's announcement
had caused her a curious
thrill, though she had shown no sign
thereof. So she was a woman at last !
Outside in the April sunshine was the
laughing spring greenness, and in the
garden below, a line of jonquils were nodding
their heads in the soft breeze. In the
fastnesses of the leaves a nightingale was
singing, singing, singing ; and something in
the girl trembled back an answer to the
promise and passion and pain of the song,
whose meaning was as yet untold to her,
which might translate itself in such different
ways. The song which, as Heine
told us, the angels call heaven's gladness,
the fiends hell's pain ; while men name it 
Love !

VOL. I. Q

CHAPTER XV.

Form what resolution you will, matrimony will be the
end on't.  Tnw to Scarborough,

If Honor had really looked forward to her
first season in town as the emancipation
from a thousand worrying little cords by
which Agnes managed to control her every
action, she would have been disappointed.
But the quick capacity for pleasure which
was re-awakened within her by this new life
only increased the irritation of her real
want of freedom, the sense that she must
act in every matter as Agnes willed it.

Mrs. Denne had never said to herself
that a perpetual chafing against as constant
a constraint would make the girl the more

fairer to avail herself of the first rliaiK't' telescope
from lier real, yet iiitaiiLnble thraldom;
she had never even owned in thontdit
]k)W intense a relief to lier it would be to
get rid of Honor. isle only vaguely
assured herself that marriage would be the
best thing for her husband's daughter, and
her nature instinctively carried out thi
course of action most likely to bring about
this ' consummation so devoutly to be
wished,' both for Honor and herself.

It did not seem a difficult one to achieve.
Agnes was surprised and piqued to hind
how strong an attraction for men lay in
the girl, whose grey eyes looked back into
theirs. untroubled and stirred by any
shadow of the feeling they would fain have
awakened. Her fairness was rare enough
to make its conquest and possession a

triumph; and if some men's admiration
was frozen by that virginal coldness, with
others it burned the more, kindling a passion
no facile sweetness of look and tone would
ever have awakened within them. There
was one man especially for whom it had
the dramatic charm of contrast, and he,
Agnes saw, would be the likeliest for her
purpose. He did not like her. she was as
instinctively aware of that as she was that
Honor, with her beauty of face and form
and ignorance of her own attractions, had
stirred within him a more passionate desire
and resolution than had been his for
years.

Honor knew nothing of this ; and
though the thought of him crossed her
mind as, one evening, she stood before the
glass in the drawing-room at Bryanston

Square, ready dressed for a large ball to
which she and Agnes were going that
evening, it was with no idea of the ultimate
consequences which were present to Mrs.
Denne's mind. She knew his step suited
hers, that he liked to dance with her, and
reflected with satisfaction that she was
certain of enjoying at least some short part
of her evening. She was altering the
arrangement of the flowers on her bodice
when Agnes entered, with her soft, cool,
critical glance, and the girl, who had had
a half-unconscious pleasure in her own fair
image in the glass, felt suddenly too tall
and gawky and unformed, as she noted
the finished grace and air of every line nf
Mrs. Denne's toilette.

She had no need to be dissatisfied with
herself. Her step-mother's conscience W( )auld

not have let her rest if anyone could
have imputed defects in Honor's attire as
being due to jealousy or neglect on her
part. Miss Denne's dress was faultless  as
faultless as was Agnes's own ; and though
Honor could not see it, the tall girlish
form in its vaporous draperies of softest
yellow, guiltless of ornament save for a
huge bouquet of yellow azaleas, and clusters
of the same blossoms nestling in the knot
of hair and heightening the whiteness of
the neck, eclipsed Agnes's smaller and
slenderer grace, admirably set off as it was
by her black lace with its jet-encrusted
cuirass, and the heavy fire-red pomegranate
blossoms, set like flames on her fair hair
and her bodice, and fastened to her huge
scarlet fan. Agnes noted Honor's flowers,
but said nothing.

Tliey are the two best turned-out
women here,' observed a young man ina
tone of authority, as Mrs. Denne and
Honor entered Lady Fenwick's ball-room.

The man already mentioned, a little way
back, who was standing by him, turned
round with a not over-pleased expression,
as of one who fears his preserves may be
poached on.

Who ? ' he asked, laconically and not
over-am ably.

Why, the tall girl, you know, over
there in the yellow frock. Hang it, you
don't expect a fellow to remember names !
1 can't get on with her a bit, though,' continued
the youth in a somewhat aggrieved
tone : * she has nothing in her.'

Think not ? ' said his friend ; ' I suppose
the stepmother suits you better.'

'Father. Now that is what I call a jolly
little woman ; just the right sort ; dances
Al and talks well, and as good as gold too.
I can tell you she cuts up pretty rough, if
a man tries it on, by saying anything he
shouldn't.'

You have tried it on, I see,' said the
other with not very caustic satire, and
moving across to where Honor was talking
to another lady, a pretty, sweet-looking
married woman of five or six and twenty.
Agnes was already waltzing ; and Honor's
partner, standing by her, was engaged in
the arduous task of fastening the four
buttons of his glove.

Something in Miss Denne's pure, grave
gaze for a moment touched the young
man, who was really in love with her in his
own way, as with a breath of morning air

untainted and rain. 'By Jove,' he thoiifrlit,
I should like to see any fellow daring to
try it on by saying anything he shouldn't
to her. She'd make him feel small, just
because she wouldn't understand it.'

'IIow do you do, Mrs. Strahan?* lie said
to the lady by Honor. * Miss Denne,' as
Honor put out her hand in greeting, ' can
you let me have a dance ? '

Oh yes, my card every blank.' She
held it to him.

'Then may I take two? Thanks awfully.
Number 4  that's the next  and 10.'

Thank you,' said Honor ; and then her
]partner, having succeeded in conquering
the last refractory button, turned to her,
and Mrs. Strahan being also claimed, the
young man did not go further afield in
search of other partners, but contented

himself with somewhat moodily watching
the light untired grace of the tall and
supple figure in its pale clouds of dafFodil-heed
tulle. ' Stacey is about right,
though,' he thought; 'she is the best turned-out
girl here : it isn't only that she's the
best-looking one by a long way, but she's
so thoroughbred. She only wants to
know her own value, and then she could
give them all a beating I believe that
little woman bullies her awfully.'

But Honor was far from knowing her
own value, as he phrased it ; perhaps it
was this very fact which gave her the
charm he recognised of unlikeness to the
other girls around her. She was unlike,
certainly, and the fierce innocence of her
beauty had somewhat of the untamed
wild grace of a fawn or other creature of

the woods. As she stood when the young
man came up to cLaim her, her eyes
shining, but her cheeks flushed and her
Hps set chilly and proudly, he felt himself
that his hour had arrived, and he was
bent on having this girl for his wife.

I am glad you have come,' he said.
It was so late, I had almost given you up.
And thank you so much.'

What for ? ' said Honor.

For wearing my flowers. I was rather
in a funk lest they shouldn't suit your
dress ; but they look very jolly ; just
right.'

For a moment ]\Iiss Denne looked puzzled,
then a little troubled and haughty ;
but her simplicity stood her in as good
stead as knowledge of the world would
have done.

Was it you sent them ? ' she said. ' I
thought when they were brought to me
that mamma had ordered them, as she
always sees to my dress, and the one thing
she knows I won't wear is artificial
flowers ; so she is very good, and lets me
have fresh ones. It was very kind of you,
and they are beautiful ; but   ' she
paused for a moment, the young girl's
natural pleasure in the tribute, which seems
of all the most natural, struoorhnor with

 Co o

the inborn pride and reserve of her nature.

But what ? Please don't look at me
like that, or I shall think you are angry
with me.'

No ; it was very kind of you ; but ' 
with a slight uprearing of her white neck
' I would rather you had not.' Her
shyness made her tone cold.

I wish ! ' lie paused. ' Make things

even he said, ' and jay me.' There was
a small spray of his gift, the yellow azaleas,
which had fallen from Honor's shoulder
and was lying at their feet. He stooped
and picked it up. ' May I have it ? ' he
asked, feeling somewhat audacious, thouLdi
with most women he would not have
stopped to ask permission.

Honor was rather troubled ; she had
an instinct which prompted her to forbid
the appropriation of the flowers, which she
alone of all the women in the room wore
prominently ; but she was very young, and
very shy, for all the pride of her fresh loveliness,
and was horribly afraid of nursing
a fuss over what might be a trifle, entirely
in accordance with the ways of the world.
Mrs. Strahan, who was standing close by

and saw the whole little scene, understood
it and was amused ; yet felt a womanly
tender trouble and pity for Honor, as the
girl's partner flung away the pink carnation
from ]his coat, and carefully inserted
in its place the tiny cluster of honey-coloured
blossoms.

She doesn't know what people will
say, poor child,' she thought. ' I suppose
he is in earnest ; he looks so.'

The pleasure of dancing was keen to
Honor ; so keen that it had caused her two
or three times before to forget or disregard
Agnes's injunctions as to how often she was
to dance with one man ; and it so happened
that of all those whom she had met, her
present partner was the most entirely
satisfactory. The consequence was, that
when at the end of thee present waltz he

pleaded for the next, she deliberated  and
was lost. ' Do give it nie,' he pleaded. ' It
is Les Mountains. Don't you remember, it
was the same, when we found out at the
millers' low well we went together?'

Whether this fact were invented on the
spur of the moment. Honor never knew ;
but their steps did accord excellently welland
in the enjoyment of the perfect rhythm
and movement, she grew heedless and
daring of the rebuke which she knew
would await her from Agnes's dove-like eyes
and voice. The instinct of rebellion had
seized her ; she would do what she chose,
happen what might.

Lie acted in pursuance of this IJabe-
hassan motto, when the waltz came to an
end, and her ]partner said, ' Well ! our
next is number lU ; that will be about

supper-time  will you be kind ? You ought
to, for you snubbed me horribly about
those flowers.'

How ? '

By saying it was Mrs. Denne who had
thought of them, when I had taken all
the trouble to remember you had a yellow
frock.'

Honor laughed. ' Have you a bad
memory ? ' she asked.

Awfully ; but you haven't answered
my question.'

You haven't asked it '  the girl felt
nervous ; she could not have told why.

I want you to let me have all the
extras ; we needn't dance them, you know.'

But I want to dance,' said Miss Denne
in a somewhat affronted tone.

Oh, that's all the better, then. I have

never met anyone I went so well with,

except ' the young man checked himself

with alarming suddenness.

'Except whom?' asked Honor mechanically,
as she saw her next partner, young
Stacey, advancing, and consulted her card.

'Oh, no one you ever heard of.' The
reply was slightly confused, and as Honor
and Mr. Stacey moved away, her late
partner heaved a sigh of relief.

'What the devil made me say that?'
he muttered to himself. ' However, if only
she says yes, that's all over for good ; '
with which reflection he went off* in search
of the supper-room for a devilled sandwich
and champagne.

It was scarcely to be supposed that
Agnes was not watching Honor's movements
; she was noting them with a jealous

VOL. I. R

bitterness which went far to mar the
sweetness of the reflection that the end
she was working for  the freeing herself
of Honor  was on a fair way to be obtained.
The young man, whose devotion
to her step-daughter had been noted
before to-night, was so entirely desirable
in the eyes of many women, that Mrs.
Denne felt it was hard Honor should
monopolise him. He was very well off,
well-born and good-looking, and Agnes felt
that fate had dealt unfairly by her.

Still the dock leaf grew near the nettle.
Her own approving conscience, if Honor
made such a marriage in her very first
season, would be strengthened by the congratulations
of her friends, and the assurance
that very few mothers could have
attended so well to the girl's interests ; and

this gave her strenixtli to smile amiably as
after supper Honor again passed lier sweetly.
her steps guided by the young man, whose
button-hole still wore lier badge of the
yellow azalea.

'Naughty child observed Mrs. Denne'
sweetly to Mrs. Strahan. ' I must scold
her well for flirting in this way  and
giving away her flowers, too ! '

I don't think she is flirting,' said the
other lady drily, ' at least, when I saw
them, it seemed to be all on his side ; and
as to the flowers, I was witness to their
exchange. Miss Denne could not liel|>
it.'

Wait till your own girls grow uj), my
dear ; and then you will know what an
anxiety they are,' was Agnes's answer.
Ilonor, chill,' as Miss Denne and lier

K l>

partner halted near her, ' don't you think
it is nearly time for us to be going ? '

'Oh, one dance more, Mrs. Denne?'
pleaded the young man.

Agnes hesitated, but decided that the
restrictive policy would be the wisest. It
also suited best with her present mood,
especially as her partner for the next
waltz had, as she knew, left some time
before. ' I think she has had quite enough
dancing,' she answered, with a honeyed
smile.

But we may finish this ? '

Mrs. Denne nodded a gay assent. 'I
trust to your honour,' she said, ' to come
back directly it is over.'

CHAPTER XVI.

A woiiry lot is thine, fair maid,

A weary lot is thine,
To pull the thorns thy brow to braid

And press the rue for wine.
A lightsome part, a soldier's mien,

A teacher of the blue,
A doublet of the Lincoln green,
No more of me you knew, my dear,

No more of me you knew.  Scott.

For all lier sweetness overnight, Agnes,
true to lier tactics, found fault the next
day with Honor for lier unwitting sins
against conventionalities. She chose her
own time for the little lecture, waiting till
after lunch, when, as she said to herself, she
felt equal to it ; and when the girl's cheeks
were burning, ended lier exordium with

It is better to tell you, dear ; you don't
know what people say about such things.'

Yes, I do,' answered Honor in a dry,
bitter tone. ' You take care, mamma, that
I shall.'

Agnes sighed, the sigh of one accustomed
to be misconceived, yet in patience
possessing her soul. ' It is not I,' she said ;
it is the world.'

'Then what does the world matter?'
exclaimed the younger woman impetuously.
' If it is always ready to think ill,
it may  for me at least.'

Then you had better live on a desert
island,' returned Agnes. ' But it is unkind
of you to resent whatever I say, North,
when all these years I have tried to bring
you up as your dear father would have
wished.' The sense of Honor's ingratitude

brought the ready tears to Mrs. Denne's
eyes. ' I sometimes don't think we can goon
Using together, this eternal misconception
is too hard to bear. I shall do my
duty, but you make it a burden, not a
pleasure.'

She was a little frightened at her own
words, though their bearing had been long
since planned. She knew the girls pride,
knew that the idea that her absence would
be a relief would fire it, and that the
knowledge of the three years which must
pass before she was twenty-one and her
own mistress would press on Honor as a
Heavy weight. There could be but one
severance of this chain between the two
women, for which neither would be blamed,
and it was for this Ajznes had worked.

The victoria is here,' she said, as

she stood by the drawing-room window ;
I am going to evening church,' with beautiful
dignity. ' Will you come ? '

Honor shook her head ; she could
almost have laughed, even with this wild,
helpless rage in her soul, at Agnes's serene
fulfilling of one of her pet duties, this half-lour
service, twice a week, which was as a
bloom and fragrance of piety, giving Agnes
her crowning grace of sweet and reverent
womanhood in an unbelieving age. Another
sigh escaped Mrs. Denne at the girl's
lack of any feeling akin to her own. ' I
wish you would,' she said ; ' if you only
knew the strength and comfort it gives 
but one only learns it through sorrow. I
suppose I must call for Millie Bentham, as
I shall go on to the park afterwards, and I
don't like being seen there alone,'

Honor, left by herself, remained passive
on the sofa where she was sitting, her
hands clenched, her face troubled by a
new idea Ajnes's words had left rankling
within her. She was a fool not to have
thought of this before, that Agnes would
be glad to be rid of her ; and the loneliness
this knowledge brought was terrible.

If Mrs. Denne would only let her go to
Mary Eoss in Cornwall ! She was alone
now ; her brother had died six months
before, and Trebarva was hers ! She lead
written to Honor, while the girl was still
abroad, saying that, if it had not been for
her work, lie could not have borne the
sadness and solitude. A longing to see
her child, as she still sometimes called her,
breathed through the whole letter, but
Honor knew that Agnes would never ho

far relax the tight rein by which she held
the girl's independence under control, as tolet
her go to stay alone with Mrs. Eoss.
She had always refused to let Honor visit
anyone, relations or friends alike, without
her ; with the result that every one saw Mrs.
Denne's step-daughter from Mrs. Denne's
own point of view. Honor had jealously
guarded any mention of Mrs. Eoss and
Trebarva from Agnes, feeling, even in the
first young days of her admiration and
love of Agnes, that Mrs. Eoss had been
treated ungratefully by Mr. Denne, and
that she could not speak on the subject
without showing she thought her father in
the wrongs. So Mrs. Denne knew nothing
of the one strong love which endured in
the girl's heart, both as a memory and a
future hope to which her imagination

turned whenever, as luny, she i'elt friendless,
helpless, unhappy.

lout ah ! she needed present lielj) sorely.
As the longing for freedom and gladness 
the gladness she felt would be so easy and
natural, but which had never been hers
since her father s marriage  overcame her
with the passionate egoistic anger of youth,
the large tears slowly welled up to her
eyes. She seldom cried  but here, ak)ne !
and then the tears came.

She felt secure, knowing that visitors
were stringently interdicted in Agnes's absence
; she did not know that Mrs. Denne
had given directions that afternoon that incase
of one favoured guest making his
appearance, he was to be told Miss IXjnne
was at home, and that Mrs. Denne would
soon return. Agnes had scarcely reckoned

on so direct a fulfilment of her plans, but
fortune and a young man's passion favoured
them ; and Honor raised a startled, tearstained
face as the butler opened the
drawing-room cor to admit a visitor  the
man on whose account she had been found
fault with. A clever, if rash game, on
Agnes's part.

He saw the signs of her trouble and
took no apparent heed of them, only-anathematized
Agnes in his own mind ; and
they talked of the dance the night before,
and the other places where they had lately
met, and what they had seen  or rather
he talked, and Honor, confused, abashed,
furious with herself for having been taken
unawares, answered ' yes ' or ' no ' almost
at random, wondering if there would be
another battle when Agnes returned and

found the visitor adniittcd during her absence.


Yet ]\Iiss Denne bore herself with all
needful courtesy, and, tea appearing, tended
to her guest's need of refreshment, with a
due appreciation of his masculine requirements
in the way of sugar. She lead forgotten
the lot dried tears on her face,
the wildness of her hair, on which Agnes,
lead lie been present, would have looked
mild rebuke, when a word of her companion's
awoke in her an incredulous
amazed surprise.

He had asked her to marry him. Was
this her way of escape ? the wonder passed
through lier brain. She never thought of
the happiness of either him or herself, but
of freedom  the freedom i\)V which she
panted and which seemed before her. He

was kind and would care for her ; this was
the chief idea which possessed her. The
egotism which was the natural result of
her life of the last few years, bore its
poisonous fruit now.

And it was good of him to like her so
much, though why he should do so was a
mystery. One did not care for persons
simply for their looks, and what more did
he know of her to wish always to have
her with him ? Always with him ; that
was the meaning of marriage.

Would she be happier so ? Something
within her cried out ' No.' She remembered
Theoo's blush, like the reflection of some
new rose-crown on her brow ; she knew
Love should be part of this moment that
had come to her, but was it ? She liked this
young man who stood before her, his good-looking

face, fervid and anxious, his eyes
eager and troubled, as lie stood irresolute.
Then there rushed over her a flood of
memories, her hatred of her present life,
Agnes's wish to be free of her. ' Try me,'
said her lover, not without a firm, manly
intention, which made his earnestness persuasive,
to turn over a new leaf in this life
if this girl trusted him, and to give her no
reason to repent her choice ; ' you don't
know how I love you ! '

The words spoke of shelter and care
and tenderness, and as he said imploringly.
Will you come ? ' a sound escaped her
lips. She heard it in a dream, and knew
she had said, ' Yes.'

His kiss was not a dream ; it was a
claim of possession from which she instinctively
shrunk. As she felt it, she would

have given much to withdraw from her
word ; a vague dread of the new unknown
world to which she had pledged herself
passed like a shadow over her soul ; but
the door opened again and her lover turned
to tell Agnes, standing on the threshold,
that Honor had promised to be his wife.

CHAPTER XVn.

The dazzle of the jewels that played round you
Hid the beloved from me.

Then you saw me
With your eye only, and not with your heart.

PiCCOLOMIXI.

The next six weeks were like a dream lo
Honor. She scarcely knew low it was
fixed that she was to be married at the end
of that time, and if a vague irresuhitc wish
to pause and beware possessed lier, it was
frustrated scarce consciously to herself.
Afnes had taken all arrangements into
lier own hands and carried them on, with
swift, resting decision.

The girl was not unhappy; her engagement
had brought to lier the seme

I. 3

balance if not the reality of more liberty
than she had hitherto enjoyed. Her lover,
while he rejoiced in the winning of this
beautiful girl, who, to his mind, cut out
all the other women he had been in
love with, was yet careful not to risk
losing her by any such signs of affection
as, he soon learned, her instinct
hated.

It would all come right when they
were married, was his comfortable assurance
when he felt Miss Denne shrink
from any warmth of greeting or parting,
Girls were like that, he supposed, at all
events girls of her kind, and he wasn't
sure they weren't better so, if you wanted
to marry them. He understood Honor's
nature no better than she did his, that
of Vlioinme sensual may en, and in Honor's

case Agnes was careful to prevent lier
attaining a more intimate knowledge of
her future husband tian was absolutely
necessary. lie was rich, good-looking
in his own way, straight-featured, well-drilled,
and well-dressed, kind and generous,
and very much in love  ' tnein
Ziebchen, incas wills du mer ? ' It was
Mrs. Denne's own part, standing as she
did, in the place of a mother to Honor,
to acquaint herself as far as was possible
with his past life, and in this inquiry
several anonymous and unsolicited communications
aided her greatly. She showed
a proper scorn of such epistles, and, albeit
she profited by such hints as they contained,
to carry her inquiries into further
detail, she felt there was no need
to trouble the life of a young ijiil

S 2

like Honor with the facts she had
learnt.

They were not very bad ; after all, all
young men's lives turned out to be much
the same, when you knew anything about
them, and of course all this would end with
this marriage  indeed, was ended already.
If she were satisfied, there was no need
Honor should know anything ; and besides,
the girl was so self-willed and obstinate
that nothing she could say to her could
make any difference  Agnes only hoped
Honor's husband would be better able to
manage her than she had been.

So the last days of Miss Denne's girl
life were hurried away in the rush of the
season, made yet more exhausting by the
posting from shop to shop after that exigency
of modern life, the trousseau, and

Honor rose one morning to know that
the next day would bring with it lier
wedding.

For the first time she felt that freedom
was yet hers and always lead been hers,
such freedom as after this day she would
never know again. ' Was it too late ? ' she
thought as she stood alone in her old
dismal schoolroom, filled with a bitter
wonder and surmise as to the new existence
the morrow would bring forth, when
Agnes rushed in upon her, jealousy and
curiosity struggling within her, but only
maternal interest audible in her voice.

Honor, you are wanted everywhere !
Rex is here, and Mr. Bridges, with the
settlements to be signed, in the library ; and
Jameson's person has come to see about
the alteration in your travelling dress ; and

Mr. Clay has brought your diamonds, but
you had better settle the other matters
first, before you see them.'

This was really a nobly generous
suggestion, for Mrs. Denne fully felt how
hard it would be for any woman to tear
herself away, back to the smaller affairs of
life, from the contemplation of those stones.
Jameson must wait, of course,' she continued,
' and if you run down to them in
the library, I will go back to Mr. Clay till
you have finished the .business. Only be
as quick as you can.'

Honor went, as she was bidden, downstairs
to the room where her lover and her
father's lawyer awaited her. She put her
white, slender finger on the parchment,
signed and delivered as her act and deed,
the writing which protected her against all

pecuniary misdoings on the part of the
man to whom lie was about to entrust
herself and lier life, and then turned Avitli a
sweet, ignorant Laugh at lier mock important
tone to her lover, as the lawyer folded
up the crackling document and wished
them all the happiness which he was sure
would be theirs from his old knowledge
of the bride's parents and from what he
had heard both of her and the bridegroom.
' I brought this settlement in
person,' he said, turning to the 3'oung man,
because I wished to tell Miss Denne how
real a pleasure this business has been tome,
both as an old friend of her father's,
and, as I hope to prove, of hers also.'

'Thank 3'ou,' responded lix cordially.
'Please count me in too, Mr. Bridges.
Well, good-bye. You'll be there tomorrow

to see us turned off?  What is it, Norali ?
where are you off to now ? I haven't seen
you yet.'

There is another old friend upstairs,'
said Honor, laughing, as the door closed
behind Mr. Bridges and his bag, ' whom I
know as little of as I do of Mr. Bridges 
Mr. Clay, my mother's trustee, with her
diamonds for me.'

'I didn't know you were such a swell
as that,' quoth her lover. 'May I come
and see them too ? '

If you like ; they are in the drawing-room
; ' and Honor sprang upstairs before
him, to where Agnes was seated, in converse
with Mr. Clay, a man of about sixty,
who turned towards Honor with a keen,
interested glance.

'You were a child when I had to take

care of tlicse baubles of yours,' he said, as
though lie had not expected the slender
nymph majesty of the maiden who stood
before him. 'They will suit you now as
well as they did your mother.'

I never knew any one diamonds would
not suit,' was Agnes's comment, as Mr.
Clay, with a touch of mock deference and
formality, presented the heavy case and its
key to their owner, and Eex, relieving her
of tht;m, placed the case on the table for
Honor to open.

The revelation of the clustered light
within provoked a low ' By Jove I ' from
the young man, and made Agnes silent.
The jewels were beautiful indeed, more to
be desired than even in lier memory of
them. ' Put them on,' said Kex, as Honor
lifted out the long dazzle of the rivurc ;

and she would have obeyed him simply,
heedless of their effect on her morning
dress of unbleached linen and coarse lace,
had not the barbarism so horrified Agnes's
instinct of dress, as to conquer even her
jealousy, for the moment, and make her
cry

Oh, no. Honor ; not like that, for pity's
sake.'

There was a shawl of Mrs. Denne's
lying on the sofa  rich old Spanish lace ;
she draped its dusky cloud about the girl's
shoulders, so that the throat gleamed white
above it, and then turned to Eex, bidding
him fasten on the necklace ; but Honor
did this office for herself, as Agnes fastened
the stars into her hair.

Her future husband surveyed both
bride and jewels with critical approbation.

' Tliey beat Nettle Gresliani's out-and-out,'
lie said, Miss Gresham being a
lady who appeared nightly in a burlesque
of ' Coplietua,' as the beggar maid attired,
in her poverty, in grey samite and a wealth
of diamonds, which was the admiration of
women, and the seal of her charm to men's
eyes as being the sign of other men's recognition
thereof. Honor had only beheld her
once on the stage, and had, girl-like, taken
her jewels to be paste ; yet the comparison
offended some instinct within her, as it
affronted Mr. Clay's taste. 'What does
the fellow mean by comparing this child's
diamonds to that woman's P ' he thought.
It was only Agnes who responded to the
remark.

Do you think so really ? There was
a big spider Nettle Gresham wore the

other night  diamonds, with a huge opal
for the body. Oh, it was too lovely ! '

How hideous ! ' said Honor, with a
slight movement of disgust. Mr. Clay
thought how her words held more truth
than she knew. He happened to know
something of that spider and its hideousness
: low heavy a price it had cost  a
man's honour, a wife's betrayal ; two lives
shattered, and a misery of which it was
not easy to forecast the end. 'How can
women wear such ugly things ! ' Honor
added, striving to loosen her own shining
fetter, with something like impatience.

Because they like them,' rejoined Rex.
I don't suppose they would care if diamonds
were set like a gallows, as long
as they were diamonds. You don't seem
to care much about yours, though,' he

concluded, as Honor, succeeding in lier
endeavour, loosened the necklace from her
throat. He admired the indifference she
lead shown, albeit he scarce believed in it.
It was out of nature for a girl to be really
unmoved by the possession of such stones
as these, but it was very good form to
appear so.

Agnes knew that Honor's carelessness
was real, and it irritated her. She felt how
differently she would have appreciated the
jewels, and Miss Denne's lack of delight in
them seemed to the elder woman to show
a want in her character. As for Mr. Clay,
Honor's manner at once amused him and
quickened his interest in her. He had
known the first Mrs. Denne well, and in the
girl's royal indifference to the diamonds he
discerned the promise of a like womanliness

to that of her mother. ' Only, he
thought, 'Mrs. Denne was fond of them,
because they pleased her husband ; why
hasn't her daughter the same feeling ? '

He wished he could have spoken to
her, could have asked her if she were
really as well content as she seemed. He
knew her future husband was a good fellow
in many Avays, even if he had sown this
wild oats, but what was there in him to
make a girl like this one fall in love with
him ? Was she marrying him for money ?
Surely not ; she would have enough of her
own, despite her father's second marriage,
and its result in that white-frocked young
gentleman whom Mr. Clay had that morning
met at the front door, escorted by
nurse and nursemaid, and being wheeled
down the steps for his-morning airing, in

that doubly danaTous abomination, a perambulator.


Held her step-mother talked her into
it? No, the ]present Mrs. Denne was too
dear a little woman for that. Well, the
girl must know her own mind best ; it was
no business of his, and she would have the
right to resent any inquiry or warning of
his as an impertinence. Still, through the
days again and again, there came back to
him the memory of Honor Denne, as she
stood in the morning sunlight, the diamonds
crowning lier hair, and declining the
proud curve of the neck, where it upreared
itself from the shoulder. He recalled
the beauty of her eyes, outshining
the jewels, and her unconscious stateliness,
which rather lent to the light of stones
than borrowed aught of dignity from them.

Then, as lie recollected the look of the
man she was about to marry bent upon
her, the dread for her again possessed the
old man. Does she understand what she
is doing ? ' he thought, as he recollected
her frank ease with her future husband 
her absolute want of the lovely shyness
which overlies a girl's entire trust in her
lover, as the mist of the veil clings over
her on her marriage day.

It might be all right, but when, the
next morning, Mr. Clay watched her
coming up the church aisle, in her whiteness
of attire, the diamonds fastening her
hair and clasping her throat, he noted the
same absence of depth in her expression,
either for happiness or unhappiness ; there
was no fear, but also no expectancy in its
unawed tranquillity. He chid himself asa

romantic old fool, who should have
known better at his age than to indulge
in such fancies. How the deuce would lise
have the girl look ?

What have you done with your
diamonds?' he asked the bride, laughing,
when, after the breakfast, she came down
into the drawing-room in her travelling
dress. ' Shall I take charge of them
for you again, till your return from
abroad ? '

They are to be sent to the bankers',
I believe,' she said. 'Mamma and unmade
more fuss about their being taken
care of than I should have thought of.'

But it is to you they are most important,'
rejoined Mr. Clay. ' If you and your
husband (jiiarrclled ' and thun lie wondered
what on earth made him start su!i

VOL. I. T

an ill-omened jest on a wedding day. ' I
mean,' lie continued, ' I don't know what
control he may have over your property,
but the jewels are yours and yours only, todo
what you like with.'

She looked perfectly indifferent to this
announcement, and at that moment her
husband came up to them.

Come, Norah, young woman, or we
shall miss the train.  She looked well in
her finery, didn't she ?' he said to Mr. Clay.
His tone struck the elder man ; it seemed
to mark out Honor so entirely as his
personal property, of which he had the
right to be proud ; which should be held
dearly and taken care of, but always and
only for his good use and pleasure. Did
some kindred sense of this strike the girl ?
Mr. Clay wondered. She looked up at her

husband as tlioiigli some new forebuclliiir
cast its shadow over lier eyes.

Good-bye, darling child,' murmured
Agnes, clinging closely to Honor : ' I am
off to Scotland the day after tomorrow, for
I shan't be able to bear the house without
you. We shan't meet for some time, but
you must write very often and come down
to Sheldon as soon as you come back, I
shall want you so ; only I know you are
happy, and that is all I wish.'

She is only a cold, heartless girl.'
thought Mr. Clay, as he saw Honor's formal
return of Mrs. Denne's kisses, even though
Agnes's blue eyes were brimming over with
tears, and lier lips were tremulous with
emotion in which she herself believed.
Tliat is the mystery of this wonderful
history.'

T -2

But just then there emerged from the
dining-room Lionel, Honor's little half-brother,
with the starched and snowy
splendour of his wedding garment sadly
marred by ' a rain and ruin ' of strawberry
stains, and holding a huge block
of almond icing in either hand.

Say good-bye to Nor ah,' bade his
mother. ' Oh, but take care, dearest,' to
Honor, 'he'll ruin your gown.'

But heedless of the warning, or of the
sickness of the child's embrace. Honor
had knelt down on the floor and put both
her arms closely round him. They were
in the hall, with the carriage at the door*,
and most of the guests in the drawing-room
above had crowded into the balcony to
watch the departure.

I wis you weren't doing,' said Master

Lionel  ' no one will finis mine scnp-

l)00t/

'I will, when I come back,' his sister
answered. ' Baby, are 3'on sorry Xorali is
going away ? ' the words were very low ;
none could hear them but the child himself.
' Do you love her a little ? '

Yes, I loves her weary much : a
thousand pounds.'

Her lips clung closely to the child's for
the careless words which seemed to her sad
passionate soul the one benediction and
farewell of lier wedding day ; and Mr. Clay,
who saw how tightly her mouth was
compressed, how wide were her eyes in the
effort to keep back tears, no longer thought
lier cold.

CHAPTEK XVIII.

I know not what it says 
Some word in some strange language that my ears
Have never heard.  Dipstchijs.

A FEW days later, a girl was standing by
the window of a sitting-room in a Paris
hotel, a wild hopeless pain in her eyes and
face, which looked as though numb to outward
impressions. Indeed, Honor felt as if
all life were far away from her, and lie
had nothing to do therewith ; the world was
only a confused jangle of noises and glare
of faces and scenes. How lonr ago was it
since she, Honor Denne, lead stood white-robed
and veiled, looking forward with little
hope, but also with little fear, to the new

existence, than wliicli death ikjw seemed
less strange and terrible.

She did not love her husband. The full
sense of all that meant and must mean, to
the end of her life, crushed her with the
shock of a horror utterly unknown, unexpected,
till now when it faced her as a truth
whereof the aspect, hour by hour and day
by day, Lrew more horrible. Sometimes
the fancy would come to her that it was alla
dream, that she would wake to find herself
Honor Denne free again, with lier fate still
her own, and then the experience Avould
come back to her with double force.

No, never again ! Lie was her husband's
wife, bound to Ids side, although
his very voice, his step as he came up the
stairs, this presence in the room, semel
likely to drive her mad. Was it his fault

or hers ? She did not know ; she was
blind and bewildered, and the stunned,
aching feehns that she would never be her
own again, that her liberty was lost forever,
would end in a passionate revulsion
and struggle within her heart, a lonf?inf for
freedom, which seemed at times to kindle
her repulsion to her husband to fierce,
actual hatred.

It found little outward expression  this
tumult within her  except in a listless dulness,
for which her husband was at a loss
to account. He was puzzled whether this
Avant of interest in everything showed shyness
or sullenness ; and, as it was not
dispelled by caresses or trinkets, he
inclined to ascribe it to the latter quality.
He could not understand the brooding
depths of his wife's eyes; but they made

liiiii uneasy ; and lie wondered if, after all,
this marriage lead been a mistake. There
was no doubt of Honor's beauty ; not even
the fact it was now this own possession
depreciated its value in his eyes ; but if a
man's wife were to be silent and sulky  or
what looked like it  answering ' yes ' or
no,' as if she where speaking in her sleep,
and doing what he told lier in the same
fashion, it would soon be enough to make
him shoot her or himself.

Yet he could not complain. If she
were really sullen, her silence and that set
look on her face were the only signs of it.
She did all he wished, and this puzzled her
husband the most in lier. It was as though
she lead no wishes of lier own, as if wherever
they went or whatever they did were
one to her. It iniLdit be the sweet submissiveness

of a bride certainly ; but Eex
found it intolerable.

Part of Honor's attraction for him at
first had been his instinct of her strong will,
which it would be pleasant for him at once
to gratify and subdue to his own ; but of this
will his wife showed no token. Cold, passive,
indifferent : it was thus she appeared,
this wretched, untamed girl, in her lonely
silence of pain, which none other could
know and she herself scarce understood.

It was hard on the young man, and he
felt it to be so ; as he also realised yet once
more that there was no making out women.
He cared for Honor in his own way, and
would have been glad to make her happy
had he known how to set about it, for both
their sakes ; for a worse wet blanket to a
fellow's temper and spirits, than his wife

lead proved duriiiLr those four long and
weary days of their stay in Paris, couldn't
be found. Yet what the devil was he todo?
When a woman had all lie could
want, as Honor had, or might have at
present, how was he to enter into her
whims ? One thing he knew, which was
that if these were her ways, they were

d d unpleasant ones ; and he wished

she had shown him them earlier in the day.
Still he would not give in ; and in his
persistent cheerfulness and good temper, in
the hope that she might come round, lie
showed perhaps little tact, but more self-restraint
and kindliness than noiu)r ever
realised. So they dragged about Paris,
through the usual monotonous lioiu'vmoon
routine, dining and ]playing ; now and
then comiu'T across other brides and bridegrooms,

who looked at them sympathetically,
as partakers in their happiness.

The second evenings their table at
dinner was next to that of a young English
couple, gay with that foolish, pleasant
gladness which reminds soberer people of
two children playing at being grown-up.
As this other girl's joyous laugh struck
Honor's ear, the latter's desolate, questioning
eyes turned in wonder towards the
happy countenance with its smile of sweet
content. Was she all alone, she thought,
in her experience? She remembered
Theoo's face, that day long ago, with a like
expression to that of this bride near her.
They were happy, while she  oh, this
mistake, had it robbed her irretrievably 
an instant surmise flashed through her 
not only of her freedom and gladness, but

z:?o

of ii possible liappiiu'sr slice could lever
now hope to know ! Would love, such
a:f ]people wrote and spoke about, have
made everything different ? Xo  with a
ipiick .shudder  lie hated love ; she never
wished to hear the word a-ain.

This fifth evening after her wedding,
lie was standing, as it grew dusk, staring
as in a dull stupor, out on the ]parched
lime trees, the white pavement, the tall
houses opposite the soft sky, with it rosy
trails of flushed cloudlets ; when her husband
dashed into the room, an excitement
in his face, at a prospect of relief from
their worse than monotonous tcti'-a-tite.

*I say, Nnrah, I've just met a man I
know, George flatten, such a nice fellow!
1 hope you wont mind, lout I've asked Initio
linnet'. \( \\\ 'n]v known lie was here

before, I would have booked three seats
for the Gymnase to-night and made him go
along with us.'

Can't you and he go together ? ' said
Honor, a sudden interest in her tone, born
of her relief at the idea of an evening all
alone.

And leave you here all alone ? No,
by Jove ! Hatton would think me worse
than an infidel.'

I wish you would,' she urged ; ' I have
a bad headache, and the play is sure to
make it worse.'

It was no fiction, her headache, and so
her face bore witness to her husband's eyes.

Poor girl ! ' he said, putting his arm
round her and kissing her. ' If you are
sure you'd rather not go, I will bring you
back here after dinner, and Ilatton and I

will just look ill at the show for lulls an
hour.' The prospect of fr( edom and
change for a little while was no less
welcome to him than to Honor. ' Are you
well enough to come out to dinner? I
want you to see Hatton.'  His tone meant
I want Ilatton to see you.'

Yes, quite. Shall I put on my bonnet ? '

The one with the wheat-ears, that I

like. It's a confounded bore for yuu, this

headache I never mind, some Boy will set

it to rights.'

It did after a fashion; her husband's
]belief in his prescription was confirmed,
when he saw at dinner that after two
glasses thereof his wife's heavy eyes had
brightened, and her cheeks were slightly
flushed. He could read the admiration of
her beauty in Ilatton's gaze.

Not the sort of girl, though, I should
have thought he would marry,' was
their guest's reflection. ' She doesn't seem
to have anything to say, though I should
think she had a temper of her own.
Handsome enough to make any man mad !
It's odd, though, her letting him leave her
alone before they have been a week
married.*

None the less, Mr. Hatton made all
suitable acknowledgment to the young wife
of her kindness to him, in granting her
husband leave of absence, as they stood
together in the vestibule of the hotel, the
two men having escorted Honor back
there, before going on to the theatre.

Good-bye, my girl,' Eex said, kissing
her. ' Take care of yourself, and be all
right when I come back.'

We'll walk to the shop, Ilatton, if yuu
don't mind,' lie continued, as he and hij
friend stepped out again into the summer
evening ; and, his companion assenting, he
struck a light, kindled his own cigarette,
and proffered it to Hatton. Honor's bridegroom
was one of those men who never
are able to embark on any confidence, or
any discussion of importance, unless supported
by tobacco. 'I'm deuced glad to
have met you, old boy,' he said, after a

pause. ' I'm in a d d fix, and you

are nearly the only fellow I could have
mentioned it to, as you know all about
it.'

Hatton had a pretty clear idea of what
his friend was driving at. To-night's was
by no means the first little dinner at which
Rex had been host, and Hatton had made

VOL. I. U

the third. Truth to tell, dining this evening
he had often remembered the joviality
of these past entertainments, as compared
with the dreariness of the present meal ; so
he answered 

Anything to do with the past business
? I thought you told me you had put
an end to it all and squared matters with
that woman ? '

Squared matters ? So I did, damn her !
and pretty heavily too, when I all but
knew how she had been going on with
Dalrymple, behind my back. However, I
settled more on her than she had any right
to expect ; she made a confounded fuss
about it, but I broke off the whole affair
the day after I was engaged to Norah  and
as Eddie knew it was no go and I'd made

up my mind, she grabbed the money and
was quiet, and a fortnight after, I saw her
in the park with Dalrymple.'

Well ? '

Well, I thought it was all straight, and
]put the whole affair out of my head, when
to-day I get a letter. It seems Dalrymple
is broke, and so she wants to come on
me. Threatens to tell my wife and I don't
know what else, the cat ! Where's the
letter? Hang it! I must have left it at
home, in my other pocket; I hope Norali
won't get hold of it, that's all.'

*rd let her alone,' was Hatton's brief
and pregnant counsel when his friend
(questioned him as to what he had better
do, in regard to the obnoxious missive ; and
Rex receiving Diis advice in gloomy silence,

the two walked on together and turned
into the theatre, without more being
said.

Meanwhile, Honor had climbed up the
hotel staircase to her rooms, as though she
were mounting to a prison. Her husband's
name for her rang in her ears. ' His
girl ! '  oh, she loathed the words !  liis
no longer her own.

The weight of her whole future pressed
upon her then, not as it would come in
reality, hour by hour and day by day, but
with the burden of all its years crushing
her, as beneath an unendurable load. She
seldom took wine, and the champagne
to-night had strangely excited he]-. She
walked up and down the sitting-room,
like some wild bright-eyed desperate
animal, till at last the words broke from

her: 'leant bear it! I can't! What can

I do?'

Her own face, as she met it in the
Lass, cast back on lier lier sense of shame.
Then a thought overpowered her, makinL
her breath come quick with its intensity ;
she stood as fixed to the spot, one idea
taking definite form in her mind in one
word  escape.

She was free for the next two hours ;
before her husband returned lie might
be far from him, out of this power. Would
lie follow her, fetch her back ? He should
not ! The defiance seemed to change the
fancy into a feasibility, though for a minute
she stopped, startled, irresolute, frightened
at herself.

Then, as if she wished to seal lor
decision, she turned into the bedroom and

began mechanically and hastily to pack
her travelling bag. She was glad now she
had had her own way in not bringing a
maid with her to Paris. Had she enough
money ? She looked in her purse and found
an English ten-pound note and some gold
yes, that would do.

She changed her smart bonnet for a
small travelling hat, and shrouded her
summer dress with a long soft black
mantle, under which she could carry her
bag unobserved, and then she lingered fora
moment, not as repenting this step she
had determined on, or as realising its full
import, only with a hesitation she herself
could not have defined. An impulse as
unchecked as her leading towards flight
had been, made her write a note, neither

defence, nor plea, nor explanation, only
these few words :

I am very iinhai)py. It is all my
fault, but I can't stay. Good-bye.'

She turned and left the room, and
walked quickly along the corridor and
down the wide staircase. In the vestibule
there were only the clerk and hall
porter and two waiters. They did not
notice her particularly, and, supposing her
husband to be smoking in the balcony
of their sitting-room, only put her down
as an Englishwoman in whom the eccentricities
of her nation were carried to the
extent of solitary evening rambles. Certainly
the two waiters did comment to each
other on the husband's want of gallantry
in not escorting so charming a young wife.

Think you they have quarrelled ? '
asked Jean of Francois.

The latter shrugged his shoulders. ' He
is complaisant truly, that husband ! ' was
all his remark.

END OF THE First VOLUME.

3-. 3o C

1 PniXTED BY

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street Square
London

mi #

nxi

si

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or 

Sis

ETHEL Colon

Altho OK A Hail rLANT" 'MONHUiUU Love.' BTX.

Our ucUj uur uucls are, or gout or ill,
Our fatal shadows that walk hv us still '

IN TWO VOLUMES

VOL. II.

LONDON
KICUAKD BENTLEY *fc SON, NEW BURLINGTON Street

publishers in cJrbinurn ia tt illiijtsln tt Pjuttn

1 >r,

All ritjhn rttrtfil

SrOlTlSWOODE AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

LONDON

THE LONG LANE.

CHAPTER XIX.

Nobody has ever been able to change to-day into tomorrow
 or into yesterday; and yet everybody who has
much energy of character is trying to do one or the other.

Julius Hare.

Meanwhile Honor had stepped out into
the open air ; the summer breeze touched
her forehead sweetly and gently, and refreshed
her. Lie walked a Utile way, then,
hailing a fiacre, told the nan to drive her
to the station, where her old travelling
experiences with Agnes made her know she
would catch the evening train for Dieppe.
VOL. n. B

She ignored the mail train for Folkestone,
which would have been her quicker and
more obvious route.

In a few minutes she was at the station.
The rush and hurry and crowd of passengers
towards the platform told her she
had no time to lose, and in another minute
or two she was seated in a carriage, and
the train was slowly moving out of the
station, its speed quickening as it left
behind it the great glaring city, the crowds
and light and colour, which had all appeared
as the jumbled-up hues of a shaken
kaleidoscope to Honor during these past
few days.

The past was as a dream, from which
she had awakened to find herself speeding
along in this rushing, swaying ti-ain, flying
past the flower-sown fields, of which the

freshness and sweetness were borne in
through the open window with the wild
night air.

So Honor leant back in her seat, hei'
eyes fixed where the rising moon glowed
with an angry fire, low down behind the
far stretching sea of tall grasses, and tiieii
grew pure and fair, as she rose above the
earth and the cloud banks, and looked
down cold and sweet and serene on the
land dreaming in her light, on the noisy
train, with the long trail of glare cast fi-boni
its windows over the meadows pale in her
softer shine, and on the wild hunted countenance
of the woman, on whom was slowly
growing the meaning of her act of flight.

The meaning to herself, that is ; lie
was still too ignorant of the world in
many ways to know how the larger part

ii 2

of the world, and probably her husband,
would interpret her madness.

She had brought her misery on herself;
that she owned freely. If any bitter resentment
against Agnes stirred in her heart,
she yet knew that her fate had been in her
own hand. Instead of possessing her soul
in patience, she had recklessly, ignorantly
marred and ruined its good. She could
not retrieve all ; she could never again be
Honor Denne, whom a few years would
have made queen o'er herself m act as well
as thought  never again !

Such life as might yet be hers must
feel to the end the galling shackle of a
chain, albeit its links were broken, and hj
her own hand. All she had lost by her
deed, that which many women would have
held dearly, the brightness and pleasure

and admiring homage which the world
gladly yields to a beautiful woman  these
she cared little for  had indeed scarcely
proved, despite her one brief season in
London.

She had one goal in view, which grew
clearer before her as the train Rushed on 
Trebarva, where she would be quiet, and
Mary's tender care would calm and soothe
her. She could rest there, and, like a tired
child, she needed nothing but rest. The
thought of that haven, after the waves oi*
this troublesome world, was enough, if not
for happiness, for peace. Xo one would
seek her there. Agnes had never heard
the word Trebarva, unless Mr. Denne had
carelessly mentioned it to her. She would
never dream of Honor's finding refuge
there. Would her husband discover her,

aid try to make her come back ? Her lips
tightened, her eyes became hard, bright,
defiant at the thought. No, not that, at
least.

She arrived in London, tired out, with
a general pallor of face and black circles
round her eyes, and with her past excitement
burnt out. She had grown very
practical during the last twenty-four hours'
unaided travelling, and had made up her
mind to start for Cornwall by the next
evening's train. The large hotel at which
lie put up was dismal, and the people
stared at her oddly  no wonder ; in her
tumbled, draggled dress of soft, pale green
silk, half hidden though it was by her loni:
cloak.

What should she do ? She remembered
that her old dresses and other belongings,

superseded by the new finery of the trousseau,
had been packed in a trunk, and left,
with most of her other smart, big, new
boxes, at Bryanston Square, to await lier
return. Her absence had been shorter
than was expected ; she never wished to
see again any of her fine clothes, the
gathering together of which had been
Agnes's chief occupation for six weeks
before the wedding. But she could not goto
Cornwall as entirely without resources
as she was at present  she would go and
fetch that box.

The one servant left in charge of the
house stared at her, as at a ghost, but
Honor's quietude reassured her, and, with
the aid of the cabman, she dragged the
trunk downstairs. ' You've come back soon.
Miss Honor ; ma'am, I mean,' said the handmaiden,

panting and breathless. 'Didn't
you like Paris ? '

No  thank you, Elizabeth ; that is
right. Good-bye.'

Honor was rather astonished to find
]how easy it was to manage for herself, asa
woman who lias never been taught self-reliance
often is ; and when she had returned
to the hotel, taken off her smart
draggled gown and replaced it by a plain
one of heather cloth, she felt ready to
start. She had still that unreal sense of
either being in a dream or having awakened
from one ; there seemed so great a
gulf fixed between this day and those in
Paris which had led to it.

She asked for her bill, paid it, and was
met by the fact that, after so doing, Lier
purse held but four or five pounds ; enough

to take lier down into Cornwall, but no
nioiv, and a new idea startled her : what
was she to do for money?

She had the va;iuest notions on liu*
subject of expenditure ; knew nothing of
what riiiht she had over her own inconu*,
or how to obtain ]possession thereof. For
all she knew, her husband niiLdit Imp entitled
to it all, now she had left him. At
all events, she could not obtain any portion
thereof, and neither could she be a burden
on Mary  what should she do?

The sudden steam of a v\\]<i on her
tiuL'er was like a whisper in her ear.

The diamonds! They were her own;
mr. Clay had said so, and that she could
sell them, if she would. If she did so,
then if Mary would have her, she could
stay at Trebarva for good.

But she must make haste ; the afternoon
was advancing, and the bank where
they had been deposited would be shut.

The manager received her courteously,
asked her to wait in his room till the jewels
were fetched from their safe-keeping below,
and sat chatting to her, rather wondering
at her abstracted manner and the absence
of her husband. ' I suppose you are only
passing through town ? Ah ! here are the
cases.'

I don't want them all,' said Honor.
They had been her mother's jewels, and
though, personally, she cared little for
them, an odd reluctance to part from them
for ever woke within her. ' I will take the
bracelets and this star. They will do ;
thank you very much.'

The words struck the manager ; he

looked at her pale, overwrought face ; her
husband's absence seemed stranger than it had
done before. 'Is there anything wrong ? '
lie wondered, as lie signed the receipt lie
lead written out for the jewels. Shall I
suggest that she can draw on her separate
account here ? No ; she may not wish to do
that, and wouldn't thank me for seeming
to know she wants money  the diamonds
are her own after all. It's no business of
mine.

He saw Honor to the door and into a
hansom, told the man to drive as she
directed down Piccadilly, and then went
back to his inner room. ' I suppose it's all
right,' he said to himself, as for reassurance,
but there was something queer about lier
look  Here, Jones, take these cases down
to the safe.'

Honor stopped at the jeweller's where
her father and Agnes had always dealt.
She would have preferred going to a
stranger, had it not been for her dread,
not so much of being cheated, as being
questioned as to her name, or her possession
of the diamonds.

The bland gentleman, called at her
request from his sanctum at the back of
the shop, was also somewhat surprised at
lier appearance, as at her mission ; but
prides wishing to raise money unknown to
their husbands and seizing that easiest
means to the purpose  their jewellery
were not unusual facts in his experience.
He offered to accommodate Honor by
keeping her stones in pledge, but the
young lady raised her cold, direct eyes and
looked straight at him, in a disconcerting

fashion which ]prevented this pressing his
friendly offer. ' I wish to sell them,' she
repeated. 'Will you tell nie the value?'

Or what we can afford to offer,' said
Mr. Thornton, witji praiseworthy honesty ;
I must tell you frankly, madam, we
cannot afford to give what should be the
full value.' lie handed the jewels over
to a subordinate to be tested within and
weighed  then continued :

By the way, madam, here is our execution
of an order we received five days
ago from Sir Eobert Field, who is staying
at Steerholt. I thought you would be
interested in it.'

Steerholt was the house in Scotland
where Agnes was at present visiting, and Sir
robert Field was a bachelor of about tliirtv-
seven or so ; not over-clever, but enormously

rich, and much given, as Honor knew
by experience, to dropping in to afternoon
tea at Cranston Square, and usually included
in Mrs. Denne's little dinners.
Honor had understood he was very fond
of Agnes, but the idea of her step-mother's
marrying again had never crossed her
mind till now, as Mr. Thornton handed,
for her inspection, a wonderful ring with
interlaced cipher of tiny diamonds and
sapphires, and engraved inside : ' Agnes,
July 28 '  Honor's wedding day.

I saw the engagement in yesterday's
Post," ' said Mr. Thornton in his tone ol
deferential congratulation. ' They always
say, madam, one marriage makes many.'

Honor did not reply. This news, so told,
added to her bewilderment at the world.
It was all changed and changing ; was she

changed with it ? Her own face in the
mirrors of the shop seemed strange, because
it was still that of the girl she had
always known, while she herself felt so
different. Lie, who since her father's
second marriage had never been allowed
even to choose a gown for herself, lead now
severed herself from all alien control and
must guide her own will.

Mr. Thornton was called into consultation
over Honor's property, in the inner
shop, and she stood awaiting his decision.
Her nerves were too tense strung to
allow her to sit quietly. Presently the
jeweller returned and tendered her his offer
for the diamonds  ] ,000/.

That would mean a sufficient income
for her for some years, if she were careful.
bhe accepted it and drove back to the

hotel with the bank-notes stuffed into the
inner pocket of her double-breasted bodice.
It was very strange to have so much money
about her ; what should she do with it ?
Never mind, she would ask Mary when she
reached Cornwall.

When she reached Cornwall ! The
words worked themselves into a longing
sigh. She was so tired, and everything
was so strange. Agnes was going to
marry again, and what would become of
Lionel, the child whom his sister loved,
who loved her in his own sweet, childish,
sturdy and wilful way ? Would his mother
have other children and cease to care for
him?

Honor was roused from her wondering
by seeing flash past her, in another hansom
burdened with portmanteaus, bundles of

railway rugs and sticks, &c.  her husband !
There was a strange pain, she fancied, in
his face, though he was looking the other
way and did not see her. Was he unhappy
for her?

For an instant, a convicting self-reproach
seized her ; there had been, in the
world, a duty she had by her own act
singled out for hers and then cast from
her, but which was not to be escaped by
any sense of its bitterness, or by rebellion
against it. Then came a revulsion of unreasoning
anger, a steeling of herself against
thought or conscience, in an armour of
her own wretchedness and self-will. So,
he had pursued her ! But even if he foujid
her, she had chosen her own pati now, and
would walk therein to the end.

VOL. II.

Chapter XX.

open thine heart wide,
And fold within the wet wings of thy dove.

Mrs. Browning.

And the next morning, after a feverish
night's traveling, Honor felt yet more
keenly as though she had awakened in a
new world and had left the past behind her.
All around her, as the train sped on, were
the mystery and greenness of the deep oak
woods, silent in the morning freshness,
great heights of thick-leaved trees with the
morning mists still wreathing soft and grey
about them, and the clear light touching
now the hill-tops and now the valleys from
greenness into gold.

Above was the blue of the sky, and
presently the oak woods broke, and in the
distance the sea sparkled and shone in a
deeper glory of blue ; till, in the beauty of
this, her new world, Honor forgot all else
for a little while.

Another two hours' travelling and she
found herself in the parlour of an inn at
Polmouth, waiting for any vehicle which
could be found to convey her over the
twenty miles of moorland which still lay
between her and Trebarva. She was looking
on the quiet rich loveliness wherein
two centuries ago another woman found
comfort  a sweet-natured, sensitive girl,
whose fniely touched spirit was wearing out
life beside the dissipated boor of a Cornish
squire, whom she lead been bullied into

Honor knew nothing of that brave and
gentle soul ; nothing of Mary Gendarmes'
long bitterness of endurance, long struggle
of wifely duty ; nor, indeed, would she in
her fierce defiance, which was yet so
piteous, have had sympathy with the
earlier woman, or understood the noble
patience which supported Mrs. Gendarmes
when she looked out on the glittering
waves of that bay where the river met
the sea, longing either for fuller life or
for death ; as La Pia may have longed
in her prison among the Tuscan marshes.

It was some hours before a carriage
could be obtained for Honor's long drive ;
and when, at length, she was mounted in
the shaky old phaeton, which proved her
lot, and the woods and rivers of Polmouth
were left behind, she began to realise

Mary's stories of the wildness and barrenness
of the land between that town and
Trebarva.

It was a sad landscape, even in its
stern, lonely beauty ; those long wastes of
stony moor, where the sheep nibbled the
wild dry turf, and the heather flushed a
sudden vivid glory here and there ; those
distant gleams of sea, stained and patched
and flecked with all changing lights and
slides of green and blue ; those glimpses
of little bays with cool white stretches of
sand, beyond the pale glassy azure of the
thick tracts of sea-holly  but if Mary Eoss
lead lived here contentedly, lie could do so
too.

It's a lonesome place, Trebarva, miss,'
said the driver, turning affably round and
breaking in on lier dreams.

 Is it?' she answered, ' more lonely than
this ? ' looking round on the apparently
unending expanse of moor and the scattered
grey rocks breaking through the
dry turf.

No,' said the man, as considering ;
I'll not say that ; but you see it's out of
the beat, and even in the summer there's
not a many visitors that way ; the parts
they likes best are on the other side of the
coast. There'll be a few ladies and gentlemen
at Lynion for a day or two in the
summer; but Trebarva's all by itself ; and
the lady you're going to, she doesn't see
anyone except the clergyman now and
then and the fishing folk about there.
Now her brother, Mr. Halle,' pursued the
man, flicking up his horse as they dragged
up a stony hill, ' he used to ride about and

see his friends around the country ; for the
family, as you know, has been here since ' 
with a true Cornish liberality of genealogical
statement  ' since the Droits ; but
Mrs. Ross, she doesn't seem to care for
much but her books, and lie's left off the
farming all but one cow.*

Much of this Honor had known before ;
but she was glad of the driver's unconscious
confirmation of her own belief that
at Trebarva she would be secure from discovery.
She was a little surprised to find
the man knew as much as he did about
Trebarva and its mistress ; but his next
words explained this :

My mother's cousin, Ruth Thomas,
and lier husband have been servants there
since they was married and he left the
sea, so I know some'ut o' the ]place, and

that the Hillocks were part of our real
old gentry, though I can't tell why they
built their house in such a lonesome
part.

Is it a big house ? ' questioned Honor.

Tolerable large ; there's a room they
say John Wesley slept in, the night before
a big preaching, although the Hillocks were
Church folk. But there's little Church in
these parts,' quoth the driver, waxing polemical
with the scorn of the West Country
Wesleyan for the Establishment ; ' Lynion
Church don't hold more than forty souls,
and it's four miles from Trebarva. Men's
salvation don't owe much hereabouts to
the Archbishop of Canterbury.'

He was as ready as most of his people
for a theological discussion, and rather
disappointed to find his sarcasm on the

chief ecclesiastical shepherd of England
met with no return from this auditor ; but
Honor was watching the sunset glow ilusli
the sky. Was it possible that, only three
days before, she had seen those roseate
trails of cloud across the purpling blue,
from til at hotel window in Paris ? A
strange chill overcame her, that was not
born of the evening shadow creeping slowly
over the wide moorland. Had she done
wrong after all? Well, what was done
was done.

When she reached Trebarva, it was
dark, and in answer to the unaccustomed
knock at the front door, it opened and a
stream of light fell on the i,drl standing?

O DC?

there.

A wondering figure beyond, within,
started as puzzled and incredulous, scarce

daring to hope ; then at Honor's appealing,
half-sobbing cry, ' Mary ! ' Mrs. Eoss's
arms were outstretched, and the tired,
lonely, passionate heart clasped to hers felt
rest and warmth and help at last.

But your husband ? ' asked Mrs. Eoss,
as she and her darling, the first confusion of
greeting over, were standing in the sitting-room,
the elder friend still scarcely able to
comprehend this tall beautiful girl was the
child she had parted from four years
before : ' is he coming here too ? '

Then she saw in the lamp-light how
tired and haggard her child's face was with
no mere bodily fatigue, but with an inward
weariness as well, and she dreaded Honor's
answer.

It came slowly yet passionately.

I have come to live with you, if you

will have me. Don't turn me away, don't
ask me anything ; you must trust me as

you used to, when '

Then all her control gave way and her
words were strangled by tears ; her arms
clung to Mrs. Eoss, and the long strain on
her whole being broke down in a child's
appeal, a child's wild sobbing  ' Oh, Mary,
whenever I was wretched, I always came
to you.'

CHAPTER XXI.

Thou hast been, shalt be, art alone,
Or, if not quite alone, yet they
Which touch thee are uniting things ; 
Ocean and clouds and night and day,
Lone autumns and triumphant springs.

Matthew Arnold.

Mrs. Eoss made no answer, except by the

strong clasp of her arms round her daring.

At first it was all dim and confused, then

gradually, as the days went on, she began

to understand far more than Honor ever

told her. Honor's brooding manner, the

dumb passion of her eyes when the subject

was touched on, told her friend all she

needed to know :  with a tender firmness

born of a resolute determination to do

right, she tried to persuade Honor to

return to her husband and ask him to
forgive her rash, sudden flight, but Honor
turned on her with a fierce decision which
rendered further pleading impossible.

'You may make me leave you,' she
said, ' but that is all. I would never do
what you tell me, if I were starving or
dying. ' Don't speak of it again, because I
can't bear it.'

It is only for your sake,' answered
Mrs. Ross.

Then let me stay here and be happy ; '
a faint bitter smile at her own word
touched Honor's mouth ; ' you won't grow
tired of me  will you ? '

Norah ! if you knew what it is to have

you adam

'Don't  ' Honor winced  'I mean,
never call me by that name again. I hatt-

it now She pulled off the thick wedding-ring
which still fettered her finger : ' Take
care of this,' she said  what morbid feeling
was it which made her dislike guarding it
herself and yet reluctant to throw it away ?
I am Honor Eoss now, your niece, and
will forget everything else, if I can.' A
long dragging sigh ended her words, and
Mrs. Eoss's eyes followed her with a
sad, fond longing to restore to her all
she had lost of brightness and hope and

joy-and

yet their life grew to be happy, in
its own quiet way, and Honor enjoyed its
wild freedom She became clear of eye and
light of limb, and almost seemed to be living
her childhood over again, in the delight of
clambering about the rocks, her daring
growing with her sense of self-reliance and

safety, and in the pleasure of driving in lier
boat before or against a squall, or of long,
lonely wanderings among the colour and
sweetness of the heather.

She was too young and vigorous for
her crushed youth not to revive within
her ; and as she grew more attached to her
new existence, the dread of her retreat
being discovered made her wilder, shyer,
and more brusque at any chance meeting
with a stranger. The darker hours would
still come upon her when, as her womanhood
expanded and there woke within her
new wants and yearnings and possibilities,
born of her fast developing nature, she
felt her freedom but a mockery, and those
wide moors narrowed to a prison. As her
will grew stronger, her ]power of self-control
increased, and the constant check on

her wistful longing for something beyond
these rocks, became a habit, which resulted
in an outward hardness. She must ' dree
her own weird,' and never for one moment
did she regret the step she had taken that
July night, when she had recklessly broken
the shackles with which she had bound
herself.

It was to still the unrest which would
trouble her that she had taken to mathematics,
with a vague idea that they might
serve as an anodyne, and persevered in the
study, though Mrs. Eoss had fancied she
would soon weary of it. The wayward
undisciplined nature felt the strength and
beauty of eternal law, when it did not sway
her own actions, and so she made a law
unto herself. The study gave her a feeling
of stability, and she kept to it, albeit by fits

and starts, wlieuevcr the mood of dreariness
and of the vastness of her life
returned to her.

So the months circled into years, and
in their quietness she forgot, at times, the
past. She was held as Miss Eoss by the
farm people and fishing folk about Tree
Ruth lead accepted her as 'Mass
Honor from the first; and if, with her
shrewd insight, she had more inkling
than Honor knew of her real name and
position, she kept it to herself, with the
rough reticent loyalty which was part of
her character. Nothing was ever heard
of any attempt to track Honor, either on
the part of her husband or Agnes ; and
Mrs. Eoss, knowing so little of the brief
episode of the girl's married life, began to
feel Honor was hers entirely and surely

VOL. II. D

that no one would take her from her
now.

The money, too, Honor had brought
with her, made things easier at Trebarva.
Mrs. Eoss's income was very slender ; had
it been larger, she might, long before, have
left the lonely grey house; but, as it was,
she could not afford it, as her only chance
of letting it would have been during the
summer.

 Now, comforts such as deep-hued curtains
and rugs made the old house cheerful,
and, from time to time, the two women
had books and prints and photographs down
from London ; and Honor, seeing how her
friend enjoyed these, entered into her pleasure,
through sympathy, and so learned
to find her own delight in them, and
the new world they opened to her in

which lier own life seemed a small atom,
easy to forget  sometimes.

Was lie happy ? Mrs. Eoss often wondered,
but she lead a tact and fear that
prevented her trying to probe Honors
heart. Only one gusty winter's evening,
when the wind was rising in a cry outside,
above the stormy sound of the sea, she
looked at the mute, beautiful figure sitting
on the hearth, her eyes fixed on the flickering
flames of the fire, while her hand absently
stroked Dan's head. At last Mrs. Koss spoke.

Honor, my child, what is it ? '

Honor looked up at her and answered,
as if straight from her tli ought 

'Leo! my little brother : I can't help
thinking of him. Would papa have been
angry with me for leaving him so ? Was 1
wrong ? He may want me now.'

D 1'

He has his mother,' said Mrs. Eoss.

But she has another baby now  I saw it
in the paper  and she and her new husband
may not care for LioneL I did love him,
though I never thought of him, and now I
keep fearing he is unhappy  I ought to
have known.'

It seemed a new terrible, troubling
thought to her that her actions could
influence the lives of others, that she was
responsible for more than the evil and good
affecting herself.

She had risen and stood by the window,
staring out into the night, her forehead
pressed against the cold glass of the pane.

I never thought it would matter,' she
said, in a low voice, ' or how much I should
want him,' and the heart-hunger of her
tone held Mary from replying.

This was the story's Honor's Hie till,
in the third year of her dwellings at
Trebarva, lie met Stephen Nugent  ' the
story lie could not tell him, which lie
could not understand.'

Chapter XXII.

Look in my face ; my name is * might have been ; '
I am also called ' no more ' too late,' ' farewell.'

ROSSETTI.

There wsls silence in the room. Stephen
did not say, 'Is this true?' He knew the
bitterness of her words was wrung from
her very heart ; knew too, as he had not yet
known, that she loved him utterly, that heart
and soul and brain were his, all his  and
between him and her a great gulf fixed!
The hopeless misery of her eyes as they
met his, pleading for pardon and help,
overcame him with keener pain than his
own wretchedness, and his head dropped
on his hands, with a groaUo

But lier confession had given her
strength. Now she had told him the
truth, lier worst anguish was over, and lier
love cast out fear. The old fear that had
racked her through the sleepless niglU, the
dread of his anger, his scorn, his doubt of
her, were iron. He trusted her still ; iu
such poor measure as was possible to her
she had justified his faith. The shame and
bewildering terror of meeting his look had
left her, even as the sorrow and passion of
love filled her heart. As in a dream,
Stephen heard her voice, grave and .low,
with a strange ring therein of child-innocence,
of woman-tenderness, albeit it still
trembled.

The worst is to have hurt you, and
now what can I do ? * Her words faltered
wistfully, and he raised this head, a

sudden, desperate prayer springing to his
lips.

That prayer which should mean the
bringing of shame to her, died unspoken,
as he met the piteous love of her eyes.
His head drooped again, only he stretched
out his arms as if feeling towards her
from a blind solitude of pain ; as beseeching
the love she must deny, yet
praying for help against his own weakness
-all this found expression in those out-reaching,
imploring arras, and the new
instincts awakened in Honor, understood
and answered the appeal in a mingled
ecstasy of pity and longing and sorrow, all
fused in remorse. Her hands met his,
which closed upon them with a passionate
fervour, and then she had fallen at his feet,
sobbing as though her heart would break.

Honor, my love ! oli, my love ! '

Her pale lips repeated 'love,' as gaining
courage to speak. It was strange to
Stephen to see her thus, her self-restraint,
self-reliance, vanished, and yet with a truer
and gentler strength nerving her, for all
her pain.

Help me ! ' she said, as she rose and
stood looking down, where his head was
still bowed over her hand still clasped
in his. ' I can't be brave, unless you
are.'

Brave ! ' he echoed, as though the
word were a bitter jest. He looked up,
but his words came heavily and slowly.
You mean, I must leave you'  he dropped
Lier hand.

As if gathering strength for loneliness,
sie turned and walked away to the window.

The sad low moaning of the estranging
sea smote on her ear. ' I have been
so wrong,' she said at last : ' I want to do
right.'

The cry of her words was as a reproach
to the man whom she loved  who
loved her. There came back to him the
remembrance of that night in the moonlight
; of his careless, easily spoken words
anent one moment in life, which might
prove its ordeal. If now were Honor's
trial, God help him to help her in her
need. He forgot himself and his own pain ;
]ie rose, went to her and again held her
hands in his, but, this time, they both
stood, as braced to struggle, and his eyes
met hers loyally.

You have done no wrong to me,' he
said hoarsely. ' To lova you is the best I

have ever known. It is to leave you here
alone that is hard.'

There was to Honor a terrible sweetness
in his words ; it was so wonderful
this should be a living sorrow to him, that
he should care so much for her. For one
moment it seemed to make everything
easy; the dreary future was lit, even as the
leaden tossing sea afar was, by one gleam
of light.

Then all this hour meant  the loss of
life, the parting with this new treasure of
love  forced itself back on her ; her lips
quivered as she said, ' I have been alone
so much, don't think of that  and it is all
my fault.'

He knew nothing of her past, but the
child-honesty, the child-simplicity of her
words touched him to the quick. Again

the strong temptation seized him, bidding
him cast doubt and honour and self-control
aside, to gather her to him, heedless of
denial, and ask her to forget all in a
love which should shelter and hold her to
the end.

What breath of the storm-wind raging
within him stirred Honor's heart? He
could not tell, yet felt that she read the
meaning of his eyes' new light. Was it
an instant's answering irresolution in her
own, which made their sadness change into
quick questioning ?

If so, in a moment that look had
passed, and it was he who broke the
silence : " I can't say good-bye.'

'There is no good-bye to say.' The
words were abrupt, but her voice was
breaking with its weight of pain.

If he could but have held her for a
minute now, as he held her yesterday, in
the wild swirl of the waves, farewell would
not have been so hard.

Only,' he said, as answering the unspoken
denial of his unspoken entreaty,
1 am always yours. If I could take y(u
now  ' he could iK)t add, ' if you are ever
free ; ' as it was, the flush of passionate
shame that had rushed to her face rebuked
him. 'Forgive me!' he said; there wa
a heat of tears in his eyes and her hand
was pressed to his mouth ; ' forgive me,
oh, my dearest! I love you so! I want
you so much ! '

He felt her hand shake, as with alarm
Go ! ' said her stifled voice, ' go ! '

How he had obeyed her he could not
tell, lie was striding across the heath.

longing to return to where he had left her,
to take her and say, ' You are mine, you
love me and must yield ; mine as I am
yours alone, in life and death ! '

It was Honor who had conquered for
them both. He did turn, but it was only to
look his last on Trebarva, set amongst the
livid purple of the hesth, with the white-edged
thunder clouds above, and grey in
the salt air of the dull July day. God bless
and comfort her, his love, whom no help
of his could avail.

CHAPTER XXIII.

But oh the heavy change now thou art p-one,
Now thou art gone and never must return !

Lycidas.

Vkt if ho lead seen her, whom lie lead left
in the darkened afternoon, this resolution
niiht have failed him.

In this presence, she lead .struggled for
calmness and strength ; but when the need
of self-control was over, the power of it
left her also: she had not )set recovered from
the strain of yesterday's fight with the sea.
Her nerves gave way and she sank down
by the wide window-seat, her frame shaken
by lier sobs; and her tears, unresisted

now, falling hot, and heavy, and fast on
her tightly clasped hands.

Gone ! And with him all he had
brought  the renewed sense of summer and
youth and joy. Were all these wrong? As
wrong as she knew she must henceforth
hold this love to be, which had grown up
in her heart unchecked because undreamed
of. She felt very old, as old as only the
very young can feel, and she was but
twenty-one.

Only twenty one ; too young yet, for
all her sense of age, to have reached the
higher passion, which most human souls
can attain only by the stepping-stones of a
love that is not yet lifted above the
thought of its own sweetness and bitterness.
She could not be content, so long as
it was well with him she loved, that she

should be apart from him, ignored, forgotten
or misprized. Iler love vas still
selfish ; yet tlirouLdi these throes she was
striving slowly and unwittingly, yet surely,
towards that diviner air where self slioiild
be annulled.

She knew now it had been her duty to
tell Stephen that much of the truth which
concerned him, at the first. She had met
dreamed of his loving her ; but Nature
does not take account of our ignorance or
innocence in reckoning our sins ; and Iler
punishments fall no less heavily, because
the offender pleads ' I did nut know.'
What if Honor's penance for having let his
feet be ensnared in' those terrible tangles
of her life thread, knotted by her own
hand, should be his anger and scorn, when
he thought of the return she had made him

vrai. II. E

for this strong true love that should have
been the crown of some worthier woman's

life? And yet Oh, she had no right to

love him ! But she had loved him, and all
was changed.

How could she help holding dear the
memory of his voice, of that pleading look
which of late had thrilled through her, of
the whole sudden flush of quick pleasure,
which had brightened and glorified this
last brief, long week ? She had moved ina
dream : she was awake now  never to
dream again.

But that dream must never be known
to any but herself. Till now she had been
reserved, holding her inward self, her
emotions, her instincts jealously guarded
(her life with Agnes having trained her to
reticence) from Mary-and this reserve

should serve her now in keeping the secret
which was doubly hers, in that it was
Stephen's as well.

She rose and slowly went upstairs tu
her room ; where she sat till the twih<dit
gathered duskily, and one straggling gleam
from the west smote the withered twine
of honeysuckle hanging above the mantelpiece.


It must be nearly tea-time ; she did
not want Mary or ItutJi to miss her ; and
she smoothed her rough hair and dashed
cold water over her lace. Its touch
recalled those salt chill waves of yesterday,
and she shivered, despite the sultry
heat which was growing more oppressive
every mcjuient  the forecast of a thunderstorm.


Have you been resting, Honor ? ' asked

K 2

i. OF ILL LIB.

Mrs. Eoss, when she came downstairs,
with a step which, despite her effort, was
listless and weary. ' You look tired out,
my child.'

No, only it is so hot  I want air.'

Was not Mr. Nugent here ? I hoped to
see him, but he left so soon.'

So soon ! his visit had seemed to
Honor like an eternity. ' I should have
come down,' Mrs. Eoss continued, ' but I
saw him going away towards Lynion. I
was very sorry, for you told me this was
his last day here. Perhaps he will come
and say good-bye to-night.'

Perhaps,' Honor answered mechanically.


You are not well, dear,' said her friend
anxiously. ' I am sure you have not got
over that terrible time yesterday. I have

never thanked Mr. Xiitent yet  and when
1 think ' she shuddered.

Was life so great a Ijoon ? Honor
drearily wondered. The eveniiiL' cIo'cmI
in, but the heat was so heavy and brooding,
she sat in the window-seat by the (jj)en
casement yearning for a breath of wind.
In her desire not to be observed she had
taken uj) a bo'k, and it lay open on her
lap, the light from a shrill lamp on a
table by lips falling on its open page; but
her eyes were fixed on the troubled lui-id
streaks of light above the dark confused
heaving of the sea. Mrs. Voss was engrossed
in a novel, rather a rare luxury
v.'ith her, and consequently much appreciated,
when Ruth opened the door.

A letter, ma'am, from Lynion ; Johnnie
Pall brought it over.'

Mrs. Toss opened and read it ; it was
from Nugent, a brief note of farewell to
her, warm and grateful. Yet it chilled hera
little : there was no mention of writing
or meeting again, no word of Honor.
She handed it to the girl, without saying
anything. Honor looked at it with dazed
eyes. These were the first words she had
ever seen written by Stephen Nugent's
hand ; and she would fain have laid her
lips to the paper, which she handed back
carelessly enough, saying, as she divined
what was in her friend's mind, ' We said
good-bye this afternoon.'

How cold she is ! ' thought Mrs. Eoss,
except with those she really cares for.'

Honor had taken up her book again,
and was gazing full at the page, scarcely
recking what she read, although ever after

the words lion beluro her recalled tli.'
achiiiL', dull misery of that lioiir.

It was a small aiitholoLry lie held ;
perhaps without knowing it she had instinctively
souLdit out Drayton's wonderful
appealing sonnet, for which till now lie
had cared little, though its music haunted
her :

Since there's no help, coin, let iw kiss and part.

Nay, T have done ; you get no nioit? of luc.
And I am glad, yea, glad with all my heart,

Tliat I so clearly

A sudden double Hash of lightning fell
on the page; and as in one moment she
seemed to read the last lines :

Now at the last gasp of Love's latest bitsath,
When his pulse failing, passion sjoechlesa lie*,

When Faith is knowing hy his hod of death,
And Innocence is closing up Ids eyes.

Now, if thou wilt, when all have given him over,

From Death to Life thoti lightest lira recover.

It was as the 13 of lier own heart,
strangely echoed back from those dead
centuries. She felt stifled, and gasped for
breath as the thunder crashed overhead,
rolling across the sky ; and in the pause
that followed, she leant out, where a few
nights before she had bent to gather the
carnations, till in the stillness she felt the
great raindrops fall on her upturned face
and hot brow.

Honor dear ! come in ; it is not safe ! '

She turned for an instant. ' Let me,'
she ]pleaded ; 'I never felt a storm before.'

But Mrs. Eoss had a wholesome horror
of lightning, and insisted firmly on the
window beings shut. Even then it made
her uncomfortable to see Honor standing
by it, intently watching the swift blaze of
the flashes.

'It is a Averse storm than that one
wliic'li brought Mr. Nugent here.'

IIoiKn* did not answer. It was surely
well that this wild night should end the
day which had seen their severance 
his last day at Lynion. Better so than if
the tender evening sky, clear moonlight,
and nnrulHed sea, with sleeping waves and
low melody, had recalled those other nights
.when the star-sown space had seemed sofar
away and yet so close to the earth and
them.

CIIAPTEE Xxii.

Yet till the pluiritoms flee,
Which that house and heath and garden made dear to
thee erewhile,
Thy remembrance and repentance and deep miisin<?s are
not free
From the music of two voices and the light of one sweet
smile.  Shelley.

The summer was gone ; autumn came on
and passed, with the brown leaves dropping
from the trees, the brown paper from
London drawing-room windows. And
Nugent let the months go by, without
caring to note their change, except from
the windows of his studio and his rooms
adjoining it. When he had returned to
town from Cornwall, the season was nearly
over, and, through the sultry heats of

August and September, lie felt little inclination
to the society of his kind, and
still less to leave London again : he nuLdit
change the sky, but not the mind ; he
knew that well enough.

He painted feverishly and constantly,
but with little feeling of advance and little
care for the future  all he wanted was to
recall the past. The creamy reaches of
sand ; the mingled richness of the serpentine
hues ; the bronze of the seaweed ;
the purple mail of the mussel-clad rocks
shining in the sun, against the hyaline sea ;
the orange-tawny patches of lichen on the
grey boulders ; the bloom of the heather ;
the faint, rosy radiance of the sea-thrift  all
these rose before him, bringing her to mind.

Gradually, as the year wore on, he took
up his old life again, only with the aching

weariness of frustrated possibilities never
before dreamed of, but now a burden on
him. The vision of a pale girl's face
flashed on him, from time to time, as lifted
to his in a passion of appeal ; breaking in
on thought, or action, a need and a desire
for evermore.

It was not always thus he saw her.
She would come back to him in her defiant
moods, her tenderness, her brightness ;
while, from afar, he felt her present life
grinding on from day to day, as lie had
foretold. He could distract himself; the
world was all before him, little as the
profit of it seemed, set against the loss of
lier, his soul ; but she, poor child I

There was the pang : she must weary
on alone ; the cry of the wind and sea
could bear her no echo of his longing to

comfort her, of his sore pain in lier desolation
wliicli made him desolate.

lie had asked, and she had ;given, no
explanation of her story ; but ignorant ashe
was of it, no question of any wrongs',
save perchance rashness or imprudence on
her part, ever crossed his mind. The sad
purity of voice and eyes told that, even
though he had made her sin unwillingly,
by his winning her to love him, against the
instinct of her nature.

If he might only write ! Why had she
made the separation so cruel, so entire?
Yet she was right ; he knew that.

Was his life to drift on like this to the
end, into a dilettante old bachelorhood, or
perchance a loveless marriage ? Anything
seemed possible, save only awakening to an
interest in life which should make it real

once more, as he had deemed it during
those summer days.

People were coming back to town ; this
club was filling, and shooting invitations
suggested a way of killing time, rather
more beguiling than were most ; but the
country house existence irked him, and he
came back to town, disgusted with sport
that was no sport, but carnage  and longing
for some few days' tramping over the
Cornish moors, after snipe and woodcock.

However, on his return to London, on a
chilly November day, after one of these unsatisfactory
visits, he found a letter awaiting
him, Which gave him real, quick pleasure.

Hill Street, Tuesday.

Dearest Steve,  Here we are, back at
last, bag and baggage, chicks and Geoff
and myself  and, oh dear! if ever I go

travelliiiL again for six months, for my
health forsooth, burdened with four children
and a husband who hardly knows
his own language, let alone foreign tongues,

I'm  I'm Well, I'm Geoffrey's wife

(though my name's not Constance), so I
suppose I must do as he pleases.

For himself, he is starting off this very
night for Ireland  in order, as he considerately
says, to let me get settled down in
peace. For real thoughtfulness commend
me to a husband. However, I am so glad
to get home again that I forgive him ; and
as I know he will want to catch a glimpse
of you (not a bit because I want to see
you myself), do come in and have a scratch
meal with us, this evening.

Your loving Sister,

EsTUER Strahan.

Pes.  You might have looked us up
somewhere, during our wander his ! I had
almost forgotten I have a brother  George
doesn't count ; one might as well have a
blue-book and a ledger bound together ;
all he is good for, is to make haste and be
made a baronet as quick as possible, so
that we may bask in his reflected glory.'

Mrs. Strahan was Stephen's favourite
sister, the nearest in age to him, and one of
those women who are constant to their
early interests and affections, even while
husband and children claim most of their
lives. She was Stephen's ideal of a sister,
as she would have been most men's, from
the ready sympathy with all his moods,
which yet never sought to know their
causes. He was of too reserved a nature

to confide the trouMon- (questions oi jn-
life even to Esther's tenderness, hut it had
grown natural to liii to turn to lier. a tht-one
person * who, il'shi,' did not understand
him always, felt for him, and with him.'
From this boyhood, even if lie had never
inspired his ideals, she had never lowered
them, which is no small tliiuL' to sa,
regarding the relations betwixt a brother
and sister, in these latter days.

She lead been ill in the springs and hail
spent the time, since then, abroad. Stephen
had missed both her and Geoffrey Strahan,
who was his friend as well as his sister's
husband.

So the dull afternoon was brighter ashe
wended his way to the cosy hour.* in
Hill Street, where he found his sister once
more with hei household gods, in the

V(JL. 11. y

shape of bric-a-brac, around her ; and engaged
in rearranging them after her own
whim and fancy.

Mrs. Strahan sprang to meet him, with
a fond pretty affection, which was part
of her sweetness, and then returned to the
polishing of a pet bit of cloisonne enameL

Business is business,' she said, ' and
I've set my heart on getting these things
straight before tea-time ; so take that large
arm-chair like a good boy, and tell me all
you have been doing. It is growing dusk
fast, and I shan't be able to work much
longer, for fear of breaking things.'

Why need you trouble yourself this
way ? can't the servants see to these pots
and pans ? '

Mrs. Strahan drew herself up, the
picture of injured virtue with a Bow teapot

clasped to her heart. ' Steplien I ' lie
exclaimed.

Well ! '

Did you ever know me neglect my
husband ? '

Geoff never told me that you did.'

I should like to pull your hair! Or my
children ? '

Cornelia wasn't in it with you.'

Thank you ; and when you were a
boy, whose rabbits and white rats did I
always feed when he ibriiot them ? '

Don't " anticipate the past." But what
has all this riot to do with my question?'

'Only, how you could think 1 Would
leave my china to servants ! ' and the
grieved reproach of Mrs. Strahan's tone
was cxcpiisite. * No, thank you,' as her
brother sprang up to lice]) lier place the

1 2

teapot on the top velvet-covered shelf of
a cabinet, ' I believe you are equal to
smashing it on purpose.'

'I feel rather like it,' Nugent owned. 'I
haven't seen you for nine months, and you
can't talk of anything but crockery.'

I told you to talk, and I would listen.
Don't be cross ; the china is all right now,
and I am going to tack this strip of old
Italian work as a mantelpiece drapery.
Isn't that lovely colour ? ' as she displayed
it.

Yes, it's very nice ; where did you pick
it up ? '

At Milan, at the shop you told me of ;
and oh, Steve, you should see some lace
I got there ! Geoff grumbled at my extravagance,
but I couldn't resist it.'

And you enjoyed Italy ? '

'Not at all,' rejoined Esther decisively.
I should like to know who would enjoy
anytliinf, when they are dragging about
three children and a nurse and no courier?'

But Geoff wrote he was trying to spare
you all he could.'

'So he was, dear old boy, and of course
made things much worse. In regard to
men,' said Mrs. Strahan, pausing before her
work, with a hammer in one hand, a tack
in the other, and her head poised critically
on one side, ' I have come to the conclusion
that, however good their intentions maybe,
there is not one who has either
German, Italian, or French, sufficient to
soften the asperities of the doaane or to
resist the extortions of porters ; and so we
poor women !  No ; I have told Geoffrey
I never travel again, except as a Cook's

tourist  that is my idea of luxury  everything
seen to for you.'

Stephen laughed. Esther shook her
head as if her words were too serious to be
treated as a jest, and knocked in another
nail with great vigour.

But what have you been doing ? ' she

said. ' Oh ! how often, when I got your

letters from Cornwall, I wished we had

been there in peace and quietness ! No

large hotels, no cathedrals, no pictures,

no canals, no orange trees, no beggars,

no garlic I and then no Kraals and

mineral baths ! How I used to envy you ! '

And no old brocade and laces.'

Nonsense ! as if one couldn't pick

them up in London ;  since Geoff isn't

present to hear me own it. But you

tainted a great deal, didn't you ? '

Pretty well ; will you come round tomorrow
and judge for yourself?  come to
lunch.'

I should like it, if I may bring Daisy.'

Of course,' said Stephen, who was
very fond of his sister's eldest daughter,
aged seven.

And you will have oysters ? '

I don't know ; it depends on how you
treat me to-night. Oh ! here is Daisy,' as
the sound of small steps coming rapidly
down the stairs, finishing with a tremendous
jump and bang at the end of the flight, was
followed by the appearance of Miss Daisy
Strahan herself.

I heard Uncle Steve was here, so I
came,' she announced, with some firmness,
and springing on his knee.

I>ut where are the others?' asked her

mother. ' I tlioiiglit Maude Hughes Alas
coming to tea with you ; you shouldn't
leave your guest, Daisy.'

Oh, she's all right,' responded Miss
Daisy calmly. ' They are playing bears ina
cave, and I'm only the mother, so I pretended
to go away to market  as I wanted
to see you,' to Stephen.

'Quite right, old woman,' responded her
uncle. 'Are you glad to be back home
again ? '

Daisy nodded her head emphatically.
But I liked the fruit for breakfast,' she
owned.

You are your mother's own daughter,'
said Stephen. 'Never mind, Daisy, you are
coming to lunch tomorrow with me, and
mamma wants oysters ; what fruit shall I
get soli?'

Melon,' decided Daisy, after some reflection,
'and Brazil nuts.'

'Heaven save your digestion,' said her
uncle. ' Anytliinir else? '

Daisy tliouirlit for a moment. 'If you
get some preserved cherries,' she remarked,
I can bring them and the nuts back, to
make a feast with.'

Daisy,' interrupted her mother, ' you
ought to be ashamed of yourself.'

'Uncle Steve asked me,' returned Daisy
defiantly. 'Oh, Uncle Steve,' with a sudden
change of tone, ' weren't there real caves,
where you were, when we were in Italy?'

Yes, Daisy, but no bears.'

'I don't want the bears,' said his niece
' not wlicn they are real. What were
the caves like ? '

Shall I tell you ? ' Nugent was not

looking at the child, but gazing into the
red depths of the fire, as if its hollows
recalled to him a vision of those lofty
caverns of the western shore. ' Some where
very high,' he said, ' and you had to bring
in great bunches of dry furze to light them
up ; the ground was all slippery and wet
where the sea had gone out at low tide ;
and above, you could see the walls shining
with the water, which soaked through
from the upper ground ; and beautiful
green ferns were growing there, just
where a little light came in through the
chinks.'

Go on,' said Daisy.

Then there was another much more
beautiful,' and Mrs. Strahan wondered at
the subdued ring of sad and passionate
memory in her brother's voice. ' But you

could only get there in a boat, when the
sea was very calm, and so green and clear,
you could see all the great brown seaweeds
below, waving and moving about as if they
were alive.'

'Like those in the "Little Mermaid"'

Just like them ; and so we rowed
along '  how sweet that ' we ' sounded in
the speaker's own ears  ' till we saw what
looked like a big hole in the great red
cliffs.'

And that was the cave ? '

Yes ; and as we drew near, we saw
that it went far, far into the cliff  so far
that no man has ever gone to the end  and
the water in the cave was like a beryl  a
jewel fled with light; and the fringe of
shining dark seaweed lifted and fell with
each movement, as our boat gilded in ;

only it was so still, you could not even
hear the water stir.'

Oh, Uncle Steve ! it is like a fairy
tale.'

'It was much more like a fairy tale
than you can think.' He checked a sigh
that rose heavily from his heart. ' All
above, the roof was the palest pink, like
the inside of a shell, and it deepened lower
down into a colour like rose-leaves, till it
became a crimson, such as you sometimes
see in a sunset, to where it touched the
dark line of seaweed, and the green water
like the evening sky.'

Daisy drew a deep breath. ' Is it all
true?' she asked. 'There ought to have
been a fairy.'

Perhaps there was,' said Stephen, remembering
the slight figure in the blue

serge gown, the light iinii grasp of the
slender wrists on the oars, and the ]beautiful
face uj)liirned to the roseate vaud
above their heads, in that wonderful
hushed silence of the cave.

I wonder ' began Daisy ; but her

speculations were stopped by the arrival of
the afternoon tea equipage and the shaded
lamp, and at a sign from her mother she
vanished.

Stephen drew up his chair nearer the
fire, as Esther began to busy herself over
lier pretty cups and saucers in the soft
light. ' Wliy, Essie,' he said, ' now I see
you, you look younger than ever. Or is it
that artful lam]) of yours?'

'Let me see you,' she said, 'and then
I can judge;' but as s\\e gazed fully at
him, she almost started. Those liaLTLrard

lines round his mouth and eyes lead not
been there when he and she had bidden
each other good-bye eight months ago.
Stephen ! ' she exclaimed, ' have you been
ill yourself? '

111 ! No I Now, my child, give me a
cup of tea, and don't worry yourself.'

Mrs. Strahan obeyed, and took up her
position on a stool, in front of the fire,
picking up the embers with a tiny pair of
brass tongs, while she chatted gaily to her
brother, who lead thrown himself back into
the largest arm-chair of which the room
boasted. But she could not help glancing
nervously every now and then at Stephen.
The change in his expression had struck
her painfully ; it could not have been more
void of expectation thirty or forty years
hence, when life would have burnt low.

Mr?. Italian said nothiiiL' at the time;
lout a week later, her husband, watcliiii<j
lier at breakfast while she intently studied
the depths of her empty coffee-cup, requested
to know her thoughts.

Steve,' she answered concisely.

'What of him? There's nothing the
matter, I hope ? '

'Xo, but  don't laugh, Geoff; I hate
you when you do  can't you see he's
changed of late ? '

'Xo, I can't. We none of us grow
younger, except you.' Mrs. Strahan's obstinately
girlish favour and looks, sweet at
thirty as at eighteen, were a pet jest with
lier husband and brother.

It isn't that he looks older, but I am
sure he isn't happy.'

'What a little woman you are for

whims ! ' said Mr. Strahan, as, coming
behind his wife, he took her head between
his two hands, and kissed her forehead.
Don't you bother about Steve ; he is as
well as any idle man can be. That's all
that's the matter with him  want of work ;
and you see now, after so many years, the
disease is beginning to tell.'

I wish he would marry.'

Yes ! that's your feminine panacea for
everything. You women would try it on
old Nick himself, and by Jove, I believe a
good many of you would be willing to try
the experiment with him.'

Don't be impertinent.'

You believe in it as tlje cure for every
masculine ailment. What Steve has wanted
all his life is work. He's too good for the
dawdling life he leads.'

Hit he paints, Geoff.'

'Paints!  ]pshaw!' The scorn of Mr.
Strahan's ejaculation was inexpressible.
He'd have stuck in a different way, even
to that, I can tell you, if idleness had
meant starving to him. While you are
wishing, you had better wish he had taken
his share in the bank and the management
of the Calcutta branch, when lie had the
choice, after your father's death.'

Oh ! ' and Esther's voice told her antipathy
to the notion.

I know it's not as pretty or pleasant as
the life he leads, but all the same it would
have been the making of him.'

Mrs. Strain sat thoughtful and silent
tor a few moments; then her question
showed H proper wifely respect for her
husband's opinion.

VOL. II. G

Do you think George would still take
him into the business ? '

I can't tell ; it's hardly likely  but I
believe, of the two, you would find George
more willing to make the offer than Steve
to accept it.'

Yes,' said Mrs. Strahan, as at once
regretful and relieved ; for the idea of
Stephen going to Calcutta had been an old
bugbear to her when it had been mooted
years before.

Still she did what she thought her duty,
and one evening when her brother had
dropped in, and he and she were sitting
alone together, she mooted the idea.
Stephen stared at her in amazement, then
burst out laughing  rather a joyless laugh.

What on earth set you on to that ? '
he exclaimed. ' Do you think that banking

comes by nature like " reading and writing " !"
or what signs have I shown of such born
genius for the trade that you want me to
take to it at thirty-three ? I should like to
see George's face if you started the subject :
the prodigal's elder brother wouldn't be in
it with him.'

It isn't George ; you wouldn't like it
yourself.' If Mrs. Strahan was petulant,
she was prettily so ; and it is annoying,
when one has braced oneself to a virtuous
resolution, to find one's new-born earnestness
treated as a childish fancy, amusing.
but nonsensical.

No, certainly I shouldn't ; but why d
you want to get rid of me, Essie  you and
Geoff?  for I know this wise notion wa*<
his before it was yours. Have I bored you
so terribly of late ? '

G 2

No, but  ' her tone grew really earnest
and pleading, and there was a tremble in
her voice which touched him  ' I can't
think what you will do.'

It was as an echo of the vague obstinate
questionings which had haunted
him long, and more than ever since his
parting from Honor. Cui bono? Nothing
he knew, stood the test, but applying himself
to money-getting without other end or
aim scarcely seemed a fit or fair solution of
the problem which vexed him, and his
answer to Esther was light : ' You talk like
a tract  I can't think what I shall do
myself, but I can't take to bank-books at
this time of day. If only Geoff would
act on his ideas and start as a model
farmer he might engage me as bailiff.
Tint I never knew I seemed such a

Sir Charles Coldstream ; I don't feel like
him;

Used up ! ' No ; while this fire, which
had restored to him his youth by its renewing
touch, still burned so passionately in his
heart ; only now, alas ! ' kindling nothing,
helping nothing, idly burning away.'

CHAPTER XXV.

And such a want-wit sadness makes of me,
That I have much ado to know myself.

Merchant of Venice.

Hallo ! Nugent ! Steve ! '

Stephen, sauntering along the corridor
of the Palladium Theatre, turned on hearing
his name. His whole countenance lit upas
it met the speaker's. 'It's never you,
Archdale ! ' he exclaimed, ' at last ! '

Isn't it just ? though sometimes I
wonder at myself. It seems so odd to be
in England again.'

 What a globe-trotter you have become
! Where have you turned up from ?

I haven't even heard of you these three
years ! '

'I only' got back a week ago. I was
going to look you up to morrow. I've got
such a skin for you, a grisly's  no end of a
fellow he was  from the Rockies.'

Oh, that's where you hail from. I
thought you were in India.'

Here, there, and everywhere ; Canada
I sailed from. I say, this business is awful
rot ; come along with me and let's have a
modest drink and a talk over old days.'

I can't, I am here with my sister ; lier
husband's away, and I'm doing escort. By
Jove, there's the bell ; I must get back to
my seat. See you again after this act.'

Archdale nodded, and Stephen retunuMl
to his place by his sister's side. There was
yet a minute after he was seated before the

curtain drew up, by which he profited to
inform her of his recent encounter with his
old school friend.'

Whom do you think I ran up against
in the passage just now, with a beard, and
growed out of knowledge " ? Archdale ! '

Why, I didn't know he was in England.
When did he come back?'

A week ago, he says, but we only saw
each other for a moment ; I'm going out to
him again when this act's over ; if you
don't mind being left.'

A great deal of difference it would
make if I did,' retorted Esther. ' I have
been jealous of that young man with
regard to you, ever since he came to stay
with us, your first Eton holidays. I never
could make out how you two, so different,
were such friends.'

Tliat is vlly  but you never liked
him, Essie.'

I hated liii,' responded Mrs. Italian
tersely, 'and I suppose he returned
the compliment, as he lost no opportunity
of announcing his conviction that " girls
were rot." '

I'm afraid his experience confirmed his
theory rejoined her brother, amused at
the decisive ' Serve him right,' his Avoids
called forth from her, followed by an
expression of entire disapproval of his
friend's past, and of her consequent want of
interest therein. ' It must be a good three
years since he left England,' continued
Stephen. ' I know dien I came back after
my last long wandering in foreign ]parts,
three years after I had written to congratulate
him. I found he had started off to some

unknown region after big game, and saw or
heard nothing of him till to-night. I never
could make head or tail of the story, Essie.
Was he very much cut up, poor old
boy?'

I can't say. Hush ! the curtain's going

up;

Stephen watched the players, listlessly
at first, and yet grew interested in the piece
despite faults which struck him more sharply
than they had ever done before  the lack of
truth to nature in parts of the play ; the
heightening of the effect of certain situations
at the expense of the piece as a
whole.

And yet this love story passing on the
stage seemed to Nugent's fancy to hold an
echo of his own ; but oh the difference of
this reflection of life's loveliest joy, its

rarest pain, from that reality, the memory
of which it yet recalled ! How unlike was
this girl, whose mimic woe yet permitted of
her remembering the right disposal of the
drawings of her elaborate gown ; with her
artistically tinted face, and her voice tired
into falsetto by the long, trying scene, to
Honor  pale, with the heavy saddened
eyes, and low dragging voice, which would
remain with him for evermore !

And yet it brought it all back, and he
felt the truth of such art as was true in the
scene, far more quickly than he would
have done six months before. He was one
with the play, not alien to it ; a vague
notion came to him that love may teach
not er/o'isfue a deux, but a wider sympathy
with the men and women of the real world,
whereof this playhouse was the tinted

shadow  falsely coloured perhaps, yet with
a relation to the truth he had never felt
before  even as it had guided him to sympathy
with the feigned story of these who
were merely players.

Are you interested, Steve ? ' asked his
sister, whose own pretty eyes were tearful
by the time the act-drop fell again.
Esther's simple emotions were readily
awakened and sought little disguise ; yet
she felt her own interest in the men and
women of the play more justified as her
brother answered, ' Yes.'

She turned again to study her playbill,
endeavouring to gather a forecast of the
story's sequel from the scene of the next
act and the Tennysonian quotation affixed
thereunto, while Stephen again sought his
friend in the smoking gallery.

Armadale declined  rather to Nugent's
amusement  his invitation to come round
and renew his acquaintance with Mrs.
Strahan, on the ]plea that lie had almost
forgotten how to speak to a lady.

Then the sooner you remember the
better.'

That's a question,' returned Armadale
gloomily. ' Anyhow, your sister doesn't
want me, and I should only bore her.
Can't you look me up tomorrow, old
Stiffen ? ' with a laugh, as the old Eton
nickname came out as half familiar and
half forgotten by both. 'I'm going out of*
town the day after, for Christmas, to the
people of a young fellow who came homo
with me from Canada. He'd been oui
there to see his brother who is quartered
there. Ilunsdon, his governor, has a

place somewhere near Leamington. It will
be the first hunting I've had for four years.'

Tigers,' suggested Nugent ; ' and your
friends the gillies.'

Oh, they don't count  at least, not in
that way,' said Archdale. ' I've taken my
old rooms in Jermyn Street. They are jolly
diggings enough, and they have an Al
cook there now. I can give you as good
a dinner as we could get at the club.
I haven't shaken down quite yet, or got
things to rights ; but you won't mind that,
and we can haul over the things I picked
up at one place and another. Talking of
gillies, do you think Mrs. Strahan would
care for one of their skins, or a buffalo rug,
or anything of that kind ? ' the young man
inquired doubtfully. To him Esther was
rather an alarming person, when he recollected

several youthful passages-at-arnis
between them, wherein he lead come ofl'
second best.

She will be delighted,' said Nugent ;
but you will have to call and offer it yourself.
There's that confounded bell again.'

Well, I'm of'; ta ta ! I can't stand this
sentimental ."tufr. Remember tomorrow 
eight sharp  you know the number of
old.'

I ought to do so. Good night, old
bov.'

CHAPTER XXVI.

Cloud was on my eyes
And thunder in my ears at that first word.

In a Balcony.

In former days Nugent had often enough
heard the chimes at midnight in these
rooms of Archdale's ; and of late years,
when he passed along Jermyn Street, he
frequently glanced up at the windows, with
a half-amused, half-regretful memory of
those hours and of his host. There was
something of real enjoyment in finding himself
once more springing up the familiar
staircase and meeting Archdale's cheery
Here you are at last ! ' at the landing.

Yes, it sceius like old times, hallo I

tliougli ' as the transmogrified aspect

of the well-known rooms met his eyes ;
then he burst out laughing. ' I forgot,'
he said,  you have returned, but your
old belongings haven't. Somehow I expected
to find the place look just as it used
to do.'

So it will,' quoth Archdale, ' when
I've been here a month or two. Of course
the old chairs and tables have gone the
deuce knows where, but these \v\\\ be all
right when they've been knocked about a
bit.'

Nugent laughed again. ' I see some
old friends though,' he said ; ' I remember
those Aiken prints in your room at
Drury's.'

Yes, 1 had a lot of my old trains, which
VOL. n. H

had been stored away, sent round here today,'
answered his friend. ' And I'm hanged
if I know what to do with them,' glancing
round at several piles of pictures, books,
stag's-horns, sticks, murderous weapons of
the barbaric order, and an utterly indescribable
confusion of odds and ends, in one
corner of the room. ' I had better have
made a clean sweep of them along with the
rest of the things, after all.'

A meaning in his words, probably not
intended by the speaker himself, struck
Nugent rather sadly, but his reflections
were cut short at that instant by the
advent of dinner.

The cook justified Archdale's praise, and
as the latter's judgment in the matter of
wines had always been more reliable than
that of most of the ' fair young gentlemen,

his peers by the time the walnuts ami
olives were placed on the table, Nugent
took a more roseate view of existence than
he had done for shine time, as lie turned
his chair towards the fireglow.

As before said, lie and Archdale had
been fast friends since Eton days, and
raleigh's warning as to the non-endurance
of boyish friendships had proved false in
this case, as in many others; peril a p-e
because the two men's liking had never
touched the point of passionate enthusiasm
where friendship reaches love, and so often
recoils into indifference. Had they first
met as men, it might never have existed at
all, but the store of old boyish memories-shared
between them had strengthened
the friendship into a cord, not prickly
broken, and their reliance on each other's

II 2

loyalty was strong, as it had been in boyhood.


To-night the spell of the past seemed
to hold them both ; they called up old
days, laughed over old scrapes and jokes.
Perhaps neither man cared to talk of his
life of the last few years, and Nugent did
not wish to allude to that story of his
friend's past, of which he had but a vague
idea  but suddenly an accident brought
him face to face with it.

He had been lazily sauntering round
the room, inspecting at Archdale's request
some of his friend's new arrangements and
possessions, when after looking at a picture
above a table piled with heterogeneous
matters, his eye fell on a photograph half
concealed by loose letters and papers
tossed above it. Some recognition of the

brow and eyes  all he could see of the
portrait  guide liiiii instinctively take it
up.

What are you looking at ? ' said Arch-dale,
turning round where he sat, to flie) his
cigarette ash int) the grate. 'Oh, that! I
came across it this morning, overhauling
my despatch-box. You know who it is ? '

Yes, Nugent knew ; felt, somehow, as if
lie had known it long, and that thai which
lie had dreaded had come upon him, as he
gazed at Honor's portrait, hearing as from
afar Arch ale's words :

My wife.'

Yet, was it possible? He stood
stupidly staring at the eyes which appealed
from the picture to him and to his love, as
though asking, 'Do you understand now?'

Did he? some dim sense of the revolt

of her nature, some instinct of the meaning
of her passionate cry, ' You could
not understand,' reached him, as he stood
there, holding that poor, faded semblance
of her in his hand, and heard his own
voice saying naturally enough to Arch-dale


I knew nothing about it, you know.'
No, you were abroad the whole time ;
I suppose just because you were the
one fellow I wanted and would have
spoken to about it, and I never was good
at writing. But you know as much as anyone
does, thanks to me. Here's the coffee
have some ? No ; a chasse then ? '

His guest took the proffered glass of
fin champagne ; the servant's entrance
Avitli the coffee had given him time to
collect his thoughts. He must learn more

of this strange game Fate had phiyecl
with liiiii ; and in ti'utli Arclidale appeared
wiUini- to enhhten liii, as far as was in
this power.

Nugent, standing by the mantelpiece,
was stirred both by anger and a bitter
cynical amusement, despite the turmoil
of his own mind, as he marked Arch-dale's
appreciative disposal of his coffee
and chasse, and his deliberate selection
of a cigarette, ere he began to tell the
story of his marriage, of the wreck of
Honor's life, as coolly as he might have
recounted his losses at Newmarket  or soit
seemed to the other man's impatient,
torturing pain.

show much have you heard?' Archdale
asked, pulling up his chair to the lire and
glancing up at Stephen, who stood near

him, his hand moving his empty hourglass
backwards and forwards on the
mantelshelf, his face turned away from his
companion.

I suppose the same as most people ' 
his very inward tumult, the anger and
scorn Archdale's coolness woke within
him, aided him to echo the latter's careless
tone. ' That you married a wife and  you
and she didn't hit it off.'

Arch dale nodded.

That's about all anyone can tell you 
I don't know that I can add much to it
myself.'

Could your wife ? ' The strain was so
hard, that he could scarcely believe but
Archdale must note his unreal manner, his
repressed eagerness ; but he did not. It
was only by a strong effort Stephen forced,

himself to speak the words, feeling'" liiiiiscli
a traitor to Honor to mention lier tuis, to

listen while Archdale Oh, God! the

whole world seemed without form and
void.

'I'm hanged if she could tell you more
than I can, and that's the muddle of the
whole affair,' rejoined Archdale placidly.
Let it be remembered that the story of his
brief married life lead now been familiar to
him nearly four years, though Current did
not take this into account. ' You remember
my writing to you about my engagement,
and telling you about Miss Denne and her
step-mother,that pretty fair little woman  a
cat if ever there was one  who afterwards
married Sir Eobert Field? Haven't you
ever met lier ? '

Sometimes. 1 used to know Field

rather well.' Strange that, after all, his
life might nearly have touched Honor's in
this London world that seemed so far removed
from her. He remembered now
to have heard that Archdale's wife was
Lady Field's daughter.

Well, 'ware snakes, if ever you come
across her path ! She chose, before I was

married Oh, hang it, I'm a bad hand at

telling a story from the right end  but
you knew about me and Eddie Vernon ? '

A slight weary movement of Nugent's
gave assent. To hear of that woman
dragged into Honor's story  oh I it was
hard !

Well, when I broke off with her, of
course, after her kind, she took to writing
anonymous letters to Mrs. Denne, as she
was then. She'd gone to the right person,

too. I'll 1)0 hanged if that woman,' (|iu)t]i
Archaic, with a virtuous indignation which
aroused a moment's sarcastic amusement in
Nugent  ' instead of flinf]fin<]j them into the
lire, didn't ferret out the whole matter.
It wasn't very difficult ; there were men
and women enough who could tell her all
she wanted to know, and if she had come
to me I'd have settled her soon enough, hy
offering to tell Xorah the whole affair,
swearing on my honour it was all off, and
giving her her choice whether she'd have
me or not. lout that wouldn't have suited
my lady's game. She liked to think she
had me, in a way, in her power, for she
was quick enough to know that I saw
through her; hut, all the same, she wanted
to get rid of Norah, and she could do that
through me. The girl had odd notions,

and knew no more of the world than a
baby, and I think Mrs. Denne was frightened
that, if it all came out, Norah would
throw me over.'

Oh, Honor ! Honor ! poor child !  was
the sob of Nugent's heart.

'What I believe she did, was just to
poison the girl's mind against me, so as
to make her keep a watch on me, as she
would have done '  something of Arch-dale's
coolness left him now, as he rose,
as if to emphasise his words. ' By God, I
swear to you, Stephen, I can't understand
it otherwise. You've known me long
enough. Do you think I could be unkind
to any woman, let alone a wife I had
just married ? '

Unkind ? no ! but that he should be
Honor's husband, when every word told

how lion this nature was to lit-rs, so that
sympathy with her or comprehension of
lier seemed utterly inipossi])lr to him !
Yet there was something pathetic in Rex
Arclidale's appeal, which wrung a loyal
and kindly answer from Nugent, despite
his own pain.

No, old boy ! ' lie could say no more.

*Then what on earth made her act as
she did, unless her step-mother had primed
her to kee]) a sharp look-out on mc r  it's
the only explanation. Addict, confound
her, wrote a letter which followed me to
Paris ; Honor must have got hold of it, and
she left me in a lit of temper.'

Archdale had so long accepted this explanation
himself, that he had come to
regard it as the established truth ; but ashe
went on to recount the circumstances

under which Honor had left hin, Nugent
wondered yet more at the blindness of this
man, who knowing and loving Honor in
his own way, could yet imagine her playing
the spy on him, and not be sure that,
had she deemed him guilty of faithlessness
or treachery, she would have told him so
frankly.

Stephen could understand the truth of
her story better from Kex's idea thereof,
built on a mistaken premise as to her
nature, than he might have done otherwise
; even as a false hypothesis may,
by its demonstrated absurdity, prove the
truth.

'And then?' he asked, as Eex paused,
after telling him how on his return from
the Gymnase, that night in Paris, he found
Honor gone.

Well, I saw how matters were at once,
and I started off after her. I knew she
was up to no harm, and I felt I had been
a fool to leave that letter knocking about.
Jut all the same, I didn't mean to let her
off too easily ; I can tell you, I was in the
devil's own temper with her for makiuL''
such a to-do and behaving like a madwoman.
If I had caught her up, on the
way, I suppose it would have been all
riLdit; there would have been no end of
a row, and we should have got on all the
better after it ; but as luck would have it,
I took the wrong route, and the day I got
to London I found her flown. I'd been
working myself up all the way over here,
and had made up my mind, that, as she
had chosen to leave me, so she might come
back to me if she chose, but I wouldn't ask

her to do so. She was in the wrong, not
I, and she deserved " what for," '

Nugent sharply turned and walked up
and down the room. ' Well ? ' he said at
last,

Well, what I found in London made
matters much worse. Instead of drawing
out some money (her own was all settled
on her), I'll be hanged if she mustn't go
and make gossip by her folly, in getting
her jewels from the bank and taking them
to the jeweller's to sell. Of course, I
hushed it up as well as I could, said it was
all right, got the things back, and sent
them to the bank as if nothing had
happened ; but I always feel those fellows
can talk about it. It made me so mad, I
vowed I wouldn't take another step towards
putting matters straight, I found

out soon enough whither she lead flown  to
an old governess of hers, at a God-forsaken
place somewhere near the Land's End.
She couldn't come to much harm there.'

You never wrote, or went to lier,
then ? '

'Confound it, no. It was she who lead
made the fuss, and it was her place to come
to me  besides, I didn't want lier back
against her weill. But I did all I could to
stop tongues. I went to Mrs. Denne and
found that, so far, she had no idea of all
the row, or whither Honor had gone. I told
her that my wife was all right, and then 1
thought she might as well hear a few
wholesome truths, and told her it was all
her fault, thouLdi I left her to guess ii(w.
Of course she wanted to know where
Honor was, but I requested her to let the

VOL. II. I

poor girl alone ; Norah and I could manage
our own affairs, and should end by being
very good friends. I didn't let her guess
how my wife had left me, and made her
promise not to bother Norah, unless my wife
wrote to her first. She's an awful coward,
and I hinted that, if she did, I'd know the
reason why ; and besides that, she was so
afraid that Field or anyone should blame
her, that she caved in at once, and I knew
I could trust to her telling all sorts of lies
I should never have thought of, to persuade
people there was no smoke, let alone
no fire.' Archdale laughed grimly. ' She
has lied too, like fun ; I've heard such
stories she's told people of Norah's liking a
country life and my devotion to sport, that,
by Jove, I've admired her. But she's wasted
on Field ; he's one of those men who would

believe in her just the same if she told
the truth.'

Was that how you went abroad ? '
'Yes; what was I to do at home? I
couldn't quite go back to my old ways, and
I thought my wife would come round sooner
than she has done, and then if she found
she had to wait a little before she could
get at me by letter, or hear from me, it
would do her no harm.'

His tone, his words, jarred inexpressibly
on Nugent, who yet saw through Rex's
story, that the latter had shown no little
consideration for the wife who had left him ;
no little carefulness for her fame. Better
and wiser men than Arclidale would not
have acted, in his case, as wisely and well
as he had done. Nugent knew how freely,
in the vague disconnected accounts of the

1 -J.

story which he had heard, the blame had
been lavished on Archdale, by those who
knew nothing of the matter, save what Eex
himself had chosen to say.

Stephen recognised what Eex's words
did not even imply, how carefully the
young husband had shielded his wife from
blame, with a chivalry, for which few men
or women would have given him credit.
Doubtless this trait had sprung from the
same obstinate pride which made him
resolute that the woman who had left him
of her own free will should of her own freewill
return to him and acknowledge her
fault ; but blended with this was that nobler
instinct, he himself scarcely recognised,
which better men than himself might have
lacked, which forbade him to force back an
unwilling woman to her place by his side.

But his friend understood something of
it, and this made him pause ere he asked
Kex

Did you care for her ? '

More than I ever thought I did. And
you never saw her. You can't tell from
that photo, what she was really like. She
beat them all hollow, I can tell you ; there
was something about her, one couldn't
forget. Sometimes now I see her eyes, and
wonder what the end will be. I say, I've
bored you with my affairs a full hour, and
your throat must be as dry as a bone ;
mine is, I know, with all this talking.'

Chapter XXVII.

My soul, like to a ship in a black storm
Is driven, I know not whither.

VlTTOElA COEEOMBONA.

'Was it true?' Nugent found himself wondering
as h left his friend's house, ' or only
the heated fancy of his brain ? '

Honor, Reginald Archdale's wife I this
was the irony of life. Till now, despite
his knowledge of her marriage, she had
seemed all his in thought. The vague
image of the husband she did not love, had
been enough, like a jealous ghost, to wave
them back from Love's Eden  to make
clasped hands and meeting eyes forbidden,

even as was any closer sacrament of love ;
but it lead not been enough to prevent
him holding her in his thoughts, with the
memory of that moment's sweet madness on
the rocks, which had made death seem 'soft,
as the loosening of wound arms in sleep.'

Now all was changed. It was Eex Arch-dale,
the man he had known and liked so
long, who had trusted him all these years,
who held this right which Nugent could not
deny, although his whole heart rebelled
against it.

A woman might have cried out, ' She
does not love him ; he has no right over
her ! ' Hit the man's instinct admitted the
husband's claim, even while his soul sickened
at it. If things were different, if he
ignored that claim, and so, defying its
power, won Honor  this darling and Ids

treasure  to have and to hold, despite the
law of God and man  he would still feel
the right lay with Eex, that he had stolen
what was not his from his friend.

Oh, but is it not hard, dear ? ' that cry
which finds an echo in the hearts of most
men and women, at some moments of their
lives, rose in a sob now, almost to Stephen's
lips. He could not tell what he was to do ;
it was all dark, dark as the murky, fog-reddened
air around him. He tried to
forget it all, for just a moment to remember
Honor as he had seen her first, with that
untamed, fierce, innocent bearing, which
told of the untamed, fierce, innocent heart.
It came back to him how those bright clear
eyes had grown soft, that proud mouth
tender, the whole lovely transformation
a month had seen, which had made his joy

and ]pride ; the guerdon of his love  his
love of her who was Archdale's wife !

And with all his friendship for Rex, all
his honest recognition of the other man's
loyalty and frankness and honesty, ever
deeper sank the sting of the thought for
her. She, married to Archdale, who had
held and used women as toys, who demanded
their price, and demanded no
more, to whom the eternal womanhood had
been an unknown word, undenied because
unimagined !

Even now, Stephen could not understand
how it had come about. Oh,
he supposed Kex's good looks and 
had attracted the girl ; it was
natural enough. But afterwards? As he
thought of that poor child alone and
amazed in Paris, with iliad man who had

SO little in common with her, the intuition,
born of love, aided him only too easily to
understand her wild flight, the outcome of
her wild despair.

And she was Eex Archdale's wife !

The words forced themselves into a
grotesque refrain, set to the accompaniment
of the London noises, the rolling of the
wheels, the shouts of the drivers, as he
made his way homeward through the frost
and fog. She was his queen, his love,
whose eyes were a living fire of scorn of
base thought, or low desire. She was his
darling, whose heart he knew held his
strong idea for ever and aye as the inmost
thought in that sweet shrine  and she was
Archdale's wife !

He might end all this, if only, when
the morning broke, he left behind him the

weariness, the fever, and the fret, where
each man's moan is the echo of a thousand
others, uncared for and unguessed of by
him, and found his way again across those
lonely moors to her.

If lie did this, and, taking her in his
arms, said, * Oh, I know all ; let the world
go by, so you and I cling together,' surely
she would not say him nay ! Micfht not
this be the end ? as good an end as any
other for him and for her  Archdale's wife.

God forbid ! Let the world say what
it would, that he heeded not ; but that
her eyes should ever be less proudly pure,
that the lines of those sweet lips should
harden with shame, and that true soul
be dragged down, degraded by him  a
thousand times God forbid !

Yet the temptation abided. A dim

feeling that Archdale's story forced action
upon him, troubled him with unrest, till
at last he fell asleep.

And, in dreams, he saw Honor again,
coming to him across the moor, transfigured
in the sunset ; the glory of the
sky, and the clouds, and the deep, lurid
glow of the heather like vapour and flame,
around her ; and as she neared him, he
read in the passion of her eyes, the triumph
of her smile, the assurance that Archdale's
tale was but a foolish, ghastly dream ; so
wondered at his past trouble. She was
free, and they drew nearer, nearer ; the
night fell suddenly  and Nugent woke.

Woke to the darkness of a London fog
and the knowledge that his man had been
into the room, with a candle, had left his
shaving-water, and, finding his master

asleep, had vanished silently. This was
the stulVof Avhicli were made the glow and
darkness of his dream. A short bitter
laugh escaped him as he realised its texture,
but Honor's image did not fade so
soon.

All through the day it haunted him.
pathetic, appealing, till he was fain to cry
out, ' What shall I do ? ' as the instinct
that his hour had come ever gathered
force within him, even while he felt blind
and helpless as to whither his steps were
led.

Oil ! weary day which, dragging out its
bitter hours, found him, when the gloomy
sunset reddened through fog clouds in
the west, still brooding beside his studio
tire. All round him, in the growing darkness,
were the pale memories of those

Cornish days. For hours he had been
there, in fancy, remembering how each
sketch had been painted, how Honor had
pleasured in them, or criticised, with the
true eye that long gazing at those cliffs
and waves had given her.

Before him was a water-colour sketch
of her face, half taken from memory and
from pencil scratches made in his sketchbook,
when she did not know. The little
book was full of such hints of her beauty,
from that first one he had made that day
she had passed him on the heath ; the
turn of her neck, the lovely line of cheek
and ear ; the full curve of the eyelids
when drooped, their clear slight arch
above the eyes when her direct gaze
grew fixed and intense ; all these met
him again, as he listlessly turned over the

leaves ; and now the book rested on his
knee, open at one sketch of her that recalled
her look that night in the moonlight,
when he spoke of his belief in a
moment that should redeem, or condemn
life. But how could this present moment
possibly be his ordeal? He could do no
good to Honor or himself; and as to Arch-dale
 what did he owe him? what claim
could friendship, honour, loyalty, put inhere,
before the mighty and terrible countenance
of love ?

The fire fell in with a crash ; a few-moments
before, it had looked as an airy
crimson palace, with glowing delicate
minarets and spires, and relics, roseate
and transparent with the light and heat
which had shaped it into being ; now it was
a black and red ruin, with a veil of fine

grey ashes slowly gathering on the dulling
cinders, which a minute before had
been the heart of its heat and radiance.

With a heavy sound, between a sigh
and a groan, Stephen roused himself. He
was engaged to a big dinner at his elder
brother's ; he supposed he must go ; Essie
would say it was his duty.

Duty! the word suddenly struck him
from the midst of his careless, half-sarcastic
conclusion, like a separate thought, sharp
and powerful, and mighty to avenge all sins
against itself and the Eternal Law whereof
it was the servant. As he had confessed
to Honor, he had paid little heed to its
voice through all these years ; and even
now, he thrust from him the conviction
that its bidding was speaking within him,
in words which grew ever clearer and

clearer, and would not be gainsaid, albeit
he might disobey them. lie knew not
how it was, that suddenly he saw tiic
right path clear before him, and his heart
cried out lie neither could nor would walk
therein. It was so hard for him ; hardc-i-,
harder, and more terrible for lier !

He to force her feet upon the tliortis
from which she shrank! He to bid her
No, he could not do tlii tiling.

If this were duty, wdiy then Mephisto
was the true critic of a world, where right
could wear a face by the cynical smile and
sneer of which, the sin which sinned openly
th rough love seemed lovely and noble.
Duty! its right name was Juggernaut ; lu.*
monster beneath whose car fair iinpule
and instincts, beauty, strength, and youth
were crushed into one shapeless, riuivei-inL"".

VOL. II.  K

hideous mass  to what avail ? What
happiness, what good, should be wrought
through the victim's agony ?

God knew, he only wished the best for
her : but this, which she dreaded as worst,
could never be best.

Ah, leave her as she was, in peace if
not in happiness, her soul guarded from
pain and peril, his thought still with her,
although he might never see her face
again !

And yet  and yet

What right had he to wish this for her,
Archdale's wife ?

None ; his soul answered the question
directly, sternly, through all the tempest
within him of doubt and question, temptation
and struggle, and the passion which
was awake with him, fiercer than it had

been since that day Alien its pain seemed
to blind liii, as his half-conscious steps led
him away from Honor, across the moorhuid.
Strong and terrible it rose within him now,
to conquer or be conquered by the love of
which it yet was part.

K 2

Chapter XXYIIL

Let the event,
That never-erring arbitrator, tell us
When we know all ourselves, and let us follow
The backing of our chance. Rico Noble Kinsiiien.

There must have been something wrong
with Nugent's watch, or he must have
dressed more quickly than usual, for when
he arrived at his brother's house, the
hands of the large Tompion clock on the
staircase  one of his sister-in-law's, Isabel
Nugent's, most cherished household gods,
having been picked up for ' a mere nothing'
 pointed to a quarter to eight, and,
on entering the drawing-room, he found the
host and hostess alone, Mrs. Nugent still
employed in drawing on ' the second of her

almond Suude gloves, Avitli their iiiterniiiial le
buttons, and her husband enjoying a hasty
glance at the special Globe in the back
room.

I'm glad it's yon, Steve,' he said,
coming forward to welcome his brother ;
you are in good time for once in a way.
Nasty night, isn't it ? Beastly fog ! '

Abominable ! ' answered Stephen, with
what appeared like a grim satisfaction in
the fact, in his tone.

'I hope it won't prevent people
coming,' said Mrs. Nugent, with some
anxiety. ' Is it bad enough for that? '

I don't think so, and it is a thaw.
thank goodness; ' both men laughed at the
relieved expression of Isabel's face, as she
returned to the smoothing down of her
immaculate hand-fear.

It's all very well for you to laugh,' she
observed, with perfect good temper, ' but
you know as well as I do how horrid it is
to have the table put out. Stephen, do bean
angel and button this glove for me.
George's fingers are all thumbs. Thank
you. I hope it won't make people late,'
she went on as, the operation completed,
she went to the window and pulled aside
the heavily-gathered blind of pale yellow
silk, to judge of the dense air outside, with
the glare of the gas-lights struggling
through the fog, then wandered into the
adjoining room to rearrange some flowers,
which struck her eye as being wrong.

The two brothers stood together, neither
apparently much inclined to talk, the one
examining his nails with profound interest,
the other staring down with equal absorption

at his shoes. At last George Diligent,
with an exhort, aroused himself to the extent
of uttering an exhaustive ' Well ? '

Well ! ' echoed Stephen, looking up
from the hearth-rug.

His brother laughed. ' I'm afraid I'm
as dull a5 the fog,' he said, ' but we are
rather in a fix at the bank, and I don't see
my way out of it.'

Stephen was somewhat astonished at this
confidence on his brother's part, as George
was not apt to wax expansive about business
to anyone.

Nothing serious, I hope ? '

No '  George broke into a cheery and
comfortable laugh, which spoke volumes
for the standing of the house of Nugent
Bros. ' It's only a bother. Michelson  our
Calcutta manager, you know  his health

has broken up altogether. It's not the
climate, but he never was a strong man ;
and now, I should say, poor fellow, he
won't last through the voyage, and we
don't know whom to send out in his
place.'

Can't you promote the head clerk out
there?'

 That's just what we don't want to do,
if we can help it. I know the fellow ; he
only went out there six years ago, and he
is one of those men who make good servants,
but bad masters. He's up to the
work thoroughly, but he has not enough
weight ; and what one wants is a man to
have the authority and look after things
generally. Of course,' said George, with a
touch of old resentment, ' it's the place
you ought to have taken, as the governor

always meant. Ho never intended nie to
have all the halfpence.'

Or all the work, dear old boy,' answered
Stephen, laying his hand for a
moment on his brother's shoulder. lie
was keenly touched by the generosity which
he knew had always been at the root
of George's vexation at his declining the
place in the bank which had been left to
his choice. Then the idea flashed on him,
was this the way to cut the knot wliicli
troubled him so sorely ?  to sever himself
thus utterly and assuredly from Honor for
years ? The sudden resolve brought a
sudden relief, as, without giving himself
time to consider, or doubt, or debate, lie
said 

Could I take it now r "

His brother stared at him as amused

by the jest ; then, noting Stephen's face,
asked 

Do you mean it ? '

I suppose so. Yes.'

'But you know nothing of the work.'
The doubt showed his wish to overcome
the objection.

I have an idea of it, and I think, if I
set my mind to it, I could manage it.'

'If you set your mind to it, yes 
but what on earth has put it into your
head after you have hated it like poison
all your life ? '

Essie ! ' said Nugent, with a strange,
short laugh.

I wish she had done so fifteen years
ago, instead of helping to set you against
it,' growled his brother. ' There's somebody
coming; we'll talk more of it when they

liavc all <i()iie ; that is'  with a doubtful
glance at his brother  ' if you are really in
earnest.'

Steplien wondered himself if lie were.
Had he signed his own sentence of exile
without reflection or forecast? lie was
roused frcni pondering, however, by the
announcement of Sir Eobert and Lady
Field.

He started : the curious way in which
the facts of our lives sometimes gather, like
waves, all towards one central point, struck
him now. He had met Lady Field before,
but had taken little note of her ; now he
observed her with keen interest, as she
entered the room, wondering what her real
part had been in the story of Honor's
life.

'Ware snakes ! ' Was Rex's warning

born of prejudice, or of the discernment by
which a man of his kind may divine a
woman of the order to which he had
represented Mrs. Denne as belonging ? The
pretty, tender-eyed woman, who sat nearly
opposite Nugent at dinner, with that lovely
serenity of expression wherewith the consciousness
of being the best-dressed woman
in the room always dowered Agnes,
looked as if she might, indeed, have been
too young and yielding to be an ideal
guardian for a girl; but gentle, sweet,
affectionate  she must be these, surely !

Yet Eex had inferred that she had never
possessed Honor's confidence. What was
the truth ?

As Stephen looked at her and noted her
gaze at the man to whom she was talking,
the evasive, caressing softness of the eyes,

the contrast between lier glance and Honor's,
straightforward in shyness as in cand<nr,
struck him. One was falsehood, the other
Truth. In that memory of his love's, Agnes's
face held no fairness for him.

Mrs. italian, who was sitting further
down the table, opposite to Stephen, was
less contented than ever with her younger
brother's appearance. His next neighbour
was a very young girl just out, and,
although he paid her all needful attention,
Esther coukl see the young hide's shyness
was by no means lessened by Xugent's
evidently forced conversation. Mrs. Strain
was amused and rather irritated.
What a miserable time she is having, poor
child!' lie thought. 'He is nursing her
more nervous every moment by her conviction
that she is boriuL' him, whereas lie

is only boring himself. And he can be so
pleasant ! I should like to shake him.'

But since this benevolent desire could
not be fulfilled, at all events at present, she
devoted herself, when the ladies had left
the dining-room, to Stephen's late companion,
with such good effect in alleviating
the agony of shyness which had grown on
that damsel all through dinner, that, by the
time the men made their appearance in
the drawing-room, the girl was chatting
freely to Mrs. Strahan, telling her of
her brothers at school, her study of the
violin, her enjoyment of her enfranchisement
from the schoolroom, with a frank
confidence in her new friend's interest
therein which pleased the elder woman.
Stephen saw them as he entered the room
the sweet, kindly womanhood of his

sister's face, the bright freshness of the
girl's, from-which all shyness and self-consciousness
lead vanished.

'You are a witch, Essie,' he said, with
something of tender admiration, as later on
he took the seat from which the poor little
maiden lead been ousted by some request
to come and look at some collection of
etchings for which she did not care a
straw. ' I tried to get on with that young
lady, but failed. How did you manage? *

Not by looking like a wolf determined
to play at being grand mamma,' retorted
Esther sarcastically. 'I never saw you
trying to make yourself amiable before,
and I hope I never may again. If you
can't be agreeable without such an effort, I
should advise you to stay at home.'

Stephen laughed, but di(hrt seem inclined

to answer his sister's reproaches. He
took up her fan and furled and unfurled it,
till she, with some decision, removed it
from his hands.

No,' she said determinedly. ' It was
Geoff's birthday present, and is the only
real old, valuable one I possess. I don't
want it broken just to gratify your passion
of fidgeting with something or another.
I intended to give you a lecture after
dinner, and tell you to go and try if sou
couldn't make yourself more pleasant to
poor Miss Gresham ; but I suppose you
would rather talk to Lady Field ? '

The fine satire of Mrs. Strahan's tone
was edifying ; it had that peculiar ring in
it which, when one woman is alluding to
another, means ' I know she is charming ;
the whole world says so, and the world must

be right. If I don't agree-with it, that i>
nothing.'

Why ? '

Only that you were looking at her so
often during dinner, I really meant to
give you a second lecture on staring.'

You don't think she noticed it ? '

She wouldn't mind it if she did.' Mrs.
Strahan's powers of sarcasm were not large,
and were exhausted for the present, as
was proved by her reply to her brother's
next question. ' Do you like her ? '

I can't bear her ! I mean,' she explained,
rather penitently, ' I don't know
much of her ; but I don't trust her, and
I am sure she isn't true. Why, don't
you remember, it was that beautiful girl,
her step-daughter, your friend Archaic
married, that year you were abroad r

VOL. II. L

You were mentioning it only the other
night.'

He wondered low he kept his voice
clear and natural, while his heart was
throbbing so thickly that it seemed to
choke utterance, as he answered, ' Well ? '

'Well, you never saw Honor Denne,
but 1 did ; and I am sure that that
woman'  quoth Esther, with a glance of
very frank dislike at Lady Field, where she
sat, her fair hair and her rich-hued brocade
gown thrown out effectively against a large
screen of stamped and gilt Spanish leather
'I'm not abusing her just because she is
pretty and fascinating, as you men always
think we do, but her younger sister, Theoo
Searle, was a great friend of mine, and she
used to say Agnes had been the worst
grant at home that a girl could be ;

always iicjt her own way against trio
colliers, and never gave tlieiii an cxcii-r
to grenoble.'

I don't see how that could he,' said
Nugent, with some show of reason.

Tien you have never known a wonia!i
who was both sells and false. I know
all the Jiainforllis were glad enough when
Agnes married Mr. ]penny ; and Theoo used
to tell me of this girl Honor, and say she
was sure Agnes was jealous of her and
spited her.'

Mrs. Strahan's schoolgirl epithet
seemed amusingly inappropriate, as referring
to any ]possible action of the fair,
delicate-featured lady near then, looking
like a T.ij)|)o Lippi angel against the
great gold screen ; but Nugent did not
smile.

Then they went abroad,' continued
Esther, ' and Theoo went to India with
her husband, and I never saw anything
more of the Denies till three years later,
when Honor came out.'

You knew her then ? ' Oh cursed fate,
that had stayed him abroad that summer !
He might have met Honor ; they might
have loved then, and life and fate and the
world had all been changed !

Whom ? Honor ? Yes ; but I never
could see much of her. I remembered all
Theoo had told me, and other things I can't
remember now, and I thought I should
like to be friends with her. She was difficult
to get on with at first, but I felt there
was something in her that was worth
knowing ; and then she didn't look happy,
and '  a faint, pretty blush touched Mrs.

Strahan's cheek  'she was so beautiful.
I used to wish you could  ]paint lier.
Don't you remember how I wrote and
wanted you to come home? '

Yes, Steplien remembered.

Of course it's all so long ago now, and
you oughtn't have liked each other, and
Geoffrey always teased me about matchmaking
; but I quite Hated Mr. Archdale
when I heard he was engaged to her. I
couldn't really get to know lier well, for
one never saw her alone. I am sure Mrs.
Denne did not mean her to make friends
with anyone, and that she brought about
that marriage. The girl wasn't in love
with her husband  she proved that; and
unless she accepted him because lie wa so
unhappy, \v<. Dcmuic ought to have kej)r
her from inarrviiiLT a man lie ibid not care

for, if she was such a child as not to know
Letter herself.'

I suppose she Alas,' said Stephen. It
sounded like an indifferent comment on
Esther's story, but his sister's words,
such a child,' were to him the conclusion
of the whole matter.

Honor had been a child then ; she was
one no longer, but a woman grown into
her full being through these lonely years,
in whom pain and love had both wrought
their work, and must work it till the end.

One thing,' Esther went on, ' I am quite
certain of; that is, that Lady Field and her
step-daughter know nothing of each other
now ; and I am sure Lady Field hates Mr.
Archdale, though I can't tell why. I
remember one day, dien some tactless
woman mentioned the Archdales to her,

she sighed that pretty Httle siuli and said,
*' Poor dear Honor, if T had only known
soon enonirh what T have heard of iiiiu
since, I shonUl never have allowed the marriage
! Though I'm alVaid my ]poor child
was so headstrong, she would have lead
her own will in spite of me"  or something
like that. She always generalises in
that wiry when she doesn't know what
to say.

'women 'ware women"' quoted her
brother, with a hard, slight laugh. Esther
looked up at him, rather pained and
surprised.

Do you think I am ill-natured' she
asked, some humiliation in the <piestion.

lie glanced across at Lady Fit-ld,
noticed the close lines of thu* lips, thin as
those of a Leonardo jxntiMit, the narrow

forehead under its sinning mist of hair, the
jointed delicate chin, the lustrous eyes.
'No, Esther,' he answered, 'I think what
you say must be true.'

Will you come down to the smoking-room,
Steve ? ' said his brother dien the
guests had departed, ' and we will go on
with what we were talking about, though I
can't believe yet, you mean it.'

But I do ! ' said Stephen.

Eight ! then come along. Of course
it can't all be settled in a minute, and
anyhow, the house and you must both take
time to consider it ; but talking it well over
now will make that all the easier.'

CHAPTER XXIX.

AVe are ne'er like angels till our passions die.

Decker.

Tiny dill talk il well over; with such
results that when Stephen left the house, an
hour later  despite his brother's reiterated
advice to liii, to be sure of his own mind
before he decided, and his warning that
the bank would also have to consider the
matter  the younir man felt his fate was
fixed, and a strange nunibnc <>f regret
ached within him.

Perhaps it Alas better so, if only
because of this idea, which he could
scarcely explain, yet which possessed him.

that he must throw all his past life behind
him.

Only a few weeks ago he had laughed
at Essie for thinking that money-making
would prove a remedy for the unrest of his
being, and yet to-night he had himself
sought its help !

Not, however, as a cure for his ill ; but
because of the sheer need he felt of leaving
England, while knowing well that wandering
about in his old dilettante fashion, at
this own 21easure, with no fixed object,
would be intolerable. He had known at
last the one woman who might be to him
the fulfilment of all his old yearnings, his
vague desires. She being forbidden to
him, how could he tread the old paths
which, having once seemed to lead him to
her, would now guide him further and

J -J

further away ?  wliitluT he know not. No,
a thousand times no; it was all of no
avail, this life which would have been ho
lovely, with her for its soul.

'Art for Art's sake!' It miijht have
been so once, could never ])e now.
Neither his eunnin; nor his love of art was
strong enoULdi to make it stiilice unto him.
The knowledge had Lrown slowly on him
duriuL' these months, in which he had yet
]painted better than ever before.

Yet it was liard to Love it all uj) ;
albeit he knew the old addition was dead,
its memory was still dear. He reached
home, let himself in, and taking a lamp)
unlocked the studio door.

All the past years rose up in him as,
lam]) in hand, he stood before one ]picture
after another. Jud<,ed by the work ol

other painters, themselves far from great,
these paintings, the best he could achieve,
were poor, crude, wretched. He could no
longer see the qualities which gave his
work real charm and value.

He might have done better  yes, if he
had toiled as had those other men, with
hand and heart, soul and brain, from early
youth  but now a voice within him cried,
Too late.' He had not been faithful in
few things, how could he hope to be made
ruler over many things ? He had wasted
his youth, idly, pleasantly wasted it ; if
painting might once have been his work, it
could never be so now.

He knew his task to-night, the hardest
Life had ever set him ; yet, which he could
not shirk as he had shirked many of her
commands that had seemed to deal with

him alone. It must be done, the quicker
the better, but Avliy must the stroke fall on
Honor ? Why must the heaviest burden,
the sorest pain, be hers, if she obeyed him?
Him, who felt each throb of her pain
vorse than his own.

In a dull, heavy manner, he sat down
to the writing-table, and took up a pen.
He had longed so often to write to her,
and now this desire was granted him
as desires often are granted, in this
world, a bitter expiation of their indulgence.


But no words blotted the page before
him : though he sat there lonf]f, staring at
the white blank sheet of paper, which
should be the messenger of pain and doubt
and struggle to Honor. Honor ! Honor !
her name rang through him ; so sweet, so

sweet, so sweet ! and then, ' I can't ! ' burst
from him, and he broke down.

In the silence and the night, with only
the small lamp shining through the gloom,
the passion and frustrated hope of his
parting with Honor ; the long unrest of
the dreary autumn months ; the shock of
Archdale's story ; the long hard fight
waged with himself, through these wintry
hours ; temptation, struggle, resolve  all
these found vent in the storm which shook
through him, unrestrained and unresisted,
at last.

But when it had passed, his way lay
clear before him, even while he shrank
back, doubting his own power to tread it.

No written word of his would move
lier ; he must go to her and plead with lier
himself  he, the man who loved her, must

Wliy not ? lie was a man, lout was
manhood to be only the sign of brute
weakness, as of brute strength, rather
than of self-reverence, self-knowledge, self-control?
She had appealed to him as
better, wiser, and stronger than herself;
was he to prove ignoble, selfish, untrue
alike to himself, his friend, and to her, on
that one plea of his manhood, which should
itself degrade that numhood and stamp it
as base ?

CHAPTER XXX.

Alas ! how oft in dreams I see
Those eyes that were my food,

Which sometime so delighted me,
That yet they do me good !

Earl of Surrey.

Do you know where Miss Honor is,
ma'am? I've been searching for her allover
the place.'

Mrs. Eoss, placidly toasting her feet by
the fire, and enjoying the last volume of
Max Miller, looked up from her book, at
Ruth's inquiry. The brief December day
was drawing to a close, and the level red
line of the sunset could be seen from the
window of the room ; that little parlour,
where stood the old spinet, already this

afternoon only a dusky shape, in tin-gatherings
darkness.

'I think she went out, ah)nL' the chfl :
do you want liar, Kuth ? '

It's only I've mixed the Christmas
pudding', ma'am, and she ought to stir it
for hick. Yes, there lie is,' said Kuth,
Loins to the window, from whence she
could descry a tall, slender* form, on the
sere moorland, and thrown out by the
darkening sky. 'I'll go and call her in.*

Mrs. Koss sighed as the door closed
behind louth. She had been strangely
thoughtless and unwary through those
June and July days ; but autumn and
winter had brought to lier, only too
clearly, the sense of her folly.

She knew the meaning of Honor's dragging
step, and of the aching sadness and

VOL. H. [

passion of her gaze ; knew how Honor's
Hush of girlish beauty and gladness, which
had so rejoiced her in the summer, when
she did not reck of its cause, had died
away into a restless, despairing unhappiness.
Oh, would that fate had never
that night driven Stephen Nugent to their
door I

Meanwhile Ruth, bare-headed and bare-armed,
with rolled-up sleeves and wooden
spoon in hand, had made her way through
the keen east wind to where Honor stood,
motionless, her gaze fixed on that tossing,
leaden waste of waves.

Miss Honor, do for mercy's sake come
in, and leave off staring at the sea, as
though you'd bring about a wreck. You'll
draw a ship here, on these rocks, with
your eyes, if you don't take care.'

Honor turned round, a ghost of her old
smile on her lace at the woman's fancy.

There are wrecks enough, Kuth, without
our willing them.'

God knows it ; so let Him take care of
them, and do you come in, Miss Honor.
There's the pudding needs stirring and
wishing over, or it won't bring luck to any
of us.'

Will it with wishes ? ' asked Honor,
listlessly following Paitli to the house, and
entering, by the back door, into the large,
low kitchen, where the fire sparkled and
glowed, the candles stood ready lit on the
dresser, and on the tal)le was the large,
cream-hued pan, containing the pudding
mixture. On the fire, a huge saucepan
of boiling water was already bubbling a
low song of rapture, as though waiting to

M 2

embrace its bride, the pudding, when she
was duly enveloped in her bridal veil, the
fair white cloth, lying ready on the table.

Christmas, if its observance had been
left to Mrs. Eoss and Honor, might have
been sighted at Trebarva, but Ruth's
Cornish conservatism found expression in
lier Yuletide preparations. To-day had
seen the arrival of the Polmouth carrier
with Ruth's commissions, entrusted to him
some days before ; and so it came to pass
that the kitchen wore a really festive aspect,
with its goodly wreathing of greenery.
Laurel, holly, and arbutus bright with its
rosy fruit decked dresser and mantelshelf;
while Joshua, on his accustomed settle by
the fire, was devoting himself to the garlanding
with evergreens, of wooden hoops,
fixed crossways in couples, one inside the

Other, and lungs Villi aj)j)les and oranges.
These hoops, wliicli are a common West
country fashion of Christmas decoration,
vere beings wreathed on such a scale of
splendour, and with such lavish bravery
of roughly-made roses of Avliite and red
tissue-paper, that Honor felt they imperatively
demanded her tribute of admiration.


Yes, I think they are fie surely ! '
said Joshua, with a meditative and modest
appreciation of his work, Balancing the
half-Avreatlied hoops in one hand and the
reel of wire wherewith he was binding
them, in the other, ' and so does Annie.'

Annie Crocker, a small black-eyed
maiden, the daughter of a neighbouring
fisherman, retained for the day by Itiitli.
to minister unto lier in such matters as

stoning raisins and chopping suet, was
looking on with an inward amazement and
delight, heightened by the remembrance of
the heavy-cake, rich with plums and spice,
now baking in the oven, which would presently
glorify the kitchen tea-table.

These were not the only signs of
Christmas festivities, or of Ruth's exertions
in their cause. On the side table stood a
large saffron cake, upturned on a sieve that
the steam might escape ; and close to it
was a pilchard pie of equal worth and size,
together with a piled-up dish of soda buns,
another of potato pasties, and a splendid
junket. It was Ruth's one yearly chance
of entertainment, and she availed herself
well of it, and of Mrs, Eoss's sanction
thereof

'Whom are you having to dinner

tomorrow, liulh?' asked Honor, having
duly recognised Joshua's handiwork.

The Harrison, Miss Honor  he's the
new coastguard man at L-nion, and turns
out to be an old mate of Joshua's, when he
was on the "Lion." They have five children,
and the mistress said they could all
come; then there's my cousin, Tom Thomas,
from Jericho'  a farm near Polmouth, so
named, it was supposed, in Puritan times 
Mrs. Eoss says he may sleep here, else he
could ne'er drive the twenty miles back ;
and Annie Crocker, if she minds herself,'
with a severe glance of warning at the
unfortunate Annie, one of the meekest and
handiest of children, and with a wholesome
awe of Mrs. liutli.

Now, Miss Honor, dear,' said the presiding
priestess of the mysteries, with an

unusual tenderness, seeing how pale the
n-irl's face showed in the bright firelight,
stir and wish,' tendering, as she spoke, the
large wooden spoon.

Honor laughed sadly : she knew only-one
wish ; that which had been wringing
her heart so long, the craving to see
Nugent once again. Stirring the plum
pudding would scarce bring that to pass.
'What shall I wish, Ruth?' she asked. 'A
new gown for you ? '

You mustn't tell, miss, or it won't
come about,' eagerly interrupted Annie,
lier sense of the awfulness and importance ol
the rite overpowering even her fear of
Ruth and her shyness of Honor.

Won't it ? ' said Honor, looking kindly
at the child. Christmas was still a joy to
this little girl ; a joy to Ruth and Joshua,

after all their years of lull toilsome life ;
while to her Ah, if he were but here ! '

The louring, always consciously or
unconsciously present in her mind, lead
involuntarily taken form, even as she listlessly
stirred the contents of the ]pan.

Have you wished?' asked Annie dubiously,
but respectfully. Honor dropped
the spoon and stood, lingering a spray
of arbutus with its waxen flowers and
berries, which were as a mockery of
summer fruits.

She started. 'Yes, Annie,' she answered,
though I did not know it till I had done
so.' She left the kitchen and went upstairs
to where Mrs. Koss was quiet in the twilight.


Christmas Day broke clear, but not
very cold, although a slight ]powdering of

snow veiled the brown waste land. From
her room, Honor when she woke could
hear Ruth's and Annie's voices sinmnc in
perfect accord :

I spied three ships come sailing by,
Come sailing by, come sailing by 

the jubilant of the carol being succeeded
by the graver air and mood of ' Good King
Wenceslaus.'

It was all apart from her : their Christmas
greeting, as she came downstairs, fell
on her heart as coldly as the snow on the
dry heather outside ; she hated herself for
it, yet could not help it ; she felt numb
and dead.

Mrs. Eoss and she exchanged no special
salutation, but Mary's ' good morning ' was
perhaps tenderer than usual.

You won't go to church, through the

snow, I siqpose?' said Honor, after breakfast.
' I am sure it is too long a tramp for
you to Lynion.'

Perhaps so ; is it snowiuLT now ? '

'No, but the sky is very heavy, and it
may come down at any moment. I am
SoincT for a wander among: the rocks. It
is so seldom one sees them white, I shall
enjoy it.'

Don't lose your way, whatever you
do.'

Oh, no ! it isn't thick enough for
that. Take care of yourself till I come
in.'

The wind had fallen, the air was still
and chill, as Honor crossed the moor, Dan
springing along in front of her. There
was a certain exhilaration in the day, and
Honor's step was lighter, the ache of lier

heart less sore, till she came to the glen
Stephen had named her garden.

The little spring which had laughed to
them in the summer, through its garlands
of honeysuckle and bryony, now fell with a
desolate sound, down to the stones of the
beach, between the dead branches and
shrivelled bramble-leaves, still stretched
across its path.

It all came back to her then, her joy
and her sorrow, blent with the quick living
shame which had grown part of both, with
the knowledge that the marriage-bond,
which had only been the shackle of a
slavery lie could not bear and must break,
at what cost it mattered not, might have
been to her, as to other women, the sacrament
of life  and love.

The remembrance of the mockery of

that sacrament, the shame of it, were all
the more terrible to this woman, who had
k'ariied what love was, what marriage
ought to be  too late.

She turned away from her Avitliered
garden  that garden which would nevermore
be itself to her, however sweetly
foxglove and honeysuckle might blossom
again, in the summer that would surely
come  and took the path towards Lynion,
when she saw a figure in the distance,
which made her steps to halt, so thickly
did her heart beat. Lie was afraid to trust
her sight ; there was a surging in lier ears,
her head was dizzy, her eyes swam ; but
Dan, surer of his instincts, sprung forward
to welcome Stephen back with riotous
delight.

They stood face to face, he and lie.

each seeing their own pain, endured through
these long months, reflected in the other's
eyes.

Honor spoke first, her voice half whisper,
half sob :

I knew you would come ; I wanted
you so much ! '

CHAPTER XXXI.

1 f the sense i hard
To alien ears, I did not speak to these j
No, not to thee, but to thyself iu me.
Hard is my d<i('m and thine : thou know'st it all.

Love and Duty.

Hk had braced himself for every tiling 
but this. Strangely enough, he had never
thought how the severance and sorrow
might work on her, so that the surrounding
solitude vehicle lie lead once loved
should grow hateful to Jier, the sound of
the sea seem but the echo of her own pain,
waking her in the morning, with hateful
reiteration, sobbing even through her
dreams. lie had never imagined that
she, who so l>rav(jly Ment him from her,

would thus welcome him, the need of her
life, too dear to be resisted, be the end
what it would.

He knew she was ignorant of what the
meaning of her words might prove, if he
willed it so ; yet, none the less, they
appealed to him, and it was some time
before he could gather strength to answer
her, and crush down all the old self which
rose within him, crying desperately, passionately,
selfishly : ' I love her  let us
be!'

How pale and thin she was ! It was a
sobering shock, as he marked the change
the months had wrought in her. Sweeter
than ever ! yes ; but the delicate line of
the cheek was more distinct, the lips
bloomed more deeply from the paleness
in which their flower . was set, and the

threat eyes shone under the hallowed
brows, mournful even now, despite their
momentary gladness. So it was, he saw
her again.

I have come  ' he began, then stopped.
How could he tell her ?

Her quick ear caught the harsh,
strained ring of his voice. ' What is it ? '
she asked, looking at him, a new terror
in her face. ' Why are you here ? What
have you come to say ? ' The dread of an
unknown evil was upon her.

The presentiment of her question made
his task easier, yet thrice he strove for
words and they would not come.

They were standing by the crags of the
clilT's crest ; the sea-wind had swept away
the lightly-lying snow from the huge rocks,
leaving their weather-stains and tawny

VOL. n. N

lichen-patches clear, as in summer ; Honor's
hand steadied her, as she stood looking at
Nugent, with a desperate terror of what
his words might mean, one slender arm
propping her against the masses of the
storm-beaten grey rock. Even so, the
hand trembled, but her voice was firm,
though low, as she asked 

What is it ? Why are you afraid to
tell me ? I can bear it.'

Forgive me first ! ' he faltered.

Only her look answered him, but it
made him quiver with the rarest touch
of pain ; it meant that nothing he could
do or say could need her pardon. Life
or death at his hands  let either come.

He never knew how he told her what
he had learned of her story, through his
meeting with her husband, saying nothing

of Archdale's idea of lier reason for leaving
hin, but, as lie had schooled himself to do,
dwelling rather on Ilex's loyalty and faith

in her, his obstinate pride, his wish

Here for a moment Nugent could say n(j
more.

He could not see Honor's face ; in her
agony of shame she had turned away, and
was clinging, half standing, half crouching,
to the rock for support. For all his tenderness,
Stephen's words fell on her heartburning
Hke drops of molten metal. He
hear of her from Rex !  listen to her story
from his lips ! In the madness and torture
of the thought her head sank between her
hands on the rock, while, as from afar, she
still heard Stephen's voice.

Xo ! this must be a horrible delirium ;
she could n(jt hear ari<dit. It could not bec



\ -2

he was urging lier to go back to her
husband.

As the truth forced itself upon her she
roused herself at last, and looked up at
him, a dumb wrath and reproach in her
eyes.

You ! you ! ' she gasped.

He felt all her meaning, and answered
wildly, almost fiercely 

Yes  I  because I felt I must. Don't
you know what it is to me to say this, and
how I fought against the feeling, that it is
the only right thing to do? It is worse
than death to me, for I am you.'

You cannot be,' she answered in a
smothered tone, ' or you would know all
this means.'

She paused, as gathering strength to
overthrow all instinct of reserve ; then went

on, with the reckless truth that desperation
will sometimes wrings from a woman who
has held herself to herself for years 

If I had never met you, I don't know
but perhaps some day I might have felt I
had d(ne wrong  it didn't seem wrong
then  and tried to make it right, if he
wished it, as,' she faltered, * you say he
does ; but now  oh, how can you tell me todo
this?'

Ah ! how could he ? Was it not hard
enough already, without her sobbing reproach,
born of the anguish he felt, but
dared not soothe ? Tender words were
traitors to his purpose and to her. He had
never known low fair lie was, or how dear,
till iliad piteous question came from lier
quivering lips.

If you must hate me,' he said, * hate

me ; it is better so ; but listen why I say
this.'

His words touched her better, tenderer,
stronger self, swift to answer any appeal
to it.

'I could not hate you,' she answered
faintly ; ' I know you say this because you
believe it right. I know it is pain to you,
perhaps the same pain as it is to me. It is
only myself I hate, for it is all my fault you
are unhappy.'

No, Honor, never that.*

She went on as though she did not hear
him.

If you had not met me this could not
have happened. All my fault,' she repeated,
with a sudden wild sob. ' It can
never be right again ; but leave me here
alone.'

All yet liL' plc'iulccl to her, feeling all
the while he must break out in a pillow,
bitter lauL'h, at the barren futility of hi.-*
ar<finnents.

Arguments, forsooth, between him and
her I truisms, worthy of a lawyer's clerk, as
to a contract being binding, even when
signed in ignorance of its meaning, and
calm statements as to a husband's rights :
prudent considerations as to what her life
must be ; Archdale's merits, &c., c.  all
these he had duly determined to urge
when he met her, lest in that hour it should
not be given him what to speak.

He had learned his task, but it faltered
on his tongue, as he could fancy the scorn
in her eyes, that were turned away from
him to watch the leaving waters and the
light of the gulls, that swooped unhastiug.

resting, above the waves. What were
these poor platitudes here, in her presence,
]before that one truth of their two hearts,
lies and his, aching, loving, divided forever
by these maxims wherewith he strove
to preach them down ? And yet he spoke,
feeling that what he urged was best for
her, though knowing such reasons as he
gave, the morals of Mr. Worldly Wiseman,
would avail nothing with Honor.

She looked up as he ceased, with a faint
scornful smile, as in contempt for the love
that could deal with her thus, or dream
such pleas had power over her nature.

Anyone could have said this,' she
answered, her voice ringing clear and bitter
and passionate, ' as well as you. You leave
it all to me ; you try to persuade me it is
for my good '  she dwelt on the last word

with an utter j)aiii and scorn. ' And if it
were, what is good or liarni to nie ? If
you lead even said, " Do it for my sake ! " '
There was a silence, except for the cries
of the sea-gulls, the dull, plunging thud of
the waves on the rocks below ; no clean
of sun lit the grey wintry sea, the grey
wintry sky, and all around them spread
the dry waste of heather, with its veil
of snow. Xugent sav it all ere, schooling
his voice to self-control, he spoke
again.

J ' If you will have it so  yes ; for my
sake as for your own. There can be only
one other end to this  for we love each
other. Save me from lowering the woman
I love ; for even in my eyes you would be
lowered if that end came. And for me, I
should be so vile you would learn to

hate me as I deserved. Honor, save us
both.'

The words sounded brutal to him, even
as he uttered them, yet, God help him
and her, they were the truth. Then
came a long pause, and if a girl's heart
seemed to her to break therein  who
could tell?

She did not look at him as once, before
the word came from her  ' Go ! '

Honor, not so, not so ! '

She gazed at him strangely ; then, like
a ghost looking back on life, ' I will do itt'
she said.

As though his doom was spoken, he
moved sharply away ; then turning again,
his passion sweeping through him, he fell
at her feet, pressing to his brow, his hands,
his lips, his heart, the rough serge of her

<To\vn, in an ajon} of farewell. His saint,
his darling, transfigured, to his eyes,
through her pain.

I will do it,' she repeated : ' but go, it
is all said now.'

CHAPTEK XXXII.

A long, long road of pain, my dear,
A long road full of pain.  Cattle.

Honor never knew how long she sat therein
the chill December day. Only one fact
pressed on her brain : Stephen had gone ; he
and she had bidden farewell for ever.
Before, when they had parted, for all the
bitterness, there had not been this aching
of a hopeless pain which must be endured ;
a weight on lier heart, numbing her youth
and womanhood into an apathy, in which
alone it seemed she could find rest.

Some shadow thereof had fallen on her
last July, when he had left her, but then

the hot rain of tears lead thawed the death-cold
which seemed steahni on lier heart.
Now she sat mute, with wide, tearless eyes,
fixed across the moor, to where the sky
met the level line of the land, while her
hand mechanically plucked the short, dry
blades of a patch of turf, set among the
rocks beside her.

Across the still air came the faint
sound of the bell of Lynion church, ringing
for Christmas Day. She drew in her breath
with a sharp sound, between a sob and a
cry. Dan, who all this time had been lying
at her side, restless and uneasy, but not
interfering, looked up wistfully, but she
did not heed him, and so the hours slipped
away.

At last she rose, dragging weary, listless
feet along the path Stephen and she

had trodden, in the glow of the summer
sunset, that evening she had first realised
how sweet, how near, how dear, his friendship
had grown to her, and when the
windows of the old house caught the fire
of the west and seemed all ablaze within,
with triumph and festivity. Something of
a semblance in the memory, to the facts of
her life, struck her now.

All through the day, she moved about
as in a trance ; or like a prisoner, who
knows the morrow brings his death. Mrs.
Eoss noticed nothing amiss, but Ruth was
troubled within herself.

Lie had always divined far more of the
liirl's history than either Honor or Mrs.
Eoss suspected. She remembered the
shine of the wedding ring on Honor's
unloved hand, when .she first stood in

the lanii)liglit at the door of Trebarva,
aud she had only infused it two days
later.

Mrs. Harrison, the coastguard's wife,
had just astonished and rather troubled
her by the information that a gentleman
had ridden over from Polmouth the night
before, and was at the Lynion Inn, a queer
place to drag down to on Christmas Eve ;
but Mrs. Fall had told her it was the
painter gentleman, who was down here in
the summer, before Harrison Alas moved
over here from Penzance, and who used to
be so nuicli at Trebarva. ' I suppose,'
ended Mrs. Harrison, * he'll be coming
over here to-day, to eat his Christians
dinner with your ladies.'

So Ruth also supposed, but it disturbed
her. She lead not been blind to the change

these six months had wrought in Honor.
She, as well as Mrs. Boss, knew how the
girl's step had lost its spring, her voice and
look their brightness ; nor was she at a loss
to guess the cause thereof.

After some deliberation, while she
basted the beef and mixed the batter of
the Yorkshire pudding, she wiped her
floury hands and was proceeding to the
parlour, to inform her mistress of Mr.
Nugent's return to Lynion, when she met
Honor just entering by the front door. As
the girl passed her, Ruth was startled and
frightened by her look. What did its dull
wretchedness mean ?

'She has seen him,' the woman thought.
Why hasn't he come back here with her ?
It's not my business to tell the mistress
now, but a plague take him for coming

hero and troubling that jxxn- child I .My
mind always misgave me, those traipsintrs
about the moors and talking of all thin's on
heaven and earth, would end in nought
Int a mort o' pain for her. It's always the
same.'

Late in the afternoon when lie entered
the west parlour, she noted how Honor
was sitting by the fire. She held a book
in her hand, between lier and the blaze,
and its boards curled outwards, towards
the heat ; but, for over an hour, she had
not turned a page.

'I beg your pardon, ma'am; will you
and Miss Honor pay us a visit in thu
kitchen now ? '

'Certainly, Ruth,' and Mrs. Ross laid
down lor book,  ' unless you have a headache.
Honor ? '

VOL. II.

She lifted lier head and rose. ' No,' she
answered, ' I am all right. Let us go.'

The kitchen was bright enough, when
they entered it, with the shining of its
green bravery, and with Annie Crocker
and the infant Harrison flushed from a
wild orgy of oranges, nuts, and mulled
elder wine, and scarcely believing their own
bliss. Joshua, Harrison, and Tom Thomas
where enjoying a game of three-handed
cribbage, and three churchwardens, their
soothing influence assisted by that of a
more potent stimulant than the sweetened
juice of the elderberry, in which also Mrs.
Harrison, seated by the fire, was indulging
herself, every now and then, with a meditative
sip, while luxuriating in that rare
delight to a hard-worked matron of her
class, complete idleness, and sniffing up the

fragrance of hur wassail between-whiles.
with placid cnjuyiuent. Mrs. Loss felt sorry
that her and Honor's entrance disturbed
the worthy woman's content, by the
necessity of rising to curtsey and wish
them a merry Christmas.

The sight of the long low room, its
glow and gladness, the children's voices
and shrieks of laughter, the elder men and
women's content, brought a new pang to
Honor. So had she seen Christmas kept
three years here, so she felt she would
never see it again. She had not known
how truly Trebarva had grown home to
her, till now, when she must leave it.

'Won't you islay. Miss Honor?' said
Annie, coming uj) to her rather daringly.

'Yes, Annie; what is ii ? Oranges and
Lemons? but I'm so strong, I could pull

o i>

you all over at once. We must make Ruth
play too.'

'I'm too old for such fooleries,' objected
Mrs. Thomas.

So am I, Ruth,' and Honor laughed ;
but we'll forget our age and have one
merry Christmas more ; hold up your hands
with mine ; now, children, you first, Annie,
and Bill after you ; that's right ; now
begin.'

The strange relief of finding one can
act a part to hide one's pain, possessed her,
and her clear though untrained contralto
led the time-honoured chant and chronicled
the utterances of the bells and the mystic
warning of the candle, to light them to
bed, ending in the awful sentence of the
chopper to chop off the last man's head,
gaily enough. What was it, that made

her wish so tensely tluit these children's
pleasant memories oi' her last Christmas at
Trebai-va should hold some hint of her?
There vas no need to wear her heart on
her sleeve, or make other people dreary,
because  oh, because! She must not
think of it now. Presently, when she was
alone in the quietness and darkness, it
would be her hour.

In this very bitterness of love a new
tenderness for others seemed to have
awakened within her. She stayed and
played with the children, and at last, when
they were tired, and gladly gathering
round her at her proposal of a story, lie
told them the one that lead come back to
her as a chief delight of lier own childhood
as first related to her by [rs. Koss and
afterwards studied bv hcix'lf, in a certain

fat red volume  Andersen's ' Garden of
Paradise.'

The youngest of the Harrison children,
a pretty, red-haired, grey-eyed mite of two,
tired out with much playing, and careless
of stories, had climbed on to Honor's
lap, despite faint maternal remonstrances
from Mrs. Harrison, now gossiping with
Ruth, over the fire ; and so fell fast asleep
in the girl's arms. Something in the trusting
touch of the little hands, the nestling
of the curly head against her breast, comforted
Honor oddly, soothing the inward
pain which abided even now, as she told
the story of the prince who, restored to
Paradise, on the strong wings of the North
Wind, boasting in his strength and warned
to resist temptation, yet yielded and fell
before the first whisper - of his desire : so

woke to fil liinisclf in trio cavern of the
winds, far from the garden and the fairy,
who lead wept, even in her dream, for him
and his weakness.

The story touched lier more than it
(lid the children, but her voice grew so
passionate and sad as she told the end,
low Death promised yet to bear the weak,
erring prince to Paradise if he endured to
the end, that one of the children, who had
been sitting, listening quiet, with intense
eyes and parted lips, said disappointedly 

But it is such a sad story.'

She had forgotten that, when she had
begun, but, in the telling, she had found
the words ' sadder than she thought they
were,' and answered, more to herself than
her audience 

Yes ; and the saddest of all was, that

Death even could never take him to that
Paradise and the fairy he had lost. He
would never see them again ! '

'Never?' repeated Annie, as appealing
against Honor's statement. ' Never is
such a dreadful word  in chapel,' with a
vivid remembrance of many ' awakening '
sermons.

But was the other Paradise better ? '
questioned another auditor.

I don't know, Lizzie, but the prince
did not think so.'

How do you know that. Miss Honor ?'
asked the inquiring Annie.

'Because it would have been no punishment
to him else ; but that is enough of
sad stories. Did you ever hear of the
shoes that were danced to pieces ? '

No, no one had ; but the detailed

adventures of the poor soldier and the
seven frisky princesses printed so enthralling,
that Honor had to recall to her own
memory another of Grimm's sugared inventions,
and yet another, till these delights
bowed before the stronger attraction of
snapdragon, which, in the meanwhile, had
been secretly prepared by Ruth in another
room.

Mss Honor,' said Annie, at the end of
the evening, ' I got my wish on the
pudding. Did you ?'

Honor started. ' Yes,' was all her
answer.

It was true, her Christmas wish had
been fulfilled ; fulfilled so as to leave her
]put one desire more in life  to die with the
dying year.

Chapter XXXIII.

There was but one right thing in the world to do,
And I must do it.' Kingsley.

It was all over, the Christmas fire burnt
out, the children gone, and Honor was
alone in her room, now flooded by the
serene, cold light of the winter moon.
Outside, the radiance glorified sea and
sky and the snow strewn heath ; and
through the window, it fell full on the pale
face, with its steadfastly set mouth, its eyes
full of memories, tender and sweet and
bitter  the memories which must be forgotten
from to-night, or they would make
her mad.

From the window, she could see the
slope down the cliff, leading to her
'garden' and the coastguard path, down
which she had so often watched Stephen
go, on those soft June nights. There was
the cave where her boat used to be kept.
Her heart went back to their struggle
together against the merciless, pitiless sea ;
again came the terrible, momentary yearning.
Would that the waves, at that
moment, when love seemed no sin, hand
risen yet higher, where they stood on that
rock, his arms about her  risen to their hips
and swept them away together, him and
her, for evermore !

Thick as roses in rose harvest,*
thronged back to her the recollections of
that summer-time which she must now
force. Yes, as Annie had said, 'never*

was a dreadful word, in chapel or out of
chapel.

There was only one comfort : it was
Stephen who had bidden her do this ; his
command obeyed for his sake. But what
if this very obedience should make him
think in the future, ' She cared little forme
after all ' ? She trusted his love,
strangely and hardly as it had dealt with
her, but would he ever know how she had
loved him ?

She thought of tales of women-martyrs
for love, who conquered their agony at the
sight of the torture of their dearest, or
hung gladly on the cross by his side,
or bore severance, till life should end,
rather than tarnish the brightness of
one dear name, in the eyes of others.
Gertrude van Wart, S. Laura Eloise.

Oh,' she sobbed, ' what was all they did
to this ! '

And if  and if  she should never be
any better than lie was now ; if this, which
Stephen and the world held as her duty,
should only drag her down? She knew
what Stephen said about Rex Archdale was
true ; he was kind-hearted and trusting,
and forgiving her, would never reproach
her with the past ; but, though lie was
better than she, in many ways, she felt life
with him might-and most likely would 
be death to the larger and higher life she-had
grown to understand. She knelt down,
and from her soul's pain, came with a
child's simplicity, if with a woman's fervour,
Oh God, help me and teach me, for I hav(
no one else ! '

She rose, and going to the landing,

listened to the clatter below, which told
that Ruth, assisted by Annie, was still
employed in clearing away the feast and
putting the kitchen tidy. It would have
been impossible to Ruth to have slept
with the sense that she had left this duty
unfulfilled ; and, acting on her often expressed
maxim, that every day makes its
own work, she was vigorously setting
things straight for the morrow, when
Honor's voice called out to her from
above.

Mrs. Thomas left the dish she had just
washed to Annie to dry, not without a
curt warning against clumsiness in general
and dish-breaking as a particular instance
thereof She found Honor standing at the
head of the staircase. ' Is aught the matter,
Miss Honor ? ' she asked nervously.

Her mind had misgiven lier all day,
nor had Honor's unwonted endeavours to
amuse the children reassured her in the
least, any more than did her [present
appearance in her long white wrapper,
with the richness of her hair loose around
her pale, resolute face.

Nothing : I only want to know if you
think I can get a carriage tomorrow from
St. Osyth;

Of course you can't,' said Ruth decisively.
' It's Boxing Day, and Dimsdale
doesn't mean to run his omnibus ; but
where are you going. Miss Honor ? ' with
apparent indifference.

To Polmouth  to London.'

London! a terrible fear seized Kuth.
of which she yet felt ashamed before
Honor's direct eyes.

Don't ! ' she exclaimed. ' Don't, my
dear.'

'Why?'

Ruth stammered horribly. ' Mrs. Harrison
told me Mr. Nugent came to Lynion
last night  why hasn't he come here to seethe
mistress?  Oh, Miss Honor, forgive
me  but I'm afeard ! '

A hot blush of anger swept over
Honor's face ; she raised her head and
looked full at the other woman, with an
unspoken pride, which Ruth felt as a
rebuke.

Yet her own soul smote her. What
right had she to be angered by the suspicion
? If Stephen had said ' Come,' would
she not have gone ?

Suddenly the truth flashed on her,
bearing with it such bitterness of humiliation

as should surely purge away her
sin ; and her answer was grave and gentle.

I understand, but you need not be
afraid. I must go, but I shall not meet or
see Mr. Nugent.'

There's Tom Thomas sleeping here,'
said Eutli hesitatingly ; ' he drove over in
his hooded cart, and if you didn't mind
that, Miss Honor, he'd take you to Pol-mouth
with pleasure ; only he says he
must leave early, and so, I suppose, you'd
have to wait the mail train at Polmouth
till the evening.'

Thank you ; will you ask him to take
me?' Honor turned away towards Mrs.
Boss's room, and Hutli, longing, yet fearing,
to ask more questions, left her.

The girl j)auscd will her hand on the
latch of her friend's door, then laid lier

VOL. II. P

soft cheek gently against the panel, as it
lead been Mary Koss's hand.

No,' she thought, ' it will be time
enough for her to know to-morrow  let
her sleep to-night I '

CHAPTER XXXIV.

Gift ungotten, largess high,

Of a frustrate will ;
But to yield it lovingly

Is a something still.  Phantasies.

So it came to pass that, when Mrs. Ross
descended on the morrow morning into
the parlour, she was startled to find Honor
in traveling trim, her small black felt hat,
large fur-heed cloak and travelling bag
lying on a chair, while she herself, with
dark circles round her eyes, and pallid lips,
was busy, as usual, making the tea.

Honor ! '

She came to her friend very tenderly
and kissed her, holding both Mrs. Ross's
hands fast in her own. ' I thought it was

r 2

better not to tell you before, dear  I must
leave you.'

Leave me ! '

Yes. Oh, Mary, if you are not brave, I
cannot be.'

Mrs. Eoss was silent, struggling with
herself; her instinct told her Honor's
purpose. She had always vaguely feared
this hour, yet now that the blow had fallen
she could not pray against it.

I can't tell you anything,' Honor went
on, in a low hurried voice ; ' perhaps
I may come back '  as a wild hope
possessed her that, after all, Stephen might
be wrong, and her husband refuse to
receive her  'but if I don't  oh, Mary,
forgive me for leaving you here alone. I
seem to bring misery to every one  I suppose
because I never learnt to rule myself.'

You were never tauL'lit. It wits not
your fiiult, poor child.'

I am punished for it ! ' was all Honor
replied.

May I not go with you ? ' her friend
pleaded gently.

Honor shook her head. ' No, dear,' she
said; then with a jarring laugh, 'this
dismal scene I needs must act alone." '

The reality the quotation meant rushed
upon her; she-was going back to Ilex
Archdale to sue for his forgiveness. Her
pride shrank from the idea, and she shuddered
; yet what had she now to do with
]pride ?

Her voice sounded, to Mrs. Eoss, like
an echo of Marie Antoinette's ' Nothing
can hurt me now.' Honor saw the pain of
her friend's face, and, by an elTurl, endeavoured

to reassure her. ' Don't be wretched,
Mary,' she said, striving to appear cheerful.
One thing I am sure of : we will not be
parted for long, even if  if  I don't come
back.'

Ah, don't make plans, my child ! ' 
involuntarily Mrs. Eoss's lips quivered and
her tears broke forth. As Honor knelt to
soothe her, the elder woman's arm clasped
her, as though they could hold her back
from the fate which drew her away from
her refuge. Honor tried to speak, but all
she could say was, ' You have been so
good to me, so good, all these years ! '

In came Ruth, laden with the breakfast,
and wearing the stern, set face and curt
manner which, with her, denoted trouble.

'It's not half an hour, ma'am, before
Tom Thomas '11 have to start, and Miss

Honor will need to eat something before a
twenty miles drive.'

Thus admonished, Mrs. Ross and Honor
sat down to the table, but, despite Ruth's
warnings, the meal was a miserable farce.
Honor drank a cup of tea, that her example
miiht help Mrs. Ross to do the same, then
came round to her and, sitting by her
silently, took and held her hand. So they
waited listening for the sound of wheels,
which would tell them their parting had
come.

At last Honor rose. ' I hear it,' she
said : ' good-bye ! '

Mrs. Ross nerved herself as dreading
Honor might resent her action, then went
to an old bureau and unlocked one of the
many cunningly-planned drawers.

Without a word, she held out to

Honor something which shone in the pale
sickly light of the winter sun, struggling
through the snowy sky  Honor's wedding
ring.

She took it silently and drew it on her
finger, then turned to Mrs. Eoss and clung
to her once more, as though imploring
pardon for leaving her.

It was over ; she was in the hooded
cart, being driven away from Trebarva, by
the side of Tom Thomas, a stout Cornishman,
ruddy and of a cheerful countenance,
but, fortunately for Honor, blest with a
remarkable talent for silence  so that, for
the last time, uninterrupted, the girl could
gaze her fill on the scenes amidst which
she had lived for the last three years, and
which had grown so dear  how dear, she
had not known till now. 

CHAPTER XXXV.

Duties are ours; events are God's.  Matthew HEJfRr.

It was not till the Cornish train was nearing
London, that the question faced Honor,
where to find Ives. Her old habit of
acting on impulse had guided lier through
the last few days, with its old forgetfulness
of results ; then she remembered the words
in Nugent's voice  ' at his old rooms in
Jermyn Street.'

She recalled the number easily enough ;
during those strange confused weeks of
her short engagement to Archdale, she
had often addressed letters there, thanking
him for trinkets or flowers.

She was very tired ; the long hours
spent in the train had been almost as
sleepless as those of the preceding night,
and her pale face, with the purple rims
round the heavy eyes, was very wan,
almost haggard. It was not thus Eex
Archdale remembered his wife, not thus
Nugent had first seen her coming towards
him in the May sunshine, fair as May herself.


And now this meeting with her husband,
which she dreaded so much, was
near ! She would not think of it till she
found herself face to face with him, lest
her courage should fail. How strange
London seemed, with its tall, seemingly
roofless houses closing in the lowering sky,
its myriad noises, after those three years

spent amidst the strength of the cliffs, the
sound of the sea !

The cab drew up in Jermyn Street, and
she ahglited, but as she rang the bell, her
heart's beat seemed to sicken and cease,
with the suspense and fear.

'Mr. Archdale?' no; he was out of town,
and  did she want to see him specially ?
asked the boy in buttons, with a curious
stare, ' because '

Who's that inquiring about poor Mr.
Archdale, Jim ? ' called out a voice from a
room within, and forth issued the landlady,
who looked at Honor, half doubting, half
recognisant ; then exclaimed, ' Mrs. Arch-dale,
ma'am ?'

Honor was startled. ' Yes  how do
you know me ? '

I saw you married, ma'am, that's how
but Mr. Archdale, poor gentleman '  she
hesitated.

What has happened ? ' asked Honor,
the twice applied epithet striking her
painfully.

Will you come in here to my room ? '

The landlady's tone was respectful, yet
implied a certain doubt as to how far Eex
Archdale 's well or ill being concerned his
wife. Honor had learned to realise the
facts of life more clearly than of yore, and
knew what the doubt meant. She entered
the room, followed by the landlady, and,
turning round, faced her fully.

I have a right to know what has
happened to my husband.' How strange
the word sounded to her ears !

It hurt her pride to have to explain,

even so vaguely ; her manner was more than
words, and Mrs. Synods' brow cleared.

I beg your pardon, ma'am ; but I never
rightly understood'  Honor winced secretly
' and I'm sure your coming just now is
a special providence, all the more that the
poor gentleman seems to have none else
belonging to him.'

What is it ? What do you mean ? I>
Mr. Archdale ill ? '

The landlady looked frightened. ' I'm
afraid so, ma'am. Mr. Capper, his man.
sent me this telegram this morning; and
when you came, I was just that upset, 1
didn't know what to do ; and when he had
only just settled, poor dear, so comfortable
into his rooms again.'

She had handed the slip of pink paper
to Honor, who read : ' From J. Capper, Red

Lion Inn, near Leamington, to Mrs.
Symonds, 300 Jermyn Street.

Mr. Arclidale thrown yesterday, badly
hurt, horse rolled on him. Sir J. Gibson
telegraphed to : will write.'

He's always very friendly-like, is Mr.
Capper,' murmured Mrs. Symonds somewhat
complacently, as Honor stared at the
telegram, then made as to move towards
the door, muttering, ' I must go to him
at once.'

But as she made a step forward, she
reeled ; her head swam, and she would
have fallen and fainted if Mrs. Symonds
had not caught her.

The landlady did not know whence her
guest had come, but her quick eye caught
the unrested, weary look, the dulness of
the rich hair, the languor and pallor of

the face, as the hds closed over the tired
eyes, and her lingering doubt and suspicion
melted away in real woman kindliness and
concern.

You don't go till you're rested and
refreshed, ma'am, and have had some tea.
Now that's right, be a dear, ma'am, and
sensible, or you'll be no use when you get
to poor Mr. Archdale and find him getting
better, as you will,' said Mrs. Symonds.
with an airy confidence which would have
been more reassuring had it been built
on any reasonable basis. ' Why, if you
don't take care, hell have to be nursing
you. There, he down ; that's right.'

Honor was too utterly worn out to
resist, as Mrs. Symonds hid her on tla*
]prickly horsehair sofa of this, Ikt own
peculiar sanctum, unloosened lier cloak.

removed her hat, and then bustled off to
have tea prepared. Something in the
girl's brave yet nervous gaze attracted
the hard-working, energetic woman. ' And
I fancied she must have turned out a bad
lot,' she muttered. ' Who'd have thought
she'd have felt it so ? I wonder how it all
came about ? '

She took as much care of her visitor as
she would have done of a sick child ; and
the rest and refreshment, with plentiful
ablutions of cold water, restored Honor
somewhat to her usual self, ere she drove
off again to the Haddington Station she
had so recently quitted, to catch an afternoon
train for Leamington.

She had taken her ticket, and was
moving off in order to let the gentleman
behind her procure his, when she caught

sight of his face. For an instant she was
puzzled, then recognised Sir Jolin Gibson,
the great surgeon, a personal friend of her
father's, whom Agnes had cultivated, and
who had been a guest at Honor's wedding.


He recognised her at once with his
quick glance. 'Miss Denne  I beg your
pardon  Mrs. Archdale. Good heavens ! '
as part of the truth broke upon him 
It's not your husband to whom I am
going down now ? '

'Yes. Oh, Sir Jolin ! is he  will he 
die ? '

The surgeon turned round, saw the pale
countenance, with its look of miserable,
anxious remorse ; he took her hands as to
calm her, and answered 

'Die? no. my d<'ni\ I hope not ; but

Vol,. II. (i

the telegram I had tells me very little ; you
must keep a good heart.'

 But if  if he is very ill, may I see
him P '

The bell rang, and Sir John hurried
Honor on to the platform and into an
empty carriage, and followed her himself.

He began to remember something he
had heard of Honor's marriage not turning
out happily ; but poor Eex had been right
in boasting that he had kept his wife's
name from ever being breathed on, and Sir
John's voice was very gentle as he answered
her :

It all depends. May I take a liberty
as an old man and your father's friend ? '

A faint movement of her head gave
assent.

Your husband doesn't expect you ?

There h:\s bueii some inismulor.itandiiii
between you ? '

*Yes. It was all my fault.'

Never mind that. Whosesoever fault
it was, he mustn't be excited ; and were he
conscious, it would most decidedly agitate
him to see you, whom he doesn't expect 
whether pleasantly or the reverse. If he
is unconscious, it is a different matter.'

'Oh, he must forgive me ! ' was Honor's
inward cry. Item well and angered against
lier, perhaps bitter, even insulting, was the
husband she was prepared to meet, and a
terror to her; but lies ill, dependent on
strangers, awoke only ])\y. If he should
die!  unreasonably, madly, his wife felt his
death would in some way be her work. A
heavy sigh escaped her, and Sir John laid
his hand on hers.

'2

Don't be so downcast, my child. Please
God, we'll pull him through, and you can
make it up comfortably.'

He never forgot his companion's look,
though he could not comprehend it. Had
Nugent been there, he would have understood
how the vista of the ' long, long road
of pain ' she must tread, filled Honor's
inward vision. Sir John tried to banish her
expression by ignoring it.

Papers ! ' he exclaimed. ' Of course ; I
haven't read the Times yet, and you will
like the World and Fmicli  seen his
Almanac? No? Here they all are,-
then.'

He piled the seat next to  her with
papers ; then, as the train moved off,
opened his Times  and was soon engrossed
therein, fancying rightly that she would

rather be left quiet. It was a Iohl'' tiiiu*
before lie looked up from behind its wide
sheet; when he did, the day was drawiiiir
in, as the train rushed across the snow-chid
country with glimpses of the sluggish river,
of the long, dim shadows of trees and
hedges cast on the lonely whiteness, and
the rifted orange streaks of a sullen sunset
smouldering in the west.

Honor had fallen asleep ; her two
wakeful nights had their revenge, and now
slumber had come ; it was deep, albeit she
now and then moved with a little shiver as
if cold.

Sir John unfastened the neatly strapped
rug his footman had placed in the
carriage, and threw it over her ; then returned
to his diaper, while Honor slept
on.

And in her sleep she dreamed ;
dreamed, as Nugent had done, of Cornwall,
and, as she had guided his thought, so her
dream was of him.

Not of his presence though. She was
alone, straying as he had strayed, the night
that led him to Trebarva, alone and lost on
that dark waste of moor under a moonless
heaven. There was no storm, only one of
those clinging, ghostly mists veiling both
moor and sky, and through it lie heard
Stephen's voice calling, Honor! Honor!
Honor ! '

Yet, though she followed, lie could
never reach him where that cry came from
through the shrouding dimness. Again
the voice sounded  far-off, faint, imploring'
: ' Honor ! Honor ! ' Then her foot

felt nothing-she had slipped over the
cliff's edi/e ; was falling, falling, while from
above, she still heard his voice yearning
for her tln'oiiLrh the mist.

Chapter XXXVI.

To one deep chamber, shut from sound and due
To languid limbs and sickness.  The Princess.

Honor woke with a jar and a crash ; the
lights of the station at which they had
stopped dazing her sleep-bewildered eyes,
and the cry of ' Lexington, Lymington,'
sounding in her ears. For a moment she
lead forgotten the present ; bat it all came
back as Sir John Gibson helped her out
and collected his and her belongings. A
young fellow, who had been awaiting the
train, came up to them, as at first certain
of the great surgeon's identity, but rather
puzzled on finding him accompanied by a

young lady. ' Sir John Gibson ? ' said the
young man hesitatingly  he had a frank,
pleasant face and manner  ' my name's
Ilunsdon.'

It was you who telegraphed to me,
then ? '

Yes ; I was with poor Arclidale when
the brute fell with him. I never saw a
man come such a beastly cropper, and
when they took him up ' young Iluns-
don shuddered slightly.

Isis voice and look made Honor feel
cold. They told the whole ghastliness of
the hideous, crushing fall of man and
horse. Sir Jolin saw her blench, and
turned to Jicr, saying to Ilunsdon, ' Don't
frighten Mrs. Arcluhde, we all know that a
fall isn't a pretty thing to see.*

The lad's deep (lush could be seen even

under the gaslight as he Hated this hat.
I beg your pardon,' he stammered. ' I
didn't know '  ' Archdale was married,'
lie was neaidy saying, but changed it to 
where you were staying, Mrs. Archdale,
or I should have wired. The carriage
is outside ; will you and Sir John get
in?'

A minute or two more, and they were
all three seated in the close, comfortable
carriage that was waiting outside, rather to
Sir John's amazement ; but the young man
explained as they drove swiftly along the
frosty road out of the town.

You see,' he said, ' my people made
no end of a row that we didn't bring
Archdale back home ; but he was so

that so much hurt, that we thought

the nearer the better, and the " Need Lion "

was c]()<c at liaiid. It's a nice, conifoi'tal'le
old house, and we've jot the two men who
were staying there to turn out, ior W-nv
the)' slioidd make a noise. It isn't i'ar
from our place either, and I've been able
to make myself head nurse and look after
things. His man Capper is a good fellow
enough, hut has no head. ]\[y mother got a
first-rate nurse at once, and Dr. burnet has
been there three times to-day. He is awaiting
there for you now, Sir Holm. I got
your telegram to say you would come by
this train ; so he stayed there.'

Is he conscious? ' asked Sir John.

'Who? Archdale ? ' the lad glanced
nervously at II(nor, then reflected that
Sir John, as he asked a question, probably
intended it to be answered. * No ; you
couldn't expect it, you know,' he added

extenuating : ' Dr. Burnet says it's concussion
of the brain, and all the rest of

it;

Honor said nothing ; she sat with her
hands clasped on her lap. Young Hudson,
facing her, thought it must be all right,
since she had come down here with Sir
John, but what a queer start it was ! The
beautiful, weary face, so girlish still, for
all its pallor and fatigue, impressed him
strongly ; and, as he gave Sir John a brief
account of how Eex had come by his
accident, he looked nervously, from time
to time, at Mrs. Archdale, as fearing to
alarm her.

The carriage stopped at the door of the
'Need Lion,' an old-fashioned country inn,
the warm light from its windows falling
redly on the snow outside. When Sir

Jolin lead gone upstairs to this ]patient, with
])r. Iiinu't, Honor and Yah llunsdon stood
together in the one private sitting-room of
the inn.

I suppose you would rather be here
with lies, Mrs. Candidate,' the young man
said : ' but if you would come u]) to us
and stay there, I know my mother would
be so glad.'

He felt a boy's chivalry and longing to
help this girl, so beautiful and lonely in her
trouble.

'Thank you, but I couldn't  I must be
here.'

T feci as though it were all my fault,'
said llunsdon, with that imjx'llcd need of
confession which urges many jx'ople to
avow their involuntary or unrecognised
sliarc in a catastrophe. * You know when

we asked him to come clown here, I told
lira we could mount him, and my father
had settled for him to have Prince Edward,
when I happened, by ill-luck, that first
night, to mention Diana, a vicious brute,
though a beauty to look at, whom we none
of us could ride  and nothing would satisfy
Archdale but he must try her. It was no
use to say anything,' Hunsdon went on ;
and when I saw them go down, the mare

on the top of him, over that bank ! ' he

turned away as he spoke, a choke in his
voice. ' There's one comfort,' he added
vindictively : ' the brute was so damaged,
she lead to be shot herself.'

Poor thing ! ' was Honor's dreary
comment.

She did her best to kill every one
who mounted her, that's all I know,' said

Iluiisdoii, ;i.s rallied rcLMiting IImikus
]pity. * I bej' your pardon, Mi\<. Arcluiak*,
I oughtn't to jzo on talking" about it to you.
Won't you ccjnie nearer the fire? '<>u
must be so cold.'

He ]pushed uj) a deep-seated, stiff, old-fashioned
arm-chair, as he spoke, towards
the fire, and Honor mechanically accepted
his invitation, holding out lier hands to the
blaze, as striving, through them, to feel
warm and sentient again : but it was her
brain and heart seemed frozen ; the lire-warmth
could not pierce or melt their
cold.

So they waited, till the two doctors
came downstairs together, and Jrir John
spoke to Honor.

Dr. Burnet will let you see him, ney
dear, if you wish it ; but he won't know

you, and you must not try to make him do
so. Be a brave girl, whatever comes to
pass ; he will need all your nursing.*

She rose silently and followed Dr.
Burnet up to her husband's room.

Was that Eex  that strange, whiteface
against the pillow, with the dreadful,
wide eyes, seeing nothing, understanding
nothing ? The face was unscarred ; there
was no mark, but one deep purple bruise
on the forehead ; all the evil was worked
on the shattered form, hidden by the sheets.
So it was she once more met her husband,
face to face.

At a sign from the doctor, she drew
nearer the bed and stood bits side, her
gaze fixed on that mute, immovable
countenance. A new well-spring of pity,
suddenly Alarm and tender, gushed up

within her ; melting the ice of lier own
frozen misery into lilian pain and anguish,
at the sight of the young man
she remembered glad and proud in his
strength.

She forgot herself; the prayer for hi
life arose within her, unbidden and unresisted.
It was hard to identify the wan,
motionless figure before her with the man
to whom her feeling had been that of an
unwilling slave. It was easy, how easy, to
yield him such tenderness and service as he
needed now !

Meanwhile, downstairs 

Are you going up to London to-night,
Sir John ? ' asked Val Ilunsdon, as the
surgeon stood by the fire, with knitted
brows. ' If so, you'll let me take you to
the station, or will you come uj) and have

VOL. H. K

some dinner with lis? There's a room
ready, if you can sleep there.'

Thanks, no ; I must catch the 7.15. I
can't do anything here ; Dr. Burnet understands
the case thoroughly. But I'm
afraid,' he added, drawing on his gloves,
we are, none of us, much use.'
Do you think  he will die ? '
While there's life, there's hope 
hardly a hope worth having, though, for a
man like him ; such a fine young fellow, too ! '
What do you mean, Sir John ? '
In any case, he will never be able to
walk again. Don't let that poor girl, his
wife, know  I don't think, though, there's
much chance of it, he is hardly likely to
last the night but if he live, her life will
have to be devoted to a hopeless invalid
and cripple.'

CHAPTER Xxxvi.

But what to me, my love, but what to me ?

Loves Labour Lost.

Stephen, is this true ? '

It was a bright clear afternoon in
January. Mrs. Strahan sprang up to meet
lier brother, as he entered her drawing-room,
a decided shadow of anxiety on her
clear brow.

What, Essie ? '

Oh, you know what I mean ! Isabel
has just been here.'

And she told you of my plans. I am
sorry, Essie. I wanted to tell you myself,
only I waited till it was all settled  not to
worry you.'

R 3

He was standing on the hearth rug, his
sister by him, and, as he spoke, he took her
hand and held it closely. He knew how
she would feel this abrupt discovery that
he was about to leave England, though,
with a man's horror of scenes, he had
withheld the news from her as long as
possible.

He felt now he had wronged her in so
doing, that he might have trusted her
courage, and that her long, faithful, tender
affection had deserved more confidence
from him.

But why are you going ? ' she asked, a
suspicious quiver in her voice.

You ought to be able to tell me,' he
retorted, trying to speak lightly, ' as you
were the first to put the idea in my
head.'

"But I never thought you would do it,
and I wish to Heaven I had held my
tongue ! It is wretched, and, as you said,
money-grubbing is contemptible.'

'I don't think I ever said that,' returned
Nugent; 'anyhow, I Wonder how you
would like it if Geoff acted on that genteel
principle ? '

Oh, don't laugh, I can't bear it ! '
I won't, dear ; ' and he held the little
hand yet closer. ' If I could see anything
else to suit me I would take it ; but I
don't.'

One of those sudden intuitions which
come to most women flashed on Esther
now. She remembered how changed she
had found her brother on her return from
abroad, and how her instinct understood
the cause. A soft pity for Steplien's unknown

trouble brought the tears to her
eyes.

But your painting ? ' she asked.

He sighed  a regretful sigh. 'It is no
good,' he answered ; ' I stood self-convicted
the other day when I all at once realised
how bad it was. If I haven't cared for it
enough to work harder than I have done
these last ten years, it is not my work ;
besides, it would keep me here.'

And you want to leave England.'

There was no questioning in her voice,
only a sad assurance. Her brother turned
to her with a quick reliance on her comprehension
and sympathy, although he told
her nothing of how this last year had
wrought with his life,

Yes, I must go. If only I hadn't to
leave you, little woman, and Geoff! '

I wish I could help j'ou.'

You have helped me, Essie ; all tiny
life.'

They were silent for a while, but their
musings were interrupted by a ring at the
front door, and the subsequent appearance
of a young man, an acquaintance both of
the Strains and of Nugent.

I thought you were down in Warwickshire,
Coke,' said Nugent after their
greeting.

I only came up yesterday.  No, thank
you, Mrs. Strahan, I never take tea now.
Wasn't it horrible, by the way, that smash
of poor Archdale's ? '

Archdale's ? what do you mean ? '

Didn't you see it ? ' said Essie. ' It
was in the papers a fortnight ago.  How is
he, Mr. Coke ? '

I saw nothing.' Nugent spoke so
roughly that both his sister and friend
stared. ' How did it happen  when ? '

Nearly three weeks ago, out hunting.
They didn't think he could pull through
at first, now they say he may ; but he'll
never be good for anything except a wheel-chair.'


Oh,' said Esther, with a little sob,
how dreadful ! '

'It cut up every one there awfully.
Hunsdon, who saw him go down, and
helped to get him from under the horse,
can't speak of it now.'

And is no one with him ? ' asked Mrs.
Strahan.

Oh yes, his wife.'

Nugent said nothing : this Acis the

answer to this ]passionate unspoken question,
his aching constant wonder as to how she
fared. This was to be this last thought of
her, which he must bear with him beyond
the sea.

He never fathomed the depths of this
mind that first instant when he heard of
Archdale's state ; could never say if for
one moment a base and guilty hope had
reared its head within him. ' Is thy servant
a dog, that he should do this thing?'
that another's death should seem his gain?
If such a thoujjjht Alas there, lurking:?
unknown to himself, in another instant his
pity and old friendship crushed it dead,
never to rise again.

Ah, God help her ! ' the prayer wliicli
had so often risen to his lips, was his heart's

cry now, sobbing in a sad litany whenever
he thought of Honor, who was with her
husband.

A month later and he was standing on
the deck of the steamer in the redness
of the sunset dying afar beyond Mount's
Bay, and looking out towards the Cornish
coast he had known with her.

He fancied he could discern the point
where he and she had struggled against the
waves  yes, that was Lynion ; even in the
gathering darkness of the brief February
day he could tell the headland.

And suddenly a turn in the line of the
coast showed him Trebarva, its vacant
windows flashing back the sunset as of old,
and the jutting-out crags on whose brows
Honor and he had last met. That rift in

the cliff must be her garden  waste and
lonely for evermore.

He turned and left the deck ; this Alas
his last sight of England ; a drain and
memory of Honor to hold through the
years.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

Raise thy disconsolate brows 
And front with level eyelids the to-come
And all the dark of the world.  Drama of Exile.

Meanwhile Honor watched by her husband's
sick bed ; unwearied and gentle, and
learning many new letters in that strange
alphabet of life some of us have hardly
conned, far less learned to spell with,
before death comes.

In those lonely night watches, those
long, long days sitting beside that unconscious
form on the bed, it slowly came to
her that loyalty, to be true, must be alive,
not dead ; quickening spirit and thought.
While each thought, each wish, each

action still owned Stephen as its master,
she was wronging the man who lay there
before her ; and if she had wronged him in
the past, what reparation could she make
now? Each thought of Nugent must be
resisted as it arose.

Then would come back the old agonising
temptation ; the longing for one day
of free, glad, innocent life and love, the
thought that made her hands close over
prow and eyes in a misery of shame. For
shame had come to her now, a new and
bitter word, hard to hear or to echo. She
had loved Nugent, she loved him still, and
it was wrong  wrong, even if they were
severed for ever ; wrong in the face of that
vow of hers, once so little regarded, so
recklessly broken, but pledged to the man
beside her, before God and man.

Yet gradually there awoke within liera
tenderness for Eex Archdale ; a tenderness
born of the sense of her failing in duty
towards him, her longing to atone, her
sense of powerlessness for good before the
piteousness of that strong young life laid
low.

At last there came a day when the
glimmer of consciousness returned to Eex's
eyes, when his lips moved feebly and
faintly ; and at a sign from the doctor
Honor rose and left the room.

But the sick man's brain, though still
vague and wandering, retained the vision of
her presence, and some time after he asked
the nurse 

Where is she ? '

Who, sir ? '

My wife. She was here ; I want her.'

He seemed to take Honor's appearance
as in the natural course of events ; and when
she returned to this bedside, she heard the
feeble words, * It was good of you to come
how did you hear ? '

You must not talk,' lie said, pity and
self-reproach risnig within her.

I fell,' he vaguely murmured. * How
long ago? Don't leave me again.'

He seemed asleep and silent for a while,
then the words came faintly through the
twilight : ' Kiss me, Norah.'

For a moment she paused, then stooped
and laid her cool lips, dewy fresh, to his
forehead, a seal of her self-renunciation 
for life. He was still afterwards, and when
the heavy regular breathing told that sleep
had come to him, the cold winter moon
saw a figure kneeling by the bet, not praying,

yet feeling calmly and thankfully that
now the bitterness of death was past.

Winter crept aged from the hills,' and
Spring came ; pale primroses shone like
stars among the ivy carpets of the woods
and the grass tangle of the hedge-banks ;
the larch tassels flushed pink with Spring,
and the larks soared and fluttered and sang
ever higher in the blue ; while Eex drew
back to life, and to the terrible knowledge
of his shattered limbs, his maimed existence.

It was not till late in the Spring he
learnt the whole truth ; but for some time
a suspicion of the real state of his case had
been growing on him ; although Honor,
being warned by the doctor, had been
very careful not to give him any reason to
think this recovery would not be complete
in time.

Int Ilex's instinct divined what all
dreaded to tell him, and he determined
quietly to ascertain the truth.

Honor was sitting one April morniiiir in
her husband's room, writing two or three
letters at his dictation. It was an exquisite
spring day, and the open window looked
out on an orchard which was one mass of
blossom, even to the turf below, which was
white with fallen petals; and a* wise thrush'
was sinfrincr close to the window. Honor
finished her letter and stopped to listen to
the bird's song. This calm pastoral country
of green fields and hawthorn hedges, with
the great elm trees throwing long shadows
on the meadow grass, seemed confmod and
tame after the free land of chill" and scar
and heather, the thunder of the great
Atlantic waves, and the sea-birds* cries ;

VOL. II. S

and yet the peaceful, tender beauty of
Shakespeare's country soothed her more
than she herself knew.

When did Burnet say I might be
moved ? ' Eex asked from his bed.

She rose and came to his side. 'In
two or three weeks,' she answered. ' Have
you been thinking where we shall go ? '

He smiled and stretched out a hand far
thinner and whiter than Honor's own. ' It
is pleasant to hear the word "we"' he said;
I didn't know how lonely I used to feel.
Make up your mind for us as to the move.'

I know so few places,' she said, ' and
I don't think you strong enough yet for a
long journey.'

Not quite,' he answered half sarcastically.
She looked at him nervously, as
if afraid of his having realised his helplessness.

Eex understood, but said nothing ;
and, at that moment, there was a sound
of well-known wheels stopping below in
front of the inn. ' There are the Huns-dons,'
said Kex. * Go down to tlienu
Norah, and make lluusdon come up here if
he is with them ; will you ? '

Honor obeyed ; and in a few minutes
reappeared laden with a huge basket of
primroses, and followed by young Hunsdon.

Mrs. Hunsdon has brought you these,
Eex,' she said, setting down her burden of
pale blossoms gently, as if she loved them.
as in truth she did.

And the mother wants Mrs. Archdale
just to go for a drive with her,' put in
Hunsdon. 'It's such a lovely morning,
and I'll stay and take care of you, old
fellow, in case you want anythings

2

I would rather not,' began Honor, but
was promptly stopped by Eex.

'It is just what she needs,' he said
determinedly. 'Be off and put on your
things, Norah ; unless you want to seeme
in a rage.  Ah, Hunsdon, I see the
end of the " Pink 'Un " sticking out of
your pocket ! Give it me, that's a good
boy.'

Thus urged Honor departed, ard the
sound of the retreating wheels of Mrs.
Hunsdon's carriage was soon audible in
the quiet room above. ' You can smoke,
you know, Hunsdon, if you like. Burne':
said this morning I might have a cigarette
myself.'

Have it now, then,' said Hunsdon, producing
his case and lights.

For a little while after there was

silence. Rex was absorbed in this paper
and the enjoyment of the luxury of
smoking, from which he had been so long
debarred. Ilunsdon was standing by the
window, looking out, with hands in coat
pockets and cigarette in mouth. Presently
the rustling as of the laying down of the
paper caused him to turn. 'Anything I
can do for you, old fellow ? '

Yes ; come here.' Archdale fixed his
eyes firmly on his friend. ' I tell you what
I want  the truth about myself.'

Hunsdon looked startled.

Now look here, my boy, don't be
frightened of telling me ; for poor Norah's
eyes have made me guess it the last three
weeks. Burnet always dodges me when I
want to ask him, and I rely on you.
But ' the lad bc<an to wish he had not

volunteered to keep Archdale company
that morning.

They will all blow me up if I let out
the truth,' he reflected. ' I'd lie like fun,
only I don't believe it would be any good ;
he'd spot it at once.'

It won't hurt me,' said Eex ; ' but
look here, I shall never be able to ride
again, I suppose ? '

The lad was silent, his chest heaved,
then a big sob burst from him. ' Don't,
don't ask me,' he gasped. ' How can I
tell?'

Archdale's face grew still paler. ' Is it
worse than that ? ' he said. ' Great God !
you don't mean I shall never walk?  bea
log on men's hands for ever ? '

He had dragged himself up in the bed
by sheer force of nerve, and was staring

hopelessly, appealingly at Ilimsdon as for
mercy. The young fellow strove to
answer, but could not.

I see ! ' muttered Hex, sinking back ;
for Heaven's sake don't speak to me !
Leave me ; it's all you can do for me
now.'

And when Honor returned she was met
by Ilunsdon with pale lips and scared
eyes.

Go to him, Mrs. Archdale,' he said
hurriedly. ' He was questioning me, and I
let out  I was wrong, but lie made me
that he would never be able to walk
again.'

'You told him!' She sped upstairs, a
quick sick alarm within her of the evil
effects the sudden breaking of such news
might have had on Rex, still so weak. On*

look at him showed he knew the utter hopelessness
of his case ; and yet he was quiet ;
there was even a faint attempt to speak
lightly in his voice.

It's a bad job, Norah, isn't it ? '

She had dreaded the burst of misery
which she had thought must come ; but this
was worse ! Her lips moved dumbly in
assent. His courage struck her with a
sharp remorse, as his thin hand stretched
out weakly to receive hers ; strong, supple,
beautiful, resting near him on the bed.

You must help me to make the best of
it, that is all. Will you be as good to meas
you have been all this while ? '

Her hand closed on his, her head
drooped, she could not speak.

So we will kiss and be friends,' said
poor Eex, a wan smile on his lips, ' and

never speak of the past; but it will be a
wretched life for you, j)()()r child ! '

Not if you can be happy.' The words
came impulsively and sadly ; then, ' Forgive
me,' she said very quietly ; and with a
new quick emotion Kex answered 

God bless you, wife ! '

And in that blessing her soul found
rest.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

Je n'aime que ce qu'ont aime les meilleurs des
homines , je ne cherche rien aux depend aucun dieux ; je
coerce ce que chacun peut avoir, ce qui est necessary au
besoin de tous, ce qui finirait leurs miseries, ce qui reproche,
unit, console ; je ne veux que la vie des peuples bons  ma
paix dans la paix de tons.  Senaxcour.

Honor ! Norah ! I say  here ! '

Honor, seven years older, standing on
the terrace of the villa near San Miniature
and her husband had taken for the
winter, turned round. Her hands were
full of early flowers which she had been
gathering this fresh, sweet February morning
; waxen narcissuses ; anemones, faintly
flushed with dawn-tints, or deep-hued with
intense passionate purple, paling and fainting

from the dusky velvet heart outward
into tenderest amethyst ; violets, sweet
with the dews of the vouiilt year. She
was leaning on the stonework of the
terrace, soft with brown moss, looking
down on the darkness of the cypresses
and the olive orchards and vineyards
below, severed by high stone walls trailed
over by sere capsicum vines ; beyond
lay the town like a fairy city, all red,
gold, brown, and ivory-white, fling the
vale beneath and spreading out on the
mountain side, with the Arno in the midst,
winding like a thin, shining snake under
its many bridges ; while dominating all,
rose the Duomo and Giotto's tower, aerial,
slender, lovely ; ' a vision, a delight,
and a desire;' Florence's lily turned to
stone, rising in the clear, tinted, delicate

air, and thrown out by the mountains
beyond, whose heights of soft purple-brown
and green were dappled above with
snow.

sto Honor had been dreaming in the
tender sunlight of the winter morning,
when her brother Leo's voice broke in on
the stillness.

She could scarcely have told from what
fancies the boy's clear call had startled her,
or what vao-ue memories of the town which
Jay below her feet, had stirred her heart
 not 'with the sound of a trumpet,' but
rather with the mingled echoes of many
notes, from many instruments and voices
a great human symphony, faintly heard
from afar, of hate and love, grief and joy,
passion and despair and pain  and with
religion and art, two great calm melodies,

blending all into one lianiioiiy. Lie heard
the echo, of ' old unhappy far-off things
and battles long ago,' mingled with other
sounds ; the low moan, wliicli must have
told Savonarola's baptism of fire was accomplished;
the light, sweet laugh of the ladies
who stole away from plague and horror
and death, to fair gardens and streamlets,
and the story-telHng which should win all
ages and all lands to share in their pleasure
; and above all, the woman's heart
listened to one voice, never heard in
Florence, save as the low, dove-sweet tones
of a girl ; but sounding  through Heaven's
glory, as through Purgatory's pain  wanting,
reproach, divine tenderness, to lier
lover and to us for evermore : ' lo son,
ben son Beatrice'

And so it was with a start, Ilonor

answered Lionel's call. ' What is it, Leo ?
Here I am.'

A heedless crash through the thick
plantation bordering the turf; a rather
sharp exclamation, regarding an aloe
Master Lionel had caught at, in the effort
to save himself from being tripped up by
the leafless branches of a vine which
strayed across the narrow path he had
taken  and the young gentleman appeared,
somewhat heated and breathless, by his
sister's side.

He ought by rights to have been at
Harrow, but scarlet fever had broken out
in his house there, at the beginning of the
January term, and Lionel being sent home,
and being very much in everybody's way
there. Lady Field had only too thankfully
accepted Honor's suggestion that he should

come out to Florence, on a visit to her and
Hex, till he could return to school. He
was used to spending a large part of his
usual holidays with the Archdales, to the
great relief of Agnes and her husband,
who both found a boy of fourteen a great
nuisance about the house ; their own two
children being both girls, now aged eight
and nine and blessed with a sweet placidity
of disposition and an entire want of animal
spirits, which rendered them ideal children
to a mother whose chief desire in life was
the calm comfort resulting from undisturbed
self-gratification and an approving
conscience.

The Archdales generally spent the
winter in Italy or the south of France,
one of the results of Ilex's accident beinsr
the bending of one of his ribs on tht* left

lung, necessitating a clear air through the
cold months ; at the same time, this year,
the doctor said he needed bracing ; and,
after some deliberation, at the end of
October, Honor and her husband had
established themselves in the villa, in the
garden of which she was musing when
Leo interrupted her, with two or three
letters in his hand.

She had never forgotten or broken
the promise she had made; and Eex,
though sometimes impatient or exacting
when pain troubled him, or the memory
of his lost health and strength racked
him  as it would even now, with a
worse anguish than any bodily ache 
yet held his wife always, with a love mingled
with gratitude for the unselfish, gentle
tendance which had never fainted nor

wearied, in cariiiL' for liin, these seven
years.

Here, Rex asked me to bring out these
letters to you ; they liavc just come, and he
says, if you don't mind, we'll drive into
Florence this morning, to get some mort*
cartridge-paper and cardboard at Good-ban's.
We've used all we had, and we
can't get on.'

You are sure you didn't propose the
idea, Leo ? I thought Eex would scarcely
be up to a drive this morning. Can't you
really get on . '

It's a beastly bother ! ' responded her
brother, balancing himself on the balustrade
and tilting himself as far back as he
could possibly go, in order to poke lazily
on the other side, with a bit of stick, at ii
torpid green lizard, who, deceived by the

VOL. II. T

sunshine, into the idea that it was summer,
had crept from his home in a crevice of
the wall, and who was ruling his mistake.
I don't know what we are to do ; Eex
hasn't any, and it will be no end of a sell
if the whole thing is corpse, just for a
sheet of cartridge-paper.'

You know I hate that word, Leo.

'Well, it will be corpse, won't it?'
said the young gentleman, viciously knocking
the unoffending lizard with a jerk onto
the grass below, as though to emphasise
his words. ' What do you call it ? And
now that we've asked all that small fry of
Elliott and Boyle to come up and see the
play, I shall feel an awful fool if it's not
ready, that's all.'

I don't mind,' said Honor ; ' if Eex
feels equal to the drive, it is all right. I

was just going in to liii, but we will go
and order the carriage first.

This business accomplished, they turned
in through the piazza, where, by a table,
sat a figure in a wheel-chair, as intent as
Leo himself on the present great object
of their two lives  the production of
'The Miller and his Men ' grand romantic
drama, as adapted to Webb's scenes and
characters, in a small toy theatre, ostensibly
for the delight of some English children
living in Florence, but really for their
own amusement, albeit Lionel loftily disclaimed
any aim in it except to 'please the
kids.' His brother-in-law was less magnificent
; the enforced monotony of his life
enabled him to feel a real interest and
excitement in the careful ]preparation and
production of the mimic dramas, and his

T 2

fingers had grown wonderfully dexterous in
the management and manipulation of all
manner of such contrivances as miniature
traps, tricks, &c. ' The Corsican Brothers '
had been already produced with immense
success, a blaze of blue fire, and the ghost
melody played on the violin behind the
scenes, by a young Italian whom the
Archdales knew ; and ' The Miller and his
Men' was now in active preparation, as
was shown by the large table by which
Eex sat, which was strewn with scenes of
the most flaring colouring and bold perspective,
penknives, scissors, a cigar-box
cut into slips of brown wood, a bottle of
liquid glue, and miniature paper figures,
of sentimental or ferocious aspect. Eex
looked up eagerly as his wife and Leo
entered .

oil, here you are ! ' lie said ; * I just
wanted to show you I've managed it at
last: this trick works all right now. I'll
slow you on the table. Where's GrindofT
with the pistols? That's he, the beggar in
the long slide over there; just hand him
here, will you, Leo ? and the book. Where's
the scene ? Oh, here. '' Draw ofl' GrindofI*
lighting, and put on Orindofl' rushing over
practical drawbridge  plate 4  pull up
drawbridge after him "  there I it's done.'

A 1 ! ' exclaimed Leo, who had watched
the rehearsal of the drama's most thrilling
effect with breathless interest, and then
tested it by working the trick himself

There is the carriage,' said Honor.

Hallo ! ' remarked Leo, ' I must wash
my hands ; they are all over glue.'

lie da>]ic(l oil', and. a he left the rnoni,

a sharp sound escaped Eex. * What is it,
dear ? ' Honor asked gently.

It's only I'm a fool. I suppose Leo's
talk put it in my head. I dreamed all
night I was playing football. I don't suppose
I should if I could at my age. Butin
the dream ! You don't know what it
seemed like, Norah, or what I'd give to
have it true only for once.'

It is seldom a woman sympathises with
a passion for football  the keen joy of a
rough physical struggle, grip and tug,
sway and rush ; but in Honor's nature
there was some strain undeveloped, yet
akin to such delights, which made her
understand the terrible tense longing in
Eex's tone, and her sympathy was so quick
she could not answer him, except by that
pity of her eyes which was the reply he

liked best. 'Here's Leo lie said, after a
moment's pause, ' coming downstairs like a
young earthquake. Call Capper to get me
into the carriage, will you ? Never mind,
Norali, Fni riLdit enough.'

They drove down the slope of the hill,
where the light breeze milled the olive
trees from dark to grey, and here and
there an anemone shone, like a drop of
blood, crimson or purple against the moss-grown,
time-stained stones of the walls, to
where the city lay ' washed in the morning
water gold.'

That strange life of an historic city, the
past murmur of whose swift tide had
tilled Honor's thought this morning, the
life ' which living not can ne'er be dead,'
had little significance or interest to either
of her coiiipaniuns ; but to her herself the

widening sympathies which each year
brought gave an ever fresher and sadder
charm to each relic which bound past and
present together, and made Hfe in Florence
wear for her the charm of a legend. Even
now, as they drove through the Porta
Romana, a dream of dead days filled her
eyes, and her husband laughed.

'What are you "in a referee" over.' he
asked. ' I know when you look like that
sou would like to be mooning about in a
picture gallery, or some church, before a
battered-nosed monument, or cracked picture.
Isn't it so ? '

I can't make out what people find to
care for in such things,' observed Leo
sapiently.

Neither can I, but Nor ah can. Never
mind, Leo ; while she's catching her death

in the way she Hies, 3-011 and I will enjoy
ourselves at Done's.*

It's too cold lor ices,' said Honor.

'Then we'll order chocolate; hint if it's
too cold for ices it's too cold for churches.
They are enouLdi to freeze one's blood.
Never mind, what's your " particular
vanity" in that line this niorninL ? Leo
and I can get the cartridge-paper without
your help; so we'll drop you first where
you will, and then go to Goodman's and
the confectioner's.'

'But suppose I want some macaroons
too ? ' remonstrated Honor.

'We'll get you a hagi'ul, and y(ni can
eat them on the way hack and spoil your
teeth. Now, where do you want to go? '

'St. Lorenzo, then,' said Honor. She
had a longing for the new sacristy  the

soft gloom of which she loved perhaps
better than aught else in Florence  and
was glad to gratify it.

Poor girl ! ' said Eex, when they had
left her at the church. * One reason I'm
glad to have you, Leo, is that it gives her a
little liberty. She hardly leaves me when
we are alone, and never wants to do anything
for her own pleasure.'

She's a brick ! ' said Leo. ' But then,
Eex, she's so fond of you.'

'I don't know why,' his companion
simply answered ; whereunto the boy responded
as simply 

Because you are her husband, of
course.'

A shadow passed over the man's brow
which Leo did not understand.

Cause and effect don't always hang

together in such cases he said, a little
bitterly; llicn with a change of tone, 'I
>vish, thouLi, I could get her to think
rather more about herself. When poor
Mrs. Koss was with us she and I managed
it between us sometimes, she would persuade
Ilonor that I should like to hear
about any party or some play I wanted her
to see, and she would stay with me ; so we
used to take Mrs. Norah in now and then.
But now that the dear old lady's dead 
and Honor felt her loss awfully  T can't
manage her as well. Why, even Mrs.
Eoss's living with us was my doing ; Norah
never suggested it. I guessed she would
like it, and that Mrs. Ross would be a help
to her, so wrote secretly to ask her to
come.*

I say, Kex ! '

Well ? '

How did you learn to think of other
people ? '

It's a precious hard lesson, old chap ;
I hope you'll never have to learn it, as I
had, by remembering what a bother you
must be anyhow.'

Oh, Eex, not to Honor ! '

God bless her, no. She has never
let me feel it. And yet sometimes  ' his
voice sank  ' I think it would have been
better if I had died, and she had not been
tied to a log ! '

I wish you wouldn't talk like that ! '
exclaimed the boy impetuously: 'you
know, as well as I do, that it isn't true, and
that you don't believe it, and Nor ah would
hate your saying it.'

Eex's face lighted up at the quick.



unasked assurance of the lad's affection.
Thank you, Leo,' lie said, lliinkin<r how
like he looked to his sister when thus excited,
and how unlike his mother.

Meanwhile Honor had entered the great
church and slowly turned into the chapel.
She felt a longing for the sadness and
mystery and beauty of those great monuments
; Angelo's mighty effort to explain,
if not to answer, the question of the Sphinx
of life : to solve the riddle of the painful
earth which leaves the mystery deeper
than before. Was this the end? a dawn
as sad as death ; a day waking in Titanic
'throes, terrible as those of birth, to labour
which shall not satisfy, which shall leave
the world as strangely perplexed and annas
ever; and above all, those calm, sad
faces, noble and dj-meaning and inure, the

idealised images of those two of a bad
race, whom death removed in youth, with
blameless scutcheons ; ere their families'
bitter story of force and fraud and guile
had been written, perchance, on their
shields likewise.

Was this the truth of life? and if so,
what of the aspect of Botticelli's Venus in
the Uffizi ? what of the majestic calm,
Greek art taught us, 'when it ran and
reached the goal' ? of the lovely serene mildness
of the Madonnas, whereof this city
of lilies seemed the natural home ? of those
happy, sweet singing boys of Eobbia and
Donatello, and of a thousand other lovely
things which breathed divine, intangible
life in this soft southern air  were all
these true too ?

It troubled and perplexed her ; lier
eyes fell again on the figure of Night, lout
even sleep was sad. The words, so often
quoted, and so often felt before that mighty
form, came to her thoughts, almost to her
lips :

Giato m' e '1 sonne e piu 1' esse di tasso ;
Centre che il anno e la verona dura,
Non veer, non sentir m* e gran ventura ;

Pero non mi tatar ; deb, parla basso

There was another solitary pilgrim to
this shrine of Michael Angelo's vast mournful
aspiration and fathomless melancholy,
whose steps, falling on the marble of the
pavement, startling the echoes close to her,
made her involuntarily turn nnind.

For a moment she paused bewildered,
wondering if this were truth ; and so it was.

with the shadow of that passionate, unanswered
questioning of life still lingering
in her gaze, that she and Stephen Nugent
met again.

CHAPTER XL.

It loses what it lived for,

And eternally must lose it.
Better ends may be in prospect,

Deeper blesses (if you choose it),
But this life's end and this love bliss

Have been lost here. Doubt you whether
This she fell as, looking at me,

Mine and her souls rushed together?  Christina.

TiiEY ]poli stood silent, who could say with
what memories thronging and surging uj)
in them, even as his footsteps had startled
the echoes around ? and then their hands
met and clasped.

Each saw change in the other, but lie
noted the most in her ; for although this hair
was touched with grey, his skin browner,
this forehead lined, Lunar saw still the

VOL. II. U

old face, only finer, stronger, gentler than
of yore, and with an energy and resolve
that had not once been there.

To him, the woman standing there
vas fairer than the girl to whose garment
his hips had so madly clung in parting ;
the promise of her beauty was fulfilled,
but its very completeness was sad. It
held no promise and no hope. This was
not the eager, wayward, passionate girl he
had left, but a woman who had learnt in
patience to possess her soul.

You ! ' he said at last.

Yes, we are spending the winter here.'

Nugent could have laughed aloud ; the
we ' forced the sense of the present upon
him. This was how they met  they two
who had parted seven years since, soul
speaking to soul. He had even less right

now to reiiK'Hiber than yhe lead ; and yet
was she so changed, indeed ? and wliy
did this heart ache madly for one word of
that past  of this (U,*ad youth  I've while
he felt it were best, far best, not recalled l"

Was it seven years ago? As he gazed at
her, the old Honor shone out from her face
and Florence faded away. They two wore
alone once more on the livid, brown moor
by the wintry sea, with the low snowy sky
above them, brooding in sullen quietude.
It was her voice, low and vibrating as of
old, that dispelled the vision :

Are you staying here in Florence ? '
My brother is dead,' he said mechanically
 ' you  know that  I am on my
way to England. I landed at Naples, and
could not help a day or two in Florence.
I leave to-night.'

U 2

He spoke rapidly, uneasily ; but the
mere statement of facts seemed to bring
back his present self.

Yes,' she answered vaguely  her gaze
had returned to the 'Night'  steeped in her
long oblivion of the world that maddens
round her.

And Eex  is he here ? '

Yes, he must be waiting for me now 
will you come ? '

I ! '  he hesitated.

He knows you know me,' she answered
quietly ; ' I told him long ago you were
down at Lynion that summer, painting ; of
course he knew you did not know my
name.'

It was like herself, the frank facing of
the unspoken doubt ; yet Nugent understood
that the memory of what those

summer clays had meant to liiiii ami her,
was a secret known to their two souls
alone, sacred and sealed for evermore.

Silently they walked together, from the
chapel out to where, in the sunlight, which
looked warmer than it was, was the carriage,
as Honor had foretold.

Why, Nugent, how did you come ?
Where ever did you pick him up, Norah ? '
exclaimed Rex, leaning over the carriage,
in his excitement to welcome his friend.
My dear, dear old boy  how glad I am ! '

Nugent felt a certain load drop from
him, now that at last the moment he had
often thought of, when he should meet Hex
as IIon{;r's husband, had come. True, his
own life had so changed in the last seven
years, was now so far removed from his old
self, that there was no reason they should

not meet as friends ; and in the confusion
of greeting and Eex's delight, he found it
impossible to resist Archdale's imperative
command to him to get into the carriage
with them and drive back home. ' Leaving
to-night, are you ? All the more reason
you should come with us now  we'll send
you back when you will.'

As once before, Stephen glanced at
Honor for her sanction to the invitation ;
she did not speak  he wondered if she too
remembered that morning at Trebarva,
when he besought leave to return  but he
saw that no wish of hers withheld him.

So they all drove back together. A keen
throb of pity stirred Nugent's heart, when
they had driven up the aloe-bordered path
of the garden, with its shrubberies of myrtle,
oleander, and pomegranate, now 

and sad, and stopped before the
small perron of the villa ; and he realised,
as Hex was helped out, his utter disables
Something' like revenue touched
hiui, in his wonderment at the cheerfulness
of the man to whom the enjoyment
of his bodily strength and health had been
almost the sum of Hfe.

Honor went upstairs to take off her
bonnet and cloak, and the others turned
into the sala. Nugent glanced round to see
if there were any tokens of Honor's course
of life, and his quick eye caught signs of
interests that had been dormant in the girl
he had known. A piece of embroidery,
reminiscent of old Italian brocade, was half
hanging from a large work receptacle, half
basket, half bag, of plush; and the piano
was strewn with some music, an odd

mixture : a fugue of Bach's, Scharwenka's
dances, their ' sad perplexed minors ' according
oddly with the scores of ' Olivet,'
loathe,' and ' Falka,' which testified to
Honor's ministering to the musical tastes of
her husband and brother. Stephen did not
see this, but he was amused to find that a
little vellum-bound ' Vita Nova '  that
book which some one said was written for
lovers and the young, but whose charm to
many of us is that when reading therein
youth and love seem ours once more  with
a sprig of myrtle marking the reader's
place, lay side by side with the last shilling
tale of horrors.

Jolly book that,' Leo remarked approvingly
as Nugent took up the last-mentioned
volume ; ' Norah reads it to us of an
evening, when we are cutting out.' The

young fienlkMiian had relumed to lies avocations,
and was vigorously |)astin<z sheets
of figures to the cardboard he had oi)-
taint.

Were gone in for theatrical management,'
Eex explained to Steplien ; 'and as
the production of a grand revival of '' The
Miller and his Men" is arranged for tomorrow
night, and Leo is stage manager,
he has no time to lose. Hallo, though,
young lin, don't you be trying to cut out
those bands of robbers drinking. I know
your way with them ; you'll be snipping
through all their legs  you'd much better
leave them to Xorah. She's the only one
who can manage them. She's musical
director,' Rex continued to his friend, ' and
I'm the boss of the show. Now, Stephen,
draw u[) your chair to the fire  thank

goodness it's an open one ! here's a cigar 
and tell me all about yourself.'

There's not much to tell,' said Nugent ;
I suppose I have done with India for
good. Poor George's death leaves me the
only person who can take the chief direction
of the bank ; so I had to return.
When his boy is of age, we shall be
nominally on equal terms ; but George, I
fancy, had even less faith in the lad's business
head and inclination than he used to
have in mine.'

And I suppose you will put up for
Parliament and be no end of a swed ? ' said
Eex, some sadness in his tone.

I doubt the seldom, but perhaps I
shall try to get into the House. There are
some things I have learnt to know about,
in India, which need setting right. I mayas

well try to do it, for want of a better
man.'

There was a new purpose, energy,
nnil)ition in this voice. ' '' We know what weare,
but we know not what we niav be," *
he added, with a lauLdi which yet held
a regret for the delicious, purposeless,
purposing leisure of youth and its ]Possibilities
now for ever gone. Fuit Ilex
looked at him with envy.

True enough,' he answered, ' whoever
said it. If I had been a clever fellow like
you, or even fond of books and things like
that, I sometimes fancy this oughtn't have
come so hard on me ; but, as it is, I have
to get interested in whatever I can, and go
back and play with toys, even.' He took
up a little j)apt'r figure from th( tabic near
him, and threw it down with a litter lauixh.

I oughtn't to complain, though,' he said,
I suppose, when I think of Honor.
Stephen ! '  his voice sank, and he glanced
round to see that Lionel was out of earshot
' do you remember the last talk we had,
the week before my spill ? '

Yes  Stephen remembered.

I didn't know then, what the girl I
was talking about, was. She came to me,
nursed me, saved me. I should never have
pulled through, but for her. I can never
be what I should to her ; the protecting
and cherishing I promised, she gives to me,
but she has been the best wife ever man
knew, and '

Eex broke off. A hand was on the
lock, and Honor entered the room.

The short afternoon glowed and waned.
Eex, absorbed and happy in his friend's

society, took little apparent heed of his
wife; and when, after a dinner, earlier
than usual, on Nugent account, she left
them to their coffee and cigarettes, he
nodded and only said, * Don't forget
Nugent is off in half an hour ; come in to
speed him away.'

She assented, and opening the French
windows, stepped out into the garden. The
air was calm : sunset had not yet come,
but a mist was rising in the valley beyond
the town, veiling the far-off mountains, as
the present veils the past till one feels as if
it had never been real  the joy and pain
thereof never one's own. Even so, gazing at
those distant dream-like hills, it seemed liard
to believe mortal feet had ever trodden the
paths of their chill, ghostly heights.

She strolled slowly through the

gardens, so void of summer's delight, or
even of spring's promise. The faint smell
from the violet-bed was the only reminder
of the. time that had passed, that would
come to the world again, when

Time would bring on summer,
When briars shall have leaves as well as thorns,
And be as sweet as sharp.

Again she stopped to gather their dim
blossoms, resting them against the strength
of a myrtle spray, the darkness of a brown-veined
ivy-leaf, and fastened them in the
belt of her dress ; as she lifted her eyes she
saw Nugent coming to her from the house.
She stood silent, still, till he reached her.

Are you going ? ' she said.

Yes.' He halted ; then continued, ' I
wanted to  to tell you how sorry I was for
you, when I heard of Mrs. Boss's death.'

Even now slice could scarcely bear the
sudden mention of her friend's dear name ;
but from him it was less pain. ' 1 knew
you would be,' she said ; and her forum'
self was in the answer.

And her book, I saw it appeared !
Was it successful ? '

I think so, in a way. People did not
agree about it ; but I suppose they meant
praise, when they said it was not like a
woman's work. It was odd though, for it
was only being a woman made her write it.'

They had drifted back into the remembrance
of their past. Impetuously he
exclaimed 

And you ! '

She turned and looked in his face. ' I
have wanted to thank you,' she said, ' all
these years.'

To her, her words were simple tripoli ;
to the man, they sounded subtlest, albeit
unintentional, irony, and an echo of irony
was in his voice as he answered, ' I am
glad you are happy ! '

If she felt the bitter tone, she showed
no consciousness thereof, only returned 

You made me do right, and I found it
was right. It was all through you.'

Through him ! Then a memory, a
hope, a love, to which, for a moment, he
had felt hardly true, revived within to his
shame. He wanted to tell her ; but how ?

I often wondered ' he said ; then

a sudden passionate earnestness overcame
him : 'Oh, Honor, believe I tried to
know what was best for you ; and you
alone ! '

She did not appear to note the bursting

forti from his lips of lier name, that aim*
which those lips had once made dear and
lovely to her. Kit her smile answered
him, and in it he read her nature more
clearly than he had ever done before ;
read in its sweet triumphant assurance of
her faith in him, the siLni of her loyalty.
As she was loyal to her husband, not only
in word and act, but in shouldst and
feeling, so was she loyal to the memory of
her Love and her trust in his truth.

He, Stephen Nugent, standing there,
had no power to make the blood within
her veins flow quicker, her eyes shine, her
voice grow softer  such possibility of
sin as had lain within the old love was
conquered and slain; harness beneath
her feet, as the dragon beneath St. Margaret's
 but the memory of the love which

VOL. n. X

had wrought mightily within her was with
her, and would remain with her, hallowed
for evermore.

I wanted to tell you ' he paused,

hesitated ; then said, ' I am going to be
married

A minute's silence ; he did not look at
her, but like an answer through the evening
hush came the soft, distinct notes of the
Angelus from the convent, each sound
falling on Stephen's heart as the throb of a
woman's subdued passion ; then he heard
Honor's voice, ardent, sweet as of yore.

I am glad.'

The hand was stretched out to meet
his as in the pledge of friendship he had
asked so long ago.

Will you tell me about her ? ' she
asked gently.

*ncr name is Margaret Vigors,' Answered.
* She is very good and lovely.
When I first knew her I thought .she was
Hke you.'

A strange tender pleasure shone for
one moment from the eyes of the woman
he had loved ; but he did not see it, and
went on :

'She is coming home with lier father ina
month or two, when he gets his leave ;
then we shall be married.'

He had told her all ; once more their
gaze met truly, loyally, and her words as
she repeated them, ' I am glad,' were at
once a benediction and a prayer.

Would Stephen rather she had been
less calm? a feeling akin to self-reproach
and remorse swept over him. He was
much older than she ; yet before him were

love, ambition, success, life still worth
Laving, its prizes yet within his grasp ;
while she !  had this, indeed, been the
right path for the girl he had loved, to
whom he had shown it and said, ' Walk
therein, although it severs us for evermore
' ?

The sense of the injustice, the contrast
!between their lots, smote him so sharply
that it made him speak bitterly, from
feeling the insufficiency of Honor's life to
fill her heart and soul. A man never
doubts his own power to satisfy every need
of the woman he loves ; but without him,
she must fain find the whole world too
narrow.

'After all,' he said, 'we learn one
thing from life : hearts are not so easily

broken, or lives lai'l waste, as we once
used to think.'

'I don't know!' She passed and
looked far away at the Arno, golden in
the suffused evening light, with the thick
bridges spanning it ; the great dome, ruddy
and splendid, with the campanile by it
side, rising slender and grey against the
mist and forecast purple shadows of the
]mountains beyond.

I never understood,' she said, 'Our
I.ord's words, '' He that loseth his life shall
tint it." It must mean in another world.
Here  if we cannot take our own life-<
turn away from it  we find other pcnj)lt''-
lives ; our own again  never ! '

forgive me!' There were some moments
before his words came.

It was you saved us both,' she said.
'I wanted you to know that I know it
now.'

Neither spoke more ; in silence, together
they turned and walked to the
house.

'Good-bye!'

It was Nugent spoke, as he extended
his hand to Honor, where she stood by her
husband's chair, in the piazza. He knew
her words were true ; she had found
others' lives and lived content in them,
having renounced her own ; and thus he
bade her farewell.

As he turned, he saw her once more
where she stood ; the mingled lights of
sunset and moonrise falling faintly on
her, chequering her white gown and the

marble at lier It'ct with fantastic shadows,
hut full and tender on her steadfast eyes,
and rotating like an aureus round her
brows. So he saw her face last  as it
were the face of an angel.

