CHAPTER I.

|. There is a grace about some women that
" gives harmony to their slightest movements,
 and sweetness to their most trivial acts, so

% that if they but speak to you, you are conscious

of a charm in the accent and cadence

-) of their words, if they only so much as

 cross a floor your eye follows them with the

'" same sort of pleasure with which your ear

"->listens to music ; but Margaret Egerton was

 not one of these happily gifted people.

v3 She was young, yet she had not much of

VOL. I.

5

the bloom of youth ; her features were
delicate, and yet, except at rare moments,
few people called her pretty ; she was
straightly made, with a figure that was
light and slim, yet in its action there was
always a certain stiffness, and the awkwardness
that came from self-consciousness and
self-depreciation. She was a woman to
whom a little admiration from the people
whom she loved would have given warmth
and life ; but she did not arouse admiration
easily, and perhaps the person in the world
who cared for her most, was the one who
was most keenly alive to her deficiencies
and to her inability to charm.

She was standing at a table in her cousin
Godfrey Helstone's drawing-room arranging
some flowers in a bowl, and, to tell the
truth, arranging them ill enough, for she
had not the knack of doing that sort of

thing gracefully. She had been trying todo
it just now with much labour, but
Godfrey, glancing up once or twice from his
book, had experienced a mixture of amazement
and irritation at her want of success.
He had seen other women set a cluster of
flowers with a few careless touches, so that
when he looked at them he felt in a moment
that the thing could not be better done ;
but poor Margaret had been toiling over
her work for ten minutes, and the result
at last was only a tasteless mass of close-packed
roses.

Don't you think you might put some
more greenery there ? " he said to her
suddenly.

The girl glanced up when her cousin

spoke. Perhaps  for, as I have said, she

was self-conscious  she had already had a

suspicion that Godfrey, although he seemed


to be reading, was sufficiently aware of her
occupation to be capable of criticizing it,
and the suspicion had possibly helped to
make her ungraceful fingers even less deft
than usual at their work. At any rate,
as she looked up now there was something
deprecating in her expression.

Some more greenery ? " she echoed
hesitatingly. '' Well, I can try ; only I am
afraid it might make them look untidy."

I wouldn't mind about that," he
answered.

I am afraid I am not clever at arranging
flowers," she said gently.

And then he held his peace. That fact
was so self-evident that, not being a man
who paid compliments, he probably felt
silence to be his best response.

She went on labouring with her heavy

hand, and he read, and spoke no more. She


placed her bowl presently iii the centre of
the table, and went back from it a little to
survey the effect. The effect was not good,
as even she was aware ; but she could do
her work no better, so she gave a little sigh,
and gathered up the flowers and leaves that
she had not used, and went away. And
then when she was gone, her cousin for a
moment put down his book and looked at
the bouquet steadily, and said to himself
half-aloud, " How odd 1 "

They were very good friends, these two,
though Maroaret had no more charm for
Godfrey than if she had been a boy instead
of a girl of twenty. Two years ago, when
her father died, it was he who had first
proposed to his mother that she should
come and live with them. '' It would be
terribly dreary for her to be alone in that
big place," he had said. For Margaret was

the only child of Mrs. Helstone's brother,
who had been a rich man, and his wealth
had all gone to her, with the great house in
which she had grown up, and which, indeed,
as Godfrey said, would have been a dull
place for her to have continued to live in
alone. Ivor Hall, they called it. It stood
within a mile of Godfrey's own more modest
house  the Dene. It was a ponderous,
many-roomed building, with a certain grim
picturesqueness about it ; it was associated
to Margaret with all her memories of the
mother who had died when she was a little
child, and by whose side she had walked
about its formal gardens, and of the silent
father who had made her his companion
during ten years of a quiet life ; yet after
she was left alone, when Godfrey said to
her, '' Come and make your home with us,"
she had come willingly. She would have

done most things that Godfrey asked her
to do. When he said, *' Come to us," he
brought the colour to her cheek, and one of
those rare looks into her face that gave her
for a moment a touch of beauty.

Perhaps he did not know what power he
had to bring warmth and animation to her.
He did not care enough about the matter,
I am afraid, to know. She was nothing to
him but his cousin Margaret  hardly even
a favourite cousin  only a good, unselfish,
kind-hearted girl whom he had known all
his life, and for whom he had a loyal feeling
of placid friendship. That she liked him
more than he liked her he could scarcely
fail to be aware, but how much more she
liked him he probably did not ask himself ;
the question was one that scarcely interested
him enough to arouse speculation concerning
it in his mind.

"Margaret will be a bait to fortune-hunters
now," he had said one day to his
mother soon after the girl came to stay with
them. " I hope she won't be tempted to
make some foolish marriage."

He made this remark lightly, as if her
marriage were a matter with which he could
have no personal concern, and Mrs. Helstone
hesitated before she spoke the reply that
rose to her lips. But though she hesitated
she ended by speaking it.

Why don't you try to put such a thing
out of her power ? " she said.

Who ? I ? " Godfrey ejaculated hastily,
and for a moment the colour came into
his face ; but after this one moment he
recovered himself, and laughed an unembarrassed
laugh. " I shall never do that,"
he said. " I want neither Margaret's money
nor herself."

You might do worse than want her,"
Mrs. Helstone answered.

I suppose so," he replied carelessly.
Nevertheless  " and then he turned away.
He was rather annoyed at what his mother
had said. He was proud enough to have
no wish to take a rich woman for his wife,
and indifferent enough to Margaret to feel
no temptation to woo her. " She is one
of the last girls in the world one would
fall in love with," he said, perhaps a little
contemptuously, to himself.

But yet the young man was always very
kind to his cousin, in a quiet, undemonstrative
way. When he was at home they often
talked and walked and rode together ; they
never flirted, partly because flirting was not
an amusement he was much addicted to
with anybody, partly because she, on her
side, could not have succeeded in lending

herself with any grace or felicity to that

exercise ; but they were intimate after a

fashion, and if you had asked him how he

liked her he would have spoken of her good

qualities warmly and cordially. *' She has

everything to make her attractive  except

attractiveness," he once said laughingly to

his mother, and though Mrs. Helstone

would fain have denied the assertion, yet

she could not. For I have said before that

the person who loved her best was the one

who was perhaps most keenly alive to her

deficiencies, and that person to whom she

was most dear, and who would gladly have

had her for her daughter in truth, as she

was already a daughter in affection, was

Mrs. Helstone.

The two women spent a very quiet life

together. Mrs. Helstone was a widow, and

Godfrey was her only son. He was twenty-four,


and had just taken his degree at
Oxford, and come into the enjoyment of the
estate which his father's death had left to
him three years before. It was not a Large
estate, but it was large enough to make
him independent. He was something of a
student, too, and had a good library, in
which he cared to spend a considerable portion
of his time. For his age, he was rather
a grave man, though social in a fair degree,
and fond of travel, and sport, and active life.
He was a good son, too, and a good friend,
in the opinion, at any rate, of the two
women who, in their several relations to
him, thought they knew him best.

Like other fond and foolish women these
two were in the habit, during Godfrey's long
absences from home, of spending much time
in talking together over his manifold virtues.
To Mrs. Helstone the occupation was


naturally an attractive one ; and if when her
niece came to live with her she yielded to
the temptation of trying to infuse some of
her own enthusiasm into the heart of the
younger woman, the fault was at least comprehensible.
In truth, too, Godfrey had
some qualities that made him not ill-fitted
to occupy the place in her affection to which
her aunt encouraged Margaret to elevate
him, for he was handsome and brave, and
kind and courteous ; he could be tender
where tenderness was called for, and hot
when auger was needed. The girl admired,
and loved, and a little feared him. To talk
of him to his mother became before long
the greatest pleasure that she had : to do
him some little service made her happy ; to
hear others praise him brought the colour to
her face : to feel that she was so little to

him made her heart ache in secret. For


though they were much together, and though

he was always good to her, that she was

little to him was a hard fact that she knew

well, and that she accepted meekly, but

that she never forgot.

Both Margaret and Mrs. Helstone had

been making much of Godfrey of late, for

he had come from Oxford with some honours

on his head, and of course they had killed

the fatted calf for his delectation, and offered

incense to him. His mother had rather a

happy way of offering incense, so as to make

the act pleasant and acceptable. It is an

act that is not always done gracefully, but

she was a graceful woman, and knew how

to perform it so that it should please him.

When she administered her delicate praise

to him he mioht laugh at it, and in words

reject it, but in his heart  as was natural

enough  he liked it.



They had been very happy together fur a
week, but on this day, when Margaret had
made her ponderous bouquet, Godfrey was
on the eve of taking his departure from
them again for a little while.

You must want a holiday now, my
dear," his mother had said to him when she
saw him first. " You look well, certainly 
not as if you had been over worked at all 
but still you must really be in need of a
thorough rest."

I am not so sure about being in need
of one," Godfrey replied ; '' but I think of
taking one. I have promised Dallas to go
for a month's fishing with him on the
Trent."

And accordingly he was on the eve now
of starting on this expedition. He was
rather an ardent fisher  his intended companion
was a man whom he liked  the


weather was all that weather at the end of
Time ought to be.

Mrs. Helstone and Margaret were to
spend the summer, as they did usually, at
the Dene, for to Mrs. Helstone there was no
pleasant place than her own house, with
its beautiful gardens, whose perfect keeping
she made the one great luxury that she permitted
herself; and where her aunt was,
there Margaret was content to be. These
too, you see, were only a pair of quiet,
country ladies. The elder had moved in the
world once, but that was long ago, and she
had lost her taste now for the amusements
she might have cared for in her youth;
while as for Margaret, she had never known
them. It was a dull life, perhaps, that
they led, but they were tolerably unconscious
of its dulness. They had their

little round of duties, of pleasures, of


liabilities  their mild interests, their placid
occupations.

They sat on this last evening that Godfrey
was to spend with them, sewing in the
long June daylight. They had always some
dainty work  embroidery that, like Penelope's
web, seemed never-ending  to employ
their fingers on. For nearly all his life
Godfrey had seen the same sort of thing in
his mother's hands. They sat near one of
the windows to catch the latest light, and
Godfrey, ensconced comfortably in an armchair
opposite, alternately read and talked
to them, claiming their silence or their
attention, as it pleased him.

It was a long-shaped room, with a line

of windows opening on the garden,  a

pretty room, as Godfrey liked to know.

For Godfrey was fond of his house too.

He cared for its air of refinement, its


sobriety, its unostentatious comfort ; he
appreciated all that it owed to his mother's
taste. He liked the placid life, too, that
Mrs. Helstone and Margaret led in it,
feeling that such a life satisfied his sense
of the fitness of things, for he was a
Conservative of rather a stiff type, and
had no new-fashioned ideas about women
or women's work, nor any desire to see
them taking a prominent place in the
world, either in the van or the rear of
the battle : he preferred vastly to see them
sitting, as he saw his mother and Margaret
sitting now, sewing those pieces
of embroidery whose use he had never
learnt, whose completion seemed never
reached.

They worked while the light served
them, and then  in the twilight Mrs.

Helstone said, " Give us a little music
VOL. I. 17 2

 7

Margaret' and Margaret went to the piano,

and played a piece or two, and sang a

song. The pieces were what are called

drawing-room pieces, the song too was a

drawing-room song. Her execution of

them was very correct. Godfrey listened

to it with half an ear. He said "Thank

you ! " very cordially when the girl rose

from her seat ; but I do not think the

performance had charmed him. Perhaps

by this time he knew all Margaret's songs

by heart, and had forgotten that to be

charmed with them was a thing that

could be expected of him. He said

"Thank you," and then added something

else pleasantly as she came back to the

place that she had left.

I heard one of Wilson's sisters singing

something the other night that I thought

would suit your voice," he said. " I must


find out the name of it. Her voice is not
so good as yours, only she has  practised
more, perhaps."

"Margaret does not practise nearly as
much as she should ; I am always telling
her so," Mrs. Helstone said. " Perhaps
she needs some new music to give her
more interest. I am very forgetful, or I
would make her get some."

Oh, it is not that, I have music
enough," Margaret answered quickly.

And then Godfrey made a remark about

something else  changing the subject,

perhaps purposely. He was a kindly

man, and he liked Margaret, but in his

heart he knew that he found her dulL He

knew that she would never sing or play so

as to give pleasure to any intelligent human

creature. He fell that her talk wanted

life and light, and that in her composition


some element that is of the essence of sweet
womanhood had been left out.

But yet, if she ever wearied or irritated
him he was quick to reproach himself for
his weariness, and to call to mind all her
virtues  her unselfishness, and loyalty, and
truth, and goodness. *' She is better 
really a better and higher creature  than
nine-tenths of the girls one knows," he
would tell himself, trying (though sometimes
trying in vain) to warm his appreciation
of her into enthusiasm. Once to
her face he said impulsively, '' I think,
Margaret, you are the best woman in the
world ! " an unwise speech to make perhaps,
for though probably he himself forgot the
warm expression afterwards, you may
imagine whether or not she forgot it.

He was kind and pleasant to her tonight
when the singing was over. It was


a starlight night, aucl he invited her
presently to go out into the garden with
him and look at the stars. She knew a
good deal about the stars  possibly rather
more than he did. Perhaps as they stood
together, gazing upwards, she even wearied
him a little by the amount of knowledge
she displayed. It was to enjoy an aesthetic
not a scientific pleasure that he had called
her out into the soft June night, and, to
tell the truth, after ten minutes he yawned.
He found bv the end of that time that he
had had enough of the heavenly bodies.

They walked two or three times up and
down the gravel walk beneath the drawing-room
windows. The lights from the room
made a subdued illumination on their path.
Mrs. Helstone, sitting alone within, heard
their advancing and retreating steps and

voices, and the sounds where pleasant to


her, and set her dreaming her favourite

dream, the one that she dreamt daily.

Surely it is only a question of time ; they

are so much together," she thought, " and

he likes her, and values her. Some men

are caught merely by a pretty face, but

Godfrey is not one of these. He wants

sterling qualities  real worth,  a woman

he can respect and trust, as well as love.

And he does respect and trust Margaret ; I

am sure of that. If only he might love her

too ! But, living with her in the house, seeing

her always, getting to know her thoroughly

surely, in time, the love will come ! "

So she sat thinking to herself; but, all

too soon to content her, the footsteps

presently paused at the open window, and

she gave a little sigh as, after their twenty

minutes' absence, her son and Margaret

came back into the room.


Mr. Helstone and his friend were to
meet at the inn of Brentwood, a village on
the Trent, but when Godfrey reached this
place upon the following day, he found not
Mr. Dallas, but a letter from him, postponing
his arrival until the next afternoon.
The delay did not matter to Godfrey.
I'll try and get a basket of fish before
he comes," he only thought. So he went to
bed that night after having taken a survey
of the river, and the next morning prepared
to begin his sport.

It was a grey morning, warm but sunless,
with a rather too active soft south wind.


Godfrey chose his position, and arranged his

line. The place was pretty  green and

solitary ; an English, home-like scene, such

as was pleasant in the young man's eyes.

The river made a bend near where he stood ;

on the opposite bank there was a belt of

trees that, if he had been a painter, he

thought he should like to sketch ; stretching

far away on either side were wide green

meadows, dotted with wandering sheep.

It was all so quiet that for a long time he

heard no sound except the singing of the

birds, and sometimes the low of cattle far

aNvay. There was a little splash in the

river now and then as some water duck

descended on it ; but except for such

occasional sounds the silence was unbroken

for so long, that Godfrey at last, to relieve

it, said aloud to himself, " Upon my word,

this is a quiet place ! "


Just at that moment, however, the wind
caught his line and discomposed him. He
had drawn it out of the water to throw
it afresh, and in the act of re arranging
it a sudden gust came and whirled it
round the rod. As he shook it free, the
same unfortunate breeze attacked his hat.
He clapped his hand to his head, but the
action came too late. The list was light,
and before Godfrey could prevent it, the
covering that had so lately adorned him
was first uplifted in the air, and then tossed
into the river out of reach.

He threw out his line and tried to catch
it, but that effort failed, and it went floating
buoyantly down the stream. " I suppose
I must get my things off and go after
it," he thought next to himself; so he laid
down his rod, and was in the act of throwing
off his coat, when, giving a glance round


to assure himself that his solitude was still
unbroken, he perceived to his discomfiture,
advancing directly towards him across the
nearest field, a pair of figures  a man
and woman  whose presence brought his
intended proceedings to an inevitable stop.

Provoking ! " thought Godfrey ; but in
the face of such an arrival he was clearly
helpless, so feeling a little foolish, he took
up his rod again, and rather uncomfortably
aware of his uncovered head, and of the
object that still, prominently conspicuous,
was sailing over the surface of the water,
he began with as much appearance of ease
as he could assume to busy himself with
the re adjustment of his line.

He was not, however, left to this undisturbed
occupation long.

Hey day, young man, you want that

hat of yours back again, don't you '? " cried
26

a voice behind him, in such mellow tones,
that, though the speaker was at some
distance still, Godfrey heard the address
distinctly. He turned as it was uttered,
and gave a laugh.

Oh yes, I want it back. I shall get it
presently," he said.

Well, I should say you had better get
it now," returned the other in the same
full voice. " Whew ! Wasp ! Come 
Wasp ! where are you ? Come away, lad ! "

And then Godfrey became aware of the
presence of a third invader of his solitude,
in the person of a vivacious terrier, who
suddenly, in reply to his master's call,
precipitated himself with violence on the
scene.

The strangers in a few minutes more
had come near enough for Mr. Helstone to

perceive that they were a hale tall man,



evidently a clergy man by this dress, and

a iii who was tall too, and had clear-cut

features, and frank, direct eyes, which she

turned on Godfrey's face so fully, that his

inability to raise his hat to her disturbed

him. He bowed, however, as being all

he could do, and she smiled in answer,

slightly but pleasantly.

'' Wasp will bring back your hat for you,"

she said next moment. " He is a clever

dog, and he swims beautifully. Shall I

send him in ? " And without waiting for

Godfrey's answer  " Fetch, Wasp ! " she

cried ; and throwing: a stone into the river

to start him in the right direction, she

stood watching while the fussy little animal

in a prodigious hurry took the water, and

swam out till he had seized on Godfrey's

hat, and got it between his teeth.

What a spirited little fellow ! " said Mr.


Helstone. " T am sure I am very much

obliged to him,  and to you."

"Yes,  Wasp is useful," replied the

clergyman. " His legs save mine more

runs than you would guess. Got it, lad ?

That's right  that's right ! Bring it here."

And as Wasp rushed up with his prize he

took it from him, motioning Godfrey back,

and shook the water off it. " There's your

property, sir," he said, handing the hat back

to its owner when this was done, with a

laugh ; " but I am afraid you will find it

too wet yet for a good while to put back

on your head. It's not a bad kind of hat,"

he continued contemplatively, plunging his

hands into his pockets, and planting himself

in front of Godfrey with his legs well apart,

and his eyes fixed on the object under

discussion. " Not a bad kind of hat, as

straw hats go ; but straw is too light ; that


is where it fails : it hasn't got body enough :
it doesn't stick. Now a felt hat does
stick. Look at mine. There's hardly a
sou'wester blowing that would get this
off my head."

No, I suppose not," replied Godfrey
with a smile.

He had done as he was directed, and had
raised his eyes to his companion's wide-awake,
and then, after mastering the general
appearance of that covering, had withdrawn
them to the face below it  a handsome,
kindly, hearty face, with a look of both
sense and humour in it. Godfrey liked
its aspect as he glanced at it : as far as he
had yet seen it he liked the girl's face too.
He was not sure that it was pretty, but
it had an expression of keenness that
pleased him  a certain firmness in its well-cut
features, and frankness in its bright


eyes, that made him desire to look at it
again.

She had had her back to him for a
minute, having been forced to attend to
Wasp, who, in his delight at his successful
achievement, had been besetting her with
entreaties to make a second trial of his
powers ; but she looked round again at
Godfrey's response, and answered his smile
with a sudden quiet laugh.

'* We have winds here in winter that
would blow off almost anything," she said.
"It is often very stormy. The wind comes
sweeping so over these fields."

"What pretty fields they are!" replied
Godfrey.

"Ah yes," said the clergyman, "it's a

nice country  a very nice country  a

kind you don't get out of England, I'm

told. If you are a stranger here you


will find some tliinss worth looking
at.

Well, I am a stranger," answered
Godfrey.

"So I thought, sir; so 1 siipjosed. If
you had been in the neighbourhood before
I presumed I should have remembered you.
We country clergymen have a keen eye fora
new-comer, you know." And with that,
and with a twinkle in his eye, he laughed.

Godfrey returned the laugh. He rather

liked this man, with his cheery face and

mellow voice. " A friend of mine told me

that the fishing here was good," he said.

I have not been very fortunate so far," 

and he glanced at his fishing-basket, which,

to tell the truth, was still empty enough, 

'but I only arrived last night, so I suppose

I ought hardly as yet to complain."

You won't complain if you take my
32 .

advice and shift your ground a little,"
replied the other. '' I've fished in this
river for these five-and-twenty years, so
I don't exactly speak without experience.
There's a pool, now, some six or seven
minutes' walk along here to your left ; I've
caught more fish in that pool than in any
bit of water I ever whipped."

I should like to find it out," said
Godfrey quickly.

Put up your things then, sir, and

come along with us," cried the clergyman

instantly. " We can walk that way as well

as another. That's so ; isn't it, Joanne ?

Tut, tut ! there's no obligation in the matter.

Why, man, I'm a brother of the craft ! "

And, silencing Godfrey, who was attempting

to remonstrate, with a wave of the hand, he

himself seized hold of the fishing-basket, and

began to march forward with long strides.
VOL. I. 33 3 .

"I am afraid I am disturbing your
walk' Godfrey said to the girl, who lingered
a moment behind as he hastily gathered up
his gear. " Were you not going in another
direction ? "

If we were, it is of no consequence," she
answered. " My father would far rather
show you this pool than go anywhere
else. And he would not only like to show
it to you, but to stay and fish with you
too," she added with a smile.

I wish he should do that," exclaimed
Godfrey heartily.

"What stay and fish too?" cried the

parson, throwing his head back over his

shoulder (he had sharp ears apparently),

and laughing one of his full laughs.

"Well, it's true. I shouldn't mind if I

did. But I have got a sick woman instead

to go and see presently  unluckily. I'll


come and join you another day though, if
you like. I've got nothing to do tomorrow
have I, Joanne ? "

Nothing that we know of yet," replied
the girl composedly ; *' except' she added,
that Mrs. Makes may want you again."

Oh, I'll manage her," cried the clergyman.
*' 111 go to her either early or late.
Yes, I could come and join you tomorrow,
sir."

I should like it greatly," replied Godfrey,
much amused.

I'll be with you then by ten o'clock.

That won't be too early for you, I am sure ?

Ah," as Godfrey made the answer that

was expected, " I thought not. No houris

too early for a good angler. And now

tell me your name, for if we are to have

a day's sport together we must know what

to call each other. Mine is Beresford. You


will see it printed large euougii, if you like,
OD the notice board at the church-door.
It lias been up there longer than you have
been in the world, young man. And this
is my daughter  one of my daughters, I
should say, for there are a good many more
of them at home."

Godfrey had taken his card-case from
his pocket, and Mr. Beresford took the
card he offered him, and, putting up his
gold eye-glass, read the name and address
aloud.

' Godfrey Helstone, The Dene, Lip-worth.'
Godfrey Helstone," he repeated
deliberately ; " that's the way to put it, is
it? dropping the 'Mr'? Well, it is an
affectation of simplicity. At least, I suspect,
a man would have been called affected
who had done it in my young days. But

I find no fault with the fashion, for my


part. Helstone ! I've known some Hel-stones
in my time."

And I have known Beresfordss," replied
Godfrey. " It is a fine old name."

Ay, ay, the name's not amiss," replied
the other vrith a touch of complacency.
We like to think we have some good
blood in our veins ; though, indeed, for the
matter of that," he added carelessly, " there
have been all kinds amongst us, and, to
tell the truth, I suppose that Smith or
Jones has as good a chance of turning out
a hero as the best Howard or Percy of
them all."

Nevertheless we would prefer to bethe
Howard or the Percy," said Godfrey.
And then Mr. Beresford laughed.

True, one would," he said. " It's a

weakness of human nature ; and amongst

the many prides of this world I don't know


that pride of family takes rank as a very
deadly one. The devil makes his own
use of it, no doubt ; but it's not one of
his trump cards. However, that subject
will keep till another time. Look here
now, this is what I want to show you.
You see that reach ? That's the place, sir.
Take your position near that thorn tree,
and I think I may promise you that your
basket will be heavier in an hour or two
than it is now."

"It may well be that," said Godfrey
with a laugh. "I am greatly obliged
to you."

No, no," returned Mr. Beresford, " you
have nothing to be obliged for yet. Prove
my guidance to be good before you thank
me for it. I am pleased for my part
to have met you, Mr. Helstone. I hope

that tomorrow we shall become better



acquainted. Twelve o'clock, isn't it, Joanne ?
Ah, then, I must be off. By the way,
you are staying at Mrs. Turnbull's, are
you ? '*

At the inn ?  yes," said Godfrey.

Ah, very good, respectable people, and
a nice clean, decent house. I am thinking
though "  and then Mr. Beresford paused
for a moment, and gave Godfrey a rapid
glance  " I was going to say," he repeated,
after this prudent survey, "if you have
nothing better to do in the evening  you
know a clergyman's door is always open,
and you will be very welcome if you care
to come up and spend an hour with us
I can't venture to promise you much entertainment,
but  you will find a stirring
house at any rate."

I should like to come greatly," replied

Godfrey with heartiness.


Well, do so," returned Mr. Beresford.
Come when you have had your dinner. I
suppose you dine late,  and we dine early,
but come when it suits you. You will find
us at tea at six o'clock, and, if nothing
else, you will find also an awful number
of boys and girls round the table. So
good-bye till evening, Mr. Helstone,  and
take better care of your hat," he added,
with a parting laugh.

I shall follow your advice, and adopta
felt one," answered Godfrey, returning
his laugh, and, in salutation to Miss Beresford,
holding the still wet hat above his
head.

He resumed his fishing when his visitors

had left him, amused and rather pleased at

the accident of their meeting. In a country

place, he thought to himself, one is the

better for finding interests outside oneself 


for seeing new people and new ways of
life. Godfrey found fresh occupation for
his thoughts in this little incident that had
disturbed the solitude of his morning. " A
fine-looking fellow' he said to himself,
and rather a character too, I suppose. He
seems to have his quiver full of  blessings,
by the way he talks of them. I wonder if
this girl is the eldest of the family ! A
wonderfully nice face she has. If I go up
to-night I'll try and have a talk with her."
1/ I go up," Godfrey said, but in
fact he had not the least doubt that he
intended to go. AYhat better thing could
he do ? He had no other acquaintances in
the place, and by evening he should probably
be tired of his own company. " Why
should not I dine early too, and go to their
family tea ? " he found himself deliberating

before many minutes had passed.


By two o'clock lie had caught a handful
of trout, and was thinking: of turning: his
steps back to the village. " I will get them
to grill me one when I go in, and they
can give me my chop," he had decided by
this time, "and then I shall be independent,
and can go to the Vicarage or not,
as I like."

So he went to the inn, and ordered this
meal.

"You've had some luck, sir," said Mr.
Turnbull to him.

Yes ; I have had a little luck,  thanks
to your clergyman, I believe," replied
Godfrey.

Ah, has the Vicar been with you ?
He's a rare one at handling a rod ! " exclaimed
Mr. Turnbull with gusto.

So I should suppose," said Godfrey.

And a very fine gentleman altogether.


And with a fine family," returned Mr.
Turnbull.

Oh, yes, tell me about his family," said
Godfrey. " Has he got a wife ? "

A wife 1 Oh, bless you, yes, sir ! "
exclaimed Mr. Turnbull. " Why, Mrs.
Beresford  she's more in the parish than
the Vicar is himself. There's Mrs. Beresford,
and Miss Beresford, and Miss Edith "
beginning to count on his fingers,  " and

Miss Joanne, and Miss Violet, and Miss  "

Why, they are not all daughters, are

they ? " interrupted Godfrey, amused at

this catalogue of feminine names.

"All daughters'? Oh no, sir  oh dear,

no," cried Mr. Turnbull ; " there are six

young ladies and five young gentlemen."

God bless me ! " exclaimed Godfrey ;

Mr. Beresford might well say it was a

stirring house ! "



Yes, sir, they make a good bit of life
in the place," Mr. TurnbuU assented.
*' There's some of them in the vile most

o

hours of the day ; and they're a sight in
church on Sunday .-2."

So I should think indeed ! " replied
Godfrey.

He went to his dinner after this, and
as he ate it he began to doubt if he could
have the courage to present himself at
the Vicarage at six o'clock. He felt that
it would be like going to face a school.
"If I went later I might only have to
meet them in detachments," he thought.
And yet he felt anxious too to see how
such a family looked en masse. He wondered
what kind of food was provided for
it. He found himself speculating as to
whether, if he went, he should find Joanne

cutting bread and butter ; and, amused at


this thought, he began to picture the girl
with her bright face engaged at that world -
famed occupation till he laughed at the
comparison that inevitably rose in his mind.

I think she is a daintier creature
than any German damsel is likely to have
been," he said to himself, " daintier, and
made of finer stuff; at least that is the
impression she has made on me. Though,
to be sure, when one thinks of the troop
of rough boys and girls with whom she
must spend her days, perhaps the chances
rather are that the daintiness and fineness
are qualities of my own imagination. I
shall be disenchanted, I daresay, if I go up
and see her to-night."

And yet Godfrey had nothing better todo,

and he was rather curious about the

girl ; and so, as the church clock told the

hour of six, he found himself making his


way, according to directions he had received,
along a pretty country road, which
brought him presently to a garden-gate that
stood wide open, with a winding path upon
the other side that led him finally to Mr.
Beresford's door.

-*iQ?/,

The day had brightened, and the Vicar s
garden was all ablaze with sunshine and
flowers. It was an old-fashioned garden,
and the house was old-fashioned too, and
not picturesque, but yet a good house,
substantial and four-square, of fine old
red brick, weather-stained now, and nearly
overgrown with ivy. It was set down on
a large close-cut lawn, the green environment
giving a pleasant, home-like look toit,
while walks, shaded by nmny trees,
stretched out to right and left.

'' Has the first bell rang ? " a boy's brisk

voice shouted from the garden just after



six o'clock had struck, and a oirl's from an
open window answered back  " Yes ! "

Yes, it has rung, and the other will
ring in a minute. You will hardly have time
to wash your hands," added the girl, putting
out her head, and nodding it energetically.

"Oh, all right  then I won't wash
them," replied the boy, instantly sacrificing
his natural longing for cleanliness to a
feeling of duty. " Is everybody else in ? "

How can I tell ? " replied the girl. " I
have not been looking after them. There
it is now ! " And, as a sonorous bell rang
suddenly out, her head disappeared, and
the boy too, plunging his hands into his
pockets, bolted in at the open door.

The bell clanged loudly, and before it
ceased there came a rush of youthful feet
along the floor, all approaching the same

point from different quarters, and a sound



of youthful voices, all directed towards a
common centre, and into a room in which
a long table was spread with cups and
saucers, and bread and butter, the Vicar's
sons and daughters presently came trooping
 a throng of lively youngsters, looking,
in truth, as Godfrey had pictured them,
like a school let loose, except that boys
and girls were mixed together.

The mother of this motley group was
already standing in front of her own chair,
a tall woman with a quick eye, and a
manner that was more curt and decided
than her husband's ; the manner of one
accustomed to rule, and whose hands were
too full to leave her much time for the
amenities of life.

"Take your places quietly, children," she

said. " Felix, don't push your brother.

Maude, move your elbows off the table.
VOL. I. 49 4

Victor, don't talk till your sister has said
grace. Now  father."

This was to the Vicar, who, last of the
small crowd, was entering the room with
a leisurely step. His wife waited till he
had taken possession of his seat, and then
turned to a small person who was ensconced
in a high chair on her left hand.

Say grace, Femie," she bade her, and
a tiny piping voice uttered a minute
thanksgiving. And then in a moment
more the silence had ceased, and the room
had become like a little Babel.

This lasted for five minutes ; but at the

five minutes' end the door opened, and

another sudden unexpected hush fell on

the assembly, while more than a dozen pair

of eyes fixed themselves at the same

moment on Godfrey Helstone as he stood

with his figure framed in the doorway ; he


o-azinof too, for here was the whole scene

before him exactly as he had pictured it 

the long table, the crowd of youngsters,

the piles of bread and butter ; with only

this difference  that the expected bread

and butter cutter was indistinguishable at

a first glance from the rest. After a few

moments he saw where Joanne was sitting,

but he found that no mighty loaf was

near her.

The Vicar rose from his seat, and greeted

his guest heartily.

Ah, so you have come ! That's right ! "

he said. ''I am very glad to see you.

Here's my wife. Mrs. Beresford, this is

Mr. Helstone. Give him a seat beside you.

Come, clear off, my boy, and let Mr. Helstone

sit down. They are like a swarm of bees,

you see, sir. Little and big, we have got

them of all kinds. Well, and did you keep


long at your fishing ? And what kind of
sport did you have ? "

Godfrey gave his report. For a few
minutes he and the Vicar kept up a conversation
together from their opposite ends
of the long table  a conversation made
possible by the silence that for a brief space
reigned on either side ; and then, as the
buzz of general talk began again, he turned
to Mrs. Beresford, and to a girl who, seated
just opposite him, had caught his eye almost
as soon as he had entered the room.

She was not Joanne, but some one with

far greater pretensions to beauty than Joanne

possessed  a fair girl, with dark blue eyes

and golden hair. Godfrey ran his eye

along all the other faces that lined the

table, and said to himself emphatically that

no other was like this one. Was she a

daughter? he wondered, so much prettier


as she was than all the rest  even unlike
them too, for none of the others had her
fairness and brightness of colourings.

He said something after a little to Mrs.
Beresford to draw the information from her
that he wanted.

I met one of your daughters with Mr.
Beresford this morning. I am not sure
whether it was your eldest daughter  ? "

Oh no  you met Joanne," she answered.
'' This is my eldest  Lilian," and she motioned
to the fair haired girl, who smiled
a little and looked conscious, Godfrey
thought.

This appearance of consciousness amused
him. " She is the village beauty, I suppose,"
he said to himself. He addressed
some remark to her the next moment, and
she answered it with a blush. " She is very

provincial," he thought ; but yet he followed


up his first remark with a second and a
third.

They rose from table presently, and the
children began to stream out of the room.
What a pretty place you have here ! "
Godfrey had already said to Mrs. Beresford,
and so, when they were on their feet, she
asked him if he would care to go into the
garden.

' The young people are always out of
doors in this summer weather," she said.
'* If you will go out with them they will
like it very much  and, Lilian, you might
see if Mr. Helstone would have some
strawberries."

So, in two minutes more, Mr. Helstone

was walking towards the strawberry-beds,

and Lilian was by his side. Half-a-dozen

at least of the others accompanied them

also, but as it was into Lilian's charge that


Godfrey had been delivered, he thought
that he was justified in claiming her attention
for himself, and he accordingly walked
beside her, and as he walked he talked to
her.

He rather liked his position, and yet, to
tell the truth, by the time he had reached
the strawberry-beds he had begun to have
an impression that Miss Lilian's mental gifts
were not great. " If she has the beauty,
I suspect that some of the others have the
brains," he thought. "That bright-eyed
creature that I saw this morning, for
instance, has more wit, I should think, in
her little finger than this one has in her
whole body."

And yet he could not help feeling that

Lilian was amazingly pretty, and that he

liked his walk beside her, though she did

not say a syllable to him that was worth


listening to, nor express an opinion that it

gave him any interest to hear.

Do you think it such a pretty country'? "

she said. " Oh well, I suppose it is ; only

I have lived here so long that I hardly

know. I think it is nice in fine weather ;

but every place is nice then  isn't it ? I

like London very much  don't you ? I

have an aunt in London, and I was staying

with her this spring, and we went about

a great deal. I was very sorry to come

home I mean for some things; not for

all, of course  because  oh, it would be

dreadful if one didn't like home best ! but

there is so much going on in London, and

you meet such nice people. Don't you

think you meet very nice people ? " And

so she ran on. It certainly was not talk

that claimed one's attention very closely.

The very artlessness of it, however, from


such pretty lips rather entertained Godfrey.
He asked her questions, and paid her beauty
the compliment of listening to her simple
answers. It was a very mild amusement,
but in the pleasant summer evening it
entertained him pretty well. When they
reached, the strawberry-beds he began to
gather some of the fruit for her ; he did. not
at first, though she was near him, gather
any for Joanne.

They ate and talked and amused themselves.
Some of the others joined them
presently. Joanne joined them with Femie
in her arms. Femie was a pretty, curly -
headed child, and the two made a picture
that it was pleasant to look at. Godfrey
at least thought so.

You have got a sister who is very good

to you, it seems to me," he said to the

little one, patting her rosy cheek.


She has got a sister who is a dragon
over her," Joanne answered with a laugh.
She gave Femie a sudden kiss, and set her
down. " She gets too heavy to be carried,"
she said. " When the summer began I
used to be able to carry her pick-aback all
round the garden, but  like everybody and
everything  she changes so fast."

I wonder if / could carry her pick-aback
V said Godfrey.

'' Oh, Mr. Helstone ! " exclaimed Lilian,
in polite remonstrance ; but Joanne said at
once  " I am sure you could, if you wouldn't
mind. Femie, wouldn't you like it ? Come,
you are going to have suck a ride ! " And
without any hesitation she began to assist
the little damsel to mount on Godfrey's
shoulders, and in another moment, with her
two small arms about his neck, and her

two tiny feet held in his hands, Mr. Helstone



was proceeding at a brisk pace down one of
the garden-walks.

The little maid was shy, and, though
Godfrey spoke to her, she hardly answered
him ; but Joanne had come with them, and
she on her part was ready enough to talk.

How nice it is to be strong ! I like
strong people," she said with warmth,
almost as soon as they had started. " Now,
I suppose you could carry a couple of
Femmes (if there were two of them), and
hardly feel that you were doing anything ? "

'*I think I might manage to carry two
Femmes," he answered with a laugh ; '' but as
for not feeling that I was doing anything 
that is another matter. She is a tolerably
substantial little person."

Yes  is she not fat ? She is like a
dumpling. When she tires you, you know.

you must put her down.


"Oh, 110 fear that she will tire me. Shall
I give her a gallop ? " And Godfrey took
to his heels, with Joanne following fleetly
after him.

The fat child laughed at this, and Joanne
laughed too. They ran for two or three
minutes, then they stopped to take breath.

'' Oh, Femie," cried Joanne, *' you don't
have such a ride as this every day."

She looked pleasantly up at Godfrey.
There was something wonderfully frank and
friendly in the girl's face ; she had the
charm of perfect simplicity and freedom
from self-consciousness. " Are you going
to stay here long ? Are you going to be
here all the summer ? " she asked him
abruptly.

The inquiry amused him. Stay a whole

summer in this remote little place !

Oh no ; I have only come for a month,"


he said. " I have a friend who is going to
join me tomorrow. We only mean to take
a few weeks' fishing. Perhaps not even so
much as that. It will depend upon how we
like it."

Oh, I should think you would like it,"
said the girl quietly. "Is your friend a
young man  like yourself ? "

He is a young man. But I don't know
that he is very like myself."

I meant was he like in age. You know
I meant that' said Joanne severely.

"I beg your pardon," answered Godfrey,
laughing. " Yes, he is very like me in age.
He is about three months my junior."

And are you great friends ? " asked
Joanne.

Godfrey paused for a moment. He was

not quite sure how to answer this question

truthfully.



Well, we are intimate," he said after
that brief silence. " We have been together
a great deal at Oxford."

Oh, you have been to college, then ? "
said Joanne. This seemed to give him an
interest in her eyes. " And  are you going
back again ? "

"No,  unfortunately," he replied.

She looked at him with a little concern.
His answer evidently brought another
question to her lips, but evidently, too,
she hesitated to ask it. He saw her difficulty,
however, and relieved her from it
with a laugh.

''I have not been plucked," he said. *' I
have taken my degree."

Oh yes ! I suppose so," she answered

hastily. She blushed a little, as if she was

vexed that her face had betrayed her  as

if she felt that she owed the young man


some apology. " It must be delightful todo
well at college' she said with a little
sigh. ' Has your friend taken his degree
too ? "

Yes.'

And was it  a good degree ? "

Yes, very good ; very good indeed."

A first-class ? "

'eyes."

"Were there many first-class men this
year ? "

What she wanted to find out was so
evident that he could hardly keep his
countenance. He gave her curiosity, however,
no assistance.

Yes," he merely said, "a good many 
about as many as usual, I suppose."

Were you very nervous ? " She asked
this abruptly.

'' Moderately," he said.



Perhaps  you felt pretty sure that you
were going to do well ? "

Not at all ; I felt quite the other
way."

'then you must have been very
pleased ? "

At finding that they let me pass ? Oh
yes, I was pleased, of course. Most people,
you see, have somebody to be interested in
them, and if they had not passed me my
mother would have been disappointed, 
naturally. Well, little maid," and he turned
his head round to Femie, "shall we have
another run ? " And suiting the action to
the word, off he set again, and gave the
child a second gallop, that brought the
colour both to her face and his own.

He ran, and Joanne ran too. The girl

was as light and swift of foot as a

young roe.



Now put her down," she said, when at
last they stopped. " This is enough for
once. She is such an extortionate little
monkey that she would keep you in her
service all the evening if you let her ; but I
would rather you did not carry her anymore
now. That's right !  and thank you
very much. You are not tired, I hope ? "
asked the girl in her direct way.

He laughed. He had deposited Femie on
the ground. He was a little hot, but as for
feeling fatigue from such a small exertion
as this  ! " Why, if I had run a mile
you need hardly ask me such a question,"
he said.

I beg your pardon," she answered

quickly. " But people are so different,

you see ; one never knows. Are you fond

of doing active things ? I suppose you

are ? "

VOL. I. 65 5

Yes ; I am rather accustomed to doing
active things," he said.

Rowing, and running, and skating, and
hunting ? Do you do all those ? "

Yes  more or less."

And you have got a mother ? "

*' Yes  if there is any connection."

I didn't mean to suggest that there was
any connection ; but you have a mother ? "

Oh yes."

And a father ? "

No ; my father is dead."

"Oh, what a pity!" sympathetically.
Was it long ago ? "

Three years ago. He died just before
I came of age'"

That was sad for you. I am sorry,"
said Joanne gently. " And how many more
are there of you ? "

"No more at all."

You have no brothers nor sisters ? "
Not one".

"Oh dear! And I have tenir'' Joanne
ejaculated  this almost below her breath.
How fond your mother must be of you ! "
Do you think that is a natural consequence
'? "

She glanced at him for a moment, and
then she gave a little laugh.

Well, I suppose I did think it was,"
she said. " But I may be wrong, of
course."

My mother has a sort of adopted
daughter. Perhaps that fact may make
her less entirely absorbed in me than you
seem to think probable."

Oh ! " said Joanne, and her face showed
interest.

Yes  a niece, who has lived with her

for the last two years."


That must be a pleasure to her."

"It is a great pleasure. She is a very
good girl."

And she is your cousin ? "

Yes."

And young ? "

'eyes; one-and-tvventy."

Of course that must make a seat
difference."

It must make me of a good deal less
importance, you mean, than you first
thought I was ? "

No ; I mean it must make your home
much more lively."

I suppose it does." But Godfrey's tone

was not quite the tone of a man who

was very ardently convinced of this ; and

Joanne glanced at him, evidently with

other questions on her lips which, if she had

been bolder, she would have liked to ask.


She did not ask them, however, and after
a moment or two her attention was turned
to something else.

The sun was getting low", and throwing
slanting shadows on the grass, and
amidst the sunshine and the shadow a
handful of the Vicar's sons and daughters
were playing croquet (for this was before
the days of tennis).

And you ought to be playing too," cried
Joanne suddenly, as they came in their
stroll within sight of the lawn, and within
sound of the mallets. "Look, you can
take Victor's place. I will tell him." And
she would have gone forward to effect this
substitution if Godfrey had not stopped her.

No, pray let Victor alone," he said. " I

would rather look on if you would let me.

And which of these lads is Victor, by the

way ? for, you see, except your eldest sister


and yourself, I don't so far know one of
you from another."

No, you must be very much puzzled by
us all as yet," answered Joanne laughing.
' We are a dreadful family for a stranger to
be thrown into the midst of. And I don't
know that it is much use at present to tell
you which of us is which, for you will be
sure to forget again immediately. However,
if you like, I can tell you our names
at least. Look  Victor is that fair boy,
and the other with darker hair is FeUx.
Lilian, as you say, you know ; then therein
the green dress, is my second sister,
Edith ; I come after her ; then there are
these two boys, Victor and Felix ; and
then  " She looked to right and left of
her, but after this inspection shook her head.
Maude and Violet should be somewhere, but

I don't see them  they are two dear little


souls ; and I don't see Tom either. There
are two more of them, though  those little
ones sitting on the grass  they are Harry
and Dick. And then there is little Femie.
And  that's all," she said.

It might well be all, Godfrey thought to
himself. The sight of such a family was a
thing to make a man feel grave.

And is this holiday time ? or are you
always like this  all of you together here,
I mean ? " he asked.

Yes," she said, " this is our natural condition.
You see  " and then she hesitated,
but only for a moment,  "it would costa
great deal to send so many children to
school, so papa teaches the bigger boys, and
Edith and 1 teach the rest. We have quite
a little school-room full, and I think it is
rather nice work. Lilian doesn't like it, so we

don't make her help. Besides, it is pleasant,


of course, for inaiiiiiia to have one daughter
free. It is holiday time just now ; you
were right in guessing that. We broke up
school at the end of last week, and we are
to be allowed to play now for a month."

You must be rather glad when you are
allowed to play, I should think," Godfrey
said, and then the girl laughed.

'' Oh, I like it in the summer," she said.
I think everybody likes to be idle then.
My father and I are so much out of doors
together when we have no teaching to do,
and I get long days of sketching sometimes.
Yes ; it is a very nice time. I hope the
weather weill be fine this year."

I hope it will," Godfrey said.

He was watching Lilian at her game, and
thinking how well she played it. She was
a pretty figure in her light summer dress,

with her graceful movements, and her



gold-crowned head. She eclipsed Joanne, he
thought, as a full moon might eclipse a star.
But yet Godfrey was content enough to be
standing by Joanne's side. Her talk amused
him more than Lilian's. The best part of
Lilian was her face.

'' What  do you not play croquet too,
Mr. Helstone ? " cried the Vicar's sonorous
voice, as his stalwart figure came presently
across the lawn. " I thought all the young
men played croquet now."

Oh yes, I play," answered Godfrey,
when an additional hand is needed. But
you are happily so well supplied here  "

"Ah, yes; wee have hands enough, and
feet enough  and tongues enough, too,"
replied Mr. Beresford. "These youngsters
are bothering me for another croquet-ground.
They say one isn't enough  and, to tell the
truth, it's seldom I find that one of anything



is enough here. Mrs. Beresford finds some
difficulty in making one house do  and /
find considerable difficulty, I can tell you,"
with a cheery laugh  '* in managing with
one income. I think, for my own part, that
there ought to be a State provision for  for
this sort of thing."

It would be a very wise and reasonable
arrangement," said Godfrey.

"Well I think so. And I would be
strictly moderate : I would simply ask for a
hundred pounds a-head. That would keep
us going easily. However, if we might be
better ofi", we might, thank God, be worse
and if the birds are too many for the nest,
still the nest, I think, is a cosy enough one."
And the Vicar turned and surveyed his substantial
house with a look that confessed not
only to satisfaction but even to pride in it.

Yes ; the nest is a delightful one," replied



Godfrey, cordially. " I don't know where
one would go to find a pleasant spot altogether.
Or a prettier scene than this," he
added, turning to the croquet-ground again,
where the young ones were still at play,
with Lilian's golden head still catching the
sunbeams.

Yell, for all the trouble they give us
they would need to please our eyes  and
our hearts  sometimes," answered the Vicar,
with a half-laugh ; and then he moved away.
Come with me, and I'll take you to see
one of our best views," he said. "It is not
to be called a fine country about here, you
know, but it gets to have a charm to those
who become familiar with it. And there's
a bit over here that I'm uncommonly fond
of. Come away, Joanne. Joanne and I
take our walk this way most summer evenings.
It's only a step to the view I am



going to show you; but you will say it's
worth looking at, I hope."

I think almost any view would be worth
looking at on such a perfect evening,"
Godfrey answered.

"Do you see the pines there, across the
sunset ? That's fine, isn't it % " said the
Vicar, after a few moments.

They had left the garden behind them,
and were crossing a meadow that rose upwards
to a little hill, crowned with a belt of
trees. They mounted this small eminence
in a few moments, and there an extensive
view stretched itself out before them of
wood and pasture land, broken into picturesque
heights and glades, all lying golden
in the evening sun.

It was a lovely scene, Godfrey thought
and said. The day was nearly ending, and
flecked clouds in the west were getting



touched with crimson, and the dark stems
of the pine trees stood out clear-cut against
the background of an amber sky.

Do you ever come here to paint ? "
Godfrey asked Joanne, but the girl shook
her head.

"It is too wide a view for me," she said.
I only sketch in the woods. I know so
little about painting, really."

Yes ; she knows very little about it,"
Mr. Beresford answered ; " but she has a
true sort of feeling for it, it seems to me.
It is a kind of thing that is in my family.
I had a terrible itching myself when I was
a lad to be an artist. I took my paint-box
and my easel on my back once, and spent
a summer's holiday down in Sussex painting
the commons and the downs there ; and,
upon my word, I had a hard matter afterwards
to get over it. I had already made


up my mind to be a parson, and in the
end a parson, you see, I became ; but it was
touch and go with me for the matter of a
twelvemonth or more. Yes ; Joanne is like
her father : she would give her ears to be an
artist, too."

'* I should like to have some proper teaching
 some teachings that was really brood,"
said the girl, quietly. 'rit is not that I
might be an artist  I could never hope to
be that  but I would rather know how to
paint a little than be able to do anything
else,'

We go about together looking for

effects," said the Vicar with a laugh. '* That

is the little entertainment we two keep

for ourselves. Those other boys and girls

of mine have  the whole ten of them 

no more love of art than they have 

happily  of artifice, so Joanne and I go our


own way,  and keep our own counsel, for
the most part. For you see, Mr. Helstone,"
said the Vicar with a twinkle in his eye,
'' the clergyman of a parish is supposed
by the bulk of his parishioners to have no
other interest except the cure of souls,
and should he by chance feel some other,
he had better keep a quiet tongue about
it, lest the weaker brethren should take
offence."

But how do you reconcile this precept
with your practice of the noble art
that  I hope we are to enjoy together
tomorrow % " Godfrey asked a little
maliciously.

"What  with fishing?" exclaimed Mr.
Beresford, in no Away taken aback by the
question. " My dear sir, fishing is permitted
to the whole body of the clergy!

You could scarcely mention a more clerical


pursuit. Why, the apostles were fishermen."


Oh, if you come to that, one of the
apostles was a painter," said Godfrey.

So he was, and, to tell the truth, 1
have sometimes thought of taking my stand
upon that fact ; only it is not worth while.
Always, if you can, sir, avoid shocking
worthy souls. As for the question of
fishing, however," added the Vicar with
vehemence, " that's another matter altogether.
Fishing is an occupation that in
the highest degree promotes meditation."

So does smoking," said Godfrey.

Well, sir, and I have known some

very excellent clergymen who smoke. I

don't advise the practice ; I don't perhaps

care to see a man of my cloth adopt it ; but

yet I can well imagine that a pipe may

help one not a little on occasion to solve


a knotty point of theology. At any rate
/ can truly say that I have thought out
some of my best sermons with my fishing-rod
in my hand."

'' And / can say as truly that I hope
you will long continue to do so," replied
Godfrey cordially.

I always thank God for these long
summer days," said the Vicar, as they
presently turned and descended the little
hill again ; " I think they are one of His
best boons to us. I like to utter a prayer
at sunrise, if I am awake to see it, and
I seldom miss a thanksgiving when the
sun goes down. Ah, it would be a glorious
world, if it weren't for the hand the devil
has in it."

*' It is a glorious world, it seems to me,

even taken along with that drawback,"

answered Godfrey ; and then the Vicar
VOL. I. 81 6

laughed, though along with his laughter
he shook his head.

** You haven't got my five-and-fifty years
upon your shoulders yet," he said. " Your
eyes will have more sights to see, Mr.
Helstone, and your heart more burdens to
bear before you're my age. However,
I've had a happy life," he added, " thank
God for it," and he lifted his hat for a
moment from his head, though whether
only to shift its position, or as an act
of reverence, Godfrey did not feel that
he knew enough of the man to say.

The croquet players had ended their
game when the Vicar and his companion
returned from their stroll, and as they
regained the garden Godfrey looked at his
watch, and thought that it behoved him
to make some overture towards departure.

But Mr. Beresford's cordial  " Tut, tut, sir,



it's early yet. You must take a morsel
of supper with us presently," induced him
willingly enough to delay his going. Indeed,
to tell the truth, he had every desire
to stay, for he liked his quarters ; the
family amused, and even already in one or
two of its members interested, him ; and
he had not forgotten that Lilian was worth
looking at.

That pretty damsel was coming towards
him now, she and two sisters with her ;
on her right hand the one whom they
called Edith, on her left a bright, round-faced
little maiden of more tender years,
with sweet dark eyes that Godfrey thought
were like Joanne's.

Mr. Helstone went forward to meet the
group.

"I hope you have won your game?" ho

said to Lilian.



But before she could answer  " Then
you hope / have lost ? " the other sister
struck in mischievously  "That is not
civil, Mr. Helstone."

''I am afraid it is not ; but one of you
must have lost, you see' replied Godfrey,
not at all taken aback ; " and as Miss
Beresford is my earliest acquaintance " 

sewell, I did win, I am glad to say,"
exclaimed Lilian complacently; and then
Edith laughed.

She always wins," she said ; " it's no
use trying to beat her, for she plays ever
so much better than all the rest of us. I
wonder if you could beat her ? " and she
looked speculatively at Godfrey. '' I wish
you would try."

I should like to try  or, at least, I

should like to have a game with you some

evening  very much indeed," Godfrey


replied ; " only i am not sure but that you
are not all better players than I am."

Oh, you won't find that," Edith answered
carelessly ; and Lilian made a more
polite speech, at which, however, Godfrey
smiled to himself, for he saw that the
beauty was quite aware of her proficiency,
and her self-satisfaction rather piqued him
to try his strength at some future time
against her.

They began to walk round the garden
in the twilight. Somebody called the
little dark-eyed person off to bed, and
Godfrey took her place by Lilian's side,
and she and he and Edith strolled and
talked for half-an-hour. Their talk was
very simple, as the young man perfectly
well knew ; indeed he knew it so well
that he yawned once as he was listening
to Lilian, and yet his consciousness


of the girl's beauty made him like her
company well enough. Edith was a
brighter o;irl than her eldest sister. Whatever
sparkle was contributed to the conversation
by either of them was given toit
by her.

They walked and talked till the supper-bell
called them into the house, to a homely,
old-fashioned meal. " Such a meal as you
are not much accustomed to, I imagine,
Mr. Helstone," the Vicar said as he took
his seat ; " but you are wise enough, I
hope, to do at Kome as the Romans do."
And indeed Godfrey found his appetite
by no means wanting.

I think the Romans' ways are very
pleasant ones," he said, with a cordiality
that was quite unfeigned.

They ate their supper, and then the

clock struck ten, and, afraid of staying


any longer, lest lie should infringe upon
the household's probable primitive hour of
retirement, Godfrey rose at the sound of
it, and took his leave.

I have had a most pleasant evening,"
he said to Mrs. Beresford, as he shook
hands with her. " I should have spent
a very different one if I had been alone
at my inn."

'' Oh dear, yes ; I have no opinion of
young men spending their evenings at inns,"
replied the lady quickly ; and then, with
a gravity that evidently implied a doubt
lest the temptations of his position at Mrs.
Turnbull's might prove too much for him,
she proceeded to assure Mr. Helstone that
she should be happy to see him at her
house again. " Evidently looking upon meas
a brand to be snatched at any cost

from the burning," as Godfrey said to his



friend with a laugh next day. At the
moment, however, he gave no sign of
amusement, but only endeavoured to express
his thanks. He had no disinclination
to be invited to repeat his visit. " I
shall be only too pleased to come again'*
he said.

The Vicar walked down to the gate
with him.

I think the weather looks well for our
fishing tomorrow," he said cheerily. " I
shall be with you by ten o'clock, so be
on your mettle, and don't let an old man
get the advantage of you."

No fear of that," replied Godfrey, laughing
; " you will find me at my post."

He shook Mr. Beresford's hand warmly.

There was a breadth and heartiness about

the man that had taken his fancy. He

was not an ideal parish priest perhaps, but


he was full of human sympathy and vigour,
and Godfrey, as he walked home to his inn,
found himself looking forward to the next
day's companionship with a very unequivocal
sense of pleasure.



The day broke clear and fair, and Godfrey-walked
down to the river rather before his
appointed time, and had taken his position
and baited his line before Mr. Beresford
joined him. The church clock, however,
had only just struck ten when the Vicar
made his appearance, rod in hand, and
basket slung on his shoulder, and with his
face as cheerful as the summer morning.

True to your tryst, sir ! " he cried in

his mellow voice as he came near. " That's

right, Mr. Helstone. Punctuality is a virtue

I have a great regard for. When T can

trust a man to do a thing at the time he


says he'll do it, I always feel disposed to

think that he is worth trusting in other

ways as well. Come now, let ns see what

sport we are going to have." And with all

the ardour of five-and-twenty, the Vicar,

disencumbering himself of his gear, began

at once to buckle to his work.

They spent some hours together, and

at the end of them Godfrey thought and

said, that he had had a pleasant morning[.

Not indeed that his fishing had been

remarkably successful, for the fish had

proved shy, and had hardly risen so readily

as the Vicar's sanguine hopes had led him

to expect that they would ; but the day

was lovely, the scene had a peaceful beauty

about it that he found delightful, and his

companion's frank and genial talk had

entertained him admirably.

Mr. Beresford, indeed, was a man who,


as lie it it himself, had no unnatural

aversion to the sound of his own voice.

Our tongues are seven us for our service.

as it seems to me," he said to Godfrey,

and, for my own part, I confess I rarely

come within hail of a fellow-creature but

I like to speak to him, and if he gives me

back my speech honestly, I feel a strong

temptation to speak again. Here in these

quiet parts we all run some risk of rusting,

you see. Our world is too little a one to

give us material enough to whet our wits

upon. I always feel to a stranger as if he

were a bit of fresh food, and I go at him

with an appetite."

And, indeed, Godfrey thought, the Vicar

justified his assertion, but, though he

laughed as he thought this, he at the same

time liked the man for his frank confession.

*' I think you have the best of it on the


whole in these quiet places' he said.
"Where human beings are more plentiful
we not unfrequently find them bores."

Ay, ay," returned the Vicar, " in the
big world no doubt you get hard to please.
And you young fellows  you young men
fresh from college especially  you turn up
your noses at your kind, as it appears to mea
vast deal more than is wise. I don't mean
this as a personal charge, Mr. Helstone ;
but you are one of a class ; and, of a large
portion of that class, I say, that a more conceited
lot of young puppies I don't think
exists anywhere on the face of the earth."

'* I am sure, long before I am your age,
I shall quite agree with you," said Godfrey
laughing.

No doubt you will ! No doubt of it at
all," exclaimed the Vicar. " A large percentage
even of the puppies themselves will


agree to it iu ten years' time. By the way,
what sort of a person is that young friend of
yours who is coming ? He doesn't belong
to the fraternity, I hope  does he ? "

What  of puppies ? " asked Godfrey.
Well, perhaps I am hardly the best person
to answer that question,  either as to him
or myself; but, speaking from my own
point of view, on the whole, I should say 
no. I rather hope that you will like him
that is, if you will be good enough tolet
him become acquainted with you."

And if he will be good enough to accept

the acquaintance, perhaps you should add,"

said the Vicar ; " for after what I have been

confessing, you may very well think that

there won't be much reluctance upon my

side. / shall be ready enough to have a

try at him. He has been a college chum of

yours, I suppose % "



"Yes' answered Godfrey, "we have
been intimate for two or three years."

It's not, however, a sort of Py lades and
Orestes' friendship ? "

Oh dear no ! " exclaimed Godfrey.
We have been thrown a good deal together,
and we are both fond of fishing, and
have a few other tastes in common ; but
that is alL"

You think him a good fellow, though ? "

Oh yes. I am sure he is a good
fellow," replied Godfrey cordially.

The Vicar was putting up his things
preparatory to departure, for this bit of
talk had taken place at the end of their
morning. It was half-past twelve o'clock,
and at half-past twelve, he had told Godfrey,
he must betake himself home. " For
my clerical fetters are not very heavy on
me, but yet it behoves me not to forget

altogether that I have to wear them," he
said with a Laugh.

Before, however, they had parted company,
Godfrey, turning his head, said
quickly, " There is Wasp ! " and the next
moment that irrepressible terrier came
bounding across the meadow, aiming, as for
dear life, at the Vicar's legs.

If Avast is here his mistress can't be
far off," said Mr. Beresford ; and in fact in
another moment or two they saw Joanne's
figure in the distance, approaching them
rapidly with brisk, elastic steps. " Ah, she
is come with some message for me ! " exclaimed
the Vicar rather mournfully, and
his surmise proved correct, for as soon as
she came within speaking distance she
addressed him.

** I hoped I should find you still here,"

she said. (She merely bowed to Godfrey,


with a brief " Good morning") *' I am so
sorry to hurry you away, but I thought I
had better come, for poor Mrs. Makes has
sent a message for you. She is suddenly
worse, her daughter says. I am afraid they
think she is dying."

"Oh, poor soul! Then I'll be off to
her at once," cried the Vicar. "I'll just go
straight there. Can you carry my things
home, Joanne ? "

I will carry them," cried Godfrey
interposing.

There is no need," said Joanne.

No, there is no need," echoed the Vicar,
but I'll leave you to settle the matter
between you. I'm sorry I must go. We
have had a very pleasant morning, Mr.
Helstone."

'' We have indeed," replied Godfrey

heartily.

VOL. I. 97 7

And then when they had shaken hands,
and Mr. Beresford had turned his back,
Godfrey began to gather up their gear.

You need not do that," said Joanne
abruptly.

"Why need I not do it?" he inquired.
"Yoa can't imagine, I am sure, that I will
let you take up those things yourself ? "

No, I don't suppose you will ; I see you
won't," she said ; *' but if you will carry
them with you to the inn when you go back
I will send for them from there."

And why in the world should I do
that ? " he asked.

Because if you come with me now you
will break your morning," she said.

I like to break my morning," he
answered.

And then she merely shook her head, and

with a laugh he shouldered his load.


They walked a little way in silence, but
before the end of a minute she made an
abrupt remark.

This is the misfortune of being a
woman ! ' she said.

''So it is," he answered. And then, after
a moment, " Do you consider it a misfortune
to be a woman ? " he inquired rather
mischievously.

I do when I can t get my own way,"
she said instantly.

And is that a thing that happens
often ? "

I don't know that it happens often, but
it is happening just now," she replied with
vivacity. And then she half-laughed and
blushed a little. " You see I am so accustomed
to be independent," she said with a
certain explanatory apology in her tone.

Ah yes, but you should guard yourself


against a love of independence," he answered
gravely. *' All these pleasant little
vices have such a way of growing on one.
Self-dependence soon leads, you know, to
self-indulgence, and then, when you are
once a slave to that, there's nothing you
mayn't do."

She broke all at once into a clear fresh
laugh that sounded so pleasant that he
laughed too for sympathy.

"You took me in for a moment. I
thought you were in earnest," she said.

'' But I a?)i in earnest," he answered. " I
think it is a great mistake in a lady to try
to be independent. The less independent
she is the better."

And the more dependent, I suppose,

she is on  you, the better too ? " Miss

Beresford suggested a little scornfully.

Yes ; that is exactly what I mean.


Women ought to be dependent on men.
When they are left to themselves of course
they must serve themselves, but when they
have a man beside them they must make
him serve them."

I think," said Joanne, " they would
sometimes find it very difficult to do
that."

They were walking across the meadow
with the sunshine in their eyes, and with
the fields with their ripening crops lying
stretched out on either side. This walk was
a portion of the morning s entertainment on
which Godfrey had not calculated, but he
enjoyed it none the less for that. He was
a man quite capable of making the most of
such things ; not one who was likely to let
even minute pleasures slip past him unappreciated,
for want of quickness to recognize

their power to give enjoyment. It pleased


him very consciously at this moment to be
treading the grass at Joanne Beresford's
side ; the girl was a kind of girl he liked to
talk to, honest, and quick-witted, and frank ;
and as for her looks  hers was one of those
faces that charm without regular beauty ;
whose brightness and mobility give them all
the fascination that they need.

Perhaps they both enjoyed their walk.
Godfrey at any rate did, and thought it a
pity that it should be so short a one. They
walked and talked for ten minutes, and
then the house was close at hand ; the gate
was at hand too that led from the fields into
a side walk of the garden.

Mr. Helstone lifted the latch and they

passed through. There was a sound in the

air of boys at play, but their voices came

from some unseen region : the large grass

plot before the house lay deserted in the


sunshine, the jalousies were down before
the windows.

You will come in  will you not ? "
Joanne said ; but Godfrey answered " No."
He could not, it seemed to him, intrude
himself into a house in which he was
almost a stranger at half-past twelve in
the day.

No, I won't come in just now," he said ;
but Mr. Beresford has been good enough
to ask me to bring up my friend Dallas
some evening  "

Oh yes, we shall be glad to see Mr.
Dallas," replied Joanne.

So, if you please, I will just in the
mean time take this basket round to the
kitchen  " suggested Godfrey.

But Joanne laid her hand upon it with a

laugh.

"If you please  you will do nothing of


the kind," she answered. "The sight of
you would quite give the cook a turn. /
am going to take it now  and thank you
very much."

Ah, you thank me with your lips,
but in your heart, I believe, you owe mea
grudge yet," Godfrey said, shaking his
head.

It had been a pleasant quarter of an hour,
he thought, as he went his way homewards
after this. He had a sense that the
whole morning had been well spent. " I
like these Beresfordss ; and I like the father
and this daughter especially," he told himself
" I wonder what Dallas will think of
them ! " And then he began to plan how
he would take Mr. Dallas up upon the
following evening, if his friend had no other
scheme of his own. "That will not be

too soon to go," he thought, '' and I imagine


they are pretty well always at home in the
evening. At any rate, if we time our
arrival so as to catch them as they rise
from tea  "

He had seen them at tea once, and he
told himself that it would be unnecessary
to present himself a second "time at that
ceremonial. " We can dine pretty early,
and come up about seven o'clock' he
thought. " Dallas won't mind the supper,
I think. Indeed, that is rather a nice
little affair, with the girls all present at
it, and most of the others comfortably
tucked up."

He did not feel inclined to go back to

his fishing after the interruption it had

met with, so he dropped the proceeds of

his morning's labours at the inn, and went

for a walk. It was a country that made no

extravagant demands upon his admiration,


but it was pretty and picturesque in a

quiet way that Godfrey liked. He had

travelled of late years a good deal, and

had begun to show a little tendency to fall

into the affectation of saying that he had

left off caring for what is called fine scenery.

He professed to be rather sick of mountains,

and on the whole to prefer plains. The

state of mind into which he had fallen

on this subject was one perhaps brought

on by too close intercourse with members

of the Alpine Club. At any rate the

condition of his taste served Godfrey to

some purpose at the present moment, for

the country round Brentwood boasted of

few features that could charm an eye

seeking for what was large or grand. It

was a homely country, very green and

pastoral, rich with its waving crops, bright

with its June roses in the hedgerows,


beautiful with a wealth of trees, and with

a few soft hills, and with the ever fresh

sweetness of the river ; but, beyond these,

possessing few attractions, except, on a

day like this, the splendour of the summer

sun, that would have thrown a glory over

even many a less lovely scene.

Godfrey had his ramble and enjoyed it.

There had been little in his lot as yet to

interfere with his enjoyment of anything.

He walked beneath the trees, thinking

pleasantly of many things ; of his life,

past and future ; of home and his mother

and Margaret ; of the place in which he

was now, and his surroundings in it. " I

wouldn't marry that girl, Lilian," he found

himself suddenly saying, " in spite of her

pretty face,  I wouldn't marry her or one

of her kind, I think, for ten thousand a

year ! I would a world rather have the


other one. Not that she either is the sort
of girl one would fall in love with. At
least I think not  and certainly, at any
rate, her family is not the sort one would
ever have a mind to marry into. Ten
brothers and sisters ! Good heavens, one's
house would never be free from them ! "
And he both laughed and shuddered at the
picture that his fancy drew of what his life
would be attended by such troops of his
wife's relations  boys wanting to be helped
to start in life  girls perhaps getting into
trouble over their love affairs. " Something
would be for ever happening to one
or another of them," he thought, " and she
would, be perpetually flying off right and
left to help them. I shouldn't like it. I
should prefer to have a wife whose family
affections had not so terribly wide a field

for development."



And so, as lie walked home, Godfrey
came to a clear decision in his own mind
that he would not let himself be taken
captive by the bright eyes of Joanne
Beresford



'' I AM afraid it will be rather a bore, you
know' said Jack Dallas.

Oh, I don't think you will find it a
bore," replied Godfrey. " One can't live ina
place and know nobody."

*' No, one doesn't want to know nobody ;
but there is a great difference," said Mr.
Dallas gravely, " between knowing nobody,
and knowing such a troop as this."

And then Godfrey laughed. " You will
soon pick out one or two from the troop,"
he said.

Jack Dallas was an active, well-made

man, though neither so tall nor so good-looking


as Godfrey ; with a pleasant voice,

and an easy, frank, genial manner that made

him rather a favourite generally. He had

on the whole more popular qualities than

his friend, and possessed a power of making

himself at home with his company that

had often served him in good stead. He

treated the world pleasantly, as a man

does who feels he has his welcome place

in it, and his world, liking his confidence,

for the most part treated him pleasantly

in return.

Well, I suppose I shall have to go and

see them," he said. " I would rather, for

my own part, lie under a tree to-night and

smoke my pipe, but they evidently want to

be civil, and you are in for it already, so

I'll bow to destiny and go and change

my coat."

And he changed his coat accordingly,


and in ten minutes the two young men
had started on their walk.

They had been fishing all the morning,
with a good deal of mutual content.

'' I should not wonder but that the
Vicar would come and look after us,"
Godfrey said once ; but Mr. Beresford
did not come, and they had had their
bit of the river to themselves, undisturbed.


You will admire Miss Lilian," Godfrey
said now, as they walked together up the
road.

I dare say I shall," replied Mr. Dallas
placidly.

' She rather reminds me," said Godfrey,
of that pretty cousin of the Ferguson'.
You know the girl."

Know her ! Why, I'm head over ears
in love with her I " exclaimed Mr. Dallas.



*' If she is like Aggy Ferguson she may well
be a beauty''

Well, she is a beauty," said Godfrey.
*' She is an uncommonly pretty girl. I
don't know that she has much brains."

Oh, brains be hanged ! " exclaimed Mr.
Dallas. " The less she has of thei the
better. I'm sick of clever girls."

'' So am I  of some of them," replied
Godfrey more cautiously.

Here we are," he said in five minutes
more, and he opened the garden-gate, and
they walked uj) the little avenue. As they
approached the house, they saw through
the trees the movement of women's dresses,
and heard the mingled sound of many
voices.

They are at home at any rate," said

Mr. Dallas drily. " It is a delightful thing

to have one's family so constituted that the
VOL. I. 113 8

very air is filled with it. and you are
conscious of its presence from afar. I
don't know that such an experience ever
suggested itself to me before. If the eleven
were one's own property, now, one might
imagine the thrill of fine emotion  "

Shut up ! " exclaimed Godfrey quickly.
There is the Vicar."

And as he spoke they came suddenly
in sight of Mr. Beresford approaching them
from the lawn, accompanied by two small
maidens, the little damsels Maude and
Violet, who held a hand of him on either
side, and made his tall figure look the taller
by comparison.

I am glad you have found your way
back again, Mr. Helstone. We were just
talking of you," he said, speaking aloud in
his full voice while he was still a dozen

paces ois. " And you have brought your


friend along with you, which makes you
doubly welcome. Good evening to you both.
How goes the fishing, sir ? I'd like to
have taken a look at you this morning, but
it would have been against my conscience.
I never fish on Fridays. Not for the reason
you are thinking, sir," and the Vicar turned
his quick eye suddenly on Mr. Dallas, " but
because of my sermon. I make a rule to
write my sermon on Friday always."

And a very excellent ride it is, I have
no doubt," replied Mr. Dallas,  " except for
its result in keeping you from another
occupation that seems rather peculiarly
suited to the day  I mean, from a religious
point of view."

Ah, you're a wag, sir, are you "? " said

the Vicar. And then he looked the young

man over with a smile about the corners

of his handsome mouth. " You see a


connection between fishing and fasting, do
you ? Unfortunately though, I dont fast."

*' But perhaps that is an omission that
may be mended ? " suggested Mr. Dallas
pleasantly.

** When it is, then 111 write my sermons
on Thursdays," replied Mr. Beresford with a
laugh.

They went forward to the lawn, and then
there were other greetings to be made.
Mrs. Beresford, seated on a garden-bench,
and knitting stockings, gave her hand to
the young men and briefly bade them
welcome ; pretty Lilian, in a white gown,
also offered her hand to Godfrey, and smiled
upon his friend, and Edith came up with
a frank smile and an immediate address.

"Now, you will play to-night, won't

you ? " she said to Mr. Helstone. " I want

you to help me to beat Lilian, you know.


Will you be on my side ?  and Lilian and
Mr. Dallas can go together."

"Ah, we shall never have a chance
against those two," replied Godfrey.

But nevertheless he submitted to his
fate, and they were soon busy with their
crame. To tell the truth, he would rather
have played it with Joanne than Edith,
but Joanne, as it happened, was as yet not
to be seen.

Is your other sister not at home tonight
? " he asked of Edith after some little
time had passed ; but Edith was engrossed
with what she was about, and did not
answer his question.

Well, I must do my best to beat Miss
Lilian," said Godfrey to himself.

But, though he did his best, Lilian and

her partner were both excellent players,

and he did not beat her.


'' Oh dear, it was all m} fault," exclaimed
Edith presently, when they were defeated,
and though Godfrey replied civilly, " Not
at all," yet he knew, at the same time,
that she said the truth. The girl had no
method in her play ; she was not a partner
to do credit to anybody. " I'd wager
Joanne would have done better," Godfrey
thought.

But what had become of Joanne ? Mr.
Dallas was evidently getting on admirably
with Miss Beresford. Her face was
wreathed in smiles ; her eyes as they talked
together were alternately drooped and lifted
to his face ; he was flirting with her in the
easiest and pleasantness way, and, after his
usual fashion, enjoying himself  Godfrey
rather enviously thought. For somehow,
though Edith was bright and conversable

enough, Godfrey considered that his own


position, with no one but her for his
companion, might very undoubtedly be
improved.

"What a fellow he is for getting on
with women ! " the young man ejaculated
to himself. *' And he never seems to take
any trouble about it either. He has only
to come amongst them, and they cluster
about him like bees round a ripe peach.
He will have them all in a circle presently,"
said Godfrey with rather a sensation of
disgust, as at this moment even Edith
turned her back upon him, and went to
join her elder sister, leaving him to amuse
himself without her as he chose.

He looked about him. The Vicar had
gone indoors ; Mrs. Beresford was still knitting
steadily ; on one corner of the lawn
three of the boys were playing leap-frog.

Godfrey turned away, and began to stroll


along one of the walks ; and then suddenly
his eye fell on some one coming up the
little avenue, and, with a feeling of unquestionable
pleasure, he perceived that it
was Joanne. Quickening his steps he went
straight to meet her. It seemed to him
instinctively as though she were the special
morsel of the household pertaining to himself.
He greeted her almost with warmth.

I couldn't think where you were," he
exclaimed.

Why, was it so unlikely that I should be
out ? " she answered with a look of amusement.
" Oh, I am often out. I have been
down just now with my cousins."

With your cousins ? " echoed Godfrey''
By Jove, are there still more of them ! "
was the involuntary thought that flashed
across him.) " Have you cousins here,  in

the village ? "



Oh yes, six of them' replied Joanne,
lauo-hinor.

'' God bless me ! " said Godfrey. " And
are they Beresfordss too ? "

Yes, they are all Beresfordss. They are
the children of papa's brother," said Joanne.
He died a few years ago, and then Mrs.
Beresford came here that she might be
near us."

That was natural, certainly," said
Godfrey. " But it rather amuses one to
find so many of you all together. I
suppose now you are sometimes  the whole
seventeen of you  here on the lawn
together ? "

Well, sometimes," replied Joanne, *' but

it doesn't happen very often. Two of my

cousins are not living here. They only

come down in holiday time. They live

in London."



What, are they at school ? " asked
Godfrey.

''No, no," said Joanne, 'they are grown
up. One is twenty-six ; he is an architect
; and the other is going to be a
doctor."

Oh, indeed," said Godfrey. He thought
itwasJList as well that they lived in London.

"The other four are girls," said Joanne.
They are very nice. I should like you to
see them."

I have no doubt I should like it too,"
replied Mr. Helstone.

One of them is very pretty," said
Joanne. " Some people say, almost as
pretty as Lilian. But I hardly think that,
for my own part."

You admire your sister very much

then ? " inquired Godfrey, with rather an

impulse of curiosity.



*' Admire Lilian ? " exclaimed Joanne.
She lifted up her bright eyes with a surprised
look to her companion. " I think
everybody admires her' she said. And
then her expression asked so clearly, " Do
not you  " that Godfrey answered the
unspoken question with a laugh.

Oh, / do, of course," he said. " I think
she is beautifuL"

She is engaged to be married," said
Joanne quietly.

Oh  indeed ! " exclaimed Godfrey. He
hardly knew why, but this information took
him entirely by surprise,

It is no secret," said Joanne, " or else

of course I should not tell you. She has

been engaged since Christmas. I think it

is always better that people should know

these things."

'' No doubt," answered Godfrey. " Somehow


it had never occurred to me that there
was anything of that sort, though I am
sure I miiht well have guessed it  for, so
handsome as she is  "

Yes, I think you might have suspected
it," Joanne answered frankly. And then
she said suddenly, " He is a Mr. Francis.
She met him last year in London. He fell
in love with her there ; and then he came
in the winter and asked her. He is rather
nice, I think. They are to be married
early in the winter."

And will they live in London ? '*
Godfrey asked. " Has Mr. Francis any
profession ? "

Well, he has gone to the bar, but his

father is just dead, and I believe he will

not need to work now. Papa thinks it

rather a pity," Joanne added after a

moment's silence. '' He always thinks it


is a misfortune for a young man at the
beginning to have enough to live upon."

*' And he is, I have no doubt, quite
right' replied Godfrey, with much gravity.

They had been walking slowly forward,
and they joined the others after this.
The Vicar's portly figure was now added
to the group upon the lawn, and he and
Mr. Dallas were fencing; at one another
with good-humoured banter, Mr. Beresford
standing with his legs planted wide
apart, and his arms folded behind his
back.

Yes, I tell you, you take a vast deal

too much upon yourselves, you youngsters,"

he was saying in his sonorous voice as the

other two drew near. " You think you are

here to do all the work of the world. My

dear sir, before your hands leave their mark

on the plough your heads will need to get


something more into them than the learn in 2:
of the schools."

*' We shall have to gain wisdom by
experience, you mean ? Oh yes," said Mr.
Dallas carelessly, " that used to be the
theory, but it's all exploded now."

Ah ! that's exploded, is it ? Then how
do you mean to get your wisdom *? " asked
the Vicar.

I believe," said Mr. Dallas, " in these
days wisdom is a thing that springs out of
a young man full grown, like Minerva from
the brain of Jupiter."

And when does this take place ?  at
one-and-twenty ? " inquired the Vicar.

Well, as to that, there is a slight

diversity of opinion. For my own part,"

said Mr. Dallas, modestly, " I should rather

assign four or five-and-twenty as the most

likely age."



*' Exactly : so I should suppose," said
the Yicar drily. " About your own time
of life, in fact ? ''

Oh," exclaimed Mr. Dallas pleasantly,
that it happens to be mine is the merest
accident. It does not do, you see, to make
these questions personal."

Very true," replied the Vicar, " or else
I might say that to me now there seems a
ripe mellowness in the wisdom of three or
four-and-fifty  "

In exceptional cases, no doubt," returned
Mr. Dallas with a bow. " But, as a general
rule, at three or four-and-fifty, if you will
allow me to say so, Mr. Beresford, a man is
beginning to be formalized  he has got into
a groove  he has adopted prejudices  his
weaknesses have become confirmed."

*' Ah, there you have me, I am afraid ! "

said the Yicar.



He had been fronting his opponent
hitherto with merely a look of good-natured
amusement in his face, but something in
Mr. Dallas's last retort gave him a sudden
twinge, and made the handsome mobile
lips quiver for a moment. In the next he
turned away with a laugh.

"Come, sir," he said to Godfrey, "take
your friend off. He is telling home truths
to an old man."

I beg to say," replied Mr. Dallas courteously,
" that I was quite unconscious
there was any old man here."

They began to saunter round the garden

after this, in one general group at first ; but

the group split presently, and Godfrey fora

little while found himself by Lilian's side,

while Joanne and her father and Jack Dallas

walked on in front.

And so the girl is engaged ! " Godfrey


ejaculated to himself, and he glanced at
her hand. Yes ; there was the orthodox
engagement ring upon her finger. " I
wonder which she cares for most  the
man or the diamonds ? " he thought. Somehow
he could not believe that the man
counted with her for very much.

' This time last year you were in London,
were you not ? Did you like it ? " he
abruptly asked.

Oh, immensely ! " replied Lilian with
ardour. " Oh dear, yes, it was delightful."

You went about a great deal, I
suppose ? "

I think we went everywhere," she
exclaimed. " To parties, and theatres, and
operas, and concerts, and exhibitions ; I
never enjoyed anything so much in my life."

You have some cousins in London, I

think ? " Godfrey remarked.
VOL. I. 129

Oh yes ; we have some cousins." Lilian's
tone became suddenly indifferent. " But I
didn't see much of them."

They were busy men, I suppose ? " said
Godfrey. " They wouldn't have time to go
with you to exhibitions and concerts ? "

Oh, of course not. I never thought of
depending on them' replied Lilian with
some emphasis. " I think on the whole
cousins are rather embarrassing," she added
after a moment. " I mean, you are supposed
always to be intimate with them, and
sometimes, you know, it  isn't convenient."

*' So I can imagine," said Godfrey laughing.
" But 1 am sorry for the young Mr.
Beresfordss."

" Oh, there isn't much need for that,"

replied Lilian carelessly, *  for, you know,

it isn't me,"

It isn't you ? " repeated Godfrey, with


a little hesitation. He did not understand
her speech.

'' No," exclaimed Lilian frankly, " it's
Joanne."

And then, when the young man made
no answer, for, to tell the truth, he felt
curiously taken aback by this information,
and was even conscious that it had brought
the colour into his face 

I always think it's a pity between
cousins  don't you ? " she said.

*your sister was telling me about her
cousins in London a little while ago," said
Godfrey, after his two or three moments of
silence ; " but I had no idea from how she
spoke that there was any  that she and
either of them were thinking  "

Oh, I don't mean that she is thinking

of it," interrupted Lilian eagerly. " Oh

no, I am thankful to say she isn't. At


least, she can't help ifdnking about it, you
know, because he bothers her so ; but I
don't believe she will ever have him. Papa
wouldn't let her, for one thing, if he could
help it."

"A persistent lover may achieve a good
deal, however, in spite of difficulties,"
replied Godfrey.

Yes, he may. Oh dear yes, of course
I know that," said Lilian. '' But 1 don't
much think that Hugh will achieve anything.
Poor Hugh ! I am afraid," said the
girl suddenly, with rather late repentance,
*' that I oughtn't to have told you about
him ; but, you see, I suspected you were
thinking it was me,  and that was such
a complete mistake."

No ; I didn't think it was you," said

Godfrey. " I suppose in that direction I

had had my suspicions lulled. I don't


know," he added with a little hesitation,
whether you will allow me to congratulate
you ? "

Lilian blushed very becomingly, and
looked very conscious, but her expression
denoted also perfect willingness to be
congratulated.

** Oh, I am sure  oh yes, of course  you
see everybody knows ; and people are all so
kind," she murmured rather incoherently.
J " I hope you will be very happy," he
said, cordially. *' Mr. Francis, I think, lives
in London ? "

Yes ; he lives in London at present ;

but I am not sure yet  in fact, we are just

making up our minds -there are so many

things to be considered. I wonder now

what you would say ? " exclaimed the girl

abruptly; and then in the frankest way

she proceeded to lay their various schemes


before him, while Godfrey, with not a little
amusement, listened, till at last both her
talk and their slow stroll round the garden
were brought to an end together by the
other walkers meeting them, and arresting
their steps.

Well, young people, what do you say to
coming in ? " asked the Vicar. " I think,
for my own part, the evening is getting
somewhat damp."

They found the lamps alight in the
drawing-room, and Mrs. Beresford sitting
by one of them with her work.

Ah, I thought it was time you came
indoors," she said. " You are all so fond of
catching rheumatism."

So they are," replied the Vicar. *' But

you and I know that, and the wise young

folk don't ; and there's no way of teaching

them that I can see ; for you can't put


more into a tilled dish, and they all (as they
have just been telling me) think they are as
full of wisdom already as an egg is full of
meat. Come and give us a tune, Edith. I
don't know whether you young men are
musical. Perhaps one or other of you can
trill out a ditty for us ? "

'* Dallas can," said Godfrey. "He does
all these things."

*but I hope Miss Beresford will sing
something first," said Jack.

'* If you mean me, I only play," explained
Edith, from the music-stool. " It is Joanne
who sings, can't sing a bit."

But she began to play some quaint old

airs, and she played them rather prettily,

with a light touch, and a good deal of

expression. Mr. Dallas went to the piano

and stood beside her.

I think these are charming," he told her.


"Yes; they are nice old things. Papa
digs them up for us," she said. " He is very
fond of them. He used to sing himself,
once ; but he makes Joanne do it instead
of him now. I think it is a pity he won't
sino still, for he has such a fine voice."

Ah yes, I used to sing ; but I found it
was one of the things in me that tried the
weaker brethren's faith," struck in the Vicar,
overhearing what his daughter said. *' They
thought a parson should only sing psalms.
So now I only do sing psalms. You will
hear me at church on Sunday  if you come
piping like a bullfinch."

I wish you would pipe for us now,
in anticipation of Sunday ? " suggested Mr.
Dallas ; but the Vicar shook his head and
laughed.

No, no," he said ; " I've given all

that up. My mantle has fallen upon


Joanne. Go and minor soniethinor to us,
my lass."

And then Joanne took her sister's seat,
and struck a chord or two, and sang.

It was one of the freshest young voices,
Godfrey thought, that he had ever heard 
sweet and flexible and musical as a bird's.
She sang a wild, pathetic Swedish song,
with a spontaneity and naturalness, and a
curious grace, that took the young man
fairly by surprise.

He went up to her side when she had
ended, and told her it was beautiful.

*' A Swedish song, is it ? " he said. '* Do
other people never sing Swedish songs ?
This seems to me perfectly delightful."

*'So it is," echoed Jack. *' But then 
if Miss Beresford will allow me to say so  I
think the main part of the charm of it
depends upon the singer."



Thank yuu,' tsaicl Joaime, with a simile.
*' But indeed," lie added quickly, "it is so
easy to sing simple songs like these."

I can believe that ?sou find it easy,"
exclaimed Godfrey; 'for, upon my word,
you seem to me to sing them as if singing
were your natural language."

Mr. Helstone did not often pay compliments
; but perhaps from that very cause
when he did utter one it told with more
effect ; and this exclamation, which was
indeed delivered very fervently, brought a
little warmth of colour to Joanne's face.
But whether she was pleased by his admiration,
or whether she thought the expression
of it uncalled for, she left him to decide for
himself, for she made no reply.

Do sing again," Mr. Dallas asked ; and

then she sang again  a little rippling

melody, with a refrain at the end of each


verse that was like a cry of joy; and
Godfrey, listening, thought all at once of
Margaret Egerton's singing in the drawing-room
at the Dene, and felt as if the force of
contrast could not go much farther.

Why, she sings as not one woman does
in five hundred," said Mr. Dallas, enthusiastically,
an hour afterwards, as the two friends
were walking home. " I don't mean that
there is anything remarkable in her execution,
of course. I suppose she never had a
regular lesson in her life ; but, by Jove, the
spirit and fire that she puts into it all, and
the pathos too, are astonishing. T declare
when she sang the refrain of that second
song I could hardly stand still on my feet."

Yes ; it was wonderful," said Godfrey.

** I should like to hear the old parson at

it too," exclaimed Jack. " With that grand

face and that grand voice of his he would


make your heart-strings thrill, I fancy.
An odd family altogether  very odd ; but
they're interesting  no doubt of that. And,
upon my word, the eldest girl is a beauty 1 "

She is engaged to be married," said
Godfrey.

'* Is she \ I'm not surprised," said his
friend. " And it's all the better for us, for
she will be the pleasant to flirt with. I
always like to flirt with engaged girls. It
makes you comfortable, for you know they
have no sinister designs upon you."

Only there is the objection that it maybe
a little dangerous at times," said Godfrey
" unless you flirt strictly in moderation."

Oh, but I always flirt in moderation,"
answered Mr. Dallas lightly.

He bean to whistle a snatch or two of

one of the songs that Joanne bad sung as

they walked along the silent road under the


stars. Godfrey was thinking of Joanne
too.

She has got most of the brains of the
lot, I should say," Mr. Dallas remarked
abruptly just before they reached their inn.

*' She ? Who ? " inquired Godfrey, for
they had been silent for the last few
minutes ; and then Jack laughed.

*why, you don't think that I mean
Miss Lilian, do you ? " he said.



Intimacies spring up quickly in conn try-places
; and, with a rapidity that rather
amused them, the two young men found
themselves in a few days becoming wonderfully
intimate with the Vicar's family.
Jack Dallas, as I have already said, was a
man who quickly made himself at home
wherever he went ; he was so pleasant and
unobtrusive and ready in his easy way to
fall in with other people's occupations and
accommodate himself to other people's ways,
that those who were brought much in contact
with him rarely failed to find themselves
treating him as a friend before they


would well have ceased to regard another
man as a stranger; and, though Godfrey
was less pliant than his companion and
more reserved, yet perhaps the ready welcome
that was so frequently accorded to
the one for his frank manner was almost as
often given to the other for his handsome
looks.

We can never start fair, for when we
enter a room together all the women's eyes
light upon you like flies upon a honey-pot,"
Mr. Dallas said one day to his friend, " and
it sets a man at a terrible disadvantage.
If it were not that I've got a little more
brass than you, and am rather more supple
in the backbone, I'd be tempted to propose
that we should part company."

I don't know what you mean by

women's eyes lighting on me. I'm hanged

if I want their eyes to light on me,"


Godfrey lupliud, oilier hotly, to this isjjeccii.
You have the best of it, I think,  as you
know well enough."

o

'' Well, I'm not quarrelling with my bread
and butter," replied Mr. Dallas placidly.
*Each man has his own mats."

o

And you have a tolerably keen recognition
of the value of yours, so if I were
you I'd shut up," returned Godfrey curtly ;
upon which the other laughed. Perhaps,
as Mr. Helstone had said, he was very
comfortably aware that for the most part
the playing of second fiddle was not very
likely to be his role in life.

And, in fact, at this special time it was
Mr. Dallas, and not Godfrey, who was fast
becoming the most popular of the two
young men at the vicarage. He made himself
so pleasant to the whole family that

they could not but like him in return. He


fitted himself to Mr. Beresford's humour,
and gave him back banter for banter, and
jest for jest ; he flirted in the airiest way
with Lilian, and played with the boys, and
petted the little girls, and talked nonsense
or sense, as they pleased, to Edith and
Joanne, and sat by Mrs. Beresford's side,
with an almost filial air of. devotion, threading
her needle for her when she worked,
and winding the skeins of wool for her
knitting, till even that usually severe woman
owned her heart touched.

*' He is certainly a remarkably pleasant
young man," she allowed to the Vicar
before she had known him for a week, and
the Vicar gave a hearty assent.

He's a fine fellow  a very fine fellow.

I don't know when I've liked a lad so

much," he said.

Both the young men had had a specially
VOL. I. 145 10

pleasant day on the first Sunday that they
spent at Brentwood.

*' Will you come up and dine with us ? "
the Vicar had asked them the day before.
We dine early, you know ; you will have
to eat your mutton at one o'clock ; lout if
you think you can do that we shall be
delighted to see you'

"I can eat mutton at any hour," Mr.
Dallas replied pleasantly to this address.
I never find that it comes amiss."

So it was understood that the invitation
was accepted, and at eleven o'clock the
next morning the friends betook themselves
to church, intending to join the Vicar's
family there, and remain for the rest of the
day with them.

The church was a picturesque old

building, grey, and a little grim, with a

tall line of elms on one side, bounding its


churchyard. Within were a few curious
monuments, and an old oak roof, and
certain other vestiges of antiquity, of all of
which the Vicar, they soon perceived, was
very proud, and for which he claimed their
notice and commendation when the service
was at an end ; but, to tell the truth, both
Jack and Godfrey thought that the edifice
wore, on the whole, a somewhat bare and
dreary appearance.

Do you know, if I were you, I think I
would dress it up a little ? " Jack ventured
to say to Edith. "It's very  interesting
as it is, of course, but it must look pretty
gloomy, I should fancy, on a winter's day."

'' Yes," answered Edith laughing, '' on a
grey, shivering winter morning, when there
is hardly light enough for you to read
your prayer-book by  ah, you would call it
gloomy indeed if you saw it then ! But



it's four hundred years old, you know, and
whenever wee remember that blessed fact
we are always expected to be proud and
thankful."

The Vicar had preached a sturdy sermon
to them, on the practical text : *' Gather up
the fragments." '' An admirable sermon,"
as Mr. Dallas boldly told him afterwards,
and specially applicable to Helstone and
me."

And therefore, perhaps, you think I
preached it at you ? " retorted Mr. Beresford,
with a twinkle in his eye. " Bat I did not,
sir ; though, if you find the cap fit, so much
the better."

There is no doubt the cap fits," replied
Jack. " With every sentence you
uttered Helstone and I blushed more
and more, until we couldn't look at one

another."



Speak for yourself, sir ! I have a
notion that you had a good deal more cause
to blush than Mr. Helstone," returned the
Vicar laughing.

It had been a very simply conducted
service, for Mr. Beresford was not the sort
of man to trouble himself about innovations,
aud what had been done in his church
a generation aoo seemed to him fittings
enough to be done still. He had read the
prayers, as he himself might have said,
decently and in order," and an old-fashioned
clerk had led the responses and
given out the psalms. But when the
singing began, the Vicar's fine sonorous
voice had made itself felt with effect. He
had sung and Joanne sang, and Godfrey,
sitting in one of the Vicarage pews, had
thought such music was well worth listening

to. The blending: of the two voices


had given him an almost curious sense of
pleasure.

They walked across the churchyard to the
Vicarage in a straggling party. Some of
the children had gone on before, and Mr.
Beresford followed ti the rear.

I've got to give them another sermon,
you know, at three o'clock," he told
Godfrey ; " but I don't ask you to come
to it," he added with a laugh, " for you
will do pretty well if you digest the one
you have heard already."

"Are you afraid of too much strong

meat not being good for babes ? " Godfrey

answered, laughing too ; and then he did

not say whether he would return to church

or not, but when after dinner he found

that Edith and Joanne were both going

back he was content enough to accompany

them.



Mr. Dallas, however, for himself, decided
differently.

I am rather disposed to take a walk
and meditate," he said. " You see, I am
always an advocate for moderation in all
things ; and one sermon, as Mr. Beresford
so justly remarked, well digested  "

"Is better than a stalled ox," interrupted
Edith, " and dyspepsia therewith."

And then they parted ; but when the
church-goers came back they did not find
Mr. Dallas meditation.

o

Instead of that he had got a group of the

youngest children round him on the lawn,

and was engaged with them there in most

un-Sabbatical romps. Mrs. Beresford heard

their shrill shouts of delighted laughter

before she had more than half crossed the

churchyard, and there was haste in that

excellent woman's step and reproof in her


eye as she unfastened the gate, and, in
advance of all the rest, came suddenly on
the culprits.

My dear Mr. Dallas ! " she exclaimed
in a voice that ought to have awed the
irreverent young man, and brought him at
once to a sense of his fault ; *' do you remember
 surely you cannot  that this is
Sunday, and that the congregation is
coming out of church ? "

' But we haven't been to church''
answered Jack airily, and he paused and
looked at her with the most innocent face.
What ought we to do  in the circumstances
? '* he said.

Not certainly what you are doing''

replied Mrs. Beresford severely. And then

she went forward, and took one of her sons

by the shoulder : '' Harry, do you know

your collect ? " she said.


Yes,  III bear testimony to that," cried
Jack interposing, '* for I've heard him say
it, and barring a word or two, which are
immaterial  "

Mr. Dallas, allow me 1 " said Mrs.
Beresford with decision. " Harry, you will
go indoors instantly, and wash your hands
and brush your hair, and read over your
collect again until I call you. Violet, and
Maude, and Tom, you will all at once go
indoors. Mr. Dallas  " and then, as the
children filed off, she turned again to the
young man  " I am surprised at you ! If
you had given the matter a moment's
thought, you would have perceived that
such riotous playing as this that you have
been encouraging is most unbecoming on a
Sunday afternoon, in a clergyman's garden."

Dear me, I suppose it is," exclaimed

Jack penitently. "I did encourage it 


there's not a doubt of that, but I forgot all
about the congregation. If there is anything
2: I can do  even to standiuo- in a white
sheet and making a public confession  "

There was a little ripple of laughter ;
some of the elder girls had come up, and
it was impossible to be serious any longer.
But Mrs. Beresford, though she could not
retain her severe attitude, still shook her
head with a final effort at rebuke.

I sh ill be afraid, you see, to leave you
with these children again on any other
Sunday," she said.

My dear Mrs. Beresford," cried Jack,

*' you may trust me for the future as though

I were an archbishop." And he looked so

pleasantly confident, and so certain of being

taken at his word, that even Mrs. Beresford

thought it best to say no more.

I think you are very absurd," she only


answered ; and then she laughed too, and
the young sinner knew that he had made
his peace.

They had a delightful evening after this.
The Vicar came amongst them in half an
hour, looking like a man who had thrown
a weight ofi* his back.

No, Tm not fond of preaching sermons,"
he confessed to them, in answer to something
that Jack said. " To tell the truth, I
always feel a certain sense of shame in the
business. I sometimes think if we could
take it in rotation  I and my flock  and
preach in turns to one another, it might
make a better thing of it ; for, you see,
we don't live up to our sermons  that's
the worst," he exclaimed With a sudden
change in his voice as of some note gone
out of tune. " We get up into our pulpits

and wee preach to men what most of us


imperfectly practise ; and either we deceive

the people who are simple, and make them

believe what fine fellows we are, or we give

a handle to the people who are shrewd, to

say what humbugs we are ; and, either

way, it's bad enough  both for our own

soul's welfare or God's glory. There are

plenty of men amongst us, I know, who

are not as we are  as we are, I mean, who

are the Laodicea," said Mr. Beresford,

flinging: the term at himself with a sudden

fine scorn, " but I am not talking of them ;

they are our martyrs and heroes : I am

speaking of the common herd of us  the

men no better than their fellows, who have

gone into the Church simply because the

Church has offered them a living, and not

because the love of God was burning in

their hearts, and driving them into the

streets, and alleys, and dark places, to


speak out the truth that was in them.
There are plenty such  plenty: I wish I
were one of them' the Vicar ended,
suddenly and sharply.

It was not a speech that either Godfrey
or Jack could answer, and they held their
tongues when Mr. Beresford had made it,
though they spoke of it to one another
afterwards.

A grand old Pagan sort of fellow I "
Jack said. " I should have liked to clap
him on the back, and cry, * Cheer up, old
boy ! ' only I didn't quite know how he
would have taken it."

And Godfrey said more gravely  "What

a pity he didn't choose another walk for

himself, for evidently he was never meant

for the one he has got into. He would

have made a fine soldier, if he had taken

to that line of life, and have got his


conscience satisfied so, which it will never
be now, I am afraid."

Oh well, I don't know that. 1 doubt if,
on the whole, his conscience troubles him
much," answered Jack with a laugh.

And perhaps Mr. Dallas was right, for
in spite of the clear-sightedness that made
the Vicar so well aware of his spiritual
shortcomings he seemed in truth a happy
man. He was probably of too genial and
easy a temperament to disquiet himself
about any evil that it was beyond his power
to remedy, and perhaps he had faced the
fact so honos ao that he was something:
of a failure, that it had lost a good deal for
him of its natural sting.

At any rate, on this Sunday he got rid

of his momentary depression with great

celerity. The fit was hardly on him for

five minutes, and long before the young


men had forgotten this speech the Vicar

was himself again, with a hearty word for

every one, and a hearty laugh for every

joke. Only Godfrey noticed, and wondered

whether it happened by chance or not, that,

as they all afterwards strolled together up

and down the lawn, Joanne walked beside

her father, and kept her hand for a longtime

within his arm.

There was no evening service  (" Why,

you don't think I preach to them three

times, do you ? " Mr. Beresford answered

in an amazed tone to a question on the

subject that Jack put)  so, when tea had

been taken, they were all free to do as they

liked, and half-a-dozen of them, the Vicar,

with his three eldest daughters, and Godfrey

and Jack, all strolled together into the

Vicar's hay field, and sat down there on

the heaps of hay, and talked till the sun


went down. It was a field that sloped

down to the river; they could see the

sparkling water, and the meadows beyond,

golden in the evening sunshine, and the

pine trees with their purple stems.

The Vicar was full of geniality, and of

pleasant talk about a hundred things.

Jack happened to ask him some question

about his early days, and as he answered

it his answer awakened other memories,

and he lay back on the new-made hay,

with his arms folded beneath his head,

and his eyes shaded by his wide-awake,

telling them one story after another of his

college days. The man was so social and

human and hearty that his stories kept

them listening; and interested for a honos

time. The voices of the others came in

often with laughter, and with an occasional

remark, but it was the Vicar almost


exclusively who talked, filling the air round
him with his mellow tones.

After more than an hour Lilian was
the first to rise, and then when Lilian
rose Jack too got on his feet. She thought
it was a pity not to have a walk, she said.
So they all roused themselves, and went
down to the river, and walked along its banks.

Joanne called Godfrey's attention presently
to a certain group of poplars, and
said she had been trying to make a sketch
of them, "just of those three trees, and
a bit of the water, and the marsh mallows
on the bank," she said. " I thought it
might turn out prettily,  but it is so hard
to do even a little thing well."

"It is hard to do anything well," answered
Godfrey profoundly. " But I should
like to see your sketches some day. It

strikes me  only I am no judge, I know 
VOL. I. 161 11

that this is a very palatable sort of place, 
that is, in the modern sense, of course.
It's odd, is it not, that suitableness
seems to be considered quite another thing
now from what it was even fifty years ago ?
People would not have thought much of
this sort of scene for a picture then." 

** No ; they would hardly have given
a glance at it, I suppose," she said.
Changes like that are so strange," she
added rather sadly after a moment. " They
make one feel sometimes as if there were noway
of getting at the truth of things  T
mean, almost as if there lucre no real truth
or beauty, but only fashion."

'' "Well, as for that, art is only in the

condition of everything else. We have no

fixed standing ground anywhere," said

Godfrey.

*'No," answered Joanne gravely, and


then she turned away, and Mr. Helstone,
who was fond of a discussion, and would
have liked well enough to have engaged in
this one, had to shut his mouth.

'you were afraid that I was going to
shock you with some tremendous sceptical
utterances that first Sunday night," he told
her once afterwards, laughing, when they
had become more intimate. *' I saw you
shudder, and put on a rigid face, as you
might have done if you had seen the devil
at your elbow. But I was a very harmless
devil in reality. You might have let me
go on in perfect safety."

I was not afraid of letting you go on.

It was only  " said Joanne hesitating a

moment, " that there were too many of us

there. If only you and I and my father

had been together I would not have thought

of stopping you."



At the time, however, she did not know
him well enough to tell him this, and so
she turned away and addressed herself to
some one else, and a minute afterwards
Lilian said something to him, and he
walked on by her side.

Lilian was not a young lady who
troubled herself much about abstract
truths, or indeed about difficult questions
of any kind. She began to talk to Godfrey
very artlessly, after her usual fashion, and
he put Joanne out of his mind, and
answered her in her own strain. She was
one of those girls who are so pretty that
whether they are wise or foolish no man
can regard them quite with indifference.

We must go in to prayers," said the
Yicar, when the clock had struck nine.
We say our prayers early, young gentlemen,
on a Sunday evening."


So they all went in, and sat in the 
and listened while the Vicar, amidst
his assembled family, read his brief evening
service. It was a ceremony of which
neither Godfrey nor Jack had seen anything
hitherto.

'' Do you think it takes place on ordinary
nights at all ? " Mr. Dallas speculated
afterwards with his friend as they walked
home ; but Godfrey only shook his
head.

He fired it off at us," said Jack, " with
very little loss of time. I looked at the
clock over the mantel-piece, and it was all
at an end in seven minutes. What an age
of progress it is ! "

"And with what feelings the ghosts of

our ancestors must look at us ! " said

Godfrey.

There was supper after prayers, and the


Vicar as he sat over his glass of grog was at
his best and heartiest.

I must have another morning with you,
boys," he told his guests before they parted.
I have got work to do tomorrow, and a
day of parish visiting on Tuesday : but
on Wednesday, if that should chance to
suit you  V

*ewe will make an engagement of it at
once," said Jack.

Come, then, and we'll have a grand
day'' cried Mr. Beresford. * We'll catch
our fish, and you shall come back with
me and eat them."

I am afraid that will be rather too hard

on Mrs. Beresford ? " suggested Godfrey,

hesitating a little ; but Jack only looked at

his hostess with one of his brightest looks

of confidence, and 

Oh, Mr. and Mrs. Beresford are one,"


he said in a tone that sent a ]aught round
the table, and brought a smile even to the
lady's lips.

I am not so sure of that sometimes,
Mr. Dallas," she said. *but at least,
as far as this point is concerned  " And
then she seconded the invitation very
cordially.

She's not a bad old girl when you
know how to get round her," Mr. Dallas
remarked irreverently to his friend afterwards.
" The shell is a little hard to crack,
but there is a kernel inside for them who
can crack it dexterously. For my part I
like her."

"And you believe that she likes you,"
answered Godfrey.

' Well, I believe that a man is the better

for carrying these sort of faiths about with

him," replied Mr. Dallas frankly. '' Why


shouldn't she like me ? I take a good deal
of trouble to make her."

Oh, you deserve your success, I don't
dispute," said Godfrey. "You have always
been all things to all men."

I don't know about all meyil' replied
Jack, a little dubiously ; " but all things to
all ivomen, to the best of my powers, I do
think I may say I try to be."

*' And in the end you are a great humbug,"
said Godfrey.

** Well  and in one sort or another are
we not all humbugs ? " returned Jack in his
pleasantness way.

It was ten o'clock when they walked
home, and as they went they agreed that
the day had been a very pleasant one.

Upon my word I begin to think," said

Mr. Dallas, "that we have fallen on our

feet. It's odd that what one would have


fled from if anybody had told one of it
beforehand  this prodigious family, I mean
should really turn out to be one of the
greatest attractions of the place. I hardly
know which of the girls I shall fall in love
with yet."

Is it necessary," inquired Godfrey, " to
fall in love with any of them ? "

Oh, that is of course a matter of
opinion," answered Jack lightly. " For my
own part I am inclined to do it. But
then of course I shall do it with discretion.
So far, I should say, I am rather
disposed to make up to Joanne."

Indeed ? " said Godfrey, a little curtly.

Yes. There's a bright espiegle look

about her," Mr. Dallas went on, " that I

like amazingly. She is shy too, and a

certain sort of shyness always gives charm

to a girl. She doesn't bestow her smiles


ou you with the radiant readiness of Miss
Lilian ; nor, like Miss Edith, cap your
smart sayings with would-be smart sayings
of her own. That Miss Edith is a little
too frank and unimpressionable for me.
She talks to you as if she thought you
were a boy, or another woman. I'm not
taken by that sort of thing."

"Well, she doesn't intend you to betaken
by it, I should say," replied Godfrey ;
I think she is very unaffected and nice 
in her way."

"Oh, I have no doubt she is. I only say

it is not a way that appeals to me much.

I like both the other girls better. And, I'll

tell you what,  I like that little person

Violet. I believe when she is grown up

she will beat Lilian. I could almost have

it in my heart to ask her to wait for the

next eight or ten years for me ; only, if I
 170

did, the chances are that I should never
come back again, and so the proceeding
might have consequences that would possibly
be a little annoying to her. No,"
said Jack thoughtfully, " on the whole I
think I had better keep to Joanne."

That is, if she will allow you,  perhaps
a more modest man would add," said
Godfrey with a little irritation.

Oh, I never pretend to be modest,"
answered Mr. Dallas, with perfect frankness.



Mr. Helstoxe and Mr. Dallas were
walk in Of down the villa se street one afternoon
soon after this, when they came on
Joanne and Lilian standing talking: to some
other girls. The young men would have
passed by with a bow, but Joanne put out her
hand, and then, when they had exchanged
greetings, introduced her companions.

They were the other Beresfordss,  two of
the cousins of whom she had already
spoken to Godfrey. They all stood together
for five minutes ; then Godfrey and
Jack left them aofain, and went their own

way.



Are there many more of them, do you
think ? " said Mr. Dallas in a subdued
voice, as soon as they were out of hearing.
I never knew such a family in my life !
A pair of not ill-looking girls, too, these
new ones."

'* Oh, they seem to be all rather nice-looking,
more or less,  the whole clan of
them," replied Godfrey. *' One of these
other Beresfordss is counted very handsome,
Miss Joanne told me once."

What, another one besides those behind
us ? Oh, by Jupiter, what a tribe ! " cried
Jack with a face of dismay.

But the next day Godfrey laughed to

himself, for, chancing to be standing at one

of the windows of the inn, he saw his friend

coming down the street in company with

evidently the whole four Miss Beresfordss of

the village, talking to them, and sauntering


on beside them, apparently on the pleasant-est
terms with the entire quartette. He
came in presently, very ready himself to
laugh at his proceedings.

There's nothing like taking matters into
one's own hands," he exclaimed. " I met
those two girls that we saw yesterday, and
I could tell by their faces that they wanted
to be spoken to, so I spoke to them (poor
souls, they blushed as I stopped them ;
they don't see a young man every day), and
then their sisters came up, with curiosity in
their blue eyes, and of course I got myself
introduced to them too ; and then, as they
didn't seem to know how to move on, I
turned and moved on with them, and I've
been escorting them home to their garden-gate.
Upon my word, it's great fun ! "
cried Jack, with a face full of amusement.

*' All the four dear souls are talking of me


together, I have no doubt, at this very
moment."

They live with a widowed mother," said
Godfrey. " I dare say she was looking at
you in horror over the window-blind, and
she is probably lecturing her' daughters on
their conduct now. If you go on like this,
Jack, you will get us a bad character in the
place.

''Oh, these four little girls won't give
me a bad character," exclaimed Jack with
happy confidence. " Very nice girls, I call
them all, and one of them, as you were
saying yesterday, uncommonly pretty.
Hardly up to Miss Lilian, perhaps, but very
good-looking undoubtedly. I think we
ought to have them up at the Vicarage."

Do you propose to invite them there ? "
inquired Godfrey.

Well, I said something to them about



it," replied Jack, " and my remarks were
received with the utmost graciousness. I
suggested that they should come up and
phil croquet with us. Oh, I'll manage it
easily ! They have a croquet-lawn of their
own too,, they told me, so I am rather
disposed to call on their mother and have
a look at it."

I have no doubt you will call on their
mother before many days are past," Godfrey
answered lashing;.

And he proved perfectly right, for the
next day it happened that the Vicar
introduced both the young men to his
sister-in-law, and Mr. Dallas at once seized
the opportunity to make himself so agreeable
to Mrs. Arthur Beresford that that
lady, before they parted, expressed her
hope that she should have the pleasure of

seeing him and his friend at her own house.


Unfortunately," she said, " my sons
are neither of them here at this moment ;
though I am expecting one of them very
soon. But if sou could find any amusement
in coming to an entirely feminine
household  "

"Oh, if we were to come, you see, we
should supply the element that was wanting,"
exclaimed Jack in the readiest way.
I am sure we shall be very pleased indeed."

And then he hauled Godfrey up, and
Godfrey also received his invitation, and
had to make his civil speech.

She is not so simple a woman as Mrs.

Vicar," said Jack after this, when he and

Godfrey had gone their own road. *' I

should say she was a woman with a good

eye for business, and a keen sense of her

maternal duties. I don't think I'm a great

catch myself (though, of course, about that,
VOL. I. 177 12

opinions may differ), but as for you, with
your good-looking face, and your broad
acres  "

I think I can take care of my acres,"
interrupted Godfrey curtly. Upon which
Jack laughed, and began to talk of something
else.

They went very shortly and made their
call. They found Mrs. Arthur in a small
but very daintily-adorned house  a low-roofed
cottage, all roses and jasmine on the
outside, and filled within with such a crowd
of pretty things, that Jack declared afterwards
when he was once seated he was
afraid to move hand or foot, lest annihilation
of some fragile ornament should follow.

Mrs. Beresford and two of her daughters

received them. They were the two youngest

daughters, and Godfrey, at any rate, who

had not quite his friend's gift for drawing


out young ladies, found them shy. Mrs.
Beresford herself, however, was by no means
shy,''and she took Godfrey in hand presently,
and was very gracious to him.

"I am so sorry my other girls are out,"
she told him. " They have gone to pay a
necessary visit  a visit of condolence" 
and then she gave a little sigh. " Such a
sad case ! A poor young mother, only
twenty-three, who has lost her only child.
My Clara is very fond of her. I think you
have not seen my two eldest daughters yet,
Mr. Helstone ? No ? so I thought. But
you will give me the opportunity of introducing
you to them, I hope. Will you and
your friend come and take a cup of afternoon
tea with us tomorrow ? And then, if
the day should be fine, and you were disposed
for a game of croquet afterwards  "

Of course Godfrey said that he and Mr.


Dallas would like very much to come. He
did not feel very eager to prosecute this
new acquaintanceship ; but since they had
made their call, they could hardly refuse the
consequent invitation.

** You have been seeing a good deal of the
family at the Vicarage ? Yes ; and they
are all so nice, are they not 1 " said Mrs.
Arthur. " The Vicar is quite a character ;
and has he not got a fine family ? Really it is
surprising  so many of them, and all likely
to turn out well. I am sure I need not tt41
you that I am very proud of my nephews
and nieces. Don't you admire Lilian, ]mr.
Helstone ? Is she not a beautiful girl ? "

Yes, she is very handsome," said Godfrey.
" The handsomest, of course, by far,
of them all."

So I thijik. Only  poor dear Lilian ! 

her face is her fortune, 1 always say  for she


is not clever. No ; I must allow she is not
clever. Nature seems very just sometimes
in her division of gifts, does she not ? Here
is my eldest niece, you see, has got the
beauty, and her sisters have the brains' '

Oh, well, I don't know about that," said
Godfrey rather quickly. " I should say
that they had all their share of good looks.
I think Miss Joanne is very pretty indeed."

"Do you really?" asked Mrs. Arthur, and
raised her eyebrows a little. " Well, I don't
agree with you. She is admired by some
people, I know, but  I don't care for that
style of face. Now Edith, I think, is pretty."

Miss Edith is very nice," said Godfrey.

But he smiled as he spoke. '*' Mrs. Arthur

has evidently no love for Joanne. The

maternal heart does not forgive her, I

suppose, for not returning the devotion of

her cub of a son," he thought to himself.


They sat for half-an-hour, and then made
their adieux. There was no chance, it
seemed, of the other girls coming in.

But we shall see you tomorrow ? " said
Mrs. Beresford, giving them her hand, with
one of her most friendly smiles.

And then the young men repeated their
promise that they should be seen tomorrow,
and took their leave.

They did go back on the following day,

and spent a lively enough afternoon. They

found a number of other people there ; their

hostess and her daughters appeared in the

daintiest of summer dresses to receive them ;

it waB a complete " at home," though on a

small scale. Evidently Mrs. Arthur's taste

was of a different kind from that which

reigned at the Vicarage, and she cared to

exercise her hospitality in a different way.

Early in the day, before they had bent


their steps towards Rose Cottage, Godfrey
had come across Joanne in the village, and
had walked with her down the street.

We are going to afternoon tea to-day
with your aunt," he had told her ; but when
he announced this fact, she replied that she
was already quite aware of it.

** Have you not learnt yet that everybody
knows everything about their neighbours
in Brentwood ? " she asked him. " My aunt
sent a messenger up to the Vicarage last
night to spread the news."

'' Dear me, what made her do that ? " said
Godfrey quickly.

But Joanne did not choose to enlighten

him, and went away laughing, and he only

got an answer to his question when, a few

hours later, he found Lilian and Joanne

herself amongst Mrs. Arthur's guests.

I think it was very bad of you not to


tell me that you were coming' he said to
her then.

Why was it bad ? You looked so scared
when I told you the first part of my aunt's
message that I thought I would spare you
the rest," Joanne answered, with a gleam in
her bright eyes.

How well she looked among the other

girls ! Godfrey thought ; better than any of

them, to his mind  with more real charm,

that is to say. He had engaged himself to

play a game of croquet before he saw her,

and he had to go and fulfil his engagement,

but as he played he knew that he would

a great deal rather be talking to her. The

Arthur Beresfordss and their friends did not

interest him, but the indifference he felt

towards them only gave warmth to his

feeling for Joanne, and added keenness to

his admiration of her.


He went in search of her as soon as his
game was finished. She was not in the
garden then, but he found her indoors, talking
in the drawing-room to a lady, who,
however, to Godfrey's satisfaction, rose ashe
entered the room, leaving the seat she
had occupied vacant  a tempting seat, of
which he soon took possession, with unmistakable
pleasure.

"I was wondering what had become of
you," he said. " We have finished our
game, and now I feel that I have done my
duty."

And so you have come here to seek an
ignoble repose ? " she said.

I have come to seek a pleasant repose,"

he answered. " It does not seem ignoble

to me in the very least." And he leaned

back in his easy chair, feeling that his

position was highly satisfactory.


Joanne rather disturbed his placidity,
however, by her next words.

If your game is over, mine, I imagine,
must be coming on," she said.

Oh, you are not going to play, are
you ? " he exclaimed, starting quickly forward
aoain. *' I never thought of that !
But I don't believe they are going to do
anything just now  I don't indeed ; so
please sit still till they come for you.
Surely you needn't be in any hurry ? "

I don't want to keep them waiting,"
she answered, " otherwise I am in no hurry
at all."

Then, depend upon it, when they
are ready they will come. People always
take care of themselves," said Godfrey
severely. " I feel as if we had been
seeing so little of you  of any of you 

lately."



That is not our fault, I think' said
Joanne.

No ; it is only the fault of circumstances.
We should have come up to-night
if it had not been for this affair."

Then I think you had better come up
tomorrow night," she said.

"May we? We shall be delighted. I
have just been playing with your pretty
cousin."

So I saw," said Joanne.

'rand she is very pretty, certainly."

''I am glad you think so. She is a
pleasant girl too."

I suppose she is. They seem all
pleasant. Your aunt is very  ahem !  very
kind."

'* My aunt is a clever woman  cleverer

than any of her daughters." Joanne made

this reply very quietly.


Or  than her sons 1 " asked Godfrey.

He gave his companion a rapid glance
as he made this inquiry. He was rather
curious to see if it brought any look of
consciousness to her face, and (not with
too much satisfaction) it seemed to him
that it did bring; a look of consciousness.

No ; not cleverer than her sons," she
answered, after a moment's hesitation. " I
think you would call both her sons clever
in their different ways."

'' She seems to be expecting one of them
here before long," said Godfrey rather stiffly.

Yes," replied Joanne. And then there
was no doubt that the colour came a little
into her cheek. " She is expecting Hugh."

Is he the eldest ? "

*' Yes."

The one who is an architect ? "

"Yes."



** He would need to have some brains if
he hopes to get on in his profession," said
Godfrey rather curtly.

Well, 1 told you he had brains," replied
Joanne, with a little asperity.

And what brings him here at this
precise moment ? "

T suppose his holidays bring him here,"
she said. " He is able to take them at his
own time, and he likes the summer weather
and the long days, I imagine  not unnaturally."


As we all do, you mean ? " said Godfrey.
Yes ; I suppose we all like to get the best
things we can for ourselves. We are always
in this world treading on one another's toes,
and jostling one another's elbows."

I don't think that is true always," said

Joanne quietly.

There was a minute's silence after this.


Mr. Helstone felt that the surface of his

temper had unreasonably got a little ruffled.

Joanne was looking as if her thoughts had

gone to a distance from him. He glanced

at her, rather dissatisfied, and then, all at

once, with a sudden but rather hesitating

look of inquiry, she raised her eyes to his.

I wonder, as we are speaking of Hugh,

if you would let me ask you something ? "

she said a little shyly. " I only learnt from

Clara just now that Hugh is coming here so

soon. If he comes, as they think he will,

next week, of course you will see him, and

you would please me very much," said

the girl rather earnestly, " if you would

show a little kindness to him. AVould you ?

He does not make friends easily  you will

understand why after you have seen him

once ; and I think if you and Mr. Dallas  "

Oh certainly ; I shall be very happy,"


said Godfrey ; but he felt that, almost
against his will, he made his response stiffly,
and in a tone of extreme ungraciousness,
and he was uncomfortably aware in another
moment that Joanne was conscious of this
too, for her eyes met his again, with a
sudden change in their expression, and the
next words she spoke proved that she
had distinctly comprehended how she had
made a request which he had no mind to
grant.

Very likely it will not be necessary. I
did not mean to trouble you," she said
quickly and rather proudly.

It will be no trouble. Of course, anything
I can do  " began Godfrey again,
feeling ashamed of himself, and trying to
speak with more warmth.

But to this second speech Joanne made

no reply, and there was a sudden awkward


silence, which he was racking his brain
to think how best to break, when some one
came into the room to tell her how the
croquet players were calling for her, upon
which she at once rose from her seat and
crossed the room, without addressing another
word to Godfrey, who followed behind her
more vexed with himself than he could well
have told.

Hang the fellow ! " he ejaculated inwardly,
indignantly feeling as if what had
happened had been all Hugh Beresford's
fault. And yet the annoying part of the
matter was that he could neither throw the
blame of it on him, nor explain to Joanne
what had made him meet her request with
so much unconsciousness.

He felt absurdly disturbed and vexed ashe
followed her out into the garden. A
man like Jack Dallas, if he had committed



the same sort of blunder that Godfrey had

done, would have laughed it off, and set

the matter right again in a minute ; but

Godfrey was not like Jack ; he had none of

his friend's pleasant self-assurance or ready

mental agility, and the thing he had done

annoyed him very much. He could not

think of another word to say to Joanne ;

and, as for her, she troubled herself to take

no further notice of him whatever ; and

then in little more than a few seconds his

opportunity was lost, for other people were

speaking to her, and other people also had

addressed him  the pretty Clara and her

mother both coming up to him together,

and claiming his attention for themselves.

He was not with Joanne again after this.

For half an hour he saw her playing on the

lawn ; then, at a moment when his back

was turned, she and Lilian must have taken
VOL. I. 193 13

their departure. A little later on lie set
himself to seek for her, though with only a
very vague conception of what he should
attempt to say to her should they meet ;
but he found soon that they were both
gone.

*what  did you not say good-bye to
them ? " Jack asked him in his light way.
Ob, I did. I walked with them to the
gate. They want us to go up tomorrow."

Yes, I know," said Godfrey shortly.

The two young men got back to their

inn at eight o'clock. The afternoon's

entertainment had amused Mr. Dallas,

but Godfrey was rather savage, and could

not be got to say much about it. He

listened to his friend's talk very unsympathetically

; he was not in a mood to feel

any interest in the Arthur Beresfordss.

He found himself instead thinking persistently


of Joaone, and planning how he

could efface the bad impression he had

made upon her. He began, before long, to

get impatient for the next day to come.

Possibly, he thought, when he went up the

next evening he should find that she had

already forgotten his offence, and should

that be so it might be best to leave well

alone, and hold his peace ; but if  as he

strongly suspected would be the case  she

should not have forgotten it, the he must

be prepared with something to say to her,

he told himself; and accordingly he set

about his preparation, and pursued it with

a devotion that seemed worthy of a more

important cause.

He was very eager next morning for the

hours to pass, and for the time to arrive

when they might present themselves at the

Vicarage. As the day went on and the


evening drew near his spirits rose. Last
night he had been intensely annoyed with
himself at what he had done ; but now, to
a large extent, his annoyance had given
way to a far more agreeable feeling of
expectation. He had had a misunderstandings
with Joanne, and now his business was
to clear this misunderstanding up ; and ashe
opened the gate of the Vicarage garden
he was conscious that he was looking forward
to his approaching work with very
definitely pleasant anticipation.

It is one thing, however, to make one's
plans, and often quite another to carry
them out ; and somehow Godfrey did not
find it an easy business this evening to get
Joanne to himself. She greeted him indeed
on his arrival, but she greeted him very
briefly ; "and after that, try as he would, he

could not gain a minute's talk alone with


her until the evening was nearly coming
to an end. " She is avoiding me intentionally,"
he said to himself, and the thought
that she was doing this roused him and
made him impatient ; but it also unquestionably
flattered him a little too. If she
had shown unconsciousness of any cause
of coolness between them it would not have
flattered him half so much.

At last, however, when the sun had set,
made bold, perhaps, by the fading light, he
arrested her determinedly, and made her
give her ear to him. She was walking on
the lawn with some of the others, and he
came to her side, and said something to her
that only she could hear.

I have been wanting all the evening to

speak to you," he said. " Do stay with me

for a minute. There  just let them pass

on." He paused for a few moments till


their companions had got to a convenient
distance, then  " You must know how angry
I have been with myself for having vexed
you yesterday," he exclaimed with warmth.

She had stood still, but her face, it
seemed to him, had not its usual look as
she answered quietly 

T am sorry you thought that I was
vexed."

'' I made you misunderstand me," he
exclaimed quickly.

She gave a little cough. " I don't think
I misunderstood you," she replied. And
then suddenly she raised her straightforward
eyes to his face. '' I asked you
to do something that it was a mistake to
have asked; and you let me feel that it
was a mistake : that was all," she said.

But it was no mistake," he answered

eagerly. *' How could you have thought it
198'

one for a moment ? As for hesitating to do
such a trifle  why, I only wish there was
anything in the world I could do  to make
you believe  "

It was no matter," she interrupted him
quickly. And then she hesitated. " You
make far too much of a little things."

But you have been vexed with me all
this evening, you know," he said.

This accusation took her aback, and she
blushed.

I am sorry if I have seemed vexed,"
she answered gently. " I ought not to
have minded. It was only  " And then
she stopped.

' It was only  what ? "

I mean I was annoyed, of course," she

said with a little reluctance, 'eat having

said something which your manner, when I

said it, seemed to me to show that you


thought I ouolit to have left alone.
Naturally one does not like to make
mistakes of that kind."

*' But I tell you again, you made no
mistake. I wish I could explain it to
you," said Godfrey earnestly.

'' Then why don't you ? "

And, as she asked this, Joanne looked
so straight in his face that Mr. Helstone
was afraid he blushed.

But yet, if the question embarrassed him,

on the whole he was pretty well content.

He had got what he had been aiming at :

he had secured Joanne's companionship;

and though she might put inquiries to him

that were difficult to be answered, still there

was a certain pleasure in being confronted

by these inquiries, and in finding himself

driven either to face or to evade them.

*' Then why don't you explain it ? " she


asked quickly, and lie experienced this
unpleasant sensation of blushing, and then
he almost laughed.

Are there not hosts of things that won't
bear explanation ? " he said. " The smallest
things sometimes would need the most
words to make them clear  far more words
than they were worth  and this was a thing
of that kind. It was nothing  absolutely
nothing ; and yet, without an absurd
amount of explanation, I couldn't make
you understand it."

And that is all you mean to tell me ? "
she said.

Yes," he answered ; *' that is all I mean
to tell you."

And then there was a little pause.

I think we had better go in," she suddenly
said.

Oh, dear me, no ! '*' he exclaimed ;



don't let us do that. Why, I haven't
spoken ten words to you yet. And  and
YOU haven't told me that you believe what
I have been saying ? I mean, that you will
take my word for it, and believe that you
misunderstood me ? "

Of course, if you say that I misunderstood
you, I  believe it," she said.

*rand we are not going to be worse
friends than we were before ? "

I hope not," she answered. " I should
be sorry if such a little thing were to make
any difference," she added next moment.

Were you very angry with me ? " he
asked, curiously pleased that she did not at
once let the subject drop.

I was angriest with myself," she said.

Yes ; but if you took my answer to

imply a rebuke you must have hated me.

A rebuke ! What could you have thought


of me ! Do you know," he said, " I felt so
overwhelmed when you got up in that silent
way and went out of the room, that you
could hardly have upset me more if you had
boxed my ears."

But it was quite natural in me to go
away," she said.

Yes ; I am afraid I had made it natural.
That was the pleasant reflection that you
left me when you went, and that stayed
with me all night, and has been haunting
me all day ; and that, if you had had your
own way just now. Miss Joanne, I should
have taken back again with me to my pillow
presently."

Well, but you will not need to do that
now, you see," she said, and laughed, though
rather quickly and shyly.

Next moment she repeated  "I think we

had better come in," and he did not this


second time venture to object. They had a
little way, however, to go before they could
reach the house, and he made the most of
this by walking at a most leisurely and
dilatory pace.

"My aunt's little party went off very
well  don't you think it did ? " Joanne
asked. " They like these afternoon parties
at Rose Cottage ; they often give them.
This one was given, you know, entirely in
your honour."

1 feel very much flattered," said Godfrey.


In yours and Mr. Dallas's together, I
mean," Joanne explained. " They all like
Mr. Dallas."

'' Oh, Jack makes himself popular everywhere,"
said Godfrey.

I suppose he does. I wonder if it is a

good thing ? " said Joanne abruptly.



To make oneself popular ? It is a rely
pleasant thing, at any rate."

"Yes, it is very pleasant." But Joanne
spoke a little dubiously. *' And I like Mr.
Dallas too," she added quickly. " Nobody
could help liking him, I think. I only
wonder sometimes whether one would ever
get to care ver?/ much for anybody who is
so exactly the same, as he is, to all people."

Well, but you needn't try to care for
him so very much, need you ? " asked
Godfrey, not at all seeing the necessity
for any proceeding of this kind. '* Most
of us are content with liking;, and being;
liked, a little."

But most of us also want a few people
to like us more than a little, I suppose,"
Joanne answered; *' and what I was wondering
was whether anybody would ever

like Mr. Dallas so."



He has got a mother aud a sister," said
Godfrey. " His sister is younger than he is
a nice bright kind of gir] ; Lut, it is true,
I never heard him speak very much about
her ; and as for his friends  well, I don't
know that he has any friends with whom
he is more intimate than he is with me.
He makes his way capitally everywhere;
that is about it, I fancy."

And so, in other words," said Joanne,
you mean that you agree with me ? "

"Well, I don't know," said Godfrey;
but, on the whole  why, yes, I suppose
I do."

"There is the supper bell," said Joanne
next moment ; but Godfrey merely answered,
Oh, but they will ring another ; " and
instead of hastening his steps, on the
contrary stood still, and, leisurely turning
round, began to survey the heavens.



What a delightful evening it is ! Do
you know much about the stars ? " he
said.

No  nothing," replied Joanne with
decision.

There is Jupiter' he said.

So I see," she replied ; " but he will
be much better worth looking at by the
time you go home."

Perhaps not ; the clouds may have
risen by that time," answered Godfrey.
Just wait one moment. I think it is
delightful to watch them coming out in the
twilight. Let me see  is that Sirius ? "

I really don't know," said Joanne.

I think it must be. And you see the
old Bear, of course 1 "

Oh yes  I see the Bear," said Joanne.

'' And  the Pole star now. Let us lookout

for it."



But just as Godfrey had thrown his head
back, and begun to gaze up to the zenith,
the second bell rang, and with a laugh
Joanne left him, and went in at the open
door.

*' I don't know if you can get Mr.
Helstone to think of supper ; he is star-struck
in the garden," she said to her
father, meeting him as she entered the hall ;
and then the Vicar went forward to find
his guest.

Come along  come along, Mr. Hel-stone
! The stars will wait for you, sir,
but supper waits for no man," he cried,
and he laid hold of Godfrey, who, to tell
the truth, was showing no further eagerness
to pursue his astronomical researches, and
grasping him by the shoulder brought him
straightway indoors.

It had been a pleasant half-hour, and



Godfrey was quite aware that he had found
it so as he entered the house ; and,
moreover, the evening after this remained
pleasant to him to the end, for he managed
to get himself a seat at the supper-table
by Joanne's side, and Joanne's manner to
him while the meal lasted had never been
franker or more friendly. Indeed he almost
told himself that it had never before been
equally friendly ; and, for his own part, he
distinctly felt that their little quarrel and
reconciliation had placed him in a closer
relation to her, and given birth to
an intimacy that they had not hitherto
reached.

In idle times the smallest trifles often
suffice to interest us. It was a comparatively
unimportant matter yet to Godfrey
that Joanne Beresford should smile upon

him, but still as he sat beside her to-night
VOL. I. 209 14

he was quite aware that he sought for her
smiles, and he knew presently that he went
home satisfied because she had given them
to him.

*rit seems to me," said Jack, as they
walked back to their inn, '' that you're
getting uncommonly sweet on Miss Joanne ;"
and then at this charge Godfrey laughed 
not like a man who disliked the accusation.

*' I am not as sweet upon her as you
are ujDon  pretty well every woman you
meet," he retorted, however.

*' Oh, come ! " cried Jack, with alarmed
modesty. " That's too much ! Every
woman I meet I Upon my word, I should
have my hands fulL"

"Well, they are full, I should say,"

replied Godfrey. " I am sure amongst

all these girls here you are having an active

time of it."



*' It is certainly an amazingly nice
place for girls," Jack assented with appreciation.
" Quite wonderful, considering that
they are all of one clan. I'm beginning to
like that little girl Edith better, by the
way."

'' Oh, Edith is very well," said Godfrey.

Yes  she is rather a bright little person.
You see, you engrossed Miss Joanne so tonight
that I was obliged to take up with
her sister."

/ engrossed her ! " exclaimed Godfrey.
That is a pretty charge, when I never
even spoke to her till nine o'clock ! "

Well, if you didn't speak to her, no one
else did. / couldn't get her attention at
all, I know," said Jack lightly. " I thought
something was the matter with her, she was
so quiet."

And then, though Godfrey made no


answer, he felt something suddenly go
through him him that was singularly like a
little thrill of triumph.

She was content enough to talk to me
he thought.



Look here, Helstone ! Who's that ? "
said Mr. Dallas one morning, and Godfrey
joined his friend at the inn window, and
looked with him into the village street,
where there were several people passing,
and amongst them, Mrs, Arthur Beresford,
with a young man at her side.

Godfrey gave a glance at him, and felt
an impulse of dislike.

I suppose it is her son," he said shortly.
You heard he was coming, didn't you ?
He's a poor-looking fellow."

'' Poor-looking ! " echoed Jack. " Poor
is no word for him. I don't believe it's

possible that can be young Beresford."



But before the day had ended, Mr.
Dallas found that it was young Beresford,
for he and Godfrey met him with some of
the Beresford girls in the afternoon, and
they introduced him to them as their
brother, who had just come down from
London.

He was an undersized, ill-made, sickly-looking
young man. The girls, who were
blooming and full of spirits, stood talking
to Jack and Godfrey, and their brother
in silence traced patterns with his walking-stick
upon the ground. Jack good-naturedly
addressed a sentence or two to him, but he
made only the briefest responses. He had
a cadaverous face, only redeemed from extreme
plainness by a pair of dark and rather
noticeable eyes, which, however, as if he
were ashamed of them, he kept resolutely

drooped.



A very odd sort of person. Is he half-witted,
do you think ? " Jack asked, when
he and Godfrey had passed on ; but Godfrey
shook his head.

'' They say he is very clever," he answered.
One wouldn't think it, certainly. He hasa
terribly hang-dog look."

It's odd how one in a family sometimes
will be like that ! " said Jack reflectively.
The sisters here are such good-looking
girls, and the mother must have had no
small pretensions in her day. It must be
something of a humiliation to a woman of
her kind, I should think, to have such an
ugly duckling as this amongst her brood."

Ad he has had the presumption to

make love to Joanne ! " thought Godfrey

indignantly to himself. But he did not

utter this remark aloud.

Godfrey had really tried since that little
"215

episode of his with Joanne to feel charitably
towards Hugh Beresford, and to prepare
himself to make his acquaintance with at
least a moderate amount of friendliness ; but
the sight of the young man had precipitately
quenched their kindly feeling, and involuntarily
inspired him in its stead with one
that was little short of aversion. For that
any one so mean in look, so infelicitous in
manner, so wanting in, at any rate, all outward
manliness, should have had the presumption
to raise his eyes to Joanne Beresford,
appeared to him to argue a nature so
embued with conceit, that any alliance with
it, or even any tolerance of it, would be
impossible.

We shall find him, I dare say, as vain
as a peacock," he said aloud. " It's odd, but
these half-developed people generally are.

I suppose nature gives them self-satisfaction


from a sort of freak of kindliness. It must
make them much more agreeable to themselves,
no doubt,  though certainly it makes
them a vast deal more offensive to their
fellows."

Godfrey was starting with Mr. Dallas
for an afternoon's fishing with the Vicar,
who had promised to meet them at his
favourite point of the river. There was
no pleasant man to fish with than Mr.
Beresford, and the two friends had soon
come to be of this mind, and to welcome
him cordially whenever they could get him
to join them. He came striding towards
them over the grass to-day before they
had been five minutes at their trysting-place,
with Wasp at his heels, and his
fishing-tackle on his shoulder, and his
frank, handsome face as full of sunshine
as a summer day.



*' Got ahead of me ! Got ahead of me,

lads ! " he called out briskly as he came

near. "Ah, I thought I should have had

you this time ; and so I should, only an old

soul stopped me at the gate. An awful old

tramp, I'm afraid ; but she got a shilling

out of me,  though I made her listen to a

sermon for it," said the Vicar, shaking his

head over his own weakness. " Well, well ;

it's hard to know what to do with them !

You two are young: men beginning life, and

if you will take my advice, you will never

give to tramps. / made a resolution once

that I wouldn't, many years ago : I and

my wife made it together  and it has been

a considerable satisfaction to me ever since

that my wife at any rate has held to it."

And then the Vicar gave a half laugh, and

a half-sigh, and, disencumbering himself of

his traps, began to give himself to his work.


Jack said to him presently, " We have
just seen your nephew. We met him with
his sisters, as we came along."

What Hugh ? " asked the Vicar. " He
has arrived then  has he ?  poor lad ! "

They said he came yesterday," said
Godfrey. " He doesn't look very strong,
I am afraid."

Strong ! " echoed Mr. Beresford with
emphasis. " He's as weak as a cat. Never
knew such a fellow ! But he's a clever
little chap for all that," he added. " You
wouldn't think it, to look at him, but he
has got a head of his own, and an uncommon
deal of information in it too, as
well as of mother wit. Oh no, Hugh is nota
lad to be disposed of with a flick of
your thumb."

We must get acquainted with him,"

said Jack courteously. " He didn't say


much just now, but we must have him
some day by himself."

Oh, you will get on with him," said
the Vicar. "You will like him. Of course,
it is a terrible pity that he doesn't look
more like a man  that will always tell
against him, for people can't free their
minds from prejudice in such matters ; but
he has so much talent  real, good, solid
stuff  that I have a strong feeling he'll
make his way in the end. I think he
will  I hope he will," said the Vicar
cheerily.

*make his way, and  win his cousin, I
wonder ? " thought Godfrey to himself, and
all at once he flung out his line with a
vehemence that made Mr. Beresford look
round surprised.

'' Hallo ! " he said.

But Godfrey recovered himself in a


moment, and gave a laugh. " I was only
beating the water," he explained.

The young men went up to the Vicarage
that evening, and they found Hugh Beresford
there when they arrived. He had
come up with a couple of his sisters, and
the girls were playing croquet, but Hugh
was standing on one of the gravel-walks
with his uncle, a small insignificant figure
that contrasted rather pitifully with the
Vicar's grand proportions, his breadth of
shoulder and length of limb.

He seemed to be talking with some
animation before Godfrey and Jack came,
but as soon as they approached he shrank
into his shell ; and presently, withdrawing
himself from them, Godfrey had the doubtful
satisfaction of seeing him join his cousin
Joanne, and carry her away with him to a

more distant part of the garden. They


disappeared down one of the side-walks, and,
to tell the truth, the sight made Godfrey
grow hot.

He went to Lilian, who had just finished
one game of croquet, and offered himself asher
partner for the next, and they played
for half an hour. By the end of that
time Joanne and her companion had
returned from their stroll, and Jack had
joined them ; and Godfrey, feeling that
it behoved him to get on better terms
with the man, sooner or later, if he meant
to stand well with Joanne Beresford, joined
them too.

Joanne and Jack were talking together

as he came up, and, as she glanced towards

Godfrey at his approach, she gave him a

sudden smile that he was conscious did a

good deal to smooth his rather ruffled

mood. With almost a good grace a moment


or two after his arrival be made some slight

o

remark to Hugh.

You must find this a pleasant change
from London ? " he said to him.

Oh, I don't know," answered Hugh,
shifting his weight uneasily from one leg to
the other ; and Joanne laughed and shook
her head.

No, no ; he never finds any place a
pleasant change from London," she struck
in. " He would live in London, if he could,
from the 1st of January to the 31st of
December."

'' Dear me ! " said Godfrey. He gave a

quick glance at this passionate lover of

urban life. " Well, no doubt it is a place

that gets a great hold on one," he said; " but

I doubt if I should ever become attached toit

to that extent. I suppose you have lived

in London a long time ? "


Oh yes, pretty long. At least  oh no,
not very long. About four years' answered
Hugh confusedly, with his eyes on the
ground.

That is a good while," said Godfrey.

But Hugh at this only wheeled round,
and without making any reply began to
survey the prospect, as if to put a stop to
further questioning.

A charming manner ! " thought Godfrey
to himself. " Surely it is not possible that
she can care for him." And he looked at
Joanne again, and unexpectedly met her
eyes fixed upon his own, with something in
their expression that, whether rightly or
not, he read to be of the nature of an
appeal.

It was a quick look, quickly withdrawn ;

but it made Godfrey do what  had she not

given it to him  he would not have done :


it made him, after only a moment's hesitation,
address himself to Hu2fh again.

I have a friend in London in your profession.
I wonder if you know him  Mr.
Coulsen ? " he said.

Hugh withdrew his eyes from the landscape,
and for the first time a smile that
was both a quick and a pleasant one came
to his sallow face.

I know Mr. Coulsen very well indeed.
He has been very kind to me," he said.

Tell me something about him," replied

Godfrey. " I have heard nothing of him fora

long time." And he set himself at Hugh's

side, and carried the young man off with

him, leaving Joanne behind talking to Jack.

It was rather an act of heroism, he thought ;

but if she asks me to do anything for her

again, by Jove, she shan't have an excuse a

second time for thinking I am unwilling to
VOL. I. 225 15

do it," he said to himself; and so, in a
fervent spirit of self-sacrifice, he marched
Hugh Beresford up and down the garden
walks,  and met with the reward that
perhaps his devotion merited.

For when he had fairly launched his companion
on a subject that interested him he
found that in truth Hugh was not hard to
converse with. He had a good deal to say
about Mr. Coulsen, and after his first awkwardness
and hesitation had been overcome
he said it easily enough. Then Godfrey
asked him about his own work, and they
talked for a time of that, and finally fell
upon other subjects of more general interest ;
and Godfrey was fain to confess that, mean
and insignificant as was his outward man,
his companion soon showed that he had
stuff in him of perhaps more than an ordinary
kind. For nearly an hour they strolled
22G

about the garden, while gradually Hugh
emery-ed more and more from his shell, till
Godfrey found at last that it no longer
needed any effort on his part to draw him
out.

Yet it seemed as if he had the power of
conversing only with a single person, for
dien at last they rejoined some of the
others on the lawn he relapsed again almost
instantly into shy and self-conscious silence.
They all talked round him, but he took no
part in their talk ; his lips had closed as the
first sound of their voices fell on his ear, and,
as far as Godfrey was aware, they opened
no more.

It was a fine evening, and they lingered
in the garden for a long time. Once, before
they went indoors, Joanne took an opportunity
to say suddenly, half aside, to
Godfrey 



** I think you have been very kind tonight."


Why ? Do you mean merely because I
have talked to your cousin ? " he replied
after a moment's hesitation (for he might
have pretended that he did not understand
her, but somehow with Joanne such pretences
seemed always out of place). '* I
have found him very interesting," he said.

Yes, he is interesting when you get to
know him. When you once get him to
talk it is all right," she returned ; " but
you understand now what  what I meant
the other day,  and I should like to say
that I am very grateful to you," said
Joanne hesitating, and with a little shyness
in her voice.

I wish you had a greater thing to be

grateful to me for," he replied. " Or

rather," he added quickly, " I wish I could


show my gratitude by doing something
greater for you. I wonder if there is anything:
I shall ever be able to do ? " And
then he looked in her face, and something
that he thought he saw there encouraged
him to add, '' I would give more than a
little if there might be."

You will do a great deal for me," she
answered quickly, 'if you will continue to
be kind to Hugh."

This was not exactly the response that
Godfrey had desired, and he winced a little
as Joanne made it. However, after his
eager profession, he could not perceive that
he had any way of escape, so 

I shall always be glad to have a talk

with your cousin," he said, " but as for

being kind, I am afraid the kindness of

talking to him is a very small one."

Oh, but indeed it is not," she answered


earnestly. " You see now what he is ; you seethe
injustice he does himself. You could
not do a kinder things than let him be with
you sometimes. If you really would care
at all to do anything to give me pleasure,"
Joanne said, rather timidly, " you could not
please me more, nor make me more grateful,
than by doing that."

Then you may be very certain that
I will do it," Godfrey said.

But he had not liked this last speech
of Joanne's at all ; he had liked it so little
that he could not restrain himself from
adding, after a moment's silence 

Hugh Beresford is very fortunate to
have such a warm friend in you."

Hugh and I have been friends all our

lives," she answered quickly, " and when I

see him neglected it gives me pain."

But he would never be neglected if he


could only  well, if he could but throw
himself a little more into things," said
Godfrey, rather doubtful how to choose
his words.

"Yes; but you see thiit is exactly what
he seems to have no power to do."

Well, it is unfortunate, certainly," replied
Godfrey. '' It will be a great drawback
to him, I am afraid, as far as ordinary
intercourse with the world goes. Not perhaps,
however, that that matters much," he
added, " for he seems to me such a clever
fellow, that in his profession I should think
he woidd be sure to get on."

"I am so glad to hear you say that,"
exclaimed Joanne warmly.

And then Godfrey winced again. It

was, as he knew, no concern of his, and

yet it disturbed him to perceive these signs

of excessive interest. The man was very


well in his way, but considered in the
character of Joanne's lover, to tell the
truth, Godfrey found that he could not
think of him with equanimity. He felt
angry with Joanne because she seemed so
fond of him. That she should regard him
with pity, and a certain amount of kindness,
and even, as far as his talents were
concerned, of admiration, he would have
found natural and pardonable, but to feel
affection for him ! The evidences that she
gave of doing that were what discomposed
Godfrey, and acted on the moment as a
spur to incite him half-unconsciously to
put himself in the lists against Mr. Hugh,
and try his strength with him.

He had got Joanne to himself, and he
managed to keep her as his companion
for half-an-hour. He got her to accompany
him to the gate that opened into the


meadow, and having brought her to this
point, there he detained her. There was a
pretty sky to look at as an excuse for
making this gate their resting-price  an
amber sky, with the delicate outline of
the distant trees against it.

He thought that they had talked enough
about Hugh Beresford, so, as they stood
together in this quiet place, he turned
their discourse to other things, and by
degrees to those two topics specially that
are always of supreme interest to every
vouno man and woman who have begun
to think with anything like sentiment of
one another  to himself and her.

I shall always think of these weeks

as amongst the happiest I ever spent in

my life," he began to say, as soon as they

had slightly discussed the chief features

of the scene before them ; and then, having
2.33

made this hopeful beginning, he propped
his back agaiiist the o-ate, setting[ himself
SO that he couhl see her face, and prepared
himself to get all the enjoyment that was
practicable out of his position.

She said, after a moment's silence :
I think we shall all remember these
weeks with pleasure. We have so few
visitors usually, you know. Indeed "  and
then she hesitated slightly  " I don't
know that anything quite like your coming
has ever happened before, and so it has
had a pleasant flavour of novelty."

Well, novelty no doubt has its attractions,"
replied Godfrey, not quite content
with this remark ; "but I am afraid, as far
as we are concerned  Jack and I  or at
least I speak for myself  I should like
better to think that we affected you now
with a sense of familiarity."

Oh, yes, 71010  that is another thing ;
of course the novelty has pretty well worn
off," replied Joanne. " I was only speaking
of the charm you had at first."

'rand which has quite departed, I
suppose ? " he said.

I am afraid it has," she replied demurely.

Are sou a very fickle person, Miss
Joanne ? " he asked after a moment with
a laugh.

"Yes, very," she answered. "Women
always are, you know."

Women being all, of course, made after
one pattern % "

The poets say so," said Joanne.

And you, of course, believe them implicitly
? " asked Godfrey. And then he
laughed again and looked at her. " I don't
believe you are fickle," he said. " Fickle

women ought to be fair, with blue eyes.


That i8 the orthodox type. ' Fair and
false "

'' I had Golden hair once," said Joanne 
when I was a child."

Oh, but that doesn't count," he exclaimed.
'' Goshen hair, had you ? I
should like to have seen you then. Miss
Joanne, if the question is not very rude,
may I ask (I have often wondered) how
old you are ? "

"I am nearly twenty ; at least I shall be
twenty in October," she said.

Then you are more than four years
younger than I am. I was twenty-four last
month."

That is a grave age," she said.

Very. When you reach it you will

feel yourself extremely old. But you

won't reach it yet for a long while. I

wonder what will have happened to


you by the time you are four-and-twenty
! "

She shook her head.

Perhaps very little," she said.

'' Yes ; perhaps very little, but more likely
a good deal."

Not many things happen here, you
know. It will be different for you. In
four years' time you will be  changed, I
should think."

For the better, do you mean, or for the
worse i

"Well  for both, I dare say." There
was a little mischief in her tone as she said
this. " In some ways you may be better
perhaps."

And in others you suspect there will
be a sad backsliding ? I think at these
four years' end, if you talk in this way, I
shall have to come back and show myself."



** We should be very glad," she said.
If I don't it won't be my will that is
wanting. I should be sorry  I should be
terribly sorry  to think when I go away
presently, that I should never see this place
and all of you  again."

England is not very large," she said,
after a moment's silence. " I don't suppose,
if you care to come back, that you will find
it difficult."

And then there was a sudden pause while
he questioned with himself whether he
might venture to say anything more ; but
before he had made up his mind she had
begun to speak of something else.

"When you go away from here what
do you do next ? " she asked. " Are you
going home 1 "

''I think so," he said. "I imagine I

shall be at home during the autumn."


With your mother ? "

Yes ; with my mother."

Aiicl your cousin ? '

I suppose so."

They will be very glad to get you
back."

*' Do you think they will ? " he asked,
laughing. " Well, for anything you know,
I may be a very ill-conditioned fellow to
live with."

Yes ; you may be " (she gave her assent
to this proposition quite readily), "but
mothers like their sons even when the
sous don't deserve much liking ; and so it
seems to me that probably your mother
will be glad to have you in any case.
Are you a great deal with her when you
are at home ? "

"We are not bad friends," he said.

And  your cousin ? "


Am I much with my cousin, do you
mean ? Oh, well, we walk together, and
ride together, and  she sines to me."

Does she sing well ? "  after a moment's
meditation.

*not particularly." Godfrey gave this
information with rather an odd lauo-h.

o

'' Why do you answer in that way ? "
Joanne asked instantly.

What do you mean by ' that way ? ' "
he retorted. " I say she does not sing particularly
well. Many people don't, you
know."

But you said that she didn't, so oddly."

Oh, I was merely thinking of something.
I believe my cousin has not much
talent for music. She plays a little, but
you wouldn't care about her performance
much. When I go home I am afraid it

will seem strange to me  after yours."


Mine is not very good. It only might
be good  perhaps  if I were taught."
Joanne said this with a little diffidence.

'' I don't know what it might be if you
were taught, but, as it is now, I would
rather hear it than any singing in the
world."

Oh, but you ought not to say that."

Why ought I not to say it, if it
is true ? "

Because you make me ashamed  when
you speak in such an exaggerated way."

You may think I exaggerate, but it

is the literal truth. I don't expect ever

to care for any other singing as I do for

yours. I don't know how other people

would rate it  I say nothing about that;

but I know that nobody else I ever heard

sing has moved me as you do."

"If you really mean that, then I am
Volet. 241 16

glad," she said. But her tone sounded
as if she was too shy of his praise to be
made very glad yet by it.

I am sure you believe that I mean
it."

And then there was a moment's silence,
which she broke abruptly.

I should like to know something more
about your cousin. Tell me something
else about her," she said.

 Well what shall I tell you ? "

Is she quite young ? "

She is twenty-two."

And does she live with you  always ? "

*' She has lived with us for the last two
years. I don't know what she may do
always."

Is she  dependent on you ? May I
ask that ? Is she poor, I mean ? "

Oh no, she is rich. She is richer than



any of us. She has a large house, and a
large income'

Joanne looked for a moment at him, and
then sent her gaze across the meadow.
There was another little pause.

Well ? " he inquired presently. " I
thought you were going to ask me something
else."

Oh  yes," she said. But she rather
hesitated. " Do you think I am very
curious ? " she said suddenly.

Not at all," he replied. " I like your
questions."

Then you mean I may ask some more ? ''

Certainly you may."

'' Is your cousin very nice ? "

She is very good. She is very good
indeed. My mother is awfully fond of
her."

And  are you fond of her ? "



*' I like her very much. She is  well,
she is certainly almost the best girl I
know."

The best V  a little hesitatingly.
The  the most loveable, do you mean ? "

'* No ; I mean the one with the fewest
faults. The most loveable people have
often plenty of faults."

*' But your cousin has not ? "

No ; my cousin has not. She never
does wrong  nor says what she oughtn't
to say  nor feels what she oughtn't to
feel. She is as good as gold."

That must be very  nice for you,"
said Joanne.

Yes, it is very nice  very nice indeed,"
replied Godfrey.

And then there was again a little silence,

till, after a minute had passed : " Well ? "

he said once more, hoping to incite her to


renew her questions, but this time she only
laughed and shook her head.

I think just now I have nothing else
to ask," she said. " I am afraid I have
asked too many things already."

'the daughters of Eve are always
curious, you know'' he told her boldly.

And what," she inquired daintily, " of
the sons of Adam ? "

I can only speak for one son of Adam,'
he said, " aud he, I know  "

But at this point their talk was suddenly
interrupted, for some one called " Joanne ! '*
and the next moment there were steps on
the gravel-walk behind them, and Joanne
turned from the gate against which she had
been leaning while they talked.

And then they went indoors, and
Godfrey was very well content. His half-hour,
he felt, had been well spent; it


had given him present entertainment,
and it had unquestionably advanced his
intimacy with Joanne. " If I can get her
to like me, why should I not try to doit
? " he was conscious that he had begun
to ask himself.

They rejoined the others, and then they
all soon went to supper. The Vicarage
suppers were simple repasts, but there was
always a spirit of open hospitality in the
house that gave a pleasant flavour to its
meals, however plain they were. The
mere sight of Mr. Beresford's genial face
at the bottom of his table did more to
give zest to the viands than an appetizing
sauce.

They had a pleasant supper to-night, and

a merry one, even though some amongst

the guests were silent. " I will get her

to sit next to me again," Godfrey thought


to himself as they entered the dining-room
all together ; but, though he did his best
to accomplish this, he all but failed in his
endeavour, and would have failed altogether
if chance had not come to his aid. For
Joanne, when she took her seat, let her
cousin Hugh take the chair next to her, and
indeed (if Godfrey's eyes did not deceive
him) even mutely invited him to do so, and
Godfrey, who was hovering at her elbow,
would have had to content himself with a
place on the opposite side of the table, if
Mrs. Beresford, seeing him unprovided for,
had not promptly ejected one of her own
brood from the seat he coveted on Joanne's
right hand.

"Victor, do you not see that Mr. Hel-stone
has no chair ? Get up, and go over
there," she said in her usual tone of

command.



Oh  I supposed he was going there,"
replied Victor.

"Your business is to observe, and not
to suppose," replied his mother curtly.

And then the boy rose up, and Godfrey
took his place. But he did not take it
with unmixed satisfaction, for Joanne had
called Hugh to her side, but she had not
called him, he could not but reflect.

However, he had sufficient good sense
not to punish himself by converting this
fact into a grievance, but, having got the
position that he desired (though not perhaps
by the means most flattering to his
self-love), he proceeded without loss of
time to appropriate as much of Joanne's
attention as he could ; and  in spite of a
few obstacles that she put in his way at
the beginning  he succeeded in this object

sufficiently to content himself fairly well,



for Joanne's companion on her other hand
was shy enough to be easily silenced by
a more resolute talker, and Godfrey showed
himself tolerably resolved to talk.

He talked, and, to his satisfaction, he
made Joanne listen to him. At first she
tried to occupy herself more with her
cousin 'than she did with him, but Hugh's
hopeless diffidence, coupled with Godfrey's
determination not to be suppressed, soon
made this efibrt fail. She might, and did,
turn often away from him, but as often as
she turned he made her turn again, and
her face, as she showed it to him at these
recalls, did  not express dissatisfaction ; or
at least, so he told himself, not without a
conscious sense of triumph.

The Vicar had got Miss Clara Beresford

on his left hand, and was jesting with her,

and bantering her, in a kindly avuncular


fashion, to which Godfrey thought, as he
occasionally caught fragments of their conversation,
that she did not respond with
much wit. She was a lively and very
pretty girl  prettier than Joanne, he said
to himself once, glancing at the two
faces in succession,  and yet how much
more charm than her cousin Joanne
had!

You won't sing me a song  you won't
tell me a secret ; what is there you will do
for me ? " asked the Vicar jovially, leaning
back in his chair, and surveying his niece
with a twinkle in his eye ; and then Miss
Clara gave a pout.

Why need I do anything ? " she said
half ao:meved.

'' Because sou ought to make yourself

agreeable," responded Mr. Beresford with

decision. " Isn't that the duty of every


woman ? It isn't enough to sit still and
look pretty."

Oh, uncle ! " cried Miss Clara blushing.

"Of course you may be thankful that
you can sit still and look pretty. I'm.
saying nothing against that,  but I want
you to entertain me as well. I want you
to tell me something that is interesting."

Oh, uncle ! " ejaculated Miss Clara
helplessly again.

Well, do you never tell people things
that are interesting? Supposing now that
I were five-and-twenty, and had chestnut
hair, and a straight nose, and a flower in
my button-hole  "

"" Oh, I think you are too bad ! " cried
the girl blushing very red.

My dear, if I were all that, you would

find so much to say to me ; yoa would doa

hundred things to please me ; and now


you won't sing me an old song ! I shall
have to get one of my own girls to do it.
Come, Joanne," he cried suddenly, "give
us a song, and set a good example."

And then Joanne looked up, with something
of reluctance in her face, but, after
a moment's hesitation, did what her father
bade her.

It was the second time that Godfrey
had heard her sing as they sat at supper.
"I do it often when we are alone," she had
told him on that other occasion. " Papa
likes it. I have done it ever since I was
a child. ' But she evidently did not care
to do it before strangers.

She began to sing, however, and after

a few moments forgot herself, and sang

the song that she had chosen with a fresh

purity and sweetness that filled Godfrey 

and perhaps others beside him  with delight.


Her father sat listening to her with a smile
upon his face. When the first song was
ended he made her sing another.

Give us something with a chorus, my
dear," he said, " and we'll all join in'

So she sanof another sons that had a
chorus, and, softly beating time with his
hand upon the table, the Vicar raised his
fine tenor voice and chimed in with a will.

"You see, this is a luxury I allow
myself now and then," he explained to
his guests at the end, with one of the
gleams of fun that came so often over
his face. " On the whole, I don't think
an occasional chorus can put the Church
in much danger. It's a compromise, one
might say, between total abstinence and
an entire song."

"Then  if it would not be too much

to ask  would you not give us another


compromise ? " asked Jack in his ready
way.

They laughed at his request, and Mr.
Beresford began to shake his head ; but
Joanne said quickly, "Oh yes, he will
give you another ; he will give you one
that he loves." And, looking at him with
a little mischief in her eyes, she suddenly
broke into the grand old Jacobite
song :

Cam ye by Thole braes, lad wi' the pliilabeg."

It was a thing to remember, Godfrey

thought. The air and the words seemed

to stir the Yicar almost as a horse is

stirred by the sound of a trumpet. His

eyes brightened, and his face flushed,

and his voice rang out in the rapturous

chorus till it filled and echoed through

the room :



Charlie, Charlie, wha wadna follow thee ?

Lang hast thou loved and trusted us fairly !
Charlie, Charlie, Aha wadna follow thee?

King o' the Hieland hearts, bonnie Prince Charlie ! "

When the last notes had been sung,
Jack and Godfrey with one impulse gave
a cheer that was joyfully taken up by
the boys, and with rather a shamefaced
look the Vicar began to laugh.

*' I haven't sung that for years," he

said, almost apologetically. ' It's not the

sort of thing, I'm afraid, for me now 

though it fires one's old heart still " 

and then he rubbed his hands. " When

I was a young man I had a good deal todo

once with some Scotch lads, who had

all these Jacobite songs at their fingers'

ends, and many a wild hour's shouting

we've had over them. There wasn't

one that I didn't know in those days.


But I never sing them now  I've forgotten
all about them ! " cried the Yicar,
and rose up hastily from his scat, as if
he feared an appeal for more of them,
and doubted his strength to resist it.
*come away, come away," he said. 'fifthly
have caught the sound of me in
the kitchen they'll be thinking the old
parson has gone mad."

He preceded them all out of the room.
It was past ten, and without sitting down
again Godfrey and Jack took their leave.

I suppose we are all going one way ? "

Mr. Helstone said to Hugh, but Hugh

replied in his nervous way that he did not

know  he hardly thought his sister was

ready, and so, as he did not seem to desire

their company, the young men prepared to

start alone.

It was a clear, brilliant night. " A


glorious night ; do come and look at it,"
Godfrey said to Joanne. And so a little
group of them all issued from the house
together, and talked for ten minutes under
the stars. The Vicar was one of them,
and, firmly planted, with his feet well
apart, with his hands in his pockets, and
his face upturned, he stood and discoursed
about the heavens and the myriads of
worlds at which they gazed.

*' And here are we like a grain of sand
in the midst of it all," he ended ; " like
a child's toy for size ; and yet  "

He paused for a moment or two, and
then as they walked down to the gate
together 

 Our little systems have their day,' "

he suddenly began to repeat in his musical,

rich voice :

VOL. I. 257 17

* Our little systems have their day,

They have their day, and cease to he,
They are but broken lights of Thee,
And Thou, Lord, art more than they.'

Amen ! " he said abruptly, and held out
his hand, and the young men, not unmoved,
took it in turn, and made their adieu
almost in silence.





Hugh Beresford is on my conscience,"
Jack said abruptly to his friend, a day or
two after this. ' I believe there is something
in him, and I feel as if I ought to
like him for those good people's sakes, but
yet  I'm blessed if I do like him. Why
on earth does the fellow have such a hangdog
look ? I asked Joanne that last night,
and she flamed up like a turkey-cock."

It served you right for putting such

a question to her," retorted Godfrey. " I've

no doubt she flamed up. They are cousins

and intimate friends, and all that sort of

thing. You might have known better


than to speak of him in such a way as
that."

*' I hope she isn't weak enough to bethinking
of throwing herself away upon
him," said Jack. " I have my suspicions
but I should be sorry if they were
true."

I don't believe she has a dream of
anything of the kind," replied Godfrey
curtly ; but, though he said this, Mr.
Dallas's remark had given him a little
twinge.

The young men had just met Hugh

Beresford, and these remarks were the

consequence of their brief encounter with

him. They had come across him and his

mother as they were returning from a

walk, and for five minutes they had talked

to Mrs. Beresford, while he stood by in

silence, occupied in his usual way in tracing


figures on the ground with his walking-stick
; and then they had passed on, and
Jack had broken out in the words that
I have written above.

It stirred Godfrey not a little to hear
Joanne Beresford's name coupled with her
cousin's, and yet he did not in reality
believe that there was anything between
them. " If there were, I should call her 
what I don't believe she is," he told himself
hotly, venturing to speak in a way in which
he would not have spoken a week ago ;
for this last week had very unmistakably
increased the intimacy that existed between
himself and Joanne, and he said to himself
plainly that if she had any thought of
marrying her cousin she had no right to
be on such terms as she was with him.
For it had come to this, and Godfrey was

well aware of it : he was quite aware that


he was becoming more attracted every day
by Joanne Beresford, while she on her part
treated him so as to ive him some rio-ht to
say, as he did, that she must be a coquette
if she showed so fair a face to him while she
meant to marry Hugh Beresford.

'' I believe, if I ever came to think ill
of you, I should think ill henceforward of
every woman living," he told her one day,
in a tone that brought the colour to her
cheek.

She blushed, but she laughed, too, at his
speech.

I hope you may never think very ill of

me," she answered him ; " but if I ever

gave you cause to do it, you would only

make things ten times worse  a hundred

times worse  by thinking ill of other

women too."

Of course I should ; but that ought


only to make you feel the more deeply how
much depends  for me  upon your goodness'
he returned.

And then she made no answer, and he
looked at her face that she had half turned
away, and wondered if he had touched
her.

It is rather a dangerous amusement when
a man begins to watch a woman's face, and
try to read her feelings by it Godfrey
Helstone, so far in his life, had not done
much of such work; but of late he had
begun to find himself amazingly tempted todo
it when he was with Joanne. Hers was
a kind of beauty that depended so much on
expression : almost the whole charm of her
face lay in its mobility and brightness, and
in the quickness with which it reflected and
betrayed emotion of any sort, whether of
pleasure, or pain, or tenderness, or anger

2G3

or whatever might be the f(ieliiig of the
moment. A thousand other women were
more beautiful, but Godfrey had by this
time almost come to think that no regularly
lovely face that he had ever seen possessed
the fascination that he found in this piquante
face of Joanne's.

It was one afternoon when by chance he
was alone with her, that he had made this
speech about his belief in her goodness.
He and Jack, that afternoon, had gone out
fishing together ; but his luck had been
bad, and, getting tired presently of his
sport, he had left Mr. Dallas at the river,
and had gone away for a ramble by himself,
 a ramble, however, that terminated
quickly ; for, as he was tramping through
a wood, five minutes after he had parted
from Jack, he suddenly saw a glimmer of

colour through the trees that first arrested


his steps, and then quickened them to
double speed,  for the ruddy colour that
he saw was like the crimson of a shawl
that Joanne often wore, and when he had
joyfully made his way to this spot of
brightness, he found that he had also made
his way to her side.

She was sitting sketching, and she looked
up at his approach pleasantly enough to
give him reason to think that she was not
sorry to see him.

'jack and I were fishing down there.
How little I knew that you were so near
us ! " he exclaimed, as soon as he had got
within speaking distance.

*' Yes ; I knew you were there, for I saw
you. Look  you can see Mr. Dallas now,"
she replied.

But Godfrey only gave a careless glance
in the direction of his friend; he had got



somcthiiio: nearer to him that he found more
iutL'restiao[ to craze at than Mr. Dales.

If you were to shout I think he would
hear you' said Joanne.

But I don't want to shout," replied
Godfrey. (He laughed to himself Shout
to Jack ! It was about the last thing he
desired to do.) "He is quite happy," he
said. ''He wouldn't thank us for disturbing
him."

"And were you not happy, that you
came away ? " she asked.

I came away because my good angel
prompted me," said Godfrey. " I perceive
that now, though at the time I didn't
know it."

"It must have been one of the angels

that guard over fish," she said  " if fish

have guardian angels, poor things. They

must have been feeling very doubtful about


it, since you and Mr. Dallas have been
here."

Ob, Jack and I are very harmless
people," he exclaimed. *'Tbey must fear
your father a vast deal more than they
fear us. May I see what you are doing ? '*
And then he looked over her shoulder,
and she grave a little sioh.

I am not doing much. I never do
much. I wish you knew enough about
painting to tell me some things."

I wish I did," he answered fervently.
'but this seems very good to me. It is
slight, of course, but it is very suggestive."

You are very good to say so," she
replied dubiously,

I am not good in the least, I really

think in its way it is capital. Now a little

sketch like this," exclaimed Godfrey, with

an air of decision, '' is a thing that would
2G7

give uie far more pleasure than I should get
out of many a finished picture."

*' Yes ; but then, if that is so," replied
Joanne cautiously, " I am afraid it only
proves that your taste is in fault, not that
my poor little drawing is worth anything.
Still, you know, I am grateful to you," said
the girl quickly ; " and if you find anything
to like in wdiat I do, I am glad too."

'Til tell you what I like in your drawings,"
replied Godfrey frankly. '' I dare say
they have faults enough  of course that
must be so ; but the feeling in any of them
that I have seen seems to me always true.
They are poetical, and as I said just now,
they are suggestive. I like this one amazingly.
That bit of distance especially is
delightful. Now, pray go on with it. You
don't mind my being here ? I won't watch

you, if that would put you out. Look, I


wil] just lie on the grass, where I shan't be
in your way a bit." And, suiting the action
to the word, Mr. Helstone deposited himself
at her feet, and dexterously arranged his
position so that it allowed him to have an
excellent view of her face, if not of her
drawing block.

She said nothing ; perhaps she had no
desire to send him away. She took up her
brush again, and tried to continue her work ;
and then they began to talk, and they talked
for a long time, and it was presently, in the
course of their conversation, that he made
that remark about thinking ill of all other
women if he should ever come to think ill
of her.

He was leaning on his elbow and looking

into her face as he said this to her. I do

not think that her painting had progressed

much during the hour that they had been


together ; she was probably not artist enough
to be able at the same time to talk and
work ; her brush was in her hand, but she
sat looking: at her sketch almost without
touching it.

He had made that speech, telling her that
if he lost faith in other women the blame of
his disbelief would lie upon her shoulders ;
and then he looked at her, to try if he could
read by any sign in her face that his words
had touched her ; and it seemed to him 
not without satisfaction  that she did give
some such sign, for there was a little quiver
about her lips as she tried to smile.

You should not lily burdens upon people
unless you know that they are willing to
bear them," she answered, after a moment's
silence.

But T don't consider that it is I who am

laying this burden on you. It is not I, but



circumstances," lie declared. " I have come
to know an d to believe in you,  and after
that I can't help the rest. You see, Miss
Joanne, women can't shake off their responsibilities,
and one bad woman has a quite
immeasurable power of doing evil, and one
noble woman an equally immeasurable
power of doing good."

Yes ; but that is equally true of men''
she answered. " I would not say  as you
do about me  that if any one man I trusted
turned out ill, I should doubt all other men 
I don't think I would say that if the one
who failed me were my own father, (if it
were possible to conceive of such a thing !)
but I think  " and then it seemed to him
that for a moment her voice trembled, a
little  " I think all our lives must be influenced
by the good men we know  in every

direction  more than we can ever tell ; by


the good meu, and I suppose by the bad
men too,  when we are unhappy enough to
be brought near to those that arc bad."

Ah, but it is not the same sort of thing,
quite," persisted Godfrey. *' You see, to
start with, you don't need to be influenced
so much. The best of you are so nearly
everything you ought to be that, upon my
word, I don't know how any man could
make you better ; but I doubt if there is a
man living who might not be made better
by a woman,  and who also could not be
made worse by one too. In fact, it seems
to me, Miss Joanne, that, like Balaam, you
have had the power of blessing or cursing
given into your hands ; and so, as I said,
there is a tremendous responsibility resting
on you."

She put a few touches to her drawing,

and then she said abruptly and rather



nervously, " I hope you never knew a
woman who was really bad ? '*

*' T am thankful to say I never did," he
replied frankly ; *' never, at least, to my
knowledge. No ; I have known many
ordinary women who have never affected
me for good or evil ; and a few whom  I
would rather pass on the other side of the
way; and far more than a few whom I
never remember without pleasure ; and one
or two  two or three, I think," he said
deliberately, after a moment's pause, "for
whom I gratefully thank God."

There was a little silence, and then Joanne
asked :

And is one of those your mother ? "

Yes ; assuredly one of those is my

mother," he answered. " No better mother

than mine need a man desire to have. I

wish you knew her."

VOL. I. 273 18

I am afraid I am not likely to do that,"
Joanne said. " But I should like it, of
course," she added courteously. "When
one is much with people I think one is
always interested in their belongings."

It is strange to think that you know so
little of my belongings when I know so much
of yours," he said. " When I am away I
shall be able to picture so well how your life
goes on here ; but if you are ever good
enough to give a thought to me I shall be
only to you like an isolated figure without
background or surroundings."

Oh no  that is not so," she answered
quickly. " You know you have told me a
good deal about yourself."

Have I ? " he replied dubiously. '* Not
much, I think."

'* But indeed you have  about yourself,

and your cousin, and the kind of country


you live in, and your house. I have a very
distinct impression of your house, with its
terrace outside the drawing-room windows ;
and that library  where you say you will
work."

'* Where I say I will work ! " he echoed.
'* Apparently then, Miss Joanne, you don't
much believe that I intend to do it ? "

'' Oh yes ; I dare say you will do it," she
said with a laugh. '* At any rate, no doubt
you will sit there and read ; and sometimes,
I suppose, your mother will come and have
pleasant talks with you ? and sometimes
your cousin, perhaps ? "

Yes ; very probably," said Godfrey.
Margaret will come, I dare say, and get
me to help her with her Latin."

Does she learn Latin ? " asked Joanne
quickly.

'swell, yes  she has taken to it lately.



She wanted an occupation, and she is not
artistic nor musical."

And you will give her lessons
there ? "

'* Oh no ; not regular lessons. But she
will most likely come to me when she finds
herself in a difficulty."

"That will be a great help to her," said
Joanne demurely.

There was another little silence, and the
girl, for a minute, resumed her work.
Then Godfrey, lying on the grass, ejaculated
: " I think this wood, on such a day
as this, is like a bit of Paradise ! Just
look up to the sky above those trees.
Look at the leaves against the blue. Is
not that divine ? Ah, but you can't see it
as I do  you haven't got your face the
right way."

No ; but I have often seen it. I know


iiow it looks," lie said. " I am glad you
are getting found of our woods."

"I am o-ettiuo; so fond of them that I
think they will haunt me when I go
away," he answered with a half-laugh. " I
shall dream of these days. I shall dream
of this afternoon, and of you sitting herewith
your scarlet shawl  "

Crimson ! " she said.

Well, crimson  if that is the proper
word. I am so glad you had it on to-day,
or I might have passed and never seen
you. The pleasantness things in life, it
seems to me, come oftener when one
expects them least."

Will you please look at your watch, and
tell me what time it is ? " she said abruptly.

My watch has been gaining of late," he
answered with a laugh. " I don't know

what time it is  I don't indeed."



But you would know if you looked''
she said gravely. '' I want you to look."

And then, unwillingly, he took his watch
out.

It is quite early," he said. *' It is only
a little past five."

It is time for me to go," she replied.

But yet she did not go for a few
minutes more. He began to criticize her
drawing again, and detained her in that
way first ; and then he had so many things
to say about the colour of the trees, and
the harmonies of tone that he professed to
perceive in the scene before them, that
another quarter of an hour passed, and
found them at the end of it still together.
But at last she would stay no longer,
so he took her drawing materials out
of her hands, and carried them home

for her.



Almost at the gate of the Vicarage Mr.
Beresford overtook them, and called out a
greeting to Godfrey.

'' Come in, come in, young man," he said.
' The other one will soon guess where you
are, and follow suit. What do you say ?
Return in an hour ? No, why should you
return in an hour when you're here already ?
You have had your dinner, haven't you ? " I

"Oh yes," said Godfrey, ''I have had
my dinner." For, in consideration of the
suppers at which they so often assisted at
the Vicarage, Mr. Dallas and he during the
last eight or ten days had taken to the
practice of dining early.

Then in with you," exclaimed Mr.
Beresford ; and they all went to the house
together.

Godfrey had tea with them, and then

Jack came ; and later in the evening Hugh



came too, and towards sunset the boys
began to try their skill at leaping and jumping,
and presently Jack and Godfrey joined
them, and for the better part of an hour
occupied themselves in leaping and jumping
too, while the rest looked on. Godfrey and
Jack were both good at this sort of sport.
Jack's was the better figure of the two, but
Godfrey was the taller and stronger man.

He beats me at most things," Mr.
Dallas said to the Vicar, "but I can outrun
him. That is the one thing I can do'*
And, indeed, he ran a race with his friend
presently, and easily came out the victor.
But Godfrey had the best of it in almost
everything else.

Come along, lad, and take your turn
with them ! " the Vicar called to Hugh
when all the others  boys and young men
alike  were viking with one another ; but

Huo-h at this address shrank nervously
back.

No, no, I can't do any of these things,"
he said, retreating hastily.

Then make a beginning, man ; the
sooner you make it the better," cried his
uncle, and would have pulled him forward
if Hugh had permitted it. But, flushing to
the eyes, he made his escape, and the Vicar
burst into a laugh that was very audibly
touched with scorn.

*' Tut, tut, you're no better than a girl ! "
he said impatiently, and turned on his
heel, leaving the blood in more faces than
poor Hugh's.

Godfrey came to Joanne when their games

were over  to receive his meed of praise

perhaps, though he might hardly have

acknowledged to himself that he had this

object.



It has been very civil of you to look
on at us all this time," he said cheerily
to her.

'' It has been very entertaining to look on
at you," she answered. " You have been
doing very pretty things."

They might have been pretty if they
had been better done ; but one so soon
gets out of practice," he said. And then
he added civilly, " I wish we could have
got your cousin to join us."

At this Joanne gave a half-annoyed sigh.

I wish you could," she said. ' But it
is no use ; he is too self-conscious. He
will take part in nothing. He has no
nerve, and no self-confidence."

She had never spoken to Godfrey before
in such a tone of vexation, and it seemed
to escape her now almost before she was

aware.



'' Oh, he will be different in time. We
all change so fast' Godfrey said consolingly.

He will never be like other peoples
she replied. " I thought that when he
came home just now it would be so
pleasant for him to have you and Mr.
Dallas here,  but he takes no advantage
of anything. He makes me so sorry," said
the girl quickly, and turned away with
more emotion in her voice than Godfrey
quite liked to hear.

I wish the fellow were back in London
! " he thought with sudden impatience
to himself.

There had been clouds gathering for an
hour or two, and they broke at sunset, and
everybody was driven indoors. In the
twilight presently Joanne went to the
piano and sang. Some of the young ones

by that time had gone to bed, a few of



the others head dispersed, and Godfrey took
possession of an arm-chair near her, and
listened in luxurious ease. After a little
while a pleasant fancy took possession of
him that she was sinmno; for him alone.
The room grew dark, and the other occupants
of it were gathered at its farther end,
and only he sat near to her, and between
her songs it was to him only that she
spoke.

There was a little general talk when
the music ended, and then they went to
supper, and after supper home. The rain
had ceased by this time, and a full-faced
moon, with a halo round her, was shining
fitfully through breaks in the clouds.

The Vicar shook his head as he stood
with his guests under the porch.

'* We are Q:oinof to have a change in our

fine weather, 1 fear," he said. " I'm mistaken


if we shall not awake to a wet
morning tomorrow. But the rain is
wanted for the crops."

And our holidays have almost come to
an end ! " Joanne suddenly said.

Godfrey was standing near her.

Have they ? " he asked quickly, in a
tone of regret. "Are all our holidays
ending ? I have been putting off the
thought of it ; but I have been here four
weeks to-day."

They left her presently, standing in the
little semicircle of light that streamed
from the open door, and the Vicar walked
down with them to the garden gate.
Godfrey looked back once, and saw her
still there. She had scarcely spoken again
after she had said that her holidays were
almost ended. Something in these words

and in the tone in which she had uttered



them came back to him when he had
turned away, bringing a vague regret that
he had not made some better answer to
them,  that, though he was so conscious
of all the happiness he had enjoyed during
these weeks that were gone, he had said
nothing to tell her so. " But it does not
matter ; I will tell her tomorrow," he said
to himself. And then he put the thought
of her aside, and gave his attention to the
Vicar, who was holding forth about the
coming rain, as he strode along the garden
path, crunching the wet gravel beneath
his feet.

CHAPTER I.

The rain came down heavily next morning
as the Vicar had prophesied that it would do,
but the day cleared after some hours, and
about eleven o'clock Godfrey and his friend
issued from their inn. As they passed down
the street they saw a one-horse fly approaching
them. Equipages of even so modest a
kind were not objects that were common in
Brentwood, and the two young men looked
at it as it came near, and then almost at the
same moment broke into an exclamation of

VOL. II. 1 19

surprise. " Why, it's the Vicar ! " they cried,
and they went quickly forward, for Mr.
Beresford, having caught sight of them, had
put his head out of the coach window,
and was calling to the driver to stop.

I'm glad to see you, sirs : I'm glad to see
you for a moment," he said gravely, as they
came hastily up. " I'm sorry to say we are
off most unexpectedly to London, Joanne
and I. "We have had a telegram with bad
news this morning. My poor sister, Mrs.
Russell, has had a stroke."

Oh dear I am sorry to hear that," cried
Jack sympathetically ; and Godfrey said
something too, but he hardly knew what.
He felt all at once as if he had had a blow.

The Vicar's broad shoulders filled up nearly
all the window space as he leaned out, but
Godfrey could just catch sight of Joanne's
face behind him, and, with hardly more than

the loss of a moment, he left Jack talking to
Mr. Beresford, and went to the other side of
the coach and spoke to her.

This is bad news indeed. I don't know
how to tell you how sorry I am' he said,
looking into her face with eyes that were
eloquent enough to make her colour come.

Yes, I was sure you would be sorry," she
said ; and then with a momentary hesitation
she added, '' I was wondering whether
we should chance to see you. I should
have been vexed not to have wished you
good-bye."

'which is your train ? " he asked suddenly.
"The 11.35?" He glanced at his watch.
Oh, then you are in very good time. If
you drive on we will meet you at the station.
Mr. Beresford," he called, raising his voice,
we will get to the station and see you
again there. Come on, Jack ! " And waiting

for no response, off he started down the
street, with Jack soon overtaking him, at
a pace that made the few passers-by turn
round and stare.

They had less than a quarter of a mile to
go, and the Vicar and his daughter had
barely stepped from their fly before the two
friends were at their side.

"That is quick work," said Mr. Beresford,
with a smile.

Godfrey took Joanne's bag and cloak out
of her hands, and they all went together to
the platform. The train was not due for
some minutes yet.

"I must get our tickets," said the
Vicar.

*' Let me get them for you," interposed
Jack, and they want to the booking office
together.

And then Godfrey, left alone with Joanne,

looked ill her face. " And so this is the
end ! " he abruptly said.

It was the end of all their pleasant intercourse,
of all that had given the sweetest
interest to his holiday, and it had come upon
him with such suddenness that he could
neither realize it yet, nor guess how it
would affect him afterwards. Only an
aching feeling of intense regret had seized
upon him, a feverish desire to gain something
more, he scarcely knew what, before
he parted from her.

And so this is the end of it all ! " he
exclaimed.

"Yes, our bad news has come suddenly,
has it not ? " she answered, rather nervously.
We only got the telegram two hours ago.
She is a good deal older than my father,
and she has not been strong for a long time.
I don't know if there is any hope."

I shall hear of you, of course," he said.
We shall 20 to the Vicarage for news.
But what a changed place it will seem now!"

Oh, there are enough of us left," she
answered quickly, but her hips gave a little
quiver as she smiled ; '' and they will all
be glad to see you."

*' But what will that matter  when you
are gone ? " he said.

I am sorry  " she began, and then stopped
abruptly, turning her face half av/ay.

*' The train is not coming yet," he said,
for he thought she was listening: for it.

It must be almost the time," she
answered quickly. And then  '' I am
sorry," she repeated, " that these weeks have
come to an end, for we have all enjoyed them.
When do you go ? Do you know yet ? "

'*No, we have settled nothing," he said

'' I spoke to Jack last night about staying


another week, but I don't know now,  unless
there were any chance of your being
back by that time ? "

But she shook her head. " Oh no, we
shall not be back in a week," she answered.
If my aunt lives I shall stay to nurse
her ; and if she should die wee shall both
stay  for a time."

Then in either case I shall not see you
aoain ? " he said.

No," she replied gravely.

There was a pause after this for two or
three moments, and in the silence Godfrey
heard the Vicar's and Jack's voices behind
him. She heard them too and turned round.

But you know I am coming back," he
said all at once. "If I did not believe
that'

Ours is the fore-part of the train," cried

the Vicar, striking with his remark across


Mr. Helstone's speech, and Godfrey gained
no other opportunity of finishing it.

They joined and stood together in rather
a silent group. Mr. Beresford's face had a
look of gravity on it that neither of the
young men had seen it wear before.

This news has given me a shock' he
had said to Jack. " It's true she is sixty-one
years old, and my good mother died
when she was fifty, but it seems only little
more than yesterday that we were all
starting in life together, and it gives mea
strange feeling to think that the whole
of it is perhaps over now for her.

Well, lads," he said at the end, when
they lead heard the whistle of the approaching
train, and, looking kindly at them, he
put out a hearty hand to each : " Well,
lads, God bless you. I've had some pleasant
hours in your company, and if you care to

come back another year, and I'm still aboveground,
you shall have a cordial welcome."

They had very little luggage ; Jack and
Godfrey put it into the carriage with them.
The train stopped only for a minute ; there
were few passengers to be picked up.
Good-bye," Joanne merely said to Godfrey,
and gave him her hand, but he kept
it in his own till he had helped her to her
place. The carriages where just drawing upas
she made her greeting to him ; they
had to wait two or three moments ; he had
never held her hand so Ions; before. Then
she took her seat, and with a silent pressure
he let her go.

"Go up and tell them, that you saw us

off," the Vicar shouted at the last moment,

and they answered, 'eyes!" They were

standing side by .side, with their hats

raised. Then in a moment or two more


they put them back upon their heads,
and Godfrey turned away with a feeling
as if the world had suddenly grown blank.

Well, that's at an end !  and it strikes
me we shall rather miss the old fellow,"
Jack said, as they went out of the station ;
but Godfrey made no reply. It seemed to
him as if the sunshine had grown pale, as if
life had become vain and empty. He began
in silence to walk back to the inn.

What are you going to do ? " asked Jack.

"I am sure I don't know. There's
nothing particular to do that I can see,"
answered Godfrey listlessly.

I think we had better fish," said Jack,
*' if you are not inclined for anything else."

And then Godfrey made no further
response. Whether they fished or walked,
or whatever they did, seemed equally without
interest to him.



Jack began to whistle presently in a
light-hearted way as he walked along.

We have to go to Mrs. Arthur's party,
you remember, this afternoon," he remarked
after a few minutes, cheerfully.

Oh, hang Mrs. Arthur's party ! " answered
Godfrey. " I can't be going there. "

Can't be going to Mrs. Arthur's ! " and
Jack opened his eyes. " You will get into
hot water if you don't."

'* Those parties are such a nuisance," said
Godfrey contemptuously.

Oh, come ! " cried Jack, " I don't see
that. The last was a very pleasant one.
And you will like this one very much too,
I haven't a doubt."

I certainly shall not like it," said

Godfrey doggedly. " There is not one of the

Arthur Beresfordss that I should ever care

to set eyes on again. If we go, however,


and I suppose we must  " he added, with
a sort of surly resignation, " we had better
walk up to the Vicarage now."

"What, to give the old boy's message,
you mean ? Well, I don't suppose we shall
find them suffering much anxiety on his
account,  but I'm always ready to go to the
Vicarage," said Jack. And then they went.

Their visit when it was made left an
impression of peculiar powerlessness on
Godfrey's mind. They went into the house
and saw Mrs. Beresford, and told her how
they had met her husband and daughter,
and had stayed with them till they
started.

That is such a quick train, you know.

They will be in town by two o'clock," Jack

said. *' Mr. Beresford, I am afraid, is taking

his sister's illness very much to heart."

She is an excellent woman," replied


Mrs. Beresford gravely. " The best seem
always taken first'

Oh, but perhaps she won't be taken,"
exclaimed Jack cheerfully.

I am afraid to hope it," said Mrs.
Beresford, with a sigh ; *' but it may be a
long illness, and should she rally even fora
time, Mr. Beresford will come back alone,
and leave Joanne with her."

*you will miss your daughter very
much if she is obliged to stay in town,"
Godfrey remarked ; but Mrs. Beresford took
high ground in her reply.

If Joanne is able to be of any use to
her poor aunt, I shall only feel that she is
privileged," she said ; and then Godfrey,
conscious that he was rebuked, held his
peace.

They stayed with Mrs. Beresford for ten

minutes, and then some of the younger


ones came into the room, and Jack, in ibis
usual facile way, was soon in the midst
of a stream of talk. But the visit was little
like their customary visits, and Godfrey had
no heart for it. He talked a little to Edith,
he played for a few minutes with Femie ;
then he glanced at Jack, and remarked
that he thought they had better go.

You see it's very early," he said
apologetically.

Oh, but that doesn't matter," replied
Lilian graciously. " I am sure we have
nothing that we want to do. Won't you
come into the garden ? " and she rose and
opened one of the French windows.

There was no reason why they should

not go into the garden, so they took their

hats and went. They went with Lilian

and Edith to the strawberry-beds, for there

were still strawberries, though not in such


abundance as there had been when Godfrey
first came ; and they gathered the fruit
and ate and talked ; but Godfrey felt indifferent
to it all. The girls chattered and
laughed, but their chatter and their laughter
seemed to him rather like the crackling
of thorns under the pot. Lilian was looking
very pretty, but her beauty gave no
pleasure to him. Yet he knew all the
time that the fault was in himself. " How-one
moment," he thought, 'could change
it all ! Just one moment  and another face
instead of hers." He ate his strawberries,
and talked gradually less and less. Jack's
liveliness bored him. '' I wish to goodness,"
he exclaimed to himself, " that the
fellow would come away ! "

But Jack had no desire to come away,
and Godfrey had to wait for a long time.

Jack had always a great deal to say to


Miss Beresford. They had become great
friends, and he flirted with her to an extent
that would have been dangerous if there
had been the slightest sentiment in their
flirting, but of that there was not a shadow,
either on his side or hers.

Godfrey rambled away from the others
at last, and walked by himself round the
empty garden. There was no spot of it
that was not connected in his mind with
Joanne, and that had not been made dear
to him by her presence. And now she
was away, and all the sweetness of the
place was gone. A week ago  even a day
ago  he would hardly have believed that
he should miss her so, that her absence
could so take the flavour out of everything.

AYe have stayed an unconscionable
time," he said in a tone of reproof to Mr.
Dallas, when he had at last got his friend



drawn away from the strawberry-beds, but
Jack answered lightly, '' Well, what else
had we to do ? " and went whistling cheerily
down the little avenue.

Jack had been quite content with his
morning's entertainment. To his healthy
eyes there was no change in the place
since yesterday, no loss " of splendour in
the grass, of glory in the flower." He
began to talk about Lilian, and Godfrey
let him run on without answering him.

'rit's a bore that they can't come to Mrs.

Arthur's," Jack said presently. "These old

ladies always fall ill at inconvenient times.

Miss Lilian wouldn't be sorry to ignore her

aunt, if she dared, and I rather advised her

to do it, but she's afraid of Mrs. Beresford.

By the way, Mrs. Beresford gave you a

neat little rap on the knuckles. I do like

that old girl ! She is so uncompromising,
VOL. ir. 17 20

'y

and has such fine views about people's cou-sciences,
and all that. A brave old soul I
I think it's touching to see her kindness
to me, when she believes me such a reprobate.
Christian soldier as she is, she is
very weak in the direction of sinners. I
told her so one day, and it gave her such
a turn that it took her breath away as if
I had clapped her on the back. Upon my
word Lilian is a curious girl to be her
mother's daughter ! "

Jack had most of the talk to himself
as they walked back to the village, but
Godfrey made an effort presently, when
they went to dinner, and pulled himself
together again. He had been taken aback
by Joanne's sudden departure to an extent
that had surprised himself, but after an
hour or two had passed he began to reflect

that his disturbance at losing sight of her


was really very unnecessary and absurd,
since, if he should become convinced that
the feeling he had for her was a serious one,
nothing could be more easy than for him
to return to Brentwood again presently after
her stay in London was ended. Her departure
so abruptly at this moment, he told
himself, had only robbed him of a few days'
pleasure ; it was no misfortune, but merely
a slight unexpected blow  that had taken
away his breath for the moment, to borrow
Jack's simile, as if some one had struck him
on the back.

This view of the matter consoled him, and
enabled him in the course of the afternoon
to accompany Mr. Dallas to Mrs. Arthur's
party with a fairly good grace. He found
the whole family full of the news that had
only reached them an hour before from the

Vicarage.



"I was so terribly shocked," Mrs. Arthur
said to him, with effusion. *' My first
thought was to put off my little gathering,
  but I am sure if I had done it Mrs.
Beresford would have been vexed. She is
such a dear, strong-minded woman, you
know ; and of course Mrs. Eussell personally
is nothing to me. Only for the poor
dear Vicar's sake, you see, and being one of
the family  But indeed there was hardly
time to do it, and though I feel for them
all so much myself, still a mother has
always her children to think of, Mr.
Helstone, and one so instinctively shrinks
from saddening the young."

Of course Godfrey said with gravity that
it would have been a pity to sadden the
young. He laughed within himself at her
excuses, but he did not let her see that

he laughed.



'' I suppose they all accept it as a
matter of course that her father should
take Joanne with him," she said, after a
moment. *' Joanne was always Mrs. Eus-sell's
favourite. You see she is very shrewd,
and she knows how to make herself agreeable
when she likes, and, to say the truth,
Mr. Helstone, if you can excuse a very
vulgar phrase, she is a girl who knows
on which side her bread is buttered."
And then Mrs. Arthur smiled rather sadly,
as at the foibles of human nature, and
shook her head, as though there were much
on her lips that she could say, if she chose
to utter it.

Godfrey turned aside, and thought of

making his escape. He did not want to

listen to Mrs. Arthur's gossip about Joanne ;

he was in a mood to scorn any one with a

fierce scorn who talked of Joanne Beresford


with disrespect. But the lady was not
inclined to let him off so soon, and spoke
again before he could move away.

"You see, they would be so annoyed'
she said confidentially, " if the money were
to pass out of the family ; and I don't
know that they have any certain information
yet of how Mrs. Eussell has made her
will. I have no doubt that Joanne was
very ready to go and take a place of
importance beside her. Not that I blame
her, poor girl," and Mrs. Arthur's voice
took a tone of lofty kindness. " I wouldn't
presume to blame either her or her father
(the dear Vicar, he has such a family !), but
still, if the case had been mine I thi?ik I
would have waited just a little. It gives
one a sort of sense of indecent haste. But
then perhaps I am over sensitive," said

Mrs. Arthur modestly.



With an effort Godfrey kept his lips
closed until, a new-comer arriving, he could
achieve his retreat, which he did at last
with burning contempt in his heart.
What a poor creature that woman is ! " he
thought as he turned on his heel. " She,
with her greedy love of the world, to have
the face to try and throw mud at Joanne ! ''
and he was so haughtily indignant that he
walked out of the room with his head in
the air, and almost stumbled over Hugh,
whose small figure at that moment was
entering the doorway.

Hugh shook hands when Godfrey had
begged his pardon, and at once began to
speak in his hurried, uneasy way about his
uncle.

"I have just heard that he has gone upto

town  he and Joanne," he said. '' I

didn't know a word about it till this


moment. I  I might have gone with
them if they had let us know."

Oh, I don't think you could have been
of any use," replied Godfrey, consolingly.
"It is the easiest possible journey, you
know."

Yes, but  but I might just as well have
gone," said Hugh.

And then, seeing his discomfiture, Mr.
Helstone, I am afraid, chuckled a little to
himself! 'there is a companion in misfortune,"
he thought. " Shall I call him a
rival at once ? " And he ran his eye over
him, and, to tell the truth, his spirits ashe
performed that act rather rose than
fell.

"Oh, they are all right, no doubt," he
said aloud. " Mr. Beresford was a good
deal down when he left ; he seems to think
a great deal of this sister."



'' Yes, I believe lie does. Oh yes, she
is his only sister. I have seen her occasionally."
Hugh paused for a moment.
She is very fond of Joanne," he added
suddenly.

'That certainly says a good deal in her
favour," answered Godfrey in a serious tone,
and then Hugh gave his companion a chick
glance, and the colour came a little to his
sallow cheek.

I think it does," he replied quickly.

*' If she gets better. Miss Joanne, I hear,
is to stay and nurse her," said Godfrey.

Oh, is she ? " cried Hugh, and he

looked up with an eager face. Pleasant

anticipations seemed instantly to flash

across his mind, and he began to calculate

as visibly, Godfrey thought with a laugh,

as though an open Bradshaw lay before

him



Yes, so I am told," he replied, and
then brushed by Hugh's shoulder and
went away. Hugh meant soon to see
Joanne in London, he perceived ; but the
knowledge he had gained of that fact
apparently did not do much to disturb
him as he strolled into the garden, and
stood presently watching the croquet-players
by Miss Clara Beresford's side.

He watched them, and then he played
himself, with the pretty Clara for his
partner; he talked to Clara, and to half-a-dozen
other people, and so the afternoon
passed. It was a dull entertainment, he
thought, but yet perhaps it did as well
to pass the time as anything else he could
have found. Finally they danced, in spite
of an ardent protestation from Mrs. Arthur
that she knew all her guests must be

anxious to go home and dine,  a polite


fiction that had little weight, since
every one knew that in Brentwood late
dinners were the rare exception, and not
the rule.

It was the girls who proposed that they
should dance, and Jack took up the
proposition readily, and so they cleared out
the tables and chairs from the drawing-room
and danced for an hour or more.
Mrs. Arthur, it appeared, could play
waltzes and polkas admirably, and so
with willing good-nature she played.

"I do so like to see all you young
people happy," she said to Godfrey once
during a rest in the proceedings ; " and
dancing is such an innocent enjoyment,
isn't it ? At least in the country, with
our early hours. But then we are all so
unsophisticated in the country. 1 am
afraid you find us shockingly so, Mr.



Helstone ' '' mind she smiled up at Godfrey,
who with some unction assured her
that her fear was quite superfluous.

He laughed with Jack at her speech
afterwards. '' Unsophisticated ! Yes, she
is a charming specimen of rural simplicity
! " he said. " How can a clever
woman talk so like a goose ? The girls
are well enough, but upon my word Mrs.
Arthur makes me sick."

''Ah, you're bilious," replied Mr. Dallas
lightly. '' / get on capitally with Mrs.
Arthur. AVhat I feel is, you see, that
you should always meet a woman on her
own ground. If she is a fool, humour
her folly, and if she is wise, profit
by it."

'rand if she is like Mrs. Arthur, give

her a wide berth, in my opinion," said

Godfrey drily, finishing his friend's address.


Chapter 11.

The sun when he rose next morning
shone as brightly as on any other day
since Godfrey had come to Brentwood,
but yet to the young man's eyes he had
a sickly glare ; the sky seemed to have
become less purely blue ; the birds appeared
to sing less joyously. " I have been here
a month," he thought to himself as he
was dressing ; "is there any use in staying
longer ? "

His room looked down into the village
street, and all at once, for the first time,
it struck him that the street was a singularly
dull one  dull, and even squalid, with


its mean houses, its ill-made road, and
grass-grown footpaths.

When Jack came down to breakfast he
found his friend gazing on this same view
from their sitting-room window, and ready
to express his mind about it in terms that
were not complimentary.

'* What a dismal sight this would be to
have before one's eyes from year's end to
year's end ! If you want to experience
the very essence of dullness, you could doit
in no better way than by planting
yourself in the midst of a village like this.
What are you thinking about our movements.
Jack ? " And with that he suddenly
turned round and confronted Mr.
Dallas.

What are you thinking yourself ? "

Jack asked.

And then Godfrey, wincing a little, for


he rather expected to be laughed at, replied
that he thought they had about had enough
of it.

"You see, we came for a month, and
we have stayed a month," he said.

'' I believe that remark proceeded originally
from my own lips two or three days
ago," suggested Mr. Dallas.

Very like it did' said Godfrey curtly ;
I don't care whether you said it or
whether I say it, but I think we had
better act upon it."

Well, considering that four-and-twenty
hours ago  " Jack began ; but Godfrey became
suddenly deaf, and proceeded as if
Mr. Dallas were not speaking.

What would you say to our getting
away on Saturday ? "

Hm ! this is Thursday," said Jack.

We must go to the Vicarage again ; I


think we shall have to count on doing
that twice, or else the shock to Miss Lilian
might be too great ; and we must make
our bow to Mrs. Arthur ; but that is about
the extent of the business we have on
hand, I calculate ; so  yes, I imagine we
could go on Saturday."

I think we had better do it then,"
said Godfrey. Whereupon Jack made no
reply, but began to whistle to himself.
He had not laughed at his friend, as Mr.
Helstone had expected him to do, but
after a minute he did what Godfrey felt
was something worse.

I say, old fellow," he exclaimed
abruptly, "it seems to me you're rather
hard hit."

'' What do you mean ? " retorted Godfrey
quickly, in something very like a tone

of defiance, but the next moment he was


unpleasantly conscious that he was blushing.
Jack, however, replied quietly to his
question, without taking any notice of these
symptoms either of anger or emotion.

*' I mean," he said, " that I think it's
getting past a joke with you about Miss
Joanne. I have been thinking so for the
last week. It's no business of mine, of
course, and so I have held my tongue, 
but, if I tell the truth, I was not sorry
when she went off yesterday."

Godfrey's eyes blazed up suddenly like
two fires.

' I don't understand you," he said
haughtily. " Supposing (for argument's
sake) that it were as you think, what need
any one have to say against it ? "

"My dear fellow," exclaimed Jack

pleasantly, " I've nothing in the world to

say against it ; I think she's as nice a girl
VOL. II. 33 21

as ever lived ; but, you see, you have been
placed in uncommonly favourable circumstances
for falling in love, and if she had
stopped here, and you had proposed to
her, it is just possible you might have
found you had done in haste what you
repented of at leisure. I have nothing
to say against her  God bless me, not a
syllable !  but getting engaged to a girl is
a serious thing. I wouldn't advise anybody
to do it upon a few weeks' acquaintance,"
said Jack sagely. " I wouldn't, upon my life."
But you forget how much more I have
seen of her than you have," Godfrey began
hastily, and then as hastily stopped, for he
had not meant to admit to Jack that his
feeling for Joanne was serious ; the admission
had slipped from his lips before he was
aware. Jack, however, took it very calmly ;

he merely nodded his head,


Oh, yes, you have seen far more of her
than I have ; I am quite aware of that," he
said. '' And you have got to think so
much of her that, as I believe, the safest
thing you can do at present is to keep out
of her sight. I tell you plainly I'm heartily
glad she's gone. Her going makes all your
course as clear as daylight."

Indeed ? " said Godfrey, rather belligerent.
And then Jack, who had a temper
like sunshine, looked at his friend with eyes
as unconscious of divino: or taking offence asa
child's, and 

'AYell, doesn't it?" he asked. As /

see the matter it seems to me so,  for either

you will go away and forget her, in which

case there is no more to be said, or you wil

go away and remember her ; and, if you

remember her, I presume you will come

back."



They had begun their breakfast, and
Godfrey sat eating an egg, and to these
last remarks made no reply. He had not
wanted to talk to Mr. Dallas about Joanne,
but yet since Jack had plunged into the
subject it had an attraction for him great
enough to make him keep his ears wide
open, lest any word his friend uttered
should be lost. Probably, though he said
nothing, Mr. Dallas's last speech was not
unwelcome to him, and its final words
presented a picture to his mind that his
own fancy had already called up some
hundred times.

It's odd," said Jack, meditatively, after

a little silence, " that one man is so much

more given to take this sort of thing

seriously than another. I don't know

whether it is an advantage to me or not,

but / have wonderfully little temptation


that way. I like all these girls amazingly,
and that is about the beginning and the
end of it."

But you can't go through life like
that," replied Godfrey, with some shortness.

I don't see why I shouldn't," returned
Mr. Dallas, lightly. " You get more entertainment
out of the world by a vast deal,
it seems to me, if you keep on the surface
of most great emotions. Falling gravely
in love must be an awful bore, to judge
by the look of lovers generally. There's
that poor wretch here, young Beresford,
for instance. I am sure he is warning
enough to deter most people. He said tome
last night  ' I think of going back to
town in a day or two.' And there was
an awful twinkle in his eye as he spoke.
/ knew well enough what he was going

back for. Speaking impartially," said Jack,


and his own eyes began to twinkle too,
I wouldn't give much for your chance'

She will never have him in this
world ! " exclaimed Godfrey with an outburst
of indignation. He felt no fear,
but it stirred his blood to hear Hugh
Beresford and Joanne spoken of together
even in jest.

Jack, however, only laughed. "You
can't tell," he said. 'women are beyond
all comprehension. They wouldn't look: a
well-matched couple. That's all I can say :
but she may take him in spite of that. I
consider it's quite on the books."

And then Godfrey held his peace, but his
heart burned.

After this Jack went to fish, and Mr.

Helstone, saying he was tired of fishing 

which, interpreted, meant more truly that

he did not care for Jack's companionship 


went for a long walk by himself. He

walked for some three hours, and during

these hours he thought of little else than

Joanne. He planned in his mind that he

would go home, as he had told Jack, on

Saturday, and stay there till he was certain

of either the strength or the weakness of

the feeling that at present had possession

of him. AVould a month determine it, he

wondered ? or would it be wiser to allow

two months to pass ? Perhaps she might

be detained as long as that in London ;

possibly even she might be detained longer,

for paralysis, he reminded himself, was not

an illness from which its victims recover

quickly. She might be kept in town till

autumn, and then, should that be so, would

it be necessary, he asked himself, for him to

rein in his impatience till autumn too ?

He put this inquiry, perceiving one


probability only in his mind, and, unconsciously
perhaps, dismissing the other side
of the question as something too improbable
to be worth considering. Must he wait
indefinitely ? The prospect was one that
he refused to face. ' If she stays beyond
two months in town I will go and see her
there," he said. " As soon as I am certain
of myself I will go and see her. It seems
to me the only natural thing to do, and
the only honourable thing ; for if she should
be thinking of me at all  " And then
the I'lood came to his face, though he was
alone, and he broke his sentence off; for
he was not much of a coxcomb, but yet
in his heart he almost believed that she
was thinking a little of him.

The two young men went up in the
evening to the vicarage, and heard the

news that the morning's post had brought.


It had only come in the form of a few
hurried lines from Mr. Beresford, which
his wife read to Jack and Godfrey.

I think she knew me," was the Vicar's
report. " She could not speak  poor soul
but she looked at me, and smiled when
I took her hand ; and then I kissed her,
and she began to cry, and  God help me
I cried too. They turned me out of the
room after that, but I shall go back again
and sit with her when I have got this
posted. Joanne is with her now. It is
a sad house, but it is not sadder than I
expected that it would be."

I shall hear more from Joanne tomorrow,"
Mrs. Beresford said, as she put
this note back into its envelope. *' Joanne
will write fully. It's rarely a man
does."

*' No ; take men as a lot, they're poor


letter-writers  the heavy-fisted fellows,"
answered Jack Id his airy way.

They had come to the house rather
later than it was their usual habit todo,
Godfrey having suggested that in the
Vicar's absence such a proceeding might
be decorous  a view of the matter that
would scarcely have occurred to him,
perhaps, if Mr. Beresford had made the
journey to town alone ; but in truth the
Vicarage had lost its charm for him, and
everything this evening seemed to him flat
and wearisome. He told himself that the
girls giggled, and that Lilian was insufferably
silly. He played a game of croquet,
and then he went to Mrs. Beresford's side,
and contrived to make her talk to him
about Joanne.

Mrs. Beresford was a woman in whose

sight her children were by no means angels,


nor was her husband a demigod ; but in her
calm, cool, clear-sighted way she talked of
them to Godfrey, and especially for a little
while of Joanne, till the young man felt his
heart expanding with filial love for her.

** They all have their faults  faults enough
and to spare," she said, talking quietly to
the rapid click of her knitting-needles ;
"but if I ever have to rely on any one of
them, the one I choose is Joanne. Joanne
is a good girl, and an unselfish girl."

I am sure she is," said Godfrey
warmly. " I am sure she is that, and
more."

Well, she is very dear to me," replied

Mrs. Beresford. " They all are  but I try

not to think too partially of her or of any

of them. I don't like to make a favourite

of her, as the Vicar does. I don't think

it's right, Mr. Helstone. A parent ought


always to be impartial. That is what I
tell Mr. Beresford  but he doesn't listen
to me willingly. He is very hard to be
persuaded about some things. You see
Joanne is so fond of him on her side 
and then there's her singing  and somehow
or other she's more with him than
any of them. But still it's best to make
no differences amongst them. That is the
only just way  the only way in which
either a father or mother can do their duty''

We are just coming to the end of our
stay here," Godfrey said after a time.
We shall be leaving on Saturday."

Dear me  shall you ? " said Mrs.
Beresford. She knitted a few stitches,
and then she added  " I am sure it
will be quite a loss to us."

I don't know how to thank you
enough," Godfrey said warmly, "for all



your kindness. You and your family
have made this month a very delightful
one to us."

I am sure we have done very little,"
answered Mrs. Beresford. " But I am
sorry you won't see the Vicar again. I
hope you will come back and see him
and us all  some other year."

Nothing would make me happier
than to do that," Godfrey answered,
with a fervour that the lady, however,
did not seem to notice. She was nota
suspicious woman  nor, as he reflected
with keen appreciation, a woman bent on
marrying her daughters.

"And where are you going, Mr. Hel-stone
? " she merely quietly asked ; and
then Godfrey began to tell her something
about himself, and the place whither he

was bound.



Mrs. Beresford was not excited at
hearing: that her visitors intended so soon
to take their departure, but the news was
received with more interest by some of
the other members of the household.
Edith at the announcement, which was
made to her by Jack, opened her eyes to
their widest extent.

Going on Saturday ! Oh, you surely
don't mean that  do you ? " she exclaimed;
and then, when Jack replied that he unfortunately
did mean it,  " Well, I call
it a shame ! I'm awfully sorry ! " she
declared in her frank way.

It makes me very happy to hear you
say so," replied Jack, cheerily. " For my
own part I am heart-broken  but it's
Helstone's fault ; he loll go."

'' Then why don't you let him go ? "

inquired Edith. " You are not obliged


to do everything that he does, are you ?
You are not the Siamese twins''

No  but I don't think my mother
would like me to remain here alone,"
replied Jack demurely. " You see, I'm
very young  and it might hardly be safe."

And then Edith broke into a laugh in
whose mirth for the moment she forgot her
sorrow.

But yet amongst the young ones the

general feeling was one of hearty regret

that the two friends were going. ''I am

very sorry," Lilian said ; and, " Oh dear,

I am sorry ! " cried little Violet, with quite

a tender look in her great brown eyes, for

she and Jack were great friends, those

matrimonial intentions of which he had

spoken to Godfrey early in his acquaintance

with her having long since been openly

declared, and their declaration received by


the little maiden with much complacent
satisfaction. " I am sorry  only if you are
to marry me, you must come back again,
you know," said Vi., cheering up a little
at the prospect of this necessity.

*' Of course I must come back," Jack
answered. " I must come back to look
after you, or else I shall have you going
off and marrying yourself to some one
else."

Yes, I should have to do that, if you
didn't come," replied Vi. with a prudence
beyond her years.

They were all inclined to make more of
Jack perhaps than they did of Godfrey,
all except little Femie, who had liked
Godfrey from the first, and to whom he
had given many a ride round the garden
on his strong shoulders. He gave her one

of those rides to-night, and carried her



away from the others, and talked to her
about Joanne.

You will be o;lad when your sister comes
back, won't you 1 I should be, in your
place, I know," he said.

'' Oh yes," answered Femie, but rather
indifferently, for other matters of more
instant interest were engaging her attention.
" Do you think you could carry me
cill the way to the top of the hill ? " she
demanded next moment insinuatingly.

What, right up to the top ? " he said.

I think you could if you tried."

If I tried very hard perhaps I might.
Do you want me to try ? "

"Yes, I do," said Femie.

And so, with his plump burden on his

shoulders, Godfrey began to mount the

little hill up which he had gone with Joanne

and Mr. Beresford on the first evening he
VOL. II. 49 22

had spent with them (and often afterwards),
and found that the undertaking: needed
all his breath.

He conveyed Femie, however, to the top,
and there he put her down upon the grass,
and presently he set himself beside her.

It's pretty," said Femie sedately after
a little while.

Yes, it's very pretty," Godfrey answered ;
but if sister Joanne were here she would
say you ought to have come up on your
own feet. Wouldn't she ? "

"Don't know," replied Femie unblushingly,
and with a perfectly expressionless
face.

Oh yes, you know," said Godfrey. *' You
know quite well that is what she would
say."

But she is?i't here," remarked Femie

shrewdly.



"No, that is the worst of it. She isn't
here, though we two both wish she were.
Don't we, Femie ? " Godfrey asked in his
most dulcet tones.

Upon which Femie looked him in the
face, and gave a chuckling laugh of so
mocking a sort that Godfrey felt the colour
coming to his cheeks, and would hardly
have ventured on any further remark if the
little damsel's next words had not happily
restored his equanimity.

If she was here she wouldn't let you
carry me down again  perhaps," said Femie.

Oh, well  as to that  why, no, perhaps
she wouldn't," returned Godfrey, with renewed
courage. " But she would be with
us now, sitting here with us on the grass,
and that would be nice, wouldn't it ? "

*' H  m ! " answered Femie dubiously, as

if from a preoccupied mind.


U, Of !LL LIB.

She set herself to survey the prospect,
supporting her small chin in the hollow of
her hand, and in this position she remained
mute for a little while ; but after some
minutes had passed, during which this thoughts
had wandered far away from her, she suddenly
opened her Hps again and spoke, and
this time, at last, something to the purpose,
Godfrey thought.

Joanne says you would do more nice
things than Mr. Dallas would," was the
abrupt but pleasant sentence that she uttered.

"Does she say so? That is very kind
of her," answered Godfrey, with his heart
beating with a cheerful warmth.

Yes, lie likes you better than Mr. Dallas ;
and so do I," said Femie gravely.

He put his arm round her suddenly and
kissed her. " Thank you, Femie," he said.
He kissed her two or tln-ce times. He

told himself fervently that she was a dear
little girl.

When sister Joanne comes back, you
must tell her I was so sorry that she had to
go away. Will you ? " he asked presently.

Oh yes," said Femie, in a careless way.
(Her tone did not give him much confidence
that his message was safe in her hands.)
But you're going too ? " she added next
moment.

"Yes, I shall only see you once more.
I shall come and say good-bye to you tomorrow
night, and then  "

Are you going to London ? " interrupted
Femie, before he could end his sentence.
' That's where Joanne is, you know."

Yes, I know it is," said Godfrey, " and
I should like to be going too,  only T can't
just now. Some day, if she stays in London
long, shall I go there and see her ? "


"Oh yes," said Femie readily. Femie
saw no difficulties about anything. If
Godfrey had said, " Shall T go and marry
her ? " he was convinced that she would
have answered " Oh yes " again exactly
in the same tone, or, if with any difference,
only a trifle more joyfully.

He took her down the hill again in a

little while, carrying her in her usual

fashion. "So she would rather come tome

than to Jack if she wanted something

to be done for her ! Bless her ! " he was

thinking to himself, in a rapture of tender

gratis ide. "And she likes me best too!

God love her for her sweetness ! " And

he went happily down the hill, dreaming

of the things that might never be, and

almost forgetting: the little maid whose

round arms were about his neck, and whose

curly head lay on his shoulder.


There was only to be one more day of
it. Mr. Dallas, when the next morning
came, went off again as usual, and fished,
but Godfrey had lost his taste for fishing ;
he felt too restless for that gentle occupation
to have any charm for him. He
left Jack at the river, and spent his morning
rambling about the familiar woods,
and visiting each spot to which he had ever
been with Joanne. There was nothing else
he cared to do. He was love-sick, and he
was keenly aware of it. He was half
ashamed of himself, but yet the whole
place was full to him of Joanne, and until
he should turn his back upon it he felt
that it would be useless even to try to tear
his thoughts away from her.

They went in the afternoon and made

their farewell call on Mrs. Arthur, and

that lady, when they told her of their


approaching departure, expressed lier regret
with the utmost warmth.

What, going ! " she exclaimed, when
they said they had come to bid her goodbye.
" Going ! when we have only just
begun to feel that you are friends ! Oh,
this is really bad news ! " and she
stretched out a hand to each of the young
men, and stood gazing at them alternately
as if her heart yearned over them.

Godfrey felt foolish, and disengaged himself
from her with as much haste as
courtesy would permit, but she continued
to clasp Jack for some moments after his
more fortunate friend had escaped, and to
survey him with a smile of mingled
tenderness and regret.

"And must you go indeed ? Is it really

so ? " she said. "Mere birds of passage 

here to-day and gone tomorrow ! "


Well, yes,  you know that's the usual
way when one goes anywhere for a holiday,"
replied Jack, trying softly to loosen
his fingers.

True," said Mrs. Arthur, sighing ; " only
too true." And then at last she let his
hand fall, but she still looked sorrowfully
in his face. " And now you are going back
to the great world, are you ? " she asked.

Well, I am going into Lincolnshire,"
said Jack. " I don't think it's much like
what you would call the great world,  but
my people live there."

And they, no doubt, are longing to

see you ! Ah, your mother, I am sure  ! "

exclaimed Mrs. Arthur, with such sympathy

in her eyes that Jack instinctively retreated

a step. " For I didn't feel sure of what she

might be tempted to do. The thought of

my mother seemed to have such an bisect


upon her," he said afterwards, describing
the little scene to Godfrey.

They were rather glad when their call
was ended.

You must come back again,  you must
certainly come back'* Mrs. Arthur told
them before she let them go. " I always
think it is so sad when friendships that
have begun with pleasure cease abruptly,
like blossoms nipped in the bud. We
don't make many new friends here, you
know, in this quiet, sleepy little place ; but
perhaps that only makes us open our hearts
the wider to the few who ever come and
invade our solitude," and with a sweet and
almost tremulous smile, Mrs. Arthur took
Godfrey's extended hand at the last into
both her own.

He thanked her and said she was very

kind, and then he made rather an abrupt


exit from the room, and waited in the hall
till, nearly a minute later, Jack joined him.

I couldn't get away ; she was blessing
me," Mr. Dallas explained bashfully when
they had both fairly got into the open air.
*' It made me feel rather shy. There's
something embarrassing in being blessed
when you don't expect it."

I'm glad she didn't bless me'' replied
Godfrey, in a tone of gratitude.

After this they had nothing left to do

but to make their last visit to the Vicarage,

so they went there after tea, and stayed for

the greater part of the evening. It was

such an evening, Jack thought, as they had

often spent with the Beresfordss before, only

in some respects pleasant, inasmuch as

everybody made more than usual of them,

and treated them with more than usual

friendliness; but to Godfrey, in spite of


these signs of kindly regard, the hours as

they passed seemed purposeless, with a

purposelessness that he had never found

in them of old. " How one misses the

Vicar ! " he said to Mrs. Beresford once ;

and, " How one misses your daughter too ! "

he would have liked to add, but he did

not dare.

There had been a letter from Joanne,

Mrs. Beresford told him  " a long letter,"

she said ; *' yes, and a good one, on the

whole. She tells me a great deal about

her poor aunt. I think 1 have it in my

pocket," and she searched and found it.

Perhaps it would not interest you, but

if you care to read it  " she said ; and

then she held it out to Godfrey, who

eagerly took possession of it, and, as though

it were a treasure that he had to hide from

other envious eyes, carried it away with


him fairly out of the garden and into the

adjoining fiekls, and perused it there in

profound solitude.

Before beginning to read it he put the

envelope to his lips. When he reached

the end of its two closely-written sheets,

he kissed the spot where she had signed

her name. He kissed it once, and then

he kissed it a dozen times, feeling that he

was a fool, but yet feeling too that his

folly was very sweet. He went through

this performance, and then he turned back

to the beginning of the letter, and read

it again. How like her it all was ! How

simple and honest and full of feeling ! He

seemed to see the Avhole scene that she

described  the room (in which she was

sitting watching at this moment, perhaps),

the sick woman strugforlino- to make herself

articulate, the Vicar with his troubled heart.


He pictured how quietly she would do her
work, how ready and quick and tender
she would be. " I think Aunt Lucy likes
to have me," she wrote in one short sentence
; and Godfrey, as he read it, felt his
pulses throb. " Like to have her ! She
would be a strange woman if she did godlike
to have her ! " he ejaculated to himself,
with the utter want of reason common to
people in his state.

He put the letter finally in the breast-pocket
of his coat, and kept it there for
the remainder of the evening, fingering it
occasionally, and pressing it to his heart,
and altogether thinking so much more of
it, and of the writer of it, than of anything
that was passing before his eyes, that he
failed lamentably in making himself as
pleasant to Lilian and Edith as on this

last evening it surely had been his duty


to do. They played croquet, and he and
Jack played with them, but Godfrey did his
work so ill that he and Edith were beaten
ignominiously, not a little to Edith's indignation
; and then they went all together
up the little sunset hill, and Godfrey left
almost all the talk in the hands of the other
three.

Lilian and Edith were chattering merrily
to Jack ; they were full of fun and liveliness,
and Godfrey in unsympathetic silence
walked by their side, and thought that the
fan was very poor. It did not amuse him ;
it did not tempt him to take part in it ; the
girls seemed silly girls to him, and Jack 
well. Jack, he remembered, always suited
his conversation to his company. And yet
he was vexed with himself too that, even
if the girls were foolish, he could not

be foolish with them,  that he could only


bring his mind into the attitude of criticizing
and finding fault with them.

He could have enjoyed this walk on
another evenings. even with no better talk
than what was in his ears now, and he
knew this so well that at last he did try
to rouse himself from his apathy, and take
part in the general jesting and badinage ;
but the effort was not a very successful one,
and the girls found him so much less amusing
than Jack that they were not disposed
to turn from Mr. Dallas to listen to the
less lively entertainment that he offered
them. He did his best, in the mood in
which he was, but his best was something
of a failure, and so at last he turned to
some of the younger ones, and talked to
Victor about the lessons which were to
l)egiu for him when his father came back,
and to Femie about lier dolls, and her



donkey whose head had come off. It was
a donkey with which Godfrey had himself
presented her, and to which during the
weeks of his stay she had shown herself
much attached ; but to-day some of the
patient animal's internal economy had
given way so disastrously that Mr. Hel-stone,
looking at the wreck which was all
that remained of him, could but shake
his head, and pronounce his opinion that
the creature's life was ended.

"He wont mend, Femie," he told her.
"There's a part of him here, you see,
that's clean gone. If I were you I'd bury
him''

But Femie at this advice vigorously
shook her head. She walked about the
garden at Godfrey's side, with the mutilated
beast laid against her breast. " I love

him," she said tenderly. " I'll keep him as
VOL, II. 65 23

lie is ; I couhhit bury him." And Godfrey
perceived that there was likely to be a
hideous immortality for the headless animal
that little Femie had taken to her heart.

*' This is Miss Joanne's letter," Godfrey
said to Mrs. Beresford when the end of the
evening came at last. " Thank you so
much for letting me see it." And then he
gave it back to her much as a miser would
resign a piece of gold. It had come to the
final minute, and he and Jack were on their
feet to go.

I shall hope some time to see you here

again," Mrs. Beresford said cordially, and

shook hands with them a little more warmly

than her wont. She was never a very

effusive woman. Then they said good-bye

to the others, with a good many lingering

last words, and went their way.

"Upon my word I am sorry to see the


last of them ! " Jack exclaimed when they
had reached the road, and then he talked of
them all the way as they walked home ;
but Godfrey said very little. He was
wondering under what circumstances, and
when, he should see this place again  wondering
if he should return to it as Joanne's
lover  wondering if he should ever come toit
to take Joanne away.



Next morning the two friends parted.
Jack, as he lead told Mrs. Arthur, was
bound for Lincolnshire ; Godfrey's destination
was his own home. They bade one
another good-bye at Stafford, and by four
in the afternoon Godfrey reached his
journey's end, and in a few hours more
had returned to his ordinary home life, to
his study and his books, to the companionship
of his mother, and of ]margaret.

It was only a month since he had left

them, yet how long ago it seemed ! He

sat in the drawing-room after dinner, and


talked to ]MrH. Helstone and his cousin,
and told them about his holiday, and
the Beresfordss, Of course he had a Good
deal to say about the Beresfordss, and Mrs.
Helstone was curious, and asked a good
many questions. Perhaps she wondered
whether her son had escaped from the
society of so many girls with his heart
whole. She put a string of inquiries
to him.

I am rather confused about them yet.
There seems to have been such a legion
of them," she said in an almost aggrieved
way that made him laugh.

Well, there was a lesion of them," he
replied. 'taking both the families, there
were seventeen of them altogether  eleven

o

daughters and six sons."

"Oh, dear me I" ejaculated Mrs. Hel-stone,
and shuddered. Mrs. Helstone was


a dainty, rather liigli-bred woman, and
families of such dimensions seemed to her
vulgar in the Last degree. *' I should never
have been able to distinguish them from
one another," she said.

So you may think, but you would,"
answered Godfrey. " They were not much
alike, and three or four of them, you know,
were mere children,  quite little things.
Oh yes, you would soon have got to know
them apart,  especially our Beresfordss  the
Beresfordss of the Vicarage."

And so the Miss Beresfordss of the
Vicarage were especially your Miss Beresford,
were they ? " asked his mother, with
a laugh. " Really you seem to have had
a royal time of it ! I don't know how we
shall find any fit entertainment for you, now
that you have come back to such a humdrum
place as this. What about Mr.



Dallas ? Was he equally good friends too
with all these fair young ladies ? "

And then Godfrey began to tell them
about Jack, and pictured his friend's popularity
in such vivid colours that he kept
thcQi amused by his account for half an hour .

It was pleasant enough to him to sit
talking to his mother and Margaret assail,
but yet even while he talked a face that
was neither of theirs was haunting his
memory, and stirring his heart with feeling
os of which a month aso he had known
nothing. He mentioned Joanne's name,
but having said her name he hardly spoke
of her again. He talked the most of Lilian
and Edith and Clara. He praised Lilian's
beauty, but almost in the same breath in
which he spoke of her lovely face he also
spoke of Mr. Francis, and how she was to
be married to him before the end of the

7;

year. " Yes, Joanne is pretty too," he
merely said once, " but nobody would think
of comparing her with Lilian, or with the
eldest of the Arthur Beresfordss."

And then he said a few words about
Clara, and Mrs. Helstone discovered that
she was not enslaved.

They dined at seven o'clock, and after that
they all sat in the drawing-room together.
Mrs. Helstone was a delicate woman,
and, except on quite exceptional evenings,
she never went even into the garden
after she had once dressed for dinner.
To-night she sat for hours in her favourite
easy-chair, talking and listening contentedly.
She was very glad to have
Godfrey back again. She was at most
times tolerably proud of this only son of
hers, and was accustomed to think herself a

happy woman in possessing him.


For a long time, as the evening passed,
Margaret sat close to one of the windows
sewing ; but at last the light failed her, and
she had to put her work away. She had
chosen a high-legged seat to place herself
upon ; she was dressed in an unbecoming
dress ; she had not looked graceful as she
sat over her embroidery.

Margaret, are you not uncomfortable on
that straight-backed chair ? " Godfrey had
said to her once after a long time. " I
wish you wouldn't sit on it. Let me
give you another ; " and he rose up
and brought another to her, and made her
take it.

But when the exchange was made, Miss
Egerton scarcely looked more at ease than
she had looked before.

I don't think I care much for easy-chairs,"
she said indifferently in answer to


Godfrey's speech ; "I think they often only
tire one."

But yet she had not objected to rise at
his request. She v/iis not in the habit of
ever declining to do what Godfrey asked
her. Perhaps if she had been less obedient
to him she would have interested him
more.

She took her easy-chair, and then they

went on talking through the twilight till it

got dark. It was Margaret's habit to be

very quiet ; the other two talked for the

most part, and she only threw in a word at

intervals. She was happy to-night because

Godfrey had come back, but you could

hardly have told by any sign she gave

that she was happy. Contentment makes

a good many women beautiful, but those

are women with a supple physique, and

Margaret's physique was not supple. Her


gladness was all in her heart, poor soul ; it

did not affect her figure or her face, to give

a new grace to either of them.

Godfrey liked her very much  he had

always liked her  but she might almost

have been a boy for any pleasure that he

took in being near her. He looked at hera

good deal to-night, but it was mainly

with a sentiment of wonder. He never

had been able to understand how, being so

intelligent as she was, and so nearly pretty,

as far as features went, it could yet be

possible for her to have so little charm for

him ; and to-night he seemed to understand

this strange incapacity in her to touch him

less than ever. What was it she lacked,

he asked himself, that so many other,

even the most ordinary, women have 

that all those Beresford girls had  that

Joanne had above them all ?


Poor margaret sat without any look of
ease in her easy-chair, but at least happily
unconscious of these thoughts and perplexed
questions that were passing through
her cousin s mind. Perhaps it hardly even
occurred to her that he was thinking of herat
all. Her own mind was full of him and
his return, and of her satisfaction in that
momentous event, and she listened to him
as he talked very much as if the words that
dropped from his lips were pearls which she
was the fortunate creature privileged to pickup
and treasure. For in that gentle heart
of hers she worshipped Godfrey, you know.
He had been her hero nearly all her life,
and she was happy now as she sat listening
to his voice, blissfully unmindful the while
of her own deficiencies, and unconscious (for
the moment) that he might be remembering

them ; not knowing, poor girl, that he was


alive to every outward imperfection in lier,
taking note of her ill-chosen gown, her
ill-arranged hair, her angular movements,
her curious want of womanly grace. There
are so many things that it is well for us
that we do not know, and Margaret was
happy that she did not know this.

There was a great cense of unrest in
Godfrey when he began next day to take
some mental account of himself, and try to
lay at least the foundations of his future
scheme of life. Before he went to Brentwood
he had had many plans regarding
the work to which he meant to devote
himself now that his years at college had
reached their end. He was not called upon
to earn his living;, but he had enough
ambition and activity of mind to make him
without difficulty put aside all thoughts

of passing his days in idleness or mere



pleasure-seeking. He would go to the bar

in the first instance, he had pretty well

resolved. At this time of year, however,

he could take no steps about going to the

bar ; that business must for the moment beset

aside ; he must find some other kind of

occupation for these present months, and

on the morning: after his return home he

sat himself down in his study, and tried

to make up his mind as to wdiat this

occupation should be.

But he sat there for a long time, and he

made up his mind to nothing. He tried to

resolve, indeed, that he would study law,

but he only sat still and thought of Joanne

Beresford. At the end of an hour he had

done nothing else. And then he said to

himself that he had, better go out for a

walk ; so he went out and took a long walk,

and was not conscious when he returned


from it that lie had done anything in the
course of it but think of Joanne.

Before he had left Brentwood, Godfrey
had declared, with very commendable
prudence, that he must let a month, or
perhaps even two months, elapse before he
ventured to decide whether the feeling
with which Joanne had inspired him was
a serious affection or not ; but prudence is
not a virtue that it is given to many lovers
to practise, and in spite of his wise resolves,
the truth is he entirely made up his mind
that he gravely and unquestionably loved
her before he had been twenty-four hours in
his own house. He undoubtedly loved her,
he told himself, and so, having become convinced
of this, as soon as he had the chance
he would ask her to marry him. It was
necessary to come with celerity to this

decision, it seemed to him, because of the


restless and disorganized st;itc in wliicli he

found himself  a state which, he rapidly

concluded, could only be mended by his

coming to some speedy explanation with

Joanne. For until he had seen her again

and spoken to her. Low could he lay down

any plan either of working or living, seeing

that (since he loved her) everything must

hinge now upon the answer she should give

his suit ?

If she refuses me I will go abroad," he

said to himself, for he was fairly modest,

and recognized that her refusing him was

quite a possible thing. If she refused him

he would go abroad ; but if she accepted

him  ! Poor lad ! that, I need hardly say,

was the sequel that he considered the

of te nest, and that he dreamed over till these

weeks, in spite of their disquietude, became

sweet to him with a foretaste of future joy.


After a very few days had passed, his
ignorance as to all that Joanne might be
doing, or of what might be happening to
her, began to fret him terribly, and his
own forced inaction, too, became very hard
to bear. When a fortnight had gone by,
he invented some excuse for writing to
Victor. The boy was fond of reading, and
he bethought him of sending him some
book, and with the book he also wrote a
letter, in which he asked generally after
the welfare of the family, and if his father
and sister had returned home.

His little gift, he argued, would insure
an answer, and in two days the answer
came  a boyish, brief epistle, but containing
the information Godfrey desired.

"The Governor came home last week's

Victor wrote, *' but nobody knows when

Joanne will come. Aunt Russell can't
VOL. II. 81 24

do without her, I suppose. She's better
though  Aunt Russell, I mean  and not
going to die, mother says."

The tidings did not amount to much,
but Godfrey kept the lad's letter in his
pocket, and read it a dozen times.

Very soon after this he began to settle
in his mind that in a week or two more
he Would go to town and see her. He
had taken care to note down Mrs. Eussell's
address when he had had Joanne's letter in
his possession ; he began to figure himself
now going to her aunt's house (it was a
house in Dorset Square), and asking for her.
He would ask for her, and send up his card,
and she would come to him (he thought)
in a little while, with that bright look of
quick inquiry on her face that he knew so
well,  of quick inquiry, of half expectancy,

and, might he not hope, of welcome too 1



For, without any conceit, he thought she
would be glad to see him. Her life in
Mrs. Russell's sick room, he argued, could
not be so cheerful but what a change from
it might naturally enough please her, and
he was connected in her mind, even if she
should have no more than a common liking
for him, with happy days and with her own
people. She would see him willingly, he
confidently thought, and would tell him
frankly that she was glad he had come.

And then ? Godfrey's imagination paused

a little at this point, afraid of daring too

much at once. Even at that first interview

with her (if he should gain it) he knew that

the question he was longing to ask her

would be on his lips, but whether or not

he should ask it then he could not tell.

He must read her face before he could

resolve upon that, he thought.


Perhaps it occurred to Mrs. Helstone
that her son showed himself a good deal
preoccupied during these weeks that succeeded
his return home ; but she was a
wise woman, and, whatever her thoughts
might be, she kept them to herself. Godfrey
was always ready to give her his attention
when she asked for it ; he was also ready
(when he was reminded) to pay little courtesies
to Margaret  to go with her for rides
or walks, and to talk to her about her
gardening, and her reading, and her other
occupations. All these things (on due hints

given) he willingly did; but perhaps, in


spite of his performance of such obvious
duties, Mrs. Helstone might still be conscious
that something quite apart from
them was occupying the young man's
thoughts, and leading him to spend the
larger part of his time alone, and inducing
a greater habit of silence in him than had
been customary on his part of old.

Occasionally, in a natural motherly way,
she talked to him about his plans for future
work, hoping at first that it was with these
that his mind was so much engaged ; but I
am afraid that, after one or two such conversations,
she must have found herself
compelled to seek in some other direction
for the source of his self-absorption, since,
though he replied to her inquiries with
gravity, and a fair recognition of the importance
of those duties that lay before

him, yet undoubtedly the tone in which


he talked of them betrayed no evidence
of overwhelming ardour (that she could
detect, at least) in their immediate pursuit.


"Of course I shall enter myself at the
bar," he said to her one day, "as soon as
possible."

Yes ; no doubt you should do that,"
replied Mrs. Helstone.

"I think," said Godfrey, intent on the
contemplation of a spot of mud on his boot
" I think I may perhaps run up to town
in a week or two."

But that won't be any use at present,
will it, my dear ? " asked Mrs. Helstone.
I thought this was vacation time ? "

Oh, I want to make some inquiries,"

said Godfrey, in an offhand way. " No ;

I should have to go up again, of course."

I always think London is so unpleasant


late in the summer," remarked Mrs. Helstone
carelessly.

But Godfrey made no reply. Perhaps
she wondered why he wanted to go to
town, and would have liked to ask him ;
but she did not ask.

It had come to be the middle of August
by this time, and the weather was
hot. Godfrey rose one morning thinking
that the place surely did not agree with
him.

I begin to fear, mother, that this is
a very enervating kind of air," he said
to her that day. " One never notices
such things when one is a boy, but I
am sure there is too much wood about
the house. In weather like this one can
hardly breathe."

At this speech Mrs. Helstone laughed.

''Mv dear Godfrey," she said, "/ can



breathe perfectly well. I doii't think the
air is enervating ; I don't believe there is
anything wrong with it. I think the fault
his in yourself."

"I don't see how that can be," replied
Godfrey ; but he said no more, and some
hours passed.

In the afternoon he had a ride with
Margaret. He thought that some active
exercise would do him good, and he felt
too listless to walk, so he went to order his
horse, and on his way met Margaret, and
good-naturedly asked her to come with him.
"That is, if you have nothing better to do,"
he said, perhaps a little carelessly. But
Margaret did not seem conscious of any lack
of cordiality, and went with him gladly.
The girl, in her gentle way, was only too
much at his beck and bidding.

They went for a hnig ride, and Margaret



enjoyed it greatly. As for Godfrey, it had
been for health rather than pleasure that he
had mounted his horse, and so perhaps he
cared for his afternoon's entertainment less
than she did.

*' I want a good gallop," he said to her
when they started. So they galloped for a
mile or two, and then they took to a quieter
pace, and talked.

It was always easy to Godfrey in a way

to talk to Margaret, for she was so ready to

respond to every remark he made. She

always instinctively roused herself when

she was with him, and did her utmost to

talk her best, while he talked  what came

uppermost. This difference was inevitable,

since he interested her, but she did not

interest him ; yet sometimes, nevertheless,

it troubled him, for he could not but be

conscious that she liked to please him, and,


with his will or against it, he could not fail
to perceive how easily he could please her ;
and, on the whole, he would rather that it
had not been so. On the whole, I say, for
there was naturally also a certain gratification
to him in the knowledge of his cousin's
liking for him. He was grateful for her
liking, and would scarcely have been contented
if he had seen it grow less ; but still
there were moments when he felt that it
would be better for him, and for her, if
he were less conscious of it.

They began to walk their horses, and
Godfrey said it was extremely hot.

"Yes; but we have been galloping,"
replied Margaret. "You will be cooler
presently. I don't know why we should
gallop on such a day."

I want to get the cobwebs brushed out

of my brain," he answered.


Have you been workings too much this
morning ? " she inquired sympathetically.
I am afraid you have. I don't think you
ought to do it in this hot weather."

But at this speech he laughed.

I haven't been working at all," he said ;
I have been utterly idle all day."

"Dear me ! " said Margaret simply. She
was an industrious girl herself, and this
account that Godfrey gave of his morning
seemed very strange to her.

Are you never idle ? " the young man
asked, laughing again at the tone of her
answer. " But I suppose I needn't inquire.
You are never anything that you oughtn't
to be."

Oh, Godfrey, don't say that ! It isn't
kind," exclaimed Margaret quickly.

" It is the kindest thing that I know how

to say. I am sure I never saw you do a


wrong thing," he went on jestingly. But
she would not answer him again.

'was it because you were not feeling
well that you were doing nothing ? " she
asked instead.

I don't know. Perhaps it was. I was
feeling very stupid," he answered.

And are you better now ? " she said.

Yes ; I think I am better now." But
he did not seem very sure of it, and
Margaret glanced at him with secret
anxiety.

Perhaps you have got cold," she suggested.


Ah, I dare say I have," he said.

But he made their ride a long one, and,

as I said, she enjoyed it. Something after

a time made him begin to speak about the

Beresfordss, and when he had once begun he

continued to talk of them for a good while.


It was a subject in which Margaret was

intensely interested,  more than she would

have liked to allow to herself, perhaps.

She asked him a good many questions, and

she was sufficiently eager iu listening to his

answers for the colour to come into her

face. Caring for him herself as she did,

how could she help wondering if he had

cared for any of these girls ?

She tried to discover if he had, but she

did not discover anything. Some men are

very quick to give their confidences to a

woman, and to some women Godfrey might

have given his, but in the nature of things

he could hardly give it to Margaret. If he

could have said to her, " I hope to marry

Joanne Beresford," he almost knew that he

should be glad ; but he could not say it ;

he had not courage enough.

She was very happy after this talk during


the rest of her ride, and she tried hard,
poor girl, to make it pleasant to him too,
but perhaps he was not very conscious of
her efforts. He had a cruel way (which
was, however, almost an inevitable way), in
these days when he was with her, of comparing
her companionship with Joanne's, and
the comparison was hard for her. She gave
her best to him, but her best was so colourless
an offering. For a man cannot fall in
love with simple goodness. If such a thing
had been possible, Godfrey perhaps would
have done it, and have loved Margaret
before he had ever seen Joanne Beresford.
His ride had not invigorated him much,
for he almost fell asleep presently when he
got back to the house. He lay down on
the sofa in the library, and dozed till the
dressing bell rang. '' I certainly have

caught cold," he thought to himself then


as lie got on his feet again. But he went
and dressed for dinner, and said nothing
about it.

He got through that evening, and through
a part of the next day, and then his mother
said suddenly to him, '' Godfrey, you are
surely not well ? " and he allowed that he
was not.

No ; I have' got a cold," he said, "but
I am going to walk it off."

And so he went out and walked for a
couple of hours, but at the end of them he
came back feeling very odd.

He was beginning to have a painful suspicion
by this time that he was going to
be ill, but he wanted to be ill so very little
that he resolved to make a hard fight for it
yet, and he did. He fought so well all the
evening that the other two thought he was

better. But he himself knew that he was


not better, and when lie went to bed he
had a bad time.

I never had a cold like this before in
my life," he thought in the middle of the
night, when he awoke with his head on fire,
and a pain in his throat that seemed almost
to choke him. " I hope I mayn't have got
diphtheria, or anything of that kind." And
the fear that he might have got diphtheria
was so terrible to him (for when, he asked
himself, if that were the case, should he be
able to go to Joanne ?) that by pure strength
of will he kept himself still from succumbing
to his condition.

He slept a little, and then, when the time

for rising came, he rose (though he found

he could hardly stand steadily), persuading

himself that he should be better out of

bed, and went downstairs and joined the

others.



'' I have had a stupid, feverish night,"
he said to his mother, as he greeted
her.

He drank some coffee, and then retired
to his study, and there, an hour afterwards,
Margaret found him, lying on the sofa with
a flushed ftice.

She had come to his room to ask how
he was, and the sight of him brought an
anxious look to her pale eyes.

I am afraid you are very unwell ? " she
said to him, in a troubled voice.

"Well, I got a little giddy just now,"

he explained, half apologetically, "and so

I thought I had better lie down,  but, oh,

I shall be all right again presently." And

then he tried to rouse himself. " Have you

seen the newspaper ? I think, if I had it

here"

Let me read it to you," Margaret said ;
VOL. II. 97 25

and she got the paper, and sat by his side
and read.

She was happy to be doing something for
him, to find herself waiting on him, and
allowed to stay with him. Sometimes reading,
and sometimes in silence, she sat with
him for an hour, and then a stream of sunshine
came suddenly into the rooQi (it had
been till then a dull morning), and, looking
towards him, meaning to ask if the light
hurt his eyes, she all at once found her
own eyes arrested by something she saw in
his face.

What are you looking at ? " he asked
her, after a moment or two, rather bluntly,
for it is not pleasant to be stared at, and,
conscious that she had turned towards him.,
he had glanced up, and discovered her
staring at him with all her miofht.

Oh, I beg your pardon," she answered



hurriedly, " it is only  I hadn't noticed it
before,  but, surely there is a rash on your
face?"

A rash ! '' he repeated, in a tone of
disgust. He raised his head hastily from
the pillow. He was very giddy, but he
brought himself with rapidity into a sitting
posture. '' What sort of a rash 1 "

*' There are little red spots," said Margaret
anxiously, "and, look, they are on
your hands too."

And then he looked at his hands, and
found that it was so.

*what do you think it is? what is it
likely to be ? " he asked rather excitedly,
after he had gazed at these symptoms fora
moment or two.

"I  I don't know. I'll ask aunt to
come and see. Perhaps it's nettle-rash,"

said Margaret.



*' That isn't a very bad thing, is it ? "

No, I don't think it is very had," she
said. " Oh no ; I believe it is 'of very
little consequence,  only it makes people
feel ill."

I've no doubt then that it is nettle-rash,"
exclaimed Godfrey, in a tone of satisfaction.
" And it is well that it has come
out, isn't it ? One gets the turn, I believe,
after anvthinfy of this kind comes to the
surface ? Yes ; I suppose you had better,
if you will, ask my mother to come and
look at me."

And then he sank back again, for the
room was going round with him. There
Alas no doubt that nettle-rash, if this was
it, made people feel very ill indeed.

Mrs. Helstone came and looked at him,

and said, after a moment, "We will send

for Dr. Carson. 1 dare say it will prove to


be what we think, but I should like to be
sure." So she sent Margaret out of the
room, and sat with her son till the doctor
came .

And then, when Dr. Carson arrived, he
gave one glance at his patient, and said
instantly, " Humph I why are you not in
bed ? "

*' You think then that he ought to be in
bed?" asked Mrs. Helstone.

On which the doctor took Godfrey by
the collar of his coat, and turned his face
full to the light.

Why, don't you see the state he's in ?
It's scarlatina," he said.

Scarlatina ! " they both ejaculated together,
and Godfrey especially in such a
tone of amazement that Dr. Carson laughed.

"Why, what did you think you had

got?" he said. *rit seems to me you


might have guessed. Haven't you a sore
throat, and this rash all over you ? 1
can't think for my own part how you have
managed to keep about so long. You would
have been wiser to have given in sooner.
However, go to bed now, and you'll do
very well." And then he wrote his prescription.


*' My niece has not had scarlatina, and
she has been sitting with him for a good
part of the morning," Mrs. Helstone said
with a troubled face, when she followed
Dr. Carson out into the hall.

Ah, that's a pity," he answered quickly.

"However," he added next moment, "you

can't help it. All you can do is to keep

her away from bim now. I think it will

be a mild case," he said cheerfully. " In

fact he is nearly half through it already.

If all goes straight you will be beginning to


have him get better again in a day or two
more."

' And I can do nothings for Margaret ? "
she said.

*No, you can do nothing," he answered.
But don't frighten yourself. Very likely
most likely  she won't take it."

' And must I send her away ? "

"Well," he replied dubiously, "for my
own part, I should say that in a large house
like this it hardly matters. You can keep
them quite apart without any difficulty, and
I believe she would be as safe here as anywhere.
But do whatever would make you
easiest. If you would rather have her away,
then send her away by all means."

I will speak to her about it," said Mrs.
Helstone.

And so presently she spoke to Margaret,

and rather urged upon her that she should


go ; but Margaret did not want to go,
and she pleaded to have her own way,
till Mrs. Helstone, thinking that it really
perhaps would make little difference, let
her have it.

I will never come near his room," Margaret
said. ' You can isolate him entirely,
you know ; and I believe I shall be as much
out of danfifcr at the other end of the house
as if I were miles away."

*' I shall have not only to isolate him,
but to isolate myself too," Mrs. Helstone
reminded her. *' If you stay, Margaret,
you will have to be left quite
alone."

Very well ; but I shall be near you,"
the girl said.

And then it was settled so, and all necessary
arrangements were made, and within

an hour after Dr. Carson's departure, Mrs.


Helstoue had taken up her post by Godfrey's
bedside.

He got as red as a lobster, but yet, as Dr.
Carson had predicted, it proved a mild case,
and after a very few days the worst was
over.

*' How soon do you suppose I shall be
about again ? " he asked his mother at the
end of a week.

It was the first morning on which he had
left his bed. They had wrapped him in his
dressing-room, and set him on a sofa drawn
to the window, from whence for a moment
or two he had spoken to Margaret in the
garden below. " I shall soon be quite well,"
he had called down to her. " I am so glad
1/ou are keeping well too." For though he
had not at first remembered the risk she had
incurred by being with him at the beginning
of his illness, that fact had struck him later



on, and head troubled him not a little. " Are
you quite sure you are all right ? " he had
asked her.

Yes, I think so ; oh yes," Margaret
answered cheerfully, but a little quickly ;
and then immediately hastened to add
something else about him, and not herself.
For on this morning for the first time the
2:irl had felt afraid that things with her were
not all right.

But Godfrey had no suspicion of this as
she spoke to him. He was happy and in
good spirits, as a man may well be who rises
from a sick bed, and feels the first touch of
returning health. His mind was already
going back with eagerness to its temporarily
checked hopes and plans.

' How soon do you imagine I shall get

about again ? " he had asked his mother.

Surely, don't you think, in another week ? "


She had been giving him his beef-tea,
and sitting contentedly by his side watching
the appetite with which he took it, but
at these inquiries she gave a little shake to
her head.

'* I dare say you may be feeling quite well
at the end of another week' she said ; " but
unfortunately, you know, you won't be safe.
Scarlatina is one of those troublesome illnesses
that necessitate one's remaining so
long in quarantine."

How long ? " he asked quickly, pricking
up his ears.

Well, I am afraid we must count on
near another month."

"A month!" he ejaculated in dismay.
'' You don't mean that ? "

Something like it, I fear," she said.

We will see, of course, what Dr. Carson

says. It wouldn't be right to run any risk."


** But a month ! That's awful ! " lie ejaculated
solemnly.

AVe must make it pass as pleasantly as
we can," she said. "You will be quite
well ; you will only need to keep out of
other people's way."

'' Yes ; but that is just it," he muttered.

What did you say, my dear ? " asked
Mrs. Helstone.

But Godfrey did not repeat his remark.

Not to see Joanne still for a whole month!
He lay back on his pillow with the light
gone out of his slice. He had been thinking
that, since his attack had been so slight
a one, he might perhaps get up to town in
another week, or say in ten days ; but
now  !

*' I don't know that everybody is so

strict about these things. Some people are

so terribly afraid of infection," he said


petulantly, after a few moments of
silence.

My dear boy, you can't be too much
afraid of it," replied his mother gravely.
*' Remember what a little more care would
have done in your own case."

And then Godfrey made no response, for
they had been able clearly to trace his illness
to his having one day taken shelter
during a storm in a cottage where a child
was ill with scarlatina. The child's mother
had told him that she was ill, but his
answer had merely been a hasty " Oh, it
doesn't matter," and he had waited till
the rain was over, and then had taken
his departure, and never thought of the
incident again.

He held his peace after his mother's

speech. " What a fool I was to go into

that place ! " he only thought bitterly.


But lie is right, I suppose, and I can
do nothing. If I went near Joanne she
mi<ht catch the thing; too ! Good heavens !
if she did 1 " And then the blood rushed
to his face, and his heart trembled within
him at the bare thought of this possible
calamity that he might bring upon Joanne
Beresford.

'aSe-



CHAPTER V.

It moved him so to think of what it
would be if he should brings this things on
Joanne ; and already he had brought it
on some one else, and the poor lad as yet
did not know it.

Margaret went back to the house after
her few sentences with Godfrey, happy
because she had seen him again, but with
a troubled suspicion shadowing her contentment
that his illness was coming: to her
too. She had been cjuite will all through
this week until to-day, but to-day her
head was aching, and her limbs felt

heavy '' I hope it is nothing," she said


to herself, and she went about all clay as
usual, trying to ignore the weariness and
weight that stole more and more ujon
her, till at last, late in the evening, the
fatal sore throat began. After that, though
with an intense unwillingness, she felt
little doubt that the fever had come to
her.

Before going to bed she told one of
the servants that she feared she was
going to be ill, and the woman was kind,
and did what she could. She was a
middle-aged woman, who had seen something
of illness, and did not fear infection.

I'll sit up, miss," she said, " and see
how you are as the night goes on."

' I don't want my aunt to know anything
till morning," Margaret told her ;
and then she went to bed, and the woman

attended her through the night, and in


the morning took the bad news to Mrs.
Helstone. For by morning there was no
doubt that Margaret had taken the fever.
Mrs. Helstone came to the bedside, and
saw the flushed face and laboured breath
with a troubled heart.

Oh, my darling, I am sorry for this ! "
she cried, at the sight of her.

*'I am so sorry too. I had so hoped
I should not have caught it," Margaret
said, almost deprecatingly. It seemed even
already as if she spoke with difficulty.
She put her hand up to her throat, as if
to help herself. " You need not tell Godfrey,
need you ? " she asked, with an effort.

'' I have not told him yet," Mrs. Helstone
answered ; but as she turned away presently
she knew that she should be forced
to tell him in a very little while.

Dr. Carson came in the course of the
VOL. 11. 113 26

morning, and looked at his new patient with
a graver face than he had turned on Godfrey.

"Yes, she is very ill," he said to Mrs.
Helstone plainly. " And she is a delicate
girl ; she will need all the care that you
can give her," he added, after a moment.
*'I think I had better send a nurse to
you. You have your son still to look after."

Godfrey hardly needs me now," Mrs.
Helstone answered.

But he merely shook his head a little.
You will be glad of another pair of
hands," he answered ; " I am afraid it maybe
a bad case."

Godfrey was very well this morning, and

rose an hour or two after breakfast, and

lay reading on his sofa. He was not

quite so happy as he had been yesterday,

for he had only as yet partially reconciled

himself to his disappointment ; but still


the feeling of returning health was too
pleasant for even that disappointment to
rob him of his satisfaction in it ; and so
he read, and thought, and gazed out of
his window in luxurious idleness, and fora
good while did not notice that there
was any trouble in Mrs. Helstone's face.

At last, however, he chanced to look
at her as she was standing near him ; and
after a moment he said suddenly, " Mother,
are you tired ? "

No," she replied, '* no ; I have had
nothing to tire me."

'' I thought you looked grave," he said.
And then all at once he asked, '* Is there
anything wrong with Margaret ? "

There was something in her face that

made him hurriedly put the question, and

something also that let him read her answer

almost before she gave it.


He broke into au cxclainatioii of sorrow
and self-reproach as she told him her bad
tidings, and then turned his own face away.

* What a fool I was that day ! " he broke
out presently. " Mother, tell her I am
sorry to the bottom of my heart. She is
such an angel that she will never reproach
me, but tell her that I don't know how
to forgive myself. Tell her so, with my
love. And, mother, you must not stay
with me now. I need no more nursing.
You must go and do what you can for our
poor girl."

Mrs. Helstone went back to her niece's

room with a heavy heart. She had not

told Godfrey how much worse Margaret

was already than he had ever been at

all ; she hardly ventured to tell this even

to herself, but yet she knew that it was so.

And, indeed, she was ill enough. The


fever was so high already that her mind
was wandering. She did not know where
she was ; she lay muttering incoherent sentences
to herself. Mrs. Helstone tried to
give her Godfrey's message, but she only
opened her pale eyes blankly, and stared
without comprehension in her aunt's
face.

There was no improvement in her all
day, nor any through the night. It went
on for four days and nights, and then on
the fifth morning Dr. Carson told them
that they must prepare themselves for
the end.

She is sinking'* he said to Mrs. Hel-stone.
"We won't give up all hope even
yet, but I am afraid we shall not save her."

They had been four terrible days  days

of such anxiety as Godfrey had never before

known. If it had been in her power, his


mother would have kept him in ignorance

of the extent of her own alarm, but it

had not been long in her power to do so.

He had questioned her till she had had

to confess the truth. And then, day after

day, and hour after hour, as poor Margaret's

hold on life grew feebler, he had sat alone

in his room, believing that she would die,

and telling himself that, if she did, he

should have killed her.

It was the first serious trouble he had

ever faced, and it seemed to take the very

light out of heaven for him. A week or

two aojo he had been so full of strength

and hope, so full of ardent and happy

anticipations, so absorbed in his thoughts

of Joanne, so eager to pursue the schemes

for his future happiness with which his

mind was overflowing ; and now in a day

all this had ceased for him ; all that he had


hoped and desired and looked forward to
seemed suddenly to be to him (for the
moment) only as the ashes of a burnt-out
fire. For if Margaret should die, how, he
asked himself, could he go straight from
her grave to the side of that other woman ?
If she had not given so much to him, it
might have been possible for him to go ;
but his knowledge of the regard she had
given him, and the thought of what he had
brought upon her as his only return for
her affection, burnt themselves into poor
Godfrey's brain during these days with a
bitter force that seemed to wither and kill
every happy hope that he had had.

On the evening of the fifth day his
mother came to his room, and said something
to him with a break in her voice.
I think, if you are to see her again,"

she told him, 'you must come to-night."


Mother ! " he answered her, almost
with a cry.

And then suddenly she fell upon his
neck.

*' Oh, Godfrey," she said, '' she is dying !
our Margaret, who has loved us both."

He rose up hurriedly, and took her in
his arms. They kissed one another in a
pain too great for words.

I would give everything I have in the
world  I would give my life for her," he
cried.

He had never seen her since that pleasant

morning (so short a time ago in reality, yet

so long ago it seemed to him now in looking

back on it), when she had stood in the

garden below his window, and told him

how glad she was that he was getting

better. A thousand times during these sad

succeeding days he had thought of those


few last moments ; and now, with the
remembrance in his heart of the happy
look that she had worn that day, he came
to-night into her presence again, and stood
beside her bed.

The fever had worn itself out by this
time, and she was lying white and still
enough.

She is not asleep," Mrs. Helstone said :
"you can speak to her." And then Godfrey,
with the colour gone out of his own
face, bent over her, and in a low voice
spoke her name.

Margaret V he said.

Her hand was lying outside the bedclothes,
and he put his own upon it. He
sat down and leant over her.

Margaret, do you not know me ? " he
asked, with a thrill in his voice that perhaps
the poor girl heard.



She opened her eyes and looked at him.
Was this the sicht she wanted most to see ?
The white lips quivered ; she gazed till
her eyelids closed again for weakness, and
yet, weary as they where, they remained
shut only for a moment, and then once
more the poor dim eyes looked at him till
a light of faint recognition kindled in them
at last, "sand his name came from her lips
in a low, pathetic cry  the sort of cry
a disembodied soul might give, who saw
some face it loved coming to meet it in
the other world.

The sound made Godfrey's heart standstill,

and yet it touched him profoundly

too. What could he do but let her go on

gazing at him ? He bent down presently

and kissed her hand ; in his intense pity

and self-reproach a minute afterwards he

kissed her cheek.



My poor Margaret ! my dear Margaret
! " he said to her, not once only, but
aoain and aoain.

He believed she was about to die before
his eyes, aud if he could have saved herat
this moment by any sacrifice he would
have done it. But he could not save her !
he cried to himself. There was no future
for her ; there was nothing to think of
but these few last hours. She had lost
her life through him, and no one could
blame him, I think, if (as he did) he let
all other considerations give way to his one
remorseful and overwhelming desire to be
tender to her.

He sat with her, holding her hands in
his, sometimes in silence, sometimes speaking
to her a little, as she seemed able to
bear it (and as he could find words to utter),

till, soothed by the comfort of his presence,


she fell at last into a kind of sleep ; and
then, wretched and half stunned, he went
back to his own room. Dr. Carson had
told them that she would not probably live
through the night. He went away thinking
that he had perhaps seen her and spoken
to her for the last time.

But in the morning: she was still living,
and she lived all day, and Godfrey went
and sat by her bedside again, and held her
hand again in his.

"My dear, you do her good," his mother

said gratefully to him. Was it possible,

she began to ask herself, watching her

niece's face,  was it possible that Godfrey

might have the power of doing what none

of the rest of them could do ? Joy had

made people live before this. What if

Godfrey should be making Margaret so

glad that she could not die ?
124*

For years Mrs. Helstone had had no
stroDoer wish than that her son should ask
his cousin to be his wife. She loved the
girl, and she wanted to keep possession of
her ; she had little doubt of Margaret's love
for Godfrey. He could find no better
wife ; he could find few half so good, let
him seek where he might, she had said to
herself a hundred times. And now Godfrey
was sitting by Margaret's side, and looking
in her face almost as if he loved her. How
could she help dreaming that something
might be possible that she had hardly dared
to dream of as possible before ?

Margaret maintained the little strength
she had during this day, and on the following
morning: Dr. Carson said that if
there was any change at all in her, it was
a change for the better.

Two days ago I did not think she would


live for twelve more hours," he said. *' She
is making a better fight than I expected.
I would not say that her case is hopeless
now."

He came three times between morning
and evening. He was beginning to watch
the case with extreme interest. " I do not
say that I think she will recover, but at
least I say she has a chance," was his
verdict when night came.

And so the days went on, and, as they
passed, those who waited beside Margaret's
bed watched the struggle she was making
for life, till all their thoughts and hopes
became almost as much absorbed in it as
though the outside world for the time had
ceased for them, and left them no interest
beyond the walls of her sick room.

Such a fight with death takes hold of

all our sympathies, even when the fighter


may be almost a stranger to us ; but bere,

when these two watchers were the woman

wbo loved Margaret like ber own daughter,

and the man wbo felt that if sbe died ber

death would lie at bis door, you may

imagine the engrossing nature of the sympathy

they gave ber, and the depth of

the interest and anguish that ber state

aroused. " Mother, it is terrible ! Is it

possible that there can be many cases like

this 1 " Godfrey exclaimed one day, when,

at a week's end, sbe was still alive, and yet

hardly more than that.

It was such a week as be, at any rate,

bad never passed before, and be bad

scarcely recovered bis own strength yet,

and the strain began to tell hardly on bim.

From the first evening on wbicb be entered

Margaret's room, the comfort bis presence

gave ber bad been so evident that be could


not have again absented himself without an

amount of unkindness that it would have

been impossible at such a time to show her.

Nor, indeed, had he the desire to absent

himself. Feeling towards her as he did,

with all. the regard he had ever had for her

quickened and intensified by his anxiety

and self-reproach, he was very unlikely to

grudge the little he could do to. comfort and

help her. For he called it little, perhaps

from modesty, perhaps because he shrank

instinctively from recognizing how much

it was in her eyes. It was next to nothing,

he would have said, to sit by her, and speak

kind words to her, and touch her hand or

smooth her hair, or even occasionally kiss

the poor cheek or brow with the same

pitying kiss that he might have given to a

child. He knew that she cared to have him

near her, with an eagerness with which she


cared for notliiuof else, and the thought of

this troubled him sometimes ; but he had

beofuu to be tender to her, and how could

he draw back now,  at such a time as this,

when her life hung still in the balance, and

they could not tell from hour to hour what

the end would be ?

All that he could do, it seemed to him,

either for her consolation or his own, was

to show her kindness, and so, inevitably, he

was kind to her. Each day involuntarily

brought him into closer relations with her ;

she would take food from him which she

rejected from any other hand ; when she

was restless the sound of his voice soothed

her ; and if his consciousness of the influence

he had over her touched him deeply,

and, in spite of the anxiety it sometimes

gave him, still induced him again and again,

at each fresh need, to exert it, he was to be
VOL. II. 129 27

pitied more than blamed ; for v]lilc lie lay

like this, half dying, how could he coldly

coinit the cost of what he was doing;, or

deny this helpless woman the sweetest

thin that he could sive her ? Poor Godfrey

! if he was sowing to reap a future

bitter harvest, at least it was a tender

heart and a generous nature that led him

wrong.

It was not only through anxious days,

but even through anxious weeks, that

they had to wait before at last they could

venture to allow their hopes for Margaret

to grow greater than their fears. Her

illness had become one of those complicated

illnesses that baffle doctors' skill, and weary

the hearts of those who watch beside the

sufferers ; for, as happens so often after

scarlatina, the fever, although itself long

subdued, had left the seeds of other evils


behind it, and when even a month had
passed, Margaret had only begun to show
the first faint symptoms of convalescence.

I tank she will do now," Dr. Carson
had allowed himself to say, but he had
still only said it dubiously. " She will
need the utmost care for months to come,"
he warned Mrs. Helstone. " You will be
wise presently to take her to a warmer
climate for the winter. A slight cold,  a
sudden chill,  anything of that kind, if she
caught it, might settle on her lungs now,
and, should such a thing happen, there
would not be a chance for her."

He told Mrs. Helstone this one September
day, five weeks after she had first
been taken ill. She was still in bed, too
weak yet almost to be able to lift her
head from the pillow ; but at least she

was better. That much was certain, and


Godfrey felt as if the heaviest weight he
had ever known was beginning to be lifted
from his neck.

He used sometimes to sit by her bedside
and read to her now. She liked to be read
to, or at least she liked Godfrey to read to
her. She would lie and listen, with her eyes
upon his face. She was too weak in these
days, poor soul, to struggle with her affection
for him, so that whatever kindness he
gave her she accepted, without looking
forward, or reasoning with herself, or asking
whether the food she found so sweet was
food that in the end would nourish or
destroy her ; these days, she only felt, were
days separate from all others she had ever
known  days not to be ruled by ordinary
laws. This was how it seemed to her at
first ; afterwards, if she slowly came to

think and hope that they were the beginning:


for her of another and dearer life,
it was hardly, perhaps, her fault. She
only misunderstood, blinded by her weakness
and by the feeling in her own
heart .

He was glad to read to her, for as time
went on he found it easier to read than to
talk. As long as she was very ill it had
been simple enough merely to sit beside
her and murmur occasional soft, sympathetic
words, and stroke the poor hand that
was so willing to be taken into his ; but
presently it began to embarrass him when
he thought that she might expect him to
take her hand or smooth her hair. For the
caresses given in his remorse and pity when
he thought that she was dying came, he was
uneasily conscious, to have another significance
when she was likely not to die, but to
live, and instinctively, therefore, he began,



when her slow convalescence had set in, to

give these caresses charily, and would soon

have ceased to give them altogether, if it

had not been for the poor girl's wistful

eyes. Those pale, sad eyes came in time

almost to haunt him,  to give him a kind

of vague terror, and yet he could not

harden himself against them.

But it was easy to read to her, and so he

sat frequently by her side and read, till

often in her weakness she fell asleep with

his voice in her ears. No music could have

soothed her so well perhaps. She would

fall asleep, and then he would sit looking

at her with very mingled thoughts in his

mind, but presently with one paramount

thought that always separated itself from

all the others, and constantly assumed each

day a greater prominence and insistence 

the thought that before long he must go


away, if be would avoid disaster both for
himself and her.

"If I go at once she will feel it at first,"
he reasoned, " but she will only feel it for a
little while. Every day makes our being
too-ether more difficult now, and she does
not know, poor girl, how much she betrays.
If I go away she will get better, and then
she need never know ; we can meet again
presently on our old terms." And the desirability
of going,  even the necessity of it, 
got to present itself to him more urgently
with every day that passed.

At last one evening he said something

about his departure to his mother. It was

the evening of a day that had been a bright

one for Margaret. She had been moved

from her bed to the sofa, for the first time,

and the improvement in her that this

change implied had cheered them all.


We shall soon have you your old self
again," Godfrey had said affectionately to
her. The poor fellow, in spite of his perplexities,
was feeling intensely relieved and
grateful in these days. With the shadow
of death removed from Margaret, it seemed
to him as if nothing else could be very
hard ; he was embarrassed as to his relations
with her, but he was not of a
nature to be disposed readily to think that
any woman would break her heart for him.
He had been forced to learn that his cousin
liked him, but a girl's love for a man who
had never wooed her could only be a light
thing, he thought,  a sentiment, not a
passion  a feeling she would quickly forget.
It was only the present, he told himself,
that was difficult  these days of illness and
slow convalescence, while she was so weak,

and he was so sorry for her.


He said to Mrs. Helstone on this evening,
rather abruptly 

I suppose you could get along without
me now, mother, could you not, if I were
to go away for a little while ? I was
thinking that I might go  it wouldn't bea
bad plan, perhaps  to Mentone ; just for
the change, I mean, and to see if it seemed
a nice kind of place for Margaret." (For
this was, of course, a journey that would
take him, if he made it, through London ;
and, far above all thoughts of Mentone or
of any other thing, was the thought that
in London he might still find Joanne
Beresford.)

He made his speech, and Mrs. Helstone

listened to it, and then after she had listened

she let a moment or two pass before she

said 

Mentone is a long way off. In Margaret's


uncertain state I slioukl be glad, my
dear, if you would not go so far. Of course
I could get on without you here ; but, poor
girl, think how she would miss you ! And
you yourself too  I had almost hoped  "
Mrs. Helstone besran this sentence doubt



fully, but yet with a keen desire to perceive
how her son would receive it,  " I had
almost hoped, Godfrey, that at this anxious
time you would not have liked for your
own sake to be separated from her."

But she is out of danger'' replied
Godfrey quickly, with his face, as his
mother did not fail to observe, suddenly
very hot.

I hardly consider her out of danger :

she is so terribly weak still. I fear that

she would feel your going very greatly.

You see," said Mrs. Helstone, and then

seemed to hesitate a little,  "you see,


Godfrey, you cannot shut your eyes to the
fiict that she cares about what you do. She
cares about it so much that if you were to
become less kind to her now than you
have been of Late  if you were to seem
presently to neglect her  it would kill her,
I believe."

'' But, mother  ! " the young man almost
gasped.

His position had merely seemed somewhat
embarrassing to him before, when he
had only pondered over it in his own mind,
but novv- it startled him and made him
shudder, like a man who hinds himself
standing on the brink of a precipice from
which he does not know how to draw back,
when he heard those words from Mrs.
Helstone's lips.

I don't understand you," he said hurriedly.
*' I don't know what you want to


surg-est. Margaret would be the last cjirl
to take offence."

'' I never meant to imply that she would
take offence. She would not do that, I
am sure," said Mrs. Helstone. " But, my
dear,"  and then she paused ; the moment,
as she knew, was critical. After a very
short silence she went on speaking quietly,
but her heart, in Site of her apparent
calmness, was beating fast. '' My dear,
I can hardly need to tell you that during
these last weeks you have given Margaret
cause to believe "

A stinoino consciousness of what she was
about to say made Godfrey start to his feet,
and break with feverish passion into her
sentence.

** For God's sake do not speak like that ! "

he exclaimed. " What have I done ? I

have done nothing that she can have misunderstood,


 nothing that she ought to
have misunderstood for a moment."

Mrs. Helstone gave a peculiar little
cough.

*' I have seen you kiss her," she remarked
drily.

*rand what if you have?" He was
standing before her, with a look of wild
entreaty and anguish in his eyes. " She
is my cousin, and if I have ever kissed her,
you know well what feeling has made me
do it."

*' If it was not affection that made you
do it  knowing what you did know, Godfrey
 what right had you to do it at all ? "
said Mrs. Helstone gravely. " No doubt
you might honestly kiss a girl who was your
cousin, if you knew that she had nothing
but a cousinly liking for you ; but when

you kissed Margaret you knew what, poor
141 .

child, she had not the strength to hide 
you knew that the feeling she had for you
was love."

]either, do not say that ! " he cried
again. He felt as if he was being put to
the torture, as if he was being stung suddenly
on every side. "I meant no harm.
You know I am speaking the truth. I
thought she was dying. Was it a time
when I was likely to be cold or reserved
to her ? If I could have done one thing
in the world to give a moment's pleasure
to her, was it likely that I should hesitate
to do it ? You say that I know her
feeling for me. I tell you," cried the
young man passionately, " that I know
nothing ; or, at any rate, I know no
more than this, that I could perhaps make
her care for me if I tried ; but I have never

tried, and she has too much self-respect,


she is too modest, to give her heart to
any man who has never asked her for it."

And then, having made this chivalric
speech, Godfrey paused, with his cheek
and his heart both on fire.

Mrs. Helstone made no answer to him
for a minute ; at the end of that time she
merely said, " If you think this you had
better leave her : there need be no difficulty
about it. Only, Godfrey," she added
gravely after another pause, " you do not
think it."

And then he tried to contradict her,
and the words would not get themselves
said.

He began to walk up and down the

room, trying to think, but trying almost

in vain. He was in too great a state of

inward heat and turmoil for his thoughts

to be under his own control. He was only


conscious that iii his heart there was a
spirit of fierce resistance  a determination
that in this matter he would not yield
to coercion  that, even if Margaret's life
almost depended upon it, he would not
make her his wife. How could he, caring
for Joanne Beresford, as he did, a hundred
times more than he cared for her ?

At the end of five minutes he said
abruptly, " I shall go somewhere next
week. I have no special desire to goto
Mentone. I dare say you are right,
and that it is too far. I want to be in
London, and I will merely go there in
the first instance. Have you anything to
say against this ? "

Nothing," she answered. " No, nothing,"
she repeated, after a moment's
silence, ''if your own mind is made up."

It is certainly made up," he said.



Then you had better tell Margaret
yourself," she replied.

I don't see that," he exclaimed quickly.
If  if there is anything in what you have
been saying, I think it would be kinder
if you told her. Kinder to her, I mean.
Surely you understand ? "

*' Of course I will tell her if you wish
it," she said ; " only, in that case, I think
you had better let me know exactly what
you wish me to say. I am to tell her
you propose to go to London  for what
object ? "

She has long known that I am going
to enter myself for the bar."

And is it necessary to do that now ?
in vacation time ? "

Poor Godfrey's colour came. *' Mother,"

he said reproachfully, ''I do not think

you need put difficulties in my way.
VOL. II. 145 28

God knows I am trying to do what is
right."

But, my boy," she said softly, " may
you not be mistaken in what you think is
right ? " She paused for a moment or two ;
her heart was very much in this matter.
She wanted to speak, and yet she was
almost afraid to speak. " You are making
up your mind to go away," she said, "but
why is it imperative that you should go ?
Could you not bring yourself to think of
Margaret as your wife ? Consider the case,
Godfrey. Think how good she is, how
she cares for you, how she is already tome
like a daughter  "

But, mother, you do not understand."
He had put up his hand to stop her speech.
*' You do not understand," he repeated, feeling
as if the blood was leaving his heart.

"It is not that. I am not blind to all


there is to love in Margaret, but  I have
other plans. If you force me to tell you 
I care for some one else "

She looked at him with her lips apart ;
for a moment or two the surprise or the
pain of his answer seemed to take away
her breath ; then she asked, almost without
any appearance of emotion 

*' Are you saying this seriously ? "

** Do I look as if I were jesting ? " he
replied.

Is it one of those girls you were with
at Brentwood ? Which one ? " she asked
quickly, without giving him time to answer
her first question.

"The second,  Joanne," he said.

Are 5'Ou engaged to her ? "

Poor boy, his heart gave a bound as she

put that inquiry.

I wish I were ! ' he said.


<( V,

You have not spoken to her then,
you mean ? "

No," he answered.

There was a pause for a minute. He
was standing against the mantel-piece, and
he kept his position without moving. He
knew that she was a woman who would
never make a scene. As he stood waiting
for her to speak again lie suddenly thought
to himself, in the strange way in which,
even when we are most highly strung, we
sometimes think of outside things, that he
could recall no instance in his life in
which he had ever seen her lose her self-control,
 except once perhaps, when as a
children
was waiting, expecting her next words
with keen attention, and yet at the same
time that old half-forgotten occasion came

Lack to his memory, and he was recalling


it when at the minute's end she spoke
again.

"You have done wrong, Godfrey," she
said, with grave decision. *' If this is true
or even if you believe it to be true  you
have acted cruelly by Margaret."

'' You have no right to say that," he
broke out, almost with defiance.

But she stopped him instantly.

I think your mother has the right,

my boy," she merely said. "You will let

me speak. I say that, if you have been

aware since you were at Brentwood of

your feeling for Miss Beresford, you were

wrong to keep that fact concealed from

Margaret. Of your silence to me I say

nothing, but you ought to have felt that

it was your duty to make it known to

her."

How could I make such a thing known


during these last weeks ? " he answered
quickly.

You ought to have told her before these
last weeks," she said. *' Knowing as much
as you did, you ought to have told her
as soon as you came home. For, Godfrey,
believe me  believe a woman speaking of
another woman  that if a man has ever
cause to suspect a fact of the kind we
have been speaking of, the truest kindness
and the truest manliness is not to act as
if he were blind to it."

And then Godfrey turned his face to the
fire and made no answer, but he felt that
the punishment that was being given him
was more than he had deserved.

Yet, let that be as it might, what was
his course to be ? To himself it was still
as clear as ever that he must go away from
Margaret ; but he was shrewd enough to



guess that this might by no means to his

mother seem equally evident, and he was

unhappy in the fear of another appeal from

her. Indeed he was unhappy enough in

every way  torn in his own mind, grieved

at the prospect of bringing trouble on his

cousin, longing for the girl whose memory

was so sweet to him with intense lonoino:,

yet feeling with every moment that he

lived that she was fading to a greater

distance from him.

There was a long silence. Mrs. Helstone

sat with her hands folded on her knees,

and with her lips closed. Whatever her

thoughts might be, she gave no further

utterance to them. For five minutes or

more he waited for her to address him in

vain ; then at last, when she continued to

say nothing, he spoke again to her.

''Do you not see now that the only


tiling I can do is to go away "? " he
said.

In consequence, do you mean, of what
you have told me about Miss Beresford ? "
she answered deliberately. And then, after
another few moments' pause  "No, Godfrey,
I do not see it," she said. *' You
think, I suppose, that you have become
seriously attached to this young lady ; but
you have only had a few weeks' acquaintance
with her ; you have not yet asked
her to marry you ; you do not know (if I
have understood you rightly) whether she
would even have you, supposing you asked
her ; you are not bound to her in anyway.
My boy, consider the matter, if you
can, from some other point of view than
your own. Would it not be wisest, would
it not be best for yourself, would it not,

above all, be kindest to Margaret, who has


suffered so much through you, if you at
least paused,  if you took no steps with
regard to Miss Beresford till time has
proved clearly whether your feeling for
her is a permanent one or not ? Oh, my
dear, my heart is full of pity for you," 
and suddenly at last Mrs. Helstone rose
and went to her son, and put her hands
upon his arm,  '* I am full of sympathy
for you ; I know I am giving you pain ;
but do you think it is a rare thing for
either men or women to find that they
must give up their first love ? They suffer
when they do it, and they think sometimes
that it will break their hearts ; but it does
not break their hearts,  not once in a thousand
cases. And, Godfrey, I will say only
this one word more  only this one. If you
will not do what I ask you  if you resolve

to go back to Miss Beresford, knowing what


you do about my poor girl  I warn you
that you will not be satisfied with yourself ;
you may win Miss Beresford, but you will
not win peace of mind."

And then she turned from him and went
quickly out of the room, and poor Godfrey
was left alone to his own thoughts.



CHAPTER VI.

Margaret was allowed for the first time
to leave her room a clay or two after this,
and, supported by Godfrey's arm, she walked
up aud down the little gallery outside her
door,  with a gladder heart than he had.

*' How happy it makes one to be getting
well again ! " she said, and turned to him
shyly, trying to win a smile from him. He
was very kind to her still, but she had
wondered during these last few days why
he had become so grave.

They had been hard enough days to

Godfrey, and silent ones too. He had had

no more talk with his mother, but he had


communed a great deal with himself. After
a struggle he had brought himself to give
up his immediate intention of going back to
Joanne. Perhaps, he thought, his mother
had told him the truth when she said that
at this moment he had no right to go. It
might be so ; and his was, at any rate,
a loyal nature that shrank from acting in
opposition to his mother's will. " I owe
more yet to her, I suppose," he told himself,
'' than I owe to Joanne Beresford."
Indeed, did he not owe more even to
Margaret than he owed to Joanne ? This
question during these weary days had begun
to rise in his mind, and he could neither
banish it nor answer it.

But nevertheless the days passed, and
he stayed on at home, for his only object
in desiring to go to town had been the

object of seeing Joanne, and, with that


defeated, he did not care now where he

went. Day after day he stayed, but day

after day he grew more silent and grave.

He used still to come sometimes and take

Margaret's book out of her hand, and read

to her ; he was always ready to show some

little kindness to her; but the poor girl

struggling feebly on towards convalescence,

soon perceived that he was changed  that

the sweet familiarity of the days when he

had watched beside her bed was gone. They

had seemed for a little while to be so much

at home together, and now they were not at

home together any more. It was to her as

if the brief sudden summer of her life had

already gone, leaving only an autumn chill

behind it that went to her heart. As her

happiness had come without warning, so it

left her without warning too ; only in its

departure it took with it all that made life


dear to her, so that what remained when it
was gone was no longer the colourless, placid
calm of other years, but a sense of loss
greater than in her weakness the poor bereft
girl knew how to bear.

*' My dear, do you feel very tired ? " Mrs.
Helstone began to say often to her : and
Margaret when her aunt asked this question
would try to rouse herself and answer cheerfully,
saying that she was only weak, as she
must expect to be ; but in her heart she
often felt that she was tired to death. Dr.
Carson came every day, and felt her pulse,
and began more and more to look not
wholly satisfied, but gave her tonics, and
spoke of her soon getting change of air ;
and Margaret took his medicine obediently,
knowing instinctively all the time that
there was only one medicine that would

do her good.



Yes, we must get you away soon,
Margaret," Mrs. Helstone said one evening
to her; "the country is so enervating at
this time of year. What you want is the
sea. Don't you think so, Godfrey ? The
sea, I am certain, will do wonders for
you."

And then Godfrey said, yes, the sea,
he had no doubt, would do her good. He
was afraid she had very little strength still.
He looked kindly at her as he made this
answer. He was always very thoughtful
over her, though mainly with a grave
anxiety now, as though (which was the truth)
her weakness was a weight upon him. (He
often thought, if she were well again how
everything would be made easier for them
both.)

One evening Mrs. Helstone said, "If it

were possible I should like us to get away


next week. Child, you must get stronger,
that you may be able to bear the journey."

Oh, I think I could bear it," Margaret
answered.

But Godfrey looked at her white face as
she leant wearily back against the cushions
of her chair, and it seemed to him that she
was little fit for travelling.

We must not be in too great a hurry.
There is no use in pressing things on ; it
only does harm in the end," he said.

And then that constantly pursuing self-reproach
that was one of the bitterest
things he had to bear led him to go to her,
and touch the pillows against which she
lay, and make the tired face brighten fora
moment by letting its eyes meet his.

Get better, Margaret," he said gently.
*' What would we not all give to see you

well again !



Alien lie said that her colour came. She
had to wait now sometimes for days even
for such a speech as this from him.

"Yes, if she improves as she ought, I
think you may take her away in another
week," Dr. Carson said next day.

But his permission was useless, for the
days went on and Margaret did not improve.
She was not very ill ; there seemed
no longer any definite ailment that medical
skill could touch ; but the spring had gone
out of her, and day by day she grew weaker
and wearier.

I don't know why she should not gain

strength, but the fact is that she does not,"

Dr. Carson said at last to Godfrey, at the

end of one of his visits. " I hardly like to

alarm Mrs. Helstone, but, to tell the truth,

I am very uneasy about her. She seems

to have so little rallying power. You
VOL. II. 161 29

will hardly believe it, but she was better 
she was really altogether better  a fortnight
aofo than she is now."

*' I am very sorry to hear that," Godfrey
answered gravely.

He spoke the commonplace words very
quietly ; the other did not guess that his
speech had made the young man's heart
grow sick.

*eyes," Dr. Carson went on, 'there is
an unusual want of vitality in her. I
don't understand it, for she was doing so
well for a time. I don't understand
it in the least. You have no reason to
suppose, have you, that there can be anything:
on her mind ? "

o

I have never heard of anything," answered
Godfrey, uttering desperately the
first words that came to his lips.

Well, it would be odd if there were,


seeing low cheerful she was only a week
or two ago ; but yet I don't know,  I really
don't know," exclaimed Dr. Carson in a
puzzled way, and then shook his head and
put out his hand. " If there is anything,
I only wish we could get at it," he said.

Godfrey turned away and went into his
study, recalling the last words that he had
spoken, with a feeling of shame that he had
said them, and with a bitter sense of misery
that he had been driven to say them. For,
had he not been driven "? he asked himself.
Driven to say what he had said  driven to
deny the fact he knew  driven (God help
him !) at last to face a possibility that he
had told himself only a few days ago he
would never face while he lived.

He spent all that morning by himself.

Once Mrs. Helstone came into the room

for a minute, and said to him, "Are you


busy, Godfrey ? I was wondering if you
could come for a little while and try to
brighten Margaret : " but he told her that
he could not. " I am not busy, but I
want to be left alone," he answered, with
a roughness that was little like him.

It was so little like him that the next
moment he asked her pardon. 'mother,
forgive me ; I should not speak so," he said.

I don't know what should make you
even inclined to speak so," she replied
coldly ; and then, for she was not a
woman who was lenient to discourtesy,
she went away without any other word,
and he did not try to keep her. But he
was fifjhtins: a hard fioht, and she would
have been quicker to excuse him, perhaps,
if she had known it.

That evening he said to her abruptly,
without any preface 



Margaret does not get any better, Dr.
Carson says. Do you know that he is
anxious about her ? "

Has he told you that he is anxious ? "
Mrs. Helstone asked quickly ; and then
Godfrey said  yes, he had told him ; and
there was a sudden silence that after a few
moments she broke sadly and even a little
bitterly.

He would not listen to me when I told
him that she was weaker," she said. ' Do
you suppose that all these last ten days I
have not known that she was falling back ?
I am with her night and day ; it is not
likely that I should not know it."

But you have said nothing," he answered
quickly.

No, I have said nothing," she assented.

"I. have had no heart to say anything."

And then she rose up, for the dinner-bell


had rung as she spoke, and lie followed her
out of the room in silence, with less heart
to continue their talk, perhaps, than even
she had.

He had been fighting his fight all day,
but this battle of his did not get ended till
many another sun had risen and set. Each
morning he awoke to it afresh, and fought
it again through the weary hours.

It had all come upon him so suddenly,

like a blight fallen on his life. Only a

month or two ago there had been few men

living happier than he was. He thought of

those light-hearted days that he and Jack

Dallas had spent at Brentwood as we think

of days in a lost Paradise ; he thought of

Joanne Beresford till he was almost mad

with misery, and till his whole nature rose

in passionate resistance to the fate that was

pressing him harder and harder (as he


knew) with every hour he lived. For, Like
a wounded soldier in a losing fight, he
plainly saw the end of the battle before
the end had come.

He was not much with Margaret during
these hard days. He had not the courage
to be with her, and so he stayed away, and
she, poor soul, drooped the faster because
she did not see him. The contrast between
the loneliness in which he left her now,
and the dear companionship that he had
given her so lately, tried her in her weakness
till she could not bear it. She never
complained, but day after day she faded
more and more ; sometimes she would break
into fits of hysterical crying that left her
when they ceased more dead than alive.
"Something; must be troubling; her. You
must find out what it is. My dear
Mrs. Helstone, this will never do ! " Dr.



Carson began to say with imperative
emphasis.

He had already recalled the permission
he had given to take her to the sea. " She
is not strong enough to bear the journey ;
we must wait," he said. And so they
waited ; but day after day passed and
brought no improvement to her.

She used always to say to Godfrey that
she was "a little better," when he asked
her, as he did mechanically every morning,
how she was ; but the answer soon
got to be a mere form, for she was never
better. " It troubles me so to see you
so weak as this. Is there iiotldnfj we can
do for you, Margaret ? " he sadly said to
her one day.

His long: struo:o;le had almost reached

its end on the morning when he asked

her this. Day after day there had been


no freedom for him from the persistent

torment of the thought that all this wreck

of her life had been brought on her by

him, and that, if she should die, even with

Joanne Beresford at his side, there would

be neither peace nor happiness for him.

It had come to this, that he had told

himself finally that he could not go to

Joanne if there existed even a chance

that what he could do for Margaret might

save her. There was only one resolve

more that he had to make now, but that

last was the hardest one of all.

He stood this morning by her sofa,

looking down at the poor white face that

had so little charm for him,  looking at

it and involuntarily picturing the time

when he might have this, and not Joanne's,

by his side as the one woman's face that

he ought to hold the dearest,  till the


timid pale eyes looked up uneasily and
met his own,  poor eyes, with such wistful
sadness in them, with so little else that
touched him.

He said something, some half-dozen
commonplace words, and turned away. A
few weeks aro it had been so easy for
him in his pity to be tender to her, before
wdiat he knew with such bitter clearness
now had been more than a lialf-recoo;nized
suspicion ; but in these days this knowledge
stood between his kindness and her
like a dividing sword. He could no longer
speak to her now or caress her as he had
spoken and caressed her a month ago.

He stopped Dr. Carson in the hall an

hour afterwards, and asked him what he

thought of her, and Dr. Carson shook his

head.

I never was less satisfied with a patient


in my life," lie said. "I have just been
telling Mrs. Helstone that I should like
some one else to see her. She has got into
the most unaccountably depressed state. I
can't understand it for my own part ; but
unless she can be got out of it again, I
tell you plainly she will go off into a decline
(she is on the very verge of it now) ;
and if she does that she won't live through
the winter."

They were standing at the hall door as
they talked together. A minute afterwards
the doctor went out to his carriage, and
without any pause, Godfrey turned round
and went again upstairs. The man who
walks to the cannon's mouth will sometimes
perform that act with less emotion
than he has felt over some of the trivial
incidents of life ; and so, in like manner,

poor Godfrey Helstone went to his cannon's


mouth at last simply and quietly, with
hardly a quickening in the beating of his
pulse. He was conscious that the end
had come, but for the moment it scarcely
moved him. He was thinking almost
wholly of Margaret,  hardly of himself at
all,  hardly at first even of Joanne.

He went into Mrs. Helstone's morning
room where his cousin was lying, and sat
down beside her, and exerted himself to
talk to her. As he talked she brightened.
Presently, looking into her face, he told
her that she was grieving them all.

We want you so to get V7cll, and you

don't get well," he said. " What is there

more that we can do for you ? I think

when I helped to nurse you two or three

weeks ago you got stronger than you are

getting now." And then he paused fora

moment or two, just long enough to seethe


quiver that came to her lips, and after
that pause he added, " Shall I help to
nurse you again ? "

She was too weak to hide the emotion
that his question gave to her, and the
colour flushed to her face.

Oh, I couldn't ask you," she said timidly.
It would be too much trouble."

It would be no trouble," he answered,
if you would care for it. Nothing could
be a trouble that would make you well."
And then, without saying anything more,
he stayed with her.

That evening Mrs. Helstone said to her

son in a tone of relief, " Margaret is better

to-night ; " and he answered shortly, " Yes,

I know." She was better because he had

been beside her for half the day ; she had

eaten because he had asked her to eat, and

talked because he had talked to her, and


been cheerful because lie had told her that

when she was not cheerful she grieved him.

It had been a happy day to her. As for

how lie had borne it  well, he had only

as yet half realized his fate, and he had

not so far found it very hard to bear.

But when his mother spoke to him he

answered her curtly, for he vaguely felt

as if some cruel wrong; had been done

to him, and as if she had had a willing

hand in doings it. Was not this that had

crop forced on him the tliino; that she had

been holding before his eyes for years 

the joyless thing that he had resisted

and refused, and yet that now at last

she or fate had compelled him to accept ?

He made his brief answer to her, and

turned away. In another mood he might

have told her what he had resolved to do,

but to-night he was too dulled to speak.


On the following morning he did speak
to her, but by that time, to her unspeakable
content, she had guessed, or almost
guessed, the truth for herself. Indeed,
for anything that Godfrey cared, all the
world mio'ht know it now. He had

o

accepted his fate, and he mentally set
his teeth and went at his hard task with
the resignation of a man for whom hope
has ceased.

You are doing right ; if it costs you
something, you must tell yourself that," his
mother said to him. '* My dear, I am not
blind, and I am not without sympathy for
you ; but, believe me, a day will come
when, if this is a sacrifice, you will be
glad that you have made it.'

I am making it because there seems

no other way," he answered.

He spoke with a spiritless tone in his


voice and a jxloom in this face that made
lier heart ache a little ; but she had left
her own youth behind her, and she said to
herself that he would outlive his trouble.
He would outlive it, and marry Margaret,
and be content.

"You are right," she replied to him
quickly ; " there is no other way. No
one else could have the claim upon you
that she has ; no one, my dear."

"Do you think if I doubted that!"
he began with sudden vehemence, and
then all at once broke his sentence off
and went away.

She saw the colour that flushed to his
face, and the quiver of his lips ; but she
let him go, for she knew that she could
not comfort him. " My poor boy ! " she
thought to herself pityingly ; but she herself
was very happy, and so her sorrow


for this grief of this (which she said would so
soon pass away) was perhaps not very deep.
She was happy, as how coukl she fail to
be, when these days where giving Margaret
back to her ? She began to sit by the
girl's side, watching her slowly-returning
life, weaving plans for the future as she
looked at her. In a little while she would
get well, she thought, and then how full
their hands would be ! When Margaret
married she would naturally take possession
of her own house, which she had left
at her father's death ; but before she
returned to it  she and Godfrey  how it
would need to be altered, and refurnished,
and beautified! "We must take care that
Godfrey does not begin his new life in a
gloomy house," she said to herself. That
was important, it struck her ; everything

must be made pleasant for him ; he must
VOL. II. 177 30

be taught gently to feel that in marrying
Margaret he had married into a great deal
that it would be good to have. " He will
be a rich man," she thought, " and I shall
like to see him rich, and Margaret will
be glad that she can bring so much to
him. Before Ions: he will feel the comfort
of it all ; and with such a wife  so good
and true a woman  with the children that
I hope will come to them, surely his lot
will be one to make him happy."

Perhaps Mrs. Helstone was right, and
good things were in store for her son ;
but in the mean time, as these days went
on, he did not wear the appearance of a
man to whom the g(xl3 were kind. There
was a look in his face that his mother
tried not to see, and tones in his voice
that she would have been deaf to if she

could. She knew that the spring had


gone out of his step, and the life out of
his laughter. But she said to herself that
it could not be otherwise  for a while.
He must suffer a little before he settled
down to this new, unexpected condition of
things. There must be a hard bit to be
passed through  a stormy arm of sea to
cross ; but beyond it on the other side did
there not lie peace and riches and content ?

It was curious to watch the change that
even a few days of happiness made in
Margaret.

"heyday, this is something jew ! " Dr.
Carson exclaimed, with almost a chuckle of
glee, when, twenty-four hours after he had
left her looking as if her life were ebbing
away, he came back to see the white face
meet him with a smile of welcome. He felt
her pulse ; he nodded his head with satisfaction
; he sat by her side and scrutinized her.


You are better' lie said ; " not ca
doubt about it. Why, you are wonderfully
better ! Come, come, this is as good
as can be." And he spoke presently
to Mrs. Helstone, and congratulated her
heartily. *' She is another creature this
morning," he said. " AVhat have you
nianao-ed to do to her ? "

''I think something happened yesterday,"
Mrs. Helstone answered, with just
the suspicion of a smile upon her lips ;
and then Dr. Carson laughed, and rubbed
his hands.

Ah, the very thing I thought ! " he
exclaimed. " Didn't I tell you it was
mental depression ? What she wanted
was something to give her a fillip. Let
her be happy ; only make her happy, and
keep her so, and you needn't have a fear

for her."

ISO

So when the doctor was gone, Mrs.
Helstone told her son that his sole prescription
for his patient was that she
should be kept happy ; and Godfrey took
his burden on his back, and did the work
he had made up his mind to do,  not,
I think, without a certain heroism, though
perhaps no one recognized it.

Poor Maroaret was no exacting: woman.
There never yet had dawned a day when
she had thought that she had any claim
upon her cousin, or when she had reproached
him, even in her heart, for
showing indifference to her ; but all the
more for that natural humility did her
gratitude to him expand in these happy
days that began now, till it became not
only an emotion but a passion. As he
did the self-sacrificing work which, in the

strait into which she had been brought, it


seemed at last to have become this inevitable
duty to do, she did not (happily for
herself, poor soul) doubt after a little that
he loved her, but the fact of his love
was so infinitely sweet and strange to her
that she thought she could never enourfi
thank and bless him for it. It was her
illness that had brought him to her, she
thought ; he had not been sure of his
feeling, she supposed, for a little while,
and so had kept away from her ; but now
that warm pity which he had felt at first
had become (could she fail to believe ?)
something sweeter and deeper, and a hundred
times a day the girl in her heart
thanked God, and called herself a happy
woman. If all this had not happened
should she ever, she wondered, have had
him sit as he sat so often now beside

her, watching over her with this grave


look of protection and possession of lier,
that seemed to her in her weakness the
dearest wooing she coukl ever hope to
know ? She never found fault with him
that he talked so little to her. It always
seemed enough merely to have him by her
side, with his hand touching hers. He
had resorted again to that easy caress, feeling
thankful that he could give it to her
with so little distaste, and that it contented
her. If she had seemed to expect
other demonstrations they would have
been more difficult to him, but this one, to
his relief, satisfied her always. She often
fell asleep as he sat so beside her, with a
face as calmly happy as a child's.

After a week she had rallied enough for
them to begin to talk again about trying
change of air for her ; but at first, when

they spoke of this in her hearing, she


looked as if the thought of it did not
niako lor glad.

Need I go anywhere ? " she said wistfully.


"why should you object to go?" Godfrey
asked her ? " Do you not like the
sea ? "

Oh, yes' she said ; " but  " and
then she hesitated and broke off; but her
eyes had timidly asked a question that
he understood, though at the moment he
made no answer to it.

Later in the day, when they were alone
together, he said to her again, " Why is it
that you are unwilling to go away ? It
would be good for you ; you ought to go,
you know. I will go with you, if that
will make you care more for it."

Oh, wall you ? " she exclaimed quickly,

and he saw how in a moment her face
18-i

brightened. I did not know that you
meant to come," she said shyly.

And now that you do know, does that
make a difference ? " he asked. (But he
did not need to ask ; he hardly knew
why he put his question to her.) *' I
will take you, of course," he said after a
moment or two ; and then, with a half-laugh,
" Have I not undertaken to get
you well ? You are doing me some credit
so fix, I think."

I ould to do you credit, if I can,
for you have been so good to me," she
answered gratefully.

I have not been very good to you,"
he said. " I often wish I could be kinder
and better."

She did not understand the tone in

which he spoke, but it was not the first

time that his manner or his words had


puzzled her. Slice only said quickly, "No
one was ever so kind," with a quiver in
her voice.

He had been feeling that it was best
that the end should come, with a kind
of vague belief that when he had bound
himself finally to her he should gain a
repose of mind that he had not attained to
yet. It might happen that he would not
gain it, but his present condition had
proved hard to bear, and to make his
self-sacrifice irrevocable at any rate seemed
to him a change that might bring relief.
When all was settled, he thought, would
he not cease to kick against the pricks ?

'' I have been thinking of what is to

come after this," he said abruptly, after a

little silence. " Before many more weeks

have passed we shall have you almost well

'again, I hope. And then, Margaret % "


He looked at her for a moment, but lie
did not go on looking at her. With a
pain like a stab the sudden thought flashed
over him of the other woman to whom
he had hoped to say what (in a different
enough way indeed, but with the same
meaning) his cruel fortune was forcing from
his lips now to Margaret, and the anguish
of it almost broke him down. For a second
or two the words hung on his tongue, and
he could not utter them. And she, poor
girl, in her agitated happiness, thought that
his hesitation was only the natural hesitation
of a lover, half afraid to ask for what
he wishes most to have.

"And then?" he repeated, after that

bitter silence. " I think we ought to know

what we are to be to one another presently.

Are we to come nearer together, dear ? It

is for you to decide."



Lie looked up at him with a flush
comines into her face. She seemed unconscious
of his coldness.

Oh, I am so content already," she said
softly, with a quiver of happiness in her
voice, " but  if you wish it  ''

How could she have any suspicion that
he did not wish it, or that these moments,
which were so sweet to her, had proved to
be to him the hardest moments of his life ?

#-



Margaret improved so rapidly throiigli

her newly-gained happiness, that in a week

after her engagement to Godfrey they were

able to take her to the sea, and they all

went together to Torquay, and stayed therefor

a month. It was October now, and the

weather had got broken and cold, and after

a little while they began to talk again about

going to winter abroad  at Mentone or

Nice. They had not taken very much to

Torquay ; Godfrey especially had not taken

to it. He more than the others advocated

their going to Italy, and to Italy before

long it was decided that they should turn


tlicir steps. Godfrey hoped he might find

something: there to interest him and divert

his thonirhts.

Torquay had failed to do this rather

lamentably. He ought to have been in

love with Margaret for the idle days that he

passed there almost wholly by her side to

have had a charm for him, and how little

he was in love with her he hardly dared

to tell even himself. In his restless pain

he had hurried on their engagement, hoping

that after his fate was sealed he should find

submission to it an easier task ; but I am

afraid he did not find that his submission

grew easier, but rather indeed only the

reverse of that after he had made any

retreat for himself impossible. The land

he had left did not seem less sweet because

he had put it out of his power to return to

its shores again. And so these wrecks had


been hard weeks to him, though he had had
courage and generosity enough to keep
that fact from Margaret.

There was no want of tenderness in
Godfrey's nature, and to this woman, who
had given herself to him (though he wanted
the gift so little), he was very kind and
gentle. It was true that he was often very
grave, and his gravity did not pass unnoticed
by her, but if she ever spoke of
it he would lauo[h and make some Jisrht
reply.

You know I am not a boy now," he
told her once. " A man must put off boyish
things. Don't you think that after four
and twenty it is high time ? "

'' I don't know. You have always been

so much brighter than me," she answered

dubiously, " and I should like you to be

bright still."



But lie only laughed, and told her she
would need to like him whatever he was.

Grave or merry, stupid or bright," he
said. '* We have taken one another, you
see, for better or worse."

Not yet," she replied quickly to that
speech ; and then he answered her again,
and lie did not understand, or rather she
misunderstood, his answer.

Don't say ' Not yet,' " he told her. " I
don't want you ever to say that."

But when she looked up with a happy
colour in her face he did not meet her eyes,
for he had not meant the thing she thought
he had.

She was getting a great deal stronger,
but she still needed no small amount of
care, and the damp weather made Torquay
a not very satisfactory place for her. Towards
the end of the month Godfrey spoke


strongly ia favour of their going abroad
at once, and accordingly (though Margaret
was indifferent, for Godfrey's presence being
to her just now the one necessity of existence,
her whereabouts, provided she possessed
that blessing, was a thing that was
very immaterial to her) they decided to
start early in November, going, to London
first, and thence to the Continent.

'ewe had better only stay a night in
London," Mrs. Helstone said, and Godfrey
assented. He had no desire to stay in
any place, least of all perhaps in that one.
He was like a man during these weeks
who was driven by a demon that would
not let him seek or endure repose. Before
they left Torquay, however. Dr. Carson
wrote advising them as they passed through
town to let Margaret see a certain physician

whom he mentioned, so, in order to do
VOL. II. 103 31

this, they arranged to remain a second
night.

Was Joanne Beresford in London still ?
Godfrey vainly asked himself, with an
aching sense of longing. Three months
had passed now since any news of her
had reached him : three months that had
been long enough to change the world for
Mm, but that had left her in all likelihood
unaltered either in heart or mind,  still
the same girl who had come with her frank
face to him that first day across the meadow,
and to whom those wrecks when they had
been together must seem when she thought
of them (if 'she ever thought at all) only
as set a little way removed  weeks that
another summer might easily bring back
ao-ain. Was she indeed still in London?

o

He sat looking out into the November

gloom as their train carried them across


the barren fields, past woods where the
trees were leafless, past rivers flooded
over the low-lying lands, and thought of
her with a passion of vain regret that
seemed to grow greater and more intense
the more he strove to crush it, and the
nearer he approached the place where he
felt it was possible she might still be.

He had not said to himself before they
reached London that he would go to Dorset
Square, but yet on the morning after their
arrival lie allowed his restless steps to
take him there. He went, he told himself,
only to look up at the house which
at any rate had been her home for a little
while, to see the place with which she
must have been so familiar.

He found it, and walked up and down

before it (it was a large silent-looking house)

in an agony of mind that gave no outward


sign. Then, after a few minutes lead ]tassel,
the thought of turning from it without
gaining any tidings of her began to seem
insupportable to him, and he said to himself
that he would knock at the door, and ask
if she were still there. He would merely
put this inquiry, without making any effort
to see her.

So he told himself at first, till suddenly,
as he hesitated, the question flashed upon
him,  why should he not see her if he could?
He had never allowed himself yet to entertain
a hope of meeting her again, but his
condition at this moment seemed to him
a desperate one, and a desperate remedy
appeared to him the only remedy to seek.

For half an hour he walked up and down
the square and the neighbouring streets,
trying to make up his mind what he shoidd
do, and at the half-pious's end he walked



up to the door and knocked. His throat
felt dry as a servant opened it.

*' Is Miss Beresford still here ? " he asked,
telling himself while he spoke that she
would answer "No," and that that would
end it ; but instead of answering " No," she
instantly replied, " Yes, sir," and, as if his
entering were a matter of course, stood
aside to let him walk in.

He did walk in, and she preceded him
upstairs. She took him into a large, :
drawings-room, and set a lio-ht
to the fire, and drew up the blinds, and
then, taking the card he offered her, withdrew
and left him alone. Was he in a
dream ? he asked himself, gazing about him,
trying to believe that in another minute
he should see Joanne Beresford's face.

He did see it almost before that minute

had ended, and she looked so unchanged


as she opened the door and came in, that
the first sight of her almost overwhelmed
him. Just so he had imagined a thousand
times that she would look, in the happy
days when he had loved to picture his
coming to her here  just this way, with
this quick look of welcome in her eyes.
*' I am so orlad ! " she said in a frank tone

o

of pleasure, and came to him with her hand
held out. The window was at his back,
and until she was close to him she did
not clearly see his face.

I was passing through London, and I
ventured to come  " he began to say in a
forced voice.

But by this time she was looking at him
with a changed expression.

I am afraid you are not well ? Oh, you

do not look at all well ! " she exclaimed

impulsively.



I was ill some time ago," he answered.
** If I had not been ill I should have seen
you sooner ; but that is all over."

You hardly look as if it was over," she
said.

She had sat down, and he had sat down
too, but she was reo:ardino him still with
a puzzled and almost troubled look.

'' You have been here a long time," he
said abruptly.

Yes, a very long time," she answered ;
*' but my poor aunt gets better so slowly.
However, she is better, so I must not complain,
and I hope to be home at any rate
by Christmas."

And they are all well at Brentwood ? "
he asked.

Oh yes, they are very weW, Papa was
here again a fortnight ago. They are
very well, and very busy," she said, 'for



Lilian, you know, is to be married so soon
now."

Ah, yes ; I had forgotten," he replied
half absently. *' At the new year, isn't
it ? " he added after a moment.

Yes," she said, " at the new year."

She was wondering, he was very conscious,
at the chani]je in him  wondering; at it and
misunderstanding it, he could hardly doubt.

' "We are on our way to the Continent,"
he said, after a little silence. " We are
going to winter there,  my mother and my
cousin and L My cousin has been ill too,
very dangerously ill. AVc have had a
terribly anxious time with her."

I am very sorry to hear that," Joanne
answered gently. " But about your own
illness?"

Oh, it was nothing ; it was lone neo "

he said quickly.



But you are not well now "? " she
repeated.

I am well enough ; my health is all
right enonorh. It is not that," he said.

While he had sat waiting in the room
for her he had suddenly made the resolution
that he would tell her the story of
these last months, but now that he was
in her presence he did not know how to
tell it. He was beginning; to ask himself
what right he had to do it  what
ground he had for thinking that she would
care for his confidence  with wdiat reason
he could ask her, as he had meant to ask
her, to comfort and strengthen him.

'rit is not that," he said, ''but I have
had a hard time in other ways." And
then he rose from his seat and went to
one of the windows, and stood looking out

into the dreary street.


The pain that the sight of her had given
him was so acute that he was telling himself
he had been a fool to come ; would
it not be better at once to get out of the
house again ? he thought. And yet how
could he go at once, without leaving lier
to think that he was mad ? He turned
round abruptly after a minute, and without
going nearer to her 

Miss Joanne," he said in an agitated
voice, " I yielded to a sudden impulse incoming
here. I had not meant to come,
but I am fighting a hard fight, and it
seemed to me all at once as if the sidit
of you would help me, and so I came ; and
now I am afraid I was a fool, for it only
brings back the thought of those days at
Brentwood, and I have no right "

But he stopped there, for she had risen

too, and come near him, and something



the sweet eyes that were fixed od his made
the rest of his sentence die away.

If you came to say something to me,
you must not go away without telling me
what it is," she said in a tone of sympathy
that thrilled to his heart. " You will make
me unhappy if you do. When you have
already told me that you are in trouble,
surely you ought in kindness to tell me
the rest ? "

Poor lad  he looked in her face, and the

sioht of it, and the thought of what might

have been, all but broke him down. For a

few moments he could not speak again to

her. How could he bear to tell her the

thing that had happened to him, and not

to tell her also that he loved her ? But

yet with all his strength he struggled t3

be loyal to Margaret, and presently, as she

stood beside him  somehow  confusedly


and brokenly  the words at last came, nd he
told her how he had eno-ao-ed himself to marry
his cousin, and did not tell her the rest.

And lie ? She merely stood quite still ashe
spoke, with her face after a few seconds
a little turned away. If his tale moved
her, like a thing that touched herself, she
gave no sign. She only listened : when
all was over Godfrey could say nothing to
himself but that.

Yet, when he had told his story, and
at the end, yielding for one moment to
a sudden overmastering passion, cried out
to her that the things he had done seemed
bitterer at times than he could bear, she
turned round quickly, looking up into his
face with eyes into which the tears had
sprung.

But you must bear it," she said. " I
think a great many things are hard ; this

seems a cruel thing,  but yet you bad no
choice. You have done the only tbiug that
it was in your power to do."

'If you tell me. that I shall be able to
endure it' he said.

Then I do tell it you," she answered,
with the colour in her face. " I think you
have done right. I think you have done
what only a generous man would do. And
I am glad," said Joanne softly. " Not glad
that such a trial has come to you, but
happy at least," and a sudden quiver came
into her voice, 'that when I thought you
were strong and good I was  not wrong."

Joanne ! Joanne ! " he said.

He gave that cry, and then they turned

away from one another, and for a little

while neither of them spoke again. She

was the first to recover herself, and to

break the silence.



I am glad that you arc going to new
associations and to a new life altogether,"
she said quietly and quickly. " That will
help you. And you know  we both know
that the things which often seem hard
when we look forward to them may not in
the end prove hard at all. Your cousin
is so good. I remember how you used to
speak of her."

"Yes  God bless her  she is good,"
Godfrey said steadily. " I think no truer-hearted
woman lives."

Then in time she will make you happy,"

the girl answered softly. "It may not be

quite with the same happiness that you

would have chosen for yourself, but you

will be safe with her ; you will never care

for her less than you do now ; you may

come to care for her so much more."

I may ; it is all I can hope," he said.


It is a great deal to hope," she replied
earnestly. "And you will have good
ground to expect it  That makes me glad."

She spoke the last words almost as if
to herself, but he heard them, and the
colour came to his face.

"God bless you," he said, "I shall bea
better man for this."

On the leafless trees in the Square garden

the November sunlight was faintly shining.

He stood for a few moments with his face

turned to them again, with unutterable

love and anguish in his heart, and yet

with a feelings of greater strength too  a

feeling that in truth, as he had put it, he

should be a better man for these last

moments with the woman he had loved.

Without looking round at her, he said after

a minute's silence 

I can never thank you. I can never


tell you all that you have done for me.
Only let me say this one thing  that, not
even to esea23e all the pain that I am
suffering now, would I give up the happiness
of having known you."

You are very good to me to tell me
that," she answered, almost below her breath.

And then he turned in silence, and put
out his hand.

Their eyes met when he turned round.
In her deep pity for him  perhaps in her
love for him the tears stood in hers.

I am glad you came," she said very
softly. " I am glad you have trusted me."

*' Traded you ! " he only echoed in a
broken voice ; and then neither of them
spoke again.



In sunny Nice, by the blue Mediterranean,
Margaret passed the winter, and grew well
again, and like her old self, or rather like
something better than her old self, for the
girl had never before known what it was
to be so happy as she was now. The
visible sunshine of the world around her
seemed to her only like the reflex of the
sunshine in her own heart. Was it nota
thing, she asked herself a hundred times,
to make her whole life new to be cared for
as she was cared for now by Godfrey ?

He was very kind to her, with a grave

devotion that never forgot her. He walked
VOL. II. 209 32

and drove and talked and rode with lier ;
they were together for the greater part of
every day, and she at least never knew
any weariness of that dear companionship.
He used to talk to her about the life that
lay before them both, doing his utmost
to force himself to share her interest in
it. Many a time he was touched by all
she let him see of her absorbing love for
him  a love that had been held within
rigid bounds so long, but that now, though
timidly still, showed itself in a thousand
words and acts  in almost a consecration
of every thought to him.

'margaret, you have only one fault:
you are too good," he said one day to her.

And indeed the want of imperfection in

her character  the want of licht and shade

in it  of all that gave the charm of variety

to other women  was what, more than any


tiling else, formed the stumbling-block
vllicll from this boyhood uj) wards had
prevented his regard for her from ever
deepening to a warmer feeling. Her life
was conducted on so unbroken a level of
perpetual gentle goodness : she had no
wishes that ever opposed themselves to
Godfrey's  no opinions apart from his  no
passion that swayed her except her love
for him. He never found her different
to-day from what he had found her yesterday
: her mind had no recesses to be
revealed to him by searching for them :
its features were excellent, as were the
features of her face, but their placid regularity
never offered a reward to inquiry
or analysis. Simple, and true, and pure
she was. Godfrey thought often how
justly Joanne had spoken when she had

said he would be safe with her : he should


live, he felt, in a security unbroken as
time itself; but it was a security whose
anticipated tameness filled him with dismay.
He was a different man in these days
from what he had been six months ag-o :
older by a good deal, and by a great deal
graver and sadder. But, in a way, he had
accepted his fate now. His was perhaps
a faithful nature more than a very passionate
one, and violently disturbing
emotions were alien enough to him not
to be likely to hold possession of him for
any lengthened time. His regret for Joanne
for a period was passionate, and it remained
acute, but as these months passed over
his head his rebellion against the destiny
that lay before him ceased to be active ;
he came to look upon his approaching
marriage with Margaret as something inevitable,

 a sacrifice from which there was


no escape, and to which therefore he was

wisest to resign himself quietly. It would

mar his life ; but, even so, there was nothing

now that could be said or done. Perhaps

he was cold in being able to yield in this

way to what he believed it to to be useless

to fight against, but at any rate in his

way of taking what had come to him he

avoided the objectionable course of striking

an attitude, and posing either to the world

or to his own mental vision as a martyr.

Self-consciousness was on the whole a fault

he was not disposed to.

When Margaret seemed to be pretty well

recovered it began to be a question what

their next proceedings should be. The

winter was already more than half ended.

It was the beginning of February, and

here in Nice even the spring had almost

come. At first there had been a tacit


understanding amongst them that Godfrey
and Maroaret should return to England for
their marriage, but suddenly one day Godfrey
asked what advantage there would be
in that.

Since we have got abroad had we not
better stay abroad ? " he said. *' We can
go north presently, when the hot weather
comes. I don't see why we should not
be married here."

Nor do I," answered Mrs. Helstone.
*rand then, if Margaret would trust me,
I micrht oho home and set her house in
order."

" If I would trust you ! Oh you would
do it far better than I ever could," Margaret
exclaimed gratefully, and Godfrey smiled
to himself at the truth of the response.

If we were to be married in a month

or two then wee should have all the summer


before us. Are you willing, Margaret ? "
Godfrey said.

''If you would like it," she answered
shyly.

But I want you to have an opinion too.
It concerns you a little  don't you think ? "
he asked half in jest.

And then that question brought the
colour to her face, and she had to say
more plainly that she would be contented
to marry him in two months. Perhaps
Godfrey sometimes wished as a new experience
that he could utter something
which she would demur to or oppose.

Often during these days he used to

wonder how he satisfied her, for, let him

do his utmost to show her attention and

kindness, a colder lover than he was never

surely, it seemed to him, had tried to hold

a woman's heart. And yet she never complained


of this coldness by word or look,

and if lie recognized it or suffered from

it she kept the recognition and the suffering

entirely in her own breast. " You are very

good to me," she often said to him. It

almost seemed to him at times that she

must know why he had asked her to be

his wife, for in no other way could he ever

account to himself for the manner in which

she always accepted any kindness that he

offered her, and yet asked for nothing

that he withheld ; but on this subject

they never spoke together : she asked no

questions ; naturally, perhaps, she thought

that more than one cause had operated

to make him wish to marry her,  not love

alone, nor pity alone, but combined with

both these feelings the knowledge that she

could brings so larcre a fortune to him.

For she was humble enough to be f]jlad


that she was rich for his sake, and that
the outward circumstances of his life would
be visibly made better by her coming to
him. To another kind of woman it would



have been a pain to reflect that her money

was probably a motive why a man had

wooed her, but to Margaret, whose habit

of self-depreciation made her believe that

she needed something more than her own

personal merits to draw anybody's affection

to her, such a reflection hardly gave any

pain at all. Her wealth was to her a

portion of herself  the best portion perhaps

and she only thanked God that Godfrey

cared to take it. If she had not been so

ill (she possibly reasoned) he never might

have cared perhaps  and so had she not

cause to be grateful for her illness ? For,

whatever else she guessed, at any rate she

guessed nothings about Joanne Beresford,


nor ever had the pain of knowing what it
had cost him to enoaere himself to her.

Godfrey used to get sick sometimes at
the prospect of the colourless life that lay-before
him during these slowly passing
weeks that led up to the day fixed for
his marriage, and yet he wanted to have
the marriage over, and that future from
which he could not escape fairly begun.
He was so weary of these monotonous
months that the hope of almost any change
from them gave him a sense of refreshment.
He was tired to death of Nice : when their
weddings was over he could at least cro to
fresh places, and try to acquire new
interests : he could climb mountains in
Switzerland (that would stir him a little,
he thought) ; he would spend the summer
amongst the mountains, and then go to

Kome. He used to talk to Margaret about


his various plans and wishes, and she
assented to them alL She had almost no
Lavish of her own, except to be with him.
She was a little afraid of the mountains
lest he should break his neck on them,
but she had otherwise no objection to
Switzerland, and she thought Kome would
be delightful. " You will need to read
up your Roman history," he told her. '' I
will get some books, and we will read
it together." And then she said that that
would be delightful too.

But what a pair we are to be called
lovers ! " he thought to himself with a sad
laugh. "It is like a bad joke. And she
is so patient too. I almost think it would
be better sometimes if she would complain."

But Margaret never complained. If he
only loved her a very little,  still, since
he was content to marry her, ought she



not to be a happy woman ? was what

perhaps she thought.

The weeks drags-ed their slow length

along, and at last, at the end of March,

the day fixed for their wedding came, and

they were married. It was a day almost

like summer, though the year was still so

young. They had made some friends in

Nice, but, by Godfrey's wish, no one was

invited to the ceremony. " You don't care

about making a show of it, do you ? " he

had asked Margaret once, and that question

had been enough to stop all thoughts in

her of bridesmaids or wedding-gowns. They

were married in the morning, and then

they said good-bye to Mrs. Milestone, o-nd

started for Venice. It was too early in

the season yet for Switzerland : they meant

to confine themselves to Italy for a few

weeks to come.



Mrs. Helstone packed her trunks when
they were gone, and thankfully took her
solitary way home. She was very well
satisfied. She had got her son married
to the woman of her own choice ; she had
done what she could to bring the marriage
about, and the happy chance of an unforeseen
accident had brought success to her
efforts. " His fortune is made now," she
reflected with gratitude, " and with such
a wife  even though he may not be what
is called * in love ' with her  no man need
be pitied." Perhaps sometimes during the
winter she had been troubled a little for
Godfrey, and had longed with natural
motherly love to see him wear his old face
again, and to hear the sound of his old
light-hearted laugh ; but she was not the
kind of woman to give much weiobt to

passing waves of feeling. Godfrey might


suffer a little, but it was better for him,
she could toll herself, to suffer for the
moment, and to marry Margaret and riches,
than to take Joanne Beresford for his wife,
and remain a comparatively poor man.
Love tempted men to so much folly. How
rarely was it worth the price they paid
for it !

She went back to England, and spent
the summer and autumn in preparing for
her son and daughter's return. The labour
she had taken upon herself was not a light
one, but she gave herself to it coin more.
She had set her heart on making Godfrey's
house a beautiful one, and she spared no
pains to carry out her design. She planned
alterations, and watched over their execution,
and devised adornments, and almost
wore herself out over the endless details

of re-furnishing. The house had a certain


character of grandeur about it that pleased
Mrs. Helstone's pride, but it had also a
certain character of gloom that she used
her utmost effort to counteract, and not
without success. She was a woman who
was proud of her good taste, and she
wanted Margaret and Godfrey to be more
than satisfied with their habitation when
they came home. They, clambering about
their mountains, or sitting idly by Italian
lakes, knew little, and perhaps thought less,
of all she was doing for them.



CHAPTER IX.

Perhaps in lier heart Margaret got a
little tired of travelling (for her mind
was of the domestic order that loves home
and the quiet duties of home best), but if
that were so she did not tell her husband,
and more than a year passed after their
wedding before they returned to England.
They had been married in March, and it
was not until the May of the following
year that they came home.

In the month after their return a child

was born to them  a second Margaret,

whom, however, to distinguish from its

mother, they came to call Rita. They had


no other children afterwards. Eita was a
small dainty maiden, fair from lier birth,
like Margaret, and. with Margaret's blond
hair, but not in almost any other way
resembling her. Nature had given her her
father's dark blue eyes, and, for the rest,
most people said that she was wonderfully
like her grandmother  which was a compliment
to her, for Mrs. Helstone had been,
and indeed still was, a beautiful woman.
"I am glad she takes so little after me,"
Margaret often said in perfectly honest
self-congratulation ; and perhaps, to tell the
truth, though he would not have put it
into words, Godfrey himself was not ill-pleased
that it was so.

Before her birth he had wanted his
child to be a boy, and the first feeling
when the small maiden was presented, to

him was one of disappointment.
VOL. II. 225 33

** Oil, Godfrey, are you very sorry ? "
Margaret exclaimed, with her arms about
his neck, and it needed a little self-control
on his part to enable him to give a soothing
answer to her.

** No, no ; she seems a nice little person, 
and we can't help these things," he said
cheerfully ; but in reality he was very sorry
indeed. He had set his heart on having a
son, and this small girl, with her little
crumpled face, seemed a poor substitute
for the hearty boy that he had desired.

But the crumpled face began to smooth
out presently, and before a month had
passed the young whither had pretty well
forgotten his disappointment.

From the birth of his child a new era

began in Godfrey's life. The year that he

had spent abroad with ]margaret had not

been a year free from either struggles or


regrets, for the dead level of her nature
had made his unbroken daily companionship
with her often hard to bear. He had
borne it patiently, and had done his utmost
to accustom himself to it, but an uninteresting
woman tied to one's side takes
the flavour out of life, and, when all that
could be said in her praise was spoken,
this one indubitable fact remained, that
Margaret was uninteresting. But little
Eita was not uninteresting, and to the
perception of this truth, almost as soon as
she had come into the world, Godfrey
awoke with a sudden glad surprise.

It gave him the first sense of returning
mental health. He had been for
eighteen months like a man living in
some unnatural, exhausted atmosphere, the
effect of which upon him had been to

numb his feelings and paralyze his energy,


but the contemplation of Rita's little

strange unfolding face, and pretty baby

ways, and the touch of her small dinofins

fingers round his own, stirred a fresh well

of life within him. He shook off the

torpor that had oppressed him after she was

born. " Godfrey, I think you are very

happy' his mother said to him one day,

when, having taken the child from its

nurse's arms, he had been standing tossing

it in the air, and talking nonsense to it,

and he turned round to her as she spoke

with a smile. "Yes, I am happy," he

answered. " I like my little girl."

She used to look steadfastly at him out

of those dark blue eyes that he alone

could never see were like his own. In

her early babyhood she had a solemn way

of knitting her brows when she was confronted

with the novel sights of life which


he used to laugh at immoderately. " I

can't understand what you find so funny

in it," Margaret often said, trying in vain

to see the same comic aspects in her

daughter that he did, and looking blankly

from the man's face to the child's ; but

Godfrey could not enlighten her. He tried

to do it once, but after that first effort

he refrained, for Margaret's sense of comedy

was not keen.

When her days of infancy were over,

and Eita began to toddle about on a pair

of small, unsteady legs, she would make her

way to her father's study a dozen times

a day, and take refuge there  and a very

secure refuge she soon found it  from all

the small troubles of her little life. For

Godfrey petted and spoilt her, as I need

hardly say. Ashen the little importunate

fingers came and shook the handle of his


door, or a broken voice tragic with self-pity
called piteously upon his name, let
him be doing what he might he would
give up every employment to amuse or
comfort her. '' I think you humour her
too much, Godfrey : indeed I think you
do," Margaret would sometimes tell him
earnestly, but, with a masculine scorn of
consequences, he only laughed at her
anxiety. Perhaps in his heart he shrank
from the prospect of his little daughter
growing up as faultless as her mother.

Is she naughty ? Well, it is natural
to be naughty," he would boldly say.
'' But she only cries because she wants
her own way, and you won't let her have
it. How can we be sure that her way
is not as good as ours ? I often think
it may be. Her business just now in life,

you know, is to make experiments, and


if you don't give her the power of making
them how will she ever learn to know
good from evil ? "

With such speeches he used to answer
Margaret's remonstrances, not a little sometimes
to that conscientious woman's discomposure.
For Margaret wanted to do
her duty as a mother in the same earnest
way in which she tried to do her duty
in all other relations, and the difficulty of
accomplishing this, when Godfrey took such
different views from hers, troubled her sometimes
not a little. Perhaps Godfrey did
not really want to allow his little daughter
all the liberty that he sometimes professed
to do ; but Margaret was a prosaic woman,
who took her husband's speeches very
literally.

In truth, however, Godfrey's views as

to the bringing up of his daughter differed


in a large degree from Margaret's, and 
like not a few other fathers  he eliminated
from the share of her education that he
took upon himself all attempts to punish
her, and sometimes, poor Margaret thought,
even all efforts in the direction of moral
training. Jf Eita was good, then their
intercourse together would flow on in
unbroken harmony, Eita ruling her father
with a rod of iron ; if she was fractious
he would reason with her a little, but, if
she would not listen to reason, then he
would devise one expedient after another
to please her, with an earnestness that even
for himself had its comic side. Before she
was two years old he had come to such
a pass that he liked her company even
in some of her moods that were far removed
from being her best ; he liked to study
her ; she had become an exhaustless interest

n

to him : sometimes in moments when she
broke into fits of fury he would catch her
in his arms, and feel that her very passion
made her dear to him. The small creature
seemed to him so human as she struoorled
in his clasp, and beat his strong shoulders
with her impotent little fists. " Thank
heaven that she has a bit of the devil
in her!" he found himself exclaiming once
with a touch of almost irreverent gratitude.
There was so little of the devil in Margaret.
Neither in mind nor body indeed did
Pdta take much after her mother, and it
would be useless to deny that Godfrey
found himself rejoicing at times over the
want of similarity. It could not be otherwise,
 loyal and faithful though he was
to the woman whom fortune had given
to be his helpmate,  for, with all her
goodness, he had never lost, and could



not lose, that consciousness which he had
had long before he married her, that her
nature was colourless, and almost above all
other things he desired that Eita should
not be colourless.

Don't try to rub down all her sharp
edges ; sharp edges give zest to character'*
he told Margaret once, troubling and perplexing
her almost more than he could
conceive by that strange direction. ' Not
rub down her sharp edges ? Dear, I wish
I quite knew what you meant," she answered
anxiously.

Poor soul, she mercifully did not guess

how little she was ever likely to know of

what Godfrey meant  how little he ever let

her enter into his heart or thoughts  how

little they had in common with one another.

Nature had made her timid and infelicitous,

and she was conscious of that with only


too painful a consciousness, but instinctively
she thought and hoped that he did not
know it too. She lived from year to year
believing that she was always learning him
better  and she never learnt him any better
at all. What he was on the surface she
knew very well ; she understood, and even
appreciated at far more than their just
worth, such outward attractive qualities ashe
had. She had good cause to know the
sweetness of his temper ; she had good
cause to trust his kindness ; but to no other
knowledge of him did she ever penetrate,
and often therefore when he spoke in a way
that sounded strange to her ears she had
no key by which to interpret his sayings,
because she had no comprehension of the
state of mind that gave them birth. How
could she leave Eita's edges sharp, the poor
woman pondered in a troubled way to

herself, without failing in her duty to her
little daughter ? For I am afraid it was
Rita's hot temper, and her imperious will,
and sundry other things of the same sort,
that were in Godfrey's mind dien he
decried too strict a system of smoothing
and rounding. " The chill must be controlled,
dear, for her own good : she must
indeed," poor Margaret could only earnestly
plead.

Perhaps Godfrey knew well enough that
Rita must be controlled, and that there
was wisdom on the whole in his wife's
educational views. He hardly contended
with her when she tried to persuade him
that the old Adam required to be expelled
from little Rita's nature ; he only threw
out his occasional remark, and said no more,
and then for the most part pursued his

own way. And his own way was a very


pleasant one. Rita approved of it highly,

and learnt in a very short space of time

to constitute her father her one unfailing

appeal and support between herself and

an adverse world.

It will always probably be a moot question

how much indulgence can be safely given

to a child. Margaret was conscientiously

afraid of indulgence, and, left to herself,

would have hedged in her little daughter

with many a rule and many a restriction.

But, in the face of Godfrey's resolute

opposition, this soon became impossible.

Anxious as she was to move in her safe,

narrow groove, Godfrey's influence always

made his will more potent even than her

own conscience ; and so she did the utmost

that she could to fight with the evil in

little Eita's heart, and to sow the seeds

of those virtues that are supposed to be


indigenous in childish natures (but of

whose existence in her daughter Maroaret

was sometimes sceptical) ; and for the rest

Godfrey had usually his own way with

her, and the years as they passed over

the small damsel's head gave her an early

childhood that, if not as untrammelled as

she herself could have wished, was yet at

any rate free and happy in more than an

average degree.

Many a ramble did the young father

take with his little daughter as these years

went on ; many a talk did these two have

together. It was very simple talk for the

most part, for Eita always led it, and

indeed for the most part sustained it, but

it had an interest for Godfrey that often

seemed to him the strangest thin 2: that

he had ever known. He would lie under

the trees on summer afternoons, with the


little maiden often perched like a bird upon
his breast, and there they would chatter
nonsense, like birds too, by the hour together.
In these days he had rarely any
sense of being light-hearted except when
he was with Rita, but with Rita he was
light-hearted almost always.

She was the most exacting of damsels 
a light, mercurial little soul, imperious in
will, and far from always placid in temper ;
but yet, in Godfrey's eyes at any rate, a
child no father could fail to love, for, if
her temper was warm, her whole nature
was warm too as southern sunshine, and
the passion of one moment, if anything
occurred to cross her, was generally succeeded
in the next by as passionate an
outburst of penitence and tears.

I have said before now that Godfrey's

nature was not an ardent one, yet often


wbcu he was with his little daughter his
intense love for her manifested itself in
ardent ways. He would take her suddenly
in his arms and cover her face with such
kisses as he had never given to her mother ;
he would walk with her up and down his
room, clasping her to his breast, and telling
her that she was the light of his eyes  the
best things in the world to him. There was
often a touch of pathos alike in his love
for her, and in the way in which he showed
it  and in the cool indifference with which
the little maid would frequently receive it.
For, except at very rare moments, she was
not addicted to sentiment : she preferred
play to devotion ; she was not fond of those
strained embraces in which her father sometimes
held her. In moments of high-strung
feeling on his part she was likely enough

to struggle and demand imperiously to be


released. " Ou squeeze too tight ! Ou
s oulciii't squeeze so tight : it hurts ! " she
would tell him indignantly. Or  " I want
ou to do something nice. I don't want to
be tarried. I want my big dolly. Set me
down." And he would generally have to
obey her orders and set her down, if he
wanted peace.

It was Eita's habit to bestow a very
large portion of her company upon her
father, for he was her approved playfellow,
and the person in her little world whom
she professed openly to love the best, but
yet she entertained a certain grave regard
for her mother too. Margaret did not
amuse her, or spoil her, or even pet her
much ; but her constant equable care and
kindness came by degrees unconsciously to
impress the little maiden with a great instinctive
feeling of trust. For Margaret
VOL. II. 21-1 84<

had no moods and no inequalities. She
did what she thought her duty, not with
the hardness, but almost with the regularity,
of a machine ; and Ein., who took
a thousand liberties with her father, was
awed by her mother's gentle, passionless
kindness into more docile and conscientious
frames of mind than Godfrey's far more
tender rule ever obtained from her. The
child was rarely frolicsome with her mother,
but she was rarely very naughty either.
Margaret came by degrees to be the symbol
to her of law and order, and, though many
things were more delightful to her than
law and order, yet in her heart a curious
kind of recognition of their value gradually
grew up. From her father she could by
coaxing win almost everything she asked
for ; she hardly ever tried to coax her

mother, but she got to trust implicitly in


what lie said, and in every promise she
ever made her.

What pains you take with her ! What
a right-minded woman you are ! Right-minded,
and just, and patient," her husband
said to Margaret one day, making
her glad by his praise. But he did not
add that he thought her narrow too. He
could not tell her that. If he himself was
over-indulgent to Rita sometimes, he always
inwardly excused his fault on the ground
that Margaret's too rigid system of education
needed his freer one to counteract
the evils of it. A right-minded woman, he
was ready enough to call her, but a large-minded
woman, never. Left to herself
she would dwarf Rita's nature, he thought ;
she would give the child no room to
grow. And yet he recognized all that was

worthy of admiration in her  all her


conscientious, patient goodness, and timid,

ceaseless striving to do right. A woman,

certainly, as Joanne Beresford had said,

to be safe vriih, if ever there were one.

Very soon after he established himself

at Ivur, Godfrey settled down into a course

of life that gave him occupation and a

fair amount of contentment. After his

marriage he relinquished the intention he

had originally had of going to the bar,

and devoted himself to literature. 

for an interest in life he thought of

writing a book ; and this scheme having

entered his mind, remained and fermented

there till before he returned to England

the subject of his book was fixed od, and

the matter of it to a considerable extent

thought out. And then, as soon as he was

settled in his own house, he went to work.

He wrote an historical essay, which he


published when Rita was three years old,
and which brought him some small amount
of reputation ; and this first publication
he followed, as time went on, with others.
He wrote in a leisurely, and perhaps to
some extent, it might have been said, ina
dilettante way, as a man is likely to do
who writes for amusement and not for
bread ; but yet his work was conscientious
and careful, and he was fortunate in finding
in the occupation the interest he had
sought. As the years went on, with his
easy, not to say large, income, and with
nothing but prosperity about him, with
a wife to whom his word was law, and
a little daughter who made the sunshine
of his life, Godfrey Helstone was not an
unhappy man. After fortune had given
him her one blow the world had been very

kind to him, and he was conscious of her


kindness,  almost too conscious, he sometimes
sadly thought. For there came
moments to him in those days when he
felt he was settling down into a contentment
that was not a noble one.  when he
knew that he had lost some thin or which
had been his in the days dien he had
known Joanne Beresford. In those days
he believed a life had been possible for
him that did not seem possible now : his
loins had been girt then for a higher kind
of labour than any that in these days he
was likely to give himself to. He had
had his chance once, and had lost it ; and,
like so many men, in his after years he
went maimed, shorn of a portion of his
moral strength ; outwardly prosperous, but
inwardly conscious that the promise of
the morning of his life was ozone.

But yet, when he kept his thoughts


from turning to the past, and his heart
from indulging in regrets, his prosperity
was very pleasant to him, and his little
daughter made a daily sunshine in his
life. Margaret, it was true, in giving him
herself had given him a good deal besides,
and to this fact he came, as time
went on, to allow all reasonable weight.
He did not despise the advantages of
either his handsome income or his unbroken
leisure. His time was his own
to occupy as he pleased, and he did not
spend it idly ; but yet the placid work
from which he could turn aside at any
whim of little Eita's,  which often when
he chose he would relax for weeks together,
 was a very different kind of
thing from the work at which men toil
who have to earn their daily bread, and

he knew this, and was not oblivious that,


whether it were well or ill for him, he
owed the luxury of the life he led to
Margaret. His marriage with her had
alone made such a life possible. And
yet, at the same time, he had always the
satisfaction, which was not a small one,
of knowing that he had not married her
for her money.

'did you not do that? -not even
partly ? " she once said to him timidly,
not long after she had become his wife ;
and perhaps his answer gave her one of
the purest feelings of surprised gladness
that she had ever known.

Most certainly not," he instantly replied.

Your fortune is of consequence to me

of course I do not deny that  but the

thought of it never weighed a straw in

the balance with me at the time I asked

you to marry me. I should have asked


you ail the same tlioiigli you had not
lead a penny in the world'*

And then with joy and gratitude the
tears sprang to her pale eyes.

*' Oh, Godfrey, how good you have
been to me ! I never dared to believe
that before,' she exclaimed. And he felt
suddenly humbled and almost ashamed,
for he had told so much of the truth to
her, and yet he could not tell her the
rest, and he had to leave her believing
a thing that was not the fact, but a sweet
lie. How could she draw any conclusion
but one from his words ? And still his
words had been literally true.

Perhaps as the years went on it came
to be clear to Margaret that she was not
all to Godfrey that she had hoped to be,
but if she suffered the pain of this knowledge
she kept her sorrow to herself. So


many men live lives apart from their
wives, perhaps she thought ; it was so
common a case that she had no riofht to
complain of it  that she ought not even
to wonder at it. For he was clever, and
she was not clever, she could reason, and
her sympathy in the things that interested
him and in the work he did would not
have been of much use to him perhaps ;
and yet in her heart the poor soul knew
that if he had cared to ask for her sympathy
it would have made her glad. He
did it sometimes, and these occasions
were very sweet to her, but they were
also very rare.

For gradually during the years that
followed his marriage a habit of silence
fell on Godfrey. It was not that he was
moody or unhappy, but instinctively his

thoughts had ceased to seek a listener


to express themselves to. He had never
asked much in any intimate sense to
Maroaret before he married her, and after
she was his wife perhaps he tried to do
so more often from a sense of duty than
from any natural desire to make her his
companion ; for, poor soul, she never
roused him to talk ; she never made him
feel that 'his mind gained any life from
contact with hers. " My good Margaret ! "
he often emphatically called her, feeling,
through all the years they lived together,
that her changeless indisputable goodness
\Yas the supreme distinguishing characteristic
that she had. Without charm,
without grace, without felicity in anything
she said or did, without bodily health or
mental vigour, with only the purity of
her heart to make her beautiful  such was

the poor wife that fate had given him ;


but yet, at any rate, to his merit be it
said that he never after his life was linked
with hers let his thoughts dwell upon her
shortcomings ; that he never except for a
passing moment contrasted her with the
woman he had wished to marry ; and that,
if he did not give her love, at least to
the end of her life he gave her tenderness
and honour.



The little one had a clear small voice
that used to go singing through the house.
Godfrey would set his study door ajar
sometimes to listen to it, not caring much
though it disturbed him at his work. He
used to wonder sometimes from what
ancestor either on his side or Margaret's

CD

she inherited that flexible organ, with its
true, sweet tones ; it was neither from her
mother nor from himself. Rita had perhaps
never even heard her mother sing.
Margaret did not sing now,  as Godfrey
reflected sometimes not without gratitude.

But Rita early showed a faculty for
253 .

music, and her father liked to listen to
the simple tunes her little fingers played.
She was a small eager creature, and with
miiioied amusement and tenderness he used

o

to watch her as she spelt out her scales
and exercises, her whole heart in the work,
her lean legs dangling from the music-stool,
too short by far to reach the ground.
Perhaps she may sing some day as Joanne
Beresford used to sing," he sometimes
thought. But no one, it seemed to him,
had ever sung as Joanne did in those
old days

They got a governess for her when she
was eight years old, which was an innovation
that the little lady by no means
liked, and that, to tell the truth, Godfrey
did not much like either, though he had
sense enough to submit to it. " For she

mud be educated you know, dear," Margaret



auro-ed, and he could but answer, " I suppose
she must." Happily, he did not
propose to fall into the mistake of educating
her himself, or else, with Rita's volatile
disposition, the consequences would probably
have been disastrous.

The governess after some time was found
a kind and not too indulgent one  and
liita thenceforward found herself in harness,
which was a condition of things that fora
little while she resented dee23]y, till time
and habit produced their natural results.
But Godfrey missed the little figure that
had flitted freely for so long like a bird
about his room, and could with difficulty
reconcile himself to its rarer visits.

He felt a curious sense of regret as

Rita's childhood began to pass away ; it

seemed to him like the passing away of his

own youth. There were lines already in


Margaret's face. She led a placid life, but
her health was weak, and she had not
the art of keeping young. There were
both lines in her fcice, and her hair was
getting thin and gray. She belonged to
that class of women whose constitutions
wear out early, with no apparent cause
beyond their simple want of vitality. By
the time they had been ten years married
she looked older by a good deal than
Godfrey.

He did more work after Eita's days of
lessons had begun, and perhaps too he
spent more time with Margaret, for the
delicacy she began to developed led him
to keep more watch over her. The relations
between these two, indeed, did not
loosen, but rather became closer in the
years that followed the first decade of

their niarriaQ:e. As JMaro-aret became less


strong her husband's care of her grew

Greater ; he began to take note of things

in her that he had not taken much heed

of before.

They might have been less bright years

to him, but they became sweeter to her

than those others had been when Kite

was a little child, for, though time had

brought no charm to her, Godfrey's eyes

at least were less critical over her outward

imperfections now than they had been of

old : he had brought himself to the condition

in which he was content to accept

her as she was, without weighing her

merits or dwelling on her shortcomings.

And so now when she was getting faded,

and losing even the little beauty she had

once had, the change, in as far as it affected

him at all, affected him only to make him

kinder to her.

VOL. II. 257 35

They used to go to London sometimes,

and once or twice again they went abroad.

One summer, while Eita was still a little

child. Jack Dallas came by chance into

their neighbourhood, and, being invited by

Godfrey, stayed with them for two or

three weeks, and made himself very popular

amongst them. Mr. Dallas was unmarried

still, and apparently unlikely to marry. He

was also still as light-hearted as ever, and

almost as much of a boy.

 ''I ought to settle down, you say ?

Why should I settle down ? " he asked

Godfrey. " I don't know for my own part

how people ever choose a wife. If there

were only one woman in the world I could

marry her with complete satisfaction ; but

when one knows hundreds of women, each

one pleasant than another, it seems tome

a clear impossibility to make up one's


mind amongst them. Of course people do,
I know that ; but not people with the
vast power of admiration that has been
given to me."

Some day I mean to go back and take
another look at Vi Beresford," he told
Godfrey once. "She twas a little beauty 
wasn't she ? And what dear people they
all were ! I am always thinking of looking
them up again ; but one never does anything
one intends. I wonder how that fine old
Vicar wears,  and my friend Lilian ! "

Lilian must have been married long:
ago. She was married, I believe, a few
months after we were at Brentwood,"
Godfrey said.

Oh, yes ; I daresay they are all

married," exclaimed Jack in an accent of

impatience ; " all those who were grown up,

at least, I mean, in our time. Odd girl,


Lilian was. But, by Jove, she teas a pretty
creature ! And there was Miss Joanne,
whom you used to be so sweet on, and
pert little Edith, and my dear old Mrs.
Beresford herself. What a brick Mrs.
Beresford was, with her stiff back and her
soft heart ! I believe she loved me like the
son of her old age. Helstone, let us go
back some day, and see them all."

But Godfrey made no answer to this
proposition. (Nor did Mr. Dallas ever pay
his projected visit. Like so many other
projects it remained unfulfilled as the years
went on.)

The friends had many a walk and talk

together during these weeks that Mr. Dallas

stayed at Ivor. Jack fought a little shy

of Margaret. She was a woman who could

not respond to his light badinage, and

whose coldness and stiffness were rather


terrifying to him ; but lie became capital
friends with Mrs. Helstone, and he declared
Rita to be a "jolly little girl."

*' Not but what her father spoils her.
He will be the ruin of her if he can," he
said frankly to her grandmother once, and
Mrs. Helstone agreed with him.

' I am always telling him that he is
injudicious," she said, "but what is the
use of telling him ? Happily his wife is
more sensible than he is."

Oh dear, yes ; his wife seems  ver
sensible," responded Jack.

He could see little other merit in poor
Margaret. " Of course Helstone married
her for her money," he had quickly made
up his mind.

It was by chance, as I said, that Jack

Dallas had come into the neighbourhood

and looked them up. He and Godfrey had


lost sight of one another for half a dozen
years, and after this visit they lost sight
of one another again. Intimate in a way
as they were they kept up no correspondence.
" ril come back again before
long," Jack said when he went away, and
Godfrey answered cordially, " I hope you
will ; " and then that ended it.

I should not think that he was a kind
of person to be much relied on," Margaret
said in her grave way when he failed to
keep his promise, and her condemnatory
speech made Godfrey laugh.

' Oh, he is a very good fellow," he
replied. "You haven't seen enough of him
yet. Wait till you know him a little better."

But, as it chanced, she never knew him

better, for Jack indeed came back one

day to Ivor, but poor Margaret was not

there then.



This life that Godfrey Helstone led had
something deadening in it, though perhaps
it was not so much its luxury as its loneliness,
at the first, that had crushed him ;
for his marriage had quenched his ambition,
and the fire and hope of his youth. *' I
have done nothing," was what he always
sadly thought as the years went on.

He had come to be forty years old, and
Kita had almost become a woman. The
little damsel had reached to the age in
which childish things are put away. She
was fifteen, and she had laid aside her story-books,
and locked her dolls into their cupboard.
" After fifteen, you know, nobody
is ever foolish," her father said with
assumed gravity to her on her fifteenth
birthday, and she meditated for a moment,
and then made a not very reverent reply.

"I have seen you foolish  often," she


retorted, " and you have always been ever
so much ohler than fifteen."

"Ah, but," replied Godfrey, "I have
only seemed to be foolish. You must not
mistake seeming for being. In reality,
you know, I am always was."

And then Eita gave a little mocking:
laugh of the most unconcealed incredulity.
For the young woman, like so many of her
generation, was growing up with a sad
want of reverence in her, and she loved
her father rather as her indulgent como



panton and playfellow than as a person

to whose experience and superior wisdom

it was either her pleasure or her duty to

look up. She did not care very much as

yet to look up to anybody.

She was a bright, merry-hearted girl,

in whom, her grave, conscientious mother

indeed found many faults, but who satisfied


her father still, as she had always done.
She had lived for these fifteen years almost
without having known a care, and her
happy childhood seemed leading her into
a womanhood equally happy. But there
was a trouble coming towards her now,
though as yet she was unconscious of it.
She used to look back upon this fifteenth
birthday afterwards, thinking to herself 
If I had but known ! " But she did not
know, and it passed over her head as other
birthdays had done, and her mother came
at the end of it, and kissed her as she lay
in bed.

My little girl, you will be a woman
so soon now," Margaret said to her ; but
Eita was sleepy, and made only some very
brief response. She hardly noticed her
mother's kiss, perhaps. She would scarcely
have cared if it had not been even to her.



There lead always been so little vigour
in Margaret that Rita's young eyes had
failed to perceive yet that she was becoming
feebler, and silently ceasing to do one thing
after another that she had been accustomed
to do of old. *' Your mother is not strong
enough for  " this or that, Godfrey would
say to her now and then, but, with the
preoccupation of girlhood, she had grown
accustomed to regard this statement merely
as the announcement of a natural fact.
She was full of the little interests of her
own life ; she had not much thought to
give either to her mother, or even her father
perhaps, in these days.

And so that pale existence of Margaret's

grew paler still, and faded gradually away,

and until almost the end her daughter

scarcely knew it. Godfrey only told her

what was coming one day at last when


all hope that her life would be prolonged

was over  a day they never referred to

afterwards, but which neither of them ever

forgot  when the child first found herself

face to face with the shadow of death,

and the man who had been a cold husband

for so many years burst into tears over

the few words that he could scarcely speak.

It was summer then, and Margaret lived

until the winter came again. The end of

her life was far from unhappy to her ;

perhaps it was happier than many a

previous part of it had been, for during

these last months she became once more

(as she had been once for a little while

of old, in those unforgotten days before

Godfrey married her) the centre of interest

to all those whom she loved best. She

had been so little to her husband and her

daughter all through her wedded life, but


the devotion of these Last months made
the gentle exacting: woman almost for-et
the loneliness of all her previous years.
*' You make it hard for me to go," she
said gratefully to Godfrey again and again.

He nursed her till she died as he had
nursed her Ions: aofo, in that other memorable
time that became vividly present once
more to them both in these new last days.
One day, sitting beside her in the old
way, with her hand in his, he found it in
his heart to tell her that he would nrladlv
live his life with her again.

They had been together nearly seventeen

years. She said to him more than

once  '' I have been a happy woman. I

have had no troubles but those that have

come from my own failings. Another

woman might have been more to you 

more to both you and the child ; I have


always known that ; but you two have been
my whole happiness,  my whole world."

It was something  perhaps it seemed to
her even a great deal  to be loved and
made much of, as she was, during these
last months. Yitll a feeling of shy wonder
she resigned herself to the unfamiliar delight
of her daughter's tenderness. That tenderness
had always hitherto been given to her
very sparingly, but now Eita, in her pain
and self reproach, lavished it upon her
almost passionately. There was so short
a time left in which to atone for all neglect.
Both father and daughter where filled with
the same feeling. There was a past to be
made up for, and to ask forgiveness for,
and only a few weeks in which to repair
the shortcomings of all the years that they
had lived together.

But Margaret herself, in her gentle weakness,


hardly recognized that there was
anything to be forgiven : if she had ever
suffered she owed her suffering, she thought,
as she had told her husband, only to her
own failings, or at least so it seemed to
her now, when in these final days they
made their sad brief reparation, and let
her taste a purer gladness when her life
was ending than, except only once before,
she had ever known.

And so these last months passed, and
then she died, happier than she had lived,
poor soul, and having the joy of knowing
that they would both have kept her if
they could. There came a fall of snow
the night before her death, but after the
snow the sky cleared, and she turned her
face to the window the last morning, and
saw the sun shining: on the leafless trees.

*' Is the ground all white ? " she asked,



and they said "Yes," and lifted her upto
let her look at it,  her last look at the
world from which she was passing away.

God has been so good to me," she said
earnestly a little while afterwards, and took
the hand that was clasping hers, and laid
it on her lips.

That evening she died. The last words
that she uttered were spoken to Godfrey, 
a few quiet words that had no farewell
in them ; and then, unconscious that the
end had come, she fell asleep, and in her
sleep died without a sign.

It was a quiet close to a colourless life.

I might have made her happier," Godfrey

remorsefully thought, looking at the still

face with a great burden on this heart ; but

yet at least, if he might have made her

happier, he also might have laid a cross

upon her that he never let her bear, for


she passed out of the world unconscious
from any word he had ever spoken that
her love had come between him and the
dearest hope of his life.

CHAPTER I.

Godfrey was in London one winter's
night, two years after Margaret's death,
and was making his way along the Strand
through a dense fog, when, finding he had
lost his bearings, he called to a man whose
step he heard close to him 'can you tell
me if I am near St. Martin's Church ? " and,
to his surprise, a familiar voice replied,
That's just what I am trying to find out
for myself."

You are Jack Dallas ! " exclaimed Godfrey

instantly.

VOL. III.



And  God bless me !  why, you're
Helstone ! " said the other.

And then the next moment with a hearty
laugh they were shaking hands. It was a
dozen years since they had seen each other
last.

The hour was not a late one, and, when
they had succeeded in discovering their
position, Mr. Dallas made his friend go
home with him, He had a comfortable
bachelor establishment in rooms looking



over the river.

Married ? Mercy on us, no ! " he said
in answer to an inquiry that Godfrey made.
I couldn't be married and o on living:
here, you know ; and when a man has once
got settled it needs a remarkably strong
temptation to unsettle him again. At least
that's my experience. I never have seen
the temptation yet that would make me doit



; and so, having reached my forty-fourth
year without indulging in the blessing
of a wife, I imagine the chances are
that I shall go on in the same way to the
end of the chapter."

"I think you are making a mistake,
though," replied Godfrey.

He had told Jack already the bare fact
that Margaret was dead. Presently, sitting
with him over his fire, he spoke a little
more of her, and of his daughter.

'' I have been alone for two years now,"
he said, 'rand if it had not been for my
little girl my life would be very empty.
She was so quiet and retiring always that
you must have lived with her to know how
good she was. Of course you never knew
her at all. That only time you came to us
you were very little with her, I remember."

No  ahem !  I didn't see a great deal

of lier," assented Jack. " She didn't seem
to me to care for strangers."

She was a very domestic woman," said
Godfrey.

"Oh, yes  so I should suppose," responded
Jack quickly. " I am sure she
was  as good as she could be. She must
have been a great loss to you."

She has been a great loss to us both,"
said Godfrey. "To Eita as well as
me.

*' And how is Eita ? " asked Jack.
"Why, she must have grown out of all
recollection ! "

And then Godfrey replied with a laugh
that he thought she probably had.

She is a woman now," he said. " She
will be eighteen next June."

And she has forgotten my very name,
I suppose?" said Mr. Dallas.

Well' retorted Godfrey, " if she has, it
is no one's fault but your own."

Godfrey had come to town for a week or
two before Christmas. He wanted some
books, he told Mr. Dallas.

"I can't think why in the world you
don't come up oftener," Jack replied. "I
like the country myself  in moderation 
as much as any man ; but as for living
in it all the year round  unless you are
compelled, I think it is an utter mistake.
What in the world makes you do it is more
than I can conceive."

Oh, I am generally up in town every
year," Godfrey said in self-defence.

Yes ; you come for a flying visit like
this. What is the good of flying visits?
You ought to spend half the year here.
That is what I would do if T were in your
place. But prosperity has made a Sybarite

of you, I'm afraid. You want a big house
always to live in. You can't do without
your carriages and your horses and your
half-score of servants."

I could do with a garret and a dry
crust, if it came to that," exclaimed Godfrey
rather indignantly.

Oh, well, that is going beyond me'
replied Jack. "A lodging like this is all
I had in my mind ; and I say again, you
might do worse  indeed, I don't know
that you could do much better  than
pitch your tent in a place of this sort fora
good portion, at any rate, of every
year."

"And leave Eita at Ivor?" asked Godfrey.


*' Oh, bless me, I quite forgot Eita ! "

exclaimed Mr. Dallas.

Upon which his companion laughed. " She


is not quite so important a person, you see,
to you as she is to me," he said.

I find that most of the schemes we
make in life get knocked on the head," said
Jack philosophically. "Well, you must
wait till the girl takes a husband. She
will be doing that, I suppose, before long."

I don't know," replied Godfrey rather
quickly. " I hope she won't be doing it yet."

Well, they mostly do. They either
marry, or they give more trouble with their
lovers than if they did. It's best to get
them well off your hands at once, I believe.
Near eighteen  did you say she was ? Oh,
then, she will be in the thick of it immediately.
It's about as bad an age as you
could choose."

I hope you will prove a false prophet,"
said Godfrey, not feeling comfortable,
however. *I shall be sorry, for my

own part, if she leaves me before she is
five-ands twenty . ' '

Oh, of course you will miss her whenever
she goes," said Jack. " That's the
worst of marrying and having children.
You are always getting stabbed in one
direction or another. I don't think I could
stand it, for my own part. She's a pretty
little thing now, I suppose ? "

She isn't little," responded Godfrey.
'' She is five feet six. I dare say you would
think her pretty. Most people do."

"And her father agrees with them"'
said Jack with a kindly laugh. 'well,
I should like to come and have a look at
her again. I would come after Christmas,
I am half disposed to think, if you cared to
ask me."

Change your time a little, and come

before Christmas," answered Godfrey.


Why shouldn't you ? Come home with
me on the 16th."

"What, next Friday? Oh, I hardly
think I could do that," said Jack.

But five minutes afterwards he had
agreed to do it.

Papa is going to bring somebody back
with him," said Eita to her quondam
governess. Miss Taylor, reading a letter
that she had from her father a day or two
after this. ''A Mr. Dallas. I remember
he was here once before, ever so long ago.
And papa says, would you please get a
room ready for him, as he is coming to
stay over Christmas. Oh, dear," said Eita
with a little sigh, " I am rather sorry that
anybody who is old is coming for Christmas."

"Is he old?" replied Miss Taylor

innocently. " Oh, but you know some old

people are very nice. Let us hope that


Mr. Dallas will be. I tliiuk we weill give
him the green room, dear. It is the best
for aD elderly person. It is so nice and
warm."

So then Miss Taylor had the green room
prepared, and kept a good fire burning in
it for two days before Mr. Dallas arrived.
The old gentleman might perhaps have
rheumatism, or asthma, she thought.

It was mild weather, but with considerate
kindness Miss Taylor sent a closed carriage
to the station to meet the travellers.

"Why didn't you bring the dog-cart?"
Godfrey asked his servant, when he found
this equipage waiting for them ; but the
man answered that he had only done as he
was told.

Oh yes, of course ; they know your

tastes. Didn't I say that you lived in the

lap of luxury ? " exclaimed Jack, and he


chuckled mischievously as he took his comfortable
seat. He rather enjoyed chaffing
Godfrey and crediting him with a love of ease
that he, for his own part, professed to scorn.

There was an open door to receive them
at their journey's end, and a warm glow of
lamp and fire-light in the hall, and in the
midst of the glow Eita's girlish figure.

'that looks pretty," said Jack, gazing
at the picture as the carriage drove up.

In another moment or two he had
jumped out and was upon the door step
looking on while Eita kissed her father.

"Ah, you don't remember me'' he said
when that ceremony was concluded, and
then he put out his hand, and, looking
demure and pretty, Eita took it.

"No, I don't remember you," she

answered.

This is my friend Mr. Dallas, Miss


Taylor," Godfrey announced ; and Miss
Taylor found herself gazing in surprise at
the youthful-looking man who turned and
greeted her.

"Why, I quite misunderstood. Kita
said he was old' she exclaimed to Godfrey
afterwards. ''I got the warmest room in
the house ready for him, and sent the
close carriage to meet you."

Godfrey burst out laughing. 'that is
too good a joke not to be told to Jack,"
he said ; and so presently he turned the
tables on his friend with some enjoyment.

'' Kita expected you to arrive upon

crutches," he said. " No wonder Miss

Taylor sent an easy carriage for you. She

has been making all kinds of preparations

for your comfort. You will find the softest

easy-chair in your room, and there will be

hot water bottles in your bed presently."


Hm ! and so that is how youth would
treat a decent middle age ! " exclaimed Jack,
not condescending after this speech to more
than a smile.

Now I drew a much truer picture of
you' he said to Eita in the course of the
evening. " I knew exactly what you would
be like. When I last had the pleasure of
seeing you, you were a small person in
pinafores. You had your hair cropped all
round your head. You had a habit of
screwing your knuckles into your eyes, and
of occasionally howling, and you used to
sit on my knee and play with my watch-chain.
I was prepared to find you very
much changed, but I knew exactly the
amount of change there would be. I knew
you would appear with your hair turned up,
and your pinafores gone, and your frocks

down to your heels ; but I never expected


to find sou transformed into a matronly
woman, with wrinkles on your brow. See
how much common sense I have, and how
wanting in common sense you must be ! "

And then he stood rather defiantly before
her and laughed ; and Kita was a little
abashed, and did not quite know what
to say.

It was true she had called him old, and
as far as years went he loss old, she thought,
and yet she could not but allow to herself
that he certainly had not the look or
manner of an elderly gentleman.

I was so little when I saw you before ;
you forget that," she said rather deprecatingly
after a moment.

"And I seemed so very big, do you
mean to imply?" he asked.

N-o ; you are not so very big." Eita

said this a little bluntly. '' I don't suppose


I ever thought you that ; but I am sure
you know' half reproachfully, " that when
one is a child all grown up people seem
rather old."

' And how do they seem," inquired Jack
pleasantly, " when one comes to be, let us
say, eighteen or thereabouts ? "

And then poor Kita looked embarrassed,
and blushed again.

I don't know," she said shyly.

"" I suppose you still think of me as a
sort of Methuselah ? "

No, I don't," she said.

*' One of the patriarchs then, at any
rate ? "

I think you look younger than papa
does," she said.

Well, I ought to, for I am his junior

by three months, and at our time of life

three months tell," replied Jack gravely.


Are you and papa really so near the
same age ? " she asked. " I should hardly
have guessed that. Papa is so much graver
than you are."

He has had such a comfortable life,

that's the reason of it," replied Jack with

a confident air. "Nothing makes one so

grave as prosperity. It's a curious thing,

you know. You feel yourself such an

example when it comes upon you, as if all

the world were looking at you. But when

you get knocked about like a football, and

know that nobody is looking at you, why

then you can keep hold of your youth, and

remain a boy just as long as you please.

I've never been embarrassed by being

looked at myself," said Jack modestly, " and

so I'm glad to say I've kept up my spirits

amazingly."

Papa," said Eita, rather severely, later


in the evening, to her father, *' I think that
Mr. Dallas talks sometimes in a very foolish
way."

Eita was certainly more puzzled than
pleased with her visitor on this first evening
of his stay with them. She did not
know when he was jesting and when he
was serious ; he seemed to her to be rather
frequently engaged in laughing at her, and
she had a good deal of self-esteem, and by
no means liked to be laughed at. After he
had talked to her for a little while she
got out of his way, and gave him no more
opportunity than she could help of talking
to her again.

I don't like people who are always

making fun," she said. " He isn't nearly

so old as I supposed he was, but if he

were really older I think perhaps I should

like him better." And so she went to
VOL. III. 17 37

bed in no especial charity with her new
friend.

But Jack was one of those people who,
by their abounding good humour and
absence of self-consciousness, soften adverse
opinions, and as the next day passed Kita
began, half-involuntarily, to think that there
were some rather pleasant things in him at
any rate. She met him, to begin with, the
first thing in the morning, coming in,
though it was December, from an early
ramble in the garden, with a little robin
in his hand that he had picked up from
the ground.

Come here," he said, calling to her ashe

entered the house. " T wonder what

you can do for this little beggar ? " And

then he showed his small captive to her,

and roused her in a moment to interest

and sympathy.



Oil, what is the matter with him ? Do
you think we can keep him alive ? " she
exclaimed.

'' You can but try at any rate, I suppose,"
he said. " He isn't worth the trouble, but
you must either do that or wring his neck.
I'll wring his neck in a moment, if you
think that will be the best way of dealing
with him."

But of course Eita thought nothing of
the sort, and set down Jack as little better
than a heathen for proposing such a course.

Then get something to put him in,"
he said.

So she hurried away, and found a little
empty cage, and they made a bed, and laid
the bird in it.

'' He seems to have something the matter

with his feet. Look at him, poor little

chap, he can't stand for a moment on them.


Do you know now what I would advise
you to do ? " said Jack. " I would get
a little sherry and put his legs into it."

"Are you saying that in joke?" asked
Vita, looking solemnly at him.

'ein joke? Not I!" cried Jack. "I
had a cousin once who cured her canary
so. The canary's legs gave way, just like
these, and she gave him wine baths till
she brought him round, and he got as
merry as a grig again. Just let us have
a little wine and some warm water, and
we'll bathe this fellow." And then Kita
got the wine, and they gave their patient
his bath.

It was very kind of him, Eita thought.
She had not supposed he would have been
so kind.

We shall have to go through the

business two or three times a day," he said,


'' if we mean to do any good by it ; but
you will scarcely care to take all that
trouble perhaps ? "

/ not care ? Oh yes, I shall," cried
Eita quickly. And then she thought it
behoved her to say something more, and
she added rather shyly  '' Thank you very
much for having shown me how to do it."

Then you propose to do without my
help in future  do you ? " asked Jack
instantly. " Oh come, that won't do. The
bird's mine."

But  but  " said Rita, and then suddenly
stopped and burst out laughing.
How could he talk in such a boyish way ?
she wondered. " What a thing to say ! " she
exclaimed. " As if you could want him ! "

'' "Why shouldn't I want him ? I'm very
fond of birds. I don't see the fun," replied

Jack with such gravity that Rita checked


herself and felt ashamed. He must be
very simple-minded to care so much about
a robin at this time of life, she thought.

However, the discovery of so innocent a
predilection in him, though it seemed to
her very odd, decidedly had the effect of
rather inclining; her in his favour. She
gave him breakfast after this, and put an
extra lump of sugar in his cup of coffee,
with a half-conscious intention of pandering
to his juvenile tastes. She offered him jam,
and felt pleased dien she saw him eat
it. "He says he is as old as you are.
Papa, is he really so old ? " she said to her
father in a tone of amazement presently,
at a time when Jack's back was turned.

The sun was shining and for December
it was a pleasant day. They all three
went out to ride in the course of the
morning. Eita and Godfrey at most times



were iu the habit of riding a great deal

together, and usually on these occasions

they talked a great deal together too ; but

to-day Jack's presence kept Kita silent, and

she only, for the most part, cantered by her

father's side, and listened while the other

two recalled old days and spoke of old

companions. Their talk concerned itself

with a time that seemed to her as if it

must be very far away,  with events that

had happened before her own birth ; but

she listened to it and was interested. She

had often before now been told stories by

her father of his early life, but to-day,

both by him and Mr. Dallas she heard

certain names mentioned familiarly for the

first time.

Who were the Beresfordss, papa ? " she

asked after a little while, in a tone that

she only meant for her father's ears.


'' They were a family that Mr. Dallas
and I knew one summer," Godfrey replied.
*' A clergyman's family in Derbyshire."

I never remember your speaking of
them before. You seem to have known
them very well," said Eita.

And then he made no answer. He
merely turned his head, and said something
again to Jack.

"You're a capital rider," Mr. Dallas
remarked abruptly to Eita as they were
n earing home. " Now I think it's a nice
thing for a girl to ride well. It isn't only
that it's a pretty thing, but it trains a
woman ; it gives her nerve, and braces her
up altogether. You see, you can't be a
good horsewoman and a coward at the same
time, can you ? "

I suppose not  in some ways," said

Eita.



'*No, of course you can't; it stands to
reason," exclaimed Jack insistently. " No
coward ever Alas at home on a horse. You
wouldn't be afraid now of an animal with
some spirit in him, I should say ? I don't
for my own part when I ride look out fora
beast with spirit," said Mr. Dallas with
his usual openness ; "it would be very bad
both for the beast and for me I am afraid
if I did ; but then, you see, I'm a townsman,
and that makes a difference, doesn't
it ? I hardly find myself on a horse once
in a twelvemonth."

Oh," said Eita, " I shouldn't like that ! "
No, I don't suppose you would. And
perhaps I shouldn't like to live here, and
have to ride every day. It may strike you
as odd, Miss Rita, but I am afraid I should
find it monotonous. Just consider  three

hundred and sixty-five days in a year, or


three hundred and thirteen, if you strike
off the Sundays, and only perhaps a dozen
different roads to ride on ! Now life with
us in London isn't like that. It's capable
of infinite varieties. Here is your father
who knows it is, though he thinks it Lest
to hold his tongue. I was telling him the
other day to come to town and stop there."

Oh ! " cried Rita with a little gasp.

'What does that 'oh!' mean?" asked
Jack. "Do you think you wouldn't like
it ? Ah, but you would, take my word
for that. You would like it amazingly.
Everybody does who tries it long enough.
At this distance from London it's my
belief that nobody ever does anything
worth doing."

And how many in London either do

what is worth doing ? " asked Godfrey,

with rather a bitter laugh.


'' Well, I hold that the proportion of
those who do something, at any rate, is
greater," said Jack. '' Take myself, if you
like, as an instance. Why, when I'm in
town I gird np my loins and work ; but if
I lived here I should be like those cows
there, and lie in a field all day and
ruminate. I think it's delightful to be
in a field, ruminating,  now and then, but
as to passing the main part of one's life in
that condition  "

But we don't ! " interrupted Eita with
the colour in her face.

And then Jack bowed, and wdtli an
inward chuckle, suddenly held his peace.

Miss Eita, do you sing ? " he asked
his young hostess that same afternoon, and,
when she answered that she sang; a little,
he made her go to the piano, and sing

pretty near a dozen songs to him. He



sat meanwhile in a comfortable arm-chair,
and gazed complacently into the fire. ** I
like this," he said once. Miss Taylor
sitting at her work-table thought him a
man of rather idle tastes perhaps. As
for Eita  well, if he liked her singing Eita
naturally was pleased.

The entertainment went on for nearly
an hour, and only once, as Eita touched
the opening notes of a certain old French
song, did Mr. Dallas disturb himself even
for a moment in his lazy enjoyment. On
this single occasion, however, he raised
his head abruptly from its cushioned repose,
and looked quickly round at Eita.

Where did you get that ? That's one
of Joanne Beresford's songs," he said.

One of  one of those Beresfordss' you
were talking; of this morning ? " asked Kita

- .surprised.



Yes ; Joanne Beresford's. I've heard
lier sing it a dozen times. Where did you
get it from ? "

"I have it in a book of old French
music," Kita said. " Papa used not to
like it, I think. At least  " she said, and
stopped abruptly.

"Oh, your father liked it' cried Jack.
In those old days he liked it amazingly.
I was sick of hearing him croaking it.
Ah, she sang wonderfully, that girl. She
had a real genius. Queer, to come across
one of her sono-s assail ! " And Jack re-cushioned
his head on its pillow, and
laughed a little softly as he resigned himself
once more to his idle listening.

But Eita, she was not quite sure why,
did not resume the prelude she had begun.
She struck a chord or two, and then passed

into another key, wondering a little, and



questioning something that she would have
liked, if she had been less shy, to put
into words ; and Joanne Beresford's song
would not have been sung at all if Jack
had not interposed again. When he heard
her turning to another air, however, he
stopped her.

'but you haven't given me that one,"
he said.

"N  0," answered Eita dubiously. "I
think, if you used to hear it very well
sung, I had better not."

'' Oh, now that's nonsense ! " exclaimed
Jack. "I shan't compare you with Miss
Joanne. And besides, if I did, it wouldn't
matter,  and I want to hear the old sono-again
; I do indeed."

So then Eita said no more, but sano-
it.

- She did not sing it as Joanne Beresford


had been used to do, yet Jack liked her
performance very well. Joanne's singing
had never been to him what it had been
to Godfrey.

The sound of that makes me feel
twenty years younger," he said when Kita
had ended the faint old air. But he
made no other remark, and Kita made
none.

'Do you know that Mr. Dallas sings
himself?" Godfrey asked his daughter,
coming presently into the room ; and Kita
at this question opened her eyes.

'' Mr. Dallas ? Does he ? " she exclaimed
in a tone that made Jack laugh.

My dear Miss Helstone," he said, " I
used to sing once, but since I have been
toothless  "

'you are 7wt toothless," she interrupted
him, knitting her brows. " I can't think



why you say such things. Please sing
something,  if you do sing," and then her
tone softened and became rather apologetic.
" I should like to hear you very
much."

But Jack shook his head. " I doubt if
my asthma will let me," he said gravely,
and Eita would not have known if he was
speaking in earnest or jest if her father
had not laughed.

Suppose you try, without regard to
your asthma," he advised.

And then, with a groan of dissatisfaction,
Jack rose from his comfortable
chair, and went to the piano, and sang
with a freshness and animation that almost
took Rita's breath away. He sang a hunting
song, and a fighting song, and after
that he sand; a love sons: ; but at the end

of this third effort he suddenly feigned to


be affected with an attack of coughing,
and rose up from the music-stool with
an air of decrepitude that for a moment
or two at any rate quite took Eita in.

Oh, I am so sorry ! " she exclaimed
anxiously, thinking that out of courtesy
he had exerted himself beyond his strength,
and, if her face had not proved too much
for his gravity, she would probably have
added some farther expressions of distress.
He saved her from this, however, by giving
way to a burst of laughter.

"Miss Rita, you make me ashamed to

play tricks upon you ! " he exclaimed next

moment. " You oughtn't to be so kind tome.

If I wear out your pity on false

pretences perhaps there will be none

of it left to give me when I really need

it."

I think you laugh at me very muche''
VOL. III. 33 38

she answered, rather reproachfully. *' I shall
try not to be taken in again."

Oh, I hope you won't do that ! "
cried Jack.

He had already said to Godfrey, " She
is so delightfully simple. I haven't come
across such an unsophisticated girl for
years. A dear little soul, and a pretty
little soul too. I like her immensely.
Now, if I had married, that is the sort
of daughter I should have wanted to have."
And Godfrey had liked this flattery ; what
father would not ?

She is a good girl," he had merely
answered, but his heart had responded
gratefully to Jack's praise. He even himself
approved the more of Kita because
she pleased his friend. He looked at her
with critical eyes when he saw her next,

and told himself contentedly that she was


worth looking at. A dainty little girl, with
a pure sweet face. Many a girl might be
both prettier and cleverer, but Eita was
good enough to satisfy him,  or almost
any man, he thought.



I AM afraid the little bird is not better,"
Eita had said to Jack when they came home
from their ride, and Mr. Dallas had visited
the patient with her, and when lunch was
over, before Rita began to sing, they had
administered another bath to him. But
perhaps Mr. Dallas's system of cure was
not one adapted to the robin's case, for
an hour or two later in the afternoon Rita
came in search of Jack, with the cage in
her hand, and a pathetic look in her face.

''Oh, Mr. Dallas," she exclaimed, "he

is dead ! "



Jack took the bird, and deliberately
surveyed it.

'ungrateful little chap !" he said. ''A
better bird would have tried to live, if
only to show this sense of what we have
been doing for him. Well, it can't be
helped. He's gone this own way now.
Give me a shovel, and I'll get him
buried."

"/ had been going to bury him. I
needn't trouble you," Eita answered
hesitatingly a little ; but he shook his
head.

''My aged limbs will carry me as far

as the garden," he said. " Come with me,

if you like, though, and see where I put

him. At a funeral there should always

be one mourner at least, as well as the

grave-digger."

So then they went out together in the


twilight into the garden, and buried the
robin under a tree.

We wasted a glass of good sherry on
him," said Jack, when the ceremony was
ended. " I am afraid it was more than
he was Avorth."

"But it was kind of you to try and
cure him' said Kita quickly. " I think
it was very good-natured. So many people
would not have cared."

Oh, I did it out of idleness," exclaimed
Jack. " I don't suppose it was a right
thing to do. Idle hands, you know, Dr.
Watts says, only move in the service of
the devil. You believe in Dr. Watts, Miss
Rita, don't you ? "

I don't quite know what you mean

by believing in him," answered Rita a

little embarrassed. " 1 think some of the

hymns he wrote are very nice."


So they are. They're admirable ! "
exclaimed Jack with fervour. " I used
to have scores of them in my head once,
and the few I have retained through life
have been of the utmost service to me.
Especially those lines about the devil and
idle hands. I have found occasion to
repeat them many hundreds of times."

But is it any good  merely to repeat
them ? " asked Eita gravely.

AVell, at any rate it must be better
than not to repeat them, mustn't it ? " said
Jack. " You'll allow that, surely ? Come,
you must allow that ? "

And then Eita, confused, did not know

what answer to make. She was clearly

not quite at ease with Mr. Dallas, nor

did she understand nor quite approve of

his manner of talking. But her perplexity

seemed to amuse her companion, for his


eyes filled with laughter when she was
silent, and then after a moment or two :

* I see how it is," he exclaimed,  " like
all young people you are hard upon the
weaknesses of old age. It is all very well
to be told you are never to have idle
hands in youth, but Dr. Watts himself
could never have meant to apply his precept
to a time when your hands are getting
cramped with rheumatism."

'rare your hands getting cramped with
rheumatism % I am sure they are not," said
Eita severely.

My dear Miss Helstone," replied Jack

in his pleasantness tone, "is it not the truest

wisdom to prepare ourselves beforehand for

the infirmities that in the course of nature

will come upon us ? Ah, that is one way

in which we of a mature age have greatly

the advantage of you : we look ahead ; we


recognize that life is passing ; we adapt ourselves
to circumstances. I think, for my own
part, that, excellent as they are, Dr. Watts's
h3niins show' signs of being written by an
V;mature mind, and by a mind without
true sympathy for age. I wouldn't say so
to everybody, but upon my word I do''

Are you always laughing at people ? "
asked Eita after a moment's silence.

"I V exclaimed Jack innocently. " Bless

you, no ! What in the world made you

think that ? Oh dear, no : I am a very

grave person. I take life very sadly for

the most part. It is from you and people

of your standing that I look for laughter.

If I have a fault to find with you indeed,

Miss Rita  if I may venture to find a

fault it is that I haven't as yet heard

you laugh enough."

It was dark outside, but they had reentered


the house by this time, and Jack
had placed himself in front of the hall fire
which was burning brightly, and throwing
out a warm glow on the pictured walls.
The evening was not a cold one, but still
the fire was pleasant, and Jack standing
upon the heathrug seemed to enjoy his
position.

I laugh a great deal," replied Eita
rather shyly. " Of course, when you are
strange to people, you don't laugh before
them so much."

'well that is all right," said Jack

approvingly. ' I like not to have the best

of a thing at first. You see, if I tell you

the truth, I am an Epicurean, and I think

it is the best wisdom to take my pleasures

deliberately,  to taste them bit by bit, not

to gulp them whole. Now, of course, sou

are not an Epicurean at all in that sense.


Nobody is at your age. You like to seize
the whole of everything at once."

But at this Eita shook her head.

'' I don't think I do," she said.

Oh, you may fancy you don't, but
you do probably all the same," persisted
Jack. " Everybody does when they are
young, more or less. You need age and
wisdom to lead you to the other way.
That is a grave truth, Miss Eita, though
you look as if you weren't willing to
receive it."

I suppose you are speaking seriously
now, but I am not quite sure," said Eita,
looking at him dubiously.

'' Most certainly I am speaking seriously.

I nearly always speak seriously," declared

Jack with boldness. "You seem somehow

to have taken up the notion that I jest

a great deal, but I am afraid the error is


in yourself, and that you sometimes mistake
my wisdom for folly."

And then lie laughed. He seemed to
her very odd, but she was beginning to
have rather a kindly feeling to him in
spite of his oddness.

I think," said Miss Taylor later in the
evening, " that Mr. Dallas does himself
injustice by his manner. There is more
in him than you would suppose at first.
He seems so very light and almost boyish
on the surface, but if you once get him to
talk gravely he has a great deal of good
sense."

'' Yes, that must be so, of course, or else
papa wouldn't like him," answered Eita.

But still, as far as she personally was

concerned, it was mainly the boyish side

of himself that Mr. Dallas had as yet shown

to her.



She saw more of him as the days went
on, and got perhaps to understand him
a little better. He and Godfrey used to
spend a great deal of their time together.
As these days passed they renewed their
former intimacy, and perhaps even drew
the cords of their friendship closer than
they had been drawn of old. Jack took
to the life at Ivor very kindly. He professed
to be wholly a townsman, but he
showed a very fair appreciation of the
pleasures of the country ; he laughed at
Godfrey for what he chose to call his love
of luxury, but he was by no means slow
to enjoy such luxuries as were offered to
himself. " Upon my word, you lead a
pleasant life!" he told his friend with
warmth before more than a week of his
visit had expired.

Perhaps to Mr. Dallas it did not seem


that Margaret's death had left much sense

of vacancy in the household. For his own

part he did not miss her. As far as he

was concerned, Miss Taylor, who was always

ladylike and agreeable, filled, and even

more than filled, the place that she had

left. " Godfrey had a sad loss when his

wife died," Mrs. Helstone said to him one

day, and Jack of course looked grave, and

tried to make some sympathetic response,

but the sentence he uttered was rather

feeble and commonplace.

"Yes  your acquaintance with her was

so slight that you could not know her

worth," Mrs. Helstone went on. " She

was one of those women whom you

needed to know well to appreciate.

No one ever had a more unselfish nature.

Not many can ever have had fewer

faults."



"Ah  so I should think. She certainly
seemed  wonderfully free from anything
of that sort," Jack murmured, not very
felicitously.

He was thinking while he spoke that,
in spite of her virtues, it must have been
a strange kind of living death to have
been tied to her. "Perhaps she suited
him," he meditated. " There is no saying
what sort of woman may suit any man,
but I think if the case had been mine  "

And then he glanced round the handsome

room in which he was sitting, and wondered

if he would have been tempted  as Godfrey

had been tempted, he supposed. For he

had settled his theory of Godfrey's marriage

long ago, making up his mind about it

as most people on the evidence that he

possessed would have done. The case to

him had always been as clear as daylight.


He could come to no other conclusion than
that except for her money he would never
have married Margaret Egerton and have
left Joanne Beresford alone.

And yet, after having retained this belief
for almost twenty years, one day during
these weeks he suddenly became shaken
in it, for, happening on this occasion to
say something about the Beresfordss, and
that abrupt journey of the Vicar and his
daughter to town, Godfrey  unconsciously,
in all likelihood, at the moment  betrayed
a knowledge of Joanne's lengthened stay
in London that made Jack in surprise prick
up his ears,

*' How do you know that she stayed
long in town '{ " he asked quickly.

And then Godfrey hesitated for a
moment, but after that moment quietly

replied  "Because I saw her there."



Bless me ! " exclaimed Jack. " You
never told me."

I had no reason to tell you," Godfrey
answered gravely. " I saw her one day
at her aunt's house; that was all."

Whereupon Jack ejaculated " Oh ! " and
then abruptly held his peace.

But this unexpected morsel of information
that he had gained set Mr. Dallas's
wits to work, and led him to form a
new conception of the circumstances that
had induced his friend to become the
husband of Miss Egerton.

He must have asked Joanne and

been refused by her," he thought. " Ten

to one he asked her that day he speaks

of, and only fell back on the other girl

when she wouldn't have him. Poor old

boy ! If that is the true story it has

been rather hard lies for him. But yet,
VOL. III. 49 39

hard lines or not," added Jack heartily,
** I'm glad he tried to get the right girl
before he took the other ; upon my word
I am."

And, in truth, a warmer feeling for
Godfrey sprang up in his heart than had
been there for many a day, for, though
he had liked him always, he had also,
ever since his former visit to Ivor, felt
a certain contempt for him for having
sold himself, as he believed he had done,
to Margaret Egerton. He had thought
that, with many good qualities, he must
be a worldly fellow at bottom ; but now
he said to himself that, if indeed Joanne
Beresford had refused him, Godfrey's marriage
with his cousin had been a natural
and quite an excusable event. " For if a
man can't get the best thing, he is wisest

to put up with the second best," he thought,


*' and be content, if he can, with the goods
the gods provide him. Helstone has had
a prosperous life  whatever he may have
missed ; and he has got a dear little
daughter now. Yes, a dear little soul, 
bless her. I wish I had anything belonging;
to me in the world that was half so
sweet."

And then Jack gave a half-envious sigh.
He was a man who on the whole took
life very lightly, yet he had his grave
and even his sad moments, and in some
of these he was pretty keenly conscious
that his existence was a lonely and rather
purposeless one. Godfrey was richer and
happier than he was, he thought, even
though he might have failed to marry the
woman that he loved.

Yet, in spite of such occasional grave
reflections, Mr. Dallas much enjoyed his



Christmas holiday. It was the pleasantness
holiday, he told Kita, that he had known
for years.

"Yes, the weather is so nice," Eita answered
when he said this.

And then Jack assented, and agreed
that the weather was charming, but yet
he was conscious enough that the secret of
his enjoyment did not lie only in the
fairness and mildness of the days. He
liked the life altogether that he found his
friends leading : he liked his talks and
walks with Godfrey : he liked the sight
of Eitas bright face.

I wish I had been like you, and married
twenty years ago," he said to Godfrey
once. "Only, if I had, instead of
a single girl, I should probably have had
half-a-dozen boys who would have pestered

the life out of me. That was what I



was always afraid of whenever I thought
of the business seriously. I couldn't have
stood half-a-dozen boys."

"Oh, there are worse things than that,"
answered Godfrey with suavity. " I should
have liked very well to have a boy."

You might have liked to have one boy,
but do you mean to say that you think
you would have liked to have six boys % "
retorted Jack indignantly. " And even
with regard to one, what good would there
have been in it ? You are far better with
nobody but Eita. Eita is perfect by herself.
If she had had a brother she might
have been a tom-boys''

"Well, I am content enough with her,"
said Godfrey with a laugh.

It had always been Mr. Helstone's habit

to have his daughter a great deal in his

study with him. Eita was not a student,


but in a light desultory way she was
fond of reading, and Godfrey liked nothing
better than to have her read beside him.
In winter especially they used to spend
half their time in his room together  heat
his table, she coiled into an arm-chair
near the fire. Here she would read, and
hence she would chatter. Her father's
habits of work had to a considerable extent
trained her to silence, so that she
was used to keep her tongue at rest as
long as he sat before his desk or held
his pen, but he had only to rise from his
seat to loose that vivacious member from
its bonds. She was one of those little
maidens who always have something on
their lips that they want to say  whose
simple minds are like a full measure running
over. For Kita was not particularly

clever, but she loved to talk. She liked


to talk and to be talked to ; she was not
fond of silence or sadness.

She was a little shy at first of coming
to her usual place in the library after Mr.
Dallas's arrival, but when a couple of days
had passed her father made some remark
about her absence in Jack's hearing, which
had the effect of restoring the customary
order of things.

"You don't mean to say that you have
been keeping out of your father's room
on my account ? Oh, come," cried Mr.
Dallas vehemently, "if you do that, I
shall have to go back to town."

So then Eita was obliged to say that
she would not do it ; and indeed she was
pleased enough to return to her cosy
corner.

"I thought perhaps :mr. Dallas would

find it stupid to have me so much here,"


she said doubtfully to her father, but he
gave a laugh and quieted her scruples.

"My dear, Mr. Dallas is not shy," he
told her. " He is fond of an audience.
If he were to begin to seek retirement
now he would be donor it for the first
time in his life."

And indeed Jack for himself made no
profession of desiring to seek retirement.
He was a genial man who liked company.
He had no objection, but quite the reverse,
to talk in Rita's hearing. Very soon he
got enough liking for her to feel a sense
of pleasure in the consciousness that she
was listening when he held forth, and that
her bright young eyes were often turned
upon his face. Indeed, before long, he
even directed no small part of his conversation
to her. *' She is such a dear

little soul," he declared repeatedly to Godfrey,



and Godfrey liked his appreciation
and his praise.

In this winter weather they naturally
spent a large portion of their time in-doors,
and Jack liked no part of the house so well
as that comfortable library of Godfrey's.
Here round the ample fire Godfrey and he
and Eita often sat together. Godfrey in
these days did no work, but he was content
to read and enjoy his friend's society. And
Eita, too, for her part, read and talked, and
gradually got to know more of Jack, and
sometimes to like him better,  sometimes
not to be sure whether she liked him or
not.

For, to tell the truth. Jack did not

always treat her well. He used at times

to forget the dignity of her  almost 

eighteen years, and would tease her, and

laugh at her, and try to make her angry by


professing opinions on various subjects that
seemed very mistaken, and sometimes very
terrible, opinions to her. He used to puzzle
her too by frequently leaving her in the
dark as to whether he was in earnest or
not.

*' I am sure you say a great many things
that you never mean at all," she told him
reproachfully one day. '' I can't think how
you can feel it right to do that. If anybody
who was young did so  " And then
she stopped, not liking to carry her sentence
to its natural severe issue.

But Jack had no scruples, and finished
it in the pleasantness way.

If anybody who was young did it,

he'd be whipped  wouldn't he ? " he said.

That's what I should tell any boy of mine

who told lies. But, my dear Miss Rita, /

-am not young, you see, and one of the



privileges of age is that it is not whipped
for lying. I was a model of veracity when
I was a lad. I was, I assure you."

And now do you mean that you are
not ? " asked Rita sternly.

Whereupon Jack put on a pathetic face,

and gazed at her so sadly that, though she

felt convinced of his guilt, she had not the

heart to continue her rebuke. " I am afraid

he is not very good," she only thought

gravely to herself presently ; " and I wish

he was, for I think he is nice. I do wish

he wouldn't say so many things that seem

wrong." But still, perhaps just because

he did this, and she was so sorry for him,

Eita used to listen to his talk a great deal,

and felt pleased when he talked as she

liked him to talk, and grieved when he

disappointed her and said things of which

she disapproved.



He does really pretend a great deal 
doesn't he, papa ? " she asked Godfrey once,
and it made her glad when her father
answered with a laugh that undoubtedly
he pretended very much indeed.

He likes to tease you, because he
sees that you don't understand him," he
said.

And then Rita meditated for a moment
or two, and presently softly stroked her
father's hand.

I am glad you don't tease me, and
make me misunderstand," she said, with a
loving look into his eyes.

They used to ride together, and walk

together, and sing together, and in short

to be more together than apart. It is so

easy to grow into new habits, and before

Jack had been ten days at Ivor, Eita would

'have missed him if he had gone away.


One morning in the second week of his
stay he said something about the end of
his visit being near, and the girl gave a
little quick ejaculation. " Oh, no ! " she
exclaimed ; " you have only just come. I
thought you were going to stay a longtime
? "

Well, I am staying a long time," Jack
answered. " A fortnight in one house, I
consider, is a very long time."

I think if you say that you must be
tired," said Eita.

And then Jack answered very warmly
that he was by no means tired. '' I like
being here immensely," he told her. * I
don't know when I have enjoyed anything
so much. But I must go home to work,
you know."

I thought you had no work to do just

now '? " said Eita doubtfully.


At that lie laughed. " See what comes
of living with an idle man ! Do you think
that all people are like your father ? "

Papa is not idle," answered Eita rebukingly.
" You can't think how hard he
often works. I don't know what you mean
by saying I live with an idle man."

Oh, well, I cry Peccavi ! I will alter
my expression, and say that you live with
a man of leisure. Come, you can't object
to my putting it so. Your father hasn't
got to earn his bread."

No," said Rita, but she made the
admission rather reluctantly. " He doesn't
earn his bread ; but he works," she added
obstinately.

And I work and earn my bread both,"
said Jack.

And then for a moment or two she made

no answer.



But it isn't very difficult for you  is
it ? " she asked abruptly after that little
silence. '' I mean, I suppose as you are
not married you don't need to work very
hard?"

Ah, I don't know about that. It takes
a good deal to keep me," said Jack. '' It
always does take a good deal to keep
a bachelor, I am told. Yes  you are
wrong : I do work hard. I strongly suspect
I should come upon the parish if I
didn't."

"Then I am afraid you don't manage
well," said Eita gravely.

Why of course I don't manage well ! "
cried Jack. " Is it likely that I should ?
I am pillaged right and left. That's inevitable."


I am very sorry," said Eita with

concern.



Well, I am sorry too,  but of course
that trouble is only in the nature of things.
I never think about it. If I earn enough to
pay my landlady, and to supply myself
with my few little comforts,  my stall at
the opera, you know, and my hansom, and
my valet, and so on (I don't spend above
five or six hundred a year on these trifles)
if I can earn, I say, enough to make
both ends meet in my modest way, that is
all I care about. I never was dependent
on luxuries  like your father, you know."

How can you say that papa is dependent

on luxuries ? " cried Rita, with the colour

coming hotly into her face. " I don't

believe you can have lived here even for

these few days without knowing better than

that ; and I am sure, if you talk of spending

all that money on your ' comforts,' that you

must care far more  ten times more  But


I-don't believe that you really have a stall
at the opera ? and  those other things ? "
she suddenly exclaimed, interrupting her
sentence, and looking half-inquiringly, half-deprecatingly
into his face.

He began to chuckle and rub his hands
together.

I keep a tame leopard at my lodgings,
and smoke my pipe in an eastern robe,
sitting cross-legged on a divan," he said.
In these days a man must do something
to separate him from the common herd."

And you do that by saying things that
are not true," she told him indignantly.

Upon which, I am ashamed to say, at
first he only laughed, though presently he
begged her to forgive him.

"For, you know, when people live alone
they get into such bad habits," he said.

They lose all the virtues that civilization
VOL. III. 65 40

teaches them,  truth, and kindness, and
belief in their fellow-men. They sometimes
even lose belief in their fellow women,
but I am glad to say I haven't sunk so low
as that yet, for I believe in you. I do
indeed," said Jack, with a sudden look of
something that was not altogether jesting
in his eyes. ** If anybody said you were
not  what I think you are, I'd like to fight
him."

I am sure you believe in a great many
things," said Rita quickly. (His last words
had made the colour come to her face, and
she was rather ashamed that it should have
come.) "You pretend that you don't, 
but then you are always pretending,  and
it seems to me such a pity," she added
gently.

Well, I'll never do it again ! " declared

Jack precipitately.



But this was a rash promise  more easily
given than kept ; and of course Mr. Dallas
had broken it before twenty-four more
hours were past.

#



There was a piano in the library, and
Jack used to ore Rita to sit before it and
play accompaniments for him. On the first
day on which she had heard him sing, he
had played his own accompaniments, but
he very soon began to decline to do this,
saying that his hands were too little at
home upon the instrument. So then after
that she played for him, and Jack liked
this arrangement. Presently too, at his
request, she began to sing with him,  and
he liked this still more.

He told her that their voices went

remarkably well together. She said that


she did not perceive it (and in fact, though
he sang with spirit, his intonation was by
no means quite correct), but he declared
that the fault was in her perception, for
the fact was as he said. So they ceased to
argue the question, but they did not cease
to sinoj together. Mr. Dallas had not
practised his music so assiduously for many
a year as he did during these weeks.

He had a pleasant voice, Eita thought,
and perhaps as the days went on she got
to be pretty tolerant of the faults in his
execution. She liked well enough to play
for him.

I am afraid I bother you dreadfully,"

he said to her sometimes, " but you see

it's a rare thing for me to get a chance

like this,  and I'm so desperately out of

practice. When I am in London I have

nobody to play for me,  not a sister, nor


even a cousin. In fact, I think, without
these relations it's a mistake in a man to
sing at all, for he can't be always drawing
on the kindness of his chance acquaintance.
Water can't be expected to be as thick as
blood, you know."

And have you jealJy no relations at
all ? " Rita asked compassionately one day,
and then he amused himself by telling a
little of his family history to her.

I've got a sister," he said, " but if she

were to come here tomorrow, I don't

believe I should know her from Eve. I

haven't seen her for these twenty years,

and I don't suppose I shall ever see her

assail. She wasn't a bad girl when I knew

her,  but unluckily she married, and her

husband took her to New Zealand,  and

there she is now, with about a dozen

children hanging round her. She was my


only sister,  but she's lost to me altogether,
you perceive. And I had an elder brother,
and he got drowned at sea."

** Oh, dear ! " cried Rita pityingly.

'' Yes  he was rather a fine fellow," said
Jack indifferently. " He was a sailor, and
he lost his life in saving somebody else who
fell overboard. The man who tumbled over
was picked up, thanks to Dick, and wasn't
a bit the worse for his ducking, but poor
Dick got struck on the head somehow  and
they dragged him back on deck, but it was
all over with him then. Queer that a
promising young life like that should be
snuffed out in such a way  wasn't it ? "
asked Mr. Dallas, without any touch of
sentiment in his voice.

Was he older than you ? " inquired Kita

after a few moments.

Oh, dear me, yes," said Jack. " Ten


years older. 1 was quite a little chap when
he died. He used to give lue sugar-plums,
and bring me outlandish toys from foreign
places. ind he used to box my ears too.
T had rather an objection to that, for he
had a particularly heavy hand,  but little
boys have to bear a great deal, so I suffered
in silence. I think, however, that when he
was gone the reflection that I should never
be cuffed again mitigated my sorrow a good
deal. You never had your ears boxed,
Miss Rita. If you had, you would have
sympathized with my feelings."

Your father and mother must have been
very proud of him," said Rita, after another
little silence. (she wisely treated Jack's
last remarks with the contempt they
deserved, and made no response of any
kind to them.)

'' Well, yes," replied Mr. Dallas thoughtfully.



*' I suppose they were. It's a weakness,
of course, to admire a man so much
who throws his life away, but we all indulge
in it. I have even had some thought
myself, at moments when I've been sick of
the world, of becoming a hero, and making
a decent ending that way ; but, you see, the
difficulty is that it's not a kind of thing you
can take to in cold 1)lood. That consideration
has always deterred me. And now,
I begin to suspect, I'm getting too old for
it ; for, if you will inquire into the matter,
Miss Rita, you will find that the heroic is
a line of life that men don't much take up
after they have lost their youth. They can
continue it beyond that time, but they
seldom start it, I should say, after they've
turned five-and-thirty. That's unlucky forme,
you see ! But I never had much luck
somehow. I wasn't born with a silver



spoon in my mouth as your father was.
Come and let us sins; a sono;. I can't even
sing well : upon my word, I don't think
there's anything I do well in this world !
And I've lost even the chance of dying the
death of a hero. Ah, well ! " said Jack, and
rose from his seat with a sigh that found a
sympathetic echo in Rita's kind young
breast.

For he often made the girl sorry  she
hardly knew why. He seemed so lighthearted
on the surface, and yet beneath the
surface she thought that he was sometimes
so sad. " Papa, why did Mr. Dallas
never marry ? Did he never loan to marry
anybody ? " she had asked her father before
this.

At this present time she looked on him
his past the age at which he could provide
himself with a wife, but long ago, surely



there must have been somebody that he
had cared for ? Godfrey, however, could
tell her nothing.

I never heard any story about him,"
he said, " and he never refers to anything.
I don't imagine that there has been much
romance in his life. All people don't fall
in love, Eita. Did you suppose they did ? "

And then Eita blushed a little, and said
she did not know.

I must really go after the new year,"
Jack said one day. "If I stay till the
4th I shall have been here for three
weeks. Now three weeks is an unconscionable
length for a visit."

If you go on the 4th, we shall expect

you back at Easter," Godfrey said. " You

may as well make up your mind to come

at Easter. It is not till April, and the

country will be looking well then."


'* But you won't want me," said Jack 
will you ? If I come again so soon as
that, I don't know what Rita would say."

Though he made this speech, however,
perhaps he did know pretty well what
Rita would say.

Oh," exclaimed the girl quickly, " you
know I should like it."

She spoke very cordially  possibly unconscious
that as she did it her heart besan to
beat quicker than usual. She was only
anxious to make him sure that he should
be welcome if he came again. But something
in her few words touched Jack
enough to make him silent.

Well, you are an enviable fellow," he

said that day to Godfrey. '' I think, do

you know, that I could take to a daughter

pretty kindly, if I had one. Daughters

are institutions something like sunshine,


it seems to me. At least that is the conclusion
Rita has made me come to  bless
her. I believe I shall want to come back
at Easter just to see her again."

Mr. Dallas had been improving a little
in his horsemanship during the weeks that
he had been at Ivor ; but he was developing,
both Godfrey and Eita thought,
rather into a rash rider than a steady one.
They had mounted him at first upon a
very quiet animal, but as his confidence
increased so did his ambition, and before
he reached the end of his visit he had
persuaded Godfrey to allow him to try a
horse of greater spirit.

You might let me have Jessie," he
told him. ' I believe I could get on with
Jessie capitally. This old Killigrew has
really no more go in him than a donkey."

He is very safe," Godfrey suggested.



Well, so would the donkey be," exclaimed
Jack. " But nevertheless you
wouldn't like to ride it."

And then Godfrey laughed, and said he
was quite welcome to have Jessie if he
thought he could manage her ; and Mr.
Dallas had Jessie accordingly, and after
his first trial professed himself perfectly
satisfied with her.

She's a splendid horse," he said. *' It's
wonderful how much better one rides with
an animal like this under one."

Yes, she's a very good horse," Godfrey
answered ; " but you will find that she
needs" a little humouring."

Oh, I'll humour her," answered Jack ;
and (he was still on her back) as he
spoke he playfully touched her with his
whip, upon which she bolted forward, and
Jack had some little ado to keep his seat.

Now, what in the world made her do
that ? " he inquired of Godfrey curiously,
when he had regained his control of her.
I merely gave her the slightest possible
whisk." And to illustrate his former proceeding
he raised his whip again. But
before he could bring it down Godfrey
arrested his arm.

I wouldn't do that a second time if
I were you," he said drily. '' Jessie doesn't
like having her ears flicked. If you don't
take the hint she has given you, the chances
are she will make it broader next time."

"Oh, I think I could stick on, even
if she did," replied Jack with rash confidence.
But still for the moment he
wisely followed his friend's advice, and for
the rest of his ride left the mare's ears
alone.

The day that followed this one was to


be the last of his stay with them. It
was rather an ungenial morning, but Godfrey
had business which obliged him to
go out, and Jack, on the plea that he
would not have another chance, urofed that
Rita and he should take their horses and
accompany him. " We can leave you
when you get to Merton, and come back
by ourselves," he said. So they agreed
to this, and started  Mr. Dallas on Jessie's
back again  and at the end of an hour
Eita and Jack left Godfrey at his destination,
and turned their faces homewards.

It was a cold morning, and the ground
was crisp and the trees were white with
hoar-frost. Jack was in high spirits. The
sting in the air exhilarated him, he said.

I really begin to thmk I could take
to a country life," he exclaimed as they

rode along. " I never remember to have



had much of a fancy for it before ; but as
one gets up in years I suppose the charms
of idleness grow upon one,  and you are
all so delightfully idle here. You don't
know it, Miss Eita, but you are. What
do you do all day but pass from one mild
entertainment to another ? You ride, and
you sing, and you play ; you read novels,
and drink tea, and talk gossip  "

When have you heard us talk gossip ? "
interrupted Eita a little indignantly.

I haven't heard you," replied Jack
unblushingly, 'but I know you do it, all
the same. It's in the nature of things
that you should. How else could you
occupy your minds ? I don't say you talk
scandal  you are too kind to do that  but
of course you gossip ; in the country everybody
does, and, as I say, it's very delightful.
I begin to feel that I could get to
VOL. III. 81 41

feel a great interest in my neighbours if I

had only one or two of them to the square

mile. It is always the rarity of a thing

that determines its value, and it gives a

pleasant excitement to the mind, when

you see a distant figure on the horizon,

to be able to speculate as to whether he

is Tom, or Dick, or Harry, with a perfect

certainty that when he comes nearer you

will find he is one of the three. I begin

to like that. It feels friendly ; it takes

away all sense of isolation."

But yet you think it stupid, all the same,

I suppose," said Rita, not quite liking this

jesting. " I know that in your heart you

think that living in the country is very

stupid ; it amuses you for a little perhaps,

as any new thing might, but that is all.

You pretend sometimes to think that papa

is very much to be envied, but you wouldn't


live papa's life ; you wouldn't bear three
months of it. You would tire of everything,
I believe, that was quiet and  dull."

"Ah, no doubt, if I was conscious that
it was dull. Who wouldn't 1 " asked Jack
cheerily. " Dullness is not a thing that it
is natural to any human being to like. But
the question is whether, if I lived here,
I should be dull, Miss Eita, and upon my
word I am getting curiously disposed to
think that I shouldn't. Pretend to envy
your father ! Bless my soul, do you mean
to say you doubt that I envy him ? I
declare I never look at him but I break
the tenth commandment."

Why ? Because he is richer than you ? "
asked Eita severely.

And then Jack paused for a moment,

and after that little pause replied with a

laugh : " Yes, because he is richer than I


am. There are different kinds of riches
in the world, you know, and I envy him
some of his most unquestionably. If I
had married twenty years ago perhaps I
shouldn't, but you see I didn't do that,
unfortunately."

And so now you have nobody belonging
to you, you mean ? " said Kita gravely.
"Yes, I should think you would have
been happier if you had married."

I might have been, but it's a chance,"
replied Jack lightly. "As I was saying
to your father the other day, it would
have been awkward if, instead of having
his luck, I had found myself overwhelmed
with half a dozen boys. I dare say it's
best as it is. The risk would have been
too great. I don't like boys, Miss Rita."

Don't you ? " said Rita innocently.

Oh, I do. I mean, when they're nice."


But they're never nice," exclaimed Jack.
Some are a trifle better than others ; that
is about all you can say for them. I read
this morning in the paper of one who
robbed his father of 78  all the savings
he had in the world. That is the sort
of thing they do, you see. You never
heard of a girl robbing her father of 78 ?
No ; if I had married I should have liked
to have one daughter. No boys, and just
one girl ; neither more nor less. But, as
I repeat, the risk was too great, so I never
ran it, and here I am, at forty-four, without
a tie in the world, or a soul who would
miss me if my life got ended tomorrow.
That is cheering, isn't it ? "

"No, it is not cheering, and it is not
true," said Eita. " It is not true," she
repeated quickly, but half shyly, " for we

should miss you here."


Would you, do you think ? " asked
Jack. " Well, that is kindly said, at any
rate. And if I happened to get knocked on
the head just at this moment, for instance,
I do believe you would be sorry. So that's
something;. And as for the rest, there are
worse things in the world than to be forced
to live alone in it, though perhaps I may
not take kindly to my solitude again all
at once when I get back to it tomorrow.
Just imagine the contrast ! Picture me to
yourself as I shall be  say, when I comedown
to breakfast on Friday morning  the
room filled with a London fog, my chimney
probably smoking, my coffee cold, my eggs
too stale to eat. The eggs are always stale
in town, you know. I don't understand
how they manage it."

You shall take some fresh ones back

with you," said Kita. " You shan't have


them stale for a few mornings at any rate.
I don't think I should like to live in
London ! "

Of course you wouldn't," exclaimed
Jack. " It's an awful place. It only suits
hardened people like me. We learn to
eat olives there,  and caviare ; we sleep till
midday, and sit up all night. You may
well wonder how we stand such a life at
aU, but custom does so much. We get
so depraved that we even fancy sometimes
that we like it."

I dare say you will be glad to get back
to it," Rita said, with a little tone of
petulance in her voice. It would have
pleased her if he had been sorry to go
back, but he was not sorry in the least,
she was afraid ; he liked his town habits
better than he liked theirs.

Well, there is always a certain pleasure



when you have been out of town in finding
yourself in it again," he allowed. " It
is a mixed pleasure often, but it is one,
more or less. Yes, in some ways I shall
not be sorry to get back to it. The fish
is at home in his native element, you know,
and work can't be done in Paradise."

But this is not Paradise," Eita said.

And then Jack laughed, and asked her
how she knew that. "There are many
kinds of Paradises'' he told her, " and I
have come to the conclusion not only that
this is one of them, but that it is about
the best one that I'm just now acquainted
with. I've been amazingly happy in
it, at any rate, and I ought morally to
be amazingly the better for it too, though
whether I shall be  "

Mr. Dallas had just reached this point,

and was pausing a moment before he finished


Lis sentence, when his evil genius prompted
him most gratuitously to apply his whip
again, as he had already done upon the
previous day, to Jessie's ears  an almost
unconscious movement that, however, had
disastrous results, for the mare, resenting
it, rose suddenly on her hind legs, and
then immediately afterwards plunged forwards,
and sent Jack (too much amazed
almost to make an effort to keep his seat)
clean over her head upon the ground. He
got his feet out of the stirrups happily,
but he performed a complete summersault,
and fell flat on the hard road upon his
back, while Jessie galloped on with her
reins flying loose, and Eita gave a scream
of alarm that Jack heard remorsefully even
in the midst of his own consternation.

The whole thing happened in little more

than a second or two.


Oil, I'm all right ! " Mr. Dallas gasped
almost instantly, and tried to raise himself ;
but he could not raise himself, and sank
back with a groan.

And then Rita jumped down, and came
to his side, with all the colour gone from
her face.

Are you hurt ? Oh, I am afraid you
are hurt ! Oh, what shall I do ? " she
exclaimed, gazing at him in distress. " Do
you think if you took my hand  ? " And
she held out both hands.

But though he took them, and made

another effort to lift himself up with the

help of them, he failed again ; and then,

as she felt his quivering convulsive grasp,

poor little soul, her face puckered up,

and she began to cry with distress and

fright.

Jack had been confounded enough


already, but this sight fairly overwhelmed
him.

My dear, don t do that," he exclaimed
panting. '* It's  it's nothing probably.
Get on your horse again, aud go away.
Look here  I'll just stay as I am till you
can send somebody. I've been an awful
fool, but, you'll make an end of me
altogether if you cry over me."
 " But I can't bear to leave sou," said
Eita almost sobbing.

Well, you see, you can't do anything
else," replied Jack with much common
sense ; "for I can't move, and it's
clear you can't get me home without
some help."

And then he set his teeth, for he was

in enough pain to make it hard work for

him to keep from groaning, and closed

his eyes ; and poor Eita with a terrible


dread of what might happen before she
could bring any assistance to him, got on
her horse again, and galloped home as fast
as she could go, with her face as white
as a sheet.

'



A COUPLE of hours after this Mr. Dallas
was lying in bed, under strict injunctions
to keep upon his back, and not unnecessarily
to move a limb. He was not in any
danger of dying, Dr. Carson said, but he
had given himself an ugly wrench, and
must make up his mind to be some weeks
before he got over it.

*' But  God bless me !  I must get back
to town ! I've got work to do," he cried
at this announcement.

I dare say you have," Dr. Carson

replied. "It is what most of us have got.


But unless there should be any of it that
you can do here presently, it will have to
remain undone. You should have thought
of your work before you began to play
tricks with your mare's ears."

I wish to heaven I had ! " groaned
Jack.

He had already made the most contrite
and self-reproachful declarations to Godfrey.

I don't know what devil of ill luck
possessed me ! " he had ejaculated. " I
never was so ashamed of myself in my
life. I was merely talking, and, by way
of emphasizing my words, I suppose I
must have  have given her a little cut on
her head. It was the most foolish thing
to do, but it only proves what a fool I am
altogether, and how I ought never to have
been on a horse's back at all. Now I am
going to be a pretty burden on you ! "

But Godfrey, as may be supposed, took
that part of the matter very lightly.

"You will be no burden to anybody
here," he said. "You will only be an
interest. All the neighbourhood will watch
your case."

And will set me down for an idiot,"
exclaimed Jack. " Ah, that's cheerful !
The next time I act like a fool I only hope
I may do it in the midst of the safe solitude
of London." And he turned his face away,
almost in earnest in his last words, for
without any jesting he felt humiliated.

There is little Rita, too : even she will
be laughing at me presently," he thought,
when she has trot over her fright. I dido

o

frighten her, poor little maid ! What a

face she had ! "  and it troubled him to

recall it. He was not a man who suffered

much from vanity, but he must have made


himself ridiculous in her sight, he reflected,
and, to tell the truth, he was sorry for it.

I wonder when I shall see her again ;
I should like to see her  just to say a word
or two," he began to think.

At present, however, he was not likely
to see her, for Dr. Carson ordered him to
keep his bed, and, naturally, Eita was not
amongst the nurses appointed to attend to
him there.

It was Godfrey and Mrs. Helstone and
Miss Taylor who undertook to look after
him, and they all of them spent so much
time in his room, and tried with so much
assiduity to lighten the tedium of his confinement,
that Rita, left pretty much alone,
and allowed to take no part in the labour
that employed the others, felt the days
hang rather heavily on her hands. It was

stupid to have no part in what the rest were
9G

doing, she thought ; it was stupid, and it
made her dull.

I wish Mr. Dallas would get well," she
said rather dolefully to her father when
Jack had been four days in bed ; but at this
Godfrey shook his head.

He is not likely to get well yet," he
replied. *' You must have patience, my
dear. If he is able to be about by the end
of three weeks you may be content."

But he won't have to stay in bed for
three weeks  will he ? " exclaimed Eita.
"Oh, I hope he won't, for it is so dreadfully
lonely ! "

And then Godfrey laughed. He knew
that his daughter was not fond of solitude.

Poor little deserted woman ! " he said.

But have patience ; Mr. Dallas will be

allowed a change of position, I hope, before

long."

VOL. III. 97 42

And, indeed, a few days afterwards, to
Eita's delight. Dr. Carson gave his patient
permission to get upon a couch, and be
wheeled from his room into another on the
same floor, which had been hastily converted
into a temporary sitting-room for
him, Kita making it pretty with books and
flowers and ornaments.

She took this work upon herself, and was
delighted with her occupation.

My dear, you need not do so much,"
her grandmother said to her, looking in
once on her operations, and finding her
busily decorating the mantel-piece with
pictures and vases and fans ; but Eita
turned round at this speech with a
disappointed face.

Oh, but I want to make it nice," she

said.

"Well, child, it is nice," replied Mrs.


Helstone." "It is quite as nice as it need
be. A man, you know, doesn't care for the
little prettiness that please a girl. Mr.
Dallas won t notice your pots and vases,
Eita."

"No  he won't notice them, perhaps,
but if they were away he might think the
place looked bare, it seemed to me," said
Eita gently. She surveyed her unfinished
work with a little sigh. " I should like to
go on doing it as I had meant," she said
pleadingly. " You see, we shall all be
here."

And then, of course, Mrs. Helstone gave
in, and, with renewed spirit, Eita resumed
her labours. Very likely Mr. Dallas would
not notice anything. Her grandmother
might be quite right in that, but nevertheless
she liked to think that she was adorning

the room for him.



She had been so sorry about his accident,

and all the others had been able since it

happened to do so much for him, and she

had never been able to do anything  until

now. It seemed to her such a long time

since that day when he had frightened her

so. She wondered a little if he knew how

very sorry she had been for him. As the

time came near to-day for her to see him

again, she felt rather shy at the prospect

of their meeting. She did not quite know

what she ought to say to him ; it was

always difficult, she thought, to know what

to say to people who had been ill. She

could not make up her mind at all as to

the sort of greeting it would be right to

give him : she could not even tell whether

he would expect her to be grave or not.

He seldom seemed to expect anybody to be

grave, she reflected, but yet this occasion


was different from any ordinary one, and
perhaps he might like to take it seriously.
As she dressed her chimney-piece she went
on thinking the matter over, again and
again. It was not worth thinking so much
about, but while her hands were busy she
had nothing better to do.

She was waiting in the room, when early
in the afternoon they wheeled Jack in. He
entered head foremost, lying on his back,
with abundant wraps about him, for the
weather was cold ; and he also entered
talking.

'' The most natural thing perhaps would

be to come in the other way," she heard

him announcing, "but the other way is

the fashion at funerals, so it seems cheerier

to have it like this. Bless me, what a nice

little room !  and  upon my word  there's

Eita ! Oh, Eita, I've thought of you a


great many times." Ad then he disengaged
a hand from his rugs, and put it
out to her with a little twitch about his lips
that he tried to hide.

She went forward and took his hand, but
to her vexation she found she could not say
a word. It was very stupid, but she felt
suddenly that all the various little greetings
she had rehearsed beforehand had vanished
one and all from her mind. She shook
hands with him,  and that was the whole.
And then, almost in another moment he
had begun to talk again.

Not with my head quite so close to the
fire," he exclaimed. " Yes  a little bit
more round this way. That's it now 
that's the very thing. I think this room
is delightful ! "

Well, it does not make a bad sitting-room
certainly," Godfrey assented. " It


was a bed-room, you know. They merely
took away the bed, and put in a few tables
and chairs, and Eita has been at work, as
you see, dressing it up a little."

Dressing it up for me  has she ? Bless
her! It's more than I deserve," said Jack.
"But everybody does more for me than I
deserve, so it's no use to talk of it. Miss
Eita, if I could, I would put dust and ashes
on my head, but I can't get anybody to
hand the ashes to me, and I'm so horribly,
so utterly, so absurdly helpless, that I can't
get them for myself. I contemplate kneeling
down at your feet presently, and
begging your forgiveness ; but you see as
yet I can't perform even that act of
humility."

I wish you wouldn't talk so 1 I don't

think you ought," said Eita colouring, and

speaking for the first time, and then Jack


looked at her with a smile and told her
heartily that he liked to hear her scolding
him again.

"For I haven't had anybody to scold
me all this week," he said, '' and I have
felt as if my moral nature had not been
properly looked after. But you always
look after it, you know, and pull me up
when I go wrong, and I think that system
aOTees with me. I believe I must have a
natural leaning towards virtue, for being
with you always seems to suit me so. It
does indeed. Now, if you would sit down
there  Oh," breaking off abruptly, " what's
this ? Gruel ? "

Gruel ? No : " said Mrs. Helstone.

Gruel at this time of day 1 It's your soup.

Didn't you say you would take it as soon

as you came in here ? "

"Ah, I believe I did. You're quite


right,  and excellent soup it looks," exclaimed
Jack cheerily.

And then Godfrey prepared to raise him
up, and Mrs. Helstone began to arrange
his pillows, and Kita, fearing that they
might not wish her to stay during these
operations, slipped silently out of the room.

She would rather have liked to stay,
only she was shy of staying, so she
went down-stairs reluctantly, and spent
an hour by herself; and then at the end
of that time her father called her back
and told her that Mr. Dallas wanted to
see her again.

"He would like you to sit with him
for a little," he said. " I am going out,
and grand mamma is going home."

So Rita willingly returned to Jack's little

parlour, and was welcomed very cordially.

'* Am I very rude to send for you ? "


lie asked as she came in. " I am afraid
I am, but, you see, everybody is giving
me my own way just now, and it seems
to be generally understood that I am to
have a royal time of it. The princes of
the blood (as I have been told, for I don't
associate with them myself), when they
want to talk to a lady, send for her, and
so, following their example, I've ventured
to send for you, for you ran away so
unexpectedly a little while ago. Why in
the world did you run away ? I had hardly
spoken a word to you."

But you were going to have your
dinner," explained Rita.

Well, people can have their dinner and

talk too  can't they ? " said Jack. " Indeed

you always ought to talk when you dine,

as every doctor will tell you,  and you

forget that I haven't seen you all the


week. Oh, my dear, I've been bothered
about you !  and I've been awfully ashamed
of myself  that's a fact."

*' But you shouldn't be ashamed. I hope
you are not saying that seriously ? " exclaimed
Eita with earnestness.

It has been as much as I could do,
lying in my bed over there, to keep from
swearing," said Jack. " I knew that if I
swore I should make it worse for myself,
so I didn't do it, but it was a hard matter
to keep my tongue quiet, I can tell you,
whenever I thought of that poor little face
of yours. You don't know what a frightened
face it was when I saw it last. The
memory of it has been lying on my conscience
like a lump of lead."

*' It was so stupid of me," said Rita deprecatingly.
" I never am brave when I ought
to be. I always cry when I am frightened,



and it makes me so vexed afterwards. I
am very sorry that I cried that day, for
I know it made you uncomfortable."

"Ah, I suppose I told you so  didn't
I ? " asked Jack instantly. " I've no doubt
I did : it would be just like me,  always
thinking of myself and not of anybody
else. AVell, I made a pretty mess of it !
I should like to know what you have been
thinking of me ever since ? It wouldn't be
pleasant to hear, but it would be salutary,
I've no doubt,  so suppose you tell meas
a matter of discipline. Come now 
begin."

But Eita was looking at him with a
puzzled face.

I don't know what you mean," she said.

I mean that I want you to scoff at

me, and have done with it," he answered.

*' I don't like things to be hanging over


my head,  and this has been hanging over
me for the last eight days."

W/iat has ? " she said. '' You are talking
very oddly; I wish you wouldn't.
How could I scoff at you when I have
only been so very sorry ? ''

'' But you know I made a fool of
myself?"

I didn't think so."

I did what nobody but an ass would
have done  meddling with that beast's ears
again. Upon my life I can't tell how I
did it. I was thinking no more of the
creature than you were."

'' No ; but that was just it, I suppose."

Because I ought to have been thinking,
you mean? Well, yes, of course I ought.
A man is an idiot who rides an animal and
forgets her idiosyncrasies. That's one of
the bores of being on horseback. I think



it is quite enough when I'm out to take
care of myself, without needing to take
care of a mare as well. But I say again,
I was a fool, and you must have thought
so.  Did you not ? " after a moment's
silence.

"I am sure"  shyly  'you must know
I didn't."

"I should like to believe you, but I
hardly can. Do you know it nearly made
me blush when I saw you an hour ago.
I said to myself, ' There she is, and if
she spoke what she thought she would
call out, "You old fool'" And then,
when you made off as soon as ever you
had shaken hands with me  "

Oh, how can you talk such nonsense ! "

she exclaimed. "Mr. Dallas, I wish you

wouldn't."

"But you did make off, you know, and


you wouldn't have come back if I hadn't
sent for you."

Oh yes, I should. I was only waiting;
 because 1 didn't know  " And then
she stopped.

Because you didn't know what ?
Whether I wanted you ? My dear, I
always want you in this house, it seems
to me. You are such a natural part of
it that when you are absent I feel something
missing. Now take this moment,
for instance,  I wasn't at ease before you
came, because I thought you would sneer
at me ; but you don't seem to be sneering,
so I find your presence very comfortable.
Do you know, I shall have to
be here for another fortnight ? "

o

'eyes, and I am very glad," said Eita.

"Glad!" interrupted Jack; ''I don't

want you to be glad. If I had said I


expected to be upon my feet tomorrow,
and you had expressed some satisfaction
at iliad intelligence  "

Oil, but you don't understand ! Of
course I am sorry that you can't get up,"
said Rita.

"Then if you are sorry why do you
say you are glad ? You shouldn't say
one thing and mean another ; it isn't right,
you know."

But you will misunderstand," reiterated
Eita.

I don't see that I misunderstand.
When I told you I should have to lie
here for another fortnight I expected you
to say something sympathetic. It looks
like malice for you to exclaim at once
that you are glad."

"Oh, Mr. Dallas!" cried the girl.

And then he looked up at her, and


something in her face made him suddenly-repent,
and put out his hand to her, and
begin to laugh.

"Why, you don't mean that you mind
my talking so ? " he exclaimed. " Surely
you know I am only joking ? "

"I didn't know," answered Eita, with a
momentary quiver in her voice. " It is
always so difficult to know whether you
are serious, or only making fun. But I
think you are almost never serious," she
added in a condemnatory tone. "It is
very foolish of me ever to be taken in
by you."

"It would be odd, though, if you
weren't," responded Mr. Dallas, half below
his breath.

'what would be odd 1" asked Eita,

putting her head forward. But Jack

thought it wisest not to repeat his remark.
VOL. III. 113 43

I was only moralizing : I have a great
habit of moralizing aloud," he explained.
It's a very bad habit, so I wouldn't
advise you to fall into it. Anything
like a peculiarity, Miss Rita, is a thing
to be avoided. In your course through
life remember that. Unfortunately, shave
a great many peculiarities."

"Have you?" asked Kita. "Then-why
don't you try to get rid of them ? '*

Get rid of them at my age ? " replied
Jack, with an accent of astonishment.
" Now that's absurd ! Did you
ever hear of anybody beginning to shake
off their peculiarities with one foot in the
grave ? "

I am sure you don't think you have

one foot in the grave," said Rita with

increasing severity. " You don't think

yourself old. If you wanted to get rid


of  anything, you could do it quite
easily."

He lay for a moment or two placidly
looking at her : then  " You are sixteen,
are you not ? " he said.

Sixteen ! " exclaimed Eita bridling.

o

"I shall be eighteen in June."

'Ah, you're young for that," replied
Jack reflectively. " Very young. I don't
know how you can be so much. It is
only in the earliest period of youth generally
that we think we can do everything.
Eighteen ! Bless my heart ! "

'you are trying to make me angry,
but you are not going to do it," said Eita
resolutely. "No, you are not," she repeated,
colouring a little, and looking rather
defiant.

I know you have much ado to keep

your temper, though," said Jack, with


something like a chuckle. " It's odd what

hot tempers we have at six  I mean,

under twenty. Now / couldn't lose my

temper over a trifle like this though I

tried. T couldn't, I protest ! I've lost

the power of being peppery. Youth is a

very imperfect thing, Miss Rita. You will

be a vast deal improved, you will find,

when you have got quit of it, and are

ten or twelve years older. That will bea

long time after this, and I shall hardly

live, I am afraid, to see it ; but when it

comes you must think of me, and of what

I am telling you now. It is my belief

that at thirty you will be a very nice,

composed, sensible woman."

I wonder if you have been talking 

in this kind of way all these last days ?

Or do you only talk so to me, because

you think I am so  foolish ? " said Rita,


bringing out the last word a little pathetically.


 Are you foolish ? " inquired Jack calmly.
And then he laughed. " Would you mind
taking the trouble to hand me that book ? "
he asked next moment abruptly. "This is
a very wise grave book that I have been
trying to improve myself by reading. I
got it from your father, and I think there
are some things in it that would be very
wholesome for you. Look here now ; here
is a passage I should like you to read and
digest carefully."

But just as he was about to point it
out to her a servant opened the door, and
said that there was a visitor below who
wanted to see Miss Helstone.

"Ah, and so you must go ? " exclaimed

Jack. "Well, that is a pity, for what I*

was going to show you would have done


you a great deal of good. You couldn't
send down word that you were taking a
lesson, I suppose,  could you ? "

No, I don't think I could," replied Eita
laughing.

"Oh, well then, it can't be helped,"
said Mr. Dallas resignedly. "But leave
the book with me. I'll try and adapt
the lesson to myself.'

So he composed himself to read, and
she went away.

I wish he wasn't quite so odd," she
thought. But yet, in spite of his oddness,
she liked him well enough to be glad to
go back to him, and let him talk to her
again, when the visitor to whom she had
been called had taken her leave.



o \ 4aii=3

CHAPTER V.

Mr. Dallas did not suffer much, but
the doctor's orders that he should not
move from his recumbent position were
peremptory, so day followed day without
his making much apparent advance.

I wonder if Carson knows what he is
about ? " he said at last one morning speculatively
to Godfrey. " Don't you think he
might bring in somebody else, and have a
consultation over me ? It would be an
awful bore, and an expense, and all that,
but you don't know how it bothers me to
lie here in this way like a log."

''I suspect that you are getting on as


fast as is possible," answered Godfrey, " but
there is no reason why you shouldn't have
a consultation if you would like it."

So he spoke to Dr. Carson, and a
surgeon of reputation was sent for, who
examined Jack thoroughly, but ended by
agreeing entirely with the opinion of the
case that Dr. Carson had already formed.
Best was all that Mr. Dallas needed, he
said. There was no cause for anxiety, but
he must be content for the present to
remain upon his back.

But couldn't I get up to town ? "
asked Jack.

Such a journey would be very undesirable,"
said the surgeon ; and then
Godfrey laughed.

"He is an impatient fellow," he said.

Nobody wants him in town. He has

'no more need to be there than I have."


Then," replied the surgeon, " I would
decidedly advise him to stay where he is."

And so I am expected to submit and
hold my tongue, I suppose ? " said Jack
after this. " Well, I am helpless, and you
must bear the burden of me. I'm very
sorry for you all. I'm so sorry that I
don't know how to speak about it."

'' If that is the case," returned Godfrey,
I hope you will hold your tongue."

Mr. Dallas passed his days mainly in the

little sitting-room that had been prepared

for him, but his hours there were not very

solitary ones, for some of the household

nearly always bore him company. His

most frequent attendants, either together

or separately, where Godfrey and Eita.

These two spent half the day in reading

or talking to him. After a time he fell

into the habit, on the pretext of its being


an excellent exercise, of making Kita read
to him a good deal.

"To be able to read aloud without
fatigue is a proof of good lungs and a fine
constitution," lie would assure her. " At
your age you don't value these things as
you ought. You think it is interesting
to be delicate, but it isn't interesting  nota
bit. Take care of your health, and keep
your bloom. You won't be worth half
what you are at present if you don't. So,
to help you to expand your chest a little
more, suppose you give me another
chapter."

And then she would laugh probably,
but she would also do what he told
her.

There are few tasks more pleasant to the

majority of women than to minister to

some one they like, who is helpless, and


Eita's taste for this sort of work became
developed very rapidly during the weeks
while Jack lay on his back. She was so
very sorry for him that of course she liked
to do what she could to relieve the tedium
of his days. " It must be so dreadfully
dull for you," she would say to him
pityingly.

When a woman is ill it doesn't seem
half so sad," she said once. " You see,
we can do things to amuse ourselves that
you can't. We can knit  and sew."

' And do you mean to say it amuses
you to knit and sew ? " exclaimed Jack.
Bless my heart, it wouldn't amuse me !
Why should any one ever want to knit
as long as there are books in the world,
or people to be talked to 1 "

*' Oh, one likes it for a change," said
Eita. But Mr. Dallas shook his head.



I can't endure changes," he declared.
*' I hate and abominate them. I've known
nothing but changes all my life, and what
I want now is to get hold of something I
care for, and keep it for ever."

But that's impossible," said Rita.

What of that ? " returned Jack. " Is
it not allowable to long for impossible
things ? Miss Rita, I am afraid your
nature wants imagination. When I was
your age (it is a long time ago, but I was
your age once) my imagination was so
ardent that it was capable of soaring to
any height. I thought I could climb Parnassus
then, and take my seat on the
highest spur of it. Odd, wasn't it ? seeing
that in reality I've never gone a yard up
the mountain at all. Bat I only mention
the fact to show you the fallacy of urging

the impossibility of a thing as a reason


for not entertaining the thought of it. It
gave me a vast deal of pleasure to think
of climbing Parnassus. The actual getting
up, if I had ever attempted it, wouldn't
have been half so delightful  or probably
either half so innocent. For, just consider,
I might have met somebody else going up
too, and have tried to take an unfair
advantage of him,  jostled him on one side,
or even tripped him over a precipice perhaps.
And then think what an awful
burden on my soul that would have been
for ever after ! "

Yes ; but as if you were likely to have
done that ! " exclaimed Eita scornfully.

And then Mr. Dallas gave his head
another shrewd and mournful shake.

It would have been the likeliest thing

in the world," he said. *' Do you think,

even as it is, that I have never given a


push to anybody ?  not a big thrust, perhaps,
but just a little sly jog with my
elbow that did him a mischief ? "

'* No ; I don't think you ever have,"
answered Rita quickly.

The colour had come into her face, and
something in her look and in her tone
touched Jack, and made him suddenly
silent. He held his peace for about the
space of ten seconds, and when he spoke
again after that his remark was made ina
low voice, as if he were merely addressing
it to himself.

Well, it's a good deal to have somebody
believe in one ! I'll make a note of that,"
he said.

You will  make a note of it ! " echoed
Rita, rather alarmed.

'* Yes, for future reference and encouragement,"

explained Jack.


"You shouldn't laugh at me," said the
girl a little plaintively.

My dear ! '' ejaculated Jack quickly,
and with sudden energy he almost raised
himself from his pillow,  " Laugh at you !
May I never see your face again if I
was laughing ! "

I thought you were," said Eita timidly.

'* I never was further from it in my life 
never! Just see what it is not to have
an expressive face and voice ! Miss Eita,"
said Jack suddenly, "if I have made myself
misunderstood, let me speak again
gravely, and say  thank you. I am grateful
to you if you think well of me. I
should be more humbled than I can tell you
if I found you thought very badly of me."

Oh, you mustn't speak so," cried Eita,

blushing with confusion. *' As if it could

matter  "



Well, seeing that you are the daughter
of one of my oldest friends," said Jack, " I
consider that it may very naturally matter."

And then Rita murmured something
rather inarticulately, and turned away with
her cheeks on fire. She did not know why
she was blushing, and why her heart was
beating quickly ; she only knew that Mr.
Dallas somehow had upset her, and that
she was  well, not angry, nor sorry, nor
perhaps glad, but yet unexpectedly and
unreasonably touched.

She had to go out to the village presently,

and as she took her walk she recalled some

of the words that he had spoken with

an almost frightened surprise. " I should

feel more humbled than I could tell you

if I found that you thought very badly

of me," was what he had said,  a sentence

that began to ring in her ears,  that she


could not dismiss again from her memory.

Humbled if she thought badly of him ! She

was little more than a child, and he a

man as old as her father, but yet she knew

he had said this gravely, and a curious

feeling of gratitude to him began to stir

in her heart because of it. She felt raised

by it in her own eyes, and made more of

a woman,  made, somehow, to stand more

on a level with him, as if he had stretched

out a hand and drawn her near. And,

though she did not reason about it, the

feeling of this was pleasant to Eita, for

she was at the age when youth, to the

possessor of it, seems rather an undesirable

thing, and those earn most regard who

seem most to forget it. This period is a

fleeting one, but at least it comes for a short

time to most people, and Eita just now was

in the midst of it, and so, as it chanced,
VOL. III. 129 44.

peculiarly likely to be touched by the

assertion that Mr. Dallas had made.

Humbled if thought ill of him ! " she

went on repeating to herself again and

again, with a timid, half-complacent wonder.

And he meant it too ; he was quite in

earnest ; she was convinced of that. " If

he had said it in fun I should have hated

him ! " she exclaimed once impetuously ;

but the pleasant part of the matter was

that she was so sure he had not said it

in fun. He joked a great deal, but he had

not been joking when he told her that.

And he was more than forty years old,

and yet, if she had not thought well of

him he had said he should feel humbled !

*' I think it was  very nice of him ; it was

more than most people would have said," was

the final and satisfactory conclusion that she

had come to by the time her walk had ended.


But as for Mr. Dallas, perhaps the sentence
that had made so much impression on Eita
had merely crossed his lips and been forgotten,
for when they met next in the
course of another hour or two there was
no increased deference in his manner to
her, nor indeed any visible change in it, 
a little perhaps to her disappointment. She
came into his parlour while he was having
his tea, and he greeted her quite in his
ordinary fashion.

At it again, you see ! " he merely said
cheerfully, nodding his head at her, and then
he went on eating the bread and butter
with which he was engaged, and chatting
to Miss Taylor, who was sitting by his
side,  and Eita took up her embroidery,
and began to occupy herself with it.

She thought presently that he was talking
a great deal of nonsense, and she gave


a sigh as she thought this, and wondered
why he always said so many absurd things.
He was always making people laugh, and
it was not, Rita reflected sagely, a very
high thing to make people laugh. She was
glad her father was not so fond of joking.
And it is just a bad habit, because he can
be so very nice and sensible  at times,"
Rita thought regretfully, and sewed away,
making dainty daisies on a delicate bit of
cloth, and looking so engrossed in her
work that presently Jack called to her,
and accused her of not listening to a word
he said.

I have been talking till I am hoarse,
and you won't pay the least attention,"
he said.

But you have not been talking to me'

answered Rita quickly.

'begging your pardon," returned Mr.


Dallas, " I was talking to you. I was
talking to whoever might chance to be in
the room. Miss Taylor has kindly given
me her ear so far, but I have tired her
now, and she is going to leave me  "

I am obliged to leave you," interrupted
Miss Taylor laughing,  " and, if you would
take my advice, you would lie still a little
now, Mr. Dallas, and rest."

But Mr. Dallas at this suggestion
vigorously shook his head.

No, no ; there would be no good in
that at all," he said. '' If you must go,
and if Miss Rita won't talk to me, I wish
somebody would look up Mr. Helstone, and
send him here."

I don't know why you should say that

I won't talk to you," exclaimed Rita, rising

up upon this, and flushing. " That is such

nonsense ! Papa is out, or else I would tell


him to come. But you shouldn't say things
that are not true."

Yell, then, you shouldn't make me say
them," retorted Jack coolly. '' You ought
to try instead to amuse me. Miss Taylor
has been amusing me. Miss Taylor is a
very nice woman. Do you know, each day
I see her I like her better and better."

Yes, she is very nice," answered Eita.
I don't know what we should do without
her now. She has been so very good to me
always, and especially these last two years
from the time mamma died," said Eita
suddenly, speaking with a lowered voice.

Ah, to be sure ! " cried Jack quickly,
I've often thought she must have been a
comfort when you lost your mother. Poor
little Eita ! They're awful things  these
losses. And she was  ahem!  she was so

domestic, wasn't she ? "
134.

Mamma *? " asked Rita, wondering a
little. " Oh yes. Oh, she was so good. I
didn't half know it at the time. That is
the worst so often  isn't it ? "

*' Well, yes," said Jack. " It's bad when
that happens, and when one has to reproach
oneself,  and I'm afraid, as you say, it does
happen pretty often. I've had my own
experience of it, for I lost my father when
I was a lad."

Did you ? " Eita came a little nearer,
looking at him with interest. " How old
were you 1 "

I was seventeen."

And I was sixteen. I mean when
mamma died. Was your father long
ill ? "

'* No ; he died of heart disease. He

never was ill at all. He had been sitting

talking to us  to my mother and me  one


evening, and he rose from his chair, and

seemed as if he was going to cross the

room, and  that was the end of it. He

was gone before we could stretch out a

hand to him. Poor father !  T don't know

that I was ever much comfort to him,

except the first time that I stood up before

him and conjugated a Latin verb. He

gave me half-a-crown on that occasion ;

and I would gladly have conjugated any

number more Latin verbs for him on the

same terms  but somehow he never made

the offer to me again. I've thought since

that it might have added to his happiness

if he had."

Kita had drawn nearer to him, though

with a little hesitation, during this speech.

Before she replied to it she had taken

possession of Miss Taylor's vacated seat.

It would be terrible to have anybody


one loved die in that sudden way," she said
half below her breath. " How dreadfully
sorry you must have been ! "

Well  I suppose I was," Jack said, but
he spoke a little dubiously. " I dare say
I was  if a boy is ever what he ought to
be. But I don't think he ever is. Oh,
boys altogether are a bad lot."

I don't believe you think that." Eita
made this declaration, however, a little
uneasily.

I protest I do. I can't endure them.
I would put every boy I met, if I could,
under a barrel Don't let us talk of them.
Thank heaven there are none here ! "

'well, I should like to have had a
brother," said Eita.

*' My dear, you are mach better without

one. Perhaps when I was as young as you

I might not have said so, but, recollect,


youth and the love of disturbance lasts a
short time, and age and the love of peace
lasts a very long time, and with age comes
wisdom. It seems to me that I have to
recall this fact very often to your memory,
Miss Eita. You haven't much respect
naturally, I am sorry to say, for grey hairs
and experience."

'' I don't think people always get wiser
as they grow older," said the girl gravely
after a moment's silence. " They ought to,
of course,  and some do, but"  and then
she glanced at Jack and hesitated. " But,
you know," she began again,  'you know
quite well  some old people are very
foolish."

Oh yes  one here and there," answered

Jack carelessly. '' But that's nothing. Asa

rule, maturity is full of wisdom. I beg

your pardon  " looking at her suddenly ;


"I don't quite understand the expression
on your face 1 "

'*I suppose you talk in this kind of way
just to tease me  don't you ? " said Kita
rather wistfully. " I mean, when you say
silly things it is not because you think
them really, but you say them just to make
me wonder ? "

When I say silly things ! " repeated
Jack, and he echoed her words so sternly
that poor Eita began to blush, and made a
hasty explanation.

I mean odd things  the kind of things
you say so often."

You mean wise things," he corrected
her reprovingly. " Things too wise for you
to understand."

But she looked at him for a moment, and

then she shook her head.

No, they are not wise things," she


answered steadily. "I am sure they are
not. They are often nonsense, and I don't
believe you can really think them  because,
if you are clever, you can't,  and papa says
you are clever."

'' Your father always had a great deal
of discrimination," responded Jack with
unction.

*' Yes  but often  nobody would think
you clever at all."

Of course they wouldn't 1 I sincerely
hope they wouldn't," said Jack fervently.

And then Rita opened her eyes, and he

began to chuckle. Whenever he fairly

succeeded in mystifying Miss Helstone, Mr.

Dallas had a trick of chuckling to himself

that was naturally rather exasperating.

She threw an indignant glance at him now,

and after a moment or two rose from her

seat. He would not talk sensibly  he was


absurd  he liked to tease people just as if
he was a child, she thought ; and she would
have left him in disdain if suddenly those
words he had spoken in the afternoon had
not come back to her mind, and touched
her, and made her in charity with him again.

He is nicer than he often seems ; he
was very nice only a few hours ago," she
thought. And so she hesitated for a
moment or two, and then turned her head
half-round to him, and  '' Shall I read
something to you % " she said abruptly.

"" Well, if you won't go on talking, read
to me by all means," he answered. " Look
here's our book." And as he held it out,
and she came to take it from him  " Kind
little Eita ! " he said suddenly.

'' Oh, you mustn't call me kind," she

exclaimed remorsefully. " 1  was cross

just now."



Then it was my fault," lie answered,
because I plagued you. But you are a
forgiving little girl,  and I like forgiving
people. There now  sit down in your own
seat. You are not stopping with me, are
you, when you have something else to do ? "

"' Oh no ; I have nothing else to do,"
she said.

"Well, that's all right. Then I may
make myself comfortable. It's a rare
blessing for me that you haven't got those
brothers you were talking of. Troublesome
young scamps ! They would be in and out
here all day long, and I should never get
a quiet half-hour with you. No, no ; you're
better as you are,  a vast deal better.
Now then ! "

And as Mr. Dallas composed himself to
listen, Rita opened her book.



It occupied Rita very much to wait on
Mr. Dallas, and supply him with the
various forms of entertainment that he
required ; but then she had little else todo,
so she gave her services very easily.
She liked his company too apparently, in
spite of the faults she found in him, for
she never seemed to care to be absent from
him long, and he, on his side, when she
came to him made her always demonstratively
welcome. Their regard for one
another was like the regard of uncle and
niece, Godfrey and Miss Taylor thought,

not dreaming of anything deeper and


stronger. But by the time he was beginning
to get upon his feet again Jack at
any rate probably knew that the case
between him and Rita had come to be
something very different from what they
supposed.

His convalescence was a slow business
enough. When a month had passed after
his accident he was still only in a condition
to walk for a few minutes at a time, and
a fortnight more elapsed before he was
pronounced to be even nearly fit to return
home.

Upon my word, this is trying for you ! "
he would often exclaim to his host.

I would try to make my escape," he

said once, " only, you see, it's so awkward

to attempt to run away when you cant

get down-stairs. If ever I run the risk

of a think; like this acrain "



'better take some riding lessons," answered
Godfrey to this speech. " That
is what I would advise you to do presently.
Nothing of this would have happened if
you had known how to sit a horse."

But Jack shook his head. " I've had
enough of horses," he said prudently. " It's
little use to a man in ' London to know
how to ride. One has to get behind the
brutes even there in hansoms, but it is
one thing to be behind them, where you
have no responsibility, and quite another
thing to be on their backs."

Well, but you cut yourself out of a
pleasure," Godfrey urged.

I might find it a pleasure to dance
on the tight-rope," retorted Jack, " but
nevertheless I am not going to learn."

And then Godfrey laughed and held his

peace.

VOL. III. 145 45

The weather grew very mild in February,
and in the soft early spring days Mr.
Dallas began to take walks about the
garden, and in these walks it rarely happened
that Kita failed to accompany him.
He would pace slowly up and down the
gravelled paths, with a stick in one hand,
and with his other hand upon her arm.
** Take my arm," Godfrey said at first,
and once or twice Mr. Dallas did so, but
presently he said he found that Eita's suited
him the best. " It is just the height I
seem to want," he asserted, 'so, if she

doesn't mind " And of course Eita

did not mind ; or, rather, she did mind
enough to be disappointed if he accepted
any other support than hers.

The girl knew vaguely by that time that

in all her life she had never been so happy

as she was now ; she knew too that she


liked Mr. Dallas very much indeed ; but
what their intimacy and their mutual regard
meant and was to end in she had
not ventured to ask herself. He was so
much older than she was that perhaps it
never alarmed her to find how constantly
she thought about him ; they were only
friends, of course : how could they be anything
else ? It was true that she was
always getting to care for being with him
more and more, and that the prospect of
his going away was something she could not
bear to face ; but friends may be very dear
indeed to one, and Eita believed that she
and Jack were only friends. He had been
very good to her, and they had been a great
deal together,  and she had got fond of
him, because she did not know how anybody
could help doing that, she only
thought. So she lived from day to day.



basking in the sunshine that was round
her, and happily treading the pleasant road
on which her feet were set without inquiring
to what bourne it was leading her.

But Mr. Dallas knew where it was
leading him, at any rate, and these days
were gradually making him more serious
than his wont, and inducing many thoughts
and speculations in him regarding an until
now unexpected future. He was getting
troubled too, feeling that something was
going on which it was not right should goon
without Godfrey Helstone's knowledge.
His conscience had become uneasy. " I
must speak to him," he thought, " and ten
to one he won't like it. I shouldn't in
his place, I know. I'm hanged if I should !
But I'm in for it now, and there's no help
but to make a clean breast of it,  and the

sooner the better too."


So Jack passed a few uncomfortable
days, during which he suffered a good deal,
and then at last one afternoon, with no
small amount of nervousness, he made his
confession.

I've a nasty suspicion, Helstone, that
I shouldn't be here," he said abruptly that
day to Godfrey.

He was sitting as he began to speak in his
friend's study, and Eita happened by an unusual
chance to be out of the way. Godfrey
had been reading, and Jack had been reading
too, but for the last ten minutes before he
spoke he had set his book upon his knees,
and had been gazing intently into the
fire, engaged, to tell the truth, not without
difficulty, in screwing up his courage to
broach the subject of which his mind
was full.

Godfrey looked up at Mr. Dallas's address.


"That's an old story, isn't it?" he said.
I thought we had dismissed it."

It's by no means an old story' retorted
Jack. " If you will listen to me I am
afraid you will find it a very new, and
perhaps not a pleasant, one. I say I'm
troubled about being here  because of" 
and here he gave a great gulp  *' well, 
because of Rita."

"Because of  what?" asked Godfrey,
thinking he had not heard aright.

Why, are you deaf, man ? Don't you
hear me say  of Rita ! " cried Jack, giving
way to his nervousness in a shout, the
absurdity of which so struck him as he
uttered it that he burst next moment into
a laugh.

Mr. Helstone looked at him in a puzzled

way.

I don't understand you," he said.


Poor Jack took up the poker, and began
to hammer at the fire.

"I don't know that I understand myself,"
he said. " I'm six-and-twenty years
older than she is, and I don't suppose she'd
have me, even if you didn't object ; but
I can't get her out of my head  that's
the fact of it. There now  the cat's out
of the bag,  and the business is off my
conscience, at any rate." And then, with
unconscious vehemence, he stabbed the
poker again into the middle of the coals.

There was complete silence after this
speech. Godfrey sat with his eyes on his
friend's face. He was so used to hear
Jack talk nonsense that perhaps his first
supposition was that he was talking nonsense
now, but the look of grave and
nervous earnestness with which Mr. Dallas

sat and stared into the fire made it impossible


for this impression to last many
moments. When it gave way, however,
Godfrey found himself almost speechless
with surprise.

** Is it possible you are saying this
seriously ? " were the first words he gravely
uttered.

Seriously ? God bless me, can't you
see I am ? " said Jack.

' And you mean that you care for 
that you are  falling in love with Rita ? "

I'm not falling  I'm fallen" cried
Jack. '* The thing is done : it's no use
talking about it. I'm only thinking now
about her,  and you."

I am afraid you have been very  imprudent,"
said Godfrey, rather hesitating
over his final word. " As you say, it is
hardly likely that, with such a difference

in your ages  "



Tm hanged if I know whether it's
likely or not ! " burst in Jack impetuously.
"As far as that goes I must take my
chance. But I'm in your hands, you see.
1 can't speak to her if you're against it, 
and I'm not such a fool as to think you
will like me to speak,  and yet, Helstone,"
he said with more self-control, " I do
entreat you to let me do it. If you are
right, and she won't have anything to say
to me, then there's no harm done. But
if by chance it should turn out that she
liked me enough  " Poor Jack got sofar,
and then broke off, with a quiver in
his voice.

You know you have taken me immensely

by surprise," Godfrey said gravely, after

another brief silence. " I think that unequal

marriages, such as this would be, are far

from desirable ; but of course, except for the


difference in your ages, I could have no
objection to make. In many respects  in
every respect except that one  But don't
move in the matter hastily, Jack," he
interrupted himself earnestly. '' You have
taken me so aback that I hardly know
what to say to you ; and I don't feel convinced
by any means yet that you know
your own mind."

'*No, I don't suppose you do," replied
Jack rather meekly. And then he walked
twice up and down the room, and finally
paused in front of his friend's chair. " I
know you wouldn't have chosen me for
her," he said abruptly ; " but  suppose she
likes me better than you think ? "

Well ? " said Godfrey.

*' Well  would you let me have her ? "

*' I imagine," said Godfrey, after a few

moments' silence, but he spoke rather


lugubriously  " I imagine in that case that

it would not be very easy for me to do

anything else."

 The colour came rather hotly into Jack's

face. "Now it's an odd thing," he said.

"I've lived for forty-four years in the

world, and I've seen women enough, heaven

knows, and yet I never wanted to marry

one of them till I came across this little

girl of yours. I don't know what there

is in her  upon ray word I don't ; but I'd

go through fire and water for her. There's

not a young fellow living who would love

her better than I will  if she ever gives

me the chance."

"My dear Jack," said Mr. Helstone,

rather uneasily, " I think if you had told

me of this sooner, I would  somehow or

other  have got you back to town."

"Ah, so you're coming to my view of


that matter at last, are you ? " replied Jack,
with a laugh that had, however, rather a
grim tone in it.

On the day this talk between the two
friends took place, Mr. Dallas had been
pronounced almost fit for travelling. He
was not well yet, but Dr. Carson had told
him that he might count on going home
in another week. " So you will get me off
your hands next Tuesday  at last," Jack
had said to Rita, and she had tried to make
some light reply, but the poor little lips had
trembled and almost failed.

For, though Rita did not quite know
what had happened to her, she was conscious
that a time that had made her very
happy was coming to an end, and the
prospect of this ending was troubling and
saddening her. No termination of a pleasure
had ever saddened her in the same


way before. She did not understand the
sadness and restlessness that she felt, nor
what made her cling with such increasing
eagerness to the performance of those various
little services that it had been her pleasure
to do for Mr. Dallas during these happy
weeks.

"You will be having a royal time of it
soon now' he had said to her this morning
with a laugh, and she had turned away and
could not answer him. A royal time 
when he was gone ! Did he think that ?
Was that all he knew ? she had cried almost
passionately to herself.

Mr. Dallas was unusually quiet during
the hours that followed his talk with
Godfrey. Eita bad been out while that
talk went on, but she came home in the
dusk, and met Jack on the stairs as she

went up to her own room.


"I am glad you have come back," he
stopped to tell her.

So am I ! " she answered brightly. " I
am generally glad." And then he exclaimed,
What a blessed thing ! " and passed on,
without listening to her explanation, and at
that moment she did not perceive that he
was more grave than usual.

As the evening passed on, however, she
could not but become aware that he talked
less than he generally did, and indulged
in silences that were not customary with
him.

Are you tired ? " she asked him a little
timidly once, making some excuse for going
towards him ; but he looked up at her, and
smiled, and shook his head.

No, I am only thinking," he answered.

''I am thinking of my deserts,  and it

makes me a little melancholy, for I have not


deserved much, I am afraid. Do you think
I have ? "

In what way *? " she asked hesitating.
'' I don't quite understand."

*' In the way of happiness," he said.
What we all want is to be happy  isn't
it ? but if I am not good enough to be
allowed to be happy  ? "

Oh, but I hope you are good ! " she
said quickly. And then, as if she was
ashamed of the tone in which she had
spoken, she coloured vividly and turned
away.

You must do more than slope that, dear.
You must believe it too," he said a moment
afterwards below his breath. But she did
not hear that response.

He was out of spirits, she thought, and

the poor little maiden in her half-childish

heart wished she could cheer him, and


yearned for the power to comfort him that

she did not know she had. In a little

while he would be all alone, she thought

with pain. *'0h, it is hard to get to like

people and then be obliged to part from

them ! " she cried to herself, feeling as

if at his going her very heart would bleed.

Even papa seems sorry," she reflected.

'' Everybody has got so dull to-day, since

Dr. Carson said that Mr. Dallas might

go." And she thought in all simplicity that

her father was indeed mourning over his

friend's approaching departure, when it was

in truth something far more closely affecting

his own happiness that was causing the

depression which clouded Godfrey's brow,

and kept his lips closed. " How in the

world can Jack Dallas have made himself

such a fool ? " was in fact the thought that

-was in Mr. Helstone's mind a dozen times


to-night, and lie felt sore and injured, as
perhaps a man may be excused for doing
in the first moments of discovering that
another man has set his heart on robbing
him of his only daughter.

This evening that followed Jack's confession
was not pleasant to Jack himself,
nor to Godfrey, nor to Rita, and the days
that followed it were hardly more satisfactory.
Godfrey had scarcely given his
consent that Mr. Dallas should speak to
Rita, but yet, if he had not given it, neither
had he refused it, and Jack understood
probably that he was left at liberty to speak
if he pleased ; and yet day after day went
past, and he still held his peace. In fact
he was afraid to speak, as he confessed later
on. " I tried to do it half-a-dozen times,"
he declared, " but when I opened my lips

my tongue clove to the roof of my mouth,
VOL. III. 161 46

and the most horrible tremors ran down my
spine. Of course I shouldn't have had any
tremors if I had been twenty years younger,
but it's no joke, I can tell you, for a man
of four-and-forty to offer himself to a girl
of eighteen. I'm blest if any consideration
should ever make me do it again ! I nearly
made up my mind more than once to give
the whole thing up and go back to town."

But of course, though he said this, Jack
did not go back to town till the question
he wanted to put to Rita was asked and
answered.

He put off asking it, however, from day
to day, and during these days he perplexed
and disturbed poor little Eita nota
little by his irregularities of mood and
temper. He treated her differently from
how he had treated her before, and she

did not know what made him different ;


he was sometimes very tender to her, and
at other times he was grave and cold, and
when he was tender she was very happy,
and when he was cold her poor little heart
sank. They had been such delightful weeks
while he was getting better ; what was the
matter with this week, she asked herself,
that it had become so unlike the rest ?
She was observant enough, and she saw
not only that Mr. Dallas was changed
towards herself, but that in his relations
with her father there was a difference too.
The two men kept more apart, and when
they were together Jack no longer talked
and jested in his ordinary light-hearted
way ; their intercourse with one another had
become grave, and Rita, sympathetically,
became grave too, and anxious, and troubled.
She had a feeling that something had happened,
but she did not like to ask what


it was ; perhaps some shy self-consciousness
kept her from asking.

And so, not very happily, the days went
on until that one came which it had been
settled was to be the last of Mr. Dallas's
visit ; and then at last Jack spoke.

He was in the dining-room after lunch
alone with Eita. She had been sitting
working (sitting at a distance from him,
and wondering, poor little soul, why he
did not care to come nearer to her, or
to speak to her) ; he had been trying to
read ; for half-an-hour they had neither of
them uttered a word, when at length he
threw down his book, and, rising with a
start from his chair, went up to her.

Now I ouoht to be packing," he said

abruptly, '' but I can't go and pack till

I've said a word to you. And I am going

to say something that perhaps may keep


you from ever being the same to me again,

and yet, though I know that, I must say

it. I suppose you guess what it is, Kita ?

you guess how IVe got to like you ?  though

I'm as old as your father, and though you

think me a fool, 1 dare say, ever to imagine

you could care for me. But, my dear,

I've been thinking of it this way  Just

let me tell you. You have been so sweet

and good to me that I can't help thinking

you have a little liking for me in a way,

and what I am thinking is, that we Dallas

are not very long lived, and if I were off

the scene, say even twenty years after

this, you would still be a young woman,

and might marry somebody else,  and so,

taking that into account, if you could makeup

your mind to come to me  ? My dear

little girl, I know I'm asking you to give

your youth to me, and I've no right to do


that,  it strikes me horribly that I'm a
selfish brute altogether,  only you've made
me care for you as I never cared for anybody
else in my life, and though, perhaps,
the whole thing may strike you as
ludicrous  "

But Jack stopped abruptly here, for all
at once a little cry came from Eita.

"Oh, Mr. Dallas!" she said. ' Oh
oh  don't say such things ! "

Such things as that I want you to
marry me ? " inquired Jack.

N 0, not that. At least Oh," cried
Eita tremulously, " I could never dare ! "

You couldn't dare to marry me ! God
bless you, my darling," exclaimed Jack in
delight, " if you are willing to do it, what
should hinder you ? "

And then he sat down beside her, and

seeing her hand very near to him, he


ventured after a moment to take it into his,
and when he found that she submitted to this
proceeding his courage began to rise apace.

What in the world should make you
say that you couldn't dare ? If you are
willing to do it, why shouldn't you dare ? "
he repeated.

Oh, because I am not fit," pleaded
poor little Eita breathlessly. " Everybody
would say so. Oh," almost with a gasp,
*' I don't know lovat papa would say ! "

But / do," answered Jack confidently.
"He says"

"Do you mean that you have spoken
to him ? " and Eita opened her frightened
eyes wide.

Yes, of course I have ; and what he
says is  'It's a pity you are not younger,
but if she likes to take you it can't be
helped.' "



' Does he ? Are you speaking the
truth 1 " asked Eita, hardly above her
breath.

The literal truth ! "

Oh, I I am glad of that ! " And Eita
gave a sigh of relief. " But all the same,"
she added timidly and trembling, next
moment, " I would rather not."

And then she raised a wistful look to
Jack's face, and suddenly made an effort,
which was quite vain, to take her hand
away.

Now, what do you mean by telling
me you would rather not ? " he said. He
looked rather uncomfortable, as if he was
conscious of not behoof at home in these

o

novel circumstances ; and as for her, she

seemed less at home in them even than he.

I mean, I don't think I could. I  T

shouldn't like it," she said very shyly.


You couldn't imagine me as your
husband, you mean 1 "

"No," she said.

'' But you haven't tried ? "

'* N  o/' she repeated in a troubled way.

"Well, but I want you to try. My
dear, unless you do you cant tell."

But  it seems wrong' she said faintly.

' Wrong  to care for me ? Why ? Because
you don't think I deserve to be cared
for?"

Oh, no ! "  very emphatically.

Then you must explain yourself."

But of course when he told her to explain
herself she did not say a word ; she
only sat quite still, with her face turned
away.

"Well," he exclaimed resignedly after

a little silence, '' if you will really say

nothing more I suppose I must give


it up. Lust I ? and go back to my
solitude ? "

Oh ! " she said, quivering.

It's an awful disappointment to me,"
said Jack with a heavy sigh. however,
I suppose I deserved it for supposing that
any girl could care for me  now."

And then he dropped her hand, and
seemed just about to get up from his seat,
when she began to cry.

Oh, don't ! How can you ? " she
sobbed out reproachfully, " when you know
-when anybody might know  Oh, to
say I couldn't care for you ! " and she
turned to him, and the poor little forsaken
hand went pitifully holding itself
out to him again, till he took it back and
clasped it closer than before.

Then you don't mean what you have

been saying?" he asked her joyfully.


I  don't know' she answered almost
below her breath.

Well, but, you see, I must either go
away, or else you must make up your
mind to have me."

"I don't know what to do !" she said.

Then let me settle it for you. You
know, if I am to be your husband, you
can't let me begin to settle things too
soon. My little girl," Jack said suddenly,
with a tone that she had never heard in
his voice before, "you will come tome."


And then he took her into his arms,
and wasted no further arguments upon
her, but merely kissed her lips shut.

You will never say that dreadful thing

again, will you ? what you said, I mean,

about  about twenty years ? " she asked

him presently, turning to him, and looking


into his face with eyes that seemed ready
fill again with tears.

But Jack at this inquiry burst out
laughing. He was triumphantly happy,
and could afford to make a jest of what
he had told her in almost grim earnest
half-an-hour before.



Mrs. Helstone and Miss Taylor were
a good deal shocked, but Godfrey gravely
kissed bis daughter, and merely told ber
that if she liked Jack there was nothing
more to be said. For his own part, the
prospect before him was not a very bright
one. With Rita gone from him bis bouse
would be lonely enough.

I think I shall shut it up for a time,"
he said to bis mother, 'rand go abroad."

Two years ago, at Margaret's death, Mrs.
Helstone bad decided that she would not
accept the offer Godfrey made her of taking
ber daughter-in-law's empty place at Ivor.

She was growing old, and the charge of
the laroje establishment there would have
been a burden to her. So she had remained
at the Dene, and at the Dene, even
after her granddaughter should be gone
away, she still proposed to stay.

When Rita became engaged it was the
middle of February, and her marriage, it was
presently decided, should take place in June.

But she must come up to town before
that," said Jack. " She will want to come
for her marriage gown, and / shall want
her for my own satisfaction. So make up
your minds to come, all three of you. She
will need Miss Taylor to help her to buy
her finery. I shall expect you to come
for a month or six weeks at any rate."

*' Well, we'll see about that," answered
Godfrey, and the result was that in April
they went.



It was a mild, bright spring, and London,
of course, to Rita's eyes, looked as it had
never looked before.

I sometimes have qualms about bringing
you to live here," Jack said to her ; but
she on her side had naturally neither qualms
nor regrets. She was as happy as the days
were long, and Jack was equally happy on
his side. He had begun to play the role of
lover rather late in life, but he played it
with very fair success in spite of that.

They went about a great deal, for they

had sights to see, and a house to look for,

and Eita had acquaintances to make. Mr.

Dallas had few relations, but he had many

friends, and to some of them he was eager

to introduce his future wife. * You mayas

well get to know them now,' he said,

for it will give you more of a home

feeling when you come back to live


amongst tlicm." So the introductions
were made, and led naturally to invitations,
and Eita's time was soon well filled.

She had never been much in London
before this, and she looked on everything
with fresh eyes of pleasure that gave an
endless delight and entertainment to Jack.
He was so much in love that he spent
almost all his time at her side. If he
had been five-and-twenty he could not
have been more absorbed in her, nor could
he have been, nor have made her, happier.

Her new position towards him had
affected her rather seriously at the beginning.
It had seemed to her such an
astonishing fact that they could be engaged
to one another, that she had hardly
known at first how to comport herself
towards him ; she was less at ease with

him for a time than she had been before
176 '

he made his proposal ; she showed herself
shy at being left alone with him ; she could
not bring her tongue to call him anything
but 'Mr. Dallas."

Oh, I couldn't say anything else ; I
couhhit say * Jack ' ! " she declared. If he
had had any other name she might have
managed to utter it, she thought, but to
address him as " Jack " 1  the very thought
brought the colour to her face.

Well, but you must do it, sooner or
later," he urged. " Come, do it now, and
break the ice at once."

But she only laughed and would not,
and she had been engaged to him for a week
before he first heard his name from her lips.

In fact, though in the early days of

their acquaintance she had expressed stern

opinions sometimes about his boyishness,

and had taken upon herself not unfrequently
VOL. III. 177 4to

rebuke him for his faults and his
various shortcomings, in her heart, now that
she was about to become his wife, Rita
entertained a boundless respect and admiration
for her lover  such a respect that she
could not bear to set herself on the same
level with him, but delighted in believing
that in everything he was better than
herself.

'' I think that when girls fall in love with
people who are quite young it can't be anything
like  this," she said simply to him
once. " It can't be half so good, I mean.
I wouldn't have you younger than you are
if I could choose. You are quite young
enough. A boy and girl together must be
so  silly."

'rand we are always wise, of course''
replied Jack. Upon which she laughed and
blushed.



We are not always wise, I know ; but
yet  it's different," she said with emphasis.

He was pretty well as proud of her as a
man could be, though he laughed at himself
for his delight in her not a little. " I
suppose I am a fool," he said one day to
an intimate friend of his, but when he spoke
so he only did it, I am of opinion, that he
might enjoy his friend's contradiction. For
the lady  a Mrs. Lomas  to whom he made
this speech was a motherly woman who
had a great regard for him, and who also,
from her first introduction to Eita, had
taken a liking to her too. She showed
Eita much kindness during her stay in
town, and did not a little lor her entertainment.


Mrs. Lomas was very bright and

kindly and social. She took Eita to

several parties, where the little country


girl enjoyed herself moderately, and one
day she gave a great entertainment specially
in her honour at her own house. " 1 want
to introduce you to a number of people,
my dear," she told her, " very nice people
that it will be good for you to know."
And though Eita felt rather nervous ut
the prospect of it  for the world of London
was very new to her, and she was pretty
shy of it as yet  the party was arranged,
and one bright May afternoon Mrs. Lomas
gathered a hundred or so of her acquaintances
together at her house at Hampstead.

It was a sunny, summer-like day. The
house stood in large gardens, and, early in
the season though it was, the guests spread
themselves over the lawns, and an abundance
of colour and sunshine and music
made the scene very gay. So pretty a

garden-party Eita had rarely before been


present at, and she herself, though she was
unconscious of the fact, was one of the
prettiest portions of it. Mrs. Lomas had
helped her to choose her dress, or rather
had entirely suggested it, and it had proved
so great a success that Jack, when he saw
her, said no woman had ever been so perfectly
attired before. " You look like a
young goddess,  a sweet young Hebe," he
told her, with an extravagant praise that she
laughed at, but yet perhaps liked to hear.

There was perhaps no great enjoyment
to Godfrey in these gatherings to which
circumstances forced him to accompany his
daughter. If he had ever cared much
for entertainments of the sort, his relish
for them had died out long ago ; he had
few friends in London, and not even
many acquaintances, nor did he much desire

to increase their number. It was with


resignation rather than pleasure that he
took Rita to her dances and parties. Sometimes
he shifted the labour on Miss Taylor's
shoulders. To-day he had been half resolved
to stay at home ; had the day been
less tempting a one perhaps he would have
done so. But the sun shone, and the drive
to Hampstead promised to be pleasant,
and so when Rita begged him to go with
them he went.

I suppose we shall get away by seven
o'clock or so," he said when they were
starting.

"Y  es, unless  They sometimes dance,"
suggested Rita insinuatingly.

And then, with that resignation which
he had learnt, Godfrey got into the carriage
and held his peace.

He was not much burdened with the

charge of Rita after they had once reached



their destination, for Mrs. Lomas took her
immediately off his hands, and he was left
at liberty to wander where he pleased. So
he talked to such few acquaintances as he
found, and rambled about the grounds, with
or without a companion, and yawned a little
perhaps, now and then, as the afternoon
slowly passed away.

After, however, a couple of hours or so
had elapsed an incident occurred which had
at least the effect of dissipating his weariness
very effectually. He was standing alone,
looking on rather indifferently at the scene
before him, when he saw Mr. Dallas hastening
towards him with a decision that seemed
to him to imply some special object in his
approach, nor was he mistaken, for as soon
as eJack had come near enough to speak,
he made an announcement that sent the

blood suddenly through Godfrey's veins.


" I say, Helstone," he exclaimed, " lookout
! There's Joanne Beresford somewhere
about the place."

Joanne Beresford ! " echoed Godfrey,
as if his friend had uttered the name of
a ghost.

'* Yes ; IVe seen her ; I saw her five
minutes ago. I can't stop now to look
her up," cried Jack, " but I thought you'd
like to know."

Do you mean that you have spoken to
her ? " asked Godfrey almost incredulously.

No, I haven't spoken to her," answered

Jack, " but I've seen her. I knew her

in a moment almost, but to make sure

I asked Mrs. Lomas. I should have spoken,

of course, only I didn't like to do it till

I was certain, and then she had got out

of sight. But you'll find her in a minute

if you try. She's got on a black dress."


"I'll look for lier," said Godfrey instantly.
He felt curiously braced all at once, as if
he had drunk some powerful stimulant.
Without another word he parted from
Jack, and went straight to where the
thrones of men and women was thickest.
Surely if Jack had known her at once, he
thought, he should know her too. But he
searched for her for a good while in vain,
and he was getting impatient and beginning
to think that he would go and seek
for Mrs. Lomas's assistance, when suddenly,
face to face with him, he saw some one
standing whom he looked at for a moment
or two, and then with a strange thrill
recognized.

He went up to her, and put out his hand.

I am afraid you will hardly remember

me ? " he said.

But he had scarcely uttered the words


before he knew that she remembered him,
for her colour came with a force that
for the moment she evidently could not
check.

"I was hoping that I should see you.
I have been talking to your daughter.
She told me that you were here," she
replied.

I heard of you only two minutes ago
from Jack Dallas," Godfrey answered.

I haven't seen Mr. Dales," she said,
"but Mrs. Lomas told me just now  "
And then she hesitated.

Godfrey, however, at once finished her
sentence.

She told you, I suppose, that Rita and

he are going to be married ? Yes ; that

seems odd, doesn't it ? In the old days we

should have been rather surprised if we had

been told that I should come to be his


father-in-law. But many a strange tiling is
brought about.  I am so giacl to see you
once more."

And I am glad," she answered. She
had already recovered her self-possession.
The quick blood had gone back again, and
she was looking at him now with her old

o

calm directness, and with her old sweet
eyes too. (How well he remembered them,
he thought, across this long bridge of
twenty years !)

Let us sit down," he said. "I want to
hear about your people. Come here into
the shade. Now tell me first of all about
your father."

''He is very well," she said brightly;
well and strong. He can walk ten miles
still without being tired, and he preaches
every Sunday,  and he is as fond of fishing

as ever," she added laughing.



It does one good to bear that," said
Godfrey. " And Mrs. Beresford ? "

Mamma is not quite so young as my
father, but still she is fairly well too."

*rand they are still in the old place?
How many of you are there with them ?
What about yourself ? "

Oh, I have always lived at home," she
answered. " And Violet is at home too, 
but she is a widow now. She lives with
us, along with her two little girls. And
my brother Tom is dead,  and Femie," she
added after a moment in a lower voice.

What, little Femie ? " he exclaimed
regretfully.

Yes, she died when she was fifteen.

It was a terrible grief to us. Do you

recollect what a dear little child she was ?

Do you remember that first evening you

spent with us," Joanne asked suddenly,


and how you carried her about the garden
on your shoulders ? "

Yes, I remember' he said, with a flood
of memories indeed rising as he spoke.
"I remember; I have never forgotten her."

They are nearly all of them married
and scattered abroad, except these," she
said after a moment's silence. 'dick and
Harry are farming in Canada, and Victor
is a soldier in the West Indies ; and Felix
is a clergyman, and has a living in the
north ; and Lilian and Edith are married
here in London ; and Maude is married at
York. It is with Lilian that I am staying
now. She has five children. There are a
great many children amongst us altogether.
Just think ! " and she laughed  " I have
eighteen nephews and nieces now."

And you have never married ! " he

exclaimed abruptly.



My sisters married very quickly, and
mamma had a great deal on her hands.
There has always been work for me at
home," she said.

He had scarcely so far had time to
arrange his thoughts ; he scarcely knew
yet, as she sat beside him, whether she did
or did not seem to him like the Joanne
Beresford of old. She was altered, of course,
and perhaps the inevitable changes that these
twenty years had made in her forced themselves
on his notice more now than they
would be likely to do at any future meeting
he might have with her. He missed
her lost youth, and was conscious that he
missed it; he perceived expressions in her
that were unfamiliar to him ; but yet she
was like enough to her old self make him
presently say impulsively 

I think I should have known you anywhere.


Dallas had told me you were here,
so I was looking for you, but I don't believe
I should have passed you even without any
warning."

1 knew you at once," she answered. " But
then," she added, " I had been warned too."

Mrs. Lomas introduced me to your
daughter," she told him presently. *eat
first I never suspected who she was. I
noticed the name, of course, because it is
not a common one, but it was only after a
little while, when she happened to speak
of where she lived   You see I had remembered
things you used to tell me, and
when she said she lived in Gloucestershire,
and spoke of Ivor, then I could not but
know. But it seemed so strange ; and
strangest of all when Mrs. Lomas told me
presently of her engagement to Mr. Dallas."

Yes, he is twenty-six years her senior.


It is a pity," Godfrey said. "She is linking
herself to a wrong generation. But still
they seem fond enough of one another,
Heaven knows."

He said the last words almost with a
little acrimony, and Joanne laughed.

You speak as if you suffered from their
love-making," she said.

I don't mean to say that I suffer
from it," he answered. " I try to be very
tolerant of it ; but I have nothing belonging
to me but Rita,  or rather I had nothing
but her three months ago, when this fellow
came and took possession of her. I have
nothing; at all now."

"But you will have her future life to
be an interest to you, and her children,
probably," Joanne said.

Yes," replied Godfrey, " I suppose so."

But he did not speak with great warmth.


Perhaps as the minutes passed these two
began to feel a little strange each with the
other. Many a time Godfrey had longed
almost passionately to see Joanne Beresford,
and now he saw her, and he had no desire
except to remain by her side ; and yet the
feeling with which he looked at her and
listened to her was not, he was conscious,
the feeling of former days. It was not that
she disappointed him, for, if he had met her
now for the first time, he told himself that
he should call her a noble and lovable-looking
woman ; but she was changed, ashe
felt more and more, and it was this
inevitable change that chilled him. She
was not the Joanne that he had parted
from that bitter day, when they had both
been young.

He wondered if she felt the difference as

keenly as he was beginning to do himself.
VOL. III. 193 48

He met her eyes once fixed on his face, and
he returned their gaze with rather a grave
smile.

I can hardly believe yet that we have
met again," he said.

No, it is such a long time  " she
began to answer, and then did not end her
sentence.

They had been together for half-an-hour,
and each had asked and answered many
questions ; but now their first inquiries had
become exhausted, and there were pauses
coming in their talk, and perhaps the sense
of strangeness in their renewed intercourse
was pressing upon them both.

She looked at her watch at the half-hour's
end and said, " I am afraid I must
be going home. Lilian was to have come
here with me, but she was prevented by
a cold."



'' How are you going ? " he asked. " Have
you a carnage ? "

Oh, no ; I go by train," she said.

'then I will walk to the station with
you," he answered.

They both rose up, and she left him to
make her way to Mrs. Lomas and bid goodbye
to her. He went slowly towards
the gate, and presently he heard her step
behind him, and turned round and joined
her again.

It is a good many years since I had my
last walk with you," he said to her as they
turned into the road.

Yes, a great many years," she answered
gravely.

Would your sister let me call upon her,
I wonder ? " he asked.

She would be very glad, I am sure,"

Joanne cordially replied. '* She lives in


Brook Street, No.  . But I am sorry," she
added, hesitating for a moment, "that /
shall not see you again."

Why ? Are you going away ? " he asked
quickly.

Yes," she said ; ** this is my last day in
town. I am going home tomorrow."

There was a pause after this. He made
no comment on her answer. They were
crossing a part of the Heath, and for a
minute they walked over the grass in
silence.

He was vexatiously conscious that the
feeling of constraint between them was not
growing less but more  that, with their
first curiosity regarding one another satisfied,
they seemed to have exhausted all that
they had to say, and where being forced to
fall back upon the ordinary commonplaces

of ordinary acquaintances.


"It is a disappointment to me to hear
that you are going so soon," he said abruptly
after that little silence ; " but even to have
seen you this once has been a great pleasure,
and I hope, if not now, yet some other
time  Do you know," he said, making
a great effort to shake off his stiffness, 
do you know, I should dearly like some
day to run down to Brentwood again."

Should you ? " she answered, as if half-doubtfully.


It would give me such pleasure to
shake hands with your father once more.
I wish you would tell him so. Tell him
that, long as I have been away, I hope to
see him again yet."

If you ever find time to come T am sure
he will be very glad," Joanne said. But
Godfrey thought she spoke rather coldly.

*' You would not find the place much



altered," she went on, with a little hurry
in her tone. The inn has changed hands;
your old landlord died a year or two ago ;
and there are a few new people in the
village, but that is all. You remember
my aunt ? "

Mrs. Arthur Beresford ? " exclaimed
Godfrey. " Indeed I oifkt to have remembered
her, for she was very kind tome.
I am ashamed of not having asked
after her sooner."

Oh, but she is dead," said Joanne.

Is she dead ? " cried Godfrey. " Dear
me ! she didn't look like a woman to die.
And those pretty daughters ?  at least one
of them was very pretty."

You mean Clara ? Yes, she is very

pretty. She married long ago. Three of

them are married, and Fanny, the youngest

one, lives here in town with Hugh."


Ah, then has Hugh never got a wife ? "
and Godfrey, with this question, giving a
quick glance at his companion, saw, or
thought he saw, her colour rise.

No, he has no wife," she said. " But
he and Fanny are very happy together.
Fanny is a nice girl,  or rather woman, I
should say," she corrected herself quickly,
with a laugh. '' But she is younger than
I am."

Yes, three or four years younger, I
suppose," he said. ' I remember her very
well. She was about fifteen when I was at
Brentwood, and she was very shy. You
were nineteen that year, you know."

Yes," she merely said.

Their talk did not flow easily, and yet
when they reached the station and found
that her train was due in a few minutes he

was sorry. He went to the platform with


her, and they sat down to wait. He
wanted to say something more to her than
he had yet said, but he felt strangely
tongue-tied. He had been excited an hour
ago when he met her first, but now he was
not excited ; his first emotion had given
way to something that was almost coldness ;
he sat by her side and was conscious that
his nearness to her did not stir him as in
thought, during these years that they had
been apart, he had believed, if he should
ever meet her again, it would do.

They heard the whistle of the approaching
train, and she rose up in silence.

Now you must go, and we seem to
have had no talk yet," he said suddenly.

Oh yes, we have had a little. I am
glad to have seen you," she replied.

But though she said she was glad, to

Godfrey's ears, made sensitive perhaps by


his own consciousness of inability to rise to
the occasion, her voice seemed to have a
tone of sadness in it. He opened the door
of an empty carriage for her, and she took
her seat, and then, standing at the door,
he put out his hand to her.

I wish I had told them not to wait forme,
and I would have seen you home," he
said all at once.

** Oh, I am accustomed to go about
alone," she answered with a smile.

I dare say you are, but I was thinking
of the gain to myself. I am sorry to bid
you good-bye," he said.

He had kept her hand for a few moments

in his. Standing face to face with her, and

looking into the eyes that had once been

so dear to him, he was feeling keenly that

he had wasted this short hour. It seemed

to him that, if he could stay with her now,


he could talk differently to her. But the
doors of the carriages were being rapidly
closed, and she was withdrawing her hand.
With a sudden impulse at the last moment
he said, " God bless you ! " And then he
took off his hat, and remained uncovered
till the train had swept away.

Slowly, and with an acute feeling of dissatisfaction
and regret, he retraced his
steps after this to Mrs. Lomas's. With
Joanne Beresford at his side he had felt
dull and cold, but now with her gone he
began to long for her presence again, and
to be enraged at himself for his temporary
indifference. '' I was stunned,  I suppose
that is the truth of it," he told himself.
"But she must have thought I had
forgotten everything. I scarcely even
told her I was sorry she was leaving

town. Well,  I have been a fool." And


he returned to his party ill enough
pleased.

He searched for his daughter, and found
her presently blooming and happy.

They are going to dance," she informed
him joyfully, as soon as he joined her. ''I
was wondering where you were. You seem
to have been out of sight such a long time.
And, oh, did you see Miss Beresford ? ''
cried Rita, trying to ask her question quite
naturally, but yet feeling a little conscious
as she asked it, for Jack in these days, as
might be supposed, was not very reticent,
and had told her something more about
Joanne Beresford than she had known
of old.

Yes, I have seen her," Godfrey answered
calmly, " and I am glad you saw her too."

She talked to me for a good while. I

thought she was very nice," Rita said rather


shyly. " And how pretty she is ! I shoukl
never have dressed she was so old."

Do you call her old ? She is thirty-nine.
People often keep their good looks longer
than that, my dear," Godfrey replied.

Oh, you did find her then ? " said Jack
coming up. " I wanted to go in search of
you, for I should like to have shaken hands
with her too, but Mrs. Hetherington got
hold of me, and I couldn't break away.
Well, and what did you think of her ? She
is altered, of course, but by the glance I
had of her she seemed to me to be looking
wonderfully well."

Yes, she is altered ; we all are, I
suppose," Godfrey answered with a half-laugh.


I haven't the least doubt / am," replied
Jack. " We all wore our hair in hyacin thine
curls, for instance, when she saw us


last. I remember that fact. Just think,
Eita ! It clustered over our temples, and
descended on our coat collars."

*' I think it must have been very nice,"
said Eita,  " far nicer than as you wear it
now."

*' Well, it was certainly different, at any
rate, and there's no doubt your father
looked a much shower person when Miss
Beresford knew him before than he does
to-day. Indeed, to tell the truth," said
Jack, with a mischievous twinkle in his eye,
I've no doubt she must have thought him
a good deal changed for the worse, for he
was a good-looking fellow in those days,
though perhaps you would scarcely believe
it now."

Yes, you think I find that hard to
believe ! " cried Eita, with a little proud
laugh.



The dancers fell presently to their work,
and Godfrey looked at them for a while,
and then strolled away. He could think
of nothing but Joanne Beresford. That
paralysis of feeling that had come over him
for a time in her presence had passed away
now, and his mind occupied itself unceasingly
in trying to recall all she had said,
and each look of the half-familiar, half-unknown
face.

I was an idiot to be startled because she

was changed," he told himself impatiently.

How, by any mortal possibility, could she

have helped being changed ? And as for

her manner,  that was simply what I made

it. I believe she would have been cordial

and frank enough if I had allowed her, but

I gave her no chance. I have been a

fool ! " he repeated. But if he had been

a fool he could not now undo his folly.


Papa, dear, are you tired ? " Eita said
tenderly to him presently as they drove
home. " I am afraid it has all been rather
dull for you, though / have thought it
delightful. Hasn't it been delightful,
Jack ? " And then she turned eagerly to
her lover, and Mr. Helstone did not find
that he was called upon to answer the
question she had asked.

So they drove to their hotel through the
lighted streets, and Godfrey held his peace,
and, leaning back in the corner of his
carriage, thought with half in voluntary
persistency of the woman he had loved,
and had seen again after so many years.



The Hailstones returned home at the end
of May, for Rita's marriage was of course
to take place at Ivor ; and on the 20th of
June the little damsel put on her orange
blossoms with a mixture of trepidation and
devout rejoicing, and entered upon her
new life.

It was not a very bright day to Godfrey.

Dearest old father, I think you will have

to come and live with us," the girl had begun

to say to him during the weeks before her

wedding  but thrush she looked forward to

this arrangement, it was hardly one perhaps

that presented itself to Mr. Helstone himself


as very probable. " I will go away
from Ivor for a time at any rate," was all
lie would promise her. '' Perhaps I shall
go abroad. I can't tell you vet."

*' But why can't you tell me ? " she urged
him more than once. Though she urged
him, however, she could not get him to say
anything more.

The joy bells rang o i her marriage day,
and the sun shone, and she cried a little,
but she was very happy. As for Mr. Dallas,
he was so nervous that, as he protested
afterwards, when he came into church his
knees knocked together. "You see," he
explained to Rita, " it was such a mistake
of mine not to accustom myself to the
ceremony in my youth."

They were going to Switzerland, and they

started as soon as the wedding breakfast

was over.

VOL. III. 209 49

There's not a happier man treading the
earth than I am to-day," Mr. Dallas said to
Godfrey as he bade good-bye to him ; "and,
God helping me, I'll try to make and keep
my little girl happy too'

I believe you will," Godfrey answered
briefly.

He kissed his daughter, and Jack wrung
his hand, and then the carriage door was
closed, and the young wife, and not young
husband, went their way.

" I am coming home to you, mother,"
Godfrey said to Mrs. Helstone when all
the guests were gone ; and so they went
together to the Dene, and spent their quiet
evening there.

I couldn't stand any more of the place

just now," he said, as they sat talking after

dinner. " I had been thinking of shutting

it up, you know, but it struck me only


yesterday, that instead of shutting it up I
might ask Miss Taylor to stay and take
charge of it ; so I have asked her, and she
will do that, and have her sister with her
for company. Perhaps I may come back
to it again before long ; I can't tell yet."

Godfrey spent a few days between Ivor
and the Dene, doing work and making
arrangements of various kinds, and then
rather abruptly he said to Mrs. Helstone
one evening 

I am thinking of going for a week or
two into Derbyshire. You remember that
place, Brentwood, where Jack and I were
long ago ? Old Beresford is still vicar there,
and I should like to go and see him and his
people."

Indeed ! " she answered quickly.

She could not but look keenly at

her son, trying and wishing to read his


thoughts. It was many a year since the
Beresfordss' name had been spoken between
them, but she was not likely to have
forgotten what she had once known about
Joanne.

What has made you think of that ?
Have you heard anything about them of
late ? " she asked after a moment or two's
silence. And then  for he had been prepared
for some such question  he told her ina
few words how he had met " one of the
daughters " when he was in town. Which
daughter it had been he did not say, and
Mrs. Helstone longed to ask, but did not.

Perhaps she gave a little inward sigh,

but after he had announced his intention

she said nothing to try to dissuade him

from carrying it out. If he meant to go

back to his old love she could not hinder

him, she knew. She had not the power todo


that, nor perhaps almost the desire ; for

during the years of Godfrey's marriage Mrs.

Helstone had come silently to recognize

with tolerable clearness that the burden

laid upon her son had not been easy to

bear, but that it had been one which

had eaten into his life, and made him a

different man from what in her early proud

anticipations she had hoped that he would

be. That poor dead woman had been a

faithful and loving wife to him ; but no one

knew better than Mrs. Helstone did now

that no joy, and no quickening of any

power that he possessed (but only the

reverse of that), had come to him from his

marriage with her. She was in her grave

now, and Rita had gone to another home,

and Godfrey was almost a young man still.

If he wants to marry again 1 will not try

to prevent him," Mrs. Helstone thought.


I am afraid it is hardly wise to go back to
a woman whom he has not seen for twenty
years (if that is indeed what is in his mind),
but I must leave it all alone. I cannot
help him, and if I speak I may vex him."
So she said nothing more, and Godfrey was
grateful for her silence.

He lingered at Ivor for a week or two,
delaying his final decision about his journey
from day to day. " Shall I go '? " he asked
himself again and again. " If I go, shall I
not find her changed in a hundred ways ? "
But yet, though he feared and almost believed
that he should find her changed, in
the end his desire to see her once more
proved stronger than his fear.

So one morning at last he said good-bye

to his mother and started for Brentwood.

I shall probably be lack again in a week

or two," he told Mrs. Helstone.


She made no comment on this announcement.
" God bless you, my dear," she
merely said when he went, with a little
quiver in her voice that perhaps did not
catch his ear.

In the sunny summer evening Godfrey 
almost the only passenger who stopped
there  got down at the little country station
that he had known once so well, and, ordering
his things to be sent up to the inn,
walked towards the village. It was allas
quiet and sleepy-looking as of old. A
few passers-by were in the street, but he
saw no face that he recognized. A new
landlord, as Joanne had told him, had
taken Mr. Turnbull's place at the little
inn.

He ordered some dinner, and waited

while they got it ready for him. It was

six o'clock, and when his meal was ended


he meant to go up to the Vicarage. Perhaps
he should not find Joanne at home, he
suddenly thought. It was possible enough,
with so many sisters married, and in all
likelihood often wanting her. "Well, in
that case I cannot help it," he told himself.
I shall see the Vicar at any rate." And
scarcely knowing whether or not, if he
learnt that she was absent, he should feel
the disappointment much, he rose when his
dinner was over, and putting on his hat,
turned his steps towards the familiar road
along which he had passed so many times
of old.

His mood hitherto perhaps since he
started on his journey had not been an
eager one ; perhaps he had been afraid of
indulging in hopes that might end so soon
in disappointment ; " for to attempt to

revive a state of feeling that has been set


aside for twenty years," he had said to
himself ever since he had left his own
house, " is not, I fear, the effort of a wiseman."
But now, though he had been able
so far to retain his calm self-possession, it
broke down at last. His heart began to
beat fast as he went along that well-remembered
road ; a hundred recollections
came back to him. As he turned in at the
Vicarage gate, and went through the winding
walk that led out on the lawn, he felt
as if it had only been yesterday that he
had been there last  as if his life were still
before him, and he and Joanne were still
young.

And indeed it was difficult to believe that
so many years had really passed away, for
the same children's voices that he had been
used to hear seemed to be in the air

again as he approached the house, the


same figures he had known (he could almost

think) were moving about the Lawn. Fora

minute he stood still in the shadow of

the trees, and looked before him. Four

boys and girls, with half familiar faces, were

playing tennis on the grass, while the hale

old Yicar stood and watched them, his feet

in their old fashion firmly planted well

apart, his hands behind his back, his hair

a 'little whiter than when Godfrey had seen

it last, his figure perhaps a little less erect,

but the voice as mellow and full as ever,

as at intervals he called out comments

on the game, or commendations to the

players.

Godfrey looked at the scene for a minute,

and then came forward into the sunshine,

causing the Vicar swiftly to change the

direction of his gaze. He went straight upto

the old man, and held out his hand.


It is a long time since I saw you last,
Mr. Beresford," he said.

The Vicar stood still and looked at him.

*' Ah ? " he said interrogatively. " Why,
let me see ! you are  you are  ? " And
then his look of inquiry changed, and the
fine old face blazed into sudden recognition.
God bless my heart, you are young Hel-stone
! " he cried, with a shout that made
Godfrey laugh.

'' I thought I should have puzzled you
longer," he said.

Not you, not you ! " exclaimed the
Vicar cheerily. " IVe not a bad memory
for faces. Besides, didn't you send a message
to me ? I heard of you from Joanne,
you know. She said you talked of coming
to see us again,  though, to tell the truth,
I didn't pay much heed to that ! But I'm

glad to see you ; you're welcome back.


Come away and speak to the old wife.

Joanne is somewhere about. And Edith

is here too, with her boys. There they

are  two stout little lads. And these slips

of girls are Vi's. You heard of poor Vi's

trouble, did you ? Ah, yes, there have

been changes amongst us  many changes

since we met last," and his face saddened

for a moment ; " but, thank God, He has

left us more than He has taken away.

You have had your own sorrow too, Mr.

Helstone. Yes, yes, I heard about it.

Weil, you have felt what I have not felt

yet. We have borne what we have had

to bear together, my wife and I,  so far.

So far," he repeated, with a fall in his voice

that did not escape the other's ear.

They went towards the house, but before

they had reached it the Vicar threw his

head over his shoulder and stopped.


Joanne, come here ! " he cried suddenly,
with one of his old stentorian calls ; and
Godfrey turned with a thrill, to find the
woman he had come to seek only a few
yards from him.

She was comines towards them alone the
gravel walk. He went hastily forward and
met her. " Good God, can it be twenty
years ago ? " he thought.

She gave him her hand with a smile,
but something of his own emotion seemed
to be felt by her to 3, for she was not quick
to speak.

I told you, you know, that I should
come," he was the first to say.

*' Yes, you said you would like to

come," she answered; "but one would

like to do so many things  that never

get done.  And so your daughter is

married ? " she added hastily, as if to


keep him from replying to her first
sentence.

Ay, ay, you've been getting a daughter
married too, I hear," the Vicar struck in,
and married, of all men, to Jack Dallas !
I thought it was a joke at first when Joanne
told me. But he was a fine fellow  he was
as fine a young fellow as I've often come
across : and if he has got a good wife, I
think your daughter, in spite of his years,
has got a good husband. Mrs. Beresford
thinks so, at any rate, I can tell you."

'mrs. Beresford always did Jack justice,"
Godfrey answered laughing.

They found the old lady within-doors,
looking more changed by a good deal, Godfrey
thought, than the Vicar did. Her
face had grown rather pinched, and she
had got deaf, and her old activity was gone.
But she had all her wits about her still



Mr. Helstone ? Is this Mr. Helstone ? "
she said, looking him over from head to
foot when they had said his name in her
ear. '' Ah well, I dare say it is, but I
shouldn't have known him. It was Mr.
Dallas that I always knew best. And he
has just got married to your daughter,
hasn't he ? Dear, dear, that did surprise
me ! I'm very glad to see you again, Mr.
Helstone ; and when you write to your friend
give him my love, and tell him I'm an old
woman now, but I've not forgotten him,
and I wish him every happiness. You will
do that, won't you '? "

Yes, certainly I will," replied Godfrey
heartily.

He sat down by her side, and presently

the Vicar and Joanne came and sat down

too. The young ones were still busy with

their game upon the lawn, and these four,


who were no longer young, stayed together

for a long time, and talked of the years

that they had left behind. It was a quiet

hour, and one that had had no counterpart

in the days that had been of old, but its

grave friendliness was pleasant to Godfrey ;

its tone seemed to imply that those old

days, brief as they had been, had linked

him to these companions with a tie that

long separation had not broken.

The one who said the most was Mr.

Beresford ; the most silent of the four was

Joanne ; but while her father talked the

consciousness of her presence seemed to

Godfrey almost to satisfy him. She was

working, and for minutes together he let

his eyes rest on her. Surely she was less

changed than he had supposed at first ? he

began to think. Her face, that had seemed

half strange a month ago, was acquiring a


new familiarity to him now ; lie imagined

that lie was seeing her again as she used

to be, not recognizing (perhaps because he

did not wish to recognize) that his former

memory of her was growing indistinct, half

effaced by the visible fact of what she had

become. By the time that the evening

ended he had said with satisfaction to

himself, " She only looks a very little

older ; in everything else she is scarcely

changed at all."

They sat and talked till the door at last

opened briskly, and some one whom at first

Godfrey did not recognize stood for a

moment on the threshold, and then came

forward with an exclamation and a laugh.

She was a lady of pretty ample proportions,

dressed for walking, with bright dark eyes,

and a plump white hand, which she extended

instantly to Godfrey with much friendliness.
VOL. III. 225 50

"Do you mean to say that you don't
know me 1 " she asked, reading no doubt
a certain hesitation in his manner as he
rose to respond to her greeting. "Oh,
that's dreadful ! Why, I knew you merely
by seeing you through the window. But,
oh dear, it does change one so awfully to
get fat ! "

I beg your pardon ! Of course you
are Miss Edith," Godfrey said ; " or rather,
I mean  " And then he had to stop, for
he could not recall her married name.

You mean ' Mrs. Travers,' " said Edith,

giving him the information promptly.

Well, how funny it is to see you again !

But, dear me, it's nice ! Is it not, mother ? "

and she raised her voice into a higher

key. " You like to see Mr. Helstone again,

don't you ? "

Yes ; but I should like better still to


see Mr. Dallas," replied Mrs. Beresford, withall
her old downright frankness.

Mrs. Travers's advent broke up their
quiet party.

** It is such a lovely evening ; why do
you all sit in here ? " she asked. " Come
out, Mr. Helstone, and have a walk with
me in the garden. I want to ask you ever
so many things, but I am not going to
talk in this close room. Come along; it's
so nice out of doors."

And so she carried him out, and in
another minute he found himself walking
along one of the well-remembered walks by
her side.

It makes one feel terribly old to see

you again ! " she exclaimed, as soon as

she had got him here. "Not that I mean

you look old, for you don't ; I think you

look very well ; but it is so many years


ago, and some of us arc changed so much,
and some  Ah, you know about little
Femie, don't you ? " and she shook her head
and sighed. *' That was a dreadful grief.
Papa will never quite get over it  never,
I believe. Isn't it rather sad to find us all
so scattered, and all of us girls married,
except Joanne ? I don't know why Joanne
hasn't married too. She might have done
it, of course, if she had liked ; or she
might do it still tomorrow, if she would
have poor Hugh. Oh, Mr. Helstone, do
you remember Hugh ? " and Edith burst
out laughing. " I am sure there never
was such a faithful old fellow. I always
tell Joanne that she ought to take him
still, just to reward him for his fidelity."
Oh, 1 don't know about that," ejaculated
Godfrey rather quickly. " Fidelity is

best left sometimes to be its own reward.



I dare say Mr. Hugh Beresford is very
happy."

Well, certainly I can't say he is unhappy,"
Mrs. Travers acknowledged. " But
still he is very nice in his way, and he is
so desperately fond of Joanne that I can't
think why she shouldn't take him. It's
such an old story by this time, however,
that I suppose nothing will ever come of
it. I fancy Joanne means to remain Joanne
Beresford now to the end of the chapter."

She had better do that, I should say,
than marry simply because a man is in
love with her," replied Godfrey bluntly.

They had turned their backs upon the
house, not exactly by Mr. Helstone's wish,
for each step they were taking was withdrawing
them further from the other two,
in whom his interest was greater than in

Mrs. Travers ; but Edith had never been


particularly quick-sighted with regard to

the feelings of other people, so she carried

Godfrey about the garden, and kept him

with her while she talked to him of many

things. After a little while he submitted

himself resignedly enough to his position.

There was a sense of familiarity that touched

him very keenly in this slow rambling in

the fading light about these well-remembered

winding walks. He would rather have had

Joanne for his companion than Mrs. Travers ;

but he could afford to wait until another

night for Joanne.

They walked about for half an-hour, until

at last a call from one of her boys took

Edith from his side, and then Godfrey,

left at liberty, made his way to the lawn,

and found Joanne and her father sitting

together there in the dusk. There was

room on the bench they occupied for a


third person, and Godfrey took the vacant
place.

It was just this time of year when you
were here before, was it not ? " the Vicar
chanced to ask him after a time. " Ay, ay,
I remember it was. That was a dry fine
summer ; it was the last one that we spent
all together, before these lassies beoan to
take flight from the old nest. And my
little Femie was here then," said the Vicar
quietly. "You haven't forgotten her, Mr.
Helstone ? Yes, that was the sharpest
stroke God ever laid on me."

I can well believe it," Godfrey answered
with earnest sympathy.

She was our youngest  not our only,
but our last, ewe lamb. God bless her ! "
said the old man in a low voice.

You must come some evening with us

and see her grave," Joanne struck in after


one or two moments' silence. " Hers is our
only grave, you know, for poor Tom died
at sea."

Yes, he lies many a fathom deep," said
the Vicar. '* Ay, and he was a good lad
too,  an upright honest lad."

I always thought him that," replied
Godfrey cordially.

After a little while their talk took a
lighter tone. The two men began to recall
the days they had spent with their rods
together, and the Vicar held forth about
the art he loved with all his old enthusiasm.

Fish with you again ? To be sure I'll
fish with you again ! " he told Godfrey.
When shall it be ? To-morrow ? Let
us say tomorrow. There's nothing like
taking time by the forelock."

I quite agree with you," replied Mr.

Helstone, laughing. " If you can spare


the time, let us say tomorrow by all

means."

"Oh, I can spare the time," said Mr.

Beresford. " I've got lazy in these latter

days, and the consequence of my laziness

is that I've got a curate, and so that eases

my back of the most part of its burden.

The truth is  " and he hesitated for a

moment, but after that went on very

frankly,  " the truth is, Mr. Helstone,

I began a good many years ago to feel

that my sermons and ministrations were

getting stale. I've written some fairly

decent sermons in my day, but a man

who can write sermons well for fifty years

is a bird, it's my opinion, of rather a

rare kind of plumage. So the other

day I got this young fellow to come over

and see if he could stir up some of our

sluggish hearts a little,  and he's done


it, I can tell you," added the Vicar with
emphasis.

'sit must be a great relief to you,"
said Godfrey. " Fifty years of sermon-making
seems certainly to me too much
to be required of any one."

I think it is," Mr. Beresford assented
heartily. " It's hard on the man who
makes the sermons, and harder still on the
congregation who have to sit from youth
to old age and listen to them. I've been
sorry for m?/ congregation many a day.
Decent people they are too, and as patient
as Job."

I don't think they are ever likely to
have been conscious that their patience
was being tried," replied Godfrey, laughing.

In the dusk that had become almost
night some steps sounded on the path, and
Joanne said, *there comes Violet." And



then Godfrey rose, and saw a tall woman
coming towards them, dressed in black.

"Yes, I remember quite well when you
were here before," she said when they had
shaken hands, *but it is such a long time
ago. I don't think I should know your
face."

Next to Lilian, Violet had been the
beauty of the family ; and presently, when
they returned to the house and came into
the light, Godfrey saw that she was
very handsome still, with a finer face
than Lilian's  a pale woman, with large
dark eyes. In her widow's cap and long
straight skirts she looked very striking,
Mr. Helstone thought.

They went to their homely supper in

the old way before Godfrey left them.

He was given a place at table between

the married sisters. He had had little


all the evening to do with Joanne, but
he told himself again that he could afford
to wait. To-night he felt that he was
only gathering up the dropped threads of
former days ; there was no need for haste.

Well then, Mr. Helstone, we shall meet
in the morning," the Vicar said cheerily as
Godfrey took his leave at last. " I'll come
to you, and we'll have a grand day of it."

I shall feel sure of that if I have your
company," Godfrey answered with warmth ;
and Mr. Beresford balanced himself backward
on his heels and laughed.

Ah, you are trying your hand at flattering
an old man ! " he exclaimed. " Well,
well, we don't get wiser always as we grow
in years, and the old fish, I am afraid,
feels tempted to rise to the bait. Off with
you, sir, and get to bed, or in the morning
you'll find me before you at the river."



With talk that was sometimes gay and
sometimes grave, Mr. Beresford and Godfrey
passed the morning of the following
day. They fished in the old pools ; the
weather was mild and grey ; the river and
the meadows, the long stretch of higher
ground, the belts of wood, all looked as
they had lived in Godfrey's memory for
twenty years.

"Yes, Lilian left us after that summer

when you were here before," the Vicar said

once abruptly, "and then it was not very

long after that that your own marriage


came. I remember I saw it in the paper ;
and when she died too I saw her death.
I had a mind to write to you then and
say a word of sympathy ; but we put off
coins: a vast number of thing's in this
world, to our shame, and I put off that,
till it got too late to do it. You must
forgive me, sir. I've got a good sermon
against dilatoriness in my study that I've
preached with much gusto more than once ;
but, alas for us ! we preach what we don't
practise. It's the old story  as old as the
world. We call on others to do what we
fail to do ourselves."

We had better do even that than fail
to call at all," Godfrey said.

Ay, but if the shepherd goes astray,

will the sheep, do you think, go straight ?

Ah, I doubt it, I doubt it I " Mr. Beresford

answered half aloud.



They fished till one o'clock, and then
parted.

Are you coming up this evening ? " the
Vicar asked ; and Godfrey said  ' Yes."

That is, if you will not have had too
much of me," he added next moment, upon
which the Vicar laughed.

No fear of that," he exclaimed heartily.
I've never known the day yet when a
friend's face hasn't been a welcome sight."

o

Godfrey saw Joanne in the village after
his early dinner that afternoon, and putting
on his hat, for be was in the inn, ran after
her and overtook her. " Are you going
home ? " he asked her ; and when she answered
" Yes," he set himself at her side.
But he soon thought that he would try
to make her linger a little on the way,
so, after walking towards the Vicarage fora

minute or two 



I haven't been up to see that pretty
view yet," he said abruptly, pointing
towards a footpath on their left which,
striking up from the road, wound through
the trees to a little wooded height.
Come and let us have a look at it.
You are not in a hurry, are you, to get
back ? "

N  0," she replied. Bat she made her
answer with a momentary hesitation that
his ear caught.

Though his ear caught her tone, however,
he took no notice of it. " 1 want
to see it again," he merely said, and began
to mount, without giving her any further
opportunity to object.

He was conscious that she was not quite

at ease with him, but as she followed

him half unwillingly he felt little regret

at that. Their companionship in these


familiar spots was beset with so many
recollections of former days that he knew
she could not be with him now and fail
to recall that other time when they had
been here of old, and when he had almost
been her lover.

If she was shy of him, however, his
manner enabled her to gain control over
her shyness soon. He had forgotten little
enough that concerned those old days, but
he said nothing to her of his remembrance
of them as they climbed to their tiny hilltop,
and stood there together, looking down
on the view that he had told her he wished
to see again. The place they had reached
was merely a little hillock studded with
trees, and the view was an ordinary one
enough, though pretty and pastoral, and
looking its best at this moment, for the

day had improved, and the afternoon
VOL. III. 241 51

sunshine was lying brightly and softly on
the hill-sides ; but he had been here with
Joanne before, and that fact gave a charm
to the place in his eyes that, except for
her remembered presence, it would not have
had.

There was a felled pine tree lying on
the ground, and, after they had stood still
for a little while, Godfrey sat down on it.

"Are you tired?" Joanne asked when
he did this.

*No; but this makes a very good seat;
try it," he answered.

And then, a little reluctantly, she sat
down too. She would rather not have done
it perhaps, but there was a strong unwillingness
in her (of which he was not unconscious)
to let him see that she was unwilling.

For his part, when she took her seat at

his side he was very well content. The


habit that had grown upon him through
many years had made Godfrey very
leisurely now in almost all his actions : his
blood did not flow quickly in these days ;
his resolves formed themselves rather
deliberately and steadily than with much
fervour. It gave him a keen feeling of
pleasant repose at this moment to find himself
once more with Joanne Beresford as his
companion, but in this his grave middle age
he was satisfied to let his sense of the sweet
familiarity of her presence take quiet possession
of him again. If he was happy to
have her near him, he had the reticence to
keep his happiness unexpressed.

He made her gradually at home with
him, and she began to talk to him very
naturally after a time. He asked her many
questions, and she answered them willingly

and frankly.



I seem to be giving you a great deal
of family history," she exclaimed once, with
a laugh.

Yes ; hut I am asking you for it. I
am interested in you all, remember," he
replied.

They talked for a long while. Perhaps
they both forgot how fast the afternoon
was passing. It was she who in the end
was the first to look at her watch. By that
time it was half-past five o'clock, and she
rose up quickly from her seat.

I shall only be home in time for tea,"

she said. " Are you coming with me ? I

mean, were you thinking of coming up tous

this evening ? "

** Yes," he said, '' I am coming, if you

will have me. I am afraid you will be

asked to put up with a great deal of me,

for your father has been good enough to tell


me I may come when I like ; and there is
not even poor Mrs. Arthur now," he added,
to share the burden of my company with

you."

'* I don't think you ever went much to
Aunt Arthur's in the evening. She was
fashionable, and had afternoon parties, you
know," Joanne said.

He had not meant to go to the Vicarage
till tea was over, but he did not care to
deny himself the pleasure of going with
Joanne, so they walked to the house
together. He would have been content to
follow her wherever she went, for already
the old feeling was silently but surely
coming back to him which long ago had
made the place in which she was the one
in which he most desired to be.

He said something to her about her

father as they got near the Vicarage gate.


"He is the least altered of you all," he
told her. " Time has touched him with
a wonderfully gentle hand. I don't think
he looked young for his age when I saw
him first, but now he looks hale, and as if
he might live for twenty more years. Yes,
even you are more changed than he is."

"must indeed be changed," she answered.
How could I fail to be ? A woman may
well alter between nineteen and nine-and-thirty."


" You don't look nine-and-thirty," he
said quietly. " Your sister Edith is much
older in appearance than you."

Edith's stoutness has aged her," Joanne

replied. " It is a pity she has got so stout,

for it has changed her very much. And

Lilian has grown rather stout too ; but

Lilian is very handsome still. And Violet

is handsome ; don't you think so % "


Violet is beautiful," Godfrey answered
with warmth. " I don't think your eldest
sister was ever to be compared with ber.
One would never tire of a face like Mrs.
Rawlinson's."

No ; I think that too'* Joanne
answered ; but sbe spoke with the
momentary sadness of a woman wbo, in
the presence of somebody wbo bas once
loved ber, remembers that ber own youth
is gone.

Godfrey found a stranger at the Vicarage
in a long black coat.

It is Mr. Hudson," Joanne told bim.

He often comes up for a little. We like

bim very much  tbougb be puts us all to

shame," sbe added after a moment, with a

little reluctance that Godfrey thought be

understood. " He is doing a great deal in

the parish. He works very bard," sbe said.


Godfrey talked to Mr Hudson a little
presently, and found him wrapped up in
the duties of his post  a devoted, absorbed
man, indifferent to the world and the things
of the world. He was a singular contrast
to his Vicar, as his Vicar, with his clear
good sense, very well knew.

"Yes, we are made of different stuff,
Hudson and I," he said during the evenings
to Mr. Helstone ; " but he is of the right
sort. I am master and he is servant here,
but we shall take different places in the
next world. I always go about with him
thinking that. I think it whenever we
walk into church together,  I first, and heat
my heels."

Your temperaments are different,"
Godfrey said, '' and if your temperaments
are different, your lives can hardly be the
same."



Ay, but we both undertook to do our
Master's work,  and he is doing it," said the
old man, with a ring in his voice, " while I
stand idle."

One of Violet's light-footed girls ran
suddenly across their path, and the Vicar
arrested her with a quick hand on her
shoulder. Perhaps the diversion was not
unwelcome.

Whither away, my little lass ? " he
asked.

We have lost one of our balls," the
child answered. " I think it went in
there."

In there amongst the bushes ? Let me
see if I can find it," Godfrey said.

Before they Event to supper the Vicar

called for some music, and Joanne went to

the piano, and sang something that Godfrey

did not know. He had hoped that she


would choose one of the okl songs, but she
did not. When she had finished he said
this to her*'

I have thought so often of those old
songs of yours," he said. " I hope you
mean to let me hear some of them again ? "

I don't sing them often now," she
answered ; " but  oh yes, of course I will
sing one if you like."

And then she sang one that he knew
well, and it moved him as hardly anything
else even had moved him yet.

He sat where he could see her welland

he listened and looked at her, with

eyes that were fast getting held again by

their old love, and, with every hour that

passed, losing some portion of their power

to perceive that time had robbed her of

any charm or sweetness. It seemed to

him that he had never heard a woman sing


as she did ; he had always thought so,
even through the doubt which had sometimes
crossed him, whether indeed her
singing deserved the intense admiration
he had given it ; but now he heard it
attain, and the feeling* with which he
had listened to it of old came back to
him tumultuously, with a dear familiarity.
It was the emotion of twenty years ago
unchanged, or, if changed at all, new only
in its power to take a deeper possession of
him.

She san2c two songes that were sad and
pathetic, and then, almost as if in mockery
of their pathos, suddenly she broke into a
little joyous bit of melody that rang
through the room like a songs from a heart
that had never known a care.

That is something else that I do not
know," he said, when she had ended it ; but



she merely laughed at this remark as she
rose up.

*' Most of the song-s I sino: now are ones
that you do not know," she said.

It was his love of fishing, he had found,
that had been assumed to be one of the
principal motives that had brought him
back to Brentwood.

You must be a great enthusiast," Edith
had said to him; but he had laughed at
that accusation.

' I pass years sometimes without taking
a rod in my hand," he assured her. *' Oh
no, I have no clair to be called an enthusiast
; I am simply a man at this moment
who has lost his moorings."

And have you come here to recover
them ? " asked Edith in her old sharp way.
I beg your pardon ! I am very sorry for

you,  only it seems odd."



I have come here because you all

made me happy amongst you long ago,"

Godfrey said. " I am idle, and I like

to ramble about your woods and by your

river. I have not many old friends, and

so I like to renew my hold upon the few

I possess,"

AVell, that's very nice ; and if I

may look upon myself as one of the old

friends, I feel grateful," Edith answered

cordially.

Godfrey liked Mrs. Travers for the sake

of former days, and now in these present

ones he gave himself up to be talked toby

her a good deal. She was staying herewith

her boys during her husband's absence

from home for a few weeks, and about both

her husband and her children, and indeed

about most other things in heaven and

earth, she seemed to take a lively pleasure


in conversing with Mr. Helstone. Violet
was generally rather shy and reserved with
him, but Edith treated him with the frankest
friendliness.

I wish you had seen Vi at her best,"
she said to him one day. " She was a
pretty creature. But she is awfully changed
now. Doesn't she look ill and sad ? You
see, hers was a complete love-match, and
I am sure I don't wonder at it, for Fred
Rawlinson was simply delightful. When
he died it was something dreadful for
her."

I think Mrs. Rawlinson is wonderfully
handsome still," Godfrey answered. " It
is really a noble face."

Well, I am glad you think so," said

Edith heartily. " I always thought her

beautiful myself, even when she was only

a little thing. And do you remember how


Mr. Dallas used to admire her, and say he
would come back to many her ? Well, he
has been a good while in marrying anybody,
and I suppose now his wife isn't much like
Violet?"

She is not indeed," Godfrey answered
with a laugh. '' Though some of us who
love her think her pretty enough, I am
afraid she couldn't hold a candle to Mrs.
Eawlinson.'

Ah, well, we can't all be beauties," said

Edith philosophically. " I was never very

pretty myself, and I am awfully fat now ;

but if I were as handsome as the best of

them, I don't think I could be a bit happier.

For I am ve?i/ happy, Mr. Helstone. I

don't envy any woman either her face or

her fortune. There is Lilian, for instance ;

I'm sure, though she is twice as rich as weare,

I wouldn't change places with /ler for


millions ; and here is poor Violet, with her

husband dead,  and Joanne, who has never

had a husband at all. There is none of

them so well off as I am,  not one, in spite

of them all being so much better-looking

than I ever pretended to be;" and Mrs.

Travers complacently caressed her plump

white hands, and then looked up into

Godfrey's face with a laugh.

You are thinking that self-satisfaction

is a very bad thing, aren't you ? " she

asked him. " Oh, well, I know it is. But

contentment isn't a bad thing, nor gratitude

to God and the people who have made one

happy. And I am sure I don't mean that

I deserve to be happier than the rest of

them ; I only mean that I am happier, and

that I think I have got the best husband

amongst them all."

*rand do you too prefer Mr. Travers to


your other brothers-in-law ? " Godfrey asked

Joanne one day after this.

But Joanne looked rather amused, and 

*' Has Edith been telling you that he is

better than the rest ? " she said. " Well,

sie believes he is, of course, and they are

very happy together, and he is really very

nice, in a way. But I think it is rather

a commonplace way. You wouldn't care

much for him, I am afraid. Oh no," she

added after a moment, " Fred Rawlinson

was the brother-in-law I cared for most."

Mr. Rawlinson seems to have been very

fortunate," Godfrey said. '' He won golden

opinions apparently all round."

"Yes  we all liked him," Joanne answered,

'' every one of us. It was a great pleasure

to us when he asked Vi to marry him, and

it was a great  it was a very great  sorrow

to us when he died."

VOL. III. 257 52

Then you and lie were friends ? " Godfrey
said abruptly.

Yes  we were great friends," she answered


 .,

.#



In these pleasant idle days, when Godfrey

was leading; the same life assail that he had

led in that other unforgotten holiday so

many years ago, a considerable part of his

time soon came to be spent with Joanne.

He was at the Vicarage during some part

of every four-and-twenty hours. As it

had been of old, he became again almost

one of themselves, coming and going ashe

liked. He often went fishing with the

Vicar ; he made friends with the new

generation of children ; he talked a great

deal with Edith, and a little with Violet,


but most of all he cared to be where Joanne
was.

She was fond of walking, and as often
as it was possible he used to accompany
her on her walks. At first he tried to give
an appearance of chance to these meetings
with her, but presently he ventured
gradually to let her see that they did not
come by chance. One day he found her
sittings sketching, and as he threw himself
down on the grass beside her he told her
frankly that he was delighted to know
that he should be able to find her in this
same spot on future days.

For this drawing will take you a' longtime
to do, I hope ? " he said.

"That will depend upon how I do it,
I suppose," she answered  a little consciously
perhaps.

"Then do it carefully and minutely,"


he said. '' I don't like the Impressionist
school of art. When I look at a tree in a
picture I like to be able to count its leaves''

I am sure you don't," she replied
laughing.

But he proceeded to read her a lecture
gravely on the necessity for deliberation
and completeness in her work, and would
not allow that he was talking in jest.

She made her picture that day, and he

lay at her feet with a feeling of supreme

content. His life since he had been here

last seemed to be fading away from him

in these happy weeks,  all growing dim

in the charm of this recovered atmosphere

that was giving him back his youth and

the hope that he had lost so long ago.

He often now almost forgot that neither

he nor she was young ; she seemed so

little changed ; he felt so little changed too.


He was thinking this to-day, when,
curiously, in the midst of his thoughts,
she began suddenly to speak about that
life that he had left behind him.

She had never done this until now ; the
briefest reference to the past, and to Margaret,
had been all that had ever passed
between them. But perhaps she had already
had it in her mind to break her silence ;
for to-day, after there had been a pause
for a minute or two between them, she
all at once began to speak, in a way that
did not seem to be unpremeditated.

*' May I say something to you ? " she

asked abruptly, and rather nervously. " You

know, after that day  long ago  when I

saw you last  of course I often thought

about your marriage. I often wondered if

you were content." She hesitated for a

moment. " I have no right to ask  but 


you were content, were you not % " she
said timidly.

*' Yes  I was content," he deliberately
replied.

He made no other answer for a minute ;
but at the end of that time he beo-an too



speak again, very gravely.

You helped me that day when I needed
help," he said. " God knows I have all
my life been grateful to you.  No, I never
repented my marriage. My wife was one
of the best and most unselfish of women, 
and she never knew  what I went that day
in my trouble and told to you. That was
best wasn't it ? "

I knew you wouldn't tell her," Joanne

said quickly. " It was only to keep silent

for a little while  till her love made you

love her."

Well I did that," he answered. " You


gave me strength to do it. So I have owed
not a little to you, you see.  Oh no, I have
not been an unhappy man. She gave her
whole life to me for seventeen years, poor
girl ; and she gave me Rita too. My little
daughter was a great consolation to me."

'' I never knew whether you had any
children until that day I saw you at Mrs.
Lomas's. I used often to wonder if you
had," Joanne said.

'* After your goodness to me perhaps I
might have told you. Did you think I
miofht ? " he asked. " Well, it was not want
of gratitude to you, at any rate, that kept
me silent."

And then there was a pause, which

seemed to come abruptly, for he had asked

her a question, but she had not answered

it.

The worst is that when the end comes


we regret so many things," he said, beginning
to speak again, after a minute or more
had passed in silence. " While opportunities
are ours we do so little, and then comes
the ' too late ' that stops it all."

Yes ; but if you made her happy  "
she said, hesitating a little.

"You assume that I made her happy,"
he interrupted her. " I am afraid if she
was happy it was only her owen goodness
that made her so,  not mine. Mine to her
was poor enough,  a negative goodness at
the best, that took all she gave me (which
was her life and her every thought), and
returned her only enough affection to make
me simply kind. That is not much to
boast of. It is a poor thing to be all that
I can say."

But she would have said more perhaps*

Joanne answered quickly.


Very possibly, for she was the sort of
woman to magnify small things. But the
truth is as I put it, Miss Beresford," Godfrey
returned abruptly, with almost harsh
decision. " I tell you so,  and I can only
ask you to find an excuse for me, if you
think an excuse exists."

And then she made no answer. " The
light is changing so ; I think I shall have
to stop," she only said after a little silence ;
and then he rose and came to look at what
she had been doing.

She had covered her paper with colour,
and he shook his head at her.

You are generalizing far too much. I
call this a very hasty blotty style," he told
her. " At this rate, after another two hours'
work, you will call your picture finished,
and / shall not be able to discover one

finished bit in it from end to end."


Not so much as a single tree with its
leaves defined ! " she said laughing.

"A single tree! I shall not find so
much as a single twig ! And yet  if it will
not make you vain  T confess," he allowed,
that there seems to me something in this.
You couldn't have done it, I imagine, when
I was here before."

I may well have improved a little in
all these years," she said. " I have had
lessons since you were here."

And you had always a natural gift for
it, I think," he answered. '' Yes  even
when you drew much less well than you do
now I used to like your sketches. Do you
remember one day when I came upon you
drawings in the wood above the river ? "

Yes ; I remember it," she said.

You let me stay with you that day

too. You were doing some birch trees.


I wonder if you have got that drawing
still ? "

I never finished it," she said a little
quickly. " I was only beginning it that
day."

Well, I had thought it was worth
finishing," he merely replied.

They had been used to play croquet in
those other evenings at the Vicarage : they
played tennis now, but it was for the
most part only the children who played.
The others, whose age for games was past,
merely looked on. But yet Godfrey found
these evenings no less pleasant to him than
those others had been when he was young.

There were seats on the large lawn where

they could sit and talk ; they had the

garden to ramble about, and the adjacent

fields, which they entered by the wicket

gate that led down to the river, to turn
268

into if they wanted to extend their walk.
Very often Mr. Beresford and Joanne and
Godfrey strolled down across these meadows
to the river to see the sun set. It was in
these fields that Godfrey had seen Joanne
first. He well remembered the very spot
where he had been standing with his rod
when he turned round and found her coming;
towards him.

And your arrival put me out, because I
had been about to wade in after that hat of
mine," he told her one evening, laughing.

We were quite unconscious that we put
you out  and after all, you see, we saved
you the trouble of wading," she answered.

"Yes," he said, 'you did the first of

your good deeds to me that day." And

then he added  " You have done many a

one since."

One evening when the Vicar and Mr.


Helstone happened to be alone (they were
out of doors, and for the moment all the
others had dispersed in different directions),
Godfrey, yielding to a sudden impulse, said
something to him about Joanne. Mr.
Beresford had chanced to make a passing
remark about her.

Joanne generally has a trick of being
more right than the rest of them," he said.

Upon which Godfrey made the abrupt
answer 

I think she is always right. This world
would cease to be imperfect at all if all
women in it were like her."

Ay ? " said the Vicar briskly upon this,
and his eyes sent out rather a sharp glance
on his companion.

And then Godfrey went on deliberately
 " I have always thought so  almost

from the first day I ever knew her."


They were walking together round the
garden, and an abrupt silence followed these
last words. Godfrey hardly knew why he
had spoken them ; he hardly knew after a
minute why he spoke again. But it was at
least a generous feeling that made him doit,
 a sudden feeling of pity and sympathy
for the old man, whose dearest possession
he had set his heart on taking from him.

Mr. Beresford, I think you must know
why 1 am here," he abruptly said. " Twenty
years ago, if it had been in my powder, I
would have asked Joanne to be my wife."

And  lad ! have you come back to ask

her now ? " said the Vicar, almost with a

cry. There was a momentary fire in his

face,  a sudden wrath that made his eyes

flash, and gave him the look of an old

soldier facing his foe. But the flame hardly

lasted more than a second. " I might have


known," lie added, almost immediately, in a
tone that had fallen into another key. 'I
am an old fool  for I might have known."

She is more dear to me than I can trust
myself to tell you," Godfrey said in a low
voice, for he was trying to control an emotion
that almost got the mastery of him.
*' She was the love of my youth, but she is
dearer to me now even than she was in
those old days  though both her youth and
mine are gone. If I take her from you  "

So 5ou think she'll have you ? " the

Vicar interrupted him wistfully. He looked

at Godfrey for a moment. ' Ah, well  you

know about it probably," he added with an

effort,  " and I have an old man's dim eyes

and have not seen." He was silent for a

few seconds ; then in a low voice  '' My

poor lass ! " he said ; " and did sie think

of this too twenty years ago ? "


I never had the right to ask her that,"
Godfrey answered, with a keenness of
memory that sent the hot blood to his
face.

The Vicar walked on quickly a little way
ahead of his companion. They were near
the gate that led into the meadow, and
when he reached it he opened it and passed
through.

' One can breathe better here," he said
as Godfrey folio weed him, " and a man feels
the need of a deep breath at times. You
see, sir, you have given me a blow."

I am afraid I have," Godfrey answered
quickly ; " and you will find it hard to
forgive me for it."

'' Nay, nay, sir ! " cried the old man
vigorously, "that is a thing you need not
fear. About forgiveness you have no call
to speak. As I say, this  this shakes me a

VOL. III. 273 53

little, you understand,  but God forbid that
I should grudge her any happiness. I have
never done that, I trust. I would cut my
right hand off and fling it in the fire rather
than do it now I "

With a ring in his voice he took his hat
from his head. They had been standing
still, but suddenly he began to stride
towards the river. For a few moments
Godfrey looked after him, doubtful whether
to follow him or not ; then he turned back
again towards the still open gate. '' Where
is Joanne ? " he was thinking to himself.

He went back into the garden and

approached the house, looking for her. The

usual stir of young voices was in the air,

and the children with Edith were on the

lawn, preparing for their customary pastime.

Joanne he found presently sitting

with her mother by one of the open drawing-room


windows. It was not a French window,
but one with a low sill on which those
who were out of doors, if they wished to
talk to the occupants of the room, could
come and lean or sit. Godfrey had often
come and leant there before this. He stood
now for a good while talking to the two
women within.

The click of Mrs. Beresford's knitting
mingled with the sound of their
voices. She knitted socks for her grandsons
now, as she had knitted for an earlier
generation twenty years ago.

You must have made a great many
pairs in your life," Godfrey said, watching
her work, at a pause in their talk.

They have worn out a great many
pairs," the old lady answered with alacrity.
You would scarcely believe it, I dare say,
Mr. Helstone, but I can hardly make them



fast enough. I can't knit now as fast as
I did, you see," and she shook her head.
One's fingers get stiff as they grow
old."

They may well be stiff with all the
work they have done  dear old fingers,"
Joanne said tenderly, and stooped and put
her lips on them.

But Mrs. Beresford went on with her
knitting unmoved by the caress. She had
never been a demonstrative woman, and
perhaps she thought less of Joanne than
she did of some of her other daughters,
because she had had Joanne with her all
her life.

She thought less of her than she did

of Violet, Godfrey thought, when presently

Mrs. Rawlinson came into the room, and

her mother, at her entrance, let her stocking

for a few moments lie upon her lap.


My dear, I had been wondering what
you were doing ? " she said, looking up
at her.

I was only in my room. Did you want
me ? " Violet answered. And then she
took a seat by her mother's side.

I did t want you particularly, child,
but I always like to know where you are,"
Mrs. Beresford said.

*' It is such a pleasant evening. Can you
come out a little ? " Godfrey asked Joanne
a few minutes afterwards, and she answered
*' Yes," and joined him outside.

What have you done with papa ? I
thought you were together ? " she had
already inquired.

"We were together, but he left me,'
he replied.

She did not guess as she joined Godfrey

in the garden that he wanted her to-night



more than (perhaps she knew) he always
wanted her.

It is nice out here. The drawing-room
was very hot," she merely said.

So I thought' he answered. " I wanted
to get you out of it. Come away ; let us
turn our backs upon them all."

Where do you want to go to ? " she
asked him ; but when he answered to this
" Where I can have you to myself," 
then she made no reply.

These two had been together now for
three or four weeks, in a companionship
that had grown gradually and almost daily
closer and more intimate. But Joanne
perhaps had come to think that it was
rather the intimacy of warm friends than
lovers,  an intimacy that had reached a
certain point, and would rest there. " You
are the best woman I have ever known,"



he told her once. " When I want an ideal
of sweet womanhood I think of you!' Butin
general he did not make speeches of
this kind to her ; he had made her conscious
that he felt something for her that he felt
for no one else ; but she knew he had
loved her once, and, remembering that, she
scarcely thought he loved her now.

There were two paths across the meadows.
one leading to the river, one to other fields
in which the corn was ripening. '' Let us
go this way," he said, and turned from the
river to the right, and in a little while they
reached those yellowing crops. There was
a gate here, and she would have passed
through it, but at this point he stopped
her.

Suppose we go no farther. I like a

gate to lean on. We are very well here,"

he said, and folded his arms upon the


upper Pail. Then she stood still too. The
wind was passing lightly over the corn.
There was a breezy sky, with torn clouds
in the west.

She said, after they had talked for a few
minutes 

Do you remember in the old time that
we came and stood at this gate once before,
my father, and you, and I ?  and we
talked about painters, and what they could
make of this kind of country ? "

And your father stood here, and you
on the other side of him," he replied.
Yes  I remember it. You stood with
your hand in his arm. I can see you now
in your light dress, and with your young
face. And I stood here," he added suddenly,
*' envying the touch that you were
giving to some one else."

Shall we not walk on ? " she abruptly



asked, and put her hand upon the fastening
of the gate. Both his words and his tone
had made the colour come to her face. But
he shook his head.

No  why should we walk on ? We
will stay here and talk," he answered. " I
want to go on talking about those days.
Do you not know what they were to me ? 
There is a thing I want you to tell me
frankly." He paused for a moment, and
then looked straight at her and put his
question.

Did you know that I loved you when
I was here before ? "

She turned her face hurriedly away from
him ; she said nothing for a moment or
two ; then she answered in a low voice 
I did not know it."

You were not sure of it, you mean ? "

he replied at once. *' But you were sure 


you did know it, before the end  on that
day when I saw you last ? "

"Yes  T knew ib then," she said.

She made her answer steadily, but the
next moment she suddenly changed her
position, and 

'' Why should we talk of it ? " she said
nervously. " Better not. All that is so
honor ago."

But I have you with me again," he
quickly answered, '' and, suppose it is
long ago, what then ? Do you think
that that summer when I knew you first
does not stand out for me from all the
other summers of my life ? If it had been
possible for me to have spoken to you at
the end of those happy weeks,  my dear,
would you have sent me away ? Perhaps
I have no right to ask you, but  as you

said just now  it is so long ago, and



you may trust me enough to tell me, I
think ? "

*' Do I not know that I may trust you ?
Have I not trusted you always ? " she
answered, with a little thrill in her voice.
And then after only a moment or two's
silence  " If I had not done that, and if
you had not come to me that last day,"
she said half aloud, " I think my life would
have been very different. But that day
made everything almost easy to bear."

My Joanne ! " he said.

Her answer perhaps had given him the
right to claim her as he did. Her hand was
on the gate, and he put his own firmly
above it. But they stood after this without
speaking, till presently she was the first to
break the silence.

I have said this," she began, in a low

voice that trembled a little ; *' but you


must not misunderstand me. You must
not think that because of those old days
I have been an unhappy woman, fur it is
not so. There was never anything to regret
in those days, nor, as far as I was concerned,
in the consequences of them. I did not 
care to marry afterwards ; that was all ; but
I have had a happy life. You must believe
me when I tell you that."

"I do believe it," he answered quietly.
*' But  now?" he added after a moment's
silence.

"Now we are friends again,  and you
are here again," she said with a quiver in
her voice,  "and I am very glad."

She suddenly tried to move away, but
he tightened his hand over hers and
stopped her.

You must not go," he said. " What

have we two to do apart ? I want you to



feel, as I do, that it brings back your youth
for us to be together again."

She smiled, but she half shook her head.

You are a man," she said. " You are
younger than I am now."

Do you mean by that to tell me that
you are too old to care for me ? " he asked.

Oh no ! " she said quickly ; *' not that.
I only meant  " and then she dropped her
voice suddenly, " that I am too old to be
cared for."

Joanne ! " he said passionately.

It was a lover's call to her, let her be
young or old ; and she looked at him for
one moment,  and then, whatever else she
might have meant to say, was never said,
and she only flushed like a girl, and held
her peace.

The distant country had grown dim, and

the trees were almost black against the


sky as they walked back presently across
the fields. 'they will wonder where we
have been," Joanne said, shy at the thought
of the confession that she had to make.
But Godfrey opened the gate that led them
back into the garden, caring little enough
for that.

There was a lamp burning inside the hall
at the house, and through the open door as
they came towards it a little stream of light
fell on the Vicar's figure standing alone
upon the gravel walk. Joanne went upto
him with her heart beating fast, and put
her hands about his arm.

'well, my lass ? " he quietly said.

He could not see her face, but Godfrey
spoke abruptly and eagerly. " She has
been the best of all your daughters," he
said,  " the dearest and best." And then

the old man gave a laugh that sounded



rather sad and cold beside the other's
warmth.

Ay, ay," he answered, " there have
been others before you who have told me
that."

He drew her close to him for a few
moments, and she began suddenly to cry
upon his breast ; but at the sound of her
weeping the brave old man in a moment
straightened himself.

My dear, ve must have no tears," he
said quickly, with the customary cheery tone
again in his mellow voice. " You only
mean to tell me that you are going to
marry this fellow, I suppose ? Well, God
bless me, that's no matter for tears, I hope ?
He's a likely fellow enough, as it seems tome,
though"  with a laugh  "he has appeared
a little late in the season, one might

say, perhaps. And, for my own part, I've



been blest with a good sprinkling of sons-in-law
already, and I'm bound to allow I'm
rather the better for them than the worse.
So, Mr. Helstone, in spite of this being a
little unexpected, here's my hand, and you
can take Joanne's along with it. And now,"
said the Vicar briskly, " in with you both,
and let us tell our news to the old wife."

