CHAPTER I.

' Tell, five and four make nine," said
 * Mrs. Godwin, complacently.
'; "But, dear mother," exclaimed Sydney,
1 " they will fill the house !"

'' Yes, my dear," answered Mrs. Godwin,
- plaintively; "but why should not the house
I "be filled ?"

 And then for a moment Sydney had no
 answer ready.

The truth was that, on the question of
hospitality, Mrs. Godwin and her daughter

- VOL. I. B

were not quite of the same mind. Mrs.
Godwin was a social woman, and Sydney
was not social, and this difference of taste
between the two naturally produced at
times a little friction ; only happily they were
both sweet-tempered women, and too fond
of one another ever to let their momentary
disputes rankle.

The mother and daughter were sitting
together this evening in the large drawing-room
at Broadbelt, with their chairs drawn
near to the fire, for the month was December.
Mrs. Godwin was knitting. Sydney
had been reading, and her book was still
open on her knees. She was a large, fair
girl, with a quantity of blond hair, and
changeable grey eyes, a girl whom many
people did not call pretty, but whose claims
to beauty provoked a good deal of discussion
amongst her acquaintance generally. There
were some who admired her greatly ; some

thought her noticeable ; one or two before
this time had fallen in love with her. But
on the whole she was not considered very
handsome. It had been said of her often
that you could not help looking at her, but
that she was a girl who, before you could
come to any settled opinion about her,
forced you to change your mind a dozen
times.

There never were a mother and daughterless
alike than Sydney and Mrs. Godwin, and
yet, though they seemed hardly to have a
taste in common, they were never happier
than when they were together. Sydney had
somehow accomplished the difficult task of
loving and admiring her mother, in spite of
knowing that her mother looked at life from
a standpoint wholly different from her own.
She herself was a little high flying probably
in some of her notions at this time; she
was not very fond of humdrum duties ; she

B 2

><V-

was not very fond of making small self-sacrifices,
being a good deal more disposed
(at least in her own person) to be alive to
the waste involved in these things than to
the heroism of them ; although in the
person of her mother she could appreciate
daily minute unselfishness keenly, and was
ready, in an almost exaggerated degree,
to exalt the kind of nature that found its
happiness in doing so much for others. " If
I should live to be a hundred, mother, I
shall never be as good as you are," she used
often to say.

And, in fact, Mrs. Godwin was very good.
She was one of those women who seem to
have no drop of bitter in all their composition.
She was not interesting, nor well
educated, nor gifted with a brain half as
large as Sydney's ; but no woman was ever
simpler, kinder, or more ready to do for
others more than she would for herself.

'' We have been trying to settle who we
shall ask for Christmas, my dear," she said
to her husband presently when he came
upstairs, a tall, grave-looking man, with
rather a slouched figure, and heavy deep-set
eyes. 'sydney and I have been talking
it over. There must be the Burtonss as
usual, and the Turners  they will expect to
be asked ; and then I thought I should like
to invite Mrs. Harcourt and her two girls.
They have never been here for a regular
visit, and I know they would like to come.
And, if we have them, we must have some
young men too, so I was thinking of asking
Mr. Marmaduke and his friend."

Very well  do as you please," said Mr.
Godwin, indifferently.

You see, that will make nine, if they
all come. Sydney thinks it is too many 
but I don't know ; I think, when there area
good many, they get on better together."

Very probably. Give me the Pall Mall,
Sydney."

And then Mr. Godwin began to read his
paper, and Sydney went back to her book,
and Mrs. Godwin was left to meditate on
the details of her Christmas gathering,
which she did with perfect good temper as
she clicked her knitting-needles, though
neither her husband nor her daughter spoke
to her again for the next half hour.

The frost had set in, and there was plenty
of skating to be had when the visitors arrived
at Broadbelt a few days before Christmas.
Mr. and Mrs. Burton made their
appearance first ; then came Mrs. Harcourt
and her daughters ; then the Turners, a
middle-aged brother and sister ; and finally
Mr. Marmaduke and Mr. Horton.

I am so delighted that you have all
been able to come," Mrs. Godwin said, with
very genuine warmth, when the whole party

was gathered together and seated at dinner,
and from her place at the top of the table
she looked round on them with a kindly
and beaming face. "It is not often that
people are so fortunate as to get all the
friends they ask ; but we have got everyone
 haven't we, Sydney ? We said we
would ask you nine, and here you all are."

Dear me ! Who'd have thought it ? It's
quite a coincidence," remarked Mrs. Burton,
in a fat, placid voice. The Burtonss were
old friends of Mr. Godwin, and they always
spent their Christmas at Broadbelt, but Mrs.
Burton's speeches used sometimes to make
Sydney's ears hot.

'' It is unusual to find nobody either ill
or engaged," said Mr. Turner, who sat at
Sydney's left hand. " I remember, a few
years ago, when I was staying at a house
up in the north, there was a party of a
dozen expected, and, if you will believe

me, only three turned up. Only three ! 
think of that ! Sent excuses at the last
moment. Colds, you know, and that sort
of thing. Awkward for the hostess, wasn't
it?"

I am sure it is delightful for us all to
be here," said Mrs. Harcourt, sweetly.
The girls have been talking of nothing
else for a week. You haven't been talking
of anything else, have you, Lucy ?" she said,
bending across the table and smiling on her
eldest daughter, who was seated opposite
her.

"I do like coming to the country for
Christmas. I think it's awfully jolly," said
this young lady to her next neighbour, Mr.
Horton. "You always get such a lot of
fun in a country house, don't you ?"

"Well, I should say that depended a
good deal upon the house," her neighbour
answered, prudently.

Yes, it has been a healthy season hitherto,
but this sudden cold will carry off a
great many delicate people now," Miss
Turner said, sadly, in answer to some remark
that Mr. Godwin made. She was a
gentle old maid, who usually took rather
a despondent view of things.

"Well, people can't live for ever!" exclaimed
Mr. Burton, cheerily. "Vve must
all have our day. I come of a long-lived
family myself. My mother lived to be
eighty-four, and, if she hadn't met with an
accident, I believe she'd be alive now. She
fell downstairs, poor old body ; it was that
carried her off."

*' Dear me !" murmured Miss Turner,
looking shocked.

Yes ; down a flight of stone stairs. Her
foot slipped on one of them, and down she
went. And she'd been more hearty till
then than many a one is at three score."

What a dreadful story ! I can't think
how people can tell such horrid things  and
about their own mothers, too !" said Amy
Harcourt, in a whisper, to Mr. Marmaduke.

'* Ah, yes ; almost as bad as taking away
the old lady's character, isn't it ?" answered
Mr. Marmaduke, in the same tone, and then
Miss Amy stared.

Mr. Godwin made rather a silent host ashe
sat at the bottom of his table, but he
was courteous enough in his grave way to
the guests who were nearest to him. He
was not a man whom people disliked, but
only a somewhat worn-out man, who did
not care to make his voice much heard.

There were no young ladies among the
party except Sydney and the Misses Harcourt,
so when they went to the drawing-room
Sydney had to devote herself to
Lucy's and Amy's entertainment, and, to
tell the truth, she did not do this work very

well. She was not the kind of girl who
was popular with common-place girls. They
thought her stiff, and she thought them
silly. She tried to amuse these two now
but with only a very small success.

I wish some of them would come from
the dining-room," she began to think at
half an hour's end, and her face brightened
(as indeed so did Amy's and Lucy's too)
when Mr. Horton at length appeared in the
doorway.

She had just gone to pour out coffee, and
he came and joined her, but she at once
dispatched him to where his services were
so much more needed.

"Please go and talk to the Miss Har-courts,"
she said.

*but I have talked to one Miss Harcourt
a great deal already," he objected,
slightly.

"Well, never mind; talk to the other

one  the fair one. She is very nice, you
know," said Sydney, unblushingly.

And Mr. Horton accordingly went, and
did his duty gallantly.

There was a good deal of merriment in
the Harcourtss' corner after this, so much
that Sydney was able to sit in solitude at
her tea-table, with quite an easy mind.
Presently Miss Turner came up and joined
her there, and they two talked together
contentedly  for Sydney liked Miss Turner
till, half an hour later, all the other
gentlemen came into the room.

A little knot of them after that gathered
near Sydney. It was the habit at Broad-belt
to have the tea and coffee always
poured out in the drawing-room, and Sydney
 because it gave her an occupation, and
occasionally, perhaps, because it afforded
her an excuse for leaving company that she
did not care for  liked the custom, and kept ,

it up. She was fonder, on the whole, of
men than women, and it was men, for the
most part, who gathered round her table.

Three or four of them came now, and
stood talking, though more to one another
than to her. Sydney was no coquette, and
not addicted to flirting. She distributed
her cups of coffee quietly, and, when this
work was done, was content to sit silent.

Mrs. Godwin, a far better hostess than
her daughter, had coaxed Lucy and Amy
to go to the piano, and they were playing a
duet, while Mr. Marmaduke stood by their
side and turned their pages.

Do they play nicely ? I don't know
much about music ; but what they are doing
seems very  difficult," said Miss Turner,
mildly.

'eyes  I think it is very difficult indeed.
They practise four hours a day, they were
telling me," Sydney gravely answered.

"Dear me! But they won't do that
while they are here, will they ?" exclaimed
Miss Turner, in a tone of anxiety.

"Thank sou  thank you very much.
What  is it ?" asked Mr, Marmaduke, with
little hesitation, as the young ladies rose
presently from their seats.

Brahms," said Miss Amy, graciously.

*'Ah!" returned Mr. Marmaduke, who
had never heard of him.

I hope you like the modern German
school, Mr. Marmaduke ?" said Miss Lucy.

"I am afraid I don't know much about
it," answered Mr. Marmaduke, with a
smile.

"Oh, it's wonderful!" exclaimed Amy.
There's nothing like it."

"So I should suppose," assented Mr.
Marmaduke.

None of the old masters ever produced
such effects."

*'Do you think they ever tried to
produce them ?" asked Mr. Marmaduke,
pleasantly.

He stood upright against the wall, facing
the two girls, a tall, handsome, fair, young
Englishman, with at this moment rather a
good-humoured twinkle in his eyes. Lucy
and Amy had never met him before, but
they had already informed one another that
they admired him greatly, and it was therefore
with a very good grace indeed that
they stood now and talked to him about
modern German music, in spite both of his
heterodoxy and his ignorance. Under favourable
circumstances, such things count for
very little.

*' It has been a very nice evening, and I
think they have all got on together capitally
haven t they, Sydney ?" Mrs. Godwin said,
pleasantly, when she was parting with her
daughter for the night; and Sydney, who

was not fond of vexing her mother, answered
"Yes" as cordially as she could.

But, for her own part, she had found the
evening dull enough. She had been talked
to for a long time by Mr. Burton, and Mr.
Burton was not very entertaining company.
He was her godfather, and had always
shown himself very kind to her, and so she
liked him, in the way in which we like
people whom we have known all our lives ;
but up to this time she had failed to find
his conversation interesting. He told her
stories for an hour, mostly about himself,
sitting on a sofa beside her, and always unconsciously
edging himself closer and closer
to her, while she moved continually farther
off, till the utmost limits of the sofa were
reached. He was a well-meaning old man,
and she ought not to have minded that he
brought himself into such close proximity to
her ; but she was fastidious, and she did not

like to be touched, and so she did mind it.
Would you please give me a little more
room ?" she said at last, in a tone of half-suppressed
distress. And then, though he
moved indeed, he chose to regard the request
in the light of a joke, and laughed
over it, and called to his wife to join him in
his laughter, till Sydney could hardly conceal
her wrath.

So the evening had failed to seem very
delightful to her, and it cost her an effort
to say *' Yes" when her mother, at its close,
asked her if it had not been pleasant.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER II.

YOU skate, of course?" Mr. Horton
said next morning to Sydney, but
Sydney chose to shake her head.

The truth was that she did skate a little,
but she was not so fond of that pastime as
most young ladies are, and so lie saw no
necessity for going on the ice when she did
not want to go.

'' The others will be much better without
me," she said to Mrs. Godwin. " Lucy and
Amy will have a cavalier apiece, and that
is what will please them."

It was a bright morning, and Amy and
Lucy were in the highest spirits.

Are you not going to skate ? Dear
me, how odd !" they said to Sydney, with
wide-opened eyes.

It seemed to them so strange that, for a
few moments, they got alarmed ; they feared
that some one else might follow so
singular an example.

You are coming, are you not ?" Lucy
said, quickly, to Mr. Marmaduke.

'' Oh, yes ; I am coming, I suppose," he
answered.

"I am sure you skate beautifully," said
pretty Lucy, artlessly.

*I am sure you do," returned Mr.
Marmaduke, at once.

And then Lucy blushed and giggled, and
Sydney, who was listening, indulged in an
inward comment that was more condemning
than it need have been perhaps.

'' AVhat a pair of geese !" was what she
thought.

c 2

For Miss Godwin, you see, was not very
tolerant of folly, nor of the kind of flirting
that was as manna to the soul of Lucy and
her sister.

Mr. Marmaduke might have more
sense," she said to herself, slightingly, as
she turned away, *' But, when a woman
tempts him, no man seems able to resist
the pleasure of becoming a fool."

She was not very civil herself to Mr.
Marmaduke when, just before the skating-party
started, she had to exchange a word
or two with him ; he said to her,

'why don't you come along with us?
You skate a little, you confess ; so why not
come and skate more?"

She gave a moment's laugh.

' Perhaps it is my vanity that keeps meat
home," she answered.

*' You must allow me to doubt that," he
said.

'' I don't know why you should doubt
what you know nothing about," she replied,
curtly ; and then she turned away, and
asked some question of Amy Harcourt.

She felt rather comfortable after she had
given Mr. Marmaduke that small rebuff.
He went away without speaking to her
again, and that pleased her. But, having
snubbed him, as if to make up for it to her
conscience (for she could not but confess
that his fault had been but small), she was
rather gracious next minute to his friend
Mr. Horton.

*' I hope you will enjoy your morning,"
she said to him, pleasantly. " I suppose
that some of us may come presently, and
look at you. What beautiful skates you
have got. I think they are better than
mine."

Are they ?" answered Mr. Horton, at
once ; and began eagerly to talk about the

various merits of skates till his companions
had got fifty yards ahead of him, and he
had to take to his heels to come up with
them.

Of course it was perverse of Sydney not
to have gone with the rest of the young
people, and she had a shrewd conviction of
this herself.

I can't think why you didn't go, my
dear?" Miss Turner said to her '' I think
it's natural for young folk to like to be
together, and natural things are mostly
right things."

*' Yes ; that is true," the girl answered
and made no defence.

She knew well enough that she ought to
have gone ; that it would have been better
if she had been less stiff, and more amiable.
And yet, if she had joined them, she should
have been out of her element, she told
herself; the others were all at home in the

midst of that cross-fire of badinage and
foolish compliments, and her presence would
only have constrained and encumbered
them.

*' How queer Sydney Godwin is, isn't she ?"
Amy Harcourt, as they walked to the ice
together, had said frankly to Mr. Horton.
Of course she is very nice in her way, but
I do not like girls to make themselves so
singular."

'' She is a wonderfully handsome girl,"
said Mr. Horton, warmly.

"Oh, dear,  do you think so?" exclaimed
Amy. " I never can understand people
admiring her much,"

Well, I admire her," said Mr. Horton,
stoutly. "I call her a grand looking
woman. She might be a Chriemhild, or
Brunhild, if she had a little more colour, or
something of that sort."

"Oh, indeed!" murmured Amy, rather

feebly' . She had not caught the names of the
ladies Mr. Horton had mentioned, and felt
a little doubtful of the propriety of asking
him to repeat them.

'' I say, Marmaduke, don't you agree with
me?" Mr. Horton went on, turning his
head over his shoulder to his friend. ' Weare
talking of Miss Godwin, and I say that
she is a sort of Brunhild."

*' Well, placed in similar circumstances,
she might be possibly. Did you mean to
pay her a compliment ?" asked Mr. Armature,
deliberately.

"I was speaking of her looks, man."

'* Ah, and I was thinking of her character.
Her looks ! Hm !  well !" shaking his
head ; *' no, she is not up to Brunhild."

'not up to her, no! but she suggests
that kind of woman."

** There are fine things in her, no doubt,"
said Mr. Marmaduke, a Utile dubiously''

She belongs to a type you don't see
often."

That's just what I say," exclaimed Mr.
Horton.

Well, I say it too ; but that's not the
same as calling her a Brunhild. She's a
sort of woman, however, to strike an artist,
I should think."

*' I should like Davison to see her."

Davison 1" echoed Mr. Marmaduke,
contemptuously (this artist was a particular
friend of Mr. Horton) : " he couldn't paint
her."

*' I'm not so sure of that," returned Mr.
Horton, rather warmly, and then terminated
the conversation, to which Amy and Lucy
had listened with great amazement.

'* How odd of them to talk in that way
about Sydney !" they said to one another
afterwards.

One or two of the ladies, and Sydney

with them, went down before lunch to seethe
skaters, and then, when they came off
the ice, they all walked home together. It
had been a most delightful morning, Amy
and Lucy declared, and as for Mr. Armature's
performances on the ice, they could
only speak of them with rapture.

' Oh, Miss Godwin, did you watch him ?"
they asked, eagerly. 'You ought to have
been here all the morning. Everybody was
looking at him,  they were literally !"

'swell," answered Sydney, drily, ''I
daresay he found it very pleasant."

I don't know ; he didn't seem to mind.
I don't think he is conceited,  do you?"
asked Lucy, in a tone of anxious confidence.


*' Really, I have never thought about it,"
replied Sydney, with supreme indifference.

And then Lucy, perceiving that she was
snubbed, withdrew.

* I suppose you are extremely fond of
skating ?" Sydney said, rather loftily, to Mr.
Marmaduke a minute afterwards ; and Mr.
Marmaduke assented, and began to discourse
to her on the subject of skating in St.
Petersburgh. He had a pleasant enough
way of talking, and, though Sydney was not
much disposed in his favour, she had no
fault to find with him as he walked home
beside her, telling her things that were
sufficiently amusing and new to keep her
interested. Presently, too, Mr. Horton came
up on her other side, and then they both
talked to her, and Lucy and Amy were left
to their mother and Miss Turner, and were
not wholly pleased.

** I don't think people ought to monopolize
gentlemen like that. Mamma, do you
call it nice ?" said Amy, with a little half-suppressed
indignation, once in Mrs. Harcourt's
ear.

But Mrs. Harcourt was a very prudent
woman, and only answered, *' Hush, you
silly child !" thinking, perhaps, that her
daughters had had their fair share of good
things since breakfast-time.

The gentlemen went their own way after
lunch, and the ladies decided that it was
too cold to drive, so Sydney gave Lucy and
Amy a couple of novels, and left them to
amuse themselves. The afternoon passed
so ; then came dusk, and five o'clock tea,
and with tea also, to the girls' delight, came
Mr. Marmaduke.

They had been yawning before that, but
after his return they yawned no more. He
carried their tea-cups to them, and they
straightway made captive of him  a very
passive and willing captive, Sydney thought,
a little contemptuously, as she looked at
them once or twice, wondering what pleasure
a man of any sense could take in talking

to two such silly girls. She did not
hear, nor care to hear, what they were saying,
but a murmur of perpetual tittering
reached her ears, and made her half angry,
half ashamed. She saw the young man's
placid acceptance, too, of the admiring
glances that fell from Lucy's and Amy's
eyes. He was sitting in front of them, full
in the light of one of the lamps, and Sydney
felt indignantly that he knew as well as she
did that they were pouring incense out
before him. She knew it by the look of
half-amused vanity on his handsome face,
and it made her angry.

She would hardly speak to him half an
hour afterwards, when he came and said
something to her. She threw a glance at
him, as she shortly answered his question,
that made him open his eyes.

Why in the world does she look at a
fellow like that?" he thought to himself,

with astonishment, not having had his conscience
at all awakened as yet to the iniquity
of his own late proceedings. " She'll
be like Brunhild with a vengeance, if she
scowls at people in that way." And the
young man, who in truth had meant no
offence to anyone, felt rather disturbed.

He had grown, perhaps, rather too much
used to have women regard him kindly,
and this curious glance of Sydney's piqued
him by its contrast with what he had almost
come to consider as a woman's natural
aspect in connection with himself.

'' I'll be hanged if she shall look at me
like that again !" he said to himself, as he
went upstairs to dress, with a fervour that
the circumstances scarcely seemed to demand.


Miss Godwin sat opposite him at table
presently when they went to dinner, and
Mr. Marmaduke was a good deal occupied

while the meal lasted in taking general note
of her  more occupied, indeed, than quite
pleased Miss Lucy, who sat on his right
hand, and did her best to absorb his attention,
but with a certain uncomfortable sense
of failure, for her neighbour was civil to
her, but unquestionably pre-occupied. Her
innocent little arts did not seem to charm
him as they had done an hour or two ago ;
she whispered to him and smiled at him
almost in vain.

To tell the truth, he had begun to study
a face which was likely to prove more
interesting to him than Miss Lucy's ; he had
begun to speculate upon a character not
quite so single as poor Lucy Harcourt's.
Only once in the course of the dinner did
Sydney turn her calm, grave eyes upon him.
The girl had become conscious that he was
watching her, and so she bestowed on him
this one look in return, quietly and deliberately.

It was a grave, steady regard, given
coldly enough, and not expressing much ;
but I think that what he chose to consider
as its inscrutableness made it more interesting
to Mr. Marmaduke than all Lucy's pretty
glances. Sydney had begun, in fact, to
arouse his curiosity ; she had done something
the reason for which he could not
understand, and unused to be puzzled by a
woman  or, at any rate, by what lay upon
the surface of a woman  he had already
told himself a little hotly that he would find
out what had made her do it.

Mr. Marmaduke did not stand by the
piano to-night while Lucy and Amy played
their duets; he left that pleasant duty to
his friend, and for his own part he sat down
a little way from Sydney, and took up a
book while she poured out her coffee.

Mr. Turner was standing beside her, cup
in hand, and Mr. Marmaduke, while he

seemed to read, listened to the talk that
went on between them.

'* I've got a little touch of goat in my
foot to-night," Mr. Turner was saying.
It's not bad, you know  not positively
bad, but  there, it gave me a twinge that
moment. Ugh ! it's an uncommonly troublesome
sort of thing. What  wrap my foot
up, do you say ? No, no "  hurriedly  * ' I
shouldn't like to do that. Would look so
odd, you know. But I put a flannel
stocking on when I go to bed."

I suppose there is really no cure for
gout?" Sydney said, politely; and then
Mr. Turner drew a chair to her side,
and began an exhaustive discussion of the
subject.

What a delightful way of entertaining
a lady !" thought Mr. Marmaduke to himself.
"No wonder she shows me the cold
shoulder when she has Mr. Turner at hand

VOL. I. D

to whisper these sweet confidences in her
ear !"

He remained turning over the pages of
his book for a quarter of an hour or so ;
then somebody came up and diverted Mr.
Turner's attention, and as soon as Sydney
sat alone, talking to nobody, he rose and
went a few steps nearer to her.

*may I ask you for another cup of
coffee ?" he said.

Certainly," she answered, civilly, and
gave it to him.

Her manner and tone were cool, but
marked by nothing that even a morbid
imagination could consider animosity.

'' I am afraid it is not quite hot," she
said.

I can drink coffee either hot or cold,"
he answered.

"That is convenient," she returned, indifferently.


"Yes, I suppose it is always convenient
to be able to accommodate oneself to circum
stances," he said, meaning very little by
his speech, good or bad ; but, to his amazement,
no sooner had he uttered it than, ashe
was looking at her, he became conscious
of a contemptuous carl upon her lips.

I don't agree to that," she said, shortly.

*' You don't agree to  I beg your pardon
to what ?" exclaimed Mr. Marmaduke.

"To what you said just now; that we
ought always to accommodate ourselves to
circumstances. You act upon that principle,
I suppose," said Sydney, with polite scorn ;
"but it is hardly a thing, I think, to boast
of."

What leads you to suppose that / act
upon it except  in as far as everybody
does ?" asked the bewildered young man.

'ein as far as every man does, 1 imagine
you mean," said Sydney, no whit mollified.

d2

I thought it was a thing that men and
women did alike ; and really, if we are not
to accommodate ourselves to circumstances,
it seems to me that we should be very intractable
members of society," exclaimed
Mr. Marmaduke, with some warmth.

Upon which Sydney coolly turned her
head away and addressed some remark to
Mr. Burton, who had come up to her other
elbow, nor did she condescend to take the
slightest further notice of the young man
who was drinking his tepid coffee at her
right hand.

Mr. Marmaduke retained his position till
he had emptied his cup ; then, in much
amazement, he betook himself to another
place.

*' She's got a bee in her bonnet," he said
to himself. '' Not accommodate oneself to
circumstances !" he repeated, with an inward
laugh. " We should be a delightful community

certainly, if we all took her view of
things !"

And he could not forget this little passage
at arms that had taken place between them
for all the remainder of the night.

CHAPTER TIL

rio tell the truth, Mr. Marraaduke was
-- not very eager next morning to hold
any further communication with Miss Godwin
; he naturally enough did not like
peculiarity. A girl with a twist in her
mind was not an attractive object to him ;
so he kept himself out of her way when the
day began, and it was only accident that
brought them together again after several
hours had passed.

Sydney had come downstairs upon this
second day in rather a more tractable humour
than that in which she had been the

previous morning. " I wish you could
exert yourself a little more to help to make
things go off nicely, my dear," her mother
had said to her plaintively the night before,
and the gentle rebuke had rather touched
the girl's conscience.

''I think you have a great deal of
trouble with us  with both papa and me ;
we are a ' dour ' pair of people," she had
answered quickly, and half laughing ; and
then, as she went to bed, she had made up
her mind that she would try to be more
amiable, and to throw herself into what was
going on, for the sake of her mother, who
liked these gatherings in the house that to
her seemed so wearisome. So when at
breakfast-time the question of skating was
brought forward again, and she was asked
afresh if she would join the skating-party,
she assented and went with them. It was
a concession not only against her will, but

against her reason ; but, nevertheless, she
made it, and they set out.

'You know, I really skate very little,"
she said, as they walked along, to Mr.
Horton.

'I may hope then the more that you
will let me help you to skate better," he
answered, gallantly ; and he even made the
speech so cordially, and with such an appearance
of honesty, that Sydney received it
without offence.

I may be driven to take your help,"
she said ; " but, if I spoil your amusement,
you must remember that it is your own
fault that I have come."

I shall only be too happy to remember
it," he replied, readily ; and then, after
that, of course he kept himself near to her.

Sydney rather liked Mr. Horton. He
was very straightforward and gentlemanly,
she thought ; and nature not having graced

him with either a handsome face or figure,
he was fortunate enough not to provoke in
Miss Godwin the same kind of antagonism
that was roused in her by his, unluckily,
more gifted friend, Sydney, amongst her
several crotchets at this time, held the belief
that it was a misfortune for a man to be
good-looking, and, merely stating that opinion
as an article of her creed, she was in the
habit of sweeping the unlucky possessors of
beauty out of her good graces. But, Mr.
Horton having a plain face, she had no
objection to him, and even showed herself
ready to accept his help upon the ice with
much graciousness ; so that it came to pass
that during the greater part of the morning
he and she kept together, while Mr. Mar-mature
was left free to devote himself to
the Misses Harcourt.

It was an arrangement that ought, in
reason, to have pleased all parties, for,

Mr. Marmaduke having made up his mind
to keep aloof from Miss Godwin, her selection
of Mr. Horton as her companion should
in no way have given him offence; yet
human nature, for the most part, is Treasonable,
and so he did not altogether like
it. Her conduct piqued him ; her marked
(or what he chose to consider marked)
avoidance of him disturbed his equanimity.

*' ril be hanged if she is not one of the
oddest girls I ever came across !" he said to
himself; and he racked his brains in vain to
find a meaning for her conduct.

The whole morning passed, and she
scarcely exchanged a word with him ; then
lunch time came, and they went home.

It had been a late autumn, and still, in
spite of the frosts, there were a few russet
and crimson leaves lingering in the hedges.
As they walked back to the house Sydney
saw a branch of bramble that she felt disposed

to gather, but it grew too high for
her to reach, so she looked at it for a
moment, and then turned coolly to the-tallest
of the party.

*' "Will you get it for me ?" she said, addressing
Mr. Marmaduke almost for the first
time that day.

Oh, certainly," he answered, with some
surprise ; and, putting down the three pairs
of skates with which he was burdened, he
tramped in amongst the dying ferns, and,
leaping up, caught the branch.

The others walked on, but Sydney stood
still.

Can you break it off?" she said. *take
care. Don't shake it, or the leaves may
fall."

I'll get out my knife," he answered.

*' Look ! There are some more there.
Could you get those too ?" she asked, after
a moment.

So he made another vault, but at the
second effort his footing, which was rather
insecure, failed him, and a thorn rasped
down his hand, and tore it.

' Oh, you have hurt yourself !" she
exclaimed.

*' Not at all," he answered.

But you have," she insisted; and when,
-after another second or two, he came back
to her side, bearing both trophies of his victory,
and feeling for his pocket-handkerchief,
she surveyed his wounded finger with
something like self-reproach.

"I am so sorry," she said, gravely. " It is
quite a deep scratch."

*' It is not of the slightest consequence,"
he said, rather annoyed,

*' Yes, but you have done it in my service,
and so I am sorry," she repeated, raising her
-eyes for a moment to his face.

Pray don't waste your sorrow upon such

a trifle," he replied, shortly; and then they
walked on.

His last remark to her had been rather
brusque, and, after a few moments, he
glanced askance at her, wondering if she
had thought it so. But she was apparently
neither thinking of what he had said, nor
of any other thing connected with him.
She was arranging her leaves, softly and
tenderly.

How lovely they are !" she said aloud,
after a minute. " What a year this has
been for autumn colours. Did you notice ?
Were you in the country at all when the
leaves were turning ?"

*' I was hunting for a few days last month,"
he said. " Yes, the trees were wonderful,,
the beeches especially."

'* Buckinghamshire is a great county for
beeches," she remarked.

*' We have nothing almost but beeches all

round us at my father's place," he said,

She paused for a moment or two, and
then asked, rather indifferently, 'sis the
country pretty about you ?''

"It is very richly wooded," he answered.


And you have a very interesting old
house, have you not ?"

'rit is an Elizabethan house," he said.

*'0h, yes, I remember. Were you
brought up there ?"

Yes."

You ought to be very fond of it then."

I am very fond of it, I hope," he said,
quickly. "Though perhaps I can hardly
expect you to give me even so much credit
as to believe that ?" he added after a moment,
in a piqued tone.

She turned to him with a slight look of
surprise in her face.

Oh, yes, why should I not believe it ?"

she answered, quietly ; and then she seemed
to meditate, and, after a second or two, " It
does not follow, because we may think
differently about some things, that we need
assume that we cannot sympathise upon any,"
she rather gravely said.

*' I was beginning to think that you did
mean to assume that," he answered, impulsively.


Oh,no."

You made me think it by your manner
last night."

A little pause, and then a reply that did
not come, evidently, without an effort.

'' I am very sorry if my manner last
night was rude. I am afraid I often speak
brusquely."

"It was not your speaking brusquely that
I minded. At least I should not have
minded that, if I could have understood
what you meant. But I can't for the life

of me," exclaimed poor Mr. Marmaduke,
hotly, '' make out what you were aiming
at!"

She made no answer for a few moments f
then, after that silence,

Well, never mind," she merely said.

But I don t know how you can expect
me not to mind ! You were making some
charge against me. It is clear I had offended
you somehow."

'' Oh, no, you had not offended me," she
interrupted, coldly.

I had done something you did not like,
surely?"

And then she held her tongue.

They walked on for a few steps without
speaking, and after that he addressed her
again.

I think, if I annoyed you in any way,
you ought in justice to tell me how I did
it," he began.

*' I am very sorry that I showed you I
was annoyed," she said, abruptly, in rather
a disturbed way. ' It was very foolish of
me, because I had no kind of right to be
vexed. But people do get annoyed at
things sometimes, and then, when they
have quick tempers, as I have, they, show
it."

'' But, believe me, I did not mean to vex
you," he answered, earnestly.

I never thought you did," she said,
quickly. ' It is nothing. I suppose there
is hardly a creature one is acquainted with
who does not do things sometimes that one
dislikes ; only people, when they are wise,
do not allow themselves to be troubled by
them. I am not wise, you see ; but that is
my fault, not yours."

She spoke almost impatiently, but after
she had spoken she turned to him with
something like the shadow of a smile passing

VOL. I. E

for a moment across her lips, and  "You
had better show yourself superior to me,
and try to forget it if I made you angry,'
she said.

Sydney's eyes could look very lovely at
times, and, as they met Mr. Marmaduke's
just now, they were beautiful enough to
make so much of his vexation as still lingered
vanish away.

"I am willing to forget anything you
wish," he answered, quickly.

"That is a large declaration," she said,
a little drily. " But I suppose, if I come
to know you better, I shall find that
you have the habit of saying many things
that you don't expect anybody to believe.
So many people do that," she remarked,
composedly, but with a little touch of scorn
in her tone, as though she were quite unconscious
 which was indeed the fact  that

her speech was making the young man by
her side grow red.

"Well, upon my word. Miss Godwin," he
broke out, with some indignation, *' you
don't seem disposed to spare me. I really
cannot conceive what I have done to make
you come to such a conclusion !"

As that you say things you do not
mean ?" Sydney's lip curled a little.

I may say things in jest that I don't
mean, of course."

'Oh, you call it in jest? Well, yes, I
suppose that is what you would say. But
jests are often not understood, and, when
they are understood, they are generally so
silly  jests of that kind, I mean," said Miss
Godwin.

** Of what kind ?" he instantly asked.

And then Sydney found that she had got
herself unawares into a trap, and the colour

e2

came to her face. She was a woman, however,
and women are generally dexterous
in cutting the thread of a difficulty; so,

I don't think we shall get to understand
one another any better by going on
talking," she said, with a sudden access of
dignity. " Indeed, there is nothing almost
to understand. Of course, we don't look
at things in the same way."

Well, you are pleased to say so, but I
don't know why we shouldn't look at things
in the same way  at a great many things,
at any rate. Men and women do, you
know. They are not always, happily, at
sixes and sevens with one another."

'' I know that."

"Only you seem resolved to think that
you could not agree with me V

"I am not resolved to think so, but I
don't think it is likely we should agree
much."

But why ?"

Because I have been noticing you a
little," very composedly.

"Your noticing of me, then, has evidently
not led you to very flattering conclusions?"
and his tone showed a little, perhaps
not unnatural, temper.

*rit is nothing very unflattering to tell
you that I think I might not agree with
you. That is all I am saying."

And then he made no answer, and for a
little while they both held their peace.

She had made him angry, yet he felt in a
different mood to her now from how he had
felt half an hour ago. He was simply'
offended then, and was standing on his
dignity ; he was eager now to set himself on
a better footing with her, and to force her
to change her opinion of him. He was so
much of a favourite with women generally
that it seemed to him unnatural that this

special woman should be so cold to him.
Her indifference piqued him ; he began to
feel a very distinct desire to overcome it.

But, as for Sydney, she walked on, apparently
quite unimpressed by what had passed
between them.

*'I am afraid we are rather late," she merely
remarked, placidly, after a little silence.

What does that matter ?" he returned,
rather impatiently.

It matters if we are keeping mamma
waiting," she answered ; and this commonsense
response had the effect of making him
mutter something like an apology.

Oh, of course. I beg your pardon. I
wasn't thinking of luncheon," he replied.

**I had wanted us to be rather earlier
than usual to-day, because I was thinking
those girls would so like to go for a ride,"
said Sydney, after a few moments, with
deep diplomacy.

But her companion made no answer. So
then Miss Godwin had to explain herself a
little more precisely.

'' They are so fond of riding, they say,
and I thought it would be very nice if you
would go somewhere with them this afternoon.
Would you?" she said.

"Oh, certainly, if you wish it," he replied,
but with such evident ungraciousness
that she gave a quick glance at him.

Do you mean by that you would rather
not go ?" she inquired, with a little surprise.

"I mean that I am at your service, of
course," he said.

"But I thought you would like to go for
your own pleasure ?"

And then Mr. Marmaduke chose to make
no further response, and Sydney said
nothing more either, but walked on
wondering.

They reached the house very shortly

after this, and went straight to luncheon ,-
and then, while they were all sitting at
table, Mr. Marniaduke, who was at some
distance from her, heard Sydney making
the same proposal to Mr. Horton that she
had made to him about riding with the
Harcourt girls.

I think it might be a nice afternoon fora
ride. You would go, wouldn't you ?" she
said, and Mr. Horton assented at once.

*' Oh, I should like it," he answered, cordially.
" You will come with us too, I
hope?"

No, I think not," she said. '' But both
the Miss Harcourtss will go, and  I don't
know  perhaps Mr. Turner?" and she gave
an inquiring glance towards that gentleman
(of Mr. Marmaduke she took no further
notice at all).

'* Well, Tm not very sure. IVe not been
on horseback for some time ; and there's

that toe of mine Fm a little afraid of," began
Mr. Turner, dubiously.

Ah ! then better not run any risk," said
Mr. Horton, quickly. " Marmaduke will
come  that will make four of us, and a very
good number."

* Miss Harcourt had better have Juno,'
Sydney said ; and then they began to apportion
the horses, and Mr. Marmaduke sat
looking rather grim, and said nothing.

What ails you ? Is your liver out
of order?" Mr. Horton asked his friend,
when they had risen from table and had
gone out of doors ; and Mr. Marmaduke
made some impatient exclamation.

' It's a bore having to go out with those
girls," he muttered.

''Oh ! I don't know. They're very nice
sort of girls," replied Mr. Horton, pleasantly.

You haven't had them on your hands
all the morning, as I have," retorted Mr.

Marmaduke, and then the other began to
laugh.

Ah, that's where the shoe pinches, is
it?" he said. 'well, you had a pretty
large dose of them to-day, that is certain,
and they're rather exuberant, I confess. But
you got the beauty at the end, so you haven't
much to grumble at. What a fine creature
she is !"

"Who? Miss Godwin?" asked Mr.
Marmaduke, sharply.

Well, you don't think I mean Miss Harcourt,
do you ? I can tell you I'm getting
desperately smitten with her."

Humph !" said Mr. Marmaduke.

**I am, I protest!"

"Well, I wish you joy. She seems to
make herself more agreeable to you than she
does to me," and Mr. Marmaduke spoke
with some venom.

'soil, she makes herself delightful tome.
"We get on capitally."

And then Mr. Marmaduke said "Humph !'*
again.

CHAPTER IV.

THE next day was Christmas Day, so
there was no skating that morning,
and they all went to church. At dinner
their party was joined by a Mr. London,
one of their neighbours, an intelligent man.

"Indeed, rather a superior fellow, I
think," Mr. Horton said to his friend, after
having talked to him for a little while.

Mr. Horton was one of those kindly,
pleasant people who contrive always to seethe
best side of everybody they come near.
Blessed with a good intellect and good
spirits himself, with health, a fair income,
an amiable temper, and a great natural

capacity for enjoyment, he was ready at all
times to hold out the right hand of fellowship
to the world, and the world repaid his
confidence by generally holding out its hand
in return to him.

"One can't help liking Mr. Horton,"
even Sydney had begun to say before this,
and everybody in the house was ready to
echo her opinion.

It was the first time that either Mr. Horton
or Mr. Marmaduke had stayed at Broad-belt.
Mr. Marmaduke was the son of an
old friend of the Godwinss, and his father
had sent him with a letter of introduction to
Mr. Godwin a few months ago, when he
and Mr. Horton, having taken their degrees
at the same time at Cambridge, had come
up to London to enter themselves at Lincoln's
Inn. But of Mr. Horton's people the
Godwinss knew nothing. He was merely to
them Mr. Marmaduke's friend, who shared

his chambers with him in town, and whom
they had once or twice asked down to
Broadbelt with Mr. Marmaduke to dine and
sleep. And then, when Mrs. Godwin arranged
to have their Christmas gathering, it
was thought desirable that both the young
men should be invited to join it.

'because they will be so useful; and,
you see, we are obliged to pay a little
attention to Mr. Marmaduke, and I shouldn't
like to ask him and not the other," Mrs.
Godwin said. So they had both been invited,
and after they came down, if either
of them failed to win golden opinions, it
certainly was not Mr. Horton.

But in truth they were neither of them
bad specimens of young Englishmen, and,
if Mr. Marmaduke did not make himself
quite so agreeable as his friend, that failure,
on the whole, was more Sydney's fault than
his own. He began at the first very well

indeed. It was only Sydney who, to some
extent, put his temper afterwards out of
joint.

On Christmas Day he had not much todo
with her. She walked to church with
Mr. Horton, and from church with Mr.
Turner. She remained indoors during the
afternoon, and he found that, for civility's
sake, he was required to go out ; and then
in the evening at dinner she sat by Mr.
Loudoun's side, and he had to entertain
Lucy Harcourt. They had hardly exchanged
fifty words all day together, when at
last, as he was leaving the dining-room,,
which he did before the rest, he suddenly
came upon her in the hall that he had to-cross,
standing alone before the great hall
fire.

Having, of course, not at all expected to
find her there, he, for a moment, hesitated
whether to address her or to pass on, but

he had no desire to pass on, so, after that
very short deliberation, he turned from his
straight course, and went up to her.

What a splendid fire you have got
here," he said.

Yes. It is a cold night ; we need a
good fire," she answered.

And then he stood beside the mantelpiece,
and she looked contemplatively at the
burning logs, and for a few moments they
were both silent.

'' I was thinking of other people's Christmas
days," she said, suddenly, after that
pause. '' I always think that the only
proper Christmas gatherings are gatherings
of children. It is so nice in families where
there are a great many young people.
Have you any brothers and sisters?" she
asked all at once, with an upward glance.

I have no brothers, " he said, " but
I have two sisters  only they are both

married. They are older than I am."

*' Then your father and mother have no
child at home ?"

*' No ; but they have a couple of grandchildren
very near at hand. My eldest
sister lives close to them."

And you are an uncle ?" with a little
look of surprise. " I should think that
must feel strange, at your age."

I have been an uncle ever since I was
eighteen, so I am pretty well used to the
feeling."

*' Were you going to the drawing-room ?
Pray don't let me keep you, if you were,"
she said, formally, the next moment.

'' Do you mean by that that you order
me to go ?" he answered, a little nettled.

She looked up in his face with the deliberate
look that was one of the things in
her that had more than once irritated him.

'' Order you ! No, of course not. I

VOL. I. F

only meant that I hoped you would go, if
you wished," she quietly replied.

' I have seen nothing of you all day. In
fact I almost never do see anything of you.
You are very unapproachable, Miss Godwin,"
he said, suddenly.

She gave a little unembarrassed laugh.

*' Am I ? I was not aware of it," she
coolly answered.

You certainly are, as far as I am concerned.
But I have been, somehow, unfortunate
enough to incur your displeasure,
and, I suppose, you are resolved not to
forget it," he exclaimed, hotly,  and in consequence
unwisely.

For she looked at him again, and then
she said, with a touch of haughtiness,

I really was nut thinking anything at
all about you. But certainly, if we misunderstand
one another so strangely, we had
better not try to talk together."

And with that she moved away, and
would have left him, if he had not interposed.


'miss Godwin, pray do not go like that !
If anybody goes, let it be me ; but come
back far a moment  do come back, I beg
of you. I don't know how it is," exclaimed
the poor young man, with genuine vexation,
'* but I am always putting my foot in it.
Upon my word, I don't know hove it is !" he
repeated.

She seemed a little puzzled what to do,
but at his entreaty she did turn back.

** I think you are  very excitable'' she
said, looking at him dubiously.

"Indeed I am not," he exclaimed. "I
am rather the reverse in general. I am too
much disposed to be phlegmatic."

''Oh!" she said, softly and incredulously.

I assure you it is so. I know that ever
since I have been here I have been behave

2

ing like a fool, and all I can think of to
account for it is that you have taken such a
terribly annihilating tone with me "

You seem to be fond of strong terms,"
she interrupted.

I can't help using them. What I say is
perfectly true."

Pray let us come to the drawing-rooms
was her sole response ; and, without another
word, she turned from him again, and, crossing
the hall, opened the drawing-room door
and disappeared, leaving him neither in
charity with himself nor her.

*' Well, if she is not a provoking woman !"
was his first thought when he found himself
alone.

But if his primary impulse was to say
this, on reflection he was reasonable enough
to apply some strong language also to himself.


'* I have made myself a confounded fool !"

he said. '' Upon my word I think I had
better go back to town."

And perhaps he might have begun to
take the desirability of this step seriously
into consideration, if, when he went presently
into the drawing-room, Sydney, who
in her heart perhaps was conscious that Mr.
Marmaduke's complaints of her treatment of
him were not quite so unreasonable as she
had professed to think them, had not chosen,
impelled by a spark of remorse, to make
some little amende to him. She was sitting
before her coffee-cups when he came in, and
somehow, by intention on her part, by
half unwilling attraction on his, their eyes
met at his entrance. She gave him a little
smile that invited him to come towards her
as plainly as a smile could.

Will you have some coffee ?" she said
to him next moment; and then, as she
handed it to him, " I am afraid I made

you angry just now," she abruptly said.

It was all my fault," he answered, instantly.


Was it, do you think ?" she returned.

And upon that she looked at him again,
with something very like laughter in her
eyes,  and there was a chair near her and
he took it.

Perhaps she had not meant him to do
this, but when he sat down she submitted
to his company with a fairly good grace.
And he, for his part, having taken possession
of his place, kept it for a considerable
time. He could be very agreeable when
things went well with him. And, as they
talked, even Sydney allowed this, and acknowledged
that she might have been worse
entertained. She, too, was on her good
behaviour, and, conscious of her prejudice
against her companion, obliged herself to bea
little more than usually gracious. She-belonged

to that class of women who often,
to strangers, do themselves injustice by
hiding most of the sweetness that is really in
them ; she let herself often be almost markedly
indifferent ; she disliked the flirting of
other girls so much that she treated men
frequently with almost less than courtesy.
But yet she was very capable of being not
only courteous, but even winning too, and
for the first time Mr. Marmaduke thought
so, as he sat to-night beside her.

Personally, in spite of her brusqueness to
himself, he had already admired her nota
little ; to-night he thought (being better
pleased with her than he had ever been
yet) that she was beautiful.

I like these fair, strong, largely graceful
women," he said to himself. "They
nil one's eye and mind, and satisfy both. I
should like to see this one if she were in
love with somebody. Being thoroughly in

love would rub off her angles, and make a
splendid creature of her." And, thinking
this, he was not specially pleased when,
after some time had passed, but before he
was at all tired of his companion, Mr. Lou-down
came up, and began to claim her
attention for himself.

Mr. Loudoun was an old friend of Sydney's,
so she turned to him not at all unwillingly.
She knew him well enough to
be pretty well at home with him. She
turned to him pleasantly, and Mr. Armature,
after a few minutes more, found himself
thrown rather into the background ; soon
this, he wisely vacated his seat, and
Mr. Loudoun took it.

'What a handsome young fellow that
is !" the new-comer said to Sydney, as the
other made his retreat ; and Sydney answered
with an indifferent assent.

He is too handsome," she said. " You
can't forget his good looks."

'* But why should you avant to forget
them ?" Mr. Loudoun asked, with a laugh.
' You might, perhaps, if he had merely got
a set of straight features ; but this 3oung
Saul is really a noble-looking fellow. What
a height he is, and what limbs he has got !
What sort of brains has he ?"

Oh, his brains are right enough ; he
is nothing  particular," Sydney answered,
with cool nonchalance ; and then they began
to talk of something else.

Mr. Loudoun looks very grave, poor
fellow," Mrs. Godwin said, rather tenderly,
when the evening had come to an end, and
the gentleman she was speaking of had
taken his departure. He was the only
guest who left the house, and the others
were just about to separate.

'Ob, he's all right," replied Mr. Godwin,
shortly.

But Mrs. Harcourt asked what was the
matter with him, and then Mrs. Godwin
proceeded to explain.

He has just lost his mother, and he was
so attached to her," she said. '' It was
quite a wonderful case of affection. They
say he never married because he wouldn't
bring another woman into the house. And
now he is all alone. I think he looks very
sad," said the kind-hearted woman, with
decision.

Well, better late than never. Let him
take a wife now. I always counsel everybody
to marry," said Mr. Burton, with a
jovial laugh.

Ah ! I doubt if he will take your advice,"
answered Mrs. Godwin, shaking her
head, " though I wish he would, for I am
sure any woman might be happy with him.

He is a very nice person  he is really a
delightful person when you come to know
him. We are all great friends of his here."
And she would have gone on talking
longer, but nobody seemed to take much
interest in the subject, so they bade one
another good night, and went to bed.

CHAPTER V.

A After Christian the frost broke up,
-- and there came some lovely days,
mild and soft as spring, which brought both
young and old out of doors. There were
many pleasant riding expeditions made
during these days, and much walking went
on about the grounds and gardens. In the
garden were certain well-gravelled paths,
sheltered from the wind, and open to such
sunshine as could be got ; these were always
favourite winter resorts at Broadbelt, and
here many a half-hour was spent.

It was so mild on several mornings that it
was possible to sit out in these favoured

spots, or so at least the foolish young ones
thought, especially Lucy and Amy, who
protested that it was as warm as summer,
and, armed with shawls, would have been
content every day to pass whole consecutive
hours reposing in garden-chairs, if they
could have secured for themselves meanwhile
the companionship that their souls-desired.


The Misses Harcourt were, in fact, enjoying
their stay at Broadbelt greatly. They
had their occasional heartburning, it is
true, their little disappointments, and jealousies,
and vexations, but, taking one day
with another, they were having a delightful
time of it ; they talked and laughed, they
rode and walked, they played and sang,,
and, above all, they flirted to their heart's
content. They thought that Mr. Armature
and Mr. Horton were both charming,
and they considered them as their natural

and unquestionable property, for were they
not the only young ladies in the house
(somehow, without distinctly putting it into
words, they always felt as if Sydney counted
for nothing)? and, being the only young
ladies, had they not an inborn right to the
attentions of the only young men? The
sole, or at least the main difficulty they had
to meet was the difficulty of deciding, to
their mutual satisfaction, which of the young
men they each preferred.

This was a point indeed that, to tell the
truth, led to some soreness. There were
moments when they thought they liked Mr.
Horton best, and moments when they
thought they preferred Mr. Marmaduke,
but, on the whole, the moments when they
preferred Mr. Marmaduke were the most
frequent, and then each sister to whom he
talked began to be looked askance at by
the other, and there were little bickering,

and Amy would speak angrily to Lucy, and
Lucy would shoot out some sharp insinuation
at Amy, and matters between them
would not be altogether smooth. But still
this was a state of things by no means new
to either of them. With Lucy and Amy
the same circumstances before now had
produced the same result ; perhaps indeed
it was only their unusually keen sisterly
sympathy that made their hearts so often
beat in the same direction. They were fair
enough friends, in spite of their small jealousies,
and, if they sometimes exchanged
bitter speeches, they exchanged unnumbered
confidences as well.

As for Sydney, to tell the truth, she did
not get on well with these two girls ; she
did not know what to make of them ; she
was not patient enough to try to find out
what good there might be in them ; she
stood aloof, and surveyed them with amazed

disapproval. At first she was entirely intolerant
of them ; after a time, perceiving
that they really meant but little harm, and
in their way were good-natured and kindly
disposed enough, she came to regard them
somewhat as a pair of innocent spiders, each
sitting watching all day from the middle of
her web for such flies as she could catch.
But I am afraid she retained a considerable
amount of contempt both for them and (at
any rate for a time) for the flies that let
themselves be caught.

One day she said something on this point
to Mr. Horton pretty sharply. Mr. Horton,
as I have already said, was a young man
who was very expert in adapting himself
to his company ; he could talk sense or
nonsense with equal readiness, and almost
(apparently) with equal content. To the
Harcourt girls he always made himself
very pleasant, exchanging endless badinage

with them, and seeming to be at all times
ready for their society ; but one day, after
he had been flirting with Lucy for an hour,
unluckily for him, Sydney heard him say
something with a laugh to Mr. Marmaduke
which brought the colour to her face.

It was nothing very bad ; he merely
exclaimed, 'what a goose that girl is!"
not knowing that anybody except Mr.
Marmaduke was within hearing ; but, as it
happened, Sydney was within hearing too,
behind his back, and it pleased her, as soon
as the words had passed his lips, to break
out into a spurt of wrath.

*' If you think she is a goose, what right
have you to talk to her as you do ?" she
said, indignantly. " How Janus-faced you
are, you men of society !" and then she
glanced from one to another of the two
friends, to make them sure (though, in fact,
Mr. Marmaduke had done nothing to offend

VOL. I. G

her) that she was levelling her diatribe at
both their heads. '' You have no honesty. I
think it would be better that people were
born dumb altogether, than that they fell
into your habit of saying what they don't
mean, and pretending to like what in their
hearts they are laughing at."

Mr. Horton had wheeled round with
considerable expedition as Sydney began to
speak, but he was a spirited little man, and
perhaps his conscience was, on the whole,
not a very bad one ; at any rate he stood
the fire of her indignation pretty bravely,
and was ready with his answer as soon as
she became silent, without looking at all
shame-faced.

"My dear Miss Godwin, if people were
always saying what they mean, what in the
world would become of us ?" he asked, in the
pleasantness way. " I confess that I made a
remark just now that I did not expect you

to hear, but in point of fact what was the
harm of it ? I think Miss Lucy Harcourt is
a very nice girl indeed. I do, upon my
word."

*' Then you like girls whom you think
fools?" said Sydney, scornfully.

"Well, I shall fall very low in your
estimation, but, to tell the truth, within
certain limits, I do. I think they are
sometimes very good company. There
now, I know you will never speak to me
again !" and he began to laugh. " Shall I
go up stairs and pack my portmanteau ?'*

It was impossible to treat him seriously.
She shook her head at him ; she knew that
he was wrong, and that she was right, and
yet what was the good of saying anything
further? But for more than the remainder
of that day she made both the young men
feel that she had not forgotten the unlucky
sentence she had overheard. She had

g2

allowed herself to be very pleasant to
Mr. Marmaduke of late, but she froze to him
again after this little scene with Mr. Horton,
rather unjustly perhaps, considering that
it was his friend and not himself who had
offended her ; but then Sydney argued by
analogy that what the one had actually
done the other no doubt would do ; they
looked at things in the same way, she
told herself; they were both capable of the
same small insincerities; they might mean
no harm, they might do only what others
did ; but if a man can seem to like you, and
to seek your society, and then talk scornfully
of you behind your back, what
satisfaction can there be in having anything
to do with him ? the girl with some reason
asked herself.

So she became cold again in her manner
not only to Mr. Horton but to Mr. Armature,
and though Mr. Horton did not

mind this chilliness much, he having a light
way of taking most things, and a happy way
of disregarding what he found unpleasant, it
rather annoyed Mr. Marmaduke, who felt
naturally enough that he was being involved
unjustly in his friend's punishment. He
very decidedly liked Sydney by this time,
he liked her more than he was quite
disposed to confess, and so her coolness
disturbed him enough to make him, after
some four and twenty hours had passed,
resolve that he would not passively bear it.
He accordingly contrived, as a good many of
them were out walking together, to get her
withdrawn from the rest, and then, having
accomplished this movement, he at once
began to speak of the matter that was in his
mind.

I think you are a wonderfully unjust
woman, Miss Godwin," he began, abruptly.
*' The injustice of women altogether  even

the best of them  is astonishing to men."
"Really !" she said, in response to this
exordium ; and she opened her eyes.

*' You can't help being aware that yoa
have been treating me, since yesterday, as I
have hardly given you cause to do."

** No  I am not aware of that," she
replied, deliberately, after a moment's
silence.

You know that, since you were angry
with Horton yesterday, you have almost
refused to speak to me."
Well r she said.

Well. Do you allow that, and not
allow, too, that you are unjust? What had
Horton's fault (if it was one) to do with
me?"

You would have done the same in his
place," she said.

'you can by no possibility know that.
Besides, surely, seeing that in point of fact

I did not do it But that is the amazing
way in which women argue!" he exclaimed,
indignantly breaking off his sentence.
' Why, if I were in the place of that
rogue of a butler of yours that you have
just turned off, you might as well say that I
should steal your spoons. So I should,
perhaps ; but, nevertheless, I am not in his
place, and I have not stolen them."

'the two cases are entirely different,"
she said, " as you know very well. I
should be absurd to talk in the way you
suggest about your stealing spoons, but
there is nothing absurd or far-fetched in my
assuming that you and Mr. Horton may
hold the same opinions about various things
as to which I should not agree with you.
In fact," said Sydney, after a moment's
silence, " on that particular point about
which he made me angry, I know you do
hold the same opinions."

*' I really do not think that you can
know that."

* You would think it right to laugh at
people behind their backs whom you make
much of to their faces."

'* I should not think it right. Of course
I know I have done it ; that is a different
thing. But I don't stand up for it."

If you do it, I think that is enough. It
is enough, I mean, to make one  distrust
you."

And then, what between the pangs of
conscience and the pangs of anger, the
blood came in a volume to Mr. Marmaduke's
face.

' What in the world do you want me todo
?" he exclaimed, after a few moments, ina
tone of irritated remonstrance. ' I know
why you talk like this. You have made up
your mind to condemn us both because weare
civil to the Miss Harcourtss. Now what

would you have ? There are thousands of
girls ill the world that no man can talk to
sensibly. You know that as well as I do.
But, if you meet such girls, if you stay in
the same house with them, you must be
polite to them  you must talk nonsense, if
you can t talk sense. I assure you they understand
all about it. They are just as sincere
as we are, and no more. What goes on
between us is simply the common give and
take of society. It is all an absolutely
understood thing, I do assure you."

'sand does that make it any better?"
Sydney asked, coldly. And then she flashed
a scornful glance up at him. *If girls
are silly, who is it but you who make them
so ?" she said, almost bitterly. ' You flirt
with them, and pretend to like them, and
then ridicule them when their backs are
turned. They would not be what they are,
if it were not for you."

Well, I suppose they wouldn't," he admitted,
after a moment. '* That may be
true enough. But at any rate," he added,
with some spirit, *' there is a difference between
making a girl a flirt, and flirting a
little with her when she is one already. I
never tried to make a sensible girl talk
nonsense in my life  never ! And I never
preferred a silly girl to a sensible one.
You may doubt me, Miss Godwin, but I
can say that to you with a clear conscience.
And if you choose to be just to me," the
young man said, suddenly, after another
short pause, " you can be in little doubt as
to whose company in this house has the
most attraction for me."

And then Sydney made no answer, only
she felt an unquestionable emotion of surprise.


They walked on for a short way after

this in silence, but presently Mr. Armature
began to speak again.

'' I certainly think you are unjust," he
said, warmly, '' to show offence at me now,
for I protest upon my word I have a very
clear conscience as far as the Miss Harcourtss
are concerned. All the world might have
heard any syllable I have ever said to either
of them. If you think I have been making
them suppose that I admire them, or anything
of that sort, you are utterly wrong.
I really don't know what you do think !"
exclaimed Mr. Marmaduke, growing hotter.
*' If you will allow me to say so, it seems
to me very much as if you were condemning
something about which you know so
little that you are not in a position to judge
of it."

Of course, I do not know very much,"
she replied, with a moment's hesitation.

You are wasting your indignation on
something that you suppose to be very bad,
when it is only very silly."

I think you forget that what made me
angry yesterday was not Mr. Horton's manner
to the Miss Harcourtss when he was with
them, but his contemptuous way of speaking
of them when they could not hear him."

Ah, well  true ; of course one can't
defend that sort of thing."

No, not very well, I think."

Only you make too much of it  indeed
you do. If you won't be angry with me
for saying so, you take things too seriously.
You suppose that people ought always to
be in earnest ; you won't allow them to
jest."

You are wrong there. I am quite willing
that they should jest if they please. It
is not jesting that I object to, but insincerity."


"Well, but what you call insincerity
somebody else would give a lighter name
to."

'eyes, very probably; yes, I suppose so."

There are so many people that one
can't treat seriously. One laughs with girls
like the Miss Harcourtss, and perhaps laughs
at them too, but what harm does it do ?
One's whole intercourse with them is a kind
of jest. If one were to laugh behind their
backs at the people one professed to respect,
that would be a different thing altogether.
I don't know whether you will
believe me if I tell you that I should feel
the insincerity of such conduct as strongly
as you could do yourself; but I think," said
Mr. Marmaduke, with some spirit, " if you
wish to be just to me, you ought to believe
it."

And then she made no answer for a few
moments ; but, after that short silence,

"I am glad we agree so far," she said,
simply.

''I am sure there is not in reality much
difference of opinion between us," he eagerly
answered. " I do not stand up for anything
that you are condemning, I am only
anxious to make you believe that what
Horton was guilty of yesterday  what (as you
say) I too might be guilty of  is a slighter
fault than you are inclined to believe. I
cannot bear to think that you should accuse
me of general insincerity because of such a
thing as that. Do you think I am insincere
now ?" he said, suddenly, and turned to her
with a keen look on his face. " Do you
believe that I should be capable half an
hour after this of going to Horton and
laughing at what you have just been saying
to me? Pray, do me the justice to tell me
that you do not."

'' You forget that I know you only very

slightly," she answered, in her coldest tone.

' And so you mean you will not trust
me? Miss Godwin, do you not know that
in English law a man is always counted
innocent till you have proved him to be
guilty? But you seem inclined to reverse
the process."

If you have had some cause to doubt a
person  a little, you can scarcely be quite
ready to believe in his professions," she
answered, coolly.

And then he bit his lip. She was provoking
him a good deal ; he thought her a
curiously unreasonable and impracticable
woman, and yet there was something in his
feeling towards her that would not let him
permit the discussion to drop.

Will you let me ask you a question ?"
he said, abruptly, after a minute's silence.
What made you angry with me the second
night I was here ? You know what I mean.

You would not tell me when I asked you
once before, but I think I have a right to
try to make you tell me now. Was that
anything about the Miss Harcourtss ?"

"Why do you return to a thing that is
past? I told you it was of no consequence."


Sydney said this in a tone of annoyance.

It is of consequence to me when it
made you angry with me. It was something
about the Miss Harcourtss, was it
not ?"

And then Miss Godwin, being pushed into
a corner, and not liking her position, broke
suddenly into a little flame.

"If it was, the less you say about it the
better!" she exclaimed, with scornful eyes.
You were making them both ridiculous,
and I hated to see you do it. It made me
angry ; that was all. Now you had better
not ask me anything more."

And she began to quicken her pace. The
rest of the party were in sight, though they
were some way ahead, and perhaps she
thought that she could overtake them. But
Mr. Marmaduke had no intention that she
should overtake them, so he let her walk at
what pace she pleased for a minute, and
then, beginning to speak and to slacken his
steps again at the same time, he forced her
to resume her own slower movement.

If I offended you that night, I can only
tell you that I regret it extremely," he
said. (To confess the truth, he did not
know in the least v;hat her last speech had
meant, but he thought it wisest, under
the circumstances, to express a general
contrition, without demanding any minute
explanation.) "You shall not have any
cause to find fault with me in the same way
again. I give you my word for that."

'why should you give me your word

VOL. I. H

when I have not asked for it?" she retorted,
instantly.

Why should you refuse to take it when
I offer it ?" he replied as quickly. ' I
thought you were anxious that society
should improve in  those matters we were
speaking of. It seems to me that, if you
are sincere in your wish, when a promise of
improvement is made to you, you should
hardly reject it."

I beg sour pardon," she said suddenly,
and even a little humbly. And then, after
a moment, " I only meant that your making
such a promise to me seemed quite unnecessary."


Bat if making it to you should help me
to keep it ?" he replied. '' And I assure
you it would. I should break a vow made
to myself twenty times sooner than I should
one I had made to y  to some one else.
Is not that the common case ? Don't we

most of us need to back up our strength 
or our weakness, I should call it, rather?"

And then Sydney marvelled a little, but
she said nothing more. For she did not
find it exactly easy to explain to Mr. Mar-mature
 preserving at the same time a due
regard to courtesy  that she was not as
yet conscious of it being her vocation to
back up his weakness, and that to become
the recipient of his promises was to hold an
office that she felt she in no way desired.
She sighed a little impatiently after a minute.
Mr. Marmaduke had rather provoked
her by the way in which he had forced her
to explain herself to him. Why could he
not leave her alone, she thought (like Mr.
Horton), and not mind what she either
thought or said ? Sydney Godwin was
quite sufficiently inclined to be indignant at
the foolish things her neighbours did, but
she was too indolent, and probably too

h2

cold, to be fitted for a reformer. A world
given up to folly she would have been
ready to reprove, but she would not by any
means have been ready to take a repentant
world to her bosom, and to make herself
the guide of its faltering steps.

She walked on and said nothing, because
she was rather cross and had nothing to
say, and Mr. Marmaduke sauntered by her
side, retarding his pace more and more, as
she felt with some irritation, the nearer they
approached to the house and to the termination
of their walk. Even he, however,
when after a little silence he began to speak
again, was wise enough to let the subject
about which they had hitherto been talking
drop.

The red winter sun was shining aslant,
preparing for his setting behind a network
of leafless boughs. There was no sound
near them in the still afternoon except the

beat of their footsteps on the road. Sydney's
broad-leafed hat threw a shadow on
her face, but the sunlight touched her cheek.
What a fine outline it had, Mr. Marniaduke
thought ; how pure and clear it was ! " She
is as cold as ice, and pretty near as hard, it
seems to me'' the young man reflected to
himself; "but yet, surely, she can't have
that face and not be vulnerable somehow."
He was beginning to think a good deal
about Sydney Godwin, and the lofty way
in which she treated him did not, as he was
pretty well aware, make her attraction for
him less. He had never been conscious of
it before, but it seemed to him now that he
liked a woman to be cold, as Sydney was ;
he rather liked her to baffle and provoke
him.

They talked about ordinary enough things
for the rest of the way home, and Sydney
was civil, but a little chill.

*' You have not forgiven me yet. Why-will
you not forgive me ?" he said to lier at
last, when they were within two minutes of
the house, and at that appeal she looked at
him and hesitated, and then there came a
very little smile.

But I have," she said.

'I don't think it."

What do you want me to do ?" she
asked. "I did not know we had quarrelled."


'* Indeed we had quarrelled, and I think
your sword is in your hand yet."

"You are very fanciful," she said.

You see you don't deny it."

'' You are wrong. T do deny it."

Are you not going to be angry with meany
longer then ?"

No, I am not angry."

*' I should like to hear you say that weare
friends."

Well, I suppose we are friends,  in the
sense you mean."

*' In what sense is that ?"

That we are not enemies."

*' And that is all you will say, is it ?"

He closed his lips, and they did not
speak again till he had his hand on the
door that opened into the house. Then he
stood still, and turned to her.

'' Why won't you give me a single grain
of satisfaction ?" he said all at once, half in
jest. "" I have humbled myself in the dust
before you ; I have acknowledged all my
sins, real or imaginary, and, for anything
that I have gained by my confession, it
seems to me I might as well have kept them
to myself"

'' Well, I did not ask you to acknowledge
them, did I ?" she replied. But after she
had made that answer she gave a little

laugh. '' I really don't know what you
want?" she said.

I want to know that you think better of
me than you did an hour ago."

*' I did not think particularly well of you,
certainly, an hour ago."

Then you do think better now ?"

A little, I suppose."

I think you ought. I do indeed. I
don't think you would be doing me justice
unless you did."

*well, I do."

Then you ought to say something more
to me than we are barely  not enemies."

*' You mean that I ought to ask you to
forgive me for having been unjust to
you?"

"No, no. I never thought of that. I
don't want you to ask me to forgive you for
anything. I only want you to say that weare
 Well, you won't say that we are

friends, but say only that you regard me ina
friendly spirit."

Oh, I will say that, of course, if you
like."

But you have not said it."

I regard you in quite a friendly spirit.
It seems to me an odd speech to make,  but
perhaps, now that I have made it, you will
open the door?"

"You know I shall expect you to act upto
that declaration."

"Shall you?" Sydney paused for a
moment. " In what way ?"

'* I shall expect you, if you are sincere
(and you surely would not be anything
else ?) not to be ready at every slight
provocation to believe evil of me."

Have I been that hitherto ?" she said,
rather gravely, with perhaps a little twinge
of conscience. ''If I have, I beg your
pardon."

Don't beg ray pardon. I only ask you
not to do it in future."

I never ought to do it, I know,  in regard
to you, or anyone."

Oh, yes, no doubt," a little drily. " But
it is myself and not other people that I am
concerned about."

She could not help laughing, but she
would say nothing more. It was not so
delightful an occupation to her as it seemed
to him to stand talking on the doorstep on
this December afternoon.

"Do open the door," she repeated.

And then at last he was obliged to turn
the handle and let her in.

CHAPTER VI.

rjlHE Burtonss and Turners left Broaclbelt
-*- a few days after Christmas, but the
rest of the party were persuaded by Mrs.
Godwin (not, I am afraid, by Sydney) to
remain till after the New Year.

*' Oh, you mustn't go yet ; we should
miss you too much," that good, hospitable
woman said to Mrs. Harcourt. " I do so
like to have young people in the house ;
and it's so nice for Sydney, who has so few
companions. Do stay till after New Year's
Day. And then Mr. Horton and Mr. Mar-mature
will stay too  won't you ?" she

asked, turning her kind face to the two
gentlemen.

But Sidney, though she was in the room,
said nothing ; and Mr. Marmaduke, after he
had with great readiness professed himself
willing to prolong his visit, gave a furtive
glance at her, with a twinkle, half of fun,
half of deprecation, in his eyes.

You see you are not going to get rid of
us quite so soon as you expected," he said
to her, an hour afterwards.

'* So it seems," she answered.

Audit I to have told Mrs. Godwin that

o

I was obliged to be in town tomorrow
morning ? I was afraid you thought I
ought. But I looked at you for help in
framing my answer, and you would not
condescend to give me the least assistance.
So I said  what was the truth."

'that was a good thing, at any rate,"
and Sydney gave a little laugh.

But yet, though she said it was good to
tell the truth, it did not appear quite so-evident
as it might have done that, in this
particular instance, the consequences of his
having taken that course were productive of
much delight to her.

*' I do believe you are heartily tired of us
all," he said, frankly, the next moment.
*' Shall we still go tomorrow,  Horton and
I ? We will really, if you wish it ?"

But when he made this offer she could
not be so uncourteous as to accept it.

Why do you say that? Of course you
ought to stay, when it is arranged," she
answered. . " I would much rather that you
stayed than that you left the Harcourtss
here alone."

*' We are a little use then, you think, intaking
them off your hands ? In consideration
of our performing that service you will
forgive our remaining a little longer ?" he-said.


It was not a very flattering interpretation
of her meaning, but it came so near the
truth that Sydney looked a little caught.

"No ; you should not put it in that way.
You are of use; but, of course, I don't
mean " she said, and then stopped.

'you mean, I think  don't you  that
you will be very glad, finally, to see the end
of us?"

No ; not the end of you two," and then
she looked him straight in the face, with the
most clear and unembarrassed eyes. " I
shall not be sorry to see the end of the
Harcourtss. You know I don't pretend to
care for them ; but you are different. I
think you and Mr. Horton have both been
a great help all this time  and very kind."

I know I have been very happy. I
have enjoyed this week amazingly. I think
it has been the very j oldest Christmas I
ever spent in my life."

This seemed to Sydney extreme language,
bnt she only gave her eyebrows an almost
imperceptible lift as she heard it, and said
nothing.

"I had no idea how delightful it would
be," Mr. Marmaduke went on, warmly.
I was in two minds, when I first got Mrs.
Godwin's invitation, whether to accept it, or
to go home ; but now I am thanking my
stars every day that I came to the decision
I did."

You seem to me very easily pleased,"
Sydney said, in a tone of some wonder.

Not at all. That is not a weakness of
mine in the least  it is quite the other v/ay,"
Mr. Marmaduke said, and then he began to
laugh. " I know sou think I am talking
nonsense, but indeed I am not," he protested
the next moment. '' Do you not
know how sometimes everything becomes
delightful to you ? Is not that a state of

mind you have had any experience of?"

Yes ; but then it is generally caused by
something definite," she said. " It does not;
come on without any reason."

".N"o, of course it does not come on without
any reason, but it may come on very
unexpectedly, and that is often part of the
charm of it."

'' Possibly," she answered, in a tone of
indifference ; and then she rose up, for she
thought he was rather foolish and flighty,
and moved from her seat that she midst
silence him. But he would not let her
silence him. He began to talk about something
else, and kept her talking till she sat
down again.

During these last few days Mr. Armature
had contrived to have a very considerable
amount of conversation with Sydney.
He had not forced himself upon her, but
yet he had been a great deal at her side,

and Lucy and Am}, I am afraid, since Sydney's
rebuke to him about them, had not
profited as much as they would have desired
to do by his attentions, in consequence of
which their poor little tempers had been
somewhat tried, and, with feminine justice,
they had said hard things to one another in
private about Sydney.

For somehow they had taken it into their
foolish heads from the first that Mr. 
and Mr. Horton had been provided
at this special time to act as cavaliers to
them, and the withdrawal of one of these
attendants from their service appeared to
them nothing short of a fraudulent proceeding,
the fault of which, of course, they laid
at Sydney's door, leaving Mr. Marmaduke
blameless. It was Miss Godwin who enticed
him and flirted with him, they said.
And so, for the last day or two, they had
held themselves rather high to Miss God-vol.

I. I

win, and had made various bitter though
smiling little speeches to her, which, however,
had entered quite harmlessly into
Sydney's innocent ears. For certainly what
she had done had not been to flirt with Mr.
Marmaduke ; her fault, most young men
thought, was that she had no conception of
what flirting meant.

She used to think sometimes now that
Mr. Marmaduke was very fond of talking,
but then she remembered it was holiday
time, and everybody was idle, and, if he
talked incessantly, at any rate he often
talked pleasantly too, she allowed  better
than Mr. Horton, who, in spite of his good
qualities, was too facile in falling in with
everybody's ways to earn much respect from
her as she became better acquainted with
him. There was more in Mr. Marmaduke
than in his friend, she thought ; she even
had begun to think that perhaps, after all.

it was not so great a misfortune to be good-looking.
Rather to her surprise, Sydney
began to find herself not unfrequently commenting
very charitably on that handsome
young face of Mr. Marmaduke that she had
professed to despise at first. She had despised
it because of the theory she held that
beauty in a man makes its owner conceited ;
but was it the case that Mr. Marmaduke was
more conceited than other people ? she was
beginning to ask now; and honestly, and
with a certain pleasure, she told herself that
she hardly thought he was.

In fact, she had begun to like him, and
her liking had a certain perceptible effect
upon her judgment, which was apt in general
not to err on the side of leniency. Perhaps
such regard as she had for him did not
amount to much, yet at least it procured for
Mr. Marmaduke a little, welcoming smile

now and then, and no small amount of her

i2

society. He sought her, and, on the whole
she submitted to be sought  and found. If
she showed no anxiety for his companionship,
at least she did not let him feel that it
was distasteful to her. She would sit still
contentedly for an hour or more at a time
while he talked to her. If she required
any trifling service to be done, Mr. Armature
had begun to notice (not without a
sense of rather more than adequate elation)
that she would rather accept it from him
than from another ; if they rode, it was he
who was permitted to assist her to mount
and to alight ; if she ever wanted any little
arrangement to be carried out, it was to him
that she appealed to act as her coadjutor.
*'IIe is so good-natured," she said to herself.
But then Mr. Horton, to whom she
did not apply, was good-natured too.

Yet, when all was said, the signs of
favour that Sydney showed to Mr. Armature

were slight enough, and he knew that,
and told himself that he liked her the better
because of it. He did not mind much that
she was cool to him, so that she was not
warm to anyone else. And warm to anyone
else, outside her own household, she
certainly was not  unless it might be to Mr.
Loudoun, who had known her almost all
her life, and whom she acknowledged
frankly that she liked.

He is one of our best friends," she told
Mr. Marmaduke one evening, when Mr.
Loudoun was dining again at Broadbelt.
Have you not had any talk with him ?
You ought to talk to him, for he knows so
many things. I am sure you would like
him ; everybody does."

This was praise of unusual warmth from
Sydney's lips  of greater warmth, perhaps,
than Mr. Marmaduke might quite have
relished if Mr. Loudoun had been a younger

man ; but, as it was, it did not disturb him-between
Sydney and a man of nearly twice
her age, who had played with her before she
was three years old, there was not likely to
be anything but fatherly and filial feelings.
So he said, quite cordially, " I should like
greatly to talk to him." And, before the
evening ended, he did it.

They had a long talk, and then Mr.
Marmaduke told Sydney that he liked her
friend extremely.

"But he seems a little too grave and
quiet. What is he going to do ? It is a
dreary thing for a man to live by himself,"
he said.

*' I don't know how he can help living hy
himself," she replied. " He has nobody
who could live with him."

He ought to marry," Mr. Marmaduke
said, with decision. " You should advise

him to look out for some nice, sensible wife
about his own age."

*'I wish he would," Sydney answered,
cordially.

*who could you find for him? Miss
Turner is too old, I am afraid ?"

'' Oh, yes  oh, dear, yes !" Sydney exclaimed,
with something rather like indignation
(rather too much like indignation,
Mr. Marmaduke thought). ' Why, he
might have a wife twenty years younger
than Miss Turner is ! If he were to marry
somebody about thirty-five "

'eyes, about thirty-five  from thirty-five
to thirty-eight ; that would be a very good
age," assented Mr. Marmaduke, with great
heartiness.

'but I am afraid he is not likely to doit.
He is so studious and quiet  and he
seems never to have thought of such a
thing."

Somebody ought to put it into his head
then. Mrs. Godwin might look out for
some amiable woman who would suit
him."

But Sydney shook her head laughingly.

'mamma's vocation is not for matchmaking,"
she said. ' And I am mamma's
true daughter in that respect, at any rate."

'' I don't think you would take the
trouble to get your neighbours married,
however much you might have it in your
power," he answered, laughing too.

"Perhaps not."

"You are not particularly interested in
your neighbours' affairs, I am afraid, in
general ?"

Not very much. Are you twitting me
with my faults ?"

No, quite the reverse. You wouldn't
ask if you knew what I think of women who
meddle in everybody's business."

*' I suspect, though, I ought to meddle a
little more than I do."

I don't know that you ought. You do
stand a good deal aloof, certainly."

She said after a moment,  with a touch
of vexation in her voice,

'' Do you mean that that strikes you ?"

*' Well, you have not a manner that
invites sympathy."

No, I suppose not," she said, rather
sadly.

I don't know that it is a fault. I don't
mean to call it a fault for a moment, only
people need to know you. I may say that, at
least, safely."

'* You may say what you think, when I
ask you. What jou mean is, I suppose,"
after a moment or two's silence and apparent
meditation, " that my manner is very
cold?"

'' Well, no doubt it is cold. I could not

tell in the least how to get on with you
when I knew you first."

"I should not have thought that at all'
with a little surprise.

*' It is true, though, I assure you. Why,
I never talked to you at all till now. I am
sure on those days when 1 used to come
out here to dinner last summer, we rarely
spoke six sentences to one another. You
held me so at arm's length that I never
knew what to say to you."

"I am afraid I am often very stiff. I am
not fond of strangers. T am not like
mamma."

No. I am forced to allow you are not.
Mrs. Godwin is wonderfully kind and
friendly. When people cease to be strangers,
though, you don't go on hating them, do
you? You get a little more tolerant of
ordinary acquaintances when you know
them better ?"

Of course I do, generally. Surely you
know that ?"

'' Then you have got more tolerant of
me?"

"I was never particularly tolerant of
you,  that I remember."

'* Oh, I think you were at first. But I
hope you object less to me now than you
did six months ago ?"

I don't object to you  at all," half
laughing.

Do you know that it gives me a great
deal of pleasure to hear you say that ?"

"I think you are very fond of asking
questions that you don't need to have
answered,  are you not ?"

*not I. That was a question that I
wanted very much to have answered'

*' But you knew the answer to it before
you spoke."

*'I hoped I knew it, but I am a very

diffident person, and I did not like to trust
my own opinion."

I think," laughing, " that you are very
absurd."

"Why? Because I tell you I would
trust what you say to me rather than what
I think myself ? You ought to call that a
proof of wisdom."

"But you talk so much nonsense, and
you waste so much time. Presently, when
you return to town "  with a little curiosity
'' shall you go on talking as much as you
do here ?"

I don't know," laughing. '' That wall
depend upon circumstances. It wont do
for a pleading barrister, you know, not to
be able to talk."

I don't think you can be helping yourself
in your profession much by any kind of
talk that you practise here."

That is a very severe speech to make 

at least, 3'CU mean it severely. But I am
not going to take any notice of it. Shall
you talk as much as you are doing now
when we are all gone ?"

*' I am very sure I shall not."

Is it owing to my persistence then that
you talk as much as you do? Are you
very angry with me for making you do it ?"

If I were angry I should be silent."

"Are you always angry when you are
silent r

I hope not. But with you I should be
silent certainly, if I did not want to talk."

Why with me specially ?"

"Because I think I know you well
enough now not to need to talk to you
for mere civility."

I like you to say that !" with sudden
warmth.

"Indeed?" with her tone showing slight
surprise.

'' It is the best thing you have said to me
to-night. It is the best thing you have ever
said to me."

'* If I have pleased you, I am afraid it
has been done unintentionally."

Oh  that I can believe. I am not vain
enough to suppose anything else. But you

don't seem to be aware Really " 

looking straight at her  "you don't appear
to know in the least what a kind thing you
have said?"

"No  I do not," looking a little disturbed.


If you allow that you talk a good deal
to me, and yet tell me that you don't feel
yourself called on now to talk to me for
civility, don't you see what a flattering
inference you permit me to draw?"

Yes. I see it now. But I hardly
iean>t that."

"If you only half meant it I shall be

satisfied. And you did half mean it, I
hope ?"

And then she laughed, but with a little
colour in her face, and 

I shall remember that you are a lawyer
another time," she said, and rose up, and,
for that moment, would say no more to him.

But, as I have already stated, Sydney
was by this time very fair friends with Mr.
Marmaduke, and he was beginning to be
not very doubtful of his footing with her.
He knew that she liked him a little, and he
was tolerably eager to get her to like him
more, and yet not eager as to make her
take alarm. For his own part he began to
find her wonderfully attractive. She was
unlike any other woman he knew, and her
simplicity and truthfulness, her freedom
from coquetry, her very coldness and unapproachableness
had all a novel charm for
him.

He had liked many other girls before
now, but by the time he had been a week at
Broadbelt it seemed to him that he had
never liked any other girl so well or so
seriously as he did Sydney. He hardly indeed
as yet imagined himself in love with
her, but he had begun very distinctly to
contemplate the possibility of his becoming
in love with her, and to argue the matter
very rationally and deliberately with himself.
If he should get to care for her, and be able
to make her care for him, his marriage with
her, he knew, would be one likely to be approved
of, both by her parents and his own.
Everything requisite indeed existed to make
it acceptable. There was money on both
sides, and old friendship : the social position
of the two families was about equal ; he and
Sydney were well suited in age, and it seemed
to him that they would be excellently
suited in disposition ; with the income his

father would give him, and the fortune Sydney
would bring, they would be in more
than easy circumstances. There were no
prudent considerations whatever to stay Mr.
Marmaduke in his wooing ; he only awaited
the decision of his own mind. But as to
that, he said wisely enough, there was no
need for haste. Sydney was not the kind
of girl, he felt, to be either wooed or won
in a day.

"I will let things take their natural
course," he told himself. "Delightful as
she is to those who can understand her, she
is not the kind of woman that men in general
will fall in love with. I can venture
to take my time. Tt will be soon enough to
make up my own mind six months hence,
and after that, if she kept me in suspense for
years, I don't think I should much mind it."

And Mr. Marmaduke, who was something
of an epicure, and liked to taste the sweets

VOL. I. K

of life with dainty deliberation, not to
swallow them greedily at a gulp, began to
picture to himself the pleasure of making
love to Sydney, till at moments he almost
brought himself to think that, few other
pleasures would be able to equal it.

CHAPTER VII.

fTIHE last days of the old year were stormy
-*- and wet, and the party at Broadbelt
had to amuse itself as best it could for the
most part within doors. Lucy and xAniy
yawned a little during this unfavourable
weather, yet, on the whole, they did not lack
entertainment, for Mr. Horton was a most
efficient person in a country house, and his
good-natured, if not very serious devotion to
the two guests for whom Sydney would have
found it so difficult without him to procure
amusement, won even her gratitude.

"You see there are times when folly
is of use," Mr. Marmaduke said to her

K 2

a little maliciously once ; and she thought
it wisest to let the remark pass without disputing
it.

Mr. Marmaduke too lent his aid in keeping
the demon of dulness from the house.
He was not so great a favourite with Amy
and Lucy as he had been at first, but yet
these girls belonged to the class who never
reject the attentions of a man to-day because
he was cool to them yesterday, and he himself
knew (and Sydney, rather with a feeling
of irritation, was conscious that he knew) that
he might treat them like a young Sultan if
he liked, and that he had but to throw the
handkerchief to them, with what delay he
pleased, to be certain that they would instantly
pick it up.

*' A queer pair of girls !" the young man
often said to himself. But yet sometimes
during these days, when Sydney's back was
turned, he did, nevertheless, condescend to

fling his handkerchief,  and to accept the
consequences.

They were, on the whole, rather tedious
days to Sydney. She got very tired, while
they lasted, of the sound of Lucy's and
Amy's voices. She used to retire sometimes
to her own room, and sit there and read ;
but she could not get much repose or satisfaction
out of these stolen hours. Once or
twice, wrapped in her waterproof, she went
down to the village, where she had old
pensioners, whom she liked to visit ; but
though she accomplished the first of these
expeditions unperceived, or, at least, unmolested,
on the second occasion on which
she left the house she found herself in a few
moments joined by Mr. Marmaduke. He
ran after her, and placed himself by her
side.

'' Where are you going? May I not come
with you ?" he asked.

I am going to see an old woman, so I
think you had better not' she answered.

But surely I may walk to where the
old woman lives ?"

I don't know why you should," she
replied. And then she added, half impatiently,
" I came away because I was so
tired of the talking in the drawing-room ;
but you like it, so you had better go back
to it again."

Yes, I like it so much better than talking
with you ; that is exactly how the case
stands," he answered, coolly.

And then she held her tongue, and he
walked on.

It was just raining enough to make it
desirable to keep up an umbrella, so he
took hers out of her hand and held it over
her. Her temper was a little ruffled, he
perceived ; he was perhaps conscious that
during the preceding hours he had been

vexing her a little ; but his position pleased
himself, so he walked on rejoicing. It gave
zest to the days, he had begun to think, to
make her a trifle angry now and then.

'' I think it is very foolish of you to come
out when you have nothing to come out
for," she said presently, " and when the
people you have left want you, and  I
don't. For you know I don t," she repeated.
"I think it is foolish of you to come
and escort me to the village in this way, as
if I could not hold an umbrella over m}
own head."

Do you think, then, that I have come
for the purpose of holding your umbrella ?"
he asked. *' That is a very odd notion. As
for you not wanting me, of course, if that
is really the case, I can't force myself upon
you ; but you don't mean what you say
seriously, do you ? It is a pleasure to me
to walk beside you, and I don't think it

can matter to you much, one way or the
other."

I would rather that you would not
come again in this kind of manner," she
said.

Well, I won't. Let me stay now, and
I'll do anything you like in the future."

And then she was not pleased, but she
said no more.

It was a twenty minutes' walk, and Mr.
Marmaduke was quite content as he paced
on beside her, in spite of the fact, which
was an evident fact enough, that she was
not in a very gracious humour. He had
rather offended her, as he knew, and not
only in this matter of having come out to
join her ; but the coldness with which she
treated him was rather refreshing to a taste
a little cloyed with the sweets with which
Amy and Lucy had been feeding it.

What a dripping sort of morning it is !"

he began to say, after a little while. " You
are a very charitable visitor to come out on
such a day to see your old people."

I told you why I came out," she answered,
shortly.

"Oh ! to escape from the foolish conversation
in the drawing-room ? I forgot that
you said that. Do you know"  abruptly 
I think you ought to have more tolerance
for folly  I do indeed."

Voit seem to have enough tolerance for
it, at any rate," she answered, quickly, and
then was angry that she had spoken, and
bit her lip.

I try to have tolerance for most things.
The wisest people are always the most tolerant,
you know."

"The wisest people may be very tolerant,
only they know where to draw the line,"
she retorted.

No doubt. But they can forgive a great

deal of folly as long as the folly is harris


And then she made no answer. She was
not in the humour for entering into an argument
with him, and besides (possibly) she
suspected that the position she had taken up
was not a very tenable one.

You know you are too impatient of the
things you despise," he said again, after a
minute's silence. " I have no right to tell
you so, of course, but you don't make allowance
enough ; upon my word you don't.
There is a curious want of sympathy in you.
Now  if I might say it  dien we were all
talking nonsense in the drawing-room just
now it would have been a good thing if jou
could have come and talked nonsense too.
Can't you believe that ? Can't you conceive
it possible?"

'' I don't know," she answered, rather reluctantly.
She was vexed because he forced

her to speak. " What is the use of asking
me if it would have been a good thing ?'
she said, suddenly and impatiently. ''I
could not have done it, however much I had
tried. I should only have been awkward
and stupid. You might almost as soon ask
me if it would not be a good thing to dance
on a tight-rope."

"I don't see that at all."

'* I think I could do the one thing as easily
as the other."

"Well, I don't think you could dance
upon a tight-rope certainly; but, if you were
to see some other people dancing upon
tight-ropes, you would not all at once begin
to despise them  would you ?"

'' Not if they danced welL But if they
proposed to entertain me with dancing, and
their dancing proved so poor as to be not
worth looking at, I should think they might
do something else with great advantage. I

know, however, that that does not touch
the real question," she added, honestly the
next moment. 'the real question  your
question," a little sharply and impatiently,
'' is whether I ought not to be altogether
different from what I am  more tolerant
and more tractable and more  in one word
somebody else and not myself ; and if you
ask me that, then I say ' Yes' heartily. Do
you think that I approve of myself as I am ?
You can hardly believe that I should be
better if I were different more thoroughly
than / believe it too."

And then, having made this speech with
considerable emotion  for the girl was stirred
by more than one feeling as she spoke 
Sydney walked on at rather a quickened
pace, with the colour in her face ; and Mr.
Marmaduke walked on too, enjoying his
position.

He liked to move her. He had not often

succeeded in moving her yet, but he had
tried to do it more than once. She was a
little stung now, and he liked to feel that
he had the power to sting her. He walked
by her side, enjoying her anger, for a few
moments before he answered her.

"And so / want you to be different, you
think?" he said, after this gratifying little
silence. " I want you to be another kind of
woman ! Well, one hears extraordinary
statements made often, but I never heard
a statement wider of the truth than
that."

It is no consequence whether it is wide
of the truth, or whether it is the exact truth :
it is no consequence at all. Talk about something
else," she said, quickly  and rather
imperiously too.

Very well. I will talk about anything
you like. So that you neither send me
away, nor try to effect any transformation in

yourself, I shall object to nothing you
please to command."

She made no answer for a moment or two,
and then, still in a tone of vexation, she
said,

I wish you would be more sensible this
morning. I wish you would either talk reasonably,
or be quiet."

I will talk as reasonably as you could
desire," he answered. And he kept Ins
word. For the next ten minutes all went
harmoniously between them ; and then they
reached the village, and she made him turn
back.

'' You don't want to be very long with
that old woman, do you? May I not wait
for you?" he asked.

But she declined this proposal emphatically,
and went her way, without
troubling herself to thank him much for his
company.

The Harcourtss were to take their leave
on the 2nd of January, and on the evening
of New Year's Day some other people dined
at Broadbelt, and there was acting of
charades at night. Both Amy and Lucy
acted cleverly, and, with Mr. Morton's and
Mr. Marmaduke's assistance, they got up
some very good scenes.

Do come and help us," Mr. Marmaduke
entreated Sydney. But she would not.

"They do it well, and I should do it
intolerably badly," she said.

She could only be persuaded to play in
one charade, where some one was wanted
to personate Heroine.

*' I will take the part of a statue, if you
like," she told them, laughing. And so
they draped her in white, and, with her
clear, colourless face and fair mass of hair,
she looked as beautiful a Hermione, Mr.
Marmaduke declared with enthusiasm to

Mrs. Godwin, as ever stepped from a
pedestal.

You did it to perfection," he said to
herself afterwards. " I knew sou Avould.
You could do anything of that kind that
you pleased. If you would practise a little
you would be splendid 2X ]Joses ]jlcLstiquesr

I am not very likely to practise," she
answered, drily. And then he laughed.

**No, I am afraid you are not," he said.
I am afraid you are much more likely to
make this your first and last performance.
And, after all, I don't know, but  I hardly
think I am sorry," he added, suddenly. " I
have seen you act once, and that is enough."

Yes  or more than enough," she answered,
half aloud, and turned away, only
glad for her own part that her work was
done.

The Harcourt girls were in their element,
and the evening was so great a success that

]airs. Godwin s kind eyes beamed with satisfaction.
'' How well they act ! How pretty
they look !  don't they ?" she went about
the room asking right and left. Mrs. Godwin
had all the tolerance that Sydney
lacked in addition to her own legitimate
share, and she liked those two light-headed
girls, because they had lived for ten days
under her roof, with quite a tender regard.
She could not understand her daughter's
reluctance to make friends with them. To
her, whatever was pretty and young was
likeable. " But Sydney was always peculiar
 and stubborn in some things, my poor
love," she often said to herself, trying in
her good nature to excuse and account for
the want of cordiality that she could not
comprehend.

Even Sydney, however, was amused tonight,
and allowed that the two girls played
their charades well. She looked on at their

VOL. I. L

performances with an almost surprised admiration.
" I don't wonder that people
like to act who can do it so naturally," she
confessed to Mr. Marmaduke, who, soon
after her performance of Hermione, had
on]e and sat down beside her.

*' Yes, it is an accomplishment that suits
them," he answered, readily. 'They really
are very clever in their way, you know, and
as for Miss Harcourt, she is looking
positively handsome. What are they about
now ? Let us try to guess this."

The young man was very happy as he sat
beside Sydney in the darkened room, talking
to her below his breath.

"Do they not want you for any part of
this word ? I think they must," she said to
him once, but he declared, in a tone that
carried conviction with it, that they were
overburdened with actors,  that they had

more volunteers already than they knew
what to do with.

Yes, but all volunteers are not equally
efficient. I think they would find work for
you if you went to them," she tried to
insist; but he would not move from his
seat. He knew well enough, of course,
that the actors wanted him, but he had
been letting them make use of him for an
hour, and he performed now to stay here and
talk to Sydney.

They were not sitting where they could
see very well. He, especially, had got
himself almost into a corner, but his position
did not please him the less for that. It
enabled him to bend towards her, and speak
below his breath to her, almost unnoticed
by anyone else. I am afraid he was rather
a disturbing companion as he sat by her
elbow, making his comments in her ear ;

but Sydney during these last days had become
rather tolerant of Mr. Marmaduke's
misdemeanours ; perhaps too she was not so
deeply interested in what was going on upon
the stage as to feel that she sacrificed much
in having her attention now and then drawn
from it. He had placed himself a little
behind her, so that, when he spoke to her,
he had to lean over the back of her chair,
and she, when she answered him, was forced
to turn her face round to him, and away from
the rest of the company. Nobody could
hear either his remarks to her or hers to
him ; her words and looks and smiles, he
told himself with satisfaction, were for him
alone.

I think this is a delightful way of passing
the evening," he exclaimed once, with
warmth. '' Don't you like it a little ?
Here we sit, and do nothing, and our friends
entertain us. I don't know that there are

many pleasant amusements than to sit
with a companion at a play."

Yes, perhaps,  if the play does not last
too long," she answered, laughing a little at
his fervour. " But I am not very fond of
plays. I should very soon get tired of
them."

I don t know that I am specially fond of
plays either, but I shouldn't get tired of this
sort of thing, though it went on for a week,"
he instantly replied, rather indiscreetly.
But the next moment he recovered himself,
"lam very indolent, you know," he said,
laughing, "and such a lazy entertainment
suits me. I like to feel that other people
are working for my benefit, while I sit at
case and look on."

"I don't think you mean that," she
said.

Well, you know, they enjoy it too, so it
does not lie upon one's conscience. I haven't

the least idea what this word is  have
you?"

*not the slightest. But you are not
letting me attend to it."

Very well ; let us attend now. There is
Horton laying about him in fine style."

He was silent for a minute, but, after that
minute, his voice was at her ear again.

"They want you to help them in this.
That girl in red  Miss Turnbull, isn't it ?  is
playing her part abominably; but I am
glad you are here, and not with them."

"So am I," Sydney answered, fervently.

But he, of course, meant one thing by his
remark, and she in her answer quite
another.

*' I wonder if you will ever act Hermione
again to another Leontes !"

'' I hope not," she answered.

This speech too, however  which might
also have borne a flattering interpretation

for the Leontes to whom she had played tonight
had been himself  she made without
the slightest personal reference, nor, happily,
was he coxcomb enough to misinterpret
her.

With what ardour you say that !" he only
whispered, laughing. *' If I am ever Leontes
again, I shall think of to-night."

'That syllable must be  mast,'''' she said.
*' Don't you think so ? What can the word
be ?"

"I haven't a conception. You don't
really want me to try to guess it, do you? It
is so much pleasant not to take the trouble
of guessing ; somebody else is sure to do it,
you know. Now they will be half an hour
preparing the next scene, and we can talk,"
he exclaimed, cheerfully.

Do you think you have been silent hitherto?"
she asked, with a laugh.

*' Well, not entirely, perhaps ; but still I

have been more silent than I like to be.
You know after tomorrow I shall not
have the power of talking to you anymore."


No, but you will scarcely be reduced to
silence because of that. Going to London
is not much like going to a desert island."

*' I am afraid that  in one sense  it will
be rather like a desert island to me." And
then he said, suddenly, " Don't you think
I shall be sorry to go away ? Don't you
think I have been very happy here ?"

"I am glad if you have been happy," she
answered, simply. She made the response
with a little shyness, but the next moment
she let her eyes frankly meet his, and, '* I
hardly thought before you came that you
would care to stay with us," she added. " I
rather opposed mamma at first when she
wanted to ask you."

''Ah,"  quickly  "I might have been

sure I did not owe my invitation to you !
But indeed, I was sure of it."

'swell, it is true,"~laughing.  I told
mamma not to ask you."

Now why did you do that ? How had
I offended you ?"

You had not offended me, only I
thought you were too much of a fine gentleman.
But then I rather wanted Mr. Horton,"
said Sydney, with a little gleam of fun
in her eyes, '* and of course I saw that we
could not ask him and not you."

'soh,  so he was the favourite, was he?"

Yes, I liked him. I thought he would
be a capital person to have."

And you did not think that of me ?"

''No, not quite."

So you were rather sorry when I agreed
to come ?"

"Yes."

'* And are you sorry still ?"

She gave an unembarrassed laugh.

'* Oh, no, not in the least. Do you think
I am ?"

I should be awfully cut up if I did.
You did dislike me terribly at first though
didn't you ?"

"No, that is far too strong a word. I
didn't like you less than many other peoples

When I meet you again after this,  the
next time we meet (I don't know when
that may be), will you keep in mind that we
have got to be better friends ? You will
surely, won't you ?"

I can't think,"  very quietly, and
rather indifferently  " whyjyou should think
you need ask that."

Because I should feel it so hard if you
dropped me, and made me pick up all this
fortnight again."

But I should be very odd if I treated
anybody so."

'' I don't know about it being objectionable
to treat anybody so. I don't care
much about laying down these universal
rules. But I shouldn't like you to treat
me so, I am very certain. What in the
world are they drawing up the curtain
again for ?"

Because they are ready to begin. Now
please stop talking. I think you talk a
great deal too much."

'* But why ? I don't disturb anybody."

'' Except me."

Oh, you are so good-natured that you
don't mind. Seriously, you don't mind, do
you?"

"Yes, indeed I do. I want to listen.
Be quite quiet, please, for five minutes."

So then he crossed his arms over the
back of her chair, and at last held his
tongue.

Perhaps it was just as well that, very

soon after this, the acting came to an end,
and the lights were brought back into the
room, and the audience rose from their
seats.

Why, Marmaduke, you deserted us !"
Mr. Horton said, encountering his friend
presently ; and Mr. Marmaduke, with great
composure, though with something of a
twinkle in his eye, admitted the charge.
He was in rather an elated state. Mr. Horton
knew well enough how he had been
spending the time of his absence.

They were going to end the evening
with a dance, and Mr. Marmaduke was
soon again in search of Sydney ; but, when
he found her, she was at the piano, preparing
to play dance music, and she could not
give him what he came to ask.

'' But surely somebody else can play
waltzes besides you ? It is a shame for
you to be employed in this way !" he

exclaimed, indignantly, when she refused
his request.

Oh, but I like to do it," she said, undisturbed
by his indignation.

But I want you to dance with me so
much  I do indeed''

*well, I will do it presently. There is
plenty of time," she answered, coolly.
And then she began to play, and he had
to retire, and look for another partner.
She played for a long time  an absurdly
long time, he thought ; but at last she
resigned her place at the piano to Mrs.
Harcourt, and he made his way back to her
instantly, and claimed her promise.

'' I knew you danced beautifully  I was
quite sure you did," he told her, with immense
satisfaction, ten minutes afterwards.
"And how admirably we match ! It never
does for a man of my height to dance with
little women, but with you I could dance a
whole evening."

'' Ah ! I shouldn't like to have to do that,
though," she answered, a little drily.

'well, no, I suppose you would not'
He seemed, however, a trifle crestfallen.
Of course, you would get tired of me. I
could hardly expect that you shouldn't."

I did not mean that I might get tired
of you. (I might do that, or not.) I only
meant that I am not as fond of dancing 
with anybody  as you are."

I think I could make you fond of it, if
I had the chance. Now let us begin again.
That is a charming waltz that Mrs. Harcourt
is playing."

He got three dances with Sydney, by dint
of importunity, so that, as they only danced
in all for an hour and a half, he did not, on
the whole, make bad use of his time.

They danced till twelve, and then the
guests took their departure, and Lucy and
Amy, when all of them were gone, declared

that it had been a delightful evening.

Well, yes, it has," echoed Mr. Horton,
heartily.

"It has indeed," murmured Mr. Mar-mad
uke.

I am sure, my dears, if it has been delightful,
it has been yourselves who have
made it so," Mrs. Godwin exclaimed warmly,
answering the two girls ; and then Mr.
Horton readily assented again.

'' Indeed you have," he declared.

And even Sydney said something civil.
But Mr. Marmaduke forgot himself for the
moment and remained silent.

'' He is not half as nice as he seemed at
first," Amy said presently to Lucy, as they
were sitting over their fire and brushing
their hair. '' I thought to-night that he was
downright rude. Just as if he considered
himself too grand to act with us !"

Oh, he went away because Sydney

went," retorted Lucy, shortly.  If she had
gone on acting he would have been ready
enough to stay, you may be sure. Did you
see how he looked at her when she was
doing Hermione ? And I heard him talking
such rubbish about her to Mrs. Godwin
afterwards."

"Well, but she did look very nice
really," said Amy.

''Oh, yes, she looked very well ; only I
think it was very vain of her just todo
that one thing, and then to refuse
to act anything else. She was afraid Mr.
Marmaduke wouldn't admire her so much in
any other part, I suppose."

"I really can't make out whether she
cares about Mr, Marmaduke admiring her.
She is such a very odd girl," said Amy,
thoughtfully.

*' I don't suppose she cares particularly ;
I don't think she cares much for anything ;

but lie likes to lead him on," said Lucy.

*'I wonder if he is really going to fall in
love with her !" exclaimed Amy.

And then Lucy said, sharply, '' I don't
believe it a bit !" and put her brushes together
with a clap.

' Well, when shall we all meet again?"
Mr. Marmaduke said to Sydney next
morning, just before they parted.

He made his remark with a decided dash
of sentiment in his tone, but Sydney replied
without any sentiment at all.

"I hope it may be a good while before
some of us meet again," she merely answered,
smiling.

*' Ah, you are too hard to please," replied
the young man. " Now, / have been so
happy that I should want nothing except to
live this fortnight over again exactly as I
have lived it already."

Should you not ?" she answered. " You

VOL. I. M

are  very good, I think." And then after
a moment she added, quickly, " I am afraid
I ought to take a lesson from you in contentment.
I think you are, both of you, 
both you and Mr. Horton,  so wonderfully
good in making the best of things,  so
wonderfully good in getting enjoyment out
of tidings that are  not particularly pleasant
in themselves."

"Such as our visit here, do you mean?"
he inquired with a twinkle in his eyes.

"Yes," she replied, frankly. "I think, if
you had been  well, like me, you would
have found it very dulL"

"Then to you, this fortnight has been
dull, I suppose you mean ?" he asked.

She stood still for a moment and made no
answer ; then a little colour came into her
cheek, and she looked straight at him,
and,

It would have been, if you and ]\fr.

Horton had not helped us so much," she
said. "Vain very grateful for your help.
I don't know how we should ever have
amused the Harcourtss if you had not been
here."

And then, after that, he did not press her
an} farther. He had taken note of her
momentary embarrassment, and had been
pretty well pleased with it. Perhaps he
felt that it was a sufficiently satisfactory
result of his fortnight's intercourse with her
to have been able, though only for a second,
to bring the colour to her face.

The Harcourtss were going to London, as
well as Mr. Marmaduke and Mr. Horton ;
so, to Amy's and Lucy's unconcealed satisfaction,
they all travelled by the same train.
But the two young men walked down to
the station together, and so made their
adieux before the rest of the party started.

"Thank you so much for such a delighted



ful visit," Mr. Horton said, briskly and
neatly, as he bade Mrs. Godwin good-bye.
But Mr. Marmaduke only murmured something
rather unintelligibly, and did not
make his parting with at all the same grace
as his friend. In fact, he was more moved
at leaving Sydney than he had at all
expected to be.

As for her, however, she stood at the
open door, cool and colourless, and gave
the same smile and the same frank and
moderately cordial clasp of the hand ta
each of her departing guests, with such composed
and placid courtesy that Mr. Armature
felt almost enraged at the emotion in
his own breast.

*' What a piece of marble she is !" he
exclaimed, impatiently, as he walked rapidly
by Mr. Horton's side down the avenue.
'She wouldn't care, I do believe, though a
fellow were sunk at the bottom of the sea !"

Well, and what else would you have?"
retorted the other, with a laugh. "Did
you want her to begin to wring her hands,
and stand looking after you like a weeping
Calypso ?"

And he made a jest of his friend's susceptibility,
and turned it into ridicule rather
mercilessly, as they strode side by side along
the muddy roads.

CHAPTER VIII.

Sydney was glad to get rid of her
 visitors, and yet, even to her, when
they were gone the house seemed a little
empty.

'* We shall have to drop back again now
into our old quiet ways, mamma," she said
to Mrs. Godwin, " and you won't like that
so well as I shall. You see, I am always
contented to be alone with you ; but you
never return the compliment and want to
be alone with me," she ended, with a
laugh.

My dear, is it not enough if I want nobody

iQ the world half as much as I do
you ?" Mrs. Godwin answered.

But it was true that in general they leda
quieter life at Broadbelt than so social a
woman would have chosen to do if she had
had the power of choice. Mr. Godwin was
in town all day ; they had few neighbours ;
sometimes, especially in winter, for days
together they did not see a visitor of any
kind. And this suited Sydney, but it did
not suit her mother.

'* I do enjoy having the house full' the
kind soul admitted, almost plaintively ;
but then, my dear, I enjoy everything.
I liked those young people being here. It
made the place so cheerful. And the young
men were nice  I think they were very
nice, Sydney."

"Yes, they were, no doubt," Sydney
assented.

I am so glad we asked them. Even

your father is very tolerant of them, and he
does not like 3oung men much generally,
you know."

*'No  and I don't wonder. But these
two are very pleasant, certainly ; I had no
idea they would be so pleasant. I think I
like Mr. Marmaduke best, though," said
Sydney, with unembarrassed decision. '' I
fancy I should get a little tired of Mr.
Horton if I saw much of him. Of the two,
Mr. Marmaduke seems to me the more
interesting."

I was so glad to see you friendly with
Mr. Marmaduke, Sydney, for you are so
slow to make friends generally. I always
liked to see you talking to him."

Well, he is very fond of talking, so you
enjoyed that pleasure often," the girl answered,
laughing.

In general, as I said, they had few visitors.
Mr. Loudoun was the only person amongst

their neighbours who ever came to the
house uninvited to dinner, or made a
fourth in their quiet evenings. With him,
however, they were so much at home that
Sydney hardly considered him as a visitor,
and she would pursue her own avocations in
his presence, and read or draw or even
absent herself when he was with them,
without having any sense of his being an
outsider whom it was her business to entertain.
She always liked him, and liked his
coming. Her silent father used to rouse
himself to talk to him, and Mrs. Godwin's
kind face would beam at his approach with
an even more than usually cordial smile.

After January had passed away quietly at
Broadbelt, Sydney, one Sunday afternoon,
hearing a step upon the gravel, looked up
and exclaimed quickly, "There is Mr.
Marmaduke !"

She felt a distinct sensation of pleasure as

she saw him, vivid enough to bring the
colour to her face. She received him too,
when he came in, frankly and cordially.

''I had been wanting to come and call
very much. I thought after church on
Sunday I should be sure to find you at
home," he said, as he shook hands with Mrs.
Godwin.

He was anxious enough about his
reception to show a little nervousness at
first, but they soon put him at his ease.

'' It is so nice of you to have come. Now
you must not talk of going away till
evening," Mrs. Godwin said with warmth.
I hope Mr. Horton is quite well ? Why
did you not bring him with you?"

Well, I am sure he Avill be very happy
to come some other day, but this afternoon  "
and then Mr. Marmaduke mumbled something
about * another engagement,"  the

fact being that Mr. Horton had refused to
acconipan} him on his expedition to-day, on
the ground that the Godwinss would not
care to be bothered again so soon with
either of them ; in consequence of which
declaration Mr. Marmaduke, having an unreasonable
desire to find himself once
more in Sydney's company, had come off to
Broadbelt by himself, boldly resolved to
test the kind of welcome he should get.

He felt, as I said, a little nervous at his
entrance, but they quickly made him as
welcome as he could desire. It was about
three o'clock, and the last train left for town
at ten, and they made him stay with them
till this last train was due. He passed a
most delightful afternoon and evening.
The day had been fine, and before the sunset
Sydney took him into the garden, ta
show him the camellias and azaleas in the

greenhouse, and he contrived by dexterous
management to keep her out of doors for a
long time.

'The air is so delicious," he told her,
*' after you have been breathing nothing but
smoke for a month. If you want to feel
delight in the mere fact of existence I am
convinced you must live in the country. I
am wonderfully happy to be here again. I
can't tell you how happy I am. I have
been thinking of those weeks at Christmas
a thousand times ever since I saw
you."

I had no idea you cared for the country
so much," she said, a little surprised.

Oh ! I like it amazingly. Now I think
an afternoon like this is perfectly enchanting.
Look at that pure sky, clear down to
the horizon  not a touch of anything foul
about it  and all that tracery of interwoven
branches, and the silence and the sweetness

of it all. I think  upon my word I do ! 
that you ought to be a happy woman."

"Well  and am I not a happy woman?"
she answered, laughing. ** Do you think I
do not love what is beautiful here rather
more, perhaps "  with a very little touch of
sarcasm  " than you do ?"

"I daresay you do. I am not likely to
think you insensible to anything of that
sort. But, you see," exclaimed the young
man, "it strikes a fellow so when he has
just turned his back on London. Would
you mind our going a little bit across the
meadow there? I should like to get to
that point where the view is so pretty.
You have thick enough boots on, have yoa
not? You won't get wet ?"

Oh, no  I am not afraid of wet."

So then they went across the meadows,
and after that a little farther still, and they
watched the sunset ; and, altogether, he

got his own way so well that it was twilight
before they returned to the house.

Have I kept you out too long ?" he said
to her then, when it did not matter what
her answer might be.

But she was hardly conscious, I think, of
the deep design with which he had pursued
his course, and replied to his question quite
simply and naturally. He had rather surprised
her by the ardent interest he had
shown in the beauty of the afternoon ; but,
on the whole, his appreciation of it had
pleased her too. Perhaps she was becoming
a little disposed to be pleased with what
he did more easily than with the doings of
other people.

He was a likeable person, and he was
(naturally enough) showing the best side of
himself to her, and that best side was such
as any girl might have found attractive.

Even in the twilight he made her linger
under the porch with lira for a little longer.
He was fond of talking, as she had told her
mother  and, indeed, as she had told himself,
laughing, more than once,  and he
poured out a stream of words to her at the
hall-door (for the express purpose of detaining
her there) that she tried in vain to

stem or interrupt.

i.

We must come in? Well  yes, I know
we must come in," he said at last; "but you
don't take in how delightful all this is to
ene. Look at that little bar of light still in
the west. I fee], as long as it lasts, as
though it were a shame to go indoors.
And  why, by the way "  suddenly, 
' ought there not to be a moon ? Why,
to be sure there ought  and there she is !
We have been standing with our backs to
her. Now do come out here again, just for

two minutes. We must have a look at the

moon."

She was laughing at him, but she did
what he wished. It was a mild evening,
and she had on a sufficiently warm shawL
So she stood beside him in the avenue, and
contemplated the round silver orb that was
just rising above the tree-tops  not for twa
minutes only, but for ten. He was very
happy, and she was, at any rate, moderately
content. The evening was so still
and beautiful that perhaps she could not
reasonably be dissatisfied at being induced
to enjoy its loveliness for so long.

*' Why, you must have had quite a long
walk. I was wondering what had become
of you," Mrs. Godwin exclaimed when they
came back into the drawing-room at last;
and then Sydney laughed, and began, I am
afraid, rather to throw her companion into
ridicule. She was a good deal amused at

him, and had already been telling him that
he seemed to be very like a schoolboy out
for a holiday.

And so I am out for a holiday," he had
answered, '' and no schoolboy ever enjoyed
his freedom more. Do you think the
holidays of after-life are not better than
those we have when we are children ?"

And then she had not answered him ; but
she fell to laughing at him again when they
returned to the drawing-room, as she told
Mrs. Godwin how they had spent their
afternoon.

It was the first time that Mr. Marmaduke
had dined at Broadbelt without any other
company save himself, but the quietness of
the evening that he spent seemed not dull
but delightful to him. He did not sit long
with Mr. Godwin when dinner was ended,
but in less than half an hour followed Mrs.
Godwin and Sydney to the drawing-room,

VOL. I. N

and there, over the fire, they talked together.
It was very homelike, and wonderfully
pleasant, the young man thought.
He was too contented to be with Sydney
to want anything but this simple entertainment.


They were hardly a musical household, but
Mrs. Godwin had an old fashioned fondness
for hearing Sydney sing hymns on Sunday
evenings, and the girl always used to do it
when they were alone.

I like those nice old hymns so much,"
the mother said, " and Sydney sings them
very prettily. Go and sing a few now, my
dear ; Mr. Marmaduke won't mind hearing
them perhaps."

Mr. Marmaduke was only too glad to hear
them, and for half an hour Sydney sang her
hymns in the quiet room. It seemed to
her new listener a simple, reverent service

that touched him indescribably. He sat
looking at the girl's fair still face, listening to
her voice, feeling almost as if he should
like to take up the hem of her dress and
kiss it.

*' I won't tr} to thank you. You don't
know how much I have liked this' he said
to her at the end.

Mr. Godwin was sitting in his own room,
and the other three stayed together till it
was time for him to start ; then, as she bade
her guest good-bye, Mrs. Godwin said,
cordially, " I hope you won't be long incoming
again. Don't wait for an invitation.
Come any time when you have a disengaged
afternoon."

'' Will you really let me do that ?" he
replied ; and then in his gratitude he shook
hands with her twice over.

''Tve had the divinest day," he told Mr.

n2

Horton when he got back to his chambers,
and that gentleman laid down his book and
laughed at him.

*' What, they treated you better than you
deserved, did they?" he asked. "I think
you have been an impudent fellow to go
and push yourself upon them again so soon.
Why don't you learn modesty and self-distrust
from me ?  So they were civil to
you?"

*' They asked me why you had not come
too. I think they are the sweetest pair of
women in England,  upon my word I do !"
exclaimed Mr. Marmaduke, enthusiastically.

Hm ! And how is the beauty ?" Mr.
Horton said. " I need not ask if she was
gracious. It's clear that she was, or you
would not be in this effervescent state."

And then Mr. Marmaduke sat down and
began to talk about Sydney. He was
very full of her. He said, gravely, after

a little while, " I never liked a girl so
well in all my life. She is the only girl I
have ever known that I have distinctly felt
I should like to marry."

Well, I like her too ; and, if she is what
she seems, I think you might do worse than
marry her," his friend assented presently.
Only don't be rash, and make up your mind
in a hurry. They're a queer lot, these
young women, and as deep as Lucifer, some
of them. But I like this one, I confess. I
was sweet on her myself for a day or two
till you stepped in and cut me out."

I didn't cut you out. You never meant
anything," retorted Mr. Marmaduke.

"Don't you think I meant as much as
you did at first ?" said the other. " No, I
didn't mean anything, it's true ; but no more
did you when you came with your confounded
conceit, and put yourself between
us. When it pleased you to interfere, I

gave in, of course, as I always do, for I ama
weak, peaceable sort of fellow ; but, if I
had chosen to show fight, do you feel sure
that you wouldn't be in a different position
now?"

And then Mr. Marmaduke looked disturbed,
and the other rubbed his hands and
chuckled to himself

Mr. Marmaduke paid his first chance visit
to Broadbelt at the end of January. During
the months that followed he paid a great
many more such visits, accompanied now
and then by Mr. Horton, but more frequently
taking his way alone, till gradually the
little journey became a very familiar one to
him, and the goal to which it led him grew
in his imagination to be very like the gates
of Paradise.

Unless he had cared for Sydney these
Sundays spent at Broadbelt (for it was generally
on Sundays that he went down) would

have been dull and unexciting days enough
to the young Londoner, but the increasing
strength of his feeling for her made them
infinitely delightful. He used to keep up a
sort of fiction that it was his intense susceptibility
to the loveliness of the country that impelled
his steps to turn so often to the God-wins'
house, but he never knew how much
this figment was believed in by Sydney, or
even by Mrs. Godwin. They both seemed
always glad to see him, and never appeared
to need him to explain why he had come.
In a very short time he lost all fear of not
being welcomed ; he grew happily accustomed
to Mrs. Godwin's cordial greeting, and
to the greeting, less warm, but not less
sweet, of the smile on Sydney's lips.

He could not doubt, as the months went
on, that both the mother and the daughter
liked him. They liked him, and they must
be well aware that he liked them ; if in due

time he chose to avow himself as a lover,
was it not probable, he asked himself, that
the course of his wooing would go smoothly ?
There seemed a whole long, dim vista of
coming days of happiness stretched out
before the poor young fellow ; he knew that
Sydney was becoming more and more dear
to him ; he believed that he had no rival ;
he felt convinced that, slow to win though
she might be, yet at least she cared for no
one else more than she cared for him ; the
prospect before him appeared all so fair and
full of hope that it was no wonder he was
happy, and that the spring of this year became
the brightest and most golden spring
that he had ever known.

It was very pretty round Broadbelt when
all the trees were bursting into life, and
many an hour did Mr. Marmaduke persuade
Sydney to spend out of doors with him.
She liked him well enough to have her own

pleasure in these rambles, which were sometimes
confined to the garden, sometimes extended
farther ; she enjoyed his admiration
of the things that she herself so much admired
; by degrees he inspired her with a
firm belief in the genuineness of his delight
in country sights,  which indeed, perhaps,
was little wonder, seeing that he even grew
wholly credulous of this himself, and,
through the happy months of this happy
year, gravely and ardently held the conviction,
and discoursed to her about it by
the hour together, that the paved streets of
a town were abominations, and that only in
the sweetness of the country, with the grass
beneath his feet and the pure sky above his
head, was true happiness to be found. To
be sure, as he talked to Sydney, there was
one little item of the account that he left
out, and how much of his rapture in the
sights and sounds around him came into

existence through the inspiration caused by
her presence at his side he left untold  nor
did it occur to her to suspect it.

For it was true that by this time Sydney
knew he liked her, but she did not know
yet that he was her lover. She only guessed
that fact at moments very vaguely and doubtfully,
and she could not tell whether she
wanted him to be her lover or not. He
was very pleasant to her, and there were
moments when she could almost have
thought of passing her life beside him without
reluctance ; but yet, for the most part,
she was in a state of feeling that made her
unwilling to face the question of whether
she could pass her life beside him. She
could not tell ; she did not know him well
enough ; she hardly more than half knew
even if he cared for her. " I could part
from him, and not mind it much," she said
to herself sometimes ; and she told herself

that as long as she could say that she need
not be disturbed. As for him, he liked
her, she knew; but she always told herself
that she knew nothing else.

No doubt Mr. Marmaduke was on the
whole a cautious lover. Perhaps nature
had made him rather prudent. As I have
said already, he was not a man who was
disposed to rush headlong at happiness ; he
was so happy just now that he was content
to go on without seeking for any change.
He knew that he was gradually making way
with Sydney, and he had no desire to hasten
to the end of that pleasant occupation. He
felt like a man set out on a delightful journey,
who has the wisdom to take his way
on foot by leisurely paths and flowery fields
instead of dashing in an express train to his
destination. What could be sweeter than
these quiet days with Sydney ?  what could
be more exquisitely satisfying than his half-confessed,

half withheld wooing of her?
He enjoyed his slow progress with a perfectly
Sybaritish enjoyment. Had any
other aspirant to her favour been in the
field, his sensations no doubt would have
been different ; but, as it was, he found his
satisfaction complete.

Some day we shall grow old. Does it
not seem strange to think that we shall ever
be old?" he said to her abruptly once 
that we may ever be in the midst of all
this bright world and not care for it ? I
wonder if we shall have any knowledge of
one another then ! What a ludicrous thing
it seems to think of you as  about eighty,
suppose  sitting knitting perhaps, with a
pair of old hands, by the fire !"

She laughed when he made this speech,
but presently she answered, quietly,

One may grow old, and yet in many
ways remain not much changed. Mrs.

Loudoun was over seventy when she
died last year, and I think I have known
many women of forty less fresh and full of
interest in things than she was. If I ever
live to be an old woman, I should like to
be such an old woman as that."

But I cannot imagine you old at all,"
he insisted. "You seem to me always like
some one made to live in perpetual youth 
just as you are now. I can no more think
of you growing old than I can think of
those women growing old that Sir Joshua
painted."

But all Sir Joshua's women are not
young," she said.

'' Ah, well, that is true. But the old ones
are only the exceptions. I wish there were
a Sir Joshua to paint you now."

I should not deserve to sit to him," she
said, quickly.

And then she prevented him from answering

her by speaking of something else.
There was nothing in which Sydney was
more delightful to her lover than in the
kind of dubious beauty that she possessed.
The character of it charmed him far more
than decided and unquestionable beauty
would have done ; there was a changeableness
in it that gave it an infinite interest,  a
vagueness that made it always like something
to be sought. He looked for it, and
lost it, and found it again a hundred times.
Its indefiniteness, and the quality that made
it poetical, were endlessly delightful to him.
He told her once that she was like twilight,
and laughed at her when she could
not comprehend his meaning. He teazed
her for a few moments, and then dared to
say, suddenly, '' Should you understand me
better if I said you were like music ?" And
on that she answered quickly, 'No." But

after saying no, she would say nothing else.

From January till May Mr. Armadale
paid his pleasant visits to Broadbelt. During
May the weather was hot, and the
country became even more than ever delightful
to him. For three Sundays in succession
he presented himself in the Broadbelt ,
although on the third occasion he
was so far ashamed to do it that he attempted
to apologise for his appearance.

'* I really had not meant to come to-day.
I am afraid I ought not to have done it," he
began to say, with an affectation of penitence;
but Mrs. Godwin in her kindness would let
him proceed no further.

'' Stow why do you say a word ? Are
we not always glad to see you ?" she replied.
*' I am quite pleased that you have come
again to-day, for London, I am sure, in this
weather, must be intolerable'

* Well, it is indeed," he answered, fervently
(entirely oblivious for the moment that it
was May, and that till now his fixed opinion
had been that May in London was perfection).


Yes, it is terribly hot weather. I think
when heat comes early in the year it is
always so difficult to bear. My husband
feels it so much," Mrs. Godwin went on,
plaintively. ''He has been quite poorly
this last week. You see, he has a great
deal to try him just now."

'soh  ah  you mean, on account of
matters in the city ?" Mr. Marmaduke said,
rather hesitatingly.

Yes, men of business are rather anxious,
you know. Of course I don't mean that he
is afraid for himself, but there have been so
many failures, and some of them of people
he knew so well. That great house, Moncrieff
and Preston  thinks it going yesterday! and

Mr. MoncriefF is such an old friend of ours.
Mr. Godwin came home last night quite
upset."

* It is very serious,  very terrible indeed,"
Mr. Marmaduke said, with a long face. .

But, to tell the truth, he did not let his
sympathy depress him much as the day
went on. Sydney, indeed, was a little graver
than usual, but the young man, as he
always did, made himself abundantly happy,
not at all letting Sydney's quietness be a bar
to his customary enjoyment. In fact he
had sense enough to enjoy silence sometimes
as much as talk ; he by no means always
wanted to laugh and jest ; he was contented
with Sydney whether she were grave or gay,
whether she talked to him or was silent.

She said to him in the course of to-day,
I am troubled about papa. All these
failures in the city try him so terribly.
You can't think how unwell he has been all

VOL. I. o

this week. I wish I understood something
more "  and then she stopped.

' But you can't understand, you know.
Nobody does thoroughly except those who
are in the midst of it. No doubt it is a bad
time, but, depend upon it, Mr. Godwin is all
right," Mr. Marraaduke answered, cheerfully.


'rit seems to me that at these times
nobody can know that they are right' the
girl replied, gravely ; and then there was a
little pause.

But yet she was young enough and
hopeful enough to be cheered by his
sanguine talk, and this day, though she was
anxious, was not an unhappy one even to
her. Mr. Marmaduke found his host certainly
looking ill when they met at dinner, but he
would not allow that he saw much the
matter with him.

'Heis only overworked," he said. ''I

am sure you must have seen him so before.
Men of business lead such terribly trying
lives. We who become lawyers show
ourselves much more like the wise virgins.
You seldom hear of lawyers injuring
their brains, and as for their hearts, you
know they have got none to injure. In my
own case, for instance, for anything I can
see to the contrary, I am likely to live to bea
hundred."

It had been too hot to leave the house
during the afternoon, but when dinner was
over the evening was delightful, and they
lingered about the garden together for a
long time, rambling up and down the walks,
sitting down more than once, standing last
of all for ten minutes at a certain boundary-gate
 that poor Frederick Marmaduke came
back to and leant on again in after-years,
with a bitter sense of all that his life had
lost.

o2

It was one of those balmy golden evenings
that one could almost fancy to be made for
the delight of lovers, and he stood by the
girl's side, nearly touching the white dress
she wore, and feeling with a happy
certainty that almost every hour they
spent together was bringing her a little
nearer to him. His course seemed all to
lie so plain before his eyes ; the future that
they were to spend together seemed hardly
any longer to be doubtful ; he felt contented
with the intense content of a man who
knows the present that he holds to be sweet,
and who can look forward, with neither
haste nor fear, to a still sweeter and dearer
issue.

He had been talking to her about the
first time he ever saw her. That was nearly
a year ago now, a day when he had been
asked with Mr. Horton to dinner. "And
you had the Cholmondeleys here, and those

people from Westcroffc, and I remember I
thought it  not a very exciting evening," he
said, frankly. " You did not condescend to
give me much of your company in the
course of it. In fact you never took the
trouble, you know, to be decently civil tome
for months after that. Why were you
always so desperately frigid ? I never
could get a pleasant word out of you till I
came at Christmas."

I don't think you got many then," she
answered, laughing.

'not at first perhaps, but you were very
nice to me before that fortnight came to an
end. Do you know what it was that made
me want to be friends with you first? It
was your being so  well, I must say it  so
confoundedly unjust to me that night about
the Harcourtss. When you gave me that
annihilating look that you did, you cut me up
in a way I could t stand. I do believe I

had never cared a bit about you before that
minute, but you made me so angry then
that  I never afterwards was able to get
you out of my head."

Great results follow sometimes from
small beginnings, you see," she said, with
mock gravity.

Yes  I don't think you knew much of
what you were doing. You wouldn't have
done it perhaps if you had guessed, for you
were terribly unwilling to be troubled with
me in those days  weren't you ? I hardly
know how I got you to be as pleasant tome
as I did before I came away."

I think, when we began to talk together,
it was not unnatural that we should
become friendly. Besides, you made me
feel," she said, with a little hesitation, '* that
I had not been very just to you."

"You never made that admission before!"
he exclaimed.

'' Well,"  laughing a little,  " you never
perhaps asked me to make it."

"But if you felt that it was true you
ought to have made it to relieve your
conscience."

Oh, my conscience was not much burdened.
It has never troubled me upon that
account."

"You are very hardened, I am afraid.
Do you know,"  abruptly,  "really long
ago I used to think you  not hardened indeed
in that sense, but rather disposed to
be hard. It is one of the mistakes I made
about you. I don't know"  quickly  " that
I have made many on the whole, and I
corrected that one long ago."

"Listen! Do you hear that nightingale?"
she said. "The nightingales have
been singing so all this week. I have come
out every night to hear them."

'* I wish I could have been with you to
hear them too."

"Well, listen to them now, and stop
talking for a few minutes, if you can."

'' I can stop talking for any length of
time you please."

So he held his tongue for five minutes,
during which they both stood silent in the
warm twilight.

*' You have made this year a very happy
one to me," he said, abruptly after this
pause. " I often think now that I was very
poor six months ago. I often fear that you
don't know how grateful I am."

*' I don't think we have done much to
cause you to be grateful," she answered,
after a moment's silence.

'* You have been endlessly kind tome."


"We have all Heed you," she said
simply.

*well, and do you suppose that doesn't
call for gratitude ?"

"Does it, do you think? When people
like one another, do they not receive as
much as they give ?"

'*I can't see it in that way," he said. " I
think everything you give me is a boon,
and everything T give you seems to be yours
of right."

Then your judgment, I am afraid, is a
little astray," she answered, and laughed.

I get more and more encroaching about
coming here. I feel it, till I aui quite
ashamed of myself," he suddenly exclaimed.
"This is the third Sunday running that I
have imposed myself upon you. Now next
Sunday"  in a tentative way  " I must stay
away, I suppose ?"

I don't know why you should, if you
like to come," she said, with just a touch of
hesitation.

*' I am afraid of tiring you out."

I don't think you need be afraid."

Shall I stay at home next Sunday, and
come back the Sunday after ? Will that be
best? Tell me not to come next Sunday,
or I shall do it."

But I don't want to prevent you from
doing it."

If you say that, you know, 1 shall come
as sure as fate."

' Very well."

"Do you mean really that I may ?"

'* Why should you not, if you care to doit?
It is always pleasant to us to have
you."

'' And you don't want to devote next
Sunday to any other purpose ?"

"Except that of talking to you?"  with
a little laugh. " No, not that I know of at
present."

Then if I should come (I must see if

your mother will let me), and the evening
should be fine, shall we take another walk
here ? And shall we come back to this gate
and talk? I should like to come here again
because of these nightingales, you know,"
he ended, abruptly.

"To whose songs you have listened so
much," she said.

And then he laughed, and she said next
moment that they had better be going in,
for it vas getting late.

CHAPTER IX.

II /TRS. GODWIN and Sydney were in
- the garden together one afternoon
two days after this, when Sydney, hearing
the sound of wheels upon the gravel, said,

"There is papa," and they turned to the
avenue to meet him ; but when the carriage
came in sight, they found that Mr. Godwin's
place was empty, and the groom drew up
and told them that he had not found his
master at the station.

*' Dear me! And there's no message either?
How very strange!" Mrs. Godwin exclaimed;
and Sydney thought it was strange, too,
though she said nothing ; for her father was

a man who in general carried his business
habits strictly into private life, and that he
should be detained in town, and send home
no notice of his detention, was an occurrence
quite unusual enough to startle her, coupled
especially as it was with the fact that he
had been evidently both ill and anxious of
late, and that his state for some days past
had given Sydney a sense of vague alarm.

It had troubled her more than it had
troubled Mrs. Godwin, who was a placid
and sanguine-natured woman, and who besides
had seen her husband pass through
conditions of this kind before.

*' These dreadful failures are what are upsetting
him so ; and I am sure it is no wonder,"
she had said confidently to Sydney.
'* I don't think he is afraid for himself,  I
don't think that at all. He was just like
this in 66 J when nothing happened to us,
though you know 'QQ was a terrible year,

much worse than this has been yet. But
he can't help being anxious and wearing
himself out. That is his nature, poor dear,
and a very bad nature it is for a man in business.
I often wish he was out of it all, and I
don't know why he shouldn't be, for riches
don't make happiness, and I am sure we have
got as much money as we want. But your
father doesn't like me to talk in this way,
and so I don't do it, and we must just
make the best of things and not bother
him."

And so the gentle little woman had not
bothered him, but had let herself pass
through these days, not indeed without anxiety
for her husband's health, but in an ignorance
of everything concerning his affairs
that was as placid as it was complete.

And Sydney was ignorant too, only her
ignorance had not been placid.

In a time like this, how is it possible to

know what may happen to anybody ?" she
had thought a thousand times, though she
had hardly ventured to put her thought into
words; 'and papa, I am almost certain, is
not at ease. I wish I could dare to ask him ;
but it would be no good, he would not tell
me. And perhaps I am only frightening
myself for nothing. "We are so happy,  it is
all so lovely here,  it is hard to believe that
trouble may be at hand."

And the girl, to whom sorrow was such an
unfamiliar companion, and whose heart in
these months was beginning for the first
time to be touched by the greatest gladness
of a woman's life, would turn away from her
fear, and set it behind her, and feel, at
moments at least, as though what she
dreaded were an incredible thing. But yet
again and again the dread came back.

And now this non-return of her father
startled her. It was a small matter, taken

alone, but it seemed to her an almost
certain sign that something was wrong. She
tried to answer her mother cheerfully when
Mrs. Godwin went on wondering why he
had neither come nor telegraphed, but in her
heart she was uneasy with the sharpest
uneasiness that she had ever known ; nor washer
anxiety much relieved when about an
hour later, and just before the next train
was due, the expected telegram arrived, for
the message that it brought was merely to
the effect that Mr. Godwin was unexpectedly
kept in town, and would not return home
until the following day.

Mrs. Godwin and Sydney read it together.
" Oh, dear, I am vexed !" Mrs.
Godwin exclaimed at once ; but Sydney was
more than vexed, and for a few moments
could say nothing. For the first time her
fear seemed to take actual form,  to be
something more than a shadow,  to face her

like a bodily presence, and to refuse to beset
aside.

*' We can't help it, but I wish he was here,"
she merely said softly, after a little silence.
And then Mrs. Godwin went on talking,
in her half plaintive way.

*' He will be so worn out. He is not fit
for any extra work. I wish I was with
him, just to see that he got to bed,  only he
wouldn't let me interfere ; he never does like
to be interfered with, poor fellow," she
said to Sydney, with gentle complaint.

And then presently she began to wonder
if there would be a letter in the morning ;
but when the morning came both her hopes
and Sydney's met with disappointment, for
the post came in and brought them
nothing.

What, he has not written ? Dear rae,
I cannot understand it !" she exclaimed
blankly then.

VOL. I. r

But still after a little while she recovered
her spirits. " Well, at any rate, as he has
not written, he will be sure to come at the
usual hour," she said, hopefully, and in this
expectation she began quietly to go about
her customary household duties.

It was a longer and a harder day to
Sydney than to her. All day the girl
waited and counted the hours, with a cold
fear holding possession of her. She often
thought afterwards that it was strange how,
eager as she was for intelligence, it should
never have occurred to her all through those
hours to look at the newspaper that lay
unopened on the table. The thing that she
feared was clear to her own mind, but that
it could have already become a fact, proclaimed
to the world, was too terrible even
to strike her once.

Very early in the day she saw Mr.
Loudoun speaking to one of the servants in

the avenue, and it gave her a momentary
feeling of surprise both that he should come
at that hour and that, having come, he
should turn back without entering the
house, and she asked the servant presently
if he had left no message.

'No, he didn't, Miss. He was wanting
the master," the man answered.

And did you tell him that my father
slept in town last night ?" Sydney inquired.


And then the man said, " Yes, Miss, I
did. I told him that, and he seemed rather
put out."

'' I wonder what he wanted !" Sydney
thought. But yet, uneasy though she was,
it did not occur to her then to feel any
alarm at Mr. Loudoun's visit. She did not
at the moment connect it with her anxiety
about her father.

At the usual hour they sent the carriage

p2

again to meet Mr. Godwin, and, as the time
came near for its return, the mother and
daughter stood together at one of the
drawing-room windows watching for it.
The first moment that it came in sight Mrs.
Godwin gave a little joyful exclamation.

*' Ah, there he is !" she said. " I was
sure he would come by this train. It is all
right." And, with a happy smile upon her
lips, she hurried out into the hall ; but the
smile first faded away, and then passed into
a look of helpless terror when she saw her
husband's face.

He stepped down from his seat, and came
slowly into the hall, giving no sign of
recognition to either her or Sydney.

*' Why, George !  why, George !" the poor
woman said, in a startled voice, and caught
him by the arm. " Oh, my dear, you are
ill !" she cried next moment.

He said nothing, but he let her take him

by the hand, and lead him to the drawing-room
door. Two or three of the servants
were standing by with wide-opened eyes.
They probably all knew already what the
poor wife did not know. Half clinging to
her husband, and half trying to support
him, she passed with him into the room,
and Sydney followed them, and closed the
door.

"Are you both here ?" he said, suddenly.

They were the first words he had spoken,
and he stood still for a moment, and half
turned his head.

'eyes, father," Sydney answered.

"Then come  sit down with me," he
said.

They took him to the nearest sofa, and
sat down one on either side of him, and
then he felt for their hands, and, grasping
them, held them in silence, in a close clasp
that grew presently convulsive, while his

face quivered and worked till Sydney could
not bear it, but with a cry of passionate pity
threw herself upon his neck. She asked no
questions ; she knew that she needed to ask
none.

Oh, my darling, don't tremble so 
don't take it like this !" she only began to
sob. " Mother, kiss him  say something to
comfort him. Oh, my dear, we are all together
 we can bear it, however bad it is !"
the girl cried, in her quivering voice.

The poor wife was still looking at him in
miserable bewilderment.

George, I don't understand  " she said,
trembling, and almost below her breath.

"The other understands," he only answered.


But, after he had said this, he turned his
haggard, pathetic face to her,  and then all
at once she too knew the truth, and a moment
afterwards she was clasping him, like

Sydney, in her arms, with such words of
love and consolation as women use at times
like these.

Early that morning Mr. Loudoun had
read the announcement of Mr. Godwin's
failure in the Times; and poor Frederick
Marmaduke, too, had read it as he and
Mr. Horton sat at breakfast in their
chambers.

More failures in the city," he had said,
glancing his eye over the column in which
they were announced. " Simcox and
Rutland, wool merchants. Gascoigne and 
God bless me !" he suddenly exclaimed, and
stared at the paper for a moment longer, and
then dashed it to the ground.

What ! you don't mean that Gascon e
and Godwin are down ?" cried Mr. Horton .
He picked the paper up, for the other made
no answer, and began to read for himself.
'' Well, yes, it's Godwin's firm, sure enough,

and a precious bad business it seems to be
too," he said. '' It will be an entire smash,
I imagine, of the whole concern ; and that
pretty place down there  and that nice pair

of women Upon my soul, Marmaduke,"

he said, earnestly, all at once, '' I am sorry
for you."

"Good Heavens, what will become of
them !" poor Marmaduke ejaculated. He
had been sitting for a minute staring blankly
through the opposite window ; on the sudden
he looked up eagerly into Mr. Horton's
face. " I must go down  I think I must go
down," he said, hesitatingly.

Go down? What the devil for?" exclaimed
Mr. Horton.

*' Because they will expect it. I think
she will,'  and I might do something  possibly,"
he said, in an agitated way.

There's not a mortal thing you could
do  except one, and that is out of the question.

Confound it, man," cried the other,
' I'm as sorry for you as I can be. but you
might as well put your head into a hornet's
nest as go down there just now. You
would never come away again until you had
asked the girl to marry you,  and then, if
she accepted you, where would you be ?"

*' I should not ask her to marry me,"
retorted Mr. Marmaduke, rather fiercely.
*' I have never had any thought of doing
that for many a month to come, if I ever doit
at all."

Well, that may be ; you're such an uncommonly
cool sort of fellow that I can
believe it ; but, if you didn't feel your tongue
quickened when you saw her in trouble, you
would be a queerer lover even than I take
you to be. Come, old boy," Mr. Horton
said, and he suddenly changed his tone, and,
rising from his seat, put his hand on his
friend's shoulder, ' don't go and run yourself

into danger. You can't do any good.
It won't do. Think of your father."

' Well, and do you suppose I am not
thinking of him ?" cried the poor young
man, in a fury.

And then Mr. Horton wisely held his
tongue ; but he had gained his point, and
his friend made no effort that day to go
down to Broadbelt.

He neither went to Broadbelt on that day
nor for several succeeding days ; in fact he
was in twenty moods about his visit, and,
do what he would, he could not come to
any conclusion as to whether he should pay
it or not. Of course he desired to pay it
with all his heart ; he was not such a laggard
in love as to have any doubt about that ;
but what troubled him, till it gave him
little rest either by day or night, was the
question of what he could say to Sydney
when he saw her, how he could express his

sympathy to her without involving himself
in the expression of something more than
sympathy, how he could retain his present
position with regard to her without compromising
himself as to the future.

For the truth was that he was in love
with her, and yet he was not so deeply in
love as to feel that he was willing to lose, or
even to risk, all things for her sake. His
father was a worldly and prudent old man,
and he had not been made without some
grains in him of his father's nature. He
loved Sydney so well that, if at this time he
had been his own master, he no doubt
would have decided without hesitation to
ask her to marry him ; but, as it was,  not
being, that is to say, his own master at all, but
entirely dependent on a father whom he knew
would (theoretically at least) almost as soon
see him in his grave as the husband of a
bankrupt's penniless daughter  he sadly

told himself that it would be impossible for
him to do what in his heart he wished. All
that pleasant castle that the poor young man
had been erecting for himself of late, had
fallen to the ground with a clap as he read
the announcement of Mr. Godwin's failure.
He was miserable about Sydney ; he said to
himself almost passionately that he must goto
see her ; he told himself that he could
not endure not to see her ; his days became
unhappy and his nights restless because of
her; but yet he never once said that
in spite of fortune, and in spite of his
father, if she would have him he would
marry her. On the contrary, he declared,
with a wisdom and prudence possibly
a little rare in a lover, that to marry her
now had become a thing out of his power.

His was a cool nature, perhaps, and yet
too he suffered pretty keenly. If Sydney
were gone beyond his reach her sweetness

did not, at least, seem the less to him because
he had lust her.

' You might write to some of them. I
don't say that there would be any harm in
writing," Mr. Horton growled out to him
rather impatiently, when on the second day
he had begun to get a good deal tired of
his friend's moping and misery. "You can
be on your guard in a letter. It's not the
same as meeting people face to face. I
would write to Mrs. Godwin if I were you."

'' What is the good of writing when you
don't know what to say ?" the other retorted,,
angrily.

But yet he began to meditate on his
friend's advice, and, before the day came to
an end, he took it. He wrote to Mrs. Godwin,
and the composition of his letter gave
him an undoubted though a melancholy satisfaction.
It was a kind, and even an ardent
letter, full of warm and genuine sympathy.

It told Mrs. Godwin how he longed to see
them,  how his first impulse had been to
come to them, only he had not dared ; he
said he was forcing himself for a little longer
to keep away, but it could only be for a
little longer ; if it should be for no more
than half an hour they must let him see
them soon, he wrote. And then he told
them how the thought that they were in distress
was haunting him day and night, how
he was thinking constantly of all the happy
hours he had spent with them,  those hours
that he could never forget ; and so he went
on, through four pages, the eloquent words
slipping from his pen only too easily and
quickly. Indeed, after he had once begun,
he found that the difficulty was not to write
but to stop writing. His heart grew hot
within him, as he thought that Sydney's eyes
would read the lines that he was tracing ; of
course they were all in reality meant for her,

though he had to address his letter to her
mother ; she would read there, and would
she also guess, he asked himself, all that he
did not dare to speak ? " Oh, my darling !"
the poor fellow murmured to himself, when
his work was done.

Was there any hope left in the future for
him ?  any chance that in the years to
come it would ever be in his power to
regain what he was losing now? There
were moments when he told himself that he
could not give her up,  that it would be
better for him to tell her that he loved her,
even though he should have to wait for her
half his life, and one such moment came
now as he kissed his letter because her
hands would touch it, and for a little while
(but only for a little while) let his mind
lose its balance.

Even before Mr. Marmaduke's letter
reached Mrs. Godwin, there were outward

and visible changes at Broadbelt.

MVhat are you going to do?" Mr.
Loudoun had asked them, coming up again
on the evening of the day on which Mr.
Godwin had returned home ; and when no
one was ready at once with an answer he
said, " What I want to propose is that, until
something is settled, you should become my
guests. You see' he went on, '' it is undesirable
for you to keep up this house even fora
day longer, you know, but my house, is at
your service for as long as you will consent
to make use of it. Better stop expenses hereat
once. If you will do what seems best tome,
you will send the servants off tomorrow,
merely leaving some one  Williams and his
wife, or whoever you like  in charge of the
place, and then come and stay with me.
Will you do this, Mrs. Godwin? or can
you think of anything better to suggest ?"

She could not think of anything better, or

at least of anything half so advantageous to
themselves, but at first neither she nor
Sydney would consent to do what he wished.
It was only after he had urged them strongly
and repeatedly that they agreed to accept
his hospitality.

' Surely your coming to me is a natural
thing?" he argued with them. "To what
other neighbour would you go ? I have no
one's inclination but my own to consult ; I
think you will be at least as much at home
with me as you could be with anyone. The
whole house will be at your disposal ; you
may be as much mistresses of it and as independent
as you are here. Do not refuse to
come. You will disappoint me greatly if
you do."

They yielded after that. The tears came
to Mrs. Godwin's eyes, and she put her hand
in his.

' We will come then," she said. " I should

VOL. I. Q

like to come. I  I daresay it will be best,
as you say, to stop everything here at once.
That will be best, George, won't it?" she
asked, timidly.

It seemed to the poor little woman as if
she hardly knew yet how to address her
husband,  as if these last hours had flung
her into a new world, in which he and
everything else were strange. She had been
sitting by his side for a long time, holding
his hand in hers, but though he had permitted
that sign of tenderness he had hardly
in any way responded to it. He was not
the kind of man who, even at a crisis like
this, could talk out his troubles with the
women of his household. He had sat
brooding over them, answering a few
questions that they asked him now and then
without impatience (he seemed too broken
down to be impatient), but volunteering no
information, giving no directions, submitting

merely but not responding to their
caresses.

Loudoun is very kind. Do what he bids
you," was all he said now, in answer to his
wife's question.

I will come over again in the morning,"
Mr. Loudoun told them before he went away.
Mr. Godwin, I suppose, will have to be in
town again ? but I shall be entirely at your
service, and I hope you will make all the use
of me that you can."

And so in the morning he did return, and
a little while after he came, contriving to be
alone for a few minutes with Mrs. Godwin,
he said to her very frankly,

I want you to consent, without saying
anything to the others, or at least without
saying anything to Sydney, to draw upon me
for whatever ready money you want. You
must let all wages and small accounts be
cleared off, you know, and to do that may

q2

need more than you have in the house. I
couldn't say this to Sydney, but you and I
are very old friends, and you won't take my
interference amiss."

He put his purse on the table at her side
as he spoke ; but she flushed all over when
he did this, and burst into tears. The hitherto
unknown humiliations of poverty were
hard to her to bear.

*' Oh, I can't take it I can't !" she said,
at the first moment; but after a minute he
made her take it. He said a few strong
words to her that broke down her resistance.


' I would gladly share everything I have
with you and yours," he told her. " I am
too old to ask you to treat me as your son,
but treat me at least as if I were your
brother, and let me do the little that is
in my power for you. Only say nothing to
Sydney," he repeated, emphatically. And

then he added, with a laugh, * She is too
young to be wise."

It was easy enough to say nothing to
Sydney, for their changed fortunes were as
yet so unfamiliar to her that the thought of
her mother being in actual want of money
to discharge the day's expenses was a thing
that luckily did not occur to her. She saw
Mrs. Godwin portioning out her little piles
of gold without a suspicion of where they
came from.

Have you to pay away all that, mother ?"
she merely said once, in a tone of half regret,
trying, with a strange sense of unreality,
to take in the new knowledge that money
henceforward would have a value for them
that it had never had before.

How unreal indeed the whole world
seemed to-day to Sydney ! She went about
the house, gathering the little personal
things together that Mr. Loudoun had advised

her and her mother to remove at once.

Shall we have to sell this place?" she
had asked Mr. Loudoun, half reluctantly,
looking wistfully at him when he gave this
direction to her; and when he answered as
gently as he could, "I fear it will have to
be sold," she said nothing more, but began
quietly to do as he had told her. Both she
and her mother were almost blankly in the
dark yet as to the extent of her father's
losses; they'd been great, they of course understood
; they should have to live in future
very differently from how they had lived
hitherto ; but everything at any rate could
not be gone, they thought.

If we sell this house we shall get a good
deal for it, surely," Sydney said innocently,
to herself.

But was it never indeed to be home to
them any more ? The girl had been born
here, she had lived here for twenty-one yearly

there was not a foot of the gardens and
grounds she knew so well that was not
dear to her, not a room that had not its associations
with happy days. If she could
have believed that she was going away from
it all for ever, it seemed to her that it would
break her heart ; but it was all incredible to
her : she went about the work she was told
to do like some one in a dream.

Had they been allowed to do as they
wished, both Mrs. Godwin and Sydney
would have lingered at Broadbelt beyond
this day. They had more work to do than
could be done in a few hurried hours, and
they would gladly have stayed till it could
be completed ; but the house was already in
confusion, the servants were taking their
departure, and Mr. Loudoun urged their
coming to him without delay so strongly
that he gained his point, and in the quiet
summer evening he drove them through the

avenue along which they were never to pass
again with any sense of returning home.
That young happy life of Sydney's ended tonight,
as the carriage turned into the road and
the lodge-keeper closed the gates behind it.

CHAPTER X.

II TR. London's house, which was
1.1 A. generally merely called the Hall,
was only a mile from Broadbelt. It was an
older place than Mr. Godwin's, and, if not
perhaps larger, was altogether a house of
greater note and name. The Loudouns too
occupied a different position in the county
from that which Mr. Godwin held. They had
been possessors of the Hall for long generations,
and for many a day past, at any rate,
had been wholly guiltless of any connection
with trade. The last Mr. Loudoun had sat
for the county for many years, and the
present was also spoken of as a possible

future member. In his youth he had entered
himself at the bar, but he had never practised.
While he was still quite young his
father's death had brought the property into
his hands, and since that time he had lived
with his mother at the Hall in a quiet and
rather studious way.

It was a picturesque old turreted house,
built of grey stone, and with great part of
it covered with ivy,  with stately and rather
formal gardens, which Sydney used to laugh
at, though she half liked them too. She
had often walked in them, and spent
pleasant enough hours in them in old Mrs.
Loudoun's time.

I never thought to receive you here with
so much sorrow," Mr. Loudoun said to her
to-night.

She was standing in the twilight by one
of the windows as he said this, doing nothing
(for what had she got to do, or to try even todo,

in this new empty place ?) merely looking
blankly before her with eyes that hardly
saw what they were gazing at, and thoughts
that had gone far away.

"No  our visits have always been so
pleasant hitherto  so unlike this one," she
answered him, wearily.

She turned away the next moment, as if
she had no heart to talk to him. "It all
seems too strange to understand," she only
said, half below her breath.

There were some letters sent up from
Broadbelt the next morning, and amongst
them was Mr. Marmaduke's. Sydney, who
received it first, passed it on to her mother
without a word ; but Mrs. Godwin as she
read it began to cry, and then at that sight
the colour came uncontrollably to the girl's
face.

' Oh, it is such a kind letter  it is such a
beautiful letter, my dear," the good soul

said softly when she had finished it, and
then she passed it on to Sydney. *' It is
from Mr. Marmaduke," she explained to
Mr. Loudoun, still with her eyes full of tears.
'' Poor young fellow, he is so sorry for us;
I knew he would be."

Sydney had placed herself, perhaps intentionally,
where they could not see her face,
and she read the letter and put it back into
its envelope in silence.

'isn't it very nice, Sydney ?" her mother
asked, presently, but she merely answered,
"Yes," very quietly. She sat for a little
while afterwards without speaking, while Mrs.
Godwin went on talking to Mr. Loudoun.
It could hardly be but that the girl had
thoughts in her heart during these days that
she could share with no one. One figure
had mingled too largely in her life of late
for even the shock of such a blow as had
fallen upon them now to be able to banish it.

And yet, if anything could have banished
it, this disaster might have done so, for it
literally to the Godwinss changed the whole
-world. It was so great that, as was natural,
they could not at first grasp the extent of
it; their ears received the fact that they
were ruined, but their minds only gradually
and with a bewildered effort took in the
truth that ruin meant beggary ; for in their
case it did mean that.

George, shall we have nothing left at
all ?" Mrs. Godwin said trembling, to her
husband after a few days had passed ; and
he answered, bitterly and sullenly, nothing."


I have not a penny in the world," he
repeated, after a few moments' silence. 'sydney
has that fifty pounds a year from your
sister's legacy ; if she will share it with us,
perhaps we shall be able to get bread enough
to keep as from the workhouse."

And then for a little while the poor woman
sat almost paralysed.

But what are we to do then ? Good
Heavens, George, what are we to do ?" she
said presently ; and he could not tell her. He
only answered with a groan, " God knows."
He was so broken down that he could give her
no help : all the steady perseverance that he
had had throughout his life, all the power
that he had had till now, had collapsed
utterly-as if the blow he was forced to bear
had crushed him.

Oh, Mr. Loudoun, it is terrible to me
to see him," Mrs. Godwin said to her host ;
*' and what are we to do ? what is to become
of us ? We can't stay here, and I don't
know where we are to go next. George
can't help me to decide anything. I could
get a little money to begin with, for Sydney
and I have our few jewels, you know, and
they would bring something if they could

be sold ; but, if George can do nothing, what
are we to live on afterwards ?"

*' You must let your friends help you. It
is a case in which you must submit to take
help," Mr. Loudoun answered, rather hesitatingly.


But I have no friends that I have any
claim upon."

You have one here," he said.

'* You mean yourself? Oh, yes, I know
that; but you have done only too much
already."

*I have done nothing yet that is worth
speaking of. If you want to make me feel
that you trust me, you must let me do a
great deal more."

" But, Mr. Loudoun, I could not. Oh, you
are very good," she said, nervously, ' I can't
speak of your goodness ; but, even if I
were willing to take more from you, the
others would not do it. At least Sydney

would not. She doesn't know half of what
you have done now, and yet even already
she is getting restless, and saying that weare
letting you do too much for us."

"Sydney is a foolish girl," he answered.
"Tell her nothing, and leave me to manage
her."

But I can't tell her nothing. She will
insist upon knowing everything."

Well, sell those jewels then, if you like.
1 will get them sold for you. Let her seethe
money they bring, and that will keep
her quiet. But can't you have another
purse in your pocket that she need not
know anything about ? You look as if you
thought me very unconscientious for trying
to persuade you to deceive her," he said,
with a sudden laugh. "Oh, but that is nonsense
! When people are unreasonable they
had better be deceived."

** I am all at sea," she said plaintively.

I never had a head for planning. The
others used to plan; but now it seems all to be
coining on my shoulders, and I don't know
what to do."

"Do what I ask you," he replied.
'' Take the help that it is so easy for me to
give. And, as for your going away, if you
want to leave me I won't oppose you, 
only, where do you want to go ?"

I don't know," she said, helplessly.

"You had better consult with Mr.
Godwin and Sydney. Take Sydney's opinion
upon that question if you like. With regard
to the other," he said, with emphasis,
"let me decide for you. Tell Sydney
nothing, and do as I wish."

She would not agree then, but in the
end she did agree. He said to her, "It is
quite clear that Mr. Godwin is too broken
down at this moment to make any plans
about the future. You must wait and see

VOL. I. R

what complete rest can do for him. In six
months he may be a different man from
what he is now. Say in the meantime that
I merely help you to get through these six
months ? Other arrangements, if you like,
may be made after that. But surely you
will let me at least do this small thing ?"

And then finally she let him do it. She
promised that she would borrow so much
from him as would enable them, with the
help of the little they could gather together
of their own, to live during the next few
months.

Only, say nothing to Sydney," he once
more repeated ; and she thought that she
wholly understood, from her own knowledge
of Sydney's character, why he was
so earnest in desiring that she should be
kept in ignorance of the arrangement they
had made, and readily gave him her
promise to be silent.

But, though she thought that she
understood, she was mistaken, for something
had passed very lately between Sydney
and Mr. Loudoun of which she did not
know.

There had always been a certain intimacy
between Mr. Loudoun and Sydney. She
liked him, and was less reserved with him
than it was her habit to be with people
generally; yet perhaps just at this special
time his very kindness, which wounded her
pride a little, made her unconsciously treat
him with a touch of coldness. He had come
to their aid when she hardly wanted him to
have come to it, and she was a little sore because
they had been forced to take so much
from him. She had once or twice already
begun to speak to Mrs. Godwin of her desire
to get away from his house. '* I would
rather go anywhere else and live on ever
so little. I know how good he is, but we

have in reality no claim upon him, and I
cannot bear to feel that he is giving us the
very bread we eat," she had said. And so,
though she knew she ought to be grateful to
him, and though with her reason she teas
grateful, still in her heart she did not feel
more but less cordially to him than she had
been accustomed to do in the days when she
owed him less.

She had been saying something to him
about her desire to go away one evening,
when they happened to be together for a
little in the garden. By this time ten days
had passed since they had left Broadbelt ;
the necessary work that they had had to do
there was all ended ; following the first
confusion and the hurry of departure there
had come a heavy and dreary lull.

*ewe have nothing left to keep us here,"
Sydney said this evening, abruptly, " and I
think we ought to make arrangements now

for 2;oinj somewhere else. I would rather
go at once, for I shall never feel as if we
were awake until we are away."

'' And where do you want to go to ?" he
asked, when she said that.

"I have been trying to think," she
answered, after a few moments, rather
tremulously. *' It will perhaps depend
mainly on where we can go. Are there
not places abroad where people can live
more cheaply than in England?" she asked,
reluctantly. " And would it be possible " 
and she turned her face to him  " tell me
honestly  do you think it would be possible
for me to earn anything by teaching ?"

What could you earn that would help
to keep a house ?" he said.

' We could not take a house, of course,"
she answered. "Wee have fifty pounds
a-year left ; we have a few things that wee
could sell (mamma and I have been talking

of it), and if I could get a little by giving
lessons, I thought we might possibly manage
till  till papa got better."

And then ?" he said.

Oh, how can I tell you that?" she answered,
impatiently. " One can only try to
look forward for a little way ; the future
will get provided for somehow  perhaps."

'' Will you let me provide for it ?" he
said, after a few moments' silence. He
spoke in a low voice, but not without some
unmistakeable emotion. "If there were nota
strong reason for doing it, I would not
speak to you now, Sydney,  but you will
understand why I take this moment to ask
sou if you will be my wife."

"/." she answered, almost indignantly.

Her first impulse was one of actual
anger; the colour flamed up in her face.
For the moment she gave him no credit for
loving her; she thought that in making his

offer he was only impelled by a Quixotic
passion for conferring benefits.

** You know I will not. Do you think
we do not owe you too much already ?" she
said, in no very gracious tone, after only a
few moments' pause.

'I don't know what you suppose you
owe me," he answered, quietly; *but whatever
it may be, it seems to me a curious
moment to throw the fact of it in my face,
when I am asking so great a thing from you
as I have just done. You can never be my
debtor ; you may be deeply assured of that,
whatever answer you give me now. I have
loved you too long not to owe you far more
than I can ever, I fear, make you owe tome."


I do not know how to believe that you
mean this," she said, after a few moments,
in a faltering voice. Her first tone had
changed ; she began to see that he was in

earnest in saying that he cared for her, but
she was terribly troubled at seeing it. " We
have always been friends, and nothing
more," she said. ''I never could be anything
more than a friend to you ; I never
could think of you as anything else."

'' You have never thought of me as anything
else hitherto, but how do you know
that you could not do it?" he answered.
*' I tell you again that if I could have chosen
my time, I would not have spoken to you at
this moment, for I am not fool enough to
suppose that you have any feeling for me
yet, except one of very ordinary regard; but,
Sydney, it is possible for ordinary regard to
become something else ; you have known me
for a long time, and I hope you believe that
I aiu at least worthy to be trusted ; do you
think, for your father's and mother's sakes,
that you could not find it possible to give
yourself to me, knowing how it would relieve

them of a great difficulty, how it would make
it simple and natural for them to take the
support from me that I do not know how
to make them consent to take now."

"" Oh, do not say all this to me ! I cannot
bear it !" the girl cried, suddenly, in a
tone of passion.

And then he did not answer her, and they
walked on in silence for some moments before
he spoke again.

What could she say to him beyond repeating
that first declaration that she could
not marry him ? When he told her that
by becoming his wife she might save her
mother and father from want, he seemed to
be plunging a knife into her heart, and
yet she still cried passionately to herself
that she could not become his wife. It was
not only that she was indifferent to him.
She might have been merely indifferent
once, but now a wild, desperate feeling came

over her that, rather than be driven to belong
to him, she would throw her life away
her life, her youth, everything that she
cared for and clung to.

'' I cannot do it," she said, hurriedly, after
two or three minutes' silence. *' I seem
selfish to you, I suppose  I am selfish,
I can believe,  but yet if I tried to do what
you want I should break down. You don't
know what it is," she cried, with sudden
indignation, " to talk of a woman marrying
you when she has no love for you. You
mean kindly by us all, perhaps,  I suppose
you do ; but when you urge me like this,
when you tell me what you will do for us
if I marry you, you are simply trying to
make me a shame and a horror to myself."

She was not treating him very generously,
perhaps, for he had scarcely deserved so
bitter a reproach from her, and possibly he
felt that, for he made no answer for a little

while, and then he said, in rather a changed
tone,

"Let us say no more. I can only be
sorry that I have spoken to you, but I ask
you to forgive me for having pressed you
for a moment to do what you consider so
base a thing."

I did not say that it was base," she
ejaculated, half deprecatingly, but he took
no notice of her interruption. He merely
added after a moment,

*try as far as you can to forget what I
have said to you."

*' I will try. I shall want nothing so
much as to forget," she answered, quickly.

And then they neither of them spoke
again till they came near the house, when
she stood still, and looked hesitatingly and
timidly into his face, and all at once,

You won't say anything to my mother,
will you?" she asked. " If you did, she might

think I ought to have answered you differently,
and  oh, it is bad enough as it is !"
cried the girl, almost with a sob; "you
have made me miserable enough without
that !"

Do not let me think that I have made
you miserable," he answered, quickly. *' You
ought not to be,  you need not be. Of
course no one shall know anything from
me. Do not reproach me if you can help
it. I may seem base to you, and yet God
knows if I would have vexed you with
any wishes of my own at present if I had
not been thinking more of you and your
difficulties than of myself."

''Oh, yes, I know ; I daresay I was unjust
to you," she said, sadly. And then she stood
still for a few moments; but after these moments
she looked at him again, and  " Only
you do not understand what you have done
at least, you do not seem to understand

it," she said, abruptly, and with agitation.
"An hour ago I knew no way in which I
could help them ; now you have told me a
way, and the thought of what I have refused
to do will haunt me. You ought not to
have told me what you have. If you had
really cared for me, do you suppose you
would have done it?" And she turned
away from him with her voice quivering,
and her face suddenly hot, and would have
gone into the house, but he called her back.
You must not let these be the last
words between us," he said. *come here
again. Walk with me once more round the
lawn." And then, when she came  for she
did come  '' If I cared for you," he went
on, " I would not have asked you to marry
me, you say? Do you suppose I should
have asked you, then, if I had not cared
for you? What could have induced me to
make such a proposal to you at this, or any

Other time, unless I loved you ? You have
been dearer to me than any words of
mine can tell you for years past. I do
not know whether you will believe this or
not (for you do not seem to be much inclined
to believe anything that I say to you),
but I tell it you for my own justification.
I cannot even imagine what you suppose,
except genuine affection for you, could account
for my asking you to marry me ?"

'' Oh  I don't know. I am very unhappy.
I  I beg your pardon," she said, tremulously.


I don't want you to beg my pardon,
dear ; and, if I have made you unhappy,
heaven knows I am sorry for it. But could
I let you go away without saying this to
you ? Try to put yourself for a moment in
my place. Could I have remained silent,
and have let you go, while there existed a

chance that, if I had spoken, I might have
kept you with me ?"

But you knew I did not care for you,"
she said, quickly.

I knew you had only a friendly feeling
for me, but I thought that possibly it might
be strong enough to make you willing to
become my wife. You have shown me
very plainly how mistaken I was. And yet
even now, at this moment, Sydney,' he said,
suddenly and passionately, " if you would
give yourself to me, do you think I would
not take you ?"

She made an impatient movement, and
the blood came to her face. But, though
she seemed about to speak, she controlled
herself, and her lips, which had parted,
quickly closed again. Then, after a few
moments, he added in a different tone,

"I must lose you now, I am well aware.

Do not suppose that I fail to understand
that, or that I shall annoy you at present by
saying anything more about this matter. If
we both live I will try my chance with you
again, but for the remaining time that you
stay here do not be afraid that I shall
trouble you. God bless you, Sydney," he
suddenly said. " Thank God that, reject meas
you may, you cannot make yourself less
dear to me."

'' I wish I could ! Oh, I wish I could !"
lie answered, hurriedly and vehemently ;
and then they had reached the house again,
and she turned away from him and went
in without another word, almost sobbing as
lie ran upstairs with the excitement that
she had tried to repress.

She was not flattered by the proposal
that Mr. Loudoun had made to her ; she
was not pleased with it even in the bottom
of her heart. She had so little of a coquette

in her nature that when she reached
her own room she burst into genuine tears
of distress and regret. She was angry with
Mr. Loudoun with what even she herself
felt to be an unreasonable answer. She was
so angry that she began to allow herself to
recoil from lira. His offer seemed to her
like some cruel thing made by lira to tempt
her. She had rejected it instantly, with
quick, and, indeed, with unnecessary indignation
; but, though she had rejected it,
how could she forget what he had told her,
that if she would marry him she would
make the future easy for the people who
were dearest to her in the world ?

He should not have said that  it was
ungenerous of him ; a nobler kind of man
would never have done it," she went on
crying bitterly to herself.

She was not, you see, either very tender
or very just to Mr. Loudoun ; but it is some-vol.

I. S

times not easy to be just to the people who
offer us more than we desire to accept, and
bestow an affection upon us that we cannot
return, and place themselves in such a relation
to us that we writhe beneath the sense
that we are their debtors, and that by their
generosity they are heaping coals of fire
upon our heads. There was little that Mr.
Marmaduke found himself in a position todo
for Sydney's benefit, yet I am afraid that
the expression of his impotent sympathy
had roused feelings of ten times warmer
gratitude in the girl's heart than ever were
awakened there by all Mr. Loudoun's help
and kindness put together. When the
young man came out one day presently', ashe
did, to the Hall, and looked into Sydney's
eyes and silently wrung her hand,
he moved her more in a moment than
all Mr. Loudoun's efforts could have done
in six months.

Mrs. Godwin had answered that letter of
Mr. Marmaduke's, and had told him to
come some day and see them. " Not quite
yet, but in a little while," she wrote,  " if
you really won't mind coming only for a
call, for you know we have no house now
to ask you to. But we should like you to
come, if you would, just to bid you goodbye
; for your letter has made us feel, even
more than we did before, that you are one
of the few friends whom we should be glad
to see at least once more before we go
away."

It was on a Tuesday that he had this
note, and on the following Sunday he went
down to the Hall. He went with some
doubt as to whether he was not making his
visit too soon, but it seemed to him already
like years since he had parted last from
Sydney, and his desire to see her again had
become too strong for him to resist, so he

s2

went; and though, when he asked for Mrs,
Godwin at the door, the servant to whom
he spoke replied with some hesitation that
he hardly thought Mrs. Godwin was at
home, he had no sooner sent in his name
than he was admitted, and in another minute,
with his heart beating in great throbs,
he found himself once more in Sydney's
presence.

They were all three sitting in the room
together, Mrs. Godwin near her husband,
Sydney alone by one of the windows, with
a book on her knees. Hardly a word was
spoken as the young man came in. Mrs.
Godwin gave him some half-inaudible welcome,
but Mr. Godwin said nothing, and
Sydney's face only flushed for a moment as
she rose at his approach.

"I was so grateful to you for your letter,"
lie said to Mrs. Godwin.

He had already shaken hands with her

once, but after he had greeted Sydney he
went back to her and grasped her hand
again.

I can t tell you how good I feel it is of
you to let me come. I have been thinking
of you constantly, day and night," he said.

*' Yes, I knew you would be sorry," the
poor little woman answered, in rather a
trembling voice. *' And everybody has
been so kind, so very kind. But sit down
now, and tell us about yourself. We don't
talk much about our own troubles  not
before Mr. Godwin," she said, in a quick
aside.

He took his place in the midst of them,
and they began to talk of common things,
almost as if he had been paying them an
ordinary visit. Mrs. Godwin had resumed
her seat by her husband's side, and Sydney
came to another chair near to them. Now
and then, as they talked, one or other of

the women spoke to Mr. Godwin, putting
some question to him, or making some
effort to draw him ij;ito their conversation,
but he merely replied shortly to anything
they said, and then relapsed into silence.
We can't rouse him now to take
interest in anything," Mrs. Godwin said
sadly once, below her breath.

It was rather a dreary half hour that
they spent together ; they all did their best,
but the talk only grew more and more difficult,
till at last it almost ceased, and then
Mr. Marmaduke, with a little hesitation, rose
and said, '' I am afraid I ought to go and
catch my train."

He held out his hand to Mrs. Godwin.
The little woman's lips trembled, and the
tears came to her eyes. Half aloud she said,
*god bless you." Then he took leave of
Mr. Godwin, and turned to Sydney, 'will
you come down to the gate with me ? I

want to speak to you," he said to her, in a
low voice.

Without any hesitation she answered,
*' Yes," and they left the room together.

I could not bear to go away without
seeing something of you," he said, eagerly, as
soon as they were in the open air. " How
can I tell you how I have been thinking of
you all these days? I don't know how to
bear it all. Simply and truly that is the
only way in which I can put it. I am afraid
you think I am a brute not to say first that
I don't know how you are to bear it, but
literally I do not believe this can be as
terrible to you as it is to me ; upon my life,
I do not. My loss is greater than yours,
for you have only to bear the loss of fortune,
while 1  " and then he broke off, or she
interrupted him.

I like you to be sorry for us," she said,
simply, though with a little tremor in her

voice. "There are some people whose
sympathy is a burden, but I am glad to have
yours. And I am glad too that you have
come," she said, and looked at him straightly
and honestly, 'for I should have been
grieved not to have said good-bye to you."

Where are you going that you talk of
saying good-bye ?" he asked, quickly.

I think we are going to Switzerland,
but I am not quite sure. Mr. Loudoun is
making some inquires," she said this with a
perhaps unconscious touch of coldness in her
voice, " and we have to wait to see what he
learns before we decide. He is trying to
get some pupils for me."

'some pupils? Shall you have to
teach? Has it really come to that?" he
said, hurriedly.

*' Did you not know ?" she answered, with
the colour getting suddenly a little deeper
in her cheek.

"I knew nothing positively I only
feared  Have you lost  everything?"

"Yes, everything; except only a little
legacy that was left to me two years ago.
Perhaps I ought not to have told you this,"
she said, quickly, after a moment, " only you
will not repeat it, I know."

He made no answer to her, but merely
walked on, hardly seeing the sunshine, hardly
knowing where his steps were going,
only conscious of a conflict within him that
seemed to him to be tearing his very soul.
Had he ever suffered as he was suffering
now? had he ever before so longed for
what was passing beyond his reach ?

"Is there nothing I can do ?" he cried,
passionately, after a few minutes' silence.
** I stand here beside you, as little able
to help you as if I were a child,  and
it is breaking my heart. Is there noway
in which you can make use of me ?

You let other people help you, and "

**Do not say that I let them ; I submit to
what Mr. Loudoun does because I cannot
prevent it," she said, quickly, interrupting
his sentence with a kind of sharp impatience.


"Well  but at least he does help you,
and here am I, who would give my life for

you ! Is there nothing I can do for

you  not one thing ?"

"No; what could there be?" she answered,
sadly.

What, indeed ! I ask myself that till I
am weary. I feel that I am utterly helpless.
If I were but my own master,  if I
were only in a position to ask you to listen
to me ! But it makes me mad to think of
it !" cried the poor fellow. " Do not misjudge
me, that is all I pray of you ; do not
misjudge me, Sydney."

"I am not likely to do that," she answered,

in a low, grave voice, though the
colour was in her face, and she did not look
at him. And then after a moment she said,
"I am glad that we have known one
another, and that we have been friends."

"The happiest hours of all my life have
been the hours that I have spent with you,"
he said. "Do you think that I shall ever
forget them ? I do not know how I should
have courage to work, or hope, or live now
if I could believe that they were gone forever."


They had turned off the avenue into a
patch of shrubbery, through which there
ran a path that led to a side gate into the
road. When they had almost reached this
gate, he turned round and said,

"Let me walk back with you. Perhaps
this may be almost the last walk that we
shall have together."

"It is not a year yet since I saw you

first," he said to her, after a little while;
'' it seems to me now as if all my life  all
in it that was worth anything  had been
gathered into these last months. Will you
remember them sometimes ? I aren't ask
more from you than that; but will you
sometimes think of them ?"

Am I likely to be so happy that I shall
forget them ?" she asked, with a little sudden
jar in her voice. But the next moment
she made a strong effort, and regained her
self-control. *' I think when people are in
trouble they never forget," she said, gently ;
"I think they hold very fast to all the
things that they ever cared for."

There is one of us two at least who will
do that," he answered, passionately ; " there
is one of us to whom the memory of these
days will be something to carry with him to
his grave."

He walked back with her till the avenue

was again within sight, and then she stood
still.

"I think you had better go now," she
said.

She was very quiet : except that sometimes
when she spoke her lip had quivered
a little, her face almost wore its usual look ;
either she felt less than he did, or she had
more command over what she felt.

Yes, I suppose I must go," he answered,
"but this is not good-bye; I am coming
again."

** Are you ?" she said.

She hesitated for a moment, but after
that little hesitation she said nothing more ;
they gave one another their hands, and then,
for the first time that he had ever dared todo
it, he stood silently holding hers in a
long clasp till her eyes, which had been
turned away from him at first, rose to his
face  the sweetest eyes that he had ever

known  the sweetest eyes, he thought,
through many an after day, that he had
ever seen in any woman's face.

She was the first to break the silence, but
she merely said ' Good-bye " in a low voice.
And then she stood quite still, with only
the colour coming a little to her cheek as he
suddenly lifted her hand to his lips.

*' I cannot bear to go," he said, next
moment,  "but I shall see you again. I
shall see you soon." At the last instant ashe
let her go he said, '' God bless you !" in
almost a broken voice.

He was thinking to himself that in another
week he would come back, and that
he should have the bliss and the torture of
another final hour with her. But before
another week had gone the Godwinss had
left the Hall, and Mr. Marmaduke and
Sydney never met again. This proved to
be their last parting. A day or two

after his visit Mr. Godwin's health grew
worse, and his doctor ordered an immediate
change of scene for him, so his wife and
Sydney took him to Dover ; and two or
three weeks afterwards, as soon as he was
able to travel farther, they crossed the
Channel. Mr. Loudoun had obtained a
promise of two pupils for Sydney from some
friends of his near Thun, in a quiet country
place, where it was thought they could all
live for a time at little cost, so they set out
on their journey to Switzerland, Mr. Lou-down
joining them before they started, and
accompanying them as far as Paris,  not
much, perhaps, to Sydney's satisfaction.
The girl was perverse possibly as far as Mr.
Loudoun was concerned. Her heart was
sore within her, and perhaps the only friend
whose help would have been sweet to her
was some one else than he.

Before they left the Hall Mrs. Godwin

wrote to Mr. Marraaduke, bidding good-bye
to him for them all. *' I am not telling
him that we are going to make any stay at
Dover," she said to Sydney, *for he might
run down, if he thought we were there, and
your father wouldn't like it." So Mr. Mar
mature was merely informed that they
were ordered to begin their journey at
once, and a few kind words and kind
regrets were added ; and then, before
Mrs. Godwin folded up her note, with a
sudden impulse, Sydney took the pen
out of her hand, and wrote beneath her
signature,

I am sorry we shall not see you anymore.
 S. G."

She looked at the words for a moment
when she had written them, and then turned
abruptly away; and the letter was
closed, and sent to its destination, with her
brief farewell in it  her only farewell to

the man who loved her, and whom, if fate
had been kinder, she might have loved in
return.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XL

TT was almost with tears that Mrs. 
win parted from Mr. Loudoun at the
station of the Lyons railway. But Sydney
saw his departure without any such sign of
emotion. And yet the girl, too, felt lonely
enough when he was gone, and the long
journey had begun that was to carry them
farther and farther away from every face
that they had ever known. In happier
days she had looked forward a hundred
times to this journey that they were taking
now, but with what different feelings ! The
day was gloomy, with grey, low-hanging

clouds, and the level country, with its endless
lines of grey-green poplars, like scattered
columns of an incalculable army,
seemed in its monotony to lend another
touch of sadness to spirits sad enough
already.

I don't think this is beautiful at all.
Do you call this beautiful, Sydney ?" Mrs.
Godwin said once or twice, in a tone of
gentle wonder. *' There are parts of France
that I have seen before that I think very
nice indeed, but, really, this all seems to me
about the dullest place that I was ever in.
For all they talk about the continent,
there's a great deal more, I should say,
to see in England." And she fairly turned
her face away from the window at last, and
devoted herself to her husband and her
newspaper.

But Sydney all day went on gazing and
thinking. As the train sped on she many a

t2

time saw other sights than the grey poplars ;
while her eyes were fixed on the wide, level
fields, she saw often in reality another
country and another sky. A hundred
visions rose before her. To her, in imagination,
the sun was shining, and the birds
were singing in her English woods. With
a great yearning and with an aching heart
the girl sat thinking of days that had been
sweet, and that were gone, of faces that she
might never see again.

They were tired enough at night when
they reached Dijon, and the rain had begun
to fall ; it was chill, too, and Mr. Godwin
complained of the cold. They could not go
out, and there was no fire in the house ;
they dined and sat for half an hour in a little
bare, boarded room ; and then, for very
lack of knowing what else to do, they went
to bed. It was all cheerless enough. But
the next morning the sun rose in a cloudless

sky, and they opened their eyes as if to a
new world.

That next day's journey, ending at Neu-chapel,
roused even Mr. Godwin at moments
out of his dull lethargy. Who can for the
first time travel along that road that, through
the splendours of the Val de Travers, leads
to the first view of the snow-covered Alps,
without feeling something in his heart before
which his lips grow dumb ? Mrs. Godwin
gave one half cry as the blue lake flashed
suddenly into sight at last, with beyond it the
great line of mountains, each snowy peak
standing against the pale pure sky like a
white vision ; and then for some minutes no
word was spoken, hardly another sound
broke from them, as they gazed till they
could gaze no longer.

It was on the third day after they left
Paris that they reached their destination  a
village on the Lake of Thun, where Mr.

Loudoun chanced to have some friends,
from whom he had obtained the situation
for Sydney of English governess to their
daughters, two girls of fourteen and fifteen,
at the very moderate salary of eight hundred
francs.

I am afraid you will think it is hardly
worth your while to give your labour for
such a small return," Mr. Loudoun had said
to her, doubtfully, when he first told her
of the offer he had procured for her; but
she had the good sense to answer that she
knew she could not expect to be paid much
for anything she could do.

I have to find out yet that I can teach
at all," she said. " Perhaps I shall fail altogether,
and not be worth even my two
shillings a day."

Monsieur and Madame von Erlach had
advised that the Godwinss should take up
their abode in a pension, and had kindly

made arrangements for their reception in
one that was within half a mile of their own
house,  a pretty, cheerful-looking little
establishment, standing on high ground, and
facing the lake, with its garden full of vines
and roses.

Really as nice a place as one could wish
to be in, isn't it, Sydney?" Mrs. Godwin
said, quite cheerfully, as, after they had been
shown to their rooms by the Jive de cJiamhre,
to whom Sydney alone could make herself
intelligible, she began to look about her.
*' There is not a room that is not as clean
and neat as if it was in England ; and, oh !
child, come out here  come to this balcony,
and look at the mountains ! Sydney, I
think a sight like that ought to help one to
bear many things. It seems to me as if it
made all that was little sink away out of
one's mind."

The Von Erlachs had met them at the

tiny pier where the steamer landed them, a
pair of quiet, homely-looking people, who,
having married late in life, had already,
though their eldest daughter was only fifteen,
almost passed middle age. They
spoke English enough to enable Mrs. Godwin
and Madame von Erlach to talk together,
as, the Von Erlachs having offered
to lead the way to the pension, they all
walked in a group along the pretty country
road.

"Monsieur Loudoun, he has told me
much about you. My girls have been making
holiday to-day, thinking so soon to see
their English governess' Madame von Er-each
told her companion, with a kindly
cordiality, and, before they parted, she
invited Sydney to come up later in the day
and see them.

They were a little  what you call shy,
or they would have come with us now," she

said ; '' but if mademoiselle would kindly
come to us, two, three hours hence, if it
should please her,  and if monsieur and
madame would do us the pleasure to accompany
her "

But Mrs. Godwin excused herself, on the
ground that her husband was very tired,
and that she should not like to leave him ;
so it was arranged that Sydney should go
alone ; and presently, in the afternoon, the
girl took her first walk along that half-mile
of road that was soon to grow so familiar
to her.

The Von Erlachs' was a larcre, irregular
old house, with a gabled roof, and with internal
arrangements that seemed quaint,
and in their quaintness very charming, to
Sydney. There was a fountain in the courtyard
that made a cool, plashing sound, and
beyond the garden stretched a vineyard,
sloping down to the edge of the lake,

and terminating in a pleasant walk, with a
little, low, broad-topped parapet beside it,
against which the blue water lapped. There
were seats along this walk under the trees,
and looking towards the mountains ; and
here, seated on one of them, with books in
their hands, Sydney, after a little while
found her two pupils.

They are reading a little history. They
are good girls. I told them to be tranquil,
and I would bring you to them," Madame
von Erlach said to Sydney, when she had
received her in a large ground-floor room,
where doors and windows all stood open.
And so presently they went out together to
the garden, and, passing by a trellised walk
through the vineyard, came to the two girls
sitting at their quiet occupation, in their
holland frocks, with their fair, plaited hair
and blue eyes and honest Swiss faces.

They were not pretty ; they were, on the

whole, decidedly plain, and they rose up to
greet Sydney with more awkwardness than
grace of manner. Sydney too, on her side,
was shy, and so the meeting was a sufficiently
silent one.

Do you come here sometimes to learn
your lessons ?" she said to Lotte, the elder ;
and Lotte looked nervously at her mother
for support, and murmured an almost inaudible
" Yes." And then Sydney remarked
that that must be very pleasant  after which
there probably would have been silence if
Madame von Erlach had not after a moment
struck in with a timely remark.

'they seem very quiet," was Sydney's
report to Mrs. Godwin when she returned
to the pension. " Lotte looks rather stupid,
I think. Marguerite seems quicker. 1 daresay
they are very good children ; but oh,
mother, I wish I were not so afraid of
them  I wish it did not all seem so

Strange !" the girl said, with rather a quiver
in her voice.

She felt altogether, in the midst of these
new scenes, in the midst of all this unfamiliar
life, as if she were some one else*;
and not herself. How could it be otherwise?
She had never known sorrow or
poverty till now ; she had lived a life that
had been so full of ease and happiness, and
now the change was so bitter,  if she could
believe in it. Was it better not to believe ?
she sometimes thought  to go on feeling,
as she did now, that she was living in a
world of shadows ?

The pleasant little pension was full of
visitors.

"And English people too, my dear!"
Mrs. Godwin informed Sydney, in a tone of
congratulation. She had been making inquiries
and discoveries in her daughter's
absence. " There are three English people

and five Americans. They may not all be
very nice  indeed, I saw one just now who
looked  well, I thought she looked rather
odd ; but they will be something to speak
to, at any rate, and I do like to be able to
speak to people if sou have to sit at meals
with them."

And presently the good woman, who was
so much more social than Sydney or her
father had ever been, when they went to dinner
fell to talking pleasantly with a rather
gentlemanly-looking old man, who washer
neighbour on her left hand ; while Mr.
Godwin and Sydney ate their dinner almost
in silence; Mr. Godwin, as usual, taking
very little heed of anything that went on
around him, and Sydney, in her shy reserve
shrinking from the strange sound of the
unaccustomed :voices, and longing for the
seclusion of her own table and her own
house. It seemed almost as yet to her a

sad jest to tell her that these people, whom
she saw about her now, were to be her
future companions,  that this place was
henceforth to be her only home.

Her work began next day, and after a
time she began to go to it with a certain
kind of pleasure. Her pupils proved dull but
docile. Madame von Erlach was very kind.
Her occupation was easy ; for she was only
required to teach the girls to read and
speak in English. She spent three hours a
day with them. Presently they got fond of
her in a faithful but undemonstrative sort
of fashion, and their mother, too, showed
her approval of her in many ways. " I
am obliged to Monsieur Loudoun for having
brought you to us, mademoiselle," she
often said to her, cordially.

One day she said, 

I have been writing to Monsieur Lou-down.

Your good mother, too, she corresponds
with him ? She has news of him
often ? You are all very dear friends with

him r

*' Mr. Loudoun is an old friend of ours,
and he has been very good to us," Sydney
answered.

*' Ah, I can believe that he is good !"
Madame von Erlach responded, with enthusiasm.
*' We have not known him
much  no, but we have heard already of
kind things that he has done. And he is
not married yet ? He lives then alone
since his mother died ? Ah, it is time that
he did marry. Are there none of your
English girls, mademoiselle, who would
like so good a husband as Monsieur
Loudoun ?"

She used to look at Sydney with shrewd,
inquiring eyes sometimes when she put

questions of this sort to her. She was
something of a gossip, though a very kindly
one, and she would gladly have had Sydney
tell her more of her past life than the
girl was ever disposed to do, or than, indeed,
she ever did.

'* My dear, you have known trouble. I
see it in your face," she told her one day.
*' You have lost your fortune  good ; I
know that  but it is not the loss of fortune
that makes the sorrow of young girls. "Will
you not tell your grief to me ? My heart
is yet soft, though I am growing old."

But Sydney's only answer to this appeal
was a issus, betokening as much vexation as
emotion, and rather a hasty denial that she
had any confidence to give.

You are very good ; but you are mistaken.
I have no grief to tell," she said,
except what you know. My father is

very ill, and we are very poor. When I
think of these things have I not reason
enough to look grave ?"

And Madame von Erlach could get her
to say no more.

Nor did she surely need any other source
of trouble than these two, which pressed
upon her with a weight that never ceased,
and that, as the months went on, only grew
heavier. For this time of rest, from which
they had hoped for so much, seemed to be
doing nothing for the improvement of Mr.
Godwin's health, either of body or mind,
and every week that passed brought them
nearer to the end of their resources. It
was true that this sure diminution of their
small means seemed, Sydney could not but
sometimes think, to cause less anxiety to
her mother than to herself; the girl used to
get puzzled sometimes by the rather vague

VOL. 1. u

manner in which Mrs. Godwin spoke. " Oh,
we must not vex ourselves with thinking
about money yet, my dear ; we are not
spending much," she would say, in what
seemed to Sydney an almost recklessly uncalculating
manner. " It is not our expenses
that trouble me so much just now as your
poor father's state. If I could only see
some improvement in that T

But, alas ! of such improvement there
was none to see ; for, to all lookers-on, it
was evident that Mr. Godwin was a broken-down
man, who would never do work again
in this world. He had always, even in the
days of his prosperity, been subject to fits
of depression, and now his misfortunes had
crushed him altogether. He had become
already almost like a child in his wife's
hands. From having been dependent on
her for nothing, he had become dependent

on her for nearly all things. He leant
upon her far more than he did on Sydney.
Though his daughter was very tender and
gentle to him, he was never contented to be
alone with her ; he would get restless if his
wife absented herself even for half an hour.
'' I don't know where your mother can be.
It is a strange thing that she goes so much
away," he would say again and again to
Sydney, in a querulous, injured tone.

These weeks had changed him into an
old man. He used to sit constantly in his
arm-chair, silent and unoccupied. He had
not energy enough left to open a newspaper
or a book, but Mrs. Godwin read to him,
and took him out for walks, and tried to
interest and amuse him, with an endless
patience and tenderness. Perhaps, to the
gentle little woman, there was a sad sweetness
in his sudden dependence on her. She

u2

had never been much to him till now, and
now she was become everything, and her
care of him filled her time and thoughts
almost to the exclusion, it sometimes seemed
to Sydney, of every other thing.

It had been the beginning of July when
they left England, and, after they were once
established in their new quarters, the rest
of the summer and the autumn passed uneventfully
away. When October came the
pension was almost empty, and the mountains
were covered with new-fallen snow.
But the Von Erlachs lived at Untermdorf
all the year, so Sydney did not lose her
pupils, nor did the winter, when it set in,
prove hard to bear.

We have it colder than you  yes, that
is true ; but we do not have your terrible
fogs. We can see the sun  we can tell
that the sky is blue. Ah, mademoiselle, I
think it is better here than in your great,

black London !" Madame von Erlacb would
sometimes say, with a gentle, self-congratulation
laude. "Look there at our Junorfrau,
at our Weisshorn, at our Finsterraahorn 
are they not finer sights than the best sight
in your biggest city ? When I was a young
girl, when I was a girl like Lotte, I used
not to care about the mountains  I used to
think then, if I could live in Paris, it would
be like heaven ; but, now I am old, ah ! you
may keep your Paris. I think we are nearer
heaven here."

As long as the summer lasted, Sydney
and her pupils not unfrequently used to sit
and do their reading out of doors ; in winter
their school-room was a sunny, many-widowed
gallery that ran along one side of
the house, and communicated with the
garden by an outer stair; a charming room,
used both for work and play, and large
enough for both. It was the prettiest bit

of all the house, Sydney thought. She used
to amuse Madame von Erlach with her admiration
of it, and with her interest in a
hundred small domestic fashions and arrangements
that, to the elder lady, seemed
all too common-place to awaken curiosity in
anybody.

' But mademoiselle is so amiable that she
interests herself in everything, let it be what
it may," she would say, with her graceful
foreign courtesy. 'rand it is good to do
that. It is only those of small minds who
are afraid to condescend  who think, ' this
and this is too little for me'"

She used to pay Sydney many compliments,
 more, perhaps, than the girl liked at
first, but they were uttered always so pleasantly
and kindly that by degrees she got to
be amused by them, and even at times half
to believe in their genuineness. For, as

time went on, she could hardly fail to see
that Madame von Erlach liked her; she
showed her too much kindness for Sydney
to doubt that. She used to say pretty
things in German to her that Sydney only
half understood (for her acquaintance with
that language was very small) ; in French
she used to call her "?7ia belle Anglaise:'

You know I am not helle' Sydney said
to her once, blushing a little ; and then she
broke out into the most flattering criticisms.
She might not be beautiful in the strict
sense of the word, she said, but she was
gracieuse ; she had Tair fine, Tair douce ; she
had les yeux et la houclie comme une ange ;
she was an Englishwoman, toute entire, and
what country produced such beautiful women
as England ?

"Ah ! my dear, I cannot understand how
you have come here," she ended by exclaiming.

" You will not tell me, but I look at
you, and look, and wonder. Some day,
when you are married, you will tell me, will
you not?"

But Sydney's face at this proposition only
grew cold, and lost its laughter ; and then
the other, with instant self-reproach, went
close to her, and kissed her on both cheeks.

'ram I a too curious woman with my
questions?" she said, quickly. "And you,
you are too English and too proud to answer
them. Well, you shall keep your
secret, and I shall not tease you any more.
But you must not be angry with me that I
love you  that I say to myself a hundred
times, *Some day surely I shall see her
happy

If I could be angry with you for that, I
should indeed deserve all your kindness
very little," Sydney answered, warmly, to
this speech.

But, though she said this, she said no
more; and Madame von Erlach remained
in ignorance of the thing that her innocent
heart was yearning to know.

"Yes, she has had a history. I know it,
but she will not speak one word. They are
wonderful, these Englishwomen !" she said
to her husband, presently, with a resigned
shake of the head.

In the pension, as its winter inmates,
there only remained, besides the Godwinss,
a little American woman, who was very like
a winter apple, and her husband. They
were a Mr. and Mrs. Wheeler, who had
come to Europe for the education of their
two sons, and who, having placed the boys
at school at Zurich, were moving deliberately
from place to place, spending a few months
here and a few months there, and letting
the lads always join them in winter and
summer holidays.

 " You see we might go and live at Zurich
too," Mrs. Wheeler told Mrs. Godwin, 'but
then I think if we were always at hand
it would be harder for the boys. We
had better be somewhere where they can't
always be hoping to see us. Now we are
going to stop here for the winter, and at
Christmas the boys will come and spend
their holidays with us. Last winter we were
at Montreux, and this summer we took
them to the Engadine. We have been in
Switzerland now for these two years, and we
expect to be here two more. Yes, it is a longtime
to be away from one's own country ; I
am so homesick sometimes that I feel as if
I could sit down and cry ; but we have only
got these two boys, and we want to do the
best we can for them. You see, when we
take them back to America, they will know
French and German as well as they know

English, and, when they begin to go to
business, think what an advantage that will
be to them ! Oh, yes, I am pretty tired of
it ; I shall be happy when I see New York
again ; but if we did not do the best in our
power for the boys, you know we should
never be satisfied."

She was not, Mrs. Godwin thought at
first, a very interesting woman ; " she looks
so much, my dear, as if all the sap had
been dried out of her," she said to Sydney,
but the two ladies presently became very
good friends, and after a few weeks Sydney
too came in for a share of Mrs. Wheeler's
favour; nor when Christmas brought her
two sons to Untermdorf did she regard the
girl with less kindness, for Sydney, whose
heart turned instinctively to what was young,
liked the two lads, and took enough notice
of them to win a feeling of gratitude from

the mother's heart. It was bright weather
when the holidays began, and they used to
go together for many a ramble. Long expeditions
at this time of year were impracticable,
but pleasant walks about the near
hills were very possible, and Sydney and her
two young knights took many such together.
They were a pair of frank, bright lads of fourteen
and sixteen. A year ago she had other
companions,  one other whom she had found
hard since to forget. The Christmas of this
year must have brought the thought of that
other Christmas back to her a thousand
times, but yet she never spoke of it  even
her mother never knew whether it was much
or little in her mind.

It was pleasant for the Godwinss that the
house remained so empty throughout the
winter, for Mr. Godwin was in no state to
be brought into contact with many people.
" I wish we could have our own sitting-rooms'

Mrs. Godwin had begun by saying
fervently; but they could not afford to
pay what a private sitting-room would
have cost, so while the warm weather lasted
they had sat for the greater part of the day
in their own bed-room, and then, when that
became no longer practicable, it was no
small comfort to them to find the salon
shared with them by no one else except the
Wheelers. The room, that had been so full
during the summer of noisy voices, was
pleasantly quiet now,  so quiet that Mr.
Godwin was frequently left for hours in it
undisturbed.

'ewe are very fortunate in how we are
placed," Mrs. Godwin often said to Sydney,
and her daughter gave always a cordial assent.
Yes,  as far as the present went, they
had a great deal to be thankful for : their
days were peaceful if they were not bright :
they had kindly companions, they had even

302 SYDNEY.

friends near at hand. But what of the
future? Every day, with more and more
anxiety, with more and more perplexity, she
thought of that.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

j%

LONDON: PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

SOUTHERN COUNTIES CIRCULATING .

ESTABLISHED 1832.

37 and 39, LONDON ST., READING.

CATALOGUES and TERMS SENT OR APPLICATION.
Subscriptions from Half-a-guinea.

Established 1832.

Folio

.9"

Supplements to the General Catalogue are issued
periodically and can be had on application.

OF Thou
N Diversity
Of 

STDlEY.

VOL. II.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/sydney02crai

BV

Georgians M. Craig

AUTHOR OF

"DORCAS," "ANNE WARWICK,"
&c., &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. 11.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET;
1881.

All rights reserved.

LONDON :

PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

BLENHEIM STREET, OXFORD STREET.

SYDNEY.

CHAPTER I.

l\/r OTHER, can we go'on like this much
 longer ? Surely we cannot ?" Sydney
said, gravely, to Mrs. Godwin at last
one night.

It was the beginning of January, and for
six months now they had been living here
and in these six months Sydney knew pretty
exactly what they had spent, and she
thought also that she knew how much they
had it still in their power to spend (though
in this she was wrong).

VOL. II. B

Again and again, for weeks and even
months past, she had tried to rouse her
mother to the same anxiety that she felt
herself with regard to their decreasing
means, but with so little success that at last
a painful suspicion of something like the
truth had begun to take possession of her.
Was it possible that her mother could have
money of which she did not know ? she had
begun to ask herself. Was it possible or credible
that she should have borrowed money
from Mr. Loudoun ? The girl would not believe
it : the thought stung her so much that
she said again and again that it could not be ;
and yet she could not get the suspicion out
of her mind.

For some days before this one she had resolved
that by questions and entreaties she
would oblige her mother to tell the truth
to her, but Mrs. Godwin's constant attendance
on her husband made it often difficult

for Sydney and her mother to talk together,
and so almost a week had passed since she
came to this resolution before she found the
opportunity for which she sought.

It came at last one night after Mr. Godwin
had fallen asleep. Mrs. Godwin that
night came late into Sydney's room, merely
meaning to ask some question of her ; but
the girl went to her and made her stop.

' Mamma, I want to talk to you," she
said. "I never can talk to you, and I lie
awake half the night thinking of things that
I want to say. Papa will not miss you.
Surely you can stay with me for a little
now ?"

And then the poor little woman could not
refuse to remain, and she sat down, not
perhaps without her heart beginning to
quake.

For in fact she knew well enough what
Sydney wanted to say to her: she had

known for some time past that she could
not keep her secret much longer : and
indeed if it had not been for her promise
to Mr. Loudoun she would have eased her
mind by telling it to Sydney long ago, for she
liked little enough to have secrets from her
daughter. But Mr. Loudoun's emphatic
request that Sydney should be kept in the
dark about his money transactions with her
had impressed her enough not only to keep
her silent, but also to make her very decidedly
nervous and uncomfortable about the
discovery that was now about to be forced
from her.

* My dear, I know we talk very little together,
but it is not my fault," she said,
rather faintly (feeling an inward consciousness,
however, that perhaps it was to some
extent her fault, and that half truths are
sometimes very dangerously seductive things
to utter). 'you know how little time I

have to myself; indeed, no time at all.
Only, my darling, whether we talk or not,
you know it makes no difference," she said,
with a very feeble effort to divert Sydney's
attention from the subject of which she felt
that her mind was full.

Of course the transparent device failed.
Sydney was too much occupied with what
she wanted to say almost perhaps to notice
it.

' Mother, do tell me how we stand
exactly  about money, I mean?" she was
saying to her a minute afterwards. '' How
can we go on much longer ? You seem tome
to be looking forward so little that I
cannot understand it. Unless you have
some money that I know nothing of?
Mamma, have you any?" in a constrained
tone. " Can. you possibly have some of
which you have not told me ?"

My dear," replied Mrs. Godwin, uneasily.

we have not come to the end of what I
brought with iii yet."

No,  not quite to the end, but I think
we must be within twenty pounds of it, 
unless you brought more than I knew ?"
she added again, after a moment's pause.

*' Well, I brought a good deal,  and your
money has come in since,  and there was
what we got for those things that were
sold."

"Yes  but I have counted all that. I
have gone over it again and again, and I think
I have counted everything. Mamma, how
much have you got now? Surely you will
tell me?"

I haven't so very much, my dear,  that
is true," very faintly. indeed, I haven't
much in hand at all,  only  Well, if I
I must tell you, Sydney, I can draw for
something more."

'upon whom?"

' I can get it at the bank at Thun."

A moment's silence.

'there now, my darling," imploringly,
'' you must not be vexed. You force me
to tell you, you see. . I have tried to keep
it from you, because he said he did not
want you to know  and oh, Sydney, it has
been hard enough to me," beginning half to
sob ; " so many things are hard. Do you
think I would take money from anybody if
I could help it ? I know you are proud,
audit will make you angry  but ah, remember,
my dear, he loves us all, and such a trifle
is nothing to him ; and when he appealed tome,
 when he asked me to treat him as a
mother would treat her son,  what could I
do, Sydney ? What could I do, when I had
no one else to turn to ?"

Oh, mother !" Sydney only said, in a
passionate voice.

The colour had come all over the girl's

face. She had heard no more than she had
told herself she had expected to hear, but it
seemed to her almost too hard to bear.

*' I think I would rather beg in the
streets than take money from Mr. Loudoun !"
she cried, bitterly, after a few moments'
silence. "Mamma, do not do it ! Send him
back the note, or the cheque, or whatever
it is, that he has given you. Send it back
when I beg you !"

But, my dear !" said Mrs. Godwin,
aghast, *' why should you feel so strongly as
this? Sydney, I don't understand you,  I
don't indeed. He is the kindest friend we
have in the world, and as for taking this
tone about his helping us now why  why,
child," cried the poor little woman, beginning
to speak with agitation, " do you think we
should ever have got here at all without his
help ? I never told you, because he said I
was not to do it  and yet I have often

thought you ought to know, for you never
seem to me to like him now as you used todo.
The very first day of our trouble he came
to me and put his purse in my hand. Yes, 
and I took it : what else could I do ? We
cannot throw off our debt to him. If we
paid him every farthing this moment that
we owe him, we should remain his debtors
still,  for how could we ever pay back such
kindness as he has shown us? How could
we ever do it, Sydney ?"

With only a little murmur  something so
low that her mother scarcely heard it  the
girl had dropped her face upon her hands.
It was not her way to be anything but quiet ;
she belonged to the class of women who
hardly give a cry though you break their
hearts; but in this moment for the first time
she felt as if the toils were closing round
her.

There was an uneasy silence in the room

for a little while, and then Mrs. Godwin put
her hand on her daughter's shoulder.

My darling, are you angry with me ?"
she said, timidly.

Angry  with you V Sydney sadly answered.
She looked up after a moment and
shook her head. " Oh, no  it is not that ;
but,  if you had known  I wonder if you
would still have done it? Mother'' she
said, all at once, hurriedly, " you kept this
from me, and  I  kept something from you
too  but I must tell it to you now. He
asked me to marry him."

"What Mr. Loudoun, Sydney''

Yes  he asked me one day when we
were at the Hall."

'' And  you refused him ?"

'eyes."

Oh, my dear ! were you obliged to do
that?"

'why, do you think I cared for him ?"

and the girls eyes flashed with sudden light.
Surely you know I never did. I was
terribly sorry  I was Utterly sorry that he
spoke to me. I told you nothing because I
could not bear to think of it."

Oh, Sydney, if only you could have
liked him ! I thought you did  I don't
mean in that way  but, liking him so much
as a friend, was it out of the question altogether
?"

"Don't speak of it, mother."

"My dear, if I could see you his wife 
his willing wife, I mean  I should want nothing
better in the world for you. I would
rather have you married to him than to
anybody else I ever knew. I never said
a word about it, but do you think it has not
been in my mind a thousand times ? Dear,
forgive me  I aee I am only vexing you 
but oh, Sydney," imploringly, " is there no
chance still?"

* How can you ask me ? Mother," cried
the girl, hurriedly, " between you, you will
make me hate him."

Oh, my dear, no ! you could not do
that."

'then you will make me hate myself. I
daresay it is myself that I ought to hate,"
the poor thing said, bitterly enough, " for I
could make you all happy if I liked, you see,
and I will not do it. That is what he told
me  that is how he tried to bribe me. He
told me that if I would marry him he would
take care of you two."

He is generous enough to want to do
that (God bless him !) even without your
marrying him, Sydney."

Yes,  but then he would have done it
openly. That was the temptation he held
out to me  and I resisted it. Mother, am
I wicked because I resisted it ? I think jo\i
would give your life for me, and I  though

it was for your sake  I refused to sell myself."


*' Oh, my darling, do not put it in that
way ! Do not use such words. If you felt
so about marrying him you could not do it ;
there is no more to be said."

'' I did feel so."

Then do not let us speak of it any more
It would have been a happy thing for us
all if you could have done it  but never
reproach yourself about it  never be vexed
about it for our sakes, dear."

*you are very good to me, mother."
Then after a little silence  'but about the
future? Mamma," in an agitated tone,
*you must not let us live on him."

There was a pause, but no answer.

"Do you not understand ?"

Yes, I understand," in a very troubled
tone. "But, Sydney, what can I do? If
I do not take this money we cannot stay

here, and where else could we go ? Above
all, how could we move your father anywhere
in the winter?"

How much has he given you ?"

*** How much, in all, my dear?" hesitating.

' You may tell me that, if you can ; but
I did not mean that. How much has he
put into the bank for you ? That is what I
meant."

' A hundred pounds. And oh, Sydney,"
imploringly, *' we have hardly anything else.
What can T do but take it ?"

'ewe must take it, you mean, or starve.
Yes, I understand."

But when the poor thing had made this
answer she burst into tears.

In all her life Sydney had never yet been
so humbled. To be driven to eat bread
that was paid for by a lover whom she had
rejected,  could a girl's pride be stabbed
more cruelly than by such a punishment?

She had never before felt so utterly wretched
and helpless.

My dear, if it can be any comfort to
you, remember that you are not obliged to
take anything from him," poor Mrs, Godwin
ventured to say, after a little while.
You have your legacy, and your salary
from Madame von Erlach ; that would be
enough for you to live upon, if you were
alone. Look at it in that way, my darling.
It is not you that he is helping ; it is only
your father and me."

The poor woman's heart was aching for
her daughter; she went on her knees beside
her, and kissed her, and held her
hands. But the iron had entered Sydney's
soul, and she could not be comforted. She
hardly spoke again.

We must bear it now  till the winter is
gone," she only said once.

' And after that ?" Mrs. Godwin thought,

to herself, but she did not dare to put her
thought into words.

She felt in her patient tenderness as if
she had struck a cruel blow at the creature
whom she loved best in the world, and she
hung over her with a yearning, unreasoning
remorse.

Oh, my dear, if I could bear all trouble
for you ! Oh, forgive me if I have done
what is wrong !" she began to sob.

Sydney put her arms about her when she
said that, and kissed her, and tried to comfort
her. The girl roused herself from her
own distress to speak kind words to her.

** How can you speak of me forgiving you
when you are the best amongst us,  when
you do everything for us all?" she said.

She put her cheek to her mother's, and
sat leaning her face against hers, but about
Mr, Loudoun she did not speak another
word.

They spoke of Mr. Loudoun after this
night, indeed, very seldom in any way.
Mrs. Godwin was afraid to speak of him,
and Sydney was too shy and proud and
resentful to do it. A man who loves a
woman does not improve his position with
her by putting her under a forced obligation
to him, and Sydney liked Mr. Loudoun
not the better but the less during these
weeks while she fretted under the sense of
all that he had made them owe him. They
were living upon the money that he provided.
That was the cruel fact that there
was no forgetting, and that stung her like a
perpetual stab. What could she do to help
them to escape from him ? Week after
week she asked herself this question with
an eagerness that grew always more feverish
and intense ; bat she asked it in vain.

Very sadly for the girl did the winter
pass away. She was full of thoughts of

VOL. II. G

which she never spoke, of yearning regrets,
of fears that she often had not courage to
face, of perplexities that bewildered her.
Her mother was almost wholly engrossed in
attendance on her husband, who was becoming
daily more and more incapable of
either thought or action ; all care for the
future, and all fear of it, seemed left to
Sydney, and every week that passed only
made her feel more clearly and keenly that
she was helpless. In vain she tried to find
more pupils ; the quiet little hamlet had
none to give her, and, even if one or two
others could have been found, what would
the securing of them have been but a slight
alleviation of her anxiety ? For, work as
she might, Sydney knew that she could not
earn the money that would be needed to
support them all ; the utmost force of will
cannot compass an impossibility.

Her mother used to have letters from Mr.

Loudoun, and Sydney's heart would beat
with a strange mixture of emotions when
they came ; she was always eager to see
them, but yet she would not ask to see
them. Generally, when she had read them
through, Mrs. Godwin would hand them to
her, but once or twice she did not hand
them to her, and, on these occasions, the
poor girl became tortured with cruel fears
and suspicions that she could not dismiss.
She never, after that first night when they
had talked together, returned with her
mother to the subject of their diminishing
finances, but in secret, as far as was in her
power, she kept account of every franc that
they laid out, and the cost of each week's
board, and knew, as well as Mrs. Godwin
did, the rate at which their little store of
money was diminishing. They were living
already upon the money which Mr. Lou-down
had provided for them,  she bitterly

c2

knew that; but even this sum, she calculated,
would only support them for a few
months  perhaps till June, she thought.
And then ? Day and night poor Sydney
faced this question, and only knew that it
beat and baffled her.

Except for this ceaseless anxiety that
pursued her, the winter passed quietly and
uneventfully away, and at last the spring
came, and the snow melted from the lower
hills, and gradually gave way to such a
wealth and crowd of "joyful flowers" as
Sydney had never seen before in all her life.
She was so young and full of strength and
energy that, in spite of all that she had to
weigh her down, she could not but sometimes
for an hour throw off her anxiety,
and feel a sense of gladness thrill her in
the sights that met her eyes. She had all a
girl's passionate longing after happiness,  alla
human being's natural delight in beauty.

*' Oh, to be as one used to be, just for
one dam" she often thought, with such a
wild yearning for the things that she had
left behind her  for her old home, and her
old heart.

She generally gave her pupils their
lessons in the afternoon, and often when
work was over, as the days lengthened, she
would yield to Lotte's and Marguerite's
entreaties that she would go with them and
gather wild flowers on the hills. They
were a pair of good, affectionate, not unintelligent
girls, and Sydney did not find
these rambles with them wearisome ; she
liked their companionship better sometimes
than her own sad thoughts, and she cared
for their simple regard even when it showed
itself in inconvenient ways, as it sometimes
did, for Lotte and Marguerite were stalwart
maidens, by no means light of limb, and
their heavy arms, reposing lovingly in Sydney's,

not unfrequently, during these afternoon
walks, threatened to weigh her to the
ground.

During one certain sunny week in May,
Sydney had stayed after lessons on several
successive days to walk with the two girls, and
was again one afternoon preparing to accompany
them on their usual ramble, when,
just as lesson books were being put aside, a
little note was put into her hands from Mrs.
Godwin, asking her to come home straight
from her work.

' There is nothing wrong," she wrote,
*' only I should like you to come back as soon
as you are free ; so don't go with the girls today."


"Then we must give up our walk," Sydney
said.

She was a little puzzled, and read the
note over twice ; she was wondering what
could have made her mother send for her.

as Lotte and Marguerite were grumbling over
their disappointment. When she left them
she began to walk home faster than usual,
with an uneasy sense of fear,  a half vague
sense of expectation.

It was only half a mile of winding road,
and she had traversed about half of it,
when all at once she saw some one walking
towards her. He came into her sight suddenly,
at a place where the road turned
rather sharply round ; and in a few moments,
with a quick agitation of feeling that drove
every drop of blood from her face, she
perceived that the advancing figure was Mr.
Loudoun. She had no time to compose
herself before they met; for one moment,
when she first discovered that it was he, she
involuntarily stood still ; but in the next,
mechanically, knowing that there was nothing
else to do, she went forward again,
and, as she came to him, put out her hand.

It was a curious meeting on both sides,
for her face made no sign of recognition ;
she neither smiled nor spoke, and. he too,
apparently taken aback by her stony look,
only at first gave her a silent greeting. But
after two or three moments,

What makes you so white ? Are you
ill?" he abruptly said.

He was holding her hand as he spoke, but
she was angry that he should hold it, and
drew it hastily from him.

No, 1 am perfectly well," she replied.

And then, after one moment's hesitation,
she asked, '' When did you come ?"

Two or three hours ago," he answered.

*' And have you been with the others ?"

"Yes."

There was a little pause after this ; she
stood looking on the ground, and he looked
at her.

You don't seem much surprised to seeme,"

he said, abruptly, after another short
pause. (He might truthfully have added,
'' or very glad ;" but he did not.)

** Oh, yes, I suppose I was surprised," she
answered, rather vaguely ; " only I had a
note from mamma just now asking me to
come home," she added, " and I thought
by that that something must have happened."


And then she looked suddenly into his
face and, " Do you know if it was because
of your coming that she sent for me?" she
asked.

'* Yes, I believe it was. I told her I
wanted to see you. And I want you now
to take a walk with me : will you ?" he abruptly
inquired.

She would gladly have replied " No " to
this request, if she had had the courage todo
it, but she had not. She only said, after
a moment, hesitatingly,

*' I think perhaps we had better go back
to the house."

*but why?" he asked, instantly. " Are
you tired ?"

*' No  but  " and then she stopped.

Oh, you will come with me ? Surely
you think I must want to see you ? Come
away, Sydney," he said, suddenly and
cordially.

And then it seemed to her that it was
useless for her to attempt to make her
escape, and she turned round and went
with him.

He seemed to know the place very well,
for, without asking for any directions from
her, he led the way towards one of the
hill-roads.

As they walked along, he talked to
her about the beauty of the country ; he
told her about his journey, and the places
at which he had stopped. For a little while

they seemed like common acquaintances,
met after only a common parting.

If she had been asked beforehand, she
would unquestionably have said that, should
they be forced to meet again, it would be a
relief to her to talk to him only in this
manner ; but we often make blunders about
our wishes, and before a quarter of an hour
had passed she began to find that questions
were rising to lier lips that she wanted to
ask him,  that the sight of the familiar face
was beginning to move her irresistibly to
some feeling towards him of warmth and
kindness.

They stood still after a good while to look
across the lake, and then, half reluctantly
and hesitatingly, she began at last to put a
few of these questions to him.

Have you seen the new people yet who
have taken our house ? They are settled
there, are they not ?" she said.

"Ob, yes  they have been settled for the
last two months," he answered. " There is
a great tribe of them  half-a-dozen grownup
sons and daughters, and three or four
more in the nursery."

'sand have you been to call on them?"
she asked.

"Yes."

How does the house look ? Is it pretty
now ?"

Very pretty ; but they have altered the
rooms a good deal. They have turned the
study into a billiard-room, and the drawing-room
is all much brighter than it was in
your time. They have laid out the garden
differently, too. All the flower-beds to the
left of the dining-room are being swept
away, and they are making a tennis-court."

"Poor old place !" she said, softly.

I have only seen it once. You may suppose
that I don't care much to go to it. Old

Williams and his wife are still at the lodge ;
they have kept them there."

' I am glad of that. Are there any more
changes?" wistfully, after a minute. "Is
there anything altered, or anybody gone or
dead?"

"Nobody, I think, that you are interested
in."

And at your house, I suppose, everything
is the same?"

"Oh, yes."

It seems curious to see you here," rather
nervously, after another little silence. "We
go on in this strange, new life, and sometimes
I hardly know whether it is the old
one or this that is a dream. I have wanted
to see you sometimes  " and then she began
to hesitate.

'*I should not have thought that," he
struck in, rather grimly, " by the way in
which you met me just now."

She took no notice of his interruption,
but it had the effect of disconcerting her a
little, and making it rather harder for her
to resume her speech. Still, after a second
or two, she did resume it.

I meant that I have wanted to see sou,
because I know that something ought to
be said to you "

"Yes," he interposed again, this time
very coolly, "you are going to read me a
lecture ; I have come prepared for that.
Well, let us get a seat somewhere, for you
seem to me too tired to go on standing, and
then you shall scold me as much as you
like."

He struck off from the path, and, after
walking for a minute further, he made her sit
down upon the grass.

Do you come here sometimes ?" he asked
her, as he took his place at her side.
' Many a walk I have had about these hills.

I suppose you know each one of these white
peaks now ? Look at that little cloud coming
down over the Silberhorn."

When they had been seated for a few
moments, while she was thinking how to
address him, he said, abruptly,

*' Now I know what is in your mind
against me, so don't vex yourself with explaining
it. Assume, to begin with, that I
understand that you are angry, and ivliy you
are angry. But, Sydney, is it reasonable in
you to be so much hurt as your mother tells
me that you are, and as I see you are?
You do not want to owe anything to me.
Well  I can understand that, if you had your
choice, you would not owe me anything,
(you would throw your old friend off, I
know, if you could, without a thought) ; but
when, as it happens, you have not any
choice, would it not be wiser, would it not
be more generous, to try to bring yourself

to submit patiently to what you cannot'avoid
bearing, and to what I, on my part, cannot
avoid making you bear? Sydney, you are
not a foolish woman ; you ought not to
yield to blind impulse ; you ought to be
more just to me than I think you are."

' I am not unjust to you," she said. But
she spoke in a low and not a very steady
voice.

Are you not unjust when you allow
yourself to be so changed to me ?"

I am not changed "  rather hurriedly 
"because of what we are speaking about." 

I beg your pardon: I think you are mistaken.
You are changed,  in the first place,
because I love you, and in the second,
because I try to serve you."

Well, and if it is so,"  with a sudden
change of tactics, and all at once a flash of
fire in her eyes,  '' is it not natural ?"

*rit may be natural, but it is none the

more right for that. You have no business
to use your influence with your mother to
induce her to reject such help as I can give
Lier, merely because the thought of her taking
it gives your pride. a sting. What does
your pride signify ? Would you set it before
your father's comfort or your mother's
ease of mind ?"

And then she flushed up painfully, and
turned her head away, and made no answer
to him.

*' Sydney, do not think that I am hard to
you," he began again, after a little silence.
"You may surely believe how little I want
to give you any pain, but I am obliged to
speak plainly to you, because it is necessary
now that there should be no misconception
on your part about the course I mean to
take. If I distress you by making you feel
that you lie under an obligation to me, I
am very sorry ; but that is so purely iraag-

VOL. II. D

binary a trouble that I cannot let it influence
me. So long as things remain as they do
now, I shall be obliged to make you continue
to bear it ; I cannot do anything else, and I
have not? the remotest intention of trying todo
anything else."

And then, having made this declaration
with great coolness, Mr. Loudoun closed his
lips, and neither of them spoke again for
some time.

He had told her that she should read him
a lecture if she pleased, but he had given
her as yet very little opportunity for reading
him a lecture ; and 'perhaps his last
speech had made it pretty plain to her how
little anything she could say would be likely
to impress him or influence him. She
was sore at heart, but he had told her that
her trouble was imaginary ; she was already
in revolt at the thought of remaining indebted
to him, and yet he had told her that he

meant to increase her debt. What could
she say to him that would be worth the saying?


With a bitter feeling that she was helpless,
that she must submit to endure what at the
same time it almost seemed to her she
could not bear to endure, she sat still, looking
across the quiet lake to the far off
mountains, till lake and mountains both
grew dim.

He turned to her at last, and saw the tears
in her eyes, and then suddenly and earnestly
he began to speak to her in another
tone.

"Sydney, do not take it like this. I
can't bear to see you cry!" he exclaimed.
"I know it is all hard for you. I can put
myself in your place. If I have spoken
harshly, forgive me."

I ought to be grateful to you, I know,"
she said after a little while, in a low voice.

I have never expected you to be
grateful."

"But I think you have placed me m a
very cruel position."

'' If I have, that has not been my
fault."

'ISTo, perhaps not. I suppose not. But
what am I to do?" She turned round
slowly to him ; he was much older than she
was, and with an instinctive impulse she
suddenly appealed to him as she might have
done in former days. " It seems to me too
hard to bear. What can I do ?" she
said.

You cannot do anything, I am afraid,
except submit."

*' Submit," half aloud, " to let you support
me ?"

No, you are working for your own
support. I consider that you are independent."


"It is foolish to talk in that way. We
have nothing separate. What I have is
theirs. And then sou add all the rest."

"Well, put it out of your mind. What
does it signify ?"

I think I could have borne it," suddenly,
in a nervous voice, " if you had not spoken
to me  that night."

"Then I wish I had not spoken. But
you are unwise to let what I said then make
any difference. Can you not think of me
again as the friend I used to me ?"

I would try hard to do it, if only you
would let me believe  " And then she
hesitated.

''If I would let you believe what?"

"That you spoke that time rather out of
kindness for us,  rather because you thought
you might benefit us in that way, than 
from "

*' Than from love for you, you mean ?"

*' Yes. Did you?"

And then he made no answer for a few
moments. She looked at him when he
remained silent, with a dawning hope.

"Did you?" she repeated presently,,
faltering a little.

*'No."

"Ah, I wish you could answer differently
!"

I cannot answer differently. I loved
you then, and I love you still more dearly
now."

Oh, do not tell me that !"

*' You must bear to let me tell it to you.
You are wearing your life out here in
ceaseless anxiety, and I want to give you
peace and ease. Sydney, will you not retract
your former answer? will you not
come to me? You shall never repent of it
if you will. I will make you happier than
you are now."

She rose up suddenly, almost shaking with
agitation .

' Come away,  come home," she said,
hurriedly.

' Is this your only answer ?" he asked.

He had risen too, and as he stood before
her he forced her to look at him.

"I cannot give you any other," she said,
piteously. " I have tried  I have thought of
it all a hundred times. I would do what
you want if I could  oh ! do you think
that I would not, when it would help the
others so?  but I cannot!  it would be
worse that death to me !"

She turned away without waiting for him
to answer her, and went rapidly down the
hill in silence; but after a minute she
turned again and stood still, and, looking at
him wistfully,

*'I feel even to myself ungrateful; but
what can I do ?" she said. '' I feel, when I

think of belonging to you, as if it turned me
into stone. Oh, Mr. Loudoun, it would be
to your own loss if you married me ! I
should be like a dead woman coming into
your house."

I would take the risk of that," he answered,
without a moment's hesitation ; but
she only made a passionate movement, as if
in rejection of his reply, and went on.

He tried, after they had returned to the
road, to talk a little again about ordinary
things, but she was too unhappy almost to
attempt to answer him, and they walked on
presently nearly in silence till they came to
her own house. He said then,

I will not come in ; I want to walk onto
Thun. Tell your mother that I will
come and see her again tomorrow before I
start."

But does not mamma expect you back
now ?" she asked, hesitating.

It seemed strange to her to let him go so.
She looked wistfully and almost penitently
at him.

She won't expect me after she has seen
you' he merely answered.

And then he held her hand for a moment,
and parted from her almost without any
other word.

My dear, where is Mr. Loudoun ? You
surely have not let him go away !" her
mother was exclaiming to her the next
minute, in a tone of grieved reproach.

Sydney felt sick at heart as she went
alone up to her own room. Mrs. Godwin
had only spoken to her for a moment. She
had come to the door to meet her ; but it-was
one of her husband's bad days, and she
could not stay away from him.

He has been so restless and poorly all
day, and I did so hope that Mr. Loudoun
was coming back, for he has been asking

for him a dozen times. You should not
have let him go away, Sydney," she said.

She looked anxious and disappointed as she
turned from her, and the sight of her troubled
face smote Sydney like an added blow.

'' It would make her glad too," she said
to herself, sorrowfully.

And so you could not say ' Yes ' to
him ?  you could not really, Sydney ?" Mrs.
Godwin asked her, wistfully, when late in
the evenings her dav's work was done, and
she came to talk to her daughter in Sydney's
room. " He was so good to me ; he is so
good to us all. Oh ! ray darling, could you
not do what he wants?" she asked.

She sat holding the girl's hand in hers
and looking into her face.

"My dear," she said, timidly, after a little
while, "it is not love-marriages that are
always the happiest. If a woman can
esteem a man and trust him, if she can look

Tip to him as you can look up to Mr. Lou-down,
do you not think she may give herself
safely into his keeping ?"

' Without love for him ?" Sydney said, ina
low voice.

'' The love would come, Sydney."

Oh, mother, if that was sure, do you
think I would hesitate ?" the girl exclaimed,
passionately. " Make me sure that I should
get to love him, and I would become his
wife tomorrow if he wanted, and thank
God that I was able to pay him so. For
how else is he to be paid ?" she asked, bitterly.
" We owe him so much already,
and he means to make us owe him more ;
and how can it all be ever paid in any way
but this one ?"

But he does not talk of payment,
Sydney. Heaven knows he is generous
enough."

*' No  he does not talk of payment, but

how can we go on taking what he offers as
if we were ignorant that there was a
payment that he wanted ? If he had never
told me it might have been possible (though
hardly even then)  but now, how is it possible
at all''

And then the other made no answer, and
there was a long silence.

Mamma, did he  talk about me ?"
Sydney asked, reluctantly, after several
minutes had passed.

Mrs. Godwin woke up as if from a reverie,
and answered, with a sigh,

"Yes, dear."

How did he guess that you knew ? Did
you tell him ?"

"I did not tell him at first. I don't
know how it came out. He did not say
anything for a long time ; then I suppose
he saw  perhaps I said something  I don't
know how it was."

*' But he did speak at last ?"

Oh, ses ; when he once saw that I knew,
he was ready enough to speak. I wish you
had heard him, Sydney. Ob, ray dear, you
will never be loved better than he loves

you."

"I don't want his love !"  hurriedly.

No, so you say. So you think. But,
Sydney," with timid earnestness, " I cannot
understand it. He is a man that any woman
might care for."

"Yes, I suppose so. I know it is my
fault."

*rit is nobody's fault. We are not
talking of faults, dear. If you feel as you
do, you cannot help it. Only  are you
quite sure that you feel so ? Girls make
such strange mistakes, Sydney,  and it is so
incomprehensible to me, when I know how
you used to like him."

"What has that to do with it, mother?

I liked him when I never knew he wanted
this. Now  when I do know it  how
can I feel to him as I used to feel? It
seems to me that I must either like him
more or less."

*' And so sou like him less ? Oh, my dear,
if you had tried you might have made it
turn the other way  I think you might !"

'And then I should have made you
happy, you mean ? God forgive me, mother,
if you are right. But it is too late now."

"Not if you will try, Sydney."

'' I have tried. You do not know,  Oh,
mother," beseechingly  ' hush !"

What does he want to do ?" she said
again, abruptly, breaking the silence almost
harshly after another minute had passed.
"Tell me all he said. We have hardly
anything left, I know. What did he say to
you?"

"My dear," uneasily, "you can guess
what he would say."

* Yes, but I want to hear it. I want to
know the worst we have to bear. He has
offered you more  money, has he ?"

eyes."

And you have taken it ?"

What else could I do ?"

He almost told me he had given it to
you. He told me that he had done it, and
that he meant to do it,  and he dared me
to interfere. And you see I cannot interfere
!" the poor girl said, bitterly.

*' Oh, Sydney, do not take that tone. If
you knew how tender he is to you  if you
knew how good he was to me to-day ! We
were sitting out in the verandah when he
came  your father and I,  and when I saw
him walking up the path it was just as if in a
moment the old life had come back again.

It all came over me so  the old days, and
all he had done for us, and what it would
be if you could care for him,  and I
couldn't bear it ;  and when I ran down the
steps to meet him, and he took me in his
arms and kissed me, I just broke down like
a child."

'* Poor mother !" Sydney said, softly,
thinking, as she spoke, of her own different
meeting with Mr. Loudoun.

And then he sat down with us ; and
oh, it seemed so home-like to have him
there ! He was so good to your father,
Sydney. You know what a trying day it
has been with papa," and the poor
little woman gave a patient sigh; 'but as
long as Mr. Loudoun talked to him, you
would have wondered to see how well he
was. He listened, and asked him questions,
and he took so much notice. Indeed,
that has been one of my troubles since,"

said Mrs. Godwin, reluctantly, with an uneasy
glance at Sydney. " He took too
much notice, for I didn't think he was listening
once, and I  I said something to Mr.
Loudoun  not about you, dear, but about 
other matters, you know, and  it has upset
him sadly. I never told him anything
before, you see, and his mind has been getting
so clouded, poor dear, I thought he
would never trouble himself about it; but
he began to suspect to-day that we have had
money from Mr. Loudoun, and he has been
fretting and worrying his poor head so
about it that, unless I can get Mr. Loudoun
to say something to soothe him again tomorrow,
I  I don't know how we are to goon
at all."

And the poor thing suddenly began to
sob, with her face on Sydney's shoulder.

What could the girl say ? She tried to
comfort her mother, but she could see no

VOL. II. E

way (except one) out of their trouble ; and
her few words soon ceased and then they
merely sat in silence, holding each other's
hands.

CHAPTER 11.

nne Y had no talk together the next 
ing, and nothing more was said about
Mr. Loudoun till Sydney, a little while
after breakfast, announced to her mother,
rather abruptly and nervously, that she
was going down to the Von Erlachs to see
whether the girls would like to have a
walk.

But, my dear," said Mrs. Godwin, on
this, " ought you to be out of the way ?  I
mean, won't it look odd and uncourteous
for you to go out when Mr. Loudoun said
he was coming back?"

E 2

He will understand why I have gone,"
she answered.

She did not look at her mother as she
spoke ; she was very quiet, yet her face was
flushed and troubled, and there was a wistful
expression in the elder woman's eyes.

But did he not ask to see you again,
Sydney?"

''No," she said.

"And you do not want to see him?  you
really do not ? Ah, well, then, my dear,"
and Mr. Godwin gave a weary sigh, " I
mean say nothing more ; you mist do as
you think best. I don't know what his
plans may be, " she went on, in rather
a weak, helpless way ; " I don't know
whether he means to stay here after today
or not."

Surely he will not stay ?" Sydney said,
quickly.

I don't know at all. Of course he

would have remained if  if things had gone
differently ; but I don't know now. Your
father will be sorry if he goes so soon."

"I hope papa won't really mind. Find
out about his movements ; and, mother,"
suddenly raising her eyes, with an imploring
look in them, "don't press him to stay."

"Very well, dear," resignedly, "I won't."

I must be let alone now. You must
leave me alone now for these next few
days. Whatever the end is to be "

The poor thing broke off suddenly with
her voice shaking. Mrs. Godwin would
have detained her, but she hastily put her
back, and went down the path to the gate.

'' What am I to do ? What am I to do ?"
she had begun to cry despairingly to herself.

It was an hour after this when Mr. Lou-down
came, arid he had made his visit and
bidden Mr. and Mrs. Godwin good-bye before
Sydney returned home.

"No. I hardly expected to see her
again ; as far as I can judge, it is useless at
present for me to see her," he said, frankly,
to-mrs. Godwin. *' I will come again  perhaps
I may even come back this summer  "

Oh, I am glad ! Do that if you can,"
she interrupted, warmly.

And then he laughed, and told her that
he did not think he should want an advocate
when he was gone. '' But in the meantime
it will all be hard enough for you," he
said.

He and Mrs. Godwin had only been able
to be alone for a few minutes during his call,
for Mr. Godwin had been too eager to see
him, and too suspicious about his transactions
with his wife, almost to let him leave his
side.

I don't know how matters are being
arranged, and Catherine won't tell me,"
he kept saying, querulously. 'she says we

have been getting money from you. Now,
I don't know why we are to take money
from you. I can't do it. 1 never did such
a thing in my life before from anybody.
She has always told me that living was very
cheap here, and I have believed her. I
have been so ill that I have had to trust
everything to her,  and she told me we had
enough for the present."

"Well, and so you have had,  very nearly.
What I have lent you has not been worth
mentioning," Mr. London insisted. '' Why
should you consider it of any consequence ?
It has merely been a loan  till better times.
Don't give another thought to it."

He argued the matter for a good while,
but he almost argued it in vain. " Well, it
must not happen again," Mr. Godwin merely
said at last, with a helpless effort at decision
almost too sad to laugh at. *' If it has been
done once, I suppose it can't be helped,

but we must manage differently for the

future. I am sure I don't spend anything

myself," he began to declare, plaintively, " I

never have a shilling in my pocket,  and we

had a good sum of money when we came

here. I never knew how much it was

exactly  or perhaps I have forgotten ; but

it was a good bit, Catherine said,  and if she

is saving that and borrowing from you, it is

not right in her,  it is not a thing I can

submit to. I shall have to look into matters

myself again if I can't trust her,  and  and

I'm not very fit for it," he ended, with a

helpless break all at once in the fractious

voice.

His wife and Mr. Loudoun both tried to
soothe him, but they could hardly do it.
They were sitting together on one of the
seats on the verandah, for they had gone
out of doors that they might be alone.
Through the open windows of the salon

there came the sound of many voices, for
the pension was getting filled again now with
its summer visitors ; a little knot of talkers
was in the room ; some one was at the piano
playing loudly.

And you have no sitting-room of your
own,  no place to go to except in amongst
these people ! This cannot go on," Mr.
Loudoun had exclaimed, warmly. But Mrs.
Godwin smiled at his vehemence.

Oh, it is not so hard as you think," the
patient little woman answered. " We are
out here a great deal, and, now that it is fine
weather again, we can sit upstairs in our own
bed-room ; we have got a comfortable room
with such a pretty window, and George does
not dislike it ; and, though the people here
are not all  quite ladies and gentlemen, you
can't think how kind most of them are. I
am sure I wonder at it. They are all so
good-natured and friendly. I don't believe

there is almost one who wouldn't do a kind
thing for us, if it was in their power. Oh,
no, we get on very well ; you must not be
troubled about us. It did seem hard at first
not to have a little more privacy,  but one
gets used to so many things, you know.
And, even if we found this worse to bear
than it is, we must not try to make any
change now," she added, hurriedly. ' We
can't add a farthing to our expenses. Now
that George has begun to get suspicious, you
know, it would not be possible."

She walked with him through the garden
to the gate when he went away.

*' It is a hard thing to me. to leave you
like this. I never felt more impotent to do
good," he exclaimed to her, before they
parted. But she would not let him say that.

'* How can you speak of being impotent
when without you we should scarcely have
bread to eat ?" she answered, almost sobbing.

I know you cannot do all you want, but
how many are there of us who can ? You
have done so much that without you I
should almost have broken my heart."

And then she could hardly speak again,
and she watched him, as he went along
the road till he was out of sight, with her
eyes filled with tears.

Sydney stayed all day at the Von Erlachs,
and did not come home till her afternoon's
work was done.

"Yes, he is gone," her mother told her
then. " He said he did not expect to see
you. I don't know how things are to goon,
Sydney. I suppose I have less pride
than I ought to have, for I can bear to take
help from him that the rest of you can't.
1 can take it, however hard it is, and only
love him the better for giving it,  though
what I am to do now, with both of you
against me, I cannot tell."

Yes, what was she to do ? What were
they all to do ? Did her mother think she
was not askini: herself that ? the drl cried
in her heart, as she silently turned away.
Oh, I am glad he is gone !" she said. It
seemed like a respite, at least. She sat
down at her window, and drew a long
breath of relief. "I may stop thinking fora
little while," she told herself.

She remained still and idle for a longtime.
There were some white sails on the
lake, and she sat watching them ; there
were some children playing in the road, and
chattering to one another with shrill voices, in
an almost unintelligible patois. She sat
looking at them mechanically, following
their movements with tired eyes and a tired
heart. " Shall we ever be happy again ?"
she was asking herself. "Shall we ever
escape from all this and forget it, and live a
different, natural life ?"

Sydney used to wonder, during this and
the following days, whether it was by accident
or intentionally that her mother would
not let Mr. Loudoun's name drop out of
their talk. She brought it in a hundred
times ; she was always repeating or dwelling
on something that he had done or said;
she fell to talking with Sydney about former
days till the girl could hardly bear it.

"How much you liked him then, ni'
dear !" she would say again and again.

Do you remember how he used to carry
you about when you were little, Sydney ?"
she asked one day. *' You used to ride
about the garden on his shoulders, you
know ; you were never happier than when
you had him for your playfellow. But it
seems such a strange long time ago, and
everything has grown so different now."

"Yes," answered Sydney, coldly.

*' At least, between you and him it is all

SO different. Only somehow, my dear, I
think that, where real liking has ever been,
the root of it cannot die. We don't forget
old friends really, I think. Things come
and separate us, perhaps, and make us cold
for a time,  but, Sydney, the old feeling
does not die for all that."

Do you think that is not a rule with many
exceptions, mother ?" Sydney asked, and
shook her head. "You preach what you
want to believe. Now to me it seems that
old regards may pass utterly away ; they
may wither, root and branch."

There was a bitter tone in her voice as
she said this ; but Sydney's bitterness was
always short-lived. She put her arm the
next moment caressingly about Mrs. Godwin's
neck, and 

Oh ! mother, I would have as much
faith as you have if I could," she said.

At times, during these days, they had no

small difficulty with Mr. Godwin. Generally
until now, he had only troubled himself
about small, unimportant things that his
wife had the power either of setting right
or of coaxing him to forget; but now he
was often so excited that she could not
quiet him. She thought that, after a little
while, he would cease to remember what he
had heard about Mr. Loudoun, but, instead
of doing that, he recurred to it constantly,
and wore her heart away with his reproaches
and complaints. She was bringing
disgrace upon him, he would tell her.
How was it, after all she had said, that they
wanted money? She had either deceived
him at the beginning, or she was deceiving
him now. He must take all these things
again into his own hands.

"Have you been going along with your
mother in this business too ?" he asked
Sydney once. " She has been begging money

from Mr. Loudoun. Do you know that ? 
begging behind my back. I won't take
money from Mr. Loudoun, or from anybody
! Sydney, can I trust you not to let
it be done again ? I'm a useless, broken-down
old man ; I haven't strength to fight
my own battles. But, Sydney, will you
take care of your poor old father ?  will
you save him from being humbled like
this ?"

He clung to her as he put his questions,
looking into her eyes and holding her
hands fast. With little more than an inarticulate
murmur of pity she put her face
to his.

*' I will do what I can  everything that
I can," she said, after a few moments, in a
low voice.

She had been kneeling at his side. Presently,
as she rose up, she leant her hand on
her mother's arm. The poor little woman

was standing sadly near, with her eyes wet
with uncomplaining tears. It was hard to
her to hear her husband accusing her to
their child, and asking Sydney to save him
from her, but the girl's look of strong, pitying
love did all at least that a look could to
heal the wound that his words had made.

My poor mother !" Sydney softly said,
in a broken, tender voice.

It was not the greatness of the sacrifice
which was asked from her that she shrank
from so much as she shrank from the sin.
She had begun by this time to think of her
marriage with Mr. Loudoun as a terrible
possibility,  but yet how could she marry
him, she was always miserably asking herself,
when she cared for somebody else
more than she cared for him, and when her
heart at this moment would leap up if she
heard the sound of another man's voice ?
How could she force herself to forget what

VOL. II. F

"vvould not be forgotten?  and, as long as
she remembered, how could she become
Mr. Loudoun's wife ?

*' I do not know what people do. I do
not know what they think it right to do,"
she told herself hopelessly and perplexedly
day after day. '* I used to be confident
about right and wrong once, but now I am
all bewildered. 1 would give up my own
happiness for them ; it is not either my happiness
or my life that I care for,  but, if I
do wrong that good may come of it, ivill the
good come ?"

There was a strained look coming on her
mother's face that it went to. the girl's heart
to see. As these dreary weeks passed, Mrs.
Godwin's old brave cheerfulness began at
last to forsake her. *' I don't know how it
is,  I suppose I am not very well," she said
to Sydney sometimes, ' but I get frightened
at things now that used not to frighten me."

She would often sit by her husband's side
for a long time, looking with hopeless sadness
at him. Sometimes Sydney almost
thought that, even in her manner to herself,
there was a shadow of change. She was
very tender to her, but she talked to her
less ; it was as if a touch of estrangement
had come between them,  almost as if her
mother looked upon her with a certain
reproach ; once or twice she spoke as if
Sydney's lot were not quite the same as
hers and her husband's,  as though they
two had but one interest, and Sydney's
interest were something a little apart. It
wounded the girl to the quick. " Do you
think that what you care for, I do not care
for too ?" she said to Mrs. Godwin once, with
her eyes full of passionate tears. ' Have
we ever done anything but suffer together,
and be glad together?"

*' No, my darling  oh no, oh no !" the

f2

poor soul hastily and remorsefully cried
when she asked this, and she put her arm
round Sydney's neck and began to sob and
to caress her. *' You have never been anything
but a dear, dear child. And forgive
me if I ever vex you, for I am sorely troubled,
Sydney,  and I am not as strong as I
was, and things have been hard these last
weeks "

"Yes, and I, who could help you, will
not do it, you think," Sydney interrupted,
in a low voice.

"My dearest, I do not say that. I don't
ask you to do anything : indeed  indeed I
don't."

"No, you don't ask me. I almost wish
you would," the girl answered, in a strange
voice. "You leave me alone instead, to all
my own pangs and doubts." And she turned
away, with the tears in her eyes, and yet
with almost a hard look in her face, for she

felt as if her mother was cruel to her, and
as if her case was being judged by one who
did not know the bitterness of it.

A letter had come from Mr. Loudoun a
week after his visit to . them, and a second
letter arrived after another month. He
was still in Switzerland : he wrote this
second letter from Sion, and spoke of remaining
there for a little time.

Sydney read it when it came without
any comment, and gave it back in silence
to her mother. But after a little while she
asked, in a low voice,

"Do you expect him to come here
again ?"

Her tone was very cold and expressionless
: she looked at her mother, as Mrs.
Godwin glanced up, with nothing in her
eyes that the elder woman could understand.


"He told me when he went away that

he might possibly come back, but that is all
I know ; he says nothing here, you see,"
Mrs. Godwin answered.

Sydney took up his letter a second time,
and deliberately unfolded it, and re-read
part of it ; then she closed her lips, and
asked no other questions.

During the next few days she sat a great
deal alone. She would go straight to her
room when she came back from her work,
after speaking only a few words to her
father and Mrs. Godwin.

"My dear, you are very tired, I am
afraid?" her mother said timidly to her
one afternoon, coming in and finding her
sitting quietly at her window doing nothing ;
but Sydney when she said this rose up at
once, and denied that she was tired almost
sharply.

'* Do you want me?" she asked. ''I can
do anything you wish."

"I should like you to come downstairs,
dear, if you would. Your father is in the
garden," Mrs. Godwin answered.

''Oh, then, I will come," Sydney said.

As they were going out of the room she
stopped her mother for a moment to arrange
a neck handkerchief that Mrs. Godwin was
wearing?. "It is so ill tied," she said. She
tied it again, and then looked in her mother's
face. '' You know you always want me to
set your things right for you. Mother, kiss
me," she said, with a sadden yearning
look.

Her lips gave a quiver as she bent forward,
but she would not let herself say anything
more. They went together into the garden,
holding one another's hands. In the hot
weather that had come now her father used
to sit a great deal out of doors, and in the
evenings Sydney often read to him.

*' I wish you wouldn't leave me," he said

querulously to his wife as she and Sydney
joined him. " Somebody came up to me just
now and spoke to me, and I don't know who
it was. I don't like this public kind of life.
I never have been able to understand why
you chose a place like this to come to.
When people are in my state of health, God
knows they need a little privacy."

You shall not stay here unless you like
it, dear," Sydney said, tenderly. She sat
down by his side and began to stroke his
hand. 'should you like to go back to
England, father ?" she asked, gravely, after a
little while.

But the question did not seem to touch
him : he only went on complaining, and
saying that it was so hard to be left alone ina
place where other people were always
going about  "and where I can't understand
what they say to me. That is enough

to make anybody nervous. I don't like it,"
lie said, reproachfully.

They soothed him after a little, and then
Sydney tried to make talk to amuse him.
She and her mother used often to exert
themselves to talk in his presence, knowing
that at least at times he listened to them,
though he rarely gave any sign of taking an
interest in what they said, She used to tell
him about all the little trifling events of her
daily life, about her teaching, and her walks
with Lotte and Marguerite, and even the
smallest thing that happened to her during
the hours she spent away from them. Of
late, since her heart had been growing so
heavy, it had been hard work to do this,
yet she had gone on doing it, sometimes
well, and sometimes only ill. To-night, with
something very gentle and tender in her
patience, she tried to talk for a long time.

But he was in one of the moods when
she could not rouse hit to take interest in
anything she did or said. Sometimes his
memory of the past seemed almost to fail
him ; at other times his mind would work
at a painful disinterring of former things ;
he could not remember how this or that had
happened he would tell them, and then, if
they could not help him to remember, he
would work himself into an excited and
confused state that it was sad to see.

"What became of Grierson ?" he suddenly
asked to-night, breaking into the midst of
something his wife was saying. *' Which of
you can tell me what became of him ?"

"Of Grierson, my dear? Who was he?"
Mrs. Godwin asked.

"Who was he? Why  he was"  and
then he began to look wonderingly in her
face  " he was  oh ! Loudoun knows all
about him."

eyes, George, but Mr. Loudoun is not
here."

Well, and where is he gone ? That's
what Tve often been thinking. Where is
he ? He came here one morning, full of all
sorts of fine professions, and then we have
never seen him any more. I think, such
good friends as we used to be, he might
have come back to ask after me again.
But he vas afraid we should be borrowing
some more of his money, I suppose "

Oh, dearest  hush !" Mrs. Godwin cried,
with her face on fire ; but he would not be
silenced.

Well, why should he not have come
back if he hadn't been afraid of that ?" he
went on, in an excited tone. " It did me
good to see him. And, whoever asked him
for his money, / never did, and I told him
it should never happen again ; you know
that. I humbled myself to him that he

might forgive it, and now, you see, he has
gone away ; he is like the rest of them, 
and here I sit  helpless."

Papa, do you want him to come back ?"
Sydney said, after a few moments, in a low
voice that was so strangely cold and quiet-that
all at once, she hardly knew wdiy, it
made her mother's heart turn sick.

''Do I want him back?" her father answered,
fretfully. " Of course I want him
back."

'then let me tell you something," the
girl said, still in the same strange, chilling
tone.

"Sydney !" Mrs. Godwin exclaimed, with
-a sort of low cry ; but her daughter only
looked at her for a moment, and then
gravely went on speaking.

Mr. Loudoun will come back if we send
for him," she said, " because  I never told
you before, but I want to tell you now 

he has asked me if I will marry him."

Mr. Godwin's blank, surprised eyes looked
wonderingly at Sydney for a moment or
two ; then, all of a sudden, a light came
into them,  the whole face broke into a
delighted but almost childish smile.

"Why, child, that will be a fine match
for you !" he exclaimed.

"Should you like me to say 'Yes' to
him?" the poor thing asked, with a great
pathos and wistfulness. ''I have not done
it yet, I am  I am not very fond of him,
papa ; but he says he would be good to you
if I married him. He would be your son
then, you know, and you would let him
take care of you, would you not ? If you
will say that you would, and if you will tell
me to marry him, I  will do it," she said.

(" Oh, my darling !" Mrs. Godwin murmured,
and instinctively wrung her hands.)

"Well  yes  yes, I should Hke you todo

it," Mr. Godwin exclaimed, with precipitate
eagerness. 'As for your mother and
me, that's not the question  "

Yes, but it is the question," Sydney interrupted,
quickly. "Dear father, try to
take in what I mean. I do not offer to
marry him because I love him, but because
we are all poor, and I do not know how
else we can pay him for all he has done and
is doing still for us,  for we are living upon
his money now at this moment, and we are
obliged to live on it, for we have none left
of our own."

*well, then, you must marry him, of
course,  it's clear you had better marry
him," Mr. Godwin answered, excitedly.

But, George, you are urging her to do
what she does not want to do," his wife
eagerly interposed, with her hand upon his
arm. "Oh! my dear, understand how it is

before you speak. She wants to do it for
our sakes."

*' Well, and suppose she does want to doit
for our sakes  what then ?" and Mr.
Godwin turned upon her angrily " It will
be for her advantage too  won't it?  as
well as ours. I don't see why you need
interfere. I'm sure I have been bothered
enough about that money of his  it has been
a pretty sharp thorn in my side,  but I
suppose a man may accept a few pounds
from his son-in-law. Perhaps not  " with a
sudden change of tone. "Perhaps I'm
wrong,  but that's how I feel."

"Yes, you might accept whatever he
offered you ; he would be your son ; we
would make the best terms with him
that we could," the poor girl said, speaking
madly in her anguish.

'' Oh, Sydney, hush !" her mother cried.

But she only looked up for a moment
with her sad, blank eyes.

You may put it differently, if you like ;
we need not use those words,  but what
do words matter ?" she said, bitterly. " I
shall not marry him for his own sake, but
for our gain,  so, mother, he shall give you
all you want  all that you need, I mean, 
and more comforts than you have here. He
will be willing to do it, for he is very
generous (you see, I can be quite just to
him) ; only remember, it must be all clearly
settled and understood. And so  " She
caught her breath suddenly, and her words
seemed to die away : but the pause was
only for a moment or two, and she took up
her unfinished sentence ai?ain almost immediately.
*' So, if you wish to do it,
mamma, you may write to him now," she
said.

She spoke the last words quite steadily and

gently, but as soon as they had passed her
lips she rose from her seat. Mrs. Godwin
was trying to say something; she had
clasped her hands about her daughter's
arm, but Sydney only looked at her for an
instant with a blank, pitiful face, and  ' I
said I would do it if he told me,  and you
see he tells me," she said. And then all
at once she gave way and broke into a
cry. " Oh, mother, let me go away !" she
sobbed.

They let her go, and she went back alone
into the house, for Mrs. Godwin had not
courage to follow her. Late in the evenings
she came and sat asrain with them for a
little while, but she said, quietly, '' Don't
let us talk any more to-night ; I would
rather read than talk." And she took up a
book and read to them. When the day
was ended, and she was in bed, Mrs. Godwin
came softly into her room, and kissed her,

VOL. II. G

but Sydney only turned her face for a
moment in the darkness. "We must not
talk to-night ; I am so tired," she said ; and
the poor little woman had to be content to
bid God bless her, and with an aching
heart to turn away.

The next morning after breakfast Sydney
said, in an abrupt but very quiet voice, 
*' Mamma, you had better write that letter
to-day."

Ob, my dear, do sou think so ? Would
it not be wiser to wait ?" Mrs. Godwin answered
falteringly and hurriedly ; but Sydney
shook her head, almost with an impatient
movement.

*' Write by to-day's post," she repeated.
** Send your letter away this afternoon
before I come home. Mother," she said,
suddenly, with something in her tone
almost like a cry, "the worst agony is

suspense. Let it all be done quickly

now."

So that day after dejeuner, when Sydney
had gone to her pupils, Mrs. Godwin gave
herself to the task that had been set her.
It was a curious letter to have to write, but,
after failing in several attempts, she ended
by making it only a note of a few lines'
length.

' I am going to do what I am afraid you
may think a very strange thing," was what
she wrote. ' I am going to ask if you
would care to come back and speak to Sydney
again. If you would, I think she would
give you a different answer from what she
did before, for we have all been very unhappy
since we saw you. I cannot explain
it here,  but I will tell you everything if
you come."

"That's a very odd thing about Sydney

G 2

and Loudoun," Mr. Godwin had been saying
again and again during the morning to his
wife. *' I don't clearly understand it. I
can't think why you never told me before.
You keep pleasant things from me, and
bother me with things I don't want to know.
Now, it was all made up, I suppose, the
other day when he was here ?"

*' Not made up, George ; it is not made up
yet," his wife tried in vain to explain.
'* Sydney refused him. That is why you
vere not told, dear."

But I ought to have been told. If I
had heard of such a thing as her refusing
him, I wouldn't have permitted it,"  and he
brought his hand down heavily on the arm
of his chair. '' It was madness ! Who does
she expect to marry if she refuses him?
She will never have such a chance again in
all the course of her life."

'well, George, I am sure I was sorry

enough, but don't vex yourself about it now.
Don't, dear. You see, it will end by being
as you wish. She is a dear child," said the
poor mother, with a break in her voice, '* a
dear, unselfish child". And then the tears
came, and the sight of them made her husband
angry.

'* When are you to hear from Loudoun ?"
he went on asking at intervals all day.
When Sydney came home, he began to
question her eagerly.

"I want you to stay here and tell me all
about it," he said to her, keeping hold of
her hand. "I can't get your mother to
tell me anything. She only confuses me;
but, Sydney, you will tell me distinctly how
it all was, won't you ? and why you didn't
get it settled when he was here the
other day."

It was a hard ordeal to the girl. Her
mother would have tried to save her from

it if she could ; but she sat down and forced
herself to answer her father's questions.

'* There is so little to tell you, papa," she
said. "I did not care for him enough ta
marry him when he asked me, and so I said
'No' to him; but now, because you wish
it, and because mamma wishes it, I am going
to say ' Yes.' That will please you, will it
not?" she said, suddenly and yearningly.
'' I want you to tell me again that it will."

*' Why, of course it will. Please me 1
How could it do anything but please me ?"
he answered, impatiently. " It seems to me
such a strange thing for you to hesitate
about,  and a selfish thing, too, Sydney.
Your mother says you are not selfish, but I
don't know. I call it something very like
selfishness when you could have done this,
and set our minds at ease God knows how
long ago "

*' My darling, don't mind what he says,,

don't, Sydney,  lie can't help it' the poor
mother whispered, imploringly; but Sydney
had flushed red, and presently grew very
white again. She thought probably that it
was hard. She had come home, with
a weary, childlike longing to be comforted,
and then reproaches were given her instead
of gratitude or soothing. '' He can't help it
dear,  but oh, Sydney, your mother understands
!" the poor little woman murmured,
with a passionate thrill in her voice.

All that evening Sydney seemed very
calm and quiet.

"Did you write your letter?" she forced
herself to ask her mother once ; but when
Mrs. Godwin, after saying *eyes," would
have added something more, she would not
let her. "Perhaps this may be our last day
together," she said, abruptly. " Let us talk
about something else  about anything rather
than  what is coming."

Next day she went again as usual to her
work.

It does me good," she told her mother.
She went away from them at her customary
hour of one o'clock. When she came back
at live, there was some one sitting at her
father's side who rose and came to meet
her, greeting her, as the blood sprang allover
her face, with a very quiet greeting.
He merely spoke two or three words to
her, and she said nothing in reply ; she only
gave her hand to him, and then, after a
moment, passed on and went into the
house. Perhaps she had not expected him
so quickly, or her courage broke down at
the sight of him.

I will come presently, mamma ; I will
come when I ca?2," she said, with a piteous
look in her eyes, when Mrs. Godwin, after
a little while, ventured to go in search of
her ; and, after an hour had passed, she did

return. Bat, tliougli she joined the others
in the garden, she sat amongst them almost
in silence.

They dined in the long salle a manger at
seven o'clock, and then, when they rose
from table, Mr. Loudoun at last went to
Sydney's side.

'' Will you put on your bonnet and come
out with me for a little while ?" he asked
her.

''If you wish it," she answered, in rather
a shaken voice.

And then she went to her room and
dressed, and silently joined him again. He
was waiting for her at the foot of the staircase.


'' What a terribly public place this is !"
he said. '' I want you to come where we
can be alone for at any rate a few minutes."

'' There is a pathway up here that is very
quiet," she replied,  " and there is a seat

that you will see presently. I am very
tired. Will you let me sit down ?"

He took no notice of the strange way in
which she put her question, but walked
beside her till they reached the bench she
spoke of. As they took their seats here the
lake was at their feet, and the great panorama
of white mountains faced them.

"I have come back, Sydney, because you
have let me come," he said to her, abruptly,
after they had been silent for a few moments,
" but I know that you have only
sent for me because you have felt yourself
driven to do so. You are not doing it
willingly, but because you believe yourself
forced. Is not that true ?"

Yes," she replied, in a low voice.

You think yourself obliged to marry
me for your father's and mother's sake ?"

Yes," she replied again.

Well, then, tell me what I am to do.

You are in no way bound to me yet ; you
are as free still as you have ever been. All
the assistance that your father and mother
need I am contented to give them, without
any return, as long as they both live."

*' You are very generous," she said
quickly. " But they will not take it," she
added, after a moment.

Could they in no way be induced to
take it?"

She shook her head.

You would have to persuade my father
and me too," she said. " We could not
bear it."

"Then even you see nothing for it but
to become my wife ? Is that what you
mean ?"

She made no answer for a few moments ;
she was trying to speak and could not. At
the end of that time, almost below her
breath.

No, I see nothing else," she said.

He did not speak at once. Presently, ina
voice of strong emotion,

"Has it come to this indeed, Sidney?
Must I take you," he said,  " ray poor unwilling
love ?"

*'I have sent for you," she answered,
faintly.

She was trembling all over. She turned
to him timidly, and looked at him with a
look that made his heart ache.

You said  before  that you would
marry me though I did not love you. I do
not love you. Will you remember afterwards
that I told you that ?" .

** Yes. I will remember it," he said.

He took her hand after a moment, and
gravely kissed it.

*4f I live, Sydney," he said, ''I will
make you happier than you are now."

* You may well do that, for I am very

miserable' she answered, in a broken
voice. " Even / can think it will be better
to be your wife than to suffer as I have
done of late. And you are very good, I
think," she added, with sudden pathos. " I
think perhaps you will be patient with, me, 
and not expect  what I cannot give."

"I lull be patient  so help me God !" he
said.

He took her hand again, and clasped it
almost convulsively, and she let him hold it
for a moment or two, but after those few
moments she drew it away.

* I don't know how you would wish it all
to be," she said, quietly, after another silence,.
*but you had better arrange it with mamma.
I shall be ready to agree to whatever you
both like. You see, I want at least to give
you no more trouble than I need. You
shall not find that I will thwart or vex
you.

"That was never your way," he answered,

quickly.

*' And you will spare me  will you not ? 
as much as you can," she said, timidly, after a
moment. " I know it will be dreary for
you  it must be dreary, but  I cannot help
that."

*' I will not ask much from you," he said,
quietly.

'' Then  that is all, I think ;  and may
we come home again now?" she asked
with a wistful entreaty in her voice, though
she faltered a little before she rose.

"If you wish it," he answered. "You
see, I am silent, Sydney," he said next
moment. " If T ever tell you what is in my
heart for you to-night, it will be a long time
after this."

"Yes, I understand. You are very
good," she said, with a painful flush. " And
I am grateful," she added, softly.

And then they went back to the house
almost without speaking again. She cared
so little for him that she never thought
what self-control it needed on his part to
walk in that calm way beside her. It was
easy to her to keep silence ; she forgot to
put herself in his place. She was only, as
she had told him, in a cold way, grateful to
him for sparing her.

' Mamma, it is settled now,  and I am
glad it is over. Oh, I am so glad it is
over !" she said to Mrs. Godwin when,
after they had returned, her other followed
her up to her own room. With a sudden
passionate yearning she put her arms about
her neck, and clung to her for a moment ;
and then gradually her clasp became convulsive,
and the long tension gave way.

CHAPTER III.

A ND so you are going to marry this
 dear Monsieur Loudoun ! Ah, mademoiselle,
but this is charming !  but this is a
delight !" Madame von Erlach exclaimed in
an ecstacy, when the news was told to her.
' And he is rich  is he not?  he is noble ? 
and he loves you very much ? . Ah, he is the
fairy prince you have been waiting for ! 
he is that fairy prince I have so often told
you of. Did I not say he would come and
carry you away ?"

She was almost beside herself with
pleasure ; and Lotte and Marguerite too sat

Staring out of their round blue eyes, and
grinning from ear to ear.

It was not Sydney who had told Madame
von Erlach of her engagement. Mr.
Loudoun had himself done that. He had
come to see her, and had frankly called on
her for her congratulations.

*' Monsieur, from the first did I not guess
how it was ?" she declared to him, with a
beaming face. "The first day I ever saw
her, I said to myself, ' Why is it Monsieur
Loudoun does not marry her ?' She was so
sweet  she was so charming, and, monsieur,.
she blushed when she spoke of you. I said
to myself, *This dear mademoiselle and
Monsieur Loudoun, who is so good, they
love one another, and I shall some day see
them happy."

He laughed at her perhaps rather apocryphal
recollections, but he looked very happy
as he sat and let her talk to him. She had

VOL. II. H

been kind to Sydney, and he was in the
state of mind to feel warmly to anyone who
had shown herself a friend to the woman
he loved.

'she came to-day, and she said not a
word, " Madame von Erlach exclaimed,
presently. " To-morrow how I shall scold
her for that! She is so shy and proud,  is it
not so? Your English girls are very shy and
proud, monsieur, yet I love them. I love this
sweet Mademoiselle Sydney. What is therein
her that so attracts ? I look at her, and
I look, and I tell myself she is charming.
There are other women who are more
lively, there are others who are more
amusing,  but this one, she makes one's
heart grow warm."

Mr. Loudoun had proposed that Sydney
should give up her teaching after their
engagement, but she shrank from his suggestion,

and appealed earnestly to her
mother against it.

It does me good  it gives me something
definite to do. Do not leave me
with all my own time on my hands," she
entreated; and then neither Mr. Loudoun
nor Mrs. Godwin said anything more, and
she continued to go to Madame von Erlach's
during the short remainder of the time that
they stayed in Untermdorf.

During this time, which lasted for a few
weeks, she remained, with little variation,
very quiet and passive. She and Mr.
Loudoun were not much together. He did
not stay at the pension (for which she was
grateful to him), but walked out every day
from the hotel in which he had taken up his
quarters at Thun. At first it was proposed
that their marriage should take place in
Switzerland, but after a little while this
intention was given up.

h2

*' I think we had better all travel to
England together," Mr. Loudoun said.
*' Neither Sydney nor I would like to leave
you here. I would, at any rate, advise
your returning to England, whatever you
decide to do after that."

There had been some talk already amongst
them as to where their final home was to
be, but the matter had not yet got settled.
Sydney, in her heart, was eager to
have them in her own house, but neither
Mr. Loudoun nor her mother agreed with
her as to the desirability of such a plan
being tried.

'your father would never bear it, my
dear," Mrs. Godwin said, *' and it would
neither be a wise arrangement nor a natural
one. Of course it would be very different
if we were strangers in the place ; then our
being with you might be thought of, but
not as the case stands, Sydney. It would

be too hard for your poor father  along
as he continues to remember anything."

It might be hard just at first, but would
]ie not get used to it in a little while, do
you think?" Sydney asked, yearningly.
'mother, think what it would be to me to
have you with me 1"

And she urged the matter for a little
while, but in the end she yielded. In fact,
there was no choice for her but to yield.

'M think your mother is quite right, Sydney,"
Mr. Loudoun said to her. ' In time,
perhaps, they may come either to live with
us or to live near us, but it would not bean
experiment that it would be wise to try
now. For your sake I wish it had been
possible ; for, my poor child, you will not
love me the better, I know, that I am
obliged to part you from them."

Perhaps she resented it a little that he
did not at least wge the trial of what she

had so much at heart, but she was very self-controlled,
and she said nothing, though the
prospect of her separation from her mother
was so bitter to her that, even to Mrs. Godwin
herself, she could scarcely speak of it. " He
might have made it less hard to me," she
only thought to herself

After a little while their plans arranged
themselves, and it got decided that they
should all, as Mr. Loudoun proposed, return
to England together, and that, for a time
at least, Mr. and Mrs. Godwin should establish
themselves at Dover.

It is better that we should be married
at Dover than in Loudoun". Mr. Loudoun
said, " and it is in every way a convenient
place. I can run up and down easily ; Sydney
will be glad of a few last quiet weeks
with you, and after her marriage she will
feel the parting less if she can think that
you are still within fifty miles of her. I don't

think, for my own part, that you can do
better than make up your minds to stay
there for the next few months."

And so finally it was settled ; and then
there was little left to do except to take
their leave of Untermdorf.

But over this leave-taking they lingered
for a little while. They had lived in the
quaint Swiss village by this time for more
than a year, and, though the year had been
a sad enough one to Sydney, the loveliness
of the place, and of all that fair country, had
made her heart cling to it. Perhaps, too,
she was eager to lengthen out the last days
of her liberty.

It is all so beautiful ; need we go away
quite yet ?" she said one day, pleadingly, to
Mr. Loudoun. *' I feel as if presently I
should long with a desperate longing to see

these white peaks again. Some day "

she said, and then she stopped.

*some day," he answered, taking her
sentence up at once, *' I hope I shall bring
you back to see more of them than you
have seen yet. I might show you something
more even now, if we were like other
happier lovers ; but you would not care to
go anywhere with me, would you?  you
would not let me take you even a two or
three hours' journey ?"

I would rather stay here' she answered,
evasively. But the next moment she
looked up at him very gently, and, " Forgive
me. I do not want to hurt you," she
said in a low voice.

'the future will have to make up for
this," he only said, and then she made no
answer. He might look forward to a happy
future,  but she was facing what was before
her without hope, simply with a feeling of
passive endurance, and with moments of
suffering now and then that were not passive.

Yet she allowed to herself that he was
very good ; he exacted almost nothing from
her ; by a hundred little signs she knew
that she was always in his thoughts, but yet
he hardly interfered with her liberty or
almost left her less her own mistress than
she had been before she had promised to
marry him. Sometimes they used to be
alone together ; he would not unfrequently,
though by no means every day, meet her
as she came from Madame von Erlach's, and
perhaps induce her to stay with him for an
hour, and though, on the first occasion when
he did this, she only remained with him
with visible reluctance, yet after that first
time she became less afraid of suffering herself
to be alone with him, for he took no
advantage of his position, but treated her
almost as he might have done in the old
days when they had been professedly nothing
to one another but friends. And

naturally this made her grateful to him ; it
even made her at moments almost at home
with him. So long as they only talked of
common things, or of old times before he
was her lover, she did not shrink from him ;
something even bearing a resemblance to
her former regard for him would at moments
seem to come back ; she would speak to him
with her old friendly tone, and respond to
what he said with natural interest or natural
cheerfulness.

But these hours when she turned to him
were only hours in which she forced herself
to forget the future. The days that were
passing over her head now were days of
comparative ease and peace, standing as
they did between the suffering of the
months that were past and the gloom of
the unknown life that was to follow them.
She thought often afterwards that, while
they lasted, she never realized what lay

before her ; she was too weary to do it ;
rather indeed what she tried to do was to
forget it,  to think of her marriage as of
some dream that would never be realized.

"I think I am always afraid of new
things," she said one evening to Mr. Lou-down,
'* and what is old gets dearer as I
come near the end of it. We have not
been  very happy here, yet now I feel as if
I could be satisfied to stay here if I might."

And, if you did, what should my course
be?" he asked her, after a moment, when
she had said that.

But on this she coloured, and had no answer
ready ; in truth, when she almost persuaded
herself that she wished to stay here,
she assigned no place in her scheme of life
to Mr. Loudoun. He had his own place, 
to which naturally, perhaps she argued, he
would return.

I don't know. I suppose my plan, like

many another, would not be practicable in
the working," she only answered, after a
little pause, and with a half-heard sigh.

It was for Sydney's sake that Mr. Lou-down
refrained from urging their departure.
To himself, perhaps, the delay was rather
inconvenient, but he submitted to it till his
own arrangements would not admit of his
remaining longer. He was naturally anxious
to be at home again that he might
make preparations for his marriage. These
days, that seemed like days of respite to
Sydney, to him probably bore no such
character ; her coldness could not have been
easy to him to bear ; the slight intercourse,
while they lasted, that he had with her,
could scarcely have satisfied him. Though
lie knew that she did not love him, it could
hardly be but that he should long for the
time to come when he should have her to
himself, and should possess the power to do

more than was possible to him now to win
her. He was a tolerably patient man, but
perhaps, before he brought them to an end,
these weeks had begun to try his patience.

One day at last he told Mrs. Godwin that
he must be in London in a week.

"I have a letter," he said, *that will
oblige me to start by Tuesday at the latest.
Can you be ready by that time? Sydney
will be sorry to come away, I know,  but,
you see, I have waited to please her longer
than I ever meant to do."

I know you have, " Mrs. Godwin answered
: and then she promised that they
would be ready by the time he wished, and
even Sydney, though she looked wistfully
at her mother when the arrangement was
told to her, made no opposition to it.

Yes, of course we must go. T know
there is no reason for our staying," she said,
gently.

She had almost no one to say good-bye
to, except the Von Erlachs and their companions
at the pension. Amongst these
there was one  a vouno; invalid  whom
Sydney had been kind to. She was not
more than Sydney's own age, but she had
ah-lady been married and was a widow.
Her name was Mrs. Harford. She had
coQie to the place with an elder unmarried
sister, who was strong, and who spent the
greater part of her time out of doors. Sydney
had at first taken pity on the solitude of
the poor young sufferer, and presently had
grown intimate enough with her to go sometimes
and sit with her in her room. She was
a very patient, gentle woman. She had told
Sydney her sad story very quietly.

I was married when I was nineteen,"
she said, *' and after six months my husband's
regiment was ordered to India, and he

would not let me go with him, because I
was delicate, and the doctor told him that if
I went I could not live. Frank was obliged
to go ; but he hoped to exchange soon into
another regiment, and we thought we should
only be separated for a year or so ; but almost
as soon as he landed he was attacked
with fever ; I had one letter from him, and
then the next mail brought me the news
that he was dead.  Yes, dear, it has killed
me, but I am very glad. How could I
want to live ? I have lived a whole year
alone already, and there is no one who
wants me, for my father and mother are
dead, and I am only a drag on Katie. I
pray God every day that the end may come
soon. I like to lie here and look at that
white line of mountains, and fancy that the
entrance to the other world may perhaps be
through a beautiful gate like that."

One day, when Sydney was in lier room
a little while before she went away, Mrs.
Harford suddenly looked at her, and,

May I say something to you that I have
been wanting to say for a long time?" she
asked. '' Dear Miss Godwin, you are going
to be married, and you ought to be very
happy, but I often think you do not look asa
happy woman should. Let me say this
one word to you : if you do not love Mr.
Loudoun, do not marry him. Do not let
him induce you to marry him. Anything
in the world is better than a marriage without
love."

She was holding Sydney's hand as she
spoke, and Sydney's face was to the light,
so that she could not hide it. A flush of
vexation and shame came over her ; after a
moment or two she said, almost coldly,

"You loved your husband, and so you
think that. But all women's lots are not

like yours. Women often have no choice :"
she paused a moment, and then added, gravely,
"and shave none."

Oh, my dear, do not say so !" the other
exclaimed, eagerly. " We shall never see
one another again, so I may speak this once.
As you do not know the joy of being married
to the man you love, so you do not
know the misery of marrying one you do
not care for."

Into  but I know other miseries," Sydney
answered. And then she was silent for a few
moments before she added, in a low voice,
'* I know what it is to lose what I love 
and to see those who are dear to me suffering
pain from which I can save them."

She had never said so much before to anyone;
but this woman was dying. Next moment
she began to tremble, and suddenly
took her hands away.

"Do not let us speak of this any more,"

VOL. ir. I

she said, hurriedly. " You have meant nothing
but kindness  and I shall not forget :
but you cannot help me, and I cannot help
myself."

*' But I can pray God to help you' Mrs.
Harford answered, earnestly.

And then Sydney went away with the
woman's words ringing sadly and warningly
in her ears. "I wonder if it would be better
for me to be Ivingj as near to death as she
is !" she thought to herself *' She would say
it was, I think. She would say it was better
to die than to live and do wrong. Is she
redit ?  or are the others right who let me
do this with my eyes open?  and I, who
consent to it with my eyes open too ?"

On the last day before they left Unterm-
dora she went to say good-bye to the Von
Erlachs. She had continued to the end to
give her lessons to the girls, but on this last
day she merely went to take her leave of

them, and they all sat together in the garden
looking on the lake, where Sydney had
so often walked beneath the trellised vines,
and talked about the time during which they
had known each other. Madame von Erlach
would have talked of the future too, as well
as of the past, but Sydney would not do
that.

1 hope I shall see you all again, sometime,"
she would merely say. " I daresay I
may be in Switzerland again  but 1 cannot
tell. Some day you must let Lotte and
Marguerite come and visit me in England."

I shall never forget you all," she told
them earnestly at the last. " I shall always
remember you and be grateful to you."

They had prepared their little parting
gifts for her. Madame von Erlach clasped
a pretty gold necklet round her throat : the
girls had worked sachets and slippers for
her.

i2

' Ah, they will miss you  these two poor
little ones. What will they do with themselves
?" the mother said, tenderly. "" Everyday
they will ask  ' Where is our dear
mademoiselle ?' You go, and leave aching
hearts behind you, my dear ; but you go to
be happy, I hope  you go to a charming
husband  to a beautiful house in your own
land."

They came with her across the court-yard
to the outer door, and kissed her, and parted
from her there  with effusion. Sydney's
own eyes were not dry. Often afterwards
she thought again of those last moments,
and once more saw the little group with
their kind faces, and heard again the soft
plash of the fountain close by, as she had
heard it that morning for the last time.

It was their final day, and that evening
they completed all their preparations for
departure. ' Shall I ever come back again ?'

Sydney bad been asking herself a hundred
times. She had learnt the little village by
heart : there was scarcely a cottage in it
with which she was not familiar  scarcely a
close-cropped, white-headed child whose
face she did not know : she had learnt every
aspect of the lake : she had watched a thousand
changes on the mountains : she knew
each winding walk about the lower hills.

'I have often thought I was unhappy
here  and yet, now, if I could I would live
this year again," she said to herself to-night.
Hers was a nature that clung to the present
and the past,  that always led her, if she
could, to hold fast to the things she knew. " I
think I am a coward in my heart," she said to
Mrs. Harford this evening. "No one knows
even my mother does not know  how I
shrink from things that are new and strange."

She had been sitting for a last half
hour by Mrs. Harford's side. A little while

before it got dark she stooped over her
sofa, and kissed her, and they bade one
another good-bye.

I know this is good-bye for ever," the
young widow said to her, with emotion. " I
wish I could have helped you  but you will
not let me."

It is not my fault. No one can help
me," Sydney answered, gravely ; and then
kissed her again and went away.

There is neither any more joy to come
for her, nor any more sorrow," the girl said
to herself, as she closed the door. It almost
seemed to her as if what she had left was
something that was dead already. With a
solemn feeling she thought of her own life
in contrast with this one that was ending.
How much shall I have known before I
come to lie as she is doing ?" she thought.
'how much shall I have enjoyed or

suffered ? What faces shall I have to look
at or to long for ?"

They started on their journey early in the
morning. "I don't know where we are
going; I don't know what all this is that
you have arranged," Mr. Godwin kept
saying fretfully during the last hour before
their departure. He had been already
told, of course, that they were about to
return to England, and had been ostensibly
consulted about the advisability of their
living there again ; but it was difficult for
his mind to take a real hold of any subject
now, and he was confused at the last, and
fall of reproaches and complaints. Mr.
Loudoun's presence when he joined them
gave him a little confidence, but yet the
journey was a sufficiently trying one to
make them all glad when on the fourth
day it ended, and they had their feet again
on British ground.

*'I don't understand all this  T don't
know where you are taking me to," Mr.
Godwin was still plaintively objecting, as
they stepped from the boat which landed
them at the door of their hotel; but Sydney
and her mother breathed with a new sense
of relief.

'ewe are home again in England, dear, 
and you are going to be quiet and comfortable
now," his wife told him, joyfully.
'' George, are you not glad to be home
again ? Listen to these children. Is it not
nice to hear their English tongues ?"

It had been Mr. Loudoun's plan to leave
them at the " Lord Warden " while he
went on to attend to his work in London,
but Sydney was disturbed at this proposed
arrangement.

*' We take what we must from you," she
said to him, 'but to live like this at your
cost is too much. Let us find lodgings.

Perhaps you will help us to look for them ?"
she asked, a little shyly. '' I think I should
be glad to have you with me."

He was happy to have her want him for
anything, and they set out after a little
while on their search, and found rooms that
they both liked, and in which a few hours
saw them established.

Their lodgings were near the sea, in a
little square, with a pleasant garden in front
of it.

Well, I think these are better rooms
than we had at Untermdorf," even Mr.
Godwin allowed when he was brought
to them. " I never thought much of
that other place ; the accommodation was
quite unlike anything I had ever been
accustomed to before,  but this seems tome
a very reasonable sort of house indeed,
and we have these rooms to ourselves,
haven't we, Sydney? I never want to live

again in the way we have been living of
late. I'm very ill, and I can't do it."

You never shall be asked to do it, dear
father," Sydney answered, tenderly. There
were moments when the girl was able to
thank God with all her heart that she had
given her promise to Mr. Loudoun. She
stood by her father's side now and stroked
his hair, and looked with almost contented
eyes into his face. '' Yes  your own
country suits you best, does it not ?" she
said to him. " You like our own country,
and our English ways. You shall never go
away again unless you wish it. Shall he,
mother ? We are all going to stays at home
now  and be content."

Mr. Loudoun had gone on to Loudoun ;
perhaps it was partly the feeling of relief
which his absence gave her that made
Sydney's spirits rise.

My dear, I think you are glad to be at

home too," Mrs. Godwin said, laughingly,,
to her.

They remained at Dover for a month
before Sydney was married. Mr. Loudoun
came down to them at intervals, but he was
a good deal occupied with business, both in
London and at his own house, so they saw
less of him than Sydney had expected they
would see,  and for this she was proportionately
grateful. She felt too, even during
his visits, that he was continuing to treat
her with a forbearance greater than she
could have demanded from him.

Some men, I should imagine, could not
act so," she often thought to herself,  'but
I suppose his is not an ardent nature. He
can be kind and loyal, but, thank God, he
seems able to be satisfied to let me take his
affection for me for granted. If he will but
be always like this, I think it will be possible
to bear  what is coming. I think L

almost might be  not quite unhappy if he
would be content to be merely kind to me,
and no more."

And when she was able to persuade herself
that he might perhaps continue to be
 merely kind " to her, her manner to her
lover would soften, and her heart would
lose something of its hopeless feeling. If
he would leave her at peace, she could at
least bear her lot, she thought, and feel
grateful to him for all he had given her.

They were to be married at the end of
September. The evening before the wedding
Mr. Loudoun came down and joined
them, but it was a bitter evening, and the
whole of that day had been a bitter day to
Sydney. Something had happened to her
early in the morning that had almost
broken her down. She was returning
home from some little piece of business
that she had been doing in the town when,

turning the corner of one of the streets that
led down to the sea, she came suddenly
face to face with Mr. Marmaduke. He had
been standing with his back to her at the
corner, speaking to some one to whom,
after a moment, he bade good-bye, and the
next second, turning sharply round, they
met face to face.

The young man flushed scarlet at the
sudden sight of her ; then, next instant,
with a look, whose meaning Sydney could
not misunderstand, and whose rapture made
her heart feel fit to break, he made two
eager steps to her and put out his hand.

"Why, where have you come from?
Oh, I am so happy to see you ! I think I
am the luckiest fellow on the face of the
earth !" he broke out, in the joyful voice
that she had thought she should never hear
again.

The blood had rushed violently to her

own face too for a moment, but it was
leaving it again now,  retreating as rapidly
as it had come, and leaving her cold and
faint*'

We are all here," she said. " We have
been staying in Dover for some weeks."

"Do you really mean that?" he exclaimed.
He seemed so happy that he
could hardly believe either his eyes or his
ears. " You must give me your address.
Were you going home now ? May I come
with you?"

"I was going home," she said, faintly,
but  " And then she stopped : the words
would not come.

I am afraid I have startled you," he
said, looking at her rather anxiously.
Won't you come and sit down ? Do come
to one of these seats, just for five minutes.
You don't look well."

*' Ob, 3'es, I am very well," she answered,
softly. *you did startle me for a moment,
but it  doesn't matter. I was only going to
say," she went on, not daring to look at hiu),
" I was only going to say that I am glad
to have seen you, but I think you had better
not come with me, for my father is not quite
himself now ; and I,"  her voice dropped
again for a moment, but after that moment
she forced herself to utter the remaining
words distinctly  " I am going to marry
Mr. Loudoun tomorrow."

'* Good God !" he cried, in such a tone
that it was like the cry of a man who had
been shot.

Then there was dead silence for a moment
or two : she had not looked at him ;
but after that pause she put out her hand.

*' It will be better for you not to come,"
she repeated, nervously. And then  '* Goodbye,"

she said, with a quiver in her voice.

Oh, Sydney, I have lost you !" he cried,
with a passionate cry.

She looked up at him then ; she was buta
woman, and she could not keep the tenderness
out of her eyes.

'' Yes, the old days are gone," she said,
half aloud. " / have known that for a longtime."


You are the only woman I have ever
loved," he said, in the same tone of anguish.
You thought perhaps that I gave you up
last year, but I never gave you up. I would
have waited half my life for you."

' You never told me that," she said,
sadly.

I had no right to tell you,  but did not
you understand it ? I had no power to do
anything "

"No, we have neither of us had any
power. / have had none," she said, in a

broken voice. " He came to us when we
were in Switzerland  and we are very poor,
and he has been good to us." She put out
her hand again. " Bid me good-bye," she
said.

But he would not do it. The happy
young face had grown haggard with its sudden
woe.

"Let me walk home with you," he entreated.
" I will never trouble yon after
this. I shall never probably see you again.
Let me come with you for this last time."

She did not assent to what he asked, but
she did not refuse it, and they walked on
together, amidst the careless passers-by, like
two people in a dream. The sun was shining
on land and sea ; there were bursts of
laughter in the air from the children playing
on the beach ; and these two walked on
with their young hearts bleeding. They
hardly spoke to one another. Once or twice

VOL. II. K

he said a few passionate words, but she
only entreated him to be silent. *' It would
have been better if we had not met," she
said once ; but her voice trembled when she
told him that.

*' Our house is down here ; you must go
now," she said at last, when they had reached
the corner of the square.

She was calmer than he was then. They
stood hand in hand for a few moments. She
raised her eyes to his face, and again said
Good-bye." But he on his side could not
speak his farewell. He only looked at her,
grasping her hand convulsively, and then
dropped it with a motion of despair, and,
with a quivers his lips, turned away.

It was hard for Sydney. She told no one
what had happened. She went home in
silence, and felt for a little while as if she
wished her heart would break. *' And by

this time tomorrow," she sat saying to herself,
" I shall be Mr. Loudoun's wife*"

She looked like a ghost, poor Mrs.
Godwin thought next morning, when she
walked by her side up the aisle of the little
dark church in which Mr. Loudoun was
waiting to receive them.

No quieter or graver party ever met upon
a wedding day. To the two women it all
seemed like a dream as they stood before
the altar, with the low murmur of hurriedly
read words falling on their ears. Sydney
only shivered when the ring was put upon
her finger. At the end, with a sudden
startled terror, she submitted to her
husband's passionate kiss. That almost
seemed to be the first thing that awoke
her  not to happiness, poor soul, but to a
pitiful shuddering and anguish. She shrank
back from him, and secretly clasped her

k2

mother's hand and clung to it, with a grasp
whose convulsive force the other hardly
knew how to bear.

When in a few minutes afterwards they
left the church the sharp spasm had passed
away; she turned to Mr. Loudoun very
gently when he said something to her at the
door. She was only to go back to the
house for an hour, and then they were to
start for London. She had expressed a
wish that they should go home at once
after their marriage. She had begun to
long for the sight once more of the old
familiar country ; the new life before her,
she had come to think, would perhaps be
easier to bear if she began to bear it from
the first in the place that had been home to
her for so many years.

So she left Dover when she had been Mr.
Loudoun's wife for little more than an hour

and before that September day had ended
she had entered the door of her new
home.

CHAPTER IV.

T F Sydney had flattered herself with any
-*- hope that her husband would leave her
much to her own company after he had
brought her under his roof, she was soon
disabused of that expectation. Mr. Loudoun
had shown himself a very exacting lover ;
in many ways after his marriage he continued
to show himself a very exacting husband ;
but Sydney speedily found that any hope
she might have formed of being allowed to
spend her days according to her own
pleasure, and in any large measure, or even,
as it presently seemed to her, in any
reasonable measure, to absent herself from

his society, were delusions of which she was
compelled soon to rid her mind.

Mr. Loudoun, it very quickly became
apparent, having married a wife, had no
intention of suffering himself to be debarred
from the pleasure of her company. He began
from the first, in the frankest way, to
show her that he took it for granted that
they were to spend their lives together. It
might be her scheme to pass her mornings
in one room while he passed his in another,
but he let her see that this scheme, if it washers,
was by no means his. The day after
their arrival at the Hall he asked her after
breakfast to go out with him, and she
assented readily enough, and they walked
together for an hour about the gardens ; but
when this had ended she was by no means
prepared for his next request,  that she
would come and sit with him in the
library.

"I was going to write to mamma," she
objected, hesitating a little.

** Well, and can you not do that beside
me ?" he answered. *' I have some letters
to write too."

And then she was not prepared with a
reason why she should not do it, and so
she went unwillingly and brought down her
desk, and stayed with him.

But she did not want to stay with him ;
she wanted to be alone ; and so she wrote
her letter quickly, and then, without saying
anything, went away. She felt as if she
were panting to be by herself; she hurriedly
put on her hat and went out of doors again,
not returning to the house till it was time
for lunch.

When at lunch she and her husband met
once more, he said to her,

Where have you been ? I was looking
for you."

'* Did you want me ?" she asked.

Well, I wanted to know where you
were. Why did you go away without
telling me ? There are a hundred things 1
want to show you. I am afraid you will
be too tired now to go out again ?"

Oh, no, I am not tired," she answered,
a little vexed; "I can do anything you
like. Only you must not mind me  I
would rather that you did not," she added,
quickly. *' I think  if you will let me say
it "  and then she began painfully to flush
"I think, if you could let it be so, it
would be so much the kindest to try to
forget that we were only married yesterday."


"What does that speech mean exactly?"
he asked her, with a laugh.

"It means," she said, rather coldly,
"that I should like you, as much as you

can, just to go on doing what you would if
I were not here."

"That is rather a curious request to
make," he answered.

I don't think it is curious  in the circumstances."


*' Do you imagine then that it is possible
for me to live now as if you were not with
me ? Do you suppose that your being
with me will not make my whole life different?"


"I think you exaggerate. I do not
think it need," she said, quickly.

*' You do not think it need ? Do you
conceive then that the effect produced upon
me by your being here is something that I
shall want to prevent, if it is possible?"

And when she hesitated on this, looking
half distressed, he went to her and put his
hand upon her shoulder, and,

Do you really think, Sydney, that

I am to ignore my happiness, or try to
believe it less than it is ?" he said. " When
you ask me to go on living as if you were
not here, you ask me for something that is
impossible. What have I striven to gain
you for, if my life after your coming is to
know no change ?"

1 did not mean to be unreasonable," she
answered, rather deprecatingly, after a few
moments' silence. " Of course I know you
care for me, and so I suppose you are
glad that I am here. I did not mean that
you were not to be glad; I only meant
that "

"That I was to keep the fact concealed?"
he interrupted, with a half laugh.

"I was not going to say that  " a little
quickly. " I was only going to say that, if
you would try, as quickly as you can, to
accustom yourself to my being here, I
should be so grateful to you. I want you

not to be always troubling yourself about
me  not to think yourself bound to do
things because we are newly married ; do
you not understand?" she said wistfully,
and hesitating a little. "You see, I have
lived here before ; it is not as if I had come
to you as a stranger ; it is all familiar tome,
and  and I shall drop the quicker into
my new place, if you could be content not
to take too much notice of me."

And then she glanced at him, it must be
confessed, rather uneasily, for she had made
her speech, and said what she had to say,
but she had a lurking suspicion in her
heart that his views on the question they
were discussing might not be wholly in
sympathy with her own.

Suppose we come out and have a walk ?"
he merely answered, coolly. ' Walking
with you is not one of the prohibited attentions,
is it ?"

And then, all at once, he began to laugh
again at her, and the poor soul had been in
earnest  was in fact even quivering with
earnestness  and did not like his laughter.

You are a dear woman," he said to her,
after a minute, " but you are a very foolish
one too. Go away now, and put on your
hat. I won't laugh at you any more, my
darling," he added, quickly. " You shall
wait till I have got you to like me better,
and then you shall laugh at yourself."

She felt very helpless and angry both
with herself and him as she went out of the
room. His ridicule had hurt her ; his refusal
(for she knew that he meant her to understand
he had refused) to pay any regard
to her request stung her sharply ; the feeling
that she had appealed to him for what he
had not granted gave her a sense of humiliation
that she liked ill enough. She had
let him make her his wife, but perhaps as

yet Sydney had not had much intention that
her husband should rule over her. She had
rather thought that, in marrying him, she
had merely consented to accept a certain
amount of his devotion, which he was to
pay her in such measure as she might be
willing to permit.

In more of a vexed than a gentle mood
she put on her bonnet and rejoined her husband.
' He would be wiser if he let fine
alone ; it would be better for himself," she
thought, knowing that she was irritated and
tired, and that she did not want the companionship
that it had become impossible
for her to refuse. When she came down
from her room, and found him already waiting
for her at the foot of the stairs, his outstretched
hand, though she understood the
meaning of it, annoyed her, so that she
would hardly let her own touch it as she
passed.

Where are we going ? I should like 
if you did not mind  to go along the road
to Broadbelt," she said, quickly, choosing
that walk on the impulse of the moment,
because on the high road she felt that she
could endure his presence better than
amongst the fields and woods.

Very well then, let us go to Broadbelt,"
he said ; and they went ; and after a time
the familiar place softened poor Sydney's
heart.

How natural it seems to see it again !
How unchanged it all looks !" she began to
say, with the tears in her eyes.

Perhaps she recalled how good her husband
had been to them in all their troubles,
and began to think that she had not been
very generous in any payment she had ever
yet given him. She became silent after they
had turned home again, and after a little
while said to him, suddenly and deprecatingly,

'you must bear with me."
*' And you with me, must you not?" he
answered, instantly and frankly. ' We
have a poor prospect of being happy together
if we are not prepared on both sides to da
that."

*eyes, I know," she replied, half aloud.
But after that she said no more. It did not
please her to hear him talk of them being
happy together, as if he failed to recognise
that happiness to her was not a thing likely
to be consequent on their marriage. He
had a mans confidence in his power to
make her love him, which, because she did
not love him, had a great facility for irritating
her. She thought in her heart that he
was selfish, caring only for his own satisfaction,
and little enough for all that her sacrifice
had cost her.

It was the end of September, so the days
were short ; the coming autumn was showing

itself too in chilly evenings. Sydney went
to one of the drawing-rooms after dinner,
where there were fires and lights burnings
but she soon found that that was not the
place in which she was expected to remain.

*rit is much pleasant in the library,
Sydney," her husband soon said to her.
'Let us come there. Bring your work
if you like. I want to read to you." And
she had to rise, and do as he bade
her.

But, though she did what he bade her,
she did not do it without a visible unwillingness,
for it seemed to her as though here,
where she had tried to establish herself, she
was more her own mistress than there,
where she was desired to go. Her drawing-rooms
were indisputably her own portions
of the house, but the library was Mr.
Loudoun's portion of the house ; it was his
special domain, intended to be tenanted by

VOL. ir. L

himself, and by only such chosen guests as
it pleased him to admit to it. In reality it
could of course make little enough difference
in what apartment they sat, but yet Mr.
Loudoun's invitations to his room had
begun already to have a certain irritating
effect upon her, for they were in reality, she
said to herself, commands, veiled under the
form of invitations,  the commands of a man
whose position in relation to her gave him
the risfht to call her to him.

She would of course have been glad
enough to allow his right if she had loved
him, but it was the not loving him that
made it hard to her. Sydney, you see, had
only known hitherto what it was to be
wooed, but not in the least what it was to
be taken possession of, and she did not find
the being taken possession of a thing that,
in existing circumstances, was by any means
pleasant to her to bear.

''Do you like the library so much the
best? I will come if you wish it'' she said,
reluctantly, and rose up, perhaps half
expecting that he would ask her whether
it would please her better to remain where
she was ; but he asked no such question ; he
seemed to accept her assent as if it were a
matter of course.

Yes, I always like the library; do you
not too ?" he merely said, and, without
even a pretence at hesitation, carried her
off.

"There is no room in the house so
comfortable and cosy as this one," he
informed her presently, when they had taken
their places in it, in a tone as if the matter
admitted of no dispute. '' In all my dreaming
of your coming here, Sydney, it is
always in this room that I have pictured
you  sitting just where you are sitting now.
I have drawn that chair for you to the fire a

l2

hundred times, and imagined  this that has
come at last. Ah, my darling, how can I
ever bless you enough for coming to me !"
he suddenly and passionately exclaimed.
*' You have brought a hope of heaven into
ray heart. Do you think that I can look
at you now, and feel that you are mine, and
not believe that one day my statue will
come to life ?"

She drew her hand away from him, for
he had taken possession of it, after a few
moments. She was cold enough yet, at any
rate, whatever the future might do to warm
her.

*Did you say you were going to read tome
? I should like you to do that, if you
would," she said.

*' And what will you do meanwhile?" he
asked. '' You can work if you like, but I
would rather see you idle."

*' It does not matter," she answered, indifferently.


She had brought some work into the
room with her, but while he read she let it
lie upon her knee. She leant back in the chair
where he had placed her, and sat listening
with half her mind to his reading, with the
other half thinking of things far away. Once,
lifting up his eyes from his book, he found
her looking at him, but in her grave, observant
gaze there was no tenderness ; and she
slowly, as their eyes met, turned her own
away.

What are you thinking of?" he asked
her, pausing suddenly 3 but she would not
tell him. Either she would not, or she
could not.

I was listening to you. I was not
thinking  much  of anything else," she
merely answered.

She thought when the evening ended that
it was strange how he could be so happy.
For she could not doubt his happiness ; his
whole manner was the manner of a man to
whom something had come that had made
him overflowing glad. He had forced her
to talk to him after he had finished reading.
They talked for an hour, and she thought
afterwards, sadly enough, that it was an
hour that, if she had loved him, she should
have cared for. But, as it was, she only
glanced now and then at the clock upon
the mantel-piece, and wished that he would
let her go.

After the first day or two of her married
life had passed, she began to occupy herself
a little in the management of her house,
but, beyond making herself acquainted with
it, there was not very much for her to do,
for all housekeeping matters had long been
in the hands of an imposing and efficient

person, who went about with a bunch of
keys at her side, and who showed no remotest
intention of resigning any either of the
privileges or the responsibilities of her post
to Mr. Loudoun's young wife.  Mrs. Grant
has taken charge of things for so long that
unless you wish it, Sydney, 1 think we had
better make no change," Mr. Loudoun himself
said ; and Sydney, who felt little confidence
in her own untried powers, willingly
acquiesced. She was too indifferent yet to
everything connected with her new position
to care to exert authority ; such pleasures as
she could make for herself consisted not in
initiating domestic reforms, which need
energy for their carrying out, but in securing
quiet hours, when, away from her husband,
she could ramble by herself out of
doors, or indoors sit, and read or think.

More rarely than she had thought beforehand
would have been possible did these

hours come, for certainly, in whatever way
Mr. Loudoun's character showed imperfection,
he did not fail in devotion to his wife.
As these weeks passed on, the constancy of
his* regard became more and more of a
thorn in Sydney's side ; she longed to escape
from him, and she found that she could not
escape ; she would have welcomed something
like neglect (or at least she thought
she would), but instead of neglect he gave
her a care and consideration that never,
except when he was altogether absent from
her, were omitted for an hour. She had
hoped to find him a man whose quiet nature
would be easily satisfied by a moderate
sacrifice of herself, and, instead of finding
him moderate either in his demands or in
his own gifts,  instead of finding him passionless,
 she was driven unexpectedly and
hastily to awake to the conviction that she
had given herself to a man to whom she

was dearer than his own life, and who was
bending his Vvhole strength to the effort of
making himself equally dear to her. And,
as this conviction grew upon her, it brought
with it a dawning painful sense that her
husband was not drawing her nearer to him,
but thrusting her farther from him by every
fresh sign he gave her of his own never-resting
love.

Perhaps she was hard. She often told
herself sadly that she was ; but some states
of feelings are difficult to fight against, and
Sydney made some effort at least to fight
against this, and found that it mastered her.
Every day that passed made the bonds with
which she had bound herself gall her more
bitterly, and made their restraint seem more
hard to bear. Many a day during these
weeks she used to weep passionately over
her mother's letters. No words could tell
how she longed to be with her own people

again  how in her loneliness (for at heart
she was as lonely as though no living creature
were beside her) she let her thoughts
rest on the days that were gone, and on
the love that had used to be her daily
food.

Mrs. Godwin wrote always to her with
overflowing tenderness, but the old confidence
that had been between the mother
and daughter had become impossible now.
No word in Sydney's letters ever betrayed
the emptiness of her married life. They
were letters that, in all that concerned her
father and mother, were full of warmth,
but of her feelings with regard to her husband
they disclosed nothing. She was
either too loyal to him or too proud to
touch upon that subject,  or perhaps she
was silent out of tenderness to the mother
whose heart she could not have borne to
pierce.

But she had much besides to write about,
for her return to her old home gave her
interesting matter enough. She told Mrs.
Godwin about the people she saw, and the
places that she went to,  about the look of
all the old familiar things, and about Broad-belt
and its new occupants.

"We went last night to dine there," she
Wrote one day about a month after their
marriage. " Oh, mother, can I tell you how
strange it felt ! They have altered the
drawing-room a good deal, but the diningroom
looks almost as it did in our time,
and I sat at the table, feeling as if I did not
know if I were awake or in a dream.
There were all the old people round me
too, you know,  the Wilkinson, and the
Knights, and the people from the Rectory,
and Mr. Aytoun. It was like a resurrection
of one of our old dinners ; only, instead of
the two dear faces at the top and bottom of

the table, there were these new unfamiliar
ones.

"After dinner Mrs. Gascoigne talked tome
for half an hour about all the alterations
they have made, and still mean to make.
They are going to cut down one of our
beeches on the lawn  the large one nearest
to the drawing-room window. I gave an
exclamation of dismay when she told me,
and she looked amazed, and said she
thought it was a great mistake to have
trees near the house. The whole place
looks very trim and bright,  gayer a
good deal than it did in our time ; and the
drawing-room is all done in white and gold,
and it is very pretty in its way,  only I
think I liked our way best. It was a sweet
old peaceful room in our time  was it not ? 
quiet and old-fashioned, like ourselves ; but
now it makes me think of a young beauty,
dressed cut for a festival.

'soh, mother, do you remember those
last bitter days ? It is so strange to be in
the house again, and to remember how
happy we were in it  and how we suffered.
They seem kindly common-place sort of
people. A troop of children came into the
dining-room at dessert, the girls in white
frocks and blue ribbons. They looked a
great deal gayer than I did. I am afraid I
shall have to get a white gown too, to do
honour to these dinners to which people
are asking us. Mr. Loudoun seems to wish
it."

They had had a number of marriage visits
paid to them by the time that Sydney
wrote this letter about the white gown. Mr.
Loudoun had said to her, on the occasion of
the first entertainment to which they went
together,

You look very lovely, Sydney,  but I
suspect you ought to have on a different

sort of dress. Brides are always expected,
at the first parties they go to, to wear their
marriage dresses  are they not?  but you
have none."

*'K'o  and so I escape being bound by
that rule," she answered.

And then for the moment he said nothing
more, but a day or two afterwards he asked
her to buy a white dress to please him.

What does it matter? If I never wear
a wedding dress, people will soon have sense
enough to conclude that I have not got one,"
she answered, quickly.

'' But you can dress in white without
making any profession that you are wearing
your wedding gown  can you not?" he
asked. '' Get this dress because I wish it,
Sydney. Above everything you ever wear,
I like to see you in white."

So then she was silent, and presently did
what he wished, but she did not do it very

willingly ; and when the gown was got, and
she wore it for the first time, and he praised
her, she would not take any pleasure in his
praise.

I am glad you like it," she only said,
coldly.

She was sore in her heart because he had
made her deck herself like a bride, and
almost despised herself for having acceded
to his request, and consented to the hypocrisy
of wearing such a garment over a heart
like hers.

He said to her,

' You look always to me half like a spirit
when you are in white. You don't know
how often in the old days I have looked at
you in your white gowns, and thought that
there was no other woman upon earth so pure
and sweet. I used to think  I think still 
that there are no words  that there is
nothing but music  fit to describe you."

*' You ought not to say that," she answered,
almost in a vexed tone. '' You think
too much of me. Some day, if you remember
it, you will come to wonder that you
could ever have thought such a thing as you
are saying now."

"Is that what you suppose?" he replied.
And then he looked at her with a happy,
incredulous smile, and,

''Do you know, Sydney," he said, 'that I
am going to have you painted soon, if I
can only find a painter that I can trust you
to?"

*' Have you begun to think of that ?" she
asked, wearily. '' Well, I think it will be a
pity if you carry out your plan, for, if you
feel about me as you say you do, no artist
who only gives you the truth will satisfy

you."

And then she would not talk about herself
any more. Perhaps afterwards, now and

then she remembered what he had said of her,
but, if she did, she only remembered it half
impatiently. " He will not see me as I am,"
she told herself. "He is in love with a
woman that he has made out of his own
imagination, and he looks at me with eyes
that are all dazzled and false." And then she
sighed. If he would but care for her less,
she thought, and be content to make less of
her, to pursue her less, and sometimes to go
away from her ! She had begun by this
time to welcome the invitations that came
and prevented some of her solitary evenings
with him. These dinners and entertainments
had little natural attraction for her,
but yet she went to them contentedly and
almost eagerly, because they gave her a few
hours' respite from her husband's society.
She made what excuses she could, too, in
the daytime for separating herself from him,
renewing all her former visits to her old

VOL. II. M

pensioners in the village, and paying calls
on her acquaintances with an assiduity that
more than once awakened Mr. Loudoun's astonishment.


*' What, at this work again, Sydney ?"
he would sometimes say to her, half in
real amazement, half in jest; and sometimes
she would wince a little at a
question of this sort, and her tongue would
falter, for, though she tried to get away from
him, she was not hard enough to desire that
he should see how much she wanted to get
away from him, nor was she willing to tell
him anything that was not the truth. But
yet she was too much fretted,  she had too
much the feeling of a creature in prison, 
not to break away from him whenever it
was in her power.

For his own part he was no lover or
maker of morning calls. She knew she
could not say to him that she was going to

take a walk without his at once volunteering
to join her : but when she told him she was
going to pay a visit at this or that house,
then she soon came to perceive that the
chances were he would allow her to depart
on her errand unaccompanied.

Now and then, it is true indeed, he demurred
a little. '' Of course, if you wish it,
go," he would say to her,  '* only, dear love,
you seem to me to have taken up a very
new view of your duty to society. You
never made calls in this earnest way of old
did you ? But you are right, very likely,"
he would generally add ; "so go your way, if
it pleases you  only come back soon to me."

And then she would go, letting herself
involuntarily be vexed by his last words.
For he rarely allowed her to go from him
without speaking of her return as of something
to be longed for and hastened on. He
never refrained from expressing his own

M 2 -

desire for it, and letting her see, with a
plainness that gave her no pleasure, but
only aversion and pain, how dear she was
to him, and how absolutely he looked upon
her, since their marriage, as an inseparable
portion of himself. ' I could not live without
you now," he often told her : but she
frequently thought he failed to recognise the
fact that she could easily have lived without
him.

CHAPTER V.

SYDNEY used to get terribly tired of the
lengthening winter evenings. To Mr.
Loudoun these evenings were the happiest
parts of all the day, but Sydney dreaded
them, for they were the times when her
husband gave himself up entirely to her.
During the morning he was generally more
or less occupied with business, but he never
let business intrude on these long and, to
Sydney, dreary hours after dinner when
they sat alone together in the library. This
was his time for enjoyment  the happy
period of placid relaxation that rounded off
his day.

If he could but have made himself contented
merely with her presence in the room,
how thankful Sydney often thought she
could have been: if he would have left
her alone to read to herself, or to work or
think, or choose her own entertainment,
then she would have made no complaint :
but to leave her to herself, when it was
possible to do otherwise, seemed almost to
be the last thought in Mr Loudoun's mind.

He generally used to read to her for some
part of the evening, but only the smallest
half of it was ever occupied in this way.
During the rest he generally talked, and she
had to submit to sit still and listen to him.
She used, for as long as he would permit
her, to sit near to a table on which she had
a lamp, and work ; but sooner or later he
was sure to drive her from this position,
generally by coming and placing himself
beside her, and fretting her so by his proximity

that she would rise at last of her own
accord, and go where she could be more out
of his reach. Usually she retreated to a large
chair at the fireside, whose high back and
stiff elbows seemed a sort of defence to her,
and where at any rate the light did not fall
upon her face: It used to strike even herself
with a kind of remorse to think how
little she cared for his admiration. She
knew that he loved to look at her, and she
for her part never desired to see him look
at her: she would turn away from him whenever
it was possible : she would not have
put on a gown, or so much as a ribbon, to
make herself fairer in his sight, but would
almost rather (or at least she thought so)
have worn the things he liked the least if
she had not been ashamed to do it.

He used to talk to her about a thousand
things, a few alone of which ever interested
her. She knew that, if she had liked him

better, she should have cared to listen to
them all ; but of what use is a man's familiar
talk to a woman who is wearied of his company?
She used to listen  or sometimes
only seem to listen,  and wish often that
he would be silent. Sometimes, with an
indescribable sharp pain and terror, she
used to remember how the merest nothings
from another pair of lips had once seemed
pleasant to her ear, and, with a great
horror, she would try to stifle that old remembrance,
and recall to herself that this
was her husband whose voice was in her
ears, and by whose side she had to pass her
life. "God help me!" she sometimes said,
silently, when he little knew what thoughts
were in her heart.

One night, when he had dropped into
silence for a little while, and she had wearily
leant her head back against her chair and
closed her eyes, he sat looking tenderly at

her for a few minutes, and then (unwisely),
rising noiselessly from his seat, stooped
over her, and she started up suddenly to
find his face close to hers, with a look on it
that she could not bear. There was no
love in her eyes, poor soul ! as she opened
them on him ; she was taken by surprise,
and they flashed out something too eloquent
for him to misunderstand. For a
moment, before she regained possession of
herself, they met his almost as if she hated
him.

He drew back, and she hurriedly raised
herself.

*' Why did you do that? I did not hear
you," she said, quickly.

were you asleep?" he asked. *' What
made you look so startled ?"

And then she answered, faintly,

*'I don't know." (But, poor thing! she
did know.)

He was silent for a few moments, and,
after that, he looked at her again.

"You have given me a blow, Sydney,"
he said, quietly.

"1? I am very sorry," she ejaculated,
half aloud.

If / were to open my eyes suddenly
and find your face close to mine, do you
know what it would be to me ?" he said.

And then she made no answer, or at
least she made none for a time ; but presently
she said, in a constrained voice,

I am sorry if I did anything to pain
you. I did not do it willingly."

*' You never, I believe, pain me willingly,"
he answered at once. 'you are a
gentle woman, Sydney. It is ray own
fault, I suppose, if I let your gentleness
make me forget sometimes that I only hold
you here against your will."

"I cannot help that," she said; but she
spoke rather piteously.

In spite of her coldness, and even of her
hardness, Mr. Loudoun was right when he
said to her that she was a gentle woman.
She never, even when her heart was most
dead towards her husband, had that kind
of feeling in her which would have made
her voluntarily pain him ; it was not in her
nature, except for transient moments, to be
bitter. She did not love him; perhaps
there were times when, with shuddering
horror, she almost felt as if she hated him,
but she never was mad enough to think
that he deserved her hatred, or that she did
well to close her heart against him.

She was pained now, genuinely and
honestly, by the pain that she had given
him, and yet what could she say ? Hove
would it mend what had been done to tell

him that, if he had given her time to hide
her feelings, she would have hidden them ?

'You know you startled me," she said
after a minute, in a low voice. " If I
looked  angry for a moment, it need not
matter surely ? Sometimes, I think  " and
then she hesitated and stopped.

He was sitting listening very gravely to
her.

'' Go on," he told her, after a moment or
two. " ' Sometimes  ' you began. What
were you going to say ?"

*'I think that sometimes you expect too
much of me," she said, with an effort. '' I 
do what I can, and it seems to me you
forget how hard it is."

' How do you mean that I forget ?" he
asked, earnestly. " My poor love, am I not
patient enough with you ?"

*' It is not that," she said.

"Tell me then what it is?"

"I have told you already" A little
pause, and then a few more half inaudible
words. "You do too much forme. It is
so hard  and you urge me too much."

I will try to urge you less. But what
makes you say this ? Sydney, are you tired
to-night ?" he asked. And, after a moment,
when she hesitated to answer him, " Is not
that it all, my darling?" he went on tenderly.
'You are only tired? You do not mean
that you find your life with me to be growing
harder than it was at first ? I scarcely
know how I should bear ifc if you were to
tell me that,  if you wanted me to understand
that you repented of having become
my wife. But that is not what you

He was looking earnestly at her, but she
put up her hand to shade her face, so that he
should not see it. For a little while she
did not speak. Then, almost abruptly 

*' Yes, I suppose I am tired," she merely
said, in a cold voice, and after a moment
she rose wearily up. What was the use of
talking to him when he could not understand
her? She rose from her seat, and then
she stood still; and all at once, with a
sudden impulse, she said, piteously  ' I am
not happy ; how can you think that I am ?
Sometimes I can hardly bear the way in
which you ignore things,  the way in which
you resolve to consider that because you
are content / must be content too. How is
it possible that I can be content until I care
for you more? I know I am impatient,
and perverse, and perhaps ungrateful to
speak like this  but it is so hard to pretend
what is not the truth. I do not wish that I
had not married you,  but you ought to
know why I do not repent of having done
that. It is not because I love you."

He had risen too, and they stood, when
her speech ended, side by side. Why had
she said what she did ? Poor soul, she
hardly knew. It would not serve herself to
utter such words, and they could only wound
him. She began to tremble almost as soon
as she had finished speaking  to wish she
had been silent.

He only said after a few moments, very
quietly,

"These are hard words, Sydney."

And on that suddenly, for her heart
smote her, the tears flashed into her
eyes.

' I ought not to have said them, I
know. I am sorry," she exclaimed, hurriedly.


*' But  are they true ?" he asked.

And then she could not answer him.
She could not answer " no," and he had

touched her for a moment, so that she shrank
from answering "yes."

Well, I must try to give you less to
bear," he said, after a minute had passed in
silence. '* Apparently, I have failed to
make your lot bearable to you so far, more
completely than I had thought. Have I
indeed been doing nothing all this time but
vexing you ?"

He found it probably hard to believe ;
she had struck him pretty sharply. He had
failed, he said to her; but yet  his eyes, as
they sought hers, asked for some contradiction
of his words.

I did not say that," she answered, in a
troubled voice. " You have done everything
 that you have known how to do ;
only sometimes,"  and then there came almost
a break in her voice  *sit tries me
lore than you think."

'your being with me tries you, do you
mean ?" he asked.

"Yes," she said.

She uttered the single word sadly and
deprecatingly enough, but she did utter it,
and it was hard for him.

Perhaps it would have been wiser after
this had she gone away. However bitter
the truth was that she had told him, still it
teas a truth, and it might have been better
for him to remain convinced of it ; but when
she saw how she had wounded him, small
though her love for him was, she tried to
soften what she had said.

I do not mean that it is your fault ; it
is not your fault, I know," she began to tell
him, timidly, "Indeed I do not want to
give you pain. I know I ought to feel
differently. I try to be different  more
than you think. It is only sometimes  "
and then she stopped.

I'll. 11. N

'let us be patient with one another," he
said, after a little silence. 'rit is true, I
know, that you have made me so happy
that sometimes I have forgotten how little
you can yet care for me. I have forgotten
it too often,  but I will try to remember
it better in future. I will be more
content to wait. Let us begin newly again.
Come what may, Sydney, we must not
quarrel with one another. As to that, at
least, we are surely of one mind."

'* Oh, yes," she said, quickly.

*' Then let us forget this."

He took her hand after a minute and
kissed it, and then went on holding it, till
he made her feverish.

*' He is trying me now, and he does not
know that he is trying me," she thought to
herself. " He makes promises, and what
likelihood is there that he will keep them ?"

With a weary, almost hopeless feeling, she
turned away from him at last. *' Either he
does not understand me, or he will not," she
was thinking. " I have asked him to leave
me alone, and I know that, say what I may,
he will not leave me alone. I have done
no good. He will only watch me more
now, and suspect more that I am not happy,
and perhaps try still more to make me care
for him." And she went away at last, not
comforted, but the reverse.

'should I have had the courage to speak
more plainly ?" she asked herself, when she
was alone.

Poor thing! she had tried to speak plainly,
and then her heart had smote her for doing
it. She had recalled to him the reason why
she had married him, and almost instantly
she had reproached herself because she had
recalled it. She had pleaded that she was

n2

impatient, as if it had only been impatience
and want of reason that had made her
speak.

*' I am ungratefully she had thought, as
soon as he told her that she had spoken
what he called "hard words." "So what
good have I done ?" she asked herself. " I
have troubled him and made my own heartache
a little more,  and there it ends."

And in fact it almost did seem to end
there, for, though for the next day or two
Mr. Loudoun showed himself a little more
grave and silent than usual with her, yet he
was too much in love, and too sanguine
perhaps of the power of his affection, to let
the bitter things that she had said really
depress him longer. He forgot them, or he
forced himself to disbelieve them ; and all
that Sydney had gained from her poor
effort at rebellion, by the time a week was

past, was an increased devotion from him, 
an increased patience and tenderness, and
an unwearied consideration for her that,
neither by day nor night, seemed to know
any rest.

CHAPTER VI.

TT is a happy thing for us that our
- troubles vary in weight according to
the mood in which we look at them.
There were times when Sydney was very
miserable, but there were also times when
what she felt was not definite pain, but
merely a dull submission to her lot. It
was not a small thing to her to live again
in her old home ; it was a conscious alleviation
of sorrow; her heart warmed at the
sight of the faces she had known all her
life, and of all the familiar things that were
once more around her.

Perhaps most of her former acquaintances

in the neighbourhood thought that
she was improved by her marriage, for she
sought their society more now than she had
done in former days, and her manner to
them had become softer and more cordial
In old times she had been too cold to be a
favourite, but now, when she looked at
everything that recalled her former life
with a new feeling, she renewed her intercourse
with her neighbours in a kinder and
-warmer spirit.

And so naturally they praised her and
spoke well of her. Of course her marriage
at the first had been largely talked over,
and surprise and curiosity had been aroused
to the utmost over it. When she arrived
at the Halls a hundred pairs of eyes had
been turned upon her, and a hundred
tongues had prepared to criticize her. But
on the whole the criticisms had proved not
unkind. If Sydney, for a new-made bride,

was rather strangely grave and quiet, they
agreed on the whole that, considering the
misfortunes of the family, a quiet demeanour
was most becoming in her. And if she was
not in love with her husband, as some of
them guessed, still they were not much
disposed to blame her for having become
his wife. A penniless girl, they said, could
hardly be expected to throw away such a
chance. As for Mr. Loudoun, he perhaps
had been rather a fool, they thought ; but, if
men were fools for women's advantage,
women at any rate ought not to complain
of that.

And he was such a very old friend of
the family," they said, excusing, " and
was becoming such a confirmed bachelor
that perhaps, if he had not married Sydney,
he never would have married at
all."

It was very possible ; and it would have

been a pity for the Hall never to have had
a mistress. And then Sydney began to
wear her new honours with very little
ostentation, and this, almost with one
accord, inclined her old friends in her
favour.

They gave many very hospitable entertainments
to her during the first few months
after her marriage, and Sydney, as I have
already said, went to these different parties
very willingly, and altogether showed herself
more ready by a good deal than in old
times to put herself on friendly relations
with her neighbours. She and Mr. Loudoun
too had to return these various hospitalities,
and, though she disliked the prospect of
this at first,  for it needs more exertion to
make oneself a pleasant hostess than
merely a pleasant guest,  yet when she had
once entered on the work she went through
it with very fair success, and with a quiet if

rather grave grace that was not without its
charm.

Perhaps most people who saw her in
these days could hardly have thought that
she 'looked like a very happy woman, but
still her calm and gentle manner gave at
least very little sign of the trouble that was
really m her heart ; for Sydney had great
powers of reserve and self-control, and was
too proud to betray much of what she
wished to hide. She could not make herself
merry, but at least she was able before
other people to conceal that she was
sad.

They had given one or two dinners, and
were about to give another, when, on the
day before that on which it was to take
place, one of their guests failed them.
Sydney had a note to say that he was
unexpectedly called away, so she had to
bethink her who should fill his place.

'Who shall we have?" she asked Mr.
Loudoun.

He was going to London, and said at
once  *'I will find somebody in town. Oh,
I will tell you ! There is Martin Travers.
I wanted to ask him, and he will be very
glad to come."

So Sydney agreed, and nothing more was
said. But in the evening after her husband
had returned home, when she asked him if
he had given his invitation to Mr. Travers,
he answered, in a tone that seemed to
imply a consciousness of being about to give
her some pleasant news 

'' Oh, T forgot to tell you ! No, I did
not go after Travers at all. I was just
leaving Charing Cross when I met young
Marmaduke, and I thought you would like
him better than the other, so I asked him to
come."

*' And did he say that he would ?" Sydney

inquired, after only two or three seconds'
silence.

"Yes. He seemed a little doubtful
about it at first, but he found he could
manage it after a minute. We must ask
Martin another day."

And then she said nothing more; but
presently she rose and went out of the
room. She felt scared and terrified. Was
she glad or sorry ? Was it right of her to
keep silent? 'Oh, he ought not to come !
How can he come ?" she cried. He had
done wrong, she told herself, almost with
indignation ; and yet in a few minutes she
began to excuse him. It was not his fault ;
he had only yielded to Mr. Loudoun's pressure
; perhaps already he had repented, and
would write tomorrow to say that he would
not come,

"What ought I to do?" she asked herself.

She had never spoken to her husband
about Mr. Marraaduke, and he had no
suspicion that the young man was more to
her than any other acquaintance of former
days; but now the thought of permitting herself
tacitly to acquiesce in deceiving him, 
of allowing hit ignorantly, while she stood
by in silence, to receive in his house the
man who had been almost her lover, 
made her feel ashamed with a shame that
she did not know how to endure. For a
little while it almost seemed to her that she
must tell the truth to Mr. Loudoun at every
cost ; but yet in the end she said to herself
that she could not tell it. It was the one
thing that she kept to herself,  her little bit
of vanished happiness,  her girlish dream
that had passed away  that surely she might
hold as dead and sacred. *' He shall never
come again," she said to herself. " I will

take care of that : but, if it is wrong to see
him once more, then I must do wrong,  for
I cannot speak."

She had a hard time until the next day
came. Till it was all past she did not think
of it, but she remembered afterwards, with
a certain thankfulness, that it was her keen
humiliation at having to deceive her husband
more than her agitation at the thought
of seeing Mr. Marmaduke again, that made
these hours so bitter to her. Honestly, and
with her whole heart, she did not want to
see Mr. Marmaduke again. When the
actual moment came that she heard his voice,
and when she rose from her seat, and felt
her hand in his, it was inevitable, perhaps,
that her heart, as it did, should seem for a
few seconds to come to her lips ; but, after
that first minute, this presence moved her
less than beforehand she had dared to hope

it would. She was sitting talking to one of
her guests as he entered the room, and she
merely rose and gave him her hand, and
then, without more than the barest greeting,
resumed her place ; nor did she, during
the time they sat at dinner, ever need to
address him, for she had arranged her guests
so that his place should be far away from
hers.

The evening passed very calmly. Perhaps
more than one of those who were present
had suspected in former days that Mr. Mar-mature
had been an admirer of Sydney's,
but how much of seriousness there had been
in his attentions no one had known well
enough to make his presence in the house
now any great matter of surprise. Possibly
they might recall their old surmises when
they saw him, and wonder, when the evening
ended, whether there had ever been

any reason for them ; but, at any rate, Sydney's
manner could hardly have aroused
their curiosity, or given them any food for
speculation. Once or twice she and Mr.
Marmaduke exchanged a few commonplace
words together; once only, but for little
more than a minute, she spoke to him when
no one else was near.

She had resolved to speak alone to him
from the first hour when she had known
about his coming. She went to him as
near the end of the evening, he was standing
alone by a table on which some engravings
were lying, and idly, and without notice,
turning them over. The hours he had been
passing had been bitter and unsatisfactory
to him. Perhaps he was telling himself
that he was a fool to have brought himself
again into Sydney's presence.

As he saw her coming, he broke off his
occupation and turned to her eagerly ; but

before he could speak, she addressed him
in a low voice that, just at the beginning,
had a touch of nervousness in it.

"" I wanted to say a word to you," she
began. " I am sure you know what I am
going to say. I am going to ask you not to
come here any more."

'' Is it my fault that I am here now ?" he
answered, quickly and almost hotly. " When
he asked me first I refused."

'' Yes, I know. He urged you. I do
not say it is your fault," she answered,
gently. " But, when he urged you, he did
not know, as you did, that there was any
reason why you should not come. He may
ask you again,  and, if he should, I want
you to refuse. Will you ?" she said, after a
moment's silence.

He made no answer at once. After a
few seconds had passed,

*what harm can it do you to see me''

VOL. II. o

be asked, in a sudden, hard tone that made
her raise her eyes gravely to his face. She
gave him that look ; then she made no
reply to his question, but in the same quiet
tone she merely said,

Will you promise me  when I ask
you ?"

And then he was silent again for a
moment or two, but after that short silence
he answered, "Yes."

I know I ought not to have come," he
added, honestly, in another second. " I
yielded to the temptation,  and sou must
forgive me. I will do anything you wish ;
I will never trouble you any more."

"Thank you. I was sure I could* trust
you," she answered, very gently.

Then, without waiting for him to speak
again, . she turned away. She had done
what she had to do without giving any sign

of agitation, but when she sat down presently
she was trembling.

Half an hour afterwards, Mr. Marmaduke
took his leave, and they merely exchanged
a quiet 'Good night" as their hands met.
She was parting from her other guests at
the same time.

' You look tired, dear," Mr. Loudoun
said to her, when they were all gone ; and
then she winced a little, for she hated herself
for what she had been forced to do ;
though it was hardly any fault of hers, yet
it made her feel as if she could not look
into her husband s face.

I am tired ; I was awake such a longtime
last night," she said, quickly, and then
turned away. He was so unsuspicious that
it seemed to make her silence like a sin.

"Is it ended now? Oh, I pray God it
is ended !" she cried to herself, presently,

o2

when she was alone, with a feeling that was-half
relief, half a bitter, irrepressible pain.

For several days after this she remained
troubled and shaken. The thing that had
happened had seemed altogether to be so
slight a thing, and what she had done had
apparently been done with so little effort ;
but, when it was over, she almost broke
down. She said suddenly one evening to
Mr. Loudoun,

'* I wish I could go to them at Dover fora
little while. Do you think I could go ?"
A yearning desire had seized her for the
sight of her mother's face. " I need not
take you away," she said, deprecatingly ;
"but would you let me go  for one
week?"

He let her go, and for more than a week.
He took her to Dover, and left her therewith
her mother for ten days. This did her
good. The freedom from restraint and the

return to the long familiar companionship
did more than anything else could have
done to heal her. She spent these ten
quiet days, and then, with a curious mingling
of feelings, returned to her new life. " Are
you sorry to be at home again, Sydney ?"
her husband said to her on the day when
he brought her back, and she made an
effort and answered " No." Yet she hardly
knew if she were sorry or not.

It had been with an almost unconquerable
reluctance that she had written to Mr.
Loudoun during her absence from him . He
on his part had written every day to her,
and she had been forced to answer his
letters, but she had only answered them,
and addressed him as her ' dear husband,"
with an unwillingness too strong to put into
words ; and yet, when he came to fetch her
back again, her first sight of him had awakened
some curious emotion in her breast.

He was to come by a certain train, and
she stood at the window looking for him, 
expecting him with a kind of dread, and yet
with something that was not dread. And
then, when at last she saw him, her heart
seemed to leap to her throat. It was not
pleasure at the sight of him that moved her,
but only a sudden, intense consciousness,
which came to her as it had never come
before, that this man, for good or for evil,
represented the whole world to her,  that
all she had to look forward to, or to hope
for, must come to her through him. She
went to the door to receive him. There
was a strange struggle in her a desire to
withhold herself from him, warring with
some other feeling that made her meet him
half way. ' I go to him because I cannot
help myself," she thought. But she need not
have gone had she done merely what she
was obliged to do.

Mr. Loudoun stayed for a night at Dover,
and then, with much satisfaction, took his
wife home. He had missed her more than
she had missed him. The utmost she was
able to do, when he asked her if she were
sorry to be back again, was to reply to him
with that half reluctant "No." Sometimes
during her absence she had reproached
herself for her indifference to him ; she had
thought of him often, and had told herself
that he deserved a different feeling from her
from what she gave him; and yet now
when she found herself alone with him
again, and the same life begun afresh from
which she had escaped for a little while, it
seemed to her that from moment to moment
her heart was once more sinking and
hardening, and growing cold. She sat in
her old place, and his voice was in her ears
again  the voice that she ought to love,
and  did not love. "And it will be so all

through my life," she thought, as she had
thought a thousand times before. " I shall
live on and grow old like this, only knowing
endurance, and never joy."

Sometimes, in her best moments, she
used to be glad to think that she at least
made her husband happy, but that consolation
did not touch her always ; there were
times when, on the contrary, it made her
bitter  when the sight of his content made
her own weariness seem harder to bear.
She became impatient of his love for her ;
it seemed like folly to her who had none to
give him back.

This night when she returned she told
him that she was satisfied to be at home
again, and yet she sat listlessly by his fireside
while he talked, with her thoughts far away.
His happiness in her return only troubled
her. He told her about things of which she
did not care to hear ; he gave her details

about his doings during her absence that
she had little interest in knowing. It
pleased him to talk, but unhappily it pleased
her very little to listen. He treated her
as if she were the centre of his life ; and all
the time she felt within herself as if she
were something altogether outside his life,
and as if her heart towards him were as cold
and dead as stone.

CHAPTER VII.

T" Long ago, when Sydney had been a
- very little girl, she remembered the
marriage of Mr. Loudoun's only sister to a
young Indian officer. In those days the
Godwinss and the Loudouns were less intimate
than they became afterwards. Helen
Loudoun spent much of her time away from
home, and had only rarely been at Broad -
belt, and Sydney in after years' merely
recollected her indistinctly as a lively,
showy, and very pretty girl, who had never
taken any notice of her, and of whom she,
in her quiet childhood, had stood rather
timidly in awe. But Mr. Loudoun was very

fond of his sister, and often talked about
her.

One day, soon after her return from Dover,
he said to Sydney, suddenly,

When Helen comes," (for she was coming
to England very shortly, to bring home
her only child, and when she came she was
to take up her quarters in her brother's
house)  " When Helen comes, I must really
entreat of you, Sydney, to make an end of
calling me Mr. Loudoun.'"

They had been married now for almost
six months, and he had never succeeded yet
in making her call him by his Christian
name. Her mother called him " Horace,"
but Sydney would not call him " Horace."

It would seem so unnatural," she objected
once, when he asked her. I have
.known you as * Mr. Loudoun ' all my life."

** But you have not had me for your husband
all your life," he retorted.

No,  but that makes no difference," she
said.

Indeed ?" he replied, drily.

*' I mean, it does not make it easier to
think of you by any new name."

If you would try, you would soon find
it easy enough," he answered.

But she would not try ; and time had gone
on, and she had never done what he asked.

Now however he said seriously to her,

' I cannot have you continue to call me
Mr. Loudoun ' when Helen comes. Surely
you would not wish to do a thing that
would seem so strange to her ? From this
time I beg of you to call me ' Horace.' Doit,
Sydney, when I ask you."

And then at last, because she did not
know any longer how to refuse, she did it,
though the word, when she first tried to
speak it, seemed to choke her. '* But yet
it is right," she allowed to herself. "I

could not bear his sister to notice that I
never used his name. It will be difficult
enough, without that."

For, to tell the truth, she was afraid of
Mrs. Walkinshaw's coming ; she was afraid to
think of all that the clever, sharp-eyed
woman of the world would see and guess of
things that she would have kept hidden
from everybody if she could.

Miss Helen was a very stirring young
lady," Mrs. Grant, the housekeeper, had said
to Sydney on the day when she had been first
told that Mrs. Walkinshaw was coming home,
and while she and her mistress were arranging
together about the rooms that she should
occupy. "She was never a bit like the
master or Mrs. Loudoun. No, ma'am, you're
right,  I didn't come here to live till after
she was .married, but I'd known all the
family long before that. Miss Helen was
always very full of spirit. She was very

pretty, you know, and most people thought
a great deal of her  but, I don't know 
I always liked Mr. Loudoun best. Miss
Helen was quick tempered, and she'd say a
thing and then be sorry for it; but the
master was just the same then s you see
him now, and never gave one a hasty word
or a cross look."

*' I think she must have been very pretty.
I can just remember her," Sydney said.

Yes, ma'am,  it's sixteen years since she
was married. She was twenty then, and the
master was twenty-five. He hadn't been
long home from college, you know,  and
a happy woman his mother was then. He
was /zr favourite, ma'am. Perhaps mothers
oughtn't to have favourites, but it must be
hard sometimes, I think, to help it,  and he
was a good son if ever there was one. Not
that I mean that Miss Helen was not kind
in her way, only it was a different sort of

way from the master's,  and she was always
going about visiting, and didn't care much,
I think, for the quiet life here. But she's
gone through a great deal of sorrow, poor
dear, since then."

Yes, I know," Sydney said.

She was not very long here that time
when she last came home,  it will be
eight years this September. I don't know
where you were then, ma'am ?"

''I was at school, I think," Sydney
said.

'*Ah, that is how it was then that you
didn't see her. She came twice for a while,
and the first time, poor thing, you would
hardly have known her, for it was just after
the children's death, you know, and you
would have thought she was heart-broken ;
but she is one of those ladies who pick up
wonderfully, and when she came back
again,  dear me ! the change in her was

something surprising. It was a great
pleasure to the master to have her here.
I never saw any brother and sister so
fond of one another. When she's in the
house they're just together from morning till
night."

"I almost wish she was not coming. I
want to see her, and yet I am afraid of her'*
Sydney often thought.

'' I wonder how you ever came to care
about me, when I must be so different from
your sister," she said one night abruptly to
Mr. Loudoun.

He had been talking to her of Mrs.
Walkinshaw's cleverness and brightness, and
after a time she made this sudden remark, 
and of course he laughed at her.

Do men usually fall in love, do you
suppose, with the women who are most like
their sisters?" he asked.

When they admire their sisters as much

as you do yours, I think it would be  not
unlikely," she answered. *eat any rate, I
can hardly understand what can ever have
led you to anyone so very different. You
who had been used to so bright a woman,
what could ever have attracted you tome?"


*' You must be content to believe in the
attraction, I imagine, without trying to
understand it."

'* I think you must often contrast her
with me."

"Perhaps I do. But, suppose it is so,
what then?"

"Then you must think me  I don't
know how you can help thinking me  a
very poor substitute for her."

"You are not so clever as she is, I
allow."

I am not clever at all."

And Helen is  unquestionably. Nor

VOL. II. P

are you so amusing. Helen has more fun
in her than you have ; she has a wonderful
amount of life and spirit,  and I think I
should scarcely be tempted to say that of

you."

Sydney made no answer for a moment or
two. She had often told herself that she
cared little for her husband's praise ; if he
was exalting his sister now at her expense,
it was her fault too who had urged him to
compare them, and so she had no reason to
feel sore ; and yet, after his last speech, she
was conscious that she did feel a little sore 
conscious of something that, after a few
seconds, made her say quickly, in self-defence,


' I am not always so dull as you have
known me."

"Do you think you need tell me what
you are?" he asked her, instantly,  " or use

any arguments to make me more contented
with you ?"

And then, with a good deal of mischief
in his eyes, he suddenly began to laugh at
her.

Yes, you sit there affecting to depreciate
yourself," he exclaimed,  "and you are
just as vain as all the rest of us ! Do you
want to be told that you are as charming as
Helen ? My dear, the world will never
give you half the admiration that Helen has
had. You must be satisfied, I am afraid,
with one admirer where she had a dozen, 
and make up as well as you can with your
prosaic old husband, who thinks you are
the one woman in the world worth living
for."

He said the last words with a little
change in his tone, and Sydney flushed
suddenly, with a sharp consciousness of how

p2

little she deserved such words from him ;
but along with that remorseful consciousness
came some other feeling also that made her
heart give an unexpected throb.

The one woman in the world to him !
God help me !" she thought to herself, and
she would have said something, but she
could not.

'* I know my opinion does not count for
much with you," he went on, apparently
jesting again, after a few moments. " You
have had my admiration too long to care
much about it."

*' You vex me when you speak so ; I wish
you would not do it," she said, quickly.

You don't like the truth to be always
spoken ? Is that what you mean ?" he answered,
laughing. 'well, but this is a
truth, Sydney. Rather a bitter one, you
know, for me."

It is not a truth," she replied, but she

spoke rather faintly, and suddenly made a
pretext for rising from her seat. Was
she saying what was false? She hardly
knew.

Sydney was aware, as the time for Mrs.
Walkinshaw's coming drew near, of the
growth within her of a certain adverse feeling
towards her sister-in-law. In reality she
was afraid of her, and she could not reason
away her fear. The prospect of her visit
troubled her. " How can I hide anything
from her?" she thought to herself again and
again : and alas, there was so much that the
poor soul would willingly have kept hidden.
She was a proud and reserved woman, and
the thought of having her secrets discovered
by a stranger was very bitter to her.

But Mr. Loudoun was very placidly content
in a man's way, and seemed to have
little suspicion of what his wife was feeling,
except that one evening, almost immediately

before his sister was to come, he said suddenly
to her,

*' You know I am very anxious, Sydney,
that you and Helen should be friends. You
sometimes have a cold manner to strangers.
Don't be cold to her when she comes, if you
can help it,  for she is an impulsive woman,
and people like her are led very much by
first impressions. I only ask you to be your
natural self."

*she is older than I am," Sydney answered
quickly, when he said this. " It will
lie with her, I should think, rather than
with me to take the initiative."

Well, hardly," he returned, *' when she is
your guest."

And then there was a moment or two's
silence, but after that little pause she began
to speak again.

I will do what I can," she said, in a low

voice. " Of course she will find out things
that I would rather she did not find out ;
she is not likely to care for me,  perhaps
not even to forgive me "

** You are not wise to speak in this way,
Sydney," he interrupted her, in rather an
annoyed tone. " If you mean to meet her
in this spirit, you will make me wish that
you were not to meet her atalL"

"I think you do not understand me," she
answered, quickly. His words had made
her colour come. He had never spoken to
her before with anything so nearly approaching
to anger. "I am not preparing
to meet her in any spirit that is unkind;
you do not understand," she said.

** Then why do you speak of her not liking
you ? What will she have to forgive in
you ? Do you not suppose that her affection
for me will make her eager to find a

sister in the woman I have married? You
are less generous than she is, Sydney, if you
doubt it."

Some words rose to Sydney's lips, but she
did not utter them. She could not bear to
say what was the truth,  that it was not because
she had become her brother's wife
that she thought Mrs. Walkinshaw would
not forgive her, but because she had become
his wife without caring for him. If he did
not understand this, how could she say it ?
Long ago she had told him plainly enough
that she did not love him, but she had very
rarely put into bald words since she had
married him what it had become so bitter to
her to allow.

The were both silent for a little while,
and then  because he was vexed perhaps
that she had not answered him,

You are not generous, Sydney," he
repeated.

This stirred her; she thought he was
unjust.

You say I am not generous, though I
tell you that you do not understand me,"
she said, quickly. " There is no want of
generosity in my fearing that she will not
forgive me for not caring more for you.
That is what I mean. She loves you, and
she will think  and she will be right to
think  that I ought to love you too. If I
were in her place, I know I could not
forgive the woman who had married my
brother  as I married you."

"Oh, it is that you mean," he replied,
quietly. " But you are not obliged to tell
her about that, you know."

Do you suppose that she could live in
the house with us and not find it out?"
Sydney answered, sadly.

And then all at once she repented of the
bitterness with which she had spoken, and,

"I think it is hard for you  indeed,
indeed I do," she said, earnestly,  'for you
see it is true, as I told you long ago, that to
have me here is like having a dead woman
under your roof. Think of everything you
have done for me,  and for it all I have
given you back  nothing !"

She stopped, with a break in her voice,
but he made no answer to her, and after a
minute's pause she went on again. She had
begun to speak, and now it seemed as if, for
the moment, she had not self-control enough
to remain silent.

*' You suppose that I can keep the truth
from your sister when she comes. How
can I keep it from her ? Do you think she
can be with us for one day and not begin to
see it? That is what makes me afraid of
her. One may deceive strangers  possibly,
but how can one deceive the people of one's
own family ? She will come here expecting

to find that I love you,  and think what
she will find instead !"

Suppose it were a year ago again,
Sydney "

He had not begun to speak at once, and,,
when he did begin, it seemed scarcely in
answer to what she had said.

'' Suppose it were a year ago again,
Sydney, and you had still the choice of
marrying me or not marrying me, would
you decide differently now from how you
did?"

She gave a momentary troubled glance at
him ; then her colour rose, and she hesitated.


I was almost forced to marry you," she
said. 'You talk of choice  when I had
almost none."

''If, when you weighed the gain in
marrying me against the loss, you had not
recognised that the gain made the scale go

down, you would have found, I think, that
you had quite power of choice enough left
to have said * No ' to me."

"That may be," she replied, faintly.

*'So sou did find that the gain was in the
heaviest scale ?"

"I suppose so," she said.

"And at present do you think differently?"


And then, when she did not answer his
question at once, he repeated it.

Do you think differently now ? Has
the gain been less than you expected ?"

"You know it has not," she answered,
quickly. For a moment a look almost of
warmth came to her face. "You have
done more for us than I could ever have
asked you to do. I have never told you 
you know I have never told you  that  I
repent."

"So then the sacrifice has at least not

been harder to you than you were prepared
to find it? Is not that what you let me
conclude? These bitter words of yours,
Sydney  they only mean that your lot has
not yet begun to grow any sweeter to you ?
You do not want me to believe that it is
becoming harder? Suppose it only rested
with you to decide, could you tell me that,
after to-night, you would be glad to think
we should never sit here together again ?"

She made a sudden, involuntary movement
; her lips gave a little sound of frightened,
sharp remonstrance ; she flushed allover.


You should not ask me that !" she
ejaculated, hurriedly. And then, after a
few moments, " How do you think I could
say such a thing,  when, whatever is wrong
between us  still, at any rate, you are my
husband r" she exclaimed, with a quiver in
her voice.

*' Ah ! I am glad you recognize that there
is something in that," he quietly answered.
And then the next moment he laughed,
and, " You are not in a happy mood tonight,"
he told her, frankly. "You have
been conjuring up ghosts to frighten yourself
with. Come, Sydney, try to forget that
nonsense about Helen. Don't talk as if
we lived together like two people in a
tragedy."

*' I do not mean to do that," she said,
deprecatingly.

Well  what is all this that Helen has
to discover ? She will see that there is
more love on my side than on yours. That
is the whole. I have married you, and I
have still got to make you care for me. I
suppose she will find out that ; I suppose
she must find it out ; but do not, when I
ask you  do not begin to fancy that, because
she sees this, her affection for me will

make her dislike you. Her affection forme,
I hope and trust, is strong enough to
make her have only one wish with regard
to you  strong enough to make her desire
to find you everything that I have told her
you are."

And then Sydney made no answer, but
she was touched a little, almost in spite of
herself; her husband's impatient dismissal
of her morbid fears inspired her with at
least a momentary re-assurance ; she felt
that the way in which he looked at the
matter  even though he might be blind to
some things that she saw  was wholesome
than hers.

"He only partly understands," she
thought to herself,  "but still, at any rate,
I can try to do my best. I know that, for
his sake, I ought to do my best. If I could
be able afterwards to feel, should things go
wrong (for I am afraid they will go wrong I),

that at least it was not my fault, that will
be a great thing. It will all be harder than
he thinks  for he does not know what
women are,  but at least I will do what I
can to begin well."

And so she made up her mind to do this,
and was altogether the better for her scolding.
Nor did she like her husband the less
for it. '* He would please me better sometimes
by scolding me than by humouring
me," she even told herself, conscious of
something invigorating in the latter process
whereas the other only wearied her.

CHAPTER VIII.

TTIOR two days before the arrival of Mrs.
-*- Walkinshaw, Sydney was left alone at
the Hall, for Mr. Loudoun went to Southampton
to meet his sister. It was April by
this time, with sunny skies overhead, and
the young leaves bursting ; and she made
the most of her liberty. " I may do what I
like all day," she thought to herself, with an
almost childish feeling of delight. She had
no husband to trammel her, no mask to
wear : she was her own mistress, and to be
her own mistress during those two days
seemed very sweet to her. When Mr.
Loudoun came back and asked her if she

VOL. II. Q

had been happy without him, she frankly
answered, '' Yes," even before Mrs. Walkinshaw
; but she answered with a laugh,
and with a quick, girlish rising of her colour,
that for a moment took the other woman
in.

Sydney had exchanged her first greetings
with Helen before her husband put this inquiry
to her. Feeling in reality nervous
enough, but yet contriving fairly well to
conceal the fact that she was nervous, she
had gone to the hall door when she saw
the carriage in the avenue, and on the doorstep
the two ladies had met and embraced
one another.

*' I am so glad I am so glad to see you !"
Helen exclaimed, and kissed Sydney, and
half drew back to look at her, and then
kissed her again. ''My dear young sister,"
she said, cordially. And then, when she
had smiled upon her for another moment,

* And here is Netty," she said, holding
out her hand to a pretty, demure-looking
little maiden, whom Sydney also forthwith
saluted. " Jetty has been so eager to see
her new aunt."

Mr. Loudoun came up and put his hand
on his wife's shoulder before the other
greetings were concluded.

' Well, I have brought them safely, you
see," he said.

He looked very happy, Sydney thought.

"I am very glad," she said, half shyly.

They were all more ready to talk than she
was. Mrs.Walkinshaw's tongue, in particular,
ran on almost without ceasing. She was very
lovely, Sydney thought,  one of those golden-haired
women who, if they keep their
health, often keep their youth too for a longtime.


"It is almost too delightful for me to be
with Horace again," she was saying, before

q2

Sydney had conducted her more than halfway
up the stairs. " You know he and T
are such friends. I have been looking
forward so to this coming to England,  and,
above all, since I heard of yoii'' with a
bright look into her sister-in-law's face.
''My dear, you do not know  literally, I
cannot tell you  how thankful I am to have
you here. Ah, and here are the old rooms
again ! Are these going to be ours ? How
pretty you have made them ! Netty, is it
not all nice ? Is not the new aunt kind
and good to us ?"

She turned to Sydney, and kissed her
once more. Her manner was very impulsive,
and perhaps a little overflowing, but
even Sydney, who to a certain extent was
suspicious of her, felt something of the
contagion of its warmth ; there was a brightness
and a friendliness both in her face and

in her voice that touched the younger and
graver woman;

'rit is very pleasant to have you both
here, and  Horace will be so glad," she
said, with her tongue faltering a little over
that word that still came from it so reluctantly.


' Yes, I am sure he will be  I am sure
he is, in fact," exclaimed Mrs. Walkinshaw,
laughing. "Horace seems to me just now
to be at the height of felicity. But I am
sure dear old fellow  I don't grudge him
any of his happiness. You can't think how
miserable I used to be about him while he
was living here all by himself. Was it not
dreary for him in those days ? You used
to see him then  did you not ? You know
how sad it was for him after mamma
died?"

"Yes he missed her terribly," Sydney
said.

'' Until he fell in love with you !" And
then Mrs. Walkinshaw laughed merrily
again. *' What a good thing it was for him
that he fell in love with you ! My dear, I
thought he was never going to marry, and I
used to be so angry with him. Just think 
1 was married sixteen years ago ! But, if I
was angry before, it is all the better for me
now, for you don't know how much I like
to have such a dear young sister. You are
not a bit too young for Horace ; I hope
nobody ever tells you that you are ? I do
so like people to be young. And so does
Netty  don t you, child ? Don't you like to
find auntie so nice and young?"

"Yes, I do," answered Netty solemnly.
And then, with the eyes both of mother
and child upon her, Sydney coloured and
laughed.

They spent an evening that made a
curious contrast to the evenings that Mr.

Loudoun and Sydney were accustomed
usually to spend together. Mrs. Walsingham
was full of life and brightness. She
talked all night, in a soft, sweet voice,  a
voice that was pleasant to listen to, Sydney
thought,  it was so liquid and musical.
Sydney had been half afraid beforehand
that she should find her sister-in-law overpowering
; but it was not so. Mrs. Walsingham
passively, but her liveliness was mental,
not physical; in manner and tone and
gesture she was always quiet.

Mr. Loudoun and Sydne} used to dine,
when they were alone, at a small table
placed at one end of the dining-room, and
they sat there to-night  a littiepartie quarrel,
for, in honour of their arrival, Netty too, on
this first evening, was allowed to take her
place with the other three. She was a
serious and rather quaint-looking little child,
who sat silent except when she was spoken

to, but when addressed answered in a grave
collected way that seemed to give evidence
of a nature guiltless of any touch of shyness.
She was eight, but she was small for her
age.

She has got all her growing to do yet,"
her mother said of her. " I am afraid I
ought to have brought her home sooner, but
Dick was so terribly against it,  and then
while we lived up the hills it hardly seemed
a necessity. She has always been very well,
though she is so small,  and she has a very
fair notion of romping," she added, mischievously,
'' though to look at her now you
would hardly think it."

Oh, I can believe most things of little
people with inscrutable faces like Netty's,"
Mr. Loudoun answered, jestingly; and then
Netty looked at her uncle severely, but,
scorning to ask for any explanation, laid up
what he had said in her memory, to be

meditated on and interpreted at some more
convenient season.

When dinner was ended, Netty went to
bed, but the other three sat together in the
drawing-room and talked for all the remainder
of the evening. Once for a little
while Sydney absented herself; it seemed
to her that the brother and sister must have
so much to say to one another that they
could say more easily if she were away ;
but when, after half an hour, she returned,
she found Mr. Loudoun on his feet, and, the
moment she appeared,

"Where have you been?" he asked. " I
was just coming to look for you," and he
went towards her, with his hand extended,
and drew her to his side.

I was only in the library," she said.
I  had a note to write."

'what note are you sending away tonight
?" he asked.

Oh ! I am not sending anything away.
It was only the answer to Mrs. Warren."

Well, you need not have written that
until tomorrow. Need you ?"

'N-o." *

'then why did you do it?"

He looked at her laughingly ; but she
saw that he knew why she had done it, and
so she coloured a little, though she let herself
give a moment's laugh too.

Only because I wished," she said.

And then she released herself from his
arm and sat down. There was a half
appealing, half annoyed look in her face.
Mrs. Walkinshaw, sitting opposite, and taking
note both of look and gesture, made her
own comments on what she saw.

*' If this is shyness, it is rather odd  in a
woman who has been married more than
six months," she thought. And she was
still watching her sister-in-law when Sydney's

eyes suddenly met hers, and, at the
instant of meeting, flashed into a look that
the other did not understand. '' I wonder
if she cares for him !" Helen thought, involuntarily,
 yet not, even already, for the
first time.

She was a woman, however, who was far
too much mistress of herself to give any
sign when she saw things that puzzled her ;
like Netty, she merely stored them up for
future investigation and solution. In two
or three moments, after that glance of Sydney's,
she was talking again in her former
unconstrained, genial tone, as if life had
neither mysteries nor troubles for her.

She talked for a long while after this, 
about a hundred different things, and Sydney
was amused, and sometimes interested. She
sat and worked, and the other two did
nothing.

You are very industrious, my dears

Mrs. Walkinshaw said once to her. " Now,

I am never industrious  in that way, at
least ; I never sew. I love to sit, you see,
like a man, with my hands before me."

** I don't know that my sewing amounts
to much'' Sydney replied, a little guiltily
conscious that she took up her work for the
most part merely as an excuse for escaping
from her husband.

"No  I don't suppose it does," Mrs.
Walkinshaw instantly assented. "You are
making lace, I see,  and all the lace you
are likely to make in a year you could buy,
I imagine, for five pounds. However, I
agree with you so far that 1 think all women
should be able to work. I can work
very well myself  when lam obliged,  and
I am teaching Netty to do it too. I don't display
my idleness, you know, before Netty.
She is much too sharp to make that desirable
!" she added, with a laugh.

She sat all the evening placidly reposing
in her arm-chair ; but in spite of that, and
in spite of what she said, there was nothing
in her look that suggested customary indolence
or want of energy. On the contrary,
she was idle merely because for the moment
she chose to be idle, not because she was
either lazy or weary.

Till eleven o'clock she kept her seat and
talked quietly, yet with a spirit that never
flagged. "Now I am going to bed," she
said at last. " Have I tired you both out?
I am almost afraid I have."

It is very delightful to have you here
Helen," Mr. Loudoun told her, warmly, when
he bade her good night.

'rand it is very delightful to me to he
here," she answered. *'I mean to be as
happy as the days are long. And Sydney
will help me, won't you?" she said
to her. " Sydney and I must do all

kinds of little pleasant things together."

She smiled and looked into the other's
eyes as she lifted up her face to kiss her.
Mrs. Walkinshaw had blue eyes that were
very soft, but yet very penetrating. You
thought them open and sweet as a child's
when you looked at them first ; afterwards
you might perhaps come to wonder how
much lay concealed in the depths of their
clear azure.

Do you like her, Sydney ?" Mr. Lou-down
asked his wife almost as soon as they
were alone, and Sydney, with a very fair
amount of cordiality, answered '' Yes."

Yes, she is very charming. She is so
pretty and so clever," she said.

And you see now," he exclaimed, ** that
there is nothing to be afraid of in her ?"

But to that question Sydney was not prepared
with so ready an assent.

She has given me no reason, certainly,

to be afraid of her. She has been very
cordial and kind," she could merely answer.

"Yes, she is always kind. You will
never find her anything else. Of course
she varies a little sometimes, but of her real
warm-heartiness,  of her real sweetness
of nature,  you need never have a doubt''

I can believe that she must be very
loveable," Sydney said. And she spoke
honestly, for a score of times already tonight
she had contrasted herself with Helen,
and wondered each time afresh how the man
who was Helen's brother could ever have
cared to marry her. "I may have qualities
in me that are not worse than hers," she
thought,  but as I am now, outwardly  as I
have been for such a long time  how can
there be any comparison between us ?" And
then, as she had glanced at her husband's
face, and" seen its brightness and content
while he listened to his sister's talk, she had

been sorry for him. " I think he will awake
some day, and find out the mistake he has
made' she sat thinking to herself. " There is
no limit to the mistakes that it is possible to
make when people marry. He is in love with
me yet, I suppose, so he cannot see me as I
am ; but he will come to see me as I am
sooner or later, and then he will find out
that, for a man who has been used to Helen,
it is a dreary thing to be bound to me." She
had been thinking this as Mrs. Walkinshaw
sat talking, with the clear, soft voice sounding
in her ears as an accompaniment to her
thoughts.

Yes, I can believe she is very loveable,"
she said now. And then, next moment
she looked in his face, and with a sudden
generous impulse  " I am glad you are so
fond of her," she added, quickly. *' 1 only
make you dull, I know, and she will help to
brighten everything  for us both perhaps."

*'No doubt she will bring more life into
the house," he answered, readily. " But as
for the rest," he instantly added, '* how
often am I to tell you that when I have you
beside me I want nothing else ? Even
to-night, glad as I have been to see Helen
here, do you think it has been no loss to me
not to have you alone to myself?"

She turned from him without answering ;
it seemed to her that he Alas past arguing
with. Alone!  to himself! She went away,
repeating the words to herself silently, and
sadly wondering at them. This thing that
seemed to him so sweet was the very thing
she shrank from most ; he always wanted
to be alone with her, and she never wanted
to be alone with him. She said again as
she often said  " God help me 1" It seemed
so hard to her sometimes that the hand
that gave everything that might make
life kind and sweet should be the one from

VOL. II. R

which she could take no kind thing gladly.
"Is it my fault?" she had asked herself a
thousand times, and a thousand times already
she had answered sadly that she did not
know.

CHAPTER IX.

'' T REMEMBER seeing you just once,"
-- Mrs. Walkinshaw said next morning
to Sydney. '' I don't know how old you
were then, but ray impression is that you
were a very small creature. Mamma and I
had been calling at Broadbelt. and when we
were going away we met you in the garden,
and you had a big sun-bonnet on that I
thought looked like a coal scuttle. I daresay
it was a very sensible bonnet, but it was
not very pretty, and I (who was foolish in
those days) laughed at it. That was the
only meeting with you that I recollect.
What an unimportant little soul you seemed

to me at that time ! Think what 1 should
have felt  what a reaction there would have
been  if anyone could have told me then
that you would be Horace's wife !"

'eyes, it was unlikely enough in those
days,  and for a very long time afterwards,"
Sydney answered.

Mrs. Walkinshaw had pinned Sydney at
her side. She intended to have a talk with
her sister-in-law, and so she had tenderly
drawn her down to a seat on her sofa, and
was sitting close beside her, holding her
hand. Sydney might desire to escape, but
she could not escape  unless by breaking
away with a rudeness that she felt it would
be impossible to attempt.

** I don't know when he first began to be
in love with you," Mrs. Walkinshaw went
on.  Re says he was in love with you
always  doesn't he? But men are so
absurd. I never believe their accounts of

such things. Now, tuas he always in love
with you ? Did you think he was ?"

"No, it was the last thing I should have
thought.  Don't you feel the room a little
warm ? Shall I open one of the windows ?"
Sydney asked, nervously, and making a
feeble effort to free her fingers. But Mrs.
Walkinshaw only clasped them with increased
tenderness.

'* My dear, I like the room to be warm,"
she said. "I think we are as comfortable
as possible.  So it was a surprise to you ?
Really and truly a surprise ?"

Yes," Sydney said. She would not look
at the blue eyes that were so softly but
keenly looking at her.

*' And you did not accept him at first?
What a naughty girl you were not to accept
him ! Only I daresay it was more his own
fault than yours. Men have so little tact.
They will offer themselves to you sometimes

as if they were discharging a pistol at your
head. Now Horace has all the virtues
under heaven, and yet I believe he would
be quite capable of doing a thing like that.
Tell me, dear  did he frighten you ?"

"I had never thought of marrying him.
I had never thought he cared for me. That
was all," Sydney said, hurriedly.

*' And I think that was quite enough,"
returned Mrs. Walkinshaw, in a tone of
hearty approval. " If he had never let you
see he was fond of you, of course it was
not likely that you would accept him.
Poor old fellow, though !  for I daresay it
was hard enough for him. He never let me
know anything about it, Sydney, till it all
came right. Then he told me for the first
time that he had wanted you long ago."

Mrs. Walkinshaw sat silent for a few
moments, but she retained her clasp on
Sydney's hand.

* Was very glad when he told me," she
said, after that pause. ' Of course I thought
at first with a little wonder of you being
that small creature in the coalscuttle
bonnet ; it did seem almost like a joke, 
and very strange at first to believe that
Horace's wife could belong almost to another
generation than ours. But, my dear, I am
not sorry about that now. I am glad that
you are so young. It almost makes me feel
as if life were near its beginning still for all
of us,  and, do you know  I like that. I
suppose I shouldn't like it, but I do. I
like to think that I am not grown old yet.
You have a pretty kind of matronliness
about you that, now I have seen you,
makes it seem to me quite natural that
you should be the wife of a man as old as
Horace. Your face is so sweet and young,
and yet you have a certain suitable staid ness
and dignity."

You are very good to be content with
me"' Sydney said, with a curious kind of
wistfulness and even pain in her tone.

'' Well, I don't think I am very good.
T think you look very nice, and I tell you
so,  and I know that Horace loves you, and
that makes me want to love you too. He is
the natural link between us two, you
now.

Yes," Sydney said, faintly.

** And so for his sake you must try to
give a little affection to me."

"I hope to give more than a little to
you."

"Well, I will take all I can get. I like
people to be fond of me. And I don't
think any love you give me will make you
care less for Horace ?"

'* Oh, no,"  almost with a shudder.

The poor soul felt so miserably guilty.
She made another feeble effort to free her

hand, but Mrs. Walkinshaw, with inexorable
sweetness, still kept it firmly clasped.

** We three ought to hold fast together.
You don't know what that brother of mine
has been to me, Sydney. In old days,
when I was a girl, he was all the world tome.
Of course that time passed : I married
and formed other ties ; but all my life he
has stood apart for me from everybody
else. Next to my husband, I have turned
to him in every joy and every trouble ;
when I was a girl, I had not a secret from
him, and I have hardly a secret from him
even yet. No sister ever had in a brother
a truer friend,  one who was kinder, or
more unselfish, or more tender. Perhaps
you will laugh at me for telling you this ?"
and half laughing herself, though with the
tears in her eyes, Mrs. Walkinshaw looked
suddenly up into Sydney's face. "You
may think perhaps that you don't need any

other woman to tell you about your husband
?  but remember, my dear, you have
only lived with him for a few months, and
I lived with him for twenty years."

' Yes, I know," Sydney said. And then
there was a little pause before she forced
herself to add, " But / knew him too for a
long time before I married him."

Ah, my dear, the knowledge that one
has of people who have no close connection
with us counts for very little. You knew
him, no doubt, but yet what did you really
know about him ? Can you even almost
believe now that the Horace Loudoun who
is your husband is the same Horace Lou-down
who was merely an ordinary friend
two years ago ? Sydney, you never know
people till they stand in intimate relations
to you : it is not possible ; you don't know
even your lover till long after you have
married him."

'' No, I suppose not," Sydney said, softly.
She was thinking as she spoke ; she did not
notice, for the moment, that the other
woman was watching her.

'' I could tell you many things about
Horace that you don't know yet,  but then
I don't see that there would be any use in
doing it. No two pairs of eyes, you know,
see in the same way. Even the person we
both love, you and I might judge of differently,
 and you would not be likely to
accept my account of Horace  any more
perhaps than I would take yours. Though
I have enough curiosity in me," she all at
once exclaimed, '* to wonder at this moment
with all my heart what you think of him !"

She broke into such a genuine, sudden
laugh at these last words that even Sydney
could not look quite grave, though the
colour had come hotly into her face. For
the mere thought of describing her impressions

of Mr. Loudoun to Mrs. Walkinshaw
made her flush with a painful and altogether
indescribable mixture of emotions.

' Do you think any woman could tell
what she thought of her husband, even if
she tried to do it?" she answered, nervously.
"I do not suppose that I know Mr.
Loudoun yet. I have learnt much, of
course, in these six months that I did not
know before." And then she paused ; but
after a moment, with an effort, she forced
herself to add, " And I have grown to trust
in his goodness more even than I ever did."

It was not much to say, perhaps, yet she
found the words so hard to utter that they
left her lips quivering. The tears sprang
too to her eyes. With a hurried movement,
feeling as if she could bear no more,
she got her hand released at last from Mrs.
Walkinshaw, and rose up. Her emotion was
visible and unmistakable; what caused it

perhaps was not so clear, though Helen, as
she looked at her, betrayed no surprise.

'* Yes, you nay trust him : he is a man to
be trusted," she merely said, as she too rose
from her seat. The soft voice had gained a
little clear ring, and Sydney, if she had looked,
might have seen a sparkle in the blue
eyes. But  poor soul  she was not thinking
of looking at Mrs. Walkinshaw's eyes,
nor of anything but merely of getting away
from her.

'were you and Horace not going out?"
she asked her, abruptly. *' We are staying
talking here, and he may be waiting for
you. Shall I go and see?  or will you
come to him ?"

Oh, I will come when 1 am ready.
Horace is used to waiting for me," Mrs.
Walkinshaw answered, laughing. " My
dear, it does them good to make them curb
their impatience a little. If you fly to

meet a man whenever he is ready for you,
don't you know that he will be in danger
before long of treating you like a tyrant ?"

Sydney tried to laugh. " Will he ?" she
said. She thought to herself that obedience
was about all she had to give her husband.
She could do what he told her without much
effort. When he said " Come," she came.
But his sister, because she loved him, could
try his patience without a fear of the result.

She left Mrs. Walkinshaw and Mr. Lou-down
to arrange about their walk without
her help. They started together presently,
and then Sydney went into the garden,
where, under one of the trees, Netty was
playing contentedly in the sunshine. Netty
had some wonderful Indian toys,  an elaborately
carved elephant, a strange bird, with
brilliant colours in its plumage,  some
ingenious puzzles that Sydney could not

find out. The child came to her side, and
began gravely to teach her the secret of
them. She was a quaint little soul, with a
grave, old-fashioned way of speaking.

Indian people are very clever," she said.
Mamma says they can do all kinds of
things that nobody can do here. I don't
suppose I shall like England very much,"
and she gave a sigh.

But we are not all stupid here," Sydney
endeavoured to explain. " We can do a few
things too. And you are a little English girl,
so it would never do for you not to like your
own country. You know you were born
here."

Yes, but I don't remember it," retorted
Netty.

' There are ever so many things we don't
remember. You would hardly remember,
perhaps, if you went away again tomorrow,

that you had seen your uncle Horace and
me,  but you would have seen us all the
same."

'' Hem !" said Netty, dubiously.

"And as for not liking England, I think
you are quite wrong there. You don't
know what a nice place it is."

*tell me how it's nice," demanded Netty,
solemnly.

And then Sydney proceeded with gravity
to enumerate some of the attractions of her
native land.

When she came to make the remark that
there was no limit to the number of little
boys and girls in England, Netty, who had
seemed till then to yield only a reluctant
assent to her remarks, pricked up her
ears.

' That is a nice thing," she said.

*eyes, I thought you would say so," Sydney
replied.

*' In India there are hardly any little boys
and girls."

"I know there are not. They are
obliged to send them all here for us to take
care of."

If there are so many, I should like to
play with some of them," said Netty.

I hope to get some to play with you
very soon. I know one little boy," Sydney
answered, " that I could take you to play
with this moment, if you liked."

"Could you?" asked Netty, with the
light beginning to come into her eyes.

Yes, a very nice little boy ; only you
would have to be gentle and kind to him,
because he is not well."

'' Oh !" said Netty, in rather an altered
tone, and looking a good deal less eager for
his acquaintance.

"He has had an accident and he can't
walk."

YOh. II. S

' Has he lost his legs ?" asked Nettle
bluntly.

No, but his back is weak, and he has to
be drawn about on a little sofa."

Netty meditated a little, and then said, " I
shouldn't like that" in an accent betokening
considerable disgust.

"No, I have no doubt you wouldn't like
it," Sydney assented, '* and you may be sure
poor Bertie does not like it either, though he
bears it very patiently. Shall I tell you how
it was that he became ill ? He was at school,
and one day he and one of his schoolfellows
were climbing a tree together, and the other
boy vas rather rough, and when they were
both a good way up, because Bertie was ahead
of him, he caught one of his legs and tried
to pull him back. He didn't mean really todo
him any harm, you know, but poor Bertie
lost his balance and fell. And ever
since that he has had to lie down, and sometimes

he suffers a great deal of pain, and
he can't walk, and perhaps he will never
walk again."

"And what became of the nasty boy?"
asked Netty, after two or three moments of
silence, during which she had kept her eyes
fixed solemnly on Sydney's face.

'* Nothing particular became of him," Sydney
said. " I think he was very sorry."

I should have liked to have done something
to him," ejaculated Netty, slowly.

Then sou would not have been nearly
as good as Bertie, for he never wanted todo
anything to him. He knew it was only
an accident, and that the boy had not meant
to hurt him."

This lenient view of the matter did not
seem quite to approve itself to Netty ; she
pondered it a little with her brows knitted,
and her lips close set. She was an odd little
creature, Sydney thought to herself, watches
2

ing her, and trying to follow the movements
of her mind.

Well, now, should you like to see Bertie
?" she asked, after a moment's silence.

Netty roused herself from her revengeful
reflections, and raised her eyes a little
doubtfully.

Does he look  horrid ?" she asked, with
evident shrinking.

*' What  Bertie ?" exclaimed Sydney
laughing. "No: he is an extremely pretty
little boy. Yv'hy should he look horrid"'

I thought he might be cut, you know 
about his face," explained Netty.

"Oh, no  his face is as free from cuts as
yours is."

*then I should like to see him. I'll go
and get dressed*' said Netty with decision,
and promptly made ber way into the house.

In a few minutes she had started on her
walk by Sydney's side. She asked many

questions as they went along under the budding
trees, upon a variety of subjects : but
when they reached the house which was
their destination, and found the child whom
they had come to visit stretched on his invalid
bed in the verandah, Netty became seized
with sudden shyness, and, as Sydney stooped
down to greet the little lad, hid all that she
could of herself behind her aunt.

Bertie's mother  a Mrs. Crampton  came
out of the house after a little while, and
Sydney went indoors with her, and left the
two children together. She thought, from
even the little experience she had had yet
of her, that Netty would find her tongue
best if she were thrown upon her own resources
; and she was right, for before a
quarter of an hour had passed the two
children were in a full flow of conversation.
Mrs. Crampton and Sydney heard the
sound of their voices through the open parlour

window, and laughed at it. Bertie
indeed was apparently not saying much, but
Netty was holding forth with the utmost
eloquence.

*' She is a quaint little thing," Sydney said.
"I think that Bertie and she may perhaps
amuse one another  and I knew you would
let me bring her to see him."

Mrs. Crampton was an old acquaintance
of the Godwinss'  a gentle and rather heavily
burdened woman, to whom Sydney, in these
days of her worldly prosperity, in many ways
pleased herself by being kind.

Netty talked largely, and was reluctant,
even at an hour's end, to take her departure.
Sydney found her full of animation when
she rejoined her, and Bertie also looked
bright, though a little flushed. In fact
Bertie had been submitted to a cross examination
by his new friend which, though

evincing no doubt a large amount of interest
in his condition, might still naturally perhaps
to some extent have proved embarrassing to
him.

She had perched herself on the foot of
his bed, and from that convenient position
had fixed her eyes upon him, and asked him
a number of the frankest questions. There
had been a little pause, after some preliminary
and disjointed conversation, and then
having, as it were, found her footing, and
established herself at ease, she began.

I suppose you feel  as if you were  all
tumbling to pieces ?" she said.

"No, I don't," he answered, rather aggrieved.
'' It isn't so bad as that."

"Isn't it?" returned Netty, a little disappointed.
" Can you move your legs ?"

Yes," said Bertie, quickly.
 '* I thought perhaps you couldn't move
anything ?"

Why, it's only my back," said Bertie,
deprecatingly.

Oh, tliafs it all is it?" inquired Netty,
and she spoke a little contemptuously, and as
if she felt that she had been rather taken
in. ''I thought it was your legs as
well ?"

No, it isn't ; my legs are all right," retorted
Bertie, with some indignation.

'then couldn't you get on them, if
you tried ? You could, if somebody held
you up, I should think ?"

'' What would be the good of that ?" said
Bertie, still indignant. " If you can't keep
your back up, what's the good of your

legs r

This question for the moment seemed to
pose Netty. She knitted her brows, and
looked at her victim very hard.

I should think something might be done

for you with boards," she said at last, in a
very distinct voice.

Bertie gave her a frightened glance, but
made no answer. So Netty perceived that
a little more explanation was necessary.

I've done up a doll that way," she said.
*' I had a doll once that doubled in two,
because her bran had come out, and I tied
her up with a bit of stick, and then she was
all right."

Poor Bertie's lip began to quiver.

But Im not a doll !" he said, plaintively.
'' I wish you wouldn't go on like that. I wish
you would talk about something else !"
And the tears began to come to the poor
little lad's eyes.

It seemed curious to Netty ; but she was
quite good-natured.

Oh, I'll talk about anything you like,"
she said, readily. And so then she fell to

telling Bertie about India, and the conversation
proceeded after that quite harmoniously.


I'll come and see you very soon again 
shall I?" she asked, cordially, when she was
forced to leave her companion at last, and
Bertie, with a fair amount of warmth on his
side too, answered " Yes."

They met Helen and Mr. Loudoun on the
road presently, and all walked home together.


' Oh, mamma, Aunt Sydney has taken
me to see such a dear little boy !" Netty exclaimed,
with enthusiasm, and began volubly
to relate her morning's adventures to Mrs.
AYalkinshaw ; but Mr. Loudoun took possession
of Sydney, and kept her a few paces
behind the other two.

Sydney gave a little sigh, and submitted.
Was it not hard for her that always when
she was away from her husband she felt as

if lie were free, and when her husband was
with her as if she were bound ? He kept herby
his side now, and talked to her ; and she
would gladly have gone away from him, if
she could.

CHAPTER X.

'TT grace;' said Mrs. Walkinshaw,
-*  abruptly, one day to Mr. Loudoun,
' why does not your wife care for you more ?"
It was a pretty daring question for a man
to be asked even by his favourite sister ; but
then Helen was a woman who was never
stopped from doing anything she wished todo
from want of courage. She had kept
her eyes open in her brother's house for a
week, and in the course of that week she
had come to have a fairly clear comprehension
of the state of feeling between him and
Sydney, "He is driving her wild ; and she
is eating out her heart," she said shrewdly,

to herself. "She provokes me, I must confess.
I think, after all he has done for her,
it is hard that she should not feel differently
to him ; but, upon my word, the way in
which he goes on, upon his side, is enough to
try a saint !" And so having watched the
pair for eight days, and longed in those eight
days a hundred times to interpose between
them, she at last one morning relieved her
mind by suddenly and plainly putting this
crucial question to her brother.

He and she had gone out together after
breakfast. They had only gone into the
grounds, but she had withdrawn him to
some distance from the house, and had
made him take his position beside her on a
garden-seat. The place was sheltered and
sunny, and Helen was cosily wrapped in
one of her soft Indian shawls. She was a
little woman who loved luxury and personal
comfort, and whose energy (though she had

plenty of it) never so far carried her away
as to make her indifferent to times and
seasons.

She and her brother had been talking for
half an hour on ordinary matters. Then
she let a little pause come between them ;
and presently, without preparation of any
kind, she broke that pause with the inquiry
that I have written above.

"Horace," she said, turning to him and
looking him directly in the face, "why does
not your wife care for you more ?"

He was not a nervous man, but she shot
her arrow so suddenly that she saw him
wince. He changed countenance for a
moment, though his voice was sufficiently
composed when, after only the slightest
pause, he answered,

What makes you put such a question tome
?"

"How can I help putting it?" she returned,

instantly. " It has been upon my
lips almost ever since I came. How can
anyone live here and fail to see how little
affection she shows for you? The fact is
too patent to be hidden. She does not
regard you as a wife ought to regard her
husband."

Do you not think, Helen," he said,
'' that this is a subject upon which you
would do better to be silent until I invite
your confidence ?"

He spoke coldly ; but she, on his reply,
flashed in a moment into sudden warmth
and tenderness.

No  I do not think so ! No  you
must not speak like that to me !" she entreated.
" I am your own sister, Horace 
the woman who loves you better than any
other woman does in the world. Do you
think I want to make division between you
and Sydney ? God forbid ! I am not

Sydney's enemy. I asked you what I did
just now only because it seems to me that
you are doing mischief without knowing it,
and because I see what you do not. I ask
you why she does not love you better, and
you cannot tell me. You do not know for
your part  but I know ; I can see things to
which you are blind."

'' What do you think you can see ?" he
asked, after a moment's silence.

Impulsively as she had seemed to speak,
she had had art enough to use words that
roused his interest. In spite of his previous
suggestion that she should hold her peace,
his present inquiry was no more at any rate
than Helen had expected.

I can see how you try her with your
perpetual demands upon her," she said at
once. " She is often weary of being with
you, and yet you never leave her alone ;
you load her with your devotion till she

does not know how to bear it. Why, one
would think you supposed a woman liked
to be oppressed!  or that you imagined
you could get your wife to love you by
making her feel as if you were her gaoler !"

You seem to me to be using strong
language," he said.

I am not using language a bit too
strong, you pursue her  you leave her no
liberty. You give her too much of yourself.
If she does not love you, do you
think she wants to have you always at her
side? You have bound her to you; and,
now that she is bound, you make her afraid
of you."

There was a little silence. He was evidently
half disinclined to prolong her talk 
perhaps even more than half disinclined to
give any confidence on his side ; but yet,
after a minute, he yielded to the temptation
of saying something.

VOL. II. T

"Sydney knows," be began, gravely,
that there is nothing in the world I would
not do for ber  that sbe could not express
a wish I would not try to gratify."

'' Very likely," replied Helen, instantly ;
but that bas nothing to do with it. She
may be quite aware that ber imprisonment
is a very luxurious one,  but, if a woman
does not love the man wbo Ijeeps ber
prisoner, all the luxuries in the world would
be less sweet to ber than a dry crust and
liberty."

And then again there was a pause, and in
the silence Mrs. Walkinsbaw wrapped ber
shawl a little closer round ber, for, in spite
of the sunshine, the April wind was a trifle
sharp.

Now, you see, Horace, it troubles me,"
she said, after a minute bad passed. 'concourse
I have come in these days to understand
what you did not tell me before. I

understand that you got her to marry you
without caring for you. Well  men will
go on being reckless enough to do these
things, and women will go on letting them
do them. I think it is wrong ; but I suppose,
as far as that is concerned, I may hold
my tongue. She is your wife now."

He gave a smile at that.

"Yes," he said, "thank God."

I don't know what is the use of your
thanking God," she retorted, instantly, " for
having given a woman into your hands
whom you are not able to make happy. You
have not had much in this matter to be
thankful for yet, it seems to me. And as
for her, poor soul  ! But, my dear," and
then she turned to him, and gravely put her
hand upon his arm, *' it is your own fault !
Can I not make you believe that it is your
own fault ? Horace, I am not a fool."

'* I know that," he said.

t2

"Then take my advice. Treat her differently.
You have tried your own plan
with her, and your plan, though you don't
choose to allow it, has failed ; now be content
to try mine. If it fails too, no harm
will have been done,  but try it, Horace.
You have shown her too much devotion; begin
to show her a little indifference. Believe
me that no woman on earth wants a surfeit of
what she does not love. If you wish to
make her care for your company, you will
never do that by forcing her to feel that it
is impossible to escape from it."

"Do you suppose that she married me
without being aware that she could not
escape from it ?" he asked, a little drily.

*' She could hardly have been aware, I
imagine, of the amount she would have of
it," Helen replied, without scruple.

And then he made no answer.

* You see, Horace,"  there had been another

little silence, and after that she began
to speak again. *' You see, there is a sort of
stubbornness in her. I don't say it unkindly
; but I mean she is not one of those soft
women who let themselves be moulded by
any hand that likes to touch them. There
is a certain gentle obstinacy in her. I
should imagine that she did not yield quickly
to new impressions,  that she was in most
things reluctant to be moved."

True ; she is very tenacious," he said.

Ah, yes,  tenacious ; that is the proper
word. And tenacity is  well, a valuable
quality in its right place ; only it makes a
person not very easy to deal with who has
much of it. I am afraid, for my taste, Sydney
has a little too much."

*she had better have too much than too
little. Sydney, as you say, may be hard to
change, but she is a woman whom, if you
win once, you win for ever."

*' Well, very probably Well, yes, I can
believe that. You must not think that I do
not like her, Horace : I do like her. I am
angry with her, of course,  you can't be surprised
that I am, for I think my brother
deserves to have his wife love him, and I
think you have done enough for her and
hers to win her love,  but I don't wonder
at you caring for her; I think she is a
woman that you might be desperately in
love with, if you ever began to be in love
with her at all. In fact these large, 
women have always a great
attraction for me. Sydney's movements
often make me think of a tamed lioness,
there is such a slow, stately grace about
them. Oh, no, I am going to talk no
heresy about her. I think, in her way, she
is a beautiful creature. But I am not in
charity with her : I don't pretend to be.
She is very nice to me and very sweet to

Netty, but I shall never take her to my
heart (I tell you that plainly) till she has
given her heart to you''

*' She will do that in time. You need
not be afraid," he said, confidently.

"She never will unless you pursue a
different course with her. You will never
in this world make a woman in love with
you by working her into a fever."

He made no answer for a few moments ;
then he said, quietly, " Is that what you
think I do to Sydney ?"

I know it is what you do. You are not
conscious, I suppose, of the effect you have
upon her, but there has not been a day
since I have been here that I have not seen
her fretted by you almost beyond bearing.
She has a good deal of self-control, 
perhaps it would be better if she had not,
but even you must see that she breaks down
sometimes. How could you fail last night

(only to take a single instance)  how could
you fail to understand what she meant when
she tried to keep you from going with her
to the village ? She wanted her walk alone,
and you would not let her take it alone. If
you would have given her what she wanted,
she would have been grateful to you ; she
would have come back the better for her
hour of solitude ; but, as it was, you forced
yourself upon her, and  I don't know if you
enjoyed your walk much, but I have a
pretty shrewd suspicion that she did not."

'* I think it is too cold for you, Helen.
There is north, I believe, in the wind," Mr.
Loudoun said, abruptly.

Does that mean that you are angry with
me?" she asked, quickly.

He had risen up, and she rose too. She
put her hand upon his arm.

*' You must not be angry, dear," she said,
earnestly. " I know I have been very bold

to speak to you, but you have always let me
be bold, and you have taken ray advice a
hundred times before this."

And so you think I must take it again
now?" He asked his question with a
laugh.

I think you ought at least to consider
very well whether or not it is worth
taking."

Well, I will promise so much as that,"
he said.

' You see, the very fact that / am not in
love with Sydney makes me able to see
things to which you are blind. Perhaps it
may be natural for you to think that you
can win her by devotion, but I feel that you
are more likely  now  to win her by
neglect. As for devotion, she has had a
surfeit of it."

"Where is she, do you think?" he
asked.

*what,  Sydney? At this moment?
Why, what does it matter ? Wherever she
is, she does not want you."

** No. But suppose I want her''

Then be content to want her. Exercise
a little self-denial. Leave her alone, and be
satisfied with me."

** But I have had you for the last hour,"
laughing. "And, besides, I have to go
down and see how my men are getting on
with the cottages,  and in that matter, as
it happens, Sydney likes to have a hand."

Then go down and see how they are
getting on alone,  and earn the gratification
for once of making her regret that she was
not with yon."

Mrs. Walkinshaw began to laugh too.
This last retort of hers pleased her.

'' Do this when I ask you. Now, Horace,
do it," she began to entreat.

Then come with me yourself," he said,
after a few moments.

"Ah, I will do that willingly," she replied.
"I'll go in at once and get my hat."
And she went away joyfully.

"He will do what I tell him," she said
to herself, in a tone of triumph. " He won't
say that he weill, but he is too reasonable a
fellow not to do it in the end,  if I keep a
guard over my tongue, and don't spoil
matters by urging him too much. And it
won't be a bad thing either if I can make
her a little troubled about my influence over
him," said Mrs. Walkinshaw, thoughtfully, as
she stood before her glass. *' I am glad he
asked me to go with him just now. He did
it in all innocence, but I should dearly like
to see her a little hurt by it."

And, in this apparently unchristian frame
of mind, Helen in five minutes rejoined her

brother, having taken care to keep well
out of Sydney's way, and took her walk
with much satisfaction and a quiet conscience.


Meanwhile Sydney was enjoying the
freedom of her solitary morning. She
expected that her husband would summon
her presently to go down with him to the
cottages that he was building, but  as he
had told his sister  this was a call that she
desired rather than the reverse. The
morning passed, however, and no summons
came to her ; she had no companion except
Netty, who strayed into the room where
she was sitting after a time, and coaxed her
to come out of doors with her.

Mamma has gone away with Uncle
Horace," she said, ' and I'm tired,  and
I should like you to sit with me on the grass,
and tell me stories."

So Sydney got her work, and they sat
down under the trees, and she did her best
to satisfy the little girl's demands.

Netty and Sydney had become very good
friends in these eight days. Sydney was a
little afraid of Mrs. Walkinshaw, and not
wholly at ease with her, but she had got
almost fond already of the little maid whose
quaintness amused, and whose simplicity and
childishness often touched, her. As for Netty,
she had taken to her new aunt amazingly.
She was never tired of being with her, and
talking to her (for she was a great talker) :
she would almost at any time leave her mother
to go to Sydney.

What an inconstant little monkey she
is," Mrs. Walkinshaw had said already
laughing a little, yet frankly allowing at the
same time that she did not altogether like
it.

*' When I go away," she had said to Syd-

nonce, "she will forget me, I suppose, ina
week. We are only as so many playthings
to .her. You are her latest toy, and so she
turns her back upon the poor old mother
who can boast none of the charms of novelty.
I think sometimes that I was less fickle than
Netty is when I was her age ; but perhaps it
was not so. I daresay there is often a good
deal of imagination about the virtues that
we credit ourselves with having had in our
infancy."

Netty was dressing one of her dolls on
the grass at Sydney's feet when Mr. Lou-down
and Mrs. Walkinshaw returned from
their walk.

Well, my dear, we have deserted you
all this morning," Helen exclaimed, cheerfully,
coming up and joining them. " Here
you are, like a good angel, taking my duties
upon you, while I go gadding about with
your husband. We have been down to the

cottages, watching them beginning to
thatch.

Oh !" said Sydney, looking a little surprised.
" Yes,  I knew they were going to
thatch this morning. I thought  " and then
she stopped.

'' Yes  they are getting on capitally," Mr.
Loudoun struck in.

I am very glad," she replied.

And then Helen began to talk of something
else. Perhaps, for a moment, it had
seemed strange to Sydney that they should
have gone without her, but she cared so
little about her husband's movements that
the thought merely crossed her mind and
vanished.

There was a vacant seat on the bench by
Sydney's side, and Mrs. Walkinshaw, after
a few moments, saw her brother's eyes stray
towards it, upon which she instantly and
dexterously slipped into it herself.

*dear me  I am tired!" she exclaimed,

"Oh, but don't sit down there, please,
mamma," cried Netty, quickly, looking up
from the grass with a distressed face. **I
don t want either of you to stop with us.
We were so comfortable without you. Aunt
Sydney was telling me a story."

Well, let Aunt Sydney go on and tell
stories to us all," said Mr. Loudoun, and
threw himself down on the grass too. He
had probably perceived Helen's little
manoeuvre, and had thought that he had
yielded himself enough to her for one day.
He touched his wife's hands caressingly fora
moment as they lay upon her knees.

"That won't be a bit the same," said
Netty, with decision. " You've spoilt it ail
by coming here. I wish you would go
away."

Possibly Sydney wished the same, but she
could not say so.

We will finish our story another
time, Netty, " she merely told the little
girl.

'but we would listen too," Mr. Loudoun
said. '' I would sit here all day and listen
if you would tell me stories. Won't you ?"
and he looked up into her face.

Was old Wilcox looking on at the
thatchers?" she asked, abruptly, without
answering his question.

*' Oh, yes  he was sitting in the sunshine
as usual," Mr. Loudoun answered, " chuckling
and rubbing his hands, and telling me
how soon he hoped to be inside smoking his
pipe. His grandson was working, and he
was mounting guard over him and finding
fault with most things he did. He is a nice
tempered lad  that young Wilcox."

"Yes  charming !" chimed in Mrs. Walkinshaw.
*'I thought it was quite delightful
to see him with the old man. I remember

VOL. II. U

when that boy was born, Horace. Why, it
must be twenty years ago."

Mother," said Netty, solemnly, " you're
awfully old !"

And then they all laughed. Netty, like
the rest of her generation, had no reverence
for age, nor for the wisdom that, in former
days, we used to believe age brought along
with it.

''I think it must be time for lunch,"
Sydney said, presently ; and soon after they
went into the house.

When lunch was ended, Mr. Loudoun left
them.

I have been scolding Horace this morning
for being idle," Mrs. Walkinshaw confidentially
informed her sister-in-law, after
he was gone. " I daresay it is only because
I am here  but really he has been dreadfully
idle all this last week  has he not? 

hardly doing a thing but hanging about and
talking to us. I was telling him that I
won't let him go on so any longer. I hope
you always drive him to his study, Sydney,
when he gives you too much of his company?


Mrs. Walkinshaw made this speech gaily,
and in the pleasantness tone imaginable ; but
perhaps Sydney listened to it with some
surprise.

' I never should have thought that he
needed to be driven to his books," she
merely replied, after a moment's silence.

"Oh, probably when he is with you my
dear, he is on his good behaviour," returned
Helen, instantly,  " but, you see, it is such
a temptation when two people meet who
have been young together. We seem to
have such endless numbers of things to
talk about. And then / am such a chatter-box!"

and she began to laugh. "I daresay
in your heart, you are thinking that,  and
that it is I more than he who should be
blamed."

"But why should , either of you be
blamed ?" asked Sydney, quietly. She
looked in Mrs. Walkinshaw's face with an
expression that said clearly she did not
understand her. " If you like to talk to
one another, is it not very natural ?"

"Well, dear, / think it natural," exclaimed
Mrs. Walkinshaw, with the cheeriest
expression of frankness : " but what I
feared was that we were shocking you. I
told Horace so."

"Then pray never tell him so again,"
said Sydney, quickly. "I like to hear you
talk. Why should I not ?"

*' My dear, if you were as fond of talking
as I am (which you are not, you know), you
would understand how sometimes before

silent people you felt your chattering must
make you seem like a great fool."

*' Oh, pray don't say that !" cried Sydney,
quite distressed. *' I think it is the silent
people always who have the worst of it : it
is they who are made to feel, while others
talk, that they are stupid and useless. You
don't know how much I like to see you and
Horace happy together''

Well, certainly Jam happy to be with
Horace," said Mrs. Walkinshaw.

And he is just as happy on his
side."

You are a very kind girl to say that.
You see, Sydney," seeming to hesitate a
moment,  " I had been a little afraid of
engrossing him too much."

Oh, but you need not be afraid of that
indeed."

No  you are too sure of your own position
 are you not ?" and Mrs. Walkinshaw

laughed and patted Sydney's cheek. ' Well
that is just as it should be  and I will
show you that I believe you by taking you
at your word. I did tell Horace," abruptly,
'That I would not go out with him this
afternoon."

' Did he want you to go out with him ?'
asked Sydney. " Oh, then, pray go !"

"He said something about us having a
ride together. For that matter we might
all three ride, might we not ? Only, to be
sure, we were going to a place that I am
afraid would have no interest for you."

What place do you mean ?"

Oh  to the woods beyond Wilcox common,
where we used to have picnics sometimes
when we were young, and where 
somebody was foolish enough one day to
promise to become Mrs. Walkinshaw," said
Helen, laughing.

*' Did you promise that at a picnic ?"

** Well  no : we were not picnicking that
day ; but a few of us had gone there together
 Dick, and I, and Horace, and  a certain
pretty young creature, who, I thought at that
time,"  and then Helen began to laugh
again, " wouldn't have refused, if she had
been asked, to be Mrs. Horace Loudoun."

Oh !" said Sydney, not having been
quite prepared for this.

But she never was asked, my dear.
Horace's admiration did not go far enough."

Did he really admire her ? And did
you like her ?" Sydney asked her questions
rather abruptly.

Oh yes, I liked her : she was my friend.
I was dreadfully eager for Horace to marry
her. But he was always provokingly unimpressionable
in those days. Really, when
he was young you can't think how he used

to try me. Of course, like a good sister, I
was always trying to persuade him to get
married, but I never could manage to make
him more than the tiniest bit in the world
in love with anybody."

Was he a little in love with  this girl ?"

'' Well I don't know. He liked to talk
to her, and to ride with her  and so on 
and she was  oh, such a pretty creature !
But yet really I don't believe he ever cared
for her. You can ask him whether he did,
if you like. Her name was Sophy Dares.
She married rather a nice young man a year
or two afterwards. But she wouldn't have
been sorry to have Horace,  I know that."

How strange it is to think of the things
that might have been ! " Sydney said, half
aloud.

Of course she was thinking to herself,
'suppose he had married Sophia Dares,
and had never cared for me !" If that had

been so, she might have been free now ; but
she and her people too would have been
friendless.

'eyes, that is strange enough indeed,"
Helen said, in a graver tone. " There was
a time when I almost thought I should be
somebody else's wife than Dick's. Ah, I
suppose half the world at least has its
broken love stories. It is a happy thing for
some of us when our second love is better
than our first."

There were moments  perhaps a good
many moments  in which Sydney did not
cordially like Mrs. Walkinshaw, but she always
liked her and believed in her when she
spoke about her husband. A flush had
come to her face now, and there was moisture
in her eyes.

I always think, Sydney," she said, quietly
after a few moments' silence, " that I am a
happy woman to have for my nearest

belongings two men so good as Dick and
Horace. I might have turned out a troublesome
person to deal with if I had been
in different hands."

*' And, if / were in different hands, what
should I be?" Sydney thought suddenly,
with a quick spasm of regret. It had often
seemed to her since her marriage that she
was losing her youth  losing all her own
life  almost losing her identity. From a
happy girl, with a girl's natural fresh hopes
and yearnings, she was becoming transformed
into an irritable and weary woman ; her
marriage seemed to hold her in a sort of
frozen grasp ; she had nothing to complain
of  no trouble to which she could give any
name,  only the springs of her life seemed
to be drying up.

'* Oh, if I were but my old self again !"
she cried passionately to-day, after Helen

had left her. Her old self, when the
world seemed young ! In these days,
perhaps, she looked back upon the days that
were gone as something sweeter than they
had ever been ; she contrasted what she
was now with what she had been once, and
the difference to her own eyes seemed so
great that it turned her sick and cold.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON: PRINTED BT DUNCAN Macdonald, BLENHEIM HODSK.

SOUTHERN COUNTIES CIRCULATING .

ESTABLISHED . 1832.

37 and 39, LONDON ST., READING

CATALOGUES and TERMS SENT ON APPLICATION.
Subscriptions from Half-a-guinea.

The southern counties Circulating Library.

Established 1832

Folio

Supplements to the General Catalogue are issued
periodically and can be had on application.

VOL. III.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/sydney03crai

BY

Georgians M. Craig

AUTHOR OF

*' DORCAS," "ANNE WARWICK,"
&c., &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
1881.

AU right reserved.

LONDON :

Printed BV DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

BLENHEIM STREET, OXFORD STREET.

SYDNEY

CHAPTER I.

"Then our duties are burdensome to us
it is very tempting to let some willing
hand relieve our shoulders from a portion
of the weight of them. Sydney, caring
little for her own dignity or her own position,
felt hardly any inclination, as time went
on, to resent the increasing assumption on
her sister-in-law's part of rights that might by
many another woman have been supposed
to clash in various ways with her own. When
Mrs. Walkinshaw took possession of Mr. Lou-vol.

III. B

down, as on many occasions she did, I am
afraid Sydney rather felt it as a relief
than an offence against her : they were
happy together, and she was happiest and
freest alone, she merely thought. Indifferent
to her husband though she was, it is true
that she probably would scarcely have been
content if another woman than Mrs. Walkinshaw
had done what Mrs. Walkinshaw
did : but she let Helen do it with no feeling
or scarcely ever any feeling  but one of
satisfaction. Helen's way of engrossing her
husband was odd, she perhaps sometimes
thought, but yet, on the whole, she was so
much the gainer by it that she hardly felt
tempted to complain that her natural place
was so often usurped, and herself thrown
into the background.

You need not trouble yourself, my

dear, swill do  " this or that  "for Horace,"
Mrs. Walkinshaw was always saying, and
with the sweetest manner and the pleasant-est
smiles she would wave Sydney aside, and
take the various matters of which she spoke
into her own hands.

You see, I know him so well," she said
to her sister-in-law once, "and it is such a
pleasure to me to be with him again  and then
you are such a dear soul that I know I shall
not make you angry. Horace might have
married fifty women who would have been
jealous of me ; but you are so nice and
sensible : you never think anything foolish.
I am going to his room now : he wants
to read me something. You don't care to
come too, I suppose ? Well, never mind,
it is not necessary. You are busy, I daresay."


,j>r B 2

And then she nodded and smiled, and
gave Sydney an affectionate kiss before she
shut herself up with Mr. Loudoun in the
study.

Yes, they are very fond of one another ;
they are very happy," Sydney thought.

Her first sensations, during the early weeks
when this sort of thing went on, were unquestionably
sensations of relief. For six
months she had been feeling as if her husband
kept her in prison, and now she had
suddenly got a portion of her liberty given
back to her, and the regaining of it seemed to
give her new power to breathe. She no
longer lived in constant dread of his demands
upon her. There were hours, even a number
of hours, during the day when she
might put him off her mind,  when she
knew that some one else would keep him

from troubling her. And all this was very
pleasant. The sense of partially regained
freedom was an unspeakable relief to her ;
the thought that the woman who had taken
her place loved him much better than she
did, for a time kept her conscience at ease.

It was during these placid weeks  indeed
very near the bednninsj of them  that she
one day asked Helen to let her undertake
Netty's as yet very rudimentary schooling.

That child must begin her lessons
again," Mrs. Walkinshaw happened to say,
with a half sigh. ' Netty, you are getting
quite wild. On Monday morning you must
bring your books to me."

I'd like to do lessons with Aunt
Sydney," Netty hereupon promptly replied
; and then, though Mrs. Walkinshaw
laughed and told Netty she was talking

nonsense, Sydney struck in, and said, cordially,


I should like it too, if mamma would
let you."

'' Oh, but, my dear, I couldn't : you are
too good," Mrs. Walkinshaw exclaimed.

*' That's impossible ; nobody's too good,"
said Netty, sententiously.

Well, you are not, at any rate," retorted
her mother, briskly,  *' and Aunt Sydney
would find that out very soon if she took to
teaching you. But, Sydne}," she cried, " I
really could not be so without a conscience !"

Let us try for a few days how we get
on together," Sydney said.

And so, after a little more resistance, it
was settled, and, with high satisfaction, at
the beginning of the following week, Netty
went to her new teacher.

The arrangement answered very welland,
from this time, Sydney and her rather
flighty pupil spent a couple of hours together
daily.

"I do think it is too bad of me to let
you do this," Mrs. Walkinshaw would say
constantly, as she came and looked at them
seated at their work ; and she would gaze
tenderly at them and pat Netty's head, and
tell Sydney that she was an angel ; and
then  hastened generally by some frank
words of dismissal from her daughter  she
would smilingly disappear, and betake herself
to her brother's room until the lessons
ended.

There is that dear soul teaching Netty,
and far better pleased to be doing it
than to be sitting here," she would tell Mr.
Loudoun sometimes, laughing with a sense

of fun that lie perhaps hardly appreciated.
To him it is possible, during these days,
that the new order of things scarcely
seemed so pleasant as that which had been
supplanted by it.

But Sydney liked it. Netty was a troublesome
little monkey at times, but Sydney
did not much mind her inattention and her
waywardness. Netty's company never tried
her in the way her husband's did. At the
end of a morning spent with the child her
face would be brighter by a good deal than
it used to be at the end of a morning spent
with Mr. Loudoun. She was fond of children
naturally, and this one, in spite of her
oddness, possessed some qualities that appealed
to her. She was a simple, straightforward
little maiden,  very naughty sometimes,
but always very honest and .truthful.

In a certain way she was affectionate too.
She used to rebuke her mother, and in
words at times be rather rough to her, but
vet Helen's influence over her, when she
chose to exert it, was supreme : both to her
uncle and Sydney too she soon came to give
no small part of her heart, and for Bertie
Crampton she formed an attachment that
nothing but an almost daily visit to him
could satisfy.

She devoted herself to the little invalid
indeed with an enthusiasm that perhaps at
times rather embarrassed him, and a demonstrativeness
that occasionally would
bring blushes to his youthful cheeks. For
Bertie was ten, though he was small for his
age, and ten is not a period of life at which
a young gentleman is generally very agreeably
affected by feminine tenderness.

"I wish you wouldn't kiss me so,'
Sydney heard him complaining once, in a
helpless, objurgatory tone. 'nobody kisses
me like this but you, and it makes me so hot
and  nasty."

'' But I'm so fond of you, I can't help it,"
Netty replied to this ungallant speech, with
the sweetest frankness ; and even when Bertie
retorted, " Well then, I wish you
weren't fond of me," the little maid seemed
in no whit disturbed.

"You see, I have nobody else who is
little, like you, that I care for, and I do like
you so much,  I think you're so nice," she
merely continued, amorously.

'' You can think me nice without always
going on like that," replied Bertie, in a tone
of expostulation. *' I hate you to squeeze
me in the way you do,  as if you wanted to
choke me."

Oh well, I won't do it if you don't like,"
said Netty, at last a little huffed,  '' but I
think you're very ill-natured not to let me.
I always squeeze people that I like. I
squeeze papa and mamma, and Aunt Sydney,
and  I don't squeeze Uncle Horace,
but I might."

'' Then I wish you would, and leave me
alone," responded Bertie, plaintively, but
with great decision.

In spite, however, of this little outbreak,
and perhaps of one or two more, to which
Bertie's overtaxed feelings occasionally compelled
him, the two children were very
great friends, and were rarely tired of one
another's company. Netty was always eager
to run to her play-fellow, and Bertie was
almost equally ready on his part to welcome
her. The little fellow led a dull life, and

she used to brighten an hour or two of it
for him every day. She was quick and ingenious
and full of resources. She would
sit at the foot of his couch and tell him
stories, often using a good deal of dramatic
action to enhance their effect ; she taught
him games, and chattered to him about a
hundred things. In a very short time she
became quite enamoured of his helpless condition.
To have a companion who could
never escape from her,  who was always
in one place, always in want of amusement,
and quite incapable of being rough (as boys
so often were),  all this appealed to Netty
as an experience equally strange and delightful.


I hope Bertie will never get well," she
deliberately said to Sydney one day; and
when Sydney with some surprise required

her reasons for giving utterance to so singular
a desire, she proceeded to state them
with the utmost coolness.

'' He wouldn't be nearly so nice if he
could walk," she said, " for he would be
just like other boys then, and boys are
generally so tiresome. You don't think he
is going to get well, do you. Aunt Sydney ?"
and she looked up at Sydney with the sweetly
unconscionable look of a cherub.

*' If you want selfishness, pure and simple,
commend me to a child !" exclaimed
Helen, laughing.

' My dear, Horace and I have been going
over old letters," Mrs. Walkinshaw said one
morning to Sydney. " I have been persuading
him to turn out the drawers of his
Indian cabinet, and you can't think what
queer old things we have come upon. Yoic

wouldn't care for them, I am afraid, for
they all belong to a date before your
time, but they are amazingly interesting to

usr

Are they family letters ?" Sydney
asked.

' Oh, yes, a great many of them ; old
letters of our own, and of our father's and
mother's. I feel as if I had been living all
the morning in another world."

"I should like to see some of them''
Sydney said, after a moment's silence.

Should you ?" Mrs. Walkinshaw looked
a little surprised. " Ah ! I am afraid you
would find them dull. They wouldn't speak
to you as they do to us, you know. Now to
Horace and me there is hardly a line that
does not recall some past thing."

When Mr. Loudoun joined them at

lunch, Sydney said to him, a little shyly,

"1 hear you have been having an interesting
morning?"

"Yes  very. Did Helen tell you?" he
asked. " You ought to have been with
us."

But, before Sydney could reply to this,
Helen struck in.

Oh, no !  you see, for Sydney it would
be something quite different," she said.
Of course I should have been delighted
to have her, but I am afraid she would
have found it a very dull amusement. No,
no, Horace, our letters would sound very
stupid, depend upon it, to anybody except
ourselves."

He smiled and said nothing more, and
they sat down to lunch ; but there were
moments, indifferent to her rights as she

was, when even Sydney thought Mrs.
Walkinshaw took a good deal upon herself.


Some day I should like to read a few
of your letters  if I might," she said to her
husband before he left the room again,
speaking to him alone at a moment when
Mrs. Walkinshaw was occupied with Netty.

You may read every letter I have," he
answered, instantly. " Come to-morrow
and help me to go over some of them. Will
you?"

"Yes  I shall be glad," she replied.

And so the next day, when Netty's
lessons were over, she went.

She had begun half to repent by this
time that she had said she would go, for
she knew that the brother and sister were
together, and the momentary feeling had

passed away that had prompted her to profess
an interest in their occupation. She
opened the study-door, and went into the
room shyly. She knew that one at least
of its occupants did not want her : she
knew that she herself would rather  now 
have stayed away.

Mrs. Walkinshaw, as she entered, was
reading something aloud, over which she
and her brother was laughing heartily.
What the joke was Sydney did not catch,
but each sentence convulsed them : they
hardly noticed Sydney as she came in with
her quiet step. Her husband, after a few
moments, rose and gave her his seat, but
Mrs. Walkinshaw, for some minutes, went
on reading. At last she stopped, and, as
she folded up the letter,

"What absurd creatures we used to be'*

VOL. HI. c

she exclaimed. " Are you come too to
read the record of our follies, Sydney?
Do you know, I am more than half inclined
to object."

"You need not show me the record of
any of your follies," Sydney replied, a little
quickly.

''Oh, no  you only care for Horace's : I
understand that ; but sometimes, you see,
his and mine are so mixed up that it is not
easy to separate them. However, I must
submit, I suppose. Only, Horace, don't
give her this packet,"  and Mrs. Walsingham
suddenly laid her hand upon a little
pile of letters at her side. '* Really and
truly T won't have her read these !"

Very well : she shall choose a bundle
for herself," Mr. Loudoun said. "Come
away here, Sydney ; here is a drawer full ;
take anything you like."

He brought her to the cabinet that they
had begun to ransack, and stood beside her
while she made her choice. She took up
one or two packets.

"These are not yours," she said.

"There are some of mine here, I have
no doubt, if mine are what you want."

I wish you would find me some."

He began to search, and in a few moments
unearthed a bundle.

"There, that is big enough to last you
for a long time," he said. ' I think these
were written almost before you were
born."

Are they all to your mother ?" she
asked, looking at them. " And did she
keep your letters always ?  everything you
wrote to her from school and college ?"

I fancy she must have done so. You

c2

would hardly have suspected, would you,
that so sensible a woman could do anything
so foolish ?" he said.

She laughed, and raised her eyes quickly
to lira, with rather a sweet look in then.

'eyes, I can easily fancy it," she said.
May I have this packet, then ?"

Surely," he told her. And so she took
it, and went to a little sofa that stood in
one of the windows, and established herself
there at some distance from the other two,
and read her letters for a long time.

They were all chronologically arranged
and marked with their dates outside in Mrs.
Loudoun's handwriting.

*' How she must have cared for them !"
Sydney thought, as she noticed this ; and
then presently, after she had read for a
little while, she said to herself, " No wonder

that she cared 1" for she felt that they
were letters that any mother would have
been proud of  full of life, of brightness,
of ardour. " He must have been different
in many ways then from what he is now.
I wonder if I should have cared for him
more if I had known him when he was
young ?" side began to think.

For almost an hour she went on reading

undisturbed. "How are you getting on,

Sydney ?" her husband called to her once ;

but she merely answered, "Very well," and

said no more.

Mr. Loudoun and Helen were seated near
together, and Helen, with her usual vivacity,
was making frequent comments and remarks
on the portions of the letters that were
passing through her hands, and often reading
passages aloud ; once the brother and

sister had an eager discussion over some
point as to which their memories had misled
them. But Sydney took no part in all
this. Had she been alone with her husband
she would more than once have asked
him the meaning of some expression that
she came to  she would have inquired
of him about various things to which in
the letters he made reference ; but in
Helen's presence, without quite knowing
why, she did not care to do this ; they were
engaged with one another, and she instinctively
left them to themselves, and passed
by what she did not understand.

But the hour was rather a notable one
to her; she felt at the end of it as if something
very living had been put before her.
Half consciously she said to herself, " I
think, when he was a lad, he must have

been more loveable than he is now." It
was as if a picture had been presented to
her with traits in it that were new to her ;
the face might be her husband's face, but in
it there were expressions that it seemed to
her he had lost now.

Mr. Loudoun came across the room to
her at last, and made place for himself
on the edge of her sofa, sitting face
to face with her, with his arm across her
knees.

*' You are tiring yourself out," he said.
Stop now. I don't think you can care for
them."

Oh, yes, I care," she answered, quickly.
She had only got through about half the
bundle yet. '' You have not looked at these
ones, have you ? They are  wonderfully
interesting."

'that is more than I thought you would
say," he exclaimed, laughing.

But anybody would say it," she quickly
answered.

'' So you merely speak, you mean, as one
of the crowd ? Oh, well, I did not expect
you to take any special interest in them,
certainly."

He made his answer lightly, and perhaps
Sydney was unreasonable to be annoyed at
it, but yet she was conscious of being half
annoyed. If he had assumed that she took
any special interest in his letters, she very
probably might have resented that assumption
too, but yet his quiet acceptance of the
reverse hurt her.

She said nothing after he had spoken,
and there was a few moments' silence ;
and then.

'what are they all about?" he asked.

'They are college letters," she answered.
I think they must have been written in
your second year at Oxford."

Ah, priggish compositions, I have no
doubt," he said.

No ; they are not priggish !" she replied,
quickly. 'They are full of nice things.
They give a  a very good impression of

Job."

I don't think you are any judge," he
said, laughing. " I suppose you mean they
are full of fine sentiments ? But that would
be the very sign-manual of their priggishness."


"I don't mean that. They are not full
of fine sentiments. They are not that at
all. They seem to me very natural and 
pleasant."

Oh ; then I must look at them some
day. Are they more pleasant than the
letters I write now ?"

He asked this, looking at her rather
mischievously, and she coloured a little.

"I don't know much about the letters
that you write now," she answered,
evasively.

*' But you know something. Did I not
write to you every day when you were
at your mother's, in January?"

'* Oh, yes," she said, rather reluctantly.


Well,  and are these letters better than
those ?"

I don't mean that," she said, half apologetically.


I am afraid you think they are ? "

Oh, no  I was not comparing them."

"You never told me that you considered
the letters 3'ou had from me at Dover
wonderfully interesting, did you?"

"No  I suppose not."

She looked at him for a moment rather
wistfully. It was only a quick glance,
but it had an expression in it that was
very like an appeal for mercy ; and he read
it,  and was merciful.

*wel],  if you find that these interest
you, I am glad of that, at any rate," he
merely said, heartily.

"There are some things I wanted to
ask you," she said, after a moment*
There is some one you mention very
often,  'Scott,' you call him."

'' Ah ; poor Scott !" he exclaimed. '' Is
there much about him ?"

'' Yes ; you are always speaking of

lira. Was lie a great friend of yours?"

"We were a great deal together fora
couple of years. He was a wonderfully
clever fellow."

"I think you must have been very good
to him. There was a time when he was
ill "

' Oh, yes ; I remember it well. He
was ill; and had nobody to come to
him  I mean, he had no woman belonging
to him at all."

'' And so you nursed him ?"

*' I did some of the nursing. We had
our rooms close together; and then, afterwards,
I brought him home with me.
Helen," he said, turning his head, *' do
you remember my coming up from Balliol
with poor Adam Scott ?"

Yes,  and a nice alarm you gave us !"

exclaimed Mrs. Walkinshaw. rising up and
coming towards him. "Dear me, do I
not remember it ! Just think, Sydney, 
there was this poor young wretch, hardly
able to crawl  the sort of creature who
was only fit for a convalescent hospital;
and, with nothing but the barest announcement
that they were coming, what did
Horace do but bring him here ! He was
literally so ill that he could not sit up in
the carriage."

'' Well ; but what else could I do ?"
Mr. Loudoun asked. "I must either have
brought him, or have stayed up with
him,  and I didn't want to stay. I always
thought that we managed wonderfully
well."

You frightened us out of our wits, I
know."

Oh, nonsense ! I didn't frighten m}''
mother."

*' Indeed you did. Don't you remember
how she sent me out of the house until she
had brought Dr. Alcock to see him ? You
had such a horrible cool way of saying he
had had a fever, without in the least
specifying what sort of fever it was."

But it was all right."

'eyes. It turned out to be all right.
But it would have been the same to you if it
had been all wrong. I don't know if you
will be inclined to believe it now, Sydney,
but when Horace was young he never had one
grain of ordinary caution in him. He used to
go and consort with beggars and sick people
in the most reckless way. He was always
putting in his head where he shouldn't.
Once he caught scarlatina in the village, 

and another time he got whooping cough, 
and then proceeded to give it to me."

'' Well, and was it not desirable that you
should have it?" her brother answered,
laughing. " It was a very good thing to get
it and have it over."

I didn't think so at the time. And I
know when that poor young Scott came, I
didn't like it. I was not much more than a
child, you know, Sydney, and he frightened
me."

But did he get better ?" Sydney
asked.

'' Oh, yes  for the time. Mamma and
Horace devoted themselves to him, and he
improved amazingly. In fact, his coming
was a great success in the end, for we got
quite fond of him. He was such a bright,
quick, likeable young creature. We were

horribly sorry afterwards when we heard of
his death."

"Then he died?" Sydney exclaimed

Yes, he died of consumption when he
was twenty-four," said Mr. Loudoun.

Poor fellow !  And were you with
him ?" she asked, after a moment.

"No, he died in Algiers. His doctor had
sent him there."

"By himself?"

Yes."

Poor fellow !" she said softly, again.

"He was wonderfully fond of Horace,"
said Mrs. Walkinshaw. ''He was almost as
fond of him as if he had been a woman.
There was altogether a strong feminine
element in him ; I suppose it came to him
with his delicate constitution :  a curious
kind of tenderness and dependency. It

always made me think of him as a sort of
inspired boy rather than a man. I mean,"
she said, " however much I had liked him,
he was a creature with whom I could never
have imagined myself falling in love. Butin
fact, you see," she added, beginning to
laugh, " his affections were engaged before
I ever saw him,  for, as T told you, he was
in love already with Horace."

"Tie up your letters, Sydney," Mr.
Loudoun said. '' We have all had enough of
them."

So she tied them up, but she said, as she
gave them back,  " I should like to go on
with them tomorrow."

"You shall do anything you please," he
answered.

He was still sitting beside her, and she
could not rise until he moved, Mrs. Walk-vol.

III. D

inlaw had gone away, but he continued in
his place.

Are you comfortable here ?" he asked
her.

Oh, yes," she replied, not very graciously
; " but  " and she looked at her watch 
*' I think the gong will sound for lunch immediately."


"Very well, then ; stay until it does," he
said. And so she had to stay.

She often used to try to talk frankly
and pleasantly to her husband when they
were together, but it always tried her when
at such times he treated her in any lover-like
way. She knew that it was utterly
unreasonable in her now to be irritated
because he kept his face turned to her, and
his arm across her knees, and yet she was
unable to force herself not to mind it.

When he sat beside her so, he made her
feel as if she were imprisoned ; he made
her long to move and escape from him.
The sofa was a small sofa, and she was
fretted at having him so close to her.

He bent over her, and stroked her
hand.

It is like having the sunshine with me
to have you here," he said, suddenly (Mrs.
Walkinshaw had by this time left them.)
"Do you think I do not care for it? We
have not been very much alone together of
late, Sydney?"

'' X-o," she said, reluctantly.

*' Of course Helen's being here makes a
difference in many ways."

Yes, it must  of course."

"And, naturally, she takes up a good
deal of my time."

d2

Oh, yes." And then, after a moment,
*' Naturally  and rightly too," she added.

"She is very fond of you Sydne}," he
said, after a moment's silence.

Sydney coloured ; she was not so sure of
that fact. She looked embarrassed for a
second or two ; then,

*' We get on very well," she merely
answered.

But Mr. Loudoun was not contented tolet
the matter drop with this response.

"1 should have been very ill-satisfied if
she had not taken to you," he went on,
composedly; "for Helen, in spite of her
apparent lightness, is a shrewd judge of
character. I often think that she does
herself some injustice. I am not sure, for
instance, that you understand her yet ; but
you may take my word for it that you seethe

worst of her on the surface. You see
her faults before you see her good qualities."

Oh, yes, I can believe that," Sydney
said, cordially. " And she is very kind tome.
If I am not  exactly  fond of her
yet,"  she said this with a little hesitation,
 "it is only, probably, because I am
not quick in general in taking to new
people."

"Yes  that is it, I have no doubt," he
answered, in a tone of satisfaction. "She
is naturally far more impulsive than you
are ; she generally makes up her mind
very rapidly. You and she certainly are
not much alike."

"No," she said.

But your want of resemblance need
be no bar to your friendship. I hope to
see you real friends in time."

"There is the gong," she said, with a
feeling of relief And then she shoved, and
he had to rise. But, after she had risen,
something like a feeling of remorse came
over her for the impatience with which she
had submitted to his detention of her,
and she forced herself to speak to him
again.

"You know I like Helen," she said,
standing still for another moment, " and I
am glad  I am really glad  to have her
and Betty here. I want you to understand
that I do like her, and I am
grateful to her always for making you so
happy."

But speeches that are made impulsively
are often not very prudent, and perhaps as
soon as she had uttered these last words
Sydney became aware of this, for Mr.

Loudoun at once answered, with a laugh,

'' Do you imagine that I depend for my
happiness on Helen? I think another
woman has a good deal more to do with
that than she has."

And then he resolutely put her hand
within his arm and held it firmly there, and,
as he took her across the hall, he said a
few more words that brought the colour to
her face.

"Helen is much to me," he said, "but all
happiness that I shall ever know in this
world must come to me now, not through
Helen, but through you."

And with that they reached the diningroom
door, and he had to let her go.

CHAPTER II.

/NE day Mr. Loudoun and Sydney had
" been riding together, and, as they
were returning home, Mr. Loudoun's horse
stumbled and threw him. The animal's
foot had gone into an unseen hole as they
were cantering across a field, and horse and
man came down together with a crash that
turned Sydney's heart sick. Her alarm
indeed only lasted for a few moments.
Almost before she had seen her husband
prostrate he had sprung to his feet again,
but there had been two or three seconds,

during which she had thought the horse
would roll on him before he could rise,
which she could not afterwards forget.

''I am afraid he has hurt himself; I
don't know how we shall get him home,"
Mr. Loudoun said.

She had sprung from her own saddle, and
was standing by his side.

"Are you not hurt? Are you sure?"
she exclaimed.

"Why, Sydney, have I frightened you?"
he asked, and he turned and looked at her,
and laughed at her white face. "No, I am
all right,  but Bob has done himself a
damage, I fear. Stand back  hold Jess
while I get him up."

The horse was very lame, and, even with
the utmost care and patience, it was no easy
matter to get him home. By her husband's

directions, Sydney rode on and sent back
one of the grooms to give his assistance.
Fortunately they were less than a mile from
the house, and in half an hour or so the
little cortege came up.

But Mr. Loudoun, when they approached
was found to be walking lame as well as
Bob, and, though his injuries proved to be
slight, yet for the two or three following
days he was kept to the house, and, for the
first time, Sydney found herself called upon
to perform the wifely duty of attending on
him.

She set about this duty shyly enough.
Not that she did her ministrations unwillingly,
but that they seemed strange to her.
She flushed and got hot like a girl the first
time she knelt at her husband's feet and
doctored his swollen ankle. Helen, in the

first moments, would have done the work
instead of her, but some feeling for once
made Sydney hold her ground.

"I should like to do it, please  I would
rather do . it," she said, and kept her position
resolutely, so that Mrs. Walkinshaw
had to retire.

Suppose it had gone differently. He
might have been thrown, and  killed," she
was thinking to herself, with a kind of
shuddering terror. There was something
in the humility of her attitude that seemed
for the moment to give a sort of satisfaction
to her. She could kneel before
him with a feeling that she deserved to
seek his pardon, in spite of the stubbornness
in her that made her refuse to give
him her heart.

Mr. Loudoun had only strained a sinew

a little ; there was no serious damage done.
He had merely to keep to the sofa for
two or three days, and to submit to Sydney's
ministrations. During these days she
was very gentle to him. The most devoted
wife could hardly have attended on him
with more care. She even once let her
heart open to him a little. He was laughing
at her, a few hours after his fall,
for the look of terror that he had seen
in her face, but as he laughed she grew
grave.

*'I never saw anyone thrown before,"
she said, " and  how could I tell ? I
thought he was going to roll over on

you."

'' And, if he had, would you have
minded much ?" he asked, lightly.

She had been agitated before, and the

sudden question upset her. She flushed,
and her lips began to quiver, and all at
once, before he understood her emotion,
she burst into tears.

"My darling !" he said, quickly then,
and would have drawn her to him, but
she disengaged herself from his arm hastily,
and went out of the room. Afterwards
she said to him, in rather a constrained
way,

*'I was so stupid just now,  but, you
see, I was frightened, as I told you ; and
my fright has shaken me. I don't think
I am very nervous generally,  but I feel
as if I were not able to stand anything
more to-day."

I will try then to give you nothing
more to stand," he answered, half jestingly.
"You see, my condition is not

likely to cause you much more alarm . Is
it?"

No ; but it might have been something
very different," she said, " and, for
two or three moments, how could I

tell r

** True  you couldn't. I might have
broken my neck  like Bishop Wilberforce."


Yes."

Or Bob might have rolled on meas
you suggested ; and then I should probably
have had some bones broken. Something
of that sort happened to me once,
not with Bob, but with an old horse I
had when I was a boy. It was the only
serious accident I ever met with in riding."

' Don't tell me about it. Thinking of
accidents makes me sick just now."

'you foolish woman!" he said, laughing.


But he took her hand and kissed it,
and for once her fingers closed with a
little pressure over his. After only two
or three more seconds, however, she made
some excuse for moving from her seat,
and presently sat down again at a little
distance from him, as if she were ashamed
of the emotion she had shown.

Sydney stayed a good deal with her husband
during his short confinement to the
house. She was . curiously shy of the new
position that she had to take with him, but
yet she forced herself to retain it. There
was some feeling in her that roused her
enough to make her resist her sister-in-law's
efforts to supplant her. " Sydney,
you can leave him to me, you know,"

Helen said to her more than once ; but
Sydney would not. She might not love
her husband, and she might feel awkward
and self-conscious as she waited on him, but
yet Mrs. Walkinshaw's officious readiness to
take him off her hands put her instinctively
upon her mettle. For the first time
she silently held to her right to be first
with him ; and Helen finally gave way,
laughing to herself as she did it.

"She is beginning to be in a fury with
me," thought this mischievous little woman,
in high glee, as she left the field to her
sister-in-law.

There never was a more irrepressibly
energetic woman than Helen Walkinshav/.
Her fault, perhaps, was that she experienced
a certain difficulty in being quiet.
She was too lively and too full of ingenuity

to have any deep appreciation of the beauty
or the excellence of repose. She was like
a butterfly, Sydney used to think; always
in motion, and darting hither and thither,
and fluttering her bright wings.

*' How different you two are ! Were
you always so different ?" she asked Mr.
Loudoun one day.

It used to seem to lier at times  perhaps
with a little half-conscious irritation  that
her husband could see no fault in his sister.
He used to look at her and listen to her
with an expression of placid satisfaction
that Sydney sometimes found hard to comprehend.
Her flightiness never seemed to
vex him ; her liveliness never oppressed
him. Sydney, for her part, found Mrs.
Walkinshaw rather a tiring person to be
with, but her brother never seemed to tire

VOL. III. E

of her; he seemed blind to her shortcomings,
and incapable of being annoyed
by anything she did or said.

Were you always so different ?" Sydney
asked him, in an audibly surprised
voice.

I imagine we were," he at once answered,
laughing. "When I was a boy,
she always used to seem to me the brightest
creature in the world."

"And you were never like that? You
were always graver?" she said.

I was never like Helen, certainly," he
replied, " for she was a fascinating little
thing,  a perfect fairy  an incarnation of
all that was joyful and pretty."

x\nd you admired her even when you
vere a boy ?"

I was six years older than she was, so

I was in a condition to admire her. Yes,
she always seemed to me wonderfully
charming."

But your mother did not think as much
of her as she did of you ?"
'' How do you know that ?"
I have been told. Is it not true?"
Mothers are always supposed to be
weak in the direction of their sons. My
father was excessively fond of her. She
was a great favourite indeed with everyone."



I know that there were other people
besides your mother who cared for you
most. I have been told that you were so
much less selfish than Helen,  so much
more considerate for other people."

You forget that I was older. Of course
Helen was spoilt a little. A child such as

E 2

 Hung??

she was is sure to get rather spoilt. But I
don't know what makes you suppose I was
unselfish. I never knew an unselfish boy
yet."

"" You might not have been unselfish
when you were quite a boy, but I am
speaking of the time when you had begun
to grow up. And then you had a better
temper than Helen."

I don't know who is your authority for
all this ?" he said, laughing.

I have more than one authority.
Several people have told me."

Helen had a quick temper. She has a
quick temper, for that matter, now. But
that is not saying much against her."

*' Oh, no ; a little of a quick temper is
sometimes rather attractive."

' Helen's was attractive certainly. What

does that look mean ?" laughing again, for
she had turned her eyes rather incredulously
upon him.

I think that the little quickness of
temper she shows now are attractive,
but "

She never showed much more than she
does now  at least, not very much more.
Oh, children are all little furies sometimes,
of course. Helen was not a bit worse than
many others."

"You must have been a kind brother
always. Certainly it is in your nature to
be kind,  and faithful," Sydney said, quickly;
and then, almost in the same moment
regretting that she had spoken, the colour
came to her face.

But he answered at once with a laugh 

Is that the character you are going to

give me ? I don't get you often to tell me
what you think of me, you know."

'' It would be strange if I did not think
that of you," she answered ; and then she
would not say any more. If she ever made
a movement towards her husband, though
it might be only of the smallest possible
kind, her sensitive shyness always prompted
her immediately after vrards to beat a retreat.
She often bore herself towards him
as though she liked him less even than she
did, because she had such a morbid dread
of his miscalculating the minute extent of
any advance that she might make to
him.

She had just been reading some of Mrs.
Walkinshaw's letters when she put these
questions about her sister-in-law to Mr.
Loudoun. They were letters that she had

found very amusing,  even, in their way,
charming,  and yet they had not charmed
her. Helen's character perhaps was not
one of a kind with which Sydney could
ever find it possible to have much sympathy.
She admired Helen, but yet she
admired her without being able to put her
heart into her admiration. The more she
talked to Mrs. Walkinshaw, the more she
said to herself, " We shall never be friends
in any true way."

And now she had been reading these
bright, epigrammatic letters, so full of
sparkle, so keen and metallic, and, as she
read, she laughed and was amused, but the
end of her reading left her with a feeling of
wonder and almost of repulsion, rather than
of pleasure. For the letters were less loveable
even than she had thought that Helen's

letters would have been  less coloured by
anything gentle or tender.

*' She was very young at that time, and a
little inclined to affectation," Mr. Loudoun
explained them by saying afterwards ; but
Sydney possibly was prejudiced, and, though
she did not dispute her husband's interpretation,
she secretly scarcely accepted it.

' I think there is something wanting in
her. I think his is the finer nature," she
commented, involuntarily, but yet perhaps
half gladly, to herself.

After two or three days had passed, Mr.
Loudoun was able to resume his usual life,
but the slight drawing of Sydney towards
him that his accident had occasioned did
not altogether cease with his need for her
ministrations. She had been more than
usual with him during his confinement to

the house, and  not without hesitation, yet
of her own accord  she continued after he
was recovered to be a little more with him,
coming to him sometimes when she was not
forced to come, and now and then even
offering herself to him in place of Mrs.
Walkinshaw.

She had begun apparently at last slightly
to resent Helen's over-readiness to fill her
place. Her feeling was a perplexing one :
she was still half grateful to her sister-in-law ;
was still half willing that she should occupy
the position she desired with Mr. Loudoun,
but yet she seemed to have awakened to a
comprehension that there was a point at
which her encroachments had better cease
that there was a limit to what she herself
would do well to resign. " She must give
way when I choose that she should," she

had begun to tell herself, not without some
emotion, and a certain undefined exasperation,
that she kept, and did well to keep,
concealed.

One day it struck Sydney, as a fact she
had not thought of before, that since Mrs.
Walkinshaw's arrival she had learnt more
of her husband than she had known before.
During the six previous months of her
married life she had only known him in his
relation to herself, and her judgment of him
had been put out of gear (as she was almost
aware) by the antagonism that he had so
often roused in her, and by the constant jar
that there had been between the feeling
that she had, and the feeling that she knew
she ought to have, towards him. But now
she was in a position to look at him often,
if she pleased, as a spectator, and she had

done this for a good while before, as I said
it struck her suddenly that she was seeing
him in a new light, and with fresher and
clearer eyes than before. And then she
began to ask herself what, under these new
circumstances, she saw, and the answer gave
her a certain pleasure. For she could reply
very distinctly that he appeared to her as a
man to respect and honour,  a man who
was upright, and wise, and tender. Perhaps
in a way she had known all this of him
long ago, but that far-off time was separated
from this present one by so wide a gulf that
the Mr. Loudoun of former days was hardly
recognizable by her now as the man whom
she had married ; besides, the virtues she
had known him to have of old had not at
that time affected her; her life had not
touched his then, nor did his faults nor his

virtues concern her. But now, with a
curious and half surprised interest, she found
herself studying and thinking of him.

She would often sit silent and listen to
him as he talked to Helen, and, half consciously,
half unconsciously, criticize and
judge him. During the winter her mood
towards him had been a different one from
this. He had wearied her then and made
her incapable of just judgment ; he had
oppressed her, so that she had only longed
to escape from him. She had more freedom
now, and with her freedom came the
birth of something that approached to interest
in him ; when she was not compelled
to be his companion, she could listen to him
with other feelings than those of irritation or
fatigue.

One day Helen, in talking to her, found

fault with him for something he had
done, in an impulsive, impatient way that
was natural to her, but that made the
colour come to Sydney's face. Almost
without thinking what she was doing,
she made a quick rejoinder, which was
a defence and at the same time a rebuke.
What right have you to find fault with him
who is so much better than you are ?" was
the tone of it ; and Helen, arrested in the
midst of her petulant eloquence, opened her
ears wide to listen, and then broke into
a joyful, but to Sydney an entirely incomprehensible,
laugh.

"And why is Horace not to be found
fault with as well as anybody else ?" she
exclaimed next moment. *' Horace is a
dear old fellow, but if you mean that in a
matter like this I am not far more likely to

be right than he is, then, Sydney, I disagree
with you altogether. In some matters,
let me tell you, he is quite sufficiently
prejudiced."

'*I have never found him so," Sydney replied,
in a quieter and colder way than she
had spoken before.

Never found him prejudiced !"  and
Helen held up her hands. " Then you have
not advanced much yet in your knowledge
of him, indeed. Why, he is wildly prejudiced
in some directions,  absurdly prejudiced."

In what directions ?"

Oh, my dear, in half a hundred. Did
you ever know a man who was not ? Depend
upon it, Sydney, men as a rule are ten
times more stupid than women, and there is
no way in which they show their stupidity
more than in this of having prejudices and

sticking to them. Women, of course, have
prejudices too, but then for the most part
they dont stick to them. They change them
as they change their gowns. There is generally
a delightful amount of variableness ina
woman,  but Horace, with his bundle of
cut and dried opinions, he does try my temper."


'' I cannot think how you can talk so of
him!" Sydney exclaimed. She suddenly
found, not only the blood in her face again,
but her heart beginning to beat fast. " So
ready as he is to admire what is unlike himself
 so tolerant and temperate as he is 
it seems to me most unjust' she cried, indignantly.


''Oh yes, yes, that is all very fine talk,"
replied Mrs. Walkinshaw, with a shrug of
the shoulders. "Tolerant and temperate

and all the rest of it. He can be tolerant
and temperate when he likes, Sydney ;
there are times Ashen (if you are disposed)
you may think him the gentlest and wisest
of men ; but / know whether or not he
can be prejudiced. Prejudiced ?  yes ; to
the very core of his nature ; and obstinate ?
as obstinate, my dear, as a blind mule."

''I think," said Sydney, suddenly, "that,
whoever may speak ill of him "

Speak ill of him, child?  do you think
that I am speaking ill of him ?" interrupted
Mrs. Walkinshaw, with an air of the most
innocent astonishment. " God bless the
dear old fellow! Why, I wouldn't for
worlds! What I have said just now I
have said to his own face a hundred times
over. My dear, I am always rating him.
But I see I must be on my guard with

you,"  and then she began to laugh, 'for
evidently you are going to develop into
one of the pattern wives who can't bear to
be told that their husbands are human."

'' You know that is nonsense !" Sydney
said, hastily, Hushing scarlet.

Well, I think for my own part that
Horace is very human, and therefore of
necessity very full of faults. In fact, if he
weren't, don't you think I should be afraid
of him ? Oh ! Sydney," she suddenly exclaimed,
changing her tone, " I talk nonsense
often, but don't you know how, in the
bottom of my heart, I love that brother of
mine ? I say again, he is prejudiced, and
he is stupid, and he is provoking,  but he
is noble too, and true, and good, and,
though I speak sharply at times about him
(when he irritates me), I would serve him

VOL. III. F

and die for him, and never feel, even then,
that I had paid him for all he had given tome."



She ended with a little sudden break in
her voice,  with something that was half a
sob and half a laugh, and Sydney returned
no answer; but, after a minute, she said
something else to Helen in a very gentle
tone. Mrs. Walkinshaw's tirade against Mr.
Loudoun had made her angry, but her last
words had touched her curiously  they had
awakened a conscious chord of sympathy in
her own heart.

Could / ever repay him either ?" she
had thought to herself, and she had flushed
again, and her lip had quivered.

It had been April when Mrs. Walkinshaw
came, and it was now June. One days,
early in this month, Sydney got news from

Dover that her father had been more than
usually unwell.

*' I am very anxious about him," Mrs.
Godwin wrote. " He is so weak, and everyday
he seems to grow more and more listless.
I wonder if Horace could spare you
to come and see him for a little while? I
think a visit from you would rouse and
cheer him more than anything,  and how
can I tell you what it would be to meT'

This letter Sydney read to herself, and
then, without any comment, gave it to her
husband.

Must you go ?" he said, when he had
glanced at it. " I suppose you must."

"It will not be difficult," she replied, 
' with Helen here."

Oh, no  as far as that goes it will be .
easy enough," he replied. "And you would

f2

like to go to them ? Well, tell them then
that you will do it. They are wanting Sydney
at Dover," he turned to Mrs. Walkinshaw
and explained,  ''so, if she goes, you will
have to take the reins of government."

Oh, I shall be delighted !" said Helen,
readily.

And then Sydney murmured something
that was not very audible ; perhaps she
expressed her gratitude.

It was curious, as it struck her afterwards,
that her first feeling, on reading her
mother's letter, had not been one of eagerness
to go to her, but rather, for a few
moments, of regret at the thought of leaving
where she was. The wish to go to her
came in a very little while, but unquestionably
her first sensation had been one of
reluctance, not of desire.

I shall have to give Netty back to you,"
she said to Mrs. Walkinshaw presently, when
she was talking over the few arrangements
that had to be made for her absence.

*' Oh, yes, tiresome little monkey !"
exclaimed Helen. '* I must take her in
hand. But you will be well rid of her. I
am ashamed of having let you do my work
so long."

'you must not refuse to let me do it
again when I come back. You know I like
it," Sydney said.

'' You are too good, Sydney. You spoil
us both. I think it is a very good thing
that we are to be left without you for a
little. How long are you to be away ?"

"I don't quite know. Ten days or a
fortnight, I suppose. Not more than a
fortnight certainly."

"Oh, I wouldn't hurry back if I were you.
You see, I will look after Horace."

"I suppose so," Sydney said.

Yes,  I will do my utmost to keep him
from despair,  so you may be quite content."


Do you think T am afraid of his
despair?" Sydney asked, with a little half
jarring laugh.

Helen irritated her, and she turned
away from her, feeling that her irritation
was unreasonable, and yet not quite succeeding
in stifling it. She was angry with
herself because it annoyed her to see Mrs.
Walkinshaw's satisfaction at the prospect
of being left in charge of her brother.
Of course her pleasure was natural, she told
herself, but yet she was conscious that she
chafed at it. She was in a certain way

afraid of Helen,  not reasonably, perhaps,
but still she was afraid.

I shall miss you terribly, Sydney," her
husband said to her in the course of the
day.

"It will not be the same this time as
when I went away last," she answered,
coldly. '' Helen's being here will make so
great a difference."

It will make no difference in my longing
to have you back," he replied. " Nobody
else's presence could affect that."

She said nothing for a few moments, but
after that silence  perhaps because her
vague jealousy of Mrs. Walkinshaw made
her a little grateful to him 

"I don't know why you should want me
back," she said, rather sadly. **I don't do
much to make you happy."

'' I don't pretend to measure how much
you do," he replied, *but I shall want you,
you may be very sure, as I want nothing
else."

You are very good to me," she said,
quickly. And then she turned away. But
after she had turned away she hesitated fora
moment, and looked back at him, and
with a sudden generous impulse  " If the
day should ever come when  when I can
repay you," she said, ''do you not think that
I shall thank God?"

*' I believe that day will come," he
answered.

A few months ago, at such a speech from
her, he would probably have made a less
wise reply, but by this time  thanks probably
in the main to Helen  he had learnt
more reticence, and so he only said these

few words, and put his hand on her
shoulder for a moment, and then let her

go.

It was with a sense of pleasure  strange
but unquestionable  that, as the news of her
approaching departure spread through the
house, Sydney found that it gave satisfaction
to no one except Mrs. Walkinshaw. Her
husband told her how he should miss her ;
Netty stormed openly at her going.

*rand when you are away who is to
teach me ? she exclaimed, in a tone of
wrath, when the tidings were told her.

*' Your mother will," Sydney said.

Oh, you may think that, but she
won't," Netty retorted, nodding her shrewd
head. " Mamma doesn't do things like you.
She will sit down, and make me bring my
books, but in ten minutes she will be off. I

shan't have one good lesson till you come
back. I'll tell you if I do !" And then,
Oh, I hate you to go away : it won't behalf
so nice when you're gone."

But I shall come back again' Sydney
said. 'I am only going away for two
weeks, and time passes very quickly, you
know."

'* Perhaps you will stay away longer,"
said Netty, suspiciously.

"Oh no, I hope not  I mean, I think
not," answered Sydney, correcting herself
quickly, and flushing rather red.

Well, if you really come back in a fortnight,
it won't be so bad ; but mamma didn't
say a fortnight, she said ' some weeks,' " retorted
Netty, still suspicious.

"Mamma made a mistake," replied Sydney,

rather shortly. And then she began
to speak of something else.

It seemed too that even the housekeeper
would have preferred that her mistress
should have stayed at home.

I hope you are not going to be away
long, ma'am ?" she said to Sydney. '* And
it's your wish, I suppose, that everything
should go on just as usual ? You'll excuse
me for asking, but you see I know of old
that Mrs. Walkinshaw is a very managing
lady "

Sydney tried to look grave, but, against
her will, she almost laughed.

I am only going away for a fortnight,"
she said, '' and I think I must ask you during
that time to take your orders from Mrs.
Walkinshaw. I should not like her to feel

that she was not at liberty to do entirely as
she pleased. Nor would Mr. Loudoun like
it either, I am sure," she added, quickly.

Well, ma'am, it's of course as you wish,"
returned the housekeeper, severely, with an
air that rebuked the other's levity. And
then nothing more was said. But, when the
door closed behind her, Sydney laughed
again, and (even though she was half ashamed
of it) she was aware that there was a
certain flavour of pleasure in her laughter.

Mr. Loudoun went up to town with his
wife, and put her into the Dover train.

"Write to me often, and think of me
sometimes," he said to her, half jestingly,
before he bade her good-bye. ' You understand
that I should like to come and
fetch you, and stay for a day ? Give ray
love to them,  and take all my heart with

you," he added at the last moment, in her
ear.

She only said '* Good-bye " in answer ;
but when he kissed her she returned his
kiss, for nearly the first time that she had
ever done it. With something that approached
almost to a feeling of regret, she
parted from him. "Thank God that at
least I am less impatient of him now than I
was when I left him last," she thought. She
remembered that last journey of hers to
Dover,  how she had gone in her misery,
with a feeling that she must fly from him
because she could no longer bear her life,
and the change, such as it was, made her
very grateful. 'perhaps I may have regard
enough for him presently to be content
to be his wife," she thought to herself.
" I can almost believe it now. One

can forget so much  and learn so much.
And perhaps," she added, after a little
while, " resignation and peace maybe almost
as good as happiness."

But yet she sighed when she had said
that.

CHAPTER III.

Sydney found Mr. Godwin very feeble;
she had to allow to her mother that
she thought him changed. Both in mind
and body he was weaker and more lethargic.
The sight of his daughter when she came
roused him for a few minutes, but hardly
for more than that. Within a quarter of an
hour after her arrival he had almost forgotten
her, being occupied with the consideration
of his approaching dinner, and with the fear
that the fish intended for his meal might not
do him good.

"Poor clear, he goes on troubling himself
about little things of that sort all day long'
Mrs. Godwin said. "As soon as one is got
rid of, he begins about another. He doesn't
think much about anything outside himself
now. Hard for me, dear?" the little
gentle woman said, in answer to some
expression of pity from Sydney. " Oh,
no, you must not think that. What else
have I to do but to nurse him and try to
cheer him ? Do you know that we shall
have been together for five and twenty
sears tomorrow, Sydney? Yes, tc-morrow
is our silver wedding day. It won't be a
very gay day, but I am glad you are hereto
spend it with us."

"I am so glad too," Sydney said.

And it was true that she was glad ; and
yet as this and the following days passed

over her head, it seemed to her strangely as
if this old familiar life to which she had
come back had somehow changed,  had
grown smaller, sadder, less interesting to
her. She tried to throw herself into it
again in the old way, and could not. Her
thoughts were always wandering from it, 
going back to the place that she had left, 
occupying themselves with other scenes and
other people. She sat and talked with her
mother, and it struck even herself with
surprise to find how frequently and naturally
now she turned in her talk to topics
connected with her own house. Four months
ago, when she had been last at Dover, it had
been her object as far as possible to ignore
the new life that she had gone to,  to
throw herself back into the old  to forget
that she was married and had a separate

VOL. III. G

home; but now a distinct and indisputable
change had come, and she found that
she neither forgot that she had her own house
apart from her mother's house, nor wished
to forget it. This other life of hers might
not be dear to her yet, but at any rate she
had begun to identify herself with it; it
might not yet have made her happy, but
she had begun at last to recognise that no
happiness could come to her except in it, 
that to fly from it was foolishness  to try to
dismiss it from her thoughts was impossible.

'I should think you must have sour
hands pretty full now  have you not,
Sydney ?" Mrs. Godwin said to her one day.
' Both your hands and your head too ?"

And Sydney coloured, and for a moment
was taken aback, but after that moment she
answered  *' Yes."

' Yes, interests and occupations gather
round one," she said, hesitating a little,
and you know many things are very
pleasant. One's heart warms so to the old
place,  and the old faces. I have a great
deal to be thankful for, I know," she said,
very gently.

She used every morning (to her great
surprise) to experience an odd kind of restlessness
until Mr. Loudoun's daily letter
reached her. It did not often come by the
first delivery, but, until she received it, she
always felt as if she could not settle to any
occupation. Her own letters to him in
return also absorbed her not a little. She
did not write to him every day, but, whenever
she did write, she shut herself into her
room and gave herself to her task with
perhaps , an almost unconscious earnest



ness. These letters of hers were different
from those that she had written
to him when she was last here four
months ago. She was more at ease with
him now ; she could tell him what she was
doing, and reply to his questions and his
details of home news naturally and cordially.
To the tender portions of his letters
alone could she make no response. Yet
even these she at least read and re-read,
and sometimes they touched her with an
emotion different from what they would
have awakened in her once. For in fact
she had by this time reached the point at
which, though she did not love her husband
(or thought she did not love him), she was
beginning to be capable of setting some
value on his love for her ; she was coming
half consciously to regard it as a possession

a thing for which she no longer dared to
feel indifference.

She was happy enough during these
weeks that she spent with her mother,
though the life they led was a curiously
quiet and monotonous one. All day the
two women sat together, and talked and
sewed, and did the little that they could to
amuse their helpless invalid, whose side his
wife almost never left. They were rarely
out of doors except for the hour each morning
when Mr. Godwin was wheeled up and
down the Parade in his Bath chair.

"It is very dull for you, Sydne}," Mrs.
Godwin would say sometimes to her,  " but
yet I know you don't mind it. You are
just as kind and patient as you ever were,
my dear. And to me the having you here
is like new life."

' Sometimes of late," she said one day,
*' I have been terribly sorry that we didn't
go home with you. When you told me
last month that that pretty little house of
the Wilmot' was to let  oh ! I did wish
with all my heart that we could take it ;
but I couldn't dare to move your father
now. The sea suits him,  and it is an
amusement too. He likes to sit there at
the window looking out, more than you
think. I did say just one word to Dr.
Hudson," said the poor little woman, with a
sigh, " but he shook his head ; he told me
he wouldn't advise me to think of any
change. And so of course I don't think of
it,  though I can't speak of what it would
be to nie to be near you, my darling."

We shall be together some time, mother,
perhaps," Sydney replied, in a low voice ;

and then they were both silent. But, after
a moment, she turned to the feeble figure
seated in his arm-chair, and softly  almost
as if she were asking his forgiveness  kissed
one of the helpless hands that were groping
about the folds of his dressing-gown.

I wonder what they are both doing !"
Sydney was always finding herself thinking.
Away from her husband's actual presence,
past scenes were continually rising before
her. Again and again she recalled a hundred
hours that were gone.

One day she was talking to her mother
about Mr. Loudoun and Helen.

She is fond of him, and yet I think she
does him less justice than he does her," she
said. "To her he is always so tender and
generous, but she has a tongue that at times
spares nobody. She has made me angry

sometimes because she professes to love hai
so much, and yet she says things of him
that I could not bear to say of anyone I
cared for. It is curious."

And then she was about to add something
more, but suddenly stopped. There were
moments when she knew, with a strange
kind of bashful knowledge, that she wanted
to praise her husband, and yet she was
ashamed to praise him. " If I said what I
might say, mamma would misunderstand
me," was what she thought. For she was
pretty clearly alive by this time to her husband's
good qualities, and even indeed
proud of them, and jealous  in a way  of
their due recognition. *' But if I praise
him, mamma will think that I love him too,'
she thought; and so she often checked herself
in giving him praise. " He is very different

from Helen. In some ways he is
more a person to trust, I think," she contented
herself with merely adding to her former
speech, after a few moments' silence.

She was not dull, she more than once
warmly assured her mother; but yet certainly
the days here, she used to think,
seemed astonishingly long. When a week
had passed she said to herself, " I feel as
if it were months since I left home." She
used the word "home" for a moment without
thinking : it rose to her mind naturally ; buta
few moments afterwards she became conscious
that she had used it, and then, though
she was alone, she blushed. From some
foolish shyness or perversity, she never yet
in ordinary talk had begun to speak of Mr.
Loudoun's house as " home " ; now, for a
minute, when she found that she had done it,

it vexed her ; but after that minute she was
wise enough to be glad. ' I am less generous
to him than he has been to me," she
thought, with the warm colour in her face.

She had promised to stay with her mother
for a fortnight, but, before the fortnight had
come to its end, she began almost unconsciously
to wish for its completion.

She fell to counting the days that had
still to pass before her husband should come
for her. She became impatient for his coming,
 not so much, she told herself, because
she desired to see him, as because she was
tired of idleness. She had her natural occupations
in her own house, but here she
had no occupations. A few months ago
this monotonous life had been comparatively
sweet to her ; it had given her a sense of
rest ; she had laid her tired head on her

mother's breast, with a feeling that she only-wanted
to lie still and be let alone ; but
now a new spring of life had welled up in
her, and her energy that had been so paralyzed
was beginning at last to awake from
its long sleep.

Mr. Loudoun had promised to come and
stay at Dover for a day, and Mrs. Godwin
was looking forward to his visit with a
pleased and undisguised excitement.

I think it is so nice of him to come,"
she said to Sydney, " when it can hardly be
any pleasure to him,  but then he had always
the kindest heart I ever knew. From first
to last it has been the same. I know," she
said, hesitating a little,  ' I know you don't
forget all he has done for us, Sydney, but
I sometimes think that perhaps we none of
us remember it quite as much as we should.

It is SO easy to be ungrateful, and to come
to take almost as rights what are only undeserved
benefits."

Some of us may be ungrateful, mother,
but not you," Sydney answered, quickly.

''I can only bless him, and God knows I
do that always. Look how comfortable weare
here," exclaimed the little woman, with
emotion. "There is not a thing your
father wants but I can get it for him. Horace
makes me even take more from him
than I can spend,  and he does it all so ungrudgingly,
so lavishly. Sometimes I wonder
how I can bear to owe him so much, 
and yet, my dear, I can't get troubled about
it ; no, I can't, for he makes me feel as if I
were only taking it from my own son. Oh,
my darling," and Mrs. Godwin suddenly put
her hand upon her daughter's, and began to

speak hurriedly and nervously, ''if things
ever seem hard to you still (I don't know if
they do, and I won't ask you),  if it should
ever be so, think of your father, and of the
blessing that your marriage has been to us,
and you won't repent."

"I do think of that often," Sydney answered,
in a low voice.

And then she made an effort to say
something more, but she could not at once.
After a few moments, however, she said
it.

You may be content about me. I do
not repent, mother," she said. " I am far
happier than I was. I honour my husband
with all my heart. Do not say anything
more  but I wanted you to know that."

She was trembling a minute afterwards
when she escaped to her own room. She

had said little enough, and yet that little
had agitated her so that her heart was
beating violently, and she had to sit down
in silence for a little while before she could
calm herself It was the first confession she
had ever made that she had in any way
drawn nearer to her husband, and had it
been a confession of regard made by her to
himself it could hardly have moved her more.
With shy alarm she began almost at once to
dread that her mother should misunderstand
it, and should think that she meant more
than she had really meant, and assume a
feeling in her that did not in reality exist.
"I should have said something else; I
should have guarded myself better from
misconception," she told herself; but yet
she felt that she had no courage to return to

the subject ; she could not bring herself to
open her lips on it again.

She had her last letter from Mr. Loudoun
on the morning of the day on which she
expected him, and in it he said, " I shall be
with you in three or four hours after you
get this."

 "He will come by the three train,"
Sydney told her mother.

"And you will go down to meet him, I
suppose, my dear ?" Mrs. Godwin asked.

But Sydney coloured at this. She had
not thought of meeting him.

I don't know. I might go, of course,"
she said, hesitating.

It was a small thing, but yet she could
not make up her mind whether she would
go or not ; she almost knew that she wanted
to go, and yet she was half ashamed.

"I wonder if he will expect me. I
wonder if he would like me to meet him. If
I thought it would please him  " she went
on saying to herself.
j She was more excited at the thought of
seeing him again than a month or two ago
she would have thought possible. She
would hardly have allowed, even to her own
heart, that she was eager for his coming, and
yet all through the morning she thought
of nothing else. She looked at her
watch a score of times ; she counted the
hours ; she put on a dress that she knew he
liked to see her wear. And then, after this,
the end of it all was that  he did not come.

At one o'clock she had a telegram from
him to say that he was unexpectedly detained
at home.

*ned Wilcox has just met with a bad

accident," was his message to her, "and I
cannot easily get away. You shall have a
letter in the morning, but be prepared to
leave tomorrow without waiting for me."

** Oh, I am so sorry !" Sydney exclaimed,
impulsively.

She read the telegram to Mrs. Godwin.

That boy is such a favourite of his ; he
is such a good lad. Don't you remember
him, mamma ? If anything serious happens
to him Horace will be so terribly grieved,"
she said, and she stood with the paper in
her hand,  troubled, disappointed, wishing
almost feverishly that she was at home.

Sydney, would you like to go at once ?"
Mrs. Godwin asked her, wistfully, after a few
moments' silence. " Of course you could manage
it ; you could catch the half-past three
train ; you would be home before dark."

VOL. III. H

But it would be cheating you of a day ?
You would be sorry, mother ?" Sydney said,
hesitation.

She was longing to go, but she was
ashamed to say how much she longed for it.
I don't think I ought to leave you ; it
would seem so unkind," she said, reluctantly.


My dear, I should never think anything
you did unkind," Mrs. Godwin answered.

And then there was a little silence, till
she said, presently,

I am sure Horace would be glad to have
you, and you would like to go to him. I see
quite well that you are anxious. So go,
Sydney. I advise you to go."

The tears had started to her eyes, but
she did not let her daughter see them.
We shall have plenty of time, and  and

we can't help the disappointment, my
darling," was all she said to her : and
then bravely did not make their parting
harder with another word.

So Sydney packed her trunk, and at half-past
three took the train up to town. She
had telegraphed back to her husband to ask
that some one might meet her. At the end
she almost repented that she had decided to
go, for when the last minutes came she felt
that she had been selfish. "Six months
ago I would not have hurried away from
them like this," she told herself. And
yet she could not help the change that
had come over her. She hardly knew
whether she would have helped it if she
could.

She had only to wait for half an hour in
London, and it was still daylight when she

h2

reached her journey's end. At the station
she did not doubt that she should find Mr.
Loudoun waiting for her, and her expectation
of their meeting was making her heart
beat quickly as the train slackened speed ;
but when it stopped, with a curious sudden
feeling of surprise and not of pleasure, she
found only Mrs. Walkinshaw on the platform.


Helen received her with outstretched
hands.

*' Oh. my dear, how nice of you to have
come at once !" she exclaimed, '' though of
course, you know, it was not necessary.
Horace was quite sorry when he found you
were hurrying yourself so. But you were
anxious, of course ? Well, I don't wonder,
for we have all been in dreadful distress
about that poor fellow."

What was the accident? Horace did
not tell me," Sydney said.

''Oh, he fell from the scaffolding at one
of those new houses in the village  those red
ones, you know, near the post-office. Horace
was there at the time, and saw it all,
and you may be sure he has been doing
everything for everybody ever since. He
is at the Welcomes' now; he has been
there most of the day. I went once,  but
I can't stand these things  the sight of his
mother broke me down. So when we
heard you were coming I offered to come
and meet you, and Horace was very glad tolet
me. And now, dear, we will drive fast
home, and let you get some rest and some
dinner, for I am sure you need both ; you
are looking so white and tired."

If Sydney had not been an over-sensitive

woman, it is probable that when Mrs.
Walkinshaw said, " Horace was quite sorry
when he found you were coming," she would
not have paid any regard to those words ;
but being what she was, both over-sensitive
and in an over-strung state, they entered her
ears, and stayed there painfully. All at
once it seemed to her that she had made a
mistake in coming  that she had acted under
excitement, and that her husband would
think her foolish to have been excited.
She had rushed home with an eagerness
that appeared to her suddenly quite uncalled
for ; she had come when no one expected
her  or wanted her.

*' He is terribly hurt, poor fellow,"
Mrs. Walkinshaw told her as they drove to
the Hall together. "I am afraid Dr.
Cayley does not think that he will live. I

saw him just now as I came to meet you,
and he only shook his head, and said it was
a bad case. Horace is terribly grieved.
You know he has such a liking for that lad.
He says he is the best boy in the place,  and
I am sure I can believe it, for don't you
remember what a fine, bright, handsome face
he had, and how nice he was to his old
grandfather? Poor old man !  to think of
how he had been looking forward to his new
cottage,  and that this should be the first
thing to happen when he got into it !"

When they were in the avenue Netty met
them with a shout of welcome. At sight of
the carriage she had come scouring up to
them across the grass, and they had to stop
and take her in before they could pacify
her.

Oh, I am so glad you have come back !"

she told Sydney, fervently. " Now we shall
have our nice times again."

You little, ungrateful monkey, I think
you have been having a tolerably nice time
as it is," Mrs. Walkinshaw on this retorted,
laughing ; but Netty turned to her with a
reproving face.

"You dont know what I mean," she
said, '' but Aunt Sydney does. Aunt
Sydney  " and she began to nod her head
vehemently, *' I said I would tell you. It
was j must twice ! You understand  don't you ?
But now you have come back again,  and I
am so glad !"

Well, it is a good thing I am not of a
jealous disposition," said Helen, calmly ; and
after a moment began to laugh. In truth
she took her daughter's whims very lightly,
and never, now or afterwards, showed any

annoyance at Netty's devotion to her aunt.
*' We are nothing but so many playthings to
her," she sometimes said, *sand she merely
likes the newest plaything best."

The regular dinner time was past, but a
meal was prepared for Sydney at which Mrs.
Walkinshaw presided. She took her place
quite naturally at the top of the table, and
carved the fowl, and pressed her sister-in-law
to partake of it, and seemed thoroughly at
home in the position Sydney's absence had
given her. Perhaps Sydney, for her part,
did not notice it.

She was thinking more of her husband
indeed than of Mrs. Walkinshaw. It was
getting dark when she rose from table, and
still he had not come.

'' What a long time Horace is staying ! If
he were anywhere except where we know

him to be, one would say it was a very
ungallant proceeding," Mrs. Walkinshaw
exclaimed, with a laugh, as Sydney was
standing by one of the open windows. ' But,
poor kind fellow, I believe the truth is that
he has not the heart to come away. He
can hardly, however, be much longer, I
should think. Shall we come to the
drawing-room, Sydney ? You still look
tired, dear. Come to the drawing-room and
let me put you on a sofa."

Oh, no, I don't want to lie down,"
Sydney answered, hastily. " I think it is
very hot indoors," she added next moment.


'well, I don't feel it hot," said Mrs.
Walkinshaw, '' but, if you do, let us sit in
the verandah. This warm, bright weather is
delightful to me, you know. Yes, we will

sit there, and have a nice talk. And Til
order our coffee to follow us. Giles, will
you have coffee sent to us in the verandah 
and as quickly as possible, if you please.
Now then we will get a couple of shawls,
Sydney, and make ourselves  "

"There is Horace!" exclaimed Sydney,
interrupting Mrs. Walkinshaw's speech
almost unconsciously (for in truth she had
scarcely been listening to it), and she turned
away at once, and went out of the room.
In the dim light she had seen her husband's
figure in the avenue. She crossed the hall
and went out and met [him a few yards
from the door.

My darling, did you think I had been
forgetting you?" he said.

His eyes turned brightly on her for a
moment as he took her in his arms, but

almost immediately afterwards a grave look
came over his face.

*' I wanted so much to come when I had
your telegram ; but I am afraid you think
I have been stupid ?" she said, timidly.

Stupid to come back to me ?" he replied.
He laughed, and pressed the hand
close that he was still holding. "How
could I feel in any way but one about that ?
It is life to me to have you at my side
again."

He walked on with her to the house, still
holding her hand in his.

I am so terribly sorry about poor Ned.
I have been hoping so that there might be
something I could do for him," she said.

Well, you can do many things. I will
take you over with me in the morning," he
answered at once.

You will not see him any more tonight?"


''No. Cayley and I came away just
now together. He does not think there
will be any change within the next twelve
hours."

And after that ? Has he any hope ?"

Mr. Loudoun shook his head.

None," he said.

Mrs. Walkinshaw met them after a
minute.

Oh, Horace, you must be tired out !"
she exclaimed. " Sydney and I were just
going to have our coffee in the verandah.
Come with us and have some too. Are
you glad to see Sydney again ? But  poor
old fellow !  I suspect you are really too
much out of heart to be glad about anything.
You have no better report to give,.

I suppose ? Ah ! no, I see you haven't.
Poor Ned !"

"Tell me about it," Sydney said to hiiu
presently.

They were sitting in the verandah. He
had asked her a few questions about her
father and mother, but Helen hitherto had
been the main talker. She was that at
most times ; but to-night her vivacity wearied
Sydney. She wanted to hear all that she
could about Ned Wilcox.

'* There is not much to tell," he said.
'' A scaffolding broke down, do you say ?
Oh, no, there was no scaffolding to break.
You are the most incorrect of women,
Helen !" with a moment's lauorh. " He
fell from the top of one of the houses. He
was standing there receiving the tiles for
roofing, as another man threw them up,

and (it was all the fault of the man below)
one of the throws was not given straight,
and, as poor Ned made a sudden movement
backwards, he lost his balance. I saw him
fall, and the only wonder seems to me that
he was not killed on the spot. Poor lad !
"We got him on a stretcher, and then I went
on first and told his mother."

"Yes, of course they gave Horace the
hardest thing to do," Helen struck in.
*that is  have you noticed?  what everybody
always does''

* Nobody gave me this to do, for I did it
of my own accord," he answered, quietly.

"He is her only son, is he not? Poor
thing !" Sydney said, softly.

He is not merely her only son  he is
her only child," he replied. " He is everything
she has."

That verandah at the Hall was a favourite
place of resort with Sydney. It ran along
the whole of one side of the house,  a fine
old stone verandah facing the west, with its
pillars wreathed with climbing roses, and
vines, and passion-flowers.

To-night, as they sat here, the sun had
long been set, but the sky was still clear,
and in everything around them there
was a sense of repose, of warmth, of loveliness.


The contrast between this peace and
beauty, and the scene from which Mr.
Loudoun had just come, struck Sydney
with a feeling of keen and humbled pain.
On the one hand there was poverty, and
anguish, and coming death ; on the other 
this !

' And yet I have dared to complain," she

cried to herself, *sand to think what I have
had to bear has been hard !"

Oh, it wrings one's heart to think of all
the suffering in the world !" she broke out,
suddenly. '' What can we do for that poor
soul ? T feel as if I could hardly dare to
go and speak to her."

*' Well, that is what I feel, too," exclaimed
Helen. *' It fairly frightens me, and takes
away my wits. I did go once to the house,
you know, with Horace, but I just burst outcrying,
and had to come away. It seems
almost like mockery even to try to comfort
poor creatures in such trouble. Ho wean they
take comfort from prosperous, happy people
like us ? If they thought of the whole
thing, they would be more likely to hate
us."

"It is not this sort of trouble that is

VOL. III. I

likely to make them hate us," Mr. Loudoun
said, quietly. 'the sorrow Mrs. Wilcox
lias to bear to-night might be the sorrow of
any mother in the world. You must not
be afraid of going to her."

Well, I never knew how to visit poor
people," said Mrs. Walkinshaw, after a little
silence. ''I am sure it is not that I
am not sorry for them, for I am so sorry
often that it makes my very heart sick ;
but, when I am face to face with them, I
don't know what to say that won't sound
like a jest. I think if I could dress myself
up like a sister of mercy I should be able to
find my tongue a little, but when I go to
them, looking like an ordinary lady, in a
silk gown, and feeling that they know I live
here in a big house, on the fat of the land,
with servants to wait upon me, I declare I

feel so ashamed of myself that I don't know
low to utter a word. I am sure I can't tell
how you manage with them as you do,
Horace. They all know that you are rich,
and yet you always seem able to come round
them in a way I never could do if I tried
till Doomsday. I don't believe there is
almost a creature in the place who grudges
you anything you have. You have a way
of getting on with them,  you always
had from the time you were a child  that
I never could either understand or imitate."


There never has seemed to me any
difficulty in getting on with them," Mr.
Loudoun said. " In many parts of the country
no doubt there might be  I should breakdown
probably as much as you would ina
new place,  but as for the people here,

i2

I know them and they know me, and it is
all simple enough."

Yes,  and then you never talk to them
as if you thought they were beneath your's
Sydney said, suddenly, though shyly toy
and even flushing in the darkness.

He gave a little laugh, and for a moment
put his hand caressingly upon her shoulder ;
but immediately afterwards he began to
speak of something else.

'you have told me nothing about Dover
nor about your people yet ?" he said. * Was
your mother sorry not to see me ? Did
she not send me one of her tender little
messages ?"

Oh, yes she sent you many messages,'
Sydney answered, cordially. " She was
very much disappointed. She had been
thinking so much about your coming."

Well, I had been thinking a great deal
about it too,  though I am pretty well reconciled
to being here now," he said : and
then for a moment he touched her caressingly
again. 'I am afraid you must have
hurried yourself very much this afternoon ?
Did you ?" he asked next instant. " And
was it very hard to come away?"

Oh, no," she said, quickly.

*' I was afraid when I got your telegram
that you might only have resolved to come
because you thought you were needed here.
You were wanted, you know, but not needed
in any absolute sense."

"Oh, yes, 1 knew that  but I was
anxious to come."

"And they let you away without difficulty?"


It was mamma who proposed it."

'* Oh  it was mamma," rather in a tone
of disappointment,  ' not yourself?"

I did not like to suggest it, but  she
saw "

That you wanted her to suggest it ?"

*' Yes. The telegram told me so little
you know."

"Your father is really weaker, I am
afraid ?" he said, after a moment or two's
silence; and then she began to tell him
about Mr. Godwin's state.

Helen had gone into the house, but
though Mr. Loudoun stayed with Sydney,
they merely talked of Dover and the
various small things that had happened in
her absence. He only said once, after they
had at last both risen up,  'thank God
that you are back with me." And then he
kissed her again, and she submitted to the

kiss indeed, but almost instantly afterwards
she drew back from him. She might have
replied to him with truth that she too was
glad to be at home again, but she was perhaps
too shy, perhaps too perverse to say
this ; so she held her peace.

They went together early in the morning
to see poor Ned. As they where on their
way,

"What Helen was speaking of last night
has a certain truth in it," he suddenly said''
She does not get on with working people.
I hardly know how it is. She sympathizes
with them  in a way, but in all her intercourse
with them she is too self-conscious.
She is always thinking of the position she
ought to take with them, instead of simply
being herself. Now, with you it is a wholly
different thing."

Is it, do you think ?" Sydney said,
timidly.

*' Why, you never have any difficulty in
knowing how to talk to them."

No, not at ordinary times,  but I am
more frightened now than you think."

*that is because the thought of seeing
anyone in such trouble would naturally awe
you,  but it is a feeling that will leave you
before you have been for five minutes in
this poor soul's house. I am glad you are
here to try to comfort her, Sydney. I have
a reliance on you in such a matter that I
could never have in Helen."

The cottage door was standing open when
they reached it, and the old grandfather
was sitting with his pipe in the porch.

I've just come here to be out of the
way, sir," he said. "It's little else I can

do but keep out of the way,  for, my poor
boy, he don't know me yet  he don't know
none of us, and I've been a sitting looking
in his face till it's pretty near done for me.
Yes  the missis'll tell you more than me.
She's in with Ned  she's making things
straight a bit. She was thinking you'd be
over soon, sir."

Mrs. Wilcox heard their voices, and came
forward to meet them. Her hollow eyes
looked as if they had cried till they could
cry no more, but yet the tears started again
as Sidney silently took her hand.

*she's neither better nor worse, sir; I
can't see no change," she said, in a tone of
hopeless sadness. " All the night long I've
prayed to God in heaven to let him speak
to me before he goes, but he lies still, and
he don't come to himself,  and he'll go off

that way, I'm thinking, at the last. Oh ! sir,
can't you do nothing more for him ? Come
in and see him. You'll come in, ma'am ?
rd like you both to see him. Perhaps
you'll be able to help me to do something
more."

In the neat little bare room, with the
summer sunshine streaming across his bed,
poor Ned was lying, with death written on
his young face. He had never since his
fall given any sign of consciousness. He
lay with his eyes almost closed, with his
head bound up, and his muscular workman's
right hand lying helpless outside the bedclothes.


Yes, he's never moved all night  that's
how he lies till it breaks my heart to look
at him!" she said. "Speak to him, sir.
Let him hear another voice. Oh, it's no

good, I know,  but let's try  let's try!"

Mr. Loudoun bent down and called the
poor boy by his name, and took his hand
and pressed it, but there was no response.
With a hopeless cry the mother threw her
apron over her face.

' Oh, my lad  my lad !" she said.

They got her to sit down presently by
Sydney's side.

''No, no, ma'am,  let me be," she said at
first, piteously. " I'm always wanting to be
moving about and doing something for him,
though I know there's nothing to do. I
can't rest."

But after a little while she yielded and
sat down, and let Sydney's hand close over
hers.

Yes  you're all kind to me," she said
then. "I can't thank you, but the Lord

will.  If ray boy loved anybody in the
world, he loved Mr. Loudoun  that he
did," she said, presently. " He was the
first in his thoughts always,  and a good,
good friend Mr. Loudoun was to him."
She and Sydney were alone by this time ;
Mr. Loudoun for a time had left them. 'I
think you're a happy woman, ma'am," the
poor soul said, looking with her sad, blank
eyes in Sydney's face. "You've got the
best gentleman for your husband in all the
country side. Oh, and long may you keep
happy  and may you never have a breaking
heart like mine to-day. He was the
best son ever born,  and a proud mother
I've been these twenty years. Yes, I've
had him twenty years, and never had a
day's sorrow with him. You know what
he was, ma'am  don't you? You've often

spoke to him,  and he never forgot a kind
word. * Ned's a good lad,' Mr. Loudoun
he says to me many a time,  and, God bless
him ! he spoke the truth ; and now my lad's
gone ! I gave him his breakfast yesterday
morning, and a fine hearty breakfast he
ate, and  ' Mother, I'll be back at twelve
o'clock,' he says, as he goes away,  and
them was the last words I ever heard him
speak. 'Mother, Til be back at twelve
o'clock.' Oh, my God  my God ! And
this was how he came back !"

The poor boy lived all through the day,
but he never recovered his consciousness,
and early the next morning, without suffering
or awakening, he passed away. He was
hardly twenty.

"He was as good a lad as ever lived,"
Mr. Loudoun said. He and Sydney both

were in the room. It was the first deathbed
by which she had ever stood.

They walked back almost in silence to
their own house when all was over. The
thought of the young life that was gone, and
of the mother's despairing grief, was making
Sydney's heart full to overflowing. The
bright loveliness of the summer morning
seemed out of harmony with such a scene as
she had come from. Mrs. Walkinshaw's
lively voice when they met her in the garden
jarred on her ears.

He is gone, is he, poor lad ? Well 
well  it is terribly sad," Helen said, " but I
am sure, if it was to be, I am glad it is over.
Things of this sort are so very dreadful, 
and really 1 don't see the use of rending
one's heart in two over them. Of course
doctors and clergymen must endure the

sight of every kind of misery, but for ordinary
people I can't quite see the use of it.
Here is Sydney now, looking as white as a
ghost. I know I needn't say a word, for
you are both as obstinate as you can be, and
so I can only hope that you have done some
good by the pain you have given yourselves ;
but do pray try now to talk and think about
something fresh, for I declare I have been
out of sorts myself for these two days with
the mere sight of your faces."

And then she laughed ; but Sydney went
into the house unable to join in her laughter.
She had been at one with her husband as
they had walked home across the fields, but
Helen's light jesting made her turn away
with a sudden shrinking that she could not
repress.

CHAPTER IV.

|jlOR a day or two after this, it pleased
Mrs. Walkinshaw to assume that her
sister-in-law was so much upset by her
concern for the Welcomes, and so occupied
by the visits that she continued to pay to
the poor mother, that she ought to be spared
all other fatigue, and so she exerted herself
in the kindest way to take her usual work
off her hands, and gave herself so unselfishly
to this labour that Sydney, rather perplexed,
began to feel more like a guest in
her own house than the mistress of it.
"Now, my dear, you must let me help

you'* she would say affectionately to Sydney.
"No  you mustn't prevent me. I insist upon
it. Remember I am quite at home in
managing things now."

And indeed Mrs. Walkinshaw was apparently
not only at home now in this
employment, but it seemed as if she must
have been at home in it for some time past,
for Sydney was surprised to discover gradually
how active Helen's rule had been during
her absence. She had initiated quite a
variety of small reforms and new arrangements.


You see, I have been amusing myself a
little," she had merely said to Sydney, lightly,
in explanation of these unexpected proceedings.
" I took such a fancy to give a
new look to the rooms. Do you know I
hardly ever go into a room that I don't

VOL. HI. K

want to shuffle about the furniture, and my
fingers have been itching to do certain things
here ever since I came. Now, for instance,
there was that heavy old sofa in the 
 Well, it is a very handsome sofa :
I don't want to say anything disrespectful of
it, but standing where it did it was always a
perfect eyesore to me. So I moved that
back into the recess near the fire  and then,
when I had made that one change, I couldn't
stop. I was a little afraid of you at first and
of what you would say to me," exclaimed
Mrs. Walkinshaw, laughing again pleasantly,
"but then, you know, I am always a dreadfully
daring woman, and you  I know  are
an angel of good temper. You haven't been
in the library yet "  (for this was said on the
first night of Sydney's return)  "it is there
that I have done the greatest things. I

went to Horace one morning and told him I
had come to knock all the place about his
ears. Of course he resisted a little at first,
but you know I can do most things I like
with Horace, and I soon had him as meek
as a lamb, and in the end he confessed that
I had worked wonders. Dear old fellow !
Oh, Sydney," she suddenly exclaimed, ' you
won't mind my saying that I have been
very happy with him, will you ? It has
been so sweet to have him to myself. There 
I am a dreadful woman, for saying plain
things !  and I know that sounds as if I
meant  something that was not kind to
you,  but, dear Sydney, you won't misunderstand
me, will you ?" and she smiled
in the frankest way into Sydney's face. '' T
assure you I should not have said anything
that seemed so rude if I had not a clear

k2

conscience  if I was not sure that I was
delighted now to have you back."

"You are very good to be content to
have me," Sydney said, very quietly. " I
knew that you were sure to be happy  '
And then she stopped.

''Oh, yes," Helen answered, with a sigh of
appreciation, '' it was very nice,  and I
think certainly that I kept Horace from
being very miserable. I have always felt,
you see, that it was such a delightful thing
for a brother and sister to be such friends as
we two are. We have so much confidence
in one another, so much sympathy. When
I was young it always used to be my scheme
that we should live together all our lives,
and be everything to one another. Only,
you see, Dick came to me, and you have
come to Horace," she suddenly ended

laughing, "and so that little prospective
arrangement has got blown into the
air!"

The next day when she entered it, Sydney
certainly found that the aspect of the
library was greatly altered. Mrs. Walsingham
had shifted every article of furniture
into a fresh position ; she had given an
entirely new character to the room. It
was dexterously done; Sydney allowed
frankly that Helen had evidently a genius
for arrangement.

'' Yes, I think you have improved it'*
she said. ' I should hardly have thought
that Horace would have liked his writing
table moved to so different a place, but of
course if he does not mind  "

*' Oh, my dear, he likes it  absolutely
likes it, I assure you," Helen exclaimed.

''He has paid me all kinds of pretty
compliments upon my cleverness,  and I
believe he thought it a prime stroke of
genius in me to do all this while your back
was turned,  for he says you are terribly
conservative. Are you such a stiff conservative,
Sydney ? I hope not,  for I ama
radical, and Horace always has his mind
open to conviction. There is one out and out
conservative in the house, however, I know,"
and Helen all at once burst out laughing, 
and that is Mrs. Grant. Mrs. Grant was
never very fond of me, and I do believe I
have made an enemy of her now for life. If
you could only have seen the black looks
she has been giving me ! She made an
excuse for coming in here the morning that
I was skirmishing, and I declare, Sydney,
the look on her face was as good as a play.

I just stood in the middle of the floor and
screamed with laughter. Oh, Mrs. Grant
thinks me an awful woman ! Only wait fora
little, and see if she doesn't tell you
so."

Nor indeed had Sydney long to wait.

*' You're very welcome, ma'am," Mrs.
Grant had merely said at her first sight of
her returned mistress, with grim emphasis ;
but at their next meeting the wrath within
her bosom found vent.

You've not come before you're wanted,
ma'am," she said, with solemnity. *' We've
had a  a deal going on in your absence.
I'm sure I've been sorry for the master.
What with one thing and another, he's had
a  ahem !  a good bit to put up with."

' I don't think he has thought so, Mrs.
Grant," Sydney answered, cheerfully.

Oh, he's wonderfully patient, ma'am  I
know that, and he'll not find fault with
many things that Mrs. Walkinshaw does, 
but I declare, ma'am, for my part, when I
saw her pretty well turning the house out
at the windows, it made my heart come to
my mouth."

Oh, but you must not take it so seriously,"
Sydney said, laughing. ' You know,
you told me yourself Mrs. Walkinshaw was
a very stirring woman ; you ought to have
been prepared."

' I was not prepared for her turning the
whole place upside-down, ma'am. No, I
wasn't prepared for that," said Mrs. Grant,
severely. " I didn't think it was a thing
any lady would have done. Of course,
however, if you don't find fault, ma'am, it's
not for me to object," said the good soul, ina

pained tone of surprise, " and, if I've
stepped out of my place to speak of it, I
ask your pardon."

I did not mean that at all. I think
you are very kind and good," Sydney said,
quickly and sweetly ; '' and, if you are glad
to have me back again, how can I do anything
but thank you ? Only you must not
mind the little changes that Mrs. Walsingham
has made. She is so much more
active and energetic than we are, you know,
but you and I are too old-fashioned ; weare
indeed. So let us take the shaking up
that she has given us and be thankful for
it," Sydney said ; and then, a little hurriedly,
began to talk of something else.

She had spoken lightly, but was she indeed
so indifferent as she had seemed to be to
the things that Mrs. Walkinshaw had done ?

Her heart was fall, during these first days,
of poor Ned Wilcox, and so mean and insignificant
a matter as the disturbance of
tables and chairs seemed almost too trivial
and despicable a thing for her to waste an
angry thought on,  and yet it did vex her
involuntarily. Her husband, she thought,
ought not to have permitted what his sister
had done.

 But he would let Helen do anything,"
she said to herself, hotly, and perhaps unreasonably.
'' He talks of how much he
cares for me, but, if there ever came to be
any question between us, he would side
with her against me ; she could make him
do anything she wished,  because she would
coax him, and colour things so as to please
him,  and / do not care enough for him
either to colour or to coax."

And then, though she said nothing, and
though she was even ashamed of troubling
herself about this thing at all, in her heart
she was aware that she was hurt and
sore.

(Mrs. Walkinshaw had a way of seeming
blind, but those bright eyes of hers often
perhaps read things that Sydney thought
were hidden from them. ' If a woman
does not appreciate what she has, the kindest
thing you can do is to take it away
from her," she had said one day to her
brother, a good while before this. ' Depend
upon it, nothing makes us value a
thing so much as the fear of losing it. And
nothing makes some women love a man so
well," she added, after a moment laughing,
as finding themselves obliged to fight for
him." This was her theory. But it was

only Mr. Loudoun who knew that it washer
theory: Sydney did not.)

Sometimes, as these days passed, an unbidden
thought would come all at once
to Sydney's mind that her husband's manner
to her since her return was a little
changed. He was very kind to her, but
more than once when she was not thinking
of it she found herself arrested by a
sudden perception that he turned to Helen
rather than to her,  that not only at the
moments when Helen put herself forward
(which indeed were frequent), but at other
moments when she was quiescent, he made
choice of his sister when he wanted any
companionship or assistance, rather than of
herself. '' If he does so, I cannot blame
him," she thought, rather sadly, " and I
am foolish to mind it; I will try not to

mind it." But she did mind it,  though she
said she would not.

They used to go out riding together, for
instance, while for the most part she stayed
at home. It was true, no doubt, that
Helen was a passionate lover of riding,
while Sydney  since her marriage, at any
rate  had never professed much eagerness
for that exercise. '' You are not half a
horsewoman," Helen always said to her.
"Not that you don't look charming on
horseback,  for you do,  but I know you
never really enjoy a gallop as Horace and
I do. And so, my dear, I have no scruple
in racing about the country with him, for I
am sure that you would rather see me doit
than do it yourself. Now, would you
not ?" And she would ask her question in
the frankest and most cordial tone ; and

let Sydney answer as curtly as she pleased,
would always seem most pleasantly unconscious
of anything on her sister-in-law's part
like either reticence or coolness.

Mr. Loudoun too would take a tone that,
though not quite the same as Mrs. Walsingham's,
was perhaps sometimes to the full as
trying.

'' Why will you not come with us, Sydney
?" he would say. " I shall have to take
you in hand presently, or you will be giving
up riding altogether. I wish you could
be persuaded to take example by Helen."

When he spoke so, she could never bring
herself to says, '' Why do you assume that
I will not come ?" Because he assumed it she
was hurt, but yet she was both too shy and
too proud to let him see that he hurt her;
and besides, she said to herself,  How

can I tell him that I do not go with them
because he does not ask me, when in
reality I do not want to go with them ?"
For, in truth, her vexation did not come
from any desire that she had to share their
amusement, but only from a new, tormenting
feeling in her heart to which she did not
olive its true name.

Before she had gone to Dover the
brother and sister had spent a good deal of
their time together, but still they were not
then the almost inseparable companions
that to Sydney's eyes (which perhaps exaggerated
a little) they seemed to be now.

You know, at first," Helen told her
sister-in-law one day, with that engaging
frankness which the other found at times
so hard to bear  'you know, at first I was
dreadfully afraid that you might be like so

many women who never think anybody
may speak a word to their husbands except
themselves,  but now you have set me so
delightfully at ease, you dear creature, that
you see I behave to Horace just as I used
to do when we were boy and girl. It is so
nice of you, I think, not to mind,  so nice
for me, and for Horace too. Only yesterday
he said to me, * Why, Helen, this is like
old times.' And I do think he enjoys
having me here. Indeed we are all very
happy  are we not ? You are the quietest
amongst us,  but then it is your way, I
imagine, to be quiet. Horace says it is. He
says if you talk little I must not mind it,
because you are never a great talker. You
see, / talk enough for both of us  don't I ?
I think Horace is a very fortunate fellow ;
he is almost as well off as if he had a couple

of wives  one for his merry hours, and the
other for his sad ones."

And then Mrs. AValkinshaw laughed most
pleasantly.

I don't think he has many sad hours at
present," Sydney answered, after a moment,
with a curious kind of tone in her voice.
*' If it is only when they come that he needs
me, my use must be small indeed."

"Oh, but you must not say that!" exclaimed
Mrs. Walkinshaw, with earnest and
affectionate intentness. " Dear me, Horace
would be hurt if he heard you ! No, no, my
dear, it is only my stupid way of putting it.
I should have said his quiet hours, not his
sad ones. You are the wife of his quiet
hours; that is what I meant. Of course,
you know, with me he is a sort of boy again
we renew our youth together ; but as for

VOL. in. L

putting myself before you  thinking myself
of more importance than you are  oh, my
dear Sydney, pray don't think me such a
goose as to do that !"

And she laughed again with the most
ingenuous amusement at this supposition,
and took her sister-in-law by both hands,
and kissed her in the tenderest way.

I ought not to mind her; and, if she is
more to him than I am, I have no right to
complain of that," Sydney said to herself.
She knew that she had no right to complain
of it ; what had she ever given to her husband
that he should keep his warmest affections
for her ? *' I have not been able to
love him," she told herself, " so he does meno
injustice if he cares for his sister more
than he cares for me." But yet she tried

rather unsuccessfully to reason herself either
into indifference or submission.

She was ashamed, because she told herself
that it was not affection for her husband,
but merely pride and the desire for supremacy
that made her resent the position that
he allowed Mrs. Walkinshaw to take ; but
still she found that she argued very much in
vain. To find herself thrust to one side,
as Mrs. Walkinshaw smilingly thrust her,
while her husband stood passively by, had
become a thing now, she came to learn
gradually but very clearly, that no argument
could make sweet. She was rushed by the
proceeding beyond any power of self-deception
to deny.

"Why do I care about it, when I do not
think that six months ago I should have

l2

cared about it ?" she began to ask herself
after a time. Was she grown wiser now,
or was she not rather less wise, to be annoyed
at what would have seemed to her a
little while ago a matter of such small
importance ? For a few days after her
return home she had felt as if the troubles
of her own lot were all so poor and insignificant
when placed beside the great tragedies
of life and death ; was that frame of mind
not higher and more right than this that
she had fallen back to now? "I know it
was," she said to herself again and again ;
and she made repeated resolutions that she
would not allow herself to be vexed by
what had begun so cruelly to vex her ; and
yet again and again she broke her resolutions.
The prick of a pin may give only a small
smart, but it is difficult to be pricked allover

by innumerable pins, and continue to
preserve a calm countenance or an equable
mind.

One day Sydney offered to arrange some
papers for her husband that he wanted set
in order, but before he had accepted her
assistance Helen sprang forward.

"Oh, Sydney, let me do it," she exclaimed.
'you have fifty other things to occupy you,
I am sure."

Sydney waited for a moment for her
husband to speak, but he said nothing ;
then, with the colour in her face, she
silently resigned the papers to Mrs. Walsingham
and turned away.

How can he let her come between us in
everything  in everything, great or small ?"
she went out of the room crying bitterly to
herself. " She has no self-restraint,  no

consideration for anyone. She cares only ta
make herself more to him than I ana,  and
he lets her do it. He is so blind that he
never sees how she tries me. He would let
her do anything, and think it right." And
the poor thing's spirit was sore within
her.

An hour or two afterwards her husband
said cheerfully to her,

"You did not mind giving up that little
matter this morning to Helen, did you,
dear ? You see, she is accustomed to have
her own way,  and, besides that, it is always
really a pleasure to her to do anything forme."



'* It is so great a pleasure to her that she
thinks of nothing else, it seems to me,"
Sydney answered, quickly and impulsively.
I mean  I think she sometimes goes too

far. Only you allow her," she added.

"True, I allow her. But if she puts
herself between us sometimes (as I do not
deny that she does), that fault, I should
think, would hardly be one that you would
find it very difficult to forgive." He paused
a moment, and then  'sam I not right,
Sydney ?" he said.

But she made no answer. She was
looking away from him, with the colour in
her face.

' If you give me little love yourself, does
it not argue a certain want of generosity in
you to be jealous of Helen's affection forme
?" he said, after a few moments.

I am not jealous of it," she exclaimed,
impulsively. ' I have never wanted her to
care less for you. It is not that," she
said.

*then what is it?" he inquired.

But she became silent, and would not tell
him.

' You and I are less together than we
used to be," he said, after another little
pause. '' Of course I am well aware it is so ;
but, if I burden sou with less of my company
than I did, can I suppose, Sydney, that you
look upon that as any grievance?"

And then she still made no answer to
him, but the tears flashed into her eyes.

After a minute he took another tone
with her. He went to her and kissed
her.

My darling, I cannot bear to have you
vexed," he said. " Believe me, Helen has
none but the kindest feelings towards you.
If she steps before you sometimes, and
takes what she sees you do not value,

surely the injury done to you by that is not
very great ?"

"You do not understand," she said, with
her voice trembling. (She had tried to
say something else, but she could not.) " I
am very sorry to trouble you. I am sorry
I said anything. Don't let us speak of it
any more,"

I will not speak of it any more, if you
will promise me to be like yourself
again."

Don't you think you had better ask me
to be something different from myself?" she
said, suddenly, with rather a sad look into
his face. *' You might be glad if I were
something different, I think. If you would
allow it, I think you must often be tired
enough of me as I am. And jou do allow
it," she exclaimed, all at once, saying what

made her heart throb,  " not in words, butin
other ways."

"In what other ways ?" he asked, quietly.

And then the poor soul began suddenly
to cry, and turned hurriedly from him and
went away.

She was quivering from head to foot
when she reached her own room. She felt
inexpressibly humbled because she had
been hurried on to make a charge against
her husband of having begun to change to
her. An hour ago she would have thought
that nothing would have wrung such a
charge from her,  and yet now she had
made it voluntarily  under no pressure.
The bitterness of her heart had found vent
in those hasty and unwise words,  and now
she was ashamed of herself: she could not

bear to remember that she had uttered
them.

'* He will not understand me either," she
thought. " He will think that I care  in a
way in which I do not care."

For with a sudden and perhaps natural
revulsion of feeling, it seemed to her all at
once as if indeed she cared nothing for how
her husband might feel to hero Her heart
which had beat so hotly grew suddenly cold
and dead ; she felt as though he might do
what he pleased, and he could no longer
move her ; she had become insensible, soit
seemed to her, both to Helen and to
him.

He came to her later in the day and
asked her to go out with him, and she
excused herself and did not go.

I promised to see Mrs. Adams this
afternoon," she said.

"Well, I will go with you to Mrs.
Adams," he answered. But she would not
let him.

I know that Helen wants you to ride
with her'' she said,

'that can be done tomorrow," he replied.


You will vex me if you don't go with
her to-day. Do it, please. I wish it," she
said.

And then he became silent and went
away.

As for Helen, she treated Sydney with
her usual sweetness.

'* You dear creature to make Horace
over to me!" she exclaimed. "He had
been as nasty as possible, declaring that he

was not coming with me,  but I knew you
did not want him. What is the good of
taking a man with you when sou go to call
upon an old woman ? I told him you had
nothing to do except to call upon an old
woman, and he wouldn't believe me  he
was too vain to take in the fact that you
preferred to be without his company. But
you see 1 was right, Horace !" she said, with
a laugh. " I know more about your wife's
movements and sentiments than you do."

The next morning, an hour after breakfast,
Mr. Loudoun met Sydney in the hall, and
asked her,

What are sou doing ?"

Nothing. I have just been with Mrs.
Grant," she answered.

'Then come to me," he said: and he
took her hand and drew her into his room.

*' He is doing this because of what I said
to him yesterday," she thought to herself,
and her face began to flush, and she went
reluctantly.

'how little you are here with me now,"
he said, when he had closed the door. *' It
used to be different six months ago, Sydney."



'eyes,  but that was natural," she answered,
hurriedly and awkwardly.

I don't see Iiow it should have been
more natural then than it would be now," he
said. " If I thought that you would be
willing to come oftener, do you not believe
that I should be glad ?"

"You consider that you are obliged to
say this because  because I was so foolish
yesterday," she said, colouring painfully. " I
am very sorry for what I said yesterday."

"You need not be sorry," lie replied.

But she went on without taking any
notice of his interruption.

* It made you think  naturally  that 1
wanted to complain. But I do not want
to complain. One is a fool sometimes,
and gets irritated : that is all. I tell you
again," she said, trembling, " that I am very
sorry. I spoke hastily, and I withdraw what
I said."

'' You withdraw your charge, do you
mean, that I let Helen come between us ?"

Yes."

But after two or three moments she added,
" At least you do let her come between
us, but I mean I have no right  I do not
wish  to object to that."

"Then you do not really feel hurt that
anyone should separate us ?"

*' I did not say any one," in an embarrassed
way. 'I was only speaking of
Helen," without looking at him.

"True,  and I was only thinking of
Helen. She is the only person likely to be in
the question. As you say, she has come to
be a good deal with me, and you, I should
have thought, had benefited by that. Have
you not benefited by it, Sydney? Is it not
true that before she came you used to tell
me that I left you too little to yourself?"

Yes," she said, in a low voice.

* Are you vexed then at being left more
to yourself now ?"

'' I have told you already that I am sorry
for what I said," she answered, speaking
with a painful effort. *' Cannot you be
content with that? I have no wish  or
right  to complain of anything. Go on

your own way, and don't think of me."

Is that possible, do you suppose ?" he
asked.

*' I don't think you would find it very
difficult  now," she answered, quickly.

But she had hardly uttered the words
before she could have bitten her tongue
because she had said them.

'' I could no more live without thinking
of you than I could live without breathing,"
he said, quietly.

And then there was a little silence, which
he broke presently.

'It seems to me, Sydney," he began,
considering that you are a woman who is
loved, and who gives no love back, that
you sometimes now take a curious tone with
me. Do I injure you because I let ray sister
do for me what you openly avow it gives

VOL. III. M

you no pleasure to do ? Has my society
since you became my wife ever been a thing
that you have cared for ? You know it has
not. But it is a pleasure to her, and so I
give it to her. As for forgetting you, I can
believe easily that you give me liberty to do
that, but unfortunately, as far as you are
concerned, I am not made with a memory
that can forget."

(" ' Unfortunately' he says !" she thought
to herself And, poor soul, her heart at
once fastened on that one word, and there
came a lump into her throat.)

Have you nothing more to say to me,
Sydney?" he asked, after a little silence. He
stretched out his hand, and took hers, and
held it closely. " Do you think it does not
trouble me to see you dissatisfied ? But
you know you make me feel very helpless, for

I neither please you when I try to keep you
with me, nor when I leave you to yourself.
What can I do ? Will you stay with me
now ?"

"No, I am going to Netty," she said,
with rather a tremor in her voice.

Netty gets more of you than I do."

And Helen, I suppose, is coming here."

Helen may probably be coming here,
but why should her coming make you go
away ? You set yourself against Helen."

"Perhaps I do," she said, suddenly and
humbly.

She struggled to release her hand from
his grasp, but he would not let it go, and
then all at once the tears came to her
eyes.

It may be my fault. I take offence
perhaps when I should not. We are so

m2

different," she said, in little deprecatory
sentences.

You are very different, undoubtedly.
T wish you had more sympathy with her,
dear."

'* Do you think," after a moment's silence,
in a very low voice, '' that she might not
have a little more sympathy with me T'

'' She has more sympathy than I think
you give her credit for."

*'I give her credit for all she shows. Of
course I know she is always ready with
"words, but, when what she says is contradicted
by what she does, you can hardly
wonder if her words seem of little value tome."



*' Why should we talk of Helen, dear ?
If we disagree about her, let us leave her
alone."

"You talk to her about me' the poor
thing cried, hastily, quivering in her pain.
'why do you do that?" and she looked
wistfully in his face. " Do you not think I
would rather have you judge me without
her help ?"

"Do you imagine that I have ever
appealed to her for help in judging you ?
Sydney, you are a foolish child," he said,
breaking suddenly into a laugh. " Do you
think that all the judging I need to do of
you has not been done many a day ago ?"

He put his arm about her as he spoke,
but she exclaimed, in a hurried whisper,
"There is Helen!" and started from him.
And in fact a hand had been laid upon the
study door, and in another moment Helen
had entered the room.

Oh, you are here, Sydney  are you ?"

she exclaimed, in a surprised tone, as she
came in. "There is that monkey of mine
ranging the house for you."

"I am just going to her," Sydney replied.


"I was telling Sydney this moment that
she gives more of her time to Netty than
she gives to me," Mr. Loudoun said.

Well, really I believe she does !" Helen
assented, sweetly. '' Netty takes possession
of her almost as much as I take possession
of you," laughing. "What a blessing it is
that we all agree together so charmingly,
for otherwise we should be scratching out
one another's eyes !"

She laughed again as she ensconced
herself in an easy-chair by the open window.
Horace, I hope you are disposed to be
idle this morning ?" she said, " for I want

you to come out with me presently. Only
a couple of letters to write ? Well, get
them done quickly, and then let us go for a
ride. Sydney won't come, I suppose ? Oh,
no  incorrigible girl!  it's useless to ask
her," she was exclaiming as Sydney left the
room.

CHAPTER V.

TTTAS it true that Sydney only resented
Helen's assumption of her place
because she cared for power and for her
own dignity ? When Helen had first come
she remembered that she had felt her absorption
of Mr. Loudoun to be a relief to
herself; she had experienced no desire to
check it ; she had been grateful to her for
taking her husband so much off her hands ;
and now she was not grateful to her. Had
she begun then to find that the thing she
had despised was a thing no longer without
value to her ? "I could not be his wife, I

suppose, for nine months, and feel no more
to him now than I felt when we were first
married," she began to say to herself,
doubtfully and shyly. '' However little he
may be to me, still my life is joined to his,
so that I must either be happy with him, or
know no happiness. I think it was natural
at first that I should feel as I did,  for I had
suffered so much, and had to forget so
much; but now if I have not him, I have
nothing." And so, though she told herself
that he was only a very little to her, it
seemed to her that she justified herself for
her jealousy of Mrs. Walkinshaw. " Helen's
object is to make me of no importance to
him," she told herself; and she continued to
believe this in spite of what her husband had
said to her.

He had told her that he loved her as

dearly as he had ever done, but did he ia
reality love her as well ? She had been
indifferent enough to the signs of his
affection  impatient of them even  and now,
with a strange feeling, she was conscious
that she watched for them, and when she
found them she breathed with more
comfort, and when she failed to find them
she grew depressed. She did not care for
his company, she said, and yet she counted
the many hours of his company that he
gave to Helen, and grudged them to her ;
she felt that she was growing sore and
morbidly sensitive and unreasonable in a
hundred ways, and yet she could not right
herself, nor reconcile herself with Mrs.
Walkinshaw, nor be content with almost
anything her husband did.

"I don't think dear Sydney is quite

well," Helen began to say sometimes, with
a look of the sweetest anxiety in her eyes,
and she would hang about her sister-in-law,
and pet her, with an appearance of affection
that it was difficult to believe was onW
assumed.

"Sydney, you are a dear woman," she
said to her once, with a sudden irrelevance,
*'  and some day," she added, all at once
laughing, *' you will be fonder of me than
you are now."

In fact at this time Sydney was not fond
of her sister-in-law ; of that fact there was
little doubt. She was civil to her, but that
was all. She avoided her company whenever
it was possible ; she was very reserved
with her. Mrs. Walkinshaw smiled upon
her, but she returned very few of her
smiles ; she was gradually and involuntarily

coming to regard her as her enemy.
But, if much in Mrs. Walkinshaw's conduct
did not please her, it was a little curious
that she should reserve all her anger at
it for Helen and keep none for Mr. Lou-down,
who surely might reasonably be supposed
to be in some fault too. Mr. Loudoun
often hurt her to the quick, and yet her
feeling to him was by no means what it was
to Helen. She wanted always to escape
from Mrs. Walkinshaw, but from her husband
she had curiously ceased to feel any
ardent desire to escape. In the bottom of
her heart perhaps she knew, though she had
scarcely been brought to confess it yet even
to herself, that it was not the excess of her
intercourse with him, but the smallness of
her intercourse that, in these days, was
trying her.

Before this time she had begun to be
proud when she heard other people speaking
well of him. He was a man who bore
a high name in the place ; his equals liked
him, and there was not a tenant on his
estate who had not a good word for him.
He was more than a just landlord ; he was
both wise and generous.

You know the people here all swear by
him," Dr. Cayley had said to her once,
laughing. '' Somehow or other he has got
the whip hand of them in a wonderful way.
They will do for him what they won't do
either for me or the parson. Ife find a
few men here and there who have the gift
of personal influence strongly developed,
and there is no doubt that that's the case
with Mr. Loudoun. I always feel it
myself. I never am with him for half

an hour but I find myself beginning to walk
in his shadow."

This had been said to Sydney a good
while ago, and at the time she had set it
down as rather an exaggerated expression
of a partial truth ; but still she had remembered
it, and now, as she recalled it
(which she did more than once or twice),
somehow she forgot to attribute that former
character of exaggeration to it ; it began to
seem to her a natural speech, uncoloured
by excessive praise.

She had become aware too that she took
pleasure in hearing the cottagers speak
about her husband. '' Pie's been a true
friend to us," they often told her. *' Ah,
the master, ma'am, he's a friend for a rainy
day," they would say, heartily. During
these last weeks poor Ned Wilcox's mother

had talked to her a score of times about his
goodness, and she used to listen and say
little, but sometimes her heart would beat
quickly, and the colour would come to her
face.

I know he is all they say," she thought
to herself,  " and I am glad. He makes
me honour him,  thank God. He makes
me proud of him, I suppose. I could grow
content now, I almost think, if  if Helen
were but gone."

But Helen was become her thorn in the
flesh, of which she could not get rid.

As the weeks went on she found herself
brooding involuntarily more and more on
the petty wrongs that she endured at Mrs.
Walkinshaw's hands, and, roused sometimes
by indignation, sometimes by a pain sharper
than indignation, she began at times, instinctively,

and perhaps half unconsciously,
to put herself in the lists against her : she
ceased always to yield ; she tried to stand up
for herself, and do battle for such rights as
she conceived were hers.

One day she found Helen making certain
plans with her brother about autumn movements.


''' I do so want you and Sydney to go to
Scotland with me," she was saying. '' You
know / am obliged to go to see Dick's people,
and it would make it so delightful if
you could come too."

'true,  it would be very pleasant," he
answered rather indifferently.

But Sydney listened for a moment or two,
and then said, quickly, with the colour in
her face,

*' How could we go to Scotland ? They

expect us at Dover, you know;  and then
I thought it had been an understood
thing  " But, when she had got so far, she
stopped.

Oh, my dear, you are thinking of your
trip to Normandy?" exclaimed Helen,
sweetly, " but of course I would not interfere
with that for the world. No, no, you
must go to Normandy undoubtedly, whatever
else happens. Only why should you
not do that and Scotland too? Or,  if
you can't come to Scotland, what would you
say to us dividing, and you going to Dover,
while Horace comes with me ? Now, I
think that is not a bad plan. Horace, what
do you say ?"

Yes, that might be feasible. I might
go to Scotland with you for a week or two,"
he said.

VOL. HI. N

And give up your stay at Dover ?"
Sydney inquired, in a constrained voice.

** Oh, but, dear, they would have you''
cried Helen, eagerly, before her brother
could speak, '' and you see we should enjoy
our little run together so very much. Should
we not, Horace? We might go to the
Highlands. You know I was never in the
Highlands in ray life. And Sydney, dear,
you would have plenty of time for Normandy
afterwards. At least I daresay you
would have quite as much time as you would
care for."

I hope you will come with me to
Dover," Sydney said, in a low voice,
addressing her husband only. "They will
be greatly disappointed if you do not,  and
you had promised, I thought."

We will talk about it another time,"

he answered, carelessly. He spoke as if he
were hurried, or as if the subject did not
interest him. *' I merely came in, Helen, to
ask you if you want to ride this afternoon.
I think, for my own part, you had better
not, for I suspect it is going to rain."

But Helen expressed herself quite indifferent
as to the weather, and so they went
out together, and Sydney was left to recover
from her vexation, or to nurse it, as
she pleased.

I am afraid that what she did was to
nurse it. She said to herself, *' She will
get him to promise while they are out that
he will oo with her. I know she will do
that, for she never thinks of a pleasure she
would like but she does her utmost to get it.
She sees that T do not want him to go to
Scotland, but, if that has any effect upon her

nat

all, it will only make her the more eager
to gain a victory over me." So poor Sydney
allowed herself to become angry, and
was not very happy while Helen was enjoying
her ride.

In fact she had been looking forward
with no small eagerness to these weeks
in the autumn, when Helen, she devoutly
hoped, would be secure amongst her Scotch
connections, and the disappointment of
finding that she was likely to be cheated
out of the greater part of this time was
more than she was disposed to bear. It
was true indeed that Helen did not propose
to shorten her own time of absence,  that
in fact, instead of this, her scheme embraced
what it was natural to suppose would be a
double relief, inasmuch as she proposed
not only to absent herself but to carry

off Mr. Loudoun also ; but this plan, which
at one time might have seemed to Sydney a
thing to be deeply grateful for, had become
to her now (though how could innocent
Helen know it ?) an offence that she could
not forgive. She might not love her husband,
but she did not want Helen to carry him off;
the spirit of resistance was aroused in her,
and she said to herself that she would not
submit tamely without a word.

So, late in the afternoon, after the riders
had come home, she spoke to Mr. Loudoun
again.

*' Has Helen said anything more to
you about going to Scotland?" she asked
him, abruptly.

Yes, she was speaking a little about it
when we were out," he answered.

* And what did you say to her ?"

*' Merely that it need not be settled

yet."

'' But I want it to be settled."

"You want me to tell her I shall not
go?"

"Yes."

*why, Sydney?"

And then she coloured, and did not
know what to say.

After a few moments' silence she did not
answer his question, but she began to speak
again.

"I had taken it quite for granted that
you were coming with me. If you only
want, as you say, to be five or six weeks
altogether from home, I think it will be
hard if you spend half, or more than half
that time with Helen."

*I cannot understand at all why you
should say it will be hard. How, looking
at it from your point of view, should it be
hard*!

mean," she said, hurriedly, "I should
be disappointed."

'* But I should leave you with your
mother, and you would rather have your
mother's company than mine. It would be
hard for me to go away  that I am ready to
allow  that makes me hesitate about going ;
but I cannot see what reason you would
have to complain."

And then she made no answer for a
few moments ; till presently, in a voice that,
try as she would to steady it, shook against
her will,

"I had been counting on us being together,"
she said.

'' Do you mean by that you ivisli us to be
together ?"

I should prefer it."

'* For what reason, Sydney?"

But she made no answer. She flushed,
and looked distressed, and half turned
away ; but she would not speak.

*'I wish you would let me know why
you say this to me," he went on, after a
little while. ' If I am ready to do what
would please you (and you ought to know
that I am ready enough), you should at
least be frank with me, and tell me what
prompts you to make your request. Sydney,
why do you want to be with me?"

'' I should like us to be together."

"Do you mean that it would be any
pleasure to you for us to be together ?"

And then at last, in a very low voice, reluctantly,

and with her heart beating fast,
she answered  " Yes."

The little word was followed by a quick
recognition from him.

God bless you, my darling !" he said instantly.
And then, while she still stood
trembling, and half repentant, half ashamed
" Why did you hesitate so long to tell me
that ?" he asked her. " Do you grudge to let
me know that I am anything more to you
than I was a year ago ? Sydney, you ought
to be more generous."

You make it hard for me," she said, in a
low voice.

*' Why do you say so ? Tell me how I
make it hard?"

*' I am trying to  change from what I was.
God knows I want to care for you more 
but you will not help me."

How would you have me help you ?
Do you mean that it will help you if I do
not go to Scotland ?"

Yes' with a little effort.

*then I will not go certainly. I will
tell Helen so."

' But you are not to tell Helen what I
have just been saying,"  hurriedly.

No," he replied, " I keep that for myself."


She would have gone away from him after
this, but he stopped her. He took her hands
in his.

*' You were vexed when you began to
talk to me : are you less vexed now ?" he
asked her, half gravely, and then he looked
in her face till she caught his look, and half
against her will broke into a sudden nervous
laugh.

*' I am not vexed now at all," she said.

'' I would never leave you for a day if I
could help it. You ought to know that well
enough," he said.

*' I know you used to think so," she answered,
in a low voice. " But  don't say
anything more now," she added, quickly.
** If you tell me you will not go to Scotland
then I am satisfied."

"Very well. And I am satisfied too."
And then he kissed her and let her go.

But though she had gained her victory,
and though she was comforted because she
had gained it, yet after this she felt very shy
of him. She told herself that she had made
an admission to him that almost went beyond
the truth. It was true that she wanted
ardently to keep him from going with
Helen, but was it quite true that she desired

his company for herself? She had at times
now a restless craving to be with him, but
when she was with him she was not always,
nor perhaps even often, very happy. She
was not enough at ease with him to be
happy : she was too uncertain either of
what her position with him was, or of what
she wanted it to be. She was only clear
upon one point  that she wanted to be
more to him than Helen was.

Mrs. Walkinshaw took her defeat, Sydney
could not but allow, very good-humouredly.

"So you won't let me have my little trip
with Horace?" she merely said. "Well,
perhaps it was unreasonable in me to ask it.
I do think it was rather a shame to propose
to take him away,  but you see, Sydney,
you give me so much of my own way, and
you are such a dear kind creature, that you

spoil me and make me selfish. I won't say
another word now, and you shall have him
all to yourself. You have never been in
Normandy before ? Ah, then, you will find
it charming ! I only wish I were going with
you!"

And then,  though she did not respond
to this wish,  Sydney was mollified a little ;
she began to accuse herself of having been
too angry. She was in fact a gentle-hearted
woman, and these jealous pangs that Mrs.
Walkinshaw made her feel were something
very new and foreign to her. Nature had
intended her to be full of repose and
harmony : discord, or bitterness, or even
passion were things that had little natural
place in her.

I hope you are not really very much
disappointed?" she began to say, almost

deprecatingly, to Helen. '' I am afraid I
spoke crossly. You must forgive me if I
did."

Dear child, I am certain that in your
place I should have spoken much more
crossly," Mrs. Walkinshaw cordially exclaimed.
" I don't think you said a word
more than was natural,  and I am so glad
that you did speak, Sydney,  for if I had
carried Horace off and really vexed you,
you can't think how angry with myself I
should have been Oh, no, no, my dear,
I am a very selfish and impulsive woman,
I know, but yet I do think you will always
find me amenable to reason."

And then she began to caress Sydney,
and Sydney submitted to the caress, not
without a little remorse.

After the talk tliafc had taken place
between them, Sydney, as I have said, was
disposed to be rather shy of her husband ;
she was afraid he would take advantage of
the admissions she had made  that he
would approach her as if he were conscious
that her feeling to him had changed ; but 
whether it might be to her satisfaction or
not  she presently found that she had very
little reason for this fear. He had accepted
her confession as if he cared for it, but as the
days went on he let it make little difference
in his conduct to her. He had told her that
he would never willingly let her out of
his sight, but, though this strong expression
of his delight in her society had not been
ungrateful to her at the moment, it must be
allowed that he exercised great self-restraint

and denied himself the pleasure that he
professed to enjoys so ardently with singular
determination. For Sydney did not find
that he gave her his society, after he had
forced her to admit that she cared a little for
it, in any more lavish measure than he had
done before she was driven to that confession.
Whenever they were together he was
always affectionate and full of kindness to
her ; he even more than once repeated his
reproach that she was so little with him ;
but he stopped short of asking her to be
with him more. As the weeks passed on it
continued still to be Helen who was his
constant companion, and not her; it was
Helen to whom he talked, and not to her j
it was Helen who seemed to be the person
essential to his happiness, and not her. And
Sydney went on saying to herself, " I have

no right to complain," and yet almost everyday
she found it harder to bear.

Gradually the poor soul had left off saying
to herself, '' I do not care for him."
She had said this for a time, telling herself
that she was only jealous of Mrs. Walsingham,
because in a base, mean way she was
greedy of power, and angry at seeing another
woman put before her, but now, with a
mixture of many feelings,  with doubt and
almost shame, and yet also with a curious,
tremulous gladness,  she allowed to herself
that her husband had become something to
her that he had not been before. She had
begun to find her heart stir at his presence :
when he spoke she listened ; her ears had
begun to gain a new quickness in distinguishing
his step ; he had acquired the power
of making her glad, and also of stinging her

VOL. III. O

with a pain that was becoming sharper (she
began to recognise) than any other pain she
had ever known.

And yet, as she slowly awoke to a perception
of this, it seemed to her that she
was daily becoming less to him. In words
indeed he might still tell her that he loved
her as dearly as he had ever done, but in
reality it seemed to her that he only loved
her now as something to turn aside to and
to caress, as he might have caressed some
petted child who was merely pleasant to his
sight,  as if she had fallen out of his actual
life, and as if all that had been hers (and
for which she had cared so little once) had
been given to Helen.

Will it be different when we are alone
together?" she often thought. She was beginning
to look forward to that time when

flie should have him to herself again with
feverish hopes and speculations ; she dwelt
upon how she might bring him back to
her ; she thought a thousand times of how
she would tell him that she had begun to care
for him  rehearsing the imaginary scene to
herself  picturing him in more than one
mood. " Surely he will be glad !" she used
to think, shyly and tremblingly ; and yet
she had moments of depression when she
doubted if he would be glad.

One day during the summer she was in
London with Helen, and they were at the
Academy, and, as they were standing before
one of the pictures, a familiar face came
towards her, and suddenly some one addressed
her with a smile.

Mrs. Loudoun, I have not seen you fora
very long time," he said.

o2

She turned round with an involuntary
start. It was Mr. Horton, looking exactly
as he had looked in the old days at Broad-belt.
Her heart beat fast for a few moments
; she could not help it ; but in a
minute she was at ease with him. She
introduced him to Helen : he had no companion,
and he stayed with them. Presently
Helen found some other acquaintance
to whom she began to talk, and
Sydney and he remained alone.

He asked her about her father and
mother ; after a time she inquired of him
whether Mr. Marmaduke were well, and if
they still lived together. She uttered the
name not without an effort, but after she
had once spoken it she was glad.

Oh yes, we are together still. Armature
is all right," he said. " He went

down once, I think, and saw you last
winter? Oh, he's right enough: but he
doesn't work too hard," with a laugh. " You
see he won't need to do anything after his
father's death, and the old gentleman is
breaking up now, T suspect."

She asked one or two more questions ;
they talked a little about the Christmas
when he had stayed at Broadbelt. She was
interested ; she was even excited a little, but
it was not with a painful excitement ; they
moved from picture to picture, looking at
them and criticising them. When she bade
him good-bye at last, she told him cordially
that she was glad she had met him.

Perhaps she was slightly flushed when he
had turned away.

'who is your friend, Sydney?" Helen
asked her, with a little tone of curiosity ;

but Sydney's reply was quiet enough.

*' He is only a young barrister whom we
used to know. He is rather nice  in his-way,"
she said. '' I have never seen hoi
since we had to leave Broadbelt."

And then, if it had struck Mrs. Walsingham
that she showed any emotion at the
rencontre, that last fact, Helen probably
thought, accounted for it. As for Sydney 
she was moved indeed for the moment. The
sight of Mr. Horton had brought back the
thought of many a past day to her  it had
stirred recollections on which, for a long,
while, she had not allowed herself to dwell.
But it only stirred them for a very little
time.

As they went home an hour afterwards,
she found herself thinking again of the life
that was around her now, of her husband,

of Helen, of all her present hopes and fears.
That old trouble could make her heart beat
still for a while, but, happily for her, by
this time, it had lost its former power to
haunt and crush her.

CHAPTER VI.

Sydney had resumed her lessons whh
Netty after her return from Dover,
and for a good many weeks her teaching
had regularly gone on, to the mutual satisfaction
of mistress and pupil. But one day
in August Netty came to her work with a
flushed face and rather an irritable temper,
and, after an hour, Sydney, seeing she was
not in a fit state for work, made her close
her books.

You are not well, Netty," she said to
her.

Oh, yes, I am," responded Netty, perversely.


'' You have got a headache, I am sure,"
pursued Sydney.

"No, I haven't. At least, it's only half a
headache," said Netty, grumblingly.

And then Helen chanced to come into
the room, and, in her decided way, immediately
began to call her daughter to
account. She drew her in front of her and
held her by her shoulders, and looked, with
stern dissatisfaction, at her fevered cheeks
and clouded eyes.

Now, what have you been doing with
yourself, I wonder !" she exclaimed, after a
few moments' silence.

I haven't been doing anything," retorted
Netty, in a tone of injury.

*' I noticed at breakfast that you hardly
ate anything," said Helen.

'* Well, I didn't want to eat," replied
Netty.

Then you're ill," said Helen, in a tone
of conviction.

Whereupon Netty's nether lip began to
protrude, and her overwrought feelings
relieved themselves in an indignant howl.

Perhaps it was a little hard, not only to
suffer the pains of sickness, but also to be
looked upon with severity for having incurred
them.

"Tiresome child !" exclaimed Helen, with
a sigh. " She is going to have something, I
am sure."

Perhaps it is only a cold," suggested
Sydney, consolingly.

Well, it may be  I hope it is ; but I

don't believe it," said Helen. ''V\l tell
you what it looks like to me : it looks like
measles."

And Helen proved right, for measles it
turned out to be. The disease was in the
village, and poor little Netty had caught it
there.

"I can't help it, mother," she said,
meekly, after Dr. Cayley had come and
pronounced his verdict upon her.

Well, you poor little monkey, I don't
suppose you can," Helen replied, resignedly;
"but you know we are going to be a
pair of nuisances now  you and I."

What's that?" said Netty, heavily.

*' Well, nuisances are things, my dear,
that everybody wants to get rid of," explained
Helen.

Aunt Sydney won t want to get rid of

me,' answered Netty, sick but confident,
and a little while afterwards she put her
arms about Sydney's neck. " You'll nurse
me, won't you?" she said. "I'll try to be
good,  and then you won't call me that
thing mamma said."

And what was that ?" inquired Sydney,
who had not heard.

But Netty had forgotten the word, and
was too heavy-headed to try to think of
it.

It means a thing that nobody wants,"
was all she could recollect.

Netty was a strong child, and healthy
generally, but in a day or two she was very
ill. For the most part, we think rather
lightly of measles, but yet it is a disease
that kills not a few, and Netty was brought
by it very near indeed to death. At the

beginning of her attack, Helen took it coolly
enough.

I'd like Aunt Sydney to stop with me,"
the child said, when she was first carried to
bed, and accordingly Helen, laughing, let
Sydney at the outset take the most important
share in the nursing. But before
four and twenty hours had passed, Helen
became anxious.

'* My poor little lamb !  I don't like the
look of her," she began to say ; and from
that time Netty might still call oftener for
her aunt Sydney, but her mother hardly
left the sick-room. She moved Sydney by
the sudden earnestness of her devotion,
"Sydney, if anything happens to her, I
shall go out of my mind," she surprised her
sister-in-law once by crying passionately.

Mrs. Walkinshaw was an impulsive

ardent woman, without much strength or
self-control. Nine years before she had lost
the only two children that she then had,
within three months of one another, and
Sydney knew already from Mr. Loudoun
low nearly the shock of their death had
killed her. She herself had never yet, in
Sydney's hearing, spoken of them ; but now,
during these anxious days of Netty's illness,
while Helen's whole soul seemed suddenly
to have become absorbed in her little
daughter, one night she began to talk to
Sydney about her great former sorrow.

You know what I went through before,
do you not ?" she said, looking with eyes
that seemed full of the memory of a great
terror into Sydney's face. " They were all
that I had, and they were both taken from
me. We had just been arranging that I

should bring them home. My baby had
been getting thin,  and Dick and I were
frightened about him. He had not meant
me to come for another year, but we settled
suddenly that I should come away at once,
and I was just starting  I should have
sailed in three more days  when my little
lamb was seized with convulsions, and  in
twelve hours he was dead. I had been
going to take them both with me. Oh,
Sydney, how I have reproached myself
since a thousand times that I let Dick keep
me after our little boy was gone ! He
thought I might wait for a few months, and
I thought so too, for I was so ill that it was
dreadful to think of parting from him, and
our Katie seemed so bright and strong. I
might have saved her if I had come away at
once  and I didn't save her ! In two more

months we had lost her too. She sickened
one evening, and I put her to bed, and  oh,
my darling ! she never lifted up her head
again. I lost all hope almost from the first.
I was almost beside myself. It was fever 
one of those dreadful Indian fevers that kill
in two or three days. She used to lie on
her bed, moaning and crying out. She was
so gentle and sweet at first, while she knew
us ; but she did not know us long. She
smiled at me the second night when I was
laying her down upon her pillows, and put
her arms about my neck,  and that was the
last ; she never knew me again.  Dick took
me away before the end came. She was
suffering so; I couldn't see her die. Oh,
Sydney, I have often wondered since how I
got over it. Dick brought me home ; I
couldn't have lived unless he had. He

brought me here  to the dear old home,
and to mamma and Horace,  and that
comforted me. It has all seemed to me for
years like some terrible nightmare,  and
now I feel as if I were in the shadow of it
again. My little girl !" she cried, and went
to Netty's side, and laid her arms over her,
and buried her face upon her pillow, with a
great sob.

After she was once aware of the child's
danger she could hardly be persuaded to
leave her, day or night. When Sydney
relieved her watch she would only lie down
upon a second bed in the room. The
utmost they could ever induce her to do was
to go into the garden with her brother for
an occasional half hour. She troubled
Sydney little enough in these sad days, and
it was with a feeling of remorse that Sydney

VOL. III. p

recalled her former anger against her, and
remembered how hardly she had thought
of her at times.

"I was wrong to suppose her shallow,"
she said generously to Mr. Loudoun one
night. '' It was one of my hasty judgments.
1 will never accuse her of being that
again."

Her regret for that former ins justice made
her very tender to Helen now. For the
first time since she had come into the house,
she and Helen had one great common
interest that for the moment surpassed all
others, and that gave rise to neither
jealousy nor misconception. Over poor
little Netty's sick-bed no jealous feelings
could be aroused : Sydney felt as if she
shrank even from remembering that she had
ever known them. For the first time she

trusted Helen and believed in her, for
there was neither artifice in these tears
that Mrs. Walkinshaw shed now, nor
affectation in her passionate emotion.

The time while Netty was at the worst
lasted for nearly a week. Sometimes during
these anxious days, Sydney, when she
left the sick-room, would let her husband
take her out for a little while, or, if he
asked her, she would stay with him in his
study for an hour; but both their hearts
were full of Helen, and when they were
together they did not talk much except of
her and of the child. He was very tender
to her, and in a shy way she accepted his
tenderness, though knowing that the barrier
was between them still,  that, though he
was kind, he did not recognise that kindness
from him was becoming a new thing to her.

p2

She recognised it herself; she felt it through
every hour that they were together; but she
had not courage to make him understand it.
So he talked to her of Helen and Netty, and
was very considerate of her, and very gentle
to her; but he never saw, or never at least
seemed to see, that he was becoming something
to her that he had never been
before.

It's a very bad case," Dr. Cayley had
said more than once, when he came out of
Netty's room. One night he almost gave
up hope of her, but they did not dare to tell
Helen. The poor mother was so worn out
that night that she slept without awakening
for hours, and for a long time Sydney and
Mr. Loudoun both sat by the bedside. Netty
did not know who was with her ; she was
too weak by this time to know anything.

The poor little face had lost its scarlet
flush, the cheeks were sunk, and the eyes
were almost closed. She could barely
swallow the wine or broth that they tried
to give her every half hour. 'poor
Helen !" Mr. Loudoun said softly once,
after he had sat for a long time with the
little wasted, unconscious hand in his, and
there was something in the low, sad exclamation
that seemed to Sydney as if it
extinguished hope. She put her face down
upon the pillow, and burst into tears. They
should never hear the bright voice any more,
she thought ; she should never feel the
soft childish arms again about her neck.

They had said nothing to Helen to increase
her fear before she went to sleep,
and in the early dawn she awoke, and
sprang up with almost a light step.

Oh, Sydney, what a long watch I have
given you !" she exclaimed. " And how is
my little bird ?" And she went to the bedside.


Netty had dropped asleep, and her
mother stood for a minute looking at her,
then, raising her head, " I think she is
breathing more easily," she said, quickly.

"She has been very weak all night," Sydney
could only answer.

Poor darling ! But, Sydney, I am certain
she is easier now. I almost think  I
do almost think she is better ! Look at her
dear little face, how quiet it is !"

She sat down by the bedside, and stayed
for a long time watching her. After half an
hour Netty stirred, and opened her eyes, and,
as her mother stooped down and kissed her,
the child gave a little smile.

Oh, Sydney, she knows me !" Helen
cried. She was in a flutter of hope and
excitement. Two or three times Netty-
smiled again, and her eyes followed the
movements of anyone who crossed the room ;
she even spoke once ; she said feebly that
she was " very well," in reply to a question
that her mother asked.

The others thought that it was only the last
flicker of the lamp before it expired ; but
Helen proved right, and they, happily, were
wrong. From this day Netty rallied. They
had an anxious time still for more than
another week ; for though the fever was
gone, and though her strength began
gradually to come back, her recovery was
complicated and delayed by more than one
of the evils that so often follow in the
wake of any serious illness ; but yet after

this night the worst at least was past.

Poor Netty was terribly weak and wasted
when she was allowed at last to rise from
bed ; she was so reduced that even Helen
who was a very slight woman, could carry
her like an infant. The little maid became
very fond of being carried in people's armis
as her days of slow convalescence went on.
She was too feeble to walk, but she would
get her uncle to carry her from room to
room, or out of doors presently into the
sunshine, until, light as she had become, on
some days his arms must have ached.

'* Only T don't weigh very much now,"
she would sometimes assert, with great
complacency. *' I don't believe I weigh a
bit more than Bertie." And the thought of
having reached to this eminence, and attained
to so ethereal a condition, evidently

inspired her with no small satisfaction.
One days when she was getting better
Bertie was brought on his little wheeled bed
to see her, and Netty's jubilation on this
occasion was great, though at first it veiled
itself under an appearance of extreme
shyness and solemnity. The children lays
on their respective couches in the verandah,
and as long as any elder people were near
them nothing would induce either one or the
other to speak in anything but rather surly
monosyllables. But no sooner were they
left by themselves, than Netty  who hitherto,
with her back almost to her visitor, had
been occupying herself in an indifferent and
irrelevant way, in pulling the leaves off a rose
turned her head round and looked at Bertie,
and Bertie, seeing something humorous in
that movement, instantly began to laugh; and

then no sooner were these rapid preliminaries
exchanged, than Netty found her
tongue.

I've been as ill as you now !" she said
triumphantly, and accompanying her statement
with several vivacious nods.

No, you haven't," retorted Bertie, swiftly
naturally resentful of this interference with
his supremacy in suffering. " Vve had
measles,  and measles aren't  anything !"

For a moment the scorn of this reply
made an impression on Netty : she paused
to reconsider her position ; but reflections
happily, gave her fresh confidence.

*' You would think they were something
if you had had them like meT she said.

Well, but it wasn't so very nasty  was
it ?" inquired Bertie, his tone becoming a
little apologetic.

''I don't know what you call nasty, but
I couldn't eat, or drink, or keep my eyes
open  or speak even ! There now ! I
don't believe you were ever so ill as that !"
exclaimed Netty, in a new access of
triumph.

But it didn't hurt you like my back,"
retorted Bertie, thinking he had her
there.

Well, I didn't say it did," replied Netty,
rather weakly, feeling her power of argument
deserting her at this point very annoys

1 shouldn't think much of not being
able to keep my eyes open if I didn't ache
so all over me," said Bertie, pathetically.

And then there was a pause. Netty was
vain of what she had gone through, but she
was also a soft-hearted little maiden, and

endowed with a feminine instinct of self-renunciation.


I don't mean to say that I ached  at
least, not so veri much," she meekly allowed,
after that little silence.

"There, then, I told you !" cried Bertie.

But, Bertie, they thought I was going
to die," said Netty, using her last argument,
and with her voice sinking to a whisper.

And then indeed the other made no response,
for after the last word that Netty
had used, even the boy did not care to press
the discussion to any further issue.

It was nearly the end of August by the
time that Netty was beginning to get well
enough for them to think of taking her
away for change of air. " Let her go to
the sea," Dr. Cayley said. One morning
he said, decidedly, ' You may take her

somewhere now as soon as you pleases
Of course the various plans that they had
previously made for their autumn movements
had been disarranged by the child's
illness : Helen had dismissed the thought of
lier visit to Scotland : Mr. Loudoun and
Sydney had for the time put aside their
scheme of going to France. If Netty were
to be taken to the seaside, it seemed natural
that they should all go together to Dover,
where Sydney, at any rate, was expected
by her mother to spend some part of the
following month. And, indeed, Helen
almost at once suggested this arrangement.


It would make it so nice for m," she
said.

It would be the best thing for us all'*
Mr. Loudoun cordially agreed. " Sydney,

I am sure, would like it." And then he
appealed to her. "Would you not?" he
said.

1 don't think we could do better," she
answered. She gave a little inward sigh,
perhaps, as she spoke. The thing she had
so much wanted seemed slipping from her
grasp ; but yet in these days Netty was still
the first thought with her as with all of
them. When the child should be really
well, then they might begin again to think
of themselves.

*' We may still get a fortnight or so for
Normandy, Sydney," Mr. Loudoun said to
her, after the plan for their all going together
to Dover had been settled.

*' Do you think that ?" she answered,
quickly, and her face brightened. She was
glad, and she let Mr. Loudoun see her gladness.

'* I had been telling myself that there
would be no time now," she said.

If you care about it, we will make
time," he replied. '' Do you really care,
Sydney?"

And then she said " Yes," hesitating a
little, and blushing, but speaking the word,
when she did speak it, warmly and honestly.


They were walking together in the garden.
Sydney had gone out after dinner
alone, and her husband had presently followed
her.

"Are you here by yourself?" he had
asked, as he joined her. " Is Helen with
Netty?"

"No  Netty is asleep. Did you want
Helen?" Sydney asked, not perhaps without
a little sadness in her tone.

"No, I dont want her," he answered.
I came because I saw your white
dress."

And then he put her hand into his arm,
and they walked up and down in the
twilight.

He always treated her now as if she were
dear to him, but as if (or so she thought)
he had almost resigned the attempt to
make himself dear to her. Those old days
when he had been used to oppress her with
his appropriation of her, as though by their
marriage he had acquired an absolute right
to the whole of her, had passed away long
ago. She used to look back upon them
now almost wondering; at her own insensibility,
at her own deadness. Would he
never lay claim to her again ? she used to
ask herself, half consciously sighing fora

return to what had so fretted her once, 
longing with timid yearning to give herself
to him.

"The evenings are drawing in so fasts
she had said, with a little sigh, as they
walked together. *'I thought just now
there was a feeling of autumn in the air-when
we come back, the leaves will almost
have begun to fall." And then she had
asked him, '' How long shall we be away,,
do you think?" and that had led presently
to his saying what he did about
Normandy.

I think we should be able to go in
October," he told her. " A month of
Dover will set Netty quite upon her feet, I
hope ; and then Helen, I imagine, will want
to go to Scotland."

VOL. III. Q

* But do you think that she still means
to go to Scotland ?" Sydney asked, after a
moment's silence. " She is afraid of
cold ; she may think it too late in the
year."

"Of course, if she should do so, that
might make a difference," he answered.
"In that case "

But he had only got so far, when he
suddenly broke off.

"There is Helen coming," he said, and,
without finishing his sentence, he quickened
his pace to meet her.

"Need he be in such a hurry? Could
he not have finished saying what he had
begun to say to me?" Sydney thought, a
little sadly; and then she told herself jealously
that the sight of Helen was always

like a magnet to him like what the sight
of herself had once been, she added with a

sigh.

q2

CHAPTER VII.

rpHEY started for Dover on one of the
first days of September. Mr. Lou-down
had business which necessitated his
sleeping a night in London on the way, and
Helen, who was afraid of over-fatigue for
Netty, took advantage of this to propose
that they should all break the journey
there, and only finish it upon the following
day. So that plan was resolved on.

They took up their quarters at the
Charing Cross Hotel, and then, leaving
them there, Mr. Loudoun went away to da

his work. He had an appointment with
his lawyer, and had also various other calls
to make. " But I am sure to be back by
half-past seven," he said to Sydney. So
they ordered dinner for that hour ; and
then, there being little to do, Helen began
to write letters, and Sydney read to
Netty as the child lay resting on the
sofa.

It was September, and London was very
empty.

It looks an ugly place," Helen said, after
an hour or two had passed. *' What a
blessing it is that we are not going to stay
in it !" And long before dark she had begun
to yawn. Netty was tired too, and
they put her to bed.

I think after all it has been rather stupid
in us to come here. If we had not come we

might have been at Dover now, and that
dear little lamb would be breathing the sea
air. It is often a blunder to be over-cautious,
I find," Helen exclaimed.

She and Sydney were sitting together
waiting for Mr. Loudoun's return. It was
too warm to have a fire, and the large room-that
had been given to them looked cheerless
enough : there was a clock over the
mantelpiece that struck the quarters, and
its chiming told them the time after it
had become too dark for them to see its
face.

They had agreed that they would not
have lights until Mr. Loudoun came. They
sat by one of the windows looking down into
the street, and for a little while they
found it amusing to watch the passers-by :
but when half-past seven o'clock came and

passed, and there was still no sign of Mr.
Loudoun, they began to tire of this entertainment.
*' Where can he be detained so long ?"
Sydney began to say. She was hardly uneasy,
but yet she wished that he would come
back.

At eight o'clock Helen said  ' Surely he
must be staying to dinner somewhere. I
think it is very shabby treatment, for he
must know we should be rather dreary :
but to be sure, poor fellow, perhaps he can't
help it. I am very hungry, Sydney."

"Are you? Shall we order dinner?"
Sydney asked.

But she asked it in so reluctant a tone
that Mrs. Walkinshaw laughed.

'' Oh, no, don't do it on my account. I
will suffer and endure," she answered.

So they waited for a little longer, but

when half-past eight came they were still
alone.

They agreed then that they would let the
dinner be brought up.

I believe it is those Copes who have
kept him," Helen said, in an aggrieved tone.
Perhaps he has had to wait for Mr. Cope,
and has been thrown upon their dinner
hour. Well, Sydney, this is not cheerful,
but I suppose we must submit to it."

And so they had their dinner sent up,
and they ate it  not with much enjoyment.

Slowly the evening passed away, and
again and again the quarters struck, till it
came to be ten o'clock, and still Mr. Lou-down
had not returned. By this time they
were more than surprised : they were both
of them unquestionably anxious.

I cannot comprehend his staying away

SO long," Helen had exclaimed repeatedly.

They had reckoned over the various people

whom they had known he had to see.

' There was Harley first  then Pickering 

then Cope  then Harrington. He spoke of

these four  did he not, Sydney ?  and there

was no one else surely of any importance 

or at least he knew of no one else when he

went away. And how confidently he spoke

of being home before dinner time ! I do

think, even if it had obliged him to stay in

town another day, that he should have come

back when he said he would, and not have

given us this wretched kind of evening. For

I declare, Sydney," said Helen at last, " I

am getting frightened. You, I daresay, are

more strong-minded : but, when nervousness

once gets possession of me, I am a terrible

fool."

*'I wish lie would come," Sydney only
answered.

They had been trying for part of the evening
to read the papers, and to keep up some
pretence of occupying themselves ; but after
ten o'clock Sydney went back to the window.
She threw it open and took her
place beside it, leaning out so that she could
see the hotel door. " Surely he must be
here soon," she was still struggling bravely
to think. She looked across to the street,
watching each advancing figure. She was
very loyal to him ; she kept saying resolutely
to herself, "I know he must have been
detained against his will."

Helen came in a few minutes and joined
her, and they sat together, saying very little,
for another hour. Then, when eleven
o'clock struck, Sydney cried, for the first

time, " What are we to do ?" The helplessness
of their position was beginning to
terrify her : two ignorant women in a
strange place, what could they do if Mr.
Loudoun did not soon return ?

She had been very quiet till now, but
her quietness had hardly been the result of

courage.

' I am a fool to be afraid," she had said
to herself, but yet, in spite of telling herself
that she was a fool, she had been miserably
afraid.

' I think that something has happened to
him," she suddenly said aloud. ind then,
as if the putting her terror into words had
been too much for her, her voice quivered
and broke.

It was only eleven o'clock then, but
twelve o'clock, one o'clock, two, three, four

o'clock came, and all through the night
these two frightened women sat waiting in
their anguish and suspense. Some little
time before midnight they told their anxiety
to the manager of the hotel, but he
only seemed to assume a sympathetic face
for courtesy. Mr. Loudoun's non-appearance
evidently did not strike him as a very
startling fact.

"Gentlemen are often late, you see," he
merely said, in a re-assuring tone. " I have
no doubt there is no cause for you to alarm
yourselves. Mr. Loudoun will of course be
let in whenever he arrives. Could you do
anything?" dubiously repeating a question
that Sydney had put to him. "Well 
really  I don't know what you could do.
If we were to send in search of all the
gentlemen using this house who happen to

be out at midDi2:lit "  venturing on a smile
' we should have a very busy time of it."

"But he left us with no intention of
beinoj out during: the evening," Sydney
urged, " and we cannot help feeling that
something  some  some accident perhaps
"

' Oh, not the slightest fear of that, ladies,
not the slightest fear !" cried the manager,
confidently, and he spoke with so much
assurance that, for the moment, Sydney and
Helen almost involuntarily felt comforted.

"I daresay we are a couple of fools*'
Helen said, with a little attempt at a laugh
when they were alone again. " Xo doubt

ml -

this good man thinks us a nice specimen of
a pair of country ladies. Did you see how
he could hardly keep his countenance?"
And even Sydney smiled a little.

Well, perhaps we are frightening ourselves
without any cause," she said. " I
think, Helen, when Horace comes we must
not say much about having been so foolish."

But this spirt of courage and renewed
hope lasted only a very short time ; as the
slow minutes went on it soon wore itself
out ; and then the blank hours followed one
another again, each growing more terrible
than the one it left behind.

They sat up all night till the chill, cheerless
dawn came. Then, in the early morning,
Helen at last became hysterical, and
began to cry and sob, and, when she had
worn herself out, Sydney made her lie
down on a sofa in the room, and though
she resisted at first, and declared that she
could not rest, yet presently she was so
exhausted that she fell asleep.

It was about five o'clock then, and the
day was breaking.

The morning was mild, but Sydney was
shivering now. She had never before
known what fear was  never, at least, such
terror as this. It seemed to her, in her
anguish, that she would give all the life that
she had left if she could only once see her
husband's face again, and be taken for one
minute to his breast. The thought of the
happiness that she had thrown away once, 
that had eluded her during the last weeks,
that she had longed for and never known,
haunted her with an intolerable agony, and
passion, and remorse. If she had had less
strength it would have crushed her; but
she could not dare to let herself be crushed
or paralyzed yet.

As soon as there were signs of life in the

house she went downstairs to find the manager
again. She had to wait for a little
while, but presently he came to her, and
now, at her report, his face assumed a new
look.

I think," he said, " we had better send
a messenger to the various places at which
you understood Mr. Loudoun was to call
yesterday. The only difficulty is that it is
so early yet that most houses will hardly be
open."

But in an hour or so they will be open,"
Sydney answered. *' Give us some tea
quickly, and then Mrs. Walkinshaw and I
will go ourselves."

Helen started up from her short sleep
presently.

Sydney, has he come ?" she cried.

There had seemed to her a stir in the

room, but it was only the step of the waiter
bringing in their breakfast. The eager momentary
hope in her voice made the other
woman's heart quiver. The suggestion of
a joy is more than misery can sometimes
bear.

The night had been so terrible in its mute
compelling to inaction that it was a partial
relief only to feel that it was ended ; at
least they could do something now  they
had not merely to sit still and face their
fear.

They left little Netty presently a trifle
fretful, and disposed to consider herself
injured at so sudden a diminution of her
own importance, yet frightened, too, and
half ready to forget herself in sight of the
misery in her mother's face,  and, accompanied
by an intelligent young man whom

VOL. ni. n

the manager placed at their disposal, they
drove in the first instance to the private
house of Mr. Loudoun's man of business.
Here they were detained some time, for
Mr. Harley, when they arrived, was still in
bed, and when he came to them at last, and
heard their story, his grave face did not reassure
them.

Mr. Loudoun was with me at three
o'clock yesterday," he said. " He was in
my office for about half an hour, and 1
made an appointment to see him again this
morning at eleven. Only something very
unforseen could have kept him from returning
to you : there can be no doubt at all
of that. Where were you proposing to go
now? To Pickering's? What, the publisher's?
I will go with you, then. Wherever

you are certain that he meant to call
we will make inquiries ; then, if we learn
nothing, I will go to Scotland Yard."

They drove to Piccadilly, and at Pickering's
they heard that Mr. Loudoun had
called soon after four o'clock, but he had
only stayed a few minutes. He was on
foot, one of the young men said who had
opened the door for him, and when he
got into the street he turned westward.

"Yes, he was probably going on to Mr.
Cope's," Sydney said.

So then they drove to Mr. Cope's in
Lowndes Place, but there they found that
he had not been seen. Mr. Cope himself
came to them.

God bless me ! what can have become
of him ?" he exclaimed, when from Mr.

r2

Harley he heard their errand. "Yes, I
expected him : he had written to say he
would come. I wanted to see him particularly.
He said he would be with me
between four and five. I thought, when he
didn't come, that he had been detained
down at his place, and hadn't come up to
town at all ; but he was at Pickering's at
four, you say, and  God bless my soul ! 
has never been seen since ? Why, this is
one of the strangest things I ever knew 
this is alarming !" cried Mr. Cope, with a
startled face that made the two women's
hearts sink.

He may have gone somewhere else.
What is the next place on your list ?" Mr.
Harley asked.

But the other places  and these were
only houses or shops at which he might

possibly have called  unfortunately were all
east of Piccadilly, and though they went to
each of them, with a forlorn hope of picking
up some fragment of intelligence, they
picked up none, for Mr. Loudoun had been
nowhere seen.

Let me beg you to go back and rest
now," Mr. Harley said to his companions at
last. " For the moment you can do nothing
more. Leave the matter for a little while
in my hands. I will return to you as
soon as I possibly can. Come, we inst
find him," he said, cheerfully. '' Don't
allow yourselves to lose hope. That is the
one thing you must neither of you do.
Depend upon it we shall get some news of
him before the day ends."

He urged them to go back to the hotel
till they consented.

You may trust me to do everything
that can be done," he assured them before
they parted.

And you will come back and tell us ?
For God's sake, come soon and tell us !"
poor Helen implored.

She was more broken down outwardly
than Sydney was ; she was shaking and
sobbing as, at the end of their fruitless expedition,
she went up the hotel stairs clinging
to Sydney's arm.

In their sitting-room they found poor
little Netty, looking scared and pitiful, and
Helen took her into her arms with a burst
of tears.

*soh, my poor neglected lamb!" she
said, and began passionately to caress the
'* neglected lamb," who indeed wore an
aspect as if she were fully aware of the

weight of her claims to commiseration.

*have you not found Uncle Horace'*
the child asked, looking into her mother's
face with round, reproachful, frightened
e3'es  being conscious, no doubt, that she
had suddenly become a person of almost
no importance, and feeling divided in her
mind between pity for herself in this
changed condition and natural grief and
terror at the strange thing that had happened.
" Have you heard nothing of Uncle
Horace ?" And then Helen began to sob
with a bitterness that Sydney could not
bear. Sydney's own heart felt breaking,
and the effect of the other's unrestrained
grief was like the last blow that made
endurance unendurable.

She went after a few minutes out of the
room, and left the other two alone. She

could not rest. She had not yet taken off
her bonnet, and she went to Netty's maid
with a sudden resolution, and said,

I am going out again. If Mrs. Walsingham
should make any inquiries for me, tell
her that I have gone out for a little while ;
but, unless she asks you, do not say anything."


She had made up her mind suddenly
that she would do in person what, though
she had not courage to speak of it, she felt
sure before long Mr. Harley must mean todo.
She had said to herself, " He was
last seen going west from Pickering's. If
anything should have happened to him
between Piccadilly and Lowndes Place, St.
George's would be the nearest hospital, and
they would take him there."

She went out into the street, and got

into a cab. In a state of high-strung excitement
that for the moment sustained her,
and gave her an unnatural strength, she
drove to Hyde Park Corner. The feeling
within her was not hope, yet it was something
short of despair. During that quarter
of an hour suffering seemed almost
arrested, emotion even held in suspense.
Trying to recall it afterwards, it seemed to
her always that her one thought, her one
overmastering desire, was to find her
husband, alive or dead.

She asked for the house-surgeon when
she reached the hospital, and was at once
admitted, and, after a very few minutes, a
gentleman entered the room into which she
had been shown, holding her card in his
hand. He came forward quickly, almost
as if he had expected her.

*mrs. Loudoun?" he said, as lie looked
at her. And then, '' You got my telegram?"
he almost instantly asked.

She stared in his face with, for the moment,
a blank amazement; then the sudden
comprehension that she had found what she
had come to seek made the blood rush with
such violence to her heart that she turned
giddy, and would have fallen, if the doctor
had not taken her arm and put her on a
seat. As soon as she could speak, she said,
tremblingly,

1 have had no telegram ; but  I am
looking for my husband."

I telegraphed to you last night," the
doctor answered. " Yes  your husband is
here. He met with a  rather a bad fall
yesterday. You must not be too much
alarmed. He will, I hope, recover. We

found letters in his pocket with his address
upon them, and I sent a message to your
house at once."

*' But I was in towns she said.

"Ah ! that might have been unlucky then,"
he replied, 'if you had not so fortunately
thought of coming here."

He had given her a glass of water. After
a few moments she said,

I can understand now. Tell me what
has happened to him."

"It was a fall from an omnibus," he
answered. " He was on the top of an
omnibus, and was getting down, and his
foot seems to have slipped, and he fell  on
his head unluckily. He was unconscious all
night, but we are not without hope now.
During the last hour or two there has been
some improvement  I may almost say a

decided improvement. If you should feel
able to see him presently "

Oh ! I am able this moment," she cried,
starting to her feet ; and, as he glanced at
her a little doubtfully, she looked eagerly
and bravely in his face. " If you knew
what these last twelve hours have been  "
she said, and then stopped.

He nodded his head, and made no further
answer, but, merely telling her to follow
him, led her upstairs. After two or three
minutes he stopped at a closed door, and,
turning to lier,

*' I have been able to put him in a small
room by himself," he said. " You will
find everything very quiet here." And
then, turning the handle, he went in, and,
after a moment, signed to her to follow
him.

On a narrow bed within the room Mr.
Loudoun was lying, white and still, except
that there came a little flutter to his eyelids
as the doctor bent over him and put his
hand upon his brow. It was scarcely three
months ago yet since Sydney had stood by
another sick-bed, much like this, and gazed
at another face as motionless and deathly.
With a pang so great that it almost broke
her down, she thought of that, and of how
that other sleep had gradually deepened
into death.

*' Come and speak to him," the doctor
said, in a low voice.

She went forward and said his name.
Her voice was broken at first, but when she
said "Horace!" a second time, his ear seemed
as if it caught the familiar tone, and his
eyes made an effort to open.

"That's right," the doctor said; 'that's
very good. Go nearer to him now, and let
him feel you."

And then she went nearer, and put her
arms about him, and pressed her lips on
his.

She had been married to him for a year,
and this was the first embrace that she had
ever given him. In a great passion of love,
and agony, and remorse,, she clasped him
and clung to him.

Oh, my dear ! my dear !" she began to
murmur, between her half sweet, half bitter
kisses.

She lifted up her face after a minute, and
found that he was looking at her, but only,
as it seemed to her, with a blank, bewildered
look. (It was little wonder, perhaps,

if he failed to recognize his wife in the
woman Who was giving him these passionate
caresses.)

'never mind. You must not expect
him to be himself for a long time," the
doctor said, cheerfully. " I wanted to see
if you could rouse him, but you know we
must not try to force back consciousness too
quickly. As far as you can do it, it will
be a good thing to keep him aware of your
presence, but don't do anything now to give
a shock to him. Speak to him quietly, as
much as you can in your ordinary tone,
and don't let him see you cry. I think,
if you would like to stay with him, Mrs.
Loudoun, I shall be able to let you do

so."

"His sister is here with me," Sydney

said, quickly. " We all came to town together.
She is waiting at Charing Cross
now  and she knows nothing."

'then you would like to send a message
to her ?" he asked.

She will be very eager to see him. May
she?"

Certainly she may see him ; but  unless
he should become worse  I could
hardly stretch our rules so far as to allow
you both to remain with him. You have
the first claim, of course."

'* Oh, I am grateful to you for saying
that!" Sydney exclaimed, with her heart
upon her lips, and a flush and a light in her
face.

He promised that he would send at once
to Mrs. Walkinshaw, and she wrote her

message to Helen, and gave it to lira ;
then, with a heart full of anguish, but
yet, along with the anguish, of a great,
irrepressible joy, she took her seat by the
bedside.

One of the nurses came to her presently,
and gave her a few directions what todo.


''Ah, poor gentleman, I was sadly afraid
at first that he would never come to himself,"
she said. " I thought he was dead
\vhen they brought him in, that I did.
But I believe you'll get him all right
again now, ma'am. He's a deal better
already, though he looks bad enough to
you yet, I daresay. But if you had seen
him last night you'd indeed be thankful
now."

VOL. HI. s

I am thankful," Sydney only answered,
almost below her breath.

And then they left her, and she took
her place by her husband's side.

CHAPTER VIII.

TT was three days later, and Mr. Lou-down
was lying with eyes sometimes
closed, sometimes half opening, dreamily following
the movements of Sydney's hands
as she sat knitting by his bed. They were
alone together, and every now and then
she spoke to him. He was Rke a person
half asleep, but he seemed generally to
understand her, and to be able to answer
what she said. Her work perhaps was
not much more than a pretence at occupation.
She laid it down often, and let

sone

of her hands close over his ; she often
sat looking at him till the half-conscious
eyes met her own.

He had never yet seemed quite certain
who she was, except for single moments.
Once, with a great yearning to draw some
sign of recognition from him, she had
asked him timidly if he liked to have
her there ; but his answer had only been
a quiet *' Yes," as if he had been merely
replying to some quite indifferent question.
It gave her a pang for the moment
perhaps, and then she told herself
that she was foolish to feel any pain. "I
am as foolish," she said, "as a mother
would be who expected recognition from
her new-born child."

Ought she not indeed to be satisfied
when he was recovering, and when she

was with him? She had him to herself
in a blessed sole possession, for which
(though almost fearing that she was selfish
and ungenerous) she had already a
hundred times thanked God. Poor Helen
had been several times to see him, but now
Helen had gone.

I would advise you to go," the doctor
had said to her the day before. *' Your presence
at Dover seems to be needed for your
little girl, and here it is happily not needed
now. I think you may have your mind at
ease about Mr. Loudoun. If all goes well,
in another week or two I trust he will be
able to follow you. I would advise you
decidedly not to delay your journey."

So Helen had consulted with Sydney,
and, in the end, had made up lier mind to


cannot help you,  and it is too dreadful
alone at that hotel," she said. " Besides,
I am unhappy about Netty. I am pulled
two ways. If I could only stay and be
with you, and let Netty go on to Dover with
Bennett "

"But they will not let you stay," Sydney
interrupted. In her heart, she wanted
earnestly to be left alone with her husband :
her yearning to have him to herself had
become a passion.

No  I know they won't let me," Helen
said. " I have tried to come round that
doctor twice, and I have failed each time.
I know I must go. And  and you will be
very happy  won't you ?  when my back is
turned," she said, all at once, and looked
into Sydney's face with a little sudden,

quivering laugh that made the other's face
flush.

This had happened yesterday, and now
Sydney had her wish, and a week had
begun for her that she knew, even day by
day while it was passing, was the happiest
week of all her life. Mr. Loudoun was
only partly conscious at its commencement,
but daily, almost as the hours went on, she
saw the light of intelligence and of memory
coming back more and more into his eyes.
On the evening after Helen went, he, for
the first time, stretched out his hand and
laid it on her arm. There was a puzzled,
inquiring look in his face.

"Is it Sydney ?" he said, doubtfully ;
and when she answered " Yes," he exclaimed,
" That's right !" in a relieved, contented
tone.

A little while afterwards he touched her
again, and when she turned to him,

"I thought perhaps I was dreaming?" he
said, questioningly.

She put her hand over his, and enclosed
it in a warm clasp.

'No, you are not dreaming,  but you
have been ill," she said.

* Ah, that is what puzzles me," he answered.
" I can't remember "

"You must not try to remember yet,"
she said, " I will tell you everything soon
as soon as you are strong enough."

*' And you are not going away ?" he
asked, hesitatingly.

Oh, no !"

With a passionate gesture she lifted up his
hand to her lips and kissed it. As he felt her

kiss he smiled and murmured something, and
his fingers, which had lain passively in her
clasp, for a moment returned her pressure ;
but after that his eyes closed, and then, fora
long time, she merely sat still watching
him in her content as he dropped asleep
again.

After this he was always conscious that'
she was with him, and very soon he became
well enough for her to talk to him, and
even to ask her questions.

"I fell down  did I not? How was
it ?" he said to her one day.

"Yes; you fell in getting down from
an omnibus at Knightsbridge," she answered.


I seem to remember something about
it; but I am very confused. There is one

thing I can't understand  " in a puzzled
way.

'' What, dear ?"

How in the world I got back here ?"

Do you know where ' here ' is ?" she
asked, with a little laugh. " I don't think
you do. I believe you think this is the
hotel at Charing Cross ?"

*sis it  not?" hesitating.

*'0h, no; you have never been at
Charing Cross again. This is a room in
St. George's Hospital. They brought you
straight here after your accident."

'* Oh !" he said, and meditated on that
information for a few seconds. Then, after
a little pause, '' And how did they let you
know ?" he asked.

They could not let me know. I had

to find out. Don't speak of that yet," she
said.

*' You ' had to find out ? My poor
love !"

I will tell you about it presently, when
you are better. I don't want to talk about
it now."

'* I can't remember when I saw you first,"
after another little silence. " Did you come
soon ?"

.Not till you had been here for a night
and part of a day. They found your address
on some letters in your pocket, and
telegraphed to tell me ; but of course I
never got the telegram. Mrs. Grant did
not open it, and only sent it on by post to
Dover."

I can't follow that quite rightly."

"No; but don't try. You will understand
it all soon."

I understand that you are with me
now  and that is about all I care to
know."

But in another day or two he began to
ask more questions. He was stronger then,
and all sorts of inquiries rose to his
lips.

"What did you think that night?" he
asked. " How long did you sit up for me,
Sydney ?"

"How long?" she repeated, quickly.
"Do you think that we went to bed at
all?"

You sat up all night ?" he exclaimed.
"My two dear women! Then you were
really frightened ? You should have gone

to bed, and you would have been spared
your pain. But how did it go afterwards
?"

We went to Mr. Harley early in the
morning, and we found that you had been
with him, and to Pickering's ; but we could
learn nothing more. I knew that you had
meant to call in Lowndes Place ; but we
found that you had never reached it, and

then I thought " But she paused here,

her voice beginning to shake.

*' My poor Sydney !" he said, tenderly.
'' What a trouble I have been to you !"
And then, after a minute, " And so at last
you sent to make inquiries here?"

*' I came. I couldn't bear to speak to
anyone."

You should not have come yourself,

my darling. You might have found me
dead."

"I know that," with a choke in her
voice. " But  my heart was breaking."

"You had all this to bear, and I never
knew it, Sydney !"

*'0h, I ought not to speak of it. As
soon as I saw you, it did not matter. You
were better even then, you know. The
very worst was past."

'rand then you stayed with me?"

"Yes."

"And you have stayed with me ever
since ?"

He was silent for a moment or two, and
then he put his hand on hers.

My dearest," he said, " you have been
very good to me."

' Do you not think I have been glad to
be with you?" she replied.

But the next moment she rose hastily up,
for the tears had suddenly started to her
eyes, and she was still too shy of him to let
him see them.

Slowly but certainly as these days passed
on the happy knowledge began to fill
Sydney's heart that, out of the bitterness of
the past, and out of the misery she had
suffered, there had come to her at last the
sweetest thing that her life had ever known.
Her husband was better, but he was still
entirely dependent on her ; she was feet,
and hands, and eyes, and everything to him.
For the first time she was learning what it
was to give herself up altogether to another
human being  to live utterly in some one

else's life, and the joy of this new experience
to her was like a revelation. Day by
day she was brightening into a sweeter, and
gladder, and deeper-hearted woman than
she had ever been before, even through all
the happy years that she had lived before '
she became Mr. Loudoun's wife.

It was as if everything was beginning
afresh for her ; in the sunshine of her new
gladness whatever had been hard to her to
bear before seemed as if it could never more
become hard. There were some things in
the past months that she did not understand
still -about which she sometimes, when she
looked back on them, felt half tempted to
ask him ; but yet she let the happy days
pass on and never asked him. She had
become too content to do it. Gradually,

"Without either inquiries or explanations, she
took her natural place beside him  the
place that ought to have been hers long ago
for which she had cared so little when she
night have had it at the first. For a little
while she was shy with lira, and then even
her shyness almost passed away. After
having been tossed for many months upon
troubled waters, the poor thing felt at last
that she had reached her true home  the
only haven where she longed to be.

There was only one evening, and that towards
the close of his illness, when she
spoke two or three words to him about the
time that was gone. They had been talking
lightly together. He had been telling
her that she tyrannized over him.

It is for your good," she answered.

VOL. III. T

'' You are like all women," he declared.
You are an autocrat in your heart. You
love to rule, even when you can only get a
room for your kingdom, and a single, helpless
human being for your subject. Sydney,
when I get you home again, I shall have to
reduce you to order."

*' Do you think that will be very hard todo
?" she asked. " I rule you a little now
because you have been ill, but when we go

home " She looked into his face, and

suddenly a little quiver came upon her lips.
Oh, I wish we were going home now !"
she cried, all at once.

"Do you care about it?" he asked.
He had his hand upon her hair : he began
softly to stroke it.

**I have thrown away a year of my

life with you," she said, almost below her
breath.

"Well  do you care about that?" he
repeated.

And then the colour sprang suddenly
and hotly to her face.

I know you may well ask me  T know
you may well doubt it," she began, painfully,
to say. " I have been so bad a wife
to you "

"That is strong language," he interposed.


It is not too strong," sadly. " I set
oneself against you. I could not love

you."

"You did not certainly," he readily
assented.

All those first months you were so

t2

good to me, and I " She stopped a

moment, and suddenly enclosed his hand
in both of hers with an almost childish
action, as if to bind him fast to her before
she spoke the next words. '' And I would
have gone away from you, if I could!"

'' I thoroughly believe you would," he
said.

And then there was a little pause, till he
broke it with a brief inquiry.

'rand now ?" he asked.

They looked at one another. His face
perhaps had a certain triumph in it ; it
was full of tenderness, but mingled with
the tenderness there was also a little half-hidden
laughter. She hesitated for a moment
: her eyes had a touch in them of
doubt.

"Have I made you change?" she said.

suddenly, half aloud. " Do you care less
now  less than you did once ?"

For you, do you mean ?" he asked.
*' Care for you less, before I have ever
known what it was to win you ?"

But you won me months ago," she said,
shyly.

If I did, you never told me."

* No,"  hesitating  " I was afraid. I
thought "

And then a pause.

What did you think ?"

"You had Helen," with a little sigh,
and I thought you did not want

me."

Then Helen was right ;" suddenly, with
a quick laugh**

Right in what?" pricking up her ears
alertly.

In what she said about you from the
first."

What did she say ?" nervously.

"That I started with you at the beginning
in the wrong way. That I should
never get you to care about me until I
made you afraid that I was giving you

up."

A little silence; then rather an indignant
exclamation.

So Helen told you that ? Helen sometimes
makes mistakes !"

"No doubt she does  very often. Only,
in this particular instance, was there really
a blunder, Sydney ? Point it out to me,
if there was. For my own part, I had
been strongly disposed of late to think that
she was in the right."

And then Sydney sought for a few moments
for an answer, but failed to find
one ; and so, flushing a little, she gave
rather a deprecating look into her husband's
face, and  held her peace.

