CHAPTER I.

PAGE

Port Blair i

CHAPTER II.
Expectation .19

CHAPTER III.
First Impressions 54

CHAPTER lY.
 Miss Denis has Visitors . . . . .69

r

CHAPTER V.
What is She like? 83

?J CHAPTER VI.

Queen of the Cannibal Islands . . . 106

CHAPTER VII.
N' Mr, Quentin's Piano . . . . . .117

CHAPTEE VIII.

PAGE

I WAS HIS DEAREST LiZZIE ! " . .  .135

CHAPTER IX.
A Damsel in Distress 154

CHAPTER X.
IklR. Lisle forgets his Dinner . . . .169

CHAPTEE XL
The Finger of Fate! .190

CHAPTER XII.
The Wreck 209

CHAPTEE XIII.
"Blue Beard's Chamber" 227

POET BLAIR.

'droops the heavy-blossom'd bower; hangs the heavy-bruited
tree :
Summer isles of Eden lying in dark purple spheres of
sea." Locksley Hall,

Few travellers penetrate to the Andaman,
unless it be an enthusiastic astronomer to
witness a rare comet, or an enterprising
professor, who happens to be fired with a
desire to study the language and the skulls of
the aborigines.

These islands are as yet sacred from the foot
of the globe-trotter, Cook's tourists ignore
them, and they lie in serene semi-savage

VOL. I. a:

seclusion, in the midst of the Indian Ocean,
dimly known to the great outer world .as
the chief Indian convict settlement, and the
scene of Lord Mayo's murder in 1872.
The inland portions of the great and lesser
Andamanss have been but cursorily explored,
(those who have made the attempt, having
learnt by tragic experience that the inhabitants
were addicted to cannibalism) ; but
outlying islets, and fringes of the coast, have
been opened up by the Indian Government,
and appropriated for the benefit of thousands
of convicts (chiefly lifers), who are annually
poured into Port Blair  from 'Galle to the
Kyber, from Aden to the borders of China,
the cry is still they come !

Port Blair, the Government headquarters,
is situated on Eoss, a high conical islet that
lies about a mile south of the Middle Andaman,
and although of limited circumference,
it boasts a stone church, barracks, a Commandant's
residence, several gaols, a pier, a
bazaar, a circulating library, and a brass
band ! Every foot of ground is laid out to

marvellous advantage, and the neat gravelled
pathways, thick tropical hedges, flowering
shrubs and foliage plants, give the numerous
brown bungalows which cover the hill-sides,
the effect of being situated in a large and
well-kept garden.

The summit of the island commands a
wide view : to the north Les the mainland
with its sharply indented shores, and a wide
sickle-shaped estuary, sweeping far away
into the interior, where its wooded curves are
lost among the hills; the southern side of
Ross looks sheer out upon the boundless
ocean, and receives the full force of many a
terrible tropical hurricane, that has travelled
unspent from the Equator.

There was not a ripple on that vast blue
surface, one certain August evening, a few
years ago  save where it fretted gently in
and out, between the jagged black rocks
that surrounded the island ; the sea was like
a mirror, and threw back an accurate reflection
of boats, and hills, and wooded shores ;
distant, seldom-seen islands, now loomed in
B 2

the horizon with vague, misty outlines; a
delicate, soft, south wind barely touched the
leaves of the big trees, among whose branches
the busy green parrots had been chattering,
and the gorgeous peacocks, screeching and
swinging, all through the long, hot, sleepy
afternoon.

Surely the setting sun was making a more
lingering and, as it were, regretful adieu to
these beautiful remote islands than to other
parts of the world ! No pen could describe,
no brush convey, any idea of the vivid crimson,
western clouds, and the flood of blinding
golden light, that bathed the hills, the faraway
islets, the tangled mangroves, and the
glassy sea.

To the cool, dispassionate northern eye,
which may have first opened on a leaden
sky, snow-capped hills, pine woods, and
ploughed lands, there was a general impression
of wildly gaudy, south sea scenery, of savage
silence, and lawless solitude.

Soon that scarlet ball will have plunged
below the horizon, a short-lived grey twilight

have spread her veil over land and sea, the
parrots' noisy pink bills will be tucked under
their wings, and the turbulent peacocks have
gone to roost.

Close to the flag-staff (which was planted
on a kind of large, flat mound, at the highest
point of the island), one human figure stood
out in bold relief against the brilliant sunset ;
an elderly gentleman with grizzled hair and
beard, a careworn expression, and mild, brown
eyes,  eyes that were anxiously rivetted on
the at present stillness sea. He carried a
small red telescope in his hand, and divided
his time between pacing the short grass
plateau, and spasmodically sweeping the
horizon. For what was he looking so impatiently?
He was looking for the smoke
of the Calcutta steamer, that brought mails
and passengers to Port Blair once in every
six weeks. Think of but one mail in six
weeks, ye sybarites of Pall Mall, revelling
in a dozen daily posts, scores of papers, and
all the latest telegrams from China to Peru !
Imagine reading up forty days' arrears of

your Times or Toiii; imagine six Finches
simultaneously ! Gladly as Colonel Denis
usually hailed his letters, and especially the
Weedy Gazette, yet it was neither news or
promotion that he was so restlessly awaiting
now  his thoughts were altogether centred
on a passenger, his only daughter, whom he
had not seen for thirteen years, not since she
was a little mite in socks and sashes, and
now she was a grown-up, a finished young
lady, coming out from England by this mail
to be the mistress of his house ! He was
glad that this long anticipated day had
dawned at last, and yet he scarcely dared
to analyze his own feelings  he was ashamed
to own, even in his inmost heart, that
mingled with all his felicity, there is a
secret dread  a kind of stifled misgiving.
This girl who is to share his home within the
next few hours, is in reality, as far as personal
acquaintance goes, as much a stranger
to him as if he had never seen her before,
although she is his own little Nell, with
whom he used to romp by the hour in the

verandah at Karkipore, thirteen years ago.
Those thirteen years stand between him and
that familiar merry face, dancing gait, and
floating yellow hair, they have taken that
ayay, and what are they going to give him
instead ? Of course he and his daughter had
corresponded by every mail, but what are
nice affectionate letters, what are presents,
yea photographs, when the individuality of
the giver has long been blurred and indistinct
; when the memory of a face, and
the sound of a voice, have faded and faded,
till nothings tangible remains but a name !
Children of five years old have but short
memories, and in Helen Denis's case, there
was no one near her to revive her dying
recollections.

I wonder if she will know me among the
crowd," her father muttered as he paced the
platform, with the telescope behind his back,

I'm sorry now, I never had \nj photo
taken, to prepare her ! How strange I
shall feel with a girl in the house, after all
these years. I've quite forgotten woman's

ways ! " From an expression that came into
his eyes, one might gather that a backward
glance at " woman's ways " was not altogether
one of the most agreeable memories
of the past. "If she should be like  " and
he paused, shuddered, and looked out over
the sea for some minutes, with a face that
had grown suddenly stern. His thoughts
were abruptly recalled to the present, by
the sound of footsteps coming up the gravel
pathway behind him.

Hullo, colonel ! " cried a loud, cheery
voice, '' why are you doing sentry here ?
Oh ! of course, I forget ; you expect Miss
Denis this mail! "

Yes. I'm looking out for the steamer,"
he replied, as he turned round and accosted
a very handsome young man, with aquiline
features, brilliant teeth, and eyes as blue as
the surrounding sea. A tall young man,
carefully dressed in a crease! less light suit,
who wore a pale silk tie run through a ring,
gloves, and carried a large white umbrella.
He had an adequate appreciation of his own

appearance, and with good reason, for men
frequently referred to him as *' the best-looking
fellow of their acquaintance," and
women  well  women spoiled him, they had
petted him and made much of him, since he
was a pretty little curly-headed cherub, with
a discriminating taste in sweets, and a rooted
objection to kissing old and ugly people, down
to the present time, when he (although you
would not think it), had passed his thirty-second
birthday ! He had been sent to
Port Blair in connection with some new
works on the mainland, and was "acting"
for another man, who had gone on furlough.
His name was James  variously known as
"Beauty," "Apollo," or "Look and Die"
Quentin, and he was really less conceited
than might have been expected under the
circumstances ! Mr. Quentin was not alone ;
his companion was a shorter, slighter, and
altogether more insignificant person, dark as
an Arab, through exposure to the sun ; he
wore a broad-leafed, weather-beaten Terai,
pulled so far over his brows, that one could

only guess at a pair of piercing eyes, a thin
visage, and a black moustache ; this clothes
were by no means new, bis hands burnt to
a rich mahogany, and innocent of gloves, ring,
or umbrella.

Somehow, with his slouched hat, slender
figure and swarthy skin,he had rather a foreign
air, and was a complete contrast to his broad-shouldered
patron, "Look and Die " Quentin,
whom he followed slowly up the hill, and
muttering an indistinct greeting to Colonel
Denis, he walked on a few paces, and stood
with his arms folded, looking down upon the
sea, somewhat in the attitude of the well-known
picture of Napoleon at St. Helena !
This sun-burnt, silent individual was known
by the name of '' the Photographer;" he was
a mysterious stranger, who three months
previously had dropped into the settlement 
but not into society  as if from the clouds,
and during these three months, the united
ingenuity of the community had failed to discover
anything more about him, than what they
had learned the very first day he had landed

on Ross ; to wit, that bis name was Lisle,
and that he had come from Calcutta to take
photographs among the islands. Immediately
after his arrival, he had established
himself in the Dak Bungalow, on Aberdeen,
had hired a boat, and in a very short time
had made himself completely at home ; his
belongings consisted of a small quantity
of luggage, a largo camera, some fishing-tackle,
and a native servant, who refused to
elucidate any one on the subject of his master,
and the public were very inquisitive about
that gentleman,  and who shall say that their
curiosity was not legitimate !

People never came to Ross, unless they
were convicts, settlement officers, formed
part of the garrison, or were functionaries
like Mr. Quentin, who was " acting " for
some one else. Mr. Lisle did not come
under any of these heads ; he Alas not an
officer, Hindoo or otherwise, he did not
belong to the settlement, nor was he one of
the class for whose special behoof the islands
had been colonized. The problem still remained

unsolved, av ho was Mr. Lisle, what
was he doing at Port Blair, where did
he come from, when, and where, was he
going, was he rich or poor, married or
single ? All these queries still remained
unsolved, and opened up a fine field of
speculation. Society, so isolated from the
outer world, so meagrely supplied with legitimate
news, were naturally thrown a good
deal upon their own resources for topics of
conversation, and discussion. A week after
mail-day, most of the papers had been read
and digested, and people had to fall back
upon little items of local intelligence  and
such items were wont to be scarce : think,
then, what a godsend for conjecture and discussion
Mr. Lisle would, and did prove!
this waif blown to them from beyond the
sea, without address or reference ! If he
had been a common-looking, uneducated
person, it would have been totally different ;
but the aggravating thing was, that shabby
as were his clothes, he had the unmistakable
bearing and address of a gentleman,  yet

he spent all his days photographing natives,
trees, islands, as if his daily bread solely depended
on his industry ! He lived not far
from where Mr. Quentin dwelt, in a splendid
bungalow, in solitary state ; and the former,
constantly meeting the photographer, had
scraped up an acquaintance with him, had
dropped in and smoked friendly cigarettes in
the Rest House verandah, had thrown out
feelers in vain  in vain !  had come to the
conclusion that Lisle was a very gentlemanly
fellow in his way,  that he was no
fool, that he was a most entertaining companion,
and wound up by insisting that he
should come and share his roof !

To this Lisle objected, in fact he refused
the invitation point-blank, but when he
learned that the Rest Bungalow was requisitioned
for some missionaries, and when his
would-be host became the more pressing,
the more he was reluctant, he gave in, after
considerable hesitation.

"You see, it's not a purely unselfish idea,"
said Mr. Quentin ; " I'm awfully lonely at

this side  not a soul to speak to, unless I goto
Boss, and I'm often too lazy to stir, and
now I shall have you to argue with, and to
keep me company of an evening. Then,
as to your photographs, there's lots of
room for them. You can have a whole side
of the house to yourself, and do as you
please."

'' I'll come on one condition," replied the
other, looking straight at him ; "I'll come,
if you will allow me to pay my share of the
butler's account, and all that sort of thing.
We are speaking quite frankly  you require
some one to talk to, I want a roof, since
you say the missionaries are coming to the
Best House,  and I doubt if we would
assimilate ! "

Mr. Quentin, who had been lounging in a
low cane chair, took his cigar out of his
mouth, blew a cloud of smoke, and hesitated;
it was all very well to have this chap
up to keep him company of an evening, but
to chum with him  by Jove !

The other seemed to read what was



passing through his mind, for lie said, with
a twinkle in his eye, 

I'm not a fellow travelling for a firm of
photographers, as no doubt every one imagines.
I'm "  pushing an envelope over to
his companion  " that's my name."

Mr. Quentin took up the paper carelessly,
cast his eye over it, became rather red, and
laughed nervously. From this time forward,
Mr. Lisle and Mr. Quentin chummed together
on equal terms,  somewhat to the scandal of
their neighbours, who were amazed, that such
a fastidious man as '' Look and Die " Quentin,
should open his house, and his arms, to
this unknown shabby stranger ! His manners
were studiously courteous and polite,
but he understood how to entrench himself
in a fortress of reserve, that held even
Mrs. Creery, the chief lady of Port Blair,
at I)ay, and this was saying much  driven
very hard, two damaging statements had
been, as it were, wrested from him ! he
liked the Andamanss, because there was
no daily post, and no telegrams, and he

had no occupation now. Did not admission
number one, savour of a dread of suggestive-looking
blue envelopes, and clamouring,
hungry creditors  to whom he had effectually
given the slip ; and admission number two
was worse still ! no occupation now, was
doubtless the result of social and financial
bankruptcy. Mrs. Creery was disposed to
deal hardly with him  in her opinion, he was
an " outlaw." (She rather prided herself
upon having fitted him neatly with a name.)
If he had thrown her one sop of conciliation,
or given her the least little hint about
himself and his affairs, she might have tolerated
him, but he remained perversely dumb.
Mr. Quentin was dumb too  though it was
shrewdly suspected that he knew more
about his inmate than any one  and indeed
he had gone so far as to deny that he was
a professional photographer ; when rigidly
cross-examined by a certain lady, he only
laughed, and shook his head, and said that
Lisle was a harmless lunatic  rather mad

on the subject of photography and sea-fishing,
but otherwise a pleasant companion ;"
but beyond this, he declined to enlighten
his questioner. jSTo assistance being forthcoming,
society was obliged to classify the
stranger for themselves, and they ticketed
him as a genteel loafer, a penniless ne'er-do-well,
who had come down to Port Blair
in hopes (vain) of obtaining some kind of
employment, and had now comfortably established
himself as Mr. Quentin's hanger-on,
and unpaid companion !

It must be admitted that the stranger gave
considerable colour to this view ; he did not
visit and mix with society on E-oss, he wore
shabby clothes and shocking hats, and spent
most of his time tramping the bush with a gun
on his shoulder or a camera on his back 
looking for all the world like an Italian
organ-grinder or a brigand," according to
that high authority, Mrs. Creery. For three
months he had been without a competitor in
the interest of the community, but now his

VOL. I. c

clay was over, this star on the wane, lie was
about to give place to a very rare and
important new arrival, namely, an unmarried
lady, who was currently reported to be '' but
eighteen years of age, and very pretty ! "

CHAPTER 11.

EXPECTATION.

For now sits expectation in the air,

And hides a sword."

Henry V.

All this time Colonel Denis had been engaged
in animated conversation with Mr. Quentin.
Nature had been doubly generous to the latter
gentleman, for she had not merely endowed
him with unusual personal attractions, but
had increased these attractions, by the gift of
a charming manner that fascinated every one
who came in contact with him  from the
General himself, down to the sullen convict
boatmen ; it was quite natural to him, even
when discussing a trivial subject, with an
individual who rather bored him than otherwise,
to throw such an appearance of interest
into his words and looks that one would
c 2

imagine all his thouobts were centred in
the person before bim, and the topic under
discussion.

To men this attitude was flattering, to
women irresistible, and what though his
words were writ on sand, his manner had
its effect, and was an even more powerful
factor in his great popularity, than his stalwart
figure, and handsome face. At the present
moment, he stood leaning on his furled
umbrella, listening with rapt attention to
what Colonel Denis had to say on the subject
of whale-boats versus gigs (every one on Ross
kept a boat of their own like the O'Tooles at
the time of the Flood). The colonel was enlarging
on the capabilities of his new purchase,
 bought expressly in honour of his
daughter, as he would have bought a carriage
elsewhere,  when he was interrupted by
Mr. Lisle (who meanwhile had been keeping
watch on the horizon, and whistling snatches
of the overture to " Umbrella " under his
breath), abruptly announcing, '' Here she
is!"

Colonel Denis was so startled, that he
actually dropped the telescope, which rolled,
to his informant's feet, who, picking it up,
noticed, as he returned it, that Colonel Denis
was looking strangely nervous, and that the
hand stretched towards him was shaking
visibly. He gazed at him with considerable
surprise, and was about to make some remark,
when Mr. Quentin exclaimed in a
tone of genuine alarm, '' By George, here is
Mrs. Creery. I see the top of her toper coming
up the hill, and I'm going."

But he reckoned without that good lady,
who had already cut off his retreat. In
another moment her round florid face appeared
below the toper, followed by her
ample person, clad in a sulphur-colour sateen
costume, garnished with green ribbons ;
last, but not least, came her fat, 
dog, '' xsFip," an animal that she called
'' a darling," " a treasure," '' a duck," and a
*' fox-terrier," but no other person in the
settlement, recognized him by any of these
titles. Before she was within twenty yards

she called out in a thin, authoritative
treble, 

'' Well, what are you all doing here ? what
is it, eh? Any news? You need not be
looking for the Scotia; she can't possibly be
in till tomorrow, you know  I told you so.
Colonel Denis. Oh," in answer to a silent
gesture from Mr. Lisle, *' so She is coming
in, is she? " in a tone that gave her listeners
to understand that she had no business to be
there, contradicting Mrs. Creery !

And so you have been up playing tennis
at the general's," to Mr. Quentin. " I saw
your peon going by with your bat and
shoes; but what has brought you over to
Eoss, Mr. Lisle  I thought you rarely left
the mainland ? " fastening on him' now for
that especial reason.

"I don't often come over," he replied,
parrying the question.

You've been shopping in the bazaar,"
she continued ; " you have been buying
collars."

Mrs. Creery is unanswerable  she is gifted

with "second sight'* (All the same it was not
collars, but cartridges, that he had purchased.)

Not she ! " returned the lady with a
laugh, " but she has eyes in her head, and
that's a collar-box in your hand ! I can tell
most things by the shape of the parcel. Still
as charmed as ever with Aberdeen ? "

Mr. Lisle bowed.

I heard that you were going away ? "

*' So I am  " he paused, and then added,
some day."

*' What do you do with all your photographs,
sell them ? Oh, but to be sure you
can't do that here. You must find the
chemicals terribly costly."

They are rather expensive."

I'll tell you what, I will give you a little
commission ! How would you like to come
over some morning, and take me and Nip,
and then the bungalow, and then a group of
our servants ? "

If Mr. Lisle's face was any index of his
mind, it said plainly that he would not relish
the prospect at all !

"- 1 want to send home some photos to my
sister, Lady Grubb ;  of course I shall pay
you, that's understood."

During this conversation. Colonel Denis
had looked miserably uncomfortable, and
Mr. Quentin as if it was with painful difficulty
that he restrained his laughter ; the travelling
photographer alone was unmoved; he surveyed
his patroness gravely, as if he were
taking a mental plate of her toper with its
purple puggaree, her little eager light eyes,
her important nose and ruddy cheeks,
and then replied in a most deferential
manner, 

Thank you very much for your kind
offer, but I am not a professional photographer."


Was Mrs. Creery crushed ? Not at all,
she merely raised her light eyebrows and
said, 

Oh, not a professional photographer !
then what are you ? "

Mrs. Creery's very humble slave," bowing
profoundly.

*' Photographs are rather a sore subject
with him just now," broke in Mr. Quentin in
his loud, hearty voice. "You have not heard
what happened to him yesterday when heVas
out shooting ? "

"Ko, how should I," she retorted
peevishly.

Well, I must say he bore it like a stoic.
I myself, mild as I am, and sweet as you
know my temper to be, would have killed the
fellow."

'what fellow?"

*' My new chokra. Time hung heavily on
his hands, and I suppose he thought he
would be doing something really useful for
once in his life, so he went into the room
where Lisle keeps all his precious plates 
photographic plates, not even printed off 
plates he has collected and treasured like so
many diamonds  "

Well, well, well ? " tapping her foot.

'' My dear lady, I'm coming to it, if you
won't hurry me. My confounded chokra
took them all for so much dirty glass, and

washed every man Jack of tliera, and was
exceedingly proud of his industry ! "

"And what did you do to him'* demanded
Mrs. Creery, turning round and
staring at the victim of ignorance.

*' Nothing,  what could I do ? he knew no
better, but I told my fellow not to let him
come near me for a few days."

Colonel Denis," said the lady, now

addressing him, "Is it true that you have

not seen your daughter for thirteen years ? "

Yes, quite true, I am sorry to say."

Why did you not go home on furlough ? "

I never could manage it. When I could

get home, I had no money, and when money

was plentiful, there was no leave."

Ah, and you told me she was a pretty
girl, I believe ; I hope you are not building
on that, for pretty children are a delusion,
I never yet saw one of them, that did not
grow up plain."

Excepting me ! Mrs. Creery," expostulated
Mr. Quentin; "if history is to be believed,
I was a most beautiful infant  so

beautiful that people came to see me for
miles and miles around and (insinuatingly)
I'm sure you would not call me plain
now?"

Mrs. Creery (who had a secret partiality for
this gentleman) laughed incredulously, and
then replied, "Well, perhaps you are the
exception that proves the rule. Of course,"
once more addressing Colonel Denis, " your
daughter will bring out all the new fashions,
and have no end of pretty things  that is if
you have given her a liberal outfit."

She here paused for a reply, but no answer
being forthcoming went on, *'Ifyou feel at
all nervous about meeting her, I'll go on board
with you with pleasure, I should lille it, and
you are well enough acquainted with me, to
know that you have only to say the word 1 "

At this suggestion, the eyes of the two
bystanders met, and exchanged a significant
glance, and whilst Colonel Denis was stammering
forth his thanks and excuses, they
hastily took leave of Mrs. Creery, and made
their escape.

"The steamer is coming in very fast, and
I think I'll go home and see that everything
is ready," said the Colonel after a pause.

Well, perhaps it would be as well,"
acceded the lady; "but are you really
certain that you would not like me to meet
her, or at any rate to be at your bungalow
to receive her ?"

Once more her companion politely but
firmly declined her good c&ces, assuring her
earnestly that they were quite unnecessary,
and the lady, visibly disappointed, said as
she shouldered her parasol, and turned away,
Perhaps you will have your journey for
nothing ! I should not be the least surprised
if she did not come by this steamer after
all ! and mark my words, that ayah  that
Fatima  that you would engage in spite of
my advice will give you trouble yet ! " [Exit.

Colonel Denis, nothing daunted, hurried
down to his own bungalow, a large one facing
the mainland, entirely surrounded by a deep
verandah, and approached by a pathway

liedgecl with yellow heliotrope. A good
many preparations had been made for the
expected young mistress, there were flowers
everywhere in profusion, curious tropical
ones, berries, and orchids, and ferns.

The lamps were lit in the sitting-rooms,
and everything was extremely neat,  and yet
there was a want, there was a bare, gaunt
look about the drawing-room, although it had
been lately furnished, and Ram Sawmy, the
butler of twenty years' standing, had disposed
the chairs and tables in the most approved
fashion  in his eyes  and put up coloured
purdahs and white curtains, all for '' Missy
Baba." Nevertheless, the general effect was
grim and comfortless. There were no nick-nacks,
books, or chair-backs : there certainly
were a few coarse white antimacassars, but
these were gracefully arranged according to
Sawmy' s taste as coverings for the smaller
tables ! Colonel Denis looked about him
discontentedly, moved a chair here, a vase
there, then, happening to catch a glimpse of
himself in a mirror, he went up to it and

anxiously confronted his own reflection.
How wrinkled and grey he looked ! he might
be fifteen years older than his real age.
After a few seconds, he took np and opened
a small album, and critically scanned a faded
photograph of a gentleman in a long frock-coat,
with corresponding whiskers, leaning
over a balustrade, his hat and gloves carelessly
disposed at his elbow  a portrait of
himself, taken many years previously.

'' There is no use in my thinking that it's
the least like me now she could not know
me again  no more than I would know
her  " then closing the book with a snap,
and suddenly raising his voice, he called
out, 

'' Here, Sawmy, see that dinner is ready in
half an hour, and have the ayah waiting ;
I'm going for missy."

Doubtless dinner and the ayah had a longtime
to wait, for it was fully an hour before
the Scotia dropped anchor off Eoss; she
was immediately surrounded by a swarm of
boats, including that of Colonel Denis, who

boarded her, and descended among the
crowd to the cabin, with his heart beating
unusually fast.

The cabin lamps were lit, and somewhat
dazzled the eyes of those who entered from the
moonlight. There were but few passengers,
and the most noticeable of these was Helen
Denis, who sat alone at the end of the
narrow table, with a bag on her lap, the
inevitable waterproof over her arm, and her
gaze fixed anxiously on the door leading from
the companion ladder. Colonel Denis would
not be disappointed, his daughter had fulfilled
the promise of her youth, and was a very
pretty girl. She was slight and fair, with
regular features and quantities of light-brown
hair  hair that twenty years ago was
called fair, before golden and canary-coloured
locks came to put it out of fashion.
Her eyes were grey  or blue  colour rather
uncertain ; but one thing was beyond all dispute,
they were beautiful eyes ! As for her
complexion, it was extremely pale at present,
and her very lips were white ; but this was

due to lier agitation, to lier awe and wonder
and fear, to her anxiety to know ivliich of
the many strange faces that came crowding
into the cabin, was the one that would
welcome her, and be familiar to her, and dear
to her, as long as she lived ? She sat quite
still, with throbbing heart, surveying each
new-comer with anxious expectation ; as
Colonel Denis entered, she half rose ; and
looked at him appealingly.

You are Helen ? " he said in answer to
lier glance.

Oh, father," slit exclaimed tremulously,
now putting down the bag and stretching
out her hands, " how glad I am that you are
you !  it sounds nonsense, I know, but I was
half afraid that I bad forgotten your face.
You know," apologetically, "I was such a
very little thing ; and that man over therewith
the hooked nose, stared at me so hard
that I thought for a moment, I was half
afraid  " and she paused, and laughed a little
hysterically, and looked at her father with
eyes full of tears, and he, rather shyly stooped

clown and toucliecl her lips with this grizzly
moustache  and the ice was broken.

Helen seemed to immediately recover her
spirits, her colour, and her tongue  but no,
she had never lost the use of that ! She
was a different-looking girl to what she
had been ten minutes previously ! her lips
broke into smiles, her eyes danced, she was
scarcely the same individual as the white-faced,
frightened young lady whom we had
first seen sitting aloof at the end of the
saloon table.

*' I remember you now quite well," said
Miss Denis. " I knew your voice. And
oh, I am so glad to come home again ! "

This was delightful. Colonel Denis, a man
of but few words at any time, was silent from
sheer necessity now. He felt that he could
not command his utterance as was befitting
to his sex. If this meeting was rapturous to
Helen, what was it not to him ? Here was
his own little girl grown into a big girl 
this was all the difference.

In a short time Miss Denis and her

VOL. I. D

luggage (Mrs. Creeiy would be pleased to
know that there was a good deal of the latter)
were being rowed to Ross by eight stout-armed
boatmen, over a sea that reflected
the bright full moon. It was almost as
light as day, as Helen and her father walked
along the pier, and up the hill homewards ; as
they passed a bungalow on their left hand,
the figure of a girl (who had long been
lying in wait, in the shadow of the verandah,)
leant out as they went by, and watched
them stealthily ; then pushing open a door,
and hurrying into a lamp-lit room, she said
to her mother, an enormously stout, helpless-looking
woman, 

** She has come ! She has a figure like a
maypole. I could not see her face plainly,
but I don't believe she is anything to look
at''

However, those who had already obtained
a glimpse of Miss Denis in the saloon of the
Scotia were of a very different opinion, and,
according to them, the newly-arrived " spin "
was an uncommonly pretty girl, likely to

raise the average of ladies' looks in the
settlement by about fifty per cent. !

Almost at the moment that Colonel Denis
and his daughter were landing on Ross,
another boat was putting her passengers
ashore on Aberdeen, i.e. Mr. Qnentin's very
smart gig. A steep hill lay between him and
his bungalow, but declining the elephant
in waiting, he and Mr. Lisle, and another
friend, to whom he had given a seat over,
commenced to breast the rugged path together.
This latter gentleman was a Dr.
Parks, the principal medical officer in the
settlement ; a little man with a sharp face,
grey whiskers and moustache, and keen eyes
to match ; he was comfortable of figure, and
fluent of speech, and prided himself on
having the army list of the Indian staff
corps at his fingers' ends ; he could tell other
men's services to a week, knew to a day
when Brown would drop in for his off-reckonings,
and how much sick-leave Jones
had had. More than this, he had an enormous
circle of acquaintances in the three
D 2

Presidencies, and if lie did not know most
old Indian residents personally, at any rate
he could tell you all about them  who
they married, when, and why ; who were their
friends, enemies, or relations ; what were
their prospects of promotion, their peculiarities,
their favourite hill-stations ;  he
was a sort of animated directory (with
copious notes), and prided himself on knowing
India as well as another man knew London.
He was unmarried, well off, and lived in
the East from choice, not necessity ; he was
exceedingly popular in society, was reputed
to have saved two lacs of rupees, and to be
looking out for a wife !

After climbing the hill for some time
in silence. Dr. Parks paused  ostensibly
to survey the scene, in reality to take
breath.

Hold hard, you fellows," he cried, as the
other two were walking on. '' Hold hard,
there's no hurry. Looks like a scene in a
theatre, doesn't it ? " waving a hand towards
the prospect below them.

"With the moon for Amie-light?" rejoined
Mr. Quentin as lie paused and glanced
back upon the steamer, surrounding boats,
and the sea, all bathed in bright, tropical
moonshine ; at the many lights twinkling up
and down the island,  like fire-flies in a
wood.

Dr. Parks remained stationary for some
seconds, contemplating Eoss, with his thumbs
in the armholes of his waistcoat. At length
he said, 

'' I daresay old Denis hardly knows himself
to-night, with a girl sitting opposite him.
I hope she will turn out well."

You mean that you hope she will turn out
good-looking," amended Mr. Quentin, turning
and surveying his companion expressively.
'' Ah, Parks, you were always a great ladies'
man ! "

'' Nonsense, sir, nonsense. Pm not thinking
of her looks at all ; but the fact of the
matter is, that Denis has had an uncommonly
rough time of it, and I trust he is in
shallow water at last, and that this girl will

turn out to be what they call ' a comfort to
him.' "

I hope she will be a comfort to us all ?
I'm sure we want some consolation in this
vile hole; but why is Old Denis a special
charity ? " inquired Mr. Quentin.

 Old Denis  well, lie is not so old, if it
comes to that ; in fact, he is five years my
junior, and I suppose Tm not an old man, am
I ? " demanded Dr. Parks, with a spark of
choler in his eye.

Oh, you ! you know that you are younger
than any of us," rejoined Mr. Quentin
quickly ; " time never touches you ; but
about Denis ? "

Oh ! he has had a lot of bother and
worry, and you know that that plays the
deuce with a fellow. The fact of the matter
is, that Tom Denis came to awful grief in
money-matters," said Dr. Parks, now walking
on abreast of Mr. Quentin, and discoursing
in a fluent, confidential tone.

His father's affairs went smash, and Tom
became security to save the family name.

mortgaged all bis own little property that
came to him through his mother, exchanged
from a crack regiment at home, and came
out here into the staff corps. It was a foolish,
quixotic business altogether ; no one was a
bit obliged to him : his sisters thought he
might have done more, his father was a callous
old beggar, and took everything he got
quite as a matter of course, and Tom was
the support of his relation?, and their scapegoat."


The very last animal I'd like to be,"
remarked Mr. Quentin ; '' but don't let me
interrupt you ; go on."

Well, as if Tom had not enough on his
hands, he saddled himself with a wife  a wife
he did not want either, a beautiful Greek ! It
seems that she burst into tears when he told
her he was going to India, and I'm not sure
that she did not faint on his breast into the
bargain. However, the long and the short
of it was, that Tom had a soft heart, and
he offered to take her out with him as
Mrs. D .

*' Mrs. Denis lead a lovely face, an empty
head, no heart, and no money; in fact, no
interest, or connections, or anything ! and
she was the very worst wife for a poor manlike
Tom. She came out to Bombay, and
carried all before her; one would have thought
she had thousands at her back  her carriages,
dresses and dinners ! 'pon my word, they ran
the Governor's wife pretty hard. There was
no holding her ; at least, it would have taken
a stronger man than Tom Denis to do that.
She flatly refused to live on the plains, or to
go within five hundred miles of his native
regiment ; and his role was to broil in some
dusty, baking station, and to supply my lady
up in the hills, or spending the season at
Poona or Bombay, with almost the whole
of his pay.  I believe she scarcely left him
enough rupees to keep body and soul
together ! "

'' The man must have been a fool ! " said
Mr. Lisle emphatically, now speaking for
the first time.

"Aye, a fool about a pretty face, like

many another," growled the doctor. *' There
was no denying her beauty ! The pure
Greek type ; her figure a model, every
movement the poetry ot motion. She was
cockney born, though ; her father a Greek
refugee, conspirator, whatever you like, and
of course, a Prince at Athens, and the descendant
of Princes, according to his own
tale  meanwhile a fourth-rate painter in
London, whose Princess kept lodgers ! Well,
Mrs. Denis was very clever with her pen,
and made capital imitations of her husband's
signature ! She borrowed freely from the
Soars, she ran bills in all directions,
she had a vice in common with her kinsfolk
of Crete, and she was the prettiest
woman in India ! Luckily for Denis (I
say it with all respect to her ashes), she
died after a short but brilliant social
career, leaving him this girl, and some
enormous debts. The fact of the matter
was, Tom was a ruined man.  And all these
years, between his father's affairs and his
wife's liabilities, his life has been a long

battle, and poor as he was, and no doubt iS,
lie never could say no, to a needy friend ; and
I need scarcely tell you, that people soon
discovered this agreeable trait in his
character'*

It's a pity he has not a little more
moral courage, and that he never studied the
art of saying ' no,' " remarked Mr. Lisle
dryly; 'rit's merely a matter of nerve, and
practice."

'' It's not that, exactly," rejoined Dr.
Parks, '' but that he is too much afraid of
hurting people's feelings, too simple and unselfish.
I hope this girl who has come
out, will stand between him and this greedy
world ! "

/ should have thought it ought to be the
other way."

'' So it ought, but you see what Denis is
yourself," turning and appealing to Jim
Quentin. '' Go over to him tomorrow
morning, and tell him that you are at your
wits' ends for five hundred rupees, and he
 will hand it out to you like a lamb."

*' I only wish lambs wevQ in the habit of
handing out five hundred rupee notes, I'd
take to a pastoral life tomorrow ! '* returned
Mr. Quentin fervently, casting a woeful
thought to the many long bills he owed in
Calcutta, London, and elsewhere.

'* Let us hope Miss Denis will have some
force of character," said Dr. Parks; 'that's
the only chance for him ! A strong will, like
her mother's, minus her capabilities for making
the money fly, and a few other weaknesses ;
and here," halting and holding out his hand,
'' our roads part."

"Xo, no. Not a bit of it," replied Mr.
Quentin, taking him forcibly by the arm.
"You just come home and dine with us,
doctor, and tell a few more family histories."

Dr. Parks was a little reluctant at first,
declaring that he was due elsewhere, that it
was quite impossible, &c., &c.

It's only the Irwin, I know, and they
will think you have stopped at Ross  it will
be all right. Come along."

Thus Dr. Parks was led away from the path

A BIRD OF PASSAGE.

of duty, and down the road approaching
Mr. Quentin's bungalow;  he was rather
curious to see the menage; that was the
reason why he had been such an unresisting
victim to Mr. Jim's invitation,  Mr. Jim
rarely entertained, and much preferred sitting
at other people's boards, to dispensing hospitality
at his own.

Dinner was excellent  well cooked, well
served. Dr. Parks, who was not insensible
to culinary arts, was both surprised and
pleased ; he had known his host for many
years, had come across him on the hills and
on the plains, on board ship, and in the
jungle ; they had a host of acquaintances in
common, and after a few glasses of first-rate
claret, and a brisk volley of mutual
reminiscences and stories. Dr. Parks began
to tell himself that '' he was really very fond
of Apollo Quentin, after all, and that he was
one of the nicest young fellows that he
knew ! " And what about the man who sat
at the foot of the table ? Hitherto he had
not been able to classify this Mr. Lisle, nor

had lie been so much interested in the
matter, as other, and idler, people. He had
seen him often coming and going at Aberdeen,
and had nodded him a friendly ' Good-morrow,"
and now and then exchanged a
few words with him ; his clothes were
shabby, his manner reserved ; Dr. Parks
understood that he was a broken down
gentleman, to whom Quentin had given
house-room, and, believing this, he could
not help feeling that he was performing a
gracious and kindly action in noticing him,
and " doing the civil," as he would have
called it himself, to this beggarly stranger !
But now, when he came to look at the
fellow, his appearance was changed. What
wonders can be worked by a decent coat !
Seen without his slouch hat, and rusty Karki
jacket, he was quite another person ; and
query, was that reserved manner of his
humility ? Dr. Parks noticed that there was
nothing subservient in his way of speaking
to Quentin ; quite the reverse ; that far from
holding a subordinate position in the establishment,

servants were more prompt to attend
on him, than on any one else, and sprang to
his very glance ; that he, more than Quentin,
looked after his (Dr. Parks') wants, and saw
that his ]slate and glass were always replenished
to his liking, in which duties
Apollo (who was a good deal occupied
with his own dinner and speculations on
Miss Denis's appearance,) was rather slack.
"When the meal was over, and the silent,
bare-footed servants had left the room,
cigars and cigarettes were brought out, and
conversation became general, Mr. Lisle had
plenty to say for himself  when he chose 
had travelled much, and had the polished manners
and diction of a man who had mixed
with good society. Dr. Parks scrutinized
him narrowly, and summed up his age to bea
wear or two over thirty  he looked a good
deal younger without his hat ; his hair was
black as the traditional raven's wing, slightly
touched with grey on the temples, his eyes
were deep-set, piercing, and very dark, there
was a humorous twinkle in them at times.

that qualified their general expression  which
was somewhat stern. On the whole, this Lisle
was a handsome maa; in quite a different
style to his vis-davis Apollo (who lounged
with his arm over the back of his chair, and
seemed buried in thought), he was undoubtedly
a gentleman, and he looked as if
he had been in the service. All the same,
this was but idle speculation, and Dr. Parks
had not got any *' forbade" than any one else.

The pause incident to ' lighting up "
lasted for nearly five minutes, then Mr.
Quentin roused himself, filled out a bumper
of claret, pushed the decanter along the
table, and said, 

'' Gentlemen, fill your glasses. I am
about to give you a toast. Miss Denis 
her very good health."

"What!" to Dr. Parks. "Are you not
going to drink it. " Come, come, fill up, fill
up."

Oh, yes. I'll honour your toast, I'll
drink it," he replied, suiting the action to
the word. " And now I'll follow it up

by what you little expect, and that's a
speech."

'all right, make a start, you are in the
chair ; but be brief, for goodness' sake. What
is the text ? "

The text is. Do not flirt with Miss
Denis."

"Oh, and pray why not, if she is pretty,
and agreeable, and appreciative ? "

'' You know what I told you this very
evening. She is a mere school-girl, an inexperienced
child, she is Denis's one ewe
lamb, she is to be his companion, the prop
of his old age ; if you have any sense of
chivalry, spare her."

' Spare her ! " ejaculated Mr. Quentin
with a theatrical gesture of his hand. " One
would think I was a butcher, or the public
executioner ! "

*'I know," proceeded Dr. Parks, "your
proclivities for tender whisperings, bouquet-giving,
and note-writirig, in short the whole
gamut of your attentions, and that they
never mean anything, but too many forlorn

maidens have learnt to their cost, you most
agreeable, but evasive young man," nodding
towards Lis host with an air of pathetic
expostulation.

I say, come now, you know this is ridiculous,"
exclaimed Mr. Quentin, pushing
his chair back as he spoke. But Dr. Parks
was in the vein for expounding on his friend's
foibles, and not to be silenced.

'you know as well as I do your imbecile
weakness for a pretty face, and that you cannot
resist making love to every good-looking
girl you see, until a still better-looking drives
her out of your fickle heart."

'' Go on, go on," cried his victim ; " you
were a loss to the Church."

*' Of course," continued the elder gentleman,
clearing his throat, " I can readily
imagine that for you  a society man before
anything  these regions are a vast desert, you
are thrown away here, and are figuratively
a castaway, out of humanity's reach. And
now fate seems induced to smile upon you
once more, in sending you a possibly pretty

VOL. I B

creature to be the sharer of your many
empty hours. If I thought you would be
serious, I would not say anything; or if this
girl was a hardened veteran of a dozen
seasons, and knew the difference between
jest and earnest, again I would hold mj
peace ; but as it is, I sum up the whole subject
in one word, and with regard to Helen
Denis, I say, donH.'

'' Hear hear," cried his friend, hammering
loudly on the table. Doctor, your eloquence
is positively touching; but you always
were the ladies' champion. All the same you
are exaggerating the situation, I am a most
innocent, inoffensive  "

Come now, James Quentin ; how about
that girl at Poona that you made the talk
of the station ? How about the girls you proposed
to up at Lutheran and Murree ; what
about the irate father who followed you to
Lahore, and from whom you concealed yourself
behind the refreshment-room counter ? Eh ! "

"Now, now, doctor, I'll cry peccavi.
Spare me before Lisle."

Who lay back in this chair smoking a cigar,
and looking both bored and indifferent.

'' You don't go in for ladies' society on
Eoss?" said Dr. Parks, addressing him
abruptly.

' I  no  " struggling to an erect posture,
and knocking the ash off his cigar. ' I only
know one lady over there, and she is a host
in herself."

'' You mean Mrs. Creery ? "

Yes, I allude to Mrs. Creery."

And at the very mention of the name,
they all three laughed aloud.

And how about Miss Denis, Quentin ?
you've not given your promise," said Dr.
Parks once more returning to the charge.

I'llpromise you one thing, doctor," drawled
the host, who was beginning to get tired of
his persistence. ' I'll not marry her, now
that you have let me behind the scenes about
her bewitching mother, and I'll promise you,
that I'll go over and call tomorrow, and see
if I can discover any traces of a Grecian ancestry
in Miss Denis's face and figure."
E 2

LIBRARY

'* You are incorrigible. I might as well
talk to the wall; there's only one hope for
the girl, and that's a poor one."

'' Poor as it is, let us have it."

A chance that she may not be taken, like
twenty-three out of every two dozen, with
fickle Jim Queen tin's handsome face ! "

'where has Lisle gone to?" he added,
looking round.

'' Into the verandah, or to bed, or out to
sea I The latter is just as likely as anything ;
he did not approve of the conversation, he
thinks that ladies should never be discussed,"
and he shrugged his shoulders expressively.

"Quite one of the old school, eh?" said
the elder gentleman, raising his eyebrows
and pursing out his under-lip.

'' Quite," laconically.

By-the-bye, Quentin, I daresay you will
think I'm as bad as Mrs. Creery, but who is
this fellow Lisle, and what in the name of
all that's slow is he doing down here?  eh,
who is he?" leaning over confidentially.

'' Oh, he fishes, and shoots, and likes the

Andamanss awfully.  As to who lie is,  lie is
simply, as you see, a gentleman at large, and
his name is Gilbert Lisle."

Thus Dr. Parks, in spite of his superior
opportunities, was foiled ; and returned to
his own abode, no wiser than any of his
neighbours.

CHAPTER III.

FIRST IMPRESSIONS.

"And I am something curious, being strange."

Cymbeline.

The morning after lier arrival Helen Denis
found herself alone, as her father was occupied
with drills and orderly-room till twelve
o'clock, when they breakfasted.

She went out into the verandah, and looked
about her, in order to become better acquainted
with the situation of her new home.
The bungalow stood a little way back from
the gravel road, that encircled the whole
island, and was shaded by a luxuriant crimson
creeper ; a hedge of yellow flowers bordered
the path leading up to the door, and between
the house and the sea, was a clump of thick
cocoa-nut palms, that stood out in bold
relief against the deep cobalt background



of the sky. Jays, parrots, and unfamiliar
tropical birds were flitting about, and from
the sea a faint breeze was wafted, bearing
strange, fragrant odours from the distant
mainland ; a light haze lay over the water,
betokening a warm meridian. A few white
clouds slumbered in the hot heavens overhead
; and save for the hum of insects
and birds, and a distant sound of oars
swinging to and fro in the rowlocks, the
place was as silent as a Sunday morning in
the country, when every one has gone to
church.  At first Helen stood, and then she
sat down on the steps to contemplate this
scene, which formed the prelude to a new
epoch in her life  she gazed and gazed, and
seemed afraid to move her eyes, lest the
vision should escape her. She sat thus
without moving for fully half an hour.

Well, what do you think of it all, young
woman ? '' from a voice behind her,
caused her to spring up, and she found
her father standing there, in his white uniform,
with his sword under his arm.

Ob, papa ! I never, never saw anything
like it; I never dreamt or fancied there
could be such a beautiful spot  it's like
fairyland! like an enchanted country, like "
ber similes running short  '' like Robinson
Crusoe's island."

"Rather different to Crompton, eh? I
suppose you bad not much of a view there ? "

"View!" she exclaimed; " if there bad
been one, we could not see it ; for in the
first place we were shut in by high, dirty
brick walls, and in the second, all the lower
windows were muffled glass ; there was one
window at the end of the schoolroom that
overlooked the road, and though it was
pretty high up, it was all painted, but someone
had scratched a little space in it, right
in the middle, and often and often, when I' ve
been saying my lessons, or reading translations
in class, every idea has been sent right
out of my head, when I've looked up at that
pane and seen an eye watching us  it always
seemed to be watching me ! but of course
that was imagination ; it used to make me

feel quite hysterical at times, and many a
bad mark it cost me ! "

Well, you are not likely to get any bad
marks here," said lier father, laying Lis
hand on her shoulder as he spoke ; '' and you
think you will like Port Blair? "

'like  why it seems to me to be a kind
of paradise ! I wonder half the world does
not come and live here'* she replied emphatically.


To this remark ensued a rather long silence,
a silence that was at length broken by a
noise as strange to Helen's ears, as the lovely
scene before her was to her still admiring
eyes ; this noise was a loud, fierce, hoarse
shout, something like an angry cheer. She
glanced at her father with a somewhat heightened
colour, and in answer to her startled
face he said, 

*' Those are the convicts ! they leave off
work at twelve o'clock, they are busy on the
barracks just now. Stay where you are, and
you will see them pass presently."

The approach of the convicts was heralded

bj a faint jingling of chains that
gradually became louder and louder; and
in a few moments the gang came insight,
escorted by four burly, armed
warders. Helen drew back, pale and awestruck,
as lie watched this long, silent
procession, file past, two and two, all clad
in the same blue cotton garment, all
heavily manacled, otherwise there was
but little resemblance amon: them. There
passed, the squat Chinaman, chained to the
tall, fiery Pathan, (who flung as he went by,
a glance of bitter hatred and defiance at the
two European spectators) ; they were in turn
followed by a brace of tattooed Burials,
who seemed rather cheerful than otherwise;
then a few mild Hindooss, then more Arabs,
more Burials, more fierce Rohillas, more
mild Hindooss !

Helen stood almost breathless, as they
glided by, nor did she speak, till the very
last sound of clanking chains had died away
in the distance.

Poor creatures ! I had forgotten them } "

she said; " this place is no paradise to 'a
prisoner.' "

'poor creatures!" echoed her father,
'' the very scum and sweepings of her
Majesty's Indian Empire  poor murderers,
poor robbers, poor dacoits ! "

And why are they in chains ? such heavy
cruel-looking chains ? "

Because they are either recent arrivals
or desperate characters, the former probably ;
the worst of the ' poor creatures ' are not kept
in Ross, but colonized in other gaols on the
mainland, or at Viper."

'' And are there many here on Ross ? "

About four thousand, including women,
but some of these, have tickets-of-leave,
and only go back to ' section'  section is a
delicate way of putting it  at night ; many of
them are our servants."

'' Our servants, papa ! "

No, I am speaking of the settlement,
but our boatmen, our water-carrier, and  I
may as well break it to you at once  our
cook, are each and all, people who Lave a

past, that does not bear close inquiry !
And now, my dear, shall we go in to breakfast
? "

It was a delightful change from his usual
solitary meal, to have that bright, pretty
face sitting opposite to him ; he watched her
intently for some minutes  she was pouring
out tea With all the delight of a child.

I've never done it before, papa ! " she exclaimed
as she despatched his tea-cup ; " be
sure you don't let Sawmy know, or he will
despise me.  Of course being at school, I
never got a chance. Miss Twi gg herself
presided over the hot-water, and then in the
holidays I had much better tea, but I never
made it."

''Ah, your holidays, Helen, that is what
puzzled me so much about your Aunt Julia.
I understood that you were always to spend
your vacation with the Plants."

"I did once, when I was small; and I
do not think they liked me, so after a lapse
of five years they tried me again  I suppose
to see if 1 was improved, but these

holidays were even worse than the others. I
have a quick temper, and I got into fearful
trouble."

'how?"

Oh, it's a very old story, and I hope
and trust, that I have more command of my
feelings now. I remember I was in the room
at afternoon tea, rather by accident, for I
usually took that refreshment in "  lowering
her voice to a stage whisper  '' the kitchen !
My cousins are a good deal older than I
am  they were grown up then, I perfectly
recollect, though they declare they were
not''

"Well, but it is not a question of your
cousins' age, but of some domestic fracas that
you were about to tell me."

'' Yes, I'm always wandering from the
point. I recollect it was a Sunday afternoon,
some gentlemen were calling, and they noticed
me, and talked to me, and I was flattered, and
doubtless pert; they asked Cousin Clara
who I was, and where I, and my classic
profile came from ? and Aunt Julia told them

that I was lier poor brother's child, and added
something about  about  no matter."

Helen had never heard a word with regard to
her other parent, save that she was a beautiful
Greek, who had died young. Her picture she
had seen, and this in itself was sufficient, for
her to idealize her, and adore her memory 
for Azalie Denis, had the face of an angel !
She  no, I won't tell you what she said ! but
I have never forgotten it ; in a passion of rage
and scarcely knowing what I was doing, I
snatched up a cup of scalding tea, and flung
it in Aunt Julia's face. Yes ! cup and all !
You may imagine the commotion ; you can
believe that I was in disgrace. I was led
solemnly from the room, and locked away ina
lumber-closet upstairs, where I remained
for the rest of my vacation. Each day I was
asked to apologize, and each day 1 said ' I
I'oovbi so there I stayed, till I went back to
school. Ere leaving, I was taken down to
my aunt's apartment, and told that I was
a wicked, bad, abominable child, and that
I would come to an untimely end ; and then

Cousin Clara took up a pair of big scissors,
and seizing my beautiful thick plait of hair,
sawed, and hacked it off, close to the nape
of my neck ! "

'* What ! cut off your hair ! " exclaimed
Colonel Denis, roused to sudden animation.

Yes ; though I screamed and struggled,
it was of no use, I well remember the appearance
of my poor pigtail in Clara's hand !
Well ! after this you will not be surprised
to hear, that I was never asked to Upper
Cream Street again,  and I was not sorry.
I never could get on with Aunt Julia ; I'm
so glad that you are not a bit like her, papa !
She used to make me shake in my shoes."

*' And how do you know that I won't do
the same ? " he asked with a smile.

I'm sure you won't ! Have another cup
of tea, do please."

It's strange that we have so few relations,"
he said, obediently passing his cup
as he spoke. '' Besides your Aunt Julia,
there's only my sister Christina,  she has
been an invalid for years, and never writes."

'' Ts not she married to a queer Irishman
who Ives at a place with a ridiculous name

Crow-more ? And Aunt Julia won't have

anything to do with her ? "

'Yes, your Aunt Julia did not approve of
the match. This Sheridan was a kind of
professor, that Christina met abroad, a
most dreamy, unpractical genius, with a
magnificent head, and a brogue that you
could cut with a hatchet. After living for
some years in a small German town, they
went over to Ireland, and there they reside on
a property that was left to him. I write
now and then" (and he might have added,
enclose a cheque), " but Christina never sends
me a line.  I'm afraid they are very badly
off," shaking his head as he stirred his

tea.

"' Now tell me something about this delightful
place, papa ! I've been reading a
o-ood deal about it, I mean the Andamanss.
They were first taken possession of in 1789
by the British Government, or rather East
India Company, were abandoned in 1796,

and resumed in 1858, the year after the
Mutiny ; don't I know it all nicely ? "

*you know a great deal more about it
than I do."

'' This is Ross, is it not ? "

Yes, the other settlements are scattered
about. People come over here to church, to
shop, to play tennis, and to hear the news."

*' And are there many other people  I
don't mean convicts and soldiers ? "

There are about fifty men, and fifteen
or sixteen ladies. No doubt you will have a
good many visitors to-day."

Oh, papa ! you don't mean it  not to
call on mel "

"Yes, of course; who else would they
come to see ?"

It makes me feel quite nervous, the
palms of my hands are cold already ; only
six weeks ago I was doing French composition
and German translation, and not
daring to speak above my breath without
leave. And now all at once I am grownup
! I am to receive visitors, I may wear

VOL. I. E

what I like, and," with an interrogative
smile across the table, " do as I please ? "

'' As long as you don't throw cups of tea
at people, my dear."

Now, papa, I'm very sorry I mentioned
that, if you are going to use it against me !
But, do tell me something about the fifteen
ladies,  and who are likely to come and
call?"

"Well, there is Mrs. Creery ; she is the wife
of the head of the Foolscap Department, and
lives close to this. She  well," hesitating,
she is a very energetic woman, but her "
hesitating again  'manner is a little
against her ! rather arbitrary, you know,
but we all have our faults.  Then there
is Mrs. Caggett; her husband has some
trade with Burmahh, and his wife lives herein
preference to Moulmein. Miss Caggett
is our only young lady, and "  rather
dubiously  "you will see what you think
of her, Mrs. Home is the wife of the
colonel of this regiment  I'm only second

fiddle you know ; you are certain to have a
kind friend in lier. Then there is Mrs
Durand, wife of Captain Durand of the
European detachment here; she is away just
now, and a great loss to the place. There are
several ladies at out stations, whom you are
sure to like."

I wish I was sure that they would like
m," rejoined his daughter in rather a melancholy
voice. " You must bear in mind, that
I am not accustomed to the society of grownup
people, and I know that I have no conversation
! "

'''No conversation! and pray what have
we been having for the last three-quarters of
an hour ? "

'' Oh, that is quite different. I can talk
away to you by the week, but with strangers
what can 1 discuss ?  not even the weather,
for I don't know what happens here; it's
always fine, I suppose ? "

'' You will find plenty to say, I'll engage,"
returned her father with emphasis, 'rand I
F 2

have no doubt  " whatever lie was going to
add, was cut short bj the imperious rapping
of an umbrella on the wooden steps of the
verandah, and a shrill female voice calling
Boy ! "

Chapter IV.

MISS DENIS HAS VISITORS.

What's his name and birth % I cannot delve him to
the root." Shakespeare.

*' There is Mrs. Creery ! " exclaimed Colonel
Denis, starting up rather nervously. " She
has come to call first. Don't keep her
waiting." To Helen, who was hastily smoothing
her hair and pulling out her ruffles,
' You will do first-rate ; go into the drawing-room,
my dear."

"Yes, but not alone, papa! " taking him
by the arm. '' You will have to introduce us,
you must come with me."

You see she had begun to say must
already !  Colonel Denis was by no means
reluctant, to present his pearl of daughters
to the visitor who had prognosticated
that she would be plain, and he was
sufficiently human, to enjoy that lady's

stare of stolid astonishment, as lie took
Helen's hand, and kept it in hers for quite
a minute, whilst she leisurely studied her
face.

'' How do you do, Miss Denis ? had you a
good passage ? "

'' Very good, thank you," replied the young
lady demurely.

I see," sitting down as she spoke, and
specially addressing Colonel Denis, "that
you laye had new curtains, and [purdahs,
put up, and have actually bought that white
marble table, that Kursandoss had so long
on hand ! How much did you give for it ? "

'one hundred rupees," replied the purchaser
in a guilty voice.

'' Heavens and earth ! " casting up hands
and eyes, " did any one ever hear of such
folly ! it is not worth thirty. Miss Denis, ita
good thing that you have come out to look
after your father, he is a most extravagant
man ! "

Helen thought that this was a pleasantry,
and laughed immoderately. Mrs. Creery was

really most amusing,  but how oddly lie was
dressed ! She was quite old, in Helen's eyes
(in truth she was not far from fifty), and yet
she was attired in a white muslin polonaise
trimmed with rose-coloured bows, and wore
a black sailor's hat, with the letters Bacchante
stamped in gold upon the ribbon ! Meanwhile
the elder lady had been taking a great
deal of interest in Miss Denis's pretty morn-ingress
; she had come to the conclusion
that the pattern was too complicated to be
what is called "carried away in her eye,"
and was resolved to ask for it boldly,  and
that before she was many days older !

You may go up to the mess," she said,
playfully dismissing her host with a wave of
her plump, listened hand. " I want to have
a chat with your daughter alone. I came to
see her  you are no novelty 1 "

Now, my dear, we shall be quite comfortable,"
she said, as Colonel Denis meekly
took his departure. '' Did you find him
much changed ? " she continued, lowering
her voice mysteriously.

A little, but not "  smiling  '' nearly as
much changed as I seem to him ! "

'' How much is lie going to allow you for
the housekeeping ? "

Helen assured her questioner that the
subject had not even been considered. Mrs.
Creery on hearing this was visibly disappointed,
and said rather tartly, 

Well, don't listen to anything under five
rupees a day  you could not do it less. The
Durands spend that ! The Homes say they
manage on four, but that's nonsense, and the
children could not be half fed. Maybe your
father will still leave it to Ram Sawmy, but "
with sudden energy  " you must not hear
of that  the man is a robber ! "

He has been twenty years with papa,"
ventured Helen.

So much the worse for your father's
poclcet, returned Mrs. Creery emphatically.
I suppose you have brought out a number
of new gowns ? What have you got ? "

I have a white silk, and a black silk'*
replied Helen with some exultation in her

own mind, for they were her first silk
dresses.

"Both perfectly useless here!" snapped
the matron.

A riding-habit."

*' Stark, staring madness ! There's not a
horse between this and Calcutta  unless a
clothes-horse ! What else ? "

A cashmere and plush costume."

You may just send it back to England,
or throw it away."

Helen paused aghast.

"Well, well  go on, go on  that's not
a//, surely?"

"I have some pretty cottons and muslins,
and a tennis-dress."

Come, that's better, and when are your
boxes to be opened ? "

'' This afternoon, if possible."

Oh, well, I'll come down and see your
things tomorrow, I may get some new ideas,
and we are a little behindhand with the
fashions here," waving once more her listened
hand. "And now to turn to another

subject ! It's a great responsibility for a
young girl like you to be placed at the head of
even a small establishment like this ! I am
older than you are " (it was quite superfluous
to mention this fact), '' I know the world, and
I wish to give you a word of caution."

Helen became crimson.

'' I hope you are a steady, sensible girl."

I hope so, Mrs. Creery," raising her chin
in a manner well known to Miss Twigg,  a
manner betokening insurrection.

There now, don't be huffy ! I mean to
be your friend. I would have come down
and stayed here for the first week or two,
to set you going, if your father had asked
me, as you have no lady in the house ; however,
I've spoken to him most seriously.
All the men in the place will of course be flocking
to call, and turning your head with their
silly compliments. As a rule they are not a
bad set of young fellows ; but Mr. Quentin and
Captain Rodney are the only two, who 1
should say were in a position to marry,  the

others are just paupers. Butterflies ! OH,
and yes "  here lier voice became hollow and
mysterious  '' I must put you on your guard
against a Mr. Lisle."

"A Mr. Lisle!" echoed Helen, opening
her eyes very wide.

Yes, Lisle, don't forget the name. He
seldom comes over, he lives at Aberdeen
with Mr. Quentin  lives on him I should
say," correcting herself sharply. '' He came
here a few months ago  goodness knows
from where. It is generally believed that
he is in hiding  that he is under a cloud ;
he is poor as a rat, has no visible means of
livelihood, and is as close as wax about his
past. However, Mr. Quentin shields him,
keeps his secret, and there is nothing more
to be said except this  don't yoic have anything
to say to him, he may have the impudence
to call, but indeed, to give him his due,
he does not push. It is a most unpleasant
feeling, to have this black sheep living in the
neighbourhood at all, I wish he was well out

of the settlement ! " shaking her head expressively.


Helen, amazed at Mrs. Creery's volubility,
sat staring at her in speechless surprise.
Why should she take such pains to warn
her against a man, who she admitted did not
push, and whom she was not likely to see ?
Another knocking in the verandah, and a
rather timid voice calling '' Boy ! " announced
the arrival of a second visitor, and Mrs.
Creery rose, saying, 

"You will be coming up to the General's
tennis this evening, and we shall meet again,
so I won't say good-bye," then casting one
last searching glance round the apartment,
she, as if seized by some after-thought,
hurried across, coolly pulled back the purdah
(door-curtain), and looked into the diningroom,
*' Nothing new iliere I see," dropping
the drapery after a long, exhaustive stare ;
nothing but a filter ! Well, an revoir' and
nodding approvingly at Helen, she finally
took her departure.

The new arrival was a complete contrast
to the parting guest; a pale, faded, but still
pretty little woman, with imploring dark
eyes (like a newly-caught fawn), attired ina
neat white dress, a solar toper, and respectable
gloves. She was Mrs. Home, the
wife of Colonel Denis's commanding officer,
and the mother, as she plaintively informed
Helen, of no less than nine children !

They make me so dreadfully anxious,
dear Miss Denis, especially the seven at
home. I live on tenter-hooks from mail-day
to mail-day. Imagine my feelings
when they were all in measles last spring ! "

But this was a feat beyond Helen.

You have two here ? " she asked politely,
after a pause.

Yes, Tom and Billy. Your father is so
fond of them, and they wanted so much to
come and see you. But I told them you
would think them a trouble  and the first
call too ! "

Helen eagerly assured her visitor that they

would have been most welcome, and rushing
impulsively out o the room, returned
with a box of chocolate-creams she had
purchased for her own delectation ; which she
sent to the young gentlemen with her best
love, requesting that they would come and
call as soon as possible. This gift, and
message, completely won their mother's heart.
At first she had been a little doubtful, a
little in awe, of this pretty, fashionable-looking
girl, but now she became much
warmer in manner, and said, 

You know, my dear, I'm not a society
lady, I have no time for gaiety, even if I
were fitted for it; between sewing for my
boys and girls at home, and my letters, and
my housekeeping, not to mention Tom and
Billy, I never seem to have a spare moment.
I came down here early on purpose, hoping
to be the first to welcome you, but I was
late after all ! " and she smiled deprecatingly.
"Your father is such a very dear friend of
ours, that I feel as if I had a kind of claim
on you, and hope you won't stand on ceremony



with us, but come to see us as often as
you can. AYill you? "

'' I shall be very glad indeed, thank you."

You see, you and I being the only ladies
in the ' Puggarees ' too,  it is a kind of
bond, is it not ? If I can help you in anyway
about your housekeeping, be sure you
let me know, won't you ! I am an old campaigner
of fifteen years' standing, and everything,
of course, is quite new to you. You
and your father, I hope, will come up and
dine with us quietly tomorrow night, and
then you and I can have a very nice long
chat."

Helen thanked Mrs. Home for her invitation,
and said that if her father was not
engaged, she vias sure they would be most
happy to accept it.

'' And now, my dear," said the little lady,
rising, " I must really go ! the Dhoby has
been waiting for me at home this half-hour,
I know, and I have all the clean clothes to
sort, so I will wish you good-bye. May I
kiss you ? " holding Helen's hand, and looking

at her with tiQiid, appealing eyes. Helen
became rather red, but smiled assent, thereupon
the salute was exchanged, and Mrs.
Home presently took her departure.

After this visit, there was a long interval.
Colonel and Miss Denis were equipped and
ready to start for the Greneral's tennis-party,
when Sawmy brought in another card ; a
small one this time, bearing the name of
''Mr. James Quentin." The card was
almost instantly followed by that gentleman,
looking as if he had just stepped out of a
bandbox. Having cordially wrung his host's
hand, and been presented to his daughter,
he seated himself near the young lady, placed
his hat on the floor, and commenced to
discuss the climate, her passage, &c., surveying
the new arrival critically at the same
time. " She was much prettier than he
expected," he said to himself as he summed
her up ; '* her profile was not classical, but
it would pass;' her eyes were fine in shape
and colour, though their expression was
rather too merry for this taste ; he imagined

that she had plenty of spirits, and but a
meagre supply of sentiment. Her complexion
was perfect, but of course that would not
last three months ! " On the whole, he was
most agreeably surprised, and her dainty
dress, and ladylike deportment, were as
refreshing to his eyes, as a spring of water to
a traveller in the desert ! The shape of her
hat, the fit of her long gloves, her brilliant
colour, and pure English accent, all mentally
carried him back to the Park once more 
his Mecca ! Yes, the fall of Miss Denis's
draperies, the very lace in her ruffles, were
each a source of gratification to her visitor,
who had a keen eye for such things, and was
a connoisseur in toilettes. He told himself
emphatically that this young lady was " no
end of a find ! " but, aloud, he politely
inquired if Colonel and Miss Denis were
going up to the tennis. They were. Well,
he was going too  a sudden resolution 
and might he be permitted to accompany
them ?

Mr. James Quentin felt an additional

VOL. I.

sense of importance, as he strolled np the
narrow path towards the General's grounds,
personally conducting Miss Denis (coolly
leaving her father to bring np the rear
alone, as the pathway was too narrow to
permit of three abreast), and he honestly
believed, that the young lady beside him,
could not be launched into settlement
society, under happier, or more distinguished,
auspices.

CHAPTER Y.

WHAT IS SHE LIKE ?

So sweet a face, such angel grace,
In all that land had never been."

Helen found her reception a most trying
ordeal. She was very cordially welcomed by
the General, who instantly came forward
to meet her, and escorted her towards Mrs.
Creery ; she ran the gauntlet of two
groups of men, who were standing on
the tennis-ground, ostensibly discussing the
recent mail, but naturally watching the new
arrival, who was the cynosure of every
eye, as she passed by; and approached a
row of seats on which the ladies  a still
more formidable phalanx  were seated instate.
Mrs. Creery (who occupied the social
throne in the shape of a stuffed arm-chair)
now rose majestically, and, like Cedric the
G 2

Saxon, advanced two steps, saying in her
most dulcet company voice, '' Very glad you
have come, Miss Denis, I am charmed to
welcome you to Port Blair ! "

Helen blushed vividly. Was this august,
this almost regal, individual, the same who had
questioned, exhorted, and warned her, a few
hours previously ? She could scarcely believe
it ! But this was merely her ignorance.
That visit had been made in a private
capacity, here Mrs. Creery was in a public
and responsible position  that of chief lady
of the station.

She now took Helen's hand in hers, and
proceeded to present her to her immediate
circle.

"Mrs. Caggett, let me introduce Miss
Denis."

Mrs. Caggett rose, made a kind of plunge,
intended for a curtsey, and subsided again,
muttering incoherently.

Miss Denis, Mrs. Graham. Mrs. Graham
is our musician. She sings and plays
most beautifully ! "

Mrs. Graham, who was a pretty brunette,
with, lovely teeth, shook hands with Helen,
and smiled significantly, as much as to say,
** You must not mind Mrs. Creery."

" Miss Denis, Mrs. King.  Mrs. King hasa
nice little girl, and lives at Viper."

'miss Denis, Mrs. Logan, our authoress."
Poor Mrs. Logan blushed till the
tears came into her eyes, and said, 

Oh, Mrs. Creery, please don't."

Nonsense, nonsense ! Miss Denis, lie
has written the sweetest poetry  one really
exquisite ode, called, let me see, ' The
Lifer's Lament,' and numbers of charming
sonnets ! You must get her to read them
to you, some day."

Alas for Mrs. Logan ! who in a moment
of foolish expansiveness had mentioned her
small poems (under the seal of secrecy) to
another lady, and had, to her horror, '' awoke
and found herself famous ! "

"Mrs. Manners, Miss Denis," and she
paused, as if deliberating on what she could
possibly say for Mrs. Manners ?

"Please don't mind about me, Mrs.
Cheery' exclaimed that lady. '' You know
that I neither play, nor sing, nor write
poetry."

Mrs. Manners was a sprightly person,
regarded by Mrs. Creery with suspicion
and dislike, and she now glowered on her
menacingly.

I am very glad to see Miss Denis, and I
hope she will overlook my numerous deficiencies
! " quoth Mrs. Manners unabashed.

All the ladies had now been, as it were,
"told off," excepting Miss Caggett, who approached
and squeezed Helen's fingers, and
looked up in her face, and said, 

So thankful, dear, that you have come !
It's so wretched for me, being the only girl
in the settlement. You can't think how I
have been looking forward to /ws," another
squeeze.

Miss Lizzie Caggett was small in person
(and mind) and had a very pretty little figure,
black hair, bright, reddish-brown eyes, an
ugly nose, and an almost lipless mouth, garnished

wifcli beautiful teeth. She lead been
born in India, bad had three years at school
in England, and been '' out " for a considerable
number of seasons. She danced like a
sylph, talked Hindostani like a native (and
it was whispered that she gossiped with her
ayah in that language), dressed extravagantly,
was as lively as a Frenchwoman, and sufficiently
nice-looking to be considered a beauty
where she was the only unmarried lady
among fifty men.

She had a shrewd eye to the main chance,
and never allowed her feelings to betray her,
save, alas ! in the case of James Quentin !

He, from sheer lack of something to do,
had been wont to spend his idle hours in Miss
Caggett's society. She was amusing and
lively, and said such deliciously spiteful things
of other women, and told capital stories,
accompanied by vehement gesticulation with
her tiny hands. She had also a nice little
voice,  and it came to pass that they sang
duets together, and walked on the pier by
moonlight alone !

Mr. Quentin meant noting, of course, and
at first Lizzie quite understood this, but bv
degrees her strong foothold of common sense
sipped away from under her feet, and sh
fell desperately in love with the blue-eyed
gay deceiver, and naturally tried to convince
herself that it was mutual ! She steeled herself
to see him pay a little attention to the
rising sun  Miss Helen Denis  they would
all do that, but when the novelty had worn off,
things would right themselves, and fall back
into their old places  meaning that Mr. Question
would fall back into his, i.e. at her side.
Mrs. Creery had previously broken the news
to her that '' Helen Denis was nice-looking,
and beautifully dressed," but she was by no
means prepared for the face, and figure, she
beheld coming up the walk ; and James
Quentin in attendance already,  actually
before she was twenty-four hours on the
island ! However, she made a brave struggle,
and bit her lips, and clenched her small
hands, and broke into a smile. She had
made up her mind to be the bosom friend

(outwardly), and, if possible, the confidant of
this tall, shy-looking Denis girl !

After all, who could expect her to be
pleased, to see a young and pretty rival
monopolizing every one's attention, and
thrusting her into the background ?

When all the introductions had been
effected, a game of tennis was got up, and a
number of little Andamese boys, in white
tunics and scarlet caps, came forward from
some lurking-place, to field the balls ; and the
settlement band, which was stationed at the
end of the plateau, struck up their latest
waltz, and presently the entertainment was
in full swing. Every one played tennis, even
Mrs. Creery,whowas old or young as it suited
her at the moment  old enough to ask questions,
to give advice, and to lay down the
law, and to be treated with unquestioning
deference and deep respect; sufficiently young
to waltz, to wear sailor hats, and to disport
herself at tennis. Helen had been the champions
player at Miss Twigg's, and played
well. Lizzie Caggett's sharp eyes noted this

and after a little while lie challenged her to
a single set there and then.

Yainlj did Helen decline to pick up the
gauntlet, yainlj did she beg to be excused ;
Mrs. Creerj threw the weight of her authority
into the scale, and the match was to
come off immediately.

A capital idea, a match between the two
girls," she remarked to the General; "there
will just be time for it before tea."

Before Helen could realize her position, a
ball was thrust into her hand, a crowd had
gathered around, and she alone stood vis-a-vis
to Lizzie Caggett on the tennis-ground. It
was one thing to play in Miss Twigg's back-garden,
with no spectators but Miss Twigg's
girls, but quite another affair when one of
the principals in a contest, before forty complete
strangers, and pitted against a 
antagonist, who knew every
inch of the courts, and was firmly resolved to
try conclusions with this brilliant visitor !

And so the match began, the assembled
bystanders watching each game intently, and

hanging expectant on the issue of each,
stroke. The excitement grew intense, for
the ladies were well-matched, the play was
brilliant, and the games hard fought. Helen
served well, and had a longer reach of arm
than her challenger, but the other played with
an energy, a vivacity, and if one might say so,
a spites fulness,  as if the issue of the contest,
was a matter of life and death. She scored
the first game, Helen the second, and third,
and during a rally in the latter, the new
arrival was loudly clapped. This incited
Miss Caggett to extraordinary exertions.
She played with redoubled fire, her teeth
were set, her eyes gleamed across the net,
she served as though in hopes that she would
strike her opponent in the face ; she flitted up
and down her court, springing and bounding,
like a panther in a cage ! Her style Alas by
no means graceful, but it was effectual,
during the last two games she wearied out
Helen, with her quick, untiring onslaught,
playing the final, and conquering game, with
an exuberance of force, that was almost

fierce ! When it was over, she threw down
her bat and clapped her hands, and cried, 
Oh, I knew I could beat yon." This was
not, strictly speaking, polite, but her triumph
was so great, she really could not refrain
from this little song o victory. In her own
heart, she had made a kind of test of the
match, and told herself that, if she conquered
the new-comer in this, she would be invincible
in other things as well !

After this exciting struggle, tea and refreshments
were served in a rustic summerhouse.
Mrs. Creery's dog Nip  who had
occupied his mistress's chair as deputy, and
eyed the cake and bread and butter with
demure rascality,  was now called upon to
vacate his place, whilst his owner dispensed
tea and coffee, and servants carried round
cakes and ices. As Helen was partaking of
one of the latter, her late antagonist accosted
her and said, 

*' Come and take a turn with me, dear.
All the men are having ' pegs,' and I do so
want to have a chat with you."



*' "Well," now taking her arm affectionately,
" tell me what sou think of the place ? "

' I think it is beautiful," returned Helen
with enthusiasm. *' I've never seen anything
like it. Of course I've seen very little
of the world, and am not a good judge, but
I scarcely think that any scenery could
surpass it," glancing over towards Mount
Harriet as she spoke, and dreamily watching
the peacocks sailing homewards.

This speech was a disappointment to Miss
Caggett, who was in hopes that she would
have called it an " unearthly, outlandish,
savage hole, a gaol ! " And then she would
have imparted this opinion to the settlement
at large,  and such an opinion would have
scored a point against Miss Helen.

Oh," she replied, '' you won't think it
delightful always. It's frightful in the monsoons,
that is in the rains, you know. And
how do you like the people ? "

I scarcely know them yet."

"Well, at least you know Mr. Quentin,"
eyeing her sharply.

'eyes, I have known him an hours lie
replied with a laugh.

'' He is nice enough," speaking with
assumed nonchalance, " but as you can see,
awfully conceited, isn't he ? "

Helen did not fall into the trap; if she
had. Miss Caggett would have lost no time
in giving Apollo the benefit of Miss Denis's
impressions with regard to him !

She only said, " Is he ? " and, leaning her
elbows on the wooden railing that fenced in
the edge of the cliff, looked down upon the
sea.

'' A great many men are here from Aberdeen
and the out-stations," proceeded Miss
Caggett, with a backward jerk of her head,
'' but they did not come over altogether to
see you

I should hope not indeed," returned
Helen, reddening.

No, the mail is in, so they kill two birds
with one stone," continued the other, coolly.
'' They are not a bad set, though they may seem
rough and unpolished to you, don't they ? "



Really, I am no judge ; I have scarcely
ever spoken to a gentleman in my life."

Gracious ! " ejaculated Miss Caggett.
** You weren't in a convent ? "

No ; but what amounted to the same
thing, I spent all my holidays at school."

Oh, lion) slow for you ! Yell, you will
find this rather a change. There is Dr.
Malone, an Irishman, and very amusing, he
has any amount of impudence, and has
thought of a lovely name for Mrs. Creery 
Mrs. Query  isn't it splendid ? We all call
her that, for she never stops asking questions,
and we all have to answer them whether we
like it or not  all but one ; there is the
person, she never gets anything out of, he is
too close even for her, and clever  I grant
him that,  much as I detest him ! "

And who is this clever man that baffles
Mrs. Creery ? "

A Mr. Lisle, a genteel loafer, a hanger-on
of Mr. Quentin's ; he actually has not got the
money to pay his passage back to Calcutta,
and so he is obliged to stay. His manners

are odious, polite to rudeness, if you know
what that means ? and he has eyes that seem
to look down into your inmost thoughts,
and laugh at what they see there ! I hate
him, though he is extremely anxious to be
civil to me, and, in fact, I don't mind telling
you in confidence, that he is a great admirer
of mine,  but it's by no means mutual. Whatever
you do, have nothing to say to him. I
need not tell you, that I never speak to him 1 "

We cannot permit you two young ladies
to monopolize each other in this fashion,"
said the General, approaching with a telescope
in his hand. '' Would you like to look at some
of the islands through this glass, Miss
Denis ? I can introduce you to several this
fine clear evening. Havelock looks quite
close ! "

It seems to be very large," she said, after
a long struggle with the focus.

Well, yes, it is ; we will take you there
some day in the Enterprise if you like. The
Enterprise is the station steamer."

Thank you, I should like it very much



indeed, if it is safe  I mean, if the people are
safe," she replied rather anxiously.

Oh! you will see very little of the natives.
They are a curious set ; it is almost impossible
to get at them, or to tame them."

' Have you ever tried ? "

"Yes; we once had a young fellow from
Havelock, as it happened ; we showed him
every kindness, gave him the best of food,
loaded him with beads and every old tall hat
on the island, but it was all of no use ; he
just fretted like a bird in a cage, and regularly
pined away of home sickness.  He
used to sit all day long, gazing, gazing over
the sea in the direction of his home, and one
morning when they went to see him, they
found him sitting in his usual attitude, his
face turned towards Havelock  quite dead ! "

'poor, poor fellow!" said Helen, with
tears in her eyes ; 'how coidcl you be so
cruel, how could you have had the heart to
keep him ? "

My dear young lady, it was not a matter
of heart, but of duty."

VOL. I. H

Mr. Quoting's quick ear caught the significant
word heart. Surely the General was
never going to enter the lists against him,
although he was unmarried and eligible
beyond dispute ? Leaning his elbows on the
rail at the other side of Miss Denis, he resolved
to make a third  welcome or otherwise  and
said,  

'' You are talking of the natives, sir ? They
are certainly most mysterious aborigines, for
they do not resemble the Hindooss on one
side, nor the Malays on the other. They
are more like stunted niggers  you never see
a man above five feet, some not more than
four."

"Niggers, yes," replied the General ; "there
is some idea that they are descendants of the
cargo of a slaver that was wrecked among
these islands ; other people think, that they
hail from New Guinea."

'' They have very odd customs, have they
not? " asked Helen.

Yes," replied the General ; " their mode
of sepulture, for instance, is peculiar. When a

man dies, they simply put this body up a
tree."

(" Whence the slang term ' up a tree,' I
suppose," muttered Mr. Quentin socio voce.)

And when the fowls of the air have picked
his bones, they remove the remains, and
present his skull to the widow, who wears it
round her neck, slung to a string."

'' But will freely part with it at any time,"
added Dr. Malone, who had now joined the
group, " ay, even in the early days of her
affliction, in consideration of a bottle of
rum."

"And pray what about the men's inquired
Helen, jealous for her sex.

Oh, their tastes are comparatively
simple," responded the doctor; " they are alla
prey to a devouring passion for  you will
never guess what  tall hats ! I believe some
firm in Calcutta drives a brisk trade with
this place and the Mcobars, bartering old
tiles for cocoanut. When a chief dies, he
can have no nobler monument in the eyes of
his survivors, than a pile of tall hats impaled
H 2

above his grave. They are almost the only
article they care about, and I suppose they
have an idea, that it endows them with
dignity and height, besides the hat, a few
rags, and a necklace of human finger-bones,
and their costume is complete."

'' They have another weakness," put in the
General  " dogs. We get rid of all the
barrack curs in that way."

"What! \o eaiV almost screamed Miss
Denis.

'' No, no, they are very much prized 
merely to look at. I wish to goodness
we could export that brute of Mrs.
Creery's ! "

*' She would far sooner be exported
herself ! " said Dr. Malone. " What was his
last feat, sir ? "

I wish I could believe that it was his
last," returned the General angrily. ' The
other day, when Mrs. Creery was dining up
at my place, she unfortunately shut him up
in the drawing-room, and for sheer spite at
missing the meal, he tore up a valuable fur

rug, gutted the seats of two chairs, and ate
the best part of the last army list ! Yes, you
may laugh, Miss Denis, and it certainly
sounds very funny  but you don't know,
Nip."

"No, but I do," cried Dr. Malone. " He
lies down and feigns death if he sees a larger
dog coming in the distance, and will murder
any unfortunate pup of half his size; some
dogs have a sense of chivalry, generosity,
gratitude, but he is a brute ! "

'' Yes," chimed in Mr. Quentin, " if things
are not going to his liking, he adjourns to
Creery's dressing-room, and devours a couple
of pairs of boots ; that is to say, tears and
gnaws them to pieces, just to mark his sense
of injury. If they only disagreed with him !
but they don't, and Creery can't even have
the poor satisfaction of licking him; for
whenever Nip, sees him arming himself
with a stick, he at once fastens on his leg,
believing the first blow to be half the
battle ! "

*' A portrait from life ! " exclaimed Dr.

Malone. " I wish I might be allowed a shot
at him at 100 yards ! "

I wish you might ; and if you do get the
chance, I'll wink at it," returned the General ;
"he is an insufferable nuisance  a savage,
mean, mischievous, lazy, cowardly  "

Now, now. General," cried Mp's mistress,
coming across the grass in a swimming
walk, her arms dangling loosely at her sides,
What is all this wonderful laughing about ?
and who are you abusing  man, woman, or
child ? It's seldom that you say a word against
any one ! Come, who is it ? Shall I guess
who is mischievous, lazy, and mean ? Now
really you might let me into the secret, when
it's known to Miss Denis. Can it be anyone
in Eoss ? Dear me ! "  with sudden
animation" I have it !  it's  "

Of course she was just about to exclaim
"Mr. Lisle," when the General hastily interrupted
her, saying, "We were not
talking scandal; it was merely a little
joke of ours"  looking appealingly at Dr.
Malone and Helen, who were choking

with suppressed laughter  indeed the very
rings behind the former were shaking
dangerously,  " it was only a miserable
jest, Mrs. Creery," reiterated the General,
nervously (seeing that her mind was benton
dragging the secret from his bosom),
that was all, really, you know. And, by
the way," lowering his voice, and speaking
confidentially, " I wanted to consult you
about something  about getting up a little
dinner for Miss Denis."

To be consulted, and by the General, was
much to Mrs. Creery's mind ! so she immediately
walked aside with him, prepared to
give her whole attention to the discussion.
It now was nearly eight o'clock, and people
were leaving. Helen was escorted to her
own door by Dr. Malone, and Mr. Quentin,
Colonel Denis once more bringing up the
rear, but this time he had a companion  Miss
Caggett. Mr. Quentin lingered below the
steps of the verandah, and squeezed Helen's
fingers as he took a very reluctant leave of
her. He half hoped that he would Lave been

earnestly requested to honour them with his
company at dinner, but this hope was doomed
to disappointment, he was dismissed by
Colonel Denis with a careless nod ! Later on,
as Helen sat alone in the verandah, and
looked out over the sea, recalling the
scenes of this most wonderful, eventful
day, and dwelling on all the new faces she
had seen, and the strange things she had
heard, it is an extraordinary, but veracious
fact, that  with the perversity common to
her sex  she cast more than one thought
to a man she had been twice warned against
in the same afternoon, in short, Mr. Quentin's
pauper friend, Gilbert Lisle.

Meanwhile Mr. Quentin had been rowed
over to Aberdeen, had climbed the hill in
capital spirits, and with a healthy appetite ;
and had found his companion already at home,
reposing in an arm-chair in front of the
Bungalow, smoking. He fully expected to
be severely cross-examined about his visit,
and on the subject of Miss Denis, and was 



pared to enter into the fullest details, and to
paint the lady in the richest tints, but, alas !
a disappointment awaited him. Lisle never
once referred to Ross  much less to the young
lady. He had had a big take of fish, and
had caught three bottle-nosed sharks off the
Red Buoy  bait, hooks, and nets, engrossed
his mind entirely.

Mr. Quentin was seriously affronted. Was
ever such callousness known ? could such
indifference be matched ? Indifference that
would not even take the trouble to ask such
a simple question as '' What is she like ? "

CHAPTER YI.

QUEEN or THE CANNIBAL ISLANDS.

'' An eye like mine,
A lidless watcher of the public weal."

Tennyson,

Perhaps it would be as well, before goings
further with this story, to dedicate a page
or two to a description of that very important
lady, Mrs. Creery. The gentleman who
occupied a position in the background as
'' Mrs. Creery's husband," was a hard-working,
hard-headed Scotchman, who thoroughly
understood domestic politics, and the art of
holding his peace. He had come to Port
Blair soon after the settlement was opened
up, and had subsequently gone home, and
returned with a bride, a lady not, strictly
speaking, in her first youth  this was twenty
years ago. But let no one suppose that

Mrs. Creery had spent the whole of that
interval on Eoss. She had made several
trips to England, and had passed like a
meteor through the circles in which her
sister, Lady Grubb, was as the sun. Oh, how
utterly weary were Mrs. Creery's intimates
of those brilliant reminiscences  heard for
the thousandth time. Did they not, one and
all, detest the very name of " Grubb " ?

How was it, people asked each other, that
Mrs. Creery had reigned so long, and so
tyrannically at E-oss ? How came she to
occupy a position, from which nothing could
dislodge her  there had been mutinies, there
had been social risings, but they all had been
quelled. Even a lady who had positively
refused to go in to dinner, unless she was
taken in before Mrs. Creery, had been
quenched ! Circumstances had placed the
latter on the social throne, and not election
by ballot, much less the potent power of
personal popularity. The General was a
widower, the chaplain a bachelor, the next
senior officer unmarried also, the wife of

another was an invalid, and spent nearly all
lier time in the south of France (according
to Mrs. Creery, for south of France, read
lunatic asylum). She herself, was a woman
of robust constitution, and always ready to
say "present," consequently, the position
of leading lady in the settlement fell to her
happy lot ! She '' received " at the Greneral's
parties and dances, she occupied a chief place
at feasts, a front pew in church, and had a
whole programme to herself on band nights.
After all, there was not much in this, one
would imagine ; but Mrs. Creery thought
otherwise. The General, an urbane, and
popular elderly gentleman, was governor
over the Andamanss, in the Queen's name ;
he was her Majesty's representative, and
held the lives of fifteen thousand convicts
in the hollow of his hand ; his dominions
stretched from the Cocos to Havelock, and
included even the distant Nicobarss. As his
social coadjutor, Mrs. Andrew Creery considered
that she shared all his other dignities,
and had gradually come to look upon herself

as a species of crowned head, ruling not
merely the settlement, the Europeans, and
the convicts, but even the far-away savages
of the interior ! These royal ideas had
developed but gradually  a little germ (sown
by the first strains of " God save the Queen,"
played as she accompanied the General to a
presentation of prizes) had thrown out roots
and suckers, and planted a sense of her own
dignity in her bosom, that nothing but death
could eradicate !

Mrs. Or eery had no children, and ample
leisure, and with such a magnificent idea of
her social status, no one will be surprised to
hear, that she condescended to manage the
domestic concerns of all within her realms !
She had come to look upon this as a sacred
duty, and viewed all comings, and goings,
with microscopic scrutiny. The position of
her house favoured this self-imposed supervision
: it was close to the pier, had a good
back view of the bazaar, and the principal
road ran by her door, and consequently it is
no exaggeration to say, that nothing escaped

her. From long practice she could tell at a
glance where people were going, as they ran
the gauntlet of her verandah ; if the Greneral
wore a " regulation " helmet, he was probably
en route to an execution at Yiper (an
island five miles away) ; if his Terai, he was
bound for the new buildings on Aberdeen, or
to make semi-official calls ; if his old toper,
he was merely going out shelling. E-oss
was a small island, very thickly populated.
Mrs. Creery could easily make the circuit of
it in twenty minutes, and did so, at least
thrice in the twenty-four hours.

She had no home ties, no domestic tastes ;
she did not care for flowers, nor work ; never
opened a book, and looked upon shelling as
childish nonsense. Her one taste was for
poultry, her one passion, her dog "Mp,"
and when she had fed her hens, collected
their eggs, given out daily stores, scolded
her domestics, she had nothing to occupy her
for the remainder of the day. After early
breakfast, she generally donned her well-known
toper, and sallied forth on a tour of

inspection; to quote Captain Rodney, who
could not endure lier, she " turned out "
each family at least once daily, and never
omitted " visiting rounds." She had by this
time pretty well exhausted Ross  and the
patience of its inhabitants  she knew everyone's
affairs, and what they paid their servants
(and what their servants said of them
in the bazaar), and what stores they got in,
just as well as they did themselves.

Mr. Lisle had undoubtedly baffled her,
(though she had not done with him yet,)
however, Helen Denis was a novelty, and
opened up an entirely new sphere of interest ;
therefore, ere nine o'clock on the day after
the tennis party, Mrs. Creery's umbrella was
once again heard imperiously rapping on the
steps of Colonel Denis's verandah.

'' You don't breakfast till twelve, I know,"
she called out, " for I met your cook and
asked him, and it's only just nine "  this
to Helen, who had come to the drawing-room
door. 'rit's only just nine, and we
shall have a nice long morning to ourselves,

and be able to look at your things comfortably.
Are you unpacking now ? "

Helen very reluctantly acknowledged
that she was  had just got all her boxes
open.

Then I shall come, and help you," said
her visitor, laying down her umbrella, and
speaking as if she were conferring a great
-favour. '' You go first, and I'll follow."

She was quite as good as her word. There
she sat, with her hands on her knees, her
toper pushed well back (so as not to interfere
with her vision), in closest proximity to
Helen's largest trunk, and saw every article
separately taken out, and unfolded. Nothing
escaped her ; all she saw, she priced ; and all
she fancied, she tried on (or tried to try on),
and meanwhile she kept up a running fire of
comments somewhat in this style : 

*' So thaws your black silk ; and trimmed
with lace, I declare ! most unsuitable for a
girl like you, quite ridiculous ! I shall speak
to your father, and if he likes, I don't mind
taking it off his hands. I dare say there is

some letting out, and I'm rather in want of a
dress for my receptions."

Yes," gasped Helen, who was kneeling
on the floor, " but I do not wish to part with
my black silk."

What use is it ? You can't wear it,"
irritably. ' Every one would laugh at you,
if you came up to one of the ' at homes ' in a
gown like that, and saw me in a simple muslin ;
it's not suitable to your position  do you
understand that ? "

I did not mean to wear it at tennis,"
stammered Helen  who was a little cowed
by Mrs. Creery's eye ; " but Miss Twigg said
that it would be useful."

Not a bit of it ! What does she know
about what would be useful ? " retorted the
lady rudely.

Miss Denis made no reply, but was firmly
resolved that nothing short of physical force
should part her and her very best dress.
Mrs. Creery said no more either, but determined
to have a word with the Colonel by-and-by,
and also to give him her opinion of

VOL. I. I

the absurd extravagance o his daughter's
outfit !

As she sat drawn up beside Helen's
trunks, whilst she unpacked, her perpetual
queries, '' What is this ? What did sou give
for that ? " were, to say the least of it, trying.
However, her victim was but recently emancipated
from school, had a wholesome awe
of her elders, and a remarkably sweet temper,
so the whole inspection passed off quite
smoothly,  and entirely to Mrs. Creery's
satisfaction.

I saw you talking to Lizzie Caggett last
evening," she remarked, as she arranged
her toper at the mirror, and dodged her
profile in a hand-glass. "What was she
saying to you ? "

She was asking me, what I thought of
the place ? "

Well, don't tell her much  that's my
advice to you ! She is certain to come here
borrowing your patterns, but don't lend her
one ! I shall be really angry with you, if
you do " (this came well from a lady who

was carrying off the promise of half a dozen).
And little did Helen know the large reading
a Dirzee gives to the term " taking a pattern''
It means, that he rips np seams, punches
holes in the material with his gigantic
scissors, and turns a new garment inside out,
and upside down, with as little ceremony as
if it were an old thing that was going to
the rag-bag. At present, ignorance was
bliss. Mrs. Creery's convict Dirzee was
coming down that very afternoon, to carry
away Helen's two prettiest, and freshest,
costumes !

Now," continued the elder lady, '' mind
what I say about Lizzie Caggett ; she has
dozens of dresses, and is head over ears
in debt in Calcutta, not to speak of the
bazaar here  I know myself, that she owes
Abdul Named two hundred rupees,  and do
not encourage her in her wicked extravagance."


Then walking to the window, she cried out
rapturously, " What a view ! ! Why, I had
no idea of this ; you can see every Hi of the
I 2

road  and there's the Greneral going up
Lome, and Mr. Latimer with him ! I suppose
he has asked him to breakfast  that's
the second time this week ! And here comes
Dr. Malone, running ; he has something to
tell him ! Oh, I must go ! Where's my
umbrella ? Don't forget the dresses," and
without further adieux, Mrs. Creery was
flying down the steps, brandishing her arms,
and calling out in a shrill falsetto, 

Stop, stop. Dr. Malone. I'm coming.
Wait for me ! "

CHAPTER VII.

ME. Question's piano.

I have assailed her with music, but she vouchsafes
no notice."

Cijml)eUne.

Mail-day had come round once more, and
Helen could hardly believe that she had been
already six weeks on Ross, it seemed more
like six days. She had made the acquaintance
of almost everybody, had visited the mainland,
and Chatham and Viper ; had ridden
on a settlement elephant, had been to two
picnics, and dozens of tennis parties, and was
beginning to realize that she really was the
mistress of that pretty bungalow under the
palm-trees on the hillside.

She was now great friends with Mrs.
Home, and solemnly engaged to Billy; she
saw Miss Caggett daily, and Mrs. Creery

almost hourly, and other people called with
complimentary frequency; notably Mr.
Quentin, who found many excuses for tarrying
in Miss Denis's drawing-room, and, remarkable
to relate, Miss Caggett invariably
contrived to drop in on the same occasions.
She was usually in the highest spirits, and
laughed, and smiled, and chatted as agreeably
as if she had not come on purpose to mount
guard over a recreant admirer, and by her
presence endeavour to modify his attentions
to her rival ! Mr. Quentin found her company
a bore ; how could, he settle down to read
poetry, or to talk vague sentimental follies,
whilst Miss Lizzie's sharp, shadeless eyes were
following every look and movement ? Moreover,
she seasoned her conversation with disagreeable
remarks, uncomfortable questions,
and unpleasant insinuations.  Miss Denis was
musical, but at present she had no piano ; her
father had promised her a new one from Calcutta
after Christmas, but in the meantime
she must wait. Mr. Quentin was surprised to
find that he did not make as rapid strides in

Helen's good graces, as he usually did under
similar circumstances, but he accounted for
this amazing fact quite readily in his own
mind, and was not one whit daunted. In the
first place, she had but little sentiment in
her composition ; she was a sort of girl who,
if you invited her '' to come out and look
at the moon " in your company, would be
certain to burst out laughing in your face 
and yet it seemed to him that her own face
would make an admirable subject for a very
charming romance  she was so absurdly
matter-of-fact, so ready in turning off tender
speeches, and so provokingly inclined to
ridicule his most warranted compliments.
Of course she liked him  the reverse never
once dawned upon his arrogant brain  but
why was she so hard to get on with ?
Doubtless, Lizzie Caggett's haunting presence,
handicapped him heavily ; but Rome
was not built in a day, and he had a grand
idea  nothing less than sending Miss Denis
over his piano as a loan  with a view to vocal
duets. His attentions to the young lady had

been very "marked" in Mrs.Creery's opinion;
lie was her shadow at all the ' at homes,'
no other man had a chance of speaking to
her; but iliis "attention," which Mrs.
Oreerj beheld coming up the pier, and
borne by twenty staggering coolies, threw
all his previous advances entirely into the
shade.

The good lady hurried on ahead, and burst
into Helen's drawing-room, breathless (the
umbrella-rapping stage was a ceremony of
the past), saying, 

What do you think ? There is a piano
coming up the pier in charge of Mr. Quentin's
butler  twenty coolies carrying it, at eight
annas each ! Mr. Quentin is sending it over
to you  and, of course, it's all settled ? and,"
aggrievedly, " I really think you might have
told me," and here she was obliged to pause
for breath.

Helen stared at Mrs. Creery; never had
she seen her so excited, was she going out of
her mind, and about a piano ?

A piano, Mrs. Creery ?  what piano ? "

"A large square."

"And you say that Mr. Quentin is sending
it, but it is certainly not coming heres

But it is. I saw a note addressed to you
in the butler's hand."

Well, it shall go back at once ; it is
some mistake. I don't know what papa
would say ! "

Your father ! " scornfully, " as if he would
meddle, and as if your wishes are not his
law; besides, he knows it would be an
excellent match ! "

Mrs. Creery," interrupted Helen, becoming
scarlet, 'please don't say such things;
it's no question of  of  what you hint, but
of this piano. What does it mean ? "

"It's the thin end of the wedge, thais what
it means ? "

It shall go back ! "

Well, here it comes now at any rate,"
said the elder lady triumphantly, as the
chanting, thin-legged bearers came staggering
along under the heavy piece of furniture,
with its wadded red cover ; and a big, bearded

butler presented a note with a profound
salaam.

Wait ! " cried Helen, making an imperative
gesture, tearing the envelope open.
*' Don't bring it up yet ! "

What's all this ? " inquired her father,
appearing upon the scene at this juncture.

A piano for your daughter from Mr.
Quentin," volunteered Mrs. Creery with infinite
gusto.

"Here, papa," handing him the note,
what am I to say ? "

*' You will have to keep it for the present,
I suppose," he answered rather reluctantly,
as he glanced over the missive; "you will
have one of your own soon."

Mr. Quentin's note ran as follows : 

"Dear Miss Denis,  Please do not be
alarmed at the size of the accompanying package,
nor angry with me for my temerity in sending
it ; the piano is going to pieces over herewith
no one to play on or look after it, and
the hot winds on Aberdeen, are ruination to an

instrument. You will be conferring a great
favour on me, if you will give it room, and
honour me by making use of it, until the
arrival of your own. I will crave permission
to bring over a feiv songs, and we
might have a little practice occasionally.
If possible, I shall come across this afternoon.
'' Yours very sincerely,

James Quentin."

Of course, when the matter was put in
the light of a favour to be conferred, there
was nothing for it, but to allow the instrument
to be brought in, and lodged in the drawing-room.


Helen received the open note somewhat
mechanically from her father, and will it be
believed, that Mrs. Creery actually held out
her hand for the missive  just as If it were
quite a matter of course, that she should
peruse it also ?

Peruse it she did, and so slowly, that one
would imagine that she was committing it to
memory ; then she folded it up and returned

it to Helen, saying rather tartly, " So you
are going to keep it, after all ? "

"Yes ! I suppose so."

"It's only an excuse of course ! You will
have him here singing, day and night, mark
my words ! However, I must allow, that
he has a sweet tenor, and I shall often drop
in for an hour," with which dire threat,
Mrs. Creery took her departure, and hastened
away to spread the last piece of news, viz.
that it was all quite settled betwen Helen
Denis and Mr. Quentin ; he had sent her over
his piano, and written such a sweet note !"

To Miss Caggett this intelligence was a
painful shock, she never believed half of
what Mrs. Creery said, but the arrival of the
piano had been witnessed. What wrath and
anguish filled her mind, as she thought of
swains she had snubbed, and chances she
had thrown away, for that agreeable shadow,
that fickle, faithless, heartless, handsome
Jim Quentin ! But Lizzie was not easily
suppressed; in some respects she was as
dauntless as the Bruce !

She put on her best hat, and Event up and
listened to some solos and duets, that very
same afternoon ; and Mr. Quentin, whose
patience was almost threadbare, remarked
to her very significantly, 

I like duets. Miss Caggett, as well as
any one, but I don't much care for trios ;
they are never so harmonious. I'm sure
you agree with me ! "

Lizzie turned pale. She understood,
though Helen did not  indeed, lie was exceedingly
glad of Miss Caggett's society on
these occasions ; it took the too personal
edge off her visitor's remarks, and acted asa
wet blanket to his compliments. She
(Helen) was not quite sure whether he was
in jest or earnest at times, but she sincerely
hoped that it was the former. Strange
as it may appear, she was utterly indifferent
to the almost invincible Jim Quentin.
Why, she could not have told. She knew
that he was handsome, agreeable, and
showed a flattering penchant for her society.
More than this, he had informed her,

hundreds of times (indirectly), that lie admired
her beyond words ! And yet, and
yet

Miss Caggett was firmly resolved to punish
her recreant lover, and to humble him in the
eyes of his new Dulcinea ; so she smiled, and
showed all her teeth, and put her head on one
side, and tried to look playful, and said, 

Mr. Quentin, you are a naughty man !
What will Mr. Baines say when he hears you
have sent his new Collard and Pollard travelling
about the settlement ? "

Mr. Baines was the gentleman for whom
Mr. Quentin was acting.

''He say?" colouring. "What is it to
him?"

Only his property," laughing rather
boisterously.

Helen felt extremely uncomfortable. There
was an undercurrent of hostility in Miss
Caggett' s laugh, that now struck her for the
first time.

Mr. Quentin was not easily cowed, and
never had any hesitation about telling what

Mark Twain calls a "stretcher!" and answered
quite promptly, 

'' I bought it from Baines ; he was hard
up. So sou are not as wise as you imagined,
Miss Caggett."

Miss Caggett did not believe a word of
this. Men who come to '' act " for six months,
and have the use of a furnished house as a
matter of course, are not likely to purchase
the piano  especially when they can't islay !
But what was the use of speaking out her
mind ? For once she was prudent, and held
her peace ; however, she cast a glance at Mr.
Quentin, that said volumes, and presently she
got up, and went away ; and when she had
departed, Mr. Quentin exclaimed, 

How I wish that odious young woman 
or middle-aged woman  would not favour
us with so much of her society ; her presence
has a most irritating effect on my nerves ! "

I thought you and she were great
friends," said Helen calmly. " I am sure she
told me that at one time, you were with them

every day, and dined, and boated, and sang
duets with lier."

"I suppose I was three times in their
house  I don't know what she will say next !
However," anxious to turn to another subject,
do not let us waste our time, or rather
my precious time over here, on such an insignificant
subject. Will you try over the
accompaniment of the Wanderer ? "

Mr. Quentin found himself so much out of
practice that he went across to Ross for an
hour's vocal exercise, about four times a week.
Latterly Mr. Lisle had listened with a gleam
of mockery in his eye, as his companion made
excuses for these frequent visits, and one
day Mr. Quentin up and spake boldly, 

You are right to laugh at my talk about
books and music and new songs, when I say
that they are the errands that take me over
so often  of course, it's the girl herself ! "

Oh, of course," sarcastically.

I tell you what it is, Lisle  I'm really
serious this time ; and the queer part of it is,

that it's her cool airs and sharp little speeches
that have carried the citadel."

"What citadel?" raising his eyes, and
searching the other's face.

'' My heart, to be sure ! "

Pooh ! your heart ! Why, that has been
taken as often as there are days in the
year."

Merely a temporary occupation, my dear
sir, but this time it's a complete surrender.
'Pon my word, if she had any money, I'd
marry her tomorrow ! "

In answer to this remark, Mr. Lisle blew a
cloud of smoke into the air, and calmly ejaculated
the word, 

' Bosh ! "

I never knew such a fellow as you are ! "
cried Apollo indignantly. " You have no
appreciation of sentiment ; you are as tough
and matter-of-fact as an old boot ! All you
care for are rough field sports, such as a long
day's shooting, hunting, or fishing, and then
to come home to your dinner, and sleep like
a dog."

VOL. I. K

I only wish I could sleep like a dog ! "
rejoined the other, with a laugh. " What
with the gun and bugles, and those confounded
peacocks, there is no such thing as
getting a wink of sleep after four o'clock."

"Now," continued Mr. Quentin querulously,
" I hate your style of life. You don't
care what clothes you wear, you tramp the
bush and over hill and dale with a gun on
your shoulder, on the off chance of a wild
pig, or a paltry brace of snipe ! Or you grill
by the hour in a boat, fishing for sharks and
sword-fish. Now give me instead  "

"Yes, I know exactly what I'm to give
you instead ; the refining charms of ladies'
society, vocal duets and afternoon tea. Far,
far pleasant, is it not, to sit in a cool, shady
verandah, whispering soft nothings to a
pretty girl  I believe you said she was pretty
than to be out in a boat blistering in the
sun, or tramping the woods gun on shoulder,
with a good average chance of being winged
oneself by an Andamanese arrow ! But let
me tell you, James Quentin, that your amusement

is in reality the most dangerous of
the two, and, if Dr. Parks is to be believed,
you have already burnt your fingers
badly''

Hang Dr. Parks ! I don't want to bear
about him, or any one else, except Helen
Denis."

Helen Denis ! And does she not wish
to hear about any one but James
Quentin?"

Mr. Quentin smiled a seraphic smile that
inferred much ; his companion was not surprised.
Quentin was exactly the sort of fellow
to please a young lady's fancy, naturally
he would seem to her, the very beau ideal of a
hero, with his low voice, heavenly blue eyes,
and handsome face ; but then she was not
aware that he did not stand the test of close
intimacy. Site had never heard him cursing
his chokra or his creditors  she never saw
him in raofoed moral dishabille !

Of course she does not know that this is
by no means your first tender effort at gallantry
?  However, that is of no moment,
K 2

Miss Caggett will undeceive her," tranquilly
remarked this companion.

What a beastly ironical fellow you are.
Lisle ! First you rake up old Parks, and then
Lizzie Caggett. I wish she were in a sack
at the bottom of Eoss Harbour ! " blustered
Mr. Quentin.

Because she represents a kind of
conscience in her own person ? Take care
that Miss Denis does not do the same some
day."

''No fear," stoutly. " She is now a mere
child in many ways, full of delight with
everything about her, and with no more idea
of flirting than  " pausing.

"' I have," suggested his listener innocently.


I would be sorry to name her in the same
breath with you ; and that reminds me, that
more than once she has asked me questions
about Mr. Lisle ! "

''Oh, of course, they all do that I "

She has heard of you."

From my good, kind friend, Mrs. Creery,

I'll bet a fiver, and I'll bet another, that she
has painted me as black as an Andamanese, 
and the devil himself would not be blacker."

*' Well, come over with me tomorrow,
and let Miss D. see, that you are not as bad
as you are painted."

*' What would be the use ? If she is all you
jay, I might fall in love with her also ! and
that would be a very uncomfortable state of
affairs."

Mr. Quentin looked at him for a second with
a cool stare, and then burst out laughing.

Well, upon my word ! you are the
queerest fellow I ever met, and that's saying
a good deal ; you can never be in earnest
for five minutes. Now look here, I want to
talk to you seriously about my money affairs. 
You see my governor is an old man, and when
he is laid in the family vault, I'll have a decent
little competence, but until then I cannot
keep myself, much less a wife ! I'm certain he
won't give me a halfpenny more allowance
than I have already. I've an uncontrollable
knack of spending coin, and running into

debt ; but with the family acres, I think I
might manage to rub along pretty welL"

'' So you might," agreed his listener.

But then the governor may live till he is
a hundred?"

"So he may," again admitted the other
gentleman.

'Tor goodness' sake. Lisle, don't sit therewith
your eyes half shut, driving me mad
with your ' so you might ' and ' so he may.'
Make a suggestion."

'' My dear sir, I cannot think of any to
offer. If you were an Earth Indian, you would
be all right ; you know they tie up their aged
as bait for wild beasts. Being a mere Englishman

 "

Mr. Lisle never finished what he was about
to say ; for his companion sprang to his feet,
towered above him, glared at him for a second,
opened his mouth and endeavoured to speak,
but failed ; and then flung out of the
apartment in a terrible passion.

CHAPTER Viii.

I WAS HIS DEAREST LIZZIE ! "

'* Alas ! for pleasure on the sea,
And sorrow on the shore."

Hood,

Mes. Home's entertainments to lier friends,
generally took the form of a picnic or gipsy
tea, partly, we suspect, because these outings
were in great favour with Tom and Billy, and
partly because she had a knack of making these
"camp affairs," as Mrs.Creerycontemptuously
dubbed them, go off, to everyone's satisfaction.
She had now issued invitations for a tea at
Forth Bay, where her guests were to ramble
about, and stroll on the beach, or botanize
in the jungle ; and two large boats left the
pier carrying the company, which comprised
the host, hostess, and family. Col. and Miss
Denis, Miss Caggett, Mr. Latimer, Dr. Parks,

Dr. Malone, the Grahams from Chatham,
and the Greens from Yiper. Mr. Quentin
did not patronize these rustic reunions, and he
was rather annoyed to find, that the Denies
were bent on going, and leant over the pier
as they were rowed away, looking unutterable
reproaches at Helen  looks not lost
on Miss Caggett, who was sitting beside
her. It was an oppressive afternoon, even
at four o'clock the sky was molten and the
sea like oil, and Mr. Quentin shouted after
the pleasure party, 

I would not be a bit surprised if you
people were in for a storm coming back 
better not stay late."

Storm ! what nonsense ! Why, the water
is like glass ! " exclaimed Mrs. Home. " He
merely says that, because he is not cording
himself  though I asked him, and told him
he might bring Mr. Lisle, for I really do not
see, why he should be debarred from everything."


If he is debarred, it's his own fault," rejoined
Lizzie Caggett, accepting the challenge

in the absence of Mrs. Creerj in the other
boat. '' If he would only be open about
himself, no one would mind his poverty."

Mrs. Home looked sweetly incredulous,
and Miss Caggett continued, 

*' At any rate the chances are that he would
not come if he was asked. I don't suppose
he has any decent clothes, and he is more in
his element in the bush, or out in that white
boat of Mr. Quentin's, sailing among the
islands ; he half lives on the water, but,"
with a peculiar laugh, " there is no fear of
his being drowned ! "

Miss lizzie was merciless to this mysterious
pauper, chiefly because she had an idea, that
he had talked his host out of certain matrimonial
designs, that were very near to her
heart. Jim Quentin's visits had been less
frequent, ever since he had given lodging to
this odious adventurer !

Now Mrs. Home considered Mr. Lisle
inoffensive and gentlemanly-looking, and quite
entitled to keep his affairs to himself if he
chose, and she took up the cudgels at once, and

the argument was waxing hot, when, luckily,
some one commenced to sing, and politeness
enforced silence. It was a long row to
North Bay, fully eight miles, and it was past
five o'clock, when the party landed, and began
to walk about and stretch their rather cramped
legs, and to stroll along the beach with a careless
eye to shells.  But this was not a hon,
side shelling trip.  Presently, in answer to a
whistle, with various degrees of alacrity they
flocked round Mrs. Home's well-spread tablecloth,
which was laid out on the moss under a
big Pedouk tree, and in a position, that commanded
a fine view of the open sea; here everyone
ate and drank, and were merry; and afterwards
they sang songs and gave riddles and
exchanged stories, well-known or otherwise,
and then by degrees they scattered once more,
and went up into the woods close by, in
couples or in small parties, and commenced
(the ladies especially) to tear down orchids,
that would be priceless in grey-skye England;
to fill their hands and their baskets, with
enormous bunches of Eucharis lilies that



carpeted the jungle. Helen was somewhat
surprised to find herself alone with Lizzie
Caggett, but this was a mere passing
thought, her whole attention was given to
the flowers ; she felt quite bewildered among
such an embarrass de ricJiesse, and she paused
eyevj now and then to exclaim, and to gather
handfuls. She was also in ecstasies at the
love birds, honey-suckers, blue-jays and
golden orioles that flew " with a shocking
lameness " across their path.

Miss Caggett was accustomed to these
sights; her enthusiasm  if she had any  she
kept bottled up for the benefit of a male
companion, and did not trouble herself to
respond to Helen's raptures ; she had dogged
her, and purposely kept off Dr. Malone,
and singled her out as her own special
associate, in order that she, as she said to
herself, " might have it out with her here in
the jungle," where she could be as shrill
as she pleased,  yea, as one of the island
peacocks ! where she could give reins to her
wrath, and no one but her unsuspicious rival

would be any the wiser !  Now on Ross the
very walls had ears.

The two girls wandered along, one emptyhanded,
and the other laden with spoils, till
they came to an opening in the forest, where
there was a very beautiful shallow pool,
apparently a spring. It was an unusual
sight, and Lizzie halted, and looked down
into it, and beheld the reflection of own her
figure, and of her, at present, very cross,
discontented, little face, as seen in a mirror
set in a lovely frame of ferns, and mossy
stones, and graceful grasses.

As she pondered over her own appearance,
and felt an agonizing thrill at the patent fact
that she was now beginning to look old ! a
bright young face came into view over her
shoulder  a bright young face that she hated
from the bottom of her heart ! No wonder
she was a prey to envy, as she gazed at
Helen's reflection, never had she looked
better, than in that soft white gown, with a
wreath of Eucharis lilies twined round her
sailor hat ! Lizzie stared, and noted every

item of that pretty vision, and felt a conviction
of her own powerlessness to crush the horrible
truth, that one of those two faces was lovely,
and smiling, and young, and that the other
was pinched, ill-tempered, and passee  and
that other her own ! Her day was on the
wane, the summer of her life  oh, that it
would come again ! she would sell her soul to
recall it !  was gone. And in Helen Denis's
case, she had all her golden youth before her.
These bitter thoughts were too much for her
self-control, her face worked convulsively,
the corners of her mouth went down, and all
of a sudden she burst into tears ! Helen
was dismayed, she led her gently to a fallen
log of ebony, and implored of her to tell her
if she was ill, or what was the matter ?

The tears were but a summer shower, and
quickly spent, and Miss Caggett came to herself,
dried her eyes, and said, " That it was
merely a slight nervous seizure, the result
of a racking headache, and meant nothing.
But," she added, 'i'm tired, and we may as
well rest here a while, there is no hurry."

Yer} well," agreed Helen, " I want to
settle these flowers, ttiey are in a most dreadful
state," proceeding to arrange lier much
crowded basket.

Then, whilst you arrange your flowers,
dear, I will tell you a story," said Lizzie,
now completely composed.

Oh ! do, how nice of you ! I like stories,
and this"  looking round" is the very
place for one. A ghost story."

But mine is going to be a love tale," said
Miss Caggett briefly.

"I don't care for them so much," rejoined
Helen, sorting out orchids as she spoke.
'' However, anything you like ! "

Once upon a time there was a girl, and she
lived in the East Indies with her mother, her
name was Lizzie Caggett ; " she commenced.
Helen, who was kneeling at the log, using it
as a table for her flowers, looked up, as if she
did not believe her ears. " Her name, as I
tell you, was Lizzie Caggett, she was not a
great beauty like some people,  but she was
not bad looking. A young man came to



Port Blair, paid her marked attention, fell in
love with her, and she with him, he gave her
songs and presents, he wrote her heaps of
letters, he told her that he could not live
without her ; his name was James Quentin ! "
She paused, and Helen got up slowly from
her knees, and stood in front of her  her
heart was beating rather fast, and her colour
was considerably brighter than usual. '' A girl
arrived at Port Blair, named Helen Denis, and
he, man-like, paid her attention at first, because
she was neio  he half lives at her house,
he is always at her side, and " (viciously) " he
has made her the talk of the whole place,
he ! "  also rising and suddenly, dropping the
narrative form, for plainer speaking,  '' is a
hypocrite, he told you a lie about that piano !
it belongs to Mr. Barnes, he has pretended
to you that he scarcely knew me. Scarcely
ever was out of our house, is nearer the
truth ! One thing he can't deny, and that is
his own hand writing, look here," draggingout
a thick packet of letters, tied with blue ribbon,
you can read them if you like." '' You

won't!" in answer to a scornful gesture.
Then there," tossing them violently on the
ground, where they fell with a heavy thud,
and the ribbon coming undone, lay scattered
about like a pack of cards.

Miss Caggett after this outbreak paused,
and folded her arms akimbo, but her eyes
were gleaming, and her lips working convulsively.


Helen was thunderstruck, never had it
dawned upon her till now, that she had come
and seen, and conquered, this furious lady's
lover ; the sudden announcement, gave her a
shock and for some seconds she was speechless.


<c There," proceeded Miss Caggett, pointing
to a letter at her feet, " three months ago
I was his dearest Lizzie, and now you are his
dearest Helen," and she laughed like a
hyena.

"You are altogether mistaken, and quite
wrong ! " cried her companion, speaking at
last ; " I am nothing to him but an ordinary
acquaintance, and I don't think you should

repeat these terrible things about him to me.
You can't care very much for him, or you
would not say that he is a hypocrite, and
does not speak the truth ! As to his making
me the talk of the place, I am quite distressed
to hear that Port Blair is so hard up for a
topic!" Helen was very angry, and her
face was an open book, in which every emotion
that swayed her, was eloquently expressed.
Mr. Quentin was utterly indifferent
to her, (and this fact gave her a considerable
advantage, over Miss Caggett;) besides being
angry, she was disgusted, and looked down
upon her opponent, with a glance of unmistakable
scorn.

Of course you will hell him all I have
said ! " exclaimed Lizzie, with an hysterical
smile.

"Oh! of course,"  ironically.

Miss Caggett was filled with a horrible
fear, that she had overshot her mark,
(which had been merely to blacken Mr.
Quentin to Helen, to arouse her ire, and
take advantage of the ensuing quarrel, and

v I. i

coolness, and once more ingratiate herself
with her late adorer.) But who would have
expected Miss Denis to be supremely ironical,
and scornful; and to have taken the news
in this very strange way ;  for Lizzie believed
that no girl living could be indifferent
to James Quentin.  Instead of tearing
her hair, and weeping, and denouncing him,
she was quite unmoved. She had even spurned
his letters ! hateful, cold-blooded thing !

Shall you tell him all I have said about
him ? " she reiterated defiantly.

Your suggestion is of course prompted
by what you would do 7/owse// under similar
circumstances," returned her companion in a
cutting tone.

Do you pretend that you don't like
him ? " demanded Miss Caggett. " That you
never told me, you thought him handsome ;
do you pretend that you are not in love with
him, and have lured him away from me ? "

I pretend nothing ; I do not even pretend
to be his friend before his face, and
then abuse him unmercifully behind his back !

And," now pointing with the tip of lier
shoe, ' there are your letters ! I advise you
not to leave them here, for the amusement of
some picnic party ! And I request that you
will never speak to me in such a way again,
nor mention the name of your friend Mr.
Quentin."

So saying, Helen picked up her basket,
turned her back on Lizzie, and walked off
into the jungle in a rather stately fashion;
never once looking back at the little figure
on the log ; (if she had done so, she would
have seen that little figure, shaking a tiny
menacing fist in her direction ; but ignorance
was bliss, and she rambled on mechanically,
her mind not a little disturbed by the recent
scene") Lizzie Caggett was not a nice
girl  not a lady  and as to Mr. Quentin,
she had never quite trusted his dreamy blue
eyes. Now she came to ponder over the
subject, his stories were often a bad fit, one
tale did not exactly match another, he forgot
what he had said previously, and although he
had angrily disowned Miss Caggett, yet she
L 2

had noticed one Mezzo Soprano song among
his music, on which was scribbled in pencil,
Lizzie, with J.'s love." Deeply occupied in
unravelling various new ideas, the young
lady strayed further and further into the
wood, occasionally stopping to cull some too
tempting flower or fern  and pondering as
she plucked. She was extremely reluctant
to go back to the company, and to face Miss
Caggett, after their late conversation, but a
sudden cessation of birds' notes, a duskiness,
and a little chill wind, warned her that it
was really time to retrace her steps. She
had come further than she imagined, and it
was fully half an hour ere she had extricated
herself from among the trees, and once more
gained the open space looking down upon
the shore. But what was this ? To her astonishment
the beach was deserted. There
was no sign of living creature to be seen
(save the dying embers of the gipsy fire) and,
did her eyes deceive her, or did she really
behold, two heavily laden boats steadily
rowing back to Ross ? (indeed one was already

a mere speck on the water), and she had
been left behind ! ! At first she could not
realize her position ; she, the chief guest  in
whose honour the party had been given  she
forgotten, and abandoned, to pass the night
on that terrible desolate mainland alone !
She ran to a rock, jutting out far into the
water, and waved her parasol, and screamed,
and called, but the boats were far beyond earshot,
and the awnings were up.

She stood looking after them like a modern
Dido, with strange, fixed, despairing eyes,
then turned and gazed behind her at the
thick, black, and now forbidding-looking
forest, that loomed all round her, and encompassed
the shore. She sat down on the
rock, locked her arms round her knees, and
watched the two heartless boats till they
were quite out of sight. This operation lasted
for some time, and when there was nothing
further to be seen in the direction of Ross,
she turned her face towards the open sea,
and beheld, to her horror, a large canoe
coming rapidly in her direction ! It was

still at some distance, but she knew that the
build of the boat was not European, nor
did Europeans go out boating in tall hats.
She did not wait for a closer inspection ;
she fled  fled for dear life  right up into the
much dreaded forest, and dashed among the
underwood like a mad creature ; in a certain
thick covet she threw herself down, and
there she lay panting like a hunted hare.
From her hiding-place, she could see the
savages ; they paddled close into shore,
attracted by the smoke of the fire that had
boiled Mrs. Home's mild domestic kettle !
They came in a big, red war-canoe, and were
about fifty in number ; one or two remained
in the canoe, the rest sprang over the side,
and waded to land  followed by a whole
legion of dogs. They swarmed round the
fire, and found but little to repay their visit,
beyond a box of matches, which was
evidently a great prize ! There were several
monster fish caught by Mrs. Creery's boatmen,
and left behind as worthless  these they
tore to pieces, and devoured raw. A tin

of Swiss milky and half a loaf of bread Averse
also discovered and shared. Whilst they sat
round the embers in a circle, and greedily discussed
these rarities and the fish, Helen, with
every nerve in her body throbbing, and her
heart nearly bounding out of her bosom, Alas
presented by her own vivid memory with
that scene in Robinson Crusoe, where he sees
the savages sitting round a fire, and feasting
on their human victims ! Supposing they
were to discover her, and kill her, and eat
her? At this moment she nearly shrieked
aloud, for a large, red dog, a kind of pariah,
(who, unknown to her, had been sniffing
among the underwood, ) now suddenly thrust
up his head close to hers, and gazed at her
in amazement for some seconds ; luckily for
Helen, instead of breaking at once into a
loud " bay," and triumphantly announcing
his *' find,"  he was evidently one of the
barrack curs whom the General had colonized;
he had seen a European before,  and probably
understood English ! ! At first, when she
whispered in a faltering voice, '' Ob, Toby

Toby, like a dear, good dog, go away, and
don't betray me," lie tookno noticeable merely
stood staring with his round, yellow eyes.
However, when emboldened by desperation,
she said, " Hoosh ! be off ! " and made a
movement as though to pick up a stone 
he fled !

But what if a less educated animal were
to discover her ? if he did, she was lost.  She
lay in her hiding-place scarcely daring to
breathe, the very sound of her own heart
seemed appalling; indeed, it stood quite
still for some seconds, when  the fish being
despatched  the aborigines stood up and sauntered
back to their canoe, and several of them
pointing at the jungle, seemingly suggested a
ramble in that direction ! But these enterprising
spirits had no weight, and Helen,
although fainting with terror, noticed that a
fat old man, in a huge cocked hat (evidently a
person of much authority), waved bis hands
indecision towards the horizon; and making
gestures at the big bank of clouds that were
gathering there, peremptorily collected all

his party, who immediately swarmed out into
the canoe, followed by their pack of dogs,
and paddled away as swiftly and as suddenly
as they had come  and Helen breathed a deep
sigh of relief, when she was once more left
upon the mainland, entirely alone !

CHAPTER IX.

A DAMSEL IN DISTRESS.

The storm is up, and all is on the hazard."

Julius Caesar.

Me. Lisle had been out boating far beyond
North Bay ; but a sombre sultry afternoon,
and the ominous silence that precedes a
tropical storm, had warned him to steer homewards.
He had heard of the awful tornadoes
that occasionally churned these seas into
white mountains, that dashed wrecks around
the islands; that the storm god in torrid
regions was a terrible sight when aroused,
and that a sunny, sleepy afternoon had been
known to develop into a howling hurricane
in less than an hour. Moreover, that tragic
tales of boats blown out to sea, or capsized
with all hands, were but too well known at
Port Blair.

The sky was now so inky black that it
could scarcely look blacker, low muttering
thunder was heard from behind the clouds, and
an occasional red flash shot along the horizon.
The breeze was rising steadily, and a quick
cool ripple was on the water. On the whole,
Mr. Lisle said to himself that there was
every prospect of a very dirty night, and the
sooner that he was under the lee of Ross the
better. Passing a kind of cove in North Bay,
he happened to notice a long white object
in the now gathering dusk : it seemed to be
near the shore, and was probably a blighted
tree. Luckily, he looked again, and observed
that it moved. Could it be a human figure, at
that hour ?  quite impossible ! But, although
moments were precious, he resolved to give
the thing, whatever it was, a chance ; and to
take a nearer view and to accomplish this, he
was obliged to steer in closer to the land,
which he did  to his boatmen's unconcealed
uneasiness. Vainly did they scowl, and point
expressively to the storm that was coming
up so rapidly ; he assured them that this delay

would be but momentary; a few vigorous
strokes, and they were sufficiently near to
make out, that the seemingly blighted
tree, was the figure of a European woman,
in a white dress ! In two or three seconds
they had touched the beach, and Mr. Lisle
sprang out of the boat, waded through the
water, and another instant brought him to
the side of a trembling, distracted girl,
whom he had never seen before, but who
nevertheless accorded him a half-frenzied,
though silent welcome !

Helen, after she had seen the last of the
war canoe, had once more ventured down to
the shore. The dark thick tropical jungle,
seemed to stifle her, and, for all she knew,
might be swarming with, wild beasts ! The
solitude was something appalling, and the
silence!  (save for queer outlandish sounds in
the forest every now and then, which caused
her to tremble violently.) Her position may
not seem so very terrible to some people, 
who will say, *' She knew she was sure to be
fetched in the morning ; " but a night alone

upon that savage coast, was enough to make
even a stout-hearted man feel nervous,
much less a girl like Helen, and by this time,
she was completely unhinged. As she sat
staring into the gloom, she suddenly made
out a boat, positively a European boat, with
three people in it,  and for the first time her
hopes rose. She waved her arms frantically,
and she ran up and down the beach like a
demented creature. She was seen, and they
were coming. Oh, the relief of that moment !
For the first time during these dreadful hours,
tears rolled down her cheeks.

The boat came in as close as it could, and
a man jumped out of it, and approached her
rapidly. Stranger as he was, she rushed to
him, seized his arm, and tried vainly to
speak, but her whole frame was shaken with
convulsive sobs.

'what is it? What does it mean? "he asked.
as she clung to him, like a drowning person.

'' It's a  pleasure party," she stammered
out. "I was gathering flowers, and was left
behind. Oh, take me with you! Takemehome!"

Come on, then,"  an Englishman's usual
formula; " I'll take you back to Eoss. But
we must look sharp," speaking rather
brusquely. What if this tearful, frightened
young lady were to go into hysterics, or to
faint in his arms? that would be a nice
business !

Without a single word, but with obedient
alacrity, she followed him to the edge of the
sea,  and something told her, that she was
walking in the wake of the notorious ill. Lisle,

I'd better carry you through the surf,"
he said, turning at the water's edge; and coolly
putting his arm around her, he was just
about to lift her on the spot, but, with
flaming cheeks, she thrust him aside, saying,
'' Thanks, no ; I'll manage it myself."

'' Oh, all right," he returned, indifferently,
'' but I think you are foolish ! What's the good
of two people getting wet, when one will do?"
now wading outtothe boat through surf, which
took the young lady up to her knees. He
got in first, helped her in afterwards, and,
making a sign to the impatient boatmen to

raise the sail, he said to his dripping companion,
" There is going to be a bit of a
blow " (a mild way of putting it), "but we
shall have it with us, we shall be home in
no time," he added, in a tone of assumed
cheerfulness.

In a few seconds they were gliding along
over the water, before a nice stiff breeze, and
Helen found time to collect her senses, and
to relate her adventures  at first in rather
a broken, husky voice, but latterly with more
composure.

And lest the reader should all this time
be angrily blaming Colonel Denis, and Mrs.
Home, I here beg to state that each believed
Helen to be in the other's boat  a thought
for which they were indebted to Miss Caggett.

The rising wind and threatening sky, made
prudent Mrs. Home collect her party, and
start; being under the impression that
Helen would return with her father. When
the people belonging to number two boat
were mustered, and inquiries were made
for Miss Denis, Miss Caggett assured them that

lie had long since departed with Mrs. Home,
and lead been quite animated in declaring that
there was no mistake about the matter, as
she and Miss Denis had been walking in the
woods together." She also displayed quite a
feverish eagerness to be off !  for reasons
which we can easily understand. (Miss
Lizzie had picked up her letters and pocketed
them, and sauntered down to the beach,
and there had joined the company, and come
to the conclusion that a night's solitary reflection
among the tall Surgeon and Pedouk
trees would do her rival a world of good !
How easy," she said to herself, " to say
afterwards, that I must have made a mistake
 every one is liable to make mistakes')
Thus reassured, the picnic party
took their places in the second boat, and no
search or calling acquainted Helen of their
departure; and consequently, she was left
behind, thanks to Miss Lizzie Caggett.

The small white gig which had picked off
the young lady, now flew before the wind,
and Helen's new acquaintance sat with the

tiller-ropes in his hands, and his gaze bent
apprehensively on the south.

'' I suppose I may as well introduce myself,"
he said presently. " My name is Lisle.
Perhaps you have heard of me?" he added
expressively  at least to his listener, his
words seemed to have an ironical, significant,
tone !

Helen muttered a faint affirmative.

'' And you, I think, must be Miss Denis ? "

"Yes."

And were you really afraid of the
savages ? "

I never was so much frightened in all my
life, I thought I should have dieciy

I see a good deal of them, knocking about
the islands. They are not such bad fellows,
and I doubt their cannibalism."

I should be sorry to trust them," returned
Helen, shuddering.

You are cold, I see, and wet, of course,
but that was your own fault. Here," suddenly
removing it, " you must take my coat,"
throwing it over her knees, where it remained

VOL. I. M

all the time, in spite of lier anxious disclaiming.
After this there was a long gap in the
conversation.

Mr. Lisle undoubtedly possessed what the
French call, " a talent for silence." "How
grave he looked ! " thought Helen. How
fast they were going ! How frightfully down
on one side ! The wind was getting louder
and louder, till it reached a kind of hoarse
scream : the dusk had suddenly given place
to Egyptian gloom, and Helen felt sure (as
she sat with her hands tightly locked in
her lap, and her heart beating very quickly)
that they were having more than a mere
blow " as they tore through the water !
All at once, the first splash of a cold, salt
wave dashed over the boat, and drenched
her so unexpectedly, that she could not
refrain from a stifled exclamation ; but this
was the only time that she lost her self-control.
She sat motionless as an image, and
neither moved nor spake, not even when a
shrieking gust carried her hat away, and
whirled it into the outer darkness : and the

storm loosened her long hair, and flung it to
the wind to play with. How they flew np
the water mountains, and were hurled down
like a stone into the corresponding valleys !
If they were to be drowned, she hoped that
it might be soon; this present suspense was
torture. All was so black  an awful opaque
blackness  the roar of the tempest the only
sound; it came in furious gusts, then died
away, whilst wave after wave, swept over the
boat ; and now the low rumble of thunder burst
suddenly into one frightful peal, that seemed
to shake ih.Q very sea itself : a blinding flash lit
up the gloom ; for a moment it was as daylight.
Helen involuntarily turned her eyes towards
her companion, and met his point blank. In
that second, their two souls seemed to recognize
one another; in his glance, she read intrepidity,
coolness, and encouragement. She
at least was with a brave man, and might
die in worse company ! He, on his side, noted
the rigid figure of his passenger, her locked
hands, and firmly set lips ; she was no longer
the timid, shrinking creature he had dragged
M 2

on board trio \g less than an hour previously;
she Twas a heroine, capable of looking
death in the face, and Death's grim
visage was never closer to her than now.
Another, would have been shrieking and
clinging to him ; but this girl was nerved to
meet her fate alone, and he honestly respected
her fortitude. It was certainly just touch
and go, if they ever weathered Eoss Point,
but the boat was a stout one, and the sails
were new. The twinkling lights on the island
now came in view, how scornfully they
seemed to mock these four people, who were
struggling for life and death in the surrounding
howling darkness !

Another awful plunge into the hollows,
and a hissing of boiling waves, and a feeling
as of water closing all round them. It
seemed to Helen as if this was the end  they
had shipped a heavy sea, the boat reeled,
staggered, and made another effort  she was
not going to founder just yet.

The stricken boatmen shouted hoarsely to

one another, and baled in the dark, Helen
crept unconsciously closer to the steersman,
and during a lull in the blast, she said, 

You can swim, Mr. Lisle, of course, and
if you escape, will you take a message from
me to,"  with a sob  '' poor papa."

No I won't," he answered roughly.

But I shall be drowned, I know," and
she caught her breath at the chilling thought.

'' If you are, I shall be drowned ioo you
may be sure of that. If I am saved, you
may rely upon it, that you will be saved also.
We will sink or swim together.  If she does
capsize, don't lose your head, and don't cling
to mC; whatever you do ; trust me, and I'll
take care of you ; but I hope it's not going to
come to that," he added ; then, after a long
silence and another blinding sea, he exclaimed,
Thank God, we are over the worst, and
under the lee of Ross ! "

  .  

It was still quite bad enough, but they
were no longer exposed to the full fury of

the hurricane ; in another ten minutes they
were being violently washed np and down
against the soaking pier, in the presence of
a crowd of anxious faces, who were peering
over, amidst the glare of torches and general
excitement. The first person to greet them
was Colonel Denis,  looking like a man of
seventy, and scarcely able to articulate.

Oh, Helen," he cried, as he seized his
tottering J, dripping daughter, '' this has
nearly killed me ! Only an hour ago we
missed you, and you were sighted from the
look-out just before dark, and I never
believed that any boat could live in that,"
pointing his hand at the black hissing sea.
As Helen and her father stood thus together
on the steps  she trying to realize that she
was safe, and he, most thankfully doing the
same  the white boat showed signs of shoving
off.

'' You are not going over to Aberdeen
now," shouted Colonel Denis, descending,
and making a futile grab at the gunwale
Are you a madman ? "

'rit's not so bad inside, between the
islands," roared the other in reply. " Goodnight."


Papa, stop him ! Mr. Lisle," shrieked
Helen, '' come back  come back, Mr. Lisle."
The idea of any one putting out again, among
those tumbling waves, seemed to her nothing
less than suicidal ; but the white boat was
already gone,  lost almost instantaneously in
the surrounding darkness.

'rit's not so risky between this and Aberdeen,
Miss Denis," said Dr. Malone, "and Lisle
is a capital sailor. But what a grand fright
you have given us all, and what a terrible
trip you must have had ! "

Miss Denis made no reply, she staggered
up to the top of the steps, and stood upon
the pier, in the light of half a dozen torches ;
a strange figure, in a dripping dress, with
her long hair covering her as a kind of
mantle,  and hanging far below her waist, in
thick dark masses.

Take her home, and put her to bed at
once," said Dr. Malone, " and give her a

warm drink, and don't let any one worry her
with questions," (doubtless lie was thinking
of Mrs. Creery), " tomorrow morning I will
call, and she will be all right, and will tell us
how it happened that she let us go off without
her."

But how that came to pass, was never
clearly explained up to the present day 
people had their suspicions  but suspicions
go for very little.

Miss Denis carried out Dr. Malone's instructions
to the letter.  She went home, and went
to bed, and fell sound asleep. One thing
she did, which he had not prescribed, 

She dreamt of Mr. Lisle !

CHAPTER X.

ME. LISLE Forgets HIS maner.

A little fire is quickly trodden out,
"Which, being suffered, rivers cannot quench."

Henry VI.

Miss Denis was none the worse for lier
adventure the next morning, and was called
upon to give a full, true and particular
account of herself to Mrs. Creery and Mrs.
Home, also Mrs. Graham and Mrs. Green
(who had prudently stayed all night on Ross) .
No one could imagine how the mistake had
occurred, and all these ladies talked volubly
together on the subject, and it afforded the
island a nine days' wonder  though that was
not saying much ! Mrs. Creery was certainly
most thankful that Helen (she now called
her by her Christian name) had been brought
back in safety, but she was by no means as

well pleased at the means to wliicli they owed
lier restoration.

Of course, my dear Helen, you need not
notice him," she said, apropos of Mr. Lisle;
just let your father thank him, or send a
message by Mr. Quentin. That will be
ample ! " 

Mr. Lisle having made Aberdeen with some
difficulty, had toiled up hill, closely followed
by the shivering boatmen, in quest of glasses
of rum. He was cold, and stiff, and exhausted ;
both mind and body had been strung to their
utmost tension for the last three hours, and
he sank into a Bombay chair in the verandah,
and threw off his soaking hat, with a sense of
thankfulness and relief. There he remained
for a long time in his wet clothes, staring
out on the black, ragged-looking clouds,
through which a very watery moon was
vainly trying to assert herself. Mr. Quentin
was dining elsewhere, and Mr. Lisle kept
dinner waiting, till it was his good pleasure to
partake of that meal. (Eastern cooks are
accustomed to a meal being put back or

forward an hour or so according to their
masters' whims ; these sudden orders never
ruflQe their composure, whilst in England
such proceedings would cause domestic
revolutions.) For more than an hour, Mr.
Lisle lay back in the comfortable chair
which he had first occupied, as a mere
momentary resting-place ; evidently he had
something out of the common to occupy his
thoughts. How long' was it since he had
spoken to a lady ? (Apparently Mrs. Creery
went for nought.) His mind reviewed but
cursorily his morning's sport, dwelt a
short time on the various incidents of
that terrible sail, and rested finally for a
considerable period on the contemplation of
his lady passenger ; he could see her before
his mental vision quite distinctly noii\ as
she stood on the pier steps, with her soaking,
clinging dress, her streaming hair, and
colourless face, on which the torches threw a
blinding light ; see her stretching out her
hands, and calling after him in a tone of
agonized appeal, 

'' Mr. Lisle, come back ! Come back, Mr.
Lisle!" It was a curious fact,  lie said to
himself, with a rather cynical grin  that this
was positively the very first invitation he
had ever received to Ross ; and the circumstance
seemed to amuse him not a little.

After a while, he began to think that he
was rather a fool, sitting there mooning in
his wet clothes, and he rose and stretched
himself, and went into the house, and
having changed his garments, sat down to
his solitary meal. He and Jim Quentin met
at breakfast as usual ; the latter was
generally too much engrossed with his own
proceedings, to take any vivid interest in his
companion's pursuits  to do as little work
as possible, to get as much novel-reading,
cigarette-smoking, and physical and mental
ease, was the bent of his mind, and his
thoughts were solely centred in himself, and
his own arrangements.

He never troubled his head about Lisle's
manias ;" fishing, and boating, and shooting
were all bores to him, involving far too

mncli bodily exertion, and discomfort. He
took all his partner's adventures for granted,
and never expected that these were of a
more thrilling description, than the capture of
a big shark, or the slaughter of a wild hog.

What a gale that was last night ! " he
said, as he languidly helped himself to
devilled kidneys. " By George ! the picnic
party must have found it pretty lively
coming back. It blew a hurricane ! But I
suppose they were in before that ? "

'' They were," assented Mr. Lisle  and
whatever else he was going to add, was
interrupted by the appearance of one of the
boatmen in his blue cotton suit, salaamino:
profoundly at the foot of the verandah
steps. He had something in his hand.
What? it was the miserable wreck of a
lady's smart, cream-coloured parasol ! A
jaunty article, that had tempted Helen's
fancy in a London shop window, and was
now a mere limp rag, cockled and shrunken
with sea-water  having been thrown into the
bottom of the boat, and there forgotten.

Halloa ! " exclaimed Mr. Quentin.
''Whatistliat?"

Miss Denies parasol, which was left in
the gig. I brought her back from Distort
Bay last night," replied his companion with
as much composure, as if it were a part of
his daily programme.

The other made no immediate reply, but
turning half round in his chair, surveyed
him steadily for some seconds.

'' Yon brought her back ? " he repeated
incredulously. " And why, in the name of
all that's extraordinary ? "

For the very excellent reason that she
wished to be my passenger," returned Mr.
Lisle, coolly.

*' I hate riddles "irritably. '' What the
deuce do you mean ? "

I mean that Miss Denis was left behind
by her party owing to some very queer mistake,
that I happened to be sailing by, like
Canute the king, and that she hailed the
boat, and we took her off."

Quite romantic, upon my word "  with a
rather forced laugh. '' Well," after a pause.

now that yon iiaye seen her, what do you
think of her ? "

How can I tell you ? It was as dark as
pitch, I only had a glimpse of her now and
then by lightning."

Yes ; and that glimpse ? "

Showed me that she had heaps of hair.
She did not scream or make a fuss, but kept
quiet, for which I was really grateful."

And did you have any talk ? "

Talk ! My good sir, are you aware that
we were out in that hurricane between seven
and eight o'clock last night, and that it
was by God's mercy, we escaped with our
lives?"

I daresay you would like to improve
the acquaintance now you have seen her 
Eh ? Come, tell the truth ! "

Mr. Lisle made no reply, this question had
hit the goal ; he certainly did feel a curious
and unusual interest in this girl. All the
same, he made up his mind that this novel
sensation would wear off within the next
twenty-four hours, and whether or no, he did
not mean to yield to it.

Mr. Quentin crossed to Ross alone, somewhat
to this own surprise ; and Helen, as she
listened to his condolences, felt rather an odd
little twinge of disappointment, for she had
half expected that for once, he would have
been accompanied by his mysterious companion
! To-day her smiles were not as responsive,
nor her laughter as ready as usual.
Her keen-witted visitor did not fail to notice
this,  also a curious abstraction in her manner.
She was partly thinking of Mr. Lisle (with an
interest that surprised herself), and partly recalling
to her mental eye, that little pink figure
seated on the log, with a face convulsed with
passion, and dozens of love-letters scattered
round her on the moss !

About a week later Colonel Denis met Mr.
Lisle in the Bazaar, and insisted on his
accompanying him home, and being there
and then presented to his daughter.

She wants to thank you herself ; only for
you, she believes that she would have lost her
wits ; only for you, she would have had to passa
whole night on that coast alone."

Vainly did this captive mutter '' that it was
nothing, that he was only too glad to have
had the opportunity," &c. Colonel Denis was
not to be denied, and he led him off, nolens
volens, to make formal acquaintance with the
island beauty at last.

Miss Denis was sitting on the steps of the
bungalow, feeding a tame peacock, but as she
saw her father approaching with a visitor in
tow, she stood up, rather shyly, to receive
them. She looked quite different to-day
(naturally). Her dress was soft, cream-white
muslin, a heavy Indian silver belt encircled
her slender waist, her hair was bound round
her head in thick plaits, her countenance
was serene  and marvellously pretty. It
struck Mr. Lisle' s artist eye, that she and her
pet peacock would make a very effective picture,
with that glimpse of blue sea, and palms,
as their background.

Of course she had a conviction that this
spare, sunburnt man, following her father,
was the redoubtable bete noir, who, although
she had been two months in the settlement,

VOL. T. i\

she had never yet met with face to face,
save in the doom, on that eventful events



mg

After a little talk about the storm, and the
picnic, they adjourned indoors, and sat in
the shady drawing-room, whilst Sawmy
brought in afternoon tea.

How do you like this part of the world,
Miss Denis?" asked her visitor. "No
doubt you are tired of the question by this
time?"

I like it extremely, so much that I
believe I could live here all my life."

Mr. Lisle smiled incredulously, and
slightly raised his brows.

' Yes," in reply to his expression.
' Where could you find a more lovely spot,
a kind of earthly Paradise ? "

And a land where it is always afternoon,"
quoted her companion, " but you will
probably get tired of it in six months, and
be glad enough to stretch your wings."

No, indeed"  indignantly  ' why should
I? I have everything I want here, and

every wish fulfilled ? " She paused, became
exceedingly red, as if she were afraid she
had been too gushing to this stranger.

'' I am filled with amazement, and respect,
Miss Denis, you are the only person I have
ever come across, who admitted that they
where now, in the actual present, absolutely
contented, and had no unsatisfied cravings,
but perhaps yours is a contented mind ? "

*' No, I have not been contented elsewhere,
but here it is different,  here I have my
home, and papa  "

She hesitated, and her listener mentally
added, 

(rand JimQuentin!")

And I think perpetually fine weather,
and beautiful surroundings, and liberty, go
a long way towards making one feel as I do.
Every morning when I wake, I have an impression
that something delightful is going
to happen during the day."

Jim's visit, of course," thought her companion.
" A sure sign that she is in love,"
but he merely said aloud, 
-\ 2

"It's well you mentioned liberty, for I
fancy that scenery and sunshine go a short
way with those beggars "  pointing to a
group of brown convicts, who were now
wending silently down the road. " Do you
not find everything very different out hereto
what it is at home ? "

Yes ; but I had no home, I was always
at school. Papa and I have so few belongings,
 but I am quite forgetting all this
time, that I have not offered you a cup of
tea."

Mr. Lisle watched her as she busied herself
among the spoons and saucers, and thought
what a nice child she was, and what a shame
it would be, to let Jim Quentin break her
heart !

'' You see a good deal of Quentin," he remarked
rather suddenly ; but her colour did
not rise as she handed him his tea, nor did
the cup rattle in the saucer at the mention
of that potent name. She met Mr. Lisle's
keen interrogative glance, with the utmost
composure ; how different he seemed without

Ins hat, and low strange it was, that it had
never occurred to any one to mention that
Mr. Lisle was handsome ! The circumstance
came home to her quite unexpectedly, as
she now noticed his well-shaped head and
profile ; true his skin was tanned brown by
the sun, his hair was touched with grey
upon the temples,  but in her heart, she
there and then discovered, that he had a far
more striking face than irresistible "Apollo,"
Quentin !

I am taking this to papa," she said,
rising, " he sits in the verandah, you
see."

Yes, I see "  receiving the cup from her
hand and carrying it out to his host who was
absorbed in a blue document. (Mr. Quentin
had trained him to efface himself in this
fashion, for to be quite frank, he could not
stand that gentleman's society, much less his
songs and sentimental speeches.)

"I suppose," said Mr. Lisle, as he passed
the piano,  Helen's own property,  '' that
that is Quentin' s last new ditty," indicating a

piece on the music stand. " I know it's justin
his line, ' Told in the Twilight.'

*' Yes."

*' I'm sure it gives him great pleasure coming
over here, and listening to your music ? "

"I believes he derives some enjoyment
from his own singing also," she replied,
demurely,  remembering the hours that she
had toiled over his accompaniments. '' Are
you musical ? "

In theory only, not in practice. I am
very fond of listening to a string band, or to
good instrumental performers, but as far as
I'm concerned myself, I cannot play on a
comb, much less a Jews-harp ! "

I see "  glancing at some books  " that
you read. Miss Denis. May I ask where you
get your literature ? "

Some from the library at Calcutta,  some
from Mr. Quentin." This latter announcement
was a shock.

'' Ah !  I daresay his contributions are
more entertaining than instructive ! So you
read French novels ? "

"Oh, no!"  becoming scarlet  "I have
never read any except a few French stories.
Miss Twigg picked out. Mr. Quentin merely
lends me books of poetry and magazines,
more solid reading I get elsewhere."

Why do you read solid books ? "

Chiefly to discover my own deplorable
ignorance, I live and unlearn,"  and she
laughed.

'* Really "  also smiling  '* as how ? "

'well, for instance, until last week I was
under the impression that America had been
discovered by Christopher Columbus, m the
year 1492."

I fancy that most people are still labouring
2 under the same delusion."

'but it is quite wrong"  shrugging her
shoulders  " it was found by Buddhist priests
in the fourth century, at least so says a book
that I have just finished, and there does not
seem to be the smallest doubt upon the
question in the author's mind."

"Miss Denis," said her listener, gravely,
your reading is too deep for me, and I shall

be quite afraid of you. The next time I see
you, you will be telling me that it is all a
mistake about the battle of Waterloo, that
there was no such person as Queen Elizabeth,
and that Ireland was first discovered by the
Japanese."

Helen laughed immoderately, and then
said, 

Why Ireland of all places ? "

I don't know, unless because it is generally
the unexpected that happens with
regard to that country."

Have you ever been there ? "

Yes, frequently ; I've an uncle in the
Emerald Isle, who has carried on an ink
feud for years with my father,  but is gracious
enough to me."

'' And I've an aunt there, who is the
very reverse, for she never answers papa's
letters ! "

Then supposing we make an exchange
of relatives ? " suggested Mr. Lisle.

Colonel Denis was quite astonished to hear
so much animated conversation and laughter

ill his neighbourhood, and could not see why
he should not have a share in whatever was
going on; but shortly after he made his appearance
Mr. Lisle took his leave ; and. Helen
was really amazed, when she saw by the little
clock, that bis visit had lasted almost an.
hour !

*' A very gentlemanly, agreeable man, no
matter iilio he is," said her father, after he
had sped the parting guest ; " Eh, Nell ? "

" Yes, papa."
 *' And 1 don't believe with Mrs. Creery, that
he is one of our fellow-countrymen, who are
obliged to roam the world over,  owing to
their invincible ignorance of the number of
kings, which go to a pack of cards," added
Colonel Denis as he picked up a newspaper,
and subsided into an arm-chair.

Mr. Lisle imparted the history of his visit
to his host that same evening after dinner.

** And. what do you think of her now you
haveseenher in daylight?" asked. Mr. Jim, who
seemed anxious to have his friend's verdict.

"Oh, that she is a pretty girl, of course
unspoiled as yet, and charmed with her surroundings,
and immensely delighted at
finding herself grown up, and mistress of
that bungalow,  which is her doll's house sofar."


*' And do you think she likes me ? "

Yes ; of course I did not put the delicate
question point blank as your deputy, but I
daresay she does; for her own sake I hope
she won't get any further than liking ! "

'' You are frankness itself, my dear fellow,
and ivhj ? "

Because she is much too good for you,
and you know it ! You have been in love
about fifty times already, and for pure lack
of something to do, are thinking of offering
the shell of your heart to this pretty penniless
child. She would accept it,  if she cared for
you,  ail grand series, and give hers in
return, for always ; but you, once your little
estrade was played out here,  say in three
months,  would sail away, leave her, and

forget lier ! You have done it to dozens
according to your own confession ;  why not

again

P>j

The expression of tolerant amusement on
his hearer's face, rapidly gave way to indignation,
and he said, with much asperity, 

This is vastly fine ! You are uncommonly
eloquent on behalf of Miss Helen's maiden
affections ; you beat old Parks in a common
walk ! One would imagine that I was some
giant Blunderbuss who was going to eat
her ! Or that  " and he paused, and blew a
cloud of smoke into the air.

'* Or what ? " asked the other quietly.

That you meant to enter the lists yourself,
since you will have it."

Mr. Lisle picked a crumb off the cloth, and
made no reply, and his companion proceeded,


But of course you know as well as I do
myself, that such an idea for yo7i., would be
all the same as if you went and hanged yourself
out of the big tree in Chatham ! "

To this Mr. Lisle said nothing, but smoked
on for a long time in dead silence. At last
he got up, threw his napkin over the back of
his chair, and said, gravely, 

If you are really in earnest for once, and
hope to win the girl, and marry her,  well and
good. I believe you will have all the luck
on your side; if on the other hand, you
merely intend to seize such a rich opportunity
for amusing yourself, and playing
your old game  "

' What then ? " demanded Jim with a lazy
challenge in his eye.

"You will see what then?" rejoined the
other, standing up and looking at him fixedly,
with his hands grasping the back of his
chair. He remained in this attitude for fully
a minute, and neither of them spoke ; then
he turned abruptly, walked out into the
back verandah, and down the steps, and
away in the direction of the sea-shore.

Mr. Quentin took his cigar out of his
mouth, leant his head on one side, and listened

intently to Ins fast receding footsteps.

When their final echo had died away, he

resumed his cheroot, with a careless shrug

of his shoulders.

"Did Lisle mean to threaten him ? "
It certainly looked uncommonly like it.

CHAPTER XL

THE FINGER OF FATE !

Gigantic shapes and shadows gleam.
Portentous through the night."

Longfellow,

From this time forward, Mr. Lisle occasionally
accompanied this companion to Ross, and
listened to the band, and was even to be met
with at tennis parties, in brave defiance of
Mrs. Creery's frowns, and Miss Oaggett's
snubs. Helen noticed that be was tabooed,
and lost no opportunity of speaking to him
or smiling on him  but such opportunities
were rare. Mr. Quentin had a way, acquired
by long practice,  of elbowing away
all intruders from the vicinity of those whom
he delighted to honour ; and effectually introduced
his own large person between Helen
and any other swains, that might seek her

society;  in short, he monopohzecl her completely.
Mr. Lisle had entirely abandoned
photography, shooting, and sailing, for the
very poor exchange of the role of a dispassionate
spectator. Why did he come to
Eoss to see what he did not like ? his
friend's handsome face bent over the beautiful
Miss Denis, eliciting her smiles and merry
laughter. Naturally, like most lookers-on,
he saw a good deal  the envious outer circle
of young men, and Miss Caggett, who had long
ago made a truce with Helen, but who loved
her as little as of yore, and was about as fond
of her as any lady could be, who beheld her
rival appropriating her own special property 1
Still, she figuratively folded her enemy to
her bosom, and smothered her feelings wonderfully,
 but Mr. Lisle fathomed them.
Perhaps he had a fellow-feeling for her, who
knows ? It appeared to him, that the citadel
of Miss Denis's heart was carried at last ; and
who could wonder, that an inexperienced
school-girl would long hold out against
the artillery of Mr. Quentin's attractions ;

attractions that had proved irresistible to so
many of her sex ! No, he noticed that she
coloured, and looked conscious whenever he
appeared, and was not that a sure symptom
that the outer fosse was taken ! Little did
he imagine, that the unfortunate young lady
felt exactly as if she were helplessly entangled
in the web of a huge spider, that she
would have given worlds, to rid herself from
this ever-hovering, ever overshadowing presence,
 that so effectually kept any one she
wished to speak to aloof and out of reach.
Her natural good nature, and politeness,
prevented her from actually dismissing him,
and she had not the wit, or the experience to
get rid of him otherwise.  She had indeed
ventured on one or two timid hints, but with
regard to anything touching another person's
wishes, Mr. Jim had no very keen perceptions
; and with respect to his own company
being anything but ever welcome, he would
not have believed Miss Denis, even if she had
told him so in the plainest terms ! Why
should she be different to the rest of her

sex; they all liked him! So Mr. Quentin
kept his station by her side, by his own wish,
and by public concurrence. He immediately
joined her whenever she appeared, carried her
bat, her shawl, or her band programme, held
her tea-cup, walked home with her, and
visited her three or four times a week. It was
too tiresome, that he should be her invariable
companion, and vainly had she endeavoured
to break her chains, but he was older, and
more experienced, than she was,  and
thoroughly understood the art of making lier
conspicuous, and himself immovable ! Little
did Mr. Lisle guess, that Miss Denis would
have much performed him as a companion.
Alas ! the world is full of contrariness.

Mr. Quentin appreciated Helen, because
she was difficult to fascinate, Helen appreciated
Mr. Lisle, because he held himself aloof,
and never gave any one the chance of
acquiring that familiarity, which notably
breeds contempt ! and Mr. Lisle was greatly
surprised to find, that he was exceedingly
envious of his friend, that he admired Helen

VOL. T. o

Denis more than any girl lie had ever seen !
But he admired, and stood afar off; no
thought of disloyalty to James Quentin.
No arrive ;p6nsee of that motto, 'all's fair
in love and war," ever entered his mind, he
was only sorry, as he said to himself, that he
was too late !

    

The Settlement band played twice a week
in the little public gardens on Eoss, and their
strains were an irresistible summons to all
the (free) inhabitants. One special afternoon,
we notice Mrs. Home holding animated
converse with Mr. Latimer, in his cool, black
alpaca coat ; we see Mrs. Oreery enthroned on
a sofa (which she always provided) alone,
clad in a gorgeous combination of colours,
that could only have been achieved by a
daring soul ! "We observe Helen and Miss
Caggett in company  the latter had apologized
for her outbreak. " It would not ceo,"
she said to herself, " to be on bad terms with
the Denis girl, she was too popular, all the
men would be on her side, Captain Rodney,

Mr. Green, and that ugly Irishman, Dr.
Malone ; wretches who were always praising
her rival in her hearing ! A day or two after
the storm, she had gone to Helen, and begged
and implored her to forget a certain scene
between them in the forest above North Bay ;
declared that she would be miserable for life
if Helen was not her friend, that she would
rather have her little finger, than Mr. Question's
whole person, that she would sooner
marry the typical crossing-sweeper than him,
and that she had been very cross and bad-tempered,
and hoped that Helen would forget
an occasion that it would make her blush to
recall ! This was very fine, but julio had
ever seen Miss Caggett blush ? However 
Helen was quite ready to accept the olive-branch,
and, like the school-boys, to say
"Pax."

There was a considerable gathering at the
band, including " Mr. Quentin and Co," as
Mrs. Creery humorously called them. On
band nights, the former usually reclined on
the sward, literally and figuratively at Helen's



feet, but to-night this butterfly was occupied
(in quite a temporary manner) with a nice-looking
widow, who bad come over from
Rangoon to pay a visit to her sister, Mrs.
King, at Viper. People were walking about
in couples, standing in groups, and sitting
down in rows. Mrs. Creery (who did not
appreciate the solitude of greatness) nodded
to Helen to approach, and take a place beside
her, saying, rather patronizingly, as she
accepted the invitation, " So I hear that your
little bachelor's dinner went off quite nicely,
and that everything was eatable except the
ice pudding ! "

Helen felt annoyed, '' quite nicely " was indeed
but faint praise, after all the trouble she
had taken, and the success that she flattered
herself she had achieved.

She made no reply, but became rather red.

"And you had Mr. Quentin, of course, and
the General, and Mr. Latimer, and Dr. Parks.
What champagne did you give them ; from
the mess, or the bazaar ? "

"Bazaar champagne! Oh, Mrs. Creery"

indignantly  " there is no such thing, is
there?"

Yes, and why not ? I b eh eve no one can
tell the difference between it, and that expensive
stuff at the mess. I declare  " her
attention suddenly distracted to another
quarter  '' look at Mr. Lisle, in a respectable
suit of clothes"  glancing over to where that
gentleman was talking to three men.

'' Billy ! " she screamed to one of Mrs.
Home's little boys, " go over to Mr. Lisle,
and tell him that I want him at once."
"Fancy"  turning to Helen and speaking in a
tone of pious horror  '' those men are European
convicts, tickets of leave, and allowed
to use the garden and library  a very unwise
indulgence. I quite set my face against it,
and so I've told the General. Of course
no decent person would speak to the wretches;
no one but a man like Lisle! "

"What have they been sent here for?"
asked her companion.

'* One for forgery, one for stabbing a
man, in a sailor's row in Calcutta, and one

was, lie says, sent here by mistake ; but most
of them say iliad I Yell," raising lier voice,
Mr. Lisle permit me to congratulate you on
your choice of companions."

'' Poor creatures ! They never have the
chance of exchanging a word with any one
but each other, it pleases them, and does meno
harm. Lots of worse fellows are at large,
and prospering ! "

''Oh, pray don't excuse yourself, Mr.
Lisle. Birds of a feather  you know the
adage."

Yes, thank you, Mrs. Creery," making an
inclination of such exaggerated deference,
that Helen now understood what Miss
Caggett meant, when she said that he was
polite to rudeness. " You sent for me, Mrs.
Creery ? "  interrogatively.

Yes, because I did not choose to see you
talking to those jail birds ! You can talk tome
instead."

Here was alluring invitation !

'' Of course you know Miss Denis  but
only recently. You were late in welcoming
her to Port Blair!"

I laye the pleasure of knowing Miss
Denis, but as to welcoming her to Port Blair,
such a proceeding would be altogether presumptuous
on my part, and no doubt she
received a welcome, from the proper quarter."
And he once more bowed himself before Mrs.
Creery.

Helen could scarcely keep her countenance
when she met his eyes, and hastily turned off
her smiles by saying, 

'' I am sorry you could not dine with us
last night."

'' Mr. Lisle never dines out," replied the
elder lady, speaking precisely as if she was
Mr. Lisle' s interpreter.

''Quentin is talking of getting up a dinner,"
he said, " in fact he is rather full of it."

Dinner ! Well, don't let him give it till
full moon. I hate crossing in the dark, and
be sure it is on a mutton-day ! " said the
elder lady authoritatively. (JST.B. Mutton
was only procurable once a week.)

I will remember your suggestions, buta
good deal depends on the butler, and this
inclination. He is rather an imperious

person, we have but little voice in the
domestic arrangements."

*' You! "  scornfully  " of course not; but
I should hope that Mr. Quentin is master of
his own house."

'' He leaves all to Abraham, and generally
everything has turned out well,  except perhaps
the writing of the menu ! Last time,
people were a little startled on glancing over
it, to see that they were going to partake of
Roast lion and jam puppy.' "

Helen laughed delightedly, but the elder
lady gravely said, '' Oh, roast loin and jam
puffs. "Well, that's the worst of not having
a lady in the house. Such mistakes never
happen in my establishment ! "

'' "Would you like to take a turn now.
Miss Denis ? " said Mr. Lisle, glancing at her
as he spoke.

I daresay she would, and so would I,'*
returned Mrs. Creery briskly, rising and walk-ins
at the other side of him, an honour for
which he was by no means prepared.

What is that unearthly noise? '* inquired

Helen ; *' wliai are those sounds that nearly
drown the band ? ''

*' Yes; reminds me of a pig being killed,"
rejoined Mr. Lisle; *obiit it is merely the
Andamese school-children on the beach. This
is the day that their wild parents come to
see them ; they arrived this morning in a
big canoe, and doubtless brought all kinds
of nice, wholesome, dainty edibles for their
young people. They are sitting in a circle,
whooping and yelling, real hon fide
savages ! Would you like to come out and
see them ? "

Certainly not," exclaimed Mrs. Creery,
indignantly.

At this moment they were joined by the
General and Captain Rodney, who bad just
entered the gardens.

'* Have you heard anything more about
that fellow, sir ? " inquired Mr. Lisle.

No ; nothing as yet, but Adams and
King are doing their best. I fancy he has
taken to the bush."

Oh ! then in that case, the Andamese

will soon bring him in," observed Mr.
Latimer. '' That, or starvation ; roots and
berries won't keep soul and body together,
though many have tried the experiment."

What ! wliai is all this about ? What
do you mean ? " inquired Mrs. Creery, excitedly.


*' Oh ! rather a bad business at Shadow
last night. One of the convicts killed a
warder, and has got away," replied the
General.

How did it happen ? "

"It seems that this fellow, Abooo Salt, a
Mahomet an, has always been an unusually
bad lot. A few months ago, he nearly beat
out the brains of another convict with his
hoe, merely excusing himself on the plea
that he was tired of life, and wanted to be
hanged. However, as his victim recovered,
we were unable to oblige him, and he was
heard to say that he would do for a white
man next time ! Last night, just before
they went to section, he was missed, and
one of the warders was sent to look for him ;
but as he did not return, a general search

was made, and the warder was found on this
face among the reeds, stabbed through the
heart, and Abooo was still missing."

"I'm glad he is on the mainland!"
ejaculated Mrs. Creery, with a shudder. '' I
would not change places with Mrs. Manners
for a trifle ! "

'' Then he is not so desirous of being
executed as you imagined," said Mr. Lisle.
'' He did not give himself up."

'' Not he ! " rejoined the General. '' Life
is sweet; his threats meant nothing."

'perhaps he has gone off to sea," suggested
Colonel Denis. " I know they have
all a foolish notion that those far-away
islands are India, and that the steamboat
that brings them here, merely goes round
and round for a few days to deceive them,
they being below under hatches."

'' No fear of his taking to the water,
Colonel," replied the Greneral. " I have put
a stop to that little game with the boats, and
no convict crew can now take out a boat,
unless the owner, or some European, is with
them. The rascals went off with no end of

boats, and got picked up at sea as shipwrecked
lascars, &c. Two even got so far
north as London, in the affecting character
of ' castaways.' "

And how did they fare there ? " inquired
Helen.

In princely style, by their own account,
they would like to repeat the visit ; they were
fed and clothed and feted and supplied with
money ; they actually went to the theatre,
and had their photographs taken  the last
a fatal snare  but they were vain ! The
moment they landed in Bombay, thanks to
their photos., the police wanted them, sent
them back to us, and here they are ! "

'' Yes, the boats were a great temptation ;
but now they go off on logs," said Mr.
Latimer, " and even take to the sea in
chains ; the Malays, especially, can swim
like fish. However, their fellow-convicts are
getting too sharp for them : the reward of
five rupees puts them on their mettle."

*' Too much on their mettle, sometimes ! "
protested Mrs. Graham, who had joined the
group. '' Last monsoon, my boatmen nearly



capsized the boat one evening I was returning
from church. What between the runaway's
struggles to escape, and their
determination to land him, once or twice we
were all within a point of going over. My
screams and expostulations were quite
useless ! "

The natives are very sharp after convicts,
too," said the Greneral, " and I'll
double the reward this time ; it's not pleasant
to leave such a scoundrel as Abooo Sait
loafing round the settlements,  especially ashe
is armed ! "

Miss Denis," turning to Helen, '' there
is a very singular object in the sky to-night,
which I'm sure you have never seen ; we
call it Moses' Horn. Lisle, you should
take her up the hill, and let her see it before
it fades. I've a lot of work to do, and I'm
going home," (to Helen) " or I would not
depute any one to exhibit this rather rare
sight."

In compliance with the General's suggestion,
Helen and Mr. Lisle left the little
gardens together (despite Mrs. Creery's

angry signals to the former), and walked upto
the flag-staff, and surveyed the sea and
sky, and beheld a long purple streak extending
from the south, and pointing as it were
directly to the island. It was very sharply
defined, and gigantic in size, and had to
Helen rather an awful, and supernatural
appearance.

iritis shaped like a finger," she said at
last. " I never saw anything so strange ! "

Yes, the finger of fate," agreed her companion,
'' and if I were superstitious, I would
say that it was pointing straight at us.
Perhaps there may be some remote connection
between our planets; perhaps they are
identical."

As they stood gazing, the phenomenon
gradually melted away before their eyes, and
was replaced by the moon, which now
rose out of the sea like a huge fire
balloon !

The moon is irrepressible out here,"
remarked Mr. Lisle, " she seems always to
the fore."

"So much the better," replied Helen,
these Eastern nights are splendid. I
wonder, by the way, why the moon has always
been spoken of by the feminine gender."

As the Lady Moon ? Oh ! that question
is easily answered :  Because she is never
the same two days running."

Now, Mr. Lisle, I call that rude  a base
reflection on my sex. I don't believe we are
half as changeable as yours.

' One foot on sea and one on shore,
To one thing constant never.'

Pray, to whom does that refer ? " and she
looked at him interrogatively.

I could give you a dozen quotations on
the other side, but I will spare you ; it is my
opinion that women are as changeable as
weathercocks."

An opinion founded on your own experience?"


'* Well, no, I am wise ; 1 profit by the
experience of my friends."

'' Oh ! " rather scornfully, " second-hand
things are never valuable ! "

Mr. Lisle laughed and said, " Well, don't
let us quarrel. What did we start with ? Oh !
the moon ;" and gazing over at that orb, he
added, " I, too, can repeat poetry, Miss Denis,
and this seems just a fitting place to quote.

"larger constellations burning  mellow moons and
happy skies ;
Breadths of tropic shade, and palms in clusters 
knots of paradise.' "

This was an apt quotation, and exactly
illustrated the scene before them. The loud
striking of a clock aroused these two people
from a rather reflective silence ; it recalled
them sharply from day dreams to the dinner-hour
! And, after a little desultory conversation,
they retraced their steps, and rejoined
the crowd in the gardens just as the
band was playing '' God Save the Queen."

CHAPTER XII.

THE Week.
The direful spectacle of the wreck.

TemiwM.

It may be among the facts not generally
known, that the Andaman seas and shores
are wealthy in shells ; and people who grumble
at being despatched to do duty at the
settlement are usually consoled by their
friends (who are not accompanying them,)
saying, " Oh, it's a charming place ! if you
have a taste for conchology, you will have
any quantity of shelling."

In most cases, the shelling is angrily repudiated,
and yet the chances are, that once
arrived upon the scene of action, and stimulated
by general example and keen emulation,
the new-comers will develop into the most
unwearying, rabid, and greedy, of shelters !

VOL. I. r

When I say a greed j seller, I refer to
an individual who, when tide, wind and moon
favours, will secretly take boat, and steal
away to the most likely parts of Corvyn's
Cove, or some favourite reef at Navy Bay,
and there reaping a rich and solitary harvest,
return with barefaced triumph, and
swagger, dripping up the pier, between two
lines of outraged acquaintances, with a
shameless air of, 

'' Ah, ha ! see what I have got ! "
From the General, down to Billy Home,
every one went shelling at Port Blair, and
some of these "shell maniacs" (as Mrs.Creery
dubbed them) had superb and valuable collections.
There was as much excitement and
competition over a day's quest, as would be
expended on covert shooting or salmon fishing
at home. It was not merely a frivolous
picking up of pretty objects ; it was a nqv
serious business. The finder of the rarest
shells was the hero of the hour : the owner
of "ring" cowries was a person of repute
!

Behold, then, one afternoon, a few days
after the band, two large rowing-boats waiting
at the pier for sellers ! and kindly notice
the party coming down to embark. An inexperienced
eye would naturally assume that
they were all going to bathe, for each individual
carries a bag and a couple of bath
towels  to put round the back of their heads
as they stoop in the sun. Their garments
are whole, indeed, and quite good enough for
the occasion, but how faded, and shrunken,
and cockled with sea-water! Their boots 
but no, we will draw a veil over these. To
be brief, the appearance of the company is
the reverse of distinguished. In a few short
happy hours they will return : they will be all
soaking in water from the waist downwards.
(Luckily, wading about in the nice, warm
sea is rather pleasant after the first plunge,
and people in the excitement of shelling are
insidiously drawn in deeper and deeper still.)
Yes, by six o'clock, if all goes well, we shall
see the company of shelters, returning like a
party of half drowned rats ; but there will be
p 2

no shyness, no reluctance, in their progress up
the pier; without the least diffidence, they
will run the gauntlet of all the idlers, with an
air of lofty pride, born of the noble spoils
they usually carry. Have they not in their
bags such treasures as '' woodcocks," '' staircases,"
'' tigers," and " poached eggs " ! We
spare the reader the Latin names of these
rarities.

To-day, the General (a keen sheller,) is
going, also Mr. Latimer, Captain Rodney,
Dr. Parks, Miss Caggett, Dr. Malone, Colonel
Home, Colonel and Miss Denis, and last, but
by no means least, Mrs. Creery (and Nip).
She does not condescend to shell, but
she goes on principle, as she rarely suffers
an expedition to leave Ross without her
patronage.

Colonel Denis and his daughter came
hurrying down, just as the party were about
to descend the steps.

'' Good gracious, Helen ! " cried Mrs.
Creery, '* you are never going to shell in

that dress!" speaking exactly as if it were
her own property.

No, no," shaking her head, and exhibiting
a small block and paint box. " Have you
forgotten that you are to leave me on the
wreck to sketch ? ' '

'* Oh, true, so we are. Well, get in, do I
My dear, you are keeping us all waiting."

In another two minutes the boats were full,
and rowing away across the water with long,
steady strokes ; then up the estuary, between
the wooded hills of Mount Harriet
on one hand, and Shadow  where the lepers
were kept  at the other, past the little isle of
Chatham, where, according to a legend (for
which I will not vouch), eighty convicts
were hanged on yon old tree, one May
morning, and round the bend, till they were
in siQfht of the wreck, a laisse three-masted
ship, stranded on the muddy shallows, castaway
there, by some terrible cyclone as it tore
its way up the Bay of Bengal. Her history
was unknown, for she was already there when
the Andamanss were opened up, where she

came from, and what had been the fate of her
crew and passengers  would never now be
learned. From her rigging, it was guessed that
she was of American build,  but that was all.
Even in the brilliant afternoon light, she
appeared grey and weird, with her skeleton
gear aloft, and her dark, wide-open ports, looking
like so many hollow eyes, as she lay among
the tall bullrushes, sheathed in seaweed. Her
cabins and deck were intact, and she had been
used as a hulk in former years, till, being the
scene of a ghastly tragedy, and other prisons
having been built, she was once more abandoned
to the barnacles and the rats. She
seemed much larger, and more awe-inspiring
at close quarters ; and as they rowed under
her stern, Helen, in her secret heart, was
rather sorry, that she had been so determined
to spend two hours upon the wreck alone ;
that all the way down she had jeered and
laughed at Dr. Malone's warnings of cockroaches
and ghosts. However, there was
no possibility of changing her mind now

especially with Lizzie Caggett's inquiring
eyes bent upon her  Lizzie, who was
mentally revelling in the prospect of the
undivided attentions of all Miss Denis' admirers,
for the next two hours !

Now that it has come to the pinch, I
believe you are afraid," she remarked, with
a malicious smile.

The only reply that Helen vouchsafed to
this taunt, was by immediately standing up.
Greatly to her surprise, Mrs. Creery also
rose, saying, 

'' I think I'll go with you ! Nip is fond
of sniffing among old timber, and he hates
shelling, like his mistress,"

No one clamoured against ihciv departure,
and Helen was for once in her life glad of
Mrs. Creery's society, and grateful to Nip.
The two ladies were presently helped over
the side, (Nip being cautiously carried up by
the scruff of his neck,) and the party were
left by themselves To the last. Dr. Malone
pressed Helen to "think better of it, a

quarter of an hour will be more than ample,
you will see."

At this prophecy, she merely shook her
head, and showed her sketch-book.

' I should not Wonder if we find you both
in the rigging, when we come back ! " he
shouted, as the boat rowed off, and making a
speaking-trumpet of his hands, he added,
she's full of rats ! "

As the sound of oars grew fainter and
fainter, Helen went to the bows, from
whence she hoped to make her sketch, and
stood silently looking at the view  at the
wooded hills casting deep shadows into the
glassy water, at the arm of the sea they
had just come up, and out in the open ocean
like a green gem in a silver setting  the
distant island of Ross. It was undoubtedly,
as Mr. Latimer had suggested, a capital place
for a sketch, and she must lose no time,
and make the most of the light whilst it
lasted. So she got out her paint-box and immediately
set to work ; but,  and here I

appeal specially to artists,  is it easy to draw,
with a large solar toper thrust over your
right shoulder, and a voice perpetually in
your ear, saying, 

'' Oh, you are not making Ross nearly
high enough ! Surely that point is never
meant for Hopetown ? those trees are too far
apart ; and Chatham is crooked ! "

Helen was almost beside herself, every
stroke was rudely criticized, and Mrs. Creery
emphasized her remarks with her chin, which
was nearly as sharp as that of the Duchess
in Wonderland. At length she turned her
attention elsewhere, much to her victim's
relief, and began to investigate, and poke
about among old spars and rubbish.

After a delightful respite, Helen heard
her calling out, 

I see a little boat coming this way, with
two men in it  no, one man is a dog ;
it's from Navy Bay, and is sure to be Mr.
Manners'. I'll wave and beckon him here,
for it's very dull for me ! "

Accordingly Mrs. Creery' s handkerchief

(wliicli was the size of an ordinary towel,) was
seen being violently agitated over the side,
and met with an immediate response, for
the little boat rowed by one man, with one
dog passenger, was soon within easy hail.

I do declare," cried Mrs. Creery
peevishly, " if it is not that odious Mr. Lisle !
I never wanted him'' However, wanted or
not, he was already alongside, looking up at
the bulwarks expectantly.

"Oh! it's you, Mrs. Creery! can I be of
any service to you ? "

' I thought it was Mr. Manners," she called
down in an aggrieved tone. '' I never dreamt
of its being ijoiil However, yoa may come
up," speaking precisely as if she were in her
own verandah.

Mr. Lisle did not look as if he was going
to seize this niggardly invitation ; on the
contrary, he took a firmer hold of the sculls,
glanced over his shoulder, and was evidently
about to depart, when Mrs. Creery casually
remarked, as if it were a mere afterthought, 

Oh ! by the way. Miss Denis is here too,
sketching."

Apparently this intelligence altered the
case, for the gentleman paused, rested on his
oars, and said rather nonchalantly, 

Very well, I shall come aboard  since
you wish it so particularly ! " and, rowing
round, made fast his boat, and was soon
on deck, closely followed by a big brown
retriever.

Oh, dear me ! " cried Mrs. Creery, lifting
up her hands. "So you have brought that
nasty dog ! he is sure to fight with Nip."

Not he, I will be security for his good
conduct, And bow are you getting on,
Miss Denis ? " to Helen, who was shyly
hiding her drawing with her arm.

Not at all well ; I am not accustomed to
sketching, and my attempt here is such a
libel on the view, that I am quite ashamed
to let you see it, but it" (apologetically,)
seems a pity not to try and take away some
recollections of these lovely islands."

"Yes, you are quite right; and I shall be
very glad to give you some photographs,
that is, if you would care for them  they
don't give the colours, of course."

(At this offer Mrs. Creery became rigid,
and gave a little warning cough.)

"But," taking up Helen's sketch, "this
is not at all bad ! Your perspective is a bit
out here, and you have not got the right
shade in the sea ! "

"I know it is all frightful; sea, and land,
and sky," returned Helen, colouring, " I am
sure you can draw, Mr. Lisle; please have
the charity to do something to it for me, and
make it look less like a thing on a tea-tray,"
holding her box, and brushes, towards him
as she spoke.

Mr. Lisle, without another word, laid the
block upon the bulwarks, gazed for a moment
at the scene, and then dashed in two or three
effective strokes, with what even Mrs. Creery
(who had, of course, followed up the sketch,)
could see was a master's hand.

Helen's pale, meek, school-girl attempt
received in three minutes, another complexion;
with a few rapid touches, a glow of the
setting sun lit up the sky, and threw out in
bold relief the dark promontory of Mount

Harriet ; a touch to the sea and it became sea,
(no longer mere green paper), palms, and
surgeon trees, appeared as if by magic ;
Helen had never seen anything like the transformation.
She almost held her breath as she
gazed  not quite so closely as the elder lady,
whose toper was in its old place ;  why, the
drawing-master at Miss Twigg's, could not
paint a quarter as well as Mr. Lisle ; who
now looked at the view, with his head on
one side, and then glanced at Helen, amused
at the awe and admiration depicted on her
countenance.

Yes, ihais more like it ! " cried Mrs.
Creery, encouragingly. " I told you, you
know," to Helen, " that your sea was too
green, and flat, and your perspective all
wrong ! I know a good deal about drawing
myself." (May she be forgiven for this fable !)
My sister, Lady Grubb, is a beautiful artist,
and has done some lovely Decalcomanie vases;
but 01 paint very nicely, too, Mr. Lisle, really
quite as well as most drawing-masters ! "
Then, looking suddenly round, 'but all this

time where is Isti ? I do believe that he has
followed that horrible brute of yours down
into the cabins ! "

Not at all likely, Mrs. Creery, you know
that they are not affinities ; Nip has followed
his own inquisitive impulses, for Hero,"
moving aside, ' is here."

Well, where can he be ? ' Nip, Nip,
Nip ? ' " walking away in search of her
treasure.

"He is not lo%t at any rate," muttered
Mr. Lisle, " no such luck." Then, in a louder
tone, " Is not this a strange, out-of- the world
place ? " to Helen, who was watching his
busy brush, with childlike interest. " If I
had been suddenly asked about the Andaman,
a couple of years ago, I should have
been puzzled to say whether they were a
place, a family of that name, or something to
eat  wouldn't you ? "

Not quite so bad as that," smiling.

Oh, of course, pardon me  I forgot that
you are a young lady of most unusual
information."

No, no, no, I knew liofcliing about them,
I candidly confess, till papa came here."

'' They certainly well repay a visit," continued
lier companion, painting away steadily
as he spoke, '' there is a sort of Arcadian simplicity,
a kind of savage solitude, an absence
of worry, and not the slightest hurry about
anything, that has wonderful charms forme."

' Then I suppose you are naturally lazy,
and would like to bask in the sun all day, and
have one person to brush away the flies, and
another to do your thinking."

Miss Denis," suddenly looking up at her,
with mock indignation, 'you speak as if you
were alluding to one of the animals of the
lower creation ;  what have I done to deserve
this ? I deny the impeachment of laziness.
Coming, sir,' my servant, will testify that I
am out every morning at half-past five ;
neither am I idle, but I like to spend my
time in my own way, not to be driven hither
and thither by dinner gongs, and railway
bells, and telegrams. I like to pull my neck
out from under the social yoke,  to carry out

your uncomplimentary simile, and figuratively,
to graze a bit ! "

Helen made no reply, but leant lier chin
on her hand, and looked down abstractedly
at the water for some time ; twice her companion
glanced np, and saw that she was
still buried in reflection. At last he said,
<'I would not presume to purchase your
thoughts. Miss Denis, but perhaps you will
be so generous as to share them with me ? "

You might not like them ! Some of them
were about yourself," and she laughed rather
confusedly.

*' And may I not ascertain whether I
approve of them or not ? "

You may, if you will promise not to be
offended."

I promise in the most solemn manner ; I
swear by bell book, and candle ; and I am very
much honoured that you should think of me
ai all ! "

"You are laughing at me, Mr. Lisle," she
said, colouring vividly ; divining a lurking
sarcasm in this speech.

'' I am dumb, and indeed I have no
business to criticize you even in my thoughts,
much less to your face ! " 

'' Speak out plainly, Miss Denis," he interrupted
eagerly; 'let me have your views,
good and bad, or bad alone."

'' It is very presumptuous in me I know  I
am only a girl, and you are a great deal older
than I am  but it seems to me, that every one
has some place of their own in the world allotted
to them  some special duty to fulfil  "here
her listener glanced at her sharply, but her
eyes were bent unconsciously on the water, and
she did not note his gaze  "surely it is scarcely
right, to shirk one's share of all the toil, and
the struggling in the outer world, and the
chances of helping one's fellow creatures, in
ways however small,  just for the selfish
pleasure of being securely moored from all
annoyances, among these sleepy islands ! "

She stopped, and looked up afc him rather
timidly, with considerably heightened colour,
and added, in answer to his unusually grave
face, and stare of steadfast surprise, 

VOL. I. Q

' I can see that you think me a very impertinent
girl, and will never speak to me again ;
but you would have my thoughts, and there
they are, just as they entered my head ! "

I think you are a brave and noble young
lady, Miss Denis, and you have taught me a
lesson that I shall certainly take to heart.
I cara'ehere for six weeks, and have stayed
nearly six months, enjoying this lotus-eating
existence, oblivious of my place in the world,
and my duty,  and I have duties elsewhere ;
thank you for reminding me of them, and
indeed my relations are beginning to think
that I am lost, or have fallen a prey to
cannibals."

Here was Mr. Lisle speaking of his belongings
and his plans for once,  oh, why was
not Mrs. Creery on the spot ?

However, she was not far off, and her
shrill cry of " Nip, Nip, Nip ! where are you,
Nip ? " was coming nearer and nearer.

CHAPTER XIII.

'' BLUE BExED's chamber."

I doubt some danger does approach you nearly."

Macbeth.

He must be in the saloon ! " cried Mrs.
Creery. '' I've hunted the whole ship, and
I'm sure he has gone down. You," to Mr.
Lisle, " will have to go after him ; I dare
not, it looks so dark."

To explore the rat-haunted cabins of this
old hulk in search of 'snip," was bj no
means an errand to Mr. Lisle' s taste; he
would infinitely have preferred to remain
sketching on the bulwarks, and conversing
with Helen Denis. However, of course he
had no alternative. Go he must ! Somewhat
to his surprise, the young lady said, 

I shall go too ; the ports are open, there
Q 2

will be plenty of light, and I want to investigate
the cabins downstairs."

'you bad much better not, mind! you
will only dirty your dress," urged Mrs. Creery
dissuasively, but Helen's slim white figure,
had already vanished down the companion-ladder,
in the wake of Mr. Lisle.

At first it was as dark as Erebus  after
coming out of the glare above  but as their
eyes became accustomed to the gloom, there
was sufficient light from the open stern
windows, to show that they were standing ina
long narrow saloon, with numerous cabins
at either side.

It looks quite like the steamer I came
out in ! " exclaimed the young lady. (Anything
but a compliment to a first-class P.
and 0.) '' That is to say, the length and
shape. There are tables, too ! " (These had
not been worth removing, and were fastened
to the floor.)

It was used as a prison long ago, I
believe," said Mr. Lisle.
'' Yes, and"

Helen was about to 'add that murder had
been done there, but something froze the
sentence on her lips ; it seemed scarcely the
time and place to speak of iliad.

"Nip, Nip, Nip!" cried his infatuated
mistress, who had cautiously descended to
the foot of the stairs, holding her petticoats
tightly swathed round her. *' Where are you,
you naughty dog ? Ah ! " shrieking and
skipping surprisingly high, 'i'm sure that
was a rat ! "

Not at all unlikely," rejoined Mr. Lisle,
rattling noisily along the wainscot with a bit
of stick  whilst Mrs. Creery hurriedly withdrew
up half a dozen steps, where she
remained plaintively calling " Nip, Nip,
Nip ! " Miss Denis had meanwhile been
looking out of the stern windows on the now
moonlit water, the tall bulrushes, and the
wooded shores ; and here in a few moments,
she was joined by her fellow-explorer, who
Alas examining something in his hand.

See what I have found ! " he said.
When I was hammering the old boarding

just now, a plank fell sway, and this thing
rolled out. I believe," wiping it in his handkerchief
as he spoke, and tendering it for
her inspection, 'that it is a woman's ring."

*' A ring ! so it is," returned Helen ; " and
it looks like gold."

Oh, yes ! it's gold right enough, I fancy,
and must have belonged to one of the passengers
of this ship."

I wonder who wore it last," turning it
over. " I wish it could speak and tell us its
history, and how many years it is since it
was lost."

'' It was a woman's ring; you see it would
only just fit my little finger," observed Mr.
Lisle, putting it on as he spoke, " now try
it on yours." Helen slipped it on  it fitted
perfectly.

'' It is an old Posey or betrothal ring, 
at any rate it resembles one that my mother
used to wear ! "

Helen and Mr. Lisle ! what are you
doing ? " screamed Mrs. Creery. " You are
chattering away there, and not helping me
one bit." She was standing on the

ladder exactly as they had left her. " You
have never searched in the cabins ! He maybe
shut up in one of them ; try those opposite,
Helen ! Do you hear me ? "

Thus recalled to their duty, Mr. Lisle now
undertook to inspect one side of the saloon,
and his companion the other.  All the compartments
that Helen had examined Ncre
empty so far,  but she came at last to one,
with a closed door !

Take care ! it may be Blue Beard's
closet," suggested Mr. Lisle facetiously, ashe
looked in and out of cabins in his own
neighbourhood.

Helen laughed, turned the handle and
entered, the moon shone clear through the
careless port, and showed her a cabin exactly
similar to the others  just two wooden
worm-eaten bunks, and that was all. Behind
the door  ah ! a little song she was humming,
died away upon her lips, and she uttered a
stifled exclamation, as her startled eyes fell
upon a tall, powerful man in convict's dress,
in short, no less a person than Abooo Sait !
In a twinkling, his grasp was on her throat,

crushing lier savagely against the vall.
Vain indeed were her struggles, he was
strangling her with iron hands ; his fierce,
turbaned face, was within an inch of hers,
she felt his hot breath upon her cheek ! She
could not scream or move, her hands fell
nerveless at her sides, her sight was failing,
hearing seemed to be the only sense that
had not deserted her ! she could distinctly
catch the faint, irregular lapping of the
water against the old ship's sides, and Mrs.
Oreery's querulous voice calling " Nip, Nip,
Mp ! " whilst lie was dying !

"Well, have you found Blue Beard or
Nip?" demanded Mr. Lisle, pushing back
the door as he spoke. '' Good God ! "

In another instant, she was released ; she
breathed again. That awful grip was off
her throat, for with one well-delivered blow
Abooo's prey was wrenched from his grasp,
and he himself, sent staggering across the
cabin, but his repulse was merely momentary ;
the convict was armed with a knife ;  the
knife,  in a second it shone in his hand, and

with a tigerish bound he flung himself on
the new comer.

And now within the narrow space of that
cabin, commenced such a struggle for life
and death as has seldom been witnessed.
Mr. Lisle was a middle-sized, well-made,
athletic Englishman, endowed with iron
muscles, and indomitable pluck  but he was
over-matched by the convict, in bone and
weight. Abooo was six foot two, as wiry as a
panther, as lithe as a serpent, and all his efforts
were edged by the fatal fact, that lie had
everything to gain, and everything to lose !

The issue of this conflict meant to him,
liberty, and his very existence on one hand,
and Yiper Island, and the gibbet, on the
other.  Win he must,  since the stake was

his LIFE !

They wrestle silently to and fro, finally
out of the cabin, locked in a deadly embrace.
The Englishman, though stabbed in the arm,
had succeeded in clutching the convict's
right wrist, so that for the moment, that
sharp gleaming weapon is powerless ! Abooo,

on this side, holds this antagonist in a wolfish
grip by the throat  they sway, they struggle,
they slide and stagger, on the oozy floor of
the saloon. At the moment, the advantage
is with Abooo Sait  if he gets the chance, he
will strangle this Feringhee devil, and cut
the throat of that white-faced girl,  who is
still leaning against the cabin wall, faint and
breathless !

But he has not reckoned on another
female ! A female, who has ceased to call
*snip, Nip, Nip, Nip," and has now rushed
up on deck With out stretched arms, shrieking,
'' Murder ! murder ! murder ! "

Fly, save yourself ! " gasped Mr. Lisle to
Helen, at the expense of an ugly wound in
the neck ; she cannot fly ; a kind of hideous
spell holds her to the spot, gazing on the
scene before her, with eyes glazed with horror.
Her very hair seems rising from her head, for
she is perfect certain, that murder will be
done ; the convict will kill Mr. Lisle, and she
will be an involuntary witness of the awful
deed ! And yet she cannot move, nor shake

off this frightful nightmare : she is, as it were,
chained to her place. But hark ! her ears
catch distant singing, and the rise and fall
of oars. This familiar noise is the signal
of her release  the spell is broken.

They are coming, they are coming ! "
she screamed, and rushed upstairs, calling
Help ! help ! help ! " She sees the boats
approaching steadily in the moonlight, but,
alas! their occupants are so entirely engrossed
in chaunting " Three Blind Mice," that her
agonized signals, and Mrs. Creery's piercing
cries, are apparently, unnoticed ! And whilst
they are singing, uliat is being done in that
dark cabin down below ? She thought with
sickening horror, of those two struggling
figures, of that gleaming, merciless knife, and
hurried once more to the head of the stairs.
As she did so, she heard the sound of a heavy
fall, and in another moment, fear thrown to
the winds, she was in the saloon.

Mr. Lisle had slipped upon the slimy
boards, made a valiant effort to recover, but,
overborne by the convict's superior weight, he

fell, still locked in that iron embrace. In the
fall, the weapon had flown out of Abooo's hand, 
but only a short way, it was within easy reach ;
and now, Gilbert Lisle, your hour has come !
He sees it in the criminal's face, he knows
that his life is to be reckoned by seconds, and
yet his eye, as it meets that malignant gaze,
never quails, though it seems a hard fate to
perish thus, in this old hulk, and at the hands
of such a ruffian ! With his knee pressed
down upon his victim's chest, a murderous
smile upon his face, Abooo stretched out a
long, hairy, cruel arm, to seize the knife, just
as Helen reached the foot of the ladder.
Like lightning, she sprang forward, pounced
on it, snatched at it, secured it  and running
down the cabin, flung it far into the sea,
which it clave with one silvered flash, and
then sank.

Miss Denis was not nearly so much frightened
now,  nay, she felt comparatively brave
since that was gone. She heard the near
sound of voices, and a noise of many steps

hurrying downstairs. There was a desperate
struggle. In three minutes Abooo, once more a
prisoner, with his arms bound in his turban,
was led up on deck, cursing and howling and
spitting like a wild cat. Here we behold Mrs.
Creery, the centre of an anxious circle, volubly
narrating a story in which the personal
pronoun '' I " is frequently repeated ; and
Helen, quite broken down, and trembling from
head to foot, clinging to her father, looking
the picture of cowardice, as at the same
moment Mrs. Creery might have sat for the
portrait of "Bellona" herself.

Miss Caggett (who had had a most satisfactory
afternoon) approached the former,
and examined her curiously.  She was
scarcely able to speak, and was shaking like
a, leaf, and at this instant the General and
Dr. Malone came up from the saloon, followed
by Mr. Lisle minus his hat, his coat in rags,
and his arm in a sling. Every one looked at
him for a moment in silence, and then a
torrent of words broke forth  words conveying
wonder, sympathy, and praise.

But lie, scarcely noticing the crowd, went
straight up to Colonel Denis, and said, " Sir,
I suppose you know that your daughter has
just saved my life ? "

I  I  did not," he replied, astounded at
this rather abrupt address, '' I thought it
was the other way  that you saved hers ! "

That fellow nearly strangled her ; I'm
afraid she got a fearful shock."

Miss Denis," addressing her in a lower
voice, " words seem but feeble things after
such a deed as yours ; but believe me, that
I shall never forget what your courage, and
presence of mind, have done for me today."


No, no," she answered in a choked voice,
shaking her head, '' it was you  ijoiiy More
she could not utter, as the recollection of
her recent ordeal flashed before her, when
Abooo had his deadly clutch upon her throat.
She turned away, and hiding her face against
her father's arm, burst into tears.

What a queer, hysterical creature ! " remarked
Miss Caggett, socio voce to Dr.

!39

Malone. " All this fuss, just because Mr. Lisle
caught a convict, and the convict tore his coat ! "

I think there was more in it than that,"
objected her listener. '' The man nearly
strangled her, and he was armed ; somehow
she got hold of the knife, and threw it away.
The story is all rather conf used as yet  but
she is an uncommonly plucky girl ! "

She looks it," returned Lizzie with a
malicious giggle.

And," continued Dr. Malone, not noticing
her interruption, " as for Lisle, I always
knew that he was a splendid chap."

This speech was not palatable to Miss
Caggett ; she tossed her head and replied, 

"I see nothing splendid about him; and
for that matter, Mrs. Creery says that she
saved everybody  "

Oh, of course," ironically. '' I can tell
you this much, that it's well for Mrs. Creery
that it was not an elegant, indolent fop that
happened to be aboard, like her friend Mr.
James Quentin ; if he had fallen foul of
Abooooo, Abooooo would have made short work of

him with his flaccid muscles and portly
figure ; it was ten to one on the convict, an
exceptionally powerful man  he was desperate,
like a wolf in a cage, and he was
armed. However, Lisle is as hard as nails,
and a very determined fellow, and whatever
Mrs. Creery may choose to say, we owe her
valuable life to /wm."

'' He managed to save his own too,"
snapped Lizzie, as if she rather regretted the
circumstance.

Yes, but he has got a couple of very
ugly deep cuts.  One of them dangerously
near the jugular ! "

It strikes me, as a very curious fact,
that within the last two months Mr. Lisle
and Miss Denis have been concerned in
two most thrilling adventures : they were
nearly drowned coming from North Bay  at
least so she says  and now they have been all
but murdered, a remarkable coincidence, and
really very funny."

Funny ! Miss Caggett. I think it would
scarcely strike any one else, in a humorous

light ; it was a mere chance, and a lucky one
for Miss Denis, that she had Lisle to stand
by her on both occasions."

She is welcome to him, as far as I'm
concerned,"retortedtheyoung]ady,waspishly.

Dr. Malone grinned, and thought of " sour
grapes," and wondered if Miss Denis was
equally welcome, to Apollo Quentin ?

All the shelling parfcy were now assembled
about the deck, awaiting a boat,
which had been signalled for from Viper, to
take charge of the criminal. Mrs. Creery
was still volubly expounding to one or two
listeners ; Helen was sitting down with her
face well averted from the direction of Abooo,
who, guarded by brother-prisoners (boatmen),
stood near the bulwarks, looking the very incarnation
of impotent fury, and sullen despair.
His late opponent remained somewhat aloof
from the crowd, talking to Mr. Latimer; he
bore evident traces of the recent deadly
struggle, and leant against the weatherbeaten
wheel-house, as if he was glad of its
support. It was many a year since the deck
VOL. I. R

of the old wreck had carried such a crowd
of passengers. After a considerable delay,
the expected boat and warders arrived, and
the writhing, gibbering criminal, was despatched
in chains to Yiper, having previously
made several frantic efforts to throw
himself into the sea.  Mr. Lisle departed
in his own little skiff, accompanied by Dr.
Malone, and the brown dog, and the remainder
of the company re-embarked and
rowed back to Ross in unwonted silence;
there was no more singing, and even Mrs.
Creery was unusually piano. Mp, the immediate
cause of the search, and the strife,
and who had appeared in quite a casual
manner at the last moment,  now sat in
his mistress's lap, the picture of dignified
satisfaction  undoubtedly he considered himself
the hero of the hour.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

Malvern House 1

CHAPTER II.

'' You REMEMBER MiSS Denis ? " . . . .27

CHAPTER III.
Finnigan's Mare . . . . . . .60

CHAPTER lY.
"Crowmore Castle" 83

C Chapter Y.
Barry's Guess 98

CHAPTER YL
"The Fancy" 119

CHAPTER Il

"The Slave of Beauty"' 137

CHAPTER VIII.

PAGE

"The Apparition" 158

CHAPTER IX.
The Apparatus " . . . . . .176

CHAPTER X.
"In Confidence" 187

CHAPTER XI.
Sally's Substitute " 201

CHAPTER XII.
"The Market Girl" 224

CHAPTER XIII.
"Barry's Challenge". . . . . .235

CHAPTER XIV.
The Poacher's Ghost " 253

CHAPTER I.

MALVERN HOUSE

Come what, come may 

IS through the re

Macbeth.

Time and the hour runs through the roughest day."

A FEW days after her aunt had thus frankly
unfolded her plans, Helen was out shopping,
officiating as companion and carrier to her
cousin Clara  and assail encountered Mr.
Quentin. He was strolling down Piccadilly,
looking like a drawing from a tailor's fashion
plate, and evidently in a superbly contented
frame of mind. On this occasion, (being
alone,) he condescended to accost Miss Denis,
entirely ignoring their previous meeting in
the park.

VOL. III. B

"Delighted to see you" shaking her
vigorously by the hand. "And how long
have you been in town ? "

Nearly two months."

I need not ask you how you are ? " 
Yes, to himself, she was getting back her
looks.  " And where are you staying ? "

With my aunt  in Upper Cream Street."

"Upper Cream Street ! " he echoed, with
increased respect in his tone, and a look of
faint surprise in his dreamy blue eyes.
"Then I shall certainly make a point of
coming to see you.  What is your number
? "

Thank you, very much ; but I am leaving
noonday  (this was Saturday)  and," looking
him bravely in the face, she added, " I
am going to a situation. I am going out asa
governess."

Mr. Quentin was somewhat disconcerted
by this rather blunt announcement, but he
did not lose his presence of mind, and said
in his most airy manner, 

Oh, really !  well, then, on another occasion
I may hope to be more fortunate. 

Dulling the holidays, perhaps ? " glancing
interrogatively at Clara Piatt, who returned
his gaze with a stare of dull phlegmatic
hauteur, implying an utter repudiation of
her cousin, and all her concerns.

Turning once more to Helen, he said, 

Heard any news from Port Blair ? "

'' No, not lately."

Awful hole, wasn't it ? I wonder we did
not all hang ourselves, or go mad 1"

I liked it very much, I must confess,"
she replied, rather shyly.

'' Oh ! " shrugging his shoulders, '' everyone
to their taste, of course. No doubt it
seemed an earthly Paradise to a young lady
just out from school ; and you had it all your
own way, you know. By-the-bye, I wonder
what has become of Lisle ? Some one said he
was in California,  I suppose you have not
heard?"

There was a half-ironic, half-bantering
look in his eyes, and the same amiable impulse
that impelled him to pull the legs off flies
when he was a pretty little boy, was actuating
him now.

B 2

"I,'' she stammered, considerably taken
aback by this unexpected question, and meeting
his glance with a faint flush" Oh, no."

Well, I see that I am detaining you now,"
with another glance at Clara  "I hope we
shall meet again before long; good-bye,"
and with a smile and sweep of his hat, he
walked away in a highly effective manner.
He was scarcely out of ear-shot, ere Miss
Piatt burst forth, as if no longer able to restrain
herself, 

'* Helen, how could you ! How could you
tell him all our private affairs. I never was
so disgusted in my life. What was the good
of informing him that you were going to bea
governess, and, as it were, thrusting the
news down his throat ? "

What was the harm ? Eor the future, ot
courses will drop my acquaintance. Though
there is nothing degrading in the post, I am
quite certain that he, as he would call it,
draws the line at governesses,' and, indeed
 from what I have heard you say  so
do you."

Don't be impertinent to me, if you please.

Helen. I think you totally forget yourself
sometimes, and all you owe to mother and
to us."

*' You need not be afraid, that I shall ever
allow such a heavy obligation to escape my
memory," returned Helen, with complete
equanimity.

Was she likely to forget these months of
making, and mending, parcel-carrying, and
general slavery to her cousins Clara and
Carrie ? Her companion was conscious that
there was a hidden sting in this speech, but
contented herself with gobbling some incoherent
remark, lost in her throat, about
*' ingratitude " and " insolence." After this
little skirmish the two ladies did not exchange
another syllable, and they reached their own
hall door in dead silence.

Odious, detestable girl ! " cried Clara to
her sister, as she flung off her hat, and tore
off her gloves in their mutual bower. '' What
do you think ? When we were coming home
we met that Mr. Quentin, and he stopped and
talked to her for ever so long, and she never
introduced me ! "

Well, I'm sure ! However, it was no loss,
you know he has not sixpence."

''No; but listen. He asked her where
she was staying, and said he was coming to
call, and she actually told him, with the
utmost composure, that he need not mind,
as she was going to a situation on Monday
as soberness.  I was crimson ! I'm sure she
did it out of pure spite, just to make me feel
uncomfortable."

Not a doubt of it," acquiesced her sister.
How excessively annoying ! That man
knows the Shapes, and Talbots, and Jenkins',
and the whole thing will come out now ;
after all the trouble we have taken to keep it
quiet, and telling every one, she was going to
friends in the suburbs,"

Yes," chimed in Clara, wrathfully.
What possesses people to persecute us with
questions about our cousin  our prey cousin,
forsooth ! Such a sweet-looking, interesting
girl. Pah ! I'm perfectly sick of her name,
and the prying and pushing of one's acquaintance,
is really shameless. Old Mrs. Parsons
has returned to the charge again and again.

She lias no more tact or delicacy than a cook.
Do we ever worry her, about lier poor relations,
and ' how they have been leji as she
calls it''

iso, thank goodness," replied Carrie, emphatically
; now addressing herself to her
own plain reflection in. the looking-glass.
There is no coarse, vulgar curiosity about
%is I am happy to say. We are ladies."
And with this sustaining conviction in their
bosoms, these two sweet sisters, descended
affectionately arm-in-arm to luncheon.

On Monday morning, Mrs. Piatt herself
carried her niece to her future abode in the
family brougham. Their destination was a
square, detached, red brick mansion, remarkable
for long rows of windows with brown
wire blinds, an outward air of primness
bordering on severity, and a brass plate on the
gate the size of a tea-tray, which bore the
following address : " Malvern House  Mrs.
Kane's establishment for young ladies."

As Helen and her aunt ascended the spotless
steps, and rang the dazzling bell,
the sound of many pianos, all discoursing

different tunes, scales, songs, and exercises,
was absolutely deafening.

Mrs. Kane received her new governess
very graciously, and when Mrs. Piatt had
taken her departure, she personally introduced
her to the scene of her future labours
without any unnecessary delay; sweeping
down upon the classes with Miss Denis in
her train, and launching her into school-life
with a neat little speech, which had done
worthy service on similar occasions.

The schoolroom was a long apartment,
lighted by five windows, and lined with
narrow black desks, at which were seated
about fifty girls ; and although silence was
the rule, a little low buzz, a kind of intangible
humming of the human voice, was
distinctly audible to the new arrival, as she
stood in the midst of what, to a timid young
woman, would have seemed a kind of social
lion's den.

Mrs. Kane had twenty boarders and thirty
day scholars ; and between the two parties
an internecine war was quietly but fiercely
carried on from term to term, and from year

to year, and banded down from one generation
to another, as faithfully as the feud
between the Guelph and the Ghibellines.
It was rumoured in both factions that
Bogey's successor (" Bogey " was their flattering
soubriquet for their late governess)
had come in a carriage and pair ; Annie
Jones had seen it out of the music-room
window ;" and the young ladies were inclined
to treat her with more tolerance, than if she
had merely arrived in an ordinary '' growler."
Of course, all the hundred eyes were instantly
unwillingly fixed on the new-comer as she
walked up the room in the wake of her employer.
They beheld a young lady in deep
mourning, slight and fair, and  yes  positively
pretty ! quite as good-looking, and not
much older than Rosalind Gray, the belle of
the school. They noticed that she did not
appear the least bit shy or nervous (twelve
years in a similar establishment stood to
Helen now) ; she was not a whit abashed
by the gaze of all these tall, staring girls,
who were subsequently surprised to discover,
that she was perfectly conversant

with school rules and routine; and more
than this, that despite her youth, and fair,
sad face, she could be both determined and
firm.

A large staff of masters, who taught music,
singing, drawing, dancing, and literature,
came and went all day long at Malvern
House ; but the only resident teachers besides
Helen, were a Mrs. Lane, a widow,
who looked after the housekeeping, poured
out tea, and taught needlework, and Mademoiselle
Clemence Torsion, a Parisienne,
with whom Helen found herself thrown into
the closest companionship. They occupied
the same room, sat side by side at table, and
walked together daily behind the long line of
chattering boarders. Clemence was a young
woman of about eight-and-twenty, who had
come to England more with a view of learning
that language, than of imparting her own
tongue. She was square, and stout, and
sallow; was better conversant with French
poetry, than verbs, maintained her personal
dignity by a stolid impassive demeanour;
boasted a noble appetite, and was unblushingly

selfish, and surprisingly mean. She
honoured her new companion with a large
share of her confidence, and during their
daily airings, poured into her unwilling ears,
the praises of a certain adorable "Jules,"
and even compelled her, when half asleep, at
night, to sit up and listen to his letters !
letters written on many sheets of pink paper,
and crammed with vaguely sentimental
stilted sentences, signifying nothing tangible,
nothing matrimonial, but nevertheless affording
the keenest pleasure to Mademoiselle
Torsion. The young English teacher could
not afford to quarrel with so close an associate,
and feigned a respectable amount of
civility and interest ; but how often did she
wish ' ce cher Jules, not to speak of his
effusions,  at the bottom of the deep blue
sea!

Once or twice mademoiselle had hinted,
that she was good-naturedly prepared to
receive a return of confidences in kind ; and
had even gone so far as to say, *have you
ever had a lover ? "

Her listener's thoughts turned promptly to

A BIRD OF PASSAGE.

a certain moonlight night, the scent of
orange flowers, the shade of palms, and all
the appropriate accessories of a love tale, not
forgetting Gilbert Lisle's eloquent dark eyes,
and low whispered, broken vows. Nevertheless,
Miss Denis cleverly parried this
embarrassing question, and mademoiselle,
having but little interest to spare from her
own affairs, dismissed the subject with an
encouraging assurance, '' that, perhaps, some
day or other she might also have a Jules,"
as she was, though rather triste and frightfully
thin, " yas mal jour une Anglaise ! "

Mrs. Kane withdrew into private life, the
moment that school hours were over. When
the bell rang at four o'clock for the departure
of the day scholars, she disappeared, and left
the burthen of surveillance to Miss Denis and
mademoiselle  the latter, like the unselfish
darling that she was, shuffled off her share
of the load upon her companion's shoulders,
and generally ascended to her own room,
where she lay upon her bed, devouring
chocolate creams, and French novels for the
remainder of the day.

Helen's duties commenced at seven o'clock
in the morning, (at which hour she was
obliged to be in the school-room, to keep
order,) and they were not at an end till she
had turned off the gas in the dormitories at
half past nine at night; after that, her time washer
own,  and she was then at liberty, to
listen to Clemence's wanderings, and Rule's
last letter.

Mrs. Kane soon discovered that her new
governess was a clever girl, with stability and
force of character beyond her years ; moreover,
that she had unusual influence with
the pupils, and was popular in the schoolroom
; so she engaged her permanently at
a salary of forty pounds a year  and
washing. This offer was accepted with
alacrity, for Mrs. Piatt seemed to have
wholly forgotten her niece, and the comfortable
home that she had promised to secure
for her, and Helen gladly settled herself
down, as a permanent member of the Malvern
House staff". Weeks rolled into months,
months into quarters, and nothing came to
break the dull monotony of her existence.

beyond occasional letters from Mrs. Home
and Mrs. Durand, and a visit to Smithson
Villa ; she actually hailed the arrival of the
yellow brougham, with unalloyed delight,
and had not shrunk from sharing it,  not
merely with her hostess, and the dogs, and
the weekly groceries, but with a leg of New
Zealand mutton, that was to furnish forth
the family dinner. She liked Lady Grubb,
despite her little eccentricities. She even
enjoyed (so low had she fallen !) the perusal
of Mrs. Creery's latest effusions from Port
Blair. In Lady Grubb's back drawing-room,
with one of these in her hand, she seemed
to hold in her grasp the last feeble link that
bound her to her former happy life among
those distant tropical seas.

She did her utmost to live altogether in the
present, to invest all her thoughts and energies
in her daily tasks, and to shut her eyes to
the future  and still more difficult feat  to
close them to the past. Month after month,
she toiled on with busy, unabated zeal ;
(Mrs. Kane warmly congratulating herself
on the possession of such a rara avis, and

giving her (mentally) a considerable increase
of salary). Lie rose early, and went to rest
late, her mind was at its fullest tension all
day long; she was working at too high
pressure, the strain was beyond her physical
powers, and the consequence was, she broke
down. Gradually she lost sleep, and appetite,
became pale, and thin, and haggard.

'' My dear," said Mrs. Kane with some
concern, " we must get you away for a
change. The doctor says you ought to go
home, and have a good long rest."

But I have no home, Mrs. Kane.  I aman
orphan," she returned, gravely. 'i'm
not nearly as ill as I seem, in fact I'm not ill
at all ! There is nothing the matter with
me, I'm as strong as a horse. You must
not mind my looks ! "

Would you not like to go to your aunt's
for a week or two ? I see she has returned
from abroad."

'' No, thank you, I would ten times rather
go to the poor-house," she answered, unguardedly.
" Excuse me, perhaps I'm a
little hasty, but I'm proud, and I, if I must

come to beggary, prefer public charity, to
the private benevolence of relations."

But in spite of Helen's repudiation of the
hospitality of her kindred, Mrs. Kane wrote
a polite little note to 15, Upper Cream Street,
that brought Mrs. Piatt to Malvern House
the very next day,  in a peevish, not to say
injured, frame of mind.

Well, Helen," shee exclaimed, as her
niece entered the drawing-room, '' so I hear
you are in the doctor's hands ;"  making a
peck at her as she spoke. '' Let me see !
there's not much the matter with you, I
fancy.  For goodness' sake, don't getthe idea
into your head that you are delicate I "

'' You may be sure that that is the last
thing I shall do, Aunt Julia."

I must talk to Mrs. Kane, and tell her
you should take extract of malt. She will
have to fatten you up.  Yes, certainly, you
want fattening ;"  speaking exactly as if she
were alluding to a young Christmas turkey.
And so, I hear, you are giving satisfaction,
and that you are a very good musician, and
linguist! I am glad your poor father's

extravagant education, has not been entirely
thrown away ! Mrs. Kane speaks very
highly of you. But, dear me, child, why did
you not take equal advantage of other
opportunities ; why did you not make hay in
the Andaman s ? "

'hay! aunt. There was none to make,
beyond a very small crop in the Greneral's
compound."

You know very well what I mean, you
provoking girl ! I'm certain you had offers
of marriage. Now had you not ? "

Helen made no disclaimer to this, beyond
a slight shrug of her shoulders.

Come, come ! Silence gives consent.
How many ? "

What does it signify, aunt. All girls
out there  "

'' That is no answer," persisted Mrs. Piatt,
tapping her foot on the floor.

Well, I do not think it is fair to tell."

But you could have married ? "

Yes, I suppose I may admit as much as
that."

And instead of being comfortably settled
VOL. III.

in your own house, here you are, slaving
away all your best years, and best looks in a
school. I'm sure you are sorry enough now
that you did not say  Q \ ' "

On the contrary, I have never regretted
saying ' no,'  and never will."

Perhaps there was some one who did not
come forward ? " inquired the elder lady,
with a rather sour smile.

'* Perhaps there was, aunt ! " she rejoined,
with a laugh, that entirely baffled Mrs. Piatt,
who, after surveying her for some seconds in
searching silence, exclaimed, 

Well, you are a queer girl ! I can't
make you out ! I certainly could not imagine
you caring a straw for any man ! Your face
entirely belies your real disposition ; it gives
people the idea that you are capable of deep
feelings  perhaps of what is called ' une
grand passion '  whereas, in reality, you are
cold and as unresponsive as the typical iceberg.
However, considering your present
circumstances, and youth, and good looks, 
perhaps it is just as well ! "

Having delivered herself of this opinion,

as though it were an oracle, Mrs. Piatt sank
into a tone of easy confidential discourse,
and imparted to lier listener, that ber recent
campaign on the continent, had not been entirely
barren of results. A certain elderly
widower, had been '' greatly attracted " by
Clara, and had paid her considerable attention,
and that it was not unlikely, that they
would have a wedding before very long. And
after a good deal more in this strain, and yet
more, on the subject of the frightful expenses
she had incurred abroad, and the paralyzing
prices of some of the French hotels, Mrs.
Piatt, with a final recommendation of
extract of malt," went her way, and drove
home alone, in her comfortable, plush-lined
brougham.

Helen continued to struggle on from day today,
and conscientiously fulfilled her allotted
duties. She indignantly refused to accept
the role of invalid ; she told herself that,
could she but tide over the next six weeks,
she would contrive a trip to some cheap seaside
resort, and there recruit her shattered
health  her health that was her only capital!
c 2

What was to become of her if she broke
down? she would have no resource but
charity ! She shivered at the very thought.
Each day her round of tasks became more of
an effort ; she felt as if some dreadful, unknown
illness was lying in wait, and dogging
her steps hour after hour. Sometimes the
room swam round, and figures and words in
exercise-books seemed to mix and run about
before her aching eyes. But so far, by sheer
force of will, she fought off the enemy, and
fiercely refused to surrender.

When ten days had elapsed, Mrs. Piatt was
once more in Mrs. Kane's drawing-room, the
bearer of a letter in her pocket, that she
flattered herself would remove her poor relation
entirely out of her own orbit.

''My dear, I declare you look really ill 
very ill ! " she exclaimed, as her niece entered.
Don't come near me,"  moving suddenly
across the room, and making a gesture of
repudiation with both hands,  '' keep away,
there's a good girl ! I'm certain you are
sickening for .something,  diphtheria or
smallpox ! Small-pox is raging. You must

see a doctor immediately, and take precautions.
If it is anything, you will have to be
sent to hospital at once I "

You need not be the least alarmed, Aunt
Julia ; there is nothing the matter with me.
My head aches, and I'm tired sometimes ;
that is all, I assure you."

'' Oh, well,"  rather relieved  *' I'm sure 1
'hope so, otherwise it would be most awkward !
I understand now, that you really require a
change, and it is principally about that, I
have come over to see you. I have had a
letter I wish to show you,"  sinking into an
easy chair, and commencing to fumble in her
pocket. '' Yes, here it is,"  handing it to her
niece, who unfolded it, and ran her eyes over
the following effusion : 

Dearest Mother,  Carrie and I cannot
possibly go home this week, there is so much
coming off ; and ilfr. Jones is here ! Please
send down our black lace dresses, our new
opera cloaks, and some flowers from that
man in the Bayswater Road. We shall be
rather short of money, so you might enclose
some  say, a five-pound note  in an envelope

in my dress pocket. So sorry you are having
all this worry about Helen. What a tiresome
creature she is ! Of course it is quite
out of the question, that we should take her
in ; be sure you impress that very firmly on
her mind, mother dear. Is there not a
convalescent home for broken-down governesses
? Some charitable institution that she
could go to ?  "

*' Charitable institution ! " echoed Helen,
aloud.

Oh, dear me ! I believe I've given you
the wrong letter," exclaimed Mrs. Piatt, in
great confusion. '' Here ! this must be your
uncle's,"  extending her hand as she spoke.
"I'm getting so blind, and this room is so dark,
I really can't see what I'm doing," she added,
in a rather apologetic tone, her eyes sinking
before her niece's,  for she saw in them
that she had read what Carrie had written; as
for Helen, her heart beat unusually fast,
her nerves were on edge, her wrath was
kindled.

Quite out of the question that we should
take her in ! " She had never dreamt of

being lodged again under her aunt's roof, but
somehow, seeing the fact so plainly stated in
black and white, stung her to revolt.

What had her aunt and cousins done for
her, that she should be sent hither or thither
at their bidding ? She had toiled for them,
as an upper servant, a lady help, in return
for food and lodging, and she was now wholly
independent, and earning her own living by
incessant hard work. These thoughts flew
through her mind as she opened letter No. 2,
which was written in a small cramped hand on
a large sheet of paper, and ran as follows : 

'* Crowmore,

Terryscreen, May 8th.

Dear Madam,  I am this day in receipt of
your communication, informing me that my
late wife's niece, Helen Denis, is in England,
an orphan, and entirely dependent on her
friends."  '' Dependent on her friends ! " reread
Helen, quivering with indignation and
self-restraint.  " 1 shall be glad to give her a
home under my roof, and if you will favour
me with her address I shall correspond witH

her personally, and make all needful arrangements
for her journey to this place.

I am. Madam,

'' Your obedient servant,

"Malachi Sheridan."

A very kind letter," said his niece,
gratefully.

Yes, poor crazy creature," acquiesced
Mrs. Piatt, '' 1 suppose he lias lucid intervals,"
 then, after a pause, she added  " Of
course you will go, Helen ? "

I am not sure ; I must think it over."

'' Think it over ! what nonsense. What
more do you want ? At any rate, Helen,
bear in mind, that 1 have done all I can."

"Yes, Aunt Julia; pray do not trouble
yourself any more about me ; I release you of
all responsibility on my behalf, indeed, in
future, you may as well forget my existence ! "

She had risen as she spoke, and leant her
elbow on the chimney-piece, and her head on
her hand. She looked unusually tall, and
unexpectedly dignified. For a moment Mrs.
Piatt felt almost in awe of her penniless niece,

but lie soon recovered her ordinary mental
attitude, and said, rather sharply, 

Don't talk nonsense ! I see your nerves
and temper are completely unstrung ! I hope
you will be all the better for your trip to
Ireland, but I'm afraid you will find Mr.
Sheridan's girls, a pair of uncouth, ill-bred
savages, and, o course, the place is quite
in the wilds, and  "

So much the better, aunt ; I like the
wilds, as you call them, and you know I'm
accustomed to savages." *

Then I'm sure if yoii are satisfied,  I
am," said Mrs. Piatt, hufl&ly. *rand now I
really must be going, for we have some people
coming to dinner,"  and with a polite message
for Mrs. Kane, and a request that Helen
'' would write if anything turned up," a
vague sentence, meaning perhaps a good
situation, perhaps an offer of marriage, 
Mrs. Piatt embraced her niece, and took her
departure.

Helen remained shivering over the drawing-room
fire, re-reading her uncle's letter, and
pondering on her future plans. After all.

disappointing as lead been her experience of
cousins, she might yet draw a prize in the
lottery of fate, and she determined to brave
these Irish Sheridanss. She had thirty pounds
in her desk, quite a small fortune, and if the
worst came to the worst, she could always
beat a retreat. With this prudent reservation
in her mind, and a burning impatience
to escape anywhere, from her present surroundings,
she sat down that very hour, and
wrote a grateful acceptance of her uncle's
invitation, and announced her intention of
starting for Crowmore, within a week.

CHAPTER II.

YOU Remember MISS DENIS ? "

I say to thee, though free from care,
A lonely lot, an aimless life,
The crowning comfort is not there 
Son, take a wife."

Jean IngeJoic.

Scene : a splendidly furnished dining-room
in the most fashionable square in London ;
season, end of Juh ; hour, nine p.m. ;
dramatis personae, a father and son ; the
former, an old gentleman with a red face,
beaky nose, and bristling white hair, is holding
a glass of venerable port between his
goggle eye and the light, and admonishing
his companion, a sun-burnt young man, who
is leaning back in his chair and carelessly
rolling a cigarette between his fingers. A
young man so dark, and tanned, that his
visage would hot look out of place beneath a

Spanish sombrero ; nevertheless, we have no
difficulty in recognizing our former friend,
Gilbert Lisle.

'' It's positively indecent for a man of
your position to go roaming the world, like
some ne'er-do-well, or family black sheep.
FitzCurzon told me he met you on the stairs of
some hotel in San Francisco, in a flannel shirt,
butcher boots, hat, and a coat that would have
been dear at fourpence ! He declared, that you
looked for all the world like a digger."

*' Curzon  is  a  puppy, who trots round
the globe, because he says it's ' the thing todo,'
" (imitating a drawl), '' and never is seen
without kid gloves, and if asked to dine on
bear steaks in the Cockles, would arrive in
evening dress and white tie,  or perish in the
attempt ; not that he ever ventures off the
beaten track of ocean steamers and express
trains ; he could not live without his dressing-case,
and a hard day's ride would kill him.
He was in the finest country in the world for
sport, and he never fired a cartridge ! " It
was evident from the speaker's face, that this
latter enormity crowned all.

Well, you shot enough for six ! I should
think you have killed every animal, from a
mosquito to an elephant ; this house is a
cross between a menagerie and a museum.
You have been away two years this time, Gil,
Ton my word, you are as bad as the prodigal
son." Here he swallowed the port at a gulp.

I admit that I have been to a far country,
but you can scarcely accuse me of wasting
my substance in riotous living," remonstrated
his offspring.

'' I accuse you of wasting your time, sir !
which in a man in your position is worse.
Why can you not content yourself at home,
as I do, instead of roaming about like a play
actor, or the agent for some patent medicine !
Where's this you were last? a cattle ranch
in Texas,  before that, California,  before
that, Japan, dining on boa-constrictors, and
puppy dogs ; before that,  the deuce only
knows ; you are as fond of walking up and
down the earth, and going to and fro  as 
as  the devil in the Psalms, or where was it?"

"My dear father," replied Gilbert, with
the utmost good-humour, " you have compared

me to a black sheep, a digger,  and I
suppose, because it happens to be Sunday
evening,  to the prodigal son ; and finally,
the devil ! None of your illustrations fit me,
and the last I repudiate altogether ; his wanderings,
if I remember rightly, were in search
of mischief. Mine were merely in quest of
amusement."

*' Amusement and mischief are generally
the same thing, " grunted Lord Lingard.
AYliy, the deuce,  you are over thirty, and
getting as grey as a badger.  Why can't you
marry and settle ? "

Some people marry and never settle,
others marry, and are settled with a vengeance,"
rejoined his son, now proceeding to
light his cigarette.

Bah ! you are talking nonsense, sir, and
you know it ; a man in your position must
marry  heir to me, heir to your uncle, heir
to yourself."

'' Heir to myself," muttered Gilbert, " well,
I shall let myself off" cheap. I must marry,
must I ? Je n'en vols pas la necessity, Acres
moi le deluge. 

Oh, hang your French lingo ! " growled
his father. ''If I had not wanted you to
marry, I suppose you'd have brought me
home a daughter-in-law years ago  some
barmaid, no doubt."

Barmaid may be very agreeable young
women; but somehow, I don't think they
are just in my line, sir."

'' Line, sir, line ! I'll tell you what is in
your line ! confounded obstinacy. You had
the same strong will when you were a little
chap in white frocks,  no higher than the
poker. Once you took a thing into your
head, nothing would move you."

'' In that respect I believe I take after
you," returned his son, with the deepest
respect. ''A strong determination to have
your own way, helps a man to shove through
life  so I have understood you to say."

'' Had me there, neatly, Gilbert ! Yes,
you score one. Well  well  but seriously,  I
want to have a little rational talk with you.
There is that fine place of yours in Berkshire,
shut up all the year round  think  "

'' Don't say, of my position again, sir, I

implore you," interrupted his son, with a
mock tragic gesture.

"Well, your stake in the country  think
of your tenants."

I have remembered them to the tune of
a reduction of thirty per cent.  What more
do they want ? "

They would like you to marry some nice-looking
girl, and go down and live among
them."

If I did, and kept up a large establishment,
took the hounds, and kept tribes of
servants, and had a wife who dressed in
hundred-guinea gowns, and went in for
private theatricals, balls, races,  and probably
betting,  I should not be able to make
such a pleasant little abatement in the rent !
How would that be ? "

You would never marry a minx like that,
I should hope ! Listen to me, Gilbert," now
waxing pathetic, " I am getting to be an old
man, and you are all I have belonging to me.
I am lost here alone in this great big mansion.
Marry, and make your home with me ; my
bark is worse than my bite, as you know,

I would like to see a woman about the house
again  they are cheerful, and brighten up a
place, especially if they are young and pretty.
Just look at the two of us sitting on here
over our coffee till nearly eleven o'clock,
simply because the big drawing-room above
is emjDty.  I am not nearly as keen about the
club as I used to be, and these attacks of gout
play the very devil with me."

And here, to his son's blank amazement, he
suddenly dropped into poetry, and quavered
out, 

Oh woman ! in our hours of ease,

Uncertain, coy, and hard to please ;
When pain and sickness wring the brow,
A ministering angel thou."

*' You speak in the plural, sir," rejoined
Gilbert gravely. '* You say, you like to see
women about the house, that they are
cheerful, they brighten ud a place. Do you
suppose  granting that I am a follower of
Mormon  that six would be sufficient ? "

'' I am not in the humour for jokes ! I'm
serious, Gilbert, whatever you may be. I
want to see a pretty young face in the

VOL. III. D

carriage, and opera box, and the family
diamonds on a pretty neck and arms  they
have not been worn for years  the very
sight of them would make any girl jump at
you," he concluded in a cajoling voice.

Then, for heaven's sake, don't display
them."

Grilbert, you are enough to drive me mad.
I begin to think  'pon my word, I begin to
suspect  that you have a reason for all this
fencing," glancing at him suspiciously beneath
his frost-white eye-brows  " you
are married already, sir ; some low-born
adventuress, some disreputable  "

I am 7?.o," interrupted his son with a
gesture of impatience.

Then you are in love with a married
woman ! "

"You seem to have a very exalted idea of my
character, sir, but again you are mistaken."

Ha ! humph ! " tossing off a beaker of
port ; '' Then it just comes to this, you don't
think any woman good enough to be the wife
of Mr, Lisle ! Now honestly, Gilbert, have you
ever seen a girl you would have married ? "

Dead silence succeeded this question.

'' Come, Gilbert," pursued the old gentleman
remorselessly.

' Well, yes  such a person has existed,"
at length admitted his victim most reluctantly.


'' And where is she ? Why did you not
marry her ? Where did you meet her ? "

I met her in the Andamanss."

' The Andamanss ! Those cannibal islands !
This is another of your confounded jokes ! "
now looking alarmingly angry.  '' I know
as well as you do, that there are only savages
there. Do you take me for a fool, sir ? "

There was a large European community
at Port Blair. As to taking you for a fool,
it would be the last thing to occur tome
 on the contrary, the young lady took
me for one."

*' Then she never made a greater mistake
in her life,  never. And why did it not
come off ? "

She preferred another fellow,  that was
all."

Free erred I Humph  good matches must
D 2

have been growing on the trees out there.
Well, well, well," looking fixedly at his son,
'there's as good fish in the sea as ever
were caught  why not fall back on Katie ? "

'rit has not come to that yet sir  and I
Avould sooner,  if it was all the same to you,
fall back on a loaded revolver."

She has the mischief's own temper, I
allow  but what a property ! However, you
need not look for money  a pretty, lively
English girl, that wears her own hair and
complexion, and that can sing a song or
two, and get out of a carriage like a gentlewoman
 that's the style ! Eh, Gilbert ? "

I suppose so, sir," rejoined his son
gloomily; " but as the Irishman said, 'You
must give me a long day,  a long day, your
honour.' "

And the old savage replied,  " I remember
it perfectly  ' I'll give you till
tomorrow, the twenty-first of June, the
longest day in the year ! ' And your shrift
shall be a short one, mv bov. What
are you going to do with yourself tomorrow
? "

Do you mean, that you would marry me
off within the next twelve hours? "

No, you young stupid."

'' Oh  well  I want to look in at the
Academy, and a couple of clubs, and in the
evening I'm going to dine with the Durands
senior, and do a theatre afterwards with the
Durands junior."

"Oh !  Mary and her husband  Mary is
a sensible woman. I want to talk to her.
Ask her to dine  say Thursday ? Mary hasher
head screwed on the right way. I shall
consult her about you. Master Gilbert. I'll
see what she advises about you. She shall
help me to put the noose round your
neck."

The noose, indeed," repeated his son in a
tone of melancholy sarcasm.

'' Yes, yes, I'll settle it all with Mary." So
saying, the old gentleman went chuckling
from the room in a high state of jubilation.

The next afternoon Gilbert Lisle formed
one of a crowd who were collected before a certain
popular picture at the Royal Academy ;
but so far his view had been entirely obscured

\)j the broad back of a gentleman in front of
him ; it vaguely occurred to him that there
was something rather familiar in the shape
of those broad, selfish-looking shoulders !
when their owner suddenly turned round
and he found himself face to face with
James Quentin.

''By jove, old fellow!" exclaimed the
latter, shaking his hand vigorously, '' this
is a pleasant surprise ; and so you have returned
from your travels  where do you hail
from last ? "

Only New York ; I arrived two days ago,
and feel as if I had been away for ten years,
I'm so out of everything, and behind the
times  a second Rip Van Winkle."

'then I suppose you have not heard my
little bit of news ? "

No  o  but I fancy I can guess it, it's
not a very difficult riddle  you are married ! "

Right you are ! a second Daniel ! Come
away and speak to Mrs. Q. ; she will be delighted
to see you."

Gilbert had not bargained for this, he
would much rather never meet Helen Denis

again ; however, there was no resisting
Apollo's summons, and in another moment
lie was standing before a velvet settee, and
ere he was aware of it, his companion was
saying " Jane, my love, let me present an old
friend  Mr. Lisle, Mrs. Quentin."

He glanced down, and saw a magnificently-attired,
massive-looking dame, over whose
head fully forty summers had flown; she
was smiling up at him most graciously, and
holding out a well-gloved hand  this lady
was indisputably Mrs. Quentin,  but where
was Helen Denis ?

Her new acquaintance made a gallant
struggle to master his amazement, and to
utter a few bald commonplace remarks about
the heat, and the pictures ; and presently
suffered himself to be borne onward by the
crowd ; but Jim Quentin was not going to
lose sight of him thus. He had married a wife
considerably beneath him in birth, and it behoved
him to keep a fast hold of his wellborn
friends, and a secure footing on the
social ladder.

Lisle was a popular man ; he had discovered

this fact on Ins return to England, and had
made considerable capital out of his name in
various ways. It had proved to be an open
sesame to a rather exclusive circle, who cordially
welcomed Apollo, when they heard that
he and Gilbert Lisle were " like brothers,"
and had lived under the same roof for months.
Lisle had been useful at Port Blair  and he
would be useful in London.

Well, were you surprised to find that
there was a Mrs. Quentin ? " he asked, as he
came up with his quarry in a comparatively
empty room, chiefly devoted to the display
of etchings on large stands and easels.

"No, of course not  but," looking him
steadily in the face, " she is not the lady I
expected to see."

What ! " then all of a sudden he remembered
Helen  Helen, who had been completely
swept out of his mind by a twelvemonth of
busy intrigues, and such exciting pursuits as
fortune-hunting, tuft-hunting, and place-hunting.
*' Oh ! to be sure, you were thinking
of Miss Denis, but that did not come off,
you see," he added, with careless effrontery.

'' She was all very well  pour passer le temps
in an ungodly bole like the Andamanss, but,
by George ! England is quite another affair."

Is it  and why ? " inquired his listener,
rather grimly,

'' Oh ! my dear fellow, she has not a rap
she was literally penniless  when her father
died,  she was destitute."

But you always understood that she had
no fortune."

'eyes, but when I came to look at it, I
saw that it would never do. I had next to
nothing; she had nothing at all; one cannot
live on love, and I don't think I was ever
really serious. I did you a good turn though,
you were rather inclined to make afoot of yourself
in that quarter," administering a playful
poke in the ribs, and grinning significantly.

But the grin on his face faded somewhat*:
suddenly, as he encountered a look in his
companion's eyes, that made him feel curiously
uncomfortable.

Where is she now ? " inquired Lisle,
speaking in a low, repressed sort of tone.

'Pon my honour, I can't tell you ! 1 believe

she lias gone out as governess, best
tliiDg she could do, you know ; better than
marrying a poor devil like me," he added,
apologetically. '' She was a nice enough
little girl, and she had not half a bad time
of it at the Andamanss. I daresay she'll pickup
some fellow at home. Look here, old
chappie," button-holding him as he spoke,
'' this is my card and address ; now, what
day will you come and dine ? Got a tip-top
cook,  not that you ever were particular, 
my wife has pots of money, and we give
rather swagger entertainments. Whatever
day will suit you, will suit me ; you have only
to say the word."

*' I have only to say the word, have I ! "
cried Gilbert, suddenly blazing into passion,
then I say that you are a scoundrel, Mr.
Quentin.  I say that you have behaved like
one to that girl, that's what I say."

Apollo recoiled precipitately. He did not
like the angry light in his old friend's face,
nor the manner in which he grasped his cane.

"You jilted her, on your own showing,
in the most deliberate, cold-blooded manner.

Jilted her because sou were tired of a passing
fancy, and she was left, as you say, penniless
and destitute.  She may thank her stars fora
lucky escape ! Better she should beg her
bread, than be the wife of a cur like you !
There's your card," tearing it into pieces and
scattering it on the floor. " In my opinion,
you should be kicked out of decent society,
and turned out of every respectable club in
London. I beg that, for the future, you will
be good enough to give me a wide berth,"
and with a nod of unspeakable contempt he
turned and walked away, leaving his foe absolutely
speechless, with rage and amazement.
Underneath these mixed feelings, lay a
smouldering conviction that Lisle, for all his
customary nonchalance, could be as bitter
and unsparing an enemy, as he had been a
generous and useful friend. Pleasant, stately
houses would close  nay, slam their doors
on him, at a hint from Lisle, and if the story
got about the clubs, and was looked at from
Lisle's point of view,  it would be the very
deuce ! In his exaltation he had somewhat
forgotten the role he formerly played with

his fellow inmate,  and we know that to a liar,
a good memory is indispensable.  He had
spoken rashly and foolishly with his lips, and
lead been thus summarily condemned out of
his own mouth ! Alas I alas ! he already saw
his circle of well-beloved, titled friends
narrowing to vanishing point, as he now recalled
a veiled threat uttered by the very man
who had just denounced him ! On the whole,
Mr. Quentin felt that his little comedy with
Miss Denis would prove an ' expensive performance,
and he returned to his wealthy partner,
feeling very much like a beaten hound.
******

That evening, as Gilbert Lisle drove up to
the door of Mr. "Durand's mansion, he said to
himself, " Here I come to the very house of all
others, where I am most likely to lope 't he
sequel to that rascal's story. Mrs, Durand is
safe to know all about Helen Denis,  andif she
is the woman I take her to be, she won't be
longford I know as much as she does herself!
I shrill say nothing.  I shall not ask a single
question about the young lady ; not, indeed,
that it personally concerns me whether she

is on the parish or not. Still, I should like
to hear what has become of her."

He made these resolutions as he entered, and
passed upstairs, and presented himself in the
drawing-room.

Strange to say, Mrs. Charles Durand had
arrived at a precisely similar determination
with regard to him. Hitherto they had
only exchanged a few hasty words, had no
opportunity of raking up '' old days," but
to-hight it would be different; "At dinner
he is sure to make some allusion to Port
Blair, and her name will come on the ia])is
and I can easily judge by his looks, if there
was anything in my suspicions  and very
strong suspicions they were ! However,
I won't be the first to break the ice ; as far
as Helen is concerned  I shall be dumb."

Thus Mrs. Durand to her own reflection
in the mirror, as she attired herself for the
evening.

Here were two people about to meet, each
resolved to be silent, and each determined to
hear the other's disclosures on an intensely
interesting subject. As is usual in such

cases, the lady yielded first; lier opponent
was habitually reserved, and it came as
second nature to him, to wait and to hold his
peace. He had one false alarm during
dinner, when his former playmate, addressing
him across the table, said, with her brightest
air, 

"I saw a particular friend of yours to-day;
who do you think it was ? "

I have so many particular friends," he
replied, '' that's rather a large order."

"Well, a M?/ friend."

'' A lady friend ! They are not much in my
way."

''A lady you knew in the Andamanss,"
looking at him keenly.

He cast a quick, questioning glance at her,
but remained otherwise dumb, and she,
smiling at her own little ruse, said, 

In short, our well-beloved Mrs. Creery !
She was driving in the park, in a dreadful
yellow affair, like an omnibus cut down, along
with another remarkable old person. She was
delighted to see me, and hailed me as if I had
been a long-lost child ! "

Mrs. Durand smiled to herself again.  She



was thinking of the battle royal she had fought
with Mrs. Creery over the reputation of the
very gentleman who was now her vis-a-vis.

*' She asked particularly for you, and sent
you a message  I'm not sure that it was not
her love  and told me to be sure and tell
you, that Monday is her day."

'' I really don't see any connection between
Mrs. Creery's Mondays and myself," coolly
rejoined that lady's former let-noir. And,
with a few general remarks about Port Blair,
the monsoon, the sharks, and the shells, conversation
drifted back, to less out-of-the-way
regions.

The younger members of the party set out
after dinner for the Savoy, to see Grilbert and
Sullivan's latest production. They consisted
of Captain and Mrs. Durand, two young lady
cousins, a guardsman, and Mr. Lisle. Mrs.
Durand and the latter occupied the back seat
in the box, and discoursed of the piece,
mutual friends, and mutual aversions, with
a scrupulous avoidance of the one topic
nearest their hearts.

At last, the lady could stand it no longer ;
and, during the interval after the first act,

she turned to her companion, and said rather
sharply,  *' You remember Miss Denis ? "

Miss Denis  oh, yes ! of course I do ! "

Those are her cousins in the box next
the stage  those girls in pink."

Is she living with them ? "

Oh dear no ! She stayed a month or
two on her first arrival, and, by all accounts,
they led her the life of a modern Cinderella,
and afterwards turned her off to earn her
bread as a governess."

Indeed ! " he ejaculated, with such
stoical indifference, that Mrs. Durand felt
that she could have shaken him. But,
after a moment's silence, he added, " I
always thought she had married Quentin 
until to-day."

Oh, nonsense ! You are not really
serious ! Of course you are aware, that your
friend, Apollo, has espoused a widow with
quantities of money in the oil trade."

Pray do not call him my friend ; I am
not at all anxious to claim that honour," he
rejoined stiffly.

Then you have been quarrelling, I suppose.

I wonder if it was about the usual
thing  one of my sex ? "

It was.  I may say as much to you. In
fact it was about Miss Denis  he treated her
shamefully."

What makes you think so ? "  opening
her eyes very wide, and shutting up her
fan.

Because he was engaged to her at Port
Blair.  He toil me so. And when lie was left
penniless, he jilted her for this rich widow."

'' He told you that he was engaged to
Helen? Oh," drawing a long breath,
*' never ! "

' Yes, and showed me a ring she had
given him."

'* Again I say, never, never, never ! "

My dear Mrs. Durand, there is no good
in saying, never, never, never, like that. The
ring he exhibited, was one that I had given
Miss Denis myself ! "

"Oh, sets the wind in that quarter!"
mentally exclaimed the matron ; '' I thought
as much." But aloud she replied, " Was ita
curious old ring, without any stones, that

VOL III. E

was stolen from her the night of the
ball?"

"It was the ring you describe. But it
was not stolen, for she gave it to Quentin
when he went to the Nicobarss as a ' gaged'
am oar'' I expected that he would have
married her as soon as possible after her
father's death; indeed, I understood that he
was returning from Camorta with that intention.
But you see I have been so completely
out of the world, that I heard nothing further
till I met Quentin and his wife at the
Academy to-day ; and he calmly informed me
that he had never seriously contemplated
marrying Miss Denis, and that the Andamanss
and London are quite a different pair of
shoes ! Pray, do you call that honourable
conduct ? "

You are quite, quite wrong ! " cried Mrs.
Durand, excitedly. '' Now you have said
your say, it is my turn to speak ; and speak
I will," she added, with a gleam of determination
in her eye.

Oh, certainly ! " returned her listener,
with rather dry politeness.

"Helen was, and is, a particular friend of
mine, and I happen to how that she could
not endure Apollo Quentin ! She did not
even think him good-looking ! and he bored
her to death.  He stuck to her like burr,
and she could not shake him off. She would
ten times rather have talked to Captain
Rodney, or Mr. Green,  or even to ijoii ! She
was no more engaged to him than I was.
She never gave him that ring."  Here her
listener stirred, and made a gesture of impatient
protestation.  " That ring was stolen,
and sold for twenty rupees," concluded Mrs.
Durand, in her most forcible manner.

'stolen  sold!" he echoed, turning towards
her so suddenly that it made her start.
'ris this true?"

True? she repeated indignantly.

I do not mean to doubt you for one
second; but you may have been deceived."

At any rate, I had the benefit of my oitm
eyes and ears.  They do not often mislead
me."

Then how"

"If you will only have patience you shall

hear all. Helen stayed with me for the last
week at Port Blair ; and the night before
she sailed, when I went into her room I discovered
Fatima grovelling on the ground. at
her feet, and holding the hem of her dress,
and whining,  ' A  ma ! A  ma ! ' in true
native fashion. ' I very bad woman. Missy,'
she was saying; 'and I very sorry 7io?y. I
stealing jewels  why for I sent here? And
now I done take, Missy's ring and sell for
twenty rupees.' "

"Sold it! To whom?" interrupted Mr.
Lisle, his dark face flushing to his temples.

That she refused to divulge. All we
could prevail on her to confess was, that she
had taken it the night of the ball, and that she
did not think it was of any value ; but seeing
how much trouble Missy was in,  and Missy
going away to England, she was plenty sorry."

'' Stolen the night of the ball  sold for
twenty rupees, and Quentin showed it to me
the next morning ! " exclaimed Lisle.

After this summing up, he and Mrs. Durand
looked at each other for about twenty seconds,
in dead silence.

'' Where is Miss Denis now ? " he inquired
in a kind of husky whisper.

I wish I could tell you ! I'm a miserable
correspondent ; I never answered her last
letter, written from a school at Kensington.
I would rather walk two miles than write
two pages. It's very sad, and gets me into
great disgrace. But though I do not write,
I don't /orr/e people. As soon as T arrived
at home I went off to this school to see
Helen, and to make my peace."

'eyes?"

The house was all shut up, blinds down
in every window, the cook in sole charge,
every one else away for the holidays.
The cook only showed half her face through
the door, and was not at all inclined to be
communicative ; but I gave her something
to help her memory, and then she recollected,
that six wrecks before the school
broke up, the English governess had gone
away sick, but she understood that she had
not left for good.  School opens again on
the 1st of September," added Mrs. Durand
significantly.

"Meanwhile, where is she ?"

That is more than I can say."

Perhaps her cousins would tell you,"
glancing over at the Miss Platts.

*' Not they  if they did know, I doubt if
they would inform you, as they are even more
disagreeable than they look,  and that is saying
much. However, I shall get a friend to
sound them about their cousin. I believe
they treated her like a servant, and made
her carry parcels, run messages, mend their
clothes, and button their boots ! "

How did you hear this ? from Miss
Denis?"

'' She never named them. I'm afraid to
tell you, lest you should think me a second
Mrs. Creery."

'' No fear  there could be but one Mrs.
Creery  she is matchless."

'well, my sister's maid, Plunkett  now
really this is downright gossip  came to her
from the Platts, and one day we were talking
about fine heads of hair, and she described
the beautiful hair of a poor young lady in her
last place,  Mrs. Piatt's niece, Miss Denis ;

and so it all came out, for of course I pricked
up mj ears when I heard her name."

During this conversation the curtain had
risen on the second act, and the entire
audience was convulsed with delight at one
of G-rossmith's songs, and yet these two
talked on, and never once cast their eyes to
the stage. Indeed, Mrs. Durand had almost
turned her back on the actors, and was
wholly engrossed in an interesting little
drama in private life. The other occupants
of the box were in ecstasies with the performers,
and Captain Durand, after gasping
and wiping his eyes, turned to his wife
impatiently, and said, 

Well, really, Mary, you might just as
well have stayed at home, and talked there ;
you have done nothing but gossip.  I thought
you were wild to see this piece. If you are so
bored yourself, you might at least give Lisle
a chance of enjoying it ! "

*' Charley says I must not go on chattering
any longer, distracting your attention from
the play. We can finish our conversation
another time."  So saying, she took up her

opera-glass, and addressed herself seriously
to the performance.

As for Gilbert Lisle, he leant back in his
chair, and also fixed his eyes on the stage,
but he saw absolutely nothing. If he had
been asked to describe a character, a scene,
or a song, he could not have done so to save
his life. His mind was in a state of extraordinary
confusion; he was dazed, overwhelmed,
at the situation in which he found
himself.

So he had been the dupe, and tool, of
Quentin from first to last ! It seemed incredible,
that Quentin, to gain a momentary
empty triumph, had stooped to theft, in
order to bolster up a lie, and maintain his
reputation as a lady-killer. Then as for
Miss Denis,  if she had not been engaged to
Quentin, and had never parted with the ring,
what must she think of him ? He held his
breath at this poignant reflection. If anyone
had jilted her,  if any one had behaved
vilely, if any one was a dishonoured traitor,
it was he  Gilbert Lisle  sittings there
staring stupidly before him, surrounded
by ignorant, and confiding friends, who believed

bim to be a gentleman, and a man of
honour ! As be cast bis eyes over a mental
picture, and saw himself, as be must appear to
Helen, he was consumed by a fever of shame,
that seemed to devour him. To live under
the imputation of such conduct, was torture
of the most exquisite description to a man of
his temperament ;  who bad such a delicate
sense of personal honour, and such chivalrous
reverence for other people's veracity, that he
had fallen an easy prey to an unscrupulous
brazen-tongued adventurer, like James Question.
Fury against Quentin, restored faith in
his lost fiancee, were all secondary to one
scorching thought, that seemed to burn his
very brain  the thought of the disgrace that
lay upon his hitherto unblemished name.
To have sworn to return to a girl,  to have
vowed to make her bis wife,  and to have
miserably deserted her, without message, or
excuse,  left her to bear the buffets of adversity
as best she could,  to earn her own living,
or to eat the bread of charity, was maddening
 maddening. He must get out of the
theatre into the open air ; but first he
leant over Mrs. Durand's chair, and spoke

to her in a few broken and imperfect sentences.


'' What you have told me to-night, has a
significance that you cannot guess " (oh, could
she not). "It alters  it may alter  the
whole course of my life. Mrs. Durand 
Mary ! you were always my friend, be my
friend now. When you get her address, and
you will get it  you must get it,  to-night,
tomorrow  you will give it to me in the same
hour  promise."

 Why should I promise ? " she asked playfully,
delighted to see the immovable Gilbert
for once a prey to some powerful emotion.

He was pale  his very lips were trembling,
big beads of perspiration stood upon his
temples.

'' Why should I tell you especially ? "  she
repeated, but looking in his face, she saw that
he Alas too terribly in earnest to be in the
mood for light badinage. Looking in his
face, she read the answer.

I see,  yes, you may depend on me."

Reassured by this pledge, he grasped her
hand in silence, and rose to leave the box.
But ere he departed, she turned her head

over her shoulder, and murmured behind her
fan, " I believe it is all going to come right at
last.  And, Gilbert," lowering her voice to a
whisper, ''I always suspected that it was you
*' What's the matter ? What has become
of Lisle?" inquired her husband, looking
sharply round as he heard the door close.
Where is he ? Why has he gone away ? "
'' He was not in the mood for light
comedy, my dear. He has just heard something
of far more powerful interest than
The Silver Churn," nodding her head impressively.
' You remember a bet you made
about him and Helen Denis, one evening in
the Andaman s ? "

'' I don't remember any bet  but I know
you had some impossible idea in your head."
Then I recollect the wager  distinctly 
a new bonnet. And my idea may seem
impossible, but it is true. It was not that
odious puppy, Apollo Quentin, who was in
love with Helen, it was,  as I repeatedly told
you,  Gilbert Lisle. So tomorrow, my good
Charles, I shall go to Louise's and invest 
at your expense  in the smartest bonnet in
London."

CHAPTER III.

finigan's make.

I do not set my life at a pin's fee."  Hamlet.

Helen's preparations for departure were
rapidly accomplished ; she had bo voluminous
wardrobe to pack, no circle of farewell
visits to pay. Moreover, she was possessed
by a feverish desire to escape, as far as
possible, from maddening pianos, piles of
uncorrected exercise-books, and the summons
of the inexorable school-bell. She set
out for Crowmore on the appointed date,
with a delightful sense of recovered freedom,
but  as far as her unknown relatives were
concerned  strictly moderate expectations.
Precisely a week after she had received her
uncle's invitation, behold her rumbling across
dear, dirty, Dublin, in a dilapidated four-wheeler,
drawn by a lame horse  her tender

heart would not suffer her to expostulate
with the driver on their snail's pace, and as
the result of her benevolence, she missed her
train by five minutes, and had the satisfaction
of spending a long morning, in contemplating
the advertisements in the
Loadstone terminus. At length, after four
hours' leisurely travelling, she was deposited
at a shed labelled ''Bansha," the nearest
station to Crowmore. Bag in hand, she
stepped down on the platform and looked
about her; she was apparently the only
passenger for that part of the world, and
there was no one to be seen, except a few
countrymen lounging round the entrance 
the invariable policeman, and one porter.
She gazed about anxiously, as the train
steamed slowly away, and discovered that
she was the cynosure of every eye,  save the
porter's, and he was engrossed in spelling
out the address on her trunk.

' You'll be for the Castle, Miss?" he
remarked at last, straightening his back ashe
spoke.

"No, for Crowmore, Mr. Sheridan's," she

replied, walking out through the station-house
over into the station entrance, in the
vague hopes of finding some conveyance
awaiting her, and her baggage  but all that
met her anxious eyes, was a little knot of
countrymen, who were gossiping round a
rough rider, on a heavy-looking brown colt.

** Sure, Mr. Sheridan's and the Castle is
all wan, miss," said the porter, who accompanied
her, carrying her bag. " The young
ladies wor here this morning, in a machine
from Terry screen, they expected you on the
twelve,  and when you were not on that, they
made sure you were coming tomorrow 
they'll be here thin."

This was but cold comfort to Helen.
How far is it to Crowmore ? " she asked.

'well, it's a matter of in or about six
mile."

'' And how am I to get there ? "

Faix, I don't rightly know ! unless
Larry Flood gives you a lift on the mail ;
aether that, or you could get an asses' car
up the street," indicating a double row of
thatched cottages in the distance.

And when do 3011 think Larry Flood will
be here ? " inquired the young stranger 
ignoring his other humiliating suggestion.

Troth, an' it would be hard to say ! 
it entirely depends on the humour he's in 
he calls for the letters," pointing to a bag in
the doorway. '' Just as he takes the notion,
sometimes he is here at five o'clock, and betimes
IVe known him call at one in the
morning ! "

A sudden interruption made him turn his
head, and he added, with a triumphant slap
of his corduroy leg, " Begorra, you are in
luck. Miss,  for here he is now ! "

As he spoke, a red outside car, drawn by
a wild-looking chestnut, wearing a white
canvas cellar, and little or no harness, came
tearing into the station, amidst a cloud of
dust. The driver was a wiry little man,
with twinkling eyes, that looked as if they
were never closed, a protruding under-lip,
and an extravagantly wide mouth. He was
dressed in a good suit of dark tweed, and
wore a green tie, and a white canteen.

"What's this ye have with ye, the day,

Larry?" demanded one of the idlers, as he
narrowly examined the animal befcwean the
shafts. 'may I never," he added, recoiling
a step backwards, and speaking in an awestruck
tone ; " if it isn't Finnigan's mare ! "

The civil a less ! " rejoined Larry, complacently.
'' Finnigan could get no good of
her, and the old brown was nearly bet up.
I'll go bail she'll travel for me," he added,
getting off the car as he spoke, and giving
the collar a hitch.

But this proud boast was received in
ominous silence, and all eyes were now
riveted on Mr. Flood's recent purchase  a
white-legged, malicious-looking, thoroughbred
 that was seemingly not unknown to
fame.

'' Well," said a man in a blue tail coat,
after a significantly long pause; 'rit's nob
that she won't travel for ye, there's no fear
of ihai I hope you may get some good of
her, for she's a great mare entirely  but she
takes a power of humouring."

Sure she knocked Finnigan's new spring
car to smithereens ere last week," put in the

rider of the coarse-looking brown colt, " nota
bit of it was together, but the wheels, and
left Finnigan himself for dead on the road.
Humouring, how are ye ? " he concluded
with a kind of scornful snort.

"You got her chape, I'll engage, Larry,
me darling," remarked another of the idlers.

Faix, and I paid enough for her," returned
her owner stoutly. " It sent every wan
that would sit over her ! she does be a bit
unaisy in herself betimes " (a delicate allusion
to her well-known habits of kicking and
bolting). " Howsomever, she's a grand
goer, and I bought her designedly on purpose
for the post.  'Tis she can knock fire out of
the road."

Oh ! them sprigs of shellelagh can all do
that," acquiesced a bystander, who had
hitherto observed a benevolent neutrality ;
but they does be dangerous bastes."

"What's that you have there, Tom?"
inquired Larry, looking at the rough rider.

Oh ! a terrible fine colt of Mr. Murphy's
I'm just handling him a bit, before the
next cub-hunting."

VOL. III. h'

He is a great plan of a horse," said the
man in the blue coat, speaking with an air
of authority, and his hands tucked under
his long swallow-tails.

Look at the shoulder on him ! " exclaimed
a third connoisseur.

All this was by no means agreeable to
Mr. Flood, considering the tepid praise bestowed
on his own purchase.

What do you think of her, Larry ? " inquired
the rider. " Come now, give us your
opinion ? " he added in a bantering tone.

Well, I think," said Larry, gladly seizing
this opportunity to pay off Tom, the horse-breaker,
and eyeing the animal with an air
of solemn scrutiny. " Well, now, I'll just
tell ye exactly what I think  I think he
looks lonely.''

*'Arrah, will ye spake English!" cried
his rider, indignantly ; " sure, lonely has no
meaning at all  nor no sense."

I just mane what I say  he has a lonely
look," and with a perceptible pause, and a
wink to the audience, he added, 'for the
want of a plough behind him ! "

At this joke there was a roar of laughter
from all, save Tom, the horse trainer, who
glared at Larry in a ferocious manner that
was really fearful to witness, but Larry,
nothing daunted, turned to the porter with
an ofF-hand air, and said, 

** Anything for me, Pat ? "

Nothing at all  barren' the mails  and
this young lady ! I'm after telling her, you'll
lave her at the gate. She's going to the
castle, only  " Approaching nearer, and
whispering behind his hand, with a significant
glance at Finnigan's mare.

Oh, the sorra a fear ! " rejoined Larry,
loudly, and then addressing Helen, he said, 

''Up ye git, miss, and I'll rowl ye there
as safe as if ye were in a sate in church."

It was all very well to say '' Up ye git,"
but, in the first place, there was no step to
the car, and in the second, it is by no
means an easy feat, to climb on any vehicle
when in motion, and Larry's rampant investment
kept giving sudden bounds and playful
little prancing, that showed her impatience
to be once more on the road. However, by

F 2

dinfc of being held forcibly down by the united
strength of two men, she consented to give
the lady passenger an opportunity of scrambling
up on the jarvey, and Larry having
produced a horse-sheet (with a strong bouquet
of the stable), wrapped it carefully about her
knees  then mounting on the other side of
the vehicle himself, he laid hold of the reins,
and with a screech to his friends to " give
her her head,"  they were off, as if starting
for a flat race  accompanied by a shout of
' Mind yourself, miss," from the friendly
porter, and " Safe home, Larry," from the
little knot of spectators, who were gathered
round the station door.

At first, all the '' So-going " and 'easy
now, my girl," might just as well have been
addressed to the hard flint road, along
which they were rattling. The 'girl" kept
up what is known as " a strong canter" for
the best part of a mile, and Helen's whole
energies were devoted to clinging on with
both hands, as the light post-car swung from
side to side with alarming velocity.

You need not be the haste taste unaisy,

she's only a bit fresh in herself," said Larry,
soothingly, " and after a while when she
settles down, you'll be delighted with the way
she takes hould of the road."

A very stiff hill moderated the pace, and
Finnigan's mare, subsided perforce into a
slashing trot, and 'took hold of the road"
as if she were in a passion with it, and would
like to hammer it to pieces with her hoofs.
And now at last Helen ventured to release
one hand, and look about her; she was
struck with the bright, rich verdure of the
surrounding scenery  Ireland was well
named " The Emerald Isle," she said to
herself, as her eyes travelled over a wide
expanse of grass, thick hedges powdered
with hawthorn, and neighbouring green
hills, seemingly patched with golden gorse.
Very few houses were visible, no sign of
towns or smoky chimneys were to be descried
this was the real unadulterated country,
and she drew a long breath of satisfaction,
due to a sense of refreshment, and relief.
Now and then they passed a big empty place,
with shuttered windows ; now a prosperous-looking

farm, with ricks and slated outbuildings,
and now a roadside mud cabin.
Finnigan's mare, dashing madly through
poultry, pigs, goats, and such sleeping
creatures as might be imprudently taking
forty winks, in the middle of the little-used
highway  which highway, with its overhanging
ash-trees, tangled hedges, and wide
grass borders, was the prettiest and greenest
that Larry's passenger had ever beheld 
this much she imparted to him, and he being
ripe for conversation, immediately launched
forth with the following extraordinary
announcement : 

'' Och, but if ye had seen these roads
before they were made ! 'tis then ye might
be talking' ! There was no ways of getting
about in ould times  no play for a free-going
one like this," nodding exultingly at the
chestnut, who was flying down hill at a pace
that made the post-car literally bound ofl: the
ground. '' She's going elegant now  these
chestnuts does mostly be a bit " hot "  but
where would ye see a better traveller on all
the walls of the would ? "

She is not quite trained, is she ? "
Well, not to say all out,' he admitted reluctantly;
"she's had the harness on her about
a dozen times, and she never did no harm 
beyond the day she ran away at Dan Chance's
funeral, and broke up a couple of cars ; and
'twas Finnigan himself was in fault  he'd had
a drop. Sure, she's going now like a ladies'
pony ! May be you'd like to take the reins
in your hands yourself, miss, and just/ee her
mouth ? "

But Helen, casting her eyes over the long,
raking animal in front of her, and observing
her starting eyes, quivering ears, and tightly
tucked-in tail, had no difficulty in resisting
Larry's alluring offer. Little did she know
the vast honour she was rejecting. Larry,
(like most Irishmen,) was not insensible to a
pretty face, and rating this young lady's
courage beyond its deserts  owing to her
equanimity during their recent gallop, and the
tenacity of her hold upon the jaunting car 
paid her the greatest compliment in his power,
when he offered her the office of Jehu. Helen
having politely, but firmly, declined the reins.

breathed an inward wish that the animal who
had behaved so mischievously at Dan Chance's
funeral, would continue her present sober
frame of mind until she was deposited at
the gates of Crowmore. And now Larry
began to play the cicerone, and commenced
to point out various objects of interest, with
the end of his whip, and the zest of a native.

'that's Nancy's Cover," he said, indicating
a patch of gorse. " There does be a
brace of foxes in it every season  that ditch
beyond,  running along in company with the
cover, as far as your eye will carry you,  goes
by the name of " Gilbert's Gripe," because
it was there  a nephew of Mr. Redmond's I
think he was, in the horse soldiers  pounded
every other mother's son in the field ! Be
jabers, I never saw such a lep ! and the
horse  the very same breed of this mare
here  he never laid an iron to it ! That's
Mr. Redmond's place, in the trees beyond,
and bryant again is the castle. What
relation did ye say ye wor to Mr. Sheridan ? "

Helen was not aware that she had mentioned
Mr. Sheridan at all, but she replied, 

'' His niece  bis wife's niece."
*' You never saw him, I'll go bail ? "
]o, never : but wb} do you think so ? "
Troth, and 'tis easy known, if you had,
you would not be wanting to see bim twice."
Larry grinned from ear to ear, but Helen's
heart sank like lead, at this depressing piece
of intelligence.

He is greatly failed since be buried the
mistress," continued Mr. Flood. *' He is a
poor innocent creature now, and harmless ;
he does be always inventing weathercocks,
and kites, and such-like trash, when be ought
to be looking after the place. Miss Dido
does that ; ob, sbe's a clever wan. Just a
real trade of a young lady ! "

"Do you mean that sbe manages the farm?"
Troth, and wbo else r 'isn't the poor
simple ould gentleman  the Lord spare bim
what senses be has  for be would make a
very ugly madman ! Miss Dido minds the
books, and the business, and the garden, and
the money  not that there's much of that to
trouble ber  and Darby Chute, a man that
lives at the " Cross," bays and sells a few

little bastes for her, and sees to the turf-cutting
and the grazing. The shooting's all
let  a power of the land too. What the
ould mm does with the rent of it, bates all."

I suppose Darby Chute is a faithful old
family servant?" said Helen, her mind recurring
to the ancient retainers of fiction.

Bead, he is ould enough ! but T would
not answer for more than that ; he is Chute
by name, and 'cute by nature, I'm thinking !
Mr. Sheridan has a warm side to him, and
laves him great freedom.  The ould steward
that died a few years back, was a desperate
loss. Stow he was a really valuable man ;
'tis since then they have Darby, who was
only a ploughman before. I'm sorry for the
two young ladies ; they go about among the
people, so humble and so nice, as if they had
not a shilling in the world  and more betoken
they haven't many.  I wish to the Lord they
were married ! but they are out of the way
of providence here,  there's no quality at all,
this side. They do say, young Barry Sheridan
does be entirely taken up with Miss
Kate ; but he's the only wan that's in it,

and no great shakes aytlier ; and in my
opinion  "

Is there no one living over there ? " interrupted
his listener, averse to such disclosures,
and pointing to a long line of woods
on the horizon.

Sure, didn't I tell you that it was all
Mr. Redmond's, of Ballyredmond ? The old
people does be there, and an English young
lady betimes, she is mighty plain about the
head. I never heard them put a name on
her." Then in quite an altered tone, he added
excitedly, " By the powers of Moll Kelly,
bat I see the Cornish post-car, there ahead
of us in the straight bit of road. Do you
notice him, miss ? the weenchie little speck.
I do mostly race him to the Cross of Care
Chapel, where oar roads part, and I'm thinking
I've the legs of him this time ! Altho' he
has the old piebald, and a big start ; we will
just slip down by the short cut through the
bog, and nail him neatly at the corner ! "

At first this announcement was Greek to
his fare,  but she began to comprehend what
he meant, as he turned sharply into a bye-way,

or boreen, and started his only too
Cavilling steed, at a brisk canter !

There's Care Chapel," he said, indicating
a slated building on the edge of a vast expanse
of bog. " You'll see how elegantly we
will disappoint him ; he is on the upper road,
and that puts a good mile on him. It will
be worth your while to watch his face, as we
give him the go-by, and finds we have bested
him after all ! ! ! Do you get the smell of
them hawthorns, miss ? they are coming out
beautiful," (as they careered along a narrow,
grassy, boreen, between a forest of may-bushes,
white with flower.) '' And now here's
the bog," he added, proudly, as the boreen
suddenly turned into a cart track, running
like a causeway through a wide extent of
peat and heath, that lay far beneath on either
side, without the smallest fence, or protection.
It was an exceedingly awkward, danger-overlooking
place, and they were entirely at
the mercy of Finnigan's mare, who rattled
joyously along, pricking her dainty ears to
and fro, as if she was on the qui vive for the
smallest excuse to shy, and bolt,  and the pretext

was not wanting ! Am idle jackass, in the

bog below, suddenly lifted np his voice, and

 brayed a bray so startlingly near, and so

piercingly shrill, that even Helen was appalled;

how much more the sensitive creature between

Jhe shafts, who stopped for one second, thrust

;er head well down between her fore-legs,

wrenched the reins out of Larry's hands,  and

ran away !

Begorra, we are in for it now," he shouted.
Hould on by your eyelashes, miss; we will
just slip off quietly at the first corner. Rape
yourself calm ! Bad scram to you for a repaired
civil" (to the mare). 'bad luck to them
for cotton ould reins," reins now represented
by two strips of leather, trailing in the dust.

'' Oh ! murder, we are done ! " he cried, ashe
beheld a heavily-laden turf-cart, drawn up
risfht across the track.

'' Oh, holy Mary ! she'll put us in the bog."

The owner of the turf-cart, was toiling up
the bank with a final creel on his back, when
he beheld the runaways racing down upon
his devoted horse and kish. His loud execrations,
were idle as the little evening breeze

that was playing with the tops of the rushes
and the gorse,  Finnigan's mare was already
into them ! With a loud crash, and a sound
of splintering shafts, a thousand r Is of turf
were sent flying in every direction. Helen
was shot off the car and landed neatly and
safely in a heap of bog mould that luckily
received her at the side of the road ;  Larry
also made a swift involuntary descent, but ina
twinkling had sprung to his feet, and seized
his horse's head, calling out to his companion,
as she picked herself up, 

'Tis yourself that is the fine souple young
lady, and not a hair the worse; neither is the
mare, barren' a couple of small cuts, and one
of the shafts is broke,  faix, it might have
been serious ! "

Array, what sort of a driver are ye, at
all?" shouted the owner of the turf cart,
breathless with rage, and haste. " Oh, 'tis
Larry Flood,  an' I might have known ! "

And what call have you to be taking up
the whole road ? " retorted Larry loudly. 
The civil sweep you, and your old turf kish
that was nearly being the death of us ! "

*' All ! and sure wasn't she running away
as hard as she could lay leg to ground' ? "

Well, and if she tuas ; didn't she see you
below in the bog, and take you for a scarecrow?
and small blame. Here, don't be
bothering' me, Tim Moony, but lend a hand
to rig up the machine, and the tackling."

Thanks to the turf-cutter's generous
assistance, in a very short time, Mr. Larry
Flood was enabled to come forward and announce
to his fare, who had dusted her dress
from bog-mould and taken a seat on a piece
of wood, that '' he was ready, if she was."

The young lady accordingly rose, and followed
him, and gravely inspected the turn out.  The
car was all down on one side still,  the result
of a spring broken in the late collision,  but
the reins had been knotted together,  and the
shaft was tied up with a piece of twine.

'' It will hould all right," said Larry,
following her eyes. '' Any way, it will carry
your distance, I'll go bail."

*' Thank you ; but am not going to try the
experiment. I'm stiff enough as it is; and
one fall in the day, is ample for the present."

'' Fall ! What fall ? Sure ye only jumped
off the car, Didn't I see you with me own
Wo eyes ? And 'tis yourself that has them
nice and tight under you ! and in elegant proportion
!  meaning your ankles. Miss,  and
no offence."

'all the same, I shall walk, fall or no
fall," returned his late passenger, with a
scarlet face.

'' You are a good mile off it yet," expostulated
Larry. " How will you get there ? "

'' On foot."

And your bag ; is that going on foot, as
well?"

Perhaps you would leave it as you pass? "

'' Indeed, and I will ! Of course you are
only English, and what could ye expect ; but
at the first go off, you were as stout as any
lady that ever sat on a car."

*' Stout ? " she echoed in supreme amazement.
But perhaps in Ireland things had
different names.

I mane stout-hearted ! and now, after
all, you are going to walk. To ivalk T he
reiterated, with indescribable scorn.

'* Yes, and you will take the bag  it has
no neck to break."

To be sure, I'll lave it with pleasure;
but  " and here he paused rather significantly.


Of course I'll pay you," she said, fumbling
for her purse. '' How much ? "

"Oh, well, sure,  nothing at all ! I would
not be charging the likes of you. 'Twas an
honour to drive such a beautiful young lady."

'' How much ? " she repeated, with a little
stamp of her foot.

Well, thin, miss, since you are so
detaining, we won't quarrel over two half-crowns
; and if you would like me to drink
your health in the best that was going,"
rubbing his mouth expressively with the back
of his hand, " we will say six shillings."

Helen immediately placed six shillings in
his greedy palm.

'' Thank you kindly, my lady, and may you
live seven years longer than was intended for
you. It's not viy fault, that I did not lave
you at your journey's end, as Tim Moony will
allow.  There's the mare," waving his hand

VOL. III. G

towards the wicked-looking chestnut ;
there's the machine," indicating the battered
car and twine-tied shaft ; " and they
are both altogether and entirely at your
service."

Helen shook her head resolutely, and made
no other reply.

'' Well, then, miss, as I see I can't tempt
ye, I suppose I may as well be going ; and
I'll lave the bag inside the lodge. Keep on
straight after the cross, till you come to a
pair of big gates,  and there you are."

Having given these directions, and ascended
to the driving-seat,  so as to have
what he called '' a better purchase on the
baste," Larry muttered a parting benediction,
lifted his canteen, and drove furiously
away.

CHAPTER IV.

We have seen better days."

Larry and Finnigan's mare, were not long in
dwindling into a little speck in the distance ;
and when they had completely vanished,
Helen set out to walk to Care Cross, the goal
of the post-car races. Once there, she had
no difficulty in discovering the road to the
left ; and a quarter of a mile brought two
massive pillars into view, each surmounted
by a battered, wingless griffin. But there
were no gates  unless a stone wall and a
gate were synonymous terms in Ireland.
Three feet of solid masonry completely
barred the former entrance, and said 'no
admittance " in the plainest language. Helen
leant her elbows on the coping-stones, and
gazed in amazement at the scene before her.
G 2

She saw a grassy track, that had once been
an avenue, lined by a dense thicket of straggling,
neglected shrubs. To her right and
left stood the roofless shells of two gate
lodges. On the step of one of them, she
descried her bag; and only for this undeniable
clue, she would certainly have walked
on, and sought the entrance to Crowmore
elsewhere. Being (as Larry had not failed
to remark) an active, " souple " young lady,
she lost no time in getting over the wall and
rejoining her property. As she picked it up,
she cast a somewhat timid glance into the
interior of the ruin, and beheld a most dismal,
melancholy-looking kitchen, with the
remains of ashes on the hearth ; the roof and
rugged rafters, partly open to the skies ;
hideous green stains disfiguring the walls,
and the floor carpeted with nettles and dock-leaves.
A bat came flickering out of an
inner chamber, which warned her that time
was advancing and she was not. So she
hurriedly turned about, and pursued the
grass-grown avenue, which presently became
almost lost in the wide, surrounding pasture.

At first it ascended a gentle incline, over
which numbers of sheep were scattered ;
some, who were reposing in her very track,
rose reluctantly, and stared stolidly as she
approached. On the top of the hill she came
upon a full view of the castle, and was filled
with a sense of injury and disappointment at
having been deceived by such a high-sounding
title. Certainly there was a kind of square,
old keep, out of whose ivy-covered walls, half
a dozen laisse modern windows stared with
unabashed effrontery. But a great, vulgar,
yellow house, with long ears of chimneys, and
a mean little porch, had evidently married the
venerable pile, and impudently appropriated
its name. '' Yes," murmured Helen to herself,
as she descended the hill, ' uncle showed
his sense in calling it simply ' Crowmore '; a
far more suitable name, judging by the rookeries
in the trees behind it, and the flocks
of crows  more crows  who are returning
home"

An iron fence presently barred her further
progress along the almost obliterated avenue,
and, keeping by the railings, she arrived at a

rusty gate leading into what might once have
been a pleasure-ground,  but was now a wilderness.
Traces of walks were still visible,
and outlines of flower-beds could be distinguished
 with a little assistance from
ones imagination;  flower-beds, in which
roses, and fuchsias, and thistles, and ferns,
were all alike strangled in the cruel bonds of
Robin round the hedge." She passed a
tumble-down summer-house  a fitting pendant
to the gate lodges  and some rustic
seats, literally on their last legs. Everywhere
she looked, neglect and decay stared her in
the face.

As she pushed her way through a thicket
of shrubs, that nearly choked a narrow footpath,
she observed a tall man, like a gamekeeper,
approaching from the opposite direction.
He wore a peaked cap, drawn far over
his eyes, and a very long black beard, so that
his face was almost entirely concealed ; he
was dressed in a shabby shooting-coat, and
gaiters, and carried a bundle of netting on
his back, and a stick in his hand. As he
stood aside, so as to permit her to pass, she

had a conviction  though she could not see
his ees  that he was scrutinizing her closely ;
nay, more, that he halted to look after her, 
as she ceased to hear the onward tramp of his
heavy, clumsy boots. Another two minutes
brought her to a little wicket, which opened
on a well-kept gravel drive, a complete contrast
to the overgrown jungle which she had
just quitted. There was no one to be seen,
not even .a dog, though a clean plate and well-picked
bone testified to a dog's recent dinner.
The hall door stood wide open, (Irish fashion,)
but no knocker was visible,  neither could
she discover a bell. She waited on the steps
for some minutes in great perplexity, and
gazed into a large, cool, stone-paved hall,
crossed here and there with paths of cocoanut
matting, lined with strange ancient sporting
prints, and apparently opening into half a
dozen rooms. Not a sound was audible save
the bleating of the sheep, the cawing of the
rooks, and the loud ticking of a brazen-faced
grandfather's clock, that immediately
faced the stranger. Suddenly a fresh young
voice came through an open door, so near

that Helen gave a little nervous start; a
fresh young voice with an undeniable Irish
accent, and this was what it said, 

Dido, Dido ! do you want to boil the
mignonette, and all the unfortunate flowers ? "

Emboldened by this sound, the new arrival
rapped loudly on the door with her knuckles,
and the same melodious brogue called out, 

'' If that's you, Judy, no eggs to-day ! "

'' ' Deed, then, Miss Katie," expostulated a
somewhat aged and cracked organ, "I'm not
so sure of that.  We are rather tight in eggs,
and you were talking of a cake, when the
young lady comes  "

By this time the young lady had advanced
to the threshold and looked in. She beheld
a large, shabby dining-room, with three long
windows, heavy old furniture, and faded
hangings ; a stout girl with fahr curly hair,
sitting with her back to the door, knitting a
sock; her slender sister  presumably that
Dido, who was working such destruction
among the flowers  was stooping over a
green stand covered with plants, which she
was busily watering, with the contents of a

small copper tea-urn ; and a little trim old
woman, in a large frilled cap, was in the act
of removing the tea things. .Helen's light
footfall on the matting was inaudible, and
she had ample time to contemplate the scene,
ere the servant, who was just lifting the tray,
laid it down and ejaculated,  

The Lord preserve us ! "

The girl with the tea-urn turned quickly
round, and dropping her impromptu watering
pot, cried, 

'rit's Helen, it must be cousin Helen!"
running to her, and embracing her. " You
are as welcome as the flowers in May. This
is Katie,  I'm Dido.  We went to meet you
in the morning by the twelve o'clock train ;
how in the world did you get here ? ' '

All this poured out without stop, or comma,
in a rich and rapid brogue.

'' I missed the early train and came on by
the next. I got a seat on the post-car, but
the horse ran away and upset us, so I preferred
to walk to the end of my journey. I
told the man, Larry , Larry "

Larry Flood, miss," prompted the old

woman eagerly. ' " A little ugly seven of a
fellow  with a lip on him, would trip a goat ! "
*' Now, Biddy, how can you be so spiteful,"
remonstrated Katie, with a laugh, '' and all
just because he wants to marry Sally."

'that's the name  Larry Flood," continued
Helen. '' I told him I would walk,
and he left my bag at the  the gate."

'' Oh ! so you came by the old avenue !
and a nice way Larry treated you ! Just
wait till I see him," said Dido. 'how long
were you at the door, Helen ?"
About five minutes."
And why on earth did you not come in ? "
I was looking for the bell or the
knocker," she answered rather diffidently.

And you might have been looking for a
week, my dear ! They are conspicuous by
their absence. We don't stand on ceremony
here ; you either hammer with a stone  there
is one left on the steps for that express purpose,
only, of course, yon never guessed its
use,  or you dispense with the stone, and
walk in  the door stands open all day long,
precisely as you see it."

But, of course, you shut it after dark ? "
'' Yes, iu a fashion ; we put a chair against
it just to keep the sheep from coming in ! The
lock is broken  it was taken off weeks ago
by Micky the smith, and he has never brought
it back yet. Now, I see you are horrified,
Helen !  but this is not London  there are
no thieves or housebreakers about, and we areas
safe as if we had twenty locks and bolts.
Here, Biddy," to the old servant, "Miss
Denis is starving ; bring up the cold fowl,
and some more of those hot cakes, as fast as
ever you can. Helen, give me your hat and
jacket, and sit down in this arm-chair this
minute, and relate every one of your adventures
without delay."

It was impossible to be shy with Dido and
Katie; in a few moments their cousin felt
perfectly at home, and they were all holding
animated eager conversation, and talking
together as if they had known each other
for weeks. Katie was an incessant chatter-box
; no matter who was speaking, her voice
was sure to chime in also, and to keep up
a running accompaniment similar to the

variations on a popular air! She was fair,
very plump, and rather pretty,  with the
beauty of rosy cheeks, bright eyes, and curly
locks. Dido, the eldest, was tall, ungraceful,
with a head and throat, that would have
served for a sculptor's model ; she had
quantities of brown hair, and greenish-grey
eyes. Without being exactly handsome, she
had a look of remarkable distinction, and as
she stood at the table busily carving a fowl
for the delectation of her hungry guest, that
guest said to herself, that her cousin Dido,
for all her threadbare dress and washed-out
red cotton pinafore, aye, and her brogue, 
had the air  of  yes  of a princess !

When shall I see uncle ? " inquired his
niece, with dutiful politeness.

'' Oh, the Padre never appears in the daytime,"
replied Katie, '' and he only goes outwith
the owls ; but he will come down and
welcome you, of course. He is very much
occupied just now,  and grudges every
moment, his time is so precious."

A grunt of scornful dissent from the old
woman, here attracted Katie's notice, and

once more resuming her knitting, and her
chair, she said, 

Well, what's the matter now, Biddy, eh ?
Tell me, what do you think of Miss Denis ? "
speaking precisely as if Miss Denis where a
hundred miles away.

Biddy, thus adjured, immediately laid
down a plate, and resting her hands on her
hips, surveyed the new-comer as coolly and
deliberately as if she was a picture.

Sure, I'm no great judge. Miss Katie !
but since you ax me,  I'll just give ye me
mind. I think she's a tee totally beautiful
young lady,  and that it would be no harm if
there was twins of her ! ' '

Helen coloured and laughed, and Dido
exclaimed, '' Well, that's more than you ever
said of me, Biddy, and I'm your own nurse-child
that you reared ever since I was six
months old  you never wished for twins of
me"

Troth, and why would I ? Many and
many's the night that I lost me rest along of
you. Aye, but you wor the peevish little
scaltheen ! Wan of you was plenty ! "

*' And you never called me a teetotally
beautiful young lady ! I'm offended."

'' Array, Miss Dido, sure you would not
be skin' me to parjure myself ! " retorted
Biddy, with some warmth "Ye can see
with your own two eyes, that your cousin is a
sight better-looking than aether of yes ;
but you are a lady all out ! The Queen herself
need not be ashamed to be seen walking'
with ye ! Sure, and aren't you cliver ! and
isn't that enough for you ? They don't go
together, I'm thinking  great wit, and great
looks ! "

'' Biddy MacGrravy," replied Dido, with
great solemnity, '' you started off very nicely,
wishing Miss Helen was a twin  but now
you have spoiled everything ! I really think
you had better go before you say something
worse,  I really do."

And sure, and what did I say but
what was the pure truth ? " folding her
arms over her white apron, and evidently
preparing to discuss the subject exhaustively.


You have merely told her, that it was

doubtful if she was a lady, and that it was
very certain that she was a fool."

Ah, now. Miss Dido ! " in a tone of
mournful reproach, " see, now, I declare to
goodness  Whist! here's the master."
And seizing the tray, the nimble old woman
vanished like a flash.

She is quite one of the family," explained
Dido, '' and says just what she pleases. You
would never imagine that she had been
for years on the Continent ! She acquired
nothing there, but the art of making cakes
and coffee  "

'' And paying compliments," amended
Katie, with a giggle.

At that moment the door opened slowly,
and a tall, but bent, white-headed gentleman
entered the room. He had a noble head, a
cream-coloured beard, reaching almost to his
waist, and sunken, dark eyes, that looked
out on the world abstractedly, from beneath
a penthouse of shaggy brows. His hands
were long and thin, with singularly claw-like
fingers, through which he had a habit of
drawing the end of his beard, as he conversed.

He was attired in an easy, grey dressing-gown,
a black skull-cap, and red list slippers.

Helen rose as lie approached, and extended
one of his long hands. His dreamy eyes
flashed into momentary life, as he said, in a
curiously slow, nasal voice, 

And this is my English niece ! Mere, I
am glad to see you, for your own sake,  and
for your father's.  He was a worthy brother
to my wife: I hope you will be happy here.
By-the-way, how did you come ? "

Before Helen could open her lips, Katie,
the irrepressible, had begun to relate her
recent experiences, as volubly as if she herself
had been a passenger by the Irish mail ;
not to mention the Terryscreen post-car !

But long ere her recital had come to an
end, her parent's thoughts were miles away 
presumably in the clouds. At length the
sudden cessation of the narrative, recalled
him to the present once more, and speaking
very deliberately, he said, 

'' You must take us as you find us, niece.
We live far beyond any sordid, worldly circle,
enjoying simple, domestic, retirement, and a

purely rural life. Our wealth is that of the
mind. In mundane substance we are poor,
but at any rate we can offer you one thing,
without stint  accept a welcome." And
with a wave of his hand, implying that he
had endowed Helen with some priceless treasure,
and a bow signifying that the interview
was at an end, Mr. Sheridan glided noiselessly
away, leaving, as was his invariable
wont, the door wide open behind him.

VOL. m. H

CHAPTER V.

Barry's guess.

many ca shaft at random sent,
Finds mark the archer little meant."  Scott.

The following morning Helen was formally
conducted round the premises by her cousins.
They explored the tangled shrubbery, the
garden, and the yard ; the latter was empty,
save for a clutch of chickens, and a flock
of voracious ducks,  and at least half the
offices were minus roofs and windows.

'' The whole place was tumbling down,"
explained Dido ; '' and as the Padre could do
nothing, Darby Chute said he might just as
well make the best of a bad job, and he took
off the doors and rafters for fire-wood."

'' Yes, and Barry was raging' supplemented
Katie. " Barry is papa's heir.  He
is our cousin, and lives a mile away on the
Terryscreen road. He says there won't be a

stick or a stone left together before long.
He often comes over here. He declares the
place is going to rack and ruin."

Helen glanced at the range of yawning,
roofless stables, and could not help sharing
in Mr. Barry's rueful anticipations. And
Katie, interpreting her glance, added
hastily, 

But papa will restore it all some day. He
always says his brain is his Golconda, and
he will be a Croesus yet. He says  "

*' This is the dairy," interrupted Dido,
suddenly turning a big key. " Mind the
step."

It struck Helen that she frequently broke
in upon the current of her sister's narratives,
especially when she was attempting to give
detailed descriptions of the sayings and
doings of their gifted parent.

This is the dairy," she repeated, ushering
them into a white-washed, red-tiled room,
filled with big, brown pans of wrinkled cream,
tubs of milk, and golden pats of butter.

'' We have five fine cows," she said, twirling
the key round her thumb. '' We sell the
H 2

A Bird OF PASSAGE.

milk about the place, and the butter in Terry-screen
market ; Sally MacGravy takes it in
every Thursday. She is cook, laundress, and
dairymaid. The 'Master' churns. By-the-way,
I wonder where he is ? "

'' Where he ought not to be, you may be
]perfectly certain," responded Katie. " Yes,
I see him, he is over in the turf-house." And
sure enough, just above the half-door of a
great shed, the ill-tempered face of an old
brown mule was visible.

And that's the ' Master,' " exclaimed
Helen, rather relieved in her own mind ; for
visions of her eccentric uncle wielding the
churn-dash had somewhat disturbed her.

"Yes," said Dido. 'ewe call him the
Master ' because the name suits him so
beautifully. He goes and comes exactly as he
pleases, opens doors and gates, and walks in
and out at pleasure. He was here when we
came, eight years ago, and is consequently
the oldest inhabitant. Some people say he is
forty years of age ; but at any rate he is older
than any of us ! Now let us go to the garden."
The garden was of vast extent, surrounded

by high grey walls, and wholly devoted to
fruit and vegetables. Grass pathways, lined
with currant and gooseberry bushes, divided
it into immense plots of potatoes, peas, and
cabbages. In some places, so dense was the
jungle of unwieldy bushes that these walks
were quite impassable.

What quantities of fruit you will have ! "
remarked Helen, to whom this huge garden
was a novel sight.

*' Yes, there will be a fine crop of strawberries
 at least I hope so, for nothing pays
so well,' rejoined the distinguished-looking,
but practical Dido. '' We make a good deal
out of the fruit ; and we work hard ourselves
; not in fancy aprons, and with little
trowels, but in real sober earnest ; we plant,
and prune, and weed, and water ; and on the
whole the garden is a financial success. Andy
All Right ' helps us. That's him there in the
next plot  the man without the hat. He
minds the cows, and goes to the post, and
makes himself useful. He is called 'All
Right' just because he is not quite all there !
Here he is now," as an individual with a

spade over his shoulder, and minus hat
and boots, came shuffling down a neighbouring
2: walk.

Andy was a middle-aged man, who looked
quite juvenile ; partly on account of his very
light and abundant hair, and almost white
eyebrows, and partly because of a certain
childish expression,  relieved by occasional
flashes of very mature cunning.

'' Well, Andy," said Dido pleasantly, 'you
have a fine day for the young plants; how
are you getting on ? "

''Oh, finely, Miss, finely."

Here is our cousin.  Another young lady
to help you in the garden, you see."

Andy, in answer to this introduction,
half closed his eyes and scanned her
critically. After a long pause he scornfully
replied, 

Faix, I expect she'll only be good for
\Aeding, Miss Dido ! And see here, Miss
Dido, not to be losing all our day.  Will ye
just tell me what's to be done with them ashamed
parties and the skerry-blues ? for sorra
a know I know ! "



'' I'll go this very instant, Andy. Katie,
just slow Helen round the garden; but keep
clear of the bees whatever you do."

I'll tell you all about Andy now," said
Katie confidentially, taking her companion's
arm as they walked away. " You see what he
is like ! He was never very strong in the head
at the best of times ; but a mistake that
happened a good many years ago, quite settled
him.  A mistake about a murder."

"A murder!" echoed Helen, looking
with startled eyes, at the slouching figure,
that was carrying off her graceful cousin.

Yes. You must know," continued Katie,
now dropping into a tone of glib narration,
'' that Crowmore belonged to papa's unclean
old miser, who lived in Dublin and let
the house, and garden, and a few acres, to a
man of the name of Dillon. The rest of the
land was managed by the old steward, who
was a first-rate farmer, and as honest as the
sun. But to return to Dillon.  He had a
good-for-nothiug son, called John, who never
did anything but loaf and poach. In those
days Andy was handy-man, or boy, about

the yard, and he and this John were always
quarreling. One day John beat him cruelly,
and Andy was heard to declare that he would
certainly have his life ! Anyway, a short time
afterwards, Dillon was found shot dead up at
the black gate, between this and Bally Redmond,
and Andy was taken up and lodged in
jail. However, he was soon discharged, as
it was proved at the inquest that Dillon's gun
must have gone off accidentally, though some
people say it did not to this day.  But some
people will say anything.  At any rate, the
whole affair gave Andy such a terrible fright
that he has never been the same since."

And how is he affected ? "

Chiefly by the sight of a policeman  a
peeler,' as he calls him. At the first glimpse,
he takes to his heels and runs for his life.
He never ventures beyond the cross-roads,
and would not go within a mile of the black
gate, by day or night, for millions ; indeed,
no one goes round that way after sundown,"
she added impressively.

And pray why not ? "

Because they say John Dillon walks."

i

"Walks?" echoed Helen, with a look of
puzzled curiosity.

'' Haunts it, then. Dozens have seen him
leaning over the gate, just about dusk, and it
is quite certain that he shoots the coverts as
regularly as ever he did ; I've often heard
the shots myself."

' Poachers, my dear simple little Katie."

Poachers, real poachers, would not venture
on the Crowmore or Bally Redmond
estates for all the game in Ireland ! I'll tell
you something more extraordinary. Dillon
had a brace of splendid red setters. I
remember them when we first came, very
old, and nearly blind. They say for a fact,
that when these dogs would be lying by the
kitchen fire at night, they would suddenly
hear Dillon's whistle, and jump up and rush
to the door, and whine and scratch until they
were let out ; and then they would be away
for hours, and come home all muddy, and
tired, and draggled, as if they had been
working hard. Several people have told me
they have seen this themselves."

'' Iso doubt they have. Some one imitated

Holm's whistle; I could do it myself, if I
heard it once. Some clever poacher was
sharp enough to make use of the late Mr.
Dillon's excellent sporting dogs."

''I never thought of that," said Katie reflectively.
'but every one here believes in
Dillon's ghost. Darby Chute would not go
up the woods after dark for all you could
offer him ; he believes in him, so does Barry.
Barry met him once in the dusk ; he was
carrying game, and he looked so desperately
wicked, and shook his gun in such a threatening
way, that Barry confesses that he turned,
as he expresses it, and ' ran like a hare.' "

*' And what is this sporting ghost like ? "

He is very tall, with a long black beard,
leather gaiters, and a peaked cap pulled over
his eyes."

My dear Katie, he was the first person
to welcome me yesterday ! We met each
other in the shrubbery, face to face."

'' Oh, Helen, no ! " gasped her cousin,
suddenly stopping and releasing her arm.
'' Were you not frightened to death ? "

Not I ! I felt no qualms, no cold thrills ;

I received no hint that I Yas in the presence
of the supernaturaL  He looked alive, and Id
the best of health."

'' But he was not, 'I rejoined Katie in a
quavering voice; 'that was just John, the
terror of the whole country. Oh, Helen,
dear, I hope he has not come to you asa
warning,  her voice now sinking to an
awe-struck whisper.

'' A fiddlestick ! it was undoubtedly a
human being going out to snare rabbits.
There are no such things as ghosts ; at any
rate, if this was one, he smelt very strongly
of bad tobacco ! Come now, to change the
subject, do tell me something more about your
bold cousin Barry,  who runs like a hare ?"

'' Oh, Helen ! please, now really, you must
not laugh at Barry. He can't bear being
chaffed," remonstrated Katie, in some dismay.
He is as brave as any one in reality."

'' Oh, indeed ! and what are his other
virtues ?"

Perhaps you may think him coarse and
countrified, and too fond of contradicting
every word you say, and laying down the

law ; but lie is a very good fellow in the
main, if you take him the right way'*

And what is the right way ? Please
instruct me, in order that J may find him a
very good fellow ! "

'well; pretend that you think he is conferring
a great, great favour, and lie will do
anything for you. He can stand any amount
of blarney, but no contradiction !"

Strictly between ourselves, my little
Katie, I don't think I shall like this cousin of
yours."

'' Exactly what he said of you,'' she exclaimed,
clapping her hands in great glee.
'' He declared you would be a stuck-up
English girl, with a grand accent, and a great
opinion of yourself. He said you were sure
to have had your head turned by all the attention
you had received in those islands."

'[ Well, ii it was,  which I do not admit,
it has had ample time to go back again.
Governesses are not often the spoiled darlings
of society."

'' But you are not a bit like a governess."

'' Am I not ? You should see me at Mrs.
Kane's."



' Barry wondered very miicli that you came
home unmarried," continued Katie, who knew
not the meaning of the words reticence and
discretion, and delighted in the sound of her
own voice. " He said it was either of two
things  " pausing meditatively.

*' Did he, really ! how kind of him to give
his mind to my humble affairs," exclaimed
Helen, with an irony entirely lost upon her
cousin, who was now fighting her way
through a small forest of currant-bushes, and
discoursing as fluently as if she was sitting in
an armchair.

Yes ; he said it was either of two things
Helen, mind your eyes with that branch !
Either  I'll give you his own words  either
you were mortal ugly, or you had had a love
affair, and the pigs ran through it,  meaning
a disappointment, you know."

Helen winced as though she had been
struck, and if her companion had happened
to glance round, she would have been
astonished at the colour of her face  a sudden
deep blush suffused it from chin to brow.
She told herself passionately, that dislike was
far too weak a term, to apply to this country

clown, whose clumsy curiosity had probed
her secret to the very core. This to herself ;
but aloud she merely said, 

'' Your cousin Barry must be blessed with
a rich imagination ? "

Oh, no ! he is not a bit clever; but he is
uncommonly sharp. He rather prides himself"


Whatever he prided himself upon, was not
to be disclosed at present, for a sudden turn
brought them close to Dido, who called out, 

'' I thought I saw your heads above that
thicket ! I have to go to the Cross, to speak
to Darby, would you care to come, Helen ?
You may as well learn all the geography of
the place at once."

To this suggestion she promptly assented,
and in a few minutes was walking down the
neatly-kept front avenue, whose gates opened
on the Cross (or cross-road) ; the middle of
which amply testified to the indefatigable
dancing that took place on Sundays (for
Crowmore Cross " was what the assembly-rooms
would be in some populous, fashionable
neighbourhood). A dozen cottages were

scattered about, and the windows of one of
them exhibited two long clay pipes, some
red and white candle, and a ball of worsted,
and on the strength of this rich display was
called '' the shop." Dido halted at the door
of a comfortable slated house, and called out
over the half door, 

Is Darby within, Mrs. Chute ? "

"No, me lady, he is not," replied a little
withered old woman, dropping a curtsey ;
then, as her eye fell upon Katie and Helen,
she said, " An' this is your cousin from England
? The Lord spare youyour health, Miss."

And how are you yourself, Mrs. Chute ? "
inquired Dido sympathetically.

'' Oh, I got a very heavy turn that last
time, me lady ; but that stuff you sent me, and
the jam, did me a power of good. I'm finely
now."

'Lyell, I'm very glad to hear it. Tell
Darby want to see him this evening, please. 
It's about the pigs  you won't forget?" said
Dido, turning surface homewards asshespoke.

Isn't it a funny thing, that of all the
years we are here we have never been inside

Chute's house ! " exclaimed Katie. '' Mrs.
Chute comes and stands at the door, but she
never asks us further. This in Ireland, where
the first word is, ' Won't you walk in, and
take a sate,' is odd J'

Is that his wife ? " inquired Helen.

' Oh, no ; his mother. He was nearly
being married once, to the daughter of a
well-to-do farmer, but they fell out about
her dowry. They ' split,' as they call it, over
a chest of drawers.  I don't think he will
ever marry now. Somehow the neighbours
don't like him ; they say he is very distant
and dark in himself."

''I heard you were wanting me. Miss
Dido," said a squeaky voice, which made
them all turn round, with quite a guilty start.

Standing on the grass behind them (why
could he not walk on the road ?) Helen
beheld a tall, elderly man, with sharp features
and a pair of keen, grey eyes, set close
together in his head. He had a coat over his
shoulder, a stick in his hand, and a most
deceitful-looking lurcher at his heels.

'eyes, Darby, I left a message," replied

Dido, quickly recovering herself. "It's only
to ask you about selling the store pigs."

'' Av they are fit,  and with all the feeding
they are getting, they bid to be as fat as
snails,  ye might sell them on the fifteenth,
but mind you," shaking his head solemnly,
"pigs is down  terribly down! And so
this is your cousin, Miss Denis ? " putting his
finger to his hat.

Yes ; and you would never know she
was any relation, would you?" said Katie
Would you guess we were cousins ? "

'Deed I would not. And I never thought
them English ladies were so handsome till
now," he rejoined, resting his hands on the
top of his stick, and speaking in a deliberate,
confidential squeak. " I declare that wan up
at Bally Redmond has a face that sour on
her, she gives me the cramps every time I
look at her; an' her walk ! " raising his stick
and his eyes simultaneously, " for all the
world like a turkey among stubble. Now,
av I was asked  "

Darby, what do you think ? Only fancy !
she met John Dillon face to face last even-vol.

III. I

\x\ \ *' interrupted Katie with extraordinary
irrelevance.

A very curious look flashed into Darby's
eyes. It came and went in the space of half
a second, and he rejoined, in a peevish,
argumentative tone, 

'' And sure, and how would Miss Denis
know him ? "

* She describes him exactly ; cap and all."
Yes, but all the same. I'm positive
that it was no ghost'' supplemented Helen
stoutly.

Holy St. Patrick, do ye hear her ! "
ejaculated Darby, in a tone of pious horror.
"Well, well, well; poor young lady; it's
easy seen she's a stranger! Don't ye befor
letting her out about the place alone
after dark just now," he added in a sort of
husky aside.

"It's rather early for him yet'' grumbled
Katie. " From August to February is his
usual time."

Yes, the shooting season ! " rejoined
Helen, with a merry laugh. '' Nothing more
is needed to persuade me that the notorious

John is anything worse than a common
poacher ! "

Have your own way,  have your own
way, Miss," wheezed Darby, irritably. And
it struck her that there was the sou])(on
of a threat in his narrow little eyes as he
added,  " May be you won't get off so aise
next time he meets you ! If ye will be said,
and led, by me, ye will not be going about
alone after dusk. And mind, if anything
happens, and ye are found with the print of
five black fingers on your neck "  spreading
out his own horny digits by way of illustration
 " and stretched as dead as a door-nail,
don't go and say afterwards, that ye
weren't warned."

With this remarkable caution, Darby
hitched his coat over his shoulder, nodded
his head impressively, and then turning to
Dido, said, 

'' I'll be up about them pigs this evening.
Miss ; but you need not be laying out to get
a heavy price for them ! I'm for my dinner
now," and With an abrupt nod, Mr. Chute
plodded off.

I 2

'' I'm sure you are shocked ab his free-and-easy
ways, Helen  at all their free-and-easy
ways ! " exclaimed Dido. " But
they mean no incivility, and they take an
interest in the  "

Yes, Darby, I can see, is very anxious
that I should not put myself in the way of
being strangled by John Dillon. Really, it
will be quite exciting to go out after dark ! "

'' And the onlij excitement we can offer
you. You have no idea what a quiet place
you have come to," said Katie; "we have
no society at all. Papa never returned
people's visits, or answered their invitations.
He never goes out, excepting about the
place, in the dusk ; he is entirely buried in
his experiments. People have all sorts of
ideas about us ; they think that the Padre
practises the black art, and that Dido and I
keep pigs in the parlour, and a threshing-machine
in the back hall ! "

Helen laughed aloud at this description.
If Crowmore was shabby, it was beautifully
clean ; and if her cousins occasionally used
the first thing to hand instead of a regulation

implement, the interior of the house was not
merely neat, but tasteful.

Of course, that's an exaggeration," said
Dido. " But no one calls here, excepting
the rector, Barry, and old Mr. Redmond.
He conies from mere idle curiosity, to see if
we are all alive and the house not burnt
down  he said so ! He and papa fought frantically
about a Greek word the only time they
ever met. We tried to cut him, he was so awfully
rude to the Padre ; but he would not see
it, and he comes here, and sends us books, and
baskets of hot-house fruit and flowers, and
fish aud game. We call it Mr. Redmond's
out-door relief. He is a kind-hearted old
man ! "

And does he live alone ? "

*' No, there is Miss Redmond, his
sister, a cripple from rheumatism, and his
ward ; a horrid, supercilious creature, and
in the shooting season, he always has a
house full. He rents the shooting of Crow-more
as well. Papa lets it  he lets everything."


Her cousin's eyes travelled reflectively

along the extensive demesne wall, and lie
said, 

'' Crowmore is a large estate, is it not ? "

Yes ; but you need not run away with
the notion that it is a fine property. We areas
poor as rats. On the other hand, Mr.
Redmond is as rich as a Jew."

Dido, do tell me who is the unfortunate
English girl who has such a painful effect
on Mr. Chute," inquired Helen, as she and her
relatives strolled up the avenue arm-in-arm.

Oh, she is not nearly as bad as he makes
out, though personally I do not like her,"
replied Dido frankly. ' She is the girl we
were speaking of just now ; a Miss Calder-wood
 Kate Calderwood  a great heiress."

Has she freckles and high shoulders ? "
halting as she asked the question.

'how on earth did you know?" cried
Dido in amazement. '' Her shoulders are
up to her ears, and she is as freckled as a
turkey's g ! But for all that they say she
is engaged to be married,  and to such a
good-looking man,toMr.Redmond'sfavourite
nephew, Gilbert Lisle."

CHAPTER VI.

All impediments in fancy's course
Are motives of more fancy."

Judy the Fancy was one of the most prominent
characters about Crowmore. She
lived at the Cross, and haunted that well-beaten
thoroughfare from early morn till
dewy eve. Despite her name, " The Fancy "
was certainly no beauty ; she had a yellow,
wrinkled face, a pair of greedy little black
eyes, and features which bore a ludicrous resemblance
to a turnip ghost. Although she
went barefooted, she wore good, warm clothes,
and a respectable white cap; and no stranger
could have guessed at her profession until she
struck up her habitual whine of  " Give the
poor ould woman the price of a cup of tay,
your honour, the price of a cup of tay, and

I'll pray for ye ; indeed ye might do worse
than have the prayers of the poor ! "

Sitting basking at her post, she taxed all
comers, and taxed them most successfully; for
the little world of Crowmore Averse mortally
afraid to draw down the "Fancy's" tongue,
and she received propitiatory offerings of
sods of turf, and 'flocks of male" from her own
class, and numerous sixpences, and coppers,
from well-to-do neighbours.

She was the mother of Andy All Right,
and looked to the Castle with confidence for
the supply of her wardrobe, and parties, and
sweet milk. She would sorely vex the spirits
of those who figuratively buttoned up their
pockets, by loud, uncomplimentary remarks
on their personal appearance, painful allusions
to family secrets, and dismal prophetic
warnings of their future downfall. Many a
stout-hearted man would rather (if he had no
small change) go a round of two miles, than
run the gauntlet of the '' Fancy's " corner.

She had also other means of levying
tribute that rarely failed ; not begging with
gross directness, or angry importunity, as I

regret to say was her occasional wont, but
merely exclaiming aloud, as if talking to
herself, 

Mush ! and it's Mrs. Megaw ! and 'tis herself
has the finest young family in the whole
side of the country ; faix, no one denies that,
not wan ; and signs on it, 'tis the mother they
takes after ! "

Or to a victim of the sterner sex (who are
equally vulnerable in such matters), 

And so that's Tim Duffy ! "  in a tone of
intense surprise  " sure, an' I hardly know
him. Troth, and it's a irate to sit here and
see the likes of him going by. It's an officer
in the army he should be, instead of trailing
there after a cart of turf! "

These little speeches, had an excellent
effect, and generally bore a rich harvest.
She had also an unfailing method of raising
a spirit of emulation among her benefactors.
As for instance, having received, we will say
sixpence, from some charitable hand, she
would turn it over rather contemptuously in
her palm, and exclaim, in a tone more of
sorrow than of anger, 

'' Well, I always thought ye were as freehanded
as Mrs. Evan ; and she never asks
me to look at less than a shilling ! But maybe
ye can't so well afford it, dear; and God
bless ye all the same."

As Helen and her cousins returned from
church on Sunday, they descried the
'' Fancy " sitting on the hall door-steps ; a
clean capon her head, and a pipe in her mouth.

Your servant, ladies," she said, without
rising, and gazing over their heads in a
rather abstracted (not to say embarrassing)
fashion.

"Well, Judy, and what is it to-day?"
inquired Dido.

'' Oh, it's only Mr. Barry. he is inside"
with a wave of her pipe. " He is a Justice
of the Pace now, and I want him to do a
small turn for me. Just go in and don't
trouble yourself about me, dearie."

So Barry is here ! " cried Katie, visibly
delighted. '' What brings him ? Sunday is
never his day ! "

No," admitted her sister, as she followed
her into the hall ; " but he has come to see

Helen ; and it gives him an excuse for this
best clothes."

Two large pointers with swaggering bodies,
animated tails, and muddy paws, now rushed
out of the drawing-room to meet them; and
in the drawings-room, extended full length on
the sofa, in an easy, negligent attitude, they
discovered the pointers* master. Turning
his face towards the door, he said, 

'' So you are back at last," then rising
slowly, and putting his boots on the ground,
he raised himself to his full height, shot his
cuffs, and stared fixedly at Helen, and she at
him (it must be confessed) ; he was far, far
worse than she had expected. She beheld a
middle-sized man, with bandy legs, a red face,
and beaming countenance,  lit up by an inward
sun of self-complacency  dressed in a
short cutaway coat, a white waistcoat,
and brilliant tie,  the sleeves of his coat and
the legs of his trousers revealed an unusual
margin of red wrist and grey stocking; but
these discrepancies did not occasion the
smallest embarrassment to their wearer.

''I hope you have been pretty comfortable.

A BIRD OF PASSAGE.

Barry ? " inquired Dido, with a rueful glance
at the tumbled cushions and anti-macassar.

'' No ; that old bench of ours is as hard
as a board! This is Miss Denis, isn'fc it?
Miss Denis," laying his hand on his heart,
and making alow bow, " your most humble."

Which salute the young lady acknowledged
by sweeping him a somewhat disdainful
curtsey.

'' Many in church ? "  now looking at
Katie.

Oh, the usual set  Reids and Edmonds.
Mr. Redmond walked down the avenue with
Helen. Helen, you have certainly made a
conquest there. ''

'' Of course she has," quoth Barry, seating
himself ; " it is not every day he sees a pretty
girl in these parts." Thus administering a
compliment to her, and a backhander to his
cousins in the same breath.

"What was Miss Calderwood saying to
you, Dido ? " inquired Katie,  totally ignoring
the foregoing agreeable speech !

Oh, she talked of the weather, and about
Helen. She wanted to know when she came.

how long she was going to stay, and if it was
true she was a governess ? "

"Odious girl!" cried Katie, 'she has a
knack of asking nasty questions. I can't
endure her  nor the glare of her cold grey
eyes."

''Oh, she is not a bad sort of young woman,"
protested Barry, sticking his thumbs in the
arm-holes of his waistcoat, and leaning back
in his chair. " She and I get on first class ;
but all the same, and quite between ourselves,
girls, 1 would never think of marrying
her! "

Helen stared in astonishment. Unquestionably
here was a creature who pressingly
invited the most inflexible snubbing ! He
on his part had been gazing at her with untrammelled
amazement and admiration, and
now that these feelings had slightly subsided,
began to engage her in conversation.

"And how do you like this part of the
world?"

Very much indeed."

Humph ! I would not have thought you
were so easily pleased ; it will seem uncommonly

dull after all your fine times in the
East; there you had balls, . and parties, and
admirers by the score."

Helen drew up her neck, and looked dignified,
and he said to himself, '' Ha, ha, my
fine madam, I'll have to take you down a
peg, if that's your style."

'' Had you a comfortable situation in
London at that school ? "

Yes, thank you," she replied haughtily.
'' Well, we shall not allow you to go back
this long time ! Dido, we must take Helen
(could she believe her ears ?) over to the band
at Terryscreen, next week. Til treat you all
at the hotel. You don't mind me calling you
Helen, do you ? You know we are all cousins
here ! " concluded Barry with a discriminating
readiness to claim kinship with a
pretty girl.

'' Yes," he said to himself, " Katie and
Dido were not bad in their way, but this
new connection was really splendid ! "

In his mind's eye he already saw himself
proudly parading her at the band, and driving
his intimates, and maybe the officers (who

Averse not his intimates) simply mad with envy.
She was a little bit stiff now, but that
would soon wear off.

"And how is the great inventor?" he inquired
facetiously.

"As usual," responded Dido, " quite welland
very busy."

"Is luncheon ready? for I'm as hungry
as a hawk," he said. " I hope you have got
something decent to-day. None of your
bacon and eggs ! Mind, Helen, you don't
let them starve you, they are by no means
liberal with their butcher's meat," and he
laughed uproariously, and evidently considered
that he had said something exquisitely
witty.

"ewe always have meat on Sundays'' said
Dido sarcastically, as she led the way to an
excellent repast in the dining-room.

When Barry had taken the edge off his
appetite, which he compassed in a manner
that excited Helen's disgust, he looked across
at her, and said abruptly, 

What's the name of those islands you
were at ? "

*' The Andamanss."

'' You had fine times ; twenty men to
one girl, and no end of tennis and parties ;
it's the other way about here," grinning
complacently, " twenty girls to one man, and
no parties, balls, or fun of any kind."

I was only at one dance all the time I
was at Port Blair."

Port Blair ! now I have it ! " suddenly
laying down his knife and fork, and speaking
in a loud, exultant tone, " I thought I had
heard of the place somewhere. Girls, I'll
tell you who was at those islands for months,
old Redmond's nephew ! I say, Helen, did
you ever come across a fellow, of the name
of Lisle?"

Yes, I knew him," returning his gaze
with calm, untroubled eyes.

He was there for a long time. What
was the attraction, eh ? "

'' How can I tell you ? Sport, I believe."

Oh 1 " with a palpable wink at Katie.
Sport ! There are a good many different
kinds of sport.  And now tell me what you
think of him."

'' I'm not prepared with, an opinion at
such short notice."

Which means that yon don't like him !
Neither do 1. Come, that's one .bond of
union  give us your hand on it," jumping
up and stretching an eager red member
across the table, where it remained alone
and unsought !

"I never said that I did not like Mr.
Lisle," returned Helen, with freezing politeness.


"Oh!" drawing back visibly affronted.
So that's the way with you, is it ? Well,
he is not a bad-looking chap, and you know
he is a great catch ! Plenty of oilier girls
would give their ears to marry him."

'' Pray explain yourself, Mr. Sheridan,"
said Helen, fiercely. '' Do you mean me to
understand that 1 would have given my ears
to marry him?" Her eyes were flashing
and her colour rising, and there was every
indication of a domestic storm.

"Don't mind him! Don't mind him!"
cried Katie, gallantly turning the tide of
battle, " it's only his chaff ; he loves to put

VOL. III. K

people in a passion. Barry, you must really
remember that Helen is not used to your
jokes yet

'' Astor ever would be," thought that young
lady, wrathfully.

'' Oh, well, no offence, no offence ; I did
not know you were so touchy about him !
He is a great favourite with the old boy  I
mean his uncle,  but he is hardly ever here,
always rambling about the world. I think
myself, he is by no means the saint his fond
relations imagine, and that he has a screw
loose somewhere."

And I'm sure he has not," rejoined Dido,
hotly. ''I like him, though I've only met
him once or twice. He is a gentleman, which
is more than I can say for other people in
this part of the world. He is delightful to
talk to, very good-looking, never gives himself
airs, never brags,  "

One would think you were his hired
trumpeter," interrupted Barry, angrily.
What do you know, a girl like you I Believe
me, still waters run deep. Give me a
jolly, above-board chap that will light a pipe.

and mix a tumbler of whisky punch, and
open his mind to you ! Stone of your cool,
deliberate fellows, who smoke cigarettes,
drink claret, and look as if you have seven
heads when you make a little joke."

'' I wonder if he is coming for the shooting,"
said Katie, amiably anxious to smooth
matters. " He is fond of it, I know."

*' Yes, and a fair shot, but jealous, as I
found the only day I was out with him ;
mice he took my bird."

Perhaps because you missed it," retorted
Dido, coolly. '' Sometimes he comes for a
month's hunting in winter,"  turning to
Helen. "- He is a splendid rider, the best in
the county."

"Well, I don't know about that, Dido!
Ahem ! I don't wish to praise myself, but
I'll be glad to hear of a more forward man
with the Bag Fox pack, than Barry Sheridan,
Esq., J. P. Why, the very last time I was
out I jumped a gate  a five-barred gate ! "
addressing himself specially to Helen.

"Then if you did, Barry," said Dido,
rising and pushing back her chair, '' it must
K 2

have been on the ground I You know very
well that you can't ride a yard. Your shooting
I don't deny ; but when you boast of jumping
five-barred gates, you know you are talking
nonsense." So saying, she walked out of the
room, followed by the two girls and Barry 
who brought up the rear after a considerable
interval, muttering wrathfully to himself.

As he passed into the hall, he came in full
view of the " Fancy," seated on the steps.
On beholding him, she called out in her
most dulcet coaxing key, 

'' Oh, my own darling young gentleman,
you are a sight for sore eyes ; your * Fancy '
has been waiting on you these two hours."

'' Then she nest wait," he growled ; nevertheless
approaching, with his hands in his
pockets and a rather important strut.

'' Oh, then, I know ye don't mane that.
An' sure, now, miss," appealing to Helen, and
languishing at her with her head on one
side, " and isn't he an ornament to auy
country ? "

Helen became crimson with suppressed
laughter, and was totally unable to utter any
reply. However, her levity was not lost on

Barry, who made a note of it against some
future occasion, when she should be repaid in
kind.

Well, Judy, what is it ? " impatiently.

Only a whisper, darling. 'Tis just this,"
suddenly rising to her feet, '' ever since I lost
me health, come Christmas twenty years,
and nanny and nanny a time before that, I
washed for your mother  "

'' Just cut all that part, will you ? "

Well thin, I'm here at the cross, a poor,
lone wider, that has buried all belonging
to me but Andy, and living on the charity of
the public, as ye know, this blessed nineteen
years ! And now, a thief of a black stranger
from bryant Terry screen, has come and set
himself down alongside of me. A JAiiul man
itself  any way it's what he lets on  and
every one knows I'm not ; and they are all
for giving to the poor dark creature. And
sure, he has me ruined and destroyed entirely
! " now raising her voice a full octave,
and commencing to cry with alarming energy.

You know if I did right I'd give you six
weeks of Terryscreen jail for begging in the
public highway," said Barry, magisterially

An' if ye did that same," drying lier
eyes, and stretching out her hands, " I take
these beautiful angels as mee witnesses, I'd
rather have six weeks from your honour, than
six days from another; and that's as sure as
I'm standing here ! "

Barry was palpably flattered, and grinned,
and looked at Helen out of the corner of
his left eye to see if she was impressed, as
much as to say, " What do you think of
that ? "  But, unfortunately, she was grinning
also.

"Indeed, it's bitterly cold in winter," put
in Dido, '' and I'm not a bit sorry that someone
has taken your corner. With Andy inconstant
work, and milk, and potatoes, and a
pinch of tea from us, you know you will
never miss it."

"Array, Miss Dido! sure ye don't know
what you are talking about. And how would
ye ? If that rapscaUion gets a footing in my
holding, it's ruin and destruction that's in
it; just that, and no more ! Why," lowering
her voice mysteriously, [' sure it's as
good as a farm to me, darn' ! Aye, and

better; it's all in-comings, and no stock,
and no rent."

This amazing confidence threw an entirely
new light on the subject. Her three listeners
stared at the old woman in respectful astonishment.
They would have stared still
more, could they have seen the comfortably-filled
stocking that was hidden away under
the thatch of Judy's cabin.

'' Well, I can't stay here all day. I'll see
what I can do for you," said Barry, abruptly.
' I've important papers to sign at home, and
I must be off."

The truth was, that the good gentleman
was ruffled at Helen's attitude of repressed
amusement, and at Dido's courageous candour
; and he felt that he could not punish
the offending couple more simply, or more
effectually, than by removing himself, and
leaving them to their own devices all through
the long Sunday afternoon. He flattered
himself that Miss Denis would soon learn his
value.

Now Barry was the only eligible bachelor,
in a neighbourhood where there were legions

of girls,  and was fully sensible of his own
importance. In his secret heart, he believed
that he had only to ask any young woman
within a radius of say twenty miles, and, in
his own homely parlance, " she would be
thankful to jump at him." And he felt
conscious that he was dealing a cruel blow
to the little circle at Crowmore when, seizing
his hat and stick, and calling his dogs, he
bade them a general farewell, and hurried
down the steps.

His departure was the signal for the
' Fancy " to take leave. Willy nilly, she
escorted him to the gate,  to the intense
delight of the spectators in the doorway.
Vainly he tried to shake her off ; vainly he
increased his pace ; his manoeuvres were
totally unavailing, his companion still trotted
bare-footed beside him, gesticulating as she
went with both head and hands. Her
eloquence undoubtedly had its reward, for
within a week " the dark man from beyond
Terryscreen " had mysteriously disappeared,
and she reigned in undisputed possession of
her own warm corner.

CHAPTER VII.

'* A ' strange coincidence,' to use a phrase,
By which such things are settled now-a-days."

Byron.

Here's the comrade of yom glove, Miss
Dido," said Biddy descending into the hall,
where the three girls, attired in their best
summer dresses (being about to set forth fora
tennis party at Bally Redmond), were
impatiently awaiting her.

'swill I do?" inquired Dido, as she received
her property. ''Or is my hat too
shabby ? This is its third summer, you
know ! "

'' An' deed, an' you'll do finely ; 'tis only
too grand you are ! What call is there to be
dressing just for the ould gentleman and
Miss Calderwood, and maybe Mister
Barry, that ye can see any day of the week

without putting yourselves to any rounds at
all ? " demanded Biddy in an acrimonious key.

'' Oh, but this is to be quite a grand
affair," protested her younger nursling.
We have had three days' invitation. It's
my opinion," glancing at her pretty cousin,
'' that this ' at home ' is given for you, Helen.
Mr. Redmond has been here twice this week ;
you have bewitched him."

'' I would not put it past him ! for nothing
grows old with a man but his clothes," cried
Biddy scornfully.  " And sure he might give
something dacentwhenhe went about it, Vve
no opinion of these grass parties and chape
entertainments. God be with the good ould
times, when no one was axed to cross the
door, under a dinner or a ball ; invade,
Eedmond's own father used to give the height
of high feeding' and kep' a butt of claret
standing in the hall, just ready to your hand.
But now, when you go out, no one even so much
as axes, if you have a mouth on you ?  for 
by a drink of tay, that wake, that ye can seethe
bottom of the cup ! "

Notwithstanding this gloomy sketch, the

three young ladies (to whom this '' chape
entertainment " was a delightful novelty)
were not the least disheartened, and set off
to walk across the demesne in the highest
possible spirits, leaving Biddy and her apple-checked
niece filling up the doorway, and
gazing after them with the affectionate complacency
of people who were surveying a
creditable personal possession.

*' There's not their like in the county!"
exclaimed Sally, as she folded her massive
arms across her apron strings.

'' No, ner in ten counties ! and what's the
good of it all ; will ye tell me that ? " inquired
her aunt peevishly. " There's Miss
Dido, with the walk of a duchess and the voice
of a thrush, and Miss Helen, a real beauty,
and Katie not too bad entirely,  and not a
sign of any one, watching wan of them ! "

'' I think Misther Barry has an eye on
Miss Denis," insinuated Sally timidly.

'ris it that spalpeen ? An' much good
may it do him ! She would not look at the
same side of the road as him," returned
Biddy fiercely. " He would not car' to ax

her. Sure she's the only one of them all
knows how to talk to him, and that quenches
him rightly."

That's true for you," assented Sally,
nodding her head in grave acknowledgment
of this indisputable fact.

'rit's just killing me," continued the old
woman, " to see them young ladies wasting
their looks and their years here, slaving in
the house, and garden, like blacks. What's
to be the end of it, at all, at all ? "

The end will be that the master will
burn us all in our beds yet," replied Sally
with angry promptitude. " What is he up to
now ? " glancing at one of the tower windows,
out of which vast volumes of dense
black smoke were curling in lazy clouds.

Oh, the Lord only knows ! " retorted her
aunt impatiently, as she turned and walked
into the hall with an unusually sour expression
on her jovial old countenance.

There's no dating with the likes of him,"
she muttered as she descended to the lower
regions, " for he will neither do wan thing,
or the other; he won't go properly out of

his mind, and he won't lave it alone ; and
he has me fairly bothered, and me heart is
broke, with his mischievous contrivances."

Meanwhile, the three girls walked over the
hill, and passed through Dillon's gate into
the precincts of Bally Redmond, a fine park of
seemingly endless extent, through which a
beautifully-kept avenue, wound like a white
ribbon, by clumps of beeches, rows of lime-trees,
and great solitary oaks. Nearer the
house, beds of brilliant flowers broke the
monotony of the turf, and a long gravelled
terrace was crowned by an ugly but dignified-looking
mansion, that seemed an appropriate
centre for the surrounding scene.

The Misses Sheridan and Miss Denis were
the last arrivals, and were received by Miss
Redmond in the pleasure ground. They
found her sitting under a tree in her bath
chair, arrayed in her best white shawl and a
picturesque garden bonnet. She was a pretty
old lady, with white hair, an ivory skin, and
soft, caressing manners, and she greeted the
three chaperoneless (to coin a word) girls
with evident pleasure. Not so Miss Calder-wood,

the deputy hostess ; her welcome was
bj no means so gracious or so genial. She
gave the two Sheridanss a limp shake-hands,
and bestowed a curt bow, and a long stare
upon their cousin, the governess, who was
looking remarkably pretty, and well-dressed,
in one of the costumes upon which Mrs.
Creery had once fixed her elderly affections.
Evidently she did not think that Miss Denis
was entitled to participate in the advantages
of her acquaintance and patronage. However,
Mr. Redmond more than atoned for his
ward's deficiencies. He led Helen to a seat,
introduced her to several of the county
people, fussed about her rather too assiduously
with tea and cakes, and other light refreshments,
and finally took share of the same
rustic bench, and engaged her entire attention.


Biddy's dismal forebodings had been brilliantly
refuted. We notice the party from
the Rectory (a considerable contingent),
several remote families, half-a-dozen officers
from a garrison town, and last, but by no
means least, our friend Barry, standing

beside Miss Calderwood, with his hands
behind his back, and such an air of serious
criticism in his port, that one would imagine
he was in an African slave-market, and contemplated
the purchase of one or two of Mr.
Redmond's guests.

Mr. Eedmond himself never left Helen's
side, and coolly (and I consider selfishly)
dismissed all overtures respecting a game of
tennis, with a bland wave of his hand. His
beautiful young 'protegee, the desired partner
of several eligible tennis players, was simply
not allowed to have a voice in the matter.

'' We are very happy here ! Just go away,
my good fellow, and leave us alone," was his
complacent reply to each eager suitor. " You
and I," to Helen, '' will do better than that !
we will stroll round the grounds together
by-and-by, when all these energetic idiots
have settled down to what they consider the
business of life."

It never seemed to occur to him, that
Helen would have preferred to join the said
band of energetic idiots, or to have liked the
company of a younger swain  and presently

he marched her ois  to make a grand tour
of the green-houses, and gardens.

Although Mr. Redmond was a little, round,
old gentleman, who had white eye-brows,
and wore an ostentatious brown wig  his
heart was as young, as susceptible, and as
fickle, as if he was three-and-twenty ; he
delighted in a pretty face, and especially in
the company of a lovely, smiling girl, like his
present companion, who, besides all her other
charms, proved to be a most accomplished
listener. As they walked, he talked  talked
incessantly ; indeed, the garrulous old personage
became most gratuitously confidential
about his property, his neighbours, and his
nephew. '' My nephew " was dragged headlong
into every other sentence,  conversationally
you came face to face with " my
nephew " at each corner, his opinion was
quoted on all conceivable subjects, from
politics, down to black currant jam. Another
listener might have been a little bored, and
even irritated, but the pretty, tall girl in
white, listened with a greedy attention, of
which she angrily told herself, she ought to be

heartily ashamed.  The world was but a small
place after all ! Here, in what her Aunt Julia
called 'the wilds," she was strolling along,
tete-astute with Gilbert Lisle' s uncle, undoubtedly
the very identical old gentleman
whom he had mentioned as carrying on an
ink feud with his father, but who was somewhat
partial to Mm. Partial was no word
for it ! infatuation was nearer to the mark.

"I'm sure all those young fellows are
mad with me for carrying you off' and he
chuckled delightedly. '' But, after all, it's
no reason, that because I am an old fogey I'm
not to have a pleasant afternoon, too, eh?
From the time I could walk alone, I was
always the slave of Beauty ! " Here he
doffed his hat, and made Helen a most
courtly bow, at which she blushed and
laughed.

'' Yes, the slave of Beauty ; all the
same," resuming his hat with a flourish; ''I
never married, you see ! The fact was, I
butter flied about too long, and then it was
winter, before I knew where I was ! We are
not a marrying family ; there's my sister and

VOL. III. L

myself, and my iiepliew, I'm always preaching
to him, but he laughs when I talk to
him, and tells me to go and marry myself 
impudent rascal, that's a nice way to speak
to his uncle, eh ? All the same, he is a fine
fellow, as true as steel, and a more honourable,
upright gentleman never drew breath ;
whoever gets him for a husband will be a
lucky girl."

The corners of his companion's pretty lips
curved somewhat scornfully, and she said to
herself, " Shall I explode a social torpedo
sunder this innocent old gentleman's feet,
and say, I know your illustrious nephew ; he
asked me to marry him, and instantly took
ship and left me ; although he swore that he
would return, as surely as the sun rose in the
heavens ! Query: Would it be agreeable to her
companion to learn, that his paragon's idea of
honour, was more elastic that he imagined ! "

'' Two or three times," continued Mr.
Redmond, "I've tried to marry my nephew
to some nice girl, and it has always been
a dead failure, I've picked out a beauty, had
her to stay, got up riding parties, driving

parties, and even moonlight pic-nics, (as if
moonlight pic-nics were irresistible,) and it
was all no go. Just as I thought everything
was arranged, he would slip through
my fingers like a piece of soap ! " (precisely
Helen's own experience). " Well, now I want
to ask your advice. What do you think of
those two yew-trees ? " he demanded with
rather bewildering suddenness.

I  candidly, I don't admire them ; they
remind one of a church-yard."

Exactly, and as I don't want to be reminded
of anything so deuced unpleasant:
down they shall come ! And, now, what's
your opinion of these new flower-beds they
have just cut out in this ribbon garden ? "

''I think they are not sharp enough at the
corners ; they are too much the shape of
biscuits, the ' People's mixed.' "

So they are ! and shall we have them
filled with pink verbejias, or crimson geraniums
? "

Crimson  that lovely new, deep shade."

And crimson it shall be ! Allow me to
give you this rose ! " suddenly plucking one as
L 2

he spoke. ''My dear Miss Denis, I see that
our tastes are identical.  I only wish I was a
young man for your sake."

His companion made no response, but on
the whole, she thought she preferred him ashe
was.

By this time, they had encountered various
other promenading couples, and in a shady
walk they came face to face with Barry
and Miss Calderwood, and the latter, instead
of passing by on the other side, with her
nose in the air, halted directly in front of
Helen, and said most abruptly, 

'* Miss Denis, Mr. Sheridan tells me, that
you were in the Andamanss with Gilbert Lisle,
and knew him intimately ! "

Helen coloured vividly, partly at this
sudden accost, and partly because of that
sting in the tail of the sentence, that thrice
underlined word "intimately;" and Mr.
Eedmond, wheeling swiftly round so as to
face her, ejaculated, '' God bless my soul !
you don't tell me so."

"Yes, I knew a Mr. Lisle in the Andaman,"
admitted Helen reluctantly.

*' Only fancy ! How immensely funny ! ''
drawled Miss Calderwood.

To Helen there bad been nothing specially
amusing in the acquaintance, so she closed
her lips firmly and held her peace.

Why  why  I've been talking to you
about him for the last hour, and you never
told me this ! " cried Mr. Redmond, eyeing
her with an air of angry suspicion. '* Eh,
what?"

'' You mentioned no name," faltered the
young lady, feeling that verily this quibbling
with the truth, was as bad as any downright
lie ; but, confronted by three curious faces,
with the eyes of Barry,  of Gilbert Lisle's
uncle, and Gilbert Lisle's betrothed, fixed
imperatively on hers,  was she to appease
their greedy curiosity, and boldly confess the
painful reason of her silence ? was she to
proclaim the humiliating fact, that they were
all staring at the girl who had been jilted by
that honourable gentleman ?

Mentioned no name  neither I did !
And how were you to know? Eh, what?
Well, and what did you think of my

nephew?" inquired his loquacious old
relative. -

At this point-blank query, Miss Calder-wood
flashed a satirical look at Miss Denis,
as much as to say, '' What a silly, unnecessary
question!" But Helen met her eyes
with proud steadiness. . -

"I think most people liked Mr. Lisle,"
she answered, with well-assumed carelessness.


"And how long was he at the Andaman?"
continued Mr. Eedmond.

About six months."

Six months ! And what was he doing
there all that time ? Any little entanglement
 eh ? " rather anxiously.

I cannot tell you."

Ah !  I see that you know more about
Gilbert than you will admit ! " exclaimed
Miss Calderwood, with a sharp, accusing
glance. " I believe girls in India are odious
creatures. I have no doubt he got into some
scrape out there." Helen blushed scarlet.
*' Yes," with an unpleasant little' laugh,
'your face tells tales. I suppose he was

drawn into some silly flirtation.  Men are
such fools ! Well, it is very good of you to
keep his secret; it's more than others would
have done ! " and with this insolent hint, and
a patronizing nod, the heiress walked on.

Helen felt almost breathless with anger.
She had the passions of her kind ;" her eyes
sparkled, her nostrils quivered, as she gazed
after her receding rival. What had she
done that she should be insulted, and flouted
by this supercilious heiress ?

Scrape !  stuff ! Flirtation !  rubbish !
It's all jealously, every bit of it ! " cried Mr.
Redmond, as he removed his hat, and
cautiously passed his bandana across his
forehead. " Gilbert is not a ladies' man  I
only wish he was ! And so you knew him
very well ? Eh, what ? "

' As well as most people," turning away
to break off a bit of syringa.

*' Well, now let me hear all about him,"
very eagerly. " He hardly ever writes ; and
when he does, there's nothing in his letters.
Come, now, what did he do ? How did he
pass his time r "

I really cannot tell you much.  He lived
a long way off on the mainland. I believe he
spent his days in fishing and sailing. He
liked the Andaraans because they were a lazy,
out-of-the-world region."

I hope to goodness, he liked them for
nothing else. Eh, what ? Six months' sailing
and fishing was the deuce of a time, you
know ! You don't  just between you and
me, you know  you don't think he had any
other attraction ? Eh, what  what ? "

Honestly, I don't believe he cared a
straw for any one in the place," raising her
eyes gravely to his, and speaking with
unusual emphasis.

'' Oh, well, I fancy you would be likely to
know," rejoined the old gentleman, innocently.
" We must have some nice long
talks about Gilbert ; but just now I'm afraid
we will have to go back to the tennis ground ;
I want to have chat with old Mrs. Moronv.
I need not tell you I'd much rather stay
here, walking about with you," he added,
gallantly. "But I must not be too selfish;
and I'll give the young fellows a chance ! "

So Helen was at last released from this
purgatorial tete-astute, and permitted to join
the rest of the company.

When she took leave of Miss Calderwood,
(which I must say she did very stiffly,) she
read more than a mere contemptuous dismissal
in that lady's eyes ; she saw suspicion,
ay, and dislike, lurking in those shallow
grey orbs ; but Mr. Redmond wrung her hand
affectionately at parting, and said in his
heartiest manner, 

'rand to think of your knowing Gilbert !
Eh, what ? Well, I have dozens of questions
to ask you about him ; I shall be over tomorrow
or next day ! "

Poor Helen ! I pitied you," said Katie,
as they walked home. '' It was too bad of
Mr. Eedmond to carry you off."

II faut souffrir ]pour etre belle*' added
Dido, with a laugh. " What a dose you
must have had of ' my nephew !  my
nephew ' ! "

As far as the Miss Sheridanss were concerned
'the chape entertainment" had been
a prodigious success. They had enjoyed

themselves immensely ; had played tennis,
sipped tea, and strolled about the grounds
under military escort. Katie's tongue, as
she tripped along, went like the clapper of
the proverbial mill; but Helen was preoccupied
and unusually silent. To return
via Dillon's Gate, at the hour of seven p.m.,
was a feat quite beyond the Miss Sheridanss'
courage, and in spite of their cousin's protestations,
and remonstrances, they insisted on
going round by the road, and entered Crow-more
by the old avenue. As they turned a
corner, they noticed Sally's portly figure
speeding towards the Castle, with somewhat
guilty haste, and a man approaching in their
direction, with his hands in his pockets and
a straw in his mouth. To Helen's amazement,
it was Larry Flood.

"More power, ladies," was his brief, but
novel greeting.

A fine evening, Larry," returned Dido.
So you have been walking with Sally ? "

'Tis only dance in a way, your ladyship."


'' Is Biddy still against it ? "

She's that much again it, that if I wor to
go next, or near, the house, she'd just pick
mee eyes out ! Maybe you'll put in a word
for me, miss ? "

'' I don't see why Sally should not please
herself. She's old enough."

'* Well, for that matter, we are both of us
pretty long in the tooth ! But I'll have her
before the priest, in spite of the old wan yit,
though she is trying to draw down a match
with Darby Chute ! "

''Oh, thai would never do ! " exclaimed
Helen with involuntary emphasis.

"I'm entirely of your opinion, miss," said
Larry, turning towards her. " I see you're
none the worse for that little tip off the car !
An' you're looking just as beautiful as a
harvest moon ! "

'rand how is Finnigan's mare?" she
inquired, not to be outdone in politeness.

Oh, faix ! " scratching his head, " sure
she nearly drowned herself, and me about a
month ago. Coming out of Terryscreen, fair
and aise, we met a band of music all of a
sudden on the bridge, and without the least

provocation, she just turned about, and leapt
over the parapet, car and all ! "

"And did you go over, Larry?" asked
Helen with benevolent solicitude.

Troth, and I did not. 1 stayed on land.
We had terrible work to get her out, though
she swam like an otter, and there was no
great harm done, barren' the shafts again ;
but the mails was soaking wet  just in a sort
of pulp ; and the postmaster was raging and
spoke very bitter. The end of it was, I had
to get shut of the mare ! A horse on the
road is well enough ; but when they show a
taste for the water, it's a different kind of
driving is required. So I sold her to a canal
boatman  and maybe she's aise now.
She'll be hard set to run away with the boat !
Well, she was a fine traveller! " he concluded
regretfully.

And what have you now ? "

'' Only the blind brown, till the fair of
Manager. He's a have of work in him
yet, and there's no fear of Mm shying.
Well, Miss Dido, I'll not be detaining you.
You'll mind and put in a word for me with

the ould " fostooke,"  I mane Biddy Mac
Grave. Tell lier Pm a warm man, and an
honest man, and a decent man.  Sure all the
world knows that ! She's taking her pigs to
the wrong market," he added significantly, ashe
abruptly touched his canteen, and departed.


'' Modesty, thy name is Larry Flood ! "
ejaculated Helen. '' Every one knows he's
an honest man, and a decent man ! "

'well, yes, he is in his way," acquiesced
Dido, '' but HE knows who is the heiress of
these parts, and that Sally is a splendid
dairy woman, and has a fortune of forty
pounds ! not to speak of a second-hand gold
watch ! "

CHAPTER VIII.

*the apparitions'*

And having once turned round, walks on,

And turns no more his head.
Because he knows a frightful fiend
Both close behind him tread."

Ancient Mariner.

However highly Mr. Sheridan's intellectual
faculties might be rated by foreign philosophers,
and corresponding savants, yet,
like the typical prophet, he had no honour
in his own country, and was credited by
the most lenient, with wanting at least
one day in the week ! Even Andy All
Right (who was dimly conscious of his own
deficiencies), had more than once been
heard to draw comparisons between himself
and his master, which were by no
means to the latter' s advantage.

Helen saw but little of her uncle; indeed,
only on those rare occasions, when he joined
his family at dinner, and during that meal.

lie rarely opened this lips, save for the purpose
of swallowing food, his attention was wholly
absorbed by some object not present, that
monopolized all his thoughts. Now and
then he would pause, lay down his knife and
fork, lean back in his chair, and meditatively
comb his beard with somewhat inky fingers ;
sometimes he would suddenly catch fire at a
passing remark, and use it as a text for an
unexpected and eloquent lecture on astronomy,
biology, philosophy, or even hydrophobia
; he had an excellent and intelligent
listener in his niece, who followed him
patiently through all the mazes of his varied
subjects, anxiously endeavouring to glean
information for the benefit of herself and her
pupils (and what she could not comprehend,
from its being enclosed in a labyrinth of
words, she modestly attributed to her own
mental density). As Mr. Sheridan proceeded
with his discourse, his voice gradually
gained such force, his words came so rapidly
and so opportunely, that he seemed to be
completely transformed. As he warmed to
his subject, he would start from his seat, his

dark eyes flashing, Ms weird hands waving,
he looked more like an impassioned Drain,
invoking his countrymen to war, and human
sacrifices, than a modern paterfamilias, presiding
at a frugal domestic meal. Then, as
suddenly as it had kindled, the fire would
expire, he would pause abruptly, sigh, and
presently push back his chair, and steal
noiselessly from the room.

He lived altogether in the tower, behind
barred and bolted doors, and through
which Dido and Biddy had the sole entree,
and there,  secure against interruption, or
indiscreet investigation,  he carried on some
mysterious undertaking, to which he gave the
rather vague name of '' scientific research."
But loud explosive sounds, odours (not of
Araby), and dense volumes of smoke, were
the only outward symptoms of his industry.

During all the summer months every one
at Crowmore pursued the even tenour of their
way, with uneventful regularity. Larry drove
the red car, and made surreptitious love to
Sally, the " Fancy " clamoured at the Cross,
Darby continued to plunder his master, and

that master remained shut up in his fastness,
throwing away time, and money, with both
hands.

Helen was an adaptable girl, and was
now as much at home at the Castle, as if
she had lived there for years ; she had
completely regained her health, and spirits,
and was as full of life and energy as the
indefatigable Dido. She toiled in the garden
with unremitting industry, and took as profound
an interest in the weekly " cart," and
the result of Sally's '' day," as did her cousins
themselves. She had learnt how to make
butter, to bandy blarney with her relatives, to
baffle Barry's compliments, and, the greatest
feat of all,  elude Mr. Redmond's cross-examinations.


By the middle of August, the bushes in the
garden were bent down with fruit, and many
and many an hour, the three girls spent
picking strawberries, currants, and gooseberries
for the public market, or for private
sale. Time passed merrily enough in songs,
stories, jokes, and riddles, but no story, song,
or riddle, had half as much interest for the

VOL. Ti. M

Misses Sheridan as their cousin's experiences
at Port Blair. This topic afforded inexhaustible
entertainment to these two county-mice
; over and over again Helen was called
upon to recount her arrival, her first impressions,
to describe boating, shelling, and picnic
parties. Indeed, after a time Dido and
Katie said they were perfectly familiar with
the appearance of every one in the settlement,
and declared that they almost felt as if they
had been in the islands themselves ! Strange
to say, that in the midst of all her glowing
descriptions of people and places, Helen never
once let fall the name of lisle. It was  had
her simple cousins but known  like the play
of Hamlet, without the Prince of Denmark.
She gave spirited representations of Mrs.
Creery,and mimicked Lizzie Caggett's screech,
and Apollo's languid drawl. She had an extraordinary
faculty (I will not say talent,)
for such imitations, a faculty that had been
inflexibly nipped in the bud at school, an
accomplishment that she doubtless inherited
from her versatile Greek mother. Who would
have guessed that, at a moment's notice, pretty,

demure Miss Denis, could take off the voice,
laugh, and manner of any specified acquaintance
? She had never practised this art till
now, when she discovered that a few such
illustrations, brightened up her narrative, and
threw her audience into ecstasies of delight.
Helen was undoubtedly an unusually clever
girl, when she could thus infuse interest,
amusement, life, and romance into a story, 
and yet omit the hero !

One evening, after early tea, the three
girls were busy in the garden, sitting on little
three-legged stools, among a thicket of bushes,
picking raspberries into a huge tin can, when
Helen  whose thoughts were sharpened by
her cousins' grinding poverty, their unremitting
endeavours to make both ends meet,
and their father's apathetic seclusion  said
suddenly, 

' Don't think me a Paul Pry, Dido ; but
do tell me what uncle is doing.  Is he writing
a book?"

*o; not now.  He lias written several
splendid pamphlets on gravitation, and about
a dozen on wind ; there are thousands of them
M 2

upstairs ; they did not sell ; they were above
the average intellect; indeed, I could not
understand them myself. But then, I'm not
clever ! "

'eyes you are, Dido," said her cousin
decidedly. 'you are a first-rate musician,
a capital German scholar. I wish I had half
your brains ! "

That is nonsense, my dear  "

Papa has invented no end of wonderful
things," interrupted Katie proudly.

Helen looked up expectantly, and Dido
answered, 

Yes ; little machines for measuring and
weighing air ; but, unfortunately, his most
remarkable contrivances have all been discovered
before ! "

And what is he doing now ? "

"He is constructing an apparatus that
is to be the marvel of the age. It is to bean
overwhelming success. A surprise to
humanity ; but I do not know what it is ! "

Can you not guess ? "

Dido shook her head gravely, and Katie
burst out, " Poor papa is out of his element
here. When we were children  indeed, till

Dido was sixteen  we lived in Germany, as
you know, at a cheap little place, called
Kraut, and the Padre had plenty of congenial
society, and made many literary friends, who
profess a great interest in his work still. He
takes them into his confidence. They know
all about it.  They often write to him,  "

'' To ask for money," appended Dido
bitterly. " They are not real savants and
inventors, and great literary lights, as papa
fancies  at least, I don't think they are.
Certainly, some of our neighbours at Kraut
were clever, intellectual people, but others,
whom papa picked up in the train, or in the
gardens, or the street, it's my opinion they
were all impostors. You remember the man
from Baden, Katie ; you remember the Pole ;
you remember the Italian who  "

Don't talk of them ! " cried her sister
impatiently. '' They were all swindlers and
thieves ! "

*' And still papa has faith in strangers !
continued Dido. "A man has only to claim
him as a brother inventor, and say he is short
of funds, and were he making an instrument
to bray like an ass, the Padre would send him

a cheque for fifty pounds.  And yet lie
grudges himself a pair of slippers, and says
he can't afford a door-knocker ! I've no
patience with these hateful foreign harpies ! "
she concluded, tossing a handful of fruit into
the general receptacle, and rising as she
spoke. '' This can is nearly full," she added ;
you two can finish it without me, and I
must go in and weigh the strawberries." So
saying, she tucked her stool under her arm,
pushed her way through the bushes, and
vanished.

'' Dido is vexed," exclaimed her sister,
looking straight at Helen ; " and indeed it is
trying sometimes, to think that while she
works so hard to earn a few shillings, the
Padre sends away hundreds of pounds to any
person who chooses to write him flattering
begging letters ! And he spends a fortune
on books  expensive scientific works. He
orders whole boxes full ; and when they come
he never even opens them ! There are a
dozen great cases, all mouldering, out in the
coach-house. When mama was alive she
kept some of the money ; and she and the
old steward managed pretty well. After

they died there was no one  for of course
the Padre could not have his mind disturbed
about pigs and grazing stock. After a time
he took a great fancy to Darby ; and Darby
and Dido do their best  and very bad it is !
Barry wanted to manage the property, but
papa was furious at the bare notion ! I myself,
think it would have been a good plan,
but Dido set her face against it ; and when
she does that, you may give up your point.
You have no idea how poor we are,
Helen."

Helen thought she had some glimmering
idea,  they could not be poorer than she was !
her uncle having borrowed all her earnings,
(with the exception of a few shillings,) shortly
after her arrival.

'' What becomes of the rent ? " she asked.

Oh, I don't know ! It's paid to papa."

And the money for the grazing? "

Is paid to him also," admitted Katie
reluctantly.

** And what has uncle done with his time
all these years ? " she asked impatiently.

'' Rome was not built in a day," rejoined
Katie rather confusedly. '' I believe he is

making something marvellous, and that it is
nearly completed. Of course we are pinched
now, but we shall be rich some day. I don't
grumble, neither does Dido ; for we believe
the Padre will be the great man of the age,
and that in years to come, we shall be known
as the daughters of the celebrated Malachi
Sheridan ! "

Helen noticed, (not for the first time,) that
Katie generally talked fluently of her father
in her sister's absence ; indeed Dido rarely
alluded to him ; on the contrary, she would
turn the subject rather abruptly, when it
touched upon him or his pursuits.

Dido is not quite so sanguine as she used
to be," said Katie, slowly filtering a handful
of fruit through her fingers. " She has
never been the same, since the Padre sent
away Mr. Halliday,  her lover,"

Her lover ! Dido's lover ! " ejaculated
Helen.

"Yes! don't say I told you, but she had
one once. She did not meet him here, so
you need not stare,"

** Perhaps she may not like you to tell meany

more  so please don't'' entreated Helen,
with extraordinary self-denial.

''Oh, it's no matter !  it's no secret, the
Reids and every one know all about it. It
happened two years ago. After papa's long
illness  Dido was completely worn out with
nursing him, and the doctor said she must
have a change to the sea-side  and as the
rectory people were going to Portress, she
went with them, and was away for two
months  it was there she met him. He had
some appointment in India, and was only on
six months' leave. She came home looking
quite beautiful  even Barry remarked it 
and she was engaged to Mr. Halliday 
providing papa made no objection. He wrote
to the Padre, a very nice letter I believe, and
what do you think the Padre did ? he tore it
up into little bits, enclosed it in an envelope,
and sent it back by the next post ! "

Oh ! " groaned Helen, " how frightful !
and was Mr. Halliday nice ?"

Veris nice.  Of course I don't go by
Dido,  but the Reids were enchanted with
him. He came here, nothing daunted, and

insisted on papa giving him an audience. I
was out just mj luck  but Biddy told me
they were shut up in the drawing-room for
an hour, and that she heard the Padre roaring
and raving like all the bulls of Bash an. At
last Mr. Holiday came out, looking very
white and queer; he had a long interview
with Dido,  and then he went away. Poor
Dido, how she used to cry at night ! She
told me that Mr. Halliday wanted her to
marry him right off, without papa's consent :
as there was nothing against him, and he
was ready to take her out to India then and
there and give her a happy home, and she
said she would have gone  only for one
reason  "

And what was that ? "

"I've been trying to find out for two
years, and never discovered it yet."

I wonder what it could have been ? " said
Helen, musingly  " want of money ? "

No ! I'm sure it was not that, Mr. Holiday
is rich. I've tried to guess it, and I've
given it up at last as a bad job."

'' And so," said Helen to herself, " her

merry, lively cousin Dicto  whose wit and
spirits rarely failed her  had had what
Katie would call ' a disappointment,' too ! "

** This can is quite full, so come along,"
said that young lady, rising with joyous
activity. '* Thank goodness, these are the
last of these odious raspberries for this year."

The two girls had locked the garden gate,
and were crossing the yard, carrying the
can of fruit between them, when they were
nearly knocked down, by Sally and Andy,
who came running frantically in an opposite
direction, and without the smallest apology
dashed through the back door, which they
slammed loudly after them. Prompted by
very excusable curiosity, the spectators followed
by the same entrance, and discovered
Andy in the middle of the kitchen, looking
as if his wits had entirely departed, and
Sally wiping the perspiration from her face
with the corner of her apron, and loudly
expounding some terrible experience to Dido
and her aunt.

Oh, save us and send us. Miss Katie ! "
she exclaimed as she entered, '' I'm after

seeing the frightfully thing that walks
above ground ! It was aether an evil spirit
or the ould wan himself ! Oh, mush, mush,
I never get such a turn in mee life ! Oh,
Andy, darling', what did we ever do to bring
such a thing about us ? "

But Andy was utterly incapable of making
any reply, and stood trembling, and open-mouthed,
in the middle of the floor.

But what was it ? " demanded Helen, approaching
the table and laying down the can.

*' Well then, miss, I'll just describe it, and
I'll lave it to yourself to put a name on it.
Andy and me was down at the far croft,
looking at a sick cow, and were coming
home, thinking of nothing in the world,
when all at want, I saw within two perch
of me, what I thought was a tree walking'.
I nudged Andy, and we both looked, and
sure enough, there it was, as plain as plain,
with big wings reaching down each side, and
a long tail trailing after it ;" here she was
so overcome by the bare recollection, that
she was obliged to stop and gasp for breath,
and once more apply her apron to her countenance.




'' Well, miss, it went by quietly, within
about the length of this kitchen of us,  and
never passed no remark, so we just took to
our heels, and run for the dear life, and small
blame to us. And now, Miss Dido, av 1
was to be hung in diamonds, I will never set
foot outside the yard after dark ! " she con.
eluded with a whimper.

Sally, I wonder at you ! " exclaimed
Helen, ''17Z put a name to it, fast enough 
it was the mule you saw ! In the dark he
looked larger than usual, his ears were the
wings  they are big enough for an j' thing 
his tail  was just his tail ! "

*' Ah now, Miss Helen, get out with your
jokes ! Is it the mule I'm driving these eight
year, and me not know him ? Any way, I
saw him in the harness room as I went outfit
was never the mule, it was aether Dillon
in another form or  " here she paused
significantly, and left her listeners to complete
the sentence for themselves.

The next evening, Helen was sitting out
under a haycock, after tea, reading a venerable
magazine. She had had a very fatiguing
day, and overcome by the sultry, drowsy air,

she fell fast asleep After a pleasant little
doze, lie awoke with a guilty start, and discovered
that the stars were out, and the
midges had gone in, that the air had become
chill,  and that she had been asleep. Somewhat
ashamed of herself, she rose, picked up
her book, replaced her hat, and was turning
towards the house, when a curious trailing,
whirring noise on the grass, arrested her
attention. Glancing behind her, she beheld
what seemed to be a colossal, winged figure,
pacing the sward within ten yards of her
recent nest. A figure somewhat resembling
old Father Time, with pinions which rose
and fell, expanded, or collapsed at will. She
stood and stared, in blank bewilderment.
The creature, like a gorged vulture, appeared
to be making futile efforts to rise from the
ground and fly ! but, in spite of its exertions,
and violent, almost passionate flapping of its
wings, it still remained a prisoner to mother
earth. What was it ? Was it as Sally had
suggested ? Her heart stood still, for she now
beheld it moving towards her ! she felt her
knees giving way beneath her,  her hair rising
on her forehead ; she leant against the haycock

for support, and tightly closed her eyes.
Hearing no sound for the space of a minute,
she ventured to open them once more,
and IT was nowhere to be seen. Seizing
this opportunity, she flew across the lawn,
and darted into the candle-lit, ever-open hall,
from thence into the dining-room, where she
sank into the nearest chair, gasping for breath.
She had barely recovered the power of speech,
and was about to explain her condition to
her astonished cousins, when the door opened
gently, and her uncle came into the room ;
he stood near the table, and looking at her
fixedly with his coal-black eyes, said, in his
usual slow way, 

"I'm afraid I alarmed you somewhat,
niece  you saw me just now trying the
apparatus'*

Helen gazed at him blankly, unable to utter
a word.

"You look quite foolishly startled; but
come with me, and you shall be completely
reassured. Dido and Katie," addressing his
daughters, " rise and follow me, my children,
and behold with your own eyes the fruit of
my labours ! "

CHAPTER IX.

THE APPARATUS."

'' The flighty purpose never is o'ertook."  Macbeth.

The three girls lost no time in responding to
this invitation ; they crossed the hall, passed
through the door connecting it with the
Castle, and ascended a rugged, spiral stone
staircase in the wake of Mr. Sheridan, who
preceded them at a swift pace,  carrying a
light in his hand. Halting on the first landing,
he threw open a door, and said to his
niece, 

This is my library. Here I think, calculate,
and write. This room has been the
birth-place of many a glorious inspiration."

By the glimmer of one candle, Helen made
out a large apartment, that seemed to contain
nothing but books. They lined the walls,
loaded the tables, and covered the floor.
Here and there, they stood in untidy stacks,

as if cart-loads of volumes had been shot
about the room at random. The books were
doubtless ancient, for a disagreeable odour of
fusty paper, and mouldy leather, impregnated
the atmosphere, and Helen was glad to
withdraw to the chill but less oppressive
staircase,  when her uncle, with a dangerous
wave of his composite, said, 

'' Now let us ascend to the ' Locus in quo '
in short, to the laboratory."

When they reached their destination, they
found the same wild disorder reigned there as
they had just witnessed below. A forge and
bellows, a carpenter's bench and tools, a
lathe, quantities of peculiar-looking bottles, 
presumably containing chemicals ; a furnace,
steel tools, newspapers, lumps of coal, bits of
whalebone, and the remains of Mr. Sheridan's
dinner on a tray were all mixed up together
in extraordinary confusion. In the middle
of the room stood a large table, on which lay
a mysterious object, concealed by a red cover.
It was something long, something broad ;
but all further speculation was ended by Mr.
Sheridan delicately raising the cloth, and

VOL. III. N

solemnly displaying, what looked like a pair
of umbrellas blown inside out !

I suppose you know nothing of aerostation
? " lie said gravely, addressing bis niece.

She shook her head ; shameful to state, the
very name was new to her.

"It is the art  as yet in its infancy  of
travelling through the air ; an art that has
ever baffled mankind. In me,"  pointing to
his beard with a long forefinger,  " you seethe
fortunate inventor of a pair of wings, by
means of which I hope shortly to make the
first aerial voyage  and fly to Dublin."

To an ordinary listener, this announcement
would have seemed the mere raving of a
Bedlamite ; but the three girls were profoundly
impressed by the inventor's voice,
and presence, and enthusiastic belief in himself,
and they hung upon his words, with
parted lips, and awe struck eyes.

"It is quite true," he resumed, " that corelli
and Leibnitz, both denied the possibility
of any man's flying. But Bacon, and Wilkins,
thought as I do," he added with a nod that
implied,  " and so much the better for them ! "

'' Observe this," now tenderly holding up
a wing. (It was of immense length, and
seemed surprisingly light and flexible.) " Here
it is annexed to the shoulders, by means of
mechanical contrivances ; these springs, and
a certain amount of muscular exertion, waft
a human body into the elements ! Once
fairly afloat, a very slight effort, similar to a
bird's, will keep one going for hours ! The
first ascent is the principal,  and indeed, I
may say,  only difficulty. Fairly poised in
the air, the process is ludicrously simple.
The main idea is, to attach to one's person
some mass, which, by being lighter than air,
raises itself, and the annexed incumbrance.
But these details are rather beyond your
mental grasp. To be brief, this little contrivance
of mine blows into atoms all other
modes of human locomotion  trains, steamers,
carriages, bicycles,  their fate is sealed.
We shall all be as the birds of the air in
future. The boon to humanity will be incalculable
; and, believe me, the day predicted
by good Bishop Welkin is not far distant,
when every man who is going a journey, will
N 2

call for his livings, just as he now calls for
his boots ! "

"I hope you will make us each a pair,
papa," said Katie, '' whenever your own are
finished."

To this request her parent vouchsafed no
notice, but continued to expound with increased
animation with one hand, as he held
up a pinion in the other.

'' Roger Bacon, the greatest genius the
world has seen since Archimedes, was
confident that it was possible to make instruments
for flying, and that a man with
wings, sitting in the middle thereof and
steering with a rudder, may pass through
the air. I quote from his Ojous Magnus,
which he wrote in the form of a letter, to
that enlightened prelate. Pope Clement the
fourth ! "

If anything had been needed to convince
Helen and her cousins of the practicability of
the matter in question, the mention of Eager
Bacon was sufficient ; and Mr. Sheridan,
noting the expression of reverent attention
on their faces, was kindled to still greater
enthusiasm.

'' Bacon was a marvellous man ! it is true
that lie indulged in chimerical notions with
regard to prolonging life, and placed some
confidence in astrology, yet the imputation
on his character, of a leaning to magic was
totally unfounded. He studied languages,
logic, and mathematics ; his information was
exhaustive, his premises sound, as in the casein
point," waving his hand dramatically
towards the table. '' And now, my children,
I will attach these wings to my shoulders, in
order that you may be convinced of their extraordinary
value, and of the amazing dignity
which they impart to the human body !
Dido, light another candle. Neo,  no assistance
is required,  I can adjust them myself."

Helen and her cousins, looked on with
breathless interest, whilst Mr. Sheridan
deftly arranged and strapped on the apparatus.
Then he held himself erect before them,
and commenced to pace up and down a
cleared space at the end of the room, and ashe
paced to and fro, he continued to expound
as volubly as ever, on the importance of his
prodigious discovery.

If any cool-headed, matter-of-fact persons

had happened to climb the ivy, and look in
through the shutterless window, and discovered
the room dimly lit by two candles
(placed on the ground), the grey-robed
figure with trailing wings, lecturing with
outstretched hands to a group of eager-eyed
girls,  they would have unhesitatingly declared,
that they were witnessing the exploits
of the inmates of some private lunatic
asylum.

"My dear children," continued Malachi in
an impressive tone, " in me you see, the instrument
of introducing a discovery that will
be of untold benefit to all mankind  wherever
the wind blows, it will carry the name of
Malachi Sheridan. Of course aerostation is
as yet in its infancy'* tenderly stroking one
of his pinions as he spoke, " but everything
must have a beginning. Look at railways ;
they had their origin in an ordinary domestic
kettle, and behold they now cover the face of
the globe; this invention has to do with air,
and like that element, is  sublime ! I have
made an exhaustive study of air currents ;
there are certain places where there is a
continual brisk movement in various directions

; these will be the termini, the junctions
of departure, the same as Waterloo or
Euston  but again let me not take you out
of your intellectual depth.  See how easily
the apparatus works," he exclaimed, pulling
a small cord ; and it became evident, that he
could extend or compress, his huge appendages
at will. Now they towered above his
head  now they spread out  and now they
collapsed, with marvellous facility.

'' Night is the only time, in which I can as
yet venture abroad," he said regretfully,
'' and there is something unsympathetic in
the chill atmosphere after dusk, that is discouraging
to aerial attempts. "Would that I
could go forth in full daylight, and spread
out my pinions to the sun ! "

If you came into the garden, when Andy
was at his dinner, you might manage it
easily, papa.  We will keep guard at the
gate," said Katie, the ever practical.

I'll  see about it  yes, yes, it may be
done ! And you, Dido, my daughter, shall
now have your heart's desire. These will
bring you riches  money  money in millions.
Do not deny. Dido, that money is your idol;

you worship money," he added, gazing at
her austerely.

I, papa ! " she cried. '' Oh, no ! "

'' Then why do you annoy me with your
prayers and tears, craving money, money,
money ? What is money ? A few miserable
pounds of yellow ore ; and they tell me that
it makes a man happy ! Miserable, miserable,
wretch ! " he exclaimed with angry scorn.

'but, indeed, papa  "

'' There, that is sufficient ! " he shouted,
with a fiery flash of his black eyes.

"Niece Helen," turning to her, after a
somewhat awkward interval, and surveying
her critically, " you will doubtless make a
graceful aerial figure. Let me assure you
that a happy day is coming, when you may
wing your way back to tropical lands, and
migrate at pleasure, like the swallows, and
the wild geese  "

Here he paused, and flapped his pinions
so successfully, that both candles were instantly
extinguished, and the company were
left in outer darkness. Dead silence ensued,
which lasted about a minute.

'' Dido, you know your way," said her
father at length, in his ordinary tone, "never
mind the lights, the matches are below. 
Go ; I will no longer detain you, mj children.
I have some important details to accomplish
that will occupy me for hours. GrO  goodnight,
good night."

Thus imperiously dismissed by this voice
from the gloom, the three girls groped their
way slowly, and carefully, downstairs, and
finally into the hall, where, sitting down on
the first seats they could find, they sat and
stared at one another, in solemn silence.
Of course Katie was the first to speak.

I wonder if this will come to anything ? "
she exclaimed. 'rit's very wonderful  but
then the Padre always thinks of things that
never occur to other people ! "

'' It does seem to be a marvellous discovery,"
said Dido, in anything but a triumphant
key. Was it the light, or what, that
made her face look quite anxious and careworn
? '* Of course we won't mention
what we have seen to a soul ! eh, Helen?"
glancing nervously at her cousin.

Helen nodded her head in impressive
assent, but made no audible answer. Down
among commonplace surroundings, and away
from the spell of that imposing winged figure,
with its sonorous quotations from Bacon and
Welkin  cold distrust came whispering into
her ear. Could it be possible that she had
discerned the mysterious reason, that held
Dido to her duty ? Could it be possible, that
her uncle Malachi was mad. ?

CHAPTER X.

j>

No hinge, nor loop,

To hang a doubt on."  Othello.

This is Dido Sheridan's birthday.  She is
twenty-four years old to-day. Her cousin
Helen's offering is to take the shape of this
hat, which she is engaged in trimming with
somewhat anxious feelings. This straw hat,
a bunch of daisies, and a few yards of cream-coloured
lace, have swallowed up her very
last shilling, and there she sits, pinning, and
twisting, and unpinning, and untwisting, in
the greatest perplexity. Her thoughts are
running upon charming constructions, that
she has seen in milliners' windows in Bond
Street, that looked so simple and yet were so
effective (and so expensive). How were
they put together ? Certainly not by amateur
fingers, my dear young lady ! After a long
struggle, sheer perseverance was rewarded

by a result that would pass admirably in
Terry screen, if not in Tyburn. '' Yes,
it really looks very nice," she said to herself
aloud as she held it up critically. Then,
of course, she went over to the glass and tried
it on ! The next thing was to see how it
suited Dido ? so she walked to the door, and
called " Dido " in her clearest treble.

She's out in the garden, miss," returned
a voice from the dining-room, " with a parcel
of hucksters from Terryscreen ; they are after
the apples and onions."

Helen reached her hat from its peg, and
ran down the steps, and in another moment
was at the garden gate. There, in the middle
walk, beside the sun-dial, stood Dido, rake
in hand, sun-bonnet on head, solemnly bargaining
with two weather-beaten women,
whilst Darby Chute sat on the side of a wheelbarrow,
and listened, and looked on, with a
cunning and diverted countenance. Properly
speaking, this selling of fruit and vegetables
"all standing" was Andy's legitimate business
; but, unfortunately, Andy was not to
be trusted with finance ! He had been known
to ask half-a-crown for a head of cabbage,

and to sell a whole plot of cauliflowers for
three half-pence !

'' You ai-e very stiff to day, Miss Dido,"
expostulated one of her customers. " Sure,
I bought all Mr. Reid's apples at a shilling' a
hundred, and you are talking of two ! I wish
I was selling' to you."

Our apples are the best in the country,
Mrs. Carmody. You get a penny a piece for
them, I know, and I cannot let you have
them for less than what I say."

'' Here's your cousin Helen a-coming,"
wheezed Darby. '' Sure she thinks she's
sharper than the whole houseful put together.
Maybe she'll drive a bargain for ye.
Miss Dido. Avick ! avick ! avick ! "

Oh, indeed, the less you say about bargains,
Darby, the better," retorted Helen
severely. " I wonder you were not ashamed
to bring home such a price for those calves ! "

*' Sure, I can't help the prices, miss ;
calves is down  all stock is down, and what
does a beautiful young English lady like you
know about farming ? "

Not much, indeed ! but I used to go marketing
in London, and I paid thirteen pence

a pound for veal ; and fancy a great big calf
selling for twenty shillings ! It's ridiculous ! "

*' I met Miss Katie and Misther Barry on the
road there below," said Darby, clumsily turning
the subject. " She was perched up on
the back of his horse  on his saddle  and
mighty unaisy she looked ; f aix, and so did the
horse ! All at want it gave a little lep, and
down sh came on the top of Misther Barry.
Oh, she was not a rapport the worse  she
fell into his arms ! The horse tore off home,
and Mr. Barry was left raging ! I laughed,
till I haven't an eye in me head ! "

Helen looked at him indignantly, and turning
to her cousin said, " Dido, your hat is
ready, come and try it on ! "

Mrs. Carmody, you can take the beans
and the cabbages at your own price  I'm
going in now," said Miss Sheridan, taking her
cousin's arm, and so departing.

'mrs. Mooney and Mrs. Carmody expect
to get the things for nothing. I don't know
which of them is the greatest skin flint ! And
Darby just sat there grinning, and never
helped me a bit. He was worse than useless !"

*' Never mind Darby, but come into the

drawing-room and put on your hat ; you can
see yourself beautifully in the glass over the
chimney-piece ! "

'' It looks lovely "  taking it up admiringly.
*' Yes,"  advancing to the mirror 
'' and it suits me too ! "What do ijoxi think ? "

Helen ascended to the fender-stool, so as to
have a good view, and to be enabled to give
her cousin the benefit of her candid opinion.

'' I had no idea you were so clever with
your fingers," continued Dido, " I won't
know myself in a new hat. This will come
in nicely for Mr. Redmond' s* tennis party
next week. I should not be a bit surprised
if we meet mis nejpJiew there ! " and she
laughed merrily.

Of course all this time she was contemplating
herself in the glass,  and lifting her
eyes to her cousin's reflection, to her astonishment
she noticed that she coloured to the roots
of her hair ! With a sudden flash of comprehension
she wheeled right about and looked at
her curiously ; but Helen moved hastily away,
and walking towards the window, said, 

Those daisies are too much at one side,
they must come out."

Never mind the daisies, Helen ! I'm
going to be very impertinent  I'm going to
be as bad as Barry. I'm going to guess
something about your's'

"Guess what?" sitting down in the
window seat, and turning as if at bay.

*' Guess something about ' my nephew.'
Why did you blush just now, and why is he
the only person you met at Port Blair,
whom you never mention? Well, well," in
answer to the expression of her cousin's face,
I see you don't like it, so I won't say anymore.
If you don't wish to give me your
confidence I won't try to steal it."

After a moment's hesitation she added,
with averted face, 

I suppose Katie has told you all about
me?"

'' Yes, poor Dido ! it was a hard, hard
case," replied Helen, gently taking her hand.

Dido sighed, and nodded her head, and
then remarked, in quite a cheerful voice, " I
try not to think of it  it could not be helped."

An unusually long silence succeeded this
speech, and at last Helen said, '' What I am
going to tell you, Dido, I have never spoken

of before, not even to papa. I have never
put my  my  experience  into words  yet.
I wonder very much how it will sound, both
to you and me. No ! You must not gaze
at me like that, or I shall never be able to
tell it. Look out of the window and listen.
Dido," lowering her voice to a whisper, 'you
were right about Mr. Lisle."

'eyes," nodding her head with quick
assent.

You know everything about my life out
there, all excepting  i}iat. He was at the
Andamanss when I arrived, but I did not meet
him for a month or more. He lived faraway
on the mainland  he did not go into
society ; and because he was silent and
shabby, people thought he was an impostor,
or some needy adventurer, or that he was
hiding from his creditors  if not worse  so
he was a kind of social outlaw."

"What! Mr. Lisle, with his thousands a
year ! " cried her listener in a key of angry
astonishment.

Yes ; and he never undeceived any one.
I suppose he was laughing in his sleeve all
the time. He told me once that he rather en-vol.

III.

toyed living in the Palace of Truth, and being

valued for his appearance alone,  and rated

according to his wardrobe, especially his hat!"

And when did you meet him ? "

'' We met one evening on a kind of savage

coast, where I was accidentally deserted by

a pic-nic party. I was nearly mad with

fright, and luckily for me, Mr. Lisle's boat

was passing, and he saw me, and took me off.

On our way home we came in for an

awful storm ; over and over again I thought

we should have been drowned, but after the

most dreadful hour I ever spent, he landed

me safely on Ross pier."

Yes !  well, that was certainly a romantic
beginning. Go on."

Then he came and called.  Papa liked
him. Yes, and so did I. He was so different
to other people ; he had a distinct personality
of his own. He had read and travelled, and
kept his eyes open. He put old things in a
new light; in short, he was charming to
talk to, and I was always glad whenever he
came and spoke to me,  though it was not
very often. At one time, he ventured over to
the station tennis parties, and was quite callous

to Mrs. Creery's snubs and Lizzie Caggett's
scowls. Then for weeks lie would disappear."

And all this while had he ever said anything
? " inquired Dido with the authority of
a girl, who had had an authenticated proposal.

'' He never paid me a single compliment
in his life ; but I believed he liked me."

"And you liked him ? "

Helen made no direct answer, but continued
her tale, and her cousin accepted her
silence for the proverbial consent.

At length we had a grand ball, my first
and only dance. To everyone's amazement,
Mr. Lisle appeared in irreproachable evening
dress, and danced nearly the whole evening."

With you, of course ? "

Sto; with a married lady, a Mrs. Durand."

Well, I must say, that I think that was
rather peculiar."

'' Oh ! but I found out afterwards that
they had known each other as children, and
been old playmates and friends. I confess I
was angry, and  very, well  I suppose
jealous. Afterwards I danced the last waltz
with him, almost in spite of myself, and when
it was over we walked up the island in the


moonlight. Dido," suddenly raising her
eyes to her cousin's, " I shall never forget
that night if I live to be a hundred ! The
look of the sea, the stillness, the fire-flies, and
the moon, bright as day, casting sharp
shadows of palms, and cactus plants, across
our path. I shut my eyes, and I can see it
now. Then we talked. He told me that he
was going away the next day  a trip to the
Mcobars. He also told me that he understood
that I was going to be married to Mr.
Quentin, whom youknow I detest,  and offered
me his congratulations ! Of course I denied
this indignantly, and he seemed positively not
inclined to believe me at first, and then  and
then  he asked me. He told me  I need not
go on  Dido, you understand the rest ! "

'rand am I to understand that you said
'Yes'?" ''I believe so."

"You had no idea who he really was all
the time?"

I knew he was a gentleman, that he was
well educated, and well bred ; like every one
else, I thought he was poor,  but that made
no difference to me."

"You never dreamt that he was the

Honourable Gilbert Lisle, with about twelve
thousand a year ? "

'' Never ! He was commencing to tell me
something, when Mrs. Creery swooped down
upon us, and carried me ofiP."

'' Hateful old woman ! And afterwards ? "

'' We never had an opportunity of speaking
till the very last moment. He followed me
towards our bungalow, and said he would
come over and see papa early the next
morning, before he sailed if possible. If not,
to look for him in six weeks' time,  and to
be sure not to forget him."

"Well?" ejaculated her listener breathlessly.

"That was nearly two years ago.  I have
never seen him since."

"What?" cried Dido, jumping to her feet,
and tossing her new hat passionately down
on the sofa. " And you believe that that
man was Gilbert Lisle. He was nothing of
the kind ! Mrs. Creery and Miss Caggett
were perfectly right. He was an impostor.
He and the real Mr. Lisle are as different as
night from day ! "

But Mr. Lisle was in the Andamanss at
that time. Mrs. Durand, who was a great
friend of mine, could not be mistaken  it

was lie, who really told us who he was, one
night at the General's. He was travelling
about in search of amusement. I was a
school girl, and an easy prey  and all the
time he was engaged to Miss Calderwood."

"He was not, and he is not," retorted
Dido, decidedly. '' That is only old Mr.
Eedmond's pet project  and Katie has got
some silly idea into her head because she saw
them riding together once or twice; for that
matter, so did I ! She looked as cross as
two sticks, and he looked bored to death ;
she told me once, in a burst of confidence,
your know her style of being one's bosom
freestone day and cuttings dead the next?"

''No, I don't" (shortly), 'miss Calder-wood
and I never coalesced."

Well, she imparted to me that Mr. Lisle
had a hateful temper and insufferable
manners, but that one could not expect
everything ! I said to myself, if you expect
to be Mrs. Lisle, you will find yourself
excessively mistaken. Mind you, I am
speaking of Mr. Redmond's nephew."

So am I."

It is incredible that it should be him.
Could there have been any misunderstanding

? Did 3011 flirt with any one when he
was away?"  "I? I flirt? I never did
such a thing in my life ! "

'' Excepting with poor old Mr. Eedmond ;
his infatuation is really pitiable," interrupted
her cousin with a laugh. 'well, Helen,
believe me, Gilbert Lisle never voluntarily
broke his word to man or woman. There is
something in the background that will be
explained yet, I have a presentiment about
it, and my presentiments are infallible."

Do you ever have them about yourself ? "

No ; excepting that I shall live and die
an old maid; of course, there ought to be
one in every family"

'' Yes, and I reserve that post for Helen
Denis 1 Now, never mind my humiliating
experience, please tell me something more
about Mr. Holiday ? "

I fancy Katie has left me but little to
tell ! I met him at Portress, and there
was nothing romantic about our first meeting
; no rescue from a jungle ; no hairbreadth
escape  he was simply taking tea at
the Reids, in the most hum-drum fashion. We
used too for expeditions along thecoast and sit
upon the rocks the sea, and watch the waves,

or the moon, and talk  you understand the
rest!" (smiling significantly). 'rand one
night, as we were walking home, he asked me
to marry him  oh, Helen, I was so surprised,
and so happy ! but it did not last long  "

'' Do you ever hear of him now ? "

Yes, occasionally, through the Reids ;
but it is all over.  We shall never meet again."

Well, at least you have the consolation
of knowing that he loved you, and wished to
make you his wife ; there is some poor satisfaction
in ?/iai5, whilst I," and hero she broke
down, and buried her face in her hands. But
this emotion was merely momentary ; presently
she lifted her face to her cousin, and
said, " So you see that I have had a lesson
for life ; I shall never, never marry."

'' Neither will I," returned Dido, with
much emphasis.

In the midst of these interesting confidences,
and mutual assurances of celibacy, the door
opened, andBiddy'sbefrilled face wasthrustin,
recalling them sharply from romance to reality.

'' Miss Dido, will ye come out, av ye phase !
Mrs. Carmody says she'll go to two shilling' a
hundred for them apple?, and the onions
sixpence a stone ! "

CHAPTER XL

sally's substitute."

I stood

Among( them, but not of them."

CTiilde Harold.

In a large flagged room on the basement
story, Helen, Katie, and old Biddy, were
seated round a well-scoured table, making
busy preparations for the despatch of a
creditable " cart " to Terry screen Market ;
neat bunches of salads, bouquets of flowers,
and bundles of asparagus, testify to their
industry. As far as the young ladies are concerned,
their labours have been lightened
by the interchange of riddles, chiefly very
poor ones, and the worse they were, the more
they laughed, and the more Biddy sniggered.
*'I give up that one, as to what makes
more noise than a pig under a gate ! " said
Helen, holding an exquisite bouquet of roses
towards her cousin. "There is no answer.
The pig could not be beaten."

"I wish I had some more twine," she
added, looking anxiously around.

"I wish you had, my dear," returned
Katie, " but I can do nothing hut wish ! My
hands are fall. There is some in the cup on
the chimney-piece in the office. No, that's
gum; it's in Dido's desk."

The office was a little den behind the
dining-room, consecrated to business, and
the communing of Dido and Darby. The
latter was in the act of leaving it, when Helen
appeared; his face looked more foxy than
usual, and there was a sly smile in his eyes
as he said, 

"And what way are ye the day, Miss
Denis?"

Busy, Darby, terribly busy ; I have half
the asparagus to tie up yet, and not a plum
picked."

*' Sure 'tis nothing but diversion for the
like of yes," he rejoined contemptuously.
'' An I would not grudge to see you young
ladies so entirely fond of flowers and gardening
 'Tis a nice quiet taste."

"Diversion, indeed? There's little diversion
in picking gallons of fruit in the

blazing sun  and as to the wasps ! but I'm
in a hurry, Darby, I have not a moment to
spare. Please let me pass," she said, now
walking into the little office, where she discovered
Dido seated at her .brass-bound
bureau, surrounded by papers, and dissolved
in tears.

'' What on earth is the matter ? " she inquired,
laying her hand on her cousin's
shoulder.

Nothing  nothing at all," hurriedly drying
her eyes, and averting her face.

Come, Dido, I am certain that you are
the last girl to cry for nothing. What is it ?
Won't you tell me ? Two heads are better
than one. Is it these accounts ? "

It is just this, Helen," wheeling round
with sudden energy, " I've come to the conclusion
that it is hopeless to go on struggling
any longer, and trying to make both ends
meet ; I strive, and strive, to keep out of
debt  we spend next to nothing on ourselves,
as you know, and when I think I am getting
my head above water at last, down comes
something and pushes me under, such as a
big bill that I never expected, and that

nearly breaks my heart. Look afc this,"
holding out a rather dirty scrawl, " here is
one now, and Darby says it must be paid
at once. And I did not even know it was
owing. It's for seed-potatoes, and guano,
and wire to keep out the rabbits  altogether
eleven pounds," she concluded with a little
sob.

'' Eleven pounds ! " ejaculated her cousin,
taking it up and examining it.

*' I notice that it is made out by Darby 
does not that strike you as rather peculiar ? "

Oh, no ; he always does it," returned
Dido, (the unsuspicious,) pulling out a little
drawer as she spoke.

'' See ! I have only three shillings, till
after tomorrow, and these Murphy declare
they can't wait any longer than Monday 
they are pressed themselves, and Darby says
they must be paid. To hear him talk, one
would think I had only to go out and pickup
sovereigns on the gravel ! "

Then let uncle pay," said Helen sternly,
"it's not more than the price of one of his
old books. I do think. Dido, that it is rather
hard that you should have to work for the

support of the whole family, and that all the
income from the place goes, I may say, on air!
Barry told me that, even as it is, it brings ina
thousand a year."

Dido made no immediate answer, but sat
resting her chin on her hand, and gazing
fixedly out of the window. At length she
seemed to have come to some settled decision,
for she rose and said, " I think I will try the
Padre once more ; it's rather a forlorn hope,
but nothing venture, nothing have. Wait
here till I come back, Helen," and with a
melancholy little nod she quitted the room.

Helen sat down in her cousin's chair in
front of the old bureau, with its inky baize
desk, and numerous musty drawers ; and
noted with feelings of hot indignation, the
traces of Dido's tears  tears that had
splashed unchecked upon the leaves of an
open account-book. Sitting here before these
tear-stained columns, she asked herself dispassionately
if a man who had brought forth
nothing but second-hand inventions, after
forty years of costly experiments, was likely
to revolutionize the universe at last ?

No, she had no patience with his concentrated

selfishness, and no faith in the
apparatus. As to Darby Chute, she had
never trusted him, and although she had no
solid grounds for her suspicions, yet she could
not divest herself of the idea, that he was a
rascal ! She was aware that Darby did not
eye lier with any favour, and indeed he had
more than once made craftily-veiled inquiries,
as to ifoUen she was going away?

It was no use," said Dido, entering the
room, and shaking her head hopelessly. '' I
knew it. He just held up empty hands.
That is his invariable answer when I beg fora
little money. It will just have to be, as
Darby says," sitting down, and looking at her
cousin despondently, " we must sell the white

cow."

Not the one I call my cow ; not Daisy ? "
cried Helen in consternation.

'' Yes ; she is the best of them all. She
will fetch the most money. Darby thinks we
might get twenty pounds for her at the fair
tomorrow. There is no use in putting off
the evil day, and I hate to owe a penny. I
cannot sleep if I am in debt."

'you should see what some girls owe, and

how tliej sleep," said lier cousin, thinking of
the Miss Piatt s, and how very lightly their
milliner's accounts lay on their minds. '' Is
there no resource but Daisy ? Can you
suggest nothing else ? "

'nothing, unless" and she hesitated
and coloured  " unless I borrowed the
money from you, and I would not do that,
for I might never be able to pay you. No ;
there is nothing for it but Daisy ! "

My dearest Dido'* said Helen, putting
her arm round her neck, '' what a horribly
mean wretch you must think me all this time.
Don't you how very well, that every farthing
I possess, would have been in the common
purse months ago, only  only  uncle borrowed
all my money the day after I came
here."

What do you say ? " cried Dido, jumping
to her feet. ''Oh, no, Helen ; oh, surely he
did not ! Oh ! " in great distress, and her
eyes filling with tears. " This is worse than
all ! This is too bad. Oh, my dear, foolish
child, why did you let him know you had a
farthing? "

He asked me, and what could I say? "

'' He has such odd ideas about money. He
looks upon it as a kind of common property,
and he has all kinds of queer, wild schemes
about abolishing it altogether.  Was it
much?" she asked anxiously.

*' Never mind, Dido, how much ? The loss
is yours, dear ; not mine. It would have
been in your hands long ago, only for this."

"Helen," said her cousin, looking very pale,
I can speak to you, as I can to no one else 
not even Katie. Papa is not like other people!"

'' No," asserted his niece with a very serious
face.

'' He was always eccentric ; but latterly he
has been getting more so.  Sometimes,"
lowering her voice, and glancing nervously at
the door, '' he is  "

Yes ; I think I understand," nodding
her head gravely.

'' Biddy guesses it; so does Barry. Katie
suspects nothing, poor child. I've kept this
to myself ever since I've known it," leaning
her face on her hand, and covering her eyes.

And that was the reason that you would
not listen to Mr. Halliday ? "

*' Yes. Mamma dreaded it, and not long

before lie died she  told me  and she made
me solemnly promise, to guard him as closely
as possible, to keep him near me as long ashe
had the faintest chance," her voice dying
away to a whisper.

Helen took her cousin's hand in hers, and
her face was fall of sympathy.

He was only a little strange at times,"

continued Dido, ' especially about money.

But during the last year I have seen it coming,

and this is one reason I've always resisted

having Barry to live here, and taking over

the place ; this is the reason that I struggle

with all my might to keep him and the Padre

apart, for if he and Barry were to meet

constantly, Barry would know, and Barry

would immediately insist on what is only to

be the last resource. I promised mama,"

here Dido broke down, and leaning her head

against her cousin's shoulder, wept miserably.

'' My poor Dido ! " said Helen, smoothing

her hair tenderly. '' What a burthen you

have had to bear all alone, and how noble,

and unselfish, and patient you have been.

When I think of you, and think of myself, I

am bitterly ashamed ! I have been latterly

VOL. nr. p

entirely wrapped up in myself, and my own
afeirs, I never seem to give a thought to
other people, and you  you have renounced
your own happiness for the benefit of others  "

I am not unhappy," interrupted Dido,
drying her eyes ; "or, at any rate, I would
not be, if he was getting better ; but he is
getting horse, much worse  I see it coming
nearer and nearer!" and she looked up at
her companion with pallid lips and startled
eyes. " For days, when you do not see him,
he is sitting still in the workshop, and never
opens his lips. I carryhimuphis meals, and he
takes no notice. Other times he has delusions.
Not long ago, when I went up to
speak to him, I found him pacing up and
down the room, shouting into a long tube ;
he would not answer when I spoke, but at
last he went and wrote on a bit of paper,
Leave me, mortal, I am the trumpet of Fame I '

'' See," searching in her bureau, '' here it
is ! I brought it away unintentionally, and
then I hid it here, I don't know why."

Helen gazed at this proof of her uncle's
mental aberration with startled eyes, and
then she said quietly, 

'' I think the time has arrived when something
ought to be clone. Uncle should have
an experienced person to look after him, and
surely you might manage the money."

'' Yes ! Barry must know at last, and
Katie, and every one," said Dido, tearing up
the scrap of paper with a sigh ; '' but to-day
he is as sane as I am, and as busy as possible
over the apparatus, he may not have another
attack for a long time. Let us put it out of
our heads. Don't think of it, we will talk of
something else. I must send word to Darby
this evening about Daisy ; twenty pounds is
the least  "

Dido, Dido ! " cried her sister, bursting
into the room, "come down this moment;
Sally has fallen over the step in the dairy
and sprained her ankle, she is lying groaning
on the settle in the kitchen, and she
won't be able to stir tomorrow."

'' Oh, of course! " exclaimed Dido, starting
up. " Do misfortunes ever come alone ? "

Half an hour later, the three girls were

standing together looking blankly at their

preparations for the morrow's market.

There lay golden butter, cream-cheeses,

p 2

pounds of honey, bouquets of flowers, and
last, but not least, their precious stock of
grapes  grapes nursed through the winter,
in a windy old vinery, with a tenderness
they had but ill repaid.

"Is Sally's ankle very painful?" inquired
Helen, after a long pause.

Yes ; I've bathed it with arnica but she
won't be able to put her foot to the ground
for a week."

*' Could Andy go ? "

Andy, my dear girl, wouldn't set foot in
Terryscreen to save his life ; he was in jail
there ! It's just our luck, the best cart of the
season ! I'd take it myself, only I would be
known. There would be no real disgrace in
doing it  it's ten times more shameful to owe
money."

'' There's nothing for it but to put away
what will keep, and to use the rest ourselves,"
said Katie, the ever practical.

After a moment's silence, Helen said
suddenly, '' Look here. Dido, why should
not I take the cart ? "

You ! " shrieked her cousin. " Are you
mad?"

'snow, just please to listen quietly, both
of you," she returned with decision.

In the first place, I'm a stranger to all
but the Reids and Redmond  that's one
point," reckoning on her fingers. '' In the
second, I can get myself up in character so
that you would never know me. Thirdly, I
flatter myself that my brogue is undeniable.
Fourthly, I've plenty of confidence. Fifthly,
I mean to go."

Helen, you are not serious ? " said Dido,
gravely.

Sever more so, my dear.  I know the
market prices as well as yourselves. I shall
dress myself up in an old garden frock and
sun-bonnet, and you will see if I don't pass off
as a good-looking slip of a country girl. You
know very well you can't tell my brogue from
Sally's in the dark, so I will be your market
woman, ladies, and come home tomorrow
with my pocket full of money, ' an' ye may
make your minds quite aise about me,' "
suddenly adopting a brogue and dropping a
curtsey. " ]o one will know a hate about
it, barren' the master and myself."

At this her cousins burst out laughing, and

finding that she was so sanguine, and so
resolute, and that all their expostulations
were uttered to deaf ears, they submitted to
the scheme without further demur. Of course
Sally was taken into the secret, and when
the subject was very gently broken to her by
her smiling, would-be deputy, at first she
held up her hands dramatically, and invoked
both the local, and her own patron
saints ; but in the end she came round. Her
thrifty soul revolted against the wanton waste
of all her beautiful cheese and butter, and
presently she was instructing Helen (who sat
beside the settle, gravely attentive), with
immense animation, and impressive authority
"You'll find the Master very tough to
drive, miss, but he knows every stone of the
road, and is acquainted with all the shops,
so ye may just lave it to himself ; there
does be no use in prodding him, or striving
to drive him, for his mouth is as hard as the
heart of Pharaoh,  and he is that determined
in his own way, that nations would not hould
him ! First and foremost, ye go to Chance's
with the butter and eggs, an' you'll not take
less than a shilling a pound, dear, and sentence

the dozen. She'll bate you down, seeing
you are strange, and it's not Sally MacGravy
she has to dale with ! but just you say,
Devil a copper less you'll take,' and let on
you are going to Dooley's, across the street.
After that I'm thinking you will never be
able to stand forenint the fruit and vegetables
in the square, so ye might go over to Dooley's
in earnest and offer him the vegetables and
fruit chape ; that's in raison, do ye mind.
Then there's the grapes and flowers, I don't
know what to say about them at all ! They must
just take their chance ; it's the butter that's
lying so heavy on me ! With regard to the
cucumbers, and honey, and cream-cheeses,
a messiah does be in from barracks, a fellow
with an eye like a needle in his head, and the
deuce for bating you down. Then, dance in a
way, ye have the officers' ladies ; them's the
was for the flowers, and you'll mind to
charge them double, darling' ! that's about all,"
concluded Sally, coming to the end of her
instructions, and her breath, simultaneously.
Next morning, at grey dawn, Helen was
astir and dressed; her cousins, whohad hardly
been able to sleep a wink with excitement.

attended her at her early breakfast, poured
out her tea, buttered her toast, and surveyed
her appearance with subdued giggles, and
expressions of astonished delight. They
assured her repeatedly, that they would pass
her on the road and never recognize her.
She was arrayed in a clean but faded cotton,
turned up over a striped dark petticoat, a
pink sun-bonnet, a white apron, and a little
checked shawl. Certainly she was not quite
as lie Sally as her relations could have
wished,  which, considering that Sally was
bordering on forty, and weighed fourteen
stone, was not surprising, but they both
emphatically declared, that she would readily
pass for what she professed to be,  " a
good-looking slip of a country girl, who had
taken Sally's place."

Too good-looking, Helen, dear," said
Dido, kissing her as she mounted the cart.
'* Keep your bonnet pulled well over your
eyes, and try and do not show your teeth when
you laugh ; and above all, stick tothebrogue ! "

These were Dido's final injunctions; and she
escorted the cart half-way down the avenue,
and then took off her shoe, and threw it after

it for luck. The last glimpse Helen caught
of her favourite cousin, she was hopping
along the damp drive, in quest of the said
slipper.

The Master was not to be hurried.  Two
hours for the five miles was his own time,
lounging along in a leisurely way, in a series
of zig-zags from ditch to ditch.

It was a lovely August morning ; the dew
lay heavy on the grass, and silvery, gossamer
cobwebs hung about the hedges. Helen felt
her pulses beating with excitement entirely
untouched by fear. A bold adventurous
spirit possessed her ; there was something so
utterly novel, so deliciously strange, in her
present undertaking ; as if she had left Helen
Denis behind, and had embodied herself in a
new identity.

Presently the Master was overtaken and
passed, by various carts, and even by pedestrians,
 who had each, and all, a word for
Sally ! But this was not Sally ! this was
a black stranger, who was not disposed to
waste her time in idle badinage, and who
took no more notice of them than the stick
in her hand, and seemed an 'impudent,

stuck-up piece ! " However, it was the
Crowmore mule ; there was no mistake about
liim  once seen  never forgotten !

"Mind that mule," cried one, ''or he'll
break everything that's on him, and runaway
with you ! "

'' Faix, and no loss if he does ! " retorted
another.

Mush, an' will ye look at thence foot and
ankle we have, hanging so aise and so careless,
over the side of the shaft ! 'Tis a lady weare,
all out ! Do ye mind the gloves on her ! "

Bead, an' if she is, she looks mighty at
home on an ass's car," shouted a fourth.

The subject of these, and other delicate
witticisms, was not sorry to find herself jogging
over the cobble-stones of the High Street of
Terryscreen. Greatly to her astonishment,
the Master, of his own accord, rose a beautiful
trot for the town, and rattled up in
gallant style to Clancy's, the butter-shop.
His new driver's heart beat unusually fast as
she alighted, made the reins secure, and taking
a heavy basket on her arm, proceeded to air
her brogue in real earnest.

Early as it was, the place was crowded.

and lie had some difficulty in edging her
way to the counter, where she was at once
confronted by a big, stone woman, with a
merry face, and her hands on her hips, who,
staring at her hard, said, 

"An' where is Sally the day?"

She's hurt her foot," replied her substitute,
in a voice that was scarcely above a
whisper.

And so you are doing her work ? "

Just for the time, Mrs. Clancy."

From this part of the country, dear ? "

No ; a good bit bryant."

Oh, well,"  tasting the butter with her
finger and glancing at her sharply  '' butter
is down, ye know. Elevenpence."

"Is it?" innocently. "lam not to go
home with less than the shilling."

Is that the way with you ? Well, we'll
say eleven pence halfpenny, honey ! "

No, Mrs. Clancy, mam, I really car not
do it ! "

Well, I see she has ye well schooled, and
I suppose you'll just have to get it ! Eighteen
pounds did ye say ? " now going towards the
till  but being waylaid by a customer, Helen

Alas left to wait among the crowd for a considerable
time.

Far from every eye being centred on her,
as she had tremblingly feared, no one noticed
her by word or glance ; and her courage,
which had ebbed as she entered the shop,
now came back in full tide.

The Clancy's were driving a roaring trade,
if one might judge by appearances. Their
establishment was thronged by men in
corduroy and frieze, and women in long blue
cloaks, or plaid shawls, all bargaining,
buying, or gossiping. She was wedged
in between the counter and two stalwart
matrons who were holding forth to one
another with great animation. And oh, how
their garments did smell of turf !

And what way is Mary the day, Mrs.
Daly ? " inquired one.

'' 'Deed, an' I'm thinking, she is just dying
on her feet ; first she had a slight sketch of a
cold, now 'tis a melancholy that ails her. John
took her up to Rafferty's funeral, thinking to
cheer her out of it, but she got a weakness
standing' in the berlin-ground, an' 'tis worse
she is, instead of better."

That's bad ! An' how is Dan ? "

Oh, finely. Sure he has the pledge !
Glory be to God ! "

Mush, an' I wish Pat had ! Whin he
comes into the town here, he gits into that
much company there's no dating with him at
all. Ye can't be up to them men ! I thought
this morning he was getting very good entirely,
when I was in Pagan's store, and saw
him and a couple of chaps drinking coffee.
Sure, wasent it that Moody and Sandy
they were at  an' wasent it half whisky ?"

'' Ah ! now ye don't tell me that ? "

An' 'deed, an' I do ! I don't say as a
needleful of spirits, ever did any wan any
harm,  but there does be some would drink
the Shannon ! "

'* Providing it was potheen," supplemented
her listener, dryly.

There's your change, Alannah," called
out Mrs. Clancy across the counter, 'rand
mind ye, it w411 be eleven pence next week."

Helen smiled agreeably, nodded her head,
and pocketed the silver. Sally would surely
be able to do battle for herself by the following
market-day 1 After a considerable

struggle she made her way out of the crowd,
and once more ascended the market-cart.
So far so good  the butter and eggs were
off her mind  now for Dooley's, and the
vegetables. But, unluckily, the Master,  who
was, as we know, an animal of great strength
of character,  had determined to trot off to
his usual station, near the Courthouse. Of
course, Helen could please herself about
Dooley's, but he and the cart went to their
accustomed post. The habits of years were
not to be thus trifled with! This clause
had not been in the bond. Helen had meant
to have got rid of the fruit and vegetables
(even at a sacrifice) and to have immediately
afterwards set her face towards home  but
to stand and sell her wares from the cart in
the open market, was an ordeal that she had
never anticipated. However, as she and the
Master came together, together they were
bound to return, and her arrangements were
solely dependent on his good pleasure (a
somewhat humbling reflection). For years
he had been accustomed to stand for three
hours per week in Terry screen Market
Square, just behind the Courthouse, and to

vary the programme to-day was an idea that
never once entered his grizzled head. His
lady driver, who had discovered that his
mouth was all that Sally had prophesied (and
more), meekly abandoned herself to her fate,
and having loosened her tyrant's bit, and administered
a '' lock of hay," set to work to
lay out her wares, and arrange her stall to
the best of her ability. As she gazed around
upon the crowd, and listened to the confused
buzz of many brogues, her head failed her,
her boasted confidence seemed to be oozing
away at the tips of her fingers. Supposing
she lost her head, supposing she was discovered
? But who was to discover her ?
argued common sense ; and if she had passed
in Clancy's shop, surely she would pass
here. She was doing no harm, quite the
reverse ; and when she thought of Dido's
difficulties, and Dido's tears, and those three
shillings lying in her desk, and looked round
on her fine stock of garden produce, capable
of being 'turned into silver coin of the realm,
shelrecovered herself, and by the time she had
sold her first head of cabbage, her courage,
and sangfroid, were completely restored !

CHAPTER XII.

"THE MARKET GIRL."
We met 'twas in a crowd."  Haines Baytey,

Helen soon discovered that the Crowmore
cart had quite an established reputation ; her
peas and beans, strawberries and asparagus,
commanded a brisk sale. Customers came
flocking round her, and she actually ventured
to retort to some of their sallies with mild
replies in kind.

Sure, we are all fighting and killing one
another to dale with you ! " said a sturdy
old farmer, vigorously elbowing his way to
the front. '' Aren't we for all the world
like flies round a pot of honey ! 'Tis yourself
has the jewels of eyes, avick ! But why
do ye wear gloves ? "

To keep me hands like a lady's, to be
sure," she retorted, promptly.

''Oh! well, as long as ye don't cover up your
face, I don't care a thraneen ! And what are

ye asking for the white cabbage ? " making

an abrupt descent from blarney to business.
*****

Who shall depict the emotions of Larry
Flood, when lounging up to have a little idle
dalliance with his sweetheart, he found himself
confronted by the young English lady ?
Yes, the young English lady ! She was busily
engaged in selling three cauliflowers, and a
bunch of parsley, to the priest's housekeeper,
and seemed just as much at home at the
trade as Sally herself. She looked up, and
gave him a quick sign of warning, and when
the press of business had somewhat abated,
he sidled over to her, and made the following
cautious inquiry in a husky whisper, 

In the name of goodness, miss, will ye
tell me if Ism in me seven senses? "

*' I believe so, Larry," she answered, with a
merry smile.  *' Don't betray me, for your life !
Sally hurt her foot, and I offered to take her
place just for to-day. I'm getting on beautifully
you see ; and no one is a bit the wiser."

I could not make out what was up ! "
exclaimed Larry, '* there's been a crowd
round the cart, as if it was an execution !

VOL. III. Q

'Tis only now I got next or nigh it. And
signs on it ! they had raison, for such a
sight as yourself, has never before stood on
Terryscreen Street. But I don't like it,
miss, no, not for you  you are too venturesome
; and if you'll allow me, miss, I'll try my
hand at selling. I'm not for the road till five
o'clock. I'll do my best for ye, and tell as
many lies as a horse-dale, and you might
just slip over into the hotel, and they'll wait
on you hand and foot."

'' No, thank you, Larry, though I'm very
much obliged to you all the same. That
would never do  never ! "

'' Well, I'm not aise in me mind. It's the
fair day, and supposing some of them young
Bostogues come round ye, and gives ye some
of their lip?"

At this disagreeable suggestion the young
lady blanched visibly.

I shall go home early,  that is to say, as
soon as the mule will go," was her rather
enigmatic reply.

Early or late, do you see that window
over bryant ? " pointing to a ledge in a neighbouring
store. 'well, I'll just take me sate

there, will this whip, an' if I see any one offer
to as much as look crooked at ye, by me soul !
I'll bate him to  jelly ; and that's as sure as
my name is Flood. So at any rate, miss, ye
need not be anxious ! " and having made this
alarming announcement, her self-elected protector
stalked away, and actually established
himself in the said window-sill, where he sat
sentry, with his whip in hand, and his eyes on
Helen's stall, looking daggers at her customers .

The messiah duly came, and purchased
lavishly from the new market-girl, and
did not attempt to '' bate her down," as
had been predicted ; on the contrary, he paid
her some very ornate compliments, and lingered
so long, that Helen literally trembled
lest Larry should misconstrue his civilities.

As the morning wore on, it brought some
fashionable patrons, among them several
ladies, who, after turning over and sniffing
every separate bouquet, purchased half-a-dozen
of the best. During her dealings with
these Helen kept her sun-bonnet well pulled
over her eyes, and commanded her countenance
to the best of her ability, whilst they discussed
her appearance in French, and dee
2

claret that she was the prettiest Irish girl
they had ever seen. The fame of the beautiful
market-girl must have been noised
abroad, for several young men came crowding
around the cart, and eagerly demanded
*' button-holes." For these she charged
double prices without the slightest compunction.
(Meanwhile Larry stood in the background
armed with his whip !)

"A shilling ! " exclaimed one of the customers,
'' oh, I say, come, you must not begetting
these extravagant notions into your
head, Kathleen Mavourneen, Eileen Arson !
One would think you had been in Covent
Garden ! I suppose you fancy that a pretty
girl may charge what she pleases. Here's
two shillings ; one for the flowers, and the
other for a good look in your charming face."

'Deed," scornfully tossing back a shilling,
An' it's more than any one will ever ask
to lay out on your honour's."

As the unhappy gentleman was unusually
plain, his companions seemed to experience
the keenest delight at this sally, and one of
them, pressing forward, and taking up a
bouquet, said, 

*' How much for this, my prickly wild rose?"

Two shillings, your honour."

Too dear ! say eighteen pence, Acushla
ma cree."

'' Sure the times is bad, your honour, and
we must live."

And where do you live, when you are at
home  where do you come from ? "

*' Where I'm going back to," she returned,
carelessly jingling her silver in her pockets.

She was making a fortune ; her career sofar
had been one unbroken triumph, and her
heart beat exultantly as she rattled her
shillings and half-crowns, and complacently
surveyed her almost empty cart. Carrying
her glance a little above it, she met pointblank
the eyes of a gentleman on horseback,
who was looking over the heads of her
customers. He wore his hat tilted far over
his brows, and was gazing at her with grave,
concentrated scrutiny  the man was Grilbert
Lisle. For a moment she stood as if turned
to stone, then suddenly wheeling about and
kneeling down, she pretended to tie her shoe-string,
but her fingers trembled so ridiculously,
that this was indeed a farce. She

felt a sense of choking panic; nevertheless,
she was called upon to exercise all her self-command,
for an officious old crone, who
presided at the next stall, came over and
shouted to her, saying, 

'' The gentleman on the horse is speaking
to you, Alannah; see here'* displaying a
sovereign that had been thrown among the
cabbage-leaves. "He wants a flower."

Tell him they are all gone," she replied,
still fiddling with her shoe-string. However,
it was impossible that she could carry on this
pretence much longer -and when with beating
heart she at last ventured to raise her
head, he was nowhere to be seen. Was it a
dream? no, for there lay the piece of gold.

"It's ould Redmond's heir," volunteered
her neighbour, eyeing the money with greedy
eyes. "He's a great traveller, he has been
away round by India, where me son is.
I've never known him notice the likes of
you before, and I know him man and boy.
What ails ye ? ye seems to have got a turn 
ye look so white and wake."

What would ail me ? nothing at all 
I'm a bit tired standing so long, and I'll just

sit down on this creel till I see me way to
getting out of the throng."

*' Well, you are easily bet up, I'll say that
for you," muttered the other, moving back to
her own stall. '' One would think ye wor a
lady ! " It was eleven o'clock, all Helen's stock
was disposed of, but for the present she saw
no prospect of making her way through the
crowd, and was compelled to sit, and wait,
and listen to the surrounding gabble, which
she did half unconsciously, for her thoughts
were centred in her last customer; from
which subject two tall countrymen were the
first to attract her attention. They were
standing so close to her that she made a kind
of third party in the conversation, which
proved unexpectedly interesting.

"What are you doing here, Tim? " inquired
one ; '' sure you have nothing to sell."

An' it's at home I ought to be ! with all
me barley standing ; but sure I'm drawn for
the jury, and bad luck to it."

Troth, and so am I ! an' I'm due in
there," jerking his thumb at the Courthouse,
*eat twelve o'clock."

Me hands is that full at home, I don't

know what to be at first. However'* as if it
was some small satisfaction, lie added, '* the
devil a wan I'll bring in guilty*'

Neither will I,** agreed his companion,
in solemn tones. '' I seen Darby Chute in
the day, with a few little bastes and a fine
cow," (the name possessed a spell for Helen,
and bound her attention at once). '' I met
him coming out of the bank, ere now ; *tis
him has feathered his nest**

'' Faix, ye may well s?ij feathered  retorted
the other, with a loud laugh ; ''he does not
give the gun much time to cool ! '*

"Begorra, its a shame ! an ould mad man
and a couple of girls  well, if poor Pat
Condor was to rise out of his grave, and seethe
way things is going**

Just as the conversation was becoming
most exciting, these two tall countrymen
moved away. Not five minutes afterwards.
Darby* s own well-known husky squeak fell
upon Helen* s ear. Little did he guess who
it was that was sitting with her back to him,
in the pink sun-bonnet. He was accompanied
by a companion, and they were evidently
about to clinch some bargain.

** I'm not very state on that Scotch
whisky," said the latter, 'rit has not the
right sort of bite in it to phase me ! An'
now Darby, me boy, what's the lowest you
are going to say for the ould lady ? "

Ould lady ! Holy Saint Patrick, do ye
hear him ? is it the young, white, short-horn
cow, on her second calf? "

I just mane the big bony cow you are
striving to stick me with, for twenty-three
pounds."  Helen pricked up her ears 
twenty-Ar'e pounds !

See here, James Casey, av I was to drop
down dead this blessed minute, I won't take
a half-penny less than the twenty pounds,
and only I'm hard pressed for money, and
times is bad, I would drive her home afore
me. She'd be chape at five and twenty :
a pedigree cow. An' ye know it ! so ye need
not be playing with me, as if I was trying
to sell you an ould Kerry Stripped. Take
her or lave her, you are keeping others off,
and the fair is getting thin."

After ten minutes of the fiercest chaffering,
and many loud invocations and denunciations
on both sides, the bargain was closed

and to Helen's great joy, she saw twenty
dirty one-pound notes counted into Darby's
horny hand, the price of Daisy. The fair
was getting '' thin," as he had said, and as
the clock was striking twelve, she and her
empty cart emerged from the melee of pigs,
sheep, and turf wishes, and waving a friendly
farewell to Larry, she proceeded homewards
at a brisk trot. Naturally, most of her
thoughts were occupied by Gilbert Lisle, and
she was consumed by a burning desire to
know if he had recognized her ? Had it been
only amazement at a curious likeness that
she had read in that glance ?  a glance that
revived a spirit that she thought was laid ;
it stirred  it recalled days of painful endurance,
nights of tears. '' However that is all
at an end now," she assured herself, half
aloud, '* thank goodness, I have lived it down."
She cast one or two apologetic thoughts
to Darby Chute ; yes, her conscience smote
her with regard to him. Darby, after all,
was an honest, upright man ! Hearing is
believing, he had done as much to sell Daisy
to good advantage,  as if she had been his
own property.

CHAPTER Xii

Barry's challenge."

*' The place is haunted."  Hood.

The Master's trot proved to be a mere flash
in the pan, and after a mile the aged animal
subsided into his normal pace,  namely, a
desultory and erratic stroll. His driver,
wearied by this monotonous crawl, ahgiited,
and accompanied the cart on foot, walking at
the mule's head, with her sun-bonnet tilted
over her face, and her thoughts miles away
say as far as Bally Redmond. Proceeding
in this somewhat absent fashion, it came
to pass, that in turning a corner she nearly
fell into the arms of Barry Sheridan, who,
taking her for what she represented at the
first glance, exclaimed, '* Hullo, my Beauty
'tis yourself;" but, *' The deuce!" " The
devil ! " were his concluding ejaculations, ashe
recognized the Crowmore mule, and something

familiar in the cut of the market-girl's
pink sun-bonnet  not to mention the face
that was under it. Finding herself fairly
caught, and that escape was out of the
question, Helen resolved to make a virtue of
necessity, and to brazen it out to the best of
her ability.

*' What the mischief does this mean ? " he
blustered, authoritatively.

It means that Sally has hurt her foot,"
she returned, with complete composure, and
speaking in her natural voice, '' and I have
been her most successful "substitute."

Bother your long words ! Do you mean
to tell me you have been selling vegetables
and butter in Terry screen ? "

'* I do," she answered gaily.

'' Then, not alone old Malachi, but every
mother's son in Crowmore is mad. I'm blest
if I ever saw anything to beat tMs' surveying
Helen, and her costume, and her flatteringly
empty cart, with wrathful amazement.

You need not be alarmed, no one recognized
me, excepting Larry Flood  the cat
is still in the bag, unless you let it out."

What put it into your head to go playacting

about the country, along with the
market cart ? What did you do it for ? "

'' Merely to make money ; an article that
is rather scarce at the Castle. You hardly
suppose that I did it for a joke, do you,  or
for pleasure ?"

Well, all I can say is, that if I had anything
to say to you  ''

'which you have not," she interrupted
quickly.

'' There you go as usual  snapping the
nose off my face. I was only saying if I had.
However, I'm glad enough to meet you in
any shape  alone."

Helen glanced at him nervously, and
waited to hear the sequel to this rather significant
remark.

You see, up at the Castle, you have Dido
pinned to your elbow all day, and I never get
a word with you."

'rit seems to me that you get a good
many, all the same."

"Well, not /ie word. Look here, Helen.
Of course I know that you are only a teacher
in a school, and have not a shilling to bless
yourself with, and never will have  worse

luck ; but you are a thundering pretty girl,
and I am very spoony on you, so here goes.
Will you marry me ? "

I ? " she ejaculated with a gasp of incredulity.


Yes ; you to be sure I Who else ? " approaching
his arm affectionately to her waist.
But a very sharp rap on the knuckles from
the stick she carried in her hand caused him
to change his mind.

'come now, you don't mean that I
know?"

Yes, indeed I do ! please keep to your
own side of the road."

And is it to be yes ? Am I not speaking
to the future Mrs. Sheridan ? " he inquired
with an air of jaunty confidence.

'' No, indeed you are not ! "

'' Oh, I say ! you are not in earnest ! " in a
bantering tone. " Think it over. I'm not a
bad sort of fellow. I've a snug little place.
I'm old Malachi's heir. I'm quite a catch, I
can tell you  you might do worse."

"Impossible ! " she exclaimed scornfully.

"Do you mean to tell me you are serious;
do you mean me to take no in earnest ? For,

mind you, I'll not ask you again " speaking
with angry vehemence.

'' I really mean no ! You may consider
that the honour is declined."

"And pray, why did you encourage me,
and pretend you were fond of me, eh ? "

You must be out of your senses to say
so."

'' Not a bit of it ! You did encourage me,
flirting and arguing, and making sharp
speeches just to attract my notice and draw
me on ; why, any one could see it with half
an eye ! "

At this amazing statement the little remnant
of the lady's temper completely gave
way, and halting in the road, and turning to
him with blazing eyes, she said, 

Mr. Barry Sheridan, a few plain truths
shall be spoken to you for once in your life.
I would not marry you if you were a king.
You are rude ; you are ignorant  "

No, I'm not," he interrupted furiously.

Yes, you are," she continued inflexibly.
*' Only last night I heard you pointing out the
constellation of O'brien belt ! and you cannot
spell two words ; you are ignorant and

boorish. This may be your misfortune, not
your fault ; but it is your fault that you are
selfish and overbearing, and as vain as the
frog in the fable. You imagine, you poor
blind ostrich," mixing her metaphors in the
heat of her irritation, " that any one of the
girls in the county would marry you ! If
you asked them, they would laugh in your
face.  If you do not believe me, you can
make the experiment, that's all.  You will
have to improve very much indeed, before
you may aspire to the hand of any lady, however
penniless." So saying, she lightly
hitched herself upon the cart, gave the mule a

bang with her stick, and rattled noisily away.

*****

Helen's return was hailed with acclamation
; her cousins, who had long been on the
look-out, met her at the gate, and escorted
her to the kitchen, where she poured out her
earnings and rendered a faithful account of
her dealings to Sally  Sally, who cross-examined
her sharply, and was transparently
jealous of her success. Indeed, the only poor
consolation left Miss MacGravy was, that her
deputy had failed with the " sparrow-grass."

One and sixpence, miss, I would ye, and
ye took the shilling ! however, ye were clever
with the cauliflowers, and on the whole, ye
done well ! "

'' 1 should rather think she had done well ! "
said Dido, sweeping up the silver. "What
are you going to say to them next week,
Sally, when they all come asking for the
smart new girl ? "

Oh, faix, it's not many will do that, they
are mostly too earnest after bargains  but if
they do, I'll just tell a good one when I go
about it, and face them all down, that there
was ne'er a one in it, but myself ! "

'' You won't find it easy to make them
believe that," said Dido emphatically; '' that
would be a good one with a vengeance ! "
taking her cousin by the arm and leading her
affectionately to the upper regions, where a
delicate little repast awaited her.

Helen having given her relatives a modified
account of her adventures (in which she
dwelt on Larry's ferocious guardianship, but
skipped all mention of the two most thrilling
incidents of the day, i.e. Gilbert Lisle's
unexpected appearance, and Barry's unwell.

III. R

come proposal), was considered to have richly
earned the right to enjoy an afternoon of
pure and unalloyed idleness. The white
blinds in the drawing-room were pulled down
to keep out the sun, the sashes were up to
admit a little breeze, and she lay back in a
comfortable chair, watching Dido's busy
fingers at work.

Presently her cousin looked up, and said,
I don't know whether it's the colour of the
blinds, or what, Helen, but you look completely
done up. I'm afraid that adventure
this morning was too much for you! "

'' Oh, no, not the least  my arms are a
little stiff from driving the mule, that's
all. Tough is no name for him ! "

Only fancy your making nearly five
pounds ! " laying down her work as she spoke.

'' I made more than that  something
which I have not shown you," putting her
hand in her pocket, and holding it out, with
a sovereign in her palm.

'' Gold ! "

"Yes. Who do you think rode up and
tossed it down among the cabbage-leaves, and
asked for a flower ? "

'' otnot Mr. Lisle ? "

'' Yes, but it was Mr. Lisle."

'' And you  did you faint ? "

Not I. I stooped and pretended to be
tying my shoe the moment a f ter I recognized
him. Of course lie may haye been staring at
me for five minutes, for all I know. Ko
doubt he thought the market-girl had a look
of his former sweetheart, and he threw her a
sovereign, as a kind of little salve to his conscience,"
contemptuously balancing the said
coin on her middle finger.

For quite two minutes Dido did not
answer. There was not a sound in the
room, excepting the lazy flapping of the
window blind. At length she said rather
reproachfully, 

Helen, I think if I had once cared for a
person, as you certainly did for Mr. Lisle, I
could not speak of him so bitterly."

I am sure you could not ! But you are
naturally far more amiable than I am, and
your illusions have never been shattered.
The last two years have hardened me. I
seem to stand alone in the world. I have no
protector but Helen Denis. I use my natural
R 2

weapon, my tongue, rather mercilessly ;
sharp, cutting speeches seem to slip out of
my mouth unawares, and they hurt no one
half as much as they do me, afterwards, when
I am sorry ! "

I never heard you say anything sharp,
until that speech about Mr. Lisle. Now that
he is in the country, how will you meet
him?"

'' Certainly not ' in silence and tears,' like
the individual in the song; most probably
with a smiling allusion to our former delightful
acquaintance."

'' Now, Helen, you know you won't."

No ! Well then we shall probably shake
hands, and say  * How do you do ? What
lovely weather we are having.' That will be
all."

At this moment the door was thrown open,
with a violence that shook its ancient hinges,
and Katie, who had been absent ever since
dinner-time, burst into the room. She was
breathless with excitement, her cheeks were
crimson, and there was certainly a spark of
triumph in her eye.

Girls ! " she gasped, '' what do you think

lias happened ? No, I'm not going to let you
guess, because I can't keep it another second,
Barry has asked me to marry him ! "

An awful pause ensued, and then Dido
said, in a sharp voice, " And of course you
said no ! "

And of course I said yes ! Only imagine
my having a proposal before you, Helen ! "
darting an exultant look at her pretty, pale
cousin, who now suddenly unclasped her
hands from behind her head, and sat up
erect, and looked at her with eyes wide with
horrified surprise.

Vanity is one of those curious elements inhuman
nature which defy every rule, and
impel the victim into the most unexpected
courses. Barry had been put upon his
mettle, and he was resolved to show Miss
Denis her mistake at any cost. Accordingly
he offered himself to the very first young lady
he met, who happened to be her cousin,
Katie, and here, within four hours of Helen's
scornful rejection of his hand, he was engaged
to a girl under the same roof as herself ! The
long exciting day, the unexpected encounter
with Gilbert, Barry's proposal, and Barry's

revenge, were too much for lier over-wrought
nerves ; to the horror of Dido, and the amazement
of Katie, their cousin received the news
and she, who had always been so down on

Barry  in a storm of hysterical tears !
*****

The next day brought the successful suitor
to Crowmore to receive the congratulations
of his friends ; his attitude was one of sulky
triumph as he nodded his acknowledgments
of Dido's tepid felicitations, and Biddy's brief
greeting  Biddy, who had more than once
imparted to the bride elect that " she would
not grudge Mr. Barry a good baiting, to take
the concave out of him ! "  For once he
obtained an interview with his uncle, and
then he  sought Helen,  but at first she was
nowhere to be seen ! All the afternoon she
had been digging dandelion roots out of the
gravel, with a kitchen knife, a weary, exasperating
performance, and now, with an aching
back, she was enjoying well-earned repose
under a beech-tree on the lawn. She had
scarcely begun to realize the delights of this
exquisite August evening, scarcely turned a
page of her book, when, to her great disgust.

she heard a loud 'ahem," and, looking up,
beheld Barry  Barry, gazing at her with
angry, vindictive eyes ! His recent penchant
had been speedily replaced by a good, sound,
substantial hatred, which he was at no pains
to keep out of his countenance. Helen raised
her head and looked at him, and beheld
defiance in his port, and triumph in his
glance. No rebuff*, no rejection, could quench
the unquenchable.

*' So you see you were wrong ! " he
sneered; 'who is the ostrich now  who is
the frog, eh ? I wonder you are not above
calling people names ! '*

Go away, and don't dare to speak to me,
sir ! "

But I will speak to you ! " he retorted
defiantly. " You see, with all your fine talk,
the very first girl I asked took me, and was
glad of the chance ! "

Helen merely lifted her eyes again and
looked at him with frank disgust.

"I'm going to live here ; the old fellow
agrees. Katie is his favourite daughter, and,
any way, it is high time to take the money out
of his hands, and that  there was some sane

person over the property ! I shall give Darby
Chute the sack," he grinned at Helen, and
she read in his eyes that she would undoubtedly
"get the sack" also.

' Of course you'll say nothing to them
about yesterday," dropping his tone of
authority for one of querulous entreaty, as
his ees fell on Dido and Katie, hurrying
across the lawn. " You keep what I said
to you to yourself ? "

Need you ask ? " she returned scornfully.

Come away from under the tree, and sit
upon these shawls ! " cried Katie. " That
bench is so unsociable. Here," spreading it as
she spoke, 'ris one for you and me, Barry, and
you may smoke, to keep away the midges."

I don't want your leave to do that," was
the gallant reply as he flung himself heavily
at the feet of his lady love, and commenced
to blow clouds of tobacco into the air.
Presently he said, " How much did the cow
fetch, Dido?"

Only sixteen pounds  I'm so disappointed
; but Darby said he was glad to get
it, as there were no buyers of dairy stock 
only shippers  "

Sixteen pounds ! " echoed Helen. '' Are
you sure ?"

*' As sure as an} one can be, who has the
money in their pocket. Darby brought it up
this afternoon."

Then, Dido, Darby has robbed you 
robbed you shamefully ! I overheard him sell
the cow yesterday, and I meant to have told
you, but other things put it out of my head ;
he sold her for twenty pounds  no wonder
people say he has feathered his nest ! "

'' Oh, Helen," cried Dido, in dismay,
' what is this you are telling me ? "

'* Just what I've been telling you for the
last year, and you would not listen to me,"
said Barry in a loud voice. '' I always knew
he robbed you out of the face ! "

It does not often happen that twice within
twenty-four hours, a man's predictions are
fulfilled to the letter  Barry's star was undoubtedly
in the ascendant, he literally
swelled with triumph.

I saw the money counted into his hand,"
continued Darby's accuser ; twenty one-pound
notes, and I thought how pleased
you would be, and  he kept back four ! "

"I've a great mind to go down to him this
very evening, and impeach him to his face.
I suppose he has been doing this all along.
No wonder I can't make both ends meet ! "

Don't go to-night," said Katie gravely,
'' wait till tomorrow. I hear John Dillon is
about again  he shot the Crowmore grouse
bog yesterday."

*' I always knew that he was nothing buta
poacher. Why don't some of the people
try and catch him ! " inquired Helen calmly.

But it is John Dillon  exactly as he was
in the flesh  he has been seen scores of
times ! Why, you saw him yourself, Barry ;
you have met him ? " said Katie, appealing
to her lover, with judicious docility.

Yes ! and I would not meet him again
for a million of money. Catch him, indeed !
that's a good joke ! You know the man
that was found last winter drowned in a bog
hole ; they say he was seen strugling with a
big black figure on the brink, and that it
was John Dillon put him in, and no less ! "

I don't believe in Dillon's ghost  a ghost
that shoots and smokes ! " retorted Helen
scornfully.

I tell you what, Miss Helen Denis, it is
all very fine for you to say, you don't believe
this, and you don't believe that  talking is
easy. I'd have some respect for your opinion,
if you will start off now, alone, and walk to
the black gate and back  this," glancing up
at the sky, '' is just about his time."

Do leave her alone, Barry," exclaimed
Dido irritably, " why are you two always
wrangling with each other. Helen, you are
not to think of going."

'eyes!" returned her cousin, rising, "I
should like a walk. I'll go, if it is only to
prove to you and Katie, that I have more
courage in my little finger, than other people
have in their whole body."

Do you mean that for me ? " demanded
Barry fiercely, rising on his elbow as he
spoke.

If the cap fits, wear it, by all means ! "
You said a moment ago, that you would not
face Dillon for a million. I don't care a fig
for Dillon,  and I am going to meet him
now!"

More than this, she was eager to seize the
excuse to have a nice long stroll through

the woods by herself, in order that she might
arrange her ideas, and meditate at leisure 
for, thanks to her affectionate cousins, she
rarely had a moment alone.

Do you think you will catch him, or will
he catch you ? " inquired Barry rudely.

To this she made no reply, and, resisting
Katie's eager, almost tearful entreaties, she
snatched up a shawl, and sped away across
the grass ; and, as she did so, Barry shouted
after her, 

Mind you carve your name on the gate,
to prove you go there at all .' "

CHAPTER XIV.

THE poacher's GHOST."
"But I am constant as the IN'orthem Star."

It was not dark, it was not even dusk, when
Helen, having fought her way through the
laurustinus and syringa of the pleasure-grounds,
mounted the hill which lay between
Crowmore and Bally Redmond. Here she
paused on the summit, and looked back.
What a change even two days can make in
one's whole existence ! Two evenings previously
she had been picking mushrooms on
this very hill in her ordinary, tranquil frame
of mind ; now, glancing down on the old
Castle, Crowmore was to have a new master,
and she must leave its shelter ! Her annual
pittance would soon be due, and she would
thus be enabled to return to her duties, at
Malvern House. Well, she had never intended
to quarter herself altogether on her cousins !
With a half stifled sigh she turned her face

towards Bally Eedmond, whose gables and
chimneys peeped above the trees. And so
Gilbert Lisle was under that roof  probably
at dinner at that moment, sitting opposite to
Miss Calderwood ! ' Of course he is engaged
to her," she said aloud; " Dido only denied
it because the wish was father to the
thought ! I dare say they will be married
soon ; perhaps before I leave. Well, I think
I shall be able to decorate the church, and
even to accept an invitation to the wedding
if I get one ! "

These thoughts brought her to the notorious
gate, which separated the two estates.
It led from the hill-side pasture of Crowmore
straight into the dense woods of Bally
Redmond, and was at present fastened by a
stout padlock. There was no sign of John
Dillon ; no sound to be heard, save the cawing
of rooks and the cooing of wood-pigeons ;
and, without a moment's delay, Helen dived
into her pocket, produced a small penknife,
and commenced to carve her initials with
somewhat suspicious haste. She was not the
least afraid of ghosts ; her solution of the
great " apparatus " scare had effectually banished

all such fears ; but it was a silent,
lonely place, where she had no desire to linger.

The wood she was operating upon was
hard, the penknife brittle, and the process
slow. She had only achieved the letter H,
when her ears, being quickened by an almost
unconscious apprehension, caught the tread of
a footstep coming through the plantation.
Nearer and nearer it approached; now it
was walking over leaves, which deadened the
sound ; now it stepped upon a rotten twig,
which snapped. Her heart, despite her
bravery, commenced to flutter wildly. Was
this the poacher's ghost? she would know
in another second; in another second the
branches were thrust aside by a grey tweed
arm, and she beheld, not John Dillon, but
Gilbert Lisle ! and she felt that the sharpest
crisis of her life was at hand.

He stopped for an instant, as though to
collect himself, then came straight up to the
gate and doffed his cap. He looked grave,
and extremely pale ; and after a perceptible
pause, he said,  '' Miss Denis, I am very
glad to meet you again''

In answer to this she merely inclined her

head. At this supreme moment she could
not have spoken to save her Hfe.

I see that the pleasure is entirely on my
side; and, naturally, you believe me to bethe
most faithless, perfidious  "

'' The past is past," she interrupted in a
low hurried voice. ** Let us agree to forget
that we have ever met before. I was a silly
schoolgirl ; you were a traveller  a man of the
world, seeking to enlarge your experience of
places and people. You experimented on
me. It was rather cruel, you know, but it
does not matter now. We do not live in the
age of broken hearts ! "

*' Miss Denis ! " he returned passionately,
*' I'd rather a man had struck me across the
mouth than be obliged to stand and listen to
such words from a woman ! And the worst
of it all is, that your taunts seem well
deserved. You do not know the truth.
Look here," hastily producing a letter addressed
to herself, " I was on my way to
leave this for you with my own hands. I
did not venture to expect that you would seeme
; but since I have so happily met you,
will you listen to me ? "

''No, Mr. Lisle," lie answered coldly, " I
am not a school girl noiv,

'' Pardon me, but you must  you shall 
hear me," suddenly closing his hand on her
wrist with a vice-like grasp, and speaking
with unusual vehemence.

Of course I must hear you, if you choose
to detain me against my will ! Would you
keep me here by such means?" she asked,
her voice trembling with indignation.

I would ! Yes, brutal as it sounds, I
would. Every criminal has a right to be
heard ; and from you, in whose eyes I appear
a miserable traitor, I claim that privilege. I
will no longer suffer you to think me a base,
false-hearted cur ! There," suddenly liberating
her hand as he spoke, " There, I release
you, but I appeal to your sense of honour,
and justice, to give me a hearing ! "

Helen made no reply, but, as she did not
move, he naturally took silence for consent,
and, without a moment's delay, began to
plead his cause in rapid, broken sentences.

'' Do you know, that for the last ten days I
have been searching for you everywhere, and
that I have been half distracted !  At first I

VOL. III. s

addressed myself to your aunt, who curtly
refused your address, and made some sceptical
remarks on my motives in seeking you ; then
I travelled down to Tenby, and interviewed
Mrs. Kane,  unfortunately, she had lost
your last letter, and could only remember
that your post town began with a T,  which
was rather vague. Next I telegraphed out
to Mrs. Home  who replied with ' Malvern
House.' Finally Mrs. Piatt was induced to
believe that I was in earnest I She sent a
line to Mrs. Durand ; Mrs. Durand forwarded
it to me instantly. I started for Ireland
within half an hour, and here I am ! "

"But why?" inquired the young lady
frigidly.

'' Simply because, until the last fortnight,
I believed you to be the wife of James
Quentin ! Yes, you may well look indignant
and scornful ; I richly deserve such looks.
You shall judge me, you alone  Here,"
suddenly removing his cap, and laying his
hand on the gate. '' I stand as it were at the
bar before you. Be patient with me for a
few minutes; hear my defence, and then
you shall say if I am guilty or not guilty.  I

leave my cause, my fate, my future life in
your hands ! "

Helen listened to his appeal in profound
silence ; poignant memories, maidenly pride,
trembling expectation, struggled fiercely in
her breast. In the end her heart proved to
be her suitor's most eloquent advocate, and
with a hasty gesture of assent, she motioned
to him to go on.

You remember that night at Port Blair,
when we parted, as I hoped but for a few
hours ? Well, I went home and waited up for
Quentin, and talked to him in a way that
astonished him. Nevertheless, he stuck to his
point, and blustered, and stormed, and swore
that you were engaged to him."

'' And you believed him ? " she exclaimed,
with repressed emphasis.

'' I did not believe his words. What converted
me was his facts  the fact that he
possessed the wreck ring, and placed it in my
hand. That was sufficient. I thought, when
you could give him that,  you could not care

for 7726."

"And from first to last you were Mr.
Quentin's cat's-paw?"

s 2

"His cat's-paw, his tool, his fool; whatever
you like ! " vehemently. " I was an
infatuated idiot. I mistook him for a gentleman,
and measured him by a wrong standard.
He told me lies by the dozen, and when I left
the Nicobarss I was under the impression that
he was about to return to Port Blair, and to
marry you at once. I went to Singapore, to
Japan, to California; I rambled about the
world, quite beyond reach of news from the
Andamanss. Indeed, news from the Andamanss
I never sought  iliad page in my life was
closed. I came to London about three weeks
ago, and almost the first people I met were
Quentin and his wife ! After that, Mrs.
Durand cleared up the whole business.  She
told me how your ring had been stolen, and
she it was, who succeeded in wringing your
address from your aunt, and that's about the
whole story ! "

What did Mr. Quentin mean ? " inquired
Helen gravely.

It's hard to say. He is a notorious lady
killer. He did not like to be cut out. He
was going away, and was utterly reckless. I
believe he had a comfortable conviction that

he could commit any social enormity in those
out-of-the-way islands with the utmost impunity.
He believed that when he sailed away,
he put himself beyond the reach of all reprisals.
And now, Helen, what do you say?
If you only knew what I have felt the last
fortnight, you would think that I've been
pretty well punished for being Quentin's
dupe ! Am I guilty or not guilty ? Can
you ever forgive me ? "

'' Yes ; I do forgive you," she replied at
length, with a little catch in her breath.

And we will go back to where we left off
that evening at Port Blair," suddenly leaning
his arms on the gate, and looking at her
earnestly.

To this she shook her head in silence.

"There is some one else?" he said, in a
low voice.

'' K'o, there is no one else," she answered,
without looking up.

'' Then you are really implacable ; and,
indeed, I cannot wonder."

I am not implacable," and she laughed a
little nervous laugh; 'but I am a governess
! "

"And what in the world has that to do
with it?"

Everything. I am not a suitable wife
for a great landed proprietor like you. You
took us all in at Port Blair ; but now I know
who you really are, it would never do. I ama
lady, certainly  your wife can be no more
than that  but I have no money, no connections."


"I don't understand you," he said, rather
stiffly.

Ask your friends, ask your father, your
uncle, they will explain it all very forcibly."

That is a miserable excuse, and will not
serve you. My father has been goading me
towards the yoke of matrimony for years.
My worthy uncle, little knowing, talked of
you all lunch-time, to-day, and wished himself
a young man for your sake  not that if
he were  you would listen to him, I hope ! "

I am not going to listen to any one."

'' Yes, you are, you are going to listen to
ME., When I was a poor obscure nobody
at Port Blair, you accepted me as your future
husband  you know you did."

Yes ; and now that I'm a poor obscure

nobody at Crowmore, you wish to return the
compliment."

Helen ! " lie exclaimed, in a tone of sharp
reproach, '' you don't believe in your heart
that I set any value on my money, or my
birth. I want you to take me for myself
alone, as if you were a dairy-maid, and I was
a blacksmith. Will you?" extending his
hand.

But if I say yes, what will become of
Miss C alder wood ? " she inquired, ignoring
the preferred clasp.

Miss Calderwood is nothing to me, I am
nothing to her ; our estates suit one another,
that's all. You don't suppose that I care a
straw for Miss Calderwood, or she for me ? "
coming close to her as the gate would permit,
and. looking at her fixedly. " You know very
well that I care for no one but you ; don't
you, Helen ? "

Helen raised her eyes, and looked at him,
and. believed him.

I'm afraid you have had a very rough
time of it since we parted  both at Port Blair,
and. in London ?  I hate to think of it."

*' Yes. I was miserable at first, most miserable,"

her eyes filling. *' Afterwards I goton
better, and I've been very happy here."

'' But, my dearest Helen  " (Neb. from
Miss Denis to Helen, from Helen to my
dearest Helen, had been a rapid transition) 
Is not your uncle very "  mad, he was going
to say, but changed it to the word  " odd ? "

Yery, very odd ; indeed, more than odd,
poor man, but he was very good to me. I
am fond of my cousins, especially Dido.
Katie is going to marry her cousin Barry."

Unhappy Katie ! " in a tone of profound
commiseration. " Tell me, Helen, has that
ill-conditioned Arson ever dared to make
love to you?"

Never mind  I detest him  in fact, it is
to prove that he is a coward, that I am here
now. He defied me to come up here, and cut
my name on this gate. See, I have got as
far as H."

''I see ! aDd it is hardly worth your
while to add the D," he added, significantly.
' Before very long you will have another
initial. And why did Mr. Barry Sheridan
defy you to cut your monogram on this gate."

'because it is said to be haunted by

Dillon's ghost ! No one ventures here after
dusk."

Indeed ! Do you know, that I came
across your gHost in Terryscreen yesterday;
a market girl, who is your double. When I
saw her I felt that it was a good omen, that
you and I would be face to face ere long."

'' Yes, and you were kind enough to toss
her a sovereign  here it is," now producing
it ; " it has been burning a hole in my pocket
ever since. Yes," in answer to his stare of
incredulity, '' I may as well confess to you
at once, that it was not my double that you
saw, but myself. You may well look amazed.
Did I not play my part to perfection?"

Inimitably  but why ? "

We," with a backward wave of her
hand, " are miserably poor ! Uncle's inventions
absorb all the money, Darby, the
steward, is a thief, and Dido has nothing
to look to but the garden ; every week she
sends a cart to market, and it is the mainstay
of the housekeeping. Sally, the dairymaid,
was laid up  I took her place."

*rand when did you pick up the brogue
and the blarney ? "

Oh, that was the easiest part of the
matter ! I can take off anything."

You can ? " rather startled.

Yes, ever since I could speak ; but I
never attempted it in earnest till yesterday.
Please take back your sovereign," holding it
out.

What am I to do with it ? Fasten it to
my watch-chain as a memento of the day my
wife sold vegetables in the market square at
Terryscreen ? "

If I were you, I would not talk of your
wife before you have one," returned the young
lady, blushing crimson. '' I think you might
give it in charity."

So be it ! " obediently placing it in his
waistcoat pocket. " After all, I'm glad that
you and the flower-seller were identical. I
always thought you were the prettiest girl
in the world, and it gave me quite an unpleasant
shock to see your counterpart."

(After this speech it was no longer in
Helen's power, to say that Mr. Lisle had
never paid her a compliment.)

And who have we here, coming down
the hill with a brace of rabbits over his

shoulders, and a gun under this arm ? " lie
asked abruptly.

Helen glanced behind her, and beheld a
man approaching with a black beard and
peaked cap, and shrank closer to her companion
instinctively, as she answered, 

'' It must be John Dillon ! "

And it was. The seemingly solitary
white figure offered a peculiarly tempting
opportunity to the ghost, and he advanced
with long and rapid strides, (not being aware
of the presence of a third party, who was at
the other side of the gate and somewhat
in the shade.) He was within three yards
of Helen, and had already stretched out a
threatening arm, when, 

'' Hullo, John ! " in a masculine voice,
caused him to pause and recoil a step or
two. " I say, you seem to have had good
sport?"

John glowered, backed, and would have
fled, but Gilbert was too quick for him. He
vaulted over the gate, and said, 

'come here, my friend, and give an account
of yourself. It's not every day that I see a
ghost ! Let me have a look at you ! "

Very slowly, and reluctantly the spectre
slouched back, and stood within a few feet of
his questioner. Flight was useless ; he had to
deal with a man of half his age, and thrice his
activity.  Moreover, his gun was not loaded.

And so I hear that you made a capital
bag on our bog on the eleventh, John ; what
do you do with your game ? You know you
have no game licence and are a terrible
poacher; woodcock, pheasants, hares, all
come handy to you. My uncle tells me that
three hundred head of his long tails were
sent away to Dublin and sold last winter,
and this in spite of watchers at night, and
every precaution ; you won't leave a head of
game in the county ! Now, I don't mind
betting a sovereign that you have a brace of
grouse in one of your pockets."

Here John, who had hitherto simply stood
and glowered, showed signs of moving off,
but his captor took him firmly by the arm,
and leading him out beyond the shadow of
the trees, said, 

''Mr. Darby Chute, if I'm not greatly mistaken
! I've suspected you for years. Just
take off your cap, will you ? Now your beard,

if you please ? " And, sure enough, there stood
Darby.

For some seconds there was an eloquent
silence, broken at last by Helen who, notwithstanding
her scepticism of Mr. Chute,
was unprepared for this denouement.

'* Oh, Darby, how could you ? " she exclaimed
with horror.

''Mr. Gilbert," he stammered in a
tremulous voice, *' Tve known ye, man and
boy, and ever since ye wor a terror with a
catapult. 'Twas I first taught you to handle
ferrets, and sure you would not go and
expose me now ? "

'' Why should I not ? You have poached
this estate for the last ten years ; not
modestly now and then, like your neighbours,
but as systematically as if you had leased the
shooting. You must have made your fortune."

Fortune, indeed ! an' how would I make
a fortune ? " indignantly.

Easily, Darby ! what about the white cow
you sold for Miss Dido for twenty pounds,
and you only gave her sixteen ? " demanded
Helen authoritatively.

Array ! what are you talking about,

Miss?" lie asked with an air of virtuous
repudiation. ''Do ye want to destroy mee
character?"

"It is all right, Darby, I was there. I heard
you sell it to a man named James Casey.
We will send for him tomorrow if you like."

Faix, I see I may as well make a clean
breast of it;  I see that it's all over," remarked
Darby with sullen self-possession.

If you mean the shooting of the best
covers in the county, and robbing old Mr.
Sheridan, I think you are about right, and that
it %8 all over," returned Gilbert emphatically.

Well, sure, if I did not take from him,
some one else would," was the cool rejoinder.
'Tis a shame for the, likes of him, to be
tempting poor people ! "

I suppose it was your shots that we used
to hear in the woods ? "

"I expect it was, Mr. Gilbert."

'' And it was you who terrified the wits out
of every one after dark  more especially
other poachers. That was a clever dodge."

'' It was not too bad, Mr. Gilbert.  Some
people does be very wake in themselves, and
shy at night."

'rand there are not half enough knaves in
the world, for the fools thafc are in it ! You
are a most infernal rascal."

May be I am, Mr. Gilbert ; but I never
went again me conscience."

' You could not well go against what you
have not got."

And, sure, what is game but wild birds ? "

'' And the cow, was she a wild bird ?  I
suppose you sent all your bags to Dublin ? "

Faix, an' I did, Mr. Gilbert ! " returned
Darby with perfect equanimity.

And who bought your spoil ? "

'' Oh, a spalpeen in William Street, a rale
hate ! he never gave me more ner two shillings
a brace. Don't you have no dealings with
him," said the culprit with heroic impudence.

And now, what am I to do with you, Mr.
Chute ? You are convicted here as a thief and
poacher, on your own confession."

*' Well, now, since you ax me, I think ye
might as well let me off, Mr. Gilbert ! Sure,
it won't be no pleasure, or relief, to you to
prosecute me, and me old mother would think
bad of me going to jail. Won't you spake
a word for me, Miss Helen ? Sure, there's

no one but yourself can say a hate against
me, and ye would not like to be put up
in the witness-box at Terryscreen.

*you need not be distressed about
Miss Denis, Darby," said Gilbert sternly.
I could prove enough without her. If I do
let you off, it will be on account of your old
mother, and because I've known you since
ever I could walk, and because the harm is
done now, and to publish your knavery, would
make half the county look like fools."

*' Look here, Mr. Gilbert, I'll never offer
to fire a shot in anyone's ground again, nor
to set foot in Crowmore. And I'll make
restitution on the cow, an' wan or two small
matters besides, in all twenty pounds. There
now ! I'm laying me sins bare before you  -
and what more can I do ? "

You can leave the country ! You must
clear out within twenty-four hours, and never
show your face again in these parts, either
as John Dillon or Darby Chute. And, as to
the restitution, I shall have a word with
Father Pagan, Fie will see to that."

Yery well, Mr. Gilbert," he rejoined
quietly, " as you phase. But I warn you that

would just destroy both you and me. Howsomever,
I've a brother in America, and I've
long laid out to go there. So it's not putting
me much about ! "

And is less inconvenient than jail !
Well, I daresay you will be smart enough
even for some of them."

'' Sure, how would I be smart, that
never had no book learning?" protested
Darby scornfully. '' Look here, Mr. Gilbert,
if that's your young lady  and, faix, it looks
like it  I never saw any one make a worse
hand of courting' than yourself. Really, I'm
surprised at ye ! You at one side of the gate,
and her at the other. Miss Helen," now
turning to her, ' I suppose ye may as well
have this brace of grouse," producing the
birds from his pocket. '' And with regard
to that little account you were spain' of,
and the oilier change, I'll send it up the
first thing in the morning, and may be you
won't let on, but it was a mistake."

Indeed, Darby, I shall tell the whole
truth," cried Helen indignantly. '' You need
not expect me to keep such a thing secret."

Well, I'll be out of it tomorrow ! so it's

VOL. HI. T

no great matter. Good-bye, Mr. Gilbert;
good-bye. Miss Helen, you and I were never
very thick, still I wish you both luck and grace,
and that you may live long and die happy,"
and picking up his cap and gun, Mr. Darby
Chute walked away with considerable dignity.

There's a nice ruffian for you ! " exclaimed
Gilbert emphatically.

Yes ; and to think how he must have
robbed uncle ! and poor Dido ! "

And to think of the years, he has been
poaching the country ! However, never mind
minnow, we have something elseto talk about."

'* But there's the stable clock striking
eight, and I must go.  And it's your dinner
hour at Bally Eedmond."

'* Not to-night.  To-night I don't want
any dinner." (Could manly devotion go
farther ?) "I am going to walk back with
you. Thank goodness, there is no Mrs.
Creery to hustle me away this time."

To his proposal the young lady made no
demur, no protestations ; not even when he
insisted on taking her home by the longest
way, up the hill, out by the road, and in
by the new avenue ! The whole distance was

about three quarters of a mile; the time
occupied three quarters of an hour; the
moon, a full harvest moon, had risen, and
the twilight had given place to a light almost
as clear as day. Seated on her own doorstep,
smoking her little dhudeen, they
descried the '' Fancy,"  and she saw them !
The unexpected appearance of an interesting-looking
young couple strolling down the
road, was a welcome windfall to this active
old woman, who instantly sprang up, and
darted out, to waylay them with her
invariable whine of, 

Give the poor old woman the price of
a cup of tay, your honour. Oh ! " recognizing
him, "and 'tis yourself is welcome
home, me own darling Mr. Gilbert. Give
me the price of a new petticoat, and that
you may gain the lady . "

In answer to this romantic appeal, he
promptly threw her the sovereign that Helen
had returned, and Judy (having made herself
acquainted with the value of the coin) accompanied
the lovers to the gates, over curing
them the while with shrill benedictions.

From the following few words, it would
T 2

appear as if the '' Fancy's " good wishes were
wholly superfluous, and that the lady had
already surrendered.

*' Good-night," she said as she paused halfway
up the avenue. *' You really must not
come any further."

'' And pray why not ? "

'' Because they know nothing, and it will
look so strange," she stammered. '' I should
like to tell them first," she added rather
shyly.

'' Then I shall come over at cock-crow,
tomorrow. May I come to breakfast ? "

'eyes, you may. Good-night," holding
out her hand.

Good-night ! and is that all ? I am not
going to let you run off" like that, iMs time ! "
detaining her. " You have forgotten something."


Oh, of course ! How stupid of me  the
grouse to be sure ! "

*' No  NOT the grouse ! " replied Gilbert 
who was far bolder than Darby imagined !

Two minutes later Helen's cousins,  who
had been sitting with the drawing-room door
open, and the hall door as usual, eagerly

listening to every sound,  heard her running
up the gravel, and then up the steps. Her
cheeks were scarlet, but on the whole, she did
not look as if lie was flying from a ghost !

'' What a fright you have given us ! " cried
Dido rushing at her. '' Katie and I have
been almost distracted.  You have been
away nearly two hours."

'have I really!" she exclaimed apologetically.
" I did not think I had been half
that time."

The anxieties of her relatives had evidently
not been shared by Barry, who sat with
his feet upon a chair, a paper in his hand,
and a look of stolid indifference on his face.

'' Well, did you see Dillon ? " he demanded
as she entered the drawing-room.

*' Oh, yes ! I saw him," she returned carelessly;
'rand here are a brace of grouse he
gave me ! " exhibiting the birds.

I don't believe you ! " bringing down his
boots with a loud bang.

"And there's his beard ! " tossing a black
object into Katie's lap,  who immediately
rose with a loud shriek, and shook it off as if
it had been a rattlesnake.

'TU tell you something else,"  addressing
herself specially to lier cousins. " What
do you think ? We made a grand discovery
this evening. John Dillon, the notorious
ghost poacher, is your esteemed friend, Darby
Chute ! "

When the ensuing storm of exclamations
and questions, had somewhat subsided. Dido
said suddenly, ' But surely he never confessed
all this to you alone ? Who was with
you ? What do you mean by we ? "

Helen's sole answer was a brilliant blush;

and, strange to say, this reply was sufficient

for her cousin.

*****

A year has clasped since Gilbert Lisle stood
on his trial at the black gate. He has now
quite settled down in the role of a married
man, and spends most of his time between
Berkshire and Bally Redmond. However, his
wings have not been too closely clipped, for
people who bore a striking resemblance to
him and his wife, were met in Tangier last
winter : and they are meditating a trip to
the East, and paying a flying visit to Dido,
who is now residing on the plains of Hindostan,

and learning the practical use of
punkahs and mosquito nets.

Thanks to Helen's good offices, the course
of Miss Sheridan's true love ran smoothly
after all, and she was married with considerable
eclat from the Isles' house in London.
Between that mansion and 15, Upper Cream
Street,  there is a cloud. Helen and her
relatives exchange dignified salutes when they
meet in public, but there their intimacy
ceases. Mr. Lisle has forbidden his wife to
cross her aunt's threshold (an embargo that
is by no means irksome to that young lady),
and the Misses Piatt tell all their acquaintance
what an odious, ungrateful creature she
is, and how once upon a time they took her
in, and kept her out of charity. And this is
their reward !

Nevertheless, the Honourable Mrs. Gilbert
Lisle does not forget old friends. She is not
ashamed to see the Smithson Villa vehicle
standing before her door ; and she has more
than once visited at Malvern House, and
entertained Mrs. Kane, and some of her
former pupils. Lord Lingard has been
altogether captivated by his daughter-in-law.

She is everything his heart desires ; young,
pretty, and pleasant.  He has invested her
with the family diamonds !

Barry and Katie reign at Crowmore. The
place is much altered, for the better ; the old
lodges have been swept away, the wall is
gone, the gates restored; the garden is
pruned, the yard is reclaimed, and the out-offices
are roofed, and filled. Katie is happy
in her own way.  She rather enjoys being
bullied by Barry, is lenient to his little foibles,
and she listens to his vainglorious personal
reminiscences, with deep interest, and implicit
faith. On one point alone she is somewhat
sceptical, viz., that Barry could have married
her cousin, had he chosen,  her pretty cousin
Helen, who occasionally drives over from Bally
Eedmond in a smart Stanhope phaeton, and
seems perfectly satisfied with her own husband,
and who snubs Barry, as mercilessly as
ever !

Mr. Sheridan, poor gentleman, has now
but few lucid intervals. He is at present
engaged in an absorbing search for the elixir
of life, and lives in his tower along with a
companion,  whom he treats with the most

reverent respect and calls '' Archimedes," but
to the outer world, he is known as James
Kearney  a keeper from a lunatic asylum.

Biddy, thanks to Helen's good offices, has
relented at last, and permitted her niece
Sally to bestow her capable hand upon " that
little seven, Larry Flood." The market cart
has consequently been abolished, and the Master's
occupation (like Othello's), is gone. He
is now a pensioner at Bally Redmond, whereto
quote his late charioteer, Mrs. Flood, " he
never does a hand's turn, barren' thieving' in
the haggard, and chasing the cows."

The '' Fancy " continues to flourish, to
levy tribute, and to make a comfortable income
out of her holding at the Cross. And,
according to the last accounts from America,
Darby Chute reported himself to be doing

