CHAPTER I.

Of all the flores in the mede,
Than love I most these flores white and rede,
Such that men callcn daisies in our town."

SQUIRE DIMITY was standing on the
lawn that separated his square, white
family mansion from the high-road, watching
his whole gang of labourers, five men
and a boy, raking hay.

The sun was shining gloriously; the
birds were sinojins as if each little brown
body held a far bigger soul of music.
One cuckoo had got perfectly hoarse from

VOL. I. B

%

his exertions in one of the high elm-trees
that had given its name, two generations
ago, to Elm Hall ; when the squire's grandfather
built the house  and the surrounding
gentry sniffed thereat, and called it
Calico Hall, and himself a " parvenoo."

The old man did not care, bless them !
He used to slap his pocket, and say it was
a jolly good thing to he a parvenoo !
Better than to have got to the top of the
tree, and then be going down the hill.
His metaphors, you see, had been apt to
get somewhat jumbled together.

Now the present good squire stood,
ankle-deep in hay, under a big elm ; with
his chest expanded, his thumbs in the
armholes of his waistcoat, and his broad
red face reddening more and ever more
while blinking at the sun. And thus he
meant to stand a good half hour longer in
animal enjoyment, when 

*papa, papa," cried bis eldest daughter
Daisy, cording tripping towards bias over
the grass, " Mrs. Dimity says  will you
come iu immediately please."

Daisy was as fresh and sweet as her godmother
flowers. She was a little creature,
rather like a dove, with large blue eyes
that generally looked immensely astonished.
She was plump as to figure, but with
a small, trim waist that it was quite a
pleasure to span, especially as it did not
feel tightened. In spite of this latter advantage,
Daisy's young brothers called her
"Chubby" (thus are charms vulgarly described
in the home circle). Her father
spoke of her as his " Sweet Dumpling ;"
if that was any better expression is a
matter of opinion.

Just now Daisy Dimity's eyes looked
even bigger and more dewy bright than
usual ; her cheeks, that were generally twin

B 2

roses, were more like field-poppies from
excitement ; and the squire noticed, with,
slow surprise, that she was hardly able to
speak, she was so breathless.

There is a letter just come from Jack ;
a very important one ! Would you please
mind at once  I mean, would you mind,
please, coming in  at once ?"

*' A letter from Jack," echoed the squire
but in a manner far from being as precipitate
as her own.

Jack was the soldier son ; the eldest ;
lately returned with his regiment, after
having had his first trial of army life, for a
few years, on foreign service.

The Dimity had never been martial
before, so far as anybody knew. In the
squire's grandfather's time they had emerged
from the peaceable occupations of
honest huckstering into the still gentler
life of small country gentlefolk. The

squire had felt horror at first of his son's
choice of a profession, for of course all
soldiers were wild, were scapegraces, &c.
And Mr. Dimity's own mother, whom he
took after, had always declared that
officers were the mischief!" so the worthy
gentleman quoted.

But Jack, who likewise took after his
mother (a lady who during her short life
had shown much more determination than
her husband), would have his own way.
So now, with a groan, Mr. Dimity asked
of his soul, 'can it be Debts?"

Daisy, with that quickness of sympathy
for which her sex is so justly famed, perceived
that her father was alarmed, because

he cried " Phew !" with prolonged

dolefulness, pursed up his genial lips into
what he mistakenly imagined to be the
similitude of a closed oyster-shell, and
wagged his head in a portentous manner.

*' It isn't any tiling wrong," lie cried
out, with her heart going pit-a-pat against
her ribs. '' It isn't really " (then the murder
came out !). '' Only Jack's regiment
is giving a ball, and he hunts me to go to it /"

*' You, child  why, you never were at a
ball before."

' Why, papa, that's just the reason "

But, bless my heart, surely you're not
old enough."

Oh ! papa  I'm eighteen past, ever so
long."

Bless my heart !" said the squire again,,
as they were moving towards the house.
I never know what ages you all are.
Why, it was only the other day they told
me you were sixteen ! Well, well, we'll
see what your stepmother says about it."

No, the squire never did know the ages
of any of his family. He used to drive
the present Mrs. Dimity wild, she declared,.

by thinking his own daughters so much
younger, and herself years older than they
all really were. She was the gentlest woman
imaginable ; but a worm trill turn
when its feelings are hurt, and this was one
of the vulnerable points of this especial
human worm. So the squire, with a puzzled
expression and ponderous steps, sighing
secretly in heart over his hay, obeyed the
feminine appeal to his superior wisdom,
and went indoors. His was an honest,
square house, and in it there were no
gables or nooks, or unexpected steps to
break one's neck stumbling down. The
drawing-room was a square apartment on
the right side of the entrance-door of
Elm Hall ; the dining-room was one exactly
corresponding on the left side. As to
the drawing-room itself it hardly deserves
description in these days ; for there was
no " high art " about it, no dado, no chippendale

chairs and brasses, no blue china
or peacock trimmings, not a stick of
furniture half as old as Queen Anne's
days.

It was only suggestive of sunlight,
flowers, and chintz coverings over goodness
knew what of finery, uncovered three
times a year for the dinner parties which
the squire respectively termed " hi-tum,
ti-tum, and scrub." Indeed, it is doubtful
whether vulgar " scrub " was ever thought
worthy by Mrs. Dimity of beholding those
hidden glories.

The squire stood now before the fireplace,
which was filled with growing ferns
and ivy this summer weather, and mechanically
tucked up his coat-tails. He
eyed his wife, then Daisy, and his next
daughter, young Polly, of sixteen, who,
ranged together, were all eyeing him ; and
he felt inclined to say, '' At it /"

Bat, instead, lie only observed to Mrs.
Dimity,

"Well, my dear?"

'' Here is Jack's letter, my dear. Daisy,
dear  my dear Daisy, read it out," said
Mrs. Dimity, nervously ; for she was a
gentle, thin crane of a woman, tyrannised
over by her many boisterous boys, and
without much stamina.

Daisy, hereupon, read out a warm effusion
from her brother, begging his " dear old
girl " to be sure and get leave, and comedown
to Marstown for the ball their regiment
was giving next week.

It would be so jolly to have her ! and
Mrs. Cox had offered to put her up for
ten days : which was really awfully kind.
Indeed, Cox and the whole family
were most good-natured to him, and he
liked them, for his part, very much.

Mrs. Cox had promised to explain all

details, and so, as he hated letter vyrit in g,
he remained her affectionate brother,

F. G. Dimity;

Pes.  He would be very glad to seethe
mum and governor at the ball, too,
only he didn't suppose they'd come.

A grunt from the squire indicated that
the last sentence was about the most sensible
one of the letter, in his opinion.

Mrs. Cox ! And who, on this earth,
is Mrs. Cox ?" he now bluntly inquired.
"Where did Jack pick her up? Is she
respectable ? And what put it into her
head to ask the child ?"

She is my second cousin, once removed,
Squire, as I think you might have
remembered from seeing her sister's husband,
who had married again veris welland
is a banker, at our wedding," remarked
Mrs. Dimity, with tremulous

dignity, now opening out a second letter,
and smoothing her dress.

"Of course," the good lady went on, " I
don't expect my relations to be thought
much of in this house ; though she is a
very good doctor's wife in Marstown, as I
have always heard, not that I ever met her,
and he used to be in the Army  I mean
he is a very good doctor, I am sure. At
least, he owjht to be, from his wife's connections.
Though, of course, if it had
been a relation of your own, or of the first
Mrs. Dimity's "

She stopped, quite hurt, and in a mildly
tearful, warm state ; for this was a second
point on which Mrs. Dimity " had her
feelings."

"I am sure, dear, she must be a very
nice person ; most kind ! Fancy asking
me for your sake, you know, because you
are her cousin !" cried Daisy, in eager

sympathy, giving her step-mother a most
consoling glance out of her limpid, big
eyes, while young Polly eyed her father
with silent reproof.

Of course Mrs. Cox must be the warmest-hearted
lady alive ; a living piece of philanthropy
; a creature all made of the milk of
human kindness. Had she not asked
Daisy to stay for her first ball ?

In a mournful voice, Mrs. Dimity now
began reading out her distant relation's
letter. It was, indeed, a very well-expressed
and warm invitation. The writer, supposing
Mrs. Dimity's surprise on receiving
her letter from Marstown, whither Dr.
Cox had removed some years ago, declared
her own delight on meeting lately Mr.
Jack Dimity, her cousin's step-son. Here
followed some quite elegant phrases,
worthy of the polite letter writer, a propos
of consanguinity. Mrs. Cox had never

seen Mrs. Dimity, but her feelings were
none the less warm, etc. For their relationship's
sake, she had warmly hailed
Mr. Jack's acquaintance, and would as
affectionately welcome his sister, whom the
young man was so eager to see at the ball
to be given by his regiment.

If entrusted to her, Mrs. Cox promised
to take even more care of Daisy than of her
own daughters. Hereupon followed loving
touches as to her own family, and lucid
details as to the girl's journey. A sensible
letter altogether.

Having ended its perusal, Mrs. Dimity
folded up her letter with a sigh, put it
carefully in its envelope, and regarded her
husband.

Well, well, well, my dear, you know
best about your cousin, I daresay," said
the squire, moving uneasily, being in more
mortal terror of Mrs. Dimity's "feelings"

than of a sound scolding, and longingly
looking outside. " Only, if you have all
made up your minds already about this
ball, why in the name of goodness did you
call me away from the hay to consult meas
you all said ?" (He rather scored there.)
' Let the little one go, with all my heart,
and I hope she'll enjoy herself ; and Polly
too, if she likes. The girls are for you to
look after, not me."

"Not at all; they are yow daughters,
Squire," replied Mrs. Dimity, stopping a
futile attempt on the good man's part to
gain the door ; and confronting him with
the suddenly decided air of a well-principled
worm of a step-mother.

It should never be laid to her door that
she had sent Daisy to stay with her (Mrs.
Dimity's) second cousin, on whose social
position the squire had seemed to cast
aspersions, as she observed.

Naturally, blood being thicker than
water, she thought  she hoped  her
second cousin was respectable (with meekest
satire).

But if the squire's daughter was to go
now, after what he had said  (poor Dimity,
still hankering after the hay, scratched his
head and wondered what he had said)  it
must be his own doing !

Perhaps it would be better, Daisy, my
dear, if you were to go away and let your
papa and me talk this affair over together,"
added Mrs. Dimity, with the sigh of a
misunderstood woman, whose anxieties todo
her duty by her husband and his first
family and all the world were not quite
appreciated. "Of course, as to the idea
of Polly going, I never heard of such a
thing ! And she not out ! My dear Polly,
you have more sense than to think of it ;
but men never think ''

"Not out, isn't she? Well, she's as big
as Daisy, anyhow," cried the squire, in a
would-be jolly voice, ruefully watching his
two daughters slip out o the room.

Both had most unusually tightened up
their mouths into rosy buttons with a
demure air that said as plainly as could
be, "For once we are on our step-mamma's
side ; and if Daisy is not allowed to stay
with that most warm-hearted woman and
well-connected person, Mrs. Cox, for Jack's
ball, we shall cr."

'' Perhaps, also, my dears, you would
give the children their lessons  as usual 
meantime. I hear them making a little
noise," added Mrs. Dimity, with a meek
tone ; as if, her family having been impugned,
everything in this world now
began with " perhaps " for her ; and perhaps,
henceforth, even Squire Dimity's
pantry boy might not have the kindness

to black poor ]airs. Dimity's boots.

My love, what is the use of this consultation
? I am perfectly  perfectly  perfectly
satisfied with all you decide on about
the girls," exclaimed the squire, when they
were left alone, preparing to bolt.

Oh ! no, John, you might reproach
me hereafter," and out came a damp handkerchief.


"But, my darling! my darling!" expostulated
Mr. Dimity, v.'ho always grew extremely
affectionate in language during
such domestic scenes. Then, as Mrs.
Dimity turned to draw her own easy-chair
nearer very solemnly, he threw up the
window-sash with a cheerful grin, and, the
lawn and the hay being just outside, prepared
in his own mind " to cut and run,"
as he mentally expressed it.

*' YoiiUI stay, John  " said his wife, with
feeble spirit.

VOL. I. c

And so the poor squire was accordingly
obliged to do, for the next quarter of an
hour by the clock.

CHAPTER II.

There were this young barbarians all at play."

fTlHE two sisters had no sooner left the
- drawing-room than, on their slow,
very slow, progress upstairs to the schoolroom,
they twined their arms round each
other's waists in sign of mutual sympathy.
Young Polly looked very hard in her
sister's face, to express consolation and
hope. Daisy drooped her head and gazed
over the balusters, as who should say, " If
I am not to go  it will be my duty to try
and bear it ; but one may always weep."

Meanwhile, such a fearful racket was
going on overhead in the school-room,

c2

where these two young daily governesses
were being missed by their juvenile brethren,
that the sisters dared not linger
longer on the stairs over their little embraces
and mutual agonies of doubt and
fear.

Mrs. Dimity said she had heard '' a little
noise," like the gentle mother of many she
was. Why, the din was ear-splitting ! 

On opening the door, all the Tribe of
Gad, as the squire called his second family,
was discovered at tribal play. Billy, the
eldest, was standing in his hob-nailed boots
on the top of the cottage piano, flinging
cane chairs across the room to Bobby, who
received them mounted aloft devastating
among lesson-books and desks on the
school-room table.

Billy's aim was edifyingly accurate ; but
his younger brother's missiles generally
fell short, when each crash was signalized

by a war-whoop and savage dance of

joy-jemmy,
the third, was " lingering" himself,
by adorning his rosy cheeks with
black, brought with pains from the highest
attainable recesses of the chimney. But
this was remediable.

On the other side there was meek Master
Charlie, Mrs. Dimity's delicate darling, supposed
by his mamma to be incapable of
mischief, who was now silently amusing
himself by snipping short the eyelashes of
his baby brother, whom to that end he had
propped up in a corner, and fenced in with
a sofa cushion, to prevent the recalcitrant
infant from crawling away ; and, whenever
the baby remonstrated with a howl, Charlie
either gently pummelled him, or read him
a lecture on the sin of rebellion to his
elders. Mrs. Dimity destined Charlie to
be a clergyman.

The two sisters, being accustomed to-such
sights, did not wait long to express
horror, but very quickly restored some
order.

Daisy gently reasoned, young Polly
scolded soundly, according to their respective
natures.

Then the desks and lesson-books were
put to use again ; but the two little
governesses had not their hearts in the
tasks much more than the pupils, their
ears being strained to catch the opening
of the drawing-room door, and heads being
often quickly raised in sudden expectation.

'' Now, Jemmy dear, spell gig," said
Daisy, encouragingly, but with a secret
sigh.

Gig !" slowly soliloquised Jemmy ; and
then, struck with a phonetic inspiration,
he uttered confidently, like a young
Scotchman, what sounded like, "Gie-i-gie."'

'' Now, Jemmy, there is no letter in the
whole alphabet that sounds like your
gie

Then there ought to be."

Jemmy ! That is really naughty.
Now listen. G-i-g spells gig. Say it
after me."

G-i-g, y/," observed Jemmy, gazing
out of the window with a heart longing;'
after green fields.

Fresh remonstrances from Daisy ; ever
increasing obstinacy on the part of Jemmy.

A lively argument began, in which the
unfortunate syllable was shuttlecock to
and fro between them, Jemmy stoutly
holding to it that his system was the most
reasonable, when hark !

That was the drawing-room door at last,
and Mrs. Dimity's step ascending in its
limp, listless way, as usual.

Daisy's heart beat a tattoo. Polly stood

still, in the act of administering a cuff to
Bobby.

The door opened, and their step-mother's
meek long face looked in with the smile
of one whose modest claims as to the respectability
of her family had been recognised.


I have laid the whole matter before

your father, my dears, and he says "

(soh ! why cant she be quick ?" mentally
ejaculated the sisters)  " he says . . . that
he sees, after all, no positive objection to
your going to stay with my second cousin."

Great joy !

Daisy instantly flew to give her stepmother
a kiss, who presented a long-suffering
cheek for that purpose. Polly
clapped her hands. The tribe, not knowing
the cause of rejoicing, but ready to
join in any excitement, made sundry
ecstatic noises, whilst Jemmy relieved his

feelings by shrieking '' G-i-g, jig P' several
times unreproved.

Then they all clamoured for a holiday.

Oh, yes, let them off for to-day,"
pleaded Polly. '' There is so much to
think of, you know, for Daisy has only
three days to prepare'"

"Yes, and lovat shall I ivear /" dismally
added Daisy, one difficulty no sooner surmounted
than a fresh one, like a still
higher hill, appeared rising before her.

[rs. Dimity agreed to the dismissal of
the scholars, resignedly  indeed, in her
own way she was one of the kindest-intentioned
of women, though cheerfulness was
an effort to her.

So, lefse in peace, with the school-room
emptied of all its turbulent inhabitants,
the three ladies sat down to hold a severe
feminine committee on what articles of
dress Miss Dimity must take to Marstown

above all, to discuss the make of that
ethereal robe in which she must float
before the admiring eyes of Jack and his
brother officers on the great occasion of
their regimental ball.

(What shall ive ivear? Is not that the
first tremendous question to nine-tenths
of British girls on hearing of any gaiety
to come ? The remaining tenth may be
too rich, or too blue, or too hoydenish, or
too slovenly to share the feeling.)

Luckily  most luckily  Madame Furbelow,
of the adjacent town, had come back
from Paris (so she declared) a month ago,
bringing one exquisite, white, model ball-gown,
which had been admired by all that
lady's customers ; surreptitiously copied ;
but not bought  oh, dear, no 1 for balls
were rare, indeed, in that bucolic land, and
money, though plentiful enough, was more
soundly invested ; so Madame Fnrbelow's

gown bade fair to remain on her hands.

But, now, your father says I may drive
in and buy it for you," said Mrs. Dimity,
losing all her melancholy at the interesting
prospect of shopping. "I told lira it was
dreadfully dear, but a bargain  lined with
Bonnet's white silk, you know  and he
said he might as well ' go the whole hog *
when ho was about it. Very rude of him."

"Very good of him."

The sentences jostled against each other ;
but, as they all understood each other, no
one stopped to give explanations.

Everybody knew the model gown in
these parts, and what it cost \ but it would
strike the beholders in Marstown as something
quite new, all three agreed.

*' Well, if you two drive over this afternoon,
I'll walk to tell the laundress," said
Polly, magnanimously. The squire's hired
household being modest enough in number,

the family employed a cottager's wife
to wash, who lived a mile away, down lone
dusty lanes. '' I'd better tell her to put
ever so much more starch in your cotton
gowns," remarked Polly, with a thoughtful
demeanour. " It gives one an air of
far greater consequence."

"You have not got a really handsome
lace handkerchief for the ball ?" considerately
observed Mrs. Dimity, adding, with a
supreme effort of good-nature, " Well, I will
lend you my wedding one. It was a present
from my Aunt Jones, and cost three
pounds fifteen shillings, so you'll have to
be very careful of it."

Was there ever such a pearl of price of
a step-mother? Daisy interrupted her
with voluble thanks and assurances of so
guarding the existence of that handkerchief
that, if she kept her promise strictly,
it was extremely unlikely that she would

enjoy herself at all on the night of the ball
in question.

*' And ril lend you my new hat," quoth
Polly, not to be outdone in generosity.

But Daisy demurred before accepting
such a sacrifice. Had not Polly lum23ed
the little last all of her quarterly allowance
on that hat, which was " the sweetest
thing " at Madame Furbelow's. Had not
the elder Miss Dimity, sighing in admiration,
acknowledged she could not afford such
another, her accounts being too delicately
balanced ; and celt representing itself to
the sisters as an abyss of awfulness even
blacker (because unknown) than to the good
squire's mind.

But Polly insisted and gained the day
Was there ever such a sister, far above
rubies ! ?

Some other time you can maybe do as
much again for me," said the younger,

with an awkward lauoh, not wanting to
pose as a benefactress.

"Yes, indeed. Some day or other, if
your sister is married, she may lend you
something smart, when you come out,
Polly," responded Mrs. Dimity, so animated
that she felt inclined to joke in some
mild way ; although at that the two young
sisters shyly drew back, being fastidiously
sensitive on such subjects.

The good lady was not fastidious, but
still too much of a gentlewoman to utter
the thought in her mind  that had indeed
reigned supreme there ever since Jackall
-important letter came  which was that
maybe Daisy might meet her future husband
at Marstown ! As a step-mother,
Mrs. Dimity indeed feebly hoped it might
be so. Of course nobody  no girl, she
owned, could be more useful to her little
step-brothers than Daisy.

That was very true.

On the other hand, was it not aggravating
for a person of Mrs. Dimity's undecided
appearance as to age to have such a
grown-up step-daughter.

Strangers had absolutely been rude
enough to suppose her to be Mrs. Dimity's
own daughter. So ridiculous !

Daisy ! Daisy !" the squire was now
heard shouting. " Are you uot going to
exercise old Slug. If you don't, I must 
and I don't like to leave that hay. If
John has to drive your step-mother over
to buy your fal-lals this afternoon, it'll be
as much as he can do with the horses."

"Yes, yes, I'm coming, papa. fare
bouillonnes or box pleats most worn, I
wonder."

'' Let me go ? But oh, there are two
hens to be set with Brahma eggs this morning,
and a brood of young Cochin coming

out," offered Polly, hesitatingly ; her heart
being just now in the hen-wife's profession.

"Never mind; I'll ride Slug, dear. Indeed
I like it," gaily answered Daisy, fairly
dancing out of the room.

Slug was the squire's old brown hunter ;
most cunning and lazy of equine animals
when allowed his own way. But Daisy
felt she would make him go her way today,
and so get rid of some of the excitement
that made her heart feel like a volcano
of delight, without any escape-valve
in the way of a crater.

Up and down, between the green hedges
that skirted Elm Hall, she softly exercised
Slug ; and, while the birds sang in the
boughs that brushed her cheek at moments
or interlaced overhead, they all seemed to
her chanting the same refrain in different
ways, of which the burden was something
like

delight! delight I delight! delight . . ful . . !"
in a prolonged twitter. They too, like
Daisy, loved the thought of music and
movement. They, too, loved change, the
essence of life ; but they had it. For
they could wander from wood to wood ;
fly to sunny lands, when it was winter
here. But Daisy had never left home
before further than to stay in the adjacent
shire once or twice with some old maiden
aunts ; so no wonder the young girl was
inexpressibly happy.

Visions of balls, of delightful partners,
also rose in her little brain, as impalpable
but delicious as the scent of the hawthorn
in the hedges beside her ; romantic possibilities
This was only pure nature !

If, as Tennyson sings 

"In the spring a livelier iris changes on the burnish'd
dove;
In the spring a young man's fancy lightly turns to
thoughts of love."
VOL. I. 1>

And why not much more the thoughts of a
young maiden ?

But still, even in this blissful dreaming,
a remembrance of other days, of those
visits in past childhood (two or three years
ago !) to the old spinster aunts, rose in the
little damsel's memory ; and with a half
self-reproachful, half self-ridiculing sigh 
such as that she had breathed on putting
past for good and all her long-loved doll
in a lavender-scented drawer consecrated
to similar cherished treasures that her
infantile fancy had invested once with a
real existence  with such a fond sigh she
said now softly to herself, " Jerry Brown."

Now, who was Jerry Brown ? . . .

Certainly none of Miss Dimity's family
or friends could have told, excepting young
Polly, who knew a little on the subject.

That Polly knew very little, however, is
inferred from the fact that she knew much

less than her elder sister, who was sometimes
secretly inclined to doubt whether
she knew anything at all about him ;
excepting that she believed he had still a
living existence on this earth, unlike the
last doll, to whose primeval period his
memory also belonged.

d2

CHAPTER III.

' And as a lyoiin he his lokyhig caste,
Of five and twenty year his age I caste.
His herd was wel bygone for to strange ;
His boys was as a trumpet thundering."

rilHE day of Miss Dimity's departure
-*- from her home had dawned at last.

There was the usual hurried breakfast
known to all similar young travellers ; the
last cording of packages and labelling ; a
terrified outcry from Polly that something
the indispensable sash of some gown 
was nearly forgotten.

Then the announcement from the squire
that the fat old horses were impatient
(what a rarity !) and must not be kept

waiting. On which ensued hurried kisses
from all the female members of the household,
with outcries of, " You'll be sure and
write, dear."

And Daisy, packed into the family coach,
waving her hand, is off !

One may skip lightly over the incidents
of the journey; how the fat guard was
enormously feed by papa to look after her ;
how he locks her up accordingly in a first-class
carriage alone with Punch, her
tremors and anticipations, and an occasional
stiff old lady. This, and the permission
to get out at certain halting-places for
refreshment (of which she was too nervous
of being left behind to avail herself), constituted
his severe duties till they reached
the junction. Here, with a nudge, suggestive
of more fees, he solemnly transferred
her to the next fat guard.

How weary by afternoon little Miss

Dimity grew of staring at the flying country,
and of Punchy wbicli she has read listlessly
a hundred times ; how dusty and
more and more stiff hour by hour, till at
last  could ite possible!  as she was nearing
one station within three of the goal, she
actually laid down her head, and before
she realised the insinuating fact, was a prey
to sleep.

How then, in a wild hurry, hearing
Marston " shouted, the little traveller
woke up, and finding the train stopped at
a tiny ticket-taking platform, quite forgot
in which of the most safe recesses of her
hand-bag her ticket was hidden. "Goodness,
it's lost r she ejaculated, in dismay,
horror-stricken, as by the sound of his
voice a stern porter was momentarily
approaching. Then how could she have
put it there ?  at the instant of utterly
final despair it peered out of her purse, at

which she did give a sigh of inexpressible
relief.

What awful consequences would have
ensued had it been really undiscoverable,
were more than Daisy knew.

But before she had time to recover
from the fright of the situation, or to rub
her eyes wide awake, or to gather up her
many wraps, the train had glided into the
bustle and lights of the terminus. Someone
flung the door wide, and Jack's gruff,
beloved voice exclaimed 

Well, little one, and how are you V

Jack's manners not being at all gushing,
this and a grasp which nearly wrings
her fingers off, are the only tokens of
brotherly affection he thinks it proper to
bestow upon Daisy in public.

'' Now you must introduce your sister
to me, Mr. Dimity," says a motherly voice
behind, and Daisy finds her hand most

softly clasped by a tall lady, evidently once
handsome.

As Jack complied by briefly uttering,
*' Daisy, this is Mrs. Cox. Mrs. Cox 
here she is," the tall lady smiled upon
them both benignly, and retained her hold
of Daisy's hand, whilst Jack, who dearly
liked a little command, promptly began
seeing to his sister's luggage.

You are most welcome ! my dear, most
welcome ! both for your stepmother's sake
and your brother's, whom we have got to
know and like so very much  so very
much  yes, indeed, so very much'' said
Mrs. Cox, gently repeating her pressure
of Daisy's hand at each reiteration of the
regard of her family for Jack.

What a comfortably warm, yet not too-overpowering
manner of reception Mrs.
Cox had. Daisy, who till then had been
quite frightened at the idea of being

among strangers for the first time, now
felt almost inclined to nestle up beside her
hostess.

Then Jack returned : and they all three
got into a %, which presently drove up to
a house that showed more lights than its
neighbours, in a rather dark, wide road,
bordered with villas, mostly owning a yard
or two of shrubbery.

It was one of those little houses, built
now-a-days wherever stone is cheap, with
so much adornment of mullions window,
and variety in coping-stones, and the way
in which the steps zigzag to the door 
that one nearly forgets their comparative
insignificance of size. All the villas showed
much diversity of taste. But this one,
though only standing on very little land
besides its own foundations, was proud of
a glass shanty, stuck to its side ; which was
called " the conservatory."

Welcome, my dear, to Magdala Villa,"
said Mrs. Cox.

Jack now jumped out of the carriage,
and, having rung the bell, promptly declared
he must say good-bye to them both,
having to hurry back to barracks to entertain
a friend at dinner.

' Won't you come in and see the girls a
moment. They will be quite disappointed,"
remonstrated Mrs. Cox, insinuatingly.

Three female heads, or rather shadows
of heads, could be distinctly descried peeping
under the blind.

But Jack intimated that time did not
allow of his having that pleasure, with a
hardheartedness at which Daisy was somewhat
hurt and disappointed. For she did
want badly to see him a minute or two
alone ; to get away from the Cox family, it
might be, a moment, to give him a good
hug ; and to tell all the news of Elm Hall,

of Polly, the squire, and the rest of the
family.

Bat it might not be, plainly, this
evening.

Mrs. Cox softly uttered many expressions
of hospitable regret that Mr. Dimity
could not stay and take pot-luck with
them ; and Jack hurriedly thanked her as
often for her awful goodness.

Daisy strained her eyes after her brother's
beloved young form going quickly
away in the darkness ; and the evening's
pleasure was all damped to her thenceforth.
She only vaguely seemed to know
that she came into a bright-lit little entry ;
next that three girls crowded round her
with welcome, and sympathy for her supposed
fatigues.

Then she was taken upstairs to a tiny
bed-room, and begged not to change her
dress, but to come down as she was : as

soon as lie had somewhat tidied herself,
for tea.

'' For we thought that would most refresh
you after your journey, so mamma
ordered it," said that Miss Cox whom the
guest supposed to be the eldest, because
she was tallest, and had the sharpest little
nose, upturned just at the tip, and seemed
to take possession of the tired traveller
more entirely.

Do you always have late dinner at Elm
Hall ? Generally ! Oh, dear, how unfortunate
! Then you won t like tea.
And I am afraid, now it is too late to
get you dinner."

Shocked at herself for thus appearing
troublesome and fine, Daisy hastened to
assure her hostesses that she constantly
went to school-room tea instead of dinner.
In her anxiety, she almost declared she
adored school-room tea ; a horrible fib, the

fact being that she only took it to relievo
poor Polly from presiding always over the
orgies of the sons of Gad.

On going downstairs again, Daisy was
immediately ushered in to the said repast
of tea, poached eggs, and marmalade, bacon
and Sally Linn, salad and honey (thus
her weary mind mixed them up together
in a queer jumble). After a little she
became able to remark more clearly all
around her ; till then her head had felt
quite swimming and stupid.

At the tea-tray Mrs. Cox presided with
elegance, filling the cups in due order ; the
strongest and best to the guest ; then to
the doctor and to the girls ; last to herself.

The doctor sat smiling at the foot of
the table, a fat little man with a red face,
a very bald head, a large mouth, and a big
bunch of seals on his watch-chain. He
made a capital foil to his wife ; was always

rubbing his hands and smiling on Daisy ;
till the breadth of his smile and his whole
appearance made her think of a beneficent
frog.

The three young ladies were very much
alike, and rather pretty in the stranger's
tired sight. They had all three very yellow
hair, rosy and white skins, little pug
noses, and a merry manner ; as yet their
distinguishing characteristics were not
very apparent.

Miss Dimity, have you made out the
difference between my girls yet ?" cried
the little doctor, gaily. " This is Fuzzy,
my eldest, whose real name is supposed to
be "

*' Hold your tongue, papa. It is such
an ugly name. Nobody here knows it, and
I'm not going to give the other Marstown
girls such a pull over me," ejaculated the
young lady.

Subsequently Daisy discovered that Miss
Cox had been baptised Martha.

Well, well  and this is Pussy, my
second hope and joy," chuckled the little
doctor, continuing his description. '* Her
real name is  bless me, if I don't forget !"

Letitia, papa," said the second Miss
Cox, with even more softness and silkiness
of manner than her mother.

'' Yes, and this is our youngest, the
baby of the family, at least, of the girls,
who are my favourites  eh, Birdie  the
spoiled child, are you not ? Speak up for
yourself," chirped the doctor, pointing
with his tea-spoon at the last of his
daughters.

' Oh, papa, get out !" ejaculated the
young lady, in a sprightly tone of answering
raillery ; and Daisy remarked, with
slight surprise, that this was the one she
had supposed to be eldest, because of her

tyrannical, small nose and her peculiar
appropriation of the guest.

Mrs. Cox now began describing to her
husband and daughters the manner of
Jack's introduction of his sister to her :.
but did it in such a gentle, laughing way,
as if she liked the young man's gruffly
honest manner, that the little sister, withall
her feathers ever ready to be ruffled in
Jack's defence, felt quite pleased.

I admire so much that decided tone in
which your brother speaks ; it is such true
martial (what's the word, papa) brevity,
isn't it?" said Miss Pussy to the guest,
in a languishing manner.

Daisy opened her big eyes rather wider
than usual.

Oh ! no," she said, in an explanatory
tone. " Jack always had that way of
speaking when he was quite a little boy.
It's in the family. Old grandpa had the

same, and he was a"  (checking herself
abruptly, as her grandfather's peaceful
occupation in selling drapery rose to her
lips)  'rand he was not a soldier."

You made a bad shot that time,
Pussy," sarcastically observed the eldest
Miss Cox.

And the youngest one, now trying what
she could make of the subject in her turn,
said, in an innocent way,

But what a thorough soldier your
brother is in looks. Miss Dimity ! Such a
good figure, and his shoulders so broad !
Of course you think him very handsome,
don't you? Sisters always do. And I
declare I admire him very much myself !'*
And she laughed a pretty childish giggle.

"Birdie," said Mrs. Cox, *' you are a
silly baby."

And Daisy, who was very unused to
receiving compliments upon any of her

VOL. I. E

family, and who looked upon all the members
thereof as being part and parcel
of herself, felt immensely flattered ; but
blushed and looked down on her plate.

Well, really she and Polly did think
dear Jack good-looking, but they had
never thought the rest of the world would
do so, she murmured. In truth Jack was
of a dumpy, sturdy little make, with small
eyes, sleek dark hair, and not a hair on his
face, that, though so young in appearance,
and kindly-featured enough, yet seemed
made of cast iron, so determined was his
lower jaw.

*'Ah! you see. Miss Dimity, you didn't
know your goose was considered a swan
by outsiders, did you ?" slily said the little
doctor.

Well, for my part, I don't know that
he is a beauty, but he looks as hard as
nails, and that's what 1 like," struck in the

eldest Miss Cox, striking the table at the
same time with a spare spoon in an offhand
way, as a signal to her mother to
rise and have done with the meal.

When poor Daisy rose, however, she felt
so giddy she had to hold by her chair a
moment. On being questioned by the little
doctor, the amazing fact was elicited that,
though she had been given a basket of
good things (packed by the very own hands
of their darling old cook) for her consumption
on the journey, and though the guard
had offered to free her from captivity frequently
to get refreshment, yet, between
excitement and nervousness, Miss Dimity
positively had eaten nothing all day.

She was promptly swooped on, and carried
off to bed. Miss Cox declared that
this was a case for herself ; being very fond
of exercising her love of command on any
patient. She ordered off her father, telling

  



him this great mind need not exercise itself
on such little matters (adding, sotto voce,
that " men ought not to meddle in such
things ") ; she ordered off her mother, saying,
' You know you are not a doctor ; but
I take after papa."

She would have even ordered off her
sisters. But Pussy declared she felt that
what poor little Miss Dimity most needed
was sympathy, and would by no means be
turned out of the latter's bed-room. And
Birdie, popping in after them, declared if
the others were there so would she come
in too.

For you know, Mr. Dimity is most my
friend ; so you ought to be most my friend
too. You needn't look. Pussy  he is ! And
we are nearest of an age, dear, too. I may
call you dear, may I not? Oh ! you poor
dear, I must give you a kiss to say goodnight,
mayn't I ?"

Whereupon Daisy, who was standing
among them like a little wren with wet
feathers, so miserable and sleepy she felt,
was seized upon by Miss Birdie, and kissed,
or rather pecked at, not once, but half a
dozen times.

"Now it's my turn," put in Miss Pussy,
jealously ; and, not to be outdone, she likewise
embraced the captive, nearly smothering
her with osculatory tenderness.

I declare it is too bad not to let you
go to bed; you look so tired, just like a
little owl with big eyes, only ever so much
prettier than any owl. But you, darling,"
(by that daring word she nearly utterly
extinguished Birdie's claims to warmest
friendship)  "you look so sweet and nice,
1 must just kiss you again

The guest, with a heartfelt sigh, wished
she would not. But again Pussy and Birdie
began, as energetically as ever.

It is a shame," said Miss Cox, rather
grimly, holding out her hand and giving
Daisy's soft fingers a grasp that wrung
them in very favourable comparison, as to
strength, with Jack's grip of affection.
So that's all I'll bother you with. Come
off, girls ; don't be worrying her any more,
like two cats at a mouse. Good night."

Left alone in delicious privacy, Daisy
slowly recovered. As she brushed out her
hair, she wondered to herself whether the
gushing scene she had just been put
through, was attributable to the Misses
Cox having been at school. (The squire
never would allow herself and Polly to goto
school, declaring he liked home-bred
girls best, so had governesses for them.)

Jack, she remembered, used often to
make a joke of school-girls, their violent
friendships and petty quarrels, he said,
and propensity for falling in love. Jack

knew, because there bad been a young
ladies' seminary close to his school ; and
many a surreptitious note from vainly
enamoured damsels had that hard-hearted
young man been supposed to receive ;
though, being reticent by nature, neither
Polly nor Daisy, with all their coaxing and
caresses, could ever extract the contents
of those billets-doux from him.

CHAPTER IV.

*mistress Matrons hopes to be a lady,

Not as a dignity of late expected,
But from the time almost she was a baby,

That hath your richest gentlemen rejected ;
But yet, not dubbed at present as she should be,
Lives in expectance still  my Lady Would-be."

T)IIEAKFAST was somewhat late next
-- morning, in Miss Dimity's opinion.

Not too late indeed for her, refreshed as
she needed to be by a long night's rest,
but later even than at Elm Hall, where
lazy comfort was the order of the day.
She came down with eager punctuality,
for was not this the first day of her first
visit in the great world ?

Entering the room, Daisy fancied she
saw Mrs. Cox herself dusting the china
ornaments ; but that lady whisked her
duster, or whatever it was, so quickly into
a cupboard that her young guest was not
sure, especially as the hostess had quite
a languid demeanour, though she held
out both her hands with warmth.

"You are in excellent time, my dear ;
and I hope, 1 do hope you are quite rested.
Yes ? That is nice ; that is so nice. Shall
you and I sit down to a cosy breakfast
together, for my girls are terribly late ;
and sometimes I have to take Birdie's
breakfast up to her bed, or she would get
none."

"Oh! mamma, how can you? How
naughty of you !" laughed Birdie from the
door, with the cooing manner of a reproachful
young dove.

' Yes, don't tell tales out of school,"

cried Fuzzy behind lier ; and all the girls
trooped in, as neat as you please.

Mrs. Cox smiled on her family, but
suppressed a yawn herself with rather
lackadaisical grace.

'ris it not rather early for you ? Did
you sleep long enough yourself, Mrs.
Cox?" asked her guest, with quick sympathy.


I, my dear  oh, I have been up several
hours ago. I could not stay longer in
bed of a morning. The doctor has to get
his breakfast before anyone, and my two
little boys have to be sent to school."

Oh, mamma is never tired. She is up
by six every morning," exclaimed all the
girls in chorus, with a general surprise.
"We could never do it; we take after
papa ; but mamma is wonderfully tough."

If tough, Mrs. Cox looked tired.

The breakfast was not, by any means, so

abundantly-spread a meal as bad been the
late tea on the previous night. Indeed,
most of the component parts of the latter
were recognisable again. Still, though
frugal, it was very carefully laid out. It
contrasted quite favourably, in Daisy's
easily-pleased opinion, with their own
lavish one at home ; whereat Mrs. Dimity
was never able to quell the gambols of her
offspring, who, with youthful extravagance,
generally ended by pouring ample libations
of tea or jam on the table-cloth, apparently
to their private tutelary deities, or by
making a sacrifice of some of the china.

*' Miss Dimity has not had an egg. I
am sure she would like an egg'' suddenly
cried Birdie, watching their guest's plate.
Mamma, I must order her a boiled egg.
Fuzzy, you're nearest the door ; run down
to the kitchen."

Oh, yes, my dear; only isn't it rather

late?" replied Mrs. Cox, gently, with a
faint flush.

Daisy began to say she did not really
want one ; but Fuzzy had vanished.

There isn't another egg in the house,"
soon proclaimed Fuzzy, putting in her
head again. " Mary Jane says so."

Oh, nonsense, my dear; there must be
dozens. How could Mary Jane say such a
thing ?" uttered poor Mrs. Cox, trying to
hide annoyance, and looking meaningly at
her daughter. ' Go down, and tell her I
said so."

Fuzzy went down again, grumbling. But
before she returned, being apparently delayed,
Daisy had cheerfully finished her
breakfast, seeing nothing amiss, and only
grieved that her expostulations against
the egg had been utterly disregarded by
Birdie.

Then they went upstairs to the drawing-room,

like a flight of young cloves to their
cote. How bright and brand-new all the
furniture was (indeed the Coxes had only
come to Magdala Villa since two or three
months), but how stiff compared with Elm
Hall ! It was all an upholsterer's complete
walnut-wood set, with a dozen high chairs
standing stiffly about. There Avere two
shining: bio: tables that scorned embroidered
covers, and there was a new piano (locked).
But there was not a book lying about, save
two big photo-books (likewise locked) ; nota
flower, work-box, magazine, puzzle,
knick-knack, or needle-worked piece of
embroidery of any kind. Mrs. Cox said
with pleasure she had got it new and tidy,
and wished to keep it so ; as she truly tried
to do.

Alas ! it was a wet morning. Flatten
their faces as they might against the ,
plainly the leaden sky meant

to stream down a continuous pour of rain.
Daisy owned with a sigh they must give
up hopes of seeing the town that morning ;
as the girls had promised, and as herself
had eagerly wished they should do. Mars-town
was the first large town she had ever
been in, and her imagination supposed it to
be a little London, with a strong red-pepper
sprinkling of military. (The last, no doubt,
highly agreeable ; but that might be as
likely to take away the breath of a simple,
little, country person like herself as cayenne
always did.)

Indeed, dear, it is not much of a town
for shops or sights," said Pussy, consolingly.
"Let us sit in the drawing-room
till lunch-time, and have a real good chat.
We never go out till after lunch anyway,
because we never meet any of them till
afternoon."

Any of them ?" repeated Daisy, inquiringly.


Why, any of the officers, to be sure !"
burst out all the young ladies.

Oh !" replied Daisy, suddenly enlightened
; and blushing she did not quite know
why ; except that the manners and customs
of all the world but those of the denizens
of Elm Hall were unknown to her, and she
was always afraid of making some blunder.
"You mean the officers of the 160th."

Your brother's regiment. Oh, no
doubt you think the sun rises and sets
only on them, like Birdie here ; but that's
more than / do /" cried Fuzzy, affecting a
fast and careless air, though with the
colour deepening in her cheeks. " Now
I'll back the troth to give them pounds
any day and win in a canter." 

(Give them pounds !  the little guest

privately wondered what they should do
that for, but carefully suppressed her
ignorance.)

"Is there any other regiment here but
Jack's ?" asked Daisy, which naive question
was received with a scream of laughter
from the three Miss Coxes. She was really
too deliciously countrified, they agreed.

Thereupon all three sisters settled down
to have a good chat, as they called it, for
the whole morning, to open the visitor's
mind. Dais}, in spite of her attempted
remonstrance, was forced to recline upon
half of the sofa ; while Pussy, with one arm
round her waist, occupied the remainder
of it. Birdie seated herself on a stool,
however ; where, with her elbow in her
new-found friend's lap (and a sharp little
one it was, too !), she gazed up lovingly,
to the guest's secret discomposure, in her
face.

*' What ! want sour work ! Oli ! no,
dear Miss Dimity, indeed you don't want
it," they cried, scouting a small, industrious
proposition made by their young
guest. " One can't talk half so well if one
is stitching."

Well, I mean to work," quoth Fuzzy,
decidedly, seating herself at a little table to
embroider a pair of slippers  foxes' heads,
with glass eyes, on a scarlet ground. Her
sisters o:ave a fresh little shriek of mirth.
Oh ! but Fuzzy is finishing those slippers
for her admirer, Major Hodge. He's in
the Queen's Own Freebooters. The regiment
is to leave the end of this week, and
poor Fuzzy is very much gone on him, so
we don't envy her. What big feet he has,
Fuzzy !" cried her sisters, gaily, or rather
Birdie did so.

Pussy, though she joined in the laugh at
the major's feet, had sighed herself when

VOL. I. 

she spoke of the regiment's departure.
Fuzzy tried to join in the mirth, but turned
away her head, so that only Daisy saw
accidentally that her face looked rather
miserable, while she observed, staring out,

*look, there is mamma going marketing.
What an old frump she is, in that
waterproof and goloshes ! Why she won't
send Mary Jane instead beats me hollow."

Daisy, indeed, to her amazement, saw
the elegant Mrs. Cox stealing out in a
costume that much reminded her of their
own washerwoman in wet weather.

But her attention was called off by the
young ladies, who were volubly explaining
that there were three regiments in Mars-town
; only one, the " fine 150fch," was
*' too fine " for them. " Men who only go
out ' in the county,' if you please," mimicked
Birdie, in a mincing voice. Then came
the 160th, or ' Strappers," simply known

hitherto to Daisy as " Jack's regiment,"
which embodied all its claims to distinction
in her mind. Lastly, there was the troth,
soon to depart, in which, besides the heartbroken
Major Hodge, Pussy likewise had a
well-beloved swain, a rather youthful lieutenant.
" But she is wiser than Fuzzy, for
she has begun to transfer her affections to
some one in the 160th. She has her eye
on Captain Gascoigne," went on the ingenuous
Birdie.

"Now, Birdie, I have not settled yet on
Captain Gascoigne. I know what you are
driving at. You want to make me say I'll
have him and give up somebody else, who
likes me just as much, and I believe far
better than he does you," angrily returned
Pussy, getting red.

He doesn't."

*' He does."

'' He doesn't."

f2

"We'll see, my dear "

*' Yes, my dear, so we shall," sarcastically.

The quarrel was getting hot. But then
both sisters, by common consent, looked at
Daisy  and were silent. The latter felt
uncomfortable at this, although the girls
now smiled with apparent gaiety at each
other  for Daisy herself and Polly were
heartily and even unusually attached to
each other  so she hazarded a remark,

Captain Gascoigne !  he is Jack's great
friend, is he not ? I remember, now, that
Jack always said he was one of the best
fellows in the world, or something like
that, whenever he did speak of any of his
brother officers ; but he does not often."

*' He may be one of the best fellows loitk
men'' put in Fuzzy, glancing up a moment
from her work, at which she was toiling
most industriously. " But he hates women,
or is afraid of them, and never goes

out to walk without a brother officer on each
side of him to keep ladies off ! He is said
to be very rich, though ; and so certainly
Pussy and Birdie are wise in their generation
 though / tell them they may as well
let it alone."

You, indeed !  much right you have
to talk, Fuzzy ! Why, I'd be ashamed to
be your age and not have had a decent
proposal yet," jeered her youngest sister,
with a contemptuous laugh, and went on,
turning to Daisy  " She has been out five
years, and has done no good yet, as I told
papa and mamma when they wanted to
keep me in half a year longer to give her
another chance. And Pussy has been out
two years, so now it's high time I should
try my hand at it."

At it !  at what ? Daisy silently wondered.
And v/hy should one sister be kept
in to give the others chances ?

Miss Birdie went on, however.

Now, I only came out this last winter,
and I'm making all the girls look alive, I
can tell you. Such a set of old articles
in the market as they are, as I told the
Smeeths and Fuzzy the other day. Ha !
ha ! they were so angry, but I always say
what I think  I'm such a spoiled little
thing ; and then I told them all they'd see
I'd not be long on hand  /'// be married
before the year is out !"

There was a silence on the part of both
her sisters.

Daisy, too, could not say a syllable, feeling
pained, and fearing to hurt one or
other. Then poor Fuzzy, who had evidently
a good heart, made a sound as if
she was swallowing a dry sob of vexation,
and replied,

Well, Baby dear, I'm sure I'll be glad
enough if you do better than I. Anyway,

sou can't say I was unkind about
preventing your coming out."

** Oh, no, you are a good old thing
enough ; though you could not have stopped
me, if you had even tried, for papa
always takes my part. I'm his pet, and
he uon't allow mamma to sit on me," graciously
replied Birdie, with a little domineering
nod.

Then Pussy, to change the subject,
rather hastily began, with her most fawning
manner,

Now I wonder who Miss Dimity will
fall in love with here ? . . . . Are you
often in love, dear Miss Dimity ? All the
girls here are just always in and out of it.
Why, I do declare she's blushing !"

With many caresses of the guest, and
some laughter, they all declared she
was really quite too refreshing ; but as
Fuzzy first observed, and the others

agreed, it was a shame to torment her.

Only I do  really  believe there is
somebody. You darling, do just tell us
what colour his hair is," coaxed Birdie,
with her most ingenue air.

No, indeed  no, really, you are quite,
quite wrong. We never see anybody at
Elm Hall. There is nobody at all  there
never was  except "

Ah, ah ! except  except " cried the

pack.

"Except when I was quite a child, some
years ago," uttered poor Daisy, firmly,
though her fresh peach-cheeks became
again tinged with crimson. " It was only
somebody  I suppose I was really very
young, but I thought him quite a grown
man then  who had a fancy for me, and
used to pet me very much."

They all looked at her rather curiously.

Birdie, who was short-sighted, put up

lier eyeglass, as if such a curiosity was
worth study. But none of them said anything.
Was it because they were all very
deferential to the guest, and anxious, for
hidden reasons, to please her ; or because
of that respect for innocence everyone
naturally shows to children?

'Not to waste time, however, Pussy produced
an Army List, and proceeded to give
instruction (of which she was, indeed, very
capable) in the " Officers' Bible," as she
profanely termed it. (The book fell open,
significantly, of its own accord at the
pages describing the gallant 150th, 160th,
and troth regiments.)

The sisters, as they read out the names
of Her Gracious Majesty's faithful and
devoted officers in the latter three corps,
accompanied them by such a running fire of
description  that to Daisy's bewilderment
colonels, captains, and subalterns were

soon jumbled together in her mind in.
undistinguishable confusion.

'' Captain O'Donoghue. Is that the
poor man whose wife has such dreadful
flirtations with all the very young officers,
you say r" she once timidly asked.

He married ? Catch him !  No  no.
He is the wildest man in the British
Army," explained Birdie. " What a muddle
your poor mind is in, to be sure ! I'll
tell you what : she must take the ' Flirts'
Guide' up to her bed-room, and study it
every spare minute, or she'll be making
frightful mistakes."

And the young lady went to get Daisy
a little blue directory, which showed the
names of all the officers then quartered in
Marstown, with an asterisk affixed to the
names of those married.

"It is simply invaluable!" she enthusiastically
exclaimed.

*' I really don't want it  I'd rather not,"
said Daisy, slily withdrawing as Birdie
officiously pressed it on her.

Oh, but you must. You can't make
us all blush, you know, by asking again
about Mrs. O'Donoghue, when she isn't inexistence.
And it would be so naughty to
see you talking too much to any married
man ; wouldn't it, Fuzzy ? wouldn't it, Pussy ?
So there ; and I've put the Army List 
turned down at the right pages  in your
workbox."

The rest of the morning was now devoted
to gossip concerning the flirtations
of some of the officers with the town young
ladies. This, though (as Daisy feared at
moments) it was rather like backbiting, or
telling tales out of school, amused her very
much ; especially the stories told by Fuzzy,
who had a good deal of clever humour.

At times Birdie would interrupt in her

wood-quest's, cooing tones by saying, " Oh,
shall I tell her such and such a tale ?" but
was generally stopped by a look of silent
warning from one of the others, which
passed quite unnoticed over little Miss
Dimity's head.

Everything was so new to her ; and
everybody so kind. It was uncharitable
to judge anybody else as uncharitable, she
thought, and so put the best construction
on all she had heard said by her hostesses
that morning.

Nevertheless, when Daisy went up to wash
her hands before lunch, it was with a curious
sated feeling, as if her mind had been
asked to digest a good deal of mental
stale jam-tart or some such other palling
sweetstuff.

CHAPTER V.

*'Hacl you ever a cousin, Tom?

Did your cousin happen to sing ?
Sisters we've all by the dozen, Tom,
But a cousin's a different thing !"

T Luncheon at the Coxes was really a
-*- mid-day dinner, beginning with
mutton broth, and ending with oranges
and ginger biscuits.

Daisy was privately astonished, however,
to see the uncomfortable looks with which
the Cox girls regarded their mother as
they sat down to it.

Mamma, I told you Miss Dimity always
has late dinner at home," Birdie at length

burst out with, in a petulant tone of suppressed
anger.

*' My dear, I was sure that Miss Dimity
would prefer not to change your papa's
old habits ; and that she would not mind
taking tea in the evening with us quiet
people," gently answered Mrs. Cox, with a
ring of firmness under all her softness of
tone.

Of course Daisy warmly agreed, thanking
Mrs. Cox for her good opinion.

But you must think it so vulgar of us,"
said Pussy, with a heightened colour.

Now why late dinner or late tea should
be made a question of gentility, was more
than Daisy could see. Being a good little
housekeeper, she knew it was a question
of economy ; but she would have thought
snobbishness should have been in Mrs. Cox
having dinner for the guest, if tea was
more suited to her means. Daisy disliked

tea; but that was another matter, and she
bravely hid the feeling.

After the meal the new-comer, to her
infinite satisfaction, was taken out to seethe
town.

Or rather, whilst she was gazing with
delight at the shop windows and interest
at the public buildings, the Misses Cox
kept their eyes exclusively directed on the
passers by, to note any chance officers.
At last, as they turned into a public garden,
there was a little flutter of delight,
and they all exclaimed,

Here is your brother, Miss Dimity !
How good of you to come !" to Jack, as he
approached.

Well, not so very," replied that young-man,
in his gruffly honest manner, that
never was at pains to flatter anybody, but
just told the truth, letting people take it
or leave it as they liked. " As this is my

sister's first day here, it would not be very
good of me if I didn't come."

Thereupon the Cox girls, declaring they
would do '' the correct thing," insisted on
departing, leaving brother and sister to
talk together a few minutes.

'* Well, little one," then cried Jack pleasantly,
" tell us all about the old place.
How are the governor, and the mum, and
all the rest of them?"

So at once Daisy's tongue was loosened,
and they had a glorious talk ; whilst she
described everything that had happened
to everybody at home, even to the personal
appearance of each of the old, black setter's
new puppies.

Well, and how do you like staying with
the Coxes, and what do you think of them ?"
went on Jack at last.

Oh ! Mrs. Cox herself was charming.
She deserved only ecstatic praise ; and in

the delight of having Jack to herself, and
thinking how much prospective pleasure
they both owed to the family's the Cox girls
came in for almost equal enthusiasm from
Daisy's voluble little tongue.

Of course she could not say to a man 
even to her brother  that in some little
ways the girls were not quite what seemed
to her refined and hioh-minded, as regarded
all that fun about Major Hodge, for
instance.

Jack would not have understood  would
have said that girls always found fault
with each other. And Daisy did not like
to repeat anything ; and was, besides, too
easily delighted to find fault with anybody.


So they rejoined the others, Jack in
silent but vast satisfaction that the invitation
to his sister, which he had procured 
on his honour, now ! he did not know how,

VOL. I. G

(we may wonder if Mrs. Cox knew)  had
turned out such a capital plan.

As they came up, it was evident that
Pussy had met her admiring swain in the
troth; who was so soon to lead his flock,
i.e. the men of his company, to pastures
new.

Mr. Jones was a stout young man of
bovine appearance, especially as to his
black eyes, which stared at Pussy quite unmoved
despite all that damsel's attempts to
rouse his emotions; Vagacer, as the French
have it. At present he was seated placidly
on a bench, watching a spider eat a fly
in a bush ; whilst Pussy with little screams
of horror was slapping his hand lightly,
and calling him a hard-hearted, horrid
wretch.

*' Here is Mr. Dimity. He will be more
gallant," she uttered, appealingly. " Oh,
Mr. Dimity, do save this poor, darling little

fly  I couldn't bear to touch it myself
and Mr. Jones won't."

"Now, nonsense, Pussy; the spider
wants his dinner  I know he does  and
if Mr. Dimity takes it away from him I
shall cry /" plaintively expostulated Birdie,
with such a childlike petulance in her
accents that both the gentlemen burst
out laughing at her.

"What am 1 to do between both of
you ?  all I can do is to go away," said Jack,
looking from one to the other.

"Yes, do; and I'll go with you," replied
Birdie, stealing one covert glance of
triumphant victory at her sister.

For Pussy, forsooth, wanted to play off
one gentleman against the other, "And I
hadn't a notion of her doing that with my
property," thought Birdie.

For some time these two " sorted couples,"
as Fuzzy briefly described the

g2

young ladies and their respective cavaliers
strolled through the gardens ; while Miss
Cox devoted herself to entertaining Daisy ;
doing it, too, with such goodwill that the
latter liked her very much, indeed.

*' But now it is time to go home ; for there
are some of the other men coming in to
tea," said Fuzzy at last. " You and I have
been sacrificing ourselves long enough
doing ' gooseberry ' to these others."

*' I didn't know it was a sacrifice. I am
so sorry if you found it so, for I like hearing
you talk very much," said truthful
Daisy.

Miss Cox looked at her, and said,

"Dear I like you!"

Now, how that was meant Daisy could
not determine ; for she had heard Jack use
the term in a slings nse, signifying, "I
don't believe a word you say." And Fuzzy
said it with a curious intonation that

moonlit have been sarcastic, or really might
have been grave reality.

There was no time to ask ; for just now
they had all turned out of the gardens into
the street again, and a drove of tired cattle
being driven to the butcher came by.

All the cattle had passed, before Birdie
came out, except one stray calf which a
little boy was now hallooing after the
others ; a difficult task, as the poor young
creature sometimes refused to stir from
fright.

Birdie, being supposed to be very shortsighted,
put up her eyeglass ; and, descrying
the monster, at once gave a little
scream.

Oh, a cow ! I am so much afraid of
a cow ! ! Oh, Mr. Dimity  oh, let me run
back ; I won't face it !"

]\lr. Jones, not being in love with Miss
Birdie, laughed in a dull, quiet way ;

the sisters jeered ; Jack remonstrated.

*' Come along, Miss Cox. Nonsense 
look at it boldly ; it's not a cow."

"Oil! but I can se-e it is" (with a
fresh, tiny scream) ; " it's a dreadful
cow."

I tell you it's not a cow ; it's a calf."

'' Oh ! a calf . . . Well, but no matter,
it loll he a cow ! ! /"

And thereupon back rushed Miss Birdie
helter-skelter to the shelter of the gardens.
Jack, after hesitating amid much laughter,
naturally had to go after her to escort her
back ; though, as Fuzzy drily told him, she
would come of her own accord very likely
if they left her alone.

These two thus followed the rest of the
party home, at some distance behind ; defeating
thereby any hopes that Fuzzy or
poor Daisy might have had as to getting
any share of Master Jack's company.

As to little Miss Dimity, she was silent ;
at moments rather losing herself in speculations
as to why Birdie, who had seemed
to domineer over all the household that
morning, should be so babyish and meek
in the afternoon.

Also, was it not strange that Jack should
treat the three Miss Coxes in such a free
and easy fashion, his voice having no shade
of respect, but a hail-fellow tone all through
it ? He certainly spoke often in that way
to Polly at home when she "checked"
him, as he called it ; but his eldest young
sister herself was a damsel of some dignity ;
and exacted and really received much
deference from all her brothers, although
they might tease about her plumpness of
person.

Arrived home, they all burst into the
drawing-room.

Well, mamma ! have you tea ready for

US ? Oil ! dear, it is not made yet. What
a lazy person you are !"

"It is hardly time yet, indeed, my dears.
Here are the Miss Smeeths, do you see?
They have been sitting, with only me to
entertain them, for a quarter of an hour,"
said Mrs. Cox, gently.

The Cox girls thereupon rushed at two
strange young ladies who were sitting by
- with a demure, expectant air (as if, indeed,
they considered that talking to their hostess
formed no part at all, and could not
even be looked on as a beginning of the
entertainment they awaited).

*' Oh ! dears, we are awfully sorry,"
cried the Misses Cox, kissing them and
patting their visitors shoulders ; '' but the
truth is, we forgot all about you, or what
o'clock it was, when we were in the
gardens."

One Miss Smeeth on this cleared her

throat with a very significant " Hem,
hem !" The other answered, " We see 
too well engaged."

And this she did in such a loud tone,
laughing and nodding at Jack as she
spoke, that Daisy, who stood by, felt inclined
to redden, and hoped he did not
hear. For, though she was his sister,
Daisy was loyal to her own sex, and was
distressed lest he should think the Coxes,
or airy girls, would "run after him," or
after any men.

But Jack was quite unconcerned by
what was going on between the girls, if,
indeed, he heard.

He was paying his respects to Mrs. Cox,
in his own brusque fashion, and seemed
to like talking to her very much, too ; for,
in her gentle, languid way, she was equally
pleased, repaying the young man by flattery.
It was very innocent flattery, only

the praises of his little white terrier and
his bigger Slumber spaniels. But, when
she talked to young men, poor Mrs. Cox
could hardly help speaking in a flattering
tone.

"" Listen to mamma ! She doesn't know
a thing about dogs ! not a thing !" burst
in Fuzzy, whose interpolations generally
acted like bomb-shells in scattering talkers.
Mr. Dimity ! Mr. Dimity! I want to know,
is the Smiler coming to tea, or is he not ?
]sow, I'm sure you've forgotten to give
him our message."

'' Then you're wrong, Miss Cox, for once
let me tell you. Mr. Lee is coming by-and-by,
and so is Captain Gascoigne ; for
I asked them both for you."

An outburst of jubilation followed. Jack
went up to the top of the class in the Miss
Coxes' opinion. To have made Captain
Gascoigne come too, was so good of him.

Apparently, without such extraneous aid,
they did not expect the latter gentleman
to visit them.

I don't quite understand  these names
get so mixed in my head. Is Mr. Lee nota
different person from Mr. Smiler ?" asked
Daisy, aside, of Miss Cox.

Oh, dear, no. * Smiler ' Lee is only
his nickname, because he is such a dear
little creature, you know. He is the best
dancer in the British Army, too ! So you
thought there was a Mr. Smiler? What
a joke ! ha, ha ! Here he is, coming up
the steps, I do declare. I must tell him
what you called him."

'' Oh, no, don't  pray don't. Remember,
he is a stranger to me," begged poor Daisy,
in agony ; and only succeeded in persuading
Miss Fuzzy to abandon her design as
the door opened to admit the subject of
their remarks and Captain Gascoigne.

CHAPTER VI.

I saw him at the Duke Alengon's once ;
And much too little of that good I saw,
Is my report to his great worthiness.
Ros.  Another of these students at that time

Was there with him ; if I have heard a truth,
Iron they call him ; but a merrier man,
Within the limit of becoming mirth,
I never spent an hour's talk withal."

captain GASCOIGNE, who entered
- the room before his junior, was
stared at by Daisy with both her eyes wide
opened.

For this was Jack's best friend, though
some years older than the latter ; the everyday
hero and the source of constant quotations
of that young man.

Jack had, indeed, admitted that his
friend Gascoigne was peculiar; retiring.
But these admissions had been quite outdone

by his far more frequent declarations
of Gascoigne's being " the best
fellow in the world," and so forth.
While, whenever Jack had been invited to
what old Squire Dimity called " swell
houses," it had always been under the
wing of his friend, so that Daisy was prepared
to see "a glass of fashion, and the
mould of form."

Daisy felt somewhat disappointed when
she saw come in only a tall man, v/ith a
very quiet manner, dark brown hair, reel,
drooping moustache, and a heavy nose.
Somehow, she had expected a paladin ;
some one as handsome as  as Waverley in
Sir "Walter Scott, or Adonis in " Mangnall's
Questions ;" brave as Bayard, noble as
King Arthur (with the latter qualities
quite visible in an indescribable way, of
course).

She had heard too much in his praise
beforehand, that was it.

But it was not so when she beheld the
'' Smiler," who followed Captain Gascoigne
with the conscious look of feeling himself
a sun beaming out from behind a cloud.
He was a smaller, younger man, with the
sleekest of sleek heads, best-waxed of
moustaches ; so trim and well-made in
figure, so faultlessly exquisite in dress.

Captain Gascoigne went straight to Mrs.
Cox, and sat down to talk to her, dispersing
Jack, unconsciously, with an air as if
talking to his hostess was what he had
especially come to do.

His gay young subaltern, on the contrary,
made a dash for the group of girls,
who received him joyously, and closed
round him in a circle, of which he seemed
to think himself, as they did, the natural
centre.

*' Ah ! Miss Birdie, how well you are
looking to-day ! Well, Miss Pussy, what

mischief have you been about lately? 
flirting on the quiet, and nearly killing
some more fellows, no doubt  What, the
two Miss Sraeeths here ! heart-breakers !
Poor Miss Fuzzy, I am so sorry for you.
A certain regiment is going away, isn't
it? I declare I must get out my handkerchief
and help you to cry." And the
youug fellow verily did pull out his scented
silk handkerchief, that in the shade of
its border most successfully matched his
crimson necktie.

The Smeeth girls, loudly laughing, cried,
' Yes, yes ; we'll all tory !" pulling out theirs
also that were much more coarse, and were
better in former retirement.

Trash ! Stop talking nonsense a moment,
Mr. Lee, and let mo introduce you
to Miss Dimity," answered Fuzzy, and on
the instant Mr. Lee dropped the subject
and his tone of banter ; although he began

addressing the new-comer as gaily as lie
had the others.

He gave Daisy the impression of having
been unconsciously acting ever since he
entered the room. With all her determination
to be very softly indignant and dignified
(as a downy dab-chick might) when
her sisterhood was lightly addressed, she
felt that he had only been saying what he
thought would best please everyone. It
was all done so lightly  good-humouredly
one saw he was so anxious to be friends
with the whole world, to please every
living soul  that she must have been a
sour female indeed who on first acquaintanceship
had found fault with the Smiler
when he tried to please !

Now, after interested questions as to her
journey, some animated remarks (originated
by Daisy) on the weather, and a little
discussion upon the architectural appearance

of Marston, Mr. Lee said, sighing,
with the same manner of being (unconsciously
to himself) acting all the while,

"And so you are come down for our
ball ? How jolly for Dimity to have a
sister to bring down ! I know I wish I
had a sister  I do indeed, on my honour.
Eh, old fellow " (giving Jack a poke in the
ribs), ''do you hear? I am saying how
lucky you are, aren't you, to have your
sister ?"

She's an awful bother to look after,"
growled Master Jack, in his deep voice ;
with a kindly glance at Daisy, one brief
moment, all the same. For his affection
took the form of " looking after " his sister ;
and in his way (if people understood it, as
Daisy did) he was very fond of her.

You old Growler, you ain't fit to have
a sister  and such a sister, too !" jocularly
scolded Mr. Lee, with an admiring glance at

AOL. I. H

little Miss Dimity, which the other young
ladies, though watching, absolutely did not
resent. But then they knew Smiler could
not help paying compliments any more
than the sun can shining ; and custom
begat indifference in their minds. " Isn't
he a growler, Miss Dimity? Do you know,
that is our name for him," went on the
young man. And Daisy, laughing heartily,
agreed ; privately amused  because, though
she kept it dark, Jack's home nickname
had been such a well-fitting one, that it
had likewise suggested itself to the minds
of his comrades in arms.

Just then, Mr. Lee was borne lightly
away from Daisy's side by a wave of chatter
sent to dislodge him by the other young
ladies ; and Jack took the opportunity to
say in Daisy's ear, with some dissatisfaction,


''I wish you had been introduced to

Gascoigne. I must try to manage it.
Mind you try to get friends with him, 
remember."

Even as Jack spoke, Captain Gascoigne
rose from Mrs. Cox's side, since two fresh
guests had entered ; one the irresistible
O'Donoghue, reputed "the handsomest
man in the British Army ;" the other Major
Hodge, whom Fuzzy affected.

Glancing a moment gravely at the group
of young ladies, thinking that it was now
perhaps his secondary duty to speak to his
hostess's daughters, Captain Gascoigne decided
in his own mind that they were too
much occupied with the new-comers to
need him ; upon which, with undeviating
directness, he walked straight across the
room to where Jack and Daisy were together.
" Will you introduce me to your
sister ?" the latter heard him ask in an
undertone. And then poor Daisy felt all in

H 2

a flutter, for Jack looked so mightily
pleased and flattered. Besides, he privately
gave her a nudge with his elbow, by way
of a reminder that she was to make herself
expressly agreeable to his friend.

Now, in truth, Miss Dimity was somewhat
in awe of her elder brother ; but extremely
fond of and anxious to please him.

Still (as she hysterically thought, he
might remember), she did feel such a countrified
mouse who had hardly ever spoken
to any strange gentlemen in all her life 
till she came to Marstown. And also Captain
Gascoigne looked so grave and tall as
she craned her head to look up at him 
while she was a little person in a little
chair  that, with all this and the vague
knowledge that he went out in London in
the season, and was a well-known hunting-mad,
and visited at great houses, as she
had been told  foolish as it may seem, she

began to blush, and the more she tried not
to do so, the worse lie grew.

Wildly trying to hazard a remark, unhappy
Daisy stammered twice, and finally
succeeded in observing,

It's  it's a very fine day."

Well, that is a very original remark of
yours, Daisy  a very fine day ! It is so,"
satirically put in Jack.

The poor little girl was covered with
confusion, and, knowing Jack thought hera
fool, felt a vast disposition to weep ;
whilst her brother looked down on her in
brotherly displeasure, and Captain 
with pity. Suddenly seating himself
beside her, he said, good-naturedly,

Well, do you know, Miss Dimity,
though your brother may laugh at us, that
is the very same remark 1 tuas about to make
to you r

Whether this was within miles of the

truth or not (Daisy believed it like gospel,,
it made everything smooth ; and the three
found themselves chatting quite gaily together
; although, of course, Daisy had
been much more at her ease with Mr. Lee,
of whom nobody could stand in awe.

'' What do you think of the belles of
Marstown ? There are two of them  the
Miss Smeeths. Do you admire them very
much ?" Captain Gascoigne by-and-by
asked ; looking over, with an unmoved
countenance, to where the youngest Miss
Smeeth, a buxom, black-eyed gipsy, was
sitting on a little table dangling her feet.
Indeed, at times, as she grew excited in
discoursing with Captain O'Donoghue, she
was swinging them with a will.

"Well, no  not that one," Daisy hesitatingly
said, with secret disapproval.

"What! not admire the fair Esther''
struck in Jack, in a terribly audible

undertone. " I am surprised at you, old
girl !  rank jealousy ! What do you think
of the eldest one, then,  Miss Grace? 
Ease and Grace,' as they are called by
some of us."

(Captain Gascoignegave him a cautioning
look.)

"I think she looks rather like a bone
crochet-needle," laughed Daisy, utterly
forgetting the presence of Captain ,
and answering Jack as she was
used.

Both her hearers laughed, too, for, as
they looked across the room, the likeness
was really most striking.

Miss Smeeth was tal], thin, and straight,
but that her head was taking drooped,
which, with its pale hair, ivory complexion,
and aquiline nose, suggested the comparison.
Her grey dress, of an economically nondescript
hue, suitable for all seasons, was

fastened up the back by an outburst of
buttons ; and was as tight as tight could
be round her thin figure ; except that just
above the knees a scarf of the same stuff
was tied round, as if with the primary
intention of adding some drapery. This
attempt to disguise her form had plainly
been repented of afterwards by the young
lady, since the final effect was to make her
look tighter than ever.

"I never saw such bad dressers in my
life as the girls in Marstown. Did you ?"
observed Jack to his friend, with bluntness
; feeling stirred to talk freely by the
unusual occurrence of being with his sister
and friend in company. "It's my belief
that girl hasn't another gown to put on her
back. I've never seen her in any other, 1
know."

Oh, come  though I hardly ever remark
ladies' dresses  I think I have,"

replied Captain Gascoigne, in a kindly
though slow manner. '* Surely, there was
a black dress in which I have seen
one

Seen both in turns," interrupted Jack,
with brutal frankness. '' One wears it
with blue ribbons, and the other with red
on state occasions, and the other one lies
in bed that day. They fight about whose
turn it is for a party : so some other young-ladies,
their dearest friends, confided to me,
and box each others "

'Jaclc ! you should bo ashamed of yourself,"
interrupted Daisy, with flashing eyes.
It was a shame of any girl to tell you
such things about another ; and it is very
unkind to laugh at their dress, for they
must be miserably poor to have only one ;
and 1 think it is a great pity of them."

Quite right. Miss Dimity. You had no
idea, had you, that gentlemen were such

terrible gossips ?" said Captain Gascoigney
smiling at her.

It's all very fine of you to come down
on me like a cart-load of bricks ; but who
was it called Miss Smeeth a crochet-needle
?"

"I'm very sorry now I did, then,
Jack "

Their conversation was suddenly stopped.
Birdie was calling out, in a plaintive tone,

I say, everybody, don't you all think it
is very stuffy here ? Let us have tea on
the roof  Fuzzy, don't begin pouring it out
here."

There ensued a clamour of voices ; all the
young ladies seconding the plan, as also
the gay " Smiler," who was always ready
for any kind of action. Poor Mrs. Cox,
flushing slightly, kept objecting in faint
murmurs.

Oh, no, Baby dear  it was such a fuss

last time ! Pussy  remember that it gives
Mary " (the servant) '' so much more trouble
! Fuzzy  you know there were so
many tea-cups broken, before !"

But she was utterly overborne.

The gentlemen, to do them all justice,
preserved perfect neutrality of expression
till the dispute should be ended ; except
that big Major Hodge, shrugging his broad
shoulders, observed in an undertone,

'' Provided that I am not expected to
carry anything 1"

Oh ! you are always lazy !" exclaimed
Birdie, turning upon him in contempt. " Let
us carry the tea ourselves upstairs, girls.
We needn't bother the servant, mamma.
Mr. Lee, you'll help us ?"

Lee sprang gallantly to aid the distressed
damsel, who appealed plaintively to Jack
also ; the movement being indeed a ruse on
her part to detach either Dimity or 

 "her men"  from their undue
engrossment with Daisy.

The Cox mansion was thus built. On
the first-floor a little entry, dignified by the
name of hall, with room for the umbrella-stand
; to left the very moderately-sized
dining-room; to right the lesser study,
sacred to the doctor. Second story : to
left the drawing-room ; to right Mrs. Cox's
bed-room ; on the landing, a case of stuffed
humming-birds, in the dark corner, not to
be looked at too closely, as rather touched
by time or moths ; still producing a good
effect, Mrs. Cox hoped.

Higher up : the bed-rooms sacred to the
Misses Cox, and to the guest.

Still higher : three attics, in which slept
the three women-servants, and the two
little Cox schoolboys, whom nobody but
their mother much minded ; in whose living
existence many people almost disbelieved,

since the doctor thought little boys of their
age plagues.

From the landing here, a short ladder
led to a trap-door opening on the roof,
which was protected by the house-wall
being built a little higher than the edge
of the slates, to give the villa a more
imposing air from the street. And up
here, mounting the ladder, and squeezing
through the trap-door, all the company
went ; laughing, pushing, carrying the tea-things,
or dropping them in some instances.


Chapter VII.

So fast a friend, so foe to few,
So good to every mglit,
I well may wish, but scarcely hope,
Again to have in sight."

"r\AISY was the last but one to mount
-*- the ladder to the roof. Captain
Gascoigne was the very last.

He had shown an almost manifest reluctance
to take his tea on the slates, as
Daisy, who had been nearest to him, perceived
; but the Cox girls were too excited,
and the Smeeths too (femininely) uproarious
to notice it.

Here, Miss Dimity," cried one of the
girls, as Daisy emerged, and found all the

company sitting in a row on the sooty
slates, with their feet in the lead gutter-pipe,
while the top of the house-wall made
a low breastwork before them, *' as if on
purpose to put one's cup on," declared
Birdie. " Here, Miss Dimity, won't you
come here, dear, between Miss Smeeth and
me? "We have kept a little corner for
you. And won't you come livres Captain
Oascoigne ?"

'* Here "meant beside Pussy; who mastered
of Mr. Jones, since that excellent, dull
youth merely gazed at her with expressionless
black orbs, and kept silence generally ;
except that at times, after a violent heaving
of his body being perceptible, he would
give vent to a great rumbling laugh  the
cause of which he generally refused to
state.

But Gascoigne declared he was too tall
to sit doubled up like the rest with comfort

; and, politely adding that he would
like to be in readiness to go down into
the house below for hot water or anything
needed, could not be induced to come up
the ladder higher than just allowed him to
put out his head and arms, and drink the
tea which Pussy tenderly handed to him,

You look like Jack-in-the-box ! Doesn't
Captain Gascoigne look a real muff stuck
in the trap-door there, Mr. Lee ?" jeeringly
exclaimed Miss Grace Smeeth, who permitted
herself as much freedom of tonsure
as her sister did ease of body. '' Why
can't he be nice and friendly like you, and
come and join us ?"

"Hush! Miss Smeeth. Fie, fie! Ho
might have heard you."

''I don't care a straw. He's not a pal
of mine, and never could be ; so what need
it matter to me ?"

He's not very far wrong either,

tliougli," said the young fellow, with a
half embarrassed laugh, "for he can't be
seen from the street where he is, but we
all can ; and what on earth will all the
people we know think of us, for there is
your sister throwing down bits of plaster
on the passers-by."

Certainly Miss Esther Smeeth had calmly
seated herself on the parapet, and was,
from this airy vantage-post, bombarding
any chance wayfarers with bits of Roman
cement picked off by her own fair fingers ;
while keeping up a brisk second fire of raillery
against Jack Dimity, and as usual swinging
her legs. Suddenly Birdie was seen
to be very risible affected, as she looked at
the rival who had temporarily succeeded
in alluring Jack's attentions from herself.

She whispered to Pussy, who seemed
also highly tickled; then both "passed it
on " to Mr. Jones ; who, however, though

VOL. I. I

he notched his heavy head and smiled,
hardly seemed to consider the joke equally
excellent. Next, Fuzzy heard and imparted
it to Major Hodge, who sat nearest her in
the row, and Daisy, who was close by,
could not avoid (literally) eavesdroppiug.
The joke was "Look at Miss Smooth's
stockings /"

Just at the heels, peeping above her
low, out door shoes, was a large hole in
each.

Tidy, isn't it ?" said Fuzzy, laughing
affectedly ; for she rather feared often that
her major had thoughts of deserting to
the enemy, and was not sorry that her
dear friend should thus expose herself to
unkind criticism.

''I hope you have marked, learnt, and
mean to inwardly digest that."

"Haw, haw! What, digest the stockings
? No, thank you ; I'm afraid they

would be rather too much for me," replied
the big major, with a great laugh.

Then wishing to tease Fuzzy, whose
jealousy he knew; but being a good-humoured
man in small matters, he added,

Poor little girl ! They are rather
badly off, you know ; so I think it's rather
a shame to laugh at her."

Well, really, darning-cotton is cheap,
and I suppose she has the use of her
fingers," said Fuzzy, smartly, for the Cox
girls dressed better than most of the
Marstown young ladies, to do them justice ;
and spent all their spare time in making
up new clothes, while their mother used
superhuman efforts to keep their old ones
neat and tidy.

At this moment, the young lady with the
faulty stockings became aware of the
general gaze being directed upon herself ;
and asked,

i2

''Mr. Dimity, what is the matter?
Do look at my feet, and tell me if there is
anything wrong with them."

Jack stooped down and did as requested.

There's nothing wrong with j our feet j"
he said, in his bluff way, ' but there is
with your stockings."

*' Jumping Jehoshaphat !" muttered the
young lady, as she inspected the damage.

She was supposed to have the smallest
feet in Marstown, and, though very badly
off, did her best to keep them Avell booted ;,
so now, though, she sat up defiantly and
kicked her feet again, there was a sparkle
of tears in her eyes.

*' Laugh away, all of yoa ! / don't want
to stop you," she said, addressing them all
' Only this much let me tell you, there
was not a hole in these when I started.,
But we had a long walk here, and these
are the only pair of black-silk stockings I

ever owned in the world So they are

rather old, I will say ; but I can't afford to
buy any others till my ship comes in."

"Bravo! Don't be ashamed of yourself,
Miss Esther," applauded Smiler Lee.

* Only draws attention to very pretty
ankles," said Jack, in a tone of gruff
consolation.

Captain Gascoigne added, speaking
across several others,

No one could have taken our teasing
more good-humouredly, at. all events. Miss
Smeeth."

"Our" teasing ! He had certainly not
helped in the laugh against her. Praise
from Gascoigne was so rare, and he was
usually so quiet, that Miss Smeeth thanked
him with a more vivid pleasure than her
other defenders had given her, although so
lately declaring he was " no pal of hers."

That man always says a kind word

whenever lie can, that I must say for him
but the rest are so spiteful !" vehemently
asseverated the other Smeeth sister  who
had called Gascoigne a 'muff"  addressing
Daisy, in an undertone. ''Oh, I was
watching you, Miss Dimity, and you didn't
laugh ; so I don't mind saying to you what
I feel about it. And Birdie Cox is always
like that, though she pretends to be such
a friend of ours. But I'm sure, you know
how new shoes nip at the heel."

Daisy did know (especially cheap ones
with a hard edge, as she inwardly thought).
She was honestly sympathising, and Miss
Smeeth seemed somewhat comforted.

Major Hodge again infused good-humour
into the now jarring elements by
remarking 

I knew a lady  an awfully pretty
woman, too  who was going out to a ball
one night and found she had a hole, too, in

 MISS DAISY DIMITY. 119

her black-silk stockings, so what d'ye all
think she did ? Give it up !  wh} liked it
with the feather end of a quill pen. Ha,
ha ! capital plan."

Just at this moment some one announced
that more passers-by were seen coming
up the road. The road, which rejoiced in
the name of Kyber Pass, was lived with
genteel villas, and not much frequented.

'Let us all lay in ammunition to bombard
the enemy," cried Mr. Lee, gaily,
crouching behind the parapet, and preparing
tiny cement pellets.

Most of the party eagerly followed suit
For Mrs. Cox having slipped away (to do
some of the daintier cooking, unsuspected,
in the kitchen regions) there was no check
upon them, and the fun grew fast and
furious.

At first, the bullets were so small that
they either missed their mark, or, if felt,

the persons in the street thought it was
some mistake on their own parts ; since, on
looking up, they could see no one  all
heads being well hidden.

But soon this seemed tame, and bits of
bread and butter, biscuits, and lumps of
sugar were used regardless of consequences.

Daisy, who took no part in this, began
to grow extremely uncomfortable.

She had not felt exactly happy on the
roof from the first ; but now she felt decidedly
unhappy, and somewhat ashamed
of her friends' proceedings.

"Wont your sister join us ? What a
quiet little mouse she is I" said some of the
other girls to Jack Dimity, as Daisy resisted
demurely all their appeals to do as
they did.

** Come along, Daisy, won't you r" called
out the young man thus urged, and then,
seeing disinclination in his sister's rosy

face, he edged himself along the slates to
add, in an undertone, 'what's up? What's
the matter?"

Oh ! Jack dear, I'd rather not  really.
It doesn't seem to me very  very nice''
(that adjective of universal feminine application
presenting itself helpfully, as being
neither too strong nor too weak).

Nice !" repeated Jack, in a tone of
scorn that withered the poor little word.
'' Oh ! well, if you like to stick by yourself,
I've nothing to say against it. Only it
looks rather as if you were setting yourself
up as the only person among us that knows
how to behave properly."

And away he crawled again, before he
could get any answer.

The truth was, he was annoyed at his
sister's scruples, when he had been vastly
enjoying himself ; and yet he would not say
she was wrote.

A forlorn, small, so-called Pharisee gazed,,
rather miserably after him ; being grieved
at the idea of accusing anyone ; when a
friendly-sounding voice said from the trapdoor
 the near neighbourhood of which
she and Jack had quite forgotten,

'' Do you know much about heraldry,.
Miss Dimity ?"

Heraldry ? No, not much  a little.
Grandpa used to be rather fond of
studying it, though ; and I used to help
him by looking out bits about it in the
winter evenings," said Daisy, starting, and
rather blushing at acknowledging the
hobby of the grand-paternal haberdasher ;
to which the Dimity s owed their crest and
coat-of-arms, and, indeed, some very vague
ancestors, whom the old gentleman believed
in with all the pride of a discoverer. 'why
do you ask me ?"

'' Because you may remember how a cat

or a greyhound is represented sitting
sejant with their foresaw put straight out
before them. Look, now, at all the rest of
our party  at Miss Smeeth especially !
Is she not sitting sejant''

Captain Gascoigne, as he said so, gave a
quiet laugh of intense enjoyment that quite
surprised Daisy. Looking at him, she also
noticed that he raised his nose  a large
and solid feature this was in his face, too
as if the same nose took a most especial
share in all enjoyment going on. It was
a trick of habit he had.

'* I declare you are right. It is perfectly
true !" she exclaimed, turning to gaze at
the rest of the party.

The were all sitting crouched in a row
on the slates, with their feet stuck out
before them, just as if they were going to
play hunt the slipper.

You are not among the worshippers of

Asmodeus, I think ?" went on Captain
Gascoigne.

'* Asmodeus ? I am afraid I don't know.
Was lie in ' Mangnall's Questions ' ?" asked
little Miss Dimity, rather confused.

That I really cannot inform you ; but
perhaps he might be found in ' Pinnace's
Catechism, or the Child's Guide to Useful
Knowledge.' He was the god of roofs."

0-h ! And you think I am unsociable,
as Jack does, because I don't much like
being up here ; but  but really, Captain
Gascoigne, it makes me feel a little giddy."

You were never so high in your life
before. Exactly so, Miss Dimity ; that is
my feeling too ; but don't you see the rest
are giddy too, and like it ?"

The speaker's tone was quizzically kindly
; as if he did not believe in Daisy's excuse
in the least, but rather approved of it.

A perfect jubilee !  suppressed, delighted

calls and giggles from the rest, now attracted
their attention. All the sharpshooters
were peering out, cautiously, at
some fresh victims coming up the street
below.

*who are they, Miss Dimity, can you
tell me ?" asked Gascoigne, who could
neither see nor be seen in his prudent lair.

They are two old ladies dressed in
black ; the Miss Silverthornes, I hear them
say."

"Come along, Miss Dimity  oh, do come 1
And, Captain Gascoigne, you will never
have such an opportunity in your life
again. These two are the most horrible
old cats !" bawled Easy Smeeth, in a loud
whisper.

They are two very well-bred and good
old ladies, / have always thought," said
Gascoigne, very slowly and quietly to
Daisy, quite reddening. " I think 

not know them herself, and is
rather severe upon them. If you will excuse
me, Miss Dimity, I will slip downstairs,
not to seem to have a share in
what might possibly annoy old friends of
mine."

Then please let me go down with you ;
for I don't like it at all either," whispered
Daisy, in a hurry. And silently agreeing,
with a pleased look, Gascoigne was preparing
to help her quickly to escape, when
unknown to himself, the catastrophe he
had dreaded occurred.

He rose out of the trap, to allow her to
descend first ; and his tall figure was outlined
on the roof. At that moment, without
his seeing it, the two old ladies looked
up and recognised him. Two seconds
more, and he was in safety hurrying down
the stairs with Daisy ; but not before both
had beheld a small shower of cake, sugar,

and soot-lumps flung down upon the pedestrians.


The Miss Silverthornes could not have
seen me, could they ?" asked Gascoigne, as
they gained the drawing-room, in a tone
of severity that made Daisy positively
start, as, coming after his usual quiet
drawl, it took one aback.

She was silent, fearing the old ladies
could.

He, however, re-assured himself, apparently
being superior to her opinion, and
added blandly after thoughtfully pulling
his moustache,

Oh, no, they could not. I am very
glad of it."

Are they great friends of yours ?"
Daisy ventured to ask.

"Well, hardly great friends, Miss Dimity;
for you must consider they are really old
ladies, and, indeed, I have only seen them

a few times now, though they knew me asa
child. But I know something of their
relations. They are of a good old county
family, and were obliged by bad circumstances
to leave a charming home they had
to come to Marstown, where they have
very few friends ; so 1 rather feel for
them. They live next door, you know."

*' Indeed ! in that tiny house ? Then of
course Mrs. Cox knows them ; and I think
I should like to see them very much from
what you say, poor ladies !"

Captain Gascoigne gazed at the carpet,
so that Miss Dimity, looking innocently
full at his face, hardly caught a twinkle in
his eye.

N-o ; I don't think Mrs. Cox does know
them, nor do the Miss Smeeths either.
The fact is, these old ladies don't much
care for society, at which some people here
seem rather offended."

Oh !" replied ]\Iiss Dimity, in an astonished
undertone, wondering all the more
at the late scene.

But Gascoigne stopped her from longer
consideration.

Being a methodical man, he was aware
this was an excellent chance of doings his
duty in making himself agreeable to his
friend's sister ; so, having seated himself
comfortably, he began to do so  at least,
according to his own idea thereof, like the
best of us.

By-and-by, he found himself quite aufait
as to the whole history of why and how
]bliss Dimity had found herself staying at
the Coxes. Truly without any intention of
'drawing" her, a few judicious questions
soon brought out all that was brimming
over in such an unsophisticated mind.
Daisy quite forgot her fear of strange
gentlemen, and of this one in particular ;

VOL. I. K

for lie, instead of being grave, now looked
quite smiling ; and was most friendly,
though so quiet.

And so this is your very first introduction
into gaieties and society," he said
at last, sleepily, with quite a benignant
smile. '' Well ; what is the next entertainment
to be, that you are going to?"

' Oh, we are to hear the band play tomorrow
evening in the Gardens, and then
have late tea with the Smeeths. The Miss
Coxes told me it was so pleasant !" cried
Daisy, delightedly. " Are you not coming,
too, to hear the band. They told me
everyone would be there."

The tall man beside her silently shook his
head. Till then he had sat bent forward, ina
sort of attentive manner, as if politeness
kept him from leaning back in a lady's
presence. Now he positively played with

the fringe of an antimacassar. (Who
will invent a less odious, but universal
name for that useful article ?)

You see, I have heard so many bands
that they are no longer the utter rarity tome
that they are to a young lady fresh
from the country and her school-room, like
yourself."

The truth is, you are hlase, T suppose 
and sick of society, like the people one
reads of in novels ; but I have always
thought that is a very bad frame of mind,
and it must be good for everyone to mix
with their neighbours," retorted Miss
Dimity, positively assuming a reproving
air as of a coquettish, newly-hatched
chicken taking on itself to lecture a 
game-fowl, whose spurs were
long since won. But then she shyly added,
I am so sorry if you are not really coming ;
for really strangers frighten me."

k2

Gascoigne positively laughed at this, but
said, after a while,

*' Well, yes ; I think I must go this time ;
if only after that dreadful reproach of
yours, of being glassy Then looking quite
warmly at the fresh face and dewy, forget-me-not
eyes opposite him, he added, '' I
cannot help wondering what you will think
of a garrison town and of garrison society!
It must be so utterly different from the
green fields, and quiet home surroundings,
you have been brought up in. What do
you do here ? How do you like it ?"

Daisy's tongue was quite unloosed by his
cordial manner, and she described all her
impressions ; and how they had spent the
morning in "chatting  in doing nothing
but chat -"

'what about?"

Oh, a hundred things " (with shamefaced
evasion).

'* Did not the Miss Coxes talk about
auy of the officers in the garrison ?" (A
sly question so mildly and insinuatingly
put, in an honest way, by Captain Gascoigne,
that his little interlocutor walked unsuspectingly
into the trap).

Well  Daisy owned they did ; but indeed
the names quite confused her brain,
and, having met no officers, she did not
care to talk about them very much.

*' But did you all do nothing but talk? 
from breakfast to lunch ? Surely a young
lady who teaches her young brothers
generally all morning, as you tell me you
do, must have found talking about gentlemen
in red coats all morning rather a
waste of time, Miss Dimity" (unfairly
making a arose inference as to the morning's
talk, from her guileless admission, and
pursuing it. " Did you not do any crotchet,
or hemming, or tatting."

Well, really, it did seem a whole
morning lost  only I should not like the
Miss Coxes to know I thought so, they
are all so very kind. For, you see, Captain
Gascoigne, besides teaching the boys
at home, I always like two hours to keep
up my own studies. Polly and I both
agreed, it would not be right to forget
everything we had learnt, as soon as the
governess left us. But as to work 
crochet and tatting are old-fashioned.
You should look at my lovely, new, floss-silk
embroidery. Please do." And, with
pardonable pride, this industrious young
Penelope seized her workbox to display
the treasure of needlework. This Captain
Gascoigne, being very short-sighted,
bent down to examine closely, with deep
interest.

Down rolled a gold thimble, which Daisy
stooped to hunt for. After three seconds

of search, she raised herself successful and
glowing.

'' Well, Captain Gascoigne ? Please say
you approve of my work."

Then she stood rooted to the ground
with dismay, and blushing like the veriest
field-poppy ; scarlet, and yet more scarlet ;
as her brother's friend of friends  the grave,
tall man, whose kindliness had almost
banished the awe his dignified reserve had
caused in her simple soul  said, in a
gravely sarcastic tone,

Oh ! yes ; and, of course, as an officer
in Her Majesty's service, I ought equally
to approve of your morning's studies, Miss
Dimity," showing, hidden under her pretty
embroidery, the ragged cover and dog's-eared
pages of the "Army List," opening in
such a tell-tale fashion of its own accord.
Alas ! she had quite forgotten that Birdie
Cox had thrust it in there. * * * *

It was a little dull that evening after
tea ; or else Daisy was dispirited. The
doctor, however, was cheery, always cheery!
he loudly declared, rubbing his hands, and
challenging Daisy to play backgammon.

She was surprised to see, when she
accepted, that the rest looked upon her with
eyes of evident pity. This was explained
later bv her winning* the first three shames ;
after which the doctor's geniality (that
had been vanishing since his first loss)
utterly melted into air. Daisy at last,
perceiving what was wrong, allowed him
to win ; congratulating herself on her
finesse. But alas ! she had rejoiced too soon,
for her host then proposed more and still
more games, till she was quite weary, and
he was triumphant.

CHAPTER VIII.

'let never maiden think, however fair,
She is not fairer in new clothes than okl."

SOME people, when secretly ashamed of
themselves, sulk. Others, while trying
to hide their misbehaviour, are suspiciously
humble (as you may also remark
in a poor dog of tender conscience), and
are most anxious to do private penance by
little acts of unusual kindness to other
people.

Daisy Dimity belonged to the latter
class of secret sinners.

On the morning after she had fallen so
desperately in Captain Gascoigne's and her

own good opinion, she rose with her feelings
quite sensibly depressed, and her rosy
face sobered in expression. At breakfast
(to which the three young ladies came ten
minutes later than the morning before)
Mrs. Cox told her daughters that a message
had just come from the sempstress
whom they frequently employed, that her
mother was dying, so she could not come
to sew for them.

There was general consternation.

Bother her mother ! My ball-dress is
in rags at the tail. I know it was all that
stupid Major Hodge's spurs at the last
dance ; and I never could sew for myself ;
so there is no use trying," wailed Birdie,
throwing a vindictive glance at her eldest
sister, who reasonably replied,

*' Well, you don't suppose / can prevent
him wearing spurs, do you ? My own
dress wants about two dozen yards of

nothing to hide the stains of the green
pea-soup that Captain O'Donoghue spilt
over my shoulders that night after the
concert, when he was bear-fighting with
little Lee. I declare they behave as badly
sometimes with us, as if they were in their
mess-room. Well, I suppose I must find
time to help you, Baby  though why you
can't stitch as Pussy and I have always
had to do, beats me."

And I will help you too, my child,"
put in Mrs. Cox ; though with a secret
sio'h ; thinking; of the various dishes for the
guest she dared not trust to the cook, and
the little schoolboys' socks, and heaven
knows what more !

Pussy remained discreetly silent, but 
Let me sew for you," exclaimed little
Miss Dimity's fresh voice. " Yes, indeed
I will. You must let me make up your
dress, every bit."

And she kept her word  even more fully
than she had anticipated.

For, Birdie's dress proving by daylight
so ragged and dirty when exposed to view
that poor Mrs. Cox blushed on seeing it
laid out, the latter hurried into the town
to buy yards of tarlatane to veil its
deficiencies.

'you darling! You will make it up
for me exactly like the Princess of Wales's
dress described in The Queen, won't you ?"
exclaimed Birdie, ecstatically, curling herself
down on the heart-rug, and looking
up at Daisy, who was energetically
handling big scissors, and threading
needles, and making a scientific apparent
litter.

Listen to it here : ' A jupe of the
richest creamy satin, bouillon, veiled
with tulle illusion, tunic cut en inimitable,
relieve with bouquets of choicest 

orcbidacece, mixed with sprays of
diamonds ' "

'' Exactly ! Ob, you can easily make
that !" sarcastically interposed Fuzzy, from
were lie bent over the sewing-machine,
speaking with ber mouth full of pins.

Never mind the diamonds, and, of
course, I can't afford the flowers," valiantly
declared the youngest Miss Cox. " But
my jupe is cream-satire, anyhow ; and it
can be veiled with tarlatane instead of
tulle illusion, just as well; can't it, my own
sweetest helper ?" affectionately addressing
ber guest.

Daisy, bending over the gown in question,
could not help thinking that cotton-satire
is a very different stuff from richest
real satin ; also that the jupe or skirt in
question bad plainly once been snow-white,
but now was merely yellowish from age 
Isabel-bue, as the French term it  vvbile

tarlatane at eight-pence a yard (double
width) is useful and cleanly, but could
hardly look quite as diaphanous as the
royal robe.

There was very little talking this morning,
except on the all-absorbing subject ol
dress ; the stitches being too busy. Birdie
indeed, sitting lazily on the hearth-rug,
had begun some banter against her elder
sisters ; but was absolutely told, to her
secret indignation, that, if she could not
sew, or be otherwise useful, sbe could at
least keep from disturbing them. And, to
carry out the first hint, Daisy, being a
practical-minded young person, to the lazy
young lady's astonishment, gave her several
simple jobs : basting-threads to pull out ;
tucks to turn down.

Birdie dared not refuse their guest, but
sat with her yellow head crossly down-bent,

nd her sharp little nose growing red at
the tip with vexation.

Daisy silently remarked this as her needle
flew shining down long seams, and it
set her thinking of another nose. Of a
very different, ugly nose, but one that held
itself up in an honest, lordly way above all
things mean. It was a most honest nose
in its expression, no doubt, but sometimes
assumed too much the character of a self-righteous
judge in Miss Dimity's opinion ;
and her cheeks grew red all over at the
memory of yesterday's misadventure.

The worst was, there had been no explanation
after the awful " find."

Dumfounded, Daisy had stood under
Gascoigne's gaze ; and before she could
speak in exculpation, long, indeed, before
her shame-stricken small wits were gathered
together, the rest of the party had

entered, seeming to flood the room with
talk.

"Don't you like old Gascoigne?" Jack
lead admiringly muttered to bis sister ; and
the latter at last raising her eyes had seen
a tall figure just disappearing from the
room, who had not thought it necessary to
say good-bye to all the guests after taking
his leave of Mrs. Cox.

Daisy had faintly murmured back an
Oh, yes," not knowing Avhat to say; feeling
much disposed in her annoyance to
answer No !  and to detest that vanishing
reddish-brown, square head.

Just now, with that curious sympathy
between thoughts that no one has yet
explained, Daisy was startled on being
suddenly asked by Pussy,

'' Oh ! do tell us, by-the-way, how you
liked Captain Gascoigne yesterday. You
quite ran off with him from us all, didn't

she? I mean, dear, you made a decided
impression."

"Then it was more than I cared to do,"
quoth little Miss Dimity, decidedly ; the
tinge of jealousy in the speaker's tone not
having been lost upon lier.

There was such a ring of honesty in
Daisy's words that no one could ever
doubt their utter sincerity.

"What! Did you really not like him,
then ? Why don't you like him ? What
is it you don't like about him ?"

This avalanche of questions was raised
in astonishment down on Daisy's head.

I am not quite sure yet ; but I
think I dis  like him" (very slowly).
"And I can't tell you all why." (That
would have been to reveal the workbox
episode.) The, with a happy inspiration,
" He has such a terribly ugly
nose !"

VOL. T. L

They all laughed at her. Fancy minding
a man's nose !

But yet in a somewhat suspicious manner
Pussy and Birdie agreed with their little
guest. It was an enormous nose. It was
square at the end ; a perfect handle to the
poor man's face.

Only Fuzzy softly whistled at all this, till
nearly choking herself with half swallowing
a pin. Then suddenly, while work
was going on in full swing, and the sewing
machine buzzing like a dozen hives of bees,
it was stopped with a jerk, and bang went
Fuzzy's cuffs on the floor.

"I never can work properly with cuffs
on ; in fact, they always make me feel
miserable," she explained to Daisy.

*' Well, if one is doing any hard or dirty
work, I take off mine too," honestly replied
the other.

After a few more seconds, however,

Muzzy gave an impatient pull at her
throat, and twitch  away came her collar,
which was only held in its place by a single
humpbacked pin. It followed its cousins,
the cuffs, to degradation on the floor.

I declare one is in comfort now," said
Fuzzy ; neck and wrists appearing strangely
out of her coarse serge dress, unrelieved
by any white. " If it wasn't that
they all agree it is my line to shoot my
cuffs, and sport a round collar like a man,
I'd never wear any."

"Oh, but, Fuzzy, you must! We can't
all go in for the same sort of thing, you
know  three in a family, all eating up each
other's chances," interposed Birdie, turning
eagerly to Daisy. " Don't you agree ? It
was my idea ; I settled when I came out
that we must try to be different, so Fuzzy
has to go in for talking sport to the men
hunting and betting, you know, and a

l2

little slang" (with a small, deprecatory
laugh). " But Pussy is the quietest of us
all, and reads most, so she has to be the
blue-stocking of the family. I wanted her
to take to parish work and curates, for she
is just made for it."

"But I won't, so there's an end of it!
I'll either marry a soldier and live in barracks,
or not at all. It's too much for you
to be the tyrant of us all in everything,
Baby. You've taken good care to take
the easiest line of us all, so that should
satisfy you, "interposed Pussy, hardly raising
her usual soft tones, but with a quiet
venom that showed she could be dangerous
when angered. She went on :

If you had to read, whether you liked
it or not, to keep up your reputation, see
what you would say ! The other day, there
was Captain Gascoigne asked me if I had
not read Mr. Gladstone's famous speech.

eight columns honos, and was so surprised
when I said that I had not, because he said
my sister had told him I was so fond of
politics. So I read it all up the next day
ugh ! two hours of it. But it was a week
before we met him again, and when I tried,
and tried hard, to begin talking about this
great speech and the Irish Question, he
told me calmly at last that it was a thing
of the past already, and that nobody spoke
of anything now but the new Eastern complication.
Complication, indeed ! I loathe
the very sight of the leading articles."

And I hate horses, and abominate betting,"
burst in Fuzzy  pausing to join
Pussy in the tempting opportunity of venting
their real feelings for once. " I never
can quite understand all about the odds,
Miss Dimity, and there! if I didn't go and
bet at the last regimental races with a horrible
man in the commissariat who flirts

with Essie Smeeth, and before I knew lie
had won a pair of gloves from me. I
could have cried !  but I had to pay up,
because Essie laughed at me so about it.
And, as to talking about horses after mj
reading up in that all about curbs and
spavin, and I don't know what all  little
Smiler Lee chaffed me so one day when he
took me a ride ; for I was in such a fright,
I kept saying my prayers all the time."

With a laughing grimace at the recollection
 for Fuzzy's sorrows over her lost
role were by no means so deep as Miss
Pussy's at being blue  she pointed out a
large book to Daisy that lay somewhat
hidden from sight.

Why, it is ' On the Horse the very
same that papa keeps in his growled at
home, at Elm Hall !" exclaimed Daisy ,
opening her eyes. 'you don't say you
read up that ? I do pity you''

Fuzzj nodded, with a resigned sort of
grin ; and sent the sewing-machine flying
harder than ever. But Birdie laughed
maliciously, and rolled full length on the
hearth-rug, delighted to think that the line
of life she had kept to herself was that of
the ingenue of the family, the spoilt Baby,
who could not be expected to be either
useful or deeply read.

None of the girls felt in the least shy, it
seemed, of pouring all these confidences
into the ears of their guest. They were
not reticent by nature ; and no new-comer
could have been less alarming than this
one, who simply opened her blue eyes
wider and wider in innocent astonishment,
but no more thought of looking: severe than
would a pigeon.

Suddenly Fuzzy, whose post near the
bay-window commanded a view down the
street's full length, rose rather hastily and
said.

''I quite forgot, I want to do some shopping
very much before lunch. Which of
you will come with me ? If we hurry, we
can be just in time."

The other sisters, for some reason or
other, both at once looked out down the
street, and then smiled significantly.

'' Really, Fuzzy, I cannot leave my own
dress to go running into the town at all
hours with you," purred Pussy. "Such a
time of day to take, too. Besides, it's
really of no use."

*' Well, then, you can come, Birdie ;
you're doing nothing, I am sure," said the
elder sister, sharply.

Why on earth can you not go alone,
as 1 do, if I want to meet anyone ? You
are old enough. Goodness knows ! Go out
this morning? No, indeed; I am too
lazy."

'' Indeed, so you are !" bitterly murmured

Muzzy, who had a good heart, and, from
Birdie's infancy, had been fond of and
spoilt the younger sister, who now tyrannised
over them all. She was, besides,
with all her affectation of loudness, the
most weak of the trio. " I hate going
alone, and you know it. It looks so like
running after "

She stopped abruptly as Daisy, who had
sprung up from her work, joined them.

Let me go. I love shopping. I shan't
keep you one moment while I put on my
things." And away she flew.

(Neb. It is only strong-minded ladies
who do not love shopping ; or will own they
require more than one second to put on their
things !)

CHAPTER IX.

'' I promised to buy her a bunch of blue riband
To tie up her bonny brown hair."

A S the two girls emerged equipped,
 Daisy noticed that her companion's
eyes were eagerly following a man's figure,
which was just disappearing round the
street-corner.

We were too slow in dressing !" ungratefully
escaped from Fuzzy, with a sigh,
and she began walking very fast. Daisy
did not know the cause of the hurry, but
nevertheless hastened beside her at a great
pace.

' What are you going to buy ?" she presently
asked, rather short of breath.

Miss Cox looked at her.

' Oh ! well, I am not sure what first ; 
there are several things."

They had gained the street-corner, and
again Fuzzy gazed eagerly ahead.

It was a short, deserted alley ; and again
Daisy saw the same big figure, walking as
far before them as before.

As if she had seen her goal, Miss Cox
began hastening faster than ever, so they
dived into a net-work of lanes, and they
scurried over crossings, knocked against
blind beggars, and were nearly run over
by drays, cabs, and hand-carts  till Daisy,
who was plump and short of person, perfectly
panted, although in good condition ;
and began to feel as if this were, somehow,
a positive race.

"Do you much mind going quick? I
like it so much better than sauntering,"
asked Fuzzy, with a gasp in her own

breath. "Isn't it  dreadful  how much
faster men can go than we  although they
don't  look  as if they hurried ?"

She was looking at a gentleman ahead,
who was going with easy strides, lurching
a little in his walk, and twirling a cane.
He looked marvellously like the very figure
they had first seen when they came out ;
and, if so, had humiliatingly kept his
advantage in point of distance.

And now they had got into the High
Street, full of shops and passengers, among
which latter groups the person in front of
them was frequently lost to view. But
Daisy could not help perceiving that her
companion's whole gaze and aim seemed
directed on preventing this event occurring
; and that they dodged to right or left,
regardless of the rule of the road, and of
irate old ladies, simply as was dictated by

the movements of the individual in front.

Daisy now began to feel certain her new
friend was leading her on a chase ; and
could hardly restrain her girlish laughter.
Being fond, also, of going out hunting with
the squire, she felt a horrible longing to cry
*forrard  forrard !" or " "Who-whoop !"

She was most thankful, now, she had
made no remonstrances as to the pace
they were going at.

Now another individual met the unconscious
victim,  seemed to have been
waiting for him, from the gestures and
slaps on the shoulder they interchanged, 
and they turned together into a large
warehouse, heartily laughing.

The pursuit slackened.

Daisy, with thanksgiving, subsided from
a breathless trot into an exhausted walk ;
and Fuzzy, composing her features, and

trying to assume an air of innocent unconcern,
observed,

Thank goodness ! here is the shop weare
going to, at last !"

They followed into the shop after their
prey, Daisy feeling exactly as if they were
a couple of sleuth-hounds ; and, after a few
seconds of decent dallying before a stand
of elegant, gutta-percha ornaments, turned
a counter, and came full upon  Major
Hodge !

Mutual astonishment on meeting was
expressed by him and Miss Fuzzy, whilst
Daisy, standing demurely behind, for the
first time recognised in him the object of
their hunt. She was not sure whether to
be ashamed or amused ; especially as the
major broadly complimented Fuzzy on her
fine complexion, crimsoned by the chase,
asking, with a sly look,

"What have you been coins in the

town ? I never go out without seeing
something of 3'ou in the afternoons, but I
did not expect to be so lucky at this
hour."

We  we have been doing a little shopping.
Goodness ! why is Mr. Jones hiding
behind the pillar there ?"

Pussy's black-eyed swain was indeed
trying to secrete himself, as if bashful ; but
now, on hearing his name, came forward,
with an awkward, rumbling laugh, from
an adjacent counter.

'* I have been helping Major Hodge to
buy some articles of  of dress," he explained.


*' Not at all  don't you believe him,
Miss Cox. / have been helping Mr. Jones
to buy some little articles of  of  clothing,"
mimicked the major, with a great
haw-haw.

An amicable skirmish of meaning looks

and innuendoes as over some excellent private
joke, followed.

But Daisy did not bear more, having
hurriedly turned away, and begun buying
some ribbon that she did not in the least
want. Peering shyly round, she could see
that the discreet Mr. Jones had also retired
to a little distance, leaving the tender
couple together.

The major's big, burly figure looked elephantine
beside Fuzzy; who was rather
slight and tight of outline ; and he leered
(no other word expresses the feeling his
look conveyed to Daisy) down upon Miss
Cox's really pretty, fair-haired head, and
her cheeks glowing with her late exertions,
as if to say, " Come, you are rather a nice
little creature to be so fond of me. I must
give you an extra dance some time for
this''

What coloured ribbon, miss ?" asked

the stalwart sbopmao, whose sinews looked
as if they might have been more fitly employed
as a defender of his country than
in handling a tape measure.

What colour ? Any  I mean, blue,"
stammered Daisy ; confused by trying
hastily to think whether she could combine
any future usefulness with the present
expediency of her purchase. " What length
do I want ? A yard or two  it doesn't
much matter  whatever you have there.
Three and a quarter ? Oh, well, that will
do quite as well ; yes, yes, give it to me,
please."

You seem delightfully easy to be pleased,
Miss Dimity," said Mr. Jones, close
behind, making her start. " Always heard
before that ladies got everything down to
look at, that was in a shop ; and then went
off without buying anything."

At this juncture, Major Hodge and

VOL. I. M

Fuzzy came up, the former inquiring very
particularly o the latter 

'but what do you want, Miss Cox?
You came in for some shopping ; don't let
sus detain you. Or would my advice be of
any assistance? Ha, ha!"

"I  oh, I don't want anything here,
thank you. I am only waiting till Miss
Dimity has finished."

Miss Dimity's shopping does not seem
very important ! She did not seem to
know what she wanted," Mr. Jones interposed
: and he was describing Daisy's
hesitation over her ribbon for the amusement
of Major Hodge (and the certain discomfiture
of poor Miss Cox), when the
little lady drew herself up with dignity.

"You are quite mistaken, Mr. Jones.
It is only that I am not very well accustomed
to buying things for myself ; that
is all."

Of course, dear, you should have asked
mj advice; why didn't I think of it?"
cried Fuzzy, warmly and volubly, taking
her arm, and saying to the two men,
She always makes me think of a little
creature that everyone ought to pet and
take care of. Come, 1 must look after you
now. You have got what you want ?"

So they went out of the shop, Fuzzy still
pressing Daisy's arm, and exclaiming as
they got out of earshot, with real affection


You are a darling  I positively declare
you are a darling. But, do tell me, what
was Mr. Jones buying ; did you see ? He
looked so foolish, and Major Hodge looked
so caught; I was dying to know."

I think it was  stockings," said Daisy.

"Stockings! "Was that all? I was so
afraid that they did not want us, it made
me quite nervous. I declare ! if I had

m2

known that, we might have stayed longer. "
Daisy felt devoutly glad, then, that she
had not known it ; being inwardly convinced
of the truth of Miss Cox's first supposition,
that they had not been wanted by
the gentlemen.

It was a serious reflection, that Mr.
Jones now possibly suspected her also of
having had ulterior designs in entering the
shop. It was almost as bad (yet, no ! not
nearly  ) as the terrible misadventure with
Captain Gascoigne. These two events, in
two successive days, quite made stains on
the sheen and glamour with which little
Miss Dimity's imagination had glorified
her first visit. She even morbidly thought
for five and a half seconds 

The world is wide ; these things are small.
They may be little, but they are all."

But then Fuzzy's evident, intense gratitude,
the reflection that she might

have been of more possible use than she
quite knew to her eldest young hostess,
and her own healthy spirits and conscience
helped to restore Daisy's equanimity.

It may be remarked further that Miss
Cox subsequently made two dives into
shops, perhaps for form's sake, leaving
Daisy on the pavement. But each time
she returned observing they had not got
what she wanted there ; and so went home
empty-handed.

Chapter X.

*' O wha will shoe my fair foot,
And wha will glove my han' ?
And wha will lace my middle jimp
Wi' a new-made London Ian' ?"

rams was the evening on wliicli tliej
-- were all to go to the public gardens
to hear one of the military bands : the
delightful prospect Daisy had so glowingly
spoken of to Captain Gascoigne.

She dressed herself in a cool cream
costume that seemed meant for such a
warm June evening; and, putting on
Polly's hat (the hat of hats lent her to
grace this first great visit!) won much
applause from everyone when she appeared

in the drawing-room. Especially Mrs. Cox
gently called her over to pat and admiringly
examine ber dress (inwardly resolving
to make one for Birdie, after that
identical pattern, so soon as their guest
had left Marstown).

She is always so charmingly dressed ;
as indeed she is charming in all ways,"
said the lady to Jack Dimity, who had
just come to escort them to the gardens.

To which that young man, well pleased,
answered in excellent modern English,
after an approving inspection of his sister,

'* Well, it is rather fetching. Daisy,
you look a howling swell to-day. But I
have got rather bad news for you all !
Our ball is put off."

Put off 1 There was a general lengthening
of faces, so that the good old expression,
their jaws had fallen, would have
been literally true.

It appeared that an aged colonel had
just died, who had been so intimately connected
with " the Strappers " that it
seemed in bad taste to dance on the night
of his funeral, so the ball would be given
a week later instead.

"A week later!"

No one felt sadder than Daisy, who was
trying hard not to look as if she minded ;
since she had been only invited to spend a
week ; and now it was Thursday, and
Jack's regiment's ball, that had been fixed
for next Tuesday, would only take place on
Tuesday week.

"Never mind, my dear, you must stay
on with us a little longer, that is all," said
Mrs. Cox, kindly, after a quick glance of
inquiry at her daughters, who all three
warmly seconded the proposal ; declaring
that the prospect of keeping their guest
longer quite atoned for the temporary
disappointment.

It is the best luck that could happen 
will bring him here ever so much oftener,"
whispered Fuzzy, commending her mother
and glancing at young Dimity.

"Yes; I know. But then men always
run after new girls for a time, and Captain
Oascoigne yesterday seemed rather  "
murmured the cautious mother, hesitating
whether, after all, she had done right.

'' Fudge ! That woman-hater !" and
away marched Miss Cox.

But Pussy paused to warn her mother
with feline caution, her interests being at
stake.

Perhaps you are right, mamma, but
you must keep your eye on him. Now
mind you do, and don't be forgetting yourself
and gossiping with the other old
women, and don't let her out of your
sight."

Mrs. Cox, smothering a sigh, dutifully

prepared to obey, and they went forth in
the sunny evening to the gardens.

Crowds of townspeople were streaming
out to enjoy themselves after the day's
labours ; soldiers' red coats brightened the
dull streets, going and coming by twos
and threes (generally either going to the
public houses, or coming out of them).
That part of the gardens, however, to
which our party was bound, was railed oft ;
and for a small admission price a large
result of privacy was obtained. Daisy did
not esteem this privilege properly; a crowd
was a rarity to her, and a mob an amusing
mass of fellow-beings.

The band was in full swing when they
arrived ; and groups of acquaintances of
the Coxes were promenading the gravelled
walks that surrounded a grass tennis-ground.


Girls by twos, by threes, even by fours

of a family were warmly greeted by the
Coxes, and all gushingly introduced to
Miss Dimity as their dearest friends. Ifc
seemed to Daisy she had never seen so
many girls in her life before ; and all wore
dresses buttoned up the back and skimmed
in material below. She found herself
calculating in absence of mind how little it
mioht take to make their frocks, when Jack
roused her by saying,

'' Hallo !"

Jack had shown at first an evident
determination not to forsake his sister;
and Birdie accordingly evinced equal ardour
for her companionship. So these three had
strolled together; while Mrs. Cox, being
very tired, sat down on a bench at Jack's
bluff instance, and to Birdie's great annoyance,
who worshipped the flirtations maxim,
'' Three is no company."

Fuzzy and Pussy, meeting Major Hodge

and Mr. Jones, became lost to history
thenceforth.

' Hallo !" repeated Jack. '' Why, here
is Captain Gascoigne. I never expected
to see you at the band," as his friend in
question lounged up, very, very quietly,
and greeted the young ladies.

Well, it was your sister who induced
me to come, do you know, by the account
she kindly gave me yesterday of the
charms of the locality and the merits of
the entertainment," observed Gascoigne,
with as quiet a smile.

*' You !" muttered Jack, vastly pleased,
aside to his sister. " Do you know, that is
a great compliment to you, Daisy."

To her ? Daisy could discern no compliment
at all in that quiet, sarcastic voice, as
she called it to herself. She was inwardly
quite furious, and held up her head high.
As if she wanted this grave, strict Pharisee

gentleman ; as if he thought her capable of
angling for his company ! After yesterday's
scene, too !

Precisely !  that had made him think
less of her. After which (thinking less of
her), his coming to-day partook of the
nature of an insult. And how could she
like even Jack's friend who could thus
curtly insult her, which was an admirable
syllogism but for its basis.

A great, valiant resolution in Miss
Dimity's throat nearly choked her.

Jack and Birdie Cox had somehow gone
on a little in front, under the mistaken
idea that Dais would be charmed with
her present companionship. All the past
night, and all the bygone morning, she had
been telling herself with retrospective
shame, then stern resolvethat she must
make Captain Gascoigne an Explanation.


Now or never !

They took three paces in silence, then
she began, in a meek, small voice,

"Captain Gascoigne  I thought" ( long
break of agony; forced renewal), "I  I
thought, Captain Gascoigne."

Yes ?" interrogated Gascoigne ; and
then, seeing how she hesitated, and
that, though he waited, no more words
seemed coming, he went on in good-humoured
banter, by way of encouragement,
" You say you thought, Miss Dimity.
It is a very good thing to do, believe me.
Most young ladies, I am told, don't think,
either before speaking or acting. Many
men (like myself) are not capable of much
thought. You thought ?"

I was thinking "

Horrible pause. A young person becoming
a very red-tipped Daisy ; a droop-pigheaded

Daisy; uttering at last, with
another gasp 

Please, I was thinking yesterday "

And there she stuck fast. Not another
word, though her hearer waited patiently.

He looked down upon her and saw, with
surprise, that she was in real distress of
mind ; why, he could not imagine. But
he, good-naturedly, turned to the landscape
of the tennis-ground, observing, in a musing
manner,

"You bring to my memory the last song
in the Ingoldsby Legends, the one I liked
best, though it is sad. It begins 

As I Lay a-thinking, a-thinking, a-thinking,
Merrier sang the Birds as she sat upon the spray.'

Are you fond of poetry ? Of course you
like the moderns, like all young ladies.
Now I am old-fashioned enough to like
Chaucer and Milton better."

It was of no use that he so tried to give
Daisy time to recover. She was only the
more overpowered by this fresh evidence
of Captain Gascoigne's awful unapproachableness.
She could hardly quote any
poetry, except a few *' elegant extracts "
that had been hammered into her brain in
schoolroom days, for she had a very bad
memory. But she remembered, now, hearing
Jack say that his friend was a deeply
read man (in Master Jack's opinion).

Just now, when there was still time to
speak, Mrs. Cox approached them, addressing
Gascoigne by name.

She begged him to give her full particulars
about the unfortunate death of his
lamented whilom colonel, over whom she
sweetly sighed. It made not the slightest
difference to her regret that she had not
known the deceased in the smallest degree ;
nor that Gascoigne assured her it was no

Yery unexpected event, the veteran having
been ninety-three years old. Mrs. Cos
still softly persisted in sorrowing ; and contrived
cleverly to keep Gascoigne on her
one side and Daisy on the other, while
caressing the latter's arm with little, affectionate
pats.

After awhile Daisy grew nervous, being
unaccustomed to the patting process, and
not knowing whether any response was
expected ; so she hailed with delight Mr.
Lee's smiling face suddenly appearing
beside her.

"Ah! Miss Dimity, how are you?" he
cried, with a most flattering emphasis.
"Yery well? That's right! And where
is that old ruffian, your brother ? What,
deserted you for anyone else ! Horrible
bad taste 1 Let me tell you what ; if shad
such a sister  "

This impressive remark was uttered in

VOL. I. N

a mock whisper, a look supplying the end
of the sentence ; after which Mr. Lee gazed
a moment at the sk}  suppressing a laugh
at his own humbug  till, Daisy laughing
outright, he at once joined her, delighted
with himself.

''But, now, may I introduce a great
friend of mine ? He is Captain O'Donoghue,
of the troth; / handsomest man in the
British Army. May I ?" he inquired, in
such a tone as if asking an immense
favour ; and again whispering Captain
O'Donoghue's attributes, as if the secret
was to go no further.

Daisy felt immensely pleased, sand, looking
round, saw a gentleman admiring the
scenery while awaiting his introduction.

This was a decidedly well-looking man ;
with hair not caressed by curling-tongs,
and an elaborately-drooped moustache ;
both of that yellow hue which disguised

almost the fact that lie was turning very
grey. Daisy thought with doubting admiration
that he had the smallest waist,
stiffest back, and broadest chest of anyone
she had almost ever seen. In dress both
he and Mr. Lee seemed just turned out of
a bandbox, fresh from the tailor s admiring
hand. Only the little Smiler was dark
and dapper, neat and waxed to the last
degree ; whilst his friend was, as Daisy
described it to herself, 'fair, tall, and
altogether wavy."

They made a capital foil to each other ;
and they knew it ; being seldom far apart,
and generally indeed, as they expressed it,
"hunting in couples."

The " handsomest man in the British
Army " seemed inclined to patronise little
Miss Dimity in a most kindly manner ;
smiling upon her artless replies to his various
queries delivered as thus, whilst conn

2

tinuallj caressing his moustache, and
likewise leaning for support upon his
cane with one arm akimbo  showing the
elegance of his waist :

"Haw, Miss  er  Dimity. What do
you think of  er  Marstown ? Like it,
aw ? Eeally  ?" pulling his moustache
with an air of surprise ; that being the first
expression occurring to him). " Sorry
this ball is put off, eh?" (tenderly rearranging
his moustache, to console it
for its late ill-treatment). ' ' Y het, nevaiu
been at a ball before ! Oh, come, Lee ; I
say  eh, Smiler, what do you say  eh ?
Come ! that will be something quite fresh,
then ; delightfully novel, 'pon my word."
(This sentence left Miss Dimity wondering
whether she was to be the delightful
novelty to him, or the ball to her.)

'' Come, I will tell you what it is  er,"
went on the willowy warrior, suddenly

speaking with a momentary animation.
'ewe  er  that is to say, some of our
fellows and myself  have been thinking,
don't you know, of  ah ! giving a small
dance next week, to make up for the disappointment
of all you young ladies.
You'll come, eh ?  won't you ?"

Oh, thank you !" cried Daisy, overjoyed.
'' And how pleased Mrs. Cox and
ber daughters will be to go, too. They
were quite as much vexed as I was about
Jack's  about the ball, I mean, being put
off."

A quick look passed between Captain
O'Donoghue and Mr. Lee.

"Mrs. Cox. Oh! aw, ses ! of course.
You are staying with her. Yes, er  pray
tell them, too, how delighted I shall be
to see them also, Miss  er  Dimity. Tuesday
next. You won't mind not getting a
card, eh ? We want to keep it so very

small. . But you'll be sure to come,,
won't you ?"

And, with a dulcet smile and bland bow,
the gentle knight moved away to give joy
to the hearts of some few others of the
fair sex that were doubtless, he felt, already
beginning to suffer jealous pangs.

"I say! What an impression you have
been and gone and made, Miss Dimity \
Veni ! midi! vice ! Ho, ho, ho! Excuse
my laughing, luont you ? You know old
Dimity and I are such friends," exclaimed
the Smiler, with a gaiety as if he was
longing to execute a mirthful break-down,
and that only respect for Daisy restrained
his joyous effervescence. Then, in a suddenly
solemn whisper 

Do you know that O'Donoghue has so
many girls most desperately gone about
him ; and they'll all be terribly cut-out
when they find he has asked you. And

this is to be such a small dance, that be
must have given you all his cards, as they
are each only asking five or six guests."

"But did he not mean to ask the Coxes,
too ?" asked Daisy, distressed. " How
could 1 go otherwise ? I did not know
Avhat else he could mean. I cannot go
without my chaperon."

Quite right, quite right," said young
Lee, most consolingly. " Of course you
would not ; but, mind you, lots of the
Marstown girls would  I mean they would
have accepted, and run chance for a
chaperon, or have got some lady who was,
by way of looking after ten or twelve
others, to take them, too. But with you
it is a different thing, certainly. And old
O'Donoghue was delighted, I could see.
Oh, excuse me for chaffing you, won't
you?  but you are an Irresistible One."

"Oh, please, I must go back to Mrs.

Cox at once," exclaimed Daisy, in a hurry,
seeing that lady making small, fluttering
signals to them.

She was, as it were, clucking like an
elegant hen anxious to gather the stranger
chicken under her wing ; but not taking
any heed of her own stray brood.

At a little distance, Gascoigne now stood
utterly alone among the crowd ; having
successfully contrived to retire with politeness,
after acting chorus to Mrs. Cox's
'dead March" over the late, lamented,
unknown colonel, as uttered, con grazio e
spirit, by that lady.

Now, seeing his friends, Lee and Jack
Dimity, approaching, he too slowly returned
; and Daisy by-and-by found him
near her side.

'* Well, Miss Dimity, do you find this
amuses you as much as you thought ?" he
asked, with a quiet air that approached

boredom, in one of the softer intervals
between the crashes of the brass band,
playing '' The Turkish Patrol."

She, who had been listening in an
ecstasy of pleasure, turned round vexed.
All the pleasure went out of her at sight
of this hate noire, who kept silently recalling
the most embarrassing and annoying
incident, almost, of her whole life.

**I am enjoying myself very much ; very
much indeed, thank you." (Trying not tolet
her voice seem too severe in disapprobation
of himself.) "But you seem not
to care to hear such good music ; nor to
see all these people, though, I suppose,
they are your friends. I wonder you
came at all."

"I have hardly any friends, or at least
very few friends in Marstown, Miss Dimity.
And as to coming  remember, you advised
me to come," with a deprecating smile,

that however might have been thought
gently sarcastic, if anyone not versed inhuman
expression chose to think so.

Daisy chose to think so ; she was utterly
aggravated. Why, oh ! why should Jack's
dearest friend, who seemed at first so nice
why should he seem always fated to
make her look foolish ; resolved to misinterpret
her ?

I  I  I never for a moment asked you
to come. You must not think that," she
responded, with anger-gleaming eyes,
drawing up her plump little person with
intense dignity.

'' Miss Dimity, I never for a moment
supposed you had. I said ' advise me."

Thus ended the conversation between,
this jarring young man and maiden, for at
that moment they were interrupted by the
Smeeth family.

CHAPTER XI.

Cost  "In manner and form following, sir, all those
three : I was seen with her in the manor-house, sitting
with her upon the form, and taken following her into
the park

King  The time when ? About the sixth hour ; ivhe7i
least most graze birds best peck, and men sit down to
that nourishment ichich is called supper''

fTlHE Smeeth family, father, mother, and
-*- daughters, havioo caught sight of
Gascoigne (and secondarily of Daisy, who
was considered a distinguished stranger),
bore down upon the prey.

First came the mother ; an honest, broad-faced
soul, but quite unwieldy from stoutness
; one of those good feather bed mothers
one often sees panting in black bombazeen

attire. Then the two young ladies ; with
several satellites in the persons of Mars-town
young men, employed in attorneys*
or other offices. These the Miss Smeeths
clearly only kept in tow till Gascoigne,
young Dimity, or Lee should be lured, or
might deign to take their places.

Behind, marshalling all, came Smeeth
father; thickset, snowj'-haired, and moustaches
; with the gash of an old wound
still scaring his cheek. He was, however,
not a bad specimen of an old soldier,
thought Daisy, as her acquaintances, rushing
up eagerly, shook hands, and asked
leave (with a filial deference that really
did them credit) to introduce her to their
father and mother.

Colonel Smeeth's bow was of the nature
of a paternally-meant military salute. Mrs.
Smeeth, however, stretching out her fat
hands, imprisoned one of Daisy's in a warm,

prolonged clasp, while softly wheezing before
she spoke.

"Deary me! So this is Mr. Dignity's
sister ; how very nice !" she observed, as if
speaking from above her treble chin with
difficulty. "Well, now, I must tell you, ni'
dear, as, indeed, I was saying' to himself the
other day, although, indeed, I am afraid he
didn't quite understand me, on account of
Mrs. Cox calling him away before I had
got to the end of what I was explaining'.
(A most elegant woman, my dear, and
been' a cousin of yours besides, not that
I wish to say a thing against her for a
moment, for her fly was at the door, and
she offered him a seat, and called out she
couldn't wait ; although indeed I thought
she might, the horse being not at all fresh,
and me in the midst of talk with your good
brother, who didn't seem since either to
un understand ")

Certainly, poor Daisy did not feel either
that she in the least understood. But
Mrs. Smeeth, pausing to take another long,
long wheeze, her eldest daughter came to
the rescue ; being well used to the task of
making her parent's rambling discourses
intelligible to the public.

"My mother means that, il we had known
in time that Mr. Dimity wanted to get you
put up for this ball, we should have been
just as glad as the Coxes to give you a
shakedown and house-room too  only we
didn't know."

While thanking for this proffered hospitality,
its recipient inwardly wondered.

But, now, Gascoigne created a diversion
of topic by civilly making himself in turn
apparent to Mrs. Smeeth, as she gazed at
the world over her three chins.

'' Ah, captain, deary me ! How-de-doo ?"
she cried, with a start of slow surprise ;
and then retaining his hand likewise,

looked inquiringly at her daughters ;
Have you asked the captain for our
little party, girls ?"

"No, for I didn't think he'd care to
come. I've never seen him at muffin-worries,"
said Easy, in a loud tone, of
which the decision could not be doubted,

adding, "Would you ? It's only a

tea-fiofht we are having after this music is
over."

Now, deary me, Essie, that's not the
way to ask him" (with a reproachful,
heaving sigh). " Many young men nowadays,
as they've often and often told me,
would far prefer a friendly mutton-cup
and chop of tea  bless, me ! I mean the
other way  to sitting' night after night at a
grand, dull mess-dinner. Now, what do
you say, Captain Gascoigne ?"

Poor Gascoigne's face looked so politely
dismal at thoughts of the mutton-chop
and cup of tea that Daisy, who had begun

to study her accuser's expression, could
hardly forbear smiling.

He murmured,

I am afraid, Mrs. Smeeth, I am such
a creature of habifc ! I hope you will forgive
me for not coming to your tea, but
really I so seldom go anywhere "

' I know, I know ; you like your dinner.
Deary me ! you are all sad young men ; no
domestic tastes ; never out of your clubs.
Not meaning you, Captain Gascoigne  for
I do say to your face, as behind your back,
(ask my girls !) that of all the officers that
have been quartered here this many a day,
there have been few so civil to an old
woman like me, and always quite the gentleman
(ask my girls now !). And what I
wanted to say is  if you do change your
mind and come in, don't be thinking' about
your clothes now'' (with another wheeze).
"We never mind about dress at my little

parties, never ; we're quite au naturel ! /"

For all Lis politeness, Gascoigne stood
transfixed. Then be met Daisy's eye, who
at that could contain herself no looser,
turning to hide her mirth by seeming to
admire the foliage of a laurustinus.

'rare you a connoisseur in plants, as well
as a good French scholar, Miss Dimity ?'*
said Gascoigne, presently, in her ear.

Daisy, starting, saw by the laugh in the
speaker's eyes, and a twitching of his
moustache, that on one point at least they
were in unison.

*know flowers! Miss Dimity knows
them so well, she calls them all by their
Christian names," struck in Smiler Lee
who had followed them ; evidently considering
Daisy his especial property for the
day, and therefore allowing himself to
interrupt them.

In turn, Easy Smeeth followed Mr. Lee

VOL. I.

to the much-sought laurustinus bushes,
when she surprised them all by a sudden,
violent, though suppressed giggle.

Look here, through this," she energetically
whispered to them, while separating
the branches. " Look quick, all of
you!

They all peeped through the hole she
made, and saw Mr. Jones and Miss Pussie
Cox on a bench hidden behind the bushes.
They were seated with their backs to the
spectators, apparently imagining, ostrich-like,
that because not seeing they were
unseen. Passive's back hair swept (in one
chignon and two ringlets) over the back of
the bench ; her eyes were softly upturned
to Mr. Jones's inanimate black ones. The
young man's expression, generally bovine,
now looked sheepish ; perhaps because
Pussie's head was very, very near reclining
on his shoulder ; and he apparently did not

know how to behave under the trying
circumstances, his mind being full of
solemn warnings from Major Hodge, his
Mentor.

Come away ! I think it is very wrong
I mean, is it quite right of us to be
peeping?" uttered Daisy, hotly.

Most of the others chaffed and giggled.
But Gascoigne said,

"Miss Dimity is right. "We had no
right to look." He said this so simply nobody
took offence. It was his general way
to include himself among the offenders,
when quietly putting in a word against
anything unkind said or done by people.

'' Come here, then, Miss Dimity, if you
wont peep behind bushes ! Come round this
walk behind here. There can be no harm in
our doing that, surely !" cried Easy Smeeth,
rather jeeringly.

The grounds, like most squares, had a

o2

few bushes at each corner, and a circumscribing
gravel walk. It was to the bushes
at the opposite corner she now led the unsuspecting
party, along the walk. Just at
the corner, therefore, somewhat screened
by more laurustinus, was another bench 
but it had not been removed into hiding 
and on it (more in the open than Pussy,
according to her character) sat poor Fuzzy
Cox and Major Hodge !

Her tight, neat hair-plaits, too, were near
the Major's shoulder ; but this seemed more
his fault, or owing to his size. Her eyes
looked up into those of her companion ; but
differently, since with real sadness. And
his returned her glance with a false sweetness
 a honeyed gaze of flirtation, as it
seemed, even to the most unsophisticated
of the lookers-on. Major Hodge was not
very like a spider ; unless it were a stout,
handsome spider, unknown to British

"housemaids ; yet to Daisy's eyes her friend,
for she already really liked Fuzzy Cox,
made her think of a poor, pretty fly she
longed to frighten away. As their party
passed these two, with real or affected
demureness, Daisy, whose feelings of
partisanship for her sex were ruffled, looked
suspiciously round at some of the rest ;
and caught  she could hardly have believed
her eyes !  Major Hodge giving a positive
wink at Smiler Lee.

She was so thunderstruck at such conduct
that when Easy Smeeth asked her,
with a significant laugh, what she thought
of the gentleman on the bench, she answered,
in a hurry, with a little, disapproving
shake of her head,

I don't like him at all. I don't think
he is a nice sort of man."

Hullo, Daisy, what has come over you?
I never heard you speak a bad word of any

living soul before. Hodge is a very good
fellow ; and, besides, what do you know of
men? There are not many round Elm
Hall," cried Jack.

"Are you not rather too outspoken,
Miss Dimity. You have no idea how
people repeat such observations," whispered
Gascoigne, in a kindly tone ; giving the
warning to his friend's young sister in a
way that even her readiness to take offence
with him could not resent.

'* You are quite right, indeed ; and, as
Jack says, perhaps I don't know what T am
talking about," she humbly answered.
Very likely, Major Hodge is a very goodman,
if one only knew him better."

"They say second thoughts are best;
on the other hand, first impressions are
often truest," was all Gascoigne's reply, as
private as his warning.

Major Hodge is an awful old flirt, I

think ; but no end of a friend of mine since
this morning. Let me tell you all  no I
not now ! it will be better fun after tea to
see your friends', the Coxes', faces," struck
in Easy, oracularly, with a loud laugh.
D'ye know his nickname ; given Mm
because he is so fat ? Hodge-podge ! isn't
it fine! He can't stand it, you know;
likes to be called the Handsome Hodge, as
some girl who was dreadfully in love with
him once called him. I'll have to call him
that to-night."

Call him that ! Little Miss Dimity felt
quite dismayed ; then wondered, was she
too prudish ; and wondered again what sort
of society was this that Jack seemed so
much at home in. The rest of the gentlemen,
somehow, seemed rather uninterested,
while Miss Smeeth thus discoursed of their
fellow-man.

There are the Miss Silverthornes,'*

observed Gascoigne, pointing out two old
ladies, dressed daintily and precisely alike.
They had snow-white hair; and wore
silver-grey dresses ; little bonnets and mantillas
trimmed with fine old black lace.
The handsome lace may have been a little
out of place, seeing their gowns were of a
cheap material. And yet it was an evidence
of gentility, like a carved coat-of-arms
over a moss-covered gateway.

Aren't they two old cats ?" cried Easy.
'' How charming they look ! I should
like to know them so much," Daisy exclaimed
at the same moment.

I should like very much to make you
both acquainted. Could it be managed
to-day, I wonder?" answered Gascoigne,
speaking to Daisy only ; and in his slow,
courteous way he moved a little towards
the old ladies, preparing to raise his hat.
But no doubt he was too slow, for they

both passed by vitbout recognising him ;
being, apparently, gently meditating on the
after-glow of the sunset sky.

Gascoigne put his glass in his eye, being-shortsighted
like half the world, and
looked at them unavailingly ; while Easy
jeeriugly tittered.

They did not see me. It cannot be
done to-day, but I will try another time,"
he calmly said, returning to Daisy ; and
then, taking his leave of her first, added
aside  *' There was something you wished
to say to me ; could you not tell me now ?
Is it anything I can do for you? You
said that, since yesterday you had been
thinking "

Xo, no. I can't say it  at least, not
now," uttered Daisy, in fresh confusion,
Q-ettino red again at once.

Gascoigne bowed, and gravely departed.

'' How do you like him? Tell me, dear,"

asked Miss Easy, in luring tones ; lovingly
linking her arm in Daisy's ; while shrewdly
observing the colour in the latter's cheeks,

'ISTot much," pettishly said that foolish,
small person who, five minutes ago, but
for his last question, might have answered
differently. She glanced round to make
sure Jack was not near. " He rather
frightens me, I don't know why ; and he
has a way of making me feel as if I had
done wrong things when I've not, that 
that I can't explain." (The Army List in
the work-box ; indeed, no !)

' He is a prig, child ; that's it. Oh,
yes ; I liked him yesterday, because he was
kind, but to-day he goes and spoils all that
bv being: too stiff to come to our little
spread. He is, certainly, too fine a gentleman
for me."

CHAPTER XII.

The man that hails you Tom and Jack,
And proves by thumps upon your back

How he esteems your merit,
Is such a friend that one had need
Be very much his friend indeed

To pardon or to bear it."

TTTE'LL have high jinks at tea," said
' the two Miss Smeeths, heralding
the party into their house. It was a
larger house than that of the Coxes ; but
very dingy and close-smelling, and so dark
that, the men being awkward, all stumbled
on an unsuspected step at the corner of
the stairs.

*' What on earth do you keep this mantrap

here for, Miss Sweetly?" growled
Jack.

I've nearly broken my nose," added
the Smiler, with rueful gaiety, having
pitched head foremost against the wall.
"It wouldn't matter for you, Dimity, you
know ; but with me it is really more
serious."

The mirth that ensued over Jack's expression
at his imputed ugliness was only
diverted when he asked, " Well, Miss
Grace, how is the clock to-day? I never
come here that some of you ladies are not
changing it." Instantly Grace Smeeth
jumped up, and began slily putting back
the hands of the clock on the drawing-room
mantelpiece.

We were too long listening to the
band ; but it was all your faults, so you
must all hold your tongues, and father
will never know," she explained.

Amid a fresh roar of laughter, a cracked
tea-bell manor violently downstairs, and the
colonel, attired in a militia mess-jacket,
entered the room and glanced at the clock.

"To the minute!" he uttered, approvingly.
"Military punctuality, gentlemen!
Ah, that's the way I bring up my girls,
you see ; it makes everyone of them fit to
be soldiers' wives."

"Papa's an old fool," muttered Easy,
aside, with her usual elegant freedom ;
that, however, as everybody could see,
was compatible with much rough and
ready affection for the said old fool.

I'll tell him about the clock I'll tell"
threatened Major Hodge in a loud whisper,
whereupon ensued playful hustling of him
by Miss Grace, with much pretended
alarm, whilst he made many mock-audible
ejaculations of '' Colonel I'll tell you
"What's the right time," etc.

Tea, tea. It will be cold ! so come,
please, ladies and gents," said the colonel,
with an anxious air of punctuality, offering
his arm to Daisy.

"But Mrs. Cox " timidly observed

the latter, glancing round, and for the first
time perceiving that lady's absence.

'mamma ! Oh, we told her she might
go home and look after papa's supper tonight,
for we are quite able to take care of
ourselves home," Fuzzy loudly explained.
'* Or else your brother can chaperon you,
and you two can chaperon all the rest."

"Wait a bit, Miss Dimity. Take off
your hat, won't you ?" cried one of the
Smeeths, diving at our heroine ; for she
was quite bewildered.

And then all stumbled downstairs again,
past the uncky step, with unwashed
hands, somewhat to Daisy's secret dismay.
For, though her oven little fingers were

spotless' white, no one could help noticing
that the colonel, who sat at the foot of
the table beside her, wore his nails in deep
mourning.

The room, though fairly large, was
dingy in the extreme ; the wall-paper, of a
green tadpole pattern, on buff ground, was
grimy ; the paint cracked ; the bell-rope
broken ; the table-cloth bore rather unaccountable
creases, and a spot or two suggesting
(as was indeed true) that it had
done duty at one great tea-party before,
and had then been put by to grace once
more this one. But nothing else could
distract poor Daisy's big eyes from wandering,
with a horrible fascination, always
back to the colonel's pharisaical hands.
And he had begun cutting the bio: loaf,
too!

At last, as if from some electric communication
of thought, Smiler Lee, who

sat on Daisy's other side, also remarked
what was amiss.

Nasty, isn't it ?" he murmured, sympathetically,
in Daisy's ear.

He seemed to consider it a breach of
attention on his part that day, if he disregarded
her for a moment. Then, always
disposed to be merry, and have for
his motto, '' Laugh while you can," 

"But never mind, this is not one of the
hopper suckles ' of Marstown society, as
you will soon find, Miss Dimity. Good old
fellow in his way ; but what can you expect?
he was only a ranker."

' A what?"

A private in the army ; got on to be
sergeant ; and was sent then to drill a
militia regiment, in which, after trying fora
lifetime, he must have taught them
something, for he became an officer."

But I honour him for that," Daisy

murmured back earnestly ; being very
reverent of the claims to respect of those
who rose by honest labour  like her grandfather.


'' Still it was only a militia regiment,"
gloomily objected the Smiler. " Look at
him now in that dirty old uniform, sitting
beside you. He's never out of it ; and it's
never clean. Now lue never like to go
among ladies unless we have changed to
mufti."

'' Yes, I know. Of course, that is a very
nice feeling."

Miss Dimity did not like to add that she
had a secret weakness for uniform. Not
the blue postman-like garb ; but real red
uniform, helmet, sword, and all ; and,
whenever it was possible, cocked hat and
feathers.

It was so becoming ! but Jack having
once laughed uproariously at this feminine

VOL. I. p

reason, she delicately suppressed her
opinion.

The meal was going on in serious
earnest. There were the promised mutton
chops, cut nobly big, but rather rich as to
gravy, as one of the young ladies expressed
it; cold pork, and some uncanny-looking
salad, at which Mrs. Cox, good housewife,
would have shivered. Also, to crown the
feast, a pair of skinny fowls, which Mrs.
Smeeth was hospitably inviting everyone
to partake of.

*' Now you'll all have some chicken."
*' A manifest impossibility," muttered
Jack Dimity to Birdie, who instantly gave
a little shriek of mirth, that dismayed the
young man ; for, though fond of a mock-growl.
Jack was a gentleman. But there
was plenty of bread ; plenty of marmalade
and treacle ; plenty of tea, to Major Hodge's
comparative comfort, who remarked across
the table to Daisy,

'' I'm a regular whale at tea ; are you ?
Beg pardon, I mean don't you like it ? Did
you ask me to have another cup, ma'am ?"
to Mrs. Smeeth. ' Well, since you are so
pressing, I think T will have a second one,
ha ! ha !"

"Your fourth, you mean," cried Easy.
'' Mother, you may put another spoonful
in the pot ; for last time Major Lodge took
seven big cups to this own cheek /'*

The amount of slang talked surprised
Daisy ; who, brought up among green pastures
in old-fashioned ways (and the Tribe
of Gad not yet old enough to go to school),
now felt herself to seem a purist, if not
pedantic in speech.

The fun grew fast and furious among the
young people. The jokes and talk were
however all concerning other Marstown
folk ; mostly other rival young ladies ; and
whether the attentions of their soldier

p2

swains were or were not slackening. Daisy
soon found she was not attended to when,
by putting in a modest question or two,
lie tried to take a share in the conversation.

Mrs. Smeeth, looming large at the far
end of the table, cared for nothing beyond
her own eating and drinking ; except the
teacups of the rest.

But the colonel tried his best to take
part in his guests' and daughters' jokes,
with an energy worthy of a better cause.
For, being a little deaf, he would sit with
one hand raised to his ear, as if making a
new kind of stiff military salute ; and would
very likely shout out loudly, in his bluff,
honest tones,

Ha ! ha ! very good indeed, Lee," or
*' Dimity," at the wrong part of the story.

It seemed to Daisy that the young men
did not quite like the familiar way in which
the poor colonel used their names without

prefix ; as if wisliino to assure himself by
the sound that be was their equal. They
themselves always answered him as '' Colonel
Smeeth," with some coolness in their
deference. Indeed, Major Hodge, in a
cavalier way, almost ignored his existence.
At last the latter (doubtless annoyed that
the good man of the house was constantly,
strenuously inquiring what they were all
talking about) began a story, which he
assured the colonel was capital ; and which
he accordingly directed full into his good

It was of an old lady  his aunt, as he
lightly averred  who, being very deaf,
never went out to a dinner-party without
her ear-trumpet. Unfortunately, it once
happened that when a very young footman
same round to her with soup and asked,
"White or ox-tail, ma'am?" she, being
very absent-minded and busy talking,

popped up ber trumpet to hear what he
was saying ; upon which, ha, ha, ha ! he,
thinking it was a funnel, poured the soup
down it!

"First-rate that eh? Wasn't it, colonel?"
asked Major Hodge, with a sly
twinkle in kis eye, and a great chuckle.

But the colonel did not seem to see it.
He laughed indeed, but his face got red and
he mopped it a good deal ; and Daisy saw
he was so much disconcerted that he retired
gradually from the general melee.

Pitying him for this, and also (being
very soft-hearted) for the mild contempt
his vulgarities brought upon him from his
other guests, she kindly tried to draw him
into conversation with herself.

The colonel seemed a little morose at
first ; but, gradually thawing, began to
explain to her the niceties of drill; on
which subject he accidentally discovered

her amazing ignorance. By-and-by, lie
was so engrossed with the subject that he
would not allow her attention to waver a
second to the Smiler, who still tried occasionally
to engage it.

A fresh little amusement had now been
introduced at table.

Just as Lee was about raising to his lips
an especially delicious morsel of buttered
hot-cake topped with marmalade, Miss
Grace Smeeth, who was on his farther side,
whipped the dainty from him smartly and
ate it. Instantly Major Hodge, who was
beyond herself, pounced on the most appetising
crust on her plate : and so in turn
everyone began appropriating his or her
neighbour s food. It was high jinks ! as
the young ladies had prophesied.

Only the father, and mother, and Daisy
were spared, the last as being under the
host's immediate protection ; on the whole,

she was not sorry, then, at being so monopolized
by the old soldier ; although before
she had felt it was hard to be so held fast
during almost the whole time of the long
meal  while Mr. Lee was casting such
mock-sorrowful glances too.

CHAPTER XIII.

Beat  " You had musty victual, and lie liatli holp to
eat it : he is a very valiant trencher-man, he hath
an excellent stomach."

Mess  "And a good soldier too, lady."

Beat  " And a good soldier to a lady."

Tell ! the highest of high teas and
' high jinks, too, must come to an
end ; and this one slowly ended when
Major Hodge had had his seventh well-sweetened
cup of tea.

The ladies adjourned to the drawing-room.
After a storm followed calm ; and
while some of the gentlemen smoked a
cigar below, the others were detained by
the colonel to talk " shop," somewhat to

their disgust  since, after all, he had only
been most of his life in a far from smart
militia regiment.

Meanwhile, Daisy had leisure to observe
this second specimen of a Marstown 
;  of a room in which her friends'
dearest friends would be naturally supposed
to show evidences of their pursuits,
good taste and fancy ; since it was both
their best apartment and also the one they
really lived in.

It seemed to have sufficient size and
height. But here also, as in the diningroom,
the general effect was dingy ; while
all the old, worn chairs were smothered
with coarse crochet-work antimacassars, or
gaudy, soiled woollen ones, like old wives'
shoulders going to market.

Daisy shuddered with the fine feelings
of a latter-day, dainty embroidered. She
only pardoned " chair-backs," as she called

them, when worked in crewel wools or
silks in high art shades, according to the
latest School of Art designs ;' so the little
woollen shawls made her feel dolorous.

As to the rest of the room, the walls
had once been papered in white, with a
chaste pattern (as the present advertisements
say) of grey nothing-in-particular
running all over it ; but the white ground
had turned grey, too, not to say grimy, from
dust, and the pattern had become somewhat
merged. Daisy, looking at it, longed
to set a stout-armed country wench or two
to rub the walls properly clean ; to take
down the faded green curtains, with their
baldequin valance at the top, of which the
folds were plainly choke-full of dust. Gracious
! what a '' stour " she would raise !

Then, oh ! for an hour of a housemaid's
broom and tea-leaves on this frayed carpet ;
and open-air shaking to the heavy covers

the two bulky old tables, on one of
Tvhicli covers the young ladies of the
family plainly wiped their pens after
writing ; while the other bore the marks of
the colonel and Mrs. Smeeth's less frequent
telegraphy, but more frequent libations
of tea and oblations of crumbs to the
household lares.

The marble chimney-piece was grey;
and of a spotty nature, distantly recalling
brawn.

Its adornments consisted in, first :  an
elegant group of three white nymphs all
a-tiptoe, carefully shaded by a bell-glass,
seldom dusted. On either hand a candlestick,
from which depended what the Tribe
of Gad called glass jingles. Further, under
another glass, a wax, Spanish matador,
guarding one corner ; visibly decrepit between
time and heat, in spite of the glass
case which kept about his feet several bits

of bis person or garments ; (these it was
apparently to be hoped that he himself
Twould pick up in time, since no one else
seemed likely to do so). A gipsy, smiling
lightly over her similar misfortunes, graced
the other corner.

Besides, there were several brackets
wearing petticoats of soiled Berlin worsted-work,
and carefully upholding, for some
mysterious reason, objects of very mean
value. Berlin-wool cushions, too, displaying
hideous roses on green ground-work,
lay around ; with little ends of feathers
stealing out of the stuffing.

As to books, a bundle of the Family
Herald lay certainly on one of the big-tables.
Likewise, a good many broken-backed,
yellow railway-novels were also
there, mixed indiscriminately with Mrs.
Smeeth's half-knitted coarse socks for the
colonel, the Army and Navy Gazette and

Broad Arrow (likewise the colonel's property).
Lastly, Myra Journals, dogs-eared
at those pages where recommendations are
given for removing sunburn, or imparting
golden tints to the locks ; and again where
kindly answers from the editorial office
told G. or E. S. (Grace or Esther Smeeth)
how their new Jersey bodices should
be trimmed, and their old skirts, in reply
to anxious queries, made to suit the
former.

Add to all this a general flavour of
closed windows, and meal-time whiffs from
the kitchen ; that was the Smooth's .


So soon as the gentlemen entered, a
general movement of joy took place among
the young ladies.

The colonel and his wife, like a couple
of good old cronies, at once retired to the
back drawing-room ; installing themselves

there in two big arm-chairs  one to knit,
the other to slumber. Grace Smeeth sat
down to the old cracked piano, and began
playing a waltz (the only music she knew),
and dancing seemed imminent, when the
colonel called out, in good-humoured
grumbling,

Eh, eh, girls ! Could you not leave usa
few minutes in peace, till I get my
snooze ?"

Yes, yes ; let him have his sleep,"
cried all the gentlemen, with rather
suspicions alacrity, eyeing the carpet, and
Essie, who was sharp enough to divine
their real wishes, proposed 

'* Well then, if we are not to dance, we
must have games."

This was agreed to, and the frames
began.

At first, they consisted in playing proverbs,
" earth, air, fire, and water'*

'throwing up lights' or sulla-like harmless
amusements, in which Daisy joined
with much relish. But, by-and-bj, their
character became romping, and "hide and
go seek"  " hiding by twos and twos" 
as was distinctly insisted on by Major
Hodge, was proposed and carried with loud
applause.

They drew lots which couple should go
out first. Then, with some tremors, Daisy
found that she and Mr. Lee were to be the
first to leave the lights and society of the
drawing-room for the general gloom that
prevailed through the rest of the house.
Once outside the door, the darkness looked
so dark that she disliked even more the
idea, to the Smiler's wonder ; till he good-naturedly
hit on a plan to please her, yet
fulfil the game. This was to softly open
the back drawing-rooms door, and the instant
the hue and cry was given, to slip in

by this one, while the rest were bound to
emerge from the other door. It was a
simple idea, but succeeded admirably.

Noiselessly they crept in, behind the
backs of the unsuspecting host and hostess
; and sat down unseen in the next room
most comfortably to chat, whilst distant
noises showed the chase was being pursued
from cellar to garret.

*' How unkind it was of you to flirt at
tea-time with the old colonel ! I had
never a chance of getting a word in. Oh,
you are  excuse me for laughing at you,
Miss Dimity, but you are an irresistible
one !" began the Smiler, whose attentions
to Daisy had been indeed unremitting, sofar
as in him lay ; but who never seemed
to be serious enough to be taken au series
by anyone.

Miss Dimity returned that it had been a
simple act of charity and due courtesy on

VOL. I. Q

lier part ; for which, she was sure, the
poor man was grateful.

*' So he ought to have been' said the
Smiler, emphatically, *but" (with a sigh)
I don't believe the old gentleman could
appreciate it."

At this moment they heard the colonel
waking up in the back drawing-room.

Well, Mary Ann, that's a nice-looking
little girl that was beside me at tea, young
Dimity's sister."

Start of both the listeners. A little
bridling air of " I told you so," on Daisy's
part ; and a deferential nod, implying '' Always
right  enchanting princess," from
the Smiler.

"But she's not a patch on either of our
girls," continued the proud parent, disburdening
his heart, in fond confidence
that they two were alone. " Why, our
ones were having all the fun with the

young meD, and kept them going all the
time  didn't they now ? None of the
young fellows looked at her, so I had to
talk to her myself. Not bat that I generally
like to be in the fun that's going with
the rest ; but I didn't like her to seem out
in the cold, you know ; or to feel cut out
too much, eh ?"

"No, Smeeth; of course. Quite right,
my dear," replied Mrs. Seeth who seemed
to have taken up the slumberous tendencies
her lord had just dropped; adding,
with a gleam of liveliness, " Ah ! there's
not many can hold a candle to our girls."

Fresh interchange of looks between the
listeners ! But now it was quite an amazed,
almost indignant flash from Daisy's big
blue eyes. The Smiler, on the contrary,
noiselessly lifted his knees to his chin, and
rocked himself in an ecstasy of ungenerous
mirth. Then he stuffed all but one little

q2

corner of a superfine silk handkerchief into-his
mouth, to stifle the outbursts of his
laughter, only withdrawing it to murmur
weakly at last 

*' Oh ! do excuse me ; but if you could
see your own face ! You look exactly like
a good-natured baby disgusted with the
world, and trying ever so hard to get into
a temper ; but you can't manage it  he, he,
he !"

When the rest came back and discovered
them, fresh emissaries were despatched
into the household darkness. But as these
happened at times to be Major Hodge, or
Mr. Jones, with either of the Smeeths, it
became plain that the Miss Coxes's feelings
were liable to be stirred up, if not outraged.
Certainly, all had equal chances of subsequent
meetings in darksome encounters
round corners -, breathless scurries down
passages and stairs ; jostling, scuffling,

-efforts to be caught and to escape.

It was to be hoped they liked it ; certainly
one person did not, and that was
Daisy.

Her terror lest Mr. Jones or Major
Hodge might spring out from some horrible
curtain and catch her round the waist !
(as she had seen done to the others) was all
the greater that she perceived it would bethought
ludicrous. So she crept so timidly
behind all the others that Jack observed
it : and said, with a sort of self-accusing
approval of her shyness, and dubious
encouragement,

"What a frightened little mouse you
are ! Keep close to me all the time, and
no one shall hurt you."

One curious fact was that, during these
high revels, two thoughts, actually about
Captain Gascoigne  and those contradictory
ones  came into Daisy's mind.

The one was devout thanksgiving that
he had refused that little party : for she
would have been deadly ashamed for him
to have seen her engaged in such romps.

The other was regret that, after all, he
had not come ; for she felt sure, in his
presence, no one could have misbehaved
very much. He had such an indescribable
way of making her feel as if he thought so
highly of womankind, that she half-unconsciously
strained herself to meet his
expectations.

At last, flushed and panting, the whole
crew returned to the drawing-room, and
flung themselves to rest in more or less
graceful attitudes in the crazy arm-chairs.

There was a pause. What was to come
next?

Then Essie Smeeth looked maliciously
across at Major Hodge. S He was amusing
himself by casting tender glances at Fuzzy,

Tvliose jealousy bad been emitting little
flashes during tbo crepuscular sports.
Poor Fuzzy ! If sbe bad been ridiculously
jealous, sbe now at once looked as absurdly
bapp3\ Her beauty face was all
conscious of it, and ber cheeks were like
red winter-apples glowing under tbc deceptive
warmth of that gaze.

Now it was Essie's turn to feel tbc
smart of pin-prick wounds to ber vanity
and emulation  tbc outer integuments of
ber heart, wbicb, like too many of the
Marstown girls, sbe often supposed to be
part of the kernel  (that might, indeed,
with time, run risk of becoming inseparable
from it !).

I say, do you remember all laughing
yesterday at a bole in Grace's stockings ?"
sbe suddenly asked. And ber voice heralded
so plainly some further important announcement,
that everyone at once sat up,

all attention, excepting Major Hodge and
Mr. Jones. "Well, I expect you'll all
laugh at the wrong side of your mouths
over our stockings now, for many a long
day ! owing to the goodness of two kind
friends " (in a tone of triumph).

Looks of wonder from all the parts,
excepting from Major Hodge and Mr.
Jones. The latter indeed wore an expression
of bashfulness at conscious merit;
while the Major, glancing apprehensively
at Fuzzy, tried to steer clear of the impending
crisis by interrupting with an
awkward laugh.

Oh, come ! come, now, Miss Essie ;
that's not fair, 'pon my honour. That will
do. You promised not to tell " (this last
in a whisper).

But he little knew Miss Essie; when
the affair in hand was to discomfit a
rival.

She pounced upon a brown paper parcel,
ostentatiously hidden near (if the expression
may be pardoned) ; and, pulling it
open, displayed a dozen and a half of gay
stockings, which she flourished under the
very eyes of Fuzzy and Pussy Cox.

'there!  that is what Major Hodge
and Mr. Jones bought for us this very
morning."

The Cox family seemed dumbstruck.

By Jingo ! the fat is all in the fire,
now," thus Daisy heard the Major murmur
confidentially to Smiler Lee, with a fatuous
grin. "I must beat a retreat, or these
two young women will tear me in pieces
between them. When two girls get jealous
about a man he has devilish hard cards to
play, to please them both."

This revelation acted, truly, like a thunderbolt
upon the Cox sisters.

They, indeed, tried to recover themselves,

and uttered due little expressions of
admiration, tipped with poison, as " Lovely
!  What, all of them striped round in
colours  won't you feel rather like the
clowns in Hunger's Circus ; or as if you had
zebra's legs, dear ?"

But Fuzzy said, with a frankness that
was blunt and all her own,

Well, I'm sure we ought all to be glad
you've got them  for, you hunted them very
badly r

After this, the Cox party were subdued ;
the games had lost their flavour ; and they
intimated that it was more than time to
depart.

The Smeeths, on the other hand, with
suppressed triumph, expressed wonder they
should go so soon ; adding, with hospitable
empreb'sementj

' But at least, Major Hodge, you'll stay
and Mr. Jones."

To remain belied seemed wisest to the
two latter gallant warriors ; wbomFuzzyand
Pussy now regarded with high heads and
haughty, averted gaze, whilst their colour
was again of a deeper glow than its usual
robust hue.

Jack Dimity of coarse prepared to escort
his sister and her friends home. And the
ever-gallant Smiler felt it his duty likewise
to accompany the sister of his friend.

As they went homewards through the
silent streets, both Pussy and Fuzzy were
extremely silent, and could not be much
roused, even by the presence of their
guardians.

But Birdie was in wildest spirits.

She danced along the echoing pavement ;
chaffed Jack ; tried to withdraw Mr. Lee's
attentions from Daisy to herself ; and finally
rushed up to one or two houses and rang
the bells, before they knew what she was

about (a lark in which the Smiler seemed
much tempted to join her, although he
still remained faithful to Daisy's side).

*' Oh ! Baby dear, do be quiet," Daisy
could hear Fuzzy murmur; although it
must have been inaudible to others. '' One
would think that, when we are vexed, it is
bread and treacle for you !"

To which peculiar saying, Miss Birdie
pertly replied,

And do either of you really think I
ought to cry because you do. Thank
goodness ! my men don't throw me over like
that."

CHAPTER Xii.

"Then, Chloe, still go on to prate
Of thirty-six and thirty eight ;
Pursue your trade of scandal-picking,
Your hints that Stella is no chicken ;
Your innuendoes when you tell us
That Stella loves to talk with fellows."

NEXT morning, there was a constant
succession of young lady visitors at
the Cox family mansion.

These were not received in the drawing-room
; which the Cox girls declared, with
some truth, their mother kept so terribly
tidy that no one could be comfortable in
it. It was, indeed, even painfully precise.
Each morning, its faded but elegant

mistress with her own hands re-arranged
the dozen of high walnut chairs on the
precise squares of carpet they were to
occupy. And if her own elegant photograph
book had been moved a hair's-breadth from
its proper solitary position on the one bare
side of the oval walnut table, it was carefully
replaced under a light ,
but flowerless epergne ; opposite an
equally elegant, empty inkstand  for ink,
if used, has a trick of spoiling elegant
tables. Mrs. Cox used to explain that her
daughters being so different from herself
in the matter of tidiness, if she once allowed
these arrangements to be disturbed by
an inch, she would never be able to restore
them to order. And there might have been
some truth in that.

So the young lady friends, who had been
'made free of the house," were wont to be
received in a little '' muddle-room," as the

Cox girls called it, that was behind the
drawing-room, and which Mrs. Cox generally
designated as her daughters' boudoir.

On this especial morning, as pairs of
girls after girls came in, were succeeded,
and departed, they were each and all regaled
with the delicious story of the
Smeeths' present of stockings.

*' Of stockings !  did ever anyone even
hear of such a thing?" the Cox girls would
exclaim, with lively gibes against their
dear hostesses of yesterday ; for both Fuzzy
and Pussy had evidently resolved to make
the best of the matter. " Really, although
it is natural enough to receive some presents
from gentlemen, still the line might
be drawn at stockings /"

And all the visitors, raising their hands,
either literally or figuratively, acquiesced ;
declaring, yes, really! the line might be
drawn there !

"But, surely, Major Hodge and Mr.
Jones are your men, girls?" observed one
disagreeably-playful friend. '' How very
naughty of them to give presents to Essie
and Grace !'

Not at all. It was simple good-nature,
when they saw how the poor things were
in rags," smartly retorted Fuzzy, tossing
her head and biting her lips. " Of course,
they have given us little presents too.
Major Hodge had a beautiful silver brooch
made for me ; with a rose ; the badge of
their regiment. You may have seen me
wear it."

"What; that great big thing? Oh,
yes, dear, constantly ! It is never out of
the side of your list. I never knew it was
a rose. (It is very like a cauliflower)"

This last to the nearest other visitor.

And Mr. Jones gave me a Welsh
flannel-shawl ; woven only in that part of

Wales to wliicli his family belongs," said
Pussy pensively.

"But that," added both the sisters, each
referring to her own gift, 'sis a very
different thing."

Of course, the visitors all agreed with
them.

And now the romps of the preceding
evening at the Smeeths' house were equally
described, and lightly derided.

Talk strengthened talk : so by-and-by
Daisy was quite astonished to find how
much the Coxes had secretly disapproved
of last night's amusements. Plainly, she
now found, they had disliked the sports
as much as herself, but, having, no doubt,
more worldly wisdom, had successfully hidden
the fact. As the conversation went
on, she was quite glad to find that the
Coxes had a so much higher standard of
behaviour than she could have supposed.

VOL. I. R

And, tliougli sorry for the Smeeths, she
was relieved, as to her good opinion of
Marstown girls, to find all the visitors
unanimous in condemning vaguely all misbehaviour
on the part of others ; and in
declaring they never did such things.

In the full swing of this, the formerly-mentioned
sprightly young person electrified
Daisy by suddenly turning to her,
playfully observing:

'rand so you hid with Mr. Lee. He is
quite your man, isn't he?"

*' Oh, yes, he is quite her man. We
saw sou in the gardens yesterday, "
cried out everyone else, much amused,
at little Miss Dimity's dismay and instant
blush.

The delicate and distant manner in
which she and young Polly at Elm Hall
had been wont to allude to shy possibilities
of future admirers had been so different.

Of course, their notions of such beings
vere founded on Waverley Novels, and
fostered in retirement. And, of course,
they both were secretly convinced that
Ivanhoe's descendants, the true latter-day
knights, must be officers of whom their
brother Jack (if not the most courtly) was
a most honest squire and valiant. And
now the talk turned on a dance, to be
given that evening by a Mrs. Grandison


The fact that she was to be taken to it
had been a little secret, only imparted to
Daisy the day after her arrival. She had
been immensely delighted on hearing it;
and so she now told the playful young
lady.

Ah, yes. The Coxes, all three, wanted
to go to it ; so I know they had a little
tiff with their mother, for she said one of
them must give up to you. So they said

r2

nothing, I suppose, till they should have-fought
it out," replied the playful damsel,
in light confidence. " Luckily, Mrs. 
heard of you, and said you
must come, too ; of course  Mr. Dimity's
sister. They didn't dare to ask her for
an invite. They didn't know her very well
you see."

While Daisy sat rather silenced by this
revelation, the Coxes kept talking very
familiarly of dear Mrs. Grandison Browne 
and of how very charming her parties were ;
and what a pity it was those among their
dear friends present were not among the
happy and select few invited.

Some of the young ladies in question
seemed inclined to demur to all this, but
were obliged to keep silence, lest they
should be supposed envious. But the rest
all vied with the Coxes in intimating that
they wore also admitted to the honour of

Mrs. Grandison-Browne's warmest friendship.


This lady appeared to Daisy to be considered
as in one of Marstown's most
select sets. And it was surprising how
many sets there were ; and with what mild
contempt, or subdued envy, one set spoke
of the other.

And how do you like Marstown, Miss
Dimity ?" all the visitors of that morning
kept asking.

When Miss Dimity replied that she liked
it very much, it was all so new to her,
such a different life from that in the
country, several of the young ladies exclaimed,
"Ah, yes! After all, there is
nothing like a garrison town, is there? 
always something gay going on, such good
society." And, pleased with Daisy's ingenuous
praises, they severally assured
her she would find few places (after London)

more musically, artistically, histrionically
inclined than Marstown. For the
officers were always giving amateur theatricals
; and so many of town drew beautifully
; and so many of them sang or played
(by ear) in a small but most delightful
and clever way.

Also the young ladies answered for
themselves. They also loved music, adored
painting, and were all dying to act with
the officers; only that not to create jealousies
these last always insisted on having
professional actresses.

In fact  for all this, as for fashion, toby
and general comme il faut-ness, Daisy was
given to understand Marstown and its
inhabitants had few rivals.

And they all ended by saying or implying,
'' Certainly, Marstown has very good
society ; but then men make the society ;.

and what men are so delightful as
officers ?"

This was all most instructive, as to the
young ladies' view-point.

But every question has two sides. In
another chapter we shall likewise see these
much-flattered officers' views on the subject
; and let us hope they will be equally
flattering to the Marstown young ladies.

Jack Dimity was coming this day to
have his lunch, at the Coxes' midday
dinner. He had been warmly invited to
come whenever he could, for, as Mrs. Cox
kindly said, "Naturally his sister would
like to see as much of him as possible."

But as yet, somehow, Daisy had not
seen much of him ; although he had come
several times ; his attention being perforce
taken up with his young hostesses.

Mr. Lee had also been asked the previous
night; asked less warmly, but, as
Fuzzy was overheard explaining to her
mother, " "We could not well help it when
he saw us home from the Smeeths, and he
was standing by when we asked Mr.
Dimity."

'' Oh ! well, in that case you did right to
ask him."

Mrs. Cox replied in a cold manner that
seemed strange to Daisy, who was sitting
quietly near. She was so gentle and so
very innocent about such matters that
mother and daughters ventured to speak
very naturally and carelessly before her;
seeming to consider her rather wanting or
foolish in worldly ways.

The Smiler, however, came not, eagerly
as he had sprung at the invitation  for
which, indeed, he had previously angled.

So Mr. Lee has not arrived : faithless

Mr. Lee !" softly smiled Mrs. Cox, as lie
floated downstairs to lunch. And all the
girls echoed,

Yes, indeed, he is always such a gay
deceiver."

Somehow Daisy seemed to imagine
(though it seemed foolish) that these sentences
were directed at herself ; but why,
she could not imagine.

Jack explained his friend's absence, sofar
as he could, by saying the latter had
been out since five that morning with his
men at musketry  some miles away. And
how on earth he had ever imagined he
could get back for lunch, was more than
Jack could conceive.

In the middle of luncheon, up rattled a
hansom furiously, and the irrepressible
Smiler shot himself out of it like a human
missile ; dismissed the driver v/ith a joke
in a jiffy; and, entering the room, as it

seemed, the very same instant, exclaimed,
Here I am !  got back from my work
and jumped into mufti, before you could
say Jack Robinson, Mrs. Cox."

That lady welcomed him warmly to a
23lace at her own side ; but so elegantly,
who could imagine her saying " Jack Robinson
!"

Instead she said, with tender solicitude,
I fear you will injure your health, Mr.
Lee. You do so much during the day;
and to-night you will be at Mrs. 's,
of course? If I were
your mother, I should be really uneasy
about you."

" Yes, out at dinner to-night, and then
to this ball, and tomorrow again up at
five and out. Lunch and dinner somewhere
else ; always something ! always keeping
the ball rolling ! I couldn't live without
it, Mrs. Cox, I almost believe ; though I

sometimes think it will be the death o
me," replied the Smiler, for five instants
succeeding in pulling down the corners of
his mouth, depressing the tips of Armada's
excrement," his moustache, and dolorously
rolling his eyes. The luxury of being
pitied, and of pitying himself for that short
space of time, being irresistible.

But he could stand it no longer than five
seconds ; and began a laugh again, immediately.


Ho, ho, ho ! the fellows all wonder at
how I do it. Oh ! three hours' sleep,
two hours' sleep, no sleep does me very
often. Eh, Dimity, you often wonder how
I keep it up, don't you ?*' acting a poke at
Jack's ribs, though yards away.

'' I wonder at you for being such a fool
as not to give it up," quoth Jack, rudely ;
trying to take down the conceit of his
comrade-informs.

You old Growler ! Is that the way
you answer your best friend ; you are the

greatest ruffian !" gleefully laughed

the Smiler, with, imperturbable good-humour,
and a jollity that infected even
Mrs. Cox into smiling vulgarly broadly, for
once. "Don't believe him any of you,
pray ! He would give anything to be
able to keep it up as I do. Why, our
colonel, I do assure you all, spoke to me
only the other day about it :

'you'll kill yourself, Lee,' he said, 'if
you go on at this rate' (gloomily).

' I hope not, sir,' I said. ' Anyhow, I've
been at it for the last five or six years ; and
it hasn't killed nne yet (reviving at remembrance
of that happy hit).

' Well ; but you will not be able to do
your work properly,' was his next objection.
(Good old fellow ! speaks to me like
a father.) Upon which I said, * Sir, I

Lave always heard that the Duke of
Wellington said his best officers were the
greatest dandies. He couldn't say another
word" (triumphantly).

As they went upstairs to the drawing-room
afterwards, young Lee managed to
whisper in Daisy's ear,

' Ah ! you demure little lady, I haven't
been able to have a word with you yet. Do
you know, I saw Mr. Jones this morning,
and he told me you were a capital person
to buy blue ribbon. Ha, ha, ha ; ho, ho,
ho ! Oh ! you naughty, naughty little
Miss Dimity, what are you going to do
with it ?" Daisy begged him to hush in a
fright ; wondering how much he knew; what
he guessed.

She tried to find out, being anxious on
poor Fuzzy's account. But the provoking
youth would only seat himself on the piano-stool,
and, striking a few preliminary

cliorcls witch a crash (playing only by ear,
for he never had patience to learn his
notes) he sang the old song 

He promised to buy me a bunch of blue riband
To tie up my bonny brown hair."

And that was all about the blue ribbon
Daisy could then extract from him.

CHAPTER XV.

*' For men, my Love, still talk of liipjlicr themes,
Of war and policy, of Church and State ;
And do not like your silly gossips' prate,

Of : Who wears this  : Who's older than she seems."

"' no, we never mention her.
Her name is never heard."

TN the last chapter we saw the opinion
-- of the Marstown young ladies upon
Mrs. Grandison-Browne's coming ball ;
and on Marstown society generally ; especially
the garrison element.

Now, would it not be almost more instructive
to flit down invisibly to the
Marstown barracks, and hear the opinion
of some of the officers there upon these
young ladies.

That same evening. Jack Dimity, and
the still indefatigable Smiler Lee, were
paying a visit to Captain Gascoigne in the
latter's barrack-room.

It was a dull enough room when you
took your first glance, yet at the second it
was rather pleasant, and at last grew upon
one. It boasted no flowers in the window,
nor china plates painted by the owner and
hung on the wall among whips and photographs
 like that of Smiler Lee. Nor again
was it adorned with gaudy sporting prints
in glorious confusion, as if all the young
sub-lieutenants had been making hay
therein  like Jack Dimity's den. It was
severely simple in its furnishing ; almost
dainty in its neatness.

Two easy-chairs and a sofa seemed to
mark the limits to which the host meant
to stretch hospitality ; but they were supposed
to be more comfortable than those
of anyone else.

A few books were carefully arranged ;
bad backs, but best of authors. Two small
prints oily were on the walls ; but proofs
before the letter.

The room faced the north, and might
be gloomy in winter except for fire-glow.
Now in June it was cool and shadowed.
A dull red shade in curtains, in chintz
coverings, and in the square of Eastern
carpet in the middle of the dark-stained
boards, gave a grateful warmth of tone.
Still it was inartistic, according to Lee ;
whose latest hobby was preaching the delicacy
of daffodil shades blended with chocolate
in a bas-relief of frogs and flowers on
a wall of dead gold, in an " indescribable
(as he described it) Arabian Nights kind
of sort of idea."

"Real high art, you know," he said, now
leaning his back gracefully against the
plain red velvet chimney-board, that bore

VOL. I. s

BO knick-knacks but a few really useful
articles, such as the neatest kind of match-boxes
or pipe-stands. He kept waving his
cigar, as he taught the others, in a didactic,
yet airy manner.

'' Real high art ! I wish you would tellus
what high art really is," said the host,
lazily and sarcastically, from his chair-depths.
They were all smoking, and the
room was redolent of many such past
pleasant smokes. " One hears nothing
but high art talked of by all the Marstown
young ladies. Some of them showed me
the other day a whole service of honest
kitchen delf (as I should call it), hung at
every imaginable different height round
their untidy drawing-room, making it still
more hideous ; and that was high art, they
said. And at the last ball most of the
girls seemed to me frightfully badly
dressed, with no petticoats, and short.

shabby, economical-looking gowns, like so
maj walking bolster-cases. One or two,
I could almost swear, had on their Sunday
frocks, with the sleeves ripped out and
their arms showing instead ; but still they
all informed me (without any inquiries on
my part) that their dresses were high art !
High art apparently meant plenty of bare
arm to the shoulder, dancing in mittens to
save gloves, and wearing lots of cheap silver
bangles." The speaker roused himself
to deliver this sweeping, unusual
censure on his part with unusual animation.


Ho, ho, ho !" laughed the Smiler, artfully
counterfeiting even more mirth than
he felt at this outburst. (He was frightfully
afraid of being pressed to explain his
artistic ideas ; having a lurking suspicion
that his friend knew more on the matter
than he did, and therefore anxious to lure

s2

Gascoigne to other high themes.) " Why,.
I did not imagine you would know what
dress any girl had on. And you never seem
to even look at any of them here. You
never go anywhere that you could see
them."

Oh ! yes, I do," meditatively asserted
Gascoigne, lapsing into his dream y cigar-mood
again. ' I went to one ball, and
looked on at the door for some time  that
was quite enough for me. And I have
seen them by day too ! I was at the band
yesterday," with an air of making the most
of that experience of Marstown gaieties ;
so that no one need accuse him of not
having fairly tried them first, like an upright
gentleman.

But they really are the vilest-dressed
girls here !" renewed Lee, as if his sense of
the beautiful was so excruciated he must
exhaust his denunciations. " Only, poor

tidings, they are so badly off I declare it
would be a capital thing to give one or two
of them a new dress for our ball, eli?
Really I have half a mind to do it  make
the room look so much better, too !"

'' If they can't afford to go out much,
why should they go out?" said Gascoigne,
rather severely for such a kindly-hearted
man. '' I have known very poor girls who
had to dress on next to nothing ; but I respected
their makeshifts, because they
never told me it was high art. And when
they could not afford to go out, they stayed
at home."

All I ask is, that they should be cleanly
and pretty tidy," put in Jack. " But the
Smeeths, I declare, were simply coming to
pieces at the last tennis party here in barracks.
I was thinking of getting a needle
and thread myself and sewing their flounces
on for them."

"I declare I might spare them some of
m} red silk handkerchiefs to wear as new
toques or turbans ; theirs are so horribly
old. They have only one apiece, they
have worn since last winter," took up the
Smiler, with gay impertinence.

'' Yes, indeed. I think, I might also
give them a round hat or two, and an ulster
coat, out of my own wardrobe. Girls flatter
us so by imitation now-a-days," chimed
in Jack ; and so they went on in most harmonious
antiphony.

Gascoigne only, having delivered himself
of all the spleen that was in him, said
never a word more ; but listened amusedly
to the other two.

Whenever the talk approached the subject
of the Coxes, however, young Dimity
was silent ; because he felt that having, on
impulse, acceded to their skilfully made
request that his sister should come and

stay with them, he had forfeited the right
of discussing them.

And he liked them  after a fashion.

Still he felt uneasy lest Daisy should be
confounded with them and talked about ashe
had done of the Marstown girls.

The others guessed something of this,
perhaps. At least Gascoigne said, in his
slow way, that might be either dubiousness
or deliberation ; and with a questioning
tone,

The Coxes seem to be much better
dressed than the other girls here, though ;
don't they ? And they seem to have better
style, too, and be altogether nice people."

Young Lee looked at his somewhat
older friend, with a moment's naif surprise.
But as Gascoigne's facial muscles remained
immoveable, and betrayed no shade of
secret satire, his really simple-hearted
junior  who could be led by a silk thread

by everyone lie liked, and who was good-nature's
very essence  warmly assented.

Only Jack  who, though so much
younger again than the Smiler, had more
acumen, and an uncommonly large allowance
of common sense  growled.

At that Gascoigne did smile faintly to
himself. He liked Jack. Jack's growls
amused him. He liked studying characters,
in a kindly way, in his own mind, and
young Dimity's moods repaid him, whilst
Lee was as easy to scan as a child's ABC
picture-book.

'rare you going to the Grandison
ball?" asked the former young
fellow now abruptly of the others, to
change the subject.

'' Of course."

Certainly not."

You regular old misanthrope !" exclaimed
Lee, turning at that last to .

" Why not, eli ? You are surely
not going to give up going out ?"

Who on earth are the Grandison
?" was all Gascoigue made byway
of answer. ''I don't much care for
Marstown society in auy way ; it is no
better, and rather worse than most garrison
towns. Still Mrs. B.-B. struck me as
cue of the most appalling females in the
whole place. She brought out the Peerage
the one only day she got me calling
there, and the page showing me first
cousin to a lord was doubled down. 'You
see,' she said, ' we know all about you ; we
know all about your connections !'"

At which remembrance the speaker
knocked off his cigar-ash with such a
disgusted look that the other two loudly
laughed.

sewell, she handed me ' Burke's Landed
Gentry and asked me to show her all

about myself," put in Lee. " But when
she found I was only the younger son of a
younger son, lie dropped me like a hot
potato for a week. By ill-luck somebody
lias gone and told her I have expectations
from an old aunt ; and my life has been
positively a burden ever since. She and
that terrible crane of a tall daughter have
pressed me to go to lunch, dine, even
breakfast, till  Well you know '* (with a
deprecatory ha ! ha !) "I have generally
helped myself out with some blarney ; but
even I am at my wits' end for excuses."

The others facetiously condoled with
their comrade with mock pity.

"Ah! it's all very well to laugh, but
she'll ask my intentions soon, I do believe,"
retorted poor Smiler, solemnly
shaking his head. " She's an awful old
woman ! Do you know that little room
near the hall ? She sits in there, I'm

told, and wa3days the fellows before they
go upstairs, so as to ' spare her dear girl's
feelings.' IJo'h ! She did it to five menin
the same resident once. It was here
some time before us, they says, so I'm in
for it. Lots of fellows might funk it, but
I'm rather keen for the excitement of the
thing." (With a lightsome smile playing
over his darkly-stern resolve to meet the
dame in terrible close combat, and win or
die in the encounter.)

I am glad you like the idea of it,"
quoth Gascoigne, with a dry smile ; "but
still, who are these people, Dimity? They
give themselves such airs, that I am curious
on the subject."

Well, old Browne's father was a big
butcher, and afterwards mayor here ; neither
more nor less. He christened his
eldest hopeful Grandison, in compliment
to the customers who bought his priest

beef and mutton  an old county family
here, since died out, or * gone to the dogs.'
This present Brown (old Brandywine, as
they call him) became a lawyer; and married
an attorney's daughter (Smiler's future
mother-in-law !). So, to look fine, she
adopted the name of Grandison before the
Brown, and tacked on an e after it."

I see ; affix and prefix. So now all the
progeny will call themselves Grandison
ad infinitum, without any right.
That sort of thing is done constantly nowadays,"
said Gascoigne, with the regretful
tone of a stickler for old-fashioned honesty,
if not for old quarterings.

When any new regiments come here,
they are apt to imagine that these are
some of the old Grandison, now extinct,"
added Jack. " And Mrs. Browne rather
fosters the delusion by observing that,
though not related, they are, in a way,

connected. . . . Well, I must be off now."
"Well, I wish you both a pleasant evening
; and may neither of you marre nor be
given in marriage to Miss Grandison
returned Gascoigne, turning a
hankering eye already on the Revue des
Deux Mondes lying open near him.

Marriage ! I believe the Marstown

o

young vomen think of nothing on this
earth else than of how to get married,"
uttered Jack, like a young St. Kevin, as he
took himself off.

"But they are not very likely to catch
any of us," called back the Smiler, with a
gay vainglory dating from having come off
unscarred after several campaigns in
similar stations.

He loved indeed, as he phrased it, going
out on the war-path.

CHAPTER XVI.

'' He saw a cottage with a double coacli-liousc,
A cottage of gentility ;
And the devil was pleased, for his darling vice
Is the pride that apes humility."

Before going to the dance, a second
-- great passage of arms (fought, however,
with much silence) took place in the
Cox family.

The question was, how should they all
go ; since the doctor's tiny brougham was
truly hardly capable of holding three  yet
they were five ladies. It had been resolved
by the sisters that one of the officers'
wives, Mrs. Luxton, a merry, pretty young

woman, sboalcl be asked to take one of
them. To this (Mrs. Cox having made
the request, as instructed by her daughters,
with her utmost elegance of manner)
Mrs. Luxton readily assented ; glad enough
thereby to repay many little hospitalities,
teas and luncheons, that had been pressed
upon her by the Coxes.

The next question was, who should go ?

All three were eager. It was a keen
point of rivalry between the sisters, which
was the most intimate friend of Mrs.
Luxton.

But Birdie, as usual, carried the day.

With assurance she declared that she
had been specially asked. The rest, surprised,
could only wonder that nothing
had been known of this before. Birdie,
indignant, wished to ask did they doubt
her truth ? She did not care to go ; but
she would not have her word questioned.

In fact (with tears), nothing would now
induce her to go ; anyone else might that
chose. Of course no one else now would :
and, in the end, the young lady allowed
herself to be persuaded to accept the
coveted position.

Mrs. Grandison-Browne's was a very
tiny house ; the family means not having
swelled with the family name. Her
guests, as we know, were considered few,
she being so very select.

Still they seemed to throng the stairs,
on which no two people had room to pass ;
they overflowed into the lady's bed-room,
set apart as a cloak-room for lady-guests ;
they trickled into what was called a
boudoir close by, but that was obviously
the dressing-room of Mr. Grandison
; they surged into a den below
stairs termed the study, where gentlemen's
hats were piled in darkness and disarray ;

they crowded the tea-room that was (painfully
evidently) the guest's bed-room ; they
were already half exuding into the street,
it seemed  as, after the first few dances,
they sat for coolness and space on the
window-sills.

Daisy all in white and tremors, with
pink sashes and blushes, followed Mrs.
Cox and her two eldest daughters down
from the cloak-room, and struggled
against the up-stream of guests valiantly.
Jack met them at the foot of the stairs,
with the cares of a chaperon making deep
farrows on his boyish brow.

"Look here, little one, I'll come to you
between every dance ; for as it's your first
one, I must look after you, you know," he
murmured, ignoring, apparently, Mrs.
Cox's maternal cares. "And if nobody
else asks you, you'd better dance with me,,
for it doesn't do to be sitting."

VOL. I, T

Oh ! thank you, Jack dear. Has  has
Captain Gascoigne come to-night?"

He, no ; he has more sense."

Daisy's relief was so great, it was rather
akin to regret  a peculiar feeling ; but so
she explained it to herself.

Mrs. Browne was in the hall, or rather 
the entry.

They had already passed hooded and
cloaked under her very nose, but both
hostess and guests, respecting social humbug,
had discreetly ignored each other.

Now she welcomed them duly, in a voice
as ear-splitting as a peacock's scream.

She was a little woman with a face like
parchment ; dressed in a snuff-coloured silk
gown, with an old-fashioned pendant like
two gilded vipers coiling round a garnet,
slung on a harsh, black velvet-ribbon
round her wrinkled throat. She received
Daisy with excruciating intensity of friendliness

in ber tone ; pressed lier hand ; and
at once "presented" her to a row of
feather-bed mothers all dressed in black
silk gowns cut heart-shaped, many gold
chains, and red flowered caps, as  "Miss
Dimity, of Elm Hall, Royalshire, you
know."

The stout ladies all preened themselves,
as it were ; and looked at Daisy as if, after
due time, they might find breath to remark
that she was quite an equal. Daisy looked
at them, and wondered what on earth she
ought to say to them.

But, at that moment, she found herself
forcibly taken possession of and carried
away by the Smiler, who had the air of a
gay young Buccaneer.

The first dance is half over. Fancy
your being so late ; and I have been waiting
for you all this time, you naughty little
lady ! . . , Why, of course I was not going

T 2

to have the first dance with anyone but
yourself."

As he bore her away, they could hear
Mrs. Browne expatiating to her friends,
eyes, a charming girl, Miss Dimity; so
glad to have her at my little dance. Yery
old family, you know ; established at Elm
Hall before the Normans ; her father is the
member there "

He's not /" Daisy exclaimed, with some
concern, checking her partner's struggling
progress.

She did not quite like to add also that
the Dimity were much, much later at Elm
Hall than the time of the Doomsday-book.


Mrs. Browne is quite under a misconception
about papa's being a member.
Perhaps I ought to go back and tell her
it is a mistake."

At this Mr. Lee laughed so immoderate,

be could hardly compose himself
enough to say, in dissuasion,

"Not for worlds! She loves to make
out fortunes and pedigrees for all of us.
We'll go back after this turn, and listen to
her at it with somebody else."

It was gliding, it was flying, it was
skating to music to dance with the
Smiler !

Daisy thought so, after a long, long
round, as she panted as much from pleasure
as breathlessness.

You went very nicely ; very nicely
indeed," said her partner, patronisingly.
*' Let me tell you what. Miss Dimity  if
only you had a little more practice (you
dont mind my saying that, do you ? No !
sensible girl !)  if only you had a little
good practice and some hints you would
be a Clipper."

The future clipper humbly expressed

gratified cleliglit, and anxiety to adopt all
Mr. Lee's kind hints.

You see I have never danced with a
real gentleman before (that is to say, with
a real man) ; only with Polly. I forgot
you don't know her ; she is my sister. We
used to try round and round on the
school-room carpet, that was pretty well
worn, but still it was hard work. But, indeed,
Mr. Lee" (beseechingly), "if you
would teach me a little, I should be so glad."

'teach you ! Of course, Dimity's sister;,
why, you belong to the regiment. Trouble
! don't speak of it," with flattered satisfaction.
'' But if I may be your teacher
(ho, ho, ho ! excuse my laughing, but you
do look such a charming pupil in that
pretty frock !), I must have four  six, 
come ! seven or eisht dances to-niofht.
There ! I'll write them on my shirt-cuff 
you'll remember them ?"

*' Never," uttered Daisy, with parted
lips and intense lugubriousness. "Never.
I have no memory at all, and Jack has
just introduced me to two friends of his in
your regiment, and said I must not forget
their dances on any account. Oh, you
need not ask ; I can't tell their names.
They are thin, tall boys, with drab faces
and tONV-coloured hair."

The Smiler screamed with delight at
this description of his young sub-lieutenants
; and at Daisy's distraction.

I'll tell you what, I shall write down
your engagements, too, if you like, on my
other cufF, and then you can always come
and ask me' he said, in confidentially
paternal tones. *' No thanks. Why !
Dimity's sister must be looked after. But,
I say, tell me whom you heard talking of
my dancing ; come, do just tell me ? Pure
curiosity, you know  . / don't care what
people say about me."

His countenance slightly fell, however,
as Daisy truthfully assured him her
opinion was only based on her personal
experience.

At this moment the " handsomest man
in the British Army " stopped them, as he
lounged languidly iu the doorway. He
murmured a request for a waltz, too.

Your first dance this, isn't it, Miss
Dimity? How very refreshing !"

And I can tell you luhat, O'Donoghue,''
impressively whispered the Smiler, in a
tone meant to be perfectly audible to
Daisy. " With a very little more practice,
she'll beat all these other girls hollow. So
light ! only a little practice, and she'll bea
Clipper !"

Do you know. Miss Dimity, that Mr.
Lee is considered the best dancer in the
British Army?" asked Captain O'Donoghue,
in an equally impressive aside of Daisy,

with a gentle smile. He was used to
having such] confidences imparted by his
friend, predicting that every fresh ballroom
favourite would be a 'clipper;" and
he never failed to play his part in return.
Do you know that many young ladies
would give a good deal to have their step
as much praised by him ?"

Little Miss Dimity was hereupon led
away by the laughing, protesting Best
Dancer ; being so overpowered at his infinite
condescension in engaging her for so
many fast dances, she was inclined to beg
him not thus to sacrifice himself.

With much difficulty, they found two
seats ; and now began to look around
them.

The rooms in which dancing had been
going on were connected by folding-doors
; being plainly, in their ordinary
state, drawing and dining-rooms. They

were small, ill-life, and stiflingly hot ; but it
was a breezy night, and, whenever a window
was opened, the wind caused wax
candles to come guttering down on everyone's
coats, till the suppressed execrations
of the gentlemen must have made the
heart of each a small pandemonium.

As to decorations, a pair of shrunken,
washed muslin curtains were looped untidily
between the two mean, little apartments
; and in the centre of these was
suspended an earthen flower-pot, containing
a small plant  genus unknown. The
exquisiteness of this floral adornment, and
Daisy's indignation at the pot not even
having been well cleaned, tickled the
Smiler's fancy so much that he proposed a
voyage of discovery round the rest of the
family band-box mansion.

'' Why did Captain Gascoigne not come
to-night ?" little Miss Dimity now ventured

to inquire of the easy-going Smiler, although
surely having learnt his absence
from Jack might have been sufficient.

"Why? Oh! because there was no one
here he cared to dance with, evidently,"
in a careless tone. (Miss Dimity mused
at that; yet the person in question had
cared to go to the band yesterday.)

In the doorway, as they tried to pass
out, Mrs. Browne was still welcoming a
small, in-flowing stream of ladies with the
voice of a macaw ; or peering with an
anxious eye to see what gentlemen she
could swoop on to be introduced  for introducing
young men and maidens washer
weak point, her (perhaps amiable)
cacoethes.

Not a marriage had taken place in her
set for years, but she would say with
pride, " I introduced them."

Now, she absolutely dropped, hawk-like.

on young Dimity, who had made a bold
effort to get past unscathed.

'* Stop, stop, Mr. Dimity ; let me introduce
you to my girl. You don't know
her, I think. She was dancing when you
came in. She is so run after for her
dancing  though I should not say so. My
love, have you kept a dance you could
give Mr. Dimity ?"

Thus Jack was ruefully *' nailed " to
dance with this faded Terpsichore, who
was like a thin crane, and seemed to stand
on one leg ; also, as she had a pale, prominent
nose, and carried her head pensively
downcast she seemed, like that bird,
to be seeking food (for meditation, or otherwise)
in the ground evermore.

Mrs. Browne could next be distinctly
heard uttering, in bland explanation to the
black-silken-robed, stout sisterhood,

A young man of such charming manners,

Mr. Dimity is ; heir to a very fine
country estate, and a deer-park."

At this Daisy tittered, thereby spoiling
the Smiler's insinuating endeavour to slip
behind his hostess's back; for, with the
hearing of a lynx, she turned, smiling.

''Ah! little Miss Dimity!" she exclaimed,
with that petting air everyone
generally would adopt towards that small
damsel, to the occasional offence of her
dignity.

'' Oh ! let me introduce you ! Mr. High


There was a very round-shouldered
young man standing near, with watery
eje, red nose, and a corpulent person.
The word '' lout " alone describes the impression
his mere sight produced ; and the
Smiler, perceiving his partner shudder,
would have made a gallant dash for
freedom, but that Mrs. Grandison-Browne

had laid a skinny claw upon Daisy's arm,
and held her fast.

My dear, don't mind his looks ; he's a
hoi parti ! Will have two thousand a year
of his very own, and only two lives between
him and a baronetcy !" she explained,
loudly, in Daisy's ear, making her
shudder; and giving her an encouraging
little push in the back, so that she nearly
went into the future baronet's arms.

The young man's eyes watered over
Daisy. He produced a little china-edged
slate from his pocket, breathed on it,
rubbed it with bis cuff. Then, as she murmured,
dismayed, '' The  the tenth dance"
in answer to a request that seemed gasped
out as if he were smothering in a featherbed,
he, as it were, smacked his lips,
announcing,

'Til come and look for you. I'll be
sure to find you."

When they escaped, Jack confronted
them in the hall.

"Did she introduce you to that brute,
Daisy ? I won't have you dance with him ;
get out of it as you like."

'' Oh, but, Jack dear, what am I to do ?
He is dreadful! But you told me no lady
ought ever to tliroiv anyone over for a dance."

*' Don't mind," laughed Smiler Lee, "for
you've been and gone and given the poor
fellow one of my dances, so I'll come up
and declare you promised it to me." (A
great big fib on his part : that made dance
number eight he had claimed, as Dais},
with a sort of horrified pleasure, suspected,
but had no courage, if she had will to
protest.)

"Of course, no lady ought ever to throw
a gentleman over. You must not throw
any of our fellows over," said young Rhadamanthus,
with grandiose severity, and a

brotherly eye. 'but. that cad is very
different, and, if he attempts to dance with
you, I'll have to drag you away from
him."

Jack dear, I'm afraid Mrs. Brown
made a mistake about your charming manners,"
roguishly exclaimed his sister, and,,
leaving him to growl, she and Lee gaily
danced off to inspect the premises.

They could get no further than the .
boudoir, however ; where Mr.
Browne's boots, protruding from under a
sofa, were the only available articles of
furniture on which couples were not sitting.

Likewise, there was a sofa on the landing,
discreetly veiled with washed and worn
muslin curtains, and lighted by an evil-smelling
Chinese lantern.

The Smiler plunged down rather too
ecstatically on this resting-place, when, to
his horror, it sank immediately on one

back-leg beneath him, and be and Daisy
seemed playing see-saw.

Stifled mirth was heard on the stairs,
and Major Hodge's burly form, with Fuzzy
Cox peeping behind him, appeared, having
been hid by the curtains.

We broke that some time ago, and
we're watching to see how many more
couples will go down on it," they explained.

"But I say, Hodge, is there no other
place to sit?" uttered the poor Smiler,
lamentably. '* Miss Dimity and I here
have been dancing like Anything for the
last two valses, but we can't get a simple
stool to rest on, nor a penny-piece of room
even to stand."

Not a spot ; it's only a two-storied
house, and we very nearly found ourselves
pushed out on the slates with the crowd
up there''

'* And we've been searching downstairs,

VOL. I. u

and the kitchen is the only spot not thrown
open," lowed Mr. Jones, with his deep voice,
looking more bovine than ever, coming up
with Pussy on his arm. Jack and Birdie
now eagerly joined the friendly conclave,
the first asking,

Where d'ye think the furniture is all
stored ? How they'll sleep to-night is a
mystery." The maiden chimed in,

Isn't it a shame ? They have locked
the tea-room door, so that we can't get any
more refreshments till supper-time . . . And
isn't it hot?"

Hot I believe you !" uttered the 'best
dancer " in the British Army, fanning himself
with his handkerchief. " I'll tell you
all what, I must have something to drink.
So let us all meet after each dance, and
fairly besiege that supper-room."

So said, so done. After each succeeding
dance the same thirsty coterie were in

the van of the disappointed crowd who
rushed to the closed door.

Locked ! Locked still !

"I declare," vowed Jack, "if the old
woman doesn't open it soon, we'll all go to
the pump round the corner."

By this time the Smiler, who so loved
dancing he could hardly stop any more
than the famous man with the cork leg 
which when wound up never could leave
off going  was hotter and thirstier than
ever.

Jack was growling thunders, heedless
that Mrs. Browne was still " introducing "
her dear young friends with macaw
screeches a few feet away.

Daisy had had her feet pounded to a
jelly by the drab-faced sub-lieutenants who
came for their dances with terrible promptitude
(Jack had stood by her to see all
right). She had, for some wicked moments,

u2

wished to dance on their feet also, in
revenge; but dismissed the base thought,
because they were in " Jack's regiment."
So, after dolorously struggling to get as
few kicks from them and bumps from
others as possible, she was rewarded by
each informing her, her step suited him
better than that of any other girl he knew ;
and that each hoped to have several such
turns with her at their ball.

At which Miss Dimity's heart sank like
lead to her shoes : while the Smiler shrieked
with unholy mirth, when she secretly
confided this to him.

It was tempting, on this night of her
first dance, to tell some one what she
thought of it all. And it was disappointingly
impossible to tell Jack. For though
he came up with gruff punctuality between
each dance to say, "Well, little one, how
are you getting on?" yet Birdie Cox

seemed always on his arm, invariably adding,
'eyes, dear little thing ; low are you
getting OD ?" Which became tiresome.

Also, Captain O'Donoghue had led her
forth to dance, and, with all his languor,
startled her by starting with his arm round
her waist in such a vice-like grip that she
soon felt each turn torture, and made agonised
struofoles for relief. But round
went the " handsomest man in the Army,"
blandly smiling as he waltzed, whilst the
worse his victim danced, the tighter and
tighter he caught her, idiotically believing
that this must mend matters.

When at last they stopped, Daisy felt
squeezed to a votary of Juggernaut ; her
dainty shoulder-knots crushed, and her
feelings lacerated. But her partner, caressing
his moustache, only remarked,

"We didn't  aw  quite hit it off that
time  eh? Never mind. A little more

practice, and you may get into my step"'
(Into his horrible clutch, thought Daisy,
trusting fervently not.) '' Fm used  ah !
to trying all the new girls for our fellow's

Daisy could have cried ; and she was
sure it was all his fault. She was ashamed
to ask him not to hold her so tight in
future ; besides, plainly he thought his
manner of grip and style of step must be-considered
a treat by the fortunate damsels
he honoured. Feeling that with her it
was, " Mene, mene, tekel upharsin," and
that the rest of Captain O'Donoghue's
fellows " would be told she was weighed
in the balance and found wanting, our
heroine looked quite ruefully-minded when
the Smiler again claimed her for about his
sixth dance.

The room had grown hotter ; the wind
outside wilder ; the coats waxier (like their
owners, to speak schoolboy fashion). The

chalk had risen in impalpable clouds,
paving all throats with a new proof that
we live in the chalk aoe, geologically
speaking.

Even the Smiler was fast losius the
clearness of his laugh and the crispness of
his moustaches.

Still his swing went on smoothly as ever
in the dance. Still Daisy was charmed with
him, as how indeed could she be otherwise
? Then the little man was so gay, so
flattering, so consoling.

Don't mind O'Donoghue ; he's so horribly
conceited about his step. Now mine
is the real trois-temps. But so many men
will imagine their step is the only right
one. Look at Hodge now doing the
Southey Fling."

In truth, that warrior now slowly and
heavily circled passed them with Fuzzy
Cox ; his big hand, in a bigger, wrinkled

glove, being placed like a spread-eagle so
high upon that young lady's back that it
rested, in fact, on her shoulders.

Mr. Lee was so diverted by the appearance
of this, that he cried, " Ho, ho, ho !"
and twisted up his moustaches tight  till
Daisy was afraid the couple in question
would be incensed. As they stopped, he
darted forward and whispered,

Miss Cox  ho, ho ! excuse my laughing,
ivonH you ?  but how do you like the
way my friend Hodge places his hand ?"

It's awfully delicious," cordially responded
that young lady, nodding back at
him familiarly, and giving a retrospective
delighted shiver at the recollection. *' It
feels so like a nice blister on my back !"

If the Smiler had laughed in his sleeve
before, he now was fairly doubled up with
delight, as he thought of retailing this little
tale after mess; and he twisted up his

moustaches so much tighter than ever,
that he seemed as if, in ecstatic agonies,
he wanted to point the story with them.

The sudden opening of the long watched
supper-room door recalled him to his senses;
and he flew  carrying off Daisy  to be in
at the feast, together with the rest of their
already sworn band.

CHAPTER XVII.

*' He's but a coos for a' that."

T) LANK disappointment ! . . . .
-- On Mrs. Grandison-Browne's supportable
were arranged, with praiseworthy
symmetry, a few dishes of sandwiches, and
some glass jugs of suspicious-looking
champagne-cup ; nothing more.

Two or three of the hungry guests tried
a sandwich, and gave a simultaneous ugh !
These were fiendish secretions of potted
red herring !

Nobody could finish theirs ; and Mrs.
Browne's peacock screech could be heard
coming nearer and nearer. With the

rapidity of despair Lee popped bis under
the table, an example followed by the other
gentlemen ; whilst Jack Dimity, and some
others, devoured with thirst, tried the cup.

Sour cider, with apple slices bobbing
therein by way of cucumber ! The faces
that now looked at each other outdid the
bitterness of the cup; rivalled the salt
sharpness of the potted herring.

'sis there nothing else but this poison?"
sighed Jack Dimity. " By Jove "

All the friendly leaguers' eyes followed
the direction of his, and spied a little, infinitesimal
table behind the door.

On this a solitary decanter of sherry had
been holding sway. But now it was in the
grasp of Mr. Higginbotham, who held it
tight in one hand, with the eager clutch of
a discoverer ; while, from the expression of
his countenance, the wine-glass in his other
hand had been well used several times already,

and was intended still to be brimmed
by this votary of Bacchus.

A murmur passed among the conspirators
that this was Daisy's pet partner ! and
the man whom Mrs. Browne had eulogized
as a squire of high degree ; a country gentleman;
a young man of independent
fortune.

Such a treasure !' she had been overheard
to whisper. " Such a blessing ! when
there are only military men in Marstown,
and they are generally not  well, not in
affluent circumstances, you know."

The young men of the friendly league,
red-coats all (except that they were now in
mufti !) had received Mrs. Browne's overheard
strictures on their financial position
in some dudgeon, or with satirical glee.

Now, beholding her " treasure " in such a
dubious position, they drew near to draw
meek comparisons betwixt their rough

soldier selves and Mrs. Browne's Blessing,,
as they termed him.

Even Daisy, who was much more shy
than the Cox girls, could not help heartily
laughing, as their respective partners condoled
with one another upon not being in
such 'affluent circumstances" as Mr.
Higginbotham.

Wears worsted stockings, you perceive,"
enviously remarked the light-spoken
Smiler. " Only a rich man can
afford to dress badly. That is a matter
of common notoriety."

Has absolutely a place of his own in
the country ; where, I should think, he has
been brought up all his days, and would
have done better never to leave it," was
Jack's deeper-voiced comment.

"But the most notorious joke of all is
the fellow's ball tablets," ended Major
Hodge, with a fat chuckle.

As if he bad become aware of being
observed, Mr. Higginbotham now looked
round ; upon which Daisy's face seemed to
rouse some obscured memory in his dazed
brain. Slowly he drew out the china-edged
little slate (a very common one it was),
mechanically breathed thereon, rubbed it
with his coat-cuff by the mere force of
habit  plainly.

For then, still eyeing Daisy and relinquishing
his hold of the decanter, he
slowly approached her.

Breathless silence fell upon the group
of the friendly alliance. Basely hoping
for some fun, they waited ; whilst, with a
more smothered utterance than ever, the
young man (within two lives of the baronetcy)
was understood to remind Miss Dimity
that she had promised him a dance.

A tremor for poor Daisy ran through
the coalition.

Come away !" sepulchrally growled
Jack, offering his arne.

But with amazing presence of mind, the
little lady, standing her ground, calmly
inquired of her would-be partner,

Have you got it written down ?"

The unhappy young man had just
rubbed it out  a fact of which he seemed
unaware.

With a face of confusion he consulted
the blank slate, and its now undecipherable
blurs, then gazed at Daisy.

"As you do not seem to know what
dance it was, we had better say no more
about it. I am engaged for the rest of
the evening," said she, and sailed away
with great dignity.

All followed her with suppressed applause
; except Mrs. Browne's Blessing, who
was still holding up his pocket slate to the
light with ever-increasing confusion of mind.

On subsequent occasions during the
evening, Jack and the Smiler, who took
deep interest in Mr. Higginbotham, returned.
They reported him to the disgusted
Daisy as having sought consolation
in the fresh, single decanter of sherry that
was next served oufc ; and as still mechanically
breathing on his slate and wiping
it.

On went the night. It was strange to
Daisy, however, that, do as she would
she could never shake off the feeling that
she was in second-rate society ; that she
was almost sorry and ashamed for their
yellow-visaged little hostess with her stinginess,
poverty that made ridiculous pretences,
and unfounded claims to gentility.

"How do you like it?" Major Hodge
asked of her. And, as she hesitatingly
replied that she had perhaps expected too
much, was unused to dances, but loved

dancing, Jack and Mr. Lee, who stood by,
both broke in,

'' Remember, you are not coming out at
this affair. Mind you tell everyone, you
are only coming out at our hall

It is a twopenny-halfpenny entertainment,
certainly," depreciatingly remarked
the burly major. " But what better can
you expect in a garrison town. Miss
Dimity, eh ? I own T take my fun out of
this sort of society ; because on principle I
try to do so wherever one may be sent to.
But confess now that you, who are used to
a different sort of thing, have seen and
heard some eye-openers since you came."

But to him Daisy was not going to acknowledge
anything of the sort. Was she
likely to decry Marstown society and girls
to a man who was paying so much attention
to Fuzzy Cox ; the kindest daughter
of the people who had so good-naturedly

VOL. I. X

housed her for Jack's ball? Certainly
not!

"Where is Miss Birdie to be found, I
wonder? By the way, I've never given
her a turn to-night. Daresay she's with
your brother, though, very happy  what
do you think?" went on the major, staring
at Daisy with a peculiar smile.

Eeally I have no idea. Perhaps, since
Mrs. Luxton is her chaperon to-night, it
would be better to ask her."

Ah 1 capital ; so it would," and, with a
provoking desire to torment Miss Daisy
Dimity  whose innocent trust in Jack and
dignified respect for her companions, the
Coxes, refused to be ruffled  Major Hodge
turned quickly to Mrs. Luxton.

'' Do I know whore the youngest Miss
Cox is ? Indeed, I do not," replied that
young woman, with laughing indignation,
to his insinuating query. " Her chaperon ?

Yes ; the girl asked me to let her come into
the room behind me ; it is a way these
Marstown girls have. But, then, they never
come near one afterwards during the
whole evening, and would be very sorry
if I were to go after them. . . All they
want is the mere pretence of the thing !"

She stopped abruptly, as her interlocutor
made a warning sign. Not having perceived
Daisy close by till now, she did
not know even then who she was, till Major
Hodge whispered to her  she seemed
much taken aback, and promised him a
sound scolding by a look. For Jack was
in the same regiment as her husband, and
was, besides, a favourite of hers.

"You look quite surprised, Miss Dimity?"
teasingly observed Major Hodge, on ibis
return. '' Was that an eye-opener? Come,
you may as well own to it ; do."

With more than even usual delight, his

x2

mental victim hailed Jack, who at this moment
made one of his frequent dives after
her. No one could say she was not well
guarded, at any rate; since it was one of
the jokes of the evening to see how the
young sister was carefully looked after by
the brother, who was only two or three
years older than herself.

Well," said young Cerberus, with an
affectionate glance that to outsiders might
falsely seem disparaging, "what do you
want to bother me about now ?"

As if you thought it really a bother !
Jack dear, Mr. Lee has been asking me to
go out riding tomorrow, if you will come
to take care of me. And  I should like it
so much. He says Galloper Down is so
delightful for a canter."

I daresay " (witheringly) ; " but what
kind of animals do you both propose to
canter ? Two donkeys ?"

"Ob, Jack ! He says 1 can get a horse
to hire, and he will get one for himself
too. He knows of a beauty for me ! a
mare, that goes like a lamb."

'' He  he doesn't know a horse from a
cow. Well, don't look so doleful, child.
I must trust him to choose you a mount ;
for, worse luck, all tomorrow morning I'm
on duty. But I'll come to take you, never
fear."

Then, turning away, he came back
again ; asking, rather awkwardly,

'' By the way, though, Daisy, you are
not going to dance this next with Lee, are

you ? Oh, you are ! Because, you

see, it's not quite the thing  it doesn't do
I mean, aren't you dancing rather too
often with him ?"

Oh ! Jack dear !" and Daisy's face showed
a dawning of great concern, but was
changed after a moment's reflection to one

of innocent triumph. ' hj? uo ; you
must be wrong. For I counted how many
times you have danced with Birdie Cox,
and it is two more dances still !"

Jack had not a word to say at that.

*' I am all right, as long as I do only
what you do, am I not?" continued his
young sister, unconsciously pursuing her
victory. '' And, besides, Mr. Lee is teaching
me how to dance ; and he is your
great friend, he says."

Captain Gascoigne is my greatest
friend," moodily murmured her brother.
And he turned away, with some reluctance,
to claim the youngest Miss Cox for the
next dance, which she had already promised
him.

"When it was ended, Mrs. Cox came
up rather hastily to Daisy.

I am afraid I really must take you
away now ; you dissipated child. It is

dreadfully late, but I bad not the heart to
take 3-ou away when I saw " (flatteringly
to the young man) "you were dancing
with Mr. Lee."

Daisy broke out in honest regrets that
Mrs. Cox should have stayed on her
account.

Oh, it does not signify, indeed  and
certainly Mr. Lee is a very good dancer J'
(This was said in an aside tone, less flatteringly,
as if the Smiler's other attributes
were just a ktle less excellent.) " Well !
I know you have been enjoying yourself,
because I have never seen you all the
evening !"

Since Mrs. Cox had herself rather tried
to evade the unusual burden of " looking
after " her charge, and had been daintily
and busily winning sixpences at whist
with three retired generals  this was
hardly surprising.

But now, waiving excuses, she begged
Lee to find her carriage ; despatched him to
bring her cloak ; leant on his arm, taking it
as a matter of course, as she hurried her
little party outside.

And yet Major Hodge and Mr. Jones
were there with her own daughters, but she
did not impound their services. Daisy
never remarked this. She only said,

'' I wish I had seen Jack, to say goodnight
to him."

The little party in the brougham reached
home rather sleepy, in spite of all the
remarks they had to make. A very sleepy
maid opened the door, and lit their candles.

Where is Miss Birdie ?" asked the
weary mother,

Not come home yet, ma'am."

"Not come home! Why Mrs. Luxton
left two dances ago. Is it possible she can
have forgotten  ? How extraordinary !"

* I heard Mrs. Luxton asking her ' was
she coming ?' and she answered ' No,' "
broke in Daisy. "She was dancing with
Jack, my brother."

'' So like Birdie ; careless, forgetful, inconsiderate,"
murmured the anxious mother.


All faces gazed blankly at each other.

We were almost the last. There was
no one left, coming from this side of the
town, but the officers. I declare, it serves
her right," uttered Pussy, who seemed in a
sleepy, soured mood. But Fuzzy and Daisy
both thought of consolation.

Dear Mrs. Cox, it was not her fault, you
may be sure. And Jack was with her ; he
always makes everything right."

'' Yes, don't bother, mamma. Be grateful
for all blessings, and it is a real
blessing she was left with Dim  with Mr.
Dimity."

*' Certainly there is no young man with
whom I would as soon trust my girl," said
Mrs. Cox, impressively, transfixing Jack's
sister with her gaze.

As they all thus stood, huddled up
in their wraps, shivering, anxious, the
brougham gone, not a cab to be had, a
rattle of wheels in the silent street aroused,
 then relieved them; and out jumped Miss
Birdie from a hansom.

What was the matter ? "Well, / was
left behind between you all !" she coolly
replied, in answer to the outbursts flood
of queries. ''Mr. Dimity and I had gone
upstairs to sit in the boudoir, after the last
dance. (Give me another glass of wine,
mamma.) Well, it grew very quiet in the
house ; nice and still. At last he got uneasy,
and said the next dance ought to be
beginning. So down we went, and what

do you think ? . . . Everyone was gone
but the fiddlers, and there were Mrs. and
Miss Browne going round blowing out the
candles. You should have seen their faces
and Mr. Dimity's look  he ! he ! he !"

Daisy, for one, could imagine that Jack's
look had been well worth the seeing ; and
that he would growl to himself like condensed
thunder, at having been found in
such a false position.

But why did he not come back with
you r" cried the sisters.

"He would not hear of it," replied
Birdie, carelessly ; but with secret chagrin.
Mrs. Browne is such a scandal-monger,
perhaps it was just as well. He had to
run half a mile to get me this cab, as it
was. Then he put me in, paid the driver,
and walked off alone to the barracks. So
she can't say a word ! Good night. I am

SO sleepy." And carelessly yawning widely
at the rest, Miss Birdie nevertheless
remembered her manners so much as to
honour their guest with a sudden hug and
a gushing kiss on either cheek.

' It was very unfortunate, but still  "
murmured Mrs. Cox, as if meditating
aloud, and again softly transfixing Daisy
with her impressive gaze "But still,
though there are very few other young
men I could trust alone in such a position
with one of my girls, I know that your
brother is worthy of the highest confidence.
There is no young man, as I said before,
my dear, with whom I would allow one of
my girls to go without a chaperon, as I
would with him."

Eeally !

Even whilst murmuring due acknowledgment
of her brother's praises, Daisy
thought at once (she could not help it !) of

Major Hodge and Mr. Jones; and that
if Jack were to dispense more with a
chaperon than either of those two gentlemen
did, when in the society of the Misses
Cox, he might go very far indeed.

And why was it that such unlimited
trust and such meaning confidence were
to be reposed in Jack  why so ?

In spite of making a very large allowance
for the admiration and esteem that must
of course be Jack's due  that naturally he
would inspire all his acquaintances with 
his adoring sister yet felt uneasy. Various
trifles she had at the time thought insignificant,
now recalled to memory, seemed
important signs ; straws showing how the
wind blew. Yes, indeed ; they were deeply
important !

And thus, as Daisy laid her fresh cheek
on the pillow after her first dance, it was

with quite a feelings of solemn shock
banishing the memory of all the light
twirling and whirling of the evening.
For she seemed  quite by accident  to
have stumbled upon a secret ; to have had
her eyes extraordinarily sharpened to discover
the outline of a  well, not a plot
(that was an ugly word), but a plan  no,
not a plan either, but an idea ! that might,
if carried out, most seriously affect in
future both the squire and their stepmother,
Polly, herself, and dear old Elm
Hall,

For fully ten minutes, that seemed an
hour, Daisy lay awake  wondering with
very sleepy but infinitely anxious alarms
and wisdom, all incoherently mingled,
whether this idea was an idea altogether
of her own creation ; whether, if carried
out, it would be for her dearest Jack's
Happiness.



The sagest, next thought was whether 
on the whole  it would not be better just
then to go to sleep, and do the rest of her
thinking by the light of the coming
morning. Upon Which she immediately
acted.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald, BLENHEIM HOUSE.



-;:C-:-<lJ

 'Illinois-URBANA

Wt

3 0112 041771418

iw-i

cc

eS-icdf-*'' -ra?*"-

rt'

tl

f']

?3I

x>>>> 1>

,-tii.

:> :

.'r> >>-g

> J>

P> >



LI B Mary

OF THE

U N Rivers City

or 

>'.Z

BY

THE AUTHOR OF

'queene,"

ORANGE LILY," "A JEWEL OF A GIRL,

"MY LOVE, SHE'S BUT A LASSIE,"

&c., &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
shall

riQhtx reserved.

Of all temptations ;
A queen in crown of rubies drest ;
A startling in a scanty vest ;
Are all as seem to suit thee best,

Thy appellations.

A little Cyclops, with one eye
Staring to threaten and defy,
That thought comes next  and instantly

The freak is over.
The shape will vanish, and behold !
A silver shield with boss of gold
That spreads itself, some fairy bold

In fight to cover."

Wordsworth,

MISS DAISY Dimity.

CHAPTER 1.

Die Rose, die Lille, die Taube, die Sonne,
Die lieut' ici ernst alle in Liebeswonne.
Ici lie' sic night mer, ici liege allen
Die Klein, die Fine, die Reine, die Eine ;
Sie seller, aller Liege Bronze,
1st Rose hind Lille und Taube ind Sonne."

/N the morning after her first dance,
- Daisy woke with difficulty to find
Mrs. Cox's housemaid observing in her
ear, with respect-breathing loudness,
Breakfast at eleven o'clock, miss."
"Dear me, how nice!" ejaculated our

VOL. IL B

slothful, small heroine; although, indeed,
they had not been late the night before.

Then, finding she had ample time to
dress, she got downstairs punctually for
the belated meal.

Mrs. Cox was already down before her ;
but when Daisy, discovering this, exclaimed
she felt ashamed of her own laziness,
Mrs. Cox, as if fearing some slur
might seem thrown on her own daughters
by comparison, hastily answered, with an
apologetic, tired smile,

"No, no, my dear; young people must
enjoy themselves while they can. I  of
course, I have been down since eight
o'clock to see after the doctor and my
little schoolboys. Things would never go
right, if I did not . . . By-the-way, what
nice gloves you wore last night ! Do you
mind telling me how much they cost?"

Daisy laughed, and told her they were

rather dear (since Madame Furbelow
scorned keeping inferior articles).

She fancied her hostess made a rapid
mental calculation, as she very mildly
inclined her head while filling: the teacups,
ejaculating " Ah !" . . But she little
imagined that the troubled mother was
thinking to herself, " Four and sixpence
last night at cards, and the extra money
must come out of the milk-bill. Yes, I
must get Fuzzy a pair. Major Hodge
remarked he did not like mittens worn at
dances. I saw him looking at hers out of
the corner of his eye."

*' I am afraid that my girls will not be
down for some time," she presently remarked.
" They are getting later and
later. I have been vainly upstairs three
times already, begging the three of them
to get out of bed. You put them to
shame, my dear ! You see, when we have

only two maids (and an occasional help),
it is hard to give several breakfasts."

Mrs. Cox, it will be seen, was growing
intimate with Daisy; so much so that th
poor soul laid aside many of her little
pretences, and indulged in the relief of
being at times honest.

She had hardly spoken before Birdie
burst into the room, slamming the door
behind her.

"Good morning!" she cried, with an
utter ignoring of her mother's existence;
although bestowing upon Daisy a sounding
double kiss. '' You see, I can be in time
as well as you. Your brother bet me a
sixpence I would not be down for breakfast
; so you will tell him 1 am not the lazy
one of our family, won't you ? Mind you
tell him, now !"

Yes, certainly Birdie had come down to
breakfast ; but how ? It would have been

better if slip bad gone upstairs again.

Her touched fringe of hair bad plainly
never been re-curled ; without the semblance
of baying bad a brush this morning,
her yellow locks were twisted up tight.
or, as Polly at Elm Hall called this style,
a la icash-tuh knot. An old serge gown
seemed to bave been hastily buttoned over
a scarcity of garments, one button of
wbicb gown soon going off with a pop
completed the disarray. Birdie, nothing
daunted, replaced the lack with a pin ; and
went on bealtbily and hugely consuming
bread and bone-made blackberry jam,
grumbling at ber mother for being so
stingy as not to give them marmalade.

Fuzzy came down when the meal was
nearly ended. But then sbe was properly
dressed ; and tbougb displeased in ber
turn that the maids could not make ber
fresh toast and boil an egg  since the one

hard-worked being was gone to market
and the other was busy making the beds
upstairs ; wisely refusing to hear the voice
of the charmer  she speedily solaced herself
with cold beef and pickles.

Mrs. Cox, with a sigh, then carried a
tray upstairs to her third remaining
daughter, for not till the midday dinner
did soft-footed Pussy come lingeringly
downstairs.

After dinner, a clatter of horses' hoofs
Alas heard in the street ; and, true to their
word. Jack and Mr. Lee rode up. The
Cox girls flew to see the mount, and to
envy Daisy in her nice blue habit, looking
as trim and tidy from her head to her
heels as heart could wish.

You'll do," muttered Jack, graciously,
after surveying her ; he was terribly particular
as to his sister's dress, though
merely ordinarily idea-d as regarded his

own; adding, "I wish I could say as much
for your uiouut."

The middle-aged, thoroughbred mare
that stood meekly awaiting Daisy, was uo
doubt termed middle-aged, in accordance
with that polite custom of society which
throws a veil over the a2:e of all females.

Such a lean head ! That shows the
blood in her," cried the enthusiastic
Smiler.

True ! But Daisy secretly regretted
that the amiable thoroughbred was likewise
lean of neck and lean of body altogether,
so that its ribs showed, as Mark
Twain says, like the pipes of an organ.
In fact,

As line was " her " Iiors as is a rake."

'' And goes like a lamb," ended the
deluded young man.

The mare went more like an aged ewe
in Daisy's mind as they started, being,

although meek, difficult to move. It had,
apparently, but one engrossing wish, which
was to muse in peace, " how flesh is grass,
and grass is turned to hay."

They went courtyards through the
most quiet suburban roads, upon Jack's
insistance ; somewhat to the Smiler's vexation,
who made several ineffectual attempts
to induce his friend to ride down the High
Street.

'No, no," replied young Dimity. ''If
my sister can hardly manage to make her
mare to go, it strikes me you have quite
as much to do to keep your animal from
going off

'await till we get out a bit into the
country, old fellow. You'll see a gallop
will waken up your sister's animal and
quiet mine down. I got mine from a
dealer. Miss Dimity, who won't hire out
his horses as a rule. Handsome, isn't he ?

Fresh ?  ob ! yes ; hasn't been out of the
stable for a day or two, I should think.
Great thing to get such a chance. It is
not everyone he would lend him to. But
I bamboozled the old fellow, though he
never saw me in his life before. Ho, ho,
ho ! a little chaff, you see, goes a long  "

At this moment the Smiler's horse,
a sulky, strong, black brute, gave a succession
of kicks  that seemed intended to
send him and his chaff a very much longer
way off than he had meditated. The little
man stuck on gallantly, however, although
it apparently kept him very busy.

And now it struck Daisy most forcibly
that he was far from at home in his
saddle ; and seemed to have more theory
than experience as to his management of
the reins.

'' Does he ride much ?" she whispered to
Jack, with misgivings ; as their companion

was suddenly carried off from them, to
his manifest discomfort, in a caracohng
fashion.

'' What rounds, what bounds, what course, what
stop he makes."

Never saw him on horseback in mj life
before ! Everybody supposed he couldn't
ride ; and upon my word I believe everybody
was right," rejoined Jack, wrinkling
his boyish brow, that had deep wrinkles
brought to it every hour of the day by
similar trifling cares.

Indeed, it had been rather a regimental
wonder to see Smiler Lee go out this day
on horseback. Many were the small bets
as to whether he would come back unharmed.
It was well known he could not
drive, having only once or twice been
induced to handle the ribbons  which he
did by holding each rein in either hand
well apart, and lirruping loudly at the

horse. But within the wildest imaorina-

CD

tion of man it was not supposed he could
be o't to ride !

As to hunting, in spite of all his other
accomplishments, he always frankly declared
on this point his abhorrence of
having his neck broken, and utter determination
beforehand that, if ever anything
did induce him to behave so rashly, he
should get off at every fence, and, after
making himself and steed clamber over the
obstacle (if feasible) separately, should remount
safely on the opposite side. AVhat
glamour, therefore, must little Miss Dimity
have thrown over him, that, after she had
innocently spoken of her love of riding,
he should at once have been bitten with
the mad desire thus to shine in her favourite
exercise !

Presently Mr. Lee, with vast difficulty,
contrived to restrain his fractious beast

sufficiently to let the brother and sister
come for a few delusive moments within
safe distance of him.

With equal difficulty poor Daisy kept
urging hers so as to keep pace with Jack's
honest cob, his private property. She
grew so impatient with her shambling
equine Bag-o'-bones, that, but for pure
pity, she would have liked to pommel it,
to whip it, to take to her own nimble heels
and haul it by the bridle.

'' Oh ! Jack dear," she whispered, fairly
maddened at last, " I wish he had hired a
donkey-boy, too, for me, to run behind and
whack."

*' Sh  ! Poor old Lee might hear you,
and he would be so awfully vexed. But,
hallo !  I say ! By Jove ! Why, if that
isn't Captain Gascoigne riding on there
ahead of us ! Why, Lee " (with much reproach),
* I thought you told me Gascoigne

could not come out with us to-day."
'' No ; I only said I thought be could
not," in a tone of far from equal delight;
and suddenly seeming to own that the
black horse was rather hard to master, byway
of stopping any further inquiries.

If I had known that Jj I vas

almost certain you had asked him. He is
the one man I would have asked to make
one of our party," ejaculated young Dimity ;
who was secretly as hugely dissatisfied at
this semblance of a slight to his dearest
friend, as was Lieutenant Lee on being
brought into unfavourable comparison with
as fine a rider as the one ahead.

Luckily for Jack, his well-beloved Damon
was not far in front ; so, riding on, he soon
caught him up, and had made voluble explanations,
and easily induced him to join
their party to Galloper Down, before Daisy
and the Smiler came up, the one halting,

the other demi-vaulting, at opposite sides
of the road.

It was as much as Gascoigne and Jack
could do, to refrain from a roar of laughter
as the J watched their approach.

And now what the poor Smiler had
lamentably foreseen, occurred. He dared
not approach Daisy ; since the black horse
was misbehaving most atrociously. captain
Gascoigne, on the other hand, could
and did. For his horse had a delightful
temper, and, as to looks, made everyone
break the tenth commandment. He himself,
too, was a famous rider ; and at his
very best in every way on horseback.

This days he was in especially good spirits;
and made himself so agreeable that poor
Daisy grew all the more ashamed of her
own apparent stupidity.

What a guy he must think I look on
this ugly old creature ! What a goose he

must think me for Dot being able to talk
better to bim " (her mind being fretted
with vainly trying to fret her Rosinante) !

The mare, meanwhile, with a humble
obstinacy that was fairly distracting, seemed
resolved to crawl nowhere but with her
nose at a level with Gascoigne's horsetail.
Try as he might to keep pace with
her, no ! she slipped ever back like the
famous progress of the snail up the wall,
with a drooping head, as if shambling to
execution.

Daisy grew maddened ; her cheeks got
red with impatience ; her arm sore with
mild persistence in using an unavailing
whip.

And Jack was loudly joking at her
expense.

What a pity Mrs. Browne's Blessing
is not out with us ! You and Higgins
would go capitally together today.

I have told Captain Gascoigne all
about the determined way in which
you tried to captivate that poor young*
man, and he thinks you have excellent
taste."

Oh, Jack  Captain Gascoigne never
could have said iJiatr' with, a sudden look
of hurt feeling, yet trust ; implying, without
being aware of it, by the expression of
her upturned young face, " He does say
satirical things and misjudge me  but he
is hardly so bad as that !"

"Thank you for having a sufficiently good
opinion of me. Miss Dimity ; which happens
to be right," replied Gascoigne ; adding,
with a smile of apology for paying a
compliment, ''I believe it was his good
taste that I allowed myself to commend.
It surprised me in that gentleman, I must
own, for, on seeing him once, it struck me
that he was,

Rather like the snail ;
Known chiefly for the house upon his back.' "

Daisy feebly laughed in the background.

The Smiler was ill-judged enough to
echo the mirth, with his usual good-fellowship,
from the front. His horse instantly
executed a gambado of the most furiously
wrathful description ; and forthwith, to show
his playfulness, began dancing sideways,
with his hind legs in the gutter. Only, as
regarded his rider, he decidedly wanted to
make this performance a pas seuL

Unhappy, lightsome Lee still tried to
jest ; but it was evident to everyone else
that, while he strove to make a comedy of
this ride, the proud animal he bestrode
bitterly resented any buffoonery ; and was
resolved to make it, if not a tragedy, at
least serio-comic.

He'll be off soon ; and your sister will
be down," uttered Gascoigue, in quiet,

VOL. II.

nervous unhappiness for Daisy, aside to
Jack Dimity, as they went down a hill in
the open country. " How could Lee be so
cheated as to choose her such a brute ; not
fit to carry any lady ?"

Oh, it will have to do her well enough
for to-day. Trust her to keep ifc up ; she
never let the governor's old horse at home
down in her life, though I have  "

In a good hour, be it spoken ! he should
have added.

SI  i  i  ther ! Sera  amble! Down!
No ! Hi ; holloa ! Up again !

Well done ; well saved, Miss Dimity."

** Touch and go that time, Daisy."

There were some loose stones on the
hill-side, which the poor old mare's shaky
forelegs could not find foothold on ; and so
she had all but slid upon her knees.

*' If it was not a fall, it was as bad as
one," cried wretched Daisy, so unnerved

by all she had undergone, she was ready
to weep.

Before she bad ended, the black horse
flung out in a volley of furious kicks ; the
failure of his mean-spirited companion to
unseat one of their common enemies having
goaded him to madness.

One, two, three ! The luckless Smiler
Lee at last " pighte him on the pommel of
his head " in the dismal ditch. The black
horse at once made a disgraceful attempt
to complete his ill-conduct by galloping
stable wards  but was frustrated by ,
who managed to catch his bridle.

"Look here. Dimity ! we have had enough
of this nonsense, surely," exclaimed the
latter apart to Jack ; in a tone of angered
decision that, coming from him, who was
usually so gentle, was rare.

Jack looked at him, astonished. Still he
was used to say before now, to others who

c2

spoke of Gascoigne's quietness, '' He's
quiet enough ; but, mind you, if once he
does put his foot down, he means it."

Gascoigne continued :

That horse would have gone quietly
enough, or, at least, far better, if Lee only
knew how to ride him. Your sister is
miserable; her whole day's enjoyment is
being spoilt ; besides, she is positively in
danger ! I'll tell you what we must do 
get off and change saddles here at this
farmyard. I'll make Lee give me up his
horse ; and your sister shall have mine.
Then, at all events, however Lee and I
get on, you and she can have a good canter
on Galloper Down, and enjoy yourselves."


So said ; so done. Gascoigne cut short
all remonstrances ; indeed, the Smiler was
too crestfallen to offer any with much fervour,
and eyed the black horse with a

glance of injured confidence and intense
dislike.

If ever sou catch me on jour back
again, you brute !" he murmured to himself,
heartily-wishing this day's ride was
over.

But Daisy, with anxious eyes and parted
lips, was watching how Gascoigne would
manage to mount the steed of evil. It
refused to let him o-et on at first, although
he spoke to it and tried to coax it ; but ina
frightened manner it went back and back
till it was stopped by the farmyard wall.

Then he did get into the saddle, and 
everyone expected a plunge  a kick or two
a fight of some sort for mastery !

To the astonishment of them all, 
desired the horse to go on ; and it
obediently went. Quietly he rode out
along with the others : quietly on and ou
they rode.

"I declare," uttered Jack, at last breaking
the watching silence of the rest, " I
never saw such a thing in mj life ; one
would think you had mesmerised the beast.
There never was anyone who had such a
curious way of making all horses quiet.
What is it ? Have you a charm?"

To which Gascoigne, never boastful
answered also with some surprise :

Really it is more than I understand
myself. Perhaps, after all, the poor brute
exhausted all his energies in fighting you,
Lee ; so that it is thanks to your enduring
the worst of his misbehaviour that I have
2:ot the best of him."

Which kindly fiction, though it deceived
nobody, not even the Smiler, made him
nevertheless more pleased with himself ; as
such good-natured speeches do salve one's
bruised self-love.

CHAPTER II.

'Tis that fair time of year,

Lady mine !
When stately Guinevere,
In her sea-green robe and hood,
Went a-riding through the wood.

Lady mine !

And as the Queen did ride.

Lady mine !
Sir Lancelot at her side
Laughed and chatted, bending over.
Half her friend and all her lover, 

Lady mine !"

Trot was that June afternoon as they
--- rode.

The hedgerows, which of late had been
bedded underneath with blue-bells and red

campion  azure and rose intermingling inglorious
daring of colour  were now all
adorned in white as for the bridal of
summer,

' And in the warm hedge grew lush eglantine,
Green cow-bind and the moonlight-coloured May."

White lay the dust below ; snowy gleamed
the great ox-eyes from the banks ; dreamily
curved the tendrils of honeysuckle through
the tangled brake; and the bindweed, tenderly
clinging to every hold, offered its milk-white
cup to the air and sun, that had long
since drained it of dew.

Hot it was ; but not too hot to be pleasant.

Only enough so to make them all gladly
leave the high-road, to follow a path up a
wooded glen by the side of a trout-river 
gleaming dark and cool, where the broad
oak branches overshadowed it, and the fish,
like sprites, went darting to and fro  or
brawling merrily over rocks in the open,

where the woods receded and left bracken
patches, or a coppice of oak scrub.

*' "When shtiws beene sleeve, and sliradds full fare,
And leaves both large and longe,
Itt is merry walking in the fate forrest
To heare the small birds songe."

Oh, how lovely this is !" cried Daisy,
who was used to only the sleepy, wide, flat
pastures, and solemn standard elms around
her own home, Elm Hall.

Yes, is it not ? I come here very
often," answered Gascoigne, who was now
beside her again.

"Those wretched little betjorars of fish
are not the length of my finger," said Jack,
who was a sportsman to his very soul, and
looked on all scenery with the eyes of a
good shot and an ardent angler.

How these flies do torment one's horse
here," lamented poor Lee, last of all, far
down the footpath.

Pity for his feelings prevented the rest
from enjoying themselves, or, at least, expressing
their enjoyment as much as they
otherwise might. Although soon, when
they saw, down among dark rocks, a kingfisher,
a flash of living blue, Daisy could not
contain herself; and, to Gascoigne's surprise,
cried out with ecstatic delight.

"It does one good to see how you are
enjoying yourself; to see how happy you
look," he said ; turning to smile at her with
such a kindly expression, nay, such an admiring,
friendly one, that Daisy forgot all
about their previous misunderstandings, and
felt that, after all  she did like him a
little.

'' Oh, this horse is such a darling ! Who
could help being happy on his back ?" she
murmured, bending stewards in a supple
way, so that poor Lee should not hear and
be further vexed. "And one's spirits go

up SO hah affair after beinir low : like see-vico

O '

saw. I was so wretchedly uncomfortable
before ! and now I am as happy as happy
can be. Don't you think all our troubles
are over for the day ?"

Don't halloo till we're out of the wood !
We must leave it soon, and ford the river
down at that gravelly bend you see below
the wooded cliff; and my horse may belike
other evil spirits, unwilling to cross
running water."

1 believe yoii could make him go anywhere."


With which flattering tribute, that hit
its mark, and did very much please Captain
Gascoigne's conceit, to judge by his gratified
smile, they reached the ford.

Gascoigne insisted on Daisy's going over
first in safety, under Jack's care. But his
own steed, as his little companion had prophesied,
splashed through the clear stream

with no more added liveliness than just
made his rider show to advantage.

So Daisy thought, watching him from the
bank, and was only roused from so doing
by hearing Jack exclaim : 

Why, Lee ! Poor Lee ! By Jove, the
mare is lying down with him ! !"

Too true !

That most misguided (in all senses) of
animals, having entered the water as reluctantly
as a decrepit bather, seemed, when
half way across, to find it cool and refreshing
about her old fetlocks. Switching her
tail to get rid of the flies, she stood still.
The Smiler, whose good feelings had been
so grossly misunderstood by the black horse,
now again felt his better self returning ; and
kindly allowed her thus to rest.

Before he knew what she was about, even
as Jack's warning cry was still ringing in
the air, she had abused his permission by

lying down and rolling luxuriously in the
water : while what became of him it would
be hard indeed to say !

Amidst the outcries of sympathy, advice,
and gibing, Daisy's irrepressible tinkle of
soft laughter, and the louder, more unfeeling
mirth of the rest  soused  dripping, ina
rage for once in his life  the saddened
Smiler reached the bank.

You look, for all the world, like a
water-rat," bellowed Jack.

Gascoigne, on the other hand, jumped off
to assure himself that their comrade was
not hurt ; then advised him to get dried at a
water-bailiff's cottage not far from the path,
where, also, his saddle-girths might be seen
to  one being burst.

Poor Lee gallantly declared he did not
mind the wetting, but the saddle was another
matter ! He looked so doleful over
the sorry figure he cut, dragging his dripping

Rosinante by the bridle, whilst watering
the ground himself at every step, and
forlornly striving still to look ga}, that
Jack, in pure pity, volunteered to go with
him.

' You will take care of my sister, if you
don't much mind ? I'll follow you up as
soon as ever I can," he said to Gascoigne.

Captain Gascoigne, with a most cheerful
expression, seemed to think he would riot
mind the trouble very much.

Thus, an hour later, having climbed up
from the glen by a pleasant ascending path,
Daisy and Gascoigne, alone together, were
having a rare gallop over the moorland
above.

Galloper Down was a grand place for a
gallop ! when once you got up to it. Turf
springy, and soft as velvet, but few boulders
or gorse-bushes ; a glorious view over three
shires, and, on this day, sun and wind at

their kindliest. The sun's glory made life
seem a pure delight ; its heat just enough
tempered to warm the moorland, and extract
a thousand subtle small scents. There
was a strong, fresh wind, that sent the blood
dancing through the veins, yet only enough
to fan a lady's cheek to coolness, as they
pull up at last, and stand and look.

Is it not grand up here ?" exclaimed
Gascoigne, looking away over the far expanse
below them ; champaign and glens ;
winding streams, and misty, distant, dotted
hamlets ; and the broad, blue sky, in which
the clouds did seem

'' The beauteous semblance of a flock at rest."

*'I love seeing so far away as this, do not
you? One's thoughts always seem to be
cramped, if the horizon is shut in too nearly
by hills. With a wide prospect, even if one
were chained still to one spot, Prometheus-like,

still the mind would seen free. Do
you not feel the same ?"

He had grown very familiar with Daisy
during the last hour. But why expect her
to agree with him in all things, as he as
plainly did ?

She, however, answered timidly, with
such deep respect for his lightest opinion,
that disagreement seemed venturous  although
she, too, had positively quite forgotten
till now to be at all afraid of her
companion ; the rapid pace at which they
had been riding, side by side, having shaken
her out of self consciousness 

I am afraid my taste is not for such
wide scenery, in which one seems to have
no frame to the picture. Is not this more a
panorama ?" she timidly hazarded. '' But
I do love trout-streams and wooded glens,
like the one behind us ; then, to be perfect,
one little peep, I think, into far-away;

just one little peep, that I should like to
take at times only, when one felt a wish to
see out into the great world. Then it
would be like coming into snug home again
to turn back, and see the woods all round
me."

Why, then, you should see my house in
Outshine, where the woods come down to
the water's edge ; and there is a river that
runs through our place, where, in hot summer
weather, a poor little sister of mine,
now dead, used to sit. There are big trees-all
round, and delightful rocks in the middle
of the river, that you can easily reach, and
between the branches there is a peep  just
such as you would like  of the sea."

How strange !" ejaculated Daisy, staring
up at him with parted lips. " Why ! that
reminds me so exactly of a spot somewhere
in the south I used to be told of long ago,
when I was quite a child, by "

VOL. I]. D

'' By whom?"

A simple question, surely. Yet Miss Daisy
blushed visibly, and, striving to hide that,
stooped to pat the glossy neck of the good
bay horse that carried her.

''Oh, it does not matter. Some one I
have never seen since I was quite little. It
would not interest you at all to know who
it was."

"What a mysterious little lady you are !"
returned Gascoigne, lightly ; since no one
could really associate much mystery with
Miss Dimity's rosebud face. " One day you
wish to explain to me something most particularly
; and, when it comes to the point,
nothing will induce you to do so. And
now you unkindly refuse to reveal the identity
of somebody who talked to you when
you were quite little."

You know you would not really care to
know," cried Daisy, gaining courage. " He

was a big boy, and I was ever so niucli
younger ; and he used to tell me about a
glen he knew, that I would like to play in.
There were rocks, too ; and a river ; and
the sea ; and a boat-house, like an arbour,
beside a pool. Oh, I suppose there may be
dozens of such places in England !"

*' Curious !  There is a pretty boat-house
on our river, too, close by the spot I spoke
of," said Gascoigne. " Why, no one could
have told you of my favourite haunt ? But
how on earth do you remember so well a
description told you some years ago ?"

Oh, here is Jack coming !"  with a tone
of more joy than his appearance ten minutes
ago would have aroused, although so well-beloved.


And thus Gascoigne got no answer to his
questions.

Jack related that, having seen his friend
dried and consoled, the latter had decided

D 2

on returning on foot to Marstown high-road,
where a 'bus would pick him up ; means
having been found to send the mare back
to her owner tied to a cart's tail, with messages
of ignominy.

Their minds set free, the remaining three
now resolved to enjoy themselves for the
rest of the sunny evening, without thought
of time. They had one more most noble
canter, all the way back over Galloper
Down. The sunset was a sight of glory as
they turned at last homewards ; and two of
them at least had not only eyes to see, but
could find words to admire it. (As many
people think they cannot, whether from
false shyness, or want of wont, or slothfulness
of thought.)

But poor Jack, indeed ! would have required
to shouts had he wished to impart to
the others any analysis of the delicate
pleasure or tenderly sensuous, pantheistic

joy aroused within his mind by the beauty
of earth preparing to sleep, while the skies
were flushed and flooded with froneous
colour as the sun ever sank.

For the bridle-path homewards, through
the darkening glen, only allowed of two
riding abreast; and, for civility's sake, he
could not ride beside his sister. Thus
Daisy and Gascoiojne were again together :
virtually alone so far as interchange of ideas
went, and they seemed to have more than
even during afternoon in common.

Except in one new respect. Gascoigne
had begun to look at Daisy somewhat
frequently; and that with an expression
so very like unwitting admiration that
she, not being able to follow or understand
him there, at such moments looked
down  or would begin patting the brave
Bav Curtal" she rode on, and making
very much of him.

And as tlicy rode along,
Lady mine !
The throstle gave them song,
And the buds peeped through the grass
To see youth and beauty pass,
Lady mine!"

"And when are we to meet again, Miss
Dimity ?" he presently asked, although no
reference had been previously made to
their parting.

Oh ! we shall see you on Sunday," she
brightly replied. "For the Coxes want to
take me to garrison chapel ; they say it is
quite my duty to see the service there.
And I should like to see Jack in uniform ;
he never would put it on for us, except the
very first time " (glancing back, with admiration
more open and quite equal to that
lately shown by Gascoigne towards herself,
at the snub-nose and pleasantly ugly young
countenance of her eldest brother).

Gascoigne smiled broadly ; and answered,.

in a tone of almost taking her part against

some invisible detractor,

** Yes  of course it is only natural you
should like to see any of the military sights
here that are unusual; quite so! But I do
not believe you would care for them so
exclusively as some of the Marstown young
ladies seem to do, all the same. No. I
cannot think you would," this last in a sort
of flattering meditation. Then waking up
again, rather satirically, " But there is one
custom here on Sunday evenings I do not
admire ; it is the same in many garrison
towns, though. That is the way in which
some young ladies make arrangements with
their officer acquaintances to go to church
together, and come back to supper  and
flirtation. It is too suggestive of Mary
Ann's ' Sunday out,' and her young man

 coming back for surreptitious cold meat.
Don't you think so? I am sure you agree
with me."

How very certain Captain Gascoigne
seemed to be, after this day's ride, that
Daisy agreed with him in most things !

CHAPTER III.

"wee, modest, crimson-tipped tower,
Thou's met me in an evil hour."

A LETTER for Miss Dimity.
- It was lying on lier dressing-table,
and had come by the evening post.

It was not from Elm Hall : the first glance
recognized that with disappointment, and
few other correspondents in the land had
Daisy. Taking it up to dally with her curiosity,
as so many of us idly like to do, she
saw it bore only the Marstown postmark.
It was in one of the mean, narrow envelopes,
too, nobody now likes ; and was
addressed in a vile scrawl, something between

a child's roundhead and the malicious
flourish that generally adorns a bill.

But Daisy did not owe a penny in the
town ; had bought nothing except that
unlucky blue ribbon. Opening it, therefore,
in happy carelessness, soon her blue
eyes grew wide and quite scared-looking as
she read the following threatening epistle :

Dear Miss Innocent (?) Dimity,

'this is to let you know, though
you pretend to be so very demure, as if
butter would not melt in your mouth (and
so young, forsooth !) that such sham won't
go down in Marstown.

You think to catch Smiler Lee,
As anyone with an eye can see.

But be warned, for with all your pretences,
that impose upon no one, of being so much
finer than other girls far better born and
bred, and so shy (or sly), it is sour grapes.

He is too old a bird to be caught with sour
chafF; and soon sou will find yourself the
laughing-stock of the town. So be warned
by a friend, and give up running, as you do,
after gentlemen.

"Fie, naughty little Miss Dimity! You
that pretend to be so very proper !

'' This is from one who advises you for
your own cjood."

Daisy could have put down her head and
cried.

She was so shocked, so surprised and
hurt. For in her own heart she hew she
had tried to behave with only pleasant
feeling and kindliness to all the Marstown
people whom she had met ; had tried to
speak ill of none ; had tried to think well
of them all  a harder task.

Pride and astonishment at first kept back
her tears. But then, like a wronged child,

her rosebud face puckered curiously, some
salt drops had to be winked away from her
eyes, till at last, with a sense of finding some
small comfort there she fairly hid her face
in her handkerchief.

Only a few seconds, however.

Privacy was a rare treat in the Cox
household ; they considered it none. They
were among those female beings who keep
running in and out of each other's private
apartments all day, even your bed-rooms
not being considered by them the special
sanctum you wish them to be regarded.
What are you doing, seeing, writing a letter,
curling your front hair? they cry. And
very probably they either stand and gaze at
you (in a maddening way) ; or else they
calmly sit down for a chat, and are offended
at any hint of being turned out.

A quick knock came at Daisy's door.

"What! are you changing your dress?"

came through the keyhole in Birdie's voice ;
and Pussy and Fuzzy, from the background
of the landing, could be heard inquiring,

*' Shall we all come in and help you ; or
shall we wait outside here for you ? Do be
quick, there's a dear !"

Poor Daisy had only just time to hide
her letter guiltily, before Pussy begged her
way in with caresses, for she was less easily
refused than the rest,

Daisy hurried all the sooner downstairs,
being clamoured for by the other girls.

Ah ! there you are  at last. Your
brother has gone to wash his hands in papa's
dressing-room." (Jack had been, as usual,

impressed for " high tea") " Sh ! Is

the door shut ? Now quick, Pet, we have
got something to read to you. Your brother
would be wild if he knew we had got a
copy."

And one of the girls hereupon produced

some sheets of note-paper, covered apparently
with poetry.

T got it from Mr. Jones. I had to coax
him so tremendously for it. And I had to
promise to tell no one who gave it to me,"
pursued Pussy, with eminent self-satisfaction
and remarkable faithfulness of trust.

"Can't you tell her first lovat it is?"
struck in Fuzzy.

"It is poetry upon all the officers and
regiments in Marstown. A copy was sent
to each of them, and no one can guess who
wrote it. Such fun ! Why, some of them
think we did, I believe. All we wish is
that we were clever enough" (regretfully).

''0-h! So it is anonymous?" slowly
asked Daisy, in a disapproving voice ; with a
sudden cooling of any future admiration of
the mysterious poetic effusion.

Of course it is. Some of the girls in
Marstown must have written it, but no one

would be such a fool as to put her name toit."


Hereupon, Fuzzy began what was plainly
a parody on the battle of Ivory, " And thou,
Marstown, our own Marstown," being substituted
for the city of Rochelle ; while it
was neatly hinted that, although one regiment
must soon leave (videlicet, that of
Major Hodge and Mr. Jones), yet another
would naturally replace it, when

*' Again shall rapture light the eyes of Marstown's
mourning daughters."

It proceeded to observe further,

Oh ! how our hearts were beating, when on the last

field-day
We saw your gallant regiment drawn out in long

array.
With all their glorious officers, who amongst men

have no peers."

'' Hum !" from little Miss Dimity. (She
admired red-coats very much dutifully, but
she was not quite certain of that. There

could not be a Jack, or a  no  vvell, a Jack
just! in every regiment; and Major Hodge
and Mr. Jones were woful examples of how
uninteresting to her even martial heroes-could
be who had not the distinguished
advantage of being associated with Lieutenant
Dimity.) Fuzzy unfeelingly proceeded,


'rand there's nothing z(7e think like infantry; give us
those that here is."

(An admirable rhyme to peers. But Daisy
trusted her Jack would never be given over
to be torn in pieces by the loving hands of
the Marstown young ladies.)

There rode our darling O'Donoghue, the handsomest
in the land,
And dark-haired Jones marched in the midst, his
sword well in his hand."

(Military knowledge somewhat inaccurate
there, as Fuzzy remarked.) While the
ditty went on to tell how Colonel Dunn
(Jack's colonel), had come to marshal them

"In all Iiis uniform tlressecl,
"With a, helmet like a policeman ("5 1) upon his gallant
crest ;
He looked upon us ladies and a tear was in his eye,
He looked upon his soldiers and his glance was stern
and high."

The metre here shifted unaccountably to a
striking imitation of Goldsmith's epitaph on
Garrick.

'' Here comes Captain Gascoigne, describe me who can,
An abridgment of all that is pleasant in man."

An abridgment ! Why, he is much
taller than most men !" exclaimed Daisy,
rather indignantly, giving outward expression
to her feelings for the first time. But
Fuzzy paid small heed to this interpolation.

"Oh ! who cares what abridgment
means? One word does as well as another.
I daresay whoever wrote it didn't
know what it meant either."

When we meet him, he's all that is good, kind, and
civil,
But it's said that he hates us poor girls like the d  !"

VOL. II. E

Daisy thought that last vulgar, especially
as applied to a man like her brother's
friend, who was  well, just a gentleman !
But as the Cox girls tittered amazingly
over it, and seemed to find a most especial
relish therein, she merely ventured to remark,
in a cool, high tone,

'swell, that cannot be true, at all events.
Why, even since I came I have met Captain
Gascoigne several times, and he made himself
very pleasant."

A quick look was interchanged between
the sisters.

Well, yes, dear ; you have  because he
likes very much coming to W5," answered
Pussy, very softly, but with clear emphasis.
But he goes out so little in Marstown
society that, of course, the other girls are
deadly jealous."

Fuzzy looked queerly upon this at her
gentle sister, but steadily read on 

' And so we don't know him very well, tliougli we'd

like to know him more.
And also his young friend Dimity, with his voice

like a lion's roar ;
They call him the British Lion, for his growl is

worse than his bite.
If we didn't know what a duck he is, he'd put us

poor things in a fright."

The rhymester here, having failed to get
a lead from any divine poet, was plainly
deteriorating. Even the praise of Jack
could not lessen Miss Daisy Dimity's utter
secret contempt. Fancy calling her manly
brother a duck !

The versification grew from worse to
worse*

"Who now comes on but Major Hodge,
Oh, do not say that rhymes with podge !
He's a terrible flirt ;
Oh, what a funny man is Hodge !"

With quite an added impetus of inspiration,
the writer now seemed to rush in verse
at Mr. Lee.

Next is dear little Smiler,
That arrant beguile,
So larky and gay,
He wheedles away
The hearts of too many a lass,
Alas!
Like dancing with him there's no joy in life
Half so Splendid, unless he should say, Be my wife !"

Hullo ! So you young ladies have got
hold of that farrago of nonsense, have
you?" said Jack's voice behind the group,
sounding very gruffly unflattering as to their
occupation.

The Cox girls started with tittering
outcries, feeling caught.

*' How you got it is more than I know,"
went on the young man, with a rather
severe eye ; " but I hope that none of our
fellows were so weak   "

Oh, dear, no ; certainly not ! None of
your regiment were good-natured enough
to do such a thing as gratify a simple request
of us, young ladies, to see it," interrupted

Pussy, acidly. "Oh, dear, no; you may
set your mind quite at rest."

*' Glad to hear it," coolly responded Jack ;
'vho found Pussy's temper not nearly so
sweet since he had begun to pay more undivided
attentions to her sister. " When
the THING was sent to our mess, I would
have liked it to be burnt  and no more
notice taken. But some of the others were
rather angry, and inclined to retaliate. If
we had written our ideas of the Marstown
young ladies, and sent it round, they might
not have liked seeing themselves described
either. Lee was very nearly doing it ; but
Captain Gascoigne persuaded him not. He
said it would be rather gentlemanlike."

The Cox girls looked dubious at that;
and inclined to regret that their feelings
had been treated with so much consideration.
Daisy's eyes brightened for the first
time since they had been vexed half an

hour ago. She did not like to say she
thought the verses vulgar, but she did say,
softly,

I think that was very nice of Captain
Gascoigne."

But no one heard her except Jack, who
looked upon her with a brotherly eye, and
said aside, observingly,

** Little one, you're tired. You've got a
headache  I can see it by your face."

The Cox girls did not heed this by-play ;
they were occupied in exclaiming against
Jack's strictures, and declaiming their contrary
opinions. Where was the harm, they
wished to know, of sending some verses of
poetry to the officers of a regiment. They
could see none. Perhaps the officers could
see harm in it ; but, thank goodness ! they
(the Misses Cox) had more innocent minds.

"Yes; 'to the pure all things are pure'"
observed Pussy, demurely, and folded her

hands over each other in a way that made
Jack think suddenly what a specimen of a
Pharisaical, listened old maid she might
become with years  in spite of her different
behaviour now.

"Mind you ! we had nothing to do with
this. If we had, I shouldn't speak out as I
do," declared Fuzzy, with honest downrightness.
'' But considering that, in other
ways, we have had some fun With other
regiments, one likes to stand up for oneself,
Mr. Dimity. Now, we sent mock proposals,
last Valentine's Day, to some of the officers
in  in the Queen's Own Freebooters (Major
Hodge's regiment), and they thought it
great sport ! I would never sign the name
of another girl to them  that is liv I One
girl did that by me, at the same time ; and,
if I could be sure who it was, I'd never
forgive her. We never put names."

By Fuzzy's heightened colour, it was

clear to everyone that her supposed declaration
had been sent to Major Hodge. Daisy
looked across at her with a very kindly
fellow-feeling. Jack felt indignant that the
recipient of that letter had ever let out the
secret; and with difficulty refrained from
declaring so. He gave some vent to his
opinion, nevertheless, by the remark 

Of all the low-minded, cowardly, and
contemptible people in this world (and
there are lots of them !), in my opinion, those
that send anonymous letters are the worst
curs."

Saying which, he put his hands in his
pockets, a reprehensible trick ; and got up to
stare at nothing, out of the window, which
apparently relieved his mind.

Jack dear," whispered his little sister,
passing her arm through his, and putting a
question with an air of lightness, *'if you
were ever to get an anonymous letter,

what should you think it best to do ?"

Do, child ! I'd put it straight in the fire,
and never tell living soul I had even seen
it. Why ! bless you, the very object of the
persons who can send such things is to vex
you. Nobody should ever know I was
annoyed by them''

Daisy took her resolution.

Jack had spoken, and, without knowing
it, advised her; and he was nearly always
right. Nevertheless, her heart was rather
heavy with such a secret lying upon it, and
no sister Polly to tell it to. (For Jack's
counsel of secrecy could not have applied to
her.)

So, although she bravely tried not to
mind, and believed she did not mind, that
thing upstairs, still Jack, by-and-by, said
again in his gruffest peremptory tone 

*' You've got a headache, I know. Mrs.
Cox, do order this obstinate girl to her bed"'

Upon which Daisy was so entreated ; and
went dutifully ; and with secret thankfulness.
Before lying down she burnt the scurrilous
little note  holding it, before it was shrivelled,
in the candle, as she might something
of the vermin tribe.

That done, her thoughts became happier,
reverting to late pleasant scenes ; and soon
her dreams were all of gurgling, rushing
waters, bright sunshine, rocks, trees, and a
gallop on Galloper Down, mingled in delightful
confusion.

CHAPTER IV.

By robbing Peter he paid Paul, and hoped to
catch larks if ever the heavens should fall."

Then Daisy was taken by the Coxes,
 * on Sunday, to the garrison-chapel,
she felt even more shy than she had ever
done since she came to Marstown.

To begin with, they had passed by the
barrack-gates, and seen a mass of scarlet
drawn up, and heard the clash of a military
band playing.

There was really no earthly reason in
that why she should feel shy, although unused
to such sounds and sights, since, at
Elm Hall, their way to church lay through

pastoral, green meadows. But shyness, like
other female qualities, does not go by reasoning
; and poor Daisy felt at such times as if
everything new, even the consciousness of
her new bonnet, made her feel shy.

They took the places assigned them in the
unpretending little chapel, and presently a
steady tramp, tramp ! was heard nearing, and
the soldiers came in by one door. Daisy
did not know any correct terms of ecclesiastical
architecture, so she described it, when
writing to Polly, as the " back door."

Presently, most of the officers came filing
in one after another by the "front door," as
she naturally called it, though it was the
smallest, and at one side. Daisy thought
they all looked  that is to say she knew
Jack looked  as if they had all got up
earlier than they wanted to, and had bolted
their breakfasts, and still felt in something

of a Hurry, as they followed at each other's
heels, clothed hotly and gloriously in scarlet
and gold, on that stifling July morning ;
carrying their swords with an expression of
countenance that an imaginative observer
might have fancied to mean : We are all
righteously conscious that we would go to
church if we were left to ourselves ; but it
is quite another thing, and tends to aggravation,
to be OBLIGED to come !

To Miss Dimity's horror most of them,
the bachelors, at least, all had seats just
behind their party. And she now felt an
inward horrible conviction that one of her
hair-pins was sticking out !

She struggled righteously within herself
to say her prayers, and never mind who was
behind her, or what was wrong with her
back plaits. But the feeling was still lurking
that if Jack saw it (and he had lynx

eyes for such superfluities in her attire !)
how he would growl at her later, brother-like
!

No, it did not in the least matter that she
had seen Mr. Lee' pass up the aisle, looking
as jauntily gay as a pocket edition of Mars.
Nor yet that Captain Gascoigne also had
gone by, looking like  well, exactly like his
usual quiet self  she minded none but Jack.

At last, after ten minutes of troubled
agony, summoning up her courage, she stole
up one hand, gave a stealthy, desperate push
to that wretched hair-pin ; and then, thank
goodness, settled down to her devotions  
happy.

The band that played, instead of a mere
harmonium, such as their wheezy one at
Elm Hall, impressed her very much ; the
number of men's voices ioininsf in the sinsjini]:
she thought had a fine effect.

By ill-luck, however, when the psalms

were almost over, who should come, hot
and in haste, fussily ushering her whole
party into church, but Mrs. Grandison
escorted by ]mr. Higginbotham.
And the latter was shown into the seat
beside Daisy.

It was too provoking.

Poor little girl, she could only attend
devoutly to the service, with the latent feeling
that afterwards she should tax Jack
severely with having smiled (behind her
back), and, if he owned the soft impeachment,
scold him well for allowing his
thoughts thus to stray. Meanwhile ]airs.
Browne's Blessing goggled his eyes at her,
as if blankly unaware that anything more
human of his acquaintance than a milliner's
dummy sat beside him.

Beyond Daisy again were Fuzzy and
Birdie ; both equally distracting.

For the latter persisted in singing, although

out of church no one had ever heard
her attempt such a flight. She seemed to
have an edifying belief that shrill false notes
added to her own sense of devotion ; if soit
was only gained by subtracting from that
of others. Fuzzy took the responses under
her especial wing, and, perhaps feeling the
martial atmosphere of the surroundings
fired them off with a sharp brevity most
admirable to hear  if only she had not frequently,
With perfect composure, rattled out
the wrong ones.

Still even this, with patience and perseverance
of attention, could be overlooked.
They had an admirable ten minutes' sermon
from the military chaplain, containing two
jokes, and the remainder common sense.

And now came round the collection-plates.


A good deal of spur and sword jingling
could be heard behind Daisy's head ; indistinct

murmurs of *' Lend me " were
breathed. Nevertheless, sound, big-silvered
jingles showed that, if men do not
give in as many little charities as the
softer sex, they give more when they do
give.

Mrs. Grandison-Browne was evidently
surreptitiously feeling the milled edges of
the small coins in her purse, in fear that she
might carelessly give away a fourpenny
piece when she had meant to bestow a
threepenny one. Mrs. Cox smiled with
superior elegance ; she had seen to that at
home.

But now it came to the turn of Mrs.
Browne's Blessing.

So slowly that the eyes of all in the
chapel could not but turn upon him, that
ambiguous young man drew out a shilling,
looked at it dubiously, then muttered something
to the collector.

VOL. ir. F

The latter stared aghast.

But Mr. Higginbotham, with an air of
business deliberation, held his shilling tight
in the fingers of one hand, while with the
other hand he began sorting out ninepence
in base exchange ! Threepence and
threepence made sixpence ; then in coppers
he sifted out sentence, eighteen. A
halt of a second  a doubting gaze  '' with
earnest eyes and round unthinking face " 
then one last poke, and out came, with an
air of triumph, the crowning penny!

Down he chucked his shilling.

All were at first almost too breathlessly
interested and astonished to do more
than keep their mouths metaphorically'"
open.

The young man. calmly rolling his prominent
eyes, handed the plate to Daisy. While
he still held it, however, Mrs. Browne, who

had been endeavouring, during all the time of
this mercantile transaction, to pluck the sleeve
of the future baronet (two lives removed),
whispering, agonised, " Don't, John ; give
it, John !" only unhappily succeeded in
reaching the goal of her efforts now. At
this supreme moment, therefore, her final
pluck gave the Blessing's arm such a shake
that, with a ring and a rattle, away flew the
coins, great and small, in a perfect largesse !
and went rolling into every imaginable, most
un-get-at-able cranny.

In a trice Mr. Higginbotham relinquished
his hold of the collection-plate ; and there
stood poor Daisy, who held the other side
of it, " blushing like the morn," whilst a sort
of internal spasm seemed to afflict all those
adjacent, and the back benches were no
doubt equally stricken with convulsions of
suppressed mirth.

f2

'' The youths looked aside  to laugh there were a sin,
And the maidens' lips trembled from smiles shut
within."

What a situation for an unsophisticated
country damsel !

CHAPTER V.

Of all the clays that's in the week

I clearly love but one clay,
And that's the day that comes between

A Saturday and Monday.
For then I'm dressed all in my best

To walk abroad with Sally ;
She is the darling of my heart,

And she lives in our alley."

'-' T/OU did that ve
 capitally ; on"

OU did that very well indeed, Daisy !
spirally ; only don't blush so much
another time, when you get Tore used to
knocking the money down."

This was from Jack, in a voice of deep,
inward enjoyment.

It was after church ; and all Marstown
then repaired to the Mall, or rather a part

of it nick-named Prayer-book Row. Here
the Cox party, after meekly walking up
and down some time after chapel  looking
as if waiting for nobody  had been joined
by Mr. Lee and Mr. Dimity, who had got

out of their uniform and into ordinary

/

clothes with amazing quickness.

"I blushed for you, and for your unbecoming
conduct in church," retorted Daisy,
her spirit roused.

Blushed for us !" struck in Smiler Lee,
taking the kind office as meant for himself,
too, with pleasant impudence. '' You did it
very nicely, then, Miss Dimity. Thank you.
We'll always come to you, now, to have it
done for us by substitute  ho, ho, ho !"
(Then in an aside.) " Excuse my laughing
do, please; but if you only knew how
becoming it is when you blush  just the
right amount of colour, and your eyes light
up "

'good morning, Miss Dimity," said 
at that moment, having just joined
the group. " I liopc you will forgive me
i'or being also among the ill-behaved persons
you are so severely condemning. But
really," with a broad smile, despite himself,
that seemed to suffuse his whole honest face
with a flush of suppressed amusement 
*' really you can have no idea what a picture
of injured innocence you made !
Everyone could see it was not your fault ;
but the indignant reproach with which you
looked at that unfortunate young man was
irresistible."

'' Hallo ! Have you come out to promenade
Prayer-book Row ?" exclaimed Lee,
addressing Captain Gascoigne with an air
of (slightly assumed) infinite surprise, yet
of gay welcome to both their party and the
Row. *that is something new. I thought
you always patronised what I call the

Hermit's Walk over there," pointing to a
somewhat deserted and quieter portion of
the Mall, "and that you looked down onus
frivolous people here."

He ! Why, he often comes here with
me," quickly interposed Jack, making that
somewhat loose assertion with some inward
reason (so it seemed to Daisy, who knew him
well) as if not washing his friend's appearance
there to be considered singular.

The Smiler  who was really the best-hearted
fellow in the world  rapidly conquered
his momentary vexation at seeing
the friend who had so much outshone him
during their memorable ride, again quietly
taking up the place beside Daisy's side which
had hitherto been indisputably his (the
Smiler's).

He did remain indeed for a few minutes
longer on Daisy's other side, making lively
sallies to engage her attention on himself.

But, on the other hand, Gascoigne had a
steady perseverance that told in the long
run ; besides, his conversation required answering,
while his gay rival's only needed
applause or laughter.

And also  this he could not cjuess  the
little damsel between tliein was tormenting
herself with the thought that, onions the
many Marstown young ladies continually
passing and re-passing them in kaleidoscopic
groups, might probably be the very one who
had written that letter. Therefore  thinking
her dignity required her to show in public
that she was not " runninir after" Mr. Smiler
Lee with perfect innocence of purpose, Miss
Daisy made it palpable to the world for
some time that the vounij man was rather
a courtier-inviting upon her sovereign
pleasure.

Thus she and Gascoigne were soon left to
each other's society.

And how did you like the service thi:
morning? I remember you were looking
forward to it," he simply asked ; but in a
way that made his companion feel quite
gratified at his having remembered her idle
chat.

After all, it doesn't seem as if I had
been in church at all," she confided in reply,
with quite a melancholy tone. "Between
that dreadful young man, and Mrs. Browne
in front always saying her prayers fully six
seconds behind everyone else ; and  and
some other things."

I know ; I could hear the other things,"
smiled Gascoigne, glancing significantly at the
Misses Cox. " But don't you think that, if
one were really devout, we would not be
aware of these small distractions ?"

'' Perhaps not. No. You always put
things in the right light," dismally. (What
sufficient experience had Daisy, by the way

as to Captain Gascoigne's impartiality of
judgment?) " But, you see, it was all so
new to me : so very different from going to
church at home. May not that be a little
the reason why ?"

t Very much so, I should say. It is a
reason / can't plead for my frequently
wandering thoughts. Well ; tell me, what
is your church near Elm Hall (isn't that the
name?) like."

Whereupon Daisy, with loving minuteness,
described that old, white-washed Saxon
church ; as it was proudly claimed to be, on
the strength of a bit of almost defaced
carving on one stone over the porch. How
it nestled aniono; its elms ; and the rooks

CD '

cawed around it ; and the farmers' wives
clattered to it in patterns through winter-weather,
or strolled thither through the
wide. Hat pastures in summer. How her
father, as squire, had a high, black-oak pew

in the dusty chancel, where he fell asleep,
and the preacher was none the wiser  although
declaiming from the pulpit against
some of the farmers, who apparently came
there to snore, tired with the week's labour.

And if they do, Captain Gascoigne, is it
much wonder ? for the sermon is all text,
said over and over again. Jack counted it
once, when he was home last, up to one
hundred and sixty six times. Then, just as
you really think it is done with, our vicar
says, ' Dear friends, perhaps you would like
to hear my text once more.' "

Thereupon Gascoigne laughed ; and immediately
began describing his church at
home ; not quite so old (being merely Norman)
as that at Elm Hall, but equally
dusty, and delightfully uneven, irregular,
and leaning upon ivy-hid, more modern
buttresses.

How the monumental brasses of his forefathers

upon the floor showed their crusading
exploits, by one having his ankles
crossed, to denote a single, insignificant
expedition to the Holy Land ; while another,
with his crossed higher, showed his
conscience had rejoiced in two ; but the last,
the flower of the family's knights, proudly
lay with his crossed at the knee ; for his
campaigns against Mahomet and the Saracens
had been three.

"The knight's bones are dust,
And his good sword rust ;
His soul is with the saints, I trust."

But now their pleasant walk and talk
were interrupted gently by Mrs. Cox ; who,
usinir  it was remarkable  her voumz 2fuest's
Christian name for the first time, as if to
show both maternal interest and a sort of
proprietorship in her before Gascoigne,
said,

"Daisy, my dear (I leg your pardon for

interrupting you, Captain Gascoigne), let
nee have the pleasure of introducing your
brother's colonel to you. Colonel Dunn,
this is my little guest, Miss Dimity."

Colonel Dunn was what appeared to
Daisy a charming old man ; with the frostiest
of hair, the rosiest of faces, and the warmest
of manners. (She was wrong as to his
supposed venerable age, being misled by
his white hair, but quite right as to his
delightful other qualities,) Young Dimity's
pleased look told that much, when his
colonel welcomed Daisy most paternall} as
the sister of one of '' his boys." Being a
widower, he had two little lads with him,
who were more literally " his boys ;" but
only proportionately more so as to the affection
he seemed to shed over all, young or
old, small and great, that were brought
near to him in life. He talked as if he
were always in a high wind ; one that blew

laden with health and vigour, but in which
it was hard to make his voice heard.

ifter saying everything pleasant he could
think of, as to Daisy's stay in Marstown,
the old colonel took his leave  having so
many other pleasant greetings to give everybody
else, that he seemed continually in a
gay hurry.

Not fair, not fair to take up the time of
such a charming young lady ! There are
too many younger men only waiting their
opportunity, whom, I dare say, you would
prefer very much to the society of an old
one like me," he said, in adieu, waving his
hand to Daisy ; while his two little sons
sprang to either side of him again, as if very
clad he had left the ladies.

The story was current in Marstown that
Mrs. Smeeth (whose classical knowledge lay
open to suspicion) had been heard to say
that the dear colonel with them two darling

boys reminded her of a stato she
thought she had seen somewhere, or its
picture.

The Laocoon ?" the Smiler had artfully
sueoested.

DO

And Mrs. Seeth, observing that very
likely that was it, she was heard afterwards,
in many Marstown gatherings, adopting the
amendment, to his wicked joy.

Now, although Colonel Dunn had so
thoughtfully resigned his claims upon Daisy's
attention, Mrs. Cox was resolved not to relinquish
her own hold upon her charge.

Smiling urbanely at a lady near them,
with a graceful inclination of her head, and
laying her fingers lightly on Daisy's arm
(who saw Gascoigne hovering near), she
said, with gentle haste,

My dear, m3 dear, you must be introduced
to Mrs. Luxton  in your brother's
regiment, you know."

Daisy was somewhat displeased, for the
opportunity seemed ill-chosen, Mrs. Luxton
being occupied with some one else ; nevertheless
she tried to feel as good-humoured
as possible while being trotted forward  as
if she were a cosset-lamb led by a blue
ribbon  by Mrs. Cox.

Mrs. Luxton was a pretty young-woman,
with a frank manner, and a very merry
light in her eyes.

The corners of those same black eyes now
twinkled brightly as she cordially received
the cosset-lamb ; having perceived that victim's
manner of approach.

I hope we shall be great friends.
Miss Dimity ; your brother and I are tremendous
friends, you must know, " she
said. 'you are walking up and down, I
see : perhaps you will take a turn with
me, and Fred" (turning to her stout,
amiable husband) 'will be very glad of

VOL. II. G

the chance to chat with you, Mrs. Cox, I

am sure."

Mrs. Cox, poor woman, murmured 
"Ah!" with a slight catch of her breath.
She gave one quickly furtive glance at her
reproachful-eyed daughters. But she could
not now prevent Daisy becoming more
friendly with Mrs. Luxton than was judged
expedient. The latter's frank honesty had
dashed aside the pretty little cobweb she
wanted to hold Daisy fast in, that the latter
should not be dangerous in any quarter.

Up and down accordingly they paced together,
and Daisy liked Mrs. Luxton very
much indeed ; she was so honest, amusing,
and with a something about her more congenial
than anyone whom Daisy had yet
met in Marstown.

You are a cousin of the Coxes, are you
not?" Mrs. Luxton asked, but with some
doubt in her voice.

*' I ?  Oh ! no !" Daisy answered, with
surprise; and, being a rather methodical
small person, explained how that Mrs. Cox
was only her step-another second-cousin
once removed. But, lest Mrs. Luxton should
imagine she was undervaluing the connection,
she felt bound to describe also Mrs.
Cox's great kindness in asking her, without
ever having seen herself  nor even her stepmother
for long years. She dwelt upon
this unexpected goodness ; not understand-r
ing why her companion's eyes twinkled with
more fun than ever.

But her own eyes had been somewhat
wandering.

It was only natural to wonder what Captain
Gascoicjne was doincj : having remarked
that he had not remained long with their
party after being left to the blandishments
of Pussy.

He had gone, as if weary of society in

G 2

Prayer-book Row, to the quiet Hermit's
Walk at its upper end, where he had joined
two other gentlemen of equally quiet appearance,
in a saunter.

"Who is that you are looking at  Captain
Gascoigne ?' said Mrs Luxton, suddenly.
'' He was with you a little while ago,
was he not ? I like him so much ; indeed
I want to speak to him myself."

So saying, she contrived to approach
rather near the anchorites, as they strolled
to the verge of the debatable land betwixt
their haunts and Prayer-book Row, and signed
to the gentle hermit in question.

Gascoigne came to her with his very most
courteous manner. Daisy was beginning
now to be able to conjugate the comparative
degrees of his courtesy.

Mrs. Luxton told him she wished particularly
to ask him to join a water-party she
was getting up for the next week.

"Miss Dimity has just promised me to
come too."

If Mrs. Cox will do so," put in Daisy,
dutifully.

Gascoigne would be very happy, looking
really pleased ; adding he had already accepted
the same kind invitation from Captain
Luxton.

"Dear me ; did he ask you? How forgetful
of me ! Well, mind you do come
Miss Dimity, don't trouble yourself about
Mrs. Cox ; she is sure to come. By-the-way,
I must be hurrying homewards. But
there  she is not live yards off ! Do you
mind joining her by yourself?  or perhaps
"

Captain Gascoigne asked, might he be
permitted to act as Miss Dimity's escort for
that enormous distance. With another
twinkle of her mischievous eyes, Mrs. Luxton
accordingly departed ; sending her best
adieux to Mrs. Cox.

The latter lady called, with some flurried
sweetness as her stray chick approached in
this strange guardianship,

**My dear, I am afraid, do you know, we
must be going. I suppose. Captain Gascoigne,
you will hardly be coming our way ; so we
must say good-bye," with great suavity.

"Let me accompany you as far as the entrance
to the Mall, at all events," answered
Gascoigne, with equal suavity but perfect
calm ; and went on beside Daisy accordingly.


'' Who are those gentlemen you were
with just now?" asked Daisy, with a tinge
of jealousy.

'those are two of my greatest friends
men in my regiment."

Your greatest friends ! But I thought"
with a glance at Jack, jealous now for that
human piece of perfection.

Gascoigne laughed.

Surely one may have several friends,
Miss Dimity. Your brother is the friend
who persuades me most to go out into society;
those others are so pleasant, they rather
tempt me to keep out of it  they are such
delightful companions. You would like them
very much ; but, like many more of the
very nicest men in the army, they don't
care for teas, or even balls  if you can
believe it."

'you need not think me a tee-totus,"
said Miss Daisy, quite pertly.

The Mall was entered by an old-fashioned
turn-stile ; and as Daisy and Gascoigne were
going out after the others of her party, they
stopped a moment to allow two little old
ladies, the Miss Silverthornes, to come
through.

Gascoigne took off his hat to the first, asa
man might sure of a pleasant answering
greeting, saying,

How are you, Miss Silverthorne ? I
have not seen you for a long time."

But, to his evident amazement, the silver-haired,
small spinster vouchsafed him no
answer ; and, with the gentlest of almost
imperceptible bows, looked in the opposite
direction with dainty dignity.

It was almost a cut; as near one as old-fashioned
good breeding would allow herat
least.

By  Fin-go !" murmured Gascoigne, ina
love, astonished tone.

He reddened slightly all over his kind
face, as he looked after Miss Silverthorne,
with a slow surprise, and yet a pitying, hurt
expression, as if a weak thing had repulsed
his friendliness. Daisy felt most indignant
for him. Then he turned.

The second old maid was now trying to
pass through the stile. But she had not
her elder's dignity, being plainly nervous or

else so weak that her fingers found it hard
to move the heavy stile-bar. Gascoigne
quickly stepped forward, and, pushing it
with his strong hand, said  with what Daisy
thought the perfection of a chivalrous air,

I fear that I have offended your sister,
Miss Silverthorne, though how I cannot
imagine. Will you not be good enough to
tell me what is the matter ; since, although
grieved at my fault, T really cannot guess
chat it is /"

Oh ! Gerald Gascoigne, not know . . .
Oh ! dear me, I irish Prudence had not
gone on. This is very distressing !"

The tiny little woman looked up in his
face tremulously ; her hands likewise trembled
so much that she dropped a reticule
containing her prayer-books and handkerchief


Again Gascoigne came to her succour, and
picked them up ; upon which her silver-grey

gown and her black lace shawl both now
partook in her state of agitation.

*' I most solemnly assure you, Miss
Silverthorne, I do not know  there !"

Oh, dear Gerald Gascoigne ! . . . No,
I jean only dear, dear ! you know  dont
say that ! Such old friends of yours as a
baby, and of your dear mother's, too, dear
me ; it is most distressing ! . . . Still, young
folk will be young folk, as I said to Prudence,
only she said that to be bombarded
with crumbs and things from a roof was not
the conduct we should have expected from
you."

What ! That was it ?" cried Gascoigne,
a light breaking upon him. " But, Miss
Silverthorne, believe me, I had nothing todo
with it. I "

Oh, Gerald Gascoigne ! Say no more,"
and the tiny spinster held up a warning hand.

'don't say another word. I will ask Prudence
. . . not to mind it any more, but 
ive saw you on the roost

She rustled away to join her sister ; who
awaited her with an air of extreme solicitude,
at the result of an interview requiring
such courage on the part of the weaklier
one.

Gascoigne, after looking utterly dumb-founded
for a moment or two, then gravely
said,

There, Miss Dimity  you see how mistakes
arise in this world. And they were
old friends of my mother's, who have since
lost most of their fortune. So I am all the
more sorry for it."

Mrs. Cox was now found to be looking
back, and waiting for Daisy on the other
side of the turn-stile, with an air of more
maternal fussiness than the latter's slight

delay quite warranted. The young people
had thoughtlessly hurried on ahead, as she
sweetly explained.

Gascoigne took his leave.

CHAPTER VI.

Pack clouds away, and welcome day.
With night ere baits!! .r,-c, :
Sweet air, blovr 5 : : : ; n : . ks, aloft,

T: lire my love good-morrow"'

TXQW different it was to drake a; Elm
 His a: home, from waking in Mars-town
!

W h V . a : \\ : ':: - . ]? i s j could always sleep
with he: f vide open (without fears

of being v,  . :bat the policeman said it
was tempting P: violence, or tempting burglars).
In :c grey, cool dawns the sweet
air at home used indeed to blow softly in,
rustling her blinds. The larks in the lawn
outside  that lawn on which the squire had

been watching the hay making when our
story opened  the larks were sure to have
left their watery nest " to mount aloft.

Then, by-and-by, the sun would be seen
peeping over the summit of the tall elms at
the foot of the lawn ; though, if you rightly
considered it, that was pretty high already.
And then was the time for universal carolling
and chirping.

"VVake from thy nest, robin redbreast ;
Sing, birds, in every furrow ;
And from each hill let music shrill
Give my fair love good-morrow."

And, after that, there would be farmyard
noises, that in the early morning stillness
could be easily heard, though the shrubberies
did intervene : the lowing of cows,
the morning quarrels and crows of poultry
most delightful of all that strangest-sounding
of barndoor jubilees, telling that
some of Miss Daisy's or Miss Polly's many

hens had contributed one penny farthing,
or whatever else it niiht be, according
to the market variations, to those young
hides' purses, by  laying an egg.

The Dimity girls undertook the whole
important charge of the fowls at Elm Hall,
so, as the squire jollily said, it was but fair
they should have the profits. Thus he fed
the fowls, and then paid for them, and was
fleeced for every one of his own eggs, and
bore it like a lamb ; but then his little
daughters  he knew  were most demurely
righteous in studying the quotations of egg-prices
in the Boyalshire Extractor, so that
they, should not exact even the fraction of a
farthing too much from him.

So, after a few cackles from the farm
making themselves audible in spite o{ the
rustling blinds, young Polly, who slept in a
little pink and white nest beyond Daisy's
little blue and white nest, would call to her

through the communicating door, which the
sisters always left ajar the last thing at
night, that they might talk more conveniently
when they ought to have been asleep.
Or if, as more rarely happened, Daisy
chanced to be first awake, she would rouse
her sleeping sister in the spirit of old
Herrick 

Get up, get up, for shame ! The blooming morn
Upon her wing presents the god unshorn.
See how Aurora throws her fair,
Fresh quilted colours through the air !
Get up, sweet slug-abed, and see
The dew bespangling herb and tree."

So up these two rational little girls would
rise, and begin dressing in a violent hurry,
as if afraid that otherwise they would certainly
fall asleep. At least, Daisy always
did so ; by-and-by drowsiness Avould make
her begin to dawdle, so that each time she
softly called through the door to Polly,
*' What are you about?" it always cost hera

pang, for nimble Polly was sure to say,
*' Curling my hair," long before the tongs
on her plump, slower elder's dressing-table
had seen the heating flame. Wicked little
girls, you may say, thus to touzle the soft,
yellow locks Nature gave them ; but then,
theirs were just the faces to look so much
prettier with this fashion.

But at last both would have dressed and
prayed and been outside together, tripping
over the dewy meadows or through the
fresh-smelling gardens, where the roses
where newly washed and waking, while they
heard

''The cuckoo, loud on some high lawn."
And they would say to each other, with
always fresh pleasure, as if they had never
said it before  " Is it not delightful to be
out in the morning early ?"

After this, there were a hundred little
duties to perform ; the eggs to be gathered ;

VOL. II. H

the various clutches of chickens to be
counted and fed ; little clucking colonies to
be shifted bodily, with their mother, house,
and a square yard of noble, wired-in demesne,
to fresh virgin soil.

Then came family prayers, read daily by
the good squire in a hearty gabble which
nobody could understand ; since, never
having been taught elocution in his youth,
his manner of delivery was to take a tremendously
long breath before every two or
three verses : and then utter these with all
the words tumbling on the top of each other.
iVfter which he always made a pause, and
laid in a fresh stock of air.

But the household, being used to this,
always followed at a less break-neck pace
with their own books, and the elder sisters
kept the tribe of Gad to order and
attention.

The tribal lessons came on after breakfast.

AVIiat conscientious efforts Polly and
Daisy made with those brats. How deeply
they sighed over Bobby and Billy and
Jennie, who rebelled against their authority;
and, although seeming healthy and
exulting in rather too many wits out of
doors, assumed an appearance of lumpish
dulness in the school-room that might almost
have led one to dread water on the brain, or
future idiocy.

A little such dulness, then all the more
wholesomeness !

By the noonday workmen's bell all this
mental labour was joyfully ended ; and for
the rest of the morning only pleasure remained
to the sisters.

The squire would be calling to come out
and see the hay ; or the bees might be
swarming ; or there was the boat waiting to
be paddled up the slow, sleepy river, past
the elms and among; the water-flats and

h2

lilies. Or Slug would want an easy canter
along the shady side of the meadows.

Luncheon done, and the sleepy time after
existed through, the basket-carriage and fat
pony might come round for Mrs. Dimity to
be driven by one of her willing little step-daughters
to see the vicar's wife ; the gentle
but incapable step-mother being frightened
at holding the reins, herself, of even the
dullest of Dobbins. Or else they would be
driven by the old coachman in the big carriage,
with the pair of fat horses, to pay
afternoon calls on their rather distant, few,
and sleepy neighbours.

Although respecting the latter very much,
and seeing them seldom, the Dimities always
said, '' Let us hope they will be out," with
as fervent unction as would people hurrying
through a London season ; feeling certain
that the first instinct of many of their neighbours
would be to hide behind the laurel-bushes,

although they, too, really liked the
Dimities.

Failing these efforts at participating in
gay society, as Mrs. Dimity persisted, with
meek obstinacy, in regarding them  there
was the village to visit.

This was a comfortable little hamlet,
consisting of about half a dozen scattered
cottages, all as snug as could be, the united
households of which possessed between
them all only two sick and one very aged inhabitant.
These latter the two little Dimity
sisters conscientiously visited very often
indeed, carrying little baskets of blessings,
old port, and new flannel ; although an
acid-minded person might have said with
truth that these gifts were really luxuries,
not being positively wanted; and that millions
of unknown beings needed them far more.

Then the sun would begin to sink, and a
sense of good rest after cjood labour to steal

over the happily-tired earth and its workers.
The evening; comes, the field is still.

Deserted is the half-mown plain,
Silent the swaths ! the ringing wain."

Yes, it might be dull in the country ; it
was quiet, but who could say it was not
happy in the jocund summer-time, who, at
least, that was as fresh, and young, and
happy-hearted as Daisy Dimity and her
hardly full-grown sister ?

The good squire would nod indoors after
his hearty dinner. His meek partner, dreading
dews, would carefully shut out the soft
night-airs by closing the drawing-room
windows tight, and pulling down the blinds ;
calling the dusk blind mans holiday; and
ringing at the earliest moment for a double-burner
lamp. Sitting primly upright under
this on a low but very stiff-backed chair,
Mrs. Dimity would nightly have so many

long seams of what she euphemistically
termed "white work," that what became
of it all was a marvel, even bearing in mind
the wants of the turbulent tribe.

Of course a sewing machine would have
hemmed these far quicker and better, but
Mrs. Dimity looked with an eye of rivalship
upon sewing machines. White work was
what she had been brought up to sew of an
evening; and it seemed as if white work
alone could or should occupy the second
Mrs. Dimity's evenings for the remainder of
her life. Summer or winter, thus she sewed.
But she liked winter evenings best, because
then she could spend longer hours at the
long white seams.

The tribe, thank goodness! would now
be safe, and, let it be hoped, quiet in bed.
But Daisy and Polly were neither nodding
nor sewing indoors.

Out in the sweet summer dark or the

moonlight they would be, rejoicing in all
the summer's beauty that abides in our cool
little isle so short a space. They would be
listening to the nightingales which sing in
happy Royalshire, or chatting together up
and down among the rose-trellises, or the
pleached alley, or by the borders of the
sleeps wood and sleepy river.

And what they could find to talk about,
seeing their lives were so simple and same,
it would be hard to say ! But theirs were
healthy, harmless jocund lives, and at sweet
seventeen a little makes us laugh.

' Oh, prima vera ! gioventu dell' anno !
Oh, gioventu, prima vera della vita !!'

Well ! and how did Daisy v/ake in Mars-town
?

First, no sweet morning scents of mignonette
or hay to salute awaking senses.

Instead of the lark's sweet lay, far on
high in the sky, came up from just below in

the Street the cry of " Umberell-ahs to
mend !" in always hoarser reiteration.

As to prayers, the girls never came down
to them, so poor Mrs. Cox read them aloud
for Daisy's benefit, and when she had no
guest, presumably read them to herself.
But it was always precisely at prayer-time
that the barrel-organ, or the German brass
band, would choose to strike up some ear-splitting
valse exactly opposite the window.

The Cox girls made no pretence any
longer of coins down in time for break-last
; but, treating Daisy now with real
confidence as one of themselves, left her to
be their mother's only matutinal companion.


Afterwards  well, we know how Daisy
hitherto spent most of her time ; but a
confidential letter to Polly may tell of some
small remaining thoucjlits thereon, left in the
crannies of her mind.

(Private!)

'darling Polly,  Don't show this to
anybody else, though I've nothing very
particular to write.

"I got up quite early to have a chat
with you. It is very hard here to get anytime
to myself; for the Cox girls always
scold me when I sit down to read or write.
Then all morning other girls run in and
oui visiting, and a great many gentlemen
come at tea-time.

Oh ! my dear, on Sunday night I was
so mortified. We went to the cathedral in
the evening, which I would have enjoyed
ever so much, but that Major Hodge and
Mr. Jones came with us, and would keep
whispering and laughing so much with
Fuzzy and Pussy that the service was quite
spoilt.

Jack, of course, was with us too.

"Mrs. Cox made ever so many excuses

for not being able to ask Mr. Lee too  forme!
Lie said the doctor did not like so
many coming back to supper.

I told her the truth  I was very glad
she had not ; but hope she did not see that
I was hurt at the idea of having anybody
asked for me in that especial way. Perhaps,
when one has been out longer, one
would not mind so much. Also I could
not tell her that Captain Gascoigne thought
it vulgar.

And there he was in the cathedral,
with two such nice-looking, quiet men, his
friends ; and once, in the psalms, when the
rest were handing chocolate to each other
and giggling quite loud, he looked round !
I did so wish I could have been a church-mouse
and had a hole to creep into. Then
going out, he said to Jack in the crowd, 'Are
you all going back to supper ?' Perhaps when
Jack said 'Yes' he thought one of the

gentlemen had been ' asked for me,' for I
almost fancied he looked at rae. But
indeed I came and went with Mrs. Cox,
and never even looked at them.

And after supper that night, Major
Hodge actually tried to pay me attention
(which I thought very horrid of him !). I put
him off, for our poor Fuzzy is so fond of
him and looked so jealous.

Indeed, the old doctor helped ; for in
the evenings at home, if any gentlemen
come in, he always makes a great fuss about
me; comes and says, * Ah ! Charmer, or
Beauty, we have not met all the day, now
let an old man have a little chance of a
talk.' Then he puts rae in a corner, and
sits in front staring at me with his funny
round face and big eyes, admiring my arms,
or hair, or feet, till I am quite uncomfortable
and don't know what to say. Or else
he asks me to play draughts or backgammon,

saying there is nobody he ever
liked playing with so much. Of course it
is very nice he likes me so much ; still 
quite between ourselves !  he is rather a
pleasant old humbug, I am afraid, for when
no strangers are there, he just goes to sleep
and forgets all about me.

"Papa sent me a kind message to bring
back the Cox girls, if they liked, to stay as
long as they chose, for a quiet visit.

But Ashen I told them, they seemed
very doubtful ; having found out that the
only unmarried gentleman near Elm Hall is
the curate, and that he has taken a vow of 
(can't spell it!)  Pussy called it, 'perpetual
selfishness,'  they quite decided against coming;
till we have our hunt ball next winter.

Fuzzy said to me, ' You see, dear, it
would be sadi a haste of times You may
think that horrid of her, but it was very
honest. She really always says the worst

of herself, and is most kind and good-natured.


Indeed, they all mean to be that towards
me ; but it is not quite so hearty and
sincere in the other two sisters, I think.
Birdie is often very ill-tempered with the
rest, because she is the spoilt child. Then
"she rushes to throw her arms round my
neck  and kisses me  saying she is very
naughty, but will never do so any more. I
sincerely wish she would not; for I can't
quite believe now in her repentance, and
don't want her apologies.

You ask which I like best, Captain
Gascoigne or Mr. Lee. Dear child, how
can I tell sou ; they are so different ! Of
course you would like Captain Gascoigne
best  there is no doubt about that. He
is not what you would call frivolous, and
no one on earth could help respecting
him very much. And then he is such

a good man  at least, / am sure he is!

But though, of course, you would be
right, still Mr. Lee is very nice, too. He
never frightens one by being severe, like
some of the other gentlemen ; and sometimes,
if some of the others have made me feel shy,
lie quite cheers me up ; he is such fun, and
pays such delightful compliments.

' Now good-bye, darling. Do you miss
me very much? I do so wish we could
have a good chat this minute together.
With fond love, ever your most affectionate
sister,

"Daisy.

Pes.  I tried hard not to write this 
but really must just tell you. When I
happened to be looking over Birdie's music
yesterday, there were three songs with,
From Jack to Birdie,' written in her own
hand. Only fancy ! anybody might have

seen it. What would they think ? It
annoyed me very much.

'' P.P.S.  I opened my letter, being
afraid that my last secret may make you
uneasy, to confide that it is after breakfast
now, and Jack came up, so 1 thought it
right to tell him what I had seen. It
took a great deal of courage, being afraid
he would think me interfering ; so I first
begged his pardon before he knew what it
was about. (Luckily, none of the girls
were out of their bed-rooms yet.) I said it
made me quite afraid he was engaged ; and
of course, though Polly and I would be
fond of anyone he chose, still I did hope
he would think well over it. But all he
did was to pinch my ear, and go off into
one of those great yells of laughter that weare
always telling him are quite vulgar.
He said, ' Oh, I must tell that to Gascoigne.
Gascoigne must hear that.' Then in sailed

Mrs. Cox, to know what we were laughing
about. (Somehow, Jack and I never get
a minute alone.) But, when he saw I
looked distressed, he came and pinched my
other ear, whispering, ' All right, little one,
don't you be afraid ; I can see through a
mile-stone as well as most people yet. And
you may tell Polly, from me, that one
sister is quite enough plague for each of
you yet a while, in my opinion !'

"There, dear; it is a great blessing to
think of that, isn't it ?

For otherwise, although I do think
Jack oughtn't to, it never would do, would
it?

Yours again,

*'D. D."

VOL. :i.

CHAPTER VII.

*' And trust me, dear ! good-humour can prevail
When airs and flights and screams and scolding fail.
Beauties in vain their pretty eyes may roll ;
Charms strike the sight, but merit wins the soul."

W

HAT ! stuff the bodice with sawdust
to make a fine figure of it. Lovely
idea ! What a clever, angelic Dais} you
are to have such a grand idea !"

'indeed! Well, Miss Cox, / call it a
hideous, horrible idea," growled the deep
voice of Jack Dimity, as, unannounced, he
entered the Miss Coxes' " muddle-room "
unawares. (He had, however, been "made
free " of that retreat on the strength of his
relationship to Daisy.)

*' And did I hear this proposition coming
from my innocent little sister, too? Daisy,
if you've got an} sawdust about you, I'll 
I'll run a pin into you ! Come here, miss,
this instant."

His denunciation was greeted with a
chorus of shrill girlish laughter. And then
Fuzzy, as soon as she had breath to speak 
for the Cox girls always laughed loud and
lonf, and then would very likely have two
or three fresh outbursts all over again 
explained, with her usual love of military
expressions, that meaning to have " a field-day
" to review all their old dresses, and see
how these could be '' cultivated " up afresh,
they had lamented the expense of going to
dressmakers, and the trouble of fitting gowns
themselves on their own persons.

Whereupon Daisy, with a most glorious
fish of inspiration, had suggested to make
themselves a lay figure  a milliner's dummy.

i2

'but stuff myself with sawdust! that
would be a deal too much, Mr. Dimity  ha f
ha ! Now, Birdie, done pinch me. If you
can't make a pun yourself, that's no reason
why you should always try to stop everyone
else."

For Birdie, whose wits were not so keen
as those of her two elders, but who always
liked to be foremost, had a smart way of
thus asserting her powers of bodily raillery,
or of stifling her sisters with a sofa-cushion ;
they did not like it, but strangers always
laughed.

I know  " continued Fuzzy, elated at
having triumphantly dodged her younger's
attack, and pleased to secure Jack's attention
for once, '' I do know that that Miss
Black, for instance, whose figure all you
men admire so much, is all made up with 
what do you thinJc V

"Oh! hu  sh, Fuzzy dear," murmured

Daisy, rather scandalised. " Jack, just look
here at our future Aunt Sally." So saying
she held up a stout holland bodice, tightly
closed up everywhere except at the neck,
where the sawdust was to be put in. This
was her own invention, and she eyed it
With pride, though it still hung limp as an
empty balloon.

Then said some of the female voices,
But how on earth is it to be mounted?"
"Two broom-sticks, or the supports of a
clothes-rail," promptly uttered Jack, who
prided himself on a taste for practical
carpentering, and loved driving nails. " I'm
your man."

His help was accepted with joyful alacrity.
Everyone now had a surfeit of suggestions
to offer, and all the cooks began the broth.
Fuzzy, however, made the hit of the day by
remembering that their parlour-maid was a
perfect virgin mine of possibilities in the

way of clothes-rails and sawdust, since she
had an admirer who kept a carpenter's shop
in a back street hard by. Thither the demure
damsel was accordingly sent tripping.
Before long she returned smiling, laden
with spoils ; whilst Jack was still ferreting
grimly in the doctor's tiny cellar for cobwebbed
remains of wine-boxes, the only
spare timber in the house, except Bryant
and May's matches, as Fuzzy told him.

Then how they set to work, like new
brooms, with a will !

How Jack hacked and sawed with an
old rusty pocket-knife and a broken carving-knife,
the only tools that could be found,
and quarrelled with them alternately, grunting
to himself ! How the rest dribbled the
sawdust into their holland case, and kneaded
and pounded down in turns till their fingers
were sore ! How, as they advanced to the
so-called waist of their dummy, they fell

into Pygmalion-like ecstasies over its growing
life-likeness !

It is getting exactly like Miss Black ; and
I vow it shall be called Miss Black from this
time forth for ever more," declared Fuzzy.
Daisy dear" (in a loud whisper), "do you
know she is a rival of yours, or rather you
have cut her out? Little Lee used to flirt
with her most tremendously before you
came, and "

"What is that you are saying about Mr.
Lee ?" called out Jack, straightforwardly.

It was not the first time, it struck Daisy
how odd it seemed that the Cox girls and
their friends used to talk of gentlemen
behind their backs without any prefix to
their surnames. Whereas, on the other
hand, men such as Jack  who were of course
far more familiar with their comrades 
never did so, but set them quite a contrary
example.

*' I was only telling your sister about
Miss Black, and her passion for the Smiler ;
which is evidently more than his for her,"
lightly answered Fuzzy.

Humph ; the less Daisy knows of that
young person, in my opinion, the better,"
bluntly uttered the carpenter; who had just
succeeded in reducing the extremities of his
clothes-rail to human length, and now, with
grunts and much disfavour, was hewing a
round stand by help of his trusty, many-bladed
knife, out of an old Marsala packing-case.
" I don't call Miss Black a lady.
She tries to talk on the Mall with any officers
she meets, though she never saw them
before. And she inveigled Mr. Lee out in
her boat, and then upset him, though she
can row right well, when she pleases. Of
course, she meant him to save her from a
watery grave, with a romantic ending ; but,
luckily for him, she found herself clinging

to her preserver, who was a snuffy old boatman
that had fished her out. Poor Lee
can't swim well, so he was nearly drowned.
Besides, as she's not particularly particular
herself, she is always trying to accuse other
girls."

' No, does she ! Oh, what does she say
of us ?" asked all the Cox sisters in one
breath.

But Master Jack, perceiving how near
indiscretion he was, relapsed into reticence ;
only remarking 

"No matter. Daisy, remember, I won't
have you know her."

But Daisy now knew enough ; she was
almost certain now dio had sent her that
horrible, poison-rankling, anonymous letter.

Just then Mrs. Cox entered the room ; a
thing she hardly ever did when one of the
especial gentlemen friends of her daughters
were there.

'* Which of you girls will go to the
market for me"' she said, in a low, anxious
voice.

One of the two quiet little school-boys,
whom nobody but their mother and the
servants ever seemed to regard, was unwell
that morning, and kept at home. He had
eaten too much suet-dumpling in the kitchen,
the only place in the house where these two
little come-too-lates were free to make a
noise. The mother did not like to leave
him : the servants had no time to go out.

'' Do, Birdie do you go, my child, forme.
You are doing nothing, I see," and
Mrs. Cox, hearing herself called for some
of the multifarious household duties that
she solely fulfilled, glided away.

Yes, do go, Birdie. We are all busy
except you," cried her sisters.

In truth, that youngest Miss Cox, who
hated all work, after beginning the sawdust

with ardour, had desisted on the first moment
of feelings tired. She was now sitting];
beside Jack ; teasing him by slipping tin-tacks
into his pockets ; or twisting and untwisting
her handkerchief till it became a
wisp  her favourite trick.

"I won't!" and Birdie, with flashing eyes,
sprang up from sitting on the carpet, and
came across the room, her rosy cheeks in a
flame. " It is just like your selfishness and
unkindness to propose me, you nasty, spiteful
thing !" she whispered to Fuzzy, but
very low, lest Jack should hear ; and she
enforced her words by a quiet pinch that
made poor Fuzzy start, and only nobly
refrain from a shriek when she remembered
the guests. She just murmured, reproachfully,


"Oh, Birdie, you make my arms all black
and blue ; and the marks do stay so."

"You need not try that with me," calmly

remarked Pussy now, to her younger sister,
with a determined eye. " For I won't
stand it ; and perhaps you don't want yourself
exposed before  him," (glancing at
Jack. The latter, as Daisy saw with regret,
had one eye for all that was passing, although
ostensibly hard at work creating his
wooden skeleton ; and he had suspiciously
begun to hum a tune.)

The aggrieved one went on in increasing
anger.

'* Don't you know, miss, that ever since I
had fever last year papa said I was not to
be put in a temper, for it was so bad forme.
And I will be in a temper now ; I
will !  and it is all your fault, and so 1 shall
go and tell him !"

She seemed resolved to execute her threat;
for at once tearing her handkerchief down
the middle, she bit it and stamped, with
tears filling her eyes. Pussy looked at her

Utterly unmoved; Fuzzy, dreadfully ashamed,
tried to coax her out of the room. But
Jack called out, carelessly,

I say, Daisy, could you not go to the
market for Mrs. Cox ? You're such a
regular old housekeeper, nobody could doit
better; and the rest are busy."

Daisy had been busier than any, and the
most pleased with her own invention. But
she instantly agreed, with a bright smile ;
and ran out of the room like a good-humoured,
but rather frightened, little rabbit,
glad to escape from the late scene.

This changed matters: so, after an inward
struggle, Pussy joined her, as the one of the
two elders who could best be spared.
However, all the way to the market she
relieved her mind by hanging on Daisy's
arm most affectionately, and detailing, in
weeping tones, all that the household lead
to endure from Birdie's ill-humours ; above

all, to what trials her own angelic temper
was put. She was a quiet enough languishing
girl herself, but bore grudges long in
her heart ; and seemed to have such a
smooth surface of mind to offer to society,
that one seemed never to get a good mental
grip of what she was really like.

However, Daisy did her best under the
circumstances : consoled and encouraged
her. She only said a few words of plain,
direct sympathy; but a great many that
were gay and friendly; till, at last, Pussy
uttered, with more warmth of sincerity than
was usual with her,

'' Well ; I must say you are a good little
thing. You make me feel better for being
with you."

The market was crowded with fruit, and
at one of the stalls they came full upon Mr.
Jones, eating early plums.

'' Have some ?" he stolidly asked, in answer

to Pussy's expressions of delight on
having met him. "Don't be shy. I assure
you I've just eaten two dozen and three
myself," and he pointed to a goodly row of
stones and plum-skins to confirm the tale.

Daisy looked at him open-eyed, thinking
him surely a most greedy young man ; but
was rather distressed when, with an air of
the greatest good-humour, he pressed not
only his uneaten plums, but cherries, strawberries,
every fruit upon the stall, on her and
Pussy's acceptance.

And, although Daisy strove to decline,
her friend took all with such laughing satisfaction,
that, not to seem conceited, Miss
Dimity reluctantly consented to eat a few
cherries  seeing that Mr. Jones grew only
the more obtusely and good naturedly pressing,
the more she refused.

Next, a gallon of peas must be bought,
and brought home in the basket Pussy

carried ; otherwise, as she openly said
"Those market-women always sent short
measure." She and her cavalier began
chaffering, accordingly, at all the stalls in
succession ; or rather, Pussy haggled at
each, always offering a half-penny less than
the last price to which bargaining could
reduce them. Pussy had a quiet passion
for bargaining.

At last Daisy could see that even the
infatuated swain was growing sick of this.
Poor soul ! although good-humoured to the
very scorn of his detractors, he had a man's
dislike of such small dealings ; and, to Daisy's
horror, she saw him slily hold up a sixpence
behind Miss Cox, to the market-woman's
gaze.

'soil, come  you'll give them to such a
pretty young lady," he cheerily interposed,
with a guffaw.

The woman, smiling, gave way ; and with

triumph Pussy marched off, bearing her
pease inefFectually covered with a scrap of
brown paper, to hide them from the public
gaze. Daisy, at that, hastily bought a big
posy of mignonette and rosebuds, with
which lie tried to screen the obtrusive pods
that offended her fastidious eyes.

"There is Captain O'Donoghue," suddenly
cried out Pussy ; pointing to an alley which
was a short cut through the market, and
much frequented. " Daisy, hurry and speak
to him."

But the latter hung back. "I don't like

-

to, indeed ; I know him so slightly."

'little 2roose! You know him twice as
well as I do. You've danced with the man,
and I've hardly spoken to him." (Which
was strictly true.) " Well, I suppose I
must go myself for you. Captain O'Don  o
glue !" and off started Pussy on a smart
chase.

VOL. II. K

The Beauty was gently sauntering along,
seeming to disapprove of the fish and
butcher's meat smells that came " betwixt the
wind and his nobility." He was evidently
thinking of nothing, although caressing his
long blonde moustaches with an air of
thoughtfulness, when he was thus suddenly
boarded by Miss Cox and taken in tow.

Being brought back to Daisy like a noble
captive, he smiled upon her utterly sweetly ;
and, seeing that the little damsel looked
timid, turned the tables by soon seeming to
assume that he was the gentle conqueror.

What  you are leaving the market just
now? Well, then, let me take care of you
through all the dangers of the mazy streets
and fearful crossings  eh ? Aw  won't
you?"

It is not in the least necessary, thank
you ; Miss Cox and I can very well take
care of each other home," coldly replied

Daisy, although rather friii'htGned at her
own boldness.

But three is no company ; and our
friends in front are evidently not anxious to
give you very much of theirs."

In fact, while Daisy still spoke to the
handsome Milesian, the others, as if taking
for granted she would secure his companionship,
had started homewards.

'' I shall catch them up in another minute.
They will wait for me. Pray don't take
the trouble of coming with us, Captain
O'Donoghue, for this is quite the opposite
direction to the way you were going. I see
that . . and you may have business . . .
Pray don't come out of your way."

"It is not in the least out of my way ;
and, I assure you, I have no business," returned
the gentleman, striding beside lier as
Daisy hurried along.

His manner was much less patronising

know,

for he could tell by his little companion's
last tone of sincere entreaty that she
really did not wish to have been thrust thus-upon
his society.

'let me just go with you, till we catch
them up ; then I will say good mornings
Miss Dimity."

Ah, yes ! That was said with a really
true-metalled ring, Captain O'Donoghue ;
still it was easier said than done. For the
couple in front were positively racing to
keep ahead  and a guffaw that came back
from Mr. Jones showed they considered the
matter a capital joke.

Outside the market, there was a perfect
network of small streets, many quite slums.
This was not the direct way back for the
young ladies, as Daisy's companion very
well knew, so he suspected a plant. But
poor Daisy, he soon found, was so unaccustomed
to finding her way in any town, that

she was as innocent of the others' guile and
almost as helpless as a new-born babe.

The fugitives had just rounded a corner
some few seconds before the others. But
on coming up, not a trace of them was to
be seen ; they had apparently vanished.

"They may have gone down this alley."

"No . . .Well, there is another opening;
let us try that."

No again. At last came in utter despair,
Where are they gone ? Oh, Captain
O'Donoghue, they can't have forgotten and
left me to go back alone with you; that
would be too unkind of them !"

'' Well, yes, it would be a shame. But
Tm afraid that is precisely what they have
done. Miss Dimity," slowly answered her
care-taker, pityingly; twirling the tip of his
right apology for a whisker.

What  forgotten me ?"

"Well if they have forgotten or not

hardly matters, does it ? They have given
us the slip, anyway  eh ? But I say  aw
don't look so tremendously vexed ; please
don't. Look here  come now, I'll see you
back the whole way quite safe, upon my
honour."

CHAPTER VIII.

*' Above all other praise must I,
And love my pretie pigsneye ;
For nonne I finde so womanlike
As my sweet swetynge."

"VTO doubt the gallant O'Donoghue would
 have been very pleased to act escort
all the way home, as he had offered, to our
little lady.

But this was precisely what Daisy did
not wish, although there seemed no help
for it.

She looked at the disreputable little
alleys near with shrinking, and knew very
well she would not have dared to ask her

way through them. It was an evil trick to
play her ; and Pussy was the quietest seeming
of the Cox girls, too.

Captain O'Donoghue had not any intention
of presuming upon their position ; he
was a gentleman, though a good deal
conceited. But he was also so used to
flirting that he could not leave off his
second nature, and would have paid compliments
to his grandmother on her good
looks, if no other female happened to be
present.

Could he help it that  being tall  he
must bend his head a little down towards
this distressed, small " maye ;" that, being
aware of having fine eyes, he should show
them to the most advantage by looking at
Daisy with sweetly protecting glances ?

It was not in his nature to like being
hurried, accordingly the Freebooter paced
by her side at such a gentle saunter that

her impatient, hurrying little feet had to
linger also.

And, as it was in his nature to talk soft
nothings and nonsense, much as he would
play a mild game of lawn-tennis, with all
the girls he knew (knowing most expected
it of him), how could he guess the growing
embarrassment of poor Daisy ?

He did not guess it ; she was too utterly
fresh from green pastures, too, unused to
the ways of men, for his understanding.

So they paced along, and she felt like a
fluttered dove taken under the wing of a
handsome falcon.

She did not know how to look at him ;
did not know what to say ; did not know
what to do  for surely Mrs. Grundy would
think it a most bold and shocking proceeding
for her to be seen walking
through a town alone with a gentleman 
a strange one, too, and one of the Queen's
Freebooters !

She felt so guilty, she did not dare to
look around, feeling as if all the passers-by
must be framing severe verdicts upon
her behaviour. But, at last, when they
had been for some minutes in a better
street than those from which they had
emerged, curiosity prevailed, and a blue
gaze timidly searched around for any
chance accusers.

A great start !  a full stop ; an exclamation
of horror.

*' There is Captain Gascoigne ! Look 
on the other side of the street."

Who ? Oh ! that man in the ' Strappers
;' so he is. He has been walking
opposite to us for the last quarter of an
hour, I should think. What of that?"
drawled O'Donoghue, looking across at
the individual in question ; who was going
with leisurely steps, his nose in the air, as
if that, his principal feature, wished to

convey to the world that he was not going
to intrude it into other folk's affairs, while
his whole attention seemed unusually
given to

"The nice conduct of a clouded cane."

"Oh! but what will he think?" in a
tone of increasing agony. " He will think
it so very strange to see me walking alone
with you. Let us go across the street till
I tell him how it happened, please."

E-eally, Miss Dimity, I do not see that
it is necessary to explain to all the passers-by
the cause of our being seen together,"
stiffly answered Daisy's guardian, with a
very offended expression. For when thus
interrupted in the gentle tenor of his
way, he had just been murmuring the
hope (in modern language !) that so charming
a distressed lady, aw . . . did not dislike
being thus rescued by so gallant a
knight, um !  eh ?

"Sto, no; I don't mind about other
people seeing us so much, but Captain
Gascoigne "

What ! is he such a favoured individual
? I leg your pardon, Miss Dimity,
for not having been aware of it. I must
congratulate you  congratulate him rather
on being such a happy man."

'' Oh ! don't, please," cried Daisy, blushing
crimson with mortification and shame.
"You know, I don't mean that; you must
know. It is only that  that he is my
brother's greatest friend, and "

At that very instant, Gascoigne shot a
swift glance across the street at them ;
rather as if he had done so several times
before. He saw Daisy colour. She tried to
bow, but before she could do so, he had
looked carefully away again.

What ; and you think he will tell your
brother and get you a scolding, eh? Poor

little o'irl  is that what she is frio-htenecl
at ? Come ! he coukl never be such a
brute. Shall I speak to him by-and-by
aud try to square it, eh r"

Sto; please don't."

It was vith difficulty Daisy prevented
herself from bursting into tears, although
they filled her eyes she hardly knevr why.

But to know that Gascoisrne must have
been seeing her since ever so long ago,
apparently nestling under the falcon's
wing ! to feel now as if he must be aware,
even though he did not look round again,
of her guardian's new tone of fondling,
pitying patronage, that roused her spirit
like an insult  it was too much !

No, please say nothing whatever to
Captain Gascoigne. I can speak to him
himself, if it is necessary ; but it is not;'
she repeated, with freezing dignity. " He
may tell what he pleases to my brother ; I

am not in the least afraid of Jack misjudging
me. Only  many thanks for
having brought me so far ; but I think it
would be best for me to 20 home alone

now."

'eh? . . . but why, in the name of all
that is foolish ? You see Captain  aw,
what's his name?  Gascoigne, and instantly
you are wanting to bolt."

Because I don't wish to meet any
acquaintances. AYe  we don't like walking
alone with gentlemen in our part of
the world, Captain O'Donoghue."

Ah ! really, although there are so few
there, I believe. "You surprise me, Miss
Dimity ; for there must be a great many
cows to be met with in your walks abroad "
(in a rallying tone). " Come eh ? Be a
sensible child. Why !  give you my word,
I walk about the town with some different
Marstown young lady almost every day of

my life  'pon my bouour, I do ; come
now."

"Very likely. But I am not a Mars-town
young' lady, and now I will go back
by myself," in a tone made more fiercely
decided by being in a pet, and in overwrought
distress.

Captain O'Donogliue stopped still; smiled :
took off his hat.

"I never go against any lady's will,
Miss Dimity ; so I wish you a very good
morning."

He turned, and walked rather sharply
back in the direction from which they had
come, whistling lightly to himself.

Daisy walked on by herself, with additionally
dismal feelings.

There  I've vexed him now ; and it
was good-natured of him, after all, taking
charge of me. Just like my stupidity.
How could Pussy play me such a trick ?

Oh, dear; I wish I was back home at Ein
Hall!"

And she did not know her way in the
very least !

In front was a street, containing two
cheap butcher's shops, round which many
of the lower orders were jostling ; also a
public-house. It was really a street used
Yery much as a thoroughfare ; but to
Daisy, unused to all back streets, it seemed
of the slums, slimy ; and her heart sank
at thoughts of traversing it utterly alone.

Besides  teas it the way? Which 
where  was the right way, alas !

No matter; there was Captain Gascoigne's
tall figure still sauntering easily ahead, so,
taking him as her beacon, this poor little
shipwrecked mariner crept humbly in the
distance after him. A gang of rough
workmen came shouldering along, and she
quailed. Just then she saw Gascoigne

halt and look round, so took heart of
grace and went on.

A second time, at a crowded crossing,
he again slackened his pace, and seemed
to watch her over it. But outside the
public-house there was a little crowd, where
some wrangling was going on. Daisy was
almost inclined to believe, but was not
yet quite sure, that Captain Gascoigne had
been watching over her safety before  but
now  ? Now he stopped a third time,
and fairly waited for her to come up.

There seems a row here, Miss Dimity.
Perhaps, since you are alone now, you
would like to have an escort past it ?"

Such a coldly civil tone ; such a cool
glance ; surely a faintest emphasis of that
now.

And he had never said, How do you do?

This so cut Daisy to the heart that she
could have cried again ; but, feeling un-vol.

II. L

able to speak to her own satisfaction, lie
only made a little assenting gesture, and
still more meekly went, with small steps,
after her new escort.

The danger passed, Gascoigne, in his
turn, stopped still ; took off his hat ; but did
nob smile at all.

"Your road is clear now, Miss Dimity,
I think ; so I shall wish you good morning."


He had turned away, when he heard, with
some surprise, a small voice behind him, 

'' Oh ! do stay ; just listen to me for
one moment, please."

It was said with a little gasp that made
Gascoigne look down slightly startled.
Then he saw that her eyes were rather like
wet veronicas, and her face quivering.

What has distressed you ? You have
been vexed. What is the matter?" he
exclaimed, with real concern.

No, I am not vexed, except Yes,

T am vexed because you  3'ou must think
it so strange of me to have been walkiuof
alone with that man f Thus the handsomest
officer in the British Army was
designated by this slighting, small personage
! Such is fame !

Then, as her new protector waited, still
more surprised, the whole history of the
desertion in the market was hurried out.

And I have been so miserable, ever
since I first saw you, wondering what you
could think of me."

"You were not  really'' with an intensely
flattered tone, and a look quite as
tender as that of the Beauty ; but which,
however, did uot rouse Daisy's illogical
spirit at all. He seemed thinking,

'* She is so proper and pure,
Steadfast, stall, and demure,
There is none suche, ye may be sure.
As my swede swetynge."

L 2

With almost a bashful air of pleasure,
Gascoigne allowed himself to say,

'' Well  I confess to having been a liU
tie surprised ; for it seemed unlike your
usual habits. Still it is very good of you
to have thought so much of my opinion."

Oh ! but ever since you found that
horrid book in my workbox, I have been
always afraid you must think so strangely
of me. And indeed, Captain Gascoigne,
it was only put there for a joke by some
of the rest, because they said I was so
ignorant! Don't you remember, I wanted
to explain it all to you in the gardens next
day; but somehow you frightened me too
much  you do remewJjer V

E/Cmember ? . Of course Gascoigne
remembered . . . And so at last this
famous Explanation was made. It would
have been unlike mortal man not to be still
more flattered at such reverence.

And 3011 have thought about such a
little matter all this time !"

That was all he said.

But it was evidently enough in Daisy's
eyes, for she looked down.

"And now," went on Gascoigne, still
gratified, but briefly, as if present affairs
must not be neglected any longer, 'show
are you going to make your way back ?
It is quite easy, however . . . You can find
it ?" This last was uttered inquiringly, as,
despite his tone of assurance, a shadow of
doubt flitted over the clear face before
him.

I have not the slightest idea where I
am ; or which is the way," with equal
assurance to his own. Then, with reviving
spirits, and an air of innocent trust in
him, '' No matter ; will you show it me ?"

But how about the Marstown gossips ?
If it is wrong to be seen alone with Captain

O'Donoghue, is it quite harmless to be
seen with me ?" smiling.

"I  oh! I  I never thought about
that," murmured little Miss Dimity, looking
down.

If even I could go, I am afraid I dare
not now," went on Gascoigne, pulling out
his watch. " For, to tell you the truth, I
ought to be doing some rather important
business ; and have delayed almost too
long.

"You waited to see me in safely! Oh !'
please hurry away ; don't wait any more 
thank you already so very, very much."

*' Wait a moment. Let me see you start
safely first. You must go along this street
to the church ; then take the second turning
to your left ; then the first to your
right ; then the first to your left, and there
you are. Can you remember ?"

I must take the second turning here 

no, I mean after the cburcli  to my right,
then the next to my left, and then  why,
there I am !" glibly repeated Miss Daisy,
who had almost as simple a head as her
field namesake.

Poor Gascoigne sighed. Suddenly, he
exclaimed, with joy,

Look ! there are the Miss Silver-thorns
; the' are going home to lunch, I
know. Promise me to follow them exactly,
and they will lead you next door."

''I do promise."

And away went her guide with a light
heart and relieved air.

Daisy now kept religiously trotting at a
little distance behind the two little old
ladies.

She could not help trotting, because
they trotted ; if she went at her usual pace
she found herself close on their heels ; if
she went slower she was vastly afraid

of losing these her last protectors.

A hansom tore past her at great speed,
soon after she had started ; and Gascoigne
sailed out of it upon her, like the sun-god
out of his chariot.

What a hurry he seemed to be in ! How
twice, thrice, too good it had been of him
to delay thus long on her account !

So, a young person with a most smiling
face and quite restored happiness, followed
the old spinsters past the church ; then
down the several turnings to left, to right,
and so on.

jNow they had come out into a street
beside a square ; which square tis the
haunt of many poor dogs, very likely
homeless, that found it convenient to slip
through the railings, and thus often escape
persecution. One such sad cur, slinking
from his oasis of refuge, had just found a
nasty bone in the street, and was giving

himself the toothsome delight of a worry
before making off to safety with the treasure
trove. At the same time, a little
white door that bclonsed to the Miss Silk
trotted up, very much with the
same action as his mistresses ; and stood
still to o-aze at the vulgar sight.

Some people tell one that all dogs are
unselfish, friendly, and fall o virtues
putting us to the blush. That I do not
believe. No more than 1 believe that all
children are charming and angelic little
creatures. One of the latter whom I knew
used to have a playful habit of creeping
under the dining-table, and transfixing the
calves of the legs of his fathers guests
with a carving-fork. His fond parents
declared he did this in angelic innocence,
in the supposition that the victims enjoyed
the game equally with himself, and that
he took their starts and outcries for exclamations

of delight. I always looked upon
that child as an incipient young ruffian.

As to dogs again, I bold they have their
different characters just as children.
Broadly speaking, they are likewise all
that is innocent and excellent. But still
there are black lambs in the fold ; just as
crows, however honest, have some thieves
in their community whom they always
promptly judge and kill. Some dogs are
conceited, and growl if laughed at, to their
silliest old age ; others are selfish ; and
some few, however well-treated, have a
surly spot in their hearts, never eradicated
; possibly from not being taught a
canine catechism.

Thus the little white dos of the Misses
Silverthorne stood and sneered at the
dinner of his dejected neighbour. He
raised his upper lip, showing an offensive
tooth as he did so. Just in the same way

we always show our eje-tootb when we
sneer ; which Professor Darwin therefore
calls our canine tooth, proving thereby
our doiiiish derivation in the chain of
evolution.

It was nasty of the little white dog.'
And, to be still nastier, he now made a
feint of snatching himself at the bone ;
purely with a view of teasing. He had a
way of thus outraging the feelings of other
dogs, and then taking refuge under the
petticoats of his mistresses.

But the poor outcast was too hungry to
discriminate nicely between practical joking
and reality, when his only meal Vv'as
endangered. He gave a gu-r-r of warning !
Sir Impudence turned one eye upon his
mistresses, who had instantly stopped to
protect their darling ; then like an old actor
"measuring distance" to their skirts, danced
at the bone again.

One growl ! a dart  a roll in the dust !
and terrified squeaking followed. " Fido !
Fido ! Policeman !  My darling !  You
brute !  Come here !  Be off !  Policeman
!" shrieked the horrified old ladies ;
not daring even in that sore distress to
raise their voices to an indelicate pitch of
screaming, whilst in a terrible fright the
feebly beat on the enemy's back with their
lace parasols.

But  lonsj before the human blue-bottle
at the street-corner would have bestirred
himself  help came.

Daisy had rushed to the rescue ; and
being as fearless as any country-maiden
could be in such matters, caught the bigger
dog by the throat and choked him off.
Luckily his mouth had been so full of
Fido's woolly hide, that the latter was
barely scratched, when the eldest and most
courageous of his old mistresses snatched

him up trembling. So all might have
ended well, but for the misery dulled perceptions
of the poor street-cur.

Only seeing in Daisy another claimant
for his wretched bone  just as she released
him, he turned and bit her arm. Then,
with a howl of mingled vengeance and
triumph, he sprang upon his booty ; and
tucking his tail between his legs so that
no pursuers should get a bite at it, he disappeared
between the square railings, and
out of this history for evermore.

"Oh, are you badly hurt ? Dear, dear !
she is bleeding. Sister, sister, call a cab,
and let us take her to a chemist  no, to the
doctor  no, the hospital ! Oh, how grieved
we are ! how thankful we are !"

There is no cab-stand near. Are you
faint ? Let us support you to the end of
the street till we get one."

Thus the two silver-grey dressed spinsters

exclaimed, in tremulous tones; hovering
round Daisy.

To their vast relief, she laughed bravely
in their faces, and tied her handkerchief
round her wrist herself. It was a mere
nothing she declared ; they must not be
troubled about such a trifle.

What could they do for her ?

"Well, please, could they show her the
way home  to Khyber Pass Eoad ?

Why, that is our road also !" cried the
little old ladies ; on which, each offering to
support Daisy home on either side, they
overwhelmed her with tender little ejaculations
and inquiries.

In a few minutes, they reached the
Khyber Pass Road ; and delicately inquired
to which of the brand-new, red-brick villas
Daisy was bound.

Do you live, my dear, in Khurum
Vale, or in Coomassie House ?"

'' In neither ; iu Magclala Villa," replied
Daisy, in a rather subdued voice.

"In  deed. We did not know  we did
not recognize you as one of the ]bliss
Coxes," murmured the sister-supporters, intones
that might have been frosty but for
the thawing warmth of their gratitude.

Daisy explained that she was only a
visitor there, lately come.

And we live next door. Ours we call
Lilac Loose. We did not like these bloodthirsty,
military names. We wanted something
to remind us of the country, although
we do live in a garrison-town,"
cooed the old Miss Silverthornes.

And then both exclaimed in the same
breath to each other 

"Sister, sister; see how pale she is
getting ! You must come in with us, poor
child. We will Q-et you a o'lass of wine ;
we must bandage your arm."

They were so eaoer on either side of her
that Daisy could not resist them ; especially
as she had begun to feel rather sick, as
much with her excited walk, and the heat
of the sun, as from the dog's bite. It was
grateful to find herself being led, with
gentle utterances of sympathy, into a
shaded, almost dark room  fragrant with
flowers  exquisitely cool.

 Bring a glass of madeira  our father's
old madeira, sister," whispered the eldest.

Then Daisy was forced to swallow such
a glass of wine as was molten gold, compared
with Mrs. Cox's cheapest of Marshals.

Meanwhile, the most smiling of comely
middle-aged maids had brought hot water
and the softest of linen napkins, marked
(as Daisy languidly noticed) with a date
quite half a century old. And such
gentle fomentations followed ; and pitying
of that plump white arm ; and tender bandages

as would have half cured anyone.

*' I feel quite cured, now'' Daisy declared,
when, at last, all was ended, and she felt
really herself again.

"But sit still, roy dear; and use these
smelling-salts a little more, and let me
jut just a \ee-i\Q more toilet-vinegar on
your temples, and some eau-de-cologne in
your palms," entreated the old ladies ; and
then they looked at her and looked at
Fido alternately, almost as if she had saved
the life of the child of their old age.

Then they began to chat, their hearts
being opened wide.

Their young visitor told them very soon
how she had come to stay for the ball
given "by her brother's regiment." (She 
always spoke as if the full regiment of
*' Strappers," from colonel to drumracr-
boy, belonged wholly and solely to Lieutenant
Jack Dimity.)

VOL. II. M

"And so you lead never known the
Coxes before," said these old ladies, much,
interested, and giving each the slightest
of little coughs at mention of the Cox
family. " We  we never have called upon
Mrs. Cox; for really  well, the fact is, my
dear, we call on very few people, unless they
are connected with old friends far away
from here. You see, having come late in
life to Marstown, and living in such a very
quiet way in this small house, we did not
think any young people like your friends
would care for the society of such old
frumps."

Daisy  having a sudden conviction that
some of the Cox girls must have been
overheard using this epithet of their
neighbours  gazed rather wide-eyed at the
sisters.

Frumps 1 Well, it would be hard to call
them so. Nothing more neat, more delicate

and dainty could bo imagined, among
old maids, than the appearance of these
white-haired spinsters in their slvcr-grey
dresses. They looked fit to be put under
glass cases ; with their old-world, good
breeding that seemed to exhale from each
as a surrounding atmosphere. One could
never declare wherein peculiarly lay the old-fashioned
charm suggesting the good old
term " gentlewomen." Their carriage, old
and stiff as they were, was still straight-backed
as that of an Evening ; their pose
perfect ; the way in which they shook
hands, a mixture of gentle warmth and
intense dignity not to be described ; the
air of self-identification with whatever
concerns of their guests the latter mioht
be speaking of, utterly absolute.

And yet, in the latter instance, no one
could think them humbugs, though when
the guests left not another word on this

M 2

subject ever again crossed the old ladies'
lips. Only for the time being they had
tried to carry out the Christian precept,
"Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and
weep with them that weep." The occasion
gone, they turned to receive the confidences
of fresh visitors.

Tattling, or gossip of others' really
private affairs, they held vulgar : beneath
their dignity.

The room that held these two old-fashioned
specimens of bygone English life
and breeding, almost cheated one into
believing it belonged, not to a new villa in
Khyber Pass Road, but to some quiet
home of several centuries ago.

All its summer draperies of good old-fashioned
chintz, such as are never made
now-a-days, seemed to have been washed
just yesterday and dried on some cowslip
green ; while the scent of country jasmine

and bean-blossoms almost, to the fancy,
hung upon them still. The floor was
mostly polished, because the well-worn
but still handsome Turkey rug in the
centre was so very small. There were also
tables and a few chairs of fine old carved
oak, with an " S " for the family name in
medallions. If the rest of the furniture
was painfully new, that unwelcome fact
was almost hidden from prying eyes by
cushions of finest needlework which one's
eves were strained in admiring; and tablecloths
and coverlets that had been embroidered
with flowers and shepherds and
their sweethearts, in days when Time ran
far, far slower than now.

And however old and long-used all
these plainly were, they were not shabby ;
having been kept with too much loving
pride and care.

All this, which takes somewhat lonsr to

describe, had stolen into Daisy's perception
in a few minutes after lie bad
entered the house. She felt in the presence
of gentility that did not grieve by its
poverty, although it suggested former
comparative riches. Father the old Silk
ladies seemed to possess a
slender but sufficient stipend ; a modest
competence. However much more they
might have had, at present they seemed to
have ENOuan.

Meanwhile, they in turn had been
examining Daisy Dimity.

They saw a sweet, fresh-looking maiden,
small, trim, and plump, with very nice
clothes, very well put upon her. And
surveying her kindly from the crown of
her yellow, daisy-like head to her neat
little feet, one sister said to the other,
hesitatingly,

Surely we have seen Miss  Miss
Dimity somewhere before."

Oh, yes," quoth the guest, very promptly,
with some terror at her own boldness.
*' It was on Sunday, when you made such
a mistake about poor Captain Gascoigne.
Indeed ! it was a oreat mistake. Please

CJ

forgive me for saying so, but you wronged
him very much."

The sisters looked at each other, astonished.


What mistake, my dear?  do tell us.
Yes, yes ; you must certainly tell us."

So, blushing now at playing Portia to
the absent one, Miss Daisy did modestly
tell them the story of how unhappy 
had been at the practical joke played
on his friends. " And he told mo you
were such great friends of his ; and how
much he liked you."

What a mistake we did make ! Certainly,
it seemed very unlike dear Gerald
Gascoigne  poor Geraldine's son His
mother, my dear, was our very greatest
friend."

The sisters were so happy at this terrible
mistake being set to rights that they could
not sufficiently thank Daisy for thus
restoring to them, as it were, not only Fido,
but also their male human favourite.

You will promise faithfully to come in
every day and have your arm dressed by
us  ; by no one else," they repeated again
and again, as Daisy bade them good-bye.

So she faithfully promised.

When she crossed the threshold of the
Coxes' work-room once more, Jack's voice
cried cheerily out,

What hours you have been, little slowcoach
! Look at our glorious Aunt Sally."

A horrible travesty of human nature,

with a stout body, skeleton legs, and an
old crinoline for the display of future draperies,
stood in the middle of the floor.
The dumroy was, indeed, a success.

CHAPTER IX.

We three Archers be,
Rangers that rove through the north countrey,
Lovers of venison and liberty,

That value not honours or money.

We three merry men be,
At a lass or a glass under greenwood-tree ;
Jocundly chaunting our ancient glee,

Though we had not a penny of money."

T'lTHAT a sensation of curiosity, mixed
' with a little awe, and not without a
dash of embarrassment, it must give every
well-brought-up country maiden to go to
her first military dance !

Her first military dance, and perhaps

only her second one of any kind of dance
hitherto whatsoever !

Add to this that Miss Daisy Dimity's
very first dance had been rather disappointing
; almost "scrubby;" whilst this, all her
female friends declared, would be "scrumptious."
And that she was also by nature a
flaxen-haired, blue-eyed little soul, made to
be much petted, and a good deal admired ;
but very demure in her flirtations. Thus
you have Daisy's state of mind, when going
to the dance given by that favoured regiment
which was graced by possessing Captain
O'Donoghue as its own.

The narrow stone staircase up which
they were shown gave first a feeling of
disillusionment, for it seemed to Daisy very
like those leading to her father's granaries
at home. The white-washed walls were
cold, forbidding, and surely not very white ;
the paint on these doors they passed really

not spotless. But inside the cloak-room,
what a difference ! This was some officer's
room, so fitted up with almost luxuries as
to make one think that soldiering was not
altogether a lot of unmitigated hardship,
with a " lodging on the cold ground."

' What a lovely big glass over his
chimney-piece, and real lace on the velvet
flounce below ! Dear, dear ! officers were
not so extravagant in my young days,"
sighed ponderous Mrs. Smeeth, who was
disrobing herself from a Paisley shawl.

'* Flounce, mother  it's not a petticoat,"
scornfully ejaculated Essie, flouncing at
her mother. '* It's Captain O'Donoghue's
room, I'll bet, for he is so fond of looking
at himself."

''Do, Bliss Dimity dear, just peep into
that photograph book beside you, and tellus
who is in it," playfully whispered Miss
Grace.

Oh, no  indeed, I would rather not,"
answered Daisy, recoiling, and shaking out
her skirts busily.

Here's pink powder and white !  every
comfort provided," exclaimed Fuzzy Cox,
eagerly dusting her Face with some poudre
de viz ; whilst Pussy, with a simper, musingly
appropriated the Bloom de Ninon,
thinking that would suit her complexion
better.

In the background, Mrs. Grandison
was deluging her own and her
daughter's handkerchiefs with perfume
from some of the cut glass bottles liberally
displayed by the unknown owner.

'' One doesn't keep it at home, my dear,"
she confidingly nodded to Daisy.

Daisy wished everyone would not confide
in her; besides she rather disliked scent,
preferring soap and water.

When all the girls had in turn hated

each other for staying too long at the
looking-glass, Mrs. Cox marshalled her
party into the ante-room.

Daisy felt as if plunged at once into a
group of uniformed men that seemed all
eyes, stares, and red jackets, to her
frightened imagination ; not one of whom
she knew, or at least recognized. When she
recovered from her bewilderment, she found
that Captain O'Donoghue had stepped forward,
after his colonel received them, and
was smiling on Pussy. Pussy, to whom
he had never spoken before that day at the
market! With much by-play of eyes and
mutual murmured chaff upon the trick she
had played him, he was writing  writing 
writings his name on her card.

Daisy, being apparently quite forgotten
by him, gazed transfixed from behind
Mrs. Cox's sheltering skirts. It was she

nevertheless, for whose sake all the Coxes
had been invited.

jSFot that our little lady really minded a
bit ; only her pride was slightly touched,
and she felt that  '' now she knew what
men were."

Strange faces, strange faces all around :
tall men, stout men, young and old, slim
Adonis and corpulent Falstaff, all alike in
short mess jackets.

Almost all these were busy writing their
names on the cards of the different girls,
except on that of Daisy. She knew not
one of all these strangers ; Jack was not
there. The Coxes were carefully filling
their cards first before thinking of her.

Yet stay ; two thin youths, with drab
faces and tow-coloured hair, suddenly
advanced upon her with joy. They were
Jack's juniors, who had so unmercifully

pounded her feet to a jelly at Mrs. Browne's
dance.

We got away before all the rest of our
older officers, so as to be swe of some
dances," remarked one, with satisfaction.
*' And now, Miss Dimity, may I have the
pleasure of this ! and this ! and this !" (The
very best valses !)

You'll give me the ' Tres joll/ waltz,'
won't you. Miss Dimity?" urged his companion.
" That Arcs jolVf? is so jolly, isn't
it ?"

'' But really, Mr. Blount" mildly expostulated
the wretched Daisy, with her
feet aching at the recollection of their
former suffering =   -

''/am Mr. Hunt; this is Mr. Blount,"
eagerly interrupted the last youth, and both
swains gently smiled, unconscious of her
sufferings.

We are rather alike, so we are sometimes

called Castor and Pollux," hazarded
the least timid of the Gemini.

With some difficulty, their victim had
just rescued some of the best dances from
the pencils of these " heavenly twain," when
Captain O'Donoghue led up two or three
eager, dark-complexioned, black-haired
youths.

Have you got any dances to spare,
j\Iiss Dimity?" he asked, with a gentle
smile that was almost malicious.

And then, as his followers admiringly
closed upon their prey, he patronizingly
murmured, in Daisy's pink shell of an ear,

They will just suit you, I am sure ;
they are all such good hoys,''

With an inward very great sigh, Daisy
relinquished her fond hopes and her card.
She had a vague idea now that all Jack's
beardless subalterns had lint-white hair
and well-bred, timid manners ; and that all

VOL. II. N

Captain O'Donogbue's young Freebooters
must be swarthy-visaged youths.

It puzzled her frightfully to find out, by-and-by,
that this rule did not always hold
good ; as, during the evening, with youthful
generosity, each of these swains brought
likewise up their dearest comrades to
share the delights of an introduction to 
and possible dance with  this new girl, who
was (in turn with all new girls) the rage
in Marstown.

The dancing vvas in the mess-room ; of
which no more need be said than that it
had a floor polished to glassiness, a low
ceiling, and whitewashed walls decorated
with crossed flags.

Daisy saw the other girls disappearing
after the first valse, down passages here,
and passages there.

The place reminded her of a rabbit-burrow.


Bnt she, not caring much for Mr. Hunt
or Mr. Blount's company (which it was she
never knew), returned dutifully to Mrs.
Cox's side. The latter gave her each time
an elegant, faded smile of real liking,
and satisfaction that here was no rival
coquette.

Just as the second dance was ending, a
fresh influx of red mess-jackets signalled
the arrival of "Jack's regiment." With
what heartfelt joy Daisy saw her brother,
her Jack in his uniform, looking sternly
round him from the doorway like the
dear, snub-nosed, square-shouldered young
Briton that he was.

In her eyes he was quite as handsome
(in his own way) as Captain O'Donoghue
himself.

And there behind him was the friendly
face of the " Smiler." And !  and there
was no one else except such small fry as

N 2

Colonel Dunn, and Jack's two majors, and
Captain Luxton and his merry wife, whose
faces could be discerned in the rear !

Smiler Lee dived straight across the
room through the mazy dance, and accosted
Daisy with the air of one on his own
ground  as surely a dancing-floor was his
realm.

'' I must see your card to-night, Miss
Dimity; it is my business to keep your
accounts still, isn't it ?"

With a glance of dumb sorrow, the
partner of Castor and Pollux dutifully
gave up her programme. She merely
nodded in silent regret, as Lee inquiringly
read out, in an undertone, (" Hunt, Blount
Blount, Hunt! Well, you did como
early to-night !) But I say " (aloud),
"you promised me two of these valses,
Miss Dimity, the other evening, don't you
remember ?"

But I did not know you Tvcre coming
to-night," scenting deliverance, yet fearful
of hurting her captor's feelings.

Still you promised me these dances
first."

The king of the ball-room looked with
such an indignant ea upon Castor that
that poor young sub-lieutenant meekly
offered to resign one of his ill-gotten
prizes. Pollux, who was easing Its back
against the acute edge of an adjacent door
waiting for his turn to claim Terpsichore
for his kick-and-shuffle attempts at learning
to dance  was dejectedly obliged to follow
suit.

After which Mr. Lee, with calm satisfaction,
restored Miss Dimity's card, confiding
in a whisper,

"I have put myself down for five more
seven in all. You ivill give me them, of
course, won't you ? Fact is  do take my

arm, and sit out with me until our next
dance comes  the fact is, there are two
girls in the room I am cleteiinined not to
give one single turn to to-night ! so I want
to dance a lot with you."

He led Daisy along one of the cold,
stone, white-washed passages, down which
she had seen the other girls going.

They turned into one of several tiny
rooms (obviously the lairs of some of Her
Majesty's officers in their normal state, but
now to be regarded only in the light of
flirtation-boudoirs). This one showed
tokens of sleep, smoke, and study ; sleep
signified by a sort of big wardrobe door,
closing an alcove, but giving passage to
air at the top ; smoke faintly suggesting
itself by scent clinging to the window-curtains
; study  a large amount of novels
bestrewn on the top of military drawers.

But there were two little round tables f

four easy-chairs, twos and twos ; a subdued
liolit and some scattered knickknacks
to trifle with  which all encouraged
the boudoir idea excellently well, especially
when helped by the mutual sentiments
of whoever sought a iete-a-tete.

"" I'll tell you all about it," began the
dapper little soldier, with an air of cheery
confidence, twisting up his moustaches
fresh, and smiling upon Daisy, as if the
sinner had never smiled on anybody before,
or asked sympathy from pretty listening
ears  although he spent so much of his
life in doing both. "" It is so jolly to meet
a girl like you that one can make a real
friend of ! Mind you " (sighing with a
dramatic air), *' there are very few girls
that a man like me can make a real friend
of. Now there is Miss Black  you've
heard, I suppose, of that poetry she sent
with all that stuff about a lot of fellows

and ever so much praise of me? Yes.
Well, that girl is awfully gone on me, they
say (I'm only just telling you this in strict
confidence !). But I am determined not to
go near her to-night, for it's better to put
a stop to that sort of thing at once  don't
you think so ? i can't blame my conscience ;
I've only danced with her a good deal because
she has a good step ; but it's better
to show her at once I can't have that sort
of thing."

Daisy listened in some doubt as to what
that ' sort of thing" was, love or doggerel.
But as she sat with rosy lips just parted,
and big blue eyes all attention, she looked
the very embodiment of a sympathetic
listener.

So the Smiler continued, quite delighted
with her and with himself :

* And then, would you believe it?  I was
never so near being caught in a trap as

this very night by old Mother Browne 
this very night, as T came in !" (solemnly).
*' She stepped forward, in her fawning way,
and asked me, would I not take her for a
cup of tea ? But, thank goodness ! some
fellows had put me up as to what that
trick meant "

"What?" asked Daisy, most interested,
for the speaker assumed quite a tragic air
over his deliverance.

Why, she sits down, and begs one to
have a little chat, and then asks one's
intentions about her daughter  ugh !
Luckily I never lose my presence of mind ;
never. I begged her to excuse me for one
moment, as I knew there was a young lady
expecting me to dance with her (that
was you). And I got Captain Gascoigue
to take the old woman off my hands for
tea "

Cap  tain Gascoigne ? Is he  did be ?"

Yes ; why do you look so astonished ?
Ob, he did it; yes. He didn't care 
especially when he knew why I wanted to
be rid of her."

Did that mean with reference to dancing
with Daisy herself; or to Mrs. Browne?

Daisy dared not ask; but soon, slowly
raising her head, that had been very much
modestly downbent, whilst pondering over
this enigmatical sentence  whom should she
see, calmly examining the room and its
inmates from the threshold, but Gascoigne
himself. And that dreadful living mummy
of a woman, Mrs. Browne, was smiling on
them too lividly, v/ith her parchment face.

Gascoigne looked irritatingly, maddeningly
composed (although he now saw
Daisy for the first time since that day at
the market !). She felt hot, and inwardly
quite excited; he seemed outwardly cool
as a cucumber.

He was gone with his companion!  even
whilst foolish Daisy sat almost expecting
him to rush across the room, and ask her
for a dance  foolish little Daisy, as if he
would, with Mrs. Browne on his arm !

With a sigh in her heart, our heroine
went off to dance with Smiler Lee.

Most beautifully they danced in swift,
smooth gyrations, Lee with his left arm
held stiffly out like a ship's bowsprit, to
warn all feebler dancers from his glorious
path. People looked at them admiringly :
among others Captain Gascoigne from the
doorway, against which he had made himself
a sort of caryatid.

But that dance passed ; and yet another
with Mr. Blount ; and still he never came,
nor asked poor Daisy  although he kept
watching her.

She was quite heart-sick about it.
After that walk home from the market

it seemed so strange, so extraordinary ! in a
friend; a real man-friend  her friend, Jack's
friend, and no flirt like Captain O'Donoghue.

She had still managed to keep some
cherished dances, hoping he might ask for
them  when, with a good-humoured grin,
Major Hodge bore down upon her, followed
by a dark, florid gentleman, with the air
of a conquering carpet-knight.

' I'm so awfully sorry my own card is
quite filled up  going away, you see  old
friends, and that sort of thing, ha! ha!
twinges vous /" he whispered to Daisy, who
rather drew herself up at this familiar form
of address, as if she wished to dance with
him at all. But the gallant Hodge-Podge,
in his own good-humoured, if unrefined
way, was resolved to patronize and be good
friends with little Miss Dimity; so continued,
eyeing her as he might a new-born
chick, ''I want to introduce Colonel Burke

of ours " (in a whisper) ; ' he's considered
the handsomest man in the British Army !"

He's what ?"  thought Daisy, so astonished
to hear of another Richmond, of
anyone in the same room with Captain
O'Donoghue asserting rival claims, that
she found herself weakly giving up one of
her few remaining treasures, her last valse,
to the stranger.

Ah ! now, but ye are in luck to-night,
Burke," said Major Hodge, trying to
mimic an Irish brogue, and making, like
all Saxons, a hideous failure.

"Array, then! it's myself that is," responded
Colonel Burke, in a feigned Irish
accent also, but a more real-seeming one ;
although, like many who attempt this Doric
tongue, his was the accent of a car-driver,
rather than of a gentleman, a much easier
imitation.

It sounded so strange, coming after the

well-bred tone in which he had addressed
Daisy, that she looked at him in mute
surprise.

Then  then she found Gascoigne himself
addressing her! and turned to him,
utterly forgetting the other two, who felt
themselves dismissed with a suddenness
which a good deal surprised them.

You have been dancing everything, as
I saw  but now may I have a dance at
last, Miss Dimity ?"

At last ! You should have asked me
some time ago, as other people did," half-pouted
Daisy. "You have waited so long
my card is almost filled."

"Your card. Ah! I forgot  how I do
hate cards !" answered Gascoigne, slightly
waking up from his dreamy tone. '' They
are only bills for the bores of the room by
which they can dun you. If ever I want

to remember a dance later on I can  could
not 3'ou?"

' Oh ! yes " (meekly). " But please, all
I have left is one galop later on, and this
slow dance  do you mind much ?"

This '' slow," a thing rejected of all her
partners ; though, like a tyro in conjuring,
she had meekly tried to force it upon
them all. It had been flouted with desperate
scorn even by Messieurs Hunt and
Blount as "a square dance  no, thank
you ; I only care for a waltz !" with sniffs
of superiority.

But Gascoigne took it now good-naturedly,
Daisy's glance being certainly
appealing.

'' I know exactly what you are thinking
; 30 u like to dance everything, no
matter with whom, like all very young
girls. You would be miserable at losing

these lancers," he said, leading her off.

Miss Dimity rather resented the " no
matter with whom," and intimated as
much. Her partner quite smiled on her,
putting away his gravity ; his large nose
even looking handsome with happiness ashe
answered,

' Well, then  we are to believe that,
whoever you may dance with to-night, you
like very much."

"But not the strangers  how could I ?
This Colonel Burke, for instance, who
seems such a dreadful Irishman !  and why
is he called the handsomest man in the
British Army, when I thought that was
Captain O'Donoghue ?"

To my certain knowledge, I have
already known seven ' handsomest men in
the British Army,' " calmly returned ,
smiling again at her air of bewilderment.
'' And as to his accent, Colonel

Burke, I believe, was never in Ireland,
thouorli be loves to be considered a genuine
Irishman. Captain O'Donogbue, on the
other hand, was born and bred there ; but
he does not think it necessary, I suppose,
to remind the world that he comes from
the  distressful country.' Those are the
contradictions one sees constantly in life."

Colonel Dunn (Jack's colonel) just then
came up with Mrs. Luxton, and invited
this couple to be their vis-a-vis. His frosty
hair and rosy old face beamed and gleamed
above a breast so covered with medals
they seemed the easiest jingling ornaments
in the world to get.

'jack says his colonel is quite a hero,"
uttered Daisy, with another surprised
look. " And yet he looks so fat and good-humoured
one can hardly well believe
it."

'' Still he has,

VOL. II.

Trod as deep in the red wash o' the wars *

as who walks reddest," smiled Gascoigne,
with a new teasing air. " What wonderful
experience you are gaining in Mars-town,
Miss Dimity ! You have learnt that
heroes can look both jolly and even commonplace.
And as to being fat  you severe
young lady !  have you never heard of

'Plump Comus in a colonel's coat,
Whom we this day expect from far,
A jolly, first-rate man of war ' ?"

'Now, that is poetry I do remember,"
cried Daisy, delighted with herself for
once. ' And you always remind me of
the man who

One sole virtue would arrive at,
To keep his many virtues private.' "

She was becoming a perfect coquette ;
it was such barefaced flattery ! But she
was really so happy, she did not think
much of what she was saying. And off

went Gascoigue with an equally happy air,
looking, in bcr eyes, " a verra perfiglit
gentil knyglit," to shuffle up and down in
an aimless was before Miss Essie Smeeth.

No doubt this classing and glistening
was an excellent opportunity for our
ancestors to display their canary-coloured
coats and gorgeous small-clothes. But
now-a-days, when our gentlemen thus
take the flare," as the Irish say, they
seem either not to know what they are todo,
nor why it should be done ; or else
some jovial wight will delight a whole
room by a few sorry little steps and a
caper whereupon everybody laughs very
much, seemiufr at once to have a revelation
that the solemn farce they were all engaged
in was not really a stately dance, but simply
a burlesque.

Miss Essie familiarly clapped Gascoigne
on the arm with her fan.

o2

You haven't asked me to dance yet, so
you'd better be quick about it," lie informed
him.

Gascoigne, in a manner so quiet it
might almost have been suspected of satire,
replied,

I am dancing very little, indeed, tonight.
Miss Smeeth."

Oh, come. You can dance with little
Miss Dimity, at all events, it seems. And
you know you've never asked me to dance
yet, so you must do so some time or
other."

Then, if I happen to see you standing
any time to-night, Miss Smeeth, I shall
hope to have that pleasure. Otherwise, I
never engage a young lady beforehand."


'' All right  well, now, don't forget."
And, the dance being over, away went
Miss Essie with a sportive air, as if she

was longing to clap every other gentleman
in the room on the shoulder, too.

"And I hope you won't forget my galop,
Miss Dimity," echoed Gascoigne, turning
to his partner. " All rules have exceptions,
you know. When is it ?"

Hush ! Please take me away somewhere,
and I will tell you another time,"
whispered Daisy, in a mysterious manner.
*' That young lady in black there  who is
she ? She looked at me so strangely, as
3'ou spoke, it quite frightened me."

Gascoigne looked quickly.

It is a Miss Black," he said, as he led
her away.

Cr-r-r ! at that moment Miss Black,
passing them with a careless air, stepped
on Daisy's pretty gown, tearing out a yard
or two of gathers ; and going on without
apparently perceiving what she had done.
The girl in question had a very right

waist, tight skirts, so tiecl-in at the knees
lie could hardly walk straight, Cry red
lips, and curious black linings to her eyelids,
" revers to them," as Essie Smeeth
said. Her black hair was cropped short,
and parted on one side, and her black eyes
had flashed a glance  although that must
have been the effect of imagination  which
made Daisy's soft flesh rather creep, as if
it had felt the evil eye.

I did not know you were such an easily
frightened little lady," said Gascoigne, still
in his happiest vein ; his nose having now
assumed quite an air of protectorship, ashe
looked down on the small partner on
his arm, who, with a sigh and some pins,
had made the damage right again.

Well, will you come and sit here below
the stairs ? It is quite an arboreal retreat ;
three fuchsias in pots, and one india-rubber
plant."

Behind the india-rubber plant in question
sat Colonel Burke ; behind the fuchsia,
Major Hodge ; each flirting with a Miss Cox,
and each apparently under the ostrich-like
belief that their portly forms were hidden
by tropical exuberance of leafage. On the
stairs sat Pussy Cox, with Captain O'Dono-
glue stretched by her side, looking up
tenderly into her eyes.

The three greatest men-artists in flirtation
in Marstown were in very close company.


It was enough to make Daisy think that
these were the only specimens of ball-giving
British officers, if she had not had
a very different example beside her.

I have got a scratch on my arm," they
heard Pussy softly wail. " Don't you pity
me?"

' Poor little arm, where is the scratch ?"
in dulcet tones.

'there," showing her wrist like a spoilt
child (out of her teens).

You forget that you have a glove on,
so how can I see it ?"

' Ah ! well  there it is," turning back a
portion of glove, and showing a tiny scratch,
obviously made by a pin.

Horrible scratch  poor little wrist !
Shall I make it well?" in languages
drawl.

Shall we go into the tea-room ?" asked
Gascoigne, by this time rising, so as to
hear no more eaves droppings. Then, as
they went, he as suddenly smiled upon
Daisy, with some suppressed laughter, but
also a positive increase of colour. (Now
why should he have felt inclined to blush
at showing some especial interest in his
companion ?) " I heard to-day from two
old ladies of somebody else who had a
scratched arm. I hope sincerely that the

wound is not very dangerous either, since
one sees no sisrns of it."

Daisy smiled bravely, but said nothing.
Her wound was bandaged under a long
glove; and it did hurt at times, but she
said never a word about it. Instead, she
began telling Gascoigne of the beginning
and end of that famous expedition to
market. Gascoigne professed the deepest
interest in Galatea, as he christened the
dummy, scorning "Aunt Sally," and thinking
Miss Black  " well, just a little dangerous
 for she might be vexed," There
never was anyone whose habit it was so to
put himself in the place of others.

And now his promised galop.

Write it yourself, for my pencil is
lost," said Daisy, lightly.

What, are you not afraid of my seeing
any of the secrets on this card ?"

'not at all. You may read all the

names," with childish joyousness. She
felt so utterly, indescribably happy.

Gascoigne slowly read  seven times the
name of Lee ; silently restored Daisy her
card.

She felt as if a cloud had darkened her
summer sun. What was the matter ? He
sat silent. She sat silent.

CHAPTER X.

*' A lightsome eye, a soldier's mien,
A feather of the blue,
A doublet of the Lincoln green,
No more of me you knew.

My love !
No more of me you knew."

ON the sofa near this silent couple, 
and Daisy, sat the wretched
Miss Browne, neglected and more crane-like
than ever.

Poor soul ! not very wise at the best of
times, she was additionally afflicted with an
infatuation for Smiler Lee, although he
was much younger than herself ; and her
rather staring green-gooseberry eyes now

followed his every motion painfully, as he
flitted round the room, bringing tea  in
order to make no one jealous  to two or
three ladies, with jokes for each.

Colonel Dunn, on the other side, was
kindly trying to force some wine on a little
weary-faced woman, who had evidently
once been pretty.

You know, you've got a headache ; you
own to it. Come  do as the lasses do ; say
710, but talc' it'' (The colonel was Scotch,
and very fond of the shrewd sayings of his
mother-tongue, which he uttered with a
hearty burr of relish.)

What a capital proverb !" said ,
with one of those slow smiles
Daisy had learnt to dread, if directed upon
herself. ''Do as the lasses do; say no,
but  do it''

She was silent, not daring to ask was

be  could he, be thinking of her card ;
longing to explain.

But how could she  when no one asked
her to do so ?

Well, thanks, Colonel Dunn. For my
own part, I should like to go home soon,
but my husband will never come away so
early. He likes dances," said the little,
tired woman, with a querulous voice,
accepting the wine.

Who is that lady ?" Daisy now hazarded
asking Gascoigne, feeling she must say
something, and with a most ridiculously
timid manner.

'that is Mrs. Burke, the wife of
Colonel Burke, whom you saw out thereunder
the stairs."

What ! wife of the man who was flirting
so busily with Birdie. Though little Miss
Dimity said nothing, while her eyes were

thus opened, lie knew by something in
his voice, so fine it could hardly be given
a name, that the same thought was in the
mind of the quiet man beside her.

But up came Lee towards her gaily 
banishing reflection.

Poor Miss Browne rose slowl}?- to intercept
him, while her eyes wandered, as it
were, over his face, with a pitifully foolish
gaze.

You haven't once asked me yet this
evening," she whispered solemnly, stopping
his way.

So sorry, Miss Browne. You icill
excuse me, loons you?  but my card is
unfortunately quite full !" answered Lee,
terribly embarrassed (though of course he
never lost his presence of mind).

Miss Browne gave a *' green-eyed," despairing
look, broke her fan across her
knee, and let it drop weakly by her side ;

then, as lie offered bis arm to Daisy, anxious
to escape, she put up both hands to
her face, and burst out cr3aDg.

There was consternation amongst those
near in the tea-room.

Mrs. Browne bustled up to her daughter,
declaring volubly it was " hysterics,"
neuralgia," " overcome with heat."
Somebody (it was Gascoigne) whispered
hastily to Lee he had better get quickly
out of the room. There was a cry for
smelling-salts  air  a fan.

Take mine, please," entreated Daisy,
thrusting into Gascoigne's hand her pretty
ivory and feather fan, and he nodded.

"You'll never see it again; she'll keep
it," whispered Essie Smeeth, jumping at
Daisy.

She may," returned the latter, heroically,
and Lee and Gascoigne looked applause.


The last thing both partners saw was
Gascoigne quickly and quietly handing a
tumbler of cold water to the agitated
group, a thing which nobody else had
thought of.

*' On with the dance," however !

The string band was going tra-la-la, as
if no Miss Browne was sobbing in the
next room.

Poor Lee and Daisy felt like culprits ;
but they agreed, in guilty whispers, it was
best to keep on dancing '' as if nothing
had happened." So, though people began
to glance at them as the rumour spread,
Lee kept spinning like a wound-up top, till
his little partner seemed to see the floor
waving up to her, and away from under
her, and her heart seemed rising, stopping
her breath so that she could not even gasp
for mercy.

Lee, between whiles, could talk of nothings

but excusing his conscience ; so that
Dais}, however much she felt he ought to
be engrossed by the matter, at last grew
secretly very weary of sympathising with
the false position in which this ,
martial Adonis was placed.

The evening's cup of joy now began to
taste of the dregs. Captain Gascoigne was
no longer " nice to her." Poor Miss Browne
was miserable ; Daisy began to think she
had best be miserable too (in a secret way,
of course).

As she was in this dejected mood, the
second " handsomest man in the British
Army" came for his dance. He puzzled
her with a new step  as he took care, with
pride, to tell her it was  which seemed to
consist in standing still for fully two
seconds, and then making a gentle bound !
A short succession of these leaps and
bounds was soon enough for Daisy ; who

AOL. II. r

was afraid of doing likewise, lest she
might bound on his feet.

In the intervals he also insisted on
talking of nothing but the Browne episode,
which distressed poor Daisy who felt
almost guilty ; and was anxious besides to
veil the weakness of her sex.

Colonel Burke spoke in small whispers
that made him seem ashamed of what he
was saying, although he only meant to be
insinuating. His sentences always seemed
trying to wriggle themselves into one's
mind ; while he transfixed his partner with
a constant gaze of his black orbs, which
seemed to answer in his own estimation
to "a steady fire upon the enemy."

'' So you don't like me to laugh at Miss
Browne, he ! he !" he softly confided, as if
they had a state secret between them ;
then opening his mouth to laugh in a queer,
soundless, equally mysterious way. 'but

you must acknowledge she is very long in
the tooth !"

Now poor Miss Browne was afflicted by
nature with teeth, as said a great foreign
critic cruelly of Englishwomen in general,
much resembling piano keys. But this
was not the colonel's meaning.

Don't you know what I mean ? Why,
old !  of course. Don't you hate girls
when they get to that age P I do. Stow
anyone can see you are only just out," he
imparted  with a furtive manner and a
clandestine pressure of Miss Dimity's hand
against his side, as his eyes tried to stir up
the "steady fire" by a murderously-killing
glance.

But if this gay Lovelace meant to go up
like the rocket in Miss Dimity's estimation,
he only succeeded in coming down
like the stick. Her blood quite boiled at
the insolence of a middle-aged married

r2

man  which made it worse !  venturing ta
press her hand.

'' I mean to grow old myself some day,"
she said, with magnificent dignity, and
sailed back to Mrs. Cox's side.

The dance gave her no more pleasure
now ; only  she strained her eyes to the
door. There was one galop yet, that
might restore all things to gladness again,
if"

It began ; it went on ! Couples whirled.
No partner appeared for Daisy. She began
to feel as if the eyes of all the room were
upon her, and shrank behind Mrs. Cox to
hide the imagined, terrible slight to which
she was being so unkindly subjected.

At last, Gascoigne entered the doorway.

Daisy hid closer. She hoped he would
not see her at all now, since he had so far
neglected her. But in five more seconds
she heard his voice overhead (literally) ;

lies being so drooped with the weight of
his supposed scorn.

I think this is the galop you kindly
promised me."

Without a breath of reproach, the meekest
of small creatures crept out of her retreat
and started to dance.

One turn. Captain Gascoigne did not
waltz to please the arena so well perhaps
as Lee. His dancing was so quiet it could
never be conspicuous, but it was none the
less easy and entrainant for that. As to
Daisy, she thought it utterly paradisiacal.
There was no terrible strain, knowing the
reputation of the best dancer, etc., might
be marred by her awkwardness ; no feeling
that admiring, envious, critical eyes were
never off her. (But indeed, if Gascoigne
had shuffled blunderingly on her toes, all
the time, she would very likely have been
almost equally happy while dancing with

Lin. So foolish and illogical is the feminine
mind !)

Another turn  and the music stopped.

Oh ! is it all over ?"

I am afraid that I came up very late,"
said Gascoigne, rather stiffly. "But the
fact is, poor Mrs. Browne asked me to get
her carriage called, so I was sure you
would not be annoyed at my doing such a
small kindness. Besides, you have danced
with a so much better partner than myself
with Mr. Lee  that you will hardly regret
not having had a longer turn with me."

Now, surely, was the time to say something.
How complimentary, how sweetly,
gaily flattering had not Daisy been such a
little, little while ago ! Nothing came ; nota
word. Might she not hint now that
his step was, like many of his other accomplishments,
that of a man

Who can, but seldom cares to shine."

Gascoigne led ber back to Mrs. Cox ;
tlieo, evading that matron's instant artifices
to entangle bim in conversation (for
Mrs. Cox made the most of ber opportunities
with young men), be said it was
late, far later than be bad meant to stay ;
and with a retreating smile, wbicb Mrs.
Cox entirely appropriated  indeed its frosty
civility would bave given no comfort to
Daisy  bis tall figure stalked away.

Up came Jack at once, to follow ibis
senior's lead.

'swell, little one, you look a wreck.
You should be in bed. I say,"  in a loud,
confidential whisper  " bow bave you liked
it, eb ?"

 b ! ve-ry much," in a very slow,
dubious murmur. "You've never been
near me all night, Jack. Do stay a minute
now."

Can't, child. I want to go back with

Captain Gascoigiie, as I came iu this hansom.
Why, you didn't want me before ; I
saw you all right with Lee and the others,
you young hypocrite ! . . . Cheer up. I'll
give you a grand turn, I promise you, at
Our Ball."

But in spite of that fraternal recommendation,
when Daisy Dimity once more
found herself alone in her little room in
Magdala Villa, she sat down by the dress-unstable,
put her head on her arms, and
began to cry ! Cried after having danced
every dance that evening, and having been
congratulated on her success, and "chaffed
" about Smiler Lee by both the Smeeths
and all the Coxes, as they had again reassembled
in the ladies' cloak-room. Cried
as if she had never cried before ! But
as all women know what a relief and almost
consolation it is to weep, and that

Daisy was one of those soft souls who weep
easily, let us hope that by morning she felt
all the better of her midnight grief.

CHAPTER XL

*' Le soldat bailie sous la tente,

Le matelot sur le tillac,
Benton ils ont rame contents,

Avec la pipe de tabac ;
Si pourtant survient une belle,

A Instant le coeur fait tic-tac,
Et Lament onblie anpres delle

Jusqu'a la pipe de tabac."

TT was the day of Mrs. Luxton's picnic
- up the river.

Three or four boats-full of the party
were pulling up the stream ; by meadows
where the cows grazed knee-deep in buttercups
; by cherry orchards round tiny hamlets
; by great reed-beds, which the wild
ducks haunted in the winter time.

They had already left the smoky town
and its suburbs far behind, All had
settled down into their places, forgetting
the rubs of starting, the hampers mislaid,
the wrong persons who could sit
beside them.

The day was of a warm, delicious grey,
with veiled sunshine that made all nature,
mead, copse, and green woods crowning
the heights on either side, seem reposing
in that gentle stillness ; which lit up the
cool depths of the river, without merely
dazzling on the surface.

It was about three o'clock ; for they had
not left Marstown until afternoon, meaning
to have a five o'clock dinner, and wait to
row back by moonlight. There was one
large steam-launch, which held most of
the guests. The smaller boats belonged
to some of the officers in Marstown, who,
dressed as gay as Tom Bowing for the

day, had invited the ladies of the party
who were fairest iu their eyes, to grace
their trim-built wherries.

'' You'll come in our boat. I know you
would like that best' young Lee had said
to Daisy, on the pier when starting. He
felt rather hurt when she refused ; though,
since their famous ride, his too great
ardour for Daisy had imperceptibly cooled,
and there was Miss Le Hunt, a " county "
beauty, whom, having met only two days
ago, he had already begun to admire.

Poor Smiler ! He really felt that he
loved all his old flames as much as ever ;
but then he loved the new ones too ! It
is a hard thing when new friends appear
on one's life-horizon, that one cannot have
dances enough, and time and opportunities
for attention enough, to keep the old friends
from feeling thrust out into the cold,
and their friendly rights filched by the

strangers. Only by slight self-denial, and
the remembrance that the sister of his
chum had claims above all others, did the
Smiler give that invitation with such true
genial warmth.

So Daisy would not go with him. No
matter. Miss Le Hunt did not hesitate,
but sprang into his boat with a will. Lee
could not but remember that her father's
place, only fixe miles off, must have good
partridge-shooting in September; and. without
being inclined to toady any girl for
ulterior purposes, he said to himself he
dearly loved getting good shooting.

In the large boat, Daisy found herself
with the Lufton, Colonel Dunn, the old
Miss Silverthornes, and some men. Among
these men, at the further end, stood .
(How weary one grows of craning
round to glance at a man's figure, that
never turns to glance at oneself !  yet

how uninteresting the loveliest river scene
compared with the back of a grey tweed
suit !) Besides, there were a good may
people whom Daisy did not know.

Who are they ?" she asked of Fuzzy,
who was amusingly demure, and sat close
by her side.

County, my dear  more or less county.
Some of them live in villas near the town,
with two acres of demesne and big conservatories.
The rest are the real thing ;
rookeries, damp old houses, mortgages, and
a skeleton in the family cupboard a-piece.
There are no men, hardly, left in the country,
so the daughters like to have some of
the garrison society like the rest of us
poor townspeople. But they are all far
above us  in their own estimation. They
have mostly all grandfathers and grandmothers
; or (if some of the villa people
have come from Australia just lately), they

have at least ' a grip of the soil,' as the
Irish peasantry say."

But, Fuzzy, what nou sense !  surely
you have grandfathers and grandmothers
too !"

Hush, dear, no. Only on our mother's
side  . Can she hear? she'd be so angry
if she did ? I do assure you that, except
at some omnibus ball, or garrison dance,
I've never been asked with any of these
people before ; and, of course, we owe it to
you that Mrs. Luxton did."

So saying, Fuzzy, being in a specially
confidential and loving mood, feeling shy
of the strangers, gave Daisy's arm a secret
Img.

"But," said Daisy, blushing up, 'you
know my grandfather bought Elm Hall
quite lately; and before that he was only  "

' Don't tell me. I don't want to know,"
exclaimed Fuzzy, stopping her ears.

*' Why ! for worlds I wouldn't burden my
conscience with, any unwelcome truth that
might turn into a fib, wien the people
here ask me about your family and country
seat. My dear, you have a ' grip of
the soil,' too  that's enough! Oh! there
are plenty of people in Marstown itself,
bankers, and lawyers, and doctors, who
inherited the highest circles of ready-made
clients and so forth from their
fathers before them, who have all graveyards
full of grandfathers that would beat
those of the villa people into fits (if
ghosts could do such a thing !). But,
though they know the county people to a
certain degree (there are some of them in
that boat there), they keep to their own
hum-drum respectability circle, and don't
know us new-comers of some years ago.
Ha, ha !" with a good-humoured, yet rather-vexed
laugh. " It is a funny world !"

I hope that profound philosophical
remark was not meant to be kept a secret,
Miss Cox'* said Gascoigne's voice close
behind, making both the girls start. He
and Colonel Dunn were smoking near the
boiler ; and, the boat being small, a fact
both girls had forgotten, one could not
well help overhearing, unless one walked
overboard. Daisy blushed ; Fuzzy laughed
louder ; both wondering how much had
been overheard.

We were only talking of the cliques
and sets that people in Marstown have.
Isn't it stuff ?"'

Ay, ay ! Birth's gude, but breeding's
better, as the proverb says," cried the
colonel, with a kindly covert glance at
Daisy, showing he had heard her confession
as to her grandfather. "But where
will you go and not find the same thing ?
In every place I've ever been quartered

VOL. II. (4

there were circles within circles, like wheels
within wheels."

Yes, indeed," echoed Gascoigne.
' That reminds me of an attempt at a
military sermon I once heard at Dover
from a young petticoat person, who was
discoursing on the helmet of salvation. He
said, ' So the helmet, my brethren, looks
down on the shako, and the shako looks
down on the busby! And  and  ' Not
remembering what could possibly come
after the busby, he got very red  so he
ended up, ' Amen,' and fairly fled."

When I was in Dublin, they called the
different sets cream, milk, and buttermilk.
I went in for buttermilk," quoth
Jack, who had just come up from discoursing
the stoker, with a view to practical
knowledge.

"Eh, eh, eh ! Went in for buttermilk.
Come, that's honest. Do you know the

Yankee proverb, 'It is not well to ijray
cream and live skim-milk ' ? When were
you there ; not with us, eh ?" cried the
colonel, in his crackling, cheery voice, as if
he was letting off ever so many gay little
squibs.

No, sir. It was only when I was in a
militia regiment before passing for the
army. We did not do very well at our
last inspection ; for when one of our captains
was ordered to put his company
through their drill, some one whispered to
the colonel who was inspecting,  Och,
colonel dear ! sure Captain Jones and his
men are not on sparing terms /' "

"Do you remember Dryden's unkind
allusion to militia ?" smiled Gascoigne,
turning aside to Daisy.

' And raw in fields the rude militia swarms ;

Mouths without hands, maintained at vast expense,
In peace a charge, in Avar a weak defence'"

q2

Daisy did not knov it ; but she felt and
looked so happy at Gascoigne's having at
last addressed her, that he might have
been just as well satisfied had not Fuzzy
been misguided enough to remember her
family r61e. Hitherto she had been comparatively
demure, and really more natural ;
but now she exclaimed, with an effort at
smartness,

Well, how you men do always play
follow the leader !' If I were sitting
alone, now, not one of you would come
near me. Oh ! often and often I've remarked
that of you with other girls. But
because one gentleman comes now, here are
all three of you." (She quite overlooked
the idea that they might have come on
Daisy's account.)

'' There may be some truth in that remark
; but as I do not wish to be accused
of acting like a silly sheep, I must take

the bint and depart till another time,"
answered Gascoigne, relapsing into ibis
former gravely courteous air  and the
smile that Daisy now did not care for, because
it was everybody's. He used to
bave quite a different one for ber.

There ! He was gone away after baviug
only spoken once. How tiresome of Fuzzy !
Of course it was not this fault.

A lump rose in the little girl's throat ;
and, tbougb sbe turned ber bead to gaze
over the boat's side at the lovely river
view, sbe only saw trees waving up and
down, tbougb it was a windless day. while
the birds of comfortable British cattle
seemed grazing in a Scotch mist.

Jack and the colonel were now both busy
expatiating on the chances of wild-duck
shooting in the back waters and sedge-beds
their boat passed. Engrossed by the
charms of this topic, they had forgotten
feminine society.

Fuzzy sat pouting at her blandishments
having been overlooked.

Daisy, on the contrary, liked men to he
men, as in her own mind she phrased it ;
and not drawing-room loungers. Of
course, since her stay in Marstown, she
had sometimes (especially of late) felt she
would dearly have liked to pour all her
perplexities into Jack's brotherly ears, no
Polly being by. But, after all, so she
sighed to herself, he would only tell her
she was making herself unhappy about
nothing ; he could not understand ; it was
not his fault, only that 

Women are women, men are men."

And, only that very morning, such a lovely
fan had come for her ! without a word of
explanation ; far more lovely than the one
Mrs. Browne had forgotten to return. A
marvel of mother-of-pearl and painted

daisies. Now, of course it was clear Mr.
Lee lead sent it ; set she bad hoped

Then she felt a hand softly placed on
hers, and Mrs. Luxton's voice kindly said,

My dear child, you look quite moping.
"What is the matter ?"

'' Nothing, indeed ; only  only that I
have been feeling all the morning that I
should not enjoy myself to-day. Have
you not got a presentiment of that sometimes
?" said poor Daisy, weakly.

"IJ'onsense ! When I was a girl, I always
found that, whenever I did not expect
to have a pleasant time, I always had
one. And the contrary when my mind
was too much set on anything," said the
genial young woman, cheerily. " Come 
you are my charge to-day, I consider;
and I insist on your enjoying yourself.
Will you come over with me to the other
end? The old Miss Silverthornes are asking

for you, and I want to introduce you to all
the county girls ?"

So said ; and so done.

Presently Daisy found herself being
introduced to all the people whom it had
been since years the ambition of the Coxes
to know. Then she was cooed at and
caressed by the Miss Silverthornes, who
had only that morning dressed her sore
arm. These spinsters it was the fashion
to pet among the county girls ; though
aged, they were so sympathising, such "dear
old ducks ;" the mothers added they " were
of such good family." Now, the old ladies
related all the particulars of how Daisy
had been the saviour of Fido.

Dear Fido  he is such a sweet /" enthusiastically
exclaimed the simple, little,
second Miss Le Hunt.

'* Darling Fido ! I could steal that
dog," chimed in Miss Normandy, the ill-dressed

heiress of Normandy Tower.

Poor Fido  I loathe lapdogs, as a rule,
but he is a jolly little beast," declared Miss
Despard, a handsome, bold gipsy ; one of
the penniless daughters of Sir Alfred
Despard, the most blue-blooded baronet in
the country.

As they congratulated Daisy on her *' awful
pluck " and her angelic conduct, ,
who had been '' doing duty" at this
end of the boat hitherto with conscientious
self-denial (since he so seldom performed
such society tasks), felt that his eyes
where no longer impelled to wander so envyingly
to where Jack and the colonel were
slaying the wily mallard in prolonged conversation.
Still he sat nearly silent ; or
conversed almost apart with Miss Patience
Silverthorne.

The young ladies, having received Daisy
into their high-bred circle, were secretly

inclined to consider ber " a sweet little
thing " (how much for her brother's sake we
will not inquire) ; but regretted to each other
that she was staying with people of such
dreadfully bad style. By-and-by, apparently
paying Daisy the compliment of overlooking
her  or else looking en her as one of
themselves  they began to converse among
themselves.

"Oh! dear," cried Miss Le Hunt, "I
feel as if I should like to do something
wild to-day. I feel so naughty, naughty !"

And 1 feel so baddy, baddy !" echoed
Miss Normandy, crescendo.

' And I feel so wicked, wicked !" ended
Miss Despard, fortissimo.

Then they all laughed at each other's
wit.

Daisy opened her eyes, most innocently ;
but then presumed to question in her heart
of hearts whether this society was, after

all, SO infinitely superior to that of the
Marstown set among whom she had found
herself. Ois' that these other girls, no
one could deny, had a certain something
of superiority in their manner, as if feeling
sure of their worldly position by birth.
Their carriage, that long-forgotten test of
a true gentlewoman, was very bad, it is
true ; but their birth was as a moral backbone
to them.

Still !  unceremonious manners and
witless chaff are the fashion now-a-days
amongst young ladies. No doubt, had
these three been born fifty or sixty years
ago, and been dressed in book-muslin
gowns and black shoes, they would also
have had, as a matter of course, the quieter
demeanour of their mothers.

Autre temps, autre moeurs. And, no doubt,
to go back further, our grandfathers and
grandmothers railed against their children

as having lost something of the grand air
of their day  or, when stiffness became
the mode, said their sons were dull dogs,
with no sport or jollity in them.

The Marstown young ladies, too, might
well plead for themselves that they were 
as to behaviour  what the century and surrounding
circumstances made them. Was
it their fault if gentlemen blamed them for
the self-same amusing free-uneasiness of
manners for which most sought their
society. Surely not altogether ! From
time immemorial, cynical manhood thus
has railed against womankind's frivolity.
If women would but choose to form one
great league  thus men are wont to say 
they could rule the world, and make us
and all things better and purer ! Women
answer, with an equal amount of truth :
If men chose, they could make us what
they pleased !

And now, whilst the younfy ladies were
still langliiug together over their wicked,
wicked wit ! and exclaiming in rallying
tones, ''Oh, Celia !" 'isn't that like
Delia ?" and so forth, Daisy, venturing to
look across, saw that Captain Gascoigne's
eyes were twinkling, and his face becoming
somewhat red-brown ; just the colour
cooks give to the outside of potato pies
with a red-hot salamander.

How do you get on ?" whispered Mrs.
Luxton, who was here and there amongst
the party like an erratic beam of sunshine
brightening all the groups in turn.

Not very well. I don't know them
well enough to understand their jokes,
perhaps," returned Daisy, confidentially.
'' I would much rather, please, talk to you,
or the old Miss Silverthornes."

'' Well, I was afraid these were hardly
your style yet' laughed Mrs. Luxton, low.

"I know  for I was brought up in the
country like yourself, and never went to
school to learn the argot of most schoolgirls.
It sometimes makes a wretched
outsider feel as if they were talking thieves'
patter ; though it may be all very united
and loving for themselves . . . No, come,
here is a girl a little older, but whom you
will like Miss Goodchild."

She introduced Daisy to a dreamy-looking
girl, with good clothes rather ill put
on her; her hat frequently slipping down
on one side of her head, giving her meantime
a rakish air  she sometimes put it
straight, but the heavy 'rubens" softly
slipped back' again.

As soon as Miss Goodchild found that
Daisy|was a stranger, she tried to make
herself agreeable. She began to do Murray's
Guide for the river, and then, when

the first stiffness of intercourse had vanish
(for, though friendly, she was hardly
quite at ease at first), she made a few more
personal inquiries.

Did Miss Dimity like music, singing,
drawing'. or books ?

CD 

Miss Dimity, in her small way, liked
them all ; giving it truthfully to be understood,
however, that, her abilities being no
larger than suited the size of her body, the
only real gift she possessed was that of
appreciation.

Well, I am very fond of hooks ; really
good ones," imparted Miss Goodchild, with
a rueful air. " Having no sisters, they
are my companions ; but the other girls
laugh at me so if ever I begin to talk about
them."

And she glanced at the trio across the
boat, who were now sitting holding each

other's hands rather in the manner of Miss
Kate Greenaway's little damsels  though
they were hardly so innocent-looking.

Daisy could understand that ; and though
she was not very book-learned herself,
said Polly was  and felt sympathetic.

*' Those three were all at school together ;
they are the same age. I am a little
older, and, unfortunately, am the only girl
at home. My father always hated the
idea of girls going to a boarding-school,"
went on Miss Goodchild, sighing a little,
but not too much, over her loneliness.
*' So, you see, they always keep together at
balls or tennis-parties, and have their own
jokes. They are very civil, of course, tome,
when I have courage to go near their
clique ; but still one can't help feeling out
in the cold."

Daisy grew still more sympathising ; she
had a knack of making this feeling of hers

felt without using many words about it.
So Lier new companion went on 

Well, then, you know, one can't tell
gentlemen either about the things one
really likes  such as the clothing club or
visiting the sick villagers ; it's not their
province to know anything about it. And
even the other night at the barrack-dance
I was longing to talk to all my partners
about the ' Earthly Paradise' that I am just
reading ; but they would have thought me
so ' blue r And it is dreadful to be called
blue, isn't it?"

Oh ! yes," answered Daisy, slowly, with
profound conviction of that truth ; then
added, with a sudden impulse, "But I
think I know some one who would not have
thought you too blue for doing so ; someone
who likes even us womankind to show
the best that is in us."

"Xo, who? Do tell me! Your

A''OL. II. R

brother?  I like him very much already ;
but I am a little afraid of him."

"It is . " said Daisy, slowly ; and she
blamed herself for a grudging feeling in
her heart, that made her speech so slow.
It is, Captain Gascoigno."

*' Ah ! I don't know him yet ; but then
I must get to know him to-day. Yes, I
shall tell Mrs. Luxton so. And what a
lovely, long afternoon it will be for him
and me to have a ta-alk !"

The boat had grounded against the
bank, interrupting the last word of Miss
Goodchild's sentence. And Colonel Dunn
had begun to shout, " Hallo  here we are ;
here we are ! And now everybody must
get out !  get out !  get out !"

CHAPTER XII.

Upon a simmer's afternoon
A wee afore the sun gazed down."

Beside the landing-place there was an
-*- oak-wood, as noble as any in all
broad England ; full of charming glades
and sequestered walks to ramble in on that
summer's day. And through it ran down a
stream into the wider river, brawling and
babbling between great boulders, one of
the many clear backs in those parts with
gravelly beds, leaving the stream so pure
that the fish seemed like sprites arrowing
their way hither and thither.

A little above this meeting of the waters

R 2

was an open grassy space, overacted
by monarchs of the wood standing deep
in fern ; while the grass was short, and
sweet with thyme, by banks of which
slipped the trout stream, " sliding, gleam -
ing, gliding," as singer Poet Tennyson.

Here it was proclaimed the picnic should
be held.

And now, you young people may all
go off. I mean to have the dinner all
ready at five o'clock, and before that I
wish to see none of your faces," cried Mrs.
Luxton, gaily. " No demurs, please ; no
objections. My husband and Colonel
Dunn are going to help me ; so amuse
yourselves ! depart ! vanish !"

"Ay, ay. Get along. We don't care if
we never saw any of you again  excepting
always the ladies I  the ladies !" cheerily
hallooed Colonel Dunn, ending his sentence
with an intonation of most abject apology

to the fair sex, which he altogether spoilt
by a side wink at Gascoi.2:ne, adding, with
a chuckle, " It's aye gude to be weevil, as
the auld wife said when she curtseyed to
the devil !"

Please let me stay too, Mrs. Luxton.
I should like it, oh ! so much better than
going with the rest," implored Daisy, in a
whisper of such sincerity that the merry
hostess looked round at her in some
wonder.

As you please ; but really are you
quite sure you would not rather go

with " And Mrs. Luxton surveyed

the departing groups.

There went Smiler Lee, still faithful, for
the time ! to his mistress of the day. There
again went the Coxes, with Major Hodge,
young Jones, and Captain O'Donoghue 
to whom Jack had this day relinquished
Birdie, with marvellous facility.

There went Mrs. Cox, rather nervously
keeping near some of the greater ladies ;.
and trying to interpolate some mild remarks
upon the scenery, the weather, the
foxgloves, into their conversation upon
mutual acquaintances  whenever any of
them gave the poor woman a chance.

'* Indeed, there are none of them with
whom I care to go," pleaded Dais},
earnestly, looking over where just between
wood and river three figures were disappearing
; Miss Goodchild walking between
Jack and Captain Gascoigne. The latter
had just been introduced to her by Mrs.
Luxton ; and she had eagerly begun to
"interview" him, rather too much, perhaps,
on her favourite topics ; whilst Jack
had apparently gone after his friend.

And all three  how unkind !  had
utterly forgotten to ask Daisy to join them.

Mrs. Luxton watched the direction of

her eyes, but said nothing. So Daisy
bravely patted out the cloth on the grass ;
and as bravely refrained from dropping a
single salt tear on the pigeon pies and
chicken salads. But by-and-by, when Mrs.
Luxton asked her to take down a jelly,
still in its china mould, and put it gently
to cool by the river-edge in loving company
with the champagne bottles  then
was the opportunity for solitude and refreshing
tears !

Daisy was all alone. Some bushes sheltered
her from the observation of those
she had just left. She felt like a Naiad ; 
she would have gladly dissolved in tears,
and so been merged in the stream ;  and
did her best towards that dissolution by lying
stretched on the grass above the limpid
wavelets, with a willow sighing overhead,
and a thicket behind her full of tall foxglove
spires and banked with wild strawberries

and tiny geraniums, while

The hot noise of bees
Lulled the bright flowers."

Miss Dimity, what is wrong ?" asked
Gascoigne's voice, with a shocked sound,
above her, in the midst of a small gush of
sobs.

Daisy was so startled she sat bolt upright
; then, with one swift glance, hid her
weeping blue eyes and quivering face ina
friendly tuft of water-mint.

'' I  I . . . Nothing," she murmured,
choking back her sobs. Then, with catching
breath, plucking bravely at the mint, and
pretending to put it to her nostrils with
intense relish ; though it smelt worse than
even old wives' peppermint in church. " I
have only  been enjoying myself alone f

Did her ears deceive her, or was there
the faintest sound like the beginning of a
laugh overhead, instantly checked ?

"Is it not rather unkind to prefer
enjoying yourself chloe ; when surely your
friends would be only too glad to be
allowed to share your  your feelings?"

Jack, and Miss Goodchild, and all of
you went away, and never even thought of
me," breaking down at that remembrance
again (though inaudibly, and, as she hoped,
secretly), and having surreptitious recourse
to her handkerchief.

'stop, please. Miss Dimity; now that
just shows how little you know about it,"
interrupted Gascoigne, pained for her, but
really roused to defend himself. " So far
from that being the case, I thought all the
time that you were walking with Mr. Lee ;
and when we met hin and Miss Le Hunt
at some cross-paths, and that no one knew
anything of you, I turned back here to see
what had become of you."

'' No really r"

'' Yes, I did."

'how good of you !"

This last assertion Gascoigne was apparently
too modest to echo, yet too honest to
contradict. So they both looked at each
other with beaming eyes, and an air of
extreme mutual satisfaction.

Mr. Lee . . . indeed ! So you thought
I had gone with him. That only shows
how little you know about what you were
talking of," went on Daisy, with a sweet
scoff born of great joy, and a little air of
reprimand quite new to her.

'* Well, how could anyone tell ?" returned
Gascoigne, with humble happiness.
Certainly, judging from last night at the
dance "

** Oh ! what does it matter whom one
dances with ?" cried Daisy. " He had his
name put down on my card, before ever I
knew  I was so vexed afterwards."

Really !" with ecstasy, but shyly dabbling
holes in the ground with his stick.
' Then  then you are not grieved to the
heart, at his having first rowed Miss Le
Hunt and then gone walking with her ?"

He asked me to go in his boat first,
but I refused," quoth Daisy, blandly, unconscious
of the real feelings of the Smiler
on that occasion ; but then, struck by some
inkling of his view of the case, hastily
added, " However, he really did not want
me to go afterwards for a walk. He
seems so much smitten with Miss Le
Hunt ; he told me so. He is always
admiring some one fresh, I do believe ;  he
has told me of so many girls he thought
charming, one after another."

'fickle Mr. Lee. He might sing,

If I by miracle can be
This livelong minute true to thee,
'Tis all that heaven allows.'

And so lie makes you the confidante of his
loves. What a delightful idea !"

On which Captain Gascoigne, who was
hj this time sitting on the thymy grass
at Miss Dimity's feet, laughed heartily.
And little Miss Dimity, who had quite
recovered herself and her upright position,
laughed too.

Her hands smelt so nastily of mint, she
now must needs go down three paces to
the stream and wash them. And ,
with a lazy groan, must needs
drag his lazy length thus far  not to
forsake her again.

There was a little break in the bank
where she stooped down. The wavelets
washed over gleaming gravel ; midstream
there was a tiny rush of eddying water,
but yet the rippling tide was clear and
shallow, no deeper than your knee.

Behind the sitting couple was a thicket,

beyond this deep glade. Eight and left
the sheltering woods stretched up their
green wide-spreading heads to the summer
sun, while underneath their stems made
cool, cathedral vistas. Opposite, across the
water, an oak coppice, broken by faggot
piles and cleared spaces, sloped gently
upwards. Bat beyond this, here and
there, by help of dips and hollows, could
be seen some tiny, distant views oF a
farther world ; some hills, a spire or
two.

How lovely summer is !" uttered Daisy,
looking up the rushing river; and at the
green glory of the trees, with the tender
gleams of evening sun lying on the coppice
; and the widely, kindly aspect of the
illimitable sky.

There is a ford here," quoth ,
irrelevantly; *'I wish I had known
that last winter during the hunting season.

It once would have spared me a long ride
round.

The track winds down to the cool stream
To cross the sparkling shallows ; there
The cattle love to gather on their way  '

Miss Dimity, why do you let me quote
poetry ? What a prig you must think
me ! You should stop me at once."

'* But I like it. Why  do you not do
so with other people ?" opening her eyes.

"No; you are the only person with
whom I so far forget myself, now, as to
talk just as I am lazily thinking."

The only one  now," repeated Daisy,
adding with mock jealousy, secretly real,
Then there tuas some one else !"

Gascoigne looked closely at her.

There was  my little sister, now dead ;
with whom I used to sit by just such another
river and talk as idly long ago."

A few moments of silence ; then Daisy
said,

"Is it not a curious feeling one sometimes
has, of seeming to remember what
one can have never heard or seen before
? This is not the first time I have
had it  and especially lately with you."

'rare we affinities, then; did we live
before now together in some bright, particular
star, and have only met again ' not
in entire forgets fulness ' ?" smiled .
" But ought we not to be doings
back to join the rest ? It is best, I believe,
for young ladies not to be conspicuous
by their absence on these occasions."

They rose, and were about returning 
when, with an air of haste and extreme
solicitude, Mrs. Luxton confronted them.

"Where are my jellies  and the champagne.
Captain Gascoigne, that I sent you
for ever so long ago ?"

A guilty start; utter confusion; then
laughter and evasive apologies.

They are still cooling in the water . . .
They are reposing in the silver streamlet
to the very uttermost moment."

They are lost and weltering in the
flood !" returned the indignant dame,
laughing heartily as she ran down to
rescue the cherished juice of France's fair
province. '' Tn plain English, you both
forgot tfiem /"

Then the feasting began. It needs not
be scold with detail how all the ladies sat
round the cloth or rested their plates on
friendly hampers, whilst the gentlemen,
by waiting upon them, got in each other's
way. How the champagne corks popped
and the wine-glasses frothed, propped up
in the grass at infinite peril of being upset.
How everybody would eat of one especial
chicken-pie discovered to be the best, and
despised cold duck and flouted pressed
beef, but revelled in lobster salad, and

began to feel sated over gooseberry tart.
How the missing couples that slowly
dropped in last were furtively eyed, and
commented on with whispers. Then a lull
came, and plainly the feasting Alas over ;
except for the servants and boatmen, who,
the lions of the party being fed, were now
like the little jackals coming to pick the
bones of the feast.

And by-and-by again the party began to
break up into twos and threes ; again they
showed inclinations of wandering far from
the madding crowd ; of loving to stroll in
sweet solitude.

You have seen nothing of the beauties
of the wood, and up the river-bank as yet.
May I offer myself as guide, in case you
can find no better one ?" Gascoigne had
said to Daisy, with an air of would-be
doubt, which a smile of inward confidence
contradicted.

VOL. II. S

As if it were possible to find a better !
Daisy's heart had eagerly cried out ; but
she only demurely dropped her eyes, and
said she would be very glad if Captain
Gascoigne liked to show her the way.

Jack had given her a look of broad,
brotherly inquiry, a rallying grin, with a
side glance of unnecessary pity towards
the Smiler. Daisy firmly resisted the
enticement to confidence of these blandishments,
and tried to look as if nothing
particular had been proposed ; while her
cheeks grew red-tinged as her namesakes,
and her heart and her feet almost danced
as she quietly went after the rest  but side
by side with Gascoigne.

Along wood-paths, and up the river's
edge they two wandered. They went and
they went

"Through the broad, grey lawns,
As down the red sun sank."

And what they talked about, they could
have hardly told, or known, later ; excepting'
this, that while they talked they
had been very happy. Although a man
and fair maiden, with thoughts of each
other that either would have given much,
very much to know ! their talk could hardly
have been more innocent of coquetry or
passion had they been two children wandering
hand in hand. Until at last, having crossed
the stream higher up by a bridge, they
strolled back on the further side ; and then
sought to re-cross it again at a spot where
there were some large stepping-stones.

s2

Chapter XIII.

Oil, Hercules!" cried Xenophon, 'what wonderful
consequences you attribute to a kiss !"

"Do you marvel at my doing so?" inquired
Socrates. " And do you not know'' he continued,
that the tarantula, although in size it is not so large
as a farthing, yet, if its mouth only just comes in contact
with a man, it wears him out with pain, and
drives him out of his senses f

Memoirs of Socrates  Xenophon's Memorabilicu

fTlHE water, though shallow, was swift
-- and sparkling ; and the steppingstones
were wet with spray.

Gascoigne crossed them first, and turning
at each stone to hold out a hand to his
little companion, said, in warning,

They are slippery ; take care ! How

the rest would laiigb at us if we were to
get wet ! Steady !  Miss Dimity, I shall
scold most tremendously if you slip."

He gained the back himself now, and
held out both bands. Daisy was on the
last stone ; but the edge of the bank was
wettest and most slippery of all, so she
eyed it doubtingly  sparingly.

A spring at last ; but, with a faint heart,
not far enough, so she lit on treacherous
surface, and, though Gascoigne had caught
her, her feet began sliding downwards.
Before, however, her shoe had almost
touched the water, before more than the
sole of ber foot was wet, sbe was lifted up
in two strong arms on firm ground.

Did Gascoiorne scold as he had threaten



ed ? Did he remember Mrs. Grundy ?

Instead, it seemed to them both,
however foreign to bis quiet nature,
and extraordinary to relate, that on

the moment's impulse he kissed Daisy.

It was so sudden, so extraordinary,
such a surprise to them both, that it
seemed like a dream. The whole walk
had been dream-like ; but this strangest
of all !

As if in a dream, too, some distant noise
startled them, and Daisy seemed to slip
from his hold as if lie had only grasped
at a little sunbeam quivering on water.

Like a fawn dost thou fly from me, Chloe,
Like a fawn that, astray on the hill-tops,
Her shy mother misses and seeks,
Vaguely scared by the breeze and the forest."

Verily the maidens in the days of Horace
although the daughters of so stern a race,
were not so different, after all, from these
of now-a-days. What was that noise  that
terrible noise ? A woodpecker tapping a
hollow tree. Only that  but the old poet's
description of virginal shyness still resembled
Daisy's newborn alarm.

Shudders spring, newly born throng quick leaflets ?
Slips the green lizard, stirring a bramble?
She is seized with a panic of fear,
And her knees and her heart are one tremble."

Seeing her thus looking startled, like an
innocent child, Gascoigne did not speak as
if afraid of alarming her. He seemed
too surprised with himself, indeed; although
his face wore a most beatific expression, ashe
looked down on Daisy, who in turn
looked lower still on the ground. Then
they found themselves walking again demurely
back, side by side.

Almost immediately, they both heard the
rest of the belated merrymakers returning
by a nearing path ; their voices sounding
louder and louder.

It was but a few mere instants since they
two had left the crossing-stones.

It seemed as if Gascoigne just then was
preparing to speak  to say something ; as

if Daisy were venturing to lift lier bappj,
frightened eyelids."

Too late !  in another moment the rush
of talk, and questions, and gay chatter of
the rest seemed to surround and overflow
them ; but then they two felt like dream-people,
quite unfit for common talk.

Where have you been ?" asked Miss
Goodchild, coming up, and linking her
arm quite affectionately through Daisy's,
to draw her apart. " Your brother and I
have had such a delightful walk  we were
wishing so to have you with us, but we
forgot to look round for you till we had
gone nearly a mile. We had what I calla
really good talk ; he is so appreciative,
your brother  though he may not have a
creative mind. Of course all men ought
to be creative in intellect, and women receptive
; but there must be exceptions, must
there not ? and I do so love originating

111} own plans for our village people, and
makiugrayown sketches, and my embroidery
designs, and thinking my own thoughts.
Even, sometimes, I try setting hackneyed
songs to my own little compositions; do
you ever try that ?"

''No," said Daisy, humbly, feeling still
rather in a whirl. " I am not clever, like
you ; I never thought of anything new in
my life."

*' Ah ! but that only shows you are
intensely feminine ; quite a true woman-type.
It is so refreshing to meet people
whom nature has made typical, for so often
she merges her grand boundary-lines, and
reverses her attributes, as for instance
your brother and myself." (Daisy mutely
looked up surprised, for Jack had always
been to her and Polly the type of all that
Alas manly ; whilst really Miss Goodchild
now  if she would not let her hat slip

SO rakisbly to one side  had most dreamy
eyes, and the face of a gentle enthusiast,
with nothing strong-minded there.) "I
gave your brother a fresh lesson in geology
this afternoon," went on Miss Goodchild
cheerily, who, once mounted on her hobby
which was Jack at present, gave it a
rousing gallop before she got off. " I
have only learnt the rudiments myself, but
nothing is more improving than to teach
another person ; and, as I say, he was so
appreciative."

*' Geology!" uttered Daisy, softly, waking
up to a sense of every day matters
again. " Why, Jack passed first for it in
some terrible examination. He may not
have many accomplishments, such as singing
or drawing, but that he does know
thoroughly."

You dont say so /" said poor Una
Goodchild, thoroughly crestfallen.

Now the indefatigable Mrs. Luxtou
called everyone to drink the tea which she
had been preparing gipsy-fashion ; having
lib a fire of brushwood, and ranged the teacups
on a fallen log. Her husband was
sitting on his heels beside the embers,
keeping the latter alight with most patient
assiduity. His attributes, as Miss Good-child
would say, were that he seldom spoke,
but when he did it was always to the
purpose ; he was never " in the way, but
never out of the way when wanted," as on
this occasion ; and, though he liked his own
wife's company exceedingly, as a general
rule he so greatly preferred that of his own
sex to hers, that he never could be brought
to talk to a single other lady  unless Mrs.
Luxton played him the unkind trick of
imploring him to "do duty" with the
dowagers she wished to get rid of.

There was a great pile of barked trees

near the fire, and to this Daisy had been
drawn by her new friend, and made to sit
down, whilst her eyes were wandering,
wandering  but then Captain Gascoigne
had said, "/ ivill bring you some tea;' he
himself would carry her tea, while Jack, ina
humbler degree, was waiting on Miss
Goodchild.

If anyone else had said those words they
would have seemed most unimportant ; butin
a man like him !  and then that little
but thrilling accent on the "you !"

' How utterly, consummately happy you
do look ! What does make you smile so
to yourself?" suddenly asked Una Good-child,
with an embarrassingly clear, yet
mentally obtuse gaze.

On the other side of the logs, while Daisy
blushed and looked silently down, voices
were nov heard. Easy enough to tell
whose voices.

*' None of your moonlight scenes in a
small boat for me,  bav, haw," laughed the
corpulent tones of the gallant Hodge.
'' Those woods were near enough playing
the mischief with this child. No, no ;
thank ye."

"I think it will be  aw  dangerous to
my health to be out so late on the rival.
Besides, it will be awfully slow work in
that launch, in every way. It is only a
mile from here to the Marstown Junction,
and, if we catch the down express, we
shall have time for a game of whist tonight,"
languidly drawled Captain O'Dono-
glue.

I'm your man, too," struck in the deep
low voice of young Jones. "You seel
must be back early on account of datijr

Capital ! Ha, ha, excellent !" cried the
rest. "We'll all regret leaving: the rest of the
party ; but we are obliged to go back early

on account of DUTY." So saying, they
stalked away, and Daisy and her new-friend
looked at each other.

'' Are not all men horrid ?" emphatically
ejaculated the latter.

"Well, really  " began the dubious
Daisy, quite grieved for the baseness of
mankind.

Will you have some tea?" asked Jack
and Gascoigne, at the same moment, of both
girls.

So the recreant warriors were seen to
depart with much unspoken sorrow on the
part of the Miss Coxes, and some murmured
displeasure on the part of Mrs. Luxton.

''I hate men breaking up a party like
that," she said vindictively, aside to Smiler
Lee. '' Why did they come, if they did
not like it ; I'm sure I did not particularly
want them of all others."

Cheer up, Mrs. Luxton ; 1 am not

going to desert yon, any way," cried the
ever-joyous little Smiler, in his kindliest
way, quite sorry she or anyone should be
vexed. And he kept his word. The
steam-launch was got ready, the little boats
fastened behind to be towed, for all meant
to go back together ; and now, putting
aside nobly all personal considerations, the
Smiler set himself in the midst of all the
county girls, and of the Coxes, too  midmost
betwixt town and country  as if to
atone in his own person for the desertion
of his comrades.

The boat was too crowded gfoino- back
for Gascoigne and Daisy to have any more
private speech ; but there could be unspoken
sympathetic gladness and occasional furtive
looks, revealing each other's eyes full
of unusual light as, with an air of utter
accident, they found themselves seated
side by side.

How guilty both bappj people felt of
being self surrounded by an atmosphere of
love, whilst trying to look round at everyone
else with an assumption of utter
ignorance of any such feeling ! How both
secretly hoped their inward feelings might
escape all observation of the cold, outside
world !

So the boat went on, as the evening
sunshine faded into rosy greyness ; and the
water slipped and flowed around and on
with them; and the moon began to show
faint but ever clearer gleams on wood and
river.

The young ladies were now allsurround-
ins: and oazins at Smiler Lee like sunflowers
turning to the sun, and he was at
the highest heaven of his day's journey ;
beaming on all, emitting small jokes so
gaily and constantly, he seemed a perfect
funny mitrailleuse.

Under cover of this, as of the darkness
in a wooded bend of the river through

a

which their boat was passing, no one
heard Gerald Gascoigne and Daisy softly
beginning to speak  at last !

*' You have enjoyed this day, have you
or not?" he asked, beginning in a tone
of pretty certain joyous confidence that
she lead  tempered by a second thought
of more doubting humility.

Oh, very, very much indeed," in the
very smallest of answering voices.

Do you remember when I found you
enjoying yourself alone T

To this the only answer was shamed
silence.

"And when shall I see you again?
Do you know that I must be going
away tomorrow ?" went on Gascoigne,
in a sort of protecting fond whisper,
which in every-day life he would hardly

VOL. II. T

have recognized as his very own.

A little movement like a start came on
this.

"Going away!"  Daisy just murmured,
feeling much as if he had said, "I am
sentenced to be transported for life, and
you shall never see me any more !"

'rit is only for five days, though," went
on the young man, unconsciously assuming
a consolatory tone of voice, whether for
himself or her was not clear. " I cannot
well help it. You see an uncle of mine
has asked me to go and have some fishing,
so I wrote and accepted. If I had known
I almost think I should have put it off."

If he had known what? But perhaps
we must not inquire too particularly into
this sentence, which seemed intelligible
enough to the two persons most interested ;
though indistinctly thought  uttered so low
that how Daisy heard it was miraculous.

"Must 3'oa go  now ?" with weak hope
clinging to a straw.

*'I said I would." (Paramount reason
in a man's mind for doing so.) A kindly
glance of manly allowance for feminine
feebleness meanwhile turned upon the invisible
pleader. Most of the force of this
glance was lost in the darkness ; only the
tone of that newly-dear voice, the outline
of that heroic, handsome head  ah ! how
could it ever have seemed almost commonplace
?  discernible in the warm gloom.

Well, never mind !" and Daisy felt her
fingers just lightly touched a moment, as
Gascoigne cheerily uttered  ' At all events,
I shall be back in time for Our Ball."

And I go home the day after it."

Was it possible ?  a few days ago would
it not have seemed most utterly impossible 1
that going home to dear Elm Hall should
be spoken of in such a smallest of slight

tones, with a smallest heart-sinking not
however at all revealed by the voice.

'the day after! Oh! well, then at
least we shall have our last dance together."

This was said with almost a cruel tone
of joyous confidence ; ignoring her small
bruised feelings, her quick fears, and budding,
crushed, unspeakable hopes  how like
a man !  how very, very like a man !

Hallo, Daisy, are you deaf ? I have
been shouting at you for the last half-hour,"
broke in Jack's voice, cheerily and
rudely healthy, void of all moonlight sentiment.
'' What was it that they say tramps
upstairs at night at Elm Hall ? Here are
the Miss Silverthornes want to know."

"We want to know, my dear," began
the two little ancient spinsters, slightly
agitated and speaking together, though
afterwards they helped each other out with
alternate bits of the sentence, " because

jour brother has just mentioned that your
home was in Koyalshire. So we are very
much interested in hearing that," took up
the other. " For our old home, too, used
to be there"' went on both together, and
then they fell back into chirping antiphony
again. ' And your brother has just been
telling us of a tradition in your family that
a footstep is heard going upstairs in your
home at midnight  which is most curious,
because the same thing used to be believed
or said by the servants in our old home."

The footstep is supposed to be that of
a former servant in the house  an old man
who drowned himself in a fit of auger,
brought on by eating stewed eels, and because
his wife, the cook, would not give
him any more," quietly answered Daisy.
An exclamation of astonishment broke
from both the little old ladies, and tlicn
both held up their hands.

' How strange !  how extraordinary !'
"Why, that is the very tale used to be told
of our old horae, Thornvale. It was bought
by a Mr. Joyce  did you ever hear of him,
my dear?  and then we heard it had passed
out of his hands. But having no friends
left in the county, we have not heard of
our old home for thirty years," ended both,
in tones of sadness.

'joyce! Why, that was the name of
my grandfather ; my mother's father ; partner
of my other grandfather. He bought
Elm Hall first, and then we came in for
it," bluntly interposed Jack, relating this
family history in an off-hand way.

'' Thornvale !" ejaculated Daisy. '' Why,
that is  that was the very name of our
Elm Hall before grandfather changed it
long ago."

The two Miss Silverthorues drew out
their laced, large handkerchiefs with very

trembling bands, and with still greater
agitation of mind. Then they said both
together, in tremulous tones,

So it is you wbo are living in our old
borne. And, sister, sbe saved Fido's life
and we never knew wbo sou really

were."

CR-R-R! WH-I-R-R! Tbe boat bad
suddenly stopped midstream, and its steam
was all puffing in vain.

Hallo !  stuck in the mud," cried the
gentlemen.

Back ber !  Do this  that  or the
other with ber," cried the old pilot, and the
somewhat beer-bewildered boatmen, and
the bot stoker. But tbougb all of male
kind ran bitter and thither, worked,
fumed, suggested, contradicted each other,
and felt brief attacks of suppressed, 'strong
Saxon," the fact, nevertheless, became
plain  they were aground on a mudbauk.

Now what was to be done ?

It soon became equally plain that nothing
could be done, except that hardest
of many things  have patience and keep
one's temper. In two hours at most the
tide (for this was a tidal river) would float
them again ; meantime they could still
comfort themselves with tea or stronger
brews made hot by the help of the boiler.
They all determined to he good-humoured !

And then, having been led insensibly
into this vein of thought by Daisy's story
of Elm Hall  or being swayed thereto by
the influences of night, moonlight, and all
the mysteries of nature around them that
must be known to running river and nobly
ancient woods  some of the party began to
talk of ghosts, foremost among these Una
Goodchild.

M

CHAPTER XIV.

How gently rock yon poplars high
Against the reach of primrose sky,
With heaven's pale candles stored !"

Miss GOODCHILD was a ghost-saucer.
Xo one could be more
earnest and eager a young connoisseur in,
and collector of, bogie tales, wraiths,
double-dangers, and prophetic dreams ;
supported at present by Mrs. Luxton who
had a great deal of volatile sympathy.

The men of course scoffed a little, but
were willing: enough to listen.

So they all discussed lightly the famous
ghost stories that everybody knows, the

Beresford ghost ; the monk who appeared
to a late eminent church dignitary on
account of a confession once betrayed ; the
curses which cling to some titles like disagreeable
heirlooms, and so forth. But
everyone seemed shy of telling a story
themselves, till Miss Goodchild who, though
generally pensive, became excitable when
her favourite topics were concerned,
offered to take the lead and was loudly
applauded ; Jack Dimity giving the signal
for acclamations, since he admired her
pluck.

Meanwhile the three county girl-friends
sat together in a whispering group, wondering
that Una Goodchild should always
say and do things unlike themselves ; which
was their way of accusing her of the sin of
originality.

The Coxes on the other side formed a
family group, somewhat dashed by the

apparent disinclination to familiarity of
the county set, however polite in a distant
Away were the mothers.

Now, my story is strictly true "

began Miss Goodchild.

Oh, of course !" chimed in all the
listeners, especially the gentlemen, with
some malicious intonations.

It was told me by my grandmother,
who was French, the daughter of a refugee
nobleman," went on the young lady, " and
she told it of her grandfather  no, no, I
mean her grand-uncle."

"No matter," kindly interposed the
male chorus. "You need not be so particular."


Faithfulness of repetition in such details
being, however, the great pride of ghost-fancies,
Miss Goodchild eyed them all
with some severity of suspicion ; but then
started.

My grand-uncle had been sent away
from home when a child, on his mother's
death, and brought up at school in Paris.
His father, a count, lived in the country,
and seemed never to wish to have the boy
home for his holidays. At last, when the
young man came of age, he received an
invitation from his father to go down and
see him at their old chateau, to transact
some necessary business.

*the young man looked upon his father
as a hermit and a misanthrope ; so went
with feelings of some awe and natural
curiosity, but very few anticipations of
pleasure in the coming interview. However,
he was well enough received by the
count in the gloomy old home, and advised
to go early to rest.

'during the night the young man awoke ;
and by the light of the moon was horrified
to see a female figure standing at the foot

of his bed looking fixedly at him. This
apparition Lad such an effect upon his
nerves that he could only utter, Awhile
grasping a pistol under his pillow, ' Who
are you? Speak, or T fire.'

The spectral vision slowly shook its
head with an air of intense woe ; but raised
its hand to its mouth once, twice, thrice !
still remaining: mute.

The young man's nerves were overstrained
by the effects of his long journey,
the strangeness of his meetings with his
father after a separation so long wondered
at, and the influence of this gruesome presence,
so seemingly supernatural ;  he lost
his senses and fainted.

"When morning' came, he found himself
still in bed ; and no trace was to be found
in his suite of rooms of the ghostly midnight
visitor. However, requesting to see
his father, he humbly asked leave to quit

the house, feeling still ill  and related
what he had seen.

The father, who had at first seemed
only suspicious and annoyed at such a
request, became, on hearing of the ghost,
extremely angry. He laid solemn commands
upon his son never again to breathe
to human being such a nonsensical story
about his house ; and in great displeasure
desired him certainly to leave the chateau
at once, but not to presume to return
without permission. The son was so disagreeably
affected b} the midnight apparition,
and his father's strange displeasure
on hearing the story, that he took the
latter at his word  and went away.

He never returned again until news
came to him of the old count's death. Then
it became necessary to go home to arrange
matters.

'' He found the chateau in much disorder

; for the servant who principally attended
on bis father in his gloomy solitude
lead disappeared soon after his death, having
plundered the chateau of much that was
valuable. Aided by the bailiff, however,
the young count began putting matters to
rights, and having chosen a different room
from that used by him on his last visit,
saw no spectre to his great relief ; and next
morning he began looking over the household
accounts.

In these he was struck by the frequent
entry, ' Tant pour la femme du petit
appartement ' (So much for the lady in
the little room !)

Strange ! What could it mean ?

Inquiries brought out the confession
from some of the dependants that they
had long suspected some one was concealed
in the house. Search was at once
diligently made. And then a locked door

was found concealed in the wainscot in the
last of that suite of apartments in which
the young man had seen the ghost. They
forced this door ; and found to their horror
in the inner room a woman's corpse only
lately lifeless, in which the young man
recognized his midnight vision !

o o

He was still more shocked when, upon
further inquiries, it was found that this
had been actually the countess, his mother
long since supposed to be dead. His
father, in a fit of jealousy, had immured
her here after having cut out her tongue ;
this last accounted for her powerlessness
to speak, on that night when she must
with difficulty have made her way to the
bedside of her only son.

In the interval between the old count's
death and the arrival of the young one,
the servant entrusted v/ith her care had
robbed the house and taken flight. The

poor woman left slit up was starved to
death !"

'' Bravo, Miss Goodchild !" exclaimed
Colonel Dunn, after a short pause following
this recital  whilst he rubbed his old
cropped head till it seemed likely that
electric sparks would be seen issuing from
the tips of each hair, so highly was he
charged with impatient excitability 
Well, you do tell a good ghastly one
when you begin ; I will say that !"

Said Captain Luxton, who was a very
quiet man, with a very quiet voice, but
very twinkling eyes,

' It seems to me that Miss Goodchild's
own story tells against her theory. The
young man thought, like everybody else,
he saw a ghost  and he was mistaken."

"Now, Harry, do hold your tongue,"
exclaimed his wife, whilst the fair preacher
of histology looked rather disconcerted.

VOL. II. U

*' There are plenty of true stories, as all
the world knows, of real ghosts. Why
should people have ever believed in them,
if there were none ; answer me that?"

' Yes, yes ; of course mine was not a
regular ghost story ; but there are plenty
of true ones," said poor Una Goodchild,
looking thankfully at her ally. " I have
even thought of collecting all the authentic
ones told me by friends, and publishing
them like 'The Night Side of Nature'"
(Publishing ! such an idea  as if she could !
was expressed by slight shrugs of the
shoulders of the fair county clique.)

Pray do ; and call it the new Notes
Ambrosial," suggested Gascoigne, cheerfully.


The gentlemen would treat the subject
with veiled derision, not at all shared by
the weaker sex.

But immediately afterwards, afraid he

might have vexed lier, Gascoigne added,
1 do believe, though, in the strong
effects of imagination. For instance, a
lady who was staying at my home last
winter was fond of collecting curiosities ;
and some one gave her the hand of a
mummy, which she showed me with the
greatest delight as a new toy. Next morning
she came downstairs looking very pale.
She told me then she had dreamt that a beautiful,
black-haired woman, wearing a long
veil and dressed in white, came and stood
by her side  and. in a low voice as if from
far away, said, ' Give back my hand ! Give
me back my hand !' holding out a bleeding
wrist. I told her it was her own imagination
; advised her not to give up possession.
However, next time she dreamed the same
thing. And the following morning, in
desperation, she resolved not to face
a third such night, and bcgred me to

u 2

take a present of the hand  so I did."

"" And what did you see next night ?"
asked everyone, on tiptoe of expectation
as the speaker paused.

Said Gascoigne, modestly, though his
nose raised itself with an air of enjoyment
that was really irritating,

I saw nothing."

Nothing !  but did you keep it long ;
did you give it a fair chance?" cried the
disappointed ones.

*' I kept it in my room for weeks, and
have it still. What more could I do ?"
meekly asked the hardened heretic.

' Ah, well ! your lady friend had the gift
of second sight ; but you must have too
material an organisation," meditatively-observed
Miss Goodchild, settling the
matter thus to her own entire satisfaction.


Jack, do tell your one ; you know  the

horrible story," Daisy softly urged her
brother.

Jack gave an honest growl, intimating
no stepping before the public for him 
thank you !

*' AVhat's that little Miss Dimity says?"
cried Colonel Dunn, however ; getting more
excited and delighted as each fresh person
was entrapped into story-telling, so long
as he himself was spared. " Come on, man ;
come on !" as young Dimity still muttered
sounds of evasion, which seemed to come
from as far away as those of the Egyptian
lady. " Let us hear your tale, too. Is
your brother scolding you for betraying
him, Miss Dimity, eh ? . . Tell him, ' Better
speak boldly out, than aye be grumplin' !' "
And the Colonel rubbed his hands gleefully,
as if they had no more feeling than dry
sticks, and, like Captain Cook's savages,
he was trying to bring fire out of them.

Thus adjured, Jack began in the deep
bass voice that almost startled people 
considering his rather inconsiderable size,

*well! I heard this when I was in a
militia regiment, trying to pass for my
commission for the army. Some of the
fellows remembered the colonel and the
other two men it happened to ; but they
were before my time. The story is, when
the regiment was out training, the colonel,
a captain, and one of the young officers
were asked out to dine at a country
house.

"During the dinner the colonel, who had
taken in the lady of the house, remarked
that his subaltern kept looking at their
hostess in a curious way, and very frequently.
He kept on doing this more and
more  till after dinner, when they were
again in the drawing-room, it seemed as
if he could not take his eyes off the lady

for wherever she moved ho watched her,
as if ho were fascinated. The colonel
frowned at him ; tried to catch his eye ; but
all in vain. At last being thoroughly
annoyed, and afraid the young fellow's
excessive rudeness must be remarked, the
colonel took his leave very early  so, as
the other two had come in his carriage,
they were obliged to go with him.

** In the carriage he told his captain why
he had left, saying to the youngster,

*' ' How could you stare any lady so out
of countenance? I never was more annoyed
in my life.'

'Well, sir,' said the other, * if you saw
what I did, I only wonder you did not
stare too. Did you not see something very
shocking ?'

*' ' No,' said the colonel. ' What did you
see ?'

'' ' I saw a devilish figure behind Mrs.

all the time, and it seemed trying to

cut her throat !'

'' Well ! of course neither the colonel nor
the other man could believe the young one
was in his right senses at this ; so they
concluded he had taken too much champagne,
when they heard the gallop of a
horse behind them, and, looking out, recognized
one of the servants from the house
they had just left.

They called out to ask what was the
matter.

*' 'I am going as fast as I can for the
doctor,' said the man. ' My mistress has
just cut her throat !'"

Jack's story created a slight sensation :
the ladies felt a disagreeable thrill.

A change for the brighter was wanted,
when old Miss Prudence Silverthorne, the
eldest, began, in a high, chirping voice,

'* Now, do let me tell you a quite different

ghost story, which happened to myself and
m} sister Patience. May I ?"

Miijfht she ? There was a cheeriness

o

about her tone that made the men believe
she would be rational, while there was
also an air of sincerity impressing true
believers with faith in her earnestness of
purpose. They hailed the offer ; and the
old lady, pluming herself something after
the manner of a bird, thus began :

In my young days. Patience and I were
once invited up to stay in the south of
Scotland, for a large ball and other festivities,
to be given in honour of the heir
of the house having: come of aofc. Something,
I forget now what, seemed likely to
prevent us, so we wrote with regret and
refused.

It happened, however, in a day or two
that the obstacle was removed ; and, since
these people were great friends of ours,

my sister and I thought we might venture
still to use their invitation ; so we wrote
accordingly, and started on our journey
before we could get any letter in return.

There was no telegraph in those days
remember.

Well ; it seems some other friends had
been asked to fill our places meanwhile ; so
there was a difficulty about finding us
room, which we, being young and foolish,
had never contemplated. The house was
crammed to overflowing.

' They must have the small breakfast-room,'
our kind hostess at last said.
While there is such a large party we
must breakfast, of course, in the diningroom.'
So that was settled.

But then arose a question  as we
afterwards learnt  as to our bed ; for nota
spare one was to be had in the house.

and, we being expected that evening, there
was no time to hire one from the nearest
town, which was at some distance.

"At last the housekeeper remembered
an ancient four-post bed, which had been
discarded to the lumber-room since ages.
It was a handsome old bed, with carved
posts, and a green velvet canopy overhead,
covered with dust, and nodding plumes,
that gave it a strange resemblance to a
hearse. However, when they brought
this with difficulty downstairs, it was
found that it would hardly fit into the
breakfast-room.

"For the latter was one of the oldest
rooms in the house, dating from the days
of the border fortresses, and had immensely
thick walls, and a low, groined ceiling ;
so that the only spot in which our bed
could be put upright was in the middle of

the room  which gave it a singular appearance,
even more solemn and bier-like than
before.

"Nevertheless, when we arrived, and
found what pains they had all been at to
make us comfortable, we naturally expressed
the utmost satisfaction and delight
with all the arrangements made for us.
And though poor Patience whispered tome
that the bed made her think some one
might have been murdered in it, I praised
its gloomy grandeur to the housekeeper.

"Anyhow, there was no time for qualms ;
since that night the great ball took place,
at which we danced till we were tired out,
and only went to bed not long before cockcrow.


We had not long been in bed, and the
house was very still, when, as I lay between
sleeping and waking, I felt Patience
touch me, and at the same time heard

the handle of the door softly turned.

Stow  as you all very well know  one's
first impulse in such a case is either to
call out in a hurry ; or else to hold one's
breath, and lie still very frightened. And
this last is exactly what we did.

Soft, small footsteps approached the
bed. As well as one could judge in thick
darkness, they seemed unlike the steps of
man or woman, not heavy enough for the
one, more pattering than those of the other,
and therefore still more uncanny.

They paused beside us in silence.
There was a cold gust of air  then something
seemed to pass before our faces with
a wave and fluttering as of wings, immediately
after which all came over the bed a
quick, soft pattering, as it were. Next the
steps receded noiselessly, and we were left
trembling.

**]N"ow I do not say that we were either

courageous or cowardly; judge for yourselves.


All I knew well was that we were sofar
from any other living inmates of that
great old house, no calls for help would
have been heard by them ; so as screaming
was useless I refrained. Besides, I had
once heard a woman screaming, and it
seemed to me such an unseemly sound,
that, if the Tiding had even attempted to
strangle us, struggling in silence seemed
preferable."

Ah ! but then sou are so courageous
Prudence," broke in her sister. '' She may
say she is not ; but she has the most
marvellous endurance. / should have
given a piercing scream, but that my
throat seemed choked."

Well, I may have endurance," went on
old Miss Silverthorne, with a small serene
smile, and a matter-of-fact quietness of

narration, that made everyone draw nearer
in confidence, " but nevertheless I lead no
power to move from the moment that
Thing entered the room, and afterwards
I dared not go out of the room after it ;
hiding under the bedclothes seemed a protection.


Indeed ! what use was there in a-ettin'-j-
up ? There was neither keys nor bolt to
the door.

We had not long lain still, whispering
and wondering in fright to each other,
when for the second time the same soft-footed
sounds entered, and seemed to
pause beside our bed, as if doubtingly. We
had both now hidden our heads under the
bed-clothes, which we tightly held down.
Again we felt the soft touches, not straying
all over us as before, but this time like
two quick pats, twice repeated on each of
the four sides. When these came near our

throats, it was with the utmost difficulty
I could hold Patience quiet from hysterical
struggles. Then all seemed silent again ;
and after a little time I ventured to steal
out my head to reconnoitre in the darkness.
It is gone  cheer up !' I whispered
encouragingly, though I own I was trembling
myself. But poor, dear Patience
was trembling still more. ' It is coming
back,' I hastily cried again, under my
breath, to my sister. ' Lie still ; be brave !'
But she could bear no more, and, losing
consciousness, remained very perfectly but
alarmingly quiescent, while for the third
time our dreadful nightmare came in pit-a-pat
! This last time it crept softly all
around us ; but only gave one heavy pat
to each of the four corners of our horribly
haunted bed . . . ! Once more it vanished,
then all was quiet! And now, though I have
always protested I did not faint, still " 

the old lady hemmed  'still I own to
sinking into what you might call a comatose
state. And thus frightened and feeble 
awake, but still under the nightmare
influence  we lay till the housemaid's
entrance, rattling open the shutters, roused
us to a state of light and living companionship.


"And then she gave a start and shriek,
and lUBy slowly rising upright, stared
upon the bed !  and ivhat do you think we
saw T

Miss Silverthorne's voice had become
very slow and distinct now; her intent
gaze, as she looked round for guesses,
showed that something very strange indeed
had met her eyes.

'' You saw bloody landmarks !" uttered
Miss Goodchild, breathless with interest.

No, no ; it was a dog, depend upon it,
and his paws were muddy," urged Colonel

VOL. II. X

Dunn, hotly, hoping for matter-of-factness,
though. Miss Silverthorne gently shook her
head at him.

It was this  it was that  everyone suggested.


'' You were covered with a funeral pall,"
hazarded one last adventurous spirit,
taking a great flight of imagination.

The old lady softly smiled, and, in a
small clear voice, said,

u There was a cloth, and a breakfast
service laid out on the top of us . . . !"

"A what?  Oh, Miss Silverthorne, what
an imposition !" cried Miss Goodchild, whilst
Captain Luxton and Colonel Dunn, the
infidels, exclaimed, " Grand ! grand !" and
chuckled in a manner quite disgusting to
all persons of finer spiritual organisation.

The old lady now explained matters.

There had been a small page in buttons
kept in the house of her former hosts.

This page was iu the habit of laying the
table early iu the breakfast-room when the
family were alone ; bewildered, perhaps, by
the late and great festivities, and oppressed
by a fear of omitting any of his duties,
he had risen in his sleep and gone mechanically
through his usual routine  not
remarking in his dreaming state the
substitution of a four-post bed for the
table.

The rush of cold air was naturally caused
by his waving the table-cloth to its full
extent before smoothing it out ; his second
visit had been to lay the knives and forks ;
and lastly, the four gruesome pats, which
had almost driven life to its innermost
recesses in the persons of the trembling
Miss Silverthornes, were simply and solely
the plump disposition of the salt-cellars.

x2

CHAPTER XV.

*' Our boat is asleep on Sercliio's stream,
Its sails are folded like thoughts in a dream."

Cato one seemed inclined to tell another
-  ghost story ; so Jack Dimity went
for the tea-kettle, and  amid a roar of
masculine congratulation  some surreptitiously
brewed rum-punch. These both
made the audience stronger to bear the
information gently broken to them as
follows, by Captain Luxton 

Here's a jolly go ! Oar old skipper
says we shan't be back till four in the
morning."

Four o'clock ! and it was now scarcely

midnight. Groans being useless, however,
the male sex unanimously agreed that the
ladies must be put under partial cover, at
least, near the warmth of the boiler ; whilst
themselves should smoke and grumble aft
to the partial satisfying of their souls.

But first arose a warm discussion as to
who should house the distant members of
the party on their final arrival in Mars-town,
since at four o'clock in the small
hours no flys could be got near the .


Khyber Pass Eoad was the nearest
place of refuge, and the Miss Silverthornes
offered, with, no doubt, infinite puzzling
of mind, to take in all the *' county people ;"
namely, two suave, pretty mothers, and
three or four brusque-mannered, plainer
damsels.

But this more than crowded every
available inch of space in their cosy, nutshell

of a home ; and what was to be done
with poor Una Goodchild ? Mrs. Luxton,
who was living in barracks, could be of no
help, although the latter's chaperon.

At this  Mrs. Cox, discerning an excellent
little opening for putting the thin
edge of her wedge into 'county society,"
hastily whispered to Daisy  then receiving
a surprised assent, deftly squeezed herself
up to Miss Goodchild's side and with an
excellent humility of hospitality offered the
shelter of Magdala Villa for the remainder
of the night ; only regretting that the half
of Miss Dimity's bed and apartment was
all her spare accommodation. Taken by
surprise, Una Goodchild, who was really
bewildered what to do, and had a very
frank nature, priding herself, too, on holding
liberal if not democratic society
opinions, said, " Yes  with many thanks,"
both to Daisy and Mrs. Cox.

And, Mr. Dimity, it is so far to barracks
! You shall have the drawing-room
sofa for an hour or two. and then early
breakfast  yes, you really must," pursued
Mrs. Cox, so delighted with the fertility of
her own invention she could not restrain
her kindly tendencies.

Jack demurred naturally enough  said
he thought getting back to his own room,
however late, would be better for himself.
But then Mrs. Cox gaily reminded him
that he could not leave her and the young
ladies to go up the Khyber Pass Eoad without
an escort at such an early hour. It
would be quite dangerous, she said (as if
Afghans or hill-men were likely to be
prowling thereabouts).

"Oh! yes  do come, Mr. Dimity; do
let us all keep together, it will be so much
more fun. I am sure your sister agrees
with me," carelessly said Una, upon

which Jack rather weakly gave way.

Back slipped Mrs. Ox, making elegant
apologies, poor soul, as she stumbled in
the dark over the toes of the county
mammas.

I've done it, my dears ! I think I have
quite fixed our future acquaintance with
Miss Goodchild," she whispered, with
pardonable triumph, recounting her arrangements.
" And then I have asked Mr.
Dimity, too  for evidently they get on
so well together."

At this the unfortunate lady was overwhelmed
with a torrent of reproaches, that
had to be likewise murmured by both Pussy
and Birdie ; the latter of whom could not
restrain her anger.

Just like you  spoiling my prospects
for the sake of your own selfishness, wanting
to get in among the county set," muttered
the passionate girl. *' I hate the

county girls ! I hate Miss Goodchild ! I
shan t be civil to her ! Hateful girl ! did
you not see the way in which she was running
after him to-day? and just when I
had got him so jealous, too, about the
attentions Colonel Burke showed me."
(This was not strictly true ; it might be
somewhat nearer veracity to say that
Jack's complacency under the temporary
loss of Miss Birdie's favour had opened the
young lady's eyes unpleasantly.)

It is Daisy, and not us, that Miss Good-child
cares for," softly grumbled Pussy.
And, for my part, I think we enjoy ourselves
far more without knowing the county
girls. They do us no good, so why should
we do them any?"

'' But they might  One should look
ahead, dear, and not be selfish," the mother
excusing murmured, turning to Fazzy
for help.

But lier eldest daughter, though usually
some stays and support, only whistled under
her breath, laconically observing,

"A bird in the hand is worth two in
the bush !"

As all the ladies huddled together under
partial cover, and tried to sleep, poor Mrs.
Cox felt rather miserable. She seemed so
nearly to have gained one of the pinnacles
of her small social ambition ; and lo ! her
own flesh and blood flouted her, and declared
the prize worse than useless.

It was most disappointing, and she felt
a vast inclination to weep a very little ;
perhaps a tear did steal down her faded,
still handsome face. For she was verily
more anxious for Birdie's welfare, as for
that of all her girls, than even the latter
themselves ; and life seemed up-hill work ;
and she vaguely owned to herself they
had not her own still elegant manners.

Then Daisy, being beside lier, happened
to draw a rug closer over the poor lady's
knees, and whispered tucking her in,

Dear Mrs. Cox, how kind of you to
ask that charming girl ! It was such a
good idea; and she tells me she wants us
all to go to a fancy fair to be held in her
father's demesne next Wednesday."

There ! as by magic Mrs. Cox's soul
was comforted ; so though the starlight
grew colder, and the river-mist thicker,
she soon slumbered comparatively happy.

As to Daisy, she was too utterly happy
to sleep at all, or do anything but dream
wide-eyed, or doze  while yet fancying she
could almost distinguish one voice among
the murmurs that were wafted with cigar-scents
faintly from forward.

And still she thought, and dreamed, of
those stepping-stones ; and then dreamed
and thought afain, till her brain was full

of midsummer night fantasy. But lie did
not wonder sagely, as she had for Jack :
Would this be for her own nyiPPiNESS 
being quite, quite sure about it !

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald, BLENHEIM House.

/VP-

5!

I

fe

ccrc: fc-crc

e:Ste

cG <;

5:: comm



<:s

iitttririyr -

'<&

K

535*3

<r c <<

C cc ,

fc cc c < c <:

<L <:< < <

C cc cc

r '< cc < <L

-

*.

i?

. 

<#  

I-

#-V*

 c

C4QC,  *

ccc-C<'(

L I B Ray

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of 

m.3

BY

THE Author OF

"Queene,"
'ORANGE LILY," "A JEWEL OF A GIRL,"
MY LOVE, SHE'S BUT A LASSIE,"

&c, &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1881.

All rights reserved

In heaven above thee !
Yet like a star, with glittering crest,
Self-poised in air thou seem'st to rest ; 
May peace come never to his nest

Who shall reprove thee !

Sweet Flower ! for by that name at last,
When all my reveries are past,
I call thee, and to that cleave fast,

Sweet silent Creature !
Do thou, as thou art wont, repair
My heart with gladness, and a share

Of thy meek nature !"

To the Daisy  Wordsworth.

MISS DAISY DIMITY.

CHAPTER I.

An open-hearted maiden, true and pure."

A Most everyone slept soundly in
-* *- Magdala Villa next morning. Everyone
but one foolish little damsel, whose
foolish little heart and brain would not let
her rest with their happy, delicious disquiet.


She tried to lie still as a daylight mouse ;
because Una Goodchild was sleeping beside
her as soundly as if neither ghosts nor
memories of yesterday any longer existed
for Una. But after a time it would not

VOL. III. B

do, for  he, that is to say Captain ,
had said to her last night, " I shall
drive past your house to my train at eight
o'clock tomorrow morning ; but you will
not be up by then." Lying, listening, in the
darkened room, Daisy was sure, from faint
noises in the kitchen regions, that it must
be eight o'clock ; she was afraid it was
long past it ; and felt quite bitter against
herself for not having risen to look out, 
when, with an alarming, " Too-hoo ! too-hoo
!" the cuckoo clock struck six !

Again for long ages this most silly Daisy
lay still, dozing, listening, remembering,
imagining, all in a half dream, when a
rumbling noise sounded in the distant
street. At first, in her confused state, it
seemed like thunder ; but soon, with a
start, she knew the sound to be that of
wheels.

Yery few cabs or carriages passed magical

a Villa so early ; it must be his ! In a
trice she bad slipped noiselessly out of bed,
and was behind the blind peering through
a most cautious little slit, as nearer and
louder rolled  the milk-cart !

It was of no use going back to bed
now. Daisy's blood was up against these
practical jokes played upon her by the
ironical gods ; she felt obstinate determination
that she would and should see 
that morning, and for a few moments
her soft round face wore a perfectly
grim expression. So she set about dressing,
hoping not to waken Una Goodchild ;
but oh ! the agonies of it !

How softly she crept about ! but every
chair she touched in the semi-darkness
creaked as if it was an injured thing, or
grated wickedly on the stained economy
boards, surrounding the small centre island
of carpet. How the water she sob

2

cautiously poured into the basin seemed
a little Niagara cataract, while her softest
washings therein sounded like the splashing
of the great sea-serpent.

At last, at last she had finished, and
glided like a shadow out of the room ; giving
one thankful backward glance at the still
undisturbed outline of the sleeper. After
twice vainly trying to close the door noiselessly,
which the lock refused to allow by
teasingly shooting open again, Daisy finally
p-ave it an indignant little slam. Gracious !
she flew downstairs in precipitate dismay,
for the noise seemed enough to wake old
Rip van Winked.

She wanted to look out on the street, so
entered the drawing-room, where the lazy
housemaid had not yet pulled up the
Venetians  but then, poor soul ! she had
been sitting up awaiting the party till the
small hours. Groping her way, Daisy

suddenly tripped over the stumbling-block
of a foot-stool, and, with a cry, fell forward
upon the sofa, on a dark, long object she had
not before perceived. With another cry
the object rose, and she felt a sharp blow
on her face.

Oh ! Jack  my nose!" she exclaimed,
rubbing that hurt feature.

"Goodness gracious, Daisy, my nose!
Is that you ?" responded Jack, with gruff
bewilderment, also rubbing his tingling
snubby one. Brother and sister had, in
fact, adopted the Fijian form of embrace,
and knocked their heads together.

I quite forgot you were here," uttered
pool* Daisy, with rueful regret, after making
vague explanations as to her early rising.

' No matter. It's about time for me
to jump up, anyway," said Jack, with a
good-humoured, enormous yawn, as he
pulled up the blinds with a vigorous clatter,

and then surveyed his companion.

What a little owl you do look, to be
sure ! Why, you can't have had a wink
all night."

"No matter, dear, I can keep winking
and blinking all clay, you know. Don't
you think it would be nice to open the
window and have some fresh air ?"

To this insinuating query Jack unsuspiciously
agreed by throwing up the sash,
and putting half his own body out,
resting his hands on the window-sill.

"I say, here's old Gascoigne coming
along in his trap," he loudly announced,
after a few minutes, during which his
sister had been trying to gaze round his
back. Overcome by illogical shyness,
Daisy instantly sprang into the innermost
recesses of the room, as the swift rattle of
a fast-trotting mare and a dog-cart came
up the Khyber Pass Road.

Hallo ! Good morning. How are
you ?" called out young Dimity, in a sort
of whispered shout, calculated not to wake
the household, but to carry far, while he
helped out these fraternal inquiries b} r
friendly gesticulation ; quite unwittingly
thus acting Cupid's messenger.

All right, thanks ! How is everybody
in there ?" came back in passing accents,
as the mare went rushing by. At that
Daisy could keep back no longer, but
darted again to the window  just in time
to see a portion of Gascoigne's fast receding
back, with an excellent view of his
impudent little groom, who sat facing her.

'No matter ! still she had seen him.

Daisy turned back again to the drawing-room
with a light heart, humming a tune,
as if that mere moiety of sight had acted
like a dram of elation. And he had asked,
11 How is everybody ?" plainly showing

where his thoughts were ; for without
reasoning it out with herself little Miss
Dimity had vaguely the opinion that such
questions, in such cases, meant, " How is
the one person who is everybody to me ?"
implying, as sang the great master in the
knowledge of human hearts 

Thou art tiny all-the world . . ."

 w!" ejaculated Jack, with a sudden
and enormous yawn. " How hungry I
am !". At this moment, the door being
open, an instance of the curious and frequent
sympathy between minds was shown
by Fuzzy' s voice calling over the stairs,

"I say, Mary  Susan  Mary ! Is breakfast
never coming ? we are starving."

We can't get it ready no quicker, Miss,
please," returned the injured voice of the
cook, the kitchen being within easy reach
of call at Magdala Villa. And in a still
more injured and higher-pitched voice the

tired-out maid added, "And, please, Miss,
however am I to carry up seven break -
passes to bed single-handed, if even I had
enough trays ; but the two old tin ones and
the little plated one "

11 Bother take the trays ! Bring up
everything to the stairs, then, and we can
all slip out of bed and take what we want''

Fuzzy may have meant that the breakfast
should be placed on a table at the
stairs' foot ; but whatever she meant her
order was literally fulfilled.

Susan was soon heard sighing up the
little back stair with the tea service, whilst
Mary came groaning after her with the fried
eo'o-s and bacon and toast.

on

Quoth Jack, grinding his teeth, with the
longing to be using them,

"It's too much for me. By the powers
above or below stairs ! I must make a raid
out there for food."

Oh, Jack  don't, Jack. I mean, Jack
dear, let me go out first and get it for

you."

"Wei  1! If you bring me what I
want, you may," graciously grumbled
Master Jack, in permission, as bis little
sister tripped out deftly to serve bim ; then
he surveyed her with one eye from behind
the door.

Take care, child. Is that brawn you
are cutting so thick,  oh, murder ! don't,"
and, in agony, he rushed out to the rescue.
Hardly had he helped himself, as he loved
himself  and before the mustard was on
his plate  when the slurring click-clack of
bed-room slippers was heard overhead, and
Daisy, craning her neck up the well-stairs,
whispered,

Rush, Jack  it's Pussy in her dressing-gown.
Hide "

Oh ! Jiminy," wailed poor Jack, snatching

one mouthful of his beloved brawn,
and scuttling back to the recesses of the
drawing-room, with a highly virtuous air.
Softly yawning, and grumbling, shivering
a little sleepily, Pussy expressed rather
uninterested surprise at the fact of Daisy's
being actually dressed and ready to help
her.

u I say, do pour me out some tea, dear ;
anything will do  just to let me get back
to bed. Hi  ho ! I think I can't get up
to-day," and with more sighs and yawns
and lackadaisical self-pities, Pussy slippered
her slow progress aloft again, losing
one of the said slippers occasionally.

Thank heaven she's gone ; and I'm as
hungry as a hunter," said Jack, in fervent
congratulation, issuing again, and beginning
to masticate a belles dents, as our
neighbours say. " Aren't you hungry ?
I'm so hungry. Have some bread and

butter and marmalade ; I'm having some."
But even while his upraised knife was
still hovering over the loaf, the starving
wretch was deterred by the warning cry of
Fly, Jack !  Here is Birdie coming' and
he precipitately fled from the approaching
presence of this nymph. Birdie was now
heard descending from the bed-room
region in a hop-and-go-one fashion ; scolding
all the way in a sharp key against
Pussy, who was no doubt comfortably
snug once more.

"It is too unkind of you not to give me
that tea. I'm sure you might know you
are not half as tired as me," holding by
the balusters with a simulation of bodily
exhaustion that did not seem to extend to
her mental faculties ; then, with an angry
wail, " It is so downright selfish!"

The silence from upstairs was of an
aggravating nature, suggesting much placid

enjoyment; upon which Birdie, appearing
in a white garment and huge opera-cloak
of her mother's slovenly wrapped round
her, silver bangles still on her arms, and
one of yesterday's earrings in her ear,
rather snappishly exclaimed,

Goodness, Daisy, is that you ?"
"Let me help you. I could not sleep,
really, so I got up. Let me carry up your
breakfast," gently urged Daisy, most
anxious for sisterhood's sake to set
Birdie and her bangles safely out of the
way before her poor dear Jack should
become utterly ravenous.

You really are a good little creature,"
returned the young lady, with a mollified
air ; then, on still further second thoughts,
remembering her own interest, " Yes,
really you are a darling ! But wait, you
are not giving me half enough jam. I
like to eat it with a spoon at breakfast.

And that bacon  you haven't given me the
nicest bits ; leave those thick ones for
Fuzzy  she won't mind."

Whereupon, after piling so many lumps
of sugar into her tea that the apex of the
pyramid was clearly seen above the liquid,
though fast dissolving by the law of capillary
attraction, Birdie Cox and her provisions
were safely conveyed upstairs by
the attendant Daisy, with as much pains as
if the latter belonged to the commissariat
department in this most military of garrison
towns.

What a mercy she's gone !" said Jack,
in pious thanksgiving, sneaking back, and
setting to work on his oft-deserted meal,
perched uncomfortably on the umbrella-stand
in the corner. " Keep a watch for
the next one, like a good girl. This is
what you might truly call ' cut and come
again'"

Daisy dutifully obeyed ; but likewise
began pouring out her neglected boy's tea
with most affectionate carefulness ; so, as
ill-luck would have it, both were so busy
they neither spoke nor heard a sound but
that of knife and fork, till there came a
light, flying rush downstairs, and round
the corner appeared Fuzzy  attired in a
long Ulster coat, reaching to her toes, with
her hair-fringe in curl-papers.

u Jerusalem !"  uttered Jack. He was
really so thunderstruck, he could say no
more. With a little cry Fuzzy sprang
backwards, but immediately collapsed out
of sight in an uncontrollable fit of laughter.
I'm so tremendously sorry," Jack apologised
from below, in tones of mingled
penitence and consolation ; u but, after
all, what does it matter ? You surely need
not mind with only me"

Young Dimity was of opinion, like many

people, that one person may steal a horse
whilst another may not look over the
hedge ; and that evidently he was the one
man who might steal the horse. Fuzzy
seemed rather to agree in his possession of
peculiar privileges.

Well, I'd rather it was yon than almost
anybody else," she brokenly ejaculated
from the upper staircase, where she was,
still half stifled under the influence of
mortified mirth ; her good humour raising
her to a much more exalted height than
before in Jack's opinion. " Only, Daisy
do bring my breakfast up, like a dear,"

So Daisy, in turn, waited upon her ; and
felt glad she had got up so early for two
reasons, thus being called upon to make
herself useful.

They are a funny family ! But one
must take people as you find them, and,
after all, they are some sort of cousins of

ours, I believe," philosophically uttered
Jack, by and by, in confidence to his sister
; as, having finished, he pushed his
empty plate away among the other breakfast
things, which was a trick Daisy secretly
did wish he would give up.
" Our cousins Jack  how can you say
so?"

I don't say so ; they say so. 1 know
nothing about it " (preparing to rush to
barracks).

It is only Mrs. Cox who is connected
with our step-mother," corrected Daisy,
severely, for this was really a matter in
which Jack's ignorance was to be reproved.
"And they are only second cousins, once
remove "

Good-bye," cried Jack, before she could
explain the family ramifications to her
own satisfaction, and was off.

Daisy then proceeded rather sleepily to

vol. in. c

collect some more breakfast for Una Good-child
; rightly judging the latter lady would
not understand that she could find it on
the stairs.

Mary, the weary maid, uplifted her voice
in benediction at this unexpected help.

Lor bless you, Miss, the other young
ladies never think of giving a hand's turn
at anything, though missis herself often
does. But she's awful bad with headache
this morning, or she'd surely have seen to
the strange young lady herself. Wait a
minute, please ; missis gave particular
directions to take up the little plated tray
to Miss Goodchild ; and she unlocked mea
napkin herself, and  oh ! the good old
cup and saucer as stands on the drawing-room
cabinet."

Daisy, on receiving the latter, silently
dusted them.

How good you are !" cried Una,

bouncing wide-awake, in her usual impulsive
fashion, and the minute after looking
at Daisy with dreamy eyes. " How could
you awake so early? I never slept so
soundly. And, dear me. what trouble I
must be giving you all ! How good it was
of your cousins to take me in !"

Said Daisy, rather pedantically  for
really this was a mistake that though not
serious, or what one would like to call
compromising, still ought to be set to
rio-bts.

I must tell you that the Coxes are not
really my cousins. My stepmother and
Mrs. Cox are only second cousins once removed!"


C2

CHAPTER II.

I once was a bachelor, both early and young,
And I courted a fair maid, with a flattering tongue.
I courted her, I wooed her, I followed her then,
And I promised to marry her, but never told her
when."

fTlHE gardens and part of the grounds of
-*- Fairly owns, Mr. Goodchild's home, had
been thrown open for the purpose of holding
a fancy fair therein.

Poor Mr. Goodchild ! he hardly knew
what it was all about ; he was so used to
being plagued in like manner by being
asked to allow school-children, Bedfellows,
Marstown picnic restorers, and Friendly
Brothers, to hold their feasts in his

demesne j and leave, in token of gratitude,
fluttering newspaper scraps, broken bottles,
and fragments of buns and pie-crust, disfiguring
the grass for days.

He never liked to say no, being a weakly,
good-natured philanthropist, and, the
neighbours, added, an oddity. Some of
these even called him " that maniac,
Goodchild." Their excellent reason for
this latter term was that the Goodchilds
had been Conservatives for centuries  till
this one, inheriting the estate as a minor,
had, on coming of age, declared himself
Liberal.

Also he had queer whims, unlike those
of his neighbours or forefathers, such as
refusing to remain at college, or go into
the army ; preferring to muddle away his
youth making bad oil-sketches, beginning
half a hundred collections of old pictures,
older rusty armour, oldest coins, and himself

only knew what else of old clothes, bones
and stones, of which he had defrauded the
ragman, dust heap, or museums, thought
the neighbours. In all which collections
he seldom got beyond the beginning.

Then he spent much of his life abroad,
jabbering foreign languages, as if he liked
them better than his own," as a neighbour
squire again once reported. In fact he
was a man with a grain more originality
than his fellows, which just led him astray ;
two grains more, and he might have been
a man of mark.

He had crowned his progressing isolation
among his fellows by his marriage.
No one knew who his wife had been  could
anything be more suspicious ? Presently
some more inquiring spirit discovered that
no one could know who she was, because
she did not know herself. She had been
brought up in a convent in France, under

the belief that her parents hi
having at least left her sufficient support.
Her kind guardians there had been told
no more. Air. Goodchild, meet in o- her by
chance, asked no more ; never learned
more. He was satisfied  but the r.
hours, oh ! of course t\ re not.

Poor Mrs. Goodchild mil held

her rightful position, nevertheless, had
been a woman of spirit, or even of worldly
tact. But she was mild, retiring, humble*
led; and v I up in her six tall

sons.

The squire was wrapped up in his somewhat
clever daughter ; who had a decided
mental resemblance to himself.

To this family group the Coxes. Jack
Dignity, and his sister were introduced by
Una when they arrived in the Fair
gardens on the day of the Fancy Fair.

The grounds, locally considered M among

the sights to be seen" for their picturesqueness,
were all alive with crowds, who
looked upon the fair as a glorious holiday ;
and, since it was held for a Marstown
institute, had come out thence to patronise
the Punch and Judy show, the shooting
gallery, Aunt Sally, and the refreshment
tents, in particular. There were pretty
stalls, draped with cool muslin, placed
under the shade of the three patriarchal
cedars that were the pride of Fairlawns.
A row in a gaudy gondola could be had on a
tiny pond, among the astonished mandarin
ducks and an indignant Egyptian goose.
Two bands were braying different valses
at either end of the gardens ; and in the
evening there might be dancing on the
grass in the trellised rose-plots. The roses
were all full-blown in the height of their
summer beauty ; the walls were heavy with
them ; the greensward flush with lower

masses ; and the day was one of the most
gorgeous of a hot summer.

The Coxes were quite radiant ; for, with
much forethought, Una Goodchild, who
had invited Daisy to help her in selling at
j\lrs. Goodchild's own stall, prevented all
possible jealousy at this especial honour by
imploring Fuzzy Cox to be a Pretty Skirmishes
 and molest distant wary groups
who would not come near danger. As war-ammunition
against the enemy, she was
provided with a trayful of the most unsaleable
knitted pence-bags, baby socks,
and similar small horrors. To please all,
Una had actually beforehand asked the
two youngest Miss Coxes to personate
rustic dairymaid, and milk an Alderney
cow, to be garlanded, gilt-horned, and
tethered amongst roses, and lilies, and
daffy do antilles, by a streamlet's side.

It was quite my own idea ! Isn't it

deliriously pastoral ? And you two would
just look the characters," she had earnestly
said ; so with flattered pride Pussy and
Birdie accepted the task.

We must dress a la Watteaa" declared
Birdie, and forthwith kilted up her muslin
gown over a gay petticoat ; and bought a
new pair of cheap shoes with seven little
buckles, and such high heels that she
tottered.

Pussy slowly, with less originality, followed
her example, adding a muslin hat,
made so transparent that her head could
be seen distinctly through it. The effect
was funny ; but Birdie, indignant at being
outdone, forthwith not only hurriedly
stitched herself another, but also supplanted
her sister by the help of two very cheap
white ostrich feathers.

Pussy silently put on a knot of ribbon
and a rose.

And now they were all here : all eager for
the fun.

Only I should not advise you to begin
milking now," said Una, who, with the
cares of the day upon her shoulders, had
collected her really good though often
abstracted wits, and now made an excellent
hostess. " Later on in the evening, when
your gentlemen friends have come, you
can persuade them to have syllabub, you
know."

Of course ! It seemed quite an easy
thing beforehand to Pussy and Birdie to
make the whole Marstown garrison drink
syllabub ; and they had gaily invited all
their favourite officer-friends, and the
Smeeth girls, and others to come out to
Fairlawns for the day, " for Miss Good-child
wants us to sell for her !"

Now they went off to seek out their
town friends, saying, with a sprightly air

of being quite at home in Fairlawns,
So you have come, dear.  Oh, we are
selling for Miss Goodchild. She slept atour
house the other night after a picnic we
all had up the river; and then she asked
us especially. Isn't she a charming girl !
so unaffected ; such sweet manners !"

Mrs. Cox, with an ancient Indian shawl
drawn gracefully round her really handsome
figure, concealing the shining appearance
of an aged, black silk gown, was
purely happy. She undulated amongst the
groups, greeting her friends with even more
elegance and warmth than usual, as if to
show she was not proud ; hinting at the fact
of herself and girls being invited guests,
and not come-mischances, with almost a
subdued air. Good soul ! she feared it
would seem in bad taste to appear exultant
over her less fortunate friends, to the poorest
of whom she was especially soft and

conciliatory that day  only her eyes betraying
her deliciousness of bliss.

Crowds now surrounded the Goodchilds'

stall, all eager to patronise the wares of the
young lady of Fairlawns. Too soon Una
and Daisy were hot, busy, and wishing
they had ten heads, that they might satisfy
all the grasping old ladies who wanted to
pay a compliment, but also have their
money's worth  and all the delightful male
beings who had "put so much money in
their pocket, and did not care how it was
spent."

Oh ! Mr. Dimity, I can't speak to you
now," gasped Miss Goodchild, smiling and
flushed, as Jack, who was always hanging
about their stall, tried to draw her into
conversation. " Would you mind raffling
this frightful green cushion for me, as no
one will buy it. Don't you know how? Oht
one of the Miss Coxes will help you."

Off went Jack, rather disgusted, whilst
Birdie, who had been uselessly trying to
attract his attentions hitherto, offered her
services with glee.

As to Fuzzy  she was like an erratic
rocket, rushing hither and thither through
groups that scattered with dismay at
sight of her tray, which was constantly
emptied and as steadily replenished.

When her Marstown acquaintances, seeing
her in the distance, would dive behind
shrubbery clumps, or flee through vistas of
greenhouses, lo and behold ! it was of no
use : for when they emerged, hot and sneaking,
Fuzzy was sure to be at the other side,
meeting them in the face with her gay
war-cry of, " I've caught you now ! What
will you buy ?" When poor Colonel Dunn
at last fairly took to his heels, everyone
turned to watch the chase, with base enjoyment;
till at last the hero of a hundred

fights was actually run to earth among the
pea-blossoms, where he was hiding in
vain. Then out rang the fair pursuant's
voice of victory again, "I've caught you ;
now what will you buy ?  What, no money
left ! Come, then, though I'm as poor asa
church-mouse myself, I don't mind lending
you five shillings."

Re turning from this successful raid, Miss
Cox saw Daisy speaking across her counter
with an air of greater familiarity than
was usual in that modest maiden towards
her Marstown new acquaintances  to a
clergyman dressed in the height of the
High Church fashion, which seemed to the
irreverent Fuzzy a black dressing-gown,
roped and tasselled.

u Who is your friend, the parson in
petticoats?" she carelessly whispered,
flinging herself down on a seat, and panting.
"I've been trying to make him buy

a flower for his button-hole for ever so
long, and nothing would induce him ; but
he wanted a housewife, he said, which I
hadn't got, so I very nearly offered him
myself."

Oh ! Fuzzy," exclaimed Daisy, scandalised.
" Why, that is our clergyman at
home, at Elm Hall. He is down near hereon
a visit. I told you he was supposed
to be vowed to celibacy, didn't I ? And
to offer him a flower !"

"Well, now that I look again, he has no
button-hole. But it is rather a pity he
means to be an old bachelor  not that I
ever cared for curates. But he is very
handsome . . . why don't you introduce
him to me ?"

Fuzzy turned her head as she spoke.
Good gracious !  the clerical object of
her remarks had come up close behind
them. Both girls blushed, and were inclined

to laugh in confusion, but Daisy mischievously
introduced the Reverend Adolphus
Younghusband, who blushed likewise
all over his fair face, up to the fair little
lovelocks on his forehead. The irrepressible
Fuzzy, whose spirits seemed at fever
height this day, gave him an arch glance
(and really she looked very pretty, fanning
herself under the cedar-tree).

You were very hard-hearted, you only
bought three dolls and a knitted nightcap
from me."

The young Adolphus deepened his delicate
complexion again under her glance,
to Daisy's surprise.

Indeed, if it had not been for your persuasions
! . . . the dolls are in my pocket
now, and I am afraid of sitting on them ! I
intend them for the poor children of my
parish ; and I have already once disgraced
myself by pulling out the nightcap instead

VOL. III. d

of my handkerchief." Then he added,
recovering his self-possession, " I must
confess I won a hideous green cushion besides
in a raffle, and its possession made
me so unhappy, I hid it under a tree for
whoever may chance to find it."

Nonsense !" cried Fuzzy, springing up
with refreshed energies. " Where ? Let
us raffle it again ! . . . Yon might help me
to sell, if you won't buy any more  will
you ?" and she gave him a second glance
prompted by pure malice, because of his
supposed leanings towards celibacy.

"I  I shall be very happy  in such a
good cause as  as that of this Fair' stammered
the young man, with a deprecating
look towards Daisy and her brother Jack,
who were enjoying his evident confusion.
He added to Fuzzy, as they moved off, " I
have been admiring all day the diligence
and energy with which you have been selling,

Miss Cox. May I carry your tray ? 
is it not too heavy for you ? It is so good
of you to let me help you, for I feel quite
a stranger in the land here. I know none
of the ladies excepting Miss Dimity, whoso
kindly introduced me to you ; and that
is such a novel sensation."

Fuzzy, flushed with success, and intoxicated
with the ardour of her own exertions,
made the most of her capture ; thinking,
with her spirits at fever-height, what a
joke she would have with Major Hodge
and the Marstown girls over her amazing
flirtation.

Meanwhile the hot afternoon wore on ;
the constant popping reports from the
shooting-gallery echoed ; Punch and Judy
squeaked; the crowds still came and bought,
and went with increasing mirth and noise,
as the prices of admission grew lower 
but the spirits of the Fairlawns saleswomen

d 2

began to droop  no wonder !  under the
prolonged patronage of the mixed multitude.


Daisy all this while had been working
on with noiseless steadiness ; always at
Una's elbow whenever the latter turned,,
hot and flurried, for help ; always ready
with twine or scissors, produced from the
pockets of a pretty apron, whilst Una was
tossing about everything wildly, or grovelling
amongst back-ground litter in search
of a knife never found. And when the
absent-minded girl, in her eager enthusiasm,
would pour a perfect Pactolus of
sovereigns into the shilling box  and
streams of silver amongst the gold  it was
Daisy again who always set all to rights.

You are the dearest creature in the
wide world," cried Una, thanking her
rapturously again and again. " What
should I have done without you  yes, and

your brother too !  now that Miss Cox has
deserted us just when our work was at its
very height ?"

For a little while ago the burly form of
Major Hodge, with his attendant satellite
Mr. Jones, had been seen arriving; and Fuzzy
thereat thrust her tray into the hands of
the Reverend Adolphus Younghusband,
basely bidding him "just make the best
bargains he could."

Infant hoods then went indeed at a dead
loss ; babies' socks might almost be had for
the asking ; as the shame-faced curate
only sought to disperse these wares as
rapidly as possible. He felt quite deserted,
too, among strangers, like the forlorn
Stephen lamenting 

Ye poor little sheep, ah ! well may ye stray.
While sad is your shepherd and Clio away"'

Then it was that Jack Dimity, seeing his
chance, offered his help at the stalls, and

managed to make very fair progress in
Miss Goodchild's friendship ; that between
her and his sister being fast cemented.
Daisy had seen Major Hodge before Fuzzy,
however. He had come straight to her
stall, and, leaning his elbows thereon, with
a friendly grin, said,

What do you think  we have got our
orders ; I for one must leave Marstown the
day after tomorrow."

"Oh! are you not sorry?" Daisy exclaimed,
with a world of commiseration in
her voice (but it was not for him).

Well, haw  haw, I don't know. This
place has grown very hob, you see," with
a meaning twinkle in his blue, deceitful,
somewhat "swivel eye." "And then weare
going to Jersey ; cool sea-breezes there,
and lots of pretty girls."

How tired you young ladies look I  hot
work ; thirsty, eh ?" cried Colonel Dunn,.

just then coining up with a cheery smile
and kindly bustle. u Ton my word, you
should all come and have some tea. I
assure you I've already carried twenty-three
unsteady cups of tea, in sloppy
saucers, from that tent, and here I'm at it
again  still coming and going, like Mulligan's
blanket, eh, Miss Goodchild. What !
you don't understand the proverb ? Why
the blanket was always on the move between
home and the pawnshop."

"Would it not be a good time now for
syllabub," asked Una Goodchild, with true
bazaar eagerness resolved to turn even
their own thirst into twopence each.

The signal passed around ; and soon all
the world was moving like a parched araby
towards the single grazing Alderney with
its pretty ribbons, whilst there was a
general cry of " Where are they gone to 
our pretty dairymaid ?"

PoorMrs.Cox,in feverish anxiety lest her
dear girls should miss their chance of being
distinguished, fluttered up and down the
gravel walks (where they obviously were
not !) giving little chirping, agitated
calls.

"I'll engage I'll find them out," at last
valiantly declared Jack Dimity, so, followed
by a more timid search party, consisting
of Daisy, Una, Lee, and Colonel Dunn,
he dived  without hesitation  amongst the
shrubberies. A petticoat's flutter and a
little giggle revealed Birdie hiding close
by among the laurels ; within hearing of
all the calls ; and in the company of
Captain O'Donoghue.

"I thought, as you didn't seem very
anxious for my company just now, that
you should not have it again just so soon
as you wished," she pertly remarked to
Jack, tossing her head ; although evidently

she was reconciled to his defection by the
delight of having drawn to her side difficult
O'Donoghue, who had hitherto patronised
Pussy. Miss Pussy herself was still
to be sought, when, oh, horror !  adown
a lone alley, Daisy, Colonel Dunn, and
Smiler Lee, who were ahead, espied Fuzzy
and [Major Hodge, only partially veiled by
the foliage of a weeping willow, under
which they were appropriately sitting.
Quite desperate as to the chance of passers-by,
Fuzzy was reposing with her head on
her companion's shoulder, and his arm
round her waist, loudly dissolving in tears
which her swain seemed trying to staunch
by a generous application of his own red
silk handkerchief. Daisy sprang back,
and, with a presence of mind perfectly extraordinary
to herself, cried to the others,
Oh, this way is so damp, and leads to
nothing, I am sure !  let us go back."

Very damp," echoed the Smiler, suppressing
a convulsion of chuckles, and
adding, aside, "Oh, you are irresistible ! 
what a good-natured girl you are I" Then
in another aside and a fresh ecstasy of internal
mirth, " And this sort of way leads
to nothing  does it, Colonel?"

Good-natured Colonel Dunn shook his
head rather pityingly, and muttered in
answer,

"Well ; well ; I'm afraid not  it's a great
pity, a great pity. But he's not well off, is
he ; and the poor girl has nothing, has she ?
Dear, dear, I'm afraid it will only be the
old story  ' A motherless dame sits lang at
hame.' "

Daisy quite loved Colonel Dunn for the
kindly regret of that speech, which she
accidentally overheard.

But now the gentle, blushing Pussy had
been likewise discovered somewhere, and

somehow in company with Mr. Jones ; so
nothing more seemed to hinder the brewing
of syllabub.

The "Watteau dairymaid (shade of Watteau,
how very British they looked !) gaily
acknowledged they had never tried milking
before, but " Of course it was quite easy !"
Down sat Pussy first amidst an admiring
crowd, on a charming little wicker
chair. The Alderney turned on this unusual
railing-stool a suspicious eye  then
swish went her tail full across Pussy's face,
with a most aggrieved blow.

"Nasty brute," cried Pussy, springing
up, with her feelings much injured and
cheeks insulted, as an irrepressible laugh
broke from the gaping crowd.

"Let me try," cried Birdie, w r with undaunted
self-conceit.

Worse and worse ! The poor cow, growing
frightened, made a few uneasy plunges,

then with a sound kick upset the milking-stool,
empty milk-pail, and all ! whilst the
milkmaid, frightened but unhurt, half flew,
half fell into a dozen arms, and was
rescued by a dozen heroic hands almost in
hysterics.

CHAPTER III.

I have sold all my trumpery ; not a counterfeit
stone, not a riband, glass, pomander, brooch, table-book,
ballad, knife, tape, glove, shoe-tve, bracelet,
horn-ring . . . they throng who should buy first ; as
if my trinkets had been hallowed, and brought a
benediction to the buyer !"

rpHE little cow was led off, gaily whiskers
ing her tail in victorious disgrace.

Miss Goodchild immediately, scanning
her bazaar populace with the eye of a
leader, and anxious to hide the chagrin of
the milkmaids

All forlorn,
Who milked the cow with the crumpled horn,"

laughingly drove all her friends to the extent.

Here they all sat on wobbling
wooden forms placed on the uneven grass ;
and made very merry over stale pastry
round the festive board, which was indeed
the right word in the right place, being,
like our ancestors' tables, simply boards on
trestles. Every Jill now seemed to have
her Jack ; every dame a cavalier to bring
her tea  excepting one. Daisy had no
cavalier servant, which quite distressed her
friend Una.

This is not like our picnic-party, is it,
dear ? I am so sorry you have got no one
to bring your tea."

Don't be sorry," laughed Daisy, brightening
up from her staid mood of the day,
adding, " for though I've got no one, as
you say, to look after me, I want no one."

Don't say that  for you've got me /"
cried the gay voice of the Smiler at her
elbow. Quicksilver flirt that he was, smiling

like the sud in royal impartiality on all, he
had not been at all devoted to her hitherto
that day.

At the same moment old Dr. Cox, who
had lately arrived  intercepting deftly the
S nailer's advance  trotted up to Daisy,
whom he also had hitherto disregarded,
exclaiming,

Ah ! fair charmer, do I hear you say
you want some one to attend upon your
wants? Now don't mind that vounor man :
he's an artful deceiver, I assure you." So
saying, he inserted his own corpulent
person comfortably into the chair Lee had
just been about to take, adding, " Come !
instead of thinking only of these young
beaux, give an old man the pleasure of
admiring you, like the sensible, nice girl
you are. Eh, Miss Goodchild, is not our
dear young friend a sweet girl ?" And he
beamed from car to ear upon Una, who, as

usual that clay, sat close on Daisy's other
side, having conceived an exceeding affection
for her. (At that moment Daisy felt
as if the old doctor was a humbug, seeing
the only other empty place was beside his
own daughter Birdie ; but how she would
have privately scolded the doctor for going-there
when Lee might have had it.) Una
answered with coldness, springing brusquely
out of her seat,

"My mother wishes particularly to make
your acquaintance, Dr. Cox. Will you
come and be introduced to her ?"

The little doctor stared. At that moment
Mrs. Gooclchild was seated amongst
some of the county magnates, who were,
as they called it amongst themselves,
doing the civil " to the quiet mistress of
the place, who cared so little for them.
But before he could fairly grasp the
honour, in his excessive delight, impetuous

Una carried him off like a whirlwind, and
returning, whispered,

There ! isn't that a deliverance ? People
think me so very absent-minded and im-observing,
I know ; but for all that, when
I wake up sometimes, I can see what is
real or sham as well as anyone. I rather
liked, too, interrupting those old dowagers
who are cackling round poor mamma.
Lady de Hautenbas looked so huffed at my
pushing Dr. Cox amongst them all, as if
he were as good as themselves. They
think me so unconventional, which is just
what I wish."

"Grand girl!" whispered the Smiler,
resuming his place beside Daisy, with a
confidential air. " It was so good of her,
for I was just wanting to have a private
talk with you. You always do me so
much good ; you cheer me up."

Never before having seen Smiler Lee in

VOL. III. e

want of cheering up, Daisy perceived, with
some surprise, that his little lordship's
visage seemed veiled by a slight fog.

"What were you doing all afternoon 
who were you with ?" she asked. She had
hit the mark.

"Well  well, I wanted to be with Miss
Le Hunt. You know how I admired her
the other day  you are such a good, sensible
girl, and not a bit jealous," began poor
Lee, fairly longing to bubble over with his
disgust. " And she told me, too, she
hoped to meet me here, you know ; and all
that sort of thing, don't you know ; but
ever since I came she has been so taken up
with that man over there with her now,
that she won't even look at me."

What  that ugly man," as Daisy saw
one with a large nose, and a large eyeglass;
and the general facial outline of an
elephant with a white moustache.

Looks a great haw-haw fellow, doesn't
he ? Yes, I knew you'd say that, like a
sensible girl, as you are," eagerly assented
the Smiler; and, recovering himself, he flung
five smiles on her in succession, and twisted
up one moustache-tip that had grown
limp over his unkind, lost love. "Hein
the  th Lancers, that's what it is ; so,
of course, a poor, ordinary soldier like me
has no chance against a dashing cavalry
officer, that is to say, in most young ladies'
opinions !" (with exceeding bitterness).
That is what riles me so in Miss Le
Hunt throwing me over for him, for I had
such a high opinion of that girl before !
The fact is, you meet w T with a great deal of
ingratitude and bad feeling in this w T old,
and I have a very great mind to throw up
society altogether," w T with an enormous
sigh, which surely should have been enough
to utterly melt society's heart.

e2

sot OF 

Daisy, with sympathetic scornfulness,
suggested,

Perhaps he has some attraction for
Miss Le Hunt, that you and I are too dull
to discover. v

"Do you think the shape of his collars
is better than mine ?" anxiously inquired
Lee  his proof of confidence in a girl was
asking her opinion concerning the cut of
his clothes, for he and his friend O'Dono-
glue made dress a matter of competitive
examination and their collars of monthly
meditation.

Major Hodge and Fuzzy had now come
into the tea-tent with a rather slinking air.
But soon the gay Freebooter's usual habits
of mind re-asserted themselves, and slily at
first  then, more boisterously  he began
to poke jokes at his friends. His heart, he
wished humorously to demonstrate, would,
at any rate, not be broken tomorrow by

the " girl lie left behind him." Poor Fuzzy
sat near. But she was not so ready in her
mirth somehow as the facile major, though
far more at pains to conceal her melancholy.
So she took refuge in aggressiveness
; and with the tip of her little nose
as red as the edges of her eyelids, while
her speech was very acid, she made herself
as unlike her better self as could be.
The bold Freebooter's wordy raids were
principally into the glands of his young
follower Jones's understanding. For this
youth, being less thoroughly used to leave-taking,
looked rather troubled in his
heavy mind ; and occasionally glanced at
Pussy with a sheepish air, as, sitting very
close to him, she frequently sighed or
whispered in his ear.

Cod-fish, you brute ! what a brute you
are, Cod-fish !" said Major Hodge, addressing
his friend Jones by his nickname,

evidently with a view to cheer him.

The Cod-fish grinned ; and, having no
such fire of light raillery and sparkling wit
as his superior, contented himself with
gazing round at the company for approbation,
and stuffing an enormous piece of
bread, piled mountains high with jam, into
his mouth.

How ill you will be to-night, Mr.
Jones," pursued his friend. " Won't Mr.
Jones be ill to-night ?" he asked of everyone.
The peculiar flavour of this joke now
lay in so politely calling the Cod-fish Mr.
Jones.

Leaving the others to the continued
enjoyment of this funny conversation, Una
and Daisy rose with a business-like air to
resume their labours, closely followed by
Jack and Smiler Lee. Just outside the
tent, they thus became witnesses of a rather
noteworthy incident.

Poor Mrs. Cox had hitherto, on various
airy pretexts, refused all invitations to
come and have tea. The truth was that
tea cost a shilling a-piece ; and though she
had cheerfully urged her daughters to go,
being anxious they should " do everything
like the rest of the world," she was always
ready to pinch herself for economy. So 
being very hungry, the good lady had now
stolen up when the rest were gone, and
surreptitiously bought herself a vulgar
bun. She had hardly begun to eat it,
however, when Mrs. Goodchild wandered
by, and with languid, abstracted kindliness
stopped to have a little conversation.
To be caught eating a penny bun by the
lady of Fairlawns herself, who had invited
the Coxes; patronized them, so to say,
through her daughter ; and who doubtless
expected everyone to support the bazaar to
the uttermost end of their purses ! Mrs.

Cox was utterly confounded !  humiliated !
so popping the wretched bun behind her
back in abasement of spirit, she gave a pale,
abashed smile to her hostess, while trying
to look perfectly composed.

Hallo ! Look ! I say, do you see behind
there ? Won't there be fun ?" murmured
the Smiler and Jack at this moment,
in huge delight. For up behind Mrs. Cox 
all unconscious  they now saw a naughty
urchin creeping. A " little vulgar boy,"
who had evidently fixed the twinkle in the
corner of his eye on the bun that ill-fated
lady held behind her back.

Tea, do you say ? Oh ! no more, thank
you, dear Mrs. Goodchild. So good, so
kind of you to think of asking me," said
Mrs. Cox, meekly, " But I am not at all
hungry now."

Hey, presto ! The bun was whipped
smartly out of her hand at the words, and

off made the young robber with bis prize.
Mrs. Cox did give a slight start ; they saw
her; but, with wonderful composure, she
scarcely, scarcely looked round. Only just
enough to see it was no dear friend who
had played her such a practical joke  then
anxiously scanned Mrs. Goodchild's face,
to see had she seen.

Thank goodness, no ! The greater lady's
countenance was still an amiable blank.

Oh ! Jack, I know for certain she has
had nothing to eat all this day," pityingly
uttered Dais}, whilst her brother and Lee
were sinfully overcome with suppressed
appreciation of the situation. Mrs. Good-child,
satisfied, had gently strayed away.

Well, she shall have something, then,"
exclaimed Jack, recovering himself. " Shea
good woman, I declare ; and I'll treat her
to a dozen cups of tea, and to all the buns
left in the tent if she likes." So away he

went, and in the wooing tones of a hearty
young British lion insisted, in spite of Mrs.
Cox's half-hearted remonstrances, in tucking
her arm under his, and carrying her off
to be royally fed.

The evening came on ; the stalls were
emptied, save for some veriest refuse of
knitted trash ; the Marstown crowds were
slowly going homewards, cracking jokes
and nuts ; and but few people were left in
the Fairlawns gardens, where the dusk was
falling, and a nightingale beginning to
sing.

Ah ! how glad I am they are all gone,"
cried Una Goodchild, brusquely, pulling off
her hat to cool her aching temples, as she
and Daisy stood under one of the grand
old cedars. " They have taken away the
flavour of oranges and ginger-beer that
offended my nostrils all day. Now one
can breathe freely again. Do you ever

ask yourself at night, dear : What has the
da}- brought forth ? I wonder what this
day has brought forth in especial to any of
the people here."

"Not much to me," said Daisy, staidly.

She was thinking to herself, however,
that it had brought the end of a foolish
dream to poor Fuzzy ; that it had brought
disappointment and auger to Birdie ; that
it had apparently laid the foundations of a
mutual liking between Jack and Una herself.


The day has not brought much to you
you say," echoed Una ; suddenly waking
out of a state of dream into which she
used often to fall by fits, though again
rousing by starts a few moments after. "No,
don't say that, for it has brought us better
acquaintance, dear. I never had a girl
friend before  I never cared to have one
but, if you don't think me too hasty in

saying so, I feel as if we were friends after
to-day. Dear me ! it is such a curious
sensation. I feel quite rich."

On which she impulsively pressed
Daisy's arm fondly ; adding, with her
usual startling frankness, without waiting
for more answer than could be read in
Daisy's astonished smile and pleased blush,

Dear me, why was not Captain 
here to-day ? You liked him, did
you not ? Are you not sorry he was not
here ?"

Yes, I liked him," answered Daisy, ina
sobered tone, with a sudden beating of
her heart, that said, rather wildly, " liked
him  yes ! and do like him ! and always
shall like him !" But then to herself she
said in mind, " I am almost glad lie was not
here ! For whenever lie is near, I never know
whether it is not more pain than pleasure, I
am so troubled beforehand lest he should not

care to speak to me ; and when he is speaking
all my foolish wits go, and will not answer him
rightly ; and lichen he is gone such doubts and
fears rack me all night long that perhaps he
thought little of me  and will never come near
me any morel . . . But still  but still what a
delicious evening to have walked with 1dm ; and
how he would have enjoyed its beauty and that
nightingale, as no else here would! . . ."
i

CHAPTER IV.

Two nymphs both nearly of an age,
Of numerous charms possessed,
A warm dispute once chanced to wage,
Whose temper was the best.

"The worth of each had been complete,
Had both alike been mild :
But one, although her smile was sweet,
Frowned oftener than she smiled.

And in her humour, when she frowned,
Would raise her voice and roar,
And shake with fury to the ground
The garland that she wore."

/"\UT in the street, the day after the
 fancy fair, as Daisy was walking with
the Coxes, some of the Marstown young
men familiarly joined them. These latter

were at no pains to conceal their satisfaction
at the departure of a regiment which
contained several men like Major Hodge,
Captain O'Donoghue, and Mr. Jones, who
had so long outrivalled them in the opinion
of the Marstown young ladies.

It will be ebb-tide with you tomorrow,
won't it, Miss Cox ?" said one, with delicate
chaff.

And low water with Miss Pussy, too,"
said another, adding, in a tone of mock
sympathy, 'come, now; how do you ever
expect to live through tomorrow ?"

I mean to cry the whole day," softly
answered Pussy, affectedly inclining her
head to one side ; secretly pleased that her
forlorn future state and intended woe
should place her, she was convinced, in an
interesting lio-ht. At this there was a
general laugh.

And I," declared Fuzzy, with a reckless

air, " mean to lock myself in all day
and night and hoivl!" There was a still
greater outburst of laughter at this sally,
which rather horrified Daisy, when she
found her arm taken by Fuzzy, who
whispered, "Come away from them with
me, dear ; won't you ? Good-bye," she
added to the rest, with a defiant air. " Weare
off to buy handkerchiefs."

They don't believe me ; but I mean
it," she bitterly added to Daisy. " I do
mean it, every word."

And she did keep her word  excepting
in buying the handkerchiefs.

The next day, indeed, neither Pussy nor
her eldest sister came downstairs ; though
Birdie appeared for breakfast in high
spirits, and began playing popular waltzes
at a thundering hand-gallop immediately
afterwards.

"Don't, my child," said her mother, imploringly

; adding, "with a deprecating side-look
at the guest, " You know your sisters
have both a headache. I am afraid the
calves-foot jelly we had last night at tea
must have disagreed with them."

In her heart Daisy for one thought this
most extremely probable, seeing the jelly
was in reality made of strong cow's heel ;
however, she by-and-by went upstairs to
see if she could do any good.

"Come in," softly moaned Pussy, in
answer to a quiet knock, and Daisy found
the blinds drawn down, and the patient
very comfortably in bed, with an unmistakeable
air of having been mildly dozing.

"What is the matter with me, do you
say ?" in answer to gentle inquiries. " Why,
I think anyone might know that I  I  I
am quite broken-hearted," and, w T with an
excellent little attempt at sobbing, Pussy
began to inhale smelling-salts, and squeeze

III. f

ed out a tear or two, or seemed to do so
by the help of a handkerchief.

Leaving this mourning dove as soon as
was seemly to the secret consolation of a
novel that slily peeped out under the pillow,
Daisy went with much livelier sympathy
to the other door.

"Who is that? Go away, do, and leave
me in peace," was called out harshly from
within. "Oh! it's you, is it?" followed
in somewhat milder, muffled tones, and
there was the sharp click of a bolt being
withdrawn by means of a long cord, the
end of which Fuzzy kept beside her bed.
Daisy, entering, stumbled on a breakfast-tray,
that had plainly been only taken inside
the room in compliance with motherly
entreaties ; but had, then, just been set
down untasted. Here the blinds were
drawn up, and the light fell garishly on a
hot* flushed face, and eyes sore with crying,

that stared almost repellently at the light
and at Daisy. " Bolt the door again, do.
I can't bear any of those others," she
sharply said ; then, as Daisy softly came
beside her, and hesitatingly asked, " What
is the matter?" the girl buried her head
on her guest's shoulder.

What is the matter ?  only that I am a
fool, dear !" Fuzzy answered, with agitated
self-contempt, under her breath. cl All
women are fools, I begin to believe ; and I
am a worse one than most, to torment myself
so about a man who never cared

At least, no, I do believe he did care; in
his own way, you know . . . Don't abuse
him to me, dear, just yet; my sisters tell
me he was a great old fat flirt ; they want
to make me think less of him  and by-and-by
maybe I shall agree with them, but just
yet I'd rather not . . ." Then after a
little while she went on, more passionately,

f2

Oh ! dear, I am sick of my life here ! I
wish I could live in the depths of the
country like you, and not have to ' keep up
appearances ' before people. It must be all
peaceful and innocent there ; with no love-affairs
for men to laugh about, and for
women to cry over."

Come back with me to my home, dear
Fuzzy," urged Daisy, in a most pitying and
comforting tone. " Come back with me to
Elm Hall ; they will all be so glad to see
you. My father seemed quite distressed
in his letter that I should be enjoying your
hospitality, and yet that none of you have
made a promise to visit us. And Polly
will be delighted."

So Fuzzy promised ; with the feeling that
any change would be blessed. Green fields
and still woods and waters would rest her
aching eyes, that now wearied of Marstown
chimneys, and the future sight of fresh

red-coats ; the uneventful Arcadian life of
a comfortable country house in summertime,
in the depths of a sleepy county,
would dull the smarts of wounded vanity
and fancy (whether it was really a stronger
feeling who can say), and all the stings
that the uttered or imagined sneers of
other girls would inflict.

Rattle ! rattle ! in the next room was now
heard ; Birdie's voice jangling in sharp,
shrewish tones with Pussy's softer, more
guttural remonstrances.

Then came a thumping, and dragging of
furniture, as it seemed.

"What is she dons* now?" murmured
poor Fuzzy, with an aching head. Daisy
then heard her own name called, and went
out to see.

Birdie, with a colour much heightened
above even her natural strawberry
complexion, was pushing

and pulling along the famous dummy.
There ! !  I am bringing this thing to
your room, for I'm not going to be
plagued with it any more. Your brother
made it, so you may keep it ; or else give it
to Miss Goodchild, since he is so fond of
her," she snapped out, giving the lay figure
a vicious shake and shove, with a look as if
she would rather have liked doing the
same by Daisy, Jack, and Una Goodchild,
all three. Daisy rather felt what maidservants
call " a turn," but meekly said,

Let me help you," and, despite Birdie's
biting retorts that she wanted no help, and
only requested leave not to trouble her,
Daisy caught up the offending object in
her own plump arms, and being, though
small, as strong as a Shetland pony, easily
put it in her own room.

Birdie was now of a raspberry hue allover
her face ; but the intense surprised

quietness of this " stranger lass " whom she
had just tried to insult prevented any
further outburst. Daisy's plump dignity
was in its own way something so solid,
though her face was as soft as a baby
saint's, that it made itself respected.

This scene over, little Miss Dimity
returned to look after poor Fuzzy 's headache.


She drew down her blinds ; shook up her
pillows ; bathed her forehead ; and finally
left her refreshed and quieted to sleep
awhile  with the prospect of going out
together later for a quiet walk far from
the Mall, the streets, shops, and all their
attractions, which generally were so engrossing
to the Cox minds.

But as Daisy leisurely went downstairs
with her quiet step  wondering how she
could best this day succeed in mutely
sympathising with Mrs. Cox's silently

distressed face, propitiating Birdie's ill-temper,
bearing with Pussy's mock grief,
and comforting Fuzzy, for whom she had
most genuine pity and liking  her own
name, uttered in a loud and angry, gibing
tone through the open drawing-room door,
made her pause a moment.

Daisy Dimity, indeed ! now don't praise
her up any more to me, mamma, for I am
just sick of her," uttered Birdie. "You
thought yourself so very clever in asking
her here ; you were sure it was the very
best way to catch her brother."

Birdie, hush. For shame ! I will not
allow this ; it is most disrespectful." .

Fiddle-sticks, mamma ! It is the downright
plain truth ; and you may just as well
call a spade a spade, instead of pretending
to talk of your dear cousin, Mrs. Dimity,
that you never even saw or cared to see,"
burst out the infuriated girl again, who

was plainly neither to " band nor to bind "
in ber present excitement.

Daisy bad turned at the very first ; but
as sbe bad all the stairs to re-ascend softly,
and that Birdie talked very fast and loud,
sbe could not help overbearing so far 
and this much more at the last.

And now he has deserted me for that
horrid Miss Goodchild that you brought
here  another of your clever ideas ! And
Miss Dimity has just been working heaven
and earth to take away Smiler Lee from
us ; and even trying for Captain Gascoigne
so hard that he has run away to be rid of
her."

The door of Daisy's room upstairs closed
with a click, and a very dismayed little
o-irl stood in the middle of the floor. If
Birdie bad only given her " rather a turn "
before, she had given her a most decided
one now.

This was dreadful !  to be living on
the Coxes' hospitality while their daughter
could say such unkind, false words of the
guest ; to be obliged by politeness to talk
to her as if nothing had happened, perhaps
to smile  worst of all, to receive her kisses !
For that very morning Birdie had given
her sweet Daisy ever so many caresses on
either cheek before breakfast, by way of
an appetising exercise, it seemed ; and had
smiled on her most brilliantly ! It was
all too horrible.

Daisy felt as if she must leave the house
that minute.

Her gorge rose at the idea of eating
the bread of people who all the time
plainly wished her gone  grudged her the
liking of any one of her brother's friends,
and put such coarse interpretation on her
innocent pleasure in their society.

It was a house of tears truly at that

moment, for downstairs Birdie had ended
by forcing herself into hysterics ; and the
mother's eyes had had tears not far from
them all morning.

Daisy began to cry "a wee." What she
complained of was that she felt so hurt;
having truly tried to like all these people,
even Birdie, and to think well of them, and
not let Jack or Mr. Lee laugh at them.
And then  then, too, she had so longed to
wait for the great ball  and till Captain
Gascoigne should come back !

But soon Daisy's tears, being very soft,
melted the feelings of first anger out of
her. Second thoughts came ; and she remembered
that Mrs. Cox had evidently
praised her ; that Fuzzy was undoubtedly
fond of her  while Pussy's feelings, if indifferent,
were not altogether unfriendly,
for she had graciously intimated that she
wished her future visit to Elm Hall to be

considered as fixed for the hunt ball  the
one great ball of the year, to which Daisy
and Polly had been taught to look forward,
from the days of their short frocks, as
shedding mild rapture upon all the remaining
three hundred and sixty-five days of
the year in that privileged region.

No !  for their feelings' sake it would be
ill-tempered, perhaps under-bred, to pack
her box now, and be off in a huff. But
there were yet two days before the ball ;
two long dreary days to be existed through
without seeing (Gerald) Gascoigne. If it
had not been for the hope of hearing her
beloved Jack's cheery accents on one day
at least  on the other, duty, that odious
word in the military meaning, would detain
him  Daisy felt so heart-sick with the annoyance
of Birdie's revelation, and all the
previous minor vexations she had undergone
from jealousy and gossip in this new

society, that she would have almost been
glad to flee to dear Elm Hall that very
day, and hear the squire's loud, glad greeting,
and take refuge in Polly's young but
sheltering arms.

She was aware, too, of secret fears she
dared not face that Fuzzy's fate might,
alas ! be only a foreshadowing of her own.

Anyhow, Daisy rose up determined that
she would gently hint that her visit had
been unduly prolonged by waiting for
Jack's regiment's ball. If this was negatived,
and she was begged by the most of
the family to wait for it  as proved to bethe
case that evening  then she was nevertheless
determined that the very next morning
she must say good-bye.

CHAPTER V.

"Noble, wing'cl Love has flown off with thy spindles
and basket of wools !

And thy studious delight in the toils of Minerva is
chased from thy heart

By young Hebrus, the bright Liparean."

T\AISY felt calmer, and slipped out to
-*- pay the Miss Silverthornes a visit,

How peaceful and happy the very cat
looked, lazily sauntering among its preserves
of a yard of privet hedge and three
well-clipped bushes approaching the entrance
of Lilac Lodge. It was only one
pebble's throw distant from that of Magdala
Villa.

How Fido, snow-white and cross from

his bath, yet deigned to rub himself
dryer a moment against his late preserver
in the tiny hall.

And in the drawing-room what a glad
twitter broke from the little old ladies as
their visitor came in ; and this day, instead of
lavender, a scent of dried rose-leaves seemed
hovering round the old-fashioned furniture
and embroidery, the Cry dons and
Phyllis on screens and cushions, or of
Chelsea china ; all that suggested having
been lived with and loved by refined gentlewomen.
It was all so home-like, dainty,
and fragrant, after the painful newness
of the Magdala furniture  with its tables
bare of books, magazines, work-boxes, or
any of that pleasant, useful litter which
proves that the inmates of a reception-room
use their brains as well as their fingers, and
do not think of passing most of their time
and of hiding their work in an untidy den.

After some friendly opening chat, Daisy,
with blushing face, lightly let fall how short
her probable stay in Marstown must be.

"I might even go before the ball," she
ended, in a small, quiet voice.

"Go before the ball!" The spinsters
raised their hands and eyes.

Then Miss Prudence briskly said,

Child, what is the matter ? Are the
other girls in there grown jealous of you ?"

It does not do to outstay one's welcome,
you know," quoth poor Daisy, evasively.

*' True," murmured Miss Patience, " as
King Solomon says in his proverb, ' Withdraw
thy foot from thy neighbour's. house ;
lest he be weary of thee, and so hate thee.' "

The elder Miss Silverthorne had begun
knitting briskly at a white silk garter, and
asked, with an air of rather suspicious indifference,


By the way, Gerald Gascoigne is away

still. When docs lie come back, I wonder? 1

"He told me he hoped to come back the
night of their ball  if possible ; but he had
been asked to do some business for other
people, so he would not like to hurry over
it," answered Daisy, falling into the innocent
trap.

"Ah ! oh !  yes ; just like dear Gerald
Gerald Gascoigne. So very probably he
won't be back for it," observed Miss Patience,
with an air of equally suspicious indifference
to that displayed by her sister,
and she began beading a red silk purse,
such as our great-grandmammas used, ina
pattern of pink strawberries.

Somehow Daisy had expected, in an undefined
way, more sympathy here. She
kept back with pains a bitterness of gall
from rising in her heart, but felt alone ina
strange land. After all their kindness of
speech before, after their liking Captain

VOL. III. g

Gascoigne so much, as they said surely
they might mutely understand how hard it
seemed to go away, and lose the last chance
of seeing him once more !

She tried to force a little chatter, though
her heart was thus heavy laden.

Yesterday you were knitting the silk
carter, and Miss Silverthorne was beading
the purse  why have you changed
your work ?"

We always exchange our work each
day, my dear ; it makes us feel more united.
Neither of us likes to do anything in which
the other has not an equal share. I shall
knit again tomorrow," blandly replied
Miss Patience, but with an abstracted air,
as if she was not thinking much of her
little guest at all.

Daisy, still more crestfallen, turned to
Miss Prudence.

Do you know, at first I was quite puzzled

to know the difference between you,
you are both so very much alike," she said,
with some feeble guile ; for the old ladies
were very proud if anyone was misled by
their great similarity, which they also tried
to keep up in dress and various other little
ways. u One day," went on Daisy, " I
remarked that your mittens had black bars
at the back, but Miss Prudence's had
feather-stitch, so I thought that would
help me  only next time I was terribly

puzzled, for it seemed to me that "

That we had changed our mittens ;
exactly ! and so we had," blandly replied
Miss Prudence, with a tone of equal want
of interest in the subject to that lately
shown by her sister. " In a few such
articles of dress, my dear, when we cannot
get them exactly alike, we make it a
point always to wear them turn about.
It makes us seem more united in such

g2

little outward matters, as we are, I hope r
In mind and affection. So one day you may
see me wearing our black Brussels veil,
with the rose-pattern, and the next day I
shall wear the one with the sprig while Patience
puts on the rose-pattern. It is the
handsomest."

Her voice died off in an abstracted
manner.

Daisy's conversation was utterly flagging.
She gazed out of the window, feeling very
sore at heart, and tried to say, blithely, ina
small voice,

I am afraid I must say good-bye.  It
will be good-bye for a long time, too,
won't it ? for nothing is likely ever to
bring me back to Marstown when Jack's
regiment goes soon. And you are hardly
more likely to come near Elm Hall, are
you ? although I do lois you would  And
many, many thanks now for all your kindness
to me."

Don't rise, my dear. Sit down ;  now
do sit down again for a moment," said Miss
Prudence, in a rather agitated voice,
settling her spectacles. Then she looked
at her sister, whose own spectacles had
been perfectly straight, but who, in an
equally agitated manner, immediately touched
them, and so set hers slightly crooked.
"My dear ! we both feel and have said to
each other that all the kindness is on your
side, in saving Fido's dear little life ; and
then in coming here, reviving us, as it were,
with your youth and bright face, like
spring-time and gladness  "

 And primroses, and birds, and green
leaves," put in Miss Patience.

 And memories of our dear old home."
Then Miss Silverthorne again looked across
and said, " Sister  I wonder if we are thinking
of the same thing ?"

Sister, I am sure we are."

I was wondering if this bright little
Daisy would care to spend a few days herein
this quiet old-fashioned house."

So was I  just as a treat to two old-fashioned
old maids, who like something
young and pretty to look at and warm
their hearts with."

Yes ; and, though it would be dull for
her, we could ask her brother here as often
as she liked," ended the one old human
love-bird, in a twitter of kindliness.

And dear Gerald Gascoigne  for we
have known him since a boy," ended the
other aged love-bird, in a flutter of pleased
anticipation.

The tears came quite up into Daisy's big
forget-me-not eyes, making them dewily
bright as they laughed ; though her happy
mouth was still silent. The sweet red
blood flew to her cheeks, so that instead
of Wordsworth's pale

Nun demure, of lowly port,"

who had entered Lilac Lodge, it was Burns's
daisy, a

Crimson-tipped flower,"

who cried out, with all the gladness of
drooping hopes reviving,

You are the two very kindest people in
the whole world. Oh ! dear, how can I
ever thank you enough ? Oh ! dear me,
what shall I say ?"

Say yes," cried both the little old ladies,
laughing heartily, but in a gentle, old-fashioned
way. They did not laugh in
convulsions, like some old people, who
seem so to have forgotten mirth that it
comes, poor souls ! rather awkwardly to
them ; or, like others, in a heartless tone,
as if all the inner kernel of it was dead,
and the flavour a past thing; but they
laughed still with their whole hearts, but

softly, as if time had mellowed their merriment,
taking away only the first youthful
heat and strength, and leaving it clear and
cheering as good wine.

CHAPTER VI.

; Bless us!' cried the Mayor, ' what's that?'
With the Corporation as he sat,
Looking little though wondrous fat;
Nor brighter was his eye, nor moister,
Than a too-long-opened oyster."

IT was the afternoon before the great
ball ; the ball of Jack's regiment ; it
was also (whisper this in a lower key) the
day of Captain Gerald Gascoigne's return,
for had he not written to Jack Dimity that
he hoped to be back just in time to dress
and go to it ?

How Daisy had felt glad as each hour
lessened, and the time drew nearer.

It was the dinner-hour, in the middle of

the day, at Magclala Villa ; and the little
doctor, who had just returned from two
days' absence, was whetting his scythe,
that is to say sharpening a carving-knife,
in an ear-splitting fashion, whilst standing
up before a huge coarse joint.

"And how has the world wagged with
you all since I have been away ? Has
any young gentleman proposed for any of
you girls?" he cried, whilst helping some
of his family to wedges, others to hunches
of meat, as rapidly as could possibly be ;
with an eye on some delicate fat for himself,
and much more thinly appetising
slices. The doctor's joke fell flat : there
was no fervent response in the feminine
faces around the table. " And how is our
charming Miss Dimity ?" he went on, looking
all around ; then giving Daisy a most
benignant gleam over his spectacles, reminding
her, as when first she came, of a

frog about to bless her. " So she is going
to leave us tomorrow, and all Marstown
and the beaus will be sorrowing. Going
back unscathed to her native wilds, like a
comet that has shed desolation in its path,
leaving broken hearts and ruined hopes
behind her, and looking just as she should
look, as fresh as a daisy ! Eh ? What's
that you say, my dear Mrs. Cox ?"

The Miss Silverthornes have asked her
to stay on a few days at Lilac Lodge," interposed
his wife, with a voice as soft as fresh-pressed
oil of almonds (Daisy wondered
why she made it so very particularly soft).
And the Miss Silverthornes called here
yesterday, my dear ; you will be glad to
hear."

What  eh  what ; confound this knife !
WHAT in the name of goodness do you
mean by giving me such a knife ?" and
the little doctor glared fiercely upon the

servant, and spluttered and muttered as
if everyone but himself was responsible
for the knives being cold iron iu stead of
best steel, till Daisy secretly thought his
manners had not improved ; while a faint
red tinged his wife's faded cheeks. " So
they did themselves the honour to call
on us, did they ? Well, I suppose since
Miss Dimity has scraped acquaintance
with them  1 beg her pardon, they with
her, I should say  that you had better
return their call, my dear."

This was very good, considering that
to make the old ladies' acquaintance was
well known by all his household to
have long been a deep desire of the
little doctor's heart ; and even that
he had set several devices on foot to
accomplish this, all of which had signally
failed. He was plainly seen to be in a
disturbed state of mind, though only the

home-pilot of this temper, this wife, had
foreseen any storm brewing.

And so you are going to visit those old
cats, Miss Dimity ? Well, well ; I hope
you'll like it," with a would-be cheeriness
of tone suggesting that such an event was
sadly unlikely. " How long do you stay ;
though, indeed, very likely being a young
lady of a practical turn of mind, you will
not leave Marstown now you know its
advantages till you have settled yourself
for future life. Eh, come now ! ha, ha ; is
that to be the way of it P"

I only intend to stay a few days with
the Miss Silverthornes," replied Daisy, withall
the milk of human kindness in her mind
frozen into surprised dignity; whither
eyes looked at the doctor much as might
little Red Riding-hood's at the wolf in
grand mamma's bed.

And I am to go back with her to Elm

Hall ; so it is a very good thing for me she
is staying on a little longer, because my
dresses could never have been got ready
in time," burst in Fuzzy, red-hot at this
juncture, and determined to protect her
friend, if she should have to fight for it ;
though Mrs. Cox only looked politely
miserable.

She could fight the little doctor for her
own brood's sake, with outspread wings at
times, but the spirit within her was too
crushed by the daily weight of her life's
small burdens to rise on behalf of a
stranger's child. Yet she nervously kept
pressing the salt upon Daisy three times in
her anxiety to atone for the doctor's incivility
; and surreptitiously poured out
another half-glass of Marsala with such an
imploring smile that Daisy, though reluctant,
would have swallowed poison rather
than have grieved her by refusing it.

Dr. Cox's thunderous state became
apparently lightened and brightened by
either Daisy's or Fuzzy's answers ; possibly
by both.

Very civil, very civil, I'm sure, of Mr.
and Mrs. Dimity to ask you to Elm Hall,
my child," he observed, in a grumbling,
gratified tone, ignoring Daisy's share in the
matter ; then, with a sort of gruff jocularity,
added, u Not, I should suppose, from
all accounts, that you will find any gay
young sparks you will be wanting to runaway
with down there. However, none of
your young lady friends here will be likely
to know that ; and they will all be dying
of envy, according to the charming weakness
of your sex, when you write to them
from Elm Hall. That's what I always do,
when I go out into the country to any
swell house. The last time I went to see
Lady de Hautenbas' children for measles,

I wrote several notes on her coroneted
paper, and it quite imposed on everybody 
ha, ha, ha !"

None of his hearers responded very
warmly, though Pussy and her mother
called up feeble smiles. But the doctor
cared very little for the opinion of his own
womankind, and had apparently grown
tired of treating Daisy with the humbug of
deference he had first shown to the guest.
So he started away on the same topic.

Elm Hall would not do for our friend
Smeeth. He travelled clown with me in
the train to-day, and the poor old boy was
talking to me about his daughters  he ! he !
he !  consulting me, in fact, about their
chances of marrying in Marstown. ' Did
I think, now, that Bologna, or some of
those cheap watering-places in summertime,
would be better for getting rid of
them V Lord ! how I laughed in my sleeve 1

Getting rid of them ! If that's not a
capital story for me to go round with at
the ball to-night, my name's not Jeremy
Cox. 1 '

Oh ! my dear, don't," softly urged Mrs.
Cox, in a tone of very real distress. "It
would not be kind. Poor Colonel Smeeth
may be very silly in saying such things ;
but it only means that he is a very devoted
father, and really anxious for his girls."

"Not kind? Trash ! stuff, my dear!
I'll be bound it will be the only time that
he ever amused people before. You are
too good-natured, and therefore you let
yourself be imposed upon. It is the duty
of everyone to try to be amusing in society,
and make themselves agreeable, unless
they are in the bosom of their own family."

And the little doctor, who seemed determined
to show himself at his worst, gave,
it seemed to Daisy, a covert glance at her-vol.

III. H

self, who had indeed sat singularly silenced
during this meal.

"As to caring for his daughters, there
is only one of mine who seems to care forme
 or who could take the trouble of
writing to me all that was going on here
whilst I was away."

He turned a red expanse of displeased
bald brow first upon Fuzzy, then upon
Pussy, whose healthy, rosy faces seemed to
care very little for his displeasure, however.
They knew his bark was worse than,
his bite ; for he was really an over-indulgent
father in some ways, and, if cross at times
with the elder girls, spoiled Birdie utterly.
Also, they had grown too much accustomed
to hear him talk humbug to other ladies,
and to know how he contradicted himself
in private, to be very filially sensitive as
to his criticisms.

But they both immediately turned and

transfixed Birdie with a reproachful, steady
gaze. The latter under this treatment
grew traitorously red.

My child, did you write to your
father?" asked Mrs. Cox, in a tone of quiet
surprise, as if she knew there was more in
this than met the eye. u Why, I asked if
you would enclose a line when I was writing
to him, and you refused."

"Yes, I did. I didn't choose to write
like that. I liked to write to him in my
own way," answered Birdie, defiantly, now
raising her head again.

And she told me much more gossip
and news than you did, my dear. Yours
was only full of the cook's having given
warning, and the chances of the boys taking
whooping-cough at school. Birdie, I think
I must give you a silver bangle for being
so dutiful," answered the doctor, with a
protecting look at his youngest daughter.

ii 2

I think we have all had enough," said
Mrs. Cox, rising ; and putting her arm
round Daisy's waist, she swept out of the
room with dignity, although she had on her
oldest gown of rusty black alpaca. She
had assumed again, too, all the sweetness
of manner Daisy had remarked on their
very first meeting  only now the latter
indescribably knew it was more real.

Pussy and Fuzzy followed with their
heads also high, and rare indignation in
their hearts, leaving the doctor and Birdie
together.

They signalled to Daisy to come upstairs,
and shut themselves into her bed-room,
where Mrs. Cox, meekly knowing they
went to talk rebellion, would not follow
them.

Silver bangles, indeed ! That is what
some people get by telling tales," uttered
Pussy, with soft viciousness.

I don't understand what is the matter!"
said Daisy, perplexed.

No wonder," ejaculated Fuzzy, in a
rage. '*' Birdie lias, as usual, stolen a
march upon us all. She has written to
papa that she is unhappy, and is longing
for him to come back and protect her
from being snubbed by us all, I daresay."

The fact is, none of her gentlemen
friends could stand her temper lately, so
they have all deserted her'' went on
Pussy, with rather pleased malice. "So
she is deadly jealous of you, darling; such
nonsense, for Smiler Lee never even
thought of her ! and she thinks you have
turned your brother from her, too."

Indeed, no. But  but Jack, 1 think,
never really liked her better than  than
either of yon," said poor Daisy, inclined to
cry at all this happening on the last day
of her visit.

Of course not  I always thought so,"
exclaimed Pussy, triumphant.

"You never should have annoyed her,
Pussy, by speaking about it,' 5 cried Fuzzy,
kissing her friend ; and then came a knock
at the door, and Mrs. Cox's gentle voice 
no doubt she had bethought herself, it
was better to prevent their anger fermenting.


She had come wishing to see Daisy's
ball-dress, she said. All girls know what
a flattering request that is ; so out Daisy
eagerly pulled Madame Furbelow's wonder
and glory of creamy, lustrous, satin ,
and ghostly thin tulle.

An outcry of astonished admiration
followed. None of them had ever seen it
before ; for Daisy was reticent about her
superior possessions. They put it on the
famous rejected dummy figure, which was
transformed at once from Aunt Sally to

Venus; they coveted, admired, thought
how to copy it; almost worshipped it. Daisy
glowed again with pleasure, quite feeling
that, while half their praises were honestly
meant for the dress, the rest were meant in
atoning warmth and kindness to herself.

CD

Sweet is adversity, if it teaches us to know
our friends from our backbiters, thought
Daisy  which is very well and noble in
theory, but perhaps some of us would
rather do without the friends than have
them with the sauce of adversity.

"But what ornaments are you going to
wear with it, my love ?" inquired Mrs. Cox,
full of consoling generosity. " What !
only a string of pearls ; no colour ? Dear
me, I wonder is there anything of mine I
could lend you for the night " (reflectively).
Birdie has borrowed my red coral strings,
and I have lent Pussy my ivory necklace
it has very handsome pendants, and

there is the bog oak one, only, left for you,
Fuzzy dear. But," with returning animation,
" I could lend Daisy my large gold
brooch." This was an ornament of bright
gold, about the size of a young warming-pan
; at the bare proposal of which Daisy
shuddered. " I generally wear it myself
for night parties ; but I can manage instead
with the miniature of General Cox, the
doctor's father, that you have seen me
wearing of an afternoon." (Yes, indeed !
every afternoon.) " What need appearances
matter for an old woman !"

In the outburst of her benevolence Mrs.
Cox was hastening off to fetch the glorious
breast-plate, when Fuzzy interposed.

"Nonsense, mamma; it would make
Daisy look like a young Zulu chieftains.
It is very handsome for you," with inward
dubiousness ; " but it would simply spoil
her appearance."

Ah, well ! perhaps so. But that brooch
is made of the very best yellow gold ; it
was sent me by my poor dear brother from
Australia," ended Mrs. Cox, evidently
rather glad not to part with her treasure
in spite of her goodness of heart, whilst
Daisy silently blessed Fuzzy for delivering
her from this terrible golden shield.

How dismal the room looks with your
boxes packed up !" they all exclaimed.
Why did you pack them to-day, Daisy ?"

Because the Miss Silverthornes asked
me to have my heavy luggage carried into
Lilac Lodge this evening, for they happened
to have a man at work to-day on the
premises I"

Well ; and a very good reason too. We
know what it is to have only maids in the
house," seriously replied Mrs. Cox, as Daisy
smiled.

Neither of them could foresee, however,

that Daisy would be rather glad that there
had been a man that night to carry her
boxes out of Magdala Villa.

CHAPTER VII.

M And oh ! she dances such a way,
No sun upon an Easter days
half so fine a sight."

THE great ball was held in the Town-hall.

Such a string of carriages as were before
it that night had not been seen in the
memory of young Marstown ; and no one
listened to the " I remembers : ' of the old
about some primaeval yeomanry ball or
other. Such eager crowds as peeped and
pressed round the doorway ; such glitter
and gleam of swords, flags, and bayonets,
in decorations up the grand stairs, and in

the great brilliantly-lit ball-room ; such
hundreds of mirrors, aud .draped muslin
curtains in all conceivable places ; such
nestling sofas in all conceivable nooks ;
such banks of moss, beds of roses, glow of
uniforms, and full-blown fashion in dresses
such a ball, in fact, had never been
known in Marstown.

The male guests could be heard observing
to each other, in audible asides,

Oh ! come ; I say, they have done it this
time  haven't they ?"

The ladies murmured,

Isn't it too delightful !"

The Cox party now entered the ballroom
; the little fat doctor first, with his
wife's arm tucked tight under his elbow 
since she could not persuade him that this
was no longer the fashion  she herself, a
full head and shoulders higher, moving with
faded grace at his side.

He seems clutching his claims to gentility,"
whispered Jack Dimity.

The Cox girls were in pink, blue, and
crimson ; whilst Daisy floated among them
like a small white cloud, above which was
a bewildered little face, that after scarcely
seeing Colonel Dunn and Mrs. Luxton,
who received them, till Fuzzy gently
touched her, tried to descry Jack's face 
and one other  among the group of
officers further on.

Here I am, little one," growled the
beloved brotherly voice in her ear.
"Jirniny! you do look stunning, though!
How much do you cost au inch to-night?
My stars and garters ! you look so nice, I
think I must give you an extra dance."

Well, I never !  to speak like that to
the belle of the ball-room P put in Smiler
Lee, who had eagerly rushed up. " Miss
Dimity, give me some dances, do; before

all the rest of the men in the room hustle
me off. Five of them fell backward with
admiration when you sailed into the room
like Auvor-er What-d'ye-call-her ! and the
others are rushing about frantically, asking
to be introduced. Upon my word I'm not
chaffing ; a dozen asked me your name. I
said I didn't know, but I'd try to find out
ho ! ho ! ho ! They'll murder me ! 
here they come."

A respectable regiment of suitors was
indeed seen advancing upon Daisy, their
modestly-halting footsteps led by " the two
quiet men," Gascoigne's friends in the
regiment, who did not personally know
Daisy, as they never went into society, but
had nevertheless been pounced on as the
least self-interested and occupied of the
stewards by the eager admirers.

The Smiler now frantically implored for
six dances, that, when shot in a duel for

Daisy's sake next morning, he might die
happy. But no arguments would make
that slowly-frigid young goddess grant
more than two, though he hopped about
before her in agony. Even when the crowd
of worshipping swains stood around, she
carefully studied her card, and doled out
their awarded dances in condescendingly
gracious niggardliness ; whilst she gloated
anxiously over some blank spaces on her
card, and her troubled blue eyes wandered
past all the pressing faces, searching the
crowded room  in vain !

Circe and the beasts," murmured the
Smiler, who believed he had an apt trick
of classical quotations.

Jack drew his handkerchief from the
sleeve of his scarlet tunic, up which it was
stuffed, with difficulty  the army regulations
apparently not considering it necessary
that a gentleman should ever want to

use it  and subsided behind this into a
paean of mirthful rejoicing over the triumph
of the eldest daughter of the Dimities !

The herd of stricken deer moved off with
inward, mutual anger and self-distrust,
each one believing his chances had been
spoiled by the other. The " two quiet men "
marched away with an air of bright relief,
as feeling, though they did not mean to
dance, no one could now say they had not
done their duty towards forwarding the
wants and wishes of the regiment's guests ;
and now they both might soon with safe
consciences slip off together to smoke, and
then show themselves again for supper 
before melting away like two drops out of
the crowd and returning to peace in the
barrack-square, and bed.

Jack dear, I have kept this first dance
for you. Dance it with me, do ; I want
to talk with you," implored his sister.

Can't, my child. It's a quadrille, and
so I've asked Mrs. Cox herself to open the
ball with me ;" and, if Jack did not give a
wink at his sister, he suggested as much,
implying that then the three Misses Cox
could not pull each others' hair about
him.

Well, then, the second," looking about
with a desperate eye, and relinquishing
hoarded treasure number one, not seeing
her Prince Perfect to claim it.

"I don't mind that," answered Jack,
with sweet condescension.

The Smiler screwed his face up into a
comical, silent whistle, meant to express
for Daisy's benefit  who did not care what
he thought of her Jack's fraternal behaviour,


"If J had a sister"

Still wonderingly Daisy's eyes searched
the room with its kaleidoscopic, .

III. I

ing groups, and mazy quadrille figures, in
vain, in vain looking for one tall figure
and reddish-brown head ! She found herself
beginning the ball with a youth much
smitten by her charms, the son of a great
county baronet ; but hardly knew with
whom she was dancing, and certainly as
little cared.

Hallo, you did get a swell," said Jack,
coming up to quiz her when his turn came,
but with a highly-gratified look. "Do
you know that is the eldest son ; he has
just gone into the 2nd Life Guards. You
are flying high to-night. At this rate,
when Polly comes out, as she always
wants to outdo you, you little simpleton,
she'll be trying for some old mummy of
a duke, that her name may be embalmed
for evermore in the peerage."

u I did not know who he was," said
Daisy, absently gazing after her departing

partner. " He is very like a half fled god
young canary."

Then after a turn or two, during which
Jack showed to the admiring gaze of the
room how two Dimities could dance with
infinite satisfaction 

By the way, Jack, why is your friend,
Captain Gascoigne, not here yet ?"

"Because he never came back at all !"

A blank seemed to come upon the ball ;
a great sheet of blankness, as it were, on
Daisy's mind, blotting cut all the anticipated
happiness of this night of nights !

Everything seemed a void, she herself
felt hollow, as those only do who have lost
all heart; what were these people all dancing
for in such a mock-mirthful fashion ?
It seemed to her as if they could not be
really enjoying themselves any more than
herself; though of course the thoughtless

i2

throng might believe that she was utterly
gay, too, because her card was filled with
names, that were the deadest sounding
names in the world to her.

A long, long time seemed to have passed
in that blank, when  and then really she
knew it to be only a minute or two later 
Jack grumpily uttered, in a disgusted tone,

I do think it is too bad of old .
He told me he was certain to
come back for our ball ! Anyhow he can't
stay longer than tomorrow ; his leave is
up then, so he might as well have made a
struggle and come back for to-night."

He must come back tomorrow !

As the sun in April's strange scene-shifting
will suddenly peer out from behind
a rain-cloud, and unexpectedly flood
the landscape with light, beauty, gladness,
and the outbursts melody of birds, so
was it in Daisy's spring-like heart. Begone,.

dull care ! Why be sad any longer, for
lie must come bach tomorrow.

Life is short, grief is long ; why grieve
five minutes longer than we need ?  remember
he will be here again tomorrow.

Much as the clock ticks, so the heart
thinks  to this side, to that side  gladness
! sorrow !

Clang ! clash ! clir-r-r ! Another dance
had begun, but Daisy felt gayer than a
few seconds ago would have seemed possible.
The rebound of relief after the
first blow had been all the greater compared
with that first blankness of desolation.
Now all her thought and vague
hopes were no longer centred on to-night,
but on tomorrow.

Ah ! demain, c'est la grande chose !
De quoi demain sera-tail fait ?
Homme aujourd'hui seme la cause,
Demain Dieu fait mourir effet."

Does this verse seem too Grand to be

connected with the simple love and disappointment
of a homely little country-maiden,
an " unassuming commonplace of
Nature" ?

But, after all, most of us are commonplace
; and many, after just such a night
of light-footed waltzing as Daisy's, may
have solemn enough morrows. She did
plainly right now in trying her best to be
cheerful and pleasing again, so that her
next partners thought her as bright a little
cricket as ever they had met. With curious
logic, she even told herself it was perhaps
just as well Captain Gascoigne had not
come for the great ball, since Jack would
have been quite vexed if she had not made
herself agreeable to all his friends.

And  she could not, had Gascoigne been
there !

She could not have helped watching
him, when possible, and thinking of him

the whole time ; wondering what he could
be saying to other people, and what he
would say to herself.

So now she watched the door no more,
but gave herself up to enjoying the ball as
heartily, but not as ecstatically, as those do
who have no all-engrossing idea.

"Glorious, isn't it?" panted the Smiler,
as he and Daisy flew down the great room,
in a polka, like harmless lightning ; zigzagging
hither and thither at tremendous
speed, but with all his energies at frightful
tension to avoid that terrible disgrace
of bumping other couples. " I say  between
ourselves, you know  don't you
think they'll talk of this ball of oursin
Marstown for many a long day ?"

Daisy was sure of it.

And I hear you worked the hardest
of all about it yourself."

Work ! I believe you. Now, do I look

as if I had never been in bed at all last
night ; no ?  it's a fact, though. Couldn't
sleep knowing they were washing the floor
here, and then the wretches might have
ruined us by putting on too much chalk,
so I came down every hour to see how
they were getting on. For you see I had
undertaken to see about it, and when once
1 say that, I'm not a man to go to sleep
over a thing. I suppose the world would
say it was very foolish ; come, what do you
think?"

"Very foolish," echoed Daisy, in an
absent tone, hardly understanding a word
of all his little  justly-earned  self-tribute
of praise. Lee stopped, and held by the
tip of one of his well-waxed moustaches in
his surprise ; then a good-humoured smile
broke over his face despite feeling snubbed.
His eyes had followed the track of Daisy's,
and had seen 

Why ! there is Gascoigne arrived,
after all," he exclaimed, looking where a
welcoming group stood around the 
new-comer, evidently listening
with interest and questioning to some
unusual explanation he was giving. " Let
us go over there, and hear what kept
him.

(This was, indeed, good-fellowship towards
his comrade, since we all know it
is often so hard for men to tell : What
some women can see in other men !)

As they approached, Daisy now hesitating
very much, and rather wishing she
were in the background, Gascoigne came
to meet them, with rather eager eyes, buta
quietly self-possessed step.

u Well, Miss Dimity, you promised me
two dances at our ball  I hope you have
kept them."

Why  it is nearly all over ! How

could one know you were really coming."
Daisy's eyes opened wide, bewildered
by his calm claim, which at once put her
in the wrong ; bitterly disappointed to
think of the so long hoarded dances for
him, so lately given to any poor stop-gap
of an applicant.

"I said I was coming, if it were at all
possible," aud Gascoigne looked back at
her, with a steady eye that sent secret
reproach into Daisy's inmost soul.

She had meant to be so loyal, and now
seemed to have been disloyal. Her mind
was so completely given up to him that
her conscience, which really ought to have
been blameless, began perplexedly to feel
that she must have treated him very badly
indeed. But she could only look down at
her card, and then look up at him blankly,
without finding a w T ord to say in self-excuse.


Oh, well  no luck for fine, I sec, tonight.
Can't be helped. It was not my
fault that I came late, though." And
Gerald drew himself up to his tallest
height, with a smile that was rather hurt,
and a shrug that was thoroughly gentlemanlike
; and both would have reduced
Daisy to further despair, but that she
heard Jack's blessed bassoon in her ear,

"I say! why can't you give him my
other dance, and let me make some other
young woman happy ? It's not such a
Sunday-come-once-a-fortnight treat for
you and me to dance together. And, look
here" (to Gascoigne), u what did happen?
Did you miss your train, or have a smash
on the line ?"

No," replied Gascoigne, in his slow,
soft voice. "But I was so delayed by
some business that I could not catch the
mail to come down here ; and all I could

do was to get on a goods train as far as
Sleepy vale, and then take the old-fashioned
coach."

"Good man!"

Well, I'd rather it was you than me.
I know that old coach breaks down three
times a week."

Yes, but then he wanted to be in time
for Our Ball," exclaimed the by-sanders.

u The coach did break clown," went on
Gascoigne, calmly. " We had only gone
three miles when the axle-tree broke
coming down a hill, and we were sent
flying eighteen feet over a hedge. Luckily
only one man's shoulder was put out. The
inside passengers were more frightened
than hurt, but they were all in a pigeon
pie on the top of each other. You never
saw such a squash."

And how did you get back ?" asked
everyone. " Not on foot ? Impossible !"

Every step of the way," smiled .
" Young do Hautenbas was driving
by, and offered me a liffc in bis dog-carfc
just then, but I had lost two valuable
things in the scrimmage, a book and a
a flower ; and would not stir an inch till
they were found."

A book !  a flower !" jibed Lee and
Jack alternately, in astonishment. " Could
you not get another book at Muche's ? And
a flower at Covent Garden ? Blessed if we
should have refused a lift for either !"

It was not an ordinary flower. It was
a valuable  well, plant, that I was bringing
down for a lady," evasively answered
Gascoigne, with an air of regret. (Daisy's
eyes, half-raised to peep from under their
modest eyelashes in a twinkle of jealousy,
met his eyes unexpectedly looking fully at
her face. She felt ashamed of her momentary
pang.) He went on : " Unfortunately,

though I stormed and searched it
never was found, although the book was.
It was a family thing."

"What the flower or the book?"
laughed Jack.

Oh ! the book," answered Gascoigne,
but in a confused way, still eyeing Daisy.
"My old uncle is a bit of a bibliographer,
and, as thanks for some business I did for
him, he gave me an Aldine Virgil, the rare
edition of 1501, too."

What ! a genuine Alto Manuzio !
Oh ! where did you find it again ?" cried
Una Goodchild, excitedly, who was on
Jack's arm.

I found it tucked tight under an old
lady's shawl. She w T as hysterically convinced
it was her family Bible."

Was it worth the walk you had ?"
irreverently asked Lee and Dimity.

Oh ! it must have been worth any

trouble," uttered Una, at the same moment.


The trio immediately began a triangular
battle of books. But Daisy seized this
first chance of speaking to Gascoigne un-regarded,
to murmur softly and shyly, ashe
bent clown his ear to hear what she
said so low,

And have you  have you had no dine

Gascoigne nearly laughed outright as he
smiled down upon her  but not quite.
She might have been hurt, and he was a
gentleman. But he was charmed with her
question, being a man, and the tenderly-engaging
small anxiety with which it was
put. He understood so well the solicitude
for him which prompted it, and the sweet,
homely nature that looked upon taking
thought for the comfort of her friends asher
especial duty.

As she blushed under his keen gaze, he

said in a tone of hearty re-assurance that
(for her dear sake !)  he would not
starve just yet.

It does not matter. I was determined
to come to the ball ; and there will be time
for some supper before our dance together
comes."

And away he went, at Daisy's suggestion
but why should he have turned off so
immediately ?  that was so vexingly like a
man ! and soon, gazing from afar, she saw
him in the fairy grotto of a supper-room,
sitting at a tiny mushroom-like table, with
his two u quiet" friends, all three laughing,
eating plovers' eggs, and quaffing dry champagne,
as if the great ball had lost all its
horrors for them, its sweet romance for him.

Daisy felt it would have been quite impossible
to her to eat anything, after the
intoxicating happiness of seeing him again.

CHAPTER VIII.

"Now sleeps the crimson petal, near the white ;
Nor waves the cypress in the palace walk ;
Nor winks the gold fin in the porphyry font :
The fire-fly wakens ; waken thou with me."

TT was the sweetest little bower ever
*- whispered in, where they two sat.

Tall, palm-like shrubs met overhead in
scented semi-darkness, white roses glimmered,
crimson passion-flowers glowed in
the warm gloom. A tiny fountain played
beside them, its tinkling drops falling on
their bewitched hearing like "tiny silver
bells upon the robes of hovering silence."
Gold-fish darted in and out among the

VOL. III. k

water-lilies in the basin. They saw it all,
but only looked at each other ; and only
seemed to hear the unspoken thoughts
they interchanged.

Their one thrilling dance was over, and
Gascoigne had led away his little partner
here, pressing her arm a little closer than
usual to his side, looking down at her
twice with a proud, pleased look, as if she
already belonged to him : while she 
earth did not seem earth, but paradise, in
which they two only now sat and looked
in each other's eyes and said  very little.
Then Gascoigne spoke,

So you are not leaving us yet awhile,
after all. I am so glad  I hurried back
here fearing you would be gone tomorrow
?"

"But I am so sorry you should have
hurried back on my account." This was
uttered in a small voice, shy as small.

Gascoigne smiled upon her, so that she
bent down a modest brown head, hiding
her face like her namesake at night, and
only showing a warm tinged cheek.

It is such sweet dalliance, he thinks to
himself, he will not say just yet  not just
yet  the words that he came back meaning
to say, and that are even now on his
tongue. Some inward start of maiden shyness
makes her hurriedly speak and break
the silence, and why ! she hardly knows,
nor what she is saying.

"You have not admired my dress; is it
not pretty?  tell me," with a pigmy attempt
at defiance of their mutual strange
shyness.

Gascoigne rather sentimentally utters.

' In gloss of satin and glimmer of
pearl.'  You could not look nicer even in a
common print frock, as I saw you that first
afternoon  do you remember? But the

k2

queen lily and rose ' hardly apply to you"
in a tone of fond appraising. " How I
do wish I had not lost that flower this
evening  !"

Can you not be happy without thinking
of a stupid plant ?" burst from little
Daisy, almost unawares, so suddenly had
he dropped a spark upon what modicum of
fiery spirit she possessed. "I beg your
pardon ; indeed, I do ; but surely you
might forget it now with  with your
friends."

I meant that flower for you, Miss
Dimity."

 For me?"

"Yes, if you would have deigned to
accept it. You might even have worn it
to-night.  No, I forgot !  There would not
have been time to have offered it beforehand."


"Oh, but you might have sent it  just

to see if I would," coquettishly. " 
you shake your head and laugh ? What
colour was it  white ?"

Well, upon my word I don't know that
it was any colour at all  at least, it sometimes
looked all colours."

What an extraordinary flower ! It has
some horrible Latin name, of course, like
Robinson, or "

Well, no. It has a very simple old
English name, that means Day's Eye, I
believe."

Daisy opened her own eyes rather wide
at this. Gascoigne went on, laughing at
her puzzled state,

"You remind me of what Wordsworth

called your namesake,

A little Cyclops, with one eye,
Staring to threaten or defy.'

And if you had worn that great brooch of
Mrs. Cox's you were telling me of just

now, he would have described you as

6 A silver shield with boss of gold
That spreads itself, some fairy bold
In fight to cover.'

Yes ; I certainly wish I had not lost
my flower  my foreign daisy," went on
Gerald, with a man's power of being able
to regret, or feel glad of more tangible
sublunary matters than love's young dream,
even in the very midst and rapture of its
bewitchingly sweet spell. "When I left
my old uncle's Vicarage of Barleyfields this
morning, I little thought "

Barleyfields  a vicarage ! What is
your uncle's name ?" ejaculated Daisy, with
such an astonished look that Gascoigne,
equally astonished, answered only,

Browning."

Oh ! that is not the name. At least, I
cannot quite remember what the name of
his uncle was. There was some one I used

to know who used to talk to me of staying
at Barleyfields  yes, at the vicarage."

Some one ?  a ' he,' you said  a young
man ?" with growing surprise, just tinged
with jealous suspicion.

u Well, yes  at least, I  I thought him
quite a young man then  but you, perhaps,"
hesitatingly, "might call him a
boy."

Hardly likely. No, Miss Dimity, it is
generally your sex who are so fond of
using the term ; and very often I am afraid
it is supposed to excuse their flirtations
with some very full-grown young men.
They say, ' Oh ! he is only a boy  such a
dear boy!' However, your friend, you
own, was a young man, and I give you
credit for saying so. An admirer, I suppose
?" and Gascoigne spoke with an
assumption of righteous severity, quite unusual
with him, against the sex ; and an

undertone of dawning, unreasonable anger
against the supposed admirer.

Daisy flushed crimson, as he could see
even in the scented dusk caused by the tall
plants round them, and she looked down
shame-faced.

I don't know why you should say so 
it is not very kind of you, I think " (in her
nervousness being aware of his displeasure,
and trying to defend herself meekly). " Of
course he liked me ; at least  he said he
did."

Pray do not imagine I think it a crime
that you should have an admirer ;" then,
with a rather doubting smile, " Only if this
he happened to be one of the young Dick-sons,
my uncle's other two nephews, I
should hardly advise you to place too much
confidence in the affections of such young
men. I don't wish to hurt your feelings
"

No, no ; go on ; please say whatever
you like."

"Well, then ; it seems ungenerous to
disparage them, as I am supposed to be
their successful rival in my old uncle's
affections. (That seems hard, too, as he
has no children, and I happen to be a little
better off: than they are !) But even if one
of them has been fortunate enough to be
beforehand with me in  in your good
opinion, Miss Dimity, it is not a perhaps
natural jealousy that makes me warn you
. . I mean," speaking very earnestly, but
stammering a good deal, "perhaps you do
not know that my uncle has just been
obliged to send Phil out to New Zealand,
and that Theodore is  well, no one quite
knows where just at present. Did you
hear that ?"

I never heard of the two Mr. Dickson
before in my life, Captain Gascoigne."

What ! Oh ! I see ; you have been
making game of me about them all this
time while I was speaking."

And, though he spoke very gently, Gerald
became a fiiie red all over his face, that
made his honest nose look delightfully
ugly. Daisy eyed him sideways, and
thought it was such a nice big nose, and
was quite nattered that she could make her
Sir Perfect almost in a rage  though sorry
too. Still she pretended to answer, in
such a soft huff as a lamb or a pigeon
might show when properly offended.

I beg your pardon, but I did not
know what you were going to say. , It was
not my fault that you thought I meant
either of your cousins. Dickson was not
the name at all."

"Not," joyfully! "Why, then, whom
can you mean ? Not young Tableau 
the doctor's son, with the lame leg ; or old

Ridley, the hunting squadron," (i.e., squire
and parson). " I know no one else there."
Then, in remembering contrition, " But I
am ashamed of myself. I was quite forgetting
how very presuming it is to inquire
into what a lady may not wish to tell.
Please forgive me. Only "

Only what, Captain Gascoigne ?"

That, as he said he liked you  at which
I am not at all surprised !  I should like
to know "  (with a considerable effort) 
whether you liked him equally well?"

u Yes, indeed I did !" and up Daisy looked
again in animated simplicity. " I was
very fond of him."

"Fond of him; this gentleman?" asked
Gascoigne, in a very subdued tone, she
thought. " When a young lady says that,
it might be taken to mean, Miss Dimity 
excuse me if I should not ask the question,
but  are you engaged to him ?" His tone

was so full of meaning that Daisy blushed
furiously. She put up her white, mysteries
fan, and put it down, and began
twitching all her pretty ribbons straight ;
then she laughed.

Oh, I oh, no ! He did ask me

certainly to marry him some time or
other, and I said yes. But it was all
nonsense."

All nonsense ! When he asked you to
marry him and you said yes ?" uttered
Gascoigne, sitting up straight and looking
at her in indignation, astonishment, and
almost scorn. "Miss Dimity, I did not
think you were like so many young ladies
of the present day, who seem to consider
an engagement only binding when they
can make no better. I did not think that
you would have promised yourself to this
unknown man, or any man, and then have
said it was all nonsense."

But, indeed, Captain Gascoigne, it
was ! for we were both young."

u And," continued Gerald, mighty in his
hurt wrath and great disappointment in
this his supposed innocent field-flower ; unheeding
her now imploring looks to listen
to her story, her piteous, last small effort
in self-defence,  "and I did think that,
knowing you were engaged to this other
man, you might have told me so  before
now," and up he rose straight, as if to go,
seeming, in Daisy's misty eyes, so grand
and noble ! quite a king among the herd of
common men  except that her sight was
so dim and ever dimmer she could hardly
see him again till two iris-hued tears had
rolled slowly down. But, though Gascoigne
had risen, Daisy did not rise. Instead she
gasped,

Captain Gascoigne "

"Yes, Miss Dimity," answered Gerald,

in a hard, frozen tone, with his head stiffly
averted. "What is it?"

Am I really engaged, because "  then
slily, as he turned in astonished doubt  " I
don't think I really can be."

44 You are not! And why  because you
broke it off?"

"Because I  I  don't laugh at me, please
I was only twelve years old !"

Gerald did not obey her for once. He
looked at her baby-face still upturned beseechingly
; at the two tears undried ; and
then went into a great laugh. After which,
sitting down again beside her on the little
sofa in the dim recess he laughed again, but
very softly ; and as much at himself as at
her, apparently.

"Don't," said Daisy, twisting away her
head with a very pretty turn of a dimpled
shoulder, and a pout expressed as it
were in her voice.

Don't what, Miss Daisy ?"

Don't tease me  by laughing at me."

Very well j I won't tease you any more,
if you will only tell me whether  since you
are not irretrievably engaged "

Gascoigne paused an instant, as he was
softly speaking ; he and Daisy had somehow
drawn nearer each other; the fountain
gurgled laughingly in its cunningly contrived
nook, among the palms that seemed
whispering to each other of t: vegetable
loves," as a little night-breeze swayed their
fronds  and the dim white flowers massed
around appeared to nod at their little, white,
human sister in confiding encouragement.
Daisy tried to look up, but could not, so
looked down ; her lips would fain have
framed some soft expostulation, but could
only quiver, as Gascoigne, pausing, looked
in her face and put out his hand as if
to take her little one. It was almost in

Lis grasp, as be still more tenderly repeated,


"Whether you could ever like me well
enough "

There came a rustle approaching, a cackling
laugh, and a bald head peered past the
screening bondage, exclaiming,

What's here ? Anything nice going on
here, eh ? Anything good to be had ?
Why, bless my soul ! I didn't think it
was . . . It is Captain Gascoigne and Miss
Dimity !"

And Dr. Cox, coming more fully into
view, stood and gazed upon the abashed
couple ; arranging his spectacles to examine
their looks with the air of a friendly,
family medicine-man, who had learnt from
their pulse something was wrong, and
who had known their constitution since
birth.

His daughter Birdie hung upon his arm,

pretending to draw back with shyness, but
looking malignant-eyed from under her
eyelashes all the same.

It absolutely is Miss Dimity and our
friend Gascoigue I" repeated the worthy-looking
old spoil-sport. " I said to my
Birdie here, as she was not dancing, that
we would just make a little tour of inspection
round the pretty sorceries, as I call
these charming spots, ha ! ha ! little thinking
we should stumble on two such friends.
What a cosy little party we make, eh?
But perhaps there is no more room ; is
there ?"

Oh ! yes. certainly, Dr. Cox ; pray sit
down," uttered Gascoigne, with very forced
politeness, wishing him at Magdala Villa
with all his heart. " There is room enough
for everyone."

But perhaps we are not wanted all the
same, pa," giggled Birdie, significantly,

VOL. III. L

pinching his arm. " Didn't I tell you so,
when you began poking round?"

What, bless my heart ! but you said if
any couples were spooning, my child. Do
they want us to go, do you think . . . ?
What, eh, not ?" as rather unhappy gestures
of dissent were forced from the inspected
pair. "Now, now, Birdie, what am I todo
between you "  for his playful daughter
affectedly caught him by the coat-tails, as
if to drag him away. " Come now, I'll
just put it to themselves. My dear people,
were you spooning f n

A scornful " No !" escaped from .
Goodness forgive him the story !
but if, as Sir Walter Scott declared, a
fib is permissible on some occasions to
screen one from impudent questions, surely
to shield poor Daisy, who could not speak,
was such an occasion. Besides, " spooning
" is an unrefined verb, and scarcely
expressed his feelings.

"There, there! I told you so, Birdie; I
knew our friend Gascoigue would be glad
to have us ;" whereupon the doctor tucked
up his coat-tails carefully, and plumped
down in the vacant space on the other
side of Gerald, whom he proceeded to
interview upon the subject of his recent
absence. Whilst Gascoigne replied as
briefly as civility would allow, Birdie Cox
took the place Daisy had made for her beside
herself  as ungrudgingly as she could
with ungraciousness.

Are you engaged for any more
dances ?" she asked, in an unpleasant
undertone.

"Yes ; for all, to-night. Are you not?"
Daisy quietly answered.

No, I'm not. You might know that
much, I should think, when you sec me
here !" snapped Birdie, so viciously that
Daisy really drew back instinctively, as if

L 2

she were likely to get bitten. " No !  nobody
lias chosen to ask me for the next
five dances but Mr. Hunt and Mr. Blount ;
whom I've had each already three times.
But if you think I'm going to dance anymore
with those stupid owls, and be satisfied
with your cast-offs, let me tell you,
Miss Daisy, you are very much mistaken !"

And Birdie, who was plainly "in a
temper " (not a good one !), gazed at her
whilom dearest friend with blazing eyes ;
whilst poor Daisy, unused to such outbreaks,
was racking her brain to think
what was the reason of herself being thus
apparently accused for the neglect of Miss
Cox by better partners, and the consequent
good luck of Castor and Pollux. She might
have puzzled herself long enough  since
reason Birdie had none.

But Gascoigne now rose, with a ghastly
smile of courteousness in answer to the

doctor's last sallies ; vainly hoping to retreat
with, his small sweetheart to peace
elsewhere.

You are not going  ?" up bounced the
doctor, too. "Why, I had a hundred other
questions to ask you."

Another time I shall be most happy,"
murmured the victim ; " but at present

will you excuse " He had got Daisy

now safe upon his arm.

Dear, dear ; but wait one moment.
There is no hurry ! and I wanted particularly
to ask you something." Hereupon the
doctor, attempting to buttonhole his
retreating prey, had to content himself
with getting a small scarlet scrap of uniform
between his finger and thumb, with
difficulty.

Gascoigne, always as gravely polite as a
Spanish hidalgo, stopped still to listen, not
betraying a motion of impatience ; though

his every muscle was twitching under the
annoyance, as the doctor fumbled on, "I
wanted to ask  ah, ah  what were the crops
like in your part of the country ?"

Papa !" called out Birdie sharply
from behind them, where she still sat
glaring resentfully at Gascoigne's retreating
back, for she had expected him to ask her
for the next dance,  " papa, I feel extremely
ill, and I must go home immediately."

"111?  my favourite!" and the doctor
hopped round like Punch when pretending
to be extremely startled.

"111?" echoed good-natured Gascoigne,
with sudden concern. "What is the
matter ? Let me bring you some water."

Water !" . . . sneered the invalid, biting
severely at her lace handkerchief, and
looking at him as if he had proposed to
insult her.

Wine, then ? But you are not faint ?"

And the bewildered man gazed inquiringly
at her countenance, which even by the
gleam of a Chinese lantern overhead he
could see was growing of a peony hue ;
whilst he could not think why Daisy,
usually ever ready  and even the afflicted
parent  were so tardy in their offers of
sympathy and help.

To his horror, the young lady drummed
her heels on the ground at him, gasping
out,

Bother ! . . . Just leave me alone,
Captain Gascoigne. That's all I ask you
to do ! You could not ask me to dance ;
or see after my amusement in any way tonight
; and now you stand there like a
stupid long stick, pretending you are sorry,
forsooth !"

"But I really am sorry," returned ,
slowly ; bearing that test of a true
gentleman, how he takes being snubbed by

a lady, with such unflinching courtesy that
he seemed a latter-day " perfect knight " to
a pair of blue eyes turned on him in secret
worshipping. " I am engaged to your eldest
sister for the next dance," he continued,
"but will you allow me to have another
one later on ; or may I try to get you some
partners ?"

Miss Cox the youngest, laughed in hysterical
derision, ending with a sort of sniff.

Indeed I shall not ! If you think you
can have me come for being whistled to
whenever you please, like some other
people, you are very much mistaken " 
glancing with scorn and sarcasm at her
rival, who stood by feeling as small and
meek as a mouse. " You don't know my
spirit! I'm going home at once, and all
the rest of them must just come too."

But, Birdie, my child ! Baby, my
sweet one !" wheedled the doctor, in a

weak, coaxing tone, being evidently in a
ridiculous fright of the said spirit of his
daughter. " Come, come ; you don't mean
it. I'll take you home myself if you really
wish it, but the rest are all dancing, you

know "

And do you really think I'm going
home by myself, and leave them all to
enjoy themselves?" blazed out Birdie, at
white heat ; tossing about the sofa-cushions
till all three gazers thought she
meant to flint: them at their heads. u Will
you go and tell mamma to bring out the
other girls immediately? There !  what's
the use of your standing looking at me ?"

The doctor turned, and fled before her
last glance as fast as his short legs could
carry him.

Slowly and sadly " Gascoigne and Daisy
followed together, in readiness to support
the distempered damsel, who went in front

with heaving breast, and an eye which
showed she would permit no such trifling
with her outraged feelings as the offer of
an arm, or any mock-sympathy, before she
deigned to consider herself in need of such
assistance.

Near the ball-room door, they found Mrs.
Cox and Fuzzy, w T with woebegone faces,
awaiting them. The mother made a pretence
at once of seeing to the supposed
indisposition of her daughter ; who, sinking
on a seat, in a studied attitude of pretty
prostration, put her hand under her cheek
and begged for smelling-salts.

"Isn't it too bad?" whispered Fuzzy,
coming up, with sincere apologies to
Daisy. " Pussy and I were enjoying ourselves,
too, so much more than we expected
after  those others had gone, you know."
(Major Hodge and Mr. Jones, no doubt.)
And mamma is so angry that she wanted

to put Birdie iu a cab and send her home
alone, because she has been jealous and
cross all evening ; but papa says we must
pretend she really is ill for the sake of
appearances. But, most of all, I am sorry
for you, dear." Her frank sympathy so
warmed Daisy that the latter exclaimed,
with prompt responding friendship,

u Don't trouble yourself about me. Let
us all go back  poor thing ! I am so sorry
she has been vexed."

But Fuzzy turned, unsatisfied still, to
express her regret to Jack Dimity and
Smiler Lee, who came up just then.

Oh, don't fret yourself about Daisy,"
said Jack, bluntly; who seemed to have
been hanging about, and so had an inkling
of how matters stood, adding, with an
encouraging nod in his sister's direction,
" She's so good-natured, she rather
likes making an auto-da-f of herself

for other people to warm their feet at.' 1
"What ! the ball-room belle to be carried
off so early !" Thus the Smiler, who did
not understand how the wind blew, was
lamenting loudly aside to the said belle.
You looked, excuse my saying so, won't
you !  but you did look such a White Angel
to-night. Was she not the belle of the
night, Gascoigne?" turning for confirmation
of his effusiveness of speech.

Yes," said Gascoigne, briefly, but to
the point ; adding, much lower, " Though
what I admired most was her sweetness of
temper, that was not merely put on, like a
new dress."

With what glad, grateful eyes Daisy
looked up just one moment ! and met his
looking down in return, with an expression
that made hers fall, and her heart go pit-a-pat.
And now the little doctor, who had
been frantically dodging round the outskirts

of the ball-room, trying to stop
Pussy and her partner, who, scenting
danger, had been waltzing round and
round from him, returned hot and annoyed
with the last unwilling and indignant sister
(of charity?)  on his arm; representing
to all who offered inquiries or expostulations
that his osiris' feelings for their invalid
made them only anxious to go away and
see after her.

To whip her and put her to bed, I
should say," remarked Essie Smeeth, in a
high, disbelieving tone. " Well, if I had
a sister like that, I'd teach her better
manners."

As they got into a fly and drove off,
Dais} last saw a row of interested faces
gazing after them from the flag-lined doorway;
the two Smeeth girls and some other
friends, who had been "sitting out" with
their partners, peeping with amusement

mingled with pity ; on the steps outside,
Gascoigne, Lee, and Jack looking after
them with regret and vexation  which the
still unenlightened Smiler, indeed, was
loudly expressing by uplifting his voice in
lamentation, despite of hints and nudges
from either side.

CHAPTER IX.

Hath. "A pretty peat! 'tis best put finger in the
eye  an she knew why."

NOT a word was exchanged amongst
the Cox family in the fly. But, after
some minutes of ominous silence, Mrs. Cox,
with a pained civility and kindness quite
irksome to Daisy, began gently hoping
the latter was not tired. Upon this Birdie
at once burst into loud sobbing ; observing
parenthetically that nobody, not even her
own mother, cared about her feelings  to
which the rest of her family, by their
silence, seemed to give consent.

The doctor, wily parent, was outside on

the box beside the driver, smoking away
like a factory chimney, having observed
aloud with much inner thankfulness, "that
there was no room for him inside "  as
there truly w T as not, since there they were
already five.

Arrived home, Daisy, feeling that a
household storm had been brewing during
the late dreadful stillness, slipped upstairs
to her little nest ; as the room seemed,
which, for its associations with all her
new experiences and thoughts in Mars-town,
she already felt quite sorry to leave
so had her clinging nature already there
struck root. She heard a hum of voices
below, swelling soon into an angry female
clamour ; but knew the doctor had basely
evaded all this by scuttling  no other word
could better express his sidling, crab-like
trot  as hastily as possible to his dressing-room.


Daisy was very sleepy, and there stood
the great stuffed figure, like an automaton
maid. She took off her beautiful gown
and hung it over the said " Miss Black,"
to keep it crushed ; and soon having
forgiven Birdie, and all others who had
vexed her, lay down with an innocent
mind and happy heart, thinking of  one
person.

Soon she was dreaming of this said one
person ; had perhaps been dreaming of him
an hour ; but her sleeping ideas had grown
oppressed, disturbed.

It seemed that Gascoigne was being
dragged from her side by Birdie ; that the
latter was shrieking in hysterics and calling
on him to leave Daisy evermore for
herself, that he seemed going  going sadly
! but going  ! She herself tried to cry
out imploringly to him, yet felt so choked
she could not

VOL. III. M

Why, now !  she heard loud wedding-bells
for him and Birdie, clanging, clashing
in her dream-miseries ears.

Daisy awoke with a great start ; heard a
loud ringing indeed in the darkness  and
springing out of bed, bewildered, opened
the door. She saw Fuzzy in her nightgown,
ringing the big dinner-bell, and
calling Fire ! Fire ! whilst a cloud of smoke
came rolling up the stairs.

CHAPTER X.

Thus must I from the smoke into the smother."

then there was confusion in the 
ness of the little villa !

Matches were tried to be struck, and
would not strike, or the match-box got
lost ; clothes were groped after ; aimless
wild haste and bewilderment prevailing
among most. The two servant-maids clung
together on the stairs, impeding progress ;
and interchanging shrieks and responses
from the litany. Mrs. Cox fled upstairs
like a w r lite ghost, not knowing the extent
of the danger, but only thinking of saving

M 2

her little school-boys and getting them
dressed, regardless of later considerations.


The doctor, half-dressed, and almost
wholly frantic, was popping out from his
dressing-room on to the landing and popping
back.

Save yourselves  " he kept croaking,
like a bull-frog gone hoarse with over-excitement.
"Don't mind the furniture!
Thank heavens ! it's all only just insured.
Save yourselves, my darlings I"

Whereupon he ran a few steps down the
stairs in his shirt sleeves, then ran back
again to secure his watch, a cat's-eye pin
set iu small diamonds  the gift of a grateful
patient, which he greatly valued  and
some ready money. With these in both
hands he fled from the house bare-headed,
shouting Police ! down the empty darkness
of the Khyber Pass Road, whilst the inrushing

draught from the open door he
had left behind him was not a help to the
salvation of his family.

Meanwhile Fuzzy, as if possessed by the
spirit of ten housemaids, was carrying
great jugs of water to throw on the fire
that seemed bursting out of the kitchen,
and spreading on that side of the house.

u We must keep the stairs wet; don't
you think so ?" she breathlessly said to
Daisy, who was close behind her, working
as Fuzzy bade with steady honest courage,
though in her heart she had no faith in
their quenching the flames any more than
if they were to play a fountain into Vesuvius.


But she felt that was none of her business
; and not having a genius for taking
the lead in emergency, obedience to others
was her natural duty.

Both girls, nevertheless, by their encouraging

example and words, had so
wrought upon the servant-maids that these
were soon willingly helping in handing
down water from the little bath-room,
which luckily they could still get at.

Oh, hawk !" exclaimed simple Susan, the
cook, with a cry of dismay, " Miss Fuzzy,
do stop ; that's the hot water tap, my dear !
It'll help the fire !"

Upstairs Pussy, with natural calmness,
was busily engaged throwing open her
wardrobe and drawers, and flinging their
indiscriminate contents into her sheets,
which she had torn off her bed for that
purpose and then knotted together by the
four corners, preparatory to pitching them,
if necessary, out of the window. Her own
best clothes and boots, then even all her
second best thus saved, she began with
sisterly thought to take the same prudent
care for Fuzzy's worldly goods.

Luckily, (in this firelight view of the
case) the small possessions of both sisters
consisted mainly of clothes ; for they had
few or none of either books or trinkets, all
the many knick-knacks and little Lares
that young ladies with more extensively
cultivated tastes so often accumulate.

All this had occupied but a few minutes ;
thus what with the excitement and calling
to each other, those below stairs had entirely
failed to hear cries from Birdie's
room, which Pussy had calmly disregarded,
supposing them to proceed merely from
hysterics, which sisterly weakness she did
not intend should divert her from the
pressing nature of her business.

But now the screams had become earpiercing.
Likewise, amidst all the din, a
battering could be heard against the inner
side of Birdie's door that arrested attention.


"What is it?" they shrieked, hardly
pausing in their work.

Let me out  I'm locked in ! I'm locked
in !" came back in tones of shrill fear.

"Well, you've got the key. Can't you
open the door ?" retorted Fuzzy, in an
equally sharp screech.

She was not unkind, but excited to
highest pitch, feeling scorched, as she had
ventured nearest of all to the fire, and in
no mood therefore to bear with silly helplessness.


But the answer almost paralysed her.

I've got the key, but it won't open the
door ! I've tried and tried, and screamed
to you all, but it won't  and, oh, my goodness,
I'll be burnt alive !"

Upon which Birdie uttered shrieks, as if
already roasting, that turned the women
outside white with fear. As Fuzzy whispered,
she had run upstairs to escape

scold ing, and locked herself in to prevent
pursuit  and, no doubt, had done so in
such a rage, the key was very possibly
injured. They clustered round her door,
leaving their efforts against the fire to
helping hands, which even whilst Birdie
spoke had appeared, in the marvellous
way men do arrive for a fire ; some 
; a few from the neighbouring
villas. These Mrs. Cox was now directing,
pale and composed, with a quilt draped
gracefully around her ; being the first
thing she could snatch up  for she dared
not even return to take her dressing-gown.
Thus, with one arm outstretched
in continual command, she rather resembled
a white statue of Fame, pointing
onwards to victory.

A cross-fire of advice, exhortations, and
laments outside Birdie's door, only seemed
to drive the victim inside to desperation,

who now would do nothing but shake the
door ; knocking and pushing against the
wood as if in blind frenzy.

Daisy, who was coolest of all, could hear
with dismay the men muttering to each
other that the fire was a bad business, and
the engines would be long in coming.
Fuzzy and Pussy had now lost their heads,
and were imploring their sister to throw
her mattress out of the window and jump
down upon it ; a plan saying something for
their fertility of resource, but which Birdie,
with distracted "No, no, no's!" refused to
attempt  which perhaps said more for her
sense.

The maids, keeping up a chorus of pity to
each of Birdie's shrieks, had dissolved into
such floods of tears they seemed resolved
to extinguish the flames merely from their
own private resources.

Down knelt Daisy on the floor, and, in a

loud whisper through the keyhole, succeeded
in drawing the attention of the
distracted girl by the mere force of quietness.


Turn your key once . . . And now once
more," she advised, in a tone of calm
confidence that caused faith.

Birdie obeyed. The door had been
plainly double-locked, but still it would
not open.

"And now, push back the bolt" uttered
Daisy, with a sort of agonised inspiration,
her first plan having failed.

It shot back  the door opened.

No one had ever thought of the bolt
before ; Birdie in her passion had used it
contrary to custom, and then forgotten it.
Now she was safe, so far at least, among
them all, almost rejoicing.

Ladies, ladies," cried the men's voices
below. "Dress yourselves and get out of

the house. Look sharp  there is no time
to lose. Hurry I"

Doing as they were bidden, all dispersed
to pull on hastily what additional garments
they could seize  before escaping
with what they could save besides from
the burning house.

CHAPTER XL

Be bold, be bold, and everywhere be bold,
Be not too bold."

GASCOIGNE and Jack Dimity were going
home together after their own ball.

The night was warm and fine. They
resolved that walking back to barracks
would be pleasantness ; they both wished to
smoke, and felt more than usually friendly
towards each other, although rather unusually
silent at intervals.

Their way led them down the Khyber
Pass Road, although there was a shorter
cut past some mews and through back
streets. By himself, Jack would probably
have taken this ; but his elder friend

questioningly observed, " It is not very
pleasant, eh ?" which was Gascoigne's way
of proposing his likings, and Jack unquestioningly
agreed.

Jack always did agree with Gascoigne
cheerfully ; which was the greatest proof of
friendship this young British Army Grumbler
could give.

As they neared the road, a fire-engine
passed a little ahead of them.

Why, where is the fire ?" they asked
each other, in curiosity, aud quickened
their steps. Turning the corner, and
looking towards the well-known villas, one
exclamation burst from both.

It can't be !" just uttered Jack, flinging
away his cigar and beginning to run.

I'm afraid it is," answered Gascoigne,
who had started off even quicker than
Dimity. They could only see the smoke
and a yellow glow beneath it, at first ; but

even whilst they ran an occasional great
burst of flame would shoot up. showing
how the mischief was spreading.

Full-dress uniforms and military greatcoats
are not the easiest attire for a foot-race
; still both were in such alarmed
earnest that they went at a tremendous
pace, and were near the villa in a wonderfully
few seconds, seeing already the groups
of staring or helping spectators, black
against the lurid light.

"Were all saved? Are any still in
danger?" was the question in the minds
of both.

As they burst through the outskirts of
the little crowd, they breathlessly called out
to ask this to right and left. Some of the
bystanders answered one thing, some another;
they did not know for certain ; the
police knew ; the firemen knew. A lady
had been locked into her room and all but

roasted alive, one of the servants had said.

"Was she saved  ?" No one rightly
knew.

At that moment a great jet of: flame,
from one of the front windows nearest that
side where the fire burnt fiercest, lit up
the whole house ; and close inside the little
window of Daisy's room could be seen a
motionless figure, clad in the white ball-dress
both men recognised. With a loud
cry Jack sprang forward, but was prevented
by some of the constables with, " Keep
back  keep back, sir ; it's dangerous'' He
would have broken his way past them,
however, but for two loving arms flung
round his neck, which stopped him
more effectually than would twenty policemen.


But no such sweet gaoler arrested poor
Gascoigne.

Without a word of outcry, he too had

seen that white form up there amongst
smoke and flame ; seen  and in another
second his solitary figure had sprung
through the space kept clear before the
burning house, and was beheld climbing a
ladder that remained planted against the
walls. Cries from below, exclamations,
warning to go no further, entreaties, even
the roar of Jack's great, bellowing shouts,
all failed to reach that climber's ears ; or
sounded only like an idle hum from the
crowd beneath in his terribly intense excitement.


He was at the top of the ladder before
any of the many who had rushed forward
could have stopped him.

Then a volume of smoke burst out ; and
those below saw him stagger and cling to
the window-ledge. Gascoigne was, indeed,
almost choked by its "hot, black breath."

Next moment, though, he had smashed

vol. in. n

the glass of the little window with its
one long pane, had reached in though still
on the ladder, and dragged out the figure
that stood, indeed, close to him ; but even
as he brought his prize to open air and
closer view, a second burst of smoke, this
time mingled with flame, swept into his
face.

A great cry burst from the throats of
all the little crowd below.

Some of the firemen who had already
gone into the circle of danger to succour the
gallant gentleman, if possible, now rushed
to the foot of the ladder  but were useless.
A little way he slipped down the ladder, as
if half-choked and unconscious, but still
grasping the precious burden he had perilled
his life to save.

A little way !  then his grasp relaxed,
and he tottered, swayed, and fell heavily

downwards amongst the pitying arms
stretched out to break his fall.

They dragged him back to safety, dashed
cold water in his face, then when he
faintly opened his eyes poor Gascoigne
saw, with feeble bewilderment, Daisy 
Daisy, whom he had tried to save, sobbing
over him, but dressed in a dark gown and
hat ! Meanwhile, prone beside him, on the
ground, lay a stiff headless thing, wearing
the white ball-dress of his little lady-love.
It was the stuffed figure ; the ludicrous
Aunt Sally, or Galatea, of Jack's creation,
at which they had so laughed !

Over both the dummy and his prostrate
friend Jack now stood, in a state of mind
divided between wild wishes to indulge
both in sobbing and laughter; a "high-striking,
jolly queer sort of go," to himself
altogether unparalleled, indescribable.

n2

"Do you understand, dear old fellow?
she is safe  she was safe all the time,"
he tried to explain, bending down.

Bat Gascoigne's white face was only
upturned towards Daisy : he only heard
her pitying murmurs ; saw her eyes full
of a grieving tenderness his mind could
not then fathom  soon his own closed
again. He knew no more.

Then that night he was carried gently
in to Lilac Lodge, and laid on the best
bed in the Miss Silverthornes' house, where
those good old ladies flitted about, softly
mourning over their poor, brave Gerald.
Yet none were more active in bestirring
themselves to do all that could be done for
him ; and in assisting with all their hearts
the houseless neighbours, whom they had
not " called upon " for so long a time.

CHAPTER XII.

I'll taste the luxury of woe."

Everybody said to each other, " Hot
weather !" and the bluebottle-flies
buzzed in swarms.

Outside the little garden at Lilac Lodge
all was a crimson and yellow hot blaze,
what with intense sunlight, scarlet anemones,
gaudy tulips, and flaming red-hooker
plants, all among the parched lilac-bushes,
whose glories were dead since spring.

But only a very small view was given
of this outside glow and glare ; for there
were blinds almost drawn down within the
French window, and blinds stretched far

beyond them outside, so that a mere peep
was left to show that there was purgatory,
and here was paradise.

And indoors, clear white-muslin curtains
softly waved in a mysteriously-created
draught, and N white muslin again in a
sort of fluted wainscoting bordered the
room, with blue ribbon peeping through
it : (the old ladies declared this was only
to hide the damaged state of the paint,
which was too expensive to repair just
now, and really did well enough in winter 
but it was so pretty no one quite believed
them). And besides, the couches and
easy-chairs were draped with bibs and
tuckers of snowy muslin and lace, and
tied up with pale-blue bows ; they reminded
one of so many of Sir Joshua Reynolds'
Muslin Misses."

Next door, the half-burnt house stared
across the bushes at its trim neighbour.

like a blackened skull, with its eyeless
windows and gaping doorway.

It was two days since the fire, but Dais 7 "
Dimity felt still in bewilderment ; her soft,
simple soul all stirred. She was uncertain
whether to look shamefaced or proud,
to show her gratitude to Gascoigne, or to
be silent.

All the town had been startled by the
news of the fire ; excited in mess-rooms
and drawing-rooms by Gascoigne's share
therein.

First, as it was rumoured that he was in
danger, all the world hastened to knock
and ring and enquire at Lilac Lodge till
the trim maids there were " wore off their
feet." Next, when it was found he was
doing fairly well, and likely enough to
recover soon, there went up a great roar
of laughter at the mistake he had made,
when meaning to save little Miss Dimity !

People talked of applying to the Humane
Society for a medal for him ; of getting
up a mock address.

Daisy heard some of these remarks from
the coming and going neighbours, and
raged and writhed as much as her gentle
soul was capable.

Was not the man's gallantry the same ?
she asked herself  although the town
young ladies called the story "too funny!"
and the men laughed at it as the last great
joke.

Was he not ill now ; if not in danger,
enough so to make her miserable ? Yes !
she would, have been miserable for his
dear sake, if even she had not been the
cause.

Then the few callers she could bring
herself to meet looked at her strangely,
made laughing innuendoes about her second
self at the fire and Captain Gascoigne's

devotion. She seemed in a false position ;
did not know how to look ; so fled to her
room and wept till she looked a ghost.

The ghost of a white mouse !" said
Fuzzy; who found her way upstairs, and
would fain have stayed a while, but that,
having been hospitably taken in by the
Smeeths, as was also Birdie, she dared
not keep these inquisitive friends waiting
long below on the gravel.

"Don't come downstairs, dear! You've
got a headache, yes !  of course," said the
good Miss Silverthornes, with delicate, if
sometimes bustling, sympathy. " Put up
your feet on the sofa, dear child ; there is
nothing like that. And let us send you
some tea, dear ; just a nice \eet\e cup."

So morning, noon, afternoon, eve, and
night Daisy was offered tea and the sofa ;
the sofa and tea ; whilst she felt a bewildered
little goose, and did not know

whether to cry or rejoice, be happy or
wretched.

She only saw Jack for a few moments ;
he was so busy with Gascoigne, and also
that, having just been made Instructor of
Musketry, he had to take out his men to
shoot at the rifle-range outside the town
from early morn to afternoon.

He too looked at her strangely.

You had better go home, little one,"
he bluntly said. " The old ladies here
have their hands full, and the house is
crowded," certainly two more did over-crowd
that Lilliput lodge, " and  and it
would be best every way. Take  Fuzzy
Cox back with you ; as she's houseless ;
and you'd like to have her. I'll wire to the
governor if you like."

So that was settled of course, as Jack
wished it, though his little sister's heart

was heavy ; and tomorrow she and Fuzzy
were going back to Elm Hall.

Back ; home ! And she had not been
able to see Gascoigne ; lie was still so ill,
bruised, one arm broken ; his face scorched.

Going away for ever tomorrow ! and
this was such a sultry afternoon  no wonder
her head ached and her heart was like
a piece of lead.

Jack and Mr. Lee were paying a visit,
having come towards afternoon tea-time.
Jack was dull, having been up since dewy
five that morning, and hearing all day only
the inexpressive bang-bang of the " Strappers
" firing at the targets. But Lee was
as gay as a lark, after playing cricket all
day under a broiling sun ; besides having
insisted on sitting up all the past two
nights with Gascoigne. He was indeed
always eager and proud to be sick-nurse

to his friends ; being so kind-hearted that
it was a real pleasure to him to think he
was sacrificing himself for them, besides
being much flattered by the praise that his
woman-like gentleness, deftness, and high
spirits, toned down to proper sick-room
cheerfulness, always gained.

Burning the candle at both ends ; as
usual, you see," he exclaimed, assuming a
sort of half-reckless, half-tragic air, in
answer to Miss Prudence's gentle expostulations
on his not having lain down to
sleep that afternoon. " I can't help it; it
is my nature ! But you see we were playing
the Marstown High School to-day, so
some of the fellows thought they could not
get on without me. And then I had to
come on here and see old Gascoigne. I
love taking it out of myself ; that's about the
truth."

"Yes, it hits you off to a nicety," interposed
Jack.

"Now, you old growler, be quiet. And
then there is a sort of l-don't-know-what-
it-is about this bouse that attracts one to it.
Ah ! Miss Prudence ; ab ! Miss Patience !
4 How happy could I be with either!'  bo !
bo! bo!"

One old lady tapped bit on the one
shoulder, and said be was a pretty fellow ;
the other tapped bini on the other shoulder,
and said he was a sad fellow. They both
were vastly delighted with his little compliments,
and looked like two primly-sweet
dried lavender stalks, trying for a moment
to be coquettish.

"And then," continued the Smiler glancing
at Daisy, who in a pink and white
cotton frock sat in a corner on a stool,
sewing very quickly, with downcast eyes

and tightly-shut little mouth  " And then
how could anyone allow Marstown's fairest
visitant  good, that !  to go away from us
tomorrow without coming to say good-bye
to her ? Excuse me, won't you " (to Daisy),
but really, as I was saying to Gascoigne
last night, 'pon my honour we shall all
miss you dreadfully. It won't be like the
same town. When shall I ever have another
swinging dance like that last one ?"

This was all said with so much momentary
sincerity that Daisy's eyes quite brightened,
and her mouth relaxed.

So that had been part of his nightly talk
with Captain Gascoigne ! She felt quite
affectionate towards Lee ; and indeed, ever
since the fire, nothing could have been
more discreetly kind than his manner
towards herself. Ready to join in good-fellowship
with all the world, he no doubt
went into fits of laughter at his friend's

mistake every half-hour ; alternately rushing
into diffusive praise of their fellow-strapped's
gallant conduct, upholding that
same, none the less, with good-naturedly
jealous esprit che corps.

Perhaps Jack felt like Daisy somewhat :
that he did not quite know how to take
the matter.

So he avoided the rest of the world fora
few days, and spent most of his time in
Lilac Lodge : patted Daisy kindly on the
shoulder, but was very silent, which made
him wrongly seem grumpy.

As Lee was finishing off the first gush
of his pleasing little flatteries to the fair
sex, and was beginning to think of what
consoling or amusing speeches he could
take across the passage into the sick-room,
who should drive up through the low sunlight,
heated and dusty, but Una Goodchild ?
In she burst with her usual headlong iru-

passiveness that was romantic but not
ungraceful, and falling on the necks o all
three ladies in turn, just as they came,
cried irrespectively,

Oh ! my dear  what an event ! ! what
you must have gone through in mind I"

"Indeed, we did!" all three answered, each
for herself; one Miss Silverthorne thinking
of the responsibilities of changing bandages,
the other of anxieties in cooking for
sick gentlemen.

But what a noble, gallant thing it was
to be saved so, wasn't it !" went on Una,
her gray eyes kindling with enthusiasm,
though it was doubtful whether the thing
meant was Daisy, the dummy, or had confused
reference to Gascoigne. She looked
at Daisy, as she added under her
breath, " How happy you must be to have
inspired such a noble deed ! During those
moments you must have felt like living V

Indeed I felt much more like dying ;
and I never was more miserable !"

There was plenty of truth but no atom
of heroic stuff in Daisy's voice, as she
replied.

Though question and answer were
meant to be private between the girls,
both the young men overheard them. The
Smiler instantly ducked behind an ottoman,
and holding up a cushion, in which
he buried his sleek little head, gave way
to violent pantomimic gestures of mirth at
their romanticism, drawing up his knees
to his chin and quivering all over.

But he was behind the girls.

Poor Jack, on the contrary, who was
facing them, only grinned in a suppressed
way, and was instantly withered by their
looks; especially so by Una Goodchild,
which was very hard, considering he had
rather admired her. When the young

VOL. III. o

ladies turned round, Lee's fit of convulsion
was over ; and with the air of a very good
"boy he was patting the sofa cushion
straight. After this they both addressed
him with unusual graciousness, to mark
slight displeasure with Jack. Such is
often the luck of the unworthy.

At this moment a loud ringing was suddenly
heard at the bell.

w

CHAPTER XIII.

"Tante bone che non val nicnte."

HO could it be, ringing at the Lilac

Lodge bell in this way ? The
Smiler flew to reconnoitre from behind a
blind in the front drawing-room ; then
raised his eyebrows and hands, and almost
his hair in surprise.

"Miss Black, by all that's lovely!" he
murmured, faintly.

Miss Black ! The old ladies drew themselves
up and looked at each other ; a displeased
thrill tingling through them.

o 2

tl To ring the bell !" ejaculated one.

When we had written up expressly not
to do so," added the other.

And so violently !"  ended the first.

The smiling maid, who had gone to the
door, now came to her mistresses without
a smile for the moment ; and in a very
prim voice whispered, that the young
lady outside wished to know if she
might be allowed to nurse Captain .


The little old ladies bounced up as if
touched by an electric shock ; a sort of
shiver seized them ; then their very caps
seemed to quiver and bristle. " We will
speak to the  the young lady ourselves,"
they replied, with intense propriety ; signing
to the middle-aged maid to retire to
the kitchen recesses, for they fondly believed
her to be still a mere child in years,
as she had been when first she came to

H

them. Then both moved in a most dignified
manner to the door, but there turned,
almost appealingly. " Surely she is not,
this Miss Black  she could not be  a
great friend of our dear Gerald's ?"

"Not that I ever heard of. I hardly
thought he knew her," answered the
Smiler, smiling no more, in a rather
quavering voice j being thoroughly taken
aback, and meditating that since Miss Black
knew himself much better, what might not
be Ins fate were he to fall ill.

He just knew her as little as he possibly
could. All the friendship was very
much on her side," said Jack, bluntly,
though he had hesitated still more intaking
upon himself to speak so far plainly.
Both, being men, of course tried to conceal
their surprise ; whilst Una and Daisy satin
speechless indignation, as utter country
maidens.

We understand."

The Silverthorne sisters rustled out
closely side by side, mutually supporting*
each other in silver-grey severities of appearance
; their tulle caps, snowy curls,
black lace, lavender gowns, all seemingly
transformed in sternness.

They closed the door carefully behind
them ; the excited listeners could hear
nothing, but in three minutes they saw a
smart girl's figure, tighter-waisted, higher-heeled,
and with a brighter complexion
than ever, marching hastily from the door.
(" Quicker than she came !" thought Daisy,
clasping her hands in secret peacefulness,.
for once in her life, over her rival's discomfiture.)
There was such an air of
mysterious reticence about both old ladies
when they returned, however, that no one
ventured to ask how they had routed the
invader.

11 A little mistake' was all Miss Prudence
observed, primly crossing her listened
hands.

The young lady felt needless anxiety
on the score of how Captain Gascoigne
would be taken care of, as she did not

know us. That was all And I

do not think she will think it necessary to
come back again," added Miss Patience,
with an anciently innocent air, that made
Jack grin again, unlucky fellow ! whilst
Lee, hiding himself behind Una, Daisy,
and a feather-fan, writhed like a gay eel in
private ecstasy.

Of course tea was now brought in. Such
teas as those two old ladies gave ! It
had a finer flavour, and was sipped out of
more delicate china, than that of anyone
else. In winter their guests had such
profusion of hot cakes, that other roused
housekeepers begged the receipt of them ;

yet their cooks never could quite succeed
in the baking ; in summer the cream and
fruit had quite a country charm, the latter
chosen in the market whilst the rest of
Marstown was still dawdling over breakfast.


And then Una explained the cause of
her visit : which was to beg Daisy to come
and stay with her at Fairlawns.

"My father has got an attack of gout,
so he and my mother are going to Buxton.
Now, as I hate fashionable watering-places,
I thought we two could have such a nice,
long summer quietly together. None of
my six brothers will be likely to come
home ; but, thank goodness, you are like
me, not a girl who ever cares much for
gentlemen's society," she ended, with eagerness.


At this last, Jack looked glum ; Lee
comical ; Daisy innocently a little dubious.

Una was grievously disappointed when
she understood the impossibility of her
plan.

"I never cared to have a girl friend
before ; my six brothers were always sufficient
for me. And I did think we should
get on so well with our studies."

Daisy at this felt a mysterious dig at
her waist, startlingly fraternal ; just as of
her own accord she exclaimed,

Oh ! how well you and Polly would
agree together ! Indeed, you must come
to Elm Hall instead. That will be the
very thing."

It proved, after some hesitation about
acceptance, to be indeed the very thing to
please Una and everybody. After which
poor Daisy felt an equally mysterious, delighted
tattoo on her back, which only sisterly
affection enabled her to bear without
wincing.

The talk now turned upon the Coxes.

Lee had seen the little doctor hopping
amongst the ruins of his house, calculating
in delight how much he gained by its late
insurance.

Fuzzy and Birdie were reported as having
been received with open arms by the
good-natured Smeeths, in spite of previous
slight differences.

I always knew there was good in those
girls," said Jack, heartily.

Yes," said both Daisy and Smiler together.


"What, the Miss Smeeths; I have seen
them. I did not know they were ladies,"
quietly remarked Una.

Neither did we," primly added the old
Miss Silverthornes.

Jack looked out of the window, thinking
what prejudices even the most excellent
people may have.

Daisy quite cleverly turned the talk by
pitying Mrs. Cox. Poor thing ! She had
disliked the roving life she had led when
her little doctor had been in the army,
and had just been so happy in her new
house

By Jingo ! Talk of an angel  here
she comes with all her daughters. This is
to say good-bye to you, Daisy."

It proved so, indeed. But Birdie
seemed to have come with ungraciousness,
since she began to say,

Well, here I am! I was just dying
to be at the evening band with the
Smeeths ; but Fuzzy dragged me here to
see the last of you, so I hope you are
satisfied."

11 I am so sorry  " began Daisy, distressed.


"Not at all," quickly put in Fuzzy, with
an indignant glance at her younger sister.

"It is only Birdie's fun. And even the
Smeeth girls send you their warmest love ;
and were wanting to come with us to see
you themselves, but that I told them you
had a head-ache."

And because they copied your best
white dress exactly in cheap baptiste, and
furniture lace at threepence a yard, and
thought you'd be offended, for theirs look
just as nice," put in Birdie, with malice.

Do be quiet ; when the people have
been so kind to you !  " murmured Fuzzy,
almost angrily, adding aloud to Daisy,
They did not mean to wear them till you
were gone, dear; but they had nothing
else fresh. They told me to say they
hoped you would not mind."

Not at all," cried Daisy, heartily.

"Well, shall we go to the band now?' 1
asked Birdie, jumping up, so her sister
was obliged to take her off.

Mrs. Cox now affectionately seated herself
beside her late little guest; and although
her elegant professions of regret
at the latter s departure were perhaps
somewhat affected, yet, as she thanked
Daisy for having worked so indefatigably
at the fire, her eyes were really wet with
some mild tears  poor soul !

Oh, my dear," she whispered, taking
Daisy's hand as they sat apart and giving
it a little squeeze. " It is all very well for
the doctor to make jokes about the insure
but what does he care ? He
says he and Birdie will go off to Scarborough
for a month, and have a lark
together till the new house we think of
taking in Sinlebrick Terrace is built.
But he never thinks of all the work I shall
have furnishing all again, and the servants,
and  everything. Not, indeed, that
I want him to stay, or Birdie, either; we

can get on quite well without them, of
course," (another little squeeze hinted most
privately, You understand). "And, my
dear, did you know my Indian shawl was
burnt; the one you have seen me wear
sometimes? That will never be replaced
to me."

Poor, poor Mrs. Cox ! Seen her wear
that Indian shawl ! Yes, verily ; scores of
times !

Was it not her one silver-papered, tin-boxed
treasure of a shawl ; her flag of gentility,
wedding-shawl, christening-shawl,
impress-the-Marstown-natives shawl on all
occasions ?

Daisy's heart was sore for her ; she did
so wish it was in her power to replace
that shawl. Jack had brought one home,
certainly, but that was for his step-mother.
But, if ever it were in her power, she
now made a small vow to give Mrs. Cox

another and finer Indian shawl. And indeed,
to peep into futurity, she was curiously
able soon after to do so  one like
that brought home by Jack.

u Still, don't let Fuzzy hurry back from
you to help me, dear," confidentially whispered
the mother. "Now, don't  for it
will do her good to have a little change
from here, and Pussy is very satisfied to
stay."

As she spoke, Pussy was being teased,
to her evident satisfaction, by Lee on the
subject of the neighbour in whose house
Mrs. Cox, Pussy, and some others of the
family had received shelter on the night of
the fire. The neighbour was middle-aged, a
bachelor, and a new-comer to Khyber Pass
Road, whose older inhabitants had freely
criticised him.

Going to stay on for a fortnight or
three weeks ! Lovely ! And you think

Mr. Nought is a very nice man ; though
last week you abused him as a disgustingly
rich, retired carpet-maker, with a wig and
false teeth. Oh, Miss Pussy, Miss
Pussy !"

11 He is very kind  and such a modest
man," softly answered the fair one, casting
down her eyelids.

A burst of laughter greeted this announcement.


Pussy means about himself, his having
got on so well in life, and made so much
money," observed Mrs. Cox, growing rather
red, and coming to the rescue, " and so
humble-minded towards us about his own
family, too."

Ah, yes ! He has no family, of course 
quite a self-made man, we hear. Very
proper ; shows a nice feeling on his part,"
simpered both the old ladies in symphony.

"Yes, indeed. And he is so pressing

for us to stay on until we can get quite
settled," continued the poor lady, rising
rather nervously, and making a movement
as if she were drawing the Indian shawl
round her shoulders  whereas she had now
no shawl at all. " He is all that is hospitable
and good, though such a very unassuming
man." With which, she took a final
farewell of Daisy.

vol. in.

CHAPTER XIV.

The little daisy that at evening closes."

TjlVENING had come.
-*- Outside in the garden-plot of Lilac
Lodge, Jack and Una, with a great air of
being a practical couple and above all
nonsense of flirtation, were busying themselves
in watering the drooping flowers byway
of being useful to the Miss Silver-thorns.
The old ladies looking out,
gently ignoring this object, only observed
to each other, " They make a pretty
couple."

Why should the charms of twilight in

the country alone be so often praised in
ballads or novels ? In a lesser degree, of
course, but still in some degree, its gentle
influence steals also over a town preparing
to sleep. Its power of abstraction, first
perhaps among all men, or at least poets,
brought to notice by old Wordsworth, that

"Priest to us all
Of the wonder and bloom of the world,"

its soft veiling of all mean things or
ephemeral in the world and daily life  is
felt here likewise.

In Miss Silverthorne's lilac bushes out
yonder, to be sure only brown sparrows
are nestling down for the night, but have
not these little bird town-Arabs had their
nests and loves, joys and troubles to a
degree that might interest us not much
less than the songsters of the glade. There
are no wild things here to come stealing
out of brakes and glens, it is true; no hares

p2

or rabbits, badgers or foxes, to feed or
roam unmolested : only cats to vex us, and
perhaps rats, mice, and such small deer.
But it is the hour for weary shop-girls, and
hard-worked little maids of various kind,
to slip forth and enjoy their stolen ramble ;
or. it may be, only stand at the near street
corner some hasty moments, enjoying the
coolness, and no doubt a gossip with a
neighbour little maid. They are not thinking
of the Infinite ; they are thinking,
bless their hearts ! of red-coated corporals
or blue-breasted artillerymen.

Indoors, Daisy was sitting with the two
old ladies in the darkened drawing-room,
that looked like a shrine to Sainte Mousseline.
They were all three strangely silent,
and seemed stilly occupied in listening to
the faint sounds  they could not hear the
words  of the voices in the garden.

Young Lee had gone after tea to see

Gascoigne, who had been given the two
little opposite rooms on the ground-floor 
one being the old ladies' private snuggery ;
into which last, by hard pleading that he
was much better, he had been allowed to
come this evening.

The drawing-room door was slightly
ajar, so presently they distinctly heard the
Smiler opening the opposite one, and saying,
in his cheery tones,

Well, good-bye ; and mind you keep
your spirits up, there's nothing like it, I
assure you !" with almost pathos of
earnestness ; then, in a burst of humour,
By the way, I was nearly forgetting to
give you the colonel's message, when he
heard your complexion was a bit scorched.
Tell him,' said he : ' Beauty's but skin deep,
an' scarcely when it's scarlet !'  ho ! ho !
ho ! Capital proverb, isn't it ?  an scarcely
when its scarlet /"

There came an answering, deeper haw
haw, from within the room ; plainly the
invalid "was capable of liking a joke.

Then the Smiler departed ; having either
duty or some half a dozen engagements
obliging him, with effusive regrets, to tear
himself away from Lilac Lodge.

A still deeper silence fell on the three
female occupants of the drawing-room.
Tick-tack! tick-tack! Daisy heard the clock-strokes
for at least ten moments, whilst
she was longing to say something, but had
not the courage.

"A-hem!" uttered Miss Prudence, at
last.

What an alarming noise it was in the
stillness !

Did you speak  ?" enquired Daisy, with
a great start.

No ; no ; nothing, my dear," answered

Miss Prudence with flustered apology,
subsiding into her former silence.

Tick-tack ! tick-tack ! How terrible it
seems to find oneself reduced to listening
to the clock ticking  as if, when it would
end, one might feel brave enough to say
something very particular.

Ah-hem-<???i/" then came from Miss Patience
suddenly, with such additional emphasis
that Daisy asked, with a still more
nervous start,

Did you want  you cere saying something
?"

No, no  only" (hem!) "clearing my
throat, my dear," replied Miss Patience
hesitating, with quite a guilty air.

But twice the spell had been broken ;
the third time had come. Now or
never !

Daisy now, not knowing how she found

her own voice, began to speak ; and it
sounded quite modestly courageous, though
she was really trembling all over.

I want to say, please, that I should
like just to thank Captain Gascoigne before
I go away."

There !  it was out at last ; the worst
was over.

Remark also, she did not say, " Shall
you be shocked "  or, " Do you think it
would be thought very improper "  though
on these questions she had been troubling
herself. With all her soft ways and
modest fears, she went straight to her
point, and would keep to it.

The two old ladies seemed vastly fluttered
yet relieved.

If Daisy's face had a sweet crimson
flush, theirs were quite tinged with pink.

It seems to us that it would be only
what is proper, my dear  that really you

could do no less," softly said the one, with
much agitated emphasis.

The other added, looking very straight
out of the window, and with quite a positively
stern tenderness of inflection,

In fact, knowing poor dear Gerald as
we do, from the time he learned to run and
say his prayers (I don't mean that he did
both at the same time ; you know what I
mean, dear), we should have felt really
hurt if you had not proposed doing so."

The snuggery in which poor Gascoigne
was sitting, by way of " a change," was one
of the most unlikely little rooms in which
one might expect to see a man ; above all
one like him, who whether well or ill was
essentially manly in his ways, and in
general strong and active.

It was, in the first place, the almshouse
for all the decrepit furniture possessed by
the old ladies ; spider-like chairs and tables,

and a great, worm-eaten, carved chest ;
all so scrubbed and rubbed, it was a
wonder they survived, though shining as
they tottered.

The carpet also and curtains were marvels
of patriarchal patchwork, heavily
edged with cross-stitch embroidery, each
square of patchwork being moth-eaten,
and brushed a to the last threads."

All around were primly placed an aged
host of fine-beaded, faded silk cushions,
little foot-stools, that tripped one up unawares
; old shells, feather fans, and
mineral specimens adorning the mantelpiece;
old black-paper silhouettes of departed
friends hung in black frames on
the walls ; and, do not laugh ! in a small
book-case, all the old, very old children's
books that had once amused the two
little, short-waisted misses who were now
the old Miss Silverthornes ; perhaps the

most amusing amongst them being Mrs.
Trimmer's " Robins."

In one corner lay, partly out of sight,
two guitar-cases.

It was only in this room, safe from all
intrusion  only here that alone, or at
most when together, the old ladies would
venture to take out again these instruments
of youth, with their blue ribands,
and thrum them, and hum to them with
secret pleasure, although regrets for the
past voices of their youth. Alack-a-day !
We would so gladly remain young for all
our lives long.

Moreover, this room was also used by the
sisters for such delicate culinary or distilling
mysteries as they trusted to no one
but themselves, and for which the kitchen
was unsuitable. Lately they had been
making here a pot-pourra of roses, of which
the whole room was redolent.

Into this snuggery and Gascoigne's presence,
Daisy was now ceremoniously introduced,
as it were, by Miss Prudence.
Her would-be deliverer rose with some little
difficulty of stiffness, out of a deep armchair
to meet her, upon which Daisy at
once cried out,

Oh! please don't get up."

To this Gascoigne, who would have tried
to rise as a matter of course, if even he
had been much more ill, in any lady's
presence, only replied by saying, with a
nervous laugh,

Will you excuse my offering you my
left hand ; as my right arm is not quite
well yet."

Well! It had been broken, and was
now strapped up and swathed. With this
romantic outburst, and looking remarkably
shy of each other, these two young
people met.

Miss Silverthorne seemed almost as flustered
as themselves ; far less events being
sufficient to disturb the tranquil pool of
her own and her sister's existence.

I must go away for a few minutes, my
dear Gerald, to see about some gru  beef-tea,
I mean, for you to take the last thing
at night ; a little eating induces sleep so
wonderfully. And also, the doctor considered
it bad for you to talk to two or
three persons at a time, so we must be
very, very careful to do as he bids us, you
know. But I shall be back again very
soon ; and . . . and, Daisy, my dearest,
you might show Captain Gascoigne any of
those books on the table meanwhile, if you
think they would amuse him."

Modest, good-hearted old spinster ! Having
thus, as she believed, thrown a veil of
perfect propriety over her real object in
leaving these two together, she retired.

The books she had pointed to, with the
object of giving the young people some
pretext of occupation, had been withdrawn
from the sitting-room as too unfashionable,
but also too beloved to be exposed to
the possible criticisms of visitors ; old annuals,
bound in red watered-silk, dimmed
with years ; collections of photographs,
taken when the art was in its awkward
infancy, now yellow or mildewed.

Daisy, who had looked after her chaperon's
retreating figure with secret trembling,
now glanced, with almost equal dismay,
at a crabbed copy of Thomson's u Seasons
" that lay nearest her hand ; then
gazed on the ground and wished herself a
hundred leagues away, after all the longing
she had felt to see Gascoigne face to
face, and be able to thank him her very
self. Her heart was fluttering like a little

frightened bird ; sbe could not raise her
eyes ; sbe dared not speak !

But Gascoigne, who bad recovered himself
by virtue of his manhood and added
years, first broke the silence by saying, in
what sounded a grimly jesting tone,

I am a rather unsightly object, I am
afraid, Miss Dimity, for any lady who is
good enough to visit me. What a hearty
laugh you must all have had at my
stupidity !"

Oh, no  no ! no  no !" uttered poor
Daisy, with quick crimson blushes ; all the
modest romance in her heart so dashed by
his apparent raillery she could not say
what she had felt  at least, not just yet.
So she sat on blushing whilst Gascoigne,
with some nervousness, too  and kindly
wishing to let her recover herself  and
terribly afraid of being thanked  with his

left hand hastily fluttered the leaves of an
old brown album.

What is this ? Should you like to
look over it ?" in his own perturbation of
mind holding it himself, so that she could
not possibly see it. " Ah ! this reminds
me of an old verse  do you know it ? 

She kept an album, too, at home,

Well-filled with all an album's glories 
Paintings of butterflies, and Rome 

Patterns for trimmings  Persian stories 
Soft songs to Julia's cockatoo,

Fierce odes to Famine and to Slaughter 
And autographs of Prince Le Boo 

And recipes for elder water.' "

What a wonderful memory you have !"
murmured Daisy admiringly, in a meek,
small voice. " No, I don't know it ; I
know very little. I  I am going home tomorrow,
Captain Gascoigne."

"Going home," echoed Gascoigne, cheerfully.
" Well, I congratulate you. You

must be very glad to leave a hot, dusty
town, and be going back to green fields.
Are you not ?"

"N-o."

"What? not to see your own family
again ; when you told me you were hardly
happy away from them, and when there
will be so much new to tell them ? You
must like that."

No  not exactly. I mean, I should,
of course, any other time ; but now  "
upon which, Daisy seemed to find herself
and her sentence and her momentary
bravery all dissolving into tears. Through
this blinding state of affairs she contrived,
nevertheless, to add, in broken words, " I
mean, nobody could like to go away whilst
you are ill  when  especially  because !
. . Oh, please, Captain Gascoigne, I want
to thank you so very much ! But I could
not do it sooner." Whereupon both Daisy's

VOL. III. Q

plump little hands went up to hide her
face ; and all efforts at trying to look as if
there was nothing the matter failed, so
that she sobbed unrestrainedly.

In the midst of this total overflowing
of emotion, when her usual barriers of
self-control were all carried away, she
knew nothing for certain  but had a vague
idea that Gascoigne too had put aside his
air of kindly unconcern ; then, as she
sobbed still, that his composure more and
more utterly vanished  till at last it quite
broke down. She heard, in accents of
deepest distress and most tender commiseration,
"Poor little thing  ! Don't!
don't cry so terribly. Was it on my
account ; tell me . . . tell me . . . Yes ?"
This last word, though not uttered much
above a whisper, was still an ecstatic and
louder echo of a most faintly, small admission
that only just succeeded in escaping

Daisy's lips. It gave Gascoigne the most
honest and hearty delight he had perhaps
ever felt in his life ; likewise an overwhelming
desire to console his little sweetheart
for her grief that he should have suffered
at all on her behalf, while he had freely
ventured his life for her.

He forgot his illness ; Daisy forgot all
things on earth but him, and what he then
began to say. Miss Prudence, apparently
immersed in the merits or demerits of the
beef-tea, seemed to forget them both !

When they returned to common sense,
and a more ordinary state of feeling, it
seemed to them as if a small revolution
had taken place in the world. They had
been in Arcadia during the short period
not fully described  whilst Jack and Miss
Goodchild were still quietly watering the
flowers outside  and while Miss Prudence
was yet in the kitchen.

Q I

"Do you know that Mr. Dimity, your
father, has written inviting me to Elm
Hall, as soon as ever I am well enough to
go ?" said Gascoigne then, which was his
first sentence of returning commonplace ;
but he looked more happy over it than
commonplace feeling required.

What !  has he really ? How delightful
! But  but are you coming, Captain
Gascoigne ? For you might think it dull
with us in the country, after Marstown."

Gascoigne burst out laughing so cheerfully
that Miss Daisy's modest fears on the
all-important point of this great lord of
creation's amusement were dispelled forevermore.


If you knew how I hate garrison towns
you would not say that. One's only daily
object seems to be taking long rides or
walks to get out of them. In fact, Miss
Dimity, I am so tired of my round of present



existence, that I purpose retiring
very soon from the army, and settling
down under my ancestral rooftree; in
preparation for which, I think a visit to
Elm Hall might accustom me gradually to
such a great change of life. What do you
say to my plan ?"

Miss Dimity, however, would not say
what she thought of his plan.

I have not answered the squire yet,"
went on Gerald, with an irrepressible smile,
which, although he tried to assume gravity,
would break out in a Will-o'-the-wisp
fashion, lighting up his eyes, and indeed
all features of his face alternately. " I
waited to accept, till 1 could ask whether
you would make me welcome."

To this Miss Dimity did vouchsafe a
reply; which, though partly inaudible, seemed
thoroughly contenting to her questioner.
There is one person, however, who will

feel very badly treated, I fear, by this arrangement
of ours," continued Gascoigne,
with a deep mock sigh.

Who ? Not Jack ; he won't growl at
all  at least very little  I am sure ! Unless,
of course, at your leaving his regiment
 he is such a friend of sours."

"No, not Jack. He may be brought to
forgive me."

"It is Polly, of course. Ah ! but you
don't know my sister Polly, or you would
not think that. Poor Polly!  she is so
unselfish."

No, I don't mean Polly."

"You mean my father, then ; but he is
so kind."

Oh ! no ; I don't."

Mrs. Dimity, perhaps ; still she could
hardly much mind."

No."

Daisy's thoughts, as a last resource, flew
to the tribe ; with simple wonder how her
lover could have heard of them, unless
from Jack,

Then it is my next brother Billy."

No."

Or Bobby."

"No."

Jemmy then, because I teach him his
lessons."

"No."

"Well, Charlie  " in desperation.

"No."

Then there is only the baby left, and
he minds about nobody," cried Daisy,
fairly giving up.

"No," said Gerald, finally, with a broad,
peculiar smile. " But what loll Jerry Brown
say?"

Jerry Brown ! I never told you his

name the other night. I know I did not !
How did you know it ?  do tell me ; please
do tell me !"

But Gascoigne was laughing with such
inward chuckling and immense enjoyment
that he really could not tell her  just yet.

You must have met him when you
were staying with your uncle, at Barley
Vicarage," responded Daisy, with an air
of having guessed the puzzle most wisely,
yet being puzzled.

"Exactly so  " agreed Gascoigne, adding
hastily, " When I go to Elm Hall, I will
tell you more about him, perhaps  but not
now."

For Miss Prudence was returning, beating
some mixture most delicately with a
tinkling sound, as of a silver spoon against
the best china cup in their pantry; which
mixture was a temptingly rare, secret
decoction meant to rouse the jaded appetite

of the poor invalid who since his illness
had only been offered about double
as many meals as those he usually partook
of.

Chapter XV.

11 1 remember, I remember

The house where I was born ;
The little window where the sun
Came peeping in at morn."

AND now Daisy was fairly on her homeward
journey, speeding back in the
train towards Elm Hall. But not alone,
as she had gone to Marstown ; for Fuzzy
Cox sat opposite her, with a brighter face
than she had worn since several days ; and
also  a gentleman.

At the station Daisy had heard herself
accosted by a mild voice, and turning
saw the Reverend Adolphus Younghus-

band, who was likewise going home to his
vicarage beside Elm Hall. He was full of
mild surprise that Daisy and Miss Cox
should be returning on the very same day
actually as himself ; and seemed to think it
quite a small dispensation of Providence,
for which all three ought to be grateful.

It is such a risk for two young ladies
to travel alone, without a  a gentleman to
look after them, you know," he added ;
making a gentle rush for a train that was
just starting for the opposite end of England
to that they were bound for  and
being repelled, to his bewilderment, by a
stern porter.

Daisy felt quite sure that they two girls
would have had a much safer journey
under the guard's silver-tipped care, and
even a more enjoyable one. But she did
not like to be unkind. Also, Fuzzy expressed
Herself so delightedly of a contrary

opinion, and talked with such town-bred
fluency of speech and vivacity of
topic, that the country celibate seemed
quite bewitched by the spell of her eloquence.


So Daisy soon left them to themselves ;
and retiring to the opposite end of the
carriage she watched the flying landscape,
and smiled at happy, inward thoughts ina
way that seemed quite silently sociable
to the others  who, whenever they looked
round, perceived she was in such a blissful
daybreak that, out of pure kindness,
they would not disturb her.

It was late evening when they arrived
at their small roadside station.

There, waiting outside for them, was
not the heavy close carriage with its fat
horses ; but, to Daisy's immense joy, young
Polly sitting jauntily in the squire's stanhope
behind his fast cob, which it was

the greatest of favours on his part to lend
to wife, sou, or daughter.

There you are, dear ! I am so glad to
see you back ; but I can't come down to
kiss you, because of this horse," called out
Polly with lofty affection from her proud
position, as if she dared not let go the
reins of that fiery steed an instant, even
though the groom stood at his nose ; but
quite sure Daisy would perfectly understand
the situation. " Please ask Miss
Cox to excuse me," with quite a grown-up
air. " And I have brought the light cart
in for your luggage."

Daisy looked up at her sister with almost
speechless admiration. To have
managed to acquire the use of the stanhope,
and the light cart, and a new 
air  none of which she had ever had
before her elder's short absence  was truly
marvellous.

How well you are looking, Polly
darling !" she answered, standing on tiptoe,
since as yet she could do no more, to gaze
up with a very bright face. " It was such
a clever plan of yours to drive in for us
like this."

At this moment her late clerical protector
came meekly out of the station-master's
office  having discovered that his largest
black portmanteau had gone to York. He
carried a small black valise in his hand,
which was all the luggage remaining to
him ; and, looking at the dusty road with
still greater meekness, prepared to foot it
on a pilgrimage homewards.

Fuzzy Cox, meanwhile, flickered, as it
were, with bright consolation and deepest
sympathy around him. The fair young
celibate smiled resignedly at her, as they
stood apart in the evening sunlight. In his

hour of trial, cheered by such an angel met
unawares, he could not show himself utterly
ungrateful. They were quite forgetful
for a moment of the sisters, who gazed at
them in surprise.

Daisy explained matters to Polly so far
as she knew : although she did not know
that Fuzzy had just used her much larger
experience of active life than the curate's
to stir up the stolidity of the stationmaster
; besides putting the confused Adolphus
gently right on the subject of where
he had last seen his lost goods, which she
knew much better than himself.

"We'll ask him to drive back with us 
the very thing!" declared Polly, with
amused promptitude ; and whilst Daisy was
still sweetly deliberating, she had called
out,

"Mr. Younghusband ! Mr. Younghus-

band ! You must not think of walking ;
there is a seat behind here, please take
it."

How nice !" just murmured Fuzzy, with
glad grace. It seemed to the curate that,
but for the slight emphasis she laid on her
sentence, it would have floated light as
thistledown past his dull ears. He hesitated
still ; looked twice at the road ; then
at her  and hesitated no more.

You sisters will have so much to say
to each other at first  oh, I know !  that
you must not trouble yourselves to treat meas
'company.' No, indeed. I will not
interfere for worlds. Let me sit behind,
or anywhere," cried Fuzzy, now coming up,
with merry triumph, though some surprise
in her eyes.

c Well, if you don't mind  thank you
very much," replied Polly, replying with a
quickness of tact that only natural aptitude,

not her limited experience, could
have taught her.

You would like to drive back, Daisy,
of course?" went on the young sister,
magnanimously offering to give up the
reins.

"No, no ; I would rather just sit beside
you this time, dear," answered Daisy, who
dearly loved driving  and, above all,
driving the cob ; but who had a fine perception
of Polly's moods, with loving
regard for them. She herself came back
as one who had been in the giddy whirl of
Marstown ; that gay garrison town, full of
fair women and brave men, as she knew it
seemed to the simple dwellers in green fields
afar. She knew  from having so thought
herself in her days of previous purely
country life ; and should she now take the
small but still prized pleasure of driving the
cob home from Polly ?

VOL. III. R

Well ; perhaps it is just as well, as I
have got my hand in with him  and you
must be a little out of practice," answered
the younger sister with secret satisfaction,
but a still somewhat lofty air.

For the cob was not to be had everyday,
as Daisy would soon find again ; although
it was just possible that, having
emerged from her chrysalis state into that
of a ball-butterfly, she might have come
home with new-fangled ideas, and a head
slightly turned by the attentions of ,
red-coated officers.

Young Polly was as good a girl of her
age as could be. But she was still a
school-room chrysalis, and severe !  Shade
of Rhadamanthus ! how severe such young
persons are !

So, although she loved Daisy with her
whole heart, still, moved perhaps by some

unguessed envy, the poor grub felt inclined
to suspect her sister of fine debutante airs
and contempt of the former simple delights
they two had always shared.

Oh, Polly dear !" now said Daisy, with
a restful smile and a gaze round of utter
satisfaction. " It does seem so nice to be
home again."

Polly looked round somewhat amazed,
then became slowly mollified.

They turned down among lanes, dusty
no doubt below, but oh ! so shady and inarched
with elm-trees overhead, so highland
and pleasantly tangled with red
woodbine and milky bindweed trails ; while
through each gate they could see green
seas of wheat or corn-fields, all over the
gentle dimpling level of a midland plain,
dotted with broad-topped trees and varied
with deep-hearted hedgerows, and, in some

r 2

corners of neglected earth, already a blush
of scarlet poppies that would soon become
a blaze.

il There is the church spire !" cried
Daisy again, in simple ecstasy.

Home ! home ! that was indeed what she
had craved for when so miserable lately ;
to hear Polly's voice, to see all her loved
ones, the well-known fields, the rookery,
the dear old house with all its old associations
(although, indeed, neither she nor it
was aged, comparatively speaking). But
Polly, now becoming perfectly soft to her
heart's core, began to take an opposite
view of the case, almost pityingly superior.

u Come  were you not happy away, at
the end of your visit, dear ? Was the
gaiety Dead Sea fruit ? That I can quite
well understand  from reading about it,
you know." Polly's mind had been thus
enlightened by a judicious selection of

school-room light literature, in which all
the good heroines got wealthily married,
after tasting of the world's frivolities and
much disliking them.

Dais r looked in turn rather shamed.

"It is not that. I was most wretched
at one time  but at the end I was very
happy ; although I can't help being glad to
come home and tell you and the rest all
about it. For, oh ! Polly, what do you

think " Then she lowered her voice,

so did Polly her head ; and soon how those
two did talk  in a whispered, eager rushing
together of their minds.

There was no need to be afraid of being
overheard, either; for those behind were
too earnestly occupied in unfolding and
learning the mysteries of ecclesiastical,
ritualistic vestments ; alb and cope and
chasuble.

How beautiful it must be to work

them !" exclaimed Fuzzy ; then with a little
sigh, " I X have had a good deal of practice
in embroidery." (Yes ! the Major's
slippers.)

Meanwhile, in front, Polly was murmuring
as one who had received a great shock,
yet had wisely expected it in a manner,
And so he's an officer  !"

Yes, but really you would never think
it !  and he's going to leave and live at his
own house, you know," answered Daisy,
quite apologetically. She knew that, while
her own foregone ideas as to officers had
been of modern Ivanhoe or grizzly heroes,
her sister's were still rather of the old-fash,
ironed moral novel kind, foolish young men
of the dandy type, all lisping or swaggering.
"Remember our Jack is an officer
too," laughed Daisy, recovering.

Oh ! Jack  yes, but Jack is different.

He was always himself," replied Polly,
uttering the last sentence with an air of
deep wisdom ; adding, however, most
graciously, " But still, from your description,
Captain Gascoigne must have a great
deal of common sense. And you say, besides,
he is not at all good-looking."

I said that you might not think him at
all so, dear ; but of course / think he is
very," interposed Daisy.

And that he does not care for making
himself agreeable in society."

"Now, Polly, he can't help being always
agreeable ; what I said was, that he is
always very quiet."

So that I really think I shall like him
very much indeed," ended Polly, quite
unheeding Daisy's mild remonstrances.
And I believe I shall like your friend
ISIiss Goodchild, too. Yes, better than  "

(a slight backward jerk of her head designated
Miss Cox)  "We two should not
get on so well together."

Ah ! well ; poor Fuzzy !  perhaps not.
But, anyhow, they two seem to get on remarkably
well together," answered Daisy,
with comfortable kindliness. " And I know
you and Una will be fast friends."

And now the cob, trotting faster, passed
the little hamlet near home, consisting of
the post-office, the "Black Bull" public
house, and four rural cottages. The lodge-gates
came in sight, were swung open ; and
they dashed through. There in the big lawn,
between the house and the road, were all
the beloved, well-known milch kine.

The cattle are grazing,
Their heads never raising ;
There are forty feeding like one !"

Down the gravelled drive came all the
tribe of Gad whooping welcome. On the

steps stood the squire, beaming like a fine
sunset ; and Mrs. Dimity stood a little
behind, as one glad indeed to see Daisy 
but accustomed to put herself ostentatiously
in the back-ground of general estimation.

CHAPTER XVI.

The snowy-banded, dilettante.
Delicate-handed priest."

TT was the hot resting noontide of the
-*- summer now at Elm Hall.

Una Goodchild had come ; the second
bloom of roses was out. The birds had long
ceased singing, except for occasional twitters
of blissful content.

But if the first rapture of the earth's
re-awakened beauty had settled into riper,
fuller calm, nature had still new charms to
produce. In the black bean-fields there

was a scattered flush of poppies ; the
cottage-gardens burnt with the red and
yellow flowers of the time of year, scarlet-runners
and nasturtiums.

Instead of the white butterflies that a
while asfo had been ailv courting in
couples, beautiful moths fluttered singly
by; pursued, alas ! with ruthless hands and
healthy clamour, by the young Dimity
despoilers, four young sons of thunder,
with a fifth in petticoats struggling in
their rear.

It was a pleasant homestead, Elm Hall :
they were a pleasant party therein.

Yet on this afternoon Daisy, standing
on the white doorstep, was trying not to feel
so very happy that soon she must be thinking
of leaving it ! that this very evening the
some one was coming who was to carry
her off from her home and household,
leaving a gap in the hearth-circle, and

reducing the squire and Polly to certain
tears.

Daisy stood enquiring of her lazy mind
how she should wisely spend the long three
hours that were such a mere preface to the
coming evening. In the school-room indoors,
Polly and Una, having declared it
was too hot to be outside, were absolutely
reading German novels  by way of improving
their education and minds. Daisy,
who shuddered at German, had fled and
left them ; with a momentary feeling that
they were very learned and wise in pursuits,
and she a silly housewifely simpleton,
only raised to romance by being in
love.

Little she knew they were both devouring
the ardent love-stories of two just such
simple German maidens  that was all the
nature of their deep studies, that "and
nothing more !"

Where was Mrs. Dimity ? She was
superintending the two housemaids with

an eye of languid doubtfulness, fearing
the guests' bed-rooms were not properly
arranged, or their sheets not aired; or else
she was mildly aggravating the cook by
aimless inroads into the kitchen.

Where was the squire? His favourite
daughter felt inclined to pass this last
afternoon with him, by way of consolation
for the loss he would soon feel. But he
was having a warm altercation with his
steward, in the farmyard premises, on the
important subject of grass-seeds.

And where was Fuzzy Cox  ah ! where ?
No one quite knew ; she had mysteriously
slipped away,

Thus Daisy was still standing on the
doorstep ; not feeling lonely, nor neglected,
nor anything in particular ; but rather restlessly
happy, swinging her hat.

She looked with a hesitating eye towards
the garden, wondering whether she
should take her solitariness there to eat
fruit. It was a comfortable square garden,
behind the house, of the kind we all
know. High wall and high fruit-trees,
strawberry-beds and gravel walks all round;
then the small fruit-trees, with the vegetables
in the middle, discreetly half-hidden
by sweet-pea hedges.

It was very nice, but not romantic.

Daisy felt a wish for some more sylvan
nook ; where, if she could not carve 's
name upon the trees, she might,
at least, whisper in spirit to them of this
gentleman of many excellencies.

So down she went towards the wood,
their one wood, the only romantic spot
they had in the flat, comfortable grounds.

The calm brown river slid by hereunder
the solemn elms. Daisy loved it

as the only piece of water in the demesne ;
and though somewhat too sluggish of flow,
yet the yellow water-irises stood up bravely
with their sword-leaves along its banks,
and the water-lily cups rode, thick and
white, upon its gentle current. Overhead,
up among the high, stiff branches, the
rooks were cawing. It was shady, still,
and almost a little dull here.

On a sudden, Daisy slightly started, seeing
the flutter of a dress up the river-side.

It was Fuzzy Cox, and with her surely
not  but, yes ! surely indeed, the Reverend
Adolphus Younghusband, going demurely
by her side.

There was an arbour near ; one Daisy
did not greatly like, because of a wooden
eagle topping its thatched roof, or rather
which with decrepitude seemed tipsy
tumbling off its pointed perch, a most
disconsolate fowl.

Into this arbour, however, Daisy darted,
with a sudden impulse to get out of the
way. Then she softly peeped out, not
quite sure whether it was not a mean
thing to do ; and yet really all she wanted
was to watch which way they should take,
that she might go in the opposite direction.


They came quite near by the back of
the arbour, the most sequestered way.
The young celibate was demurely and
softly pacing, with Fuzzy's arm drawn
through his own.

You will come with me as far as the
opening in the wood, will you not ? There
can be no harm in our going just so far
together," he was pleading. " There is
a view there, over a cornfield; I should
like you to see it first when we are together.
It is of my  of, of our future
home."

And Fuzzy, even with more intense
propriety, replied,

'I am sure it is lovely. What real
pleasure it will be always to live in the
country ! But  but remember, dear Adolphus,
you must really not tempt me to
walk any further."

Oh ! her shoes are too tight," thought
Daisy, sagely shaking her head. " I remember
wondering this afternoon why she
had put on her best town ones."

After this, little Miss Dimity, knowing
that the couple were not likely to return
that way, strolled leisurely forth, with
much thought over this turn of affairs.
She wandered slowly forward, fishing for
water-lilies as she went, with her parasol,
and bringing many dripping treasures toland.
Intent on this, she did not know
what a pretty picture she made.

Hallo I" cried Jemmy, one of her

VOL. III. S

smallest brothers, giving her sleeve a
violent tug, l< I say -"

Jemmy dear, how you made my heart
jump ! What is the matter ?"

Nothing," replied that unconcerned
young man of seven years, "sceptic' there's
a fellow  a gentleman  says he wants to
speak to you very particular. He said
his name was Jerry Brown."

 j err y Brown ! Oh, my goodness ! !
Where is he?"

He's in the arbour, waiting.  My !
was that a fish?"

What was he like, Jemmy dear ; what
was he like ?" (in tones of agony).

He's an awful I do believe it's a

water-rat."

"An awful what  ?" inquired Daisy,
visibly trembling ; her face quite pale, with
fear of the coming unknown lover; her
heart, at Jemmy's light utterance of the

word awful, going fairly down to her
heels. Jemmy answered, in a great hurry,
to be at more important matters,

Don't I tell you, he's a howling 
!  Oh, my eye ! It is a
water-rat ; let me get a stone to kill it."

Daisy seized her young brother by the
shoulders, almost inclined to shake him.

A howling what ?  an awful what ? 
Never mind the rat ; you must tell
me."

Let me go," struggling and kicking, in
fear that the rat would escape him.
What plagues girls are ! Didn't I tell
you?" in a sort of weeping shout. " He
looks a tremendous swell."

With a sort of sigh of partly deliverance,
partly increased awe, Daisy removed
her hands. Away tore Jemmy down stream,
like a loosed arrow. Slowly and sadly our
poor damsel approached that terrible den

s2

of an arbour ; with quaking heart and
quivering limbs, her hands unconsciously
still full of tc water-lilies, broad and
bright."

She neared it ; she was in the doorway,
and, without daring to raise her head, was
aware of a presence.

You are  you are   " she murmured.

I am Mr. Jerry Brown," said a strong,
well-known voice overhead, with suppressed
laughter. She looked up; she raised
her head.

Oh, is it you ?" she uttered, with a
glad, small cry of utter delight, as she
found herself drawn into the arbour gently
by Gascoigne. "But how could you tell
such a fib ?" she asked, with loving
reproach that accepts any excuse fondly,
when they were sufficiently sane to return
to this history.

"What fib? I told no fib."

Oh ! . . You told Penury to say you
were Jerry Brown."

"Look me in the face," was all 's
oracular reply. And as Miss
Daisy, not very loth, wonderingly did his
bidding, and gazed up in his face and
gazed  suddenly a light seemed to dawn
upon her from his good, gray eyes.

Is it possible ? You cannot be !"

she just ejaculated.

"Yes; I am Gerald or Jerry Browning
Gascoigne. Now, look at me well again.
Do you remember, I had reddish hair to
my sorrow, as a boy ; but, after being
shaven in a fever, it grew more brown.
And then, in the Barley Vicarage days, of
course I was what poets call a beardless
boy, and hardly full-grown. Ah ! I am
afraid you don't remember much about
poor Jerry Brown, after all ; and that you
were as fickle in heart as the rest of your
sex."

"Wo, no; indeed! And I remembered
far more about you than you did about me."
(She bad the best of it there.) " After
all, it was very long ago ; and you are very
changed ; and then the name led me
astray."

"It was long ago," assented Gascoigne,
"but you are not so very changed, I
believe ; though. I must own the recollection
of the little Daisy I used to meet when
fishing by the river was almost asleep in
my memory, till first your name stirred it,
and little by little it awoke. Only I could
not have remembered the name of Dimity,
till you unconsciously brought all our
former wooing back to me. Perhaps such
a pretty name as Daisy was enough for me
then."

But I used to be quite grieved yours
was so ugly. Why did you tell me it was
Brown ?"

"Because," laughed Gascoigne, "the
second time we ever met each other, when
no oue had introduced us by the riverside,
though you spent the whole afternoon
with me, Miss !  well, that day I happened
to be playing truant from my tutor. And
not wishing anyone to find out afterwards
that I had been fishing, in an idle mood,
when you asked my name, I told you
part of it. Afterwards, being rather in
love with you, it pleased me you should
have a different name for me from the rest
of the world."

No. Were you really  ?" in secret
intense delight. "Ah! you are only saying
that, now, to please me."

"No, indeed. I have never forgotten
that time of our golden age. There was
always a dim, pleasant memory of you in
my mind as my little first love."

And then with mutual " Do you remembers

?" and glad assents and delighted re-travelling
of the old road of wooing, these
two unveiled the recollections of bygone
days  till on a sudden Gascoigne remembered
the present.

What will all the rest think of us ?"
he asked, laughing. " You don't even know
yet that your brother and Mr. Lee are
in the house. I found there was an
earlier train we could catch by driving
across country, and persuaded them to
come. What will they say ?"

And as these two slowly returned and
came in sight of the house, the tall figure
of Gascoigne beside Daisy's little trim one,
both apparently suiting each other with a
wonderful fitness  Jack's voice called in
kindly gibing from the lawn, where all
the rest were gathered together for tennis
and tea, " Well, you are a pretty couple !"

We have brought you the latest news

from Marstown," cried the Smiler gaily,
after he had rushed to congratulate Daisy,
and smiling like the sun had twisted his
moustaches more than ever, murmuring
aside: How that he had guessed it all
along, what an Irresistible One she was,
to be sure ! while dear old Gascoigne was
the greatest friend he had in the world 
We have brought you news (where' s Miss
Cox?) of another wedding on the tapis.
Excuse a bad joke, won't you ?  ho, ho !"

"Yes," graciously allowed Jack.

"Miss Pussy is going to marry the old
carpet-maker ; and Miss Birdie is ready to
scratch her eyes out."

L'ENVOI.

For now is Salmon in alle well,
Lyvynge in bliss, in richesse, and in hele ;
And Emelye him loveth so tenderly,
And he her serveth al so gently,
That never was ther no word hem between
Of jealousy, or any other teens.
Thus endeth Salmon and Emelye,
And God save al this fare company."

They bad been a very merry party at
-*- Elm Hall during three or four days.
But the last evening had come of Jack's
stay.

The day after his arrival home he had
had an offer of going out as aide-de-camp

to a general who bad just been desired by
Mother England to give some savage tribes
a thrashing in one of her most distant
colonies. The matter was not really
England's business ; but, since Great
Britons have received the divine mission
to act as moral policemen of the earth, the
general's orders were, that these tribes
were first to be beaten and then be
forgiven.

A new life had been infused into young
Jack. He had not been heard to grumble
more than twice a day, and was in the
cheerfulness good-humour; though Daisy
had frequently been caught in a shower of
tears ; and even Polly, who used to plume
herself on her Spartan feelings ere this,
looked more alarmed than proud at her
brother's distinction.

But Jack was so delighted, they had
to cheer up. And Gascoigne's presence,

as may be imagined, vastly comforted
Daisy.

The Smiler likewise was full of joyous
predictions.

Lucky dog ; he won't get a scratch, you'll
see, and will come back with his medals,
and you'll all think him no end of a hero.
I only wish it was me."

I wish it was," said young Polly, half
tearfully, but maliciously.

And now the young people were all
sitting out on the lawn after dinner. The
squire was, as usual, nodding indoors ; and
Mrs. Dimity was busy at some work, as
was also usual, by her lamp in the drawing-room.
At present she was industriously
knitting in haste woollen socks " for dear
Jack to take away with him," which, as he
was going to a very warm climate, proved
more affection than discretion, like most of
Mrs. Dimity's occupations.

But, out of doors, the young folk were
all delightfully idle, enjoying the cool
evening air, the gloaming, and each other's
society. They were seated rather in twos
and twos  "Like St. Valentine's Day,
ain't it?" as the Smiler gaily remarked.
But then he meant the engaged couples.

Quite furthest away of all sat Fuzzy Cox
and her curate on a garden-bench, with
the greatest air of meek demureness in the
world. The rest were comfortably at ease
on rugs and wicker chairs on the smooth-shaven
grass, and had their jokes in common
; but this behaviour of ordinarily
vulgar mortals was unsuited to the still
restheticism of the thoughtful pair sitting
on the bench.

Gascoigne was absolutely smoking (what
a contrast !), strolling up and down with
Daisy.

They came often just near enough the

rest not to seem selfish, and to have a joke
and a loving sisterly word for poor Jack ;
just far enough at times not to bore others
with talk that was then indeed entirely
absorbed with each other.

"What a delightfully well-suited couple
those two do make !" rather dreamily observed
Una Goodchild, " One can quite
well fancy it will be true of them, after
their marriage, that, as the story-books
say, ' they lived happy ever after'"

"Yes," said Jack, approvingly, who was
beside her and Polly. " I'm very glad I
shall just manage to be at the wedding
before my start. By the time I come back
again, Miss Goodchild, I suppose both
you and Polly here will be spliced likewise."


Una Goodchild slightly laughed, but
looked down.

Oh ! no ; I don't think so," she softly
said. " "When a woman once marries she
can't draw back, and try whether she would
not be happier in devoting herself to what
are more the works of single women. I
think either of going to Girton College, or
of being trained as a sick-nurse, for a year
or two ; or at least  if my parents want me
to stay at home  giving my life up to art.
No : I shall have too much to do to think
of getting married to anyone before you
come home, Mr. Dimity."

Well, whatever you do, don't go into
a sisterhood or a nunnery," said Jack,
lightly.

The mutual tendency to liking of these
two had become a feeling of excellent
friendliness. On Jack's part it might have
been more, but that with their meeting at
Elm Hall had come his call for active

service, which, man-like, quite filled his
mind. And so he

tl Look'd upon her with a soldier's eye.
That lik'd, but had a rougher task in hand
Than to drive liking to the name of love."

And for Una, it had never dawned upon
her that at Marstown she might have had,
if she had liked it, a flirtation with her
friend's brother. Her mind had been too
full of efforts at leading " a higher life," as
she vaguely phrased it. Her conversations
with Jack  had the world only heard
them  were the most single-minded, earnest
endeavours to infuse enthusiasm into
that martial Gallic for the God-like heroes
or aims which in that hour were enshrined
in the chiefs place of her young mind's
sanctuary. Or if these were too sacred, or
Jack too carelessly good-humoured, she
used to bring out whichever of her hobbies

whose turn it was to be exercised, and Jack
was sure to admire them.

And so she had not fancied herself in
love with Jack Dimity because  fancy had
been busy with other matters.

Meanwhile the poor Smiler was faring
worst of all these valentines, as he called
them, because Polly snubbed him atrociously.
Such an utter school-room minx
as she was ! yet she laughed at his real
big diamonds " in compliments.

What a humbug you are, Mr. Lee. I
really believe you are the most Incarnate
Humbug on earth. It is a wonder Daisy
never found you out."

"No; really! Upon my honour I am
not  people sometimes say so, but it is
only the unkindness of the world and scandal
against me. I have felt it often very
deeply, and I only hope you may not some
day," sighed Lee, smiling no more, but

VOL. III. T

looking as sad as the sun in a fog ; wagging
his head with an air of injury that
would really have melted any female young
person's heart who did not know that in
ten minutes he would have forgotten or
forgiven all his imaginary enemies.

"What! Is Polly at it again?" called
out Jack this evening. " I tell you what,
if you are so pert, young woman, you'll
never get a husband, if ever you do come
to a ball of ours."

"Don't distress yourself," said Polly,
saucily. "Daisy has told me of two Quiet
Gentlemen  one of whom might take a
fancy to me, who knows ? just by way of
contrast."

Oh ! you are a Clever One  what a
Clever One you are !" murmured the
Smiler, who had now recovered himself,
gazing at her bright young face with

almost his best air of admiration ; although,
in general, very young girls were
not so much to his taste as those who
knew that his flirtation was meant to
sparkle, not to burn, and, by a little experience,
were too wise to fall really in
love  which would have distressed him
very much. But Polly was a sensible girl,
he thought to himself with satisfaction,
and could take care of her heart.

Of course there was also Una Good-child
to consider (since he was not himself
without some one of the fair sexto
chaff and adore), but, though a flirt,
he was a friend. Was he likely to 2:0
and "cut out" his less attractive comrade
; to interfere in the last sweet home
amusement of the poor soldier, soon under
orders for barbarous climes.

Oh, no ; never !  not if it even cost

t 2

him far more. So, with an inward feeling
of bis own nobility, this self-sacrificing
youth courted Polly.

And now, as they all sat or lay on the
grass and talked of wedding presents,
rice showers, and old slippers, the young-brothers
of the house of Dimity suddenly
burst across the lawn with clamour ;
jumped the ha-ha with shouts  all but
the youngest, who stood hesitating on
its brink, and yelled  and attacking an
apparently peaceful individual toiling towards
them along a path that crossed
the lawn, despoiled him of a bag he
carried, then returned with an air of
savage joy. The peaceful family party,
who witnessed this deed of robbery, only
remarked, with a calm air,

It's the postman."

Everyone now began to share the news.
But, ere Fuzzy Cox and her gentle, affianced

partner had approached with measured
step, Jack eagerly announced, so
loud that the accents must have disturbed
the air within a yard of the unsuspecting
couple,

I say, what do you all think  the old
colonel will certainly come himself to
the wedding, Daisy ; and he bids me tell
Miss Fuzzy Cox, as to her fiance, that ' an
ounce of mother wit is worth a pound
of clergy !' "

When the applause which this excellent
proverb elicited had died away, Daisy
observed, in her turn,

"And I have heard from the dear
old Miss Silverthornes. They are coming
to stay for my wedding, also ; and
are bringing a present of two nodding
China mandarins, and an Old Derby
tea-set, even more ancient and much
more valuable than themselves, they say.

And they promise not to cry at any
changes they may see in Elm Hall."

Thank goodness !" piously ejaculated
Gascoigne, in his dreamily pleasant
drawl.

Oh ! here's a letter from mamma, and
she's very glad to accept dear Adolphus's
invitation to receive her for the wedding,
too," called out Fuzzy, with more animation
than was usual of late with her, reading
over her curate's shoulder. " Birdie
isn't well pleased that you've not asked
her to be a bridesmaid as well as me, dear
Daisy. Well, is she not going to be mine
and Pussy's a fortnight later  what more
does she want? . . And, oh ! mamma is
so delighted with the Indian shawl you and
Captain Gascoigne sent her  she says
it is even handsomer than the old

one."

At this moment attention was again

drawn to the young Dimity tribe, who
emerged from the house once more,
making martial music with their mouths ;
all their red young cheeks distended like
those of trumpeters. They came in a sort
of procession.

First came Billy, with his brother Jack's
new helmet of war and sword, trailing
and bumping on the ground. Next, Bobby,
wearing the luckless Smiler's most beautiful
Sunday hat, that came down low on
his chubby nose ; whilst to emulate an
acrobat, he continually ducked his pate,
trying to kick the shining head-gear with
his toe.

Jemmy  and he was Daisy's especial
darling  followed, wearing Gascoigne's
best dust-coat, which being much too long
for him spread behind in a fine train.
On this train Charlie and the big, petticoated
Baby made frantic rushes, stamping

upon it with jeers, whereunto Jemmy
retaliated  like the wild Irishman he
simulated  with invitations to battle.

There was an instant rush made upon
these young rascals by Jack, Daisy, and
Polly (to the infinite relief, it need hardly
be remarked, of Gascoigne and Lee).
The two first brigands were captured and
relieved of their stolen goods in a few
moments. But as Daisy herself pursued
that arch-sinner Jemmy, whilst he escaped
with loud outcries, the dear dust-coat was
caught by its pocket on the door-scraper.
There was the shriek of rent lining ! But
even as Daisy, who had caught the
culprit, gazed aghast  a beautiful brilliant
brooch, containing in the middle a diamond
of great size and purest lustre, rolled
at her feet.

"My lost Marguerite brooch, I declare
!" exclaimed Gascoigne, with joy,

coming up. st This is the identical
rare daisy namesake of yours I lost
on the evening of our ball, Daisy It
was the present I meant for you ; an old
family heir-loom."

And so, in the midst of the general
joy and congratulation on the recovery
of this lost treasure, the tribe of Gad
not only escaped punishment, but even
had the insolence to awaken the
echoes of Elm Hall with clamorous
claims for a holiday on the morrow, in
recompense for their share in the discovery.


