CHAPTER I.

UR home was lovely !

I verily believe in all the length and
breadth of England you could not find one
other, of its own size, to match with the
charms of that dearest old place.

One knows old-world tales of love in a
cottage ; which homely nest, of course, is
always a bower of bliss, hidden in creepers.
Our house was like three or four still more
delightful cottages joined into one old Saxon
homestead ; each just touching its brother at

VOL. I. B

angles, and staring at a different quarter of
pleasant earth and sky ; but all bound together
in love by the roses that almost smothered the
walls, peeped in at the windows, hung from
the carved barge-boards, and kissed the old
home red or white with blossoms, from spring
to autumn.

Not only roses, but every pleasant plant
that creeps on walls ; as many as only
Solomon,  or our old gardener,  knew.

And as to gables ! why, each side of the
house seemed to have at least eight of them,
some built with timber cross-beams in the
masonry, others with wooden carvings everywhere,
and stone niches for little patron saints ;
while all had steep tiled roofs, with corbie-steps,
crow-stones, glittering vanes, and the
funniest twisted chimneys in the world.
Windows here, there, everywhere; big ones

with cool embrasures and deep seats, little
ones in the most unlikely nooks ; windows
latticed, or pane with bottle-stump glass.
But this last was no modern imitation. All
was of ancient date at Stoke, excepting 
well, perhaps ourselves.

Stoke was simply the name of our home.
(In ignorance, I once used to wonder why
there were so many Stokes in England, till
told it meant merely 'place.) Stoke-brace
used to be its proper designation ; but that
was when the former owners lived there. My
mother thought Stoke was simpler, and perhaps
had fewer associations.

Indoors, there was a real old dining-hall,
dating from Saxon days, with no story betwixt
the guests' board and the lofty roof, but a
louvre overhead to let out the fumes of smoke
and good cheer. The rest of the house was

B 2

two-storied only ; which explains why it spread
over so much ground.

In the entrance-saloon, as it might be
more properly termed than hall, seeing it
had always been a sitting-room, there were
four splendid, full-length portraits let into
the panelling, by Lely, Kneller, Reynolds,
and Lawrence, of ancestors who  were not
ours !

The fact is, to confess quickly, we were
only Browns  Browns of no place, till the
last spendthrift old Brace squire was obliged
to sell Stoke. Browns without an e ; Browns
in trade ; nothing more ! None of us were
even born at Stoke, though Rose was a mere
baby when we came.

My earliest recollections are of living in
our grub stage, in a genteel semi-detached
villa outside the town where my father made

his fortune ; of our perambulators being aired
in a small provincial Zoo ; and of our mother's
cool and haughty remarks, caught up unawares
by our little pitcher-like ears, that ' if
her old equals in the county did not choose
to call upon her, she for her part did not
choose to be called upon by the ladies of the
town She was perfectly happy, she would
observe in her beautifully-trained voice, without
either society. Por she was a Beaumanoir,
daughter of Sir Reginald Beaumanoir, the last
baronet of his impoverished family ; and our
mother's marriage was supposed to have been
a judicious alliance of fortune with family,
though attachment had somehow crept in.

Nevertheless, though so avowedly content,
she never rested till my father first bought
a county place, and then retired from the
greater part of his business.

What happiness was ours when we first
heard the news, that we were henceforth to
live among woods and pastures I How we
 babbled of green fields ' ! Oh, the pictures
we surreptitiously drew on our slates when
the governess wasn't looking  of ourselves
perched on strange animals, beneath which
was generally written, ' This is a Pony ' ;
of ourselves (recognizable as human by having
outstretched hands with five fingers each as
long as our bodies) standing five in a row
before the ideal dwelling my father had
described  which we portrayed as about half
the height of the aforesaid five, all windows
and chimneys, with a volcano cloud of smoke
eddying away in the distance.

When Ave did see Stoke it surpassed, however,
our wildest imaginings.

Shall I ever forget the close of our long

journey there ; when, after wearisome, dusty
highways, we passed into the shade of the
great woods that for three miles round
lovingly sheltered this gem of a home from
the rough outside world ? The evening breeze
again seems to fan my brow as we all sat up,
refreshed and full of curiosity, and gazed at
the great trees, the bracken coverts, the open
down-like patches where the rabbits fed by
scores ; getting sudden glimpses as we wound
along a wooded height of a charming, mysterious
valley below.

Then  when the house came in sight  we
all gave a cry 1

The sun was sinking, and each window
seemed redly illumined to ' meet and greet '
us on our first crossing the threshold of what
was thenceforth ' home '. The walls were
covered with a drooping mantle of flowers.

Flowers, flowers bloomed everywhere  around
the dwelling in exquisitely trim borders,
in parterres, in old-fashioned vases round
little pebbled courts filling nooks and angles,
in the centre whereof small fountains played,
or old sun-dials stretched shadow-fingers.
And the whole quaint homestead, its flowers,
gables, flashing weather-cocks, all seemed
to be peeping over the edge of a smoothly-shaven
grassy slope, that descended with
treacherous suddenness and depth into a bosky
valley. There a little lake reflected woods
around its further three sides, where beech-branches
swept the water, while the swans, as

On still St. Mary's lake,'

floated,

'Double, swan and shadow,'

And in the heart of these woods that trended
lake-wards from the high ground whereon we

stood, were hid baby ravines and gorgelets.
Down these trickled little brooklets under
the thick foliage overhead, singing only to
fairy glens, tall forested with ferns such as
human eye or hand had hardly ever seen or
disturbed in their damp, cool haunts.

Next morning a slight incident happened
that always associated itself afterwards with
my first impressions of Stoke.

Bob and I had agreed to rise early and
explore our new kingdom, while the rest of
the dull world was still asleep. Bob came
next to me in the family, callow, awkward,
and constantly in disgrace with our parents
and teachers, but dearest and most delightful
of brothers. His head was long ; his straight
hair, always ill-cut and ill-parted, was just
the colour of a canary's wing ; his eyes,
though beaming with high spirits, were of

the weakest light-blue ; his hands and feet
were much too big, and his joints loose.
Ugly was he  ?

" No matter for that," King Henry cry ;
I love him the better therefore." '

There was no use in asking Alice, our
elder sister, to come too. She loved pranks,
but not early rising or hurried dressing,
thank you ; besides, she slept near the
governess.

Our eldest brother Beaumanoir was at
school. Beau we all called him when our
mother was out of earshot. Rose was too
much of a baby.

So we two rose and stole out by ourselves.

I remember, like yesterday, the dewy freshness
of the whole sweet face of earth around
us that new morning. How the birds sang
their matin praises in all the bushes more

clearly, and the flowers smelt sweeter, than
ever before or after, and the trees seemed
taller, and swayed their branches in more
stately harmony.

'Let's come down to that little flower-garden
that we found last night,' said Bob
as if he was a first discoverer of the spot.

We agreed, as usual. The garden was a
delightful spot of primness, though just
beyond its stone boundary wall nature reasserted
her easy wilder sway in meadows
and woodland. Its little paths were paved
carefully in chequers of black and white
pebbles ; the box edges were clipped straight
and still" Hke rows of military vegetation ;
yew-trees stood about shaped like chess-pieces
among the Queen Anne flower-beds. On the
one side peeps could be had through outside
shrubbery of the lake, that still lay in shadow,

but for one bright gleam at the far side,
where rays from the east just flashed on it a
wakening summons. And, looking upwards
behind us a little way, the old house showed
its most charming side of all.

Isn't it a little Paradise, Bob ! ' I exclaimed,
after we had dived down a pleached
alley of jessamine and emerged among the
yew pawns to gaze round, hard breathing
in our haste and full of enchantment. ' How
I should love to be queen here ! ' {i, e. be lord
over my brethren in this acre and a half.)
There can't be any other home in the wide
world half so delightful as this.'

'There cannot I' said a strange voice beside
us, with a sound more like a sudden sob of
pain wrung out unawares than a sigh.

We both started.

Close beside us, hidden hitherto by the

yews, stood a young lad, much older than
Bob, older even than Beau. His arms were
folded, as if we had surprised him in a meditative
survey of Stoke and its grounds. One
quick, hesitating look at us, one glance all
round at house, woods, and valley ; then he
darted towards a corner of the ivy covered
garden-wall, and springing up, seized a strong
tree-branch that hung just overhead along the
wall, and swung himself into invisibility, as
far as we were concerned, on the other
side.

Stop thief ! ' cried Bob, instantly giving
chase.

Stop, Bob 1 ' cried I, instantly full of
fears for my valorous brother, but running
after him  with a very weak heart and a
very great wish to run the other way.

Bob sprang at the wall, trying likewise, he

too, to vault it, but fell back with injured,
bleeding hands, a fringe of cruel glass in the
masonry having been hidden by the ivy. No
matter ! still gallant, he jumped up at the
branches above, but caught no doubt the
wrong ones, for one only swung him a Httle
upwards, and another fairly broke under his
weight. After this second fall, Bob sat still
on the ground looking rueful.

Come away, come away,' I urged, in a tone
of beseeching comfort ;  he's gone long ago.'

If we could only have caught him ! ' sighed
my young brother, slowly rising, and not understanding
apparently my feminine reasons
for leaving the spot.  He may have been a
poacher, you know, or some sort of a desperate
robber.'

Oh, do come back to the house I
entreated, trembling.

Bob, however, would only do this after a
careful examination of the mysterious visitor's
means of disappearance. By standing on
inverted flower-pots we discovered that the
wall was everywhere protected by a deep dry
ditch on the far side, excepting at this one
especial spot. And, presently, we marked the
very bough the trespasser had used, though it
was too high for Bob, jump as he might.

I say ! he must have known his way
about most awfully well,' observed Bob,
putting his head on one side with a
sagaciously mysterious air.

Then a six-o'clock farm-bell rang to work
(for we had been out since five), and the figure
of the gardener was seen approaching.

'Let us go and tell him about it,' I suggested.
' You know papa says he is such an
honest man.'

On our father's return from one of his
previous visits to prepare Stoke for our
arrival, we had heard him praising this man
Verity to our mother, as a pattern of rude
fidelity. Born and bred in Stoke, and
having hardly ever been out of its parish, Joe
Verity had since boyhood attached himself so
devotedly to the Bracys, that he curtly told
my father he could never bear to see a new
family there, so he would go ' when the place
went.'

Now, you know, that's what I call a fine
fellow, so I begged him to remain,' cried my
father, in whom staid business traditions had
never damped a warm natural enthusiasm.
You don't see too much of that spirit now.
I offered to raise the poor fellow's wages, for
the Bracys could not afford to give him much,
you know. But no !  no use, till at last

young Brace, the grandson, himself advised
him to stay on, and that settled the matter.
The poor man had some wild notion, it seems,
of being able to go with his young master.
He'll make us a good servant, that you
may depend on,' ended my father.

I hope he will make us a good gardener
said my mother, in her gentle high-bred voice,
never so carried away by feeling as to lose
sight of the main object, like my father,
although she was a Beaumanoir born, and
he only a business Brown.

Verity was fastening creepers on the wall

when we went up to him eagerly with our

story. He listened stoutly enough till we

described the tree-branch, but at that looked

round hastily, and made a few steps towards

the spot. Then he stopped himself, and

returning to his work, asked us gruffly, vith
VOL. I.

an averted head, 'What was he like? was
he common-looking ? '

No, no,' we cried ; and hastened to
describe the strange youth, whose figure now
I can hardly recall.

Joe Verity only nodded, holding some
nails and a bunch of list in his mouth.

But was he a robber ? tell us ! was he a
thief?' cried Bob, impatient of this unmoved
man's manner of receiving our news.

Verity turned round to us  a squarely-built,
self-reliant man, strong in body as
in his iron will, with a broad brow in
which were two wrinkles furrowed by honest
endeavour to do constantly the best that was
in him.

It was no robber,' he just answered,
taking the nails out of his mouth to speak,
and then putting them in again, while he

looked at us with a doubtful expression in
his deep-set gray eyes, that we detected.
He'll not come back again ; so you need
trouble your heads no more about him.'

But the gardener did not then quite understand
children's ways, nor our curiosity.
We slipped away, grumbling to each other
at the romance of our adventure being
stifled.

'Well, we'll tell nurse about it; and papa
when we see him at lunch-time,' we murmured,
sure of fellow-feeling in those quarters.

Verity looked after us, scratching his head,
while the two wrinkles in his forehead deepened
extraordinarily.

Then he called out to me :

Hi! little Missy! Miss Brown, I
suppose.'

'Yes,' I said, coming back with a child's

C 2

willingness, though thinking him a rude man
to go on with his work and call me to
come to him. ' But I'm not Miss Brown ;
that is my elder sister. I'm only Miss
Pleasance.'

'That's a queer name, anyhow,' remarked
Verity, as if loth to say yet why he had called
me back.

Well  but what do you want ? ' I now
questioned with some dignity, feeling Bob's
chin planted on my left shoulder, while his
face, I knew, was alive with expectation.

See,' said Verity gravely. ' I've been
taking crown counsel, as the lawyers might
say ' (and he gave a last enquiring rub at his
crisply black head). 'I'm not forbidding
you to tell your father or your nurse ; that's
right enough, but still  I think him you saw
this morning would rather not have it spoke

about. He had as good a right here as
yourselves : ay ! and far better unto  yesterday.'
Here the gardener's face softened
wonderfully, and he turned slowly to fasten
up a rose-branch, continuing : ' If so be as he
came early this morning to take a last look
at the old place, he didn't think to disturb
any of ye; and you, Miss, being older than
your brother, have sense enough to know a
sore heart shuns gossip.'

*Was it  the grandson of old Squire
Brace ? ' I asked in an awe-struck whisper.
We won't say a word about it.'

Our oracle just gave a sort of satisfied nod
at us, and replied : ' It might ha' been  or
one of the family, . leastwise. I did not see
him, mind ye.'

We went away quite proud of the secret,
as of our own future staunchness in keeping

it; and that morning was thenceforth enveloped
in a halo of romance to us.

To our credit be it said, I only told Rose
after a year or so ; and Bob only told Beau.
When the latter came back from school, he
treated the adventure loftily as one of our
silly childish marvels, and soon forgot it.
For fear of more ridicule, we neither of us
ever told Alice, who always laughed at us
in an elderly and irritating way.

CHAPTER II.

nne next event 1 most clearly remember
in our family history happened some
years later.

Bob must have been at Harrow a year or
two, I think ; and both he and Beau had
come home for the Easter holidays.

It was a chilly, sunny Sunday morning.
Pleasance ! Pleasance ! Are you ready for
church ? ' they were calling in the house ; and
I can recall so well creeping slowly down the
shallow steps of dark-oak stairs, holding
heavily by the balusters with a swimming
sensation in my head. ' Why, child, what is

the matter with you ? ' asked my mother, who
was standing below in a ray of sunshine that
came through a latticed window.

She somehow impressed me that moment
as looking so calm, elegant, pretty ; so different
in everything from myself. Her dress of
that respectably old, if not venerable, date is
before my mind's eye now.

A pink cambric made in three great
flounces all round ; her taper waist drawn
still tighter by a sash tied in long loops in
front ; her sleeves puffed wide at the shoulder,
but skin-fitting at the wrists ; her fair hair
brought down in shining bands below her
ears ; and a tiny gathered bonnet almost falling
back off her pretty head. ' Are you ill ? '
she repeated with light marvelling, as if such
an occurrence was most unlikely in her family.
'I don't know, mother,' replied that miserable

being Me ; ' but I do feel rather sick. Please,
may I stay at home from church ? '

Sick ! what an expression ! ' said my
mother, with a gesture of slight disgust ; but
she gave the required permission after critically
looking at me. I slipped away into the library
because it was least frequented, and, feeling
rather ashamed of myself, hid in a window-seat
behind the curtains. A door near
was open into the morning-room, and my
mother's voice reached me, saying confidentially
1 * Pleasance is unwell. I don't
know how it is, that child is such a
goose.'

My dear, you ought to think your

Every goose a swan,
And every lass a queen," '

laughingly remonstrated my father in his
clearest and cheeriest of strong voices coming

from a little body. ' Can any of us help
feeling out of sorts at times ? '

Well, somehow, if there is any infection
going she is sure to catch it,' repeated my
mother with accusation still in her tone.
Certainly, neither she nor Bob are Beau-manors
in that or anything else.'

Well, my dear, they are good Browns,
and take after my family in names and
natures, so I must see after this sick gosling,'
returned my father, good-humouredly as ever ;
and then I heard his voice calling me,
evidently full of solicitude.

Slipping out by the other door, I found
him standing below the stairs just where my
mother had been. Trim, tidy, he was a
very little man, who always seemed trying
to stand on his heels with his chest much
expanded in order to look bigger. He had

the ruddiest English face, and the largest
loving heart in the world. No ; he certainly
was not handsome, but there never was, or
will be, his like to me again.

After receiving his caresses, and advice
to go out and have some fresh air, I watched
them all packing into the long family waggonette.


There was Beau, our pride, our Etonian,
carefully smoothing his tall hat with a fine-airs
expression on his handsome young face.
There was Alice, laughing at my woebegone
looks, as usual ; always laughing, always
lovely !

Certainly, it was very odd that she and
Beaumanoir should have been given by our
mother her family's names while in their
cradles, and that they dutifully followed her
family's characteristics.

My name, I afterwards learnt, had been
a matter of slight dispute, since it was most
pre-eminently a Brown one. ' There always
had been a Pleasance in his family,' my father,
however, firmly insisted though so easy-going,
and he wished there always might be.'

It must have cost my mother a little effort
to repress a slight curl of her lip at the idea
of the Brown family having ' always ' existed,
or indeed having any clear reason to give for
their being (except on the plea that trade
is a human grant), till the best of them
isis united to a Beaumanoir. But, to do
her justice, she never snubbed my father on
this point ; never even tried to assert authority
over him openly like so many wives.
Still she managed to get her own way with
him in almost everything, for he adored
her. She always made him and all of us

feel that she had condescended greatly in her
marriage,  but she had loved him, deep down
in her heart, we could be sure, though he
was a Brown, and though she Alas so gracefully
indifferent and superior in her ways.
Rose, our youngest, nodded at me from the
carriage, like a sympathetic China mandarin.
She was also said by our mother to show
Beaumanoir promise, and was expected to
be a beauty  though this was less certain.

But, why did Bob stand with his head
drooped on one side ; and why did he limp
back dismally to the house as they drove off?

What could be ?

Come along ; let us go off for a ramble
somewhere,' exclaimed that young man
cheerfully, bursting into my retreat.

Why, Bob, what kept 2/ou from church ? '
Bob screwed up his features deprecatingly.

and dropped his lip ; which made him look
very ugly, as I promptly told him.

My toe is all smashed. I got it caught ina
gate yesterday when Beau was riding the
colt, and I fought them both for fun.'

Oh, Bob !  you came in here not a bit
lame.'

Staying away from church, without being
really ill, was rare indeed with us.

But it is really sore though,' assured
Bob, With a quizzical screw of pain to all his
features, that were as flexible as those of any
clown. 'Besides, you would have been all
alone, poor old girl. Come !  I'll hobble
with a stick as far as the lake, and we'll
search for wild-ducks' nests along the edge.'

He soon persuaded me, though I felt very
unwell; and down by the lake we hunted
through reed-beds and rushes. The only

thing that kept Bob from pulling off his boots
and stockings to wade, Alas, I believe, that his
toe was letter than it should be.

At last, we tried up a little back water
all fringed with alders and willows. Suddenly
there was a startling whirr and rush of
wings from under our very noses, and with
a great ' Quack  quack,' disturbing the
Sunday quiet of the woods, out flew a mallard
and his mate from the rushes. ' Hooroo ! '
cried Bob, and plunged along the bank
through boughs and brambles joyfully.
 Here's the nest just below me,  and eggs !
I can see them ! It's down there close by the
water.'

See the eggs, yes ! but he could not reach
them.

.We did not mean to rob the poor wild
duck, but who could resist inspection of such

a nest ? So Bob crept down to the edge
cautiously, and then  there being little foothold
 caught firmly by an alder branch above
him with both hands. He,

Thought it was a trusty tree,
But syne it bowed and then it break.' 

Even so !  

A crack  a souse !  and down went poor
Bob into the oozy stream, still clinging ashe
went to that faithless branch. To my
eternal shame, be it recorded, as he rose all
streaming and spluttering, I laughed till my
sides so ached that, being weak, I had to sit
down and hold by another alder. How
ridiculously one does laugh while still in
short frocks ! But the first thing Bob did
was, to stand up in the muddy water and
laugh too. To end the matter, Ave retreated
homewards, hoping devoutly to reach unseen

the cottage of our former nurse who had now

o

been taken to wife by Joe Verity. But as
ill-luck would have it, back came the church-party
and caught us  Bob watering the
carriage-drive as he went from all his garments,
and every lank hair of his head.

That afternoon I grew worse, and the old
doctor was sent for ; ' black dose ' being
whispered by my sinking heart, and read in
my brothers' and sisters' pitying looks. But
when our village medicine-man left, towards
evening, my good father  finding Master Bob
alone outside the porch, looking dejected
under my mother's silent scorn of the existence
of such a goose  put his hand on ibis
shoulder, saying kindly :

Look here, old fellow ! That toe of yours
was rather shammed this morning. Come 
you know T don't like you boys to miss

VOL. I. D

church. Still, considering the lesson you got,
we'll say no more about it.'

Bob looked and felt desperately contrite ;
but then seeing my father smile, thought he
might as well smile too.

What about Pleasance ? ' he asked with
interest ; * how is she ? '

Oh, she's not at all badly,' said father
with an intentionally cheerful air. ' It doesn't
signify, they say, only she's got the measles.'

NO,' said Bob, awestruck. ' How many
of them ? '

Poor Bob soon might ask the same question
about himself, for, faithful to me in all
things, he was ill too by morning. And then
with a whistle from Beau at the news, and a
shiver of Alice's pretty shoulders, and a
frightened laugh from Rosie, my mother
announced further, that these uninfected ones

were straight to be hurried off on a visit to
our grand-aunt, Miss Beaumanoir, who lived
ten miles away in a tumbledown dower-house
styled by its owner The Barn.

D 2

CHAPTER III.

/UR grand-aunt, it may here be remarked,
was an oddity. ' In fact,' as Joe Verity
thus once delivered himself, ' she's the greatest
curiosity, out of being bottled in spirits ina
museum, ever / saw ; but ye could never
mistake her for anything but a lady once she
came to speak to ye.'

This last was quite true ; but, as may be
shown later, at a distance foolish persons
might be forgiven for erring.

From our childhood, in our distant townhouse,
we had been taught to venerate this
relative ; the last remaining representative of

the Beaumanoirs, as our mother carefully
instructed us. Indeed, it was chiefly because
our Aunt Bee lived in the dower-house of
her ancestors, and , that Stoke was in the
former shire of the Beaumanoir family
(although their property had been on the
other side of the country), that my mother
was bent on moving to our new home.

We children were wildly eager to see
this Beaumanoir grand-aunt of whom we
were so proud; and of whom my mother
was fond of telling us a rather romantic
story.

Miss Beaumanoir had been passionately
devoted to her only brother, Sir Reginald,
our maternal grandfather. When he was so
embarrassed with money difficulties that the
estate was in danger of being sold, she had
placed her own fortune, twenty thousand

pounds, in his hands  given it generously,
utterly. In return, her brother had settled an
old dower-house and demesne on her  the
Barn where she still lived. But her sacrifice
was in vain. A fire broke out in this very
dower-house where they were then staying together
 Sir Reginald, who was ill, died next
day of exposure. The money, being in notes,
had no doubt perished in the flames, for no
trace of it was ever found. And the Beau-manor
estate went to the hammer.

Before coming to Stoke we pictured her
vividly to each other as a snowy-haired but
beautiful old lady, who would look 'just
stepped out of a picture ' ; always dressed in
black velvet, and with a sad sweet face, as befitted
the last of her name. Then she would
have an erect carriage ; and perhaps carry a
snuffbox, or a big fan, or a mysterious miniature

concealed round her neck. Opinions
on these latter points were divided.

The first time we beheld the real presence
of our grand-aunt, however, was on this
wise.

We were all assembled for breakfast one
morning, at half-past nine o'clock, and
prayers in the hall had just been ended,
when a ring was heard at the entrance-door.


Who can be there at this hour ? ' said
my mother.

It's a beggar-woman, I think,' announced
Beau, glancing at the window.

Tell them to send her away immediately.
Coming to the front door !  what will these
tramps do next, I wonder ? '

Beau disliked leaving his plate ; but Bob
had tumbled at once off his chair, lustily

shouting as he half-opened the door, ' Mamma
says you're to send away that beg '

The last syllable died on his lips as he
was smartly pushed aside by a strange little
figure of a woman, who was answering to
an expostulating footman, 'Don't mind me,
my good man : I'll announce myself;  I'm
Miss Beaumanoir.'

Our venerated grand-aunt ! Every knife
and fork was dropped as we all gazed,
petrified. She certainly was a grotesque
sight.

Standing at the door an instant as if to
survey us all, we saw a dried little Avoman,
who, like the Wandering Jew, might be
imagined almost any age, her skin was so
like parchment  while yet her eyes had a life
and sharpness, and her small person an air
of activity, quite uncanny to behold. As to

her garments, they seemed all to be from
a pawnshop, and none of them matching.
A black straw bonnet adorned with artificial
flowers was slipping off her head ; a green
veil ; a blue parasol ; an old black bombazeen
dress, very short, below which appeared
mysteriously the flounce of another thin
black material trailing on the ground ; while
a tippet of the same transparent texture airily
draped her shoulders, and was edged with
narrow white crochet lace, through which
meandered a penny red silk ribbon, giving
colour to the outline. Such was Miss
Beaumanoir's dress. She also wore bright
violet gloves, so cheap that they seemed
inclined to split at every seam, and the
solitary button of each was tugged to bursting
; notwithstanding which their owner was
jauntily flourishing a little black bag.

My mother, who had only seen her aunt
years ago, was inwardly horror-stricken, as
we guessed, but to do her justice recovered
bravely. ' Dear Aunt Bee  how do you do ?
What a surprise !  but I am so delighted,' she
gasped, advancing with much bravery to kiss
her relation's cheek.

And so this is you, Ada ; I remember
you as a little girl  yes ; you're just what I
expected,' our grand-aunt coolly vouchsafed,
taking our graceful mother by both hands
and absolutely examining her at arms-length.
Then turning to father she added: 'But is
this your goodman? I wanted to see him
especially. I've heard about you  oh, God
bless you, I know by your face you and I will
get on together,'  whereupon Aunt Bee threw
her arms about his neck and gave him as
his share an embrace with such gusto that, for

the first time in our lives, we saw our father
almost foolish and speechless ; though Miss
Beaumanoir kept kindly clapping his shoulder
to enable him to recover.

How late you fine people are ! ' she went
on. 'Why, I had my breakfast before six,
and was off. Still, I think I'll join you all
now, for I feel rather peckish.' (Peckish 
a word mother had strictly forbidden the
boys to utter in her presence, as vulgar.)

We each thought how she must be wishing
to lift her white hands in horror; but we
hardly dared look up.

Oh, do sit down ! But how did you
come ; we heard no carriage ? ' faintly asked
mother.

Carriage, my dear ! I walked on my own
two feet. Why, it's only ten miles here from
the Barn; and, if I'd driven, you'd have had

to give stable-room to my old pony longer
than you'd care perhaps

Not at all. As long as ever you liked,
and the longer the better cried father,
gallantly. 'But I hope that means you
intend to stay yourself with us, anyhow.'

'Exactly so. Oh, you and I will get on
together like a house on fire, I see,' replied
Miss Bee, nodding at him with highly
pleased backs and smiles. ' Yes, I've come
to stay two or three days.'

That's right,' heartily went on father.
And where's your luggage ? It's to follow,
of course ; or can I send for it anywhere ? *

Luggage ! Here's all my luggage  this
little hand-bag. Why, I've gone to Russia
and back with just this. What more do you
want ?  a tooth-brush and a hair-brush and
a night  '

But your dresses ! ' absolutely ejaculated
my mother, cutting short with real dismay her
aunt's list of travelling necessaries.

My dresses ! ' I am sorry to relate it : but
our grand-aunt literally jumped up and down
on the floor while displaying her bombazeen
with both hands. ' They re all on me, my
dears. This is my day-gown, as you see ;
and here's my dinner one underneath ' ( lifting
the top skirt to show the thin mystery
below) ; ' and I just slipped my Sunday silk
under that again, for fear you might happen
to have a garden party or something smart '
(picking up the dinner-skirt to reveal a third
layer of garments, the last one being so far
from smart, and a yard deep in dust after
sweeping the Queen's highway for ten miles,
that we young ones forgot our manners, and
fairly screamed with laughter).

Oh, you brats !  they're all laughing at me.
I can tell you my gown was good enough for
the Duchess of Wiltshire where I was staying
last week, so it may just do for you.'

We all knew Aunt Bee visited the finest
of folk on the most intimate of terms, so were
every one respectably silent.

However,' she added, contemplating the
undermost skirt again  ' I own, it is dusty,
but no matter. I'll just take a run round
some of the meadows with you boys, and that
will clean it. I don't like girls half as well
never did ; and Miss Brown there is too fine
for me, I'm afraid. She's the very picture
of yourself, Ada, my dear. And this next
little witch with the mouse-coloured hair '
(meaning me) ' looks as if she used her big
eyes more than her tongue ; you're a
chrysalis still, child ; no one could say how

you'll turn out. There's an ugly division
and a handsome division in the family, I see ;
I always belonged to the ugliest myself, but I
like looking at the beauties.'

From which last words, it will be seen our
grand-aunt Bee had already descried we were
a mixed family of swans and geese. My
mother, Alice, and Beau, of course, were all
swans ; father, poor Bob, and myself belonged
hopelessly to the mean class. Little Rose
was the only doubtful member of the family ;
since she joined to most exquisite colouring
the funniest little turn-up nose in the world,
with an upper lip so short and impudent it
always showed her snowy little teeth.

As to myself, I felt ill-proportioned in mind
and body ; with more of limb and hair than
I could dispose of gracefully, but too little
colour and self-confidence. I was shy, brooding,

with vague ambitions of soul beginning to
stir, yet only common-place gifts to justify
them,  growing, in fact, and unformed. My
only comfort was, that my father always
called me his ' ugly duckling

CHAPTER IV.

T WAS very ill, indeed, that time. My
mother nursed me herself with the most
painstaking care, and I well remember my
great surprise at waking up once to find her
crying over me. It seemed, in her, such an
impossibility.

Yet as soon as I began to recover, she
became again as composed, almost cool in her
manner, as ever ; so that I lay in respectful
quiet and monotonous semi-darkness till my
father would appear like a sunbeam always
flickering between our two sick-rooms, bringing
with him a fresh breeze of outside, as it

VOL. I. E

were  cheery words, little items of news from
the garden, or farmyard, or woods, and easy
laughter.

One day when Bob and I had both met
down-stairs for the first time, curiously comparing
our white faces and respective green
goggles, our parents entered with that pleased
possessive air which means unmistakably
good news.

Here, invalids 1 here's good luck for you,'
cried father, flourishing a letter; 'my old
friend, Mrs. Gladman, invites you both down
to Dartmoor for change of air. I declare I
wish I was going too ; it would make me feel
a boy again.'

We piped for joy, in still weak delight.
'There is nobody I like so much as Mrs.
Gladman,' I exclaimed, with enthusiasm.

'Except Jack Gladman,' corrected Bob

with equal ardour. Jack was Mrs. Glad-man's
only son, and she was a widow.

Our mother looked at us rather critically
during this outburst of ecstasy. Mrs. Glad-man
was the only one among her husband's
old friends whom she ever welcomed to our
home. My father considered Mrs. Gladman
to have the chief place among his old friends ;
my mother gave her perhaps the lowest place
among her friends ; and yet, almost against
her will, respected, and felt attached to, that
good soul and warmest of hearts.

It was a lovely spring evening when we
first saw Dartmoor's rampart of hills rising
before us, moaned by the valleys at its base.
Perhaps it was from having been cooped in
darkened rooms so long ; perhaps from fatigue
of a long drive through Devonshire lanes,
that hid all view entirely except for a sudden

E 2





tantalising peep through occasional gates 
but, certainly, when we at last mounted a long
hill and then descending the further side
looked down into a small valley, seeing great
oak-woods clothing the hill-sides, and a trout
stream brawling out of a rocky little gorge to
wind through cowslip meadows, whilst midmost
tall trees clustered round a brown mass
of homely, half-seen buildings,  we seemed
entering a moorland Paradise.

That's Wheatfield Farm yonder, and Mrs.
Gladman hur be coming to the gate,' announced
our driver, pointing with the butt of his whip.

But we had guessed it already.

That delightful, long, old farmhouse could
belong to none other than she ; with its trim
garden in front, and narrow paved walks. Its
red-tiled or thatched roofs overhung to the
left the fresh green lane down which we

came. To right, the great farm orchard
stretched all pink and white up the hill on
the other side, till it was folded in by the
noble oak-woods that crowned the high
ground on this side of the valley. Yes ! these
delightful possessions rightly belonged to
that best of women. Besides, there was she
herself standing at the wooden gate, with a
broad smile of welcome on her broad kindly
face ; with the selfsame brown hair worn so
thick and low on her forehead, we had sometimes
irreverently declared it looked just like
a beautiful wig.

And, a little further down, was Jack
Gladman ; riding up the lane to meet us on
his white pony, in a wide straw hat, rough
tweed suit, and gaiters. He was very little
older than Beau, who somewhat despised his
clodhopper upbringing ; yet here, on his own

ground, he looked quite a young squire and
a man already. Any further observations
were stifled in Mrs. Gladman's large embrace,
as she took us both first literally to her
heart and then led us in to her hearth. Tous,
Wheatfield Parm seemed then a most
delectable abode, with no troublesome carpets
and fine furniture, but clean dark floors that
we could romp over,  sweetness, if economy,
everywhere. It was a very old house, and
had been in the possession of the Gladman
family for generations. Once it had been
thought quite a handsome gentleman's dwelling,
before city luxury spread into the
country; but it had stood still like its farm-loving
owners, and now was surpassed by far
newer houses, whose more pretentious families
looked down on the Gladmans. Still as it
was later improved, and may thus be hereafter

described, I will only say that we then
found it a home of early rising, plain food,
plenty, and health.

What a happy idle life we led in that old
Devonshire farmhouse ! We scampered into
the moor for miles on ponies ; and climbed all
the tors near and far ; seeing always fresh
ranges of hill beyond hill overstepping each
other, all viewed by us as so many fortresses
of nature to be stormed by our eager selves
and taken.

Or else Bob would follow for the livelong
day close on Jack Gladman's heels, watching
the latter oversee his farm-men from six in
the fresh morning till six again at restful eve.
Or Jack would be breaking in his young colts,
himself delighting in the risk and trouble.
Or he might have to be whole afternoons in the
oak-woods, seeing about barking the trees.

Meanwhile, I was being initiated in dairy
mysteries by Mrs. Gladman ; and soon knew
how to make butter Devonshire fashion, and
scald cream, to my own satisfaction  and,
at worst, her amusement as well as mine.

However real all this work must have been
to the widow with a large farm and household
to manage, and Jack too young to take the
full cares of life on his own shoulders, to us
it was like playing at being in Arcadia. It
seemed such a sweet, simple life ; a pastoral
idyll. As such, it might almost have faded
from my memory by now, like a pleasant
dream, but for one acquaintance  whose appearance
in the narrow circle of my then
young life deserves recalling.

There is to be an otter-hunt up the river
tomorrow. Pole is bringing over his hounds,
mother. And, I say, can you get up a

breakfast in time for any of the fellows ? '
cried Jack Gladman one evening, bursting hot
and breathless into the parlour, where Mrs.
Gladman was darning some very old and
fine table-linen with her own fingers, since
none of the maids would have taken such
pride and pains in the task.

Why, we just must, dear,' replied his
mother, lifting her placid face with such a
willing smile and air of fond motherly pride
in her boy, that no wonder he came to her
for help and advice on every occasion.

That's right. You're the most useful woman
in the world,' exclaimed Jack, catching her
round the waist and giving her a resounding
kiss, which embrace made Bob and me somehow
feel uncomfortable, yet admiring. Why
could we never treat our mother in a familiar
way ! ' And I say, old Fulke will come in

for it, too  isn't that luck. He's just comedown
by Exeter way for a week's holiday ; got
a Hft in William Collins's spring-cart. Dear
old Fulke ! ain't I just glad he's come down

Did you not tell him to come and see me
this evening, foolish boy ? '

I did  and he said at first, of course, he
was coming; but then he thought this first
evening he would not leave his poor mother.
I told him that Pleasance and Bob
were here,' went on Jack with a constrained
look at us, 'and, you see, he doesn't much
care to meet strangers.'

'Ah, yes  I can understand that. Poor
Eulke ! '

Mother and son exchanged a meaning
look ; which, as I was staring in their direction,
I saw, and naturally wondered at.
What had we done, or this Mr. Fulke done,

that he should dislike the sight of fellow
human beings ; especially such harmless ones
as Bob and myself? Oh, no doubt he was
a misanthrope ; on which I disliked him,
beforehand, for disliking us.

Who is Mr. Pulke ? ' I asked. And Mrs.
Gladman answered, rather hesitatingly :

He's a great friend of ours, my dear, and
he's a clerk in a bank.' A bank clerk, and
come in Collins the grocer's spring-cart ! I
did not think much of this friend.

Now, Pleasance,' cried Jack, laying a
heavy hand boisterously on either of my
shoulders,  are you game to be up by six,
and down at Crawford bridge ; or are you too
fine a young lady ? The hounds will most
likely go up Holy Street to Gidleigh Park ;
and then we may be off upon the moor : or
heaven knows where ! '

Oh, I'll go. It will be glorious ! But,
Jack, do take away those great hands of
yours. I'll not fine, and I never was, but
1 don't like to be teased was my answer;
half-ecstatic, half-exasperated ; trying to
wriggle away from the expected, endearing
horse-play to which Jack in good-fellowship
loved to treat me.

Yes, Jack ; you really should not tease
Pleasance so ; she Vvill soon be quite a young
lady,' added his mother, who always protected
me. ' You always remind me of a mastiff dog
gambolling round a grey kitten. A great big
fellow like you should be more gentle.'

Why she said a grey kitten more than a
white or any other she did not add ; probably
as less pretty, I surmised resignedly. But
there was no doubt when looking at Mrs.
Gladman's honest eyes beaming upon her boy,

that, to her, he was as big as any Saul and as
fair of face as a David. Nevertheless, in sober
truth he had now stopped growing at five feet
eleven ; had the healthiest dumpling visage
in which any young Englishman could show
red and white ; twinkling eyes ; a commonplace
nose ; white teeth ; and the downy
dawn of what would no doubt become respectable
mutton-chop whiskers, like his father's
before him, in due course of time.

CHAPTER V.

Even. ' My friend Pictor, you have kept time with
my thoughts, for the sun is just rising, and I
myself just now come to this place, and the
dogs have just now put down an otter. Look down
at the bottom of the hill there in that meadow,
chequered with water lilies and ladysmocks :
there you may see what work they make : look !
look ! you may see all busy. Men and dogs, dogs
and men, all busy.'  Izaak Walton's Compleat
Angler.

"Ob and I hardly slept that night, we were

so fearful of being late for the otter hunt.

Before four in the grey morning, I heard a

tapping at my door, and springing out of bed

in terror  though it seemed as if I had only

just fallen asleep  let in a head and an

owlish face, in which concern and sleep were
mingling.

I'm sme/ said Bob, ' they've forgotten to
call us ! '

It seemed his watch had been over wound ;
or else had stopped of pure malice ; which it
often did, he ruefully explained, for by day
it required being shaken pretty often to keep
it going.

In spite of fears, however, when Jack
brought his dog-cart to the gate we were ready.
We had gulped down breakfast in the kitchen,
where Mrs. Gladman, herself as neatly dressed
and unfurled as if the hour was quite usual,
was up, helping her mainstay, Mary Munch,
to frizzle bacon and boil coffee.

Away we sped in the grey twilight.

I hope we're not late. Luckily there's a
long hill to go down,' said young Gladman,

lightly touching up his mare with the whip ;
and downhill we spun at a pace that made me
giddy looking ahead, and that none but a
Devonshire-bred animal would take as a
matter of course.

Through a sleeping village, down a narrow
lane. ' There they are cried Jack, pointing
to a group gathered on the bridge over the
brown Teign. ' There is my friend Fulke ;
and that's Pole, the master, just going to put
his hounds into the water. We're in the nick
of time.'

Hooroo ! ' jubilee Bob lustily ; brandishing
a long leaping-pole behind us, to the
danger of our heads, as we drew up.

 Be quiet, you March hare called out
Jack ; and several of the men, to my surprise,
laughed out, and hailed Bob with 'Hollo,
young Brown ! ' and called him ' March hare,'

too. It was my home name for him, picked
up by John, and now evidently widespread.
How Bob had akeady got to know them, since
coming to Wheatfield, was a mystery. But
there never was such a boy for making friends !

There was no time to ask him, for already
the horn had sounded and the hounds taken
eagerly to the water, swimming and wading
up the clear broAvn stream that ran between
the dewy meadows, all gold-spangled with
marsh marigolds.

There seemed about twelve or fourteen
gentlemen in the hunt, for they wore the
same costume as Jack : navy-blue knickerbocker
suits, red or blue stockings, and
striped caps. Most of them carried ,
as did two large-waisted, laughing
cousins of Jack's among the several girls

of the party. Of course, there was the
VOL. I. E

usual following of truant urchins and idlers
attracted from their farm or village Avork 
hut these indeed were few and of small
account.

Are you going to look after us, Jack ? '
called out his cousins in healthy, large
voices.

Not I ! You are much better able to take
care of yourselves. Keep close behind me,
Pleasance was the only answer they got ;
as, vaulting a stile, Jack went up the first
meadow at a sling-trot, just looking back
With one satisfied eye, occasionally, to make
sure I Alas at his heels.

Some fcAv of the more ardent men and
l)oys had taken to the Vater, and Avere splashing
at a rattling pace up-stream ; among them
Bob, who hardly set foot on dry ground that
day. We had gone across all the meadows

without pausing to take breath. Over walls,
through gaps, I scrambled, almost always
without accepting, Jack's help, so that he soon
scarcely seemed to think it necessary to heed
me. My cheeks where glowing ; my hair, that
had been tidily coiled up that morning to
keep it out of my way, was flying in a veil
behind ; and I hardly knew how I felt except
that it was delicious to run, yet grateful to
stop just a few seconds !  when we found ourselves
somehow among Avoids, and that the
hounds were at fault, while two sharp little
terriers were being sent up a suspicious
covered drain, to ask if the otter which we
had found but not seen might be there.

We had paused in Holy Street glen ; and
how lovely it was ! The river twisted and
hurried foaming round the grey rocks in its
bed, while the rising sun played on it through

F 2

the tall trees overhead, and the opposite oak-wood
was knee-deep in masses of blue-bells
shading away into violet. We sat down to
rest and breathe a moment on some of the
many-lichened, mossy boulders around, the
supposed traces of the Druids' holy way that
still gives its name to the glen. Then came a
fresh sound of the horn ; on and on again ;
still down by the river's edge, through copses
that snipped our faces, stumbling among
rocks, out into young wheat-fields, into fresh
difficulties, jumping, climbing, and racing at a
pace to which that of the meadows had been
mere amusement.

Now we were at Lee Bridge, the meeting
of the waters, where the North Teign came
down from Gidleigh. But we took the South
stream on the left ; and here we met trees,
ferny coverts, rocks, and obstacles that piled

and tangled themselves in our pati ever more
and more. Undaunted, still we scrambled
upwards and onwards.

Some now lagged behind, seeing no more
of that day's run. Our numbers were visibly
smaller as we streamed in twos or threes
through the bushes. Most were more silent
of laugh and chaff, and settled to earnest work
now ; all but Bob, who, streaming with water
from his cap down (for he had fallen head
foremost several times), seemed to have jokes
and laughter to the end. For me, my heart
was beating so hard it seemed ready to burst ;
slight mists came before my eyes ; yet, while
Bob ran on, so would I.

A horrible wall suddenly seemed to rise in
the wood before us. Young Gladman and
most of the men splashed at once up to their
knees in the river which met it, so got past,

lout my courage failed at sight of the deep
water. Oh ! why had Jack forsaken me ?
The last of all, with sore fingers, I somehow
clambered to the top of the wall, and beheld a
tall stranger waiting below.

Jump ! ' he cried, stretching up his arms,
into which I jumped, and was carefully seton
my feet. ' Take breath now  ' he ejaculated
; but on a determined shake of my head
he caught my hand and ran a few yards ;
drao-o-ino; me. Then there was a sudden
check. The otter had been headed, and the
hounds Avere foiled.

A rest ! Oh, how sweet was rest ! My
craven heart almost wished they might never
find that scent again.

The woods were in their freshest beauty
around us, but little had we recked of
that. I looked round to thank the unknown ;

but he had vanished in the group of otter-hunters.


A whimper or two, the horn sounds as
gaily as ever, and they are back again ; but
more slowly.

This time I was aware of a pair of strong
arms hoisting me up to that hated wall, and
the same voice as before ordered  ' Stay
there.' Foolish pride urged self-dependence ;
so calling back, ' No, thank you ! I don't
want help,' I jumped unaided, fell, and bruising
my foot on a stone, hobbled on with
sobbing breath, never looking behind nie.
Past the meeting rivers, and up the other
Teign ; over more level ground ; through more
woods ; past exquisite bits of river scenery,
titanic boulders flung in the bed of the
stream ; into a wooded rocky gorge . . .
down again a bit, up again ! . . .

At last we got to an almost impossible part.
My foot was so painful, that, seeing some of
the men spring across stream on what seemed
easy stepping-stones, I followed. One spring
to a round stone wet with spray, then with
slipping feet to another and another, and
then T found myself on a giant flat boulder
exactly amid-stream, and just where the
water was deepest.

Luckless Pleasance ! I had mistaken the
stones and was left, hindmost of all, and
utterly helpless.

The shouts of the hunt came each second
fainter down the gorge ; no sound answered
my calls upon Jack and Bob. In a few
minutes I was alone.

Now this may not seem at first hearing so
bad. Nevertheless, on looking down, the dark
pool on the further side might be six foot

deep, as I fearfully judged  having some
experience  and I could not swim. There
had been a spate very lately, and the water
rushed so eagerly, like a brown, living thing
round those treacherous stepping-stones, that
they disliked me more and more. Besides
from my rock I could not jump back to
them !

No matter, Bob would miss me, and surely
Jack. Till then I would nurse my wounded
foot ; be at rest  a glad rest, drawing my
breath still hard  and look around me ; the
scene was so exquisite.

What if I never saw the tip of the tail
of that poor otter we had been so cruelly
chasing ? My enthusiasm had vanished ; the
sun had risen so high among the trees, it
seemed to me the hour must be getting quite
late, though it was barely nine o'clock ; and, to

confess the truth, besides utter fatigue there
was a curious feeling creeping over me that
might mean hunger.

With my brown hair falling like a veil
about me, and the sunlight striking down
upon my red petticoat and fawn-coloured short
skirt and jacket, I began to dream of myself
as an Undine, with the sentimentalism of
my age. An Undine in strong, laced-up boots,
and a cricketing-cap lent me by Jack crowning
my ' wealth of tresses.' But I clasped my
hands round my knees and unconsciously
glowered around quite appropriately ; wishing
for the help that neither woods nor stones
could give.

On either side, the trees rose in a green
wall, clothing the sides of the gorge. There
was only a narrow space left for the revivifying
blue sunlight to pierce between, and sparkle

on the clear brown water that hurried and
twisted and foamed Uke an element of life
round the white boulders piled in chaos in the
narrow bed of the stream. Here midmost I
was perched, glad as any midge to feel the
sun  a single human speck in that solitude.
Here and there in the clear shallows I could
see the gravel shining like rare pebbles. The
woods around just bursting into leaf were like
a brown network all flecked, spangled, and,
as it were, dropping with green.

And still I was alone. The birds were
trilling up the gorge in scattered song; and
oh ! if on the bank now what skirtfuls
I could have picked of red campion, delicate
lady-smocks, and dearest yellow primroses
, there were beds of trembling wood
anemones, too, and white satin star-flowers
in profusion.

Spring, the sweet spring, is the year's pleasant king;
Then blooms each thing, then aids dance in a ring.'

Flash ! flash ! there jumped the trout in
the water, showing their silver sides. A
wagtail seemed to laugh at me, flirting its
saucy tail, as verily it might, for here sat
Undine still, and yet there was no knight !

Suddenly a human voice called, ' What is
the matter ? ' and there was a man in the
correct otter-hunt costume standing on the
bank ; a gentleman most certainly, if not a
knight.

Then, seeing what was the matter, without
more ado he jumped into the water, which
soon reached above his knees.

CHAPTER VL

We twa hae paicUit i' the burn.'

T WAS last left still seated a prisoner on
my great rock of unfeeling granite in
the middle of the Teign. But my unknown
deliverer was wading towards me.

He seemed a man of few words ; for all he
said in answer to my shamefaced explanations
as to how I came in such plight, was to bid
me hold tightly round his neck. Then taking
me up by one arm, he steadied himself by his
leaping-pole. But noticing me wince as he
placed me safe on the bank, he asked with a
different tone of interest :

Are you hurt, too ? I was afraid of that,
when you would jump down that big wall
by yourself.'

So it Alas you ? ' I exclaimed with eager
recognition ; ' I thought it was, at every step
you took in the water, but I was not sure

Yes ; it was I that gave you a hand, if that
is what you mean ? ' he said, more drijlij (to
make a mild joke !) than the dripping state of
his nether person seemed to me to warrant.
I thought you had hurt yourself ; and that
was how I came to notice that you were not
with us when we got out on the moor there,'
and he nodded up the ravine.

But did you come back on purpose to look
for me ? How kind of you to stop in the
middle of the hunt ! ' I exclaimed shyly, but ina
voice overflowing; with gratitude, whilst I
looked even more thanks. And now that I

had really courage to look at him, he was
really a very handsome man,  old, quite old,
and not a boy like Jack.

Kind to prefer helping a suffering human
being to making a poor otter suffer ! " he said
with a short laugh, that raised a short brown
moustache showing even better teeth than
Jack's.

But my brother  a boy in the Vater 
Bob  did he not think of me ? ' I shyly asked
with injured sisterly feeling ; while secretly
trying to give my loose hair and little red and
blue cap a more prim and comme-il-faut
appearance.

If you mean a fair young fellow that Jack
Gladman and the others called the March
hare, he seemed so perfectly mad after the
otter you ought to forgive him,' said my new
friend, smiling as if despite himself. ' I aman

older hand at it ; but Jack might have
looked after you himself rather more. His
mother will scold him for it, I should think.'

What ! do you know Mrs. Glad man
too?' (joyfully).

Kno2v her ! She and Wheatfield Farm
and Jack are among my oldest and dearest
friends and memories ; I should rather think
I do know her  well. But we are wasting
time, and how are you to get back to her ?
I had better carry you to the nearest cottage ;
and then we'll see what's next best.'

Against this I protested, and did walk
bravely a few yards, hurting myself at every
step, till my protector suddenly said in a kind
scolding voice :

Now, don't be such a silly child ; ' and so
caught me up and bore me through the trees
to a cottage near, whether I would or no.

Secretly I would, for the pain had been
sharp. Besides, evidently there was no use
remonstrating with a man who used so few
words and always had his own way. One
felt he would be master; it was in his face
and in his voice, or so I thought, being still
almost a child in my ideas. If I was right it
was woman's instinct, for he had not a
frowning brow, or stern deep-set eyes, or a
lip that betrayed unfaltering resolution, or
anything especially determined in his appearance
; and Bob said afterwards, on being
privately told my opinion, that it was all
bosh ! and he  my deliverer  was the most
good-natured fellow in the world, though very
likely he wouldn't stand nonsense.

Anyway, at the cottage he made me unlace

my boot myself, as from modesty I strictly

forbade his doing so. And then he borrowed
VOL. I. G

a rough big pony fresh from the harrow, its
head being still adorned with blinkers and
rope-reins.

Now, can you lend me something by way
of a saddle for the young lady ? ' went on the
voice of my friend outside. Meanwhile I satin
the cottage kitchen on a settle, and alternately
marvelled at my new acquaintance, and
at the queer German scriptural prints on the
walls. Some Autolycus must have found
them good pedlar's ware, for every cottage
parlour round the country-side was hideous
with them.

Oh, my dear creature  ' answered the
cottage goodwife in easy Devonshire tones,
without seeming to disturb herself in the
least, ' what would us do with a saddle ?
Hurls have to sit on hur ' (this last meaning
the mare) ' barebacked just

Come now, look here ; I've unharnessed
the pony myself, and you've had no trouble,
so get me a clean sack like a good soul,  do
now.'

Bless us, a sack ! Johnny, Jemmy, Susan,
where is the potato sack to, anyway ? '

'Don't trouble yourselves. Tve got one ; '
and returning for me, my friend in need
coolly routed out a new sack from behind the
meal-barrel. He first put it, and then myself
triumphantly atop of the vulgar steed ; seized
the reins himself. So  walking close beside
me lest I should slip  along the lanes we
jogged back to Wheatfield Earm, a strange
pair. In after days the memory of our
homeward conversation all faded away. Only
I knew that, short as my companion's remarks
were, they were so full of kindly pity
and purpose that soon I found myself, to my

G 2

own surprise, talking to him as if he had been
an old friend of the family, or some elder
cousin, of whom I was not in the least
afraid.

It was a long way back ; and once or twice
I checked myself, ashamed of my ease and
familiarity. But then my friend had been so
kind all morning, and was taking such good
care of me on the pony. Besides, he knew
the Gladmans well, so that he must be
nice.' And not daring to ask his name, I
began to spin all sorts of romantic surmises
about him in my brain, till it was indeed a
tangle.

Coming round the bend of the lane, we
saw Mrs. Gladman busy tidying her garden
under the encircling shade of a straw hat
the size of a cart-wheel ; and Mary Munch 
her stout, wholesome cook, dairy-woman, and

goodness knows what not besides !  absolutely
standing idle, with a sun-bonnet tilted over
her eyes, and her bare arms akimbo.

'Why, yonder's Missy and Mr. Fulke,'
she called out loudly. 'Whatever has happened
to hur ? '

'What! Mr. Pulke ! I am so glad to
have you back again among us. But . . .
Pleasance, child, is anything the matter?'
cried Mrs. Gladman in her turn, hurrying
to open the white gate for us. Then, as
we both explained my light accident, she
caressed me, and said, reassured, ' Well,
I am glad you were with Mr. Pulke, at
all events. You could not be in better
hands.'

They had put me down on a garden
seat carefully, and only as the name was
repeated did it flash through my mind with

bitter disappointment that my good-looking
stranger was  only the bank clerk.

Stay and have some brexfass now, Mr.
Fulke/ urged Mary Munch familiarly, as I
slowly recovered from my mental shock ; ' I
was looking up the lane for Master Jack and
the rest, thinking you'd all be as hungry
as hunters sure-ly.'

'And she can do nothing, she is so distressed
at her grand breakfast being in there
uneaten,' laughed Mrs. Gladman.

Can't  thank you. My poor mother,
you know,' lowering his voice. 'This is
just the time she would like me to help
her outside, to sit in the garden.'

Ah, well ! but then you will come this
evening to tea, at least ? '

To which last the visitor nodded thanks
and went off, lifting his hat to me before I

could summon any fit form of words in which
to express my gratitude to him.

By-and-by, after my foot had been dressed
with Hly-leaves, and I was settled comfortably
on the wooden window-seat in the parlour,
having had some of Mary Munch's ' fine
brexfass/ Mrs. Gladman said, with a cordial
smile, as if sure of my ready sympathy :

Come now, let us talk about Mr.
Fulke. Don't you think him very handsome,
Pleasance ? He always reminds me
of a young sun-god.'

1 secretly smiled in my imagined superiority;
for my good old friend had a still
romantic heart within her stout body, as I had
discovered.

Well ; I can't say that I exactly thought
him a Bahadur the Beautiful, though I am
sure he is a  very nice young man,' I

flippantly answered, tossing my head that
was humble enough at home as the family
goose, hut here, being covered by unusual
caresses. Jack's big boyish devotion, and his
mother's fond admiration, had become quite
impudent.

What a conceited young hussy my dear
motherly hostess must have thought me !
But perhaps she knew the tiresome airs of
little bread-and-butter misses, which seem a
general phase of their existence, since she
always bore mine with an angel's patience.
Looking at her, by-and-by, I saw by her
silence she was hurt. She had left the
sunny garden and her pleasant morning's work
outside to sit in the dull brown parlour with
a lame chit of a girl, and in return was almost
snubbed about her favourite Mr. Fulke.

Peeling something of this, in secret

penitence, I hazarded the remark  'Isn't it
rather a pity, as Mr, Fnlke is so pleasant, that
he should be only a bank clerk ? ' My idea
of banks was hitherto that of our small
county town one, between the baker's and the
haberdasher's shops.

Mrs. Gladman stopped knitting Jack's
heather hose, and stared at me in amazement.

Bless my heart, child ! Why, the bank he
is in is one of the oldest in Pendant or
anyioliere ; and requires the highest interest to
get into. Then he may become a junior
partner, and think what a fortune he would
retire upon some day. I only wish my boy
had such a chance ! . . But there,  it is not
given to every one to have such a strong, self-denying
nature, and give up all the field-sports
and pleasant society that a young man
is so fond of. Perhaps Jack will be happier

on his little patrimony, like his fathers before
him, though nowadays it is no such great
inheritance

Knowing that the Gladmans' estate, though
retaining its old-fashioned name of farm,
ranked respectably among those of the first
squires around, whilst the family themselves
were acknowledged to be of older origin than
most  I was doubly surprised in turn.

And has Mr. Fulke been accustomed then
to field-sports and good society?' I pursued,
still half-incredulous ; pulling the mantle of
my mother's manner about me, and my voice
betraying the fact.

'Don't make a mistake, Pleasance. He
is certainly reduced to poverty, through no
fault of his ; but he can boast of a far older
and better family than either you or I.'
' Then is it not a pity he did not choose

one of the professions instead ? ' said the foolish
spirit possessing my childish mind, as I
unconsciously mimicked my mother. 'The
army or the Church.'

Your father was not the worse man for
being in trade, I think,' returned Mrs. Glad-man,
with such dry significance that the
ashamed blood rushed to my cheeks, and
quick salt tears to my eyes.

Of course our father was always perfect, as
every one knew. But now he had become
quite a country gentleman ; and though he
was ready enough to talk of his past life, our
mother deftly turned the subject often  or
would intimate to us young ones afterwards,
with a flattering praise we lovingly accepted 
that he had been a brilliant exception among
his fellow workers ; but that she would not
willingly see a son of hers go back to the

class from which her husband had raised himself
by his distinguished abilities.

Knowing this, as an old family friend, Mrs.
Gladman laid her hand tenderly on my arm.

Perhaps you were arguing for argument's
sake, dear ; young people sometimes do.'

Demonstrations of affection were supposed
ridiculous in our family ; save always those
of my father. But his were all of a most
unsentimental nature, such as catching us
girls and scrubbing our softer faces with
his rough whiskers, alternately with kisses.
Nevertheless, I stole out my hand to stroke
that of my excellent friend, v\hich completed
our restored good understanding.

Then she told me a good deal about Mr.
Fulke. How that he had a mother living ina
pretty cottage half a mile off, up at the
glen's mouth  one which I had admired at a

distance. This poor lady was slowly dying of
a painful illness that had darkened her latter
life, and made even her son's companionship
at times a burden to them both. Yet .his
devotion to her, whenever he could get a few
spare days, was beautiful ; and he denied himself
in all things for her sake. ' I have known
him walk out here from Exeter, and be ill,
footsore, and dusty  just for that reason, not
that he would ever say so ! ' exclaimed Mrs.
Gladman, ending her panegyric. (I felt so
glad now the poor man had had that lift
yesterday in the grocer's cart.)

After this, that evening I received Mr.
Eulke so graciously when he came before tea,
that he sat down beside me with quite an air
of good comradeship.

Ah ! I can see by your manner that poor
foot is better, Miss Pleasance. It was paining;

you when T left the farm this morning.
I saw that ; for you could not speak tome.'


He looked at me so honestly with kindly
pity, that my heart was full of shame, remembering
why I would not thank him then ;
and I looked down.

'Tell me,' he went on, 'have I not got
your name right,  Pleasance ? It struck me
this morning as so quaint and pretty.'

I am glad you like it,' I murmured,
feeling pleased, for at home my mother
sighed secretly, I knew, over the Brown
cognomen.

Yes ; and it just suits her,' said Mrs.
Gladman, patting my shoulder, as she approached
to call us to tea.

Then Jack insisted on carvings me. He
quite bothered me with his sorrow and

contrition ; but he did not lift me nearly so
comfortably as my previous bearer.

Tea was a noble meal at the farm ; very
different from our former schoolroom milk
and water diet. Mrs. Gladman gloried in
her snowy table-linen and the brightness
of her silver tea and coffee service. Then
there was always such a great round of
pressed beef for Jack and Bob to whet
their appetites on ; and the home-made bread
was so excellent ; the butter and cream surpassing
all I have ever tasted since ; besides
the great fresh currant-cakes and home-made
gooseberry jam that Bob and I devoured
nightly between us.

At this excellent repast our new guest
laughingly described how I had distinguished
myself that morning in the otter-hunt.

'I saw a young Atlanta come flying past

me, Mrs. Gladman, taking every fence like
a bird.'

Jack's cousins ran better than I did,
for they kept up all day,' I interposed,
in the interests of justice, though highly
flattered.

*What? Emmy and Bessie  oh, they
have got such big feet, no wonder they can
cover the ground,' scoffed Jack ; * but,'
looking at me with silly partiality, like
the dear booby he was, ' how your tiny little
ones can fly along at such a pace is a
wonder ! '

'And a nice sort of goose she was to go
and stick on a rock in a hop-o'-my-thumb
river like that,' put in brother Bob, stuffing
his mouth full. He considered the sort of
addition going on very hurtful to a sisterly
nature, so felt bound to counteract it.

Mrs. Gladraan also thinking the conversation
too personal for me, turned it.

Well, Bob, how would you like to give up
thoughts of the army and live in Devonshire
with us ? '

Wouldn't I just ? ' said the youth. ' Only
my mother says, I must be a soldier. So long
as there is peace I'll like it jolly well, I daresay
; but I do not see the fun of being shot.'

*You are more honest than brave then
said the stranger with an amused laugh.

Oh, I'm just like lots of other fellows.
(Some more jam, please.) There's an old
pensioner with a wooden leg in the village
near our place. Stoke  she's called Jerry Plant,
and he told me when the bullets were flying
round him he'd have liked to run but for
shame's sake, and the men round wouldn't
have let him get away. " Eight you are,

VOL. I. H

Jerry' said I, " and I know I'd have liked
to race you." 

And is old Jerry alive still ? ' asked Mr.
Fulke with roused interest. ' I mean does he
still adorn your home, Stoke ? '

'Oh, he's all alive. But he's not at
Stoke itself. That's our own place, and
the best one in England, too,' quoth Bob
easily.

It is the dearest old home in the world ! '
I warmly added, both of us rushing into
our favourite subject, till I noticed that Mrs.
Gladman was troubled ; and remembered we
might be recalling to the guest how his
family had lost their estate.

Pray don't stop them. It does me good
to listen to such warm affection for their
home,' he said, in an undertone to Mrs.
Gladman.

However, Jack turned the talk, blundering
in d propos of nothing. ' Well, if I was in
any man's shoes, I'd as soon as any one else
be you, Fulke. Still ; though I'll never have
a fortune, nor make one on the Farm, perhaps
for a stupid chap like me I'm as happy as
I am

His older friend smiled kindly on the
honest young fellow, and quoted 

Happy the man whose wish and care

A few imtei'ndl acres bound,
Content to breathe his native air
In his own ground.'

That evening, and the following ones,
what merry times we had with Jack and his
friend at casino, commerce, and such good old
games; whilst Mrs. Gladman laughed at us,
sewing placidly under the lamp. But our
days were soon made even more pleasant by

H 2

Mr. Fulke, who had promised to give Bob
lessons in fishing  himself being the most
accomplished angler far or near, as we learnt.
So, my foot being soon better, I must needs
go with them too.

What merry forenoons down the glen
were those we spent ! lunching under the
birches and romans, and then rambling
homewards lazily while Mr. Fulke fished
upon his way. Bob carried the basket with
admiring eyes, and I was laden with great
sprays of hawthorn-blossom. It was the
time when

The palm and May make country-houses gay ; '
Lambs frisk and play, the shepherds pipe all day,
And we hear aye birds tune this merry lay, 
Cuckoo, jug-jug, pu-we, tu-witta-woo.*

Jack, meanwhile, used to pity himself for
having to attend some large spring fairs, which

lie vowed were dull instead of our society, for
he loved Mr. Fulke dearly : but Bob absolutely
worshipped him like a devoted dog.

Then Mr. Fulke went away. And although
he had used to say so few words, his large
presence seemed to have brought a sunlight
of soul into the old brown parlour, we were
so dull without him. But then we likewise
said good-bye ; and once more saw Stoke
woods welcoming us.

Of course, after our parents' caresses and
remarks on our improved condition were done,
our brethren boisterously demanded full 
circulars of our visit to Arcadia. Bob, thereby
upon, burst into blaring praise of our new
friend, whose virtues he could have trumpeted
J) for hours unwearied ; but, I, without quite
knowing why, had become shy of doing the
same now I was home again.

Mj mother, listening, asked me however
some details as to Bob's last hero ; and
then lifting her eyebrows ever so slightly
with languid gentleness of manner pronounced


One of Mrs. Gladman's proteges, I see.
Good soul ! she is always taking up people
who have come down in the world. He can't
be anything very much ; so I hope you were
not too intimate with him, young as you are.'

Too intimate ? My heart sank, remembering
how freely Bob and I had babbled to
that bank clerk, till he must have known
about Stoke and its charms and our pursuits
almost as well as ourselves. And he had
always drawn us out more and more  unless
we came near revealing too much of home
life; then, I remembered, he had always
checked our impulsive tongues.

In time I did forget Mr. Eulke ; yet, till
I had grown up and grown out of those
pleasant memories, he remained my ideal of
a good son, fisherman, clerk, and loyal
gentleman.

CHAPTER VII.

TT7E have all grown nmcli, much older,
since last I described our happy visit
to Dartmoor in our golden age.

And now a great family event is agitating
our circle. Alice is engaged to be married,
to one of the matrimonial big prizes of last
season  the rich Sir Dudley Digges.

It is after a London season  my first
season, which seemed to me all hurry, racket,
some delights and perhaps more disappointment
; and in which nobody fell in love with
me, nor I with anybody so far as I knew ;
though secretly longing to have met two or

three once-seen partners again  after all this
we were once more at dear Stoke, to prepare
for Alice's wedding.

Sir Dudley was expected to arrive in the
afternoon, and there was to be a great family
gathering to meet him.

Beau had foregone some last days at Cowes
to be present. Having set the seal of his approval
upon Ace's union, to my mother's great
delight ; for she looked on her first-born as an
oracle of the world of fashion. He was now
a ' young man about town ; ' not knowing what
work he should do, in spite of my father's recommendations,
nor much wishing to discover
any ; rather fine  but still very kind to us all.
Bob had come gaily from his crammers, dry
with knowledge, he said, and thirsting for fun.
Rose, who had been left in the country with
her governess, was wild to see a wedding.

These two last were noah plying me with
questions, as to how it all happened ? which I
was unsuccessfully trying to parry. For the
truth was that I had felt a certain fastidious
regret about ' losing ' my sister, and to Sir
Dudley too, which Alice herself had promptly
laughed me into suppressing.

It was before five o'clock tea-time ; and we
happened to have the dear old drawing-room
to ourselves. Stoke was like Adam and Eve's
bower that summer. Flowers, flowers were
everywhere, from those beautifully painted on
the brown-panelled walls to the rarest of
orchids massed in the delicate china jars or
fairy-like ideas in Venetian glass which our
mother's exquisite taste had disposed around.
She had delightfully modernized this old-fashioned
room. The colours were all of
the richest but subdued shades. Generations

(of former owners) had amassed with loving
pride the beautiful objects around ; Venetian
chandeliers, Eastern hangings, old miniatures,
matchless ivory and ebony furniture, stiff and
fragile ; but for comfort  oh ! the deepest and
most delicious of modern lounges to ' do
nothing ' in. And roses  roses everywhere 
peeped in ; framing the long glass windows set
wide open, and giving vistas of fresh flowers
glowing all round the smooth greensward,
where the fountains always plashed in their
pebbled nooks and creepers trailed over from
their flower-full vases. Then away below the
terraced slope, the lake gleamed in the sunlit
glen  surrounded by the deep green woods
which refreshed the eyes, insensibly wearied
by the intense brilliance of the flower-beds
burning with geraniums and anemones.
But how did he propose ? tell us that ? '

cried Rose directly, transfixing me with her
bright brown eyes. Rose was declared by our
mother  (as youngest she was the favourite)
to have the most common sense of us all.

Yes ; that's it chirped Bob, putting his
long yellow head quizzically on one side.

Oh well ; I may tell you that, for Alice
told several of her friends while I was by one
day, so I heard it,' I replied, feeling sure of
my ground, and faithfully repeating our eldest
sister's words. ' She said she never thought
the old thing (I mean, correcting myself, she
said the dear old thing) cared about her till
one afternoon he began mumbling so to her
she could not think what he was saying. But
at last he asked clearly, might he speak to
mother, so Alice guessed of course, and said
he had much better, thinking it would save
trouble. Then he went to mother, who was

sitting in her boudoir  and they arranged it
all between them.'

And was that all ? ' uttered Bob disgusted,
whilst Rose scrutinized me still with
calmly expectant eyes.

Oh well, nearly all  at least Alice said ;
'then he just touched her fringe with his
beard, and she felt in such a panic lest he had
made it look frightful for the afternoon under
her bonnet ; " that was all  ' I ended, assuming
an air of cynical lightness.

My younger brother and sister eyed me
with evident disapprobation.

And that's what you women have all been
making such a fuss about. I call it very
poor sport pronounced Bob in disgust.

Yes, and I didn't expect it of you,
Pleasance, either, to speak in such a heartless
way about it. Why, I don't believe Alice

can care for him one bit ! ' added Rose,
denouncing my worldliness. Whilst I 
conscious of having cried bitterly in secret
at the idea of our pretty Alice tying herself
voluntarily to a middle-aged dullard  dropped
my wedding-mask of complacency and looked
at them both rather miserable-eyed.

What's the use of tormenting oneself when
Alice is so delighted about it; and mother
and Beau, and all the rest of the world ? '
I abruptly asked.

Oh, none at all,' promptly agreed Bob.
Only you look as if you had been doing so
all the same ! which as yourself remarked
is foolish. So long as Alice likes it, wdiat's
the odds ? '

Here he began airily trying to balance my
mother's best Sevres bonbonniere on his nose,
to its extreme peril and my terror.

*Well, no; you can't help it, Pleasance
chimed in Rose, who like Bob had begun
to see the matter from another side, and to
think any extreme personal sensibility on my
part misplaced. She was happy in having
a mind that always trotted cheerfully along
the level in opinions, and even dipped and
rose as little in joys and sorrows as could
reasonably be consistent with a loving little
heart and good temper. But I felt as if
the rest of my family were always weighing
me, even in small matters, and finding me
light in the balance. Mene, mene tekel,
upharsin!  My own fault. Why must I be
ever dangerously climbing along the heights
of enthusiasm or painfully floundering in the
depths of woe ?

You might tell us what our brother-in-law
is like, however,' pursued Bob ; nearly upsetting

two fragile chairs and a little table by
stretching his legs out to their extremest
length before him, and his arms behind his
head likewise to an alarming extent as he
yawned.

*Yes, do begin; what is his hair like?'
demanded Rose.

'It is not so much black-silvered as
grizzled I replied, transposing Hamlet.
But it's thick enough still except for one
bald patch just on the crown, and he has a
beard rather less grizzled, that always seems
trying to turn up and look at his face.'

That's pretty  Rose ! Well, what sort of
sized man is he, Pleasance ? '

Oh, he is big enough and stout, too ; not
amiss in that way.' (I secretly admired men
of goodly stature.) 'His head may be a
trifle large ; but not much.'

That's better, Bob ; and what eyes,
Pleasance ? '

His eyes are not good, poor man. They
are small and light-coloured, and his eyelashes
are very pale.'

Dreadful ! He must look just like a pig,'
ejaculated Rose, hitting off a resemblance in
poor Sir Dudley's eyes which had secretly
struck me before.

He did not make himself, or choose his
eyes either,' was my retort, nevertheless ;
feeling the censure too unfair.

Well, but look here, Pleasance,' cried Bob,
raising his voice as requesting a final decision.
Since we are acknowledged to be a family of
two sorts. Browns and Beaumanoirs, which
division will our respected brother-in-law
belong to  the stupid or the shining Hghts,
eh?'

VOL, I. I

*Well, I think he is certainly more of a
goose than a swan,' I answered laughing.
Perhaps as he is a great gourmand and
complains of a liver, we might call him a
Strasbourg goose ! '

Pleasance !  I am shocked and surprised ! '
said my mother's voice. Entering with her
light footfall, she had heard the latter part of
our conversation, and added in a tone low but
so cold it withered me :  It is wrong, even
unchristian, to prejudice your young brother
and sister in this way. What better do you
expect, I wonder, than such a splendid match
as your elder sister is making? Sir Dudley
Digges's personal merits quite satisfy the rest
of your family ; but your ideas are so ridiculous
that perhaps you will want to turn nurse
or missionary, or to marry a penniless curate.
At least, I beg you will not try to make Rose

as foolish as yourself; for some day I look to
her making quite as good a marriage as
Alice.' Contrary to her usual self-possession
our mother left the room after saying this, her
step somewhat agitated, and her still graceful
figure heaving with an anger she would not
otherwise betray.

Unlucky me ! . . . Why, oh why ! had she
not come five minutes sooner to have heard
the perfect propriety of my sentiments, till
the honest expressions of my favourite brother
and sister had stirred my heart ?

Poor Pleasance ! You have put your foot
in it this time,' uttered Bob in a pitying
voice.

I am so sorry ! But perhaps we had
better take ourselves out of sight for a little
till it has blown over,' added Rose, young as
she was, being practical. I finished my tea in

I 2

guilty silence, and we stole out on the lawn,
just out of direct view of the windows,
but ready if summoned to the august Digges'
presence.

Meanwhile, we had heard my father's
quick cheery step in the inner hall ;
then my mother evidently arrested the
onward progress we were all three hailing
with joy.

It flashed upon me, with that quick insight
we gain into the motives of those with whom
we live, that her reason in going out to meet
him so quickly, was to avoid my father's
entering during any possible further discussion
of Sir Dudley.

Somehow I felt sure he was in sympathy
with me ; that his evident sorrow at losing
his pretty Alice was deeper than it need have
been, whilst there seemed a forced acquiescence

when mother so often with gentlest
artifices strove to place his future son-in-law
before him in the most flattering light. Yes ;
many little things  half-sighs I had caught,
if no one else, a look stolen at Alice now and
again of troubled, fond inquiry, an almost
imperceptible clouding of that dear sunny
face when the subject of the marriage was
uppermost  all came with new conviction to
my mind. I was sorry for him, dear old dad ;
but wonderfully consoled by the thought
that we two felt alike.

What are you three out here for, looking
as glum as owls ? ' asked Alice, tripping out
of the glass-door, and looking so pretty and
light-hearted as she joined us. Her golden-brown
hair was waved all over her small
head, and fringed on her forehead. She had
the roundest of laughing faces, with no

noticeable features but good eyes and a
most kissable little mouth with perfect teeth
the general effect being that of a charming
child's face. ' She looks so innocent
said many people. Truly, as Shakspeare
sang ;

If she be made of red and white,
Her faults shall ne'er be known.'

But before any of us could or would answer
Alice, a little Gothic door near us, leading
from the shrubbery, opened with a sharp
click, and Miss Bee Beaumanoir appeared
beside us, emerging with the briskness of a
female Jack-in-the-box. Although she was
expected this evening, still she always contrived
to make her mode of arrival 2?e-expected
to her own vast delight.

Well, chickabiddies ! here I am,' she
exclaimed, as we crowded round her. She

seemed positively to have the very same
gown and bonnet on her spare little personas
when first we had beheld her.

So here's the pretty bride. Well, Miss
Brown, my dear, I hope you're not too fine
to speak to me.' (For years she had taken
peculiar pleasure in addressing Alice with
this sentence.) 'Is your bridegroom paying
a good price for you, eh ? But I won't keep
you now ; for I've an idea that he was driving
along the approach as I took the short cut
through the shrubbery. So be off to meet
him. No, no  we won't come in until the
tender greetings are over ! '

Alice shrugged her pretty shoulders and
went indoors, still turning her head to smile
and nod back at us, with a most easy disengaged
air. Her figure looked charming
in her pale-pink summer gown that fitted

exquisitely, and was coquettishly trimmed
with lace on flounces and furbelows.

Upon my word, Alice looks as if she had
been turned into a jelly, and run into that
gown,' went on Miss Beaumanoir, as I may
sometimes call her, since she did not greatly
like being often addressed as 'aunt.' Then
turning to me : ' Now, child, let me see you !
Come ; you're filled out, and grown taller than
ever ; but you're too pale, and you've still got
that old trick of looking one through and
through with those great eyes of yours.
Pray, why are you not in a pink gown too,
instead of this sad-coloured grey calico ? '

 You see, Alice always dislikes so much
our dressing alike, as if we had no different
ideas between us,' I murmured. ' So as she
always wears pinks and blues, and that she
chooses my dresses for me  '

You get only greys and greens cried my
grand-aunt with an expressive grimace.

Pleasance, my dear, with your want of
spirit, what a nice sort of first season you
must have had! Did Alice allow you an
admirers, or did she throw you a few of her
cast-off ones ? But you were always the
same from a child ; why can't you assert your
own rights instead of being made to sit
with your back to the horses through life.'

Some one 77mst give up in a large family,
if things are to go smoothly,' I answered,
flashing out with an evidence of possessing
some of that spirit my grand-aunt disbelieved
in. But she did not heed  being engrossed
suddenly like Bob and Rose in listening to
the sound of voices in the drawing-room.
We all crept nearer, just sheltered by the
projection of the bay window. It was a

shabby trick; but our grand-aunt was foremost.


Yes ! I drove along very comfortably
from the station in Mr. Brown's dog-cart.
Thought you would have come to meet me,
Alice Oh, all right  doesn't matter ! '
Sir Dudley was heard saying in a thick voice,
without the smallest variation of tone. ' Had
a queer sort of companion, though. An old
woman who was trailing her gown along in
the dust, just like the foolishness of those
kind of people (not that it was worth picking
out of the gutter) ; she hailed me and asked,
if I was coming in this direction, would I
kindly give her a lift. So, 'pon my honour, as
it's so hot a day, and she seemed carrying a
bundle, or something that must have tired
her, you'll all think me very soft, but I said
*' Up you get ! " and she hopped up. However,

your groom seemed to know about her,
for he whispered to me it was all right.'
Miss Bee crept nearer the window.

But what became of her ? ' asked my
mother rather anxiously.

Well, I brought her up your drive here
till we came to what I saw was the back way
to the stables and so forth, so then I said,
My good woman ! you had better get down
here ; that's evidently your road." So down
she got, and I suppose at this moment she
is being entertained by your cook. Queer
old girl  wonder who she was ? '

'Would you know her again if you saw
her ? ' asked our venerable aunt, suddenly
stepping in through the open low window.

Tableau inside ! Sir Dudley's feelings and
those of my mother may be imagined.

CHAPTER VIII.

rpHE days that now preceded the wedding
seemed still all racket and bustle no less
than in London, if differently so ; and I felt
even more alone. Each post and train brought
wedding-presents and new dresses, to see
which unpacked gave the greatest delight to
every female mind in the house, next to
receiving these themselves ; yet generally,
when I cried out with admiration at sight of
some fresh lovely object, Alice would carelessly
answer after this fashion :

Why, I thought I had shown it to everybody
the other day. Don't bother, Pleasance

dear. Oh, the Mckenzie sent it, or the
Mackintoshes, I believe  shabby enough of
them ! Now I must settle about the bridesmaids'
dresses, and you are only in the way.
You might just go out to the garden and
amuse poor old Dudley.'

Sir Dudley, smoking rather sulkily along
the terraces, would however have none of my
timidly-offered ministrations. Plainly if Alice
would not herself come for one of the tete-dite
interviews he stolidly tried to get and she
as laughingly avoided, he declined all others
of the inferior sex ; but consoled himself with
the ' Times,' or was conducted for the fiftieth
time round the farmyard by father with
anxious efforts for his entertainment.

One especial day, thus relieved from my
disagreeable task, I roamed in the gardens to
enjoy a few moments of sweet, perfect stillness

away from the house turmoil. Though
every tree, bush, and flower of dear Stoke
welcomed me back, yet there was still a sense
of disappointment in my heart, and I wished
myself a child again. Little though Alice
had allowed me to be her companion, the
vague hope of becoming more to her had
always led me on  though she would have
laughed at my sisterly longing as sentimental.
Really, I was lonely those days ; and no one
clung more to companionship. My mother ?
well, she liked first to enjoy a large and
exclusive share of my father's society ; next,
that of her favourite children ; lastly, she had
the constant care of our position in society.
Beau was a Sevres china sort of elder brother,
much admired from a distance, but seldom
brought into contact with us country bumpkins.
Bob, my best-beloved, seldom seemed

to care, when at home, to give up an hour's
amusement for me. Rose was still fast bound
by that iron rule, perhaps wholesome, of many
English mothers like our own, whose schoolroom
girls are not permitted to be seen except
at lunch-time ; their society being restricted
to that of their governess, and their wildest
indulgences to currant-cake at six-o'clock tea
and a good cry over the ' Heir of Radcliffe.'

I scarcely ever saw her.

My father alone  ! But as I was thinking,
he came down the gravelled path towards me.
He had evidently escaped from Sir Dudley,
and was weary, for the old quick tread was
slow and heavy.

Well, my pet ! why are you by yourself? '
he asked, putting his arm round my
shoulders, and relaxing from his occupied air
into a slow saunter of satisfaction. ' I don't

like to see you so much alone, do you
know, Pleasance ? It's not good for young
people.'

Who is there for me to be with ? ' I
asked, glad and contented at once by his
presence, adding with a mock pout, a piece
of silly gaiety I never indulged in to others :
You never have time to spare for me now ;
and you know very well no one else especially
wants me

Ah, well,' said my father with a quick
half-sigh that surprised me, as he tightened
his embrace, ' I can't give you as much
companionship as I would like, dear ; but as
I may have to lose you too, like Alice, I can
hardly tell you, my child, how earnestly
I trust your husband may be a goodman
whom you can entirely love and
respect'

I thought of Sir Dudley almost with a
shudder; and drew closer to his shoulder,
exclaiming, ' Oh, father, I never want to leave
you!'

He smiled, well pleased, but rather sadly
(I remember wondering why at the time).

My pet ; we must part in the course of
nature long before your life's race will be
run. May the All wise Father of us all send
you a udder, better companion on the road
than your old father.'

Please, sir,' said a footman appearing at
this moment, ' Mrs. Brown wants you particularly
to come in.'

We two approached the windows  our first
dear discourse since many a day thus stopped
short. My mother rustled out, in her invariably
handsome dress, to meet us ; looking
like an anxious General whose second in

VOL. I. K

command had left her alone to bear the day's
heat and burden.

My dear, do you know that Sir Dudley
is alone in the drawing-room ? ' she said, in
gentle reproach. Then turning to me with a
more injured tone : ' And really, Pleasance,
instead of idling, you might be helping your
poor sister, I think. There are two dozen
notes of thanks for presents to be written,
and you can easily imitate Alice's hand. She
has left the list for you in the library.'

In very truth, since early morning till late
at night, I had been slaving and toiling for
Alice, without a word of thanks or even
recognition ; yet it was only now I felt really
vexed. I knew Alice lead time in plenty to
write her own letters, since she simply flitted
like a butterfly from her dresses to her
presents : and then  well, she might have

deigned to consult me a little about my own
bridesmaid's dress ! On second thoughts, however,
my sister was more anxious to suit the
rather different figures and complexions of the
two Miss Pawletts, nieces of the bridegroom.
Lady Pawlett, Sir Dudley's sister, was a
person of influence in London society, and ' so
much depended on pleasing her ! ' our mother
had anxiously said, thinking of her daughter's
first flight alone from the paternal nest.
Out upon my selfishness, then !  yet I wished
our wedding over, whilst turning meekly
indoors.

But, Ada, this is becoming a tax,' said
my father decidedly. ' Alice must come and
entertain Sir Dudley herself, instead of
putting it on all of us.'

She is so busy, poor child,' said my
mother excusing. ' She has been setting

K 2

out all her presents in my boudoir for show ;
and he will go in and disturb her so,
she says, that really she can do nothing
right.'

No matter ; it is her duty to try and
please him, so the sooner she begins the
better.'

It will be all right, you will see, after
marriage,' declared my mother with such
a tone of thorough conviction in her voice,
that I, hearing no more, might well suppose
the discussion ended.'

This was one of her favourite maxims. Perhaps,
secretly, she believed in its infallibility
from her own experience ; since certainly her
own was a case in point. Herself supposed
to have made a match rather of prudence
and esteem than of affection  although my
father's ardent attachment to the poor county

beauty was a matter of history  there was
no doubt that ' after marriage ' he had entirely
won her heart by devoting to her a
life-time of constant, forbearing devotion ;
whilst she recognized that such a wise
superior mind as his does not always accompany
so large and patient a heart. We all
knew that whilst loving her own way and to
affect rule, yet she leaned in the main more
on my father's strong Brown sense than she
would have owned  even at the very time she
might be trying to sway him to a Beaumanoir
whim, and that seldom in vain, by the
affection he bore her.

Slaving away, Cinderella 1 ' remarked my
grand-aunt's cynical old voice. ' Bless me,
how hot I am ! I've been out with Bob
breaking in the bay filly till I nearly got a
sunstroke. It's a pity I've not a fortune,

or I'd leave it all to that boy. We've been
enjoying ourselves finely, while you've been
moped in this dark library till you look as
grave and lonely as a nun. I'll tell you
what it is, Pleasance, you want billets doux
and chiffons to brighten you up, as the
French say, who know women well. With
a pink dress like Alice's, and a lover,
you'd see what a different girl you would
be

I must be different, indeed, if I could
stand a lover like Alice's,' I cried, gathering
up all my notes that Miss Bee's old shawl
had swept far and wide over the polished
floor.

My grand-aunt was most kind to me,
yet her sympathy was not always pleasing.
She pickled her good-nature in vinegar too
often, and was as exaggerated in her words

as in her dress and manners. She would
have given us to her last crust and penny
with all her kindly queer heart, but had
not to give me other gifts most prized
from those we love,  wise womanly counsel,
delicate understanding, all the guidance,
forbearance, and help that are the fruits
of experience and affection in our elders.
Besides, one could better romp with dear
old Bee than venerate so -venerable a
grand-aunt.

One afternoon, two days later, I was
sitting alone in the little flower-garden,
called My Lady's garden, after a long dead
Lady Betty, who had married a Brace when
George L was king ; and had left for
all memories of a short sweet youth, this
pretty pleasaunce planned in the bride-year
that was her last; and a full-length portrait

inserted in the wainscoting of our
inner hall.

So, I was alone, and for once idle.
The others had all gone off, a large party,
in the coach to meet Lady Pawlett and
her daughters at the station ; Beau driving,
but Bob consoling himself loudly with the
horn.

/ There is hardly room for you, Pleasance,*
Alice had said graciously, as prime minister ;
still come if you like

Pleasance, there is no room for you ; so
you will stay and see that tea is ready for us,'
my mother gently commanded, adding in a
lower tone : ' I want Sir Dudley and Alice to
have the back seat to themselves, and it does
not really matter much about your making
friends with the Pawlett girls.'

So they started, and in the sunny, sleepy

afternoon I was sitting in the remotest corner
of this my favourite nook, hilled by the hour,
the unusual quiet, the heavy flower-scents,
and the ' hot noise of bees There were
several summer-houses hidden in various
green recesses of My Lady's garden,  a shell-house,
a thatched bower inlaid with wood, and
this last, my favourite, lined with blue Dutch
tiles showing the true story of Reynard the
Fox. It had low oaken seats in which one
could really rest, and look out through lattices
of coloured glass  wide opened this day  at
the lake and glen on one side ; or up green
alleys lined with flowers, to where above
the topmost terraces some gable or chimney
of Stoke could just be seen.

I was looking out of one of the windows,
framed in sweet jessamine, my head leant
idly on my hand, and a book dropped

side-ways cloAvn, while I hummed from
memory 

Gather ye rosebuds while ye may,

Old time is still a-flying ;
And this same flower that smiles to-day,

To-morrow will be dying.'

Before the last murmm-ed word had left my
parted lips, there was a rustle below among the
leaves. What  who was this . . . ? h. young
man was gazing up at me, and I having never
seen him before gazed back astonished. How
long he had been there I did not know ; butin
those few silent seconds that followed, his
face, as he stood still in the vivid sunlight,
was stamped as clearly on my memory as
his figure stood out distinct against the
yew-hedge behind.

If I shut my eyes now, I could  if I still
would  see him just so again.

Not of tall stature, but, in the old-fashioned
phrase, goodly in face ; well-built and active.
He had crisply waved chestnut hair and somewhat
redder moustache, a clear-cut nose that
seemed almost as expressive of its owner's
moods as his other features, and the most
sleepy, laughing, good-humoured blue eyes in
the world upturned towards me. How many
more moments still the situation might have
lasted I cannot tell, but that (being far too
shy to speak first) my pale cheeks felt a
sudden crimson tide.

He took off his hat.

Miss Pleasance Brown, I think ? The
butler told me you were in the garden. It
seems I was not expected till a later train.
May I introduce myself? My name is Clair
St. Leger.'

Oh yes ; excuse my not knowing sooner.

You are to be Sir Dudley's best man I
murmured, coming forward to the arbour-door
with all the gracious dignity I could
muster, to greet such a distinguished .
He sprang lightly up the steps
to meet my proffered hand. ' We have
heard of you from my eldest brother, too,'
I went on ; 'I believe you are a great friend
of his. Beau has driven the coach over to
meet you. He will be so sorry.'

Well, I cannot be very sorry, as it gives
me the pleasure of seeing this charming spot ;
and of making your acquaintance a little
sooner,' he replied.

His voice had that indescribable charm,
which the French rightly therefore term the
je ne sais quoi, of a man who has so lived in
the world and its best society, that it has
made him what he is ; while he and his like

make it. In manner, too, he had a peculiarly
soft winning way, a graceful ease ; (I know a
few unkind acquaintance called this impudence
 but there seldom was a more universal
favourite). Now, seeing I was an ingenue, he
took the lead, yet with an air of most courteous
deference that flattered my young pride.
He asked me to show him the garden, with
which he declared himself already fascinated
' This fairy-like domain, where you were
looking out of your bower-lattice like an
enchanted princess,' he laughingly called it.
So I did the honours of the yew hedges and
pleached alleys ; the showers of white jessamine
or sweet honeysuckle that brushed our faces
as we passed under arches almost closed with
blossoms; the pebbled paths and paved
runnels down which little streamlets always
trickled, fed fresh from the hill above. He

gathered me a softly-pale pink rose that was
out of my reach ; and I gravely gave hin a
sveet white bud.

It is lovely ; but is it appropriate ? ' he
asked, luring me to a bench shaded from
the hot afternoon sun. Then, as I looked at
him full in questioning surprise, he added 
just veiling his eyes with lashes as long as any
woman's, while a peculiar little dainty twitch
of his clearly-cut nose seemed to imply, that
though the words coming were not worth his
smile, yet they meant in his own mind a little
more than common (very likely he fancied
the trick unnoticed)  'Would not a red bud
have described me better? I am afraid it
would,' he went on. ' I have a sort of theory
about roses. Miss Pleasance . . Brown.'
(How long invented, I now wonder ?) ' See !
white roses are for innocence and childhood ;

but this lovely pink one of yours, only just
tinged a little warmer in the heart, ought to
describe yourself ; while the deep red means
the older, perhaps sinful, beings who have
lived so much longer in the world  like me.'

But can innocence not go beyond the
days of childhood ? ' I asked, half-startled to
find myself classed in the pink stage.

why, yes  it may, of course; only I
meant, perhaps, more the ignorance of the
good and evil of this world,' he laughed,
looking at me out of those blue eyes that had
such a caressing expression. ' To have " lived
and loved," is not that to know ?  And it
would surprise me very much if you had
passed through a season without having seen
some such effect in others, around you. Although
I could almost dare to swear' (looking
at me keenly), ' that it is only from such a

rejected glow that your rose might take a
shade of pink.'

My face was pink enongli now.

I forgot  I wanted to make a bouquet for
my father's study-tables I murmured for an
answer, scarcely alarmed at his idle words '
and slow soft look, yet with a strange
feeling.

Let me help you. I am very fond of
making bouquets,' cried Mr. St. Leger, rising
at once to gather my flowers. Then when
my lap was full, and that he had wooed me to
equanimity again with moss rose-buds, and
won me altogether back to happy converse by
the daintiest sprays of clematis and hop
tendrils gathered above my reach, we sat
down again together ; while he chose out
which flowers I should use as pleased his
sovereign liking. We were like a pair of

innocent children. He scolded mj imputed
want of skill. I retorted upon his conceit.

It was all such simple, innocent amusement
that I need hardly have felt so startled, when
there came calls through the garden, and
Alice and Beau, of all people ! appeared
searching for us.

Pleasance ! how could you be so forgetful
as not to have given poor Mr. St. Leger some
tea ? ' cried Alice chidingly, after a bright
welcome to the guest. *We have all been
back some time ; and were wondering what
had become of you.'

I did ask him, but he preferred staying
here,' I murmured, falling back with a sort of
shock into my subdued position of the one
who did everything wrong.

Yes. I declared for tea-roses instead of
tea, and lilies instead of late luncheon,'

VOL. I. L

interposed Clair St. Leger, taking in the
situation at a glance, and taking up my
defence against the disapproving looks of
both Beau and my sister; adding with a
laugh: *To own the truth, I had had a
glass of sherry and a biscuit from the butler
when I arrived.'

'That is all right, old chap,' uttered Beau
with a satisfied air, in his rather affected drawl,
as he glanced at me, reassured on the score of
my good behaviour ; adding graciously :

*Pleasance has been taught by having
brothers, what are the real wants and likings
of misrepresented man.'

Who ?  I ! Secretly I hung my head, for
it had never once occurred to me that my
pleasant companion's sportiveness among the
flowers and over our bouquet arose from the
secret consciousness of having had sherry and

biscuits ; but I kept my own counsel. As
Alice and I went towards the house. Beau
and his friend following us in affectionate
discourse, my sister said, glancing at me
curiously : ' Really it quite looked as if you
and Mr. St. Leger were flirting together when
I first saw you. Take care, Pleasance ; that
is going ahead rather fast.'

Flirting ? Did you ever know me flirt
before,'  in an injured tone.

No, never. I don't believe it is in you,'
laughed Alice good-naturedly, but with a
certain something of secret superiority as
she said so. ' Only /le is supposed to know
as much about it as most people. Come 1 
Mamma was inclined to be angry because
you were not in to receive us, but I'll make
it all straight.'

I followed her into the drawing-room,

L 2

feeling rather injured and abashed, for really it
sometimes struck me that my mother would
understand me better if Alice did not always
interpose as if a necessary ambassador between
us. There, Lady Pawlett, a tall handsome
woman with dark eyes, looked me all over;
but did not take the trouble to say anything ;
though turning to my mother next moment
she began talking with effusive warmth,
and most agreeably as she sipped her tea.
The two Misses Pawlett, middle-sized, plain
girls, looked at me too in a stolid way ; made
a sort of soundless effort each to speak, but
produced no word, apparently because they
had nothing to say.

Evidently, having come to stay with us,
they considered it only fit they should be
entertained, but had no idea of entertaining
me ; although I had rushed desperately into

conversation in the hopes of atoning for my
pleasant indiscretion in the garden.

Alice had gaily retreated under cover of
allowing some mild love-making to Sir
Dudley in the next room. By her quizzical
look towards me, she knew already what a
hopeless task she had left me. It was an
inexpressible relief when my mother rose
and proposed showing her guests to their
rooms to rest before dinner; which offer
Lady Pawlett accepted with cheerful alacrity,
observing; :

It does take me so much longer to dress
properly after a journey. But my girls will
take a nap instead, I know  lazy children 1
You see I am the active one of the family,
dear Mrs. Brown.'

Miss Pawlett, at this, gave a sort of
mysterious smile, observing in a strangely

impressive undertone : ' It's often the best
way of passing one's time.'

Miss Amy Pawlett, the other 'child' of
three or four-and-twenty, followed in obedient
silence ; giving one backward look of some
slow regret, however, at Beau and his
friend St. Leger, who just then crossed
the inner hall on their way to the former's
private den.

CHAPTER IX.

Tp-STAIRS in my own room, for a delicious
hour and a half before dinner, I
was free to think again over what had passed.

Why  what was it? I had only been in
the garden, and seen a stranger. And now
he was not a stranger any more ; while I felt
so much richer by having found such a
pleasant acquaintance who had been living
some six-and-twenty years in the world, without
my having ever known it !

There were three small windows in my
low wide room under the western cottage-roof
 one to dress at ; one to write at ; one

to look out of, with the fairest view of all,
down below on the lake where the swans
where like silver specks. Here I sat down,
and gazed, seeing very little of the real beautiful
world; dreaming idly, in the window-seat,
with a most singular lack of invention.
Por indeed all that I saw and thought was
only of what had passed in the garden ;
trying  already  to fit in my memory all
the pleasant looks and quaint turns of speech,
and the few complimentary words said with
such a flattering intonation by Mr. Clair St.
ijcger. It was delightfully difficult ; for their
essence, like a dreamily subtle atmosphere,
was round me still, while half of wdiat we
had both said seemed ready to vanish away
silly speeches enough, but I liked to rescue
them again from oblivion.

How well he had looked, when first I saw

him standing down there in the sun !  so on

I thought, and thought again.

It had been like Beaumont and Fletcher's

lines :

Sitting in my window,
Printing my thoughts in lawn, I saw a god,
I thought (but it was you), enter our gates ;
My blood flew out, and back again as fast
As I had puffed it forth, and sucked it in
Like breath ; then was I called away in haste
To entertain you.'

Having made my calculations with secret
joy that Mr. St. Leger must certainly take
me in to dinner  since Beau and Bob would
naturally have the Miss Pawletts for their
share  I dressed myself with more than usual
care. The pink rose seemed to nestle of its
own accord low down among the dark-brown
coils of my hair (we still wore flowers in
our hair in those days). For the first time

I became aware that my shoulders were really
whiter than the soft folds of my shimmering
white dress edged with delicate lace that half
veiled them ; while my throat did not compare
unfavourably with the double string of pearls
that clasped it. In London I had felt so
raw and countryfied, plunged straight from
the schoolroom into society, outshone by
Alice, and painfully aware that my mother
believed I would not be a success, and at all
events must not be brought forward till Alice
was well married ; but now, once more at
home, I felt to-night quite the assured airs
of a fine London belle. As I shook out my
long skirts before the glass in the westering
light, my figure seemed taller and more
lissom than ever before, though it would
have always pleased Lord Byron's taste when
he wrote, * I hate your dumpy women.' How

silly of me ! but I turned my long neck a
little this way and that, to study the best
poise and carriage of my head ; and was glad
that if my face was pale it was not pasty like
that of poor Miss Pavvlett, whilst my eyes
seemed large and dark-brown enough to give
shade and their sober colour to light up my
other features. I must have been partly
right, for as I came down the old oak stairs
into the inner hall, which we used as a sort
of lounging-room, Bob  who was making
solitary lunges there over our ladies' tiny
billiard table  put down his cue with an
applauding rattle and cried under his breath,
Whew ! You do look stunning, old girl !
What has happened, that you are so  so
transmogrified ? '

'Bob,' I only replied with sweet severity,
it is time for you to put on your best manners,

and come into the drawing-room with
me.'

The March hare grinned; and putting
down his cue performed a cart wheel, on his
hands and feet, like a street-boy, the full
length of the hall, the last tarn of which
triumphantly replanted him in an upright
position again at the foot of the stairs, just as
Lady Pawlett was sailing downwards. Her
poor daughters humbly followed ; their stout
shapes looking oddly in rather short muslin
frocks, blue sashes, and black shoes, like little
school-room girls.

Dear me ! quite a feat of  eccentricity,'
remarked her Ladyship blandly; gazing at
him with a mach more benignant glance
then she had ever deigned towards me, whilst
Bob stood looking; redder than even the
glow of his exercise warranted.

What it is to be a man  or, rather,
even a boy ! ' thought I.

In the drawing-room an indescribable air of
high spirits seemed brought among us by St.
Leger. He stood smiling in the centre of a
group that had drawn insensibly round him,
as if, feeling himself Phoebus, he was glad
to beam ; and somehow all we women felt
elated by his presence.

Look at that fellow,' muttered Beau, half-admiringly,
half-peevishly in my ear. * How
does he get his tailor to fit him so, I
wonder ! '

I could not answer, for my heart suddenly
sank. The door had opened to admit our
curate, an excellent little man of no individuality
; and I found him offering me his arm to
dinner whilst the owner of the exquisitely
fitting coat passed me, smiling, with dear

old Aunt Bee, whose claims I had quite
forgotten.

It was a dinner of cross purposes  rather
like the game of Crooked Attorney, when
every one answers for some one else, or pays
forfeit. My ears, shame to tell, were pricked
to catch every low soft inflection of Mr. St.
Leger's utterance as he talked pleasantly
enough to my grand-aunt ; so that I heard
nothing of many interesting details concerning
the working of our new soup-kitchen, the
last of the many charities with which my
father had flooded the parish. At the lower
end of the table. Lady Pawlett, with much
play of her still fine dark eyes and liberal display
of white shoulders, was trying to fascinate
my dear simple father. He, quite unconscious
of all this, was only uneasy that mother
seemed somewhat neglecting poor dull Lord

Pawlett, whilst enlivening her other guests
with her own especial gift of bright, clever,
yet always gentle attack and repartee ; talking
as ladies in the old, well-bred salons used.
He did not understand that in society people
followed Lady Pawlett's lead in neglecting her
spouse, whose principal duty seemed to be
putting down her empty tea-cup, or carrying
her shawl ; so now father sent the butler with
occasional quiet little messages of  ' Would
not Lord Pawlett try this hock, or the sherry
of some dead, famous connoisseur?  considered
rather fine, he believed.' On which,
pleased gleams lit up his silent Lordship's
inexpressive face.

Good gracious, my dear Mr. Brown, you
are quite spoiling my husband,' interposed
my Lady with gracious peevishness several
times. ' But you millionnaires hardly know

what to do with your money, I suppose.
We never could afford such wme.' Opposite
me, Bee, with her gray hair skewered atop
of her head by a tortoiseshell arrow, in honour
of our guests, her old black barge dress
looking scarcely the worse for wear since these
many years (for even then it could hardly have
been shabbier), was riding full tilt one of her
favourite hobbies. She was entertaining St.
Leger vastly, and, indeed, most of those
around, with a lively history of how the Bey
or Dey of Tunis or Morocco (I forget which)
had fallen desperately in love with her, on
one of her travels ; offering to put away all
his other wives for her sake ; till finding this
meant bow stringing she had beat a hasty
retreat to spare her conscience.

On this our good curate, who had a mind
as simple and gentle as a baby, but was one

of those persons who cannot laugh and let a
joke go by  always wanting instead first to
understand it, then to ask questions about it,
lastly liking to harp back upon it for a year
to come, when the rest of the world is sick
thereof  he now gravely observed in preliminary
:

'Well now. Miss Beaumanoir, I can
hardly understand that ; I always understood
that those Mussulman fanatics admired fat
women.'

He stopped short disconcerted at the roar
of laughter which came from us all ; for our
grand-aunt was as ' line as is a rake,' and
shrivelled to a shred of humanity.

Never mind,' she cried patronizingly,
joining heartily in the laugh. ' I see you area
man of taste, and like slim figures  like me.
Oh, I see you and I would get on famously

VOL. I. M

together. Come ! I'm off to the Nile next
month, and you may come with me  there's
an offer. It will open your mind tremendously,
and all you stay-at-home people want
that. You'll see, the ancient Egyptians were
much more civilized than your dear Israelites.
I'll take you under my wing, and be a mother
to you.'

Almost blushing at the last part of the
kind proposal, my neighbour, with all eyes
upon him, murmured he feared his parish
would not like it if he took such a long
holiday  even if he wished it.

Bless you ! they'd never miss you,' cried
our grand-aunt heartily. ' Why, the last time
I was in the Holy Land we had seven clergymen,
all of our party, with Cook. Three
Baptists, a Moravian, a Wesleyan, and two
Irvingites. I was the best friends in the

world with every man of them. Only the
poor Wesleyan had his tent next mine, and he
did wrestle so in prayer, he kept me awake
half the night ! He was a fine fellow.'

Our curate, though liberal-minded, seemed
dubious at this partisanship. Lady Pawlett,
who was ' high tossed her head as if
scandalized. Beau artfully interposed.

Have me for one of your party, too, Bee '
(our grand-aunt loved being called Bee by
her nephews) ; ' St. Leger and I, eh ? We
would be very good boys, I promise you ; and
you know you love young men.'

Pray do, Miss Beaumanoir  I can hardly
imagine a more agreeable companion,' responded
Clair St. Leger. At that moment
his eye caught mine  as it had already done
once or twice that evening  with more meaning
in the sunny glance I fancied than there

M 2

was for others ; while an almost imperceptible
accent on the word ' hardly ' quickened my
foolish pulses with a flattered feeling.

Take you two elegant extracts ! Not I indeed,'
cried Bee in her highest good-humour.
Why ! the last time, Beau, you came to stay
at the Barn for the Duchess of Western's
ball, you brought a dressing-case so big and
so broad it required my three maids and the
gardener to carry it up-stairs. If you were
only going to Paris, I've no doubt you would
think it necessary to travel with your bed,
bath, cheval-glass, a wardrobe, and a coffin''

As the laughter over this died away, we
heard Sir Dudley speaking, almost for the
first time. Quoth he, solemnly, in answer to
some interesting question of his hostess,

Ve-rt/ tender mutton, indeed, Mrs. Growth ;
yes, I assure you. And the plates are so

thoroughly hot, too. Ton my soul ! I like
plain dinners like yours, thoroughly well
cooked, far better than the wretched attempts
of most people at fine dishes.'

My mother sat serenely beaming after this
compliment, as if her mind was at rest.
But old Aunt Bee, gazing expressively at
the nearest menu-csiYd of what was by no
means a meagre feast, muttered audibly to
St. Leger, who wickedly egged her on in
her out-sullenness 

Plain dinner indeed ! I wish I had
him at the Barn,  bacon and eggs, and
porter ! "

As to the rest of us, Alice paid no attention
whatever to Sir Dudley, but laughed
with and listened to every one else. Of the
wo dull Pawlett girls, the younger, who was
with Bob, looked at Beau ; and the elder,

who was with Beau, looked at the opposite
wall. I have already owned whose
eyes met mine, and who had my secret
attention.

Later on, in the drawing-room, Lady
Pawlett sank into the most comfortable chair
she could find, near the door by which the
gentlemen would enter ; ordered one daughter
to find her a foot-stool ; and gave the other
languidly her tea-cup to hold. There, as she
conversed with my mother and Alice with
volubility, both ' the children,' as she called
them, sat by watching for her behests. They
were so like maids in waiting, that, much as
I pitied them, I hardly liked to distract their
furtive attention. In a way, it did me good
to see them; for being sometimes inclined
to think my mother's very absolute love of
her own way a heavy if gentle yoke, here

was the contrast of a how much heavier one 
lightened by none of the sweet grace and
pretty blandishments that we could not fail
to admire, even when most kept in hand
by our home-ruler.

Aunt Bee, after a while, suddenly called
me to look out at the moonlight just rising
over the lake.

We will stay here, my dear she whispered,
placing herself on the window-seat.
I've no notion of your doing Alice's work
for her. Besides, here come the gentlemen,
and  I thought so  Clair St. Leger's eyes
are turning where they did during dinner.
Don't blush, child!  though, indeed, that
little is very becoming.'

Next moment St. Leger was bending over
me ; and with a brusque movement my grand-aunt
had left my side, observing, ' Oh, are

you there, scapegrace? I can't stay to talk
to you; Lord Pavvlett and the curate both
want to be risked up and trotted out, so I
must see after them.'

Dear old soul ! How nice of her to leave
me her place ! ' murmured Clair, sinking into
the deep embrasure of the window. Here
we seemed quite apart from all the rest,
looking out on an exquisite night-scene lit by
heaven's candles ; though close by sounded
the uninteresting chatter of the ordinary
world, which by mute consent neither of us
seemed to heed in the least degree. 'And,*
he went on, bending a little nearer as if to
admire the rose in my hair,  ' it was still
nicer of somebody else to wear my flower.
I could hardly keep my eyes off it all
evening ; it looks so charming just under that
little ear.'

I wish you would not laugh at me, Mr.
St. Leger. I am not accustomed to have
compliments paid me,' drawing away from
him half-frightened, half-fascinated.

Don't look at me with such an air of
injured dignity, please, Miss Pleasance Brown.
If nobody has never said to you more than
that, why !  the world must be dull indeed,
and without discrimination. Shall I say
you are not nice; and that you have a
very big ear ? '

Please say nothing  '

Nothing !' interrupting me softly. ' Very
well, I won't. Only then you must talk
to me with those speaking eyes, as you did
to-day in the garden. How quiet and
subdued you are to-night ! Do look at me.'

By way of proving that I was not an
utterly timid ingenue I did look up, meaning

it to be for one moment  but for several
more found my gaze arrested by his laughing
caressing one. Just because there was that
look of amusement mingled with his admiration,
I did not feel half so discomposed with
him as with almost any one else in his place.
So wee sat perfectly silent for some seconds.
St. Leger seemed to have assumed that we had
entered into a compact thereunto ; for with
one arm on the window-sill lazily supporting
his head, with the other he toyed with
my fan. Every now and then my eyes
dropped ; I would turn away from this confusing
private lesson in magnetism. But he
would arrest my attention again, with the
look of a mischievous school-boy, by apparently
threatening destruction to my beloved
fan, which I dared not snatch from him, and
which he mutely refused to restore. Suddenly

he protested under his breath, 'What a
nuisance ! They are coming to rout us out
of this dear little corner  we have not been
happy here five minutes.'

We had not. But already my mother was
bestirring herself, on behalf of the Miss
Pawletts, to get up a round game.

You young people will all play, and we
can look on,' she smiled, ' unless Lady
Pawlett  what, oh, you would like to join
too ! Where is Mr. St. Leger ? Ah, Pleasance,
are you there? Mr. St. Leger, would
you like better to play Van John than to sit
still?'

I shall be delighted to play anything
on earth you like, Mrs. Brown ; including my
own natural part of the fool,' drawled Clair
in evasive reply, with a quick regretful look
at me. Still he rose with an air of such

outwardly easy willingness to leave my side,
that inwardly I felt rather surprised. He was
placed between the Pawletts by mother, who,
in spite of some remonstrances aside from
Beau, was bent on arranging the game.
Secretly I agreed with Beau; thinking that
unless every one feels like school-boys and
girls, it is the dreariest thing on earth to set
grown people down perforce to play for
counters or sixpenny stakes at vingt-et-wi ;
and my conscience had  then as now 
scruples against playing for much money.

Meanwhile, our elders withdrew to comfortable
arm-chairs ; father and Lord Pawlett
talking of turnips ; mother resting, gracefully
weary : and Aunt Bee actually producing fun
in the curate. But our game languished as
such amusements generally do. Alice and Sir
Dudley banked, thereby keeping both their

conversation and their counters apart. Mild
jokes, with which we had all begun, were
changed gradually to covert yawns as time
passed. Lady Pawlett, who was struggling to
be lively with all the determination of over
two-score years, kept endeavouring to attract
St. Leger's attention from her daughter beside
him to herself opposite, which the latter did
not seem to altogether relish. In this delicate
dilemma, Clair conducted himself with the
most perfect impartiality between both claimants
; keeping up jokes with an even flow of
great good-humour that rather mortified me ;
for now he never looked my way. Still  my
vain mind began to fancy there was no flash
or sparkle on the surface of his mirth ; and
so Beau, his friend, apparently thought too.
Eor, as my mother came to bend over the chair
of her eldest-born to ask with well-assumed

interest after the fortunes of the game, in
her silvery complacent voice, he hastily
muttered :

It won't do, mother. Look, St. Leger is
bored to death; you can't set men like him
down to this sort of thing nowadays ! Why
cant you let us amuse ourselves in our own
way ? '

My mother drew back rather aghast at
this rebellion of her best-beloved against her
long-established conviction that she knew
best what we all really liked. But even at
the same moment our grand-aunt, perceiving
the state of affairs, and inspired by her whimsical
love of movement, sat down to a piano
in the oak saloon which opened out of the
drawing-room by large doors, and began
rattling out a frantic polka. We all flung
down our cards \ and next moment, as if

bitten by a tarantula, were spinning over the
polished floor in there, from which Bob had
deftly whipped away the Turkey rugs in the
twinkling of an eye.

Almost before I knew it, Clair St. Leger's
arm was round my waist, and he had whirled
me off in a most delightful dance. Both my
brothers were doing their duty manfully with
the Pawlett girls, who had quite roused into
warmth. The affianced pair were revolving
together as fast as Alice could make Sir
Dudley heavily bestir himself. Lady Pawlett
alone had been left out, to her momentary
disgust ; but then seizing gaily on my father
she insisted on his dancing, and away he
went with his coat-tails flying in a fine old-fashioned
step, whilst my lady towered over
his dear bald pate. How Aunt Bee played
first a polka, then changed into a waltz, then

a mad galop, like one possest ! And we
danced on and on, not changing our partners,
except Bob, who having the eldest Miss
Pawlett to his sorry share, was pounced on
presently by her Ladyship, who claimed him
for herself. As for me, I was breathless with
delight  and also because Clair St. Leger
would hardly let me stop a moment, lest,
as he whispered, we should be separated.
Dancing had never before meant more tome
than plunging into the Maelstrom of a
crowded room, mostly with Alice's rejected
and dejected admirers ; but this was
paradisiacal.

When at last all ceased in delighted
exhaustion we two, at least, seemed to have
acquired a tenfold acquaintance of each other ;
why, we seemed old, old friends as wee
looked in each other's eyes !

And now it's my turn,' cried my grand-aunt
springing up. ' Come, Lord Pawlett, I'll
challenge you to a jig.'

Alice, with a scream of laughter, flew to
the piano.

Lord Pawlett, fired by Bee's example and
father's generous wines and attentions, began
to shuffle his feet like a solemn beaver trying
to be lively; with deprecating haw-haws
against himself; whilst his witch-like old
partner performed the most wonderful steps
opposite him, cutting, crossing her feet in the
air, with the most surprising agility, considering
her age.

Bob, with his lopsided visage all on the
grin, finding no one else to jig with, was
jigging away by himself.

How eccentric your aunt is ! What a
blessing it must be that every one knows she

VOL. I. N

is a Beaumanoir/ acidly smiled Lady Pawlett,
her good-humour being gone. Our saloon
had been rather a salle des pas perdus
to her; as none of the young men had
paid her the special attention she still tried
desperately for, save Beau ; and having
some maternal conscience, my lady had
plainly meant him for one of her daughters
in her own mind. Though, if that was
impracticable, she was quite willing to flirt
with him herself.

As we were all breaking up, my mother,
who was beside me, murmured apart to Beau
with a fond forgiving smile :

'Well, my dear, I am so glad you did
enjoy yourself after all. Tell me, is not it
odd that such a quiet person as Sir Dudley
should have chosen Mr. St. Leger for his best
man ? '

Not at all replied Beau carelessly. ' Old
Dudley has not really got any friends, you
see, except utter old fogies like himself; so
luckily he happened to know St. Leger, who
is quite in ' the swim ' on the other hand. I
suspect Clair doesn't mind doing it, because
he is sure to be asked to Broadhams for
the shooting, and some good dinners. He
is always staying about somewhere or
other.'

Ah ! He is not well-off, is he ? That
is the worst of him.'

He has got about eight or nine hundred
a year of his own, I believe,' was Beau's
reply, disparagingly given. 'Enough for a
bachelor.'

Ah, yes.'

Then advancing with her charming smile,
mother shook hands with St. Leger, in his

N 2

turn, as engagingly as if he had been heir to
half a million, and we ladies trooped up the
dark old stairs, making quite a pretty picture
with our lights and coloured dresses against
the sombre wood work of walls and ceiling,
as Clair called out to us, looking upto
me.

'Pleasance, come into my room a moment,'
said my grand-aunt; as mother went on
escorting Lady Pawlett to the glories of
the blue and gold bed-room, that was all
trimmed with old point-lace. And meanwhile
Alice, prettily stifling a yawn, dutifully
preceded her future nieces to their virgin
chambers hung appropriately in white muslin.
Aunt Bee had our second finest bed-room.
Indeed, but for her odd habits, mother
would no doubt have thought a Beaumanoir
deserved the best. But, as the housekeeper

observed, it was ' heart-rending the way ' Miss
Beaumanoir flouted the splendidly-carved
catafalque, wherein it was doubtfully related
Charles 11. had slept, declaring she would
prefer any little iron cot, ' in which the only
turn one could take would be the turn out.'
Now she looked like a witch amongst the
crimson silk glories of the room.

Well ? ' she just asked ; holding my hand
with her lean withered one, that was, however,
still vice-like in its firmness, while like the
ancient mariner she transfixed me with her
glittering eye.

Well ! ' quoth I, guessing her malicious
meaning, but resolved not to betray
myself.

Tiresome girl ! So that's all my thanks
for acting fairy godmother to you and your
admirer to-night ? Ah ! you may well blush j

but I was right that you only wanted rousing
to be almost a beauty. . . a tall divinity St.
Leger called you to me ; some men like 
positively like  dark-eyed pale faces like yours
when the face is small and the eyes big ; and
your pallor looks pure-bred. Queer tastes !
Now 1 always had little eyes and a big head,
and never looked half so well-bred as a
Brown minx like you ! Well, well, goodnight,
Pleasance, child; anyhow your old
aunt tries to do the best she can for
you.'

Dear old Bee ! truly she did so try ; and if
only others had been as loyal, my story might
have been a different one  whether for ultimate
good or evil.

But in my own room once more, as I had
dreamed in daylight, so 1 lay awake to
dream; and dreamt in sleep again only of

every word and sign and look of Clair
St. Leger, hugging myself in foolish secret
joy at the now double assurance that he
admired me.

CHAPTER X.

Tete bridesmaids were all kneeling in the
little aisle of Stoke church  eight
creamy-clad maids all a-row. Tor though too
new still in the country to be very intimate
with our exclusive neighbours' daughters,
we had nevertheless by virtue of our riches
managed to borrow four of their children.

As head bridesmaid I was nearest the
bridal pair, and felt as if T could hardly take
my eyes off them. How stout, burly, stupid
Sir Dudley looked ; and Alice  a smiling
angel of loveliness in white satin. Some
strange feeling suddenly so touched my heart,

the tears rising in my eyes, and a hysterical
lump, like an egg, in my throat, that I could
scarcely keep myself from screaming out,
Don't take him, Ace ; don't I Say, No,
even at the altar-rails Good heavens ! to
have to live with Sir Dudley as closest companion
one's life long ; to walk, sit, drive with
him day after day. (In my innocence I
never doubted but that Alice meant to do
all this.) It seemed to me a thousandfold
worse, too, now that / knew how delightful
the society of some men could be. But Alice
did know ; she had seen the world. I had to
bend my head till my spasm of horror and
sorrowful regret was past. Did I not remember
how, after all, only last night when
I had gone into her room to say good-night 
feeling really keenly that it was for the last
time Alice was wholly ours  she had cried out

lightly, ' How ridiculously sentimental you
look, Pleasance? Don't, for goodness' sake,
devour me so uncomfortably with those great
eyes of yours.'

But, in spite of all, I was still horribly
afraid that Alice might break down. I knew
that under an enforced calm, more than was
natural, my mother was watching her nervously
also. So with an effort, fearing to see
a sudden gush of tears, I raised my eyes 
The bride was laughing so much in her
cobweb lace handkerchief that the little
curate looked scandalized ! But a dignified
Dean and solemn Rector, supplied by the
Digges' party in the alliance, were so smug
and stolid perhaps they mistook her movement
for sobbing. At that moment another
pair of eyes met my pained ones. Clair St.
Leger looked at me with such tender interest.

such a quick glance of pitying affection, that
the warm blood swept my cheeks, and my
heart beat fast whilst devoutly thankful that
the curiously watching crowd behind could
not see my face. When it was all over, and
we had filed out after the bride, St. Leger,
helping me into a carriage, furtively touched
my hand  a mere quick touch, but yet a
sympathetic one that again made me feel
agitated, although this time he was pretending
to look away.

How quickly one learns this kind of deception
! I, who had hitherto piqued myself
on my honesty, trying indeed with a conceit
on my name to make myself quoted as plain
and pleasant, now found myself through that
wedding morning pretending hardly to see
Clair St. Leger beside me. Yet I was aware,
with a sensitiveness almost painful, of his

every movement; feeling when he now and
then turned to speak in my ear with caressing
soft brevity, as if his breath wafted an atmosphere
of love around me, while each
syllable seemed full of musical intonation.

But I did not show what I had felt ; no,
certainly no one could have known ! Already
Clair seemed to have silently taught me to be
careful. Then the breakfast was over ;  tome
the wedding; seemed a mad minding of
prayers, champagne, laughter, and tears ; the
carriage stood ready. My mother, who was
beside me, visibly trembled for the first time
that I could remember, looking anxiously
at her eldest daughter. Alice was buried ina
great hug by father, and when she reappeared
again to view there were tears  not
hers  on her face. She stepped smilingly
into the carriage, handed by Beau ; putting

out her face past Sir Dudley to cry eagerly
in a parting injunction to us all :

Now, remember you are not to dance tonight
! If I thought you were all dancing
without me, I would come hack I '

Then came a shower of rice ; a volley of
slippers ; a masculine growl from inside the
brougham, followed by rippling girlish laughter
and the play was over. We were dull that
afternoon. The neighbours had all left us :
we had heard the last of the sincere and
insincere congratulations; and two silly old
ladies who stayed to the very end had
departed with the final observations that
marriages are made in heaven  ' and that
(smiling at Rose and me) ' one wedding
always brings another.' All gone but ourselves,
and the house party.

Shall we sit out of doors on the lawn, under

some tree ? ' I asked rather dolefully of Amy,
the second Pawlett girl, whom I liked best.

She answered, pressing my arm With a
quite unexpected friendliness in her dull
expression, ' Certainly  ' : she was sure I felt
lonely ; then, in a whisper, added might she
just let her mother know.

Mamma ; if you don't want me at all,
Pleasance has asked me to go out with
her.'

Manna this !  Mamma that ! '  scoffed
Lady Pawlett, mimicking her daughter's
humble tone with irritability, for the benefit
of two or three married ladies of the Digges'
root and branch, the Dean's and Rector's wives
who were staying in our house. ' Why can
you not ask me a simple question, without
dragging in a " Mamma ! " I wonder, my
dear Mrs. Brown, that you allow your girls

to call you always mother ; as if they wanted
people to think you a hundred

Oh ! . . I rather like my children to call
me so returned our mother in a very quiet
voice ; whilst I alone could detect disapproval
of Alice's influential sister-in-law under that
graceful dignity of manner. Certainly, my
mother was no older than Lady Pawlett, and
had been far more of a beauty. Her light
brown hair was as glossy as ever, her figure
still slender, whilst the fair face never, marked
by passions, sorrows, or even keen excitement,
contrasted in beautiful restfulness with her
ladyship's bold black eyes, and made-up
complexion and person.

One could almost fancy, now, she might tell
herself, behind those discreetly lowered, gentle
eyelids, that she too might have flirted after
marriage, snubbed her husband, and wasted

his substance in extravagant living  seeking
for and trying to keep admiration till at last
competing with her own daughters ; but that
she had, on the contrary, always felt penetrated
with her duty as a Beaumanoir, a wife,
and a mother.

We two went quietly outside, and I led the
wav to a shaded sequestered nook down a
steep slope of the grass terraces. Here, thank
goodness ! Lady Pawlett with her loud laugh
and restless ways would hardly find us, if
even as often happened  she grew weary
of her compeers' society.

Where is your sister? Would she not
have liked to come too?' I asked, though
feeling still awed by the eldest of my especial
guests.

Oh, Charlotte, she is sleeping  at least,
you know, she says she is taking a nap,'

replied Amy Pawlett, giving me an unusually
confidential look.

But I don't quite understand ; why does
she only say so ? '

Because then she is supposed to be harmlessly
employed, and Mamma ' (with sad
bitterness)  does not torment her. She is
really reading in her books of devotions.'

'What, the Bible?'

Well no, not exactly. At least she does
not quite tell me ; and as I don't go so far
yet in my views of life as she does, I don't
ask. She is preparing herself to leave the
world whenever she can, I believe'  in a
mysterious whisper.

Not to go into a convent ! ' I cried in
horror.

Either that or a sisterhood. I can't see
much difference between them myself, but

VOL. I.

as it's wisest not to know what she means,
I don't ask.'

But to put on that ugly dress and hive ina
bare cell till you die ! to shut yourself
voluntarily out from the beautiful world,
and friends, and pleasures of every kind !
Amy, it seems horrible to me !  like slow
suicide.'

Ugly dress, pleasures of society, friends,'
slowly uttered Amy ; who, sitting bolt upright
as I lay stretched more classically on the
grass, bent sideways, now to pluck nervously
little bits of grass ; adding in a low tone :
Do you think really our lives are so pleasant
that Charlotte need mind quitting all that?
We are two plain, stupid girls with no fortune
(yes, yes, we are !), and Mamma thinks our
very existence a mistake and bother. You
can see that for yourself.'

But still  ' I expostulated, and then not
knowing quite what to say next, paused.

Then came into my mind with a ridiculous
force the fragment of a cradle-song, to which
our old nurse had many a time gaily dandled
us each in turn on her knee. It ran 

I won't be a nun,
And I shan't be a nun.
And it's nothing shall induce me for to ever be a nun ! '

I felt such a stirring of life within me at the
bare idea of convent cells, that I was quite sure
nothing hould induce me to ever be a nun.

'It is not even as if your sister had
suffered any great sorrows. One could understand
it in people who have,' I next exclaimed
; thinking aloud.

How do you know ? ' simply returned Amy,
now pulling daisies to bits with still averted
face. And there was an unmusical though



pitiful hoarseness in her slow voice. ' One
may be dull and plain, but still take likings ;
and then feel one's life only full of pain and
disgust. Mind, I only say, one may ! Somehow
I can't give up hope altogether of my
life changing to be at least a little pleasant,
some time. It's foolish, I know, so Charlotte
tells me. She's stronger  but I'd rather bea
housemaid than the holiest nun ! '

It's not foolish of you at all, I'm certain
hotly replied I. ' We oif.ht all to have hope ;
hope, faith, and charity  the Bible says so.
Think too of Pandora's box ! Oh, surely 
surely each human being must have some
happiness of their very own in Hfe, one time
or other.'

Ah, I don't know that. Not always
worldly happiness,' answered Amy Pawlett
in a dreamy, heavy way, that a few days

since I should have called dreary and
sluggish.

Now I sat abashed beside this poor plain
creature, who knew more of the secrets of
life than myself; and I could have cried for
her, though she did not cry for herself.
No doubt I must have been in a melting
mood that day; but the wrench of parting
from Alice and what seemed to me ' the pity
of it ! ' had moved all my being. Perhaps the
wedding associations and the many thoughts
of past and future thereby engendered had
equally betrayed Amy into weak womanish
confidence ; and that tomorrow she might be
as solidified as ever, and regret she had
spoken unadvisedly with her lips. But I was
glad to know she had a heart and brain like
enough my own, though hidden inside that
broad, graceless figure, with its dull-featured

face and lack-lustre hair. And, fancy those
Pawlett girls with their suppressed heartache
eating such hunches of cake after a mountain
of lunch, as they did at five o'clock
tea !

Verily, thought I, the life of each of us
is a romance, to ourselves ; and the dullest
seeming might surprise the rest, if they
could but write their own single story, as
they each/<?/zf it! with pens dipped deep into
their own hearts-blood.

Why are you two sitting so sadly on the
ground ? ' broke in a gay voice behind us.
And Clair St. Leger appeared, guided to
our haunts by Bob, who was shaking the
branches ridiculously, in search of us ; whilst
Beau followed a pace or two behind with a
scornful manner.

We both feel so quiet ; after a storm

comes a calm, you know I explained, as they
lay down beside us.

Well ; I feel as if we had all been in an
atmosphere of champagne and orange-flowers,
that has left a certain simmering excitement
in the lightsome St. Leger not
altogether disagreeable said the owner of
that name.

'And 1/ quoth Bob, with his wild eyes
dancing, ' feel as much off my head as
ever.'

You may well say as ever ; though you
did distinguish yourself to-day, catching your
coat-buttons in Lady Pawlett's lace, upsetting
soup over poor old Bee's solitary lilac
silk, and nearly putting out Dudley's eye
with the heel of that last slipper you threw,'
cynically murmured Beau, stroking his
curved moustaches that just made a dark line

against his cheek, as delicate as his pencilled
eyebrows. ' For my part, I am not worth
sixpence.'

Perceiving that my handsome brother was
out-of-sorts  and as all the feminine portion
of our family considered Beau in the light of
a patronizing young house-god, to be propitiated
even to the self-sacrifice of all the
virgins, if displeased  I tried to conciliate
him by observing in a sympathetic whisper :

I see you are low at losing Alice too, like
me. It does seem such a pity ! doesn't it ? '

Don't be a romantic little fool, Pleasance,'
returned my brother, in a flash of indignant
contempt that startled me. ' Dudley is a
very rich man  that is the principal thing ;
and a right good fellow, too. He and Alice
could do a great deal, if they pleased, to help
all of us ; including yourself. You surely

don't imagine that their set in town will belike
my poor mother's quiet fogies, who were
fashionable only when she was young.' (Beau
always said my mother with unconscious
emphasis as if he had more property in her
than wee ; a trick I have noticed in several
maternal favourites. And he was the only
one of us all who spoke of Sir Dudley
with studious familiarity by name, without
prefix.)

Seeing something was amiss with his friend,
St. Leger, always good-tempered and willing
to smooth matters for everybody, proposed
we should all go for a walk.

Not I, thank you, this hot day. Much
better come and have a cigar in the shade of
my den,' drawled Beau rising, with ill-concealed
annoyance.

Why, my dear old chap,' said Clair good-humoured,

' I have been smoking for the last
hour with you, so  '

So we started. Going; alonsj a narrow
path through the thick shrubberies that
stretched for almost a mile on every side
round our house, and fringed the hanging
woods, Bob suddenly pinched my arm as a
brotherly secret signal. ' Oh, don't Bob,
darling : my arms are all black and blue
already, and it looks so bad at night,' I
expostulated in a whisper, dropping behind
with him a moment. 'What is it?'

'I'm awfully sorry, old girl;  but I say
what's wrong, do you think, with his usually
Serene Magnificence ? '

I don't know.'

Well, I thhik I do. Do you remember his
being equally genteelly savage about Christmas
last, before he could make up his mind to tell

about the lot of money lie owed ; though the
dear old governor paid for him like a man ? '

Oh, Bob  how could he be in debt so
soon again ? '

Whew ! don't ask me whistled Bob
airily. ' Of course I'm called the wild one
of the family, and the March hare ; still, I
never understood how to make the money
spin as royally as Beau does. I make a noise
gambling for five shillings, and mother thinks
me extravagant  she warns the pater ! whilst
Beau loses a hundred sovereigns in the most
graceful silence.'

At that moment Clair St. Leger looked
back for me rather reproachfully. Clearly
it had been no part of his intention, when
proposing a walk, to pass his time with Amy
Pawlett.

Hullo ! what sleeps-eyes that fellow does

make at you ! ' muttered Bob, jeeringly,
adding : ' He's like most of Beau's friends
rather too fine for me

'Don't talk about what you don't understand
then, you dear old goose,' I retorted,
plucking up spirit, ' but fly by the short cut
to the schoolroom window, and bring out poor
Rose. She must be so lonely, I know.'

I knew; because having often felt lonely
myself in that same prim prison of a schoolroom
in which we grubs had been rigidly
pent till we came out as butterflies. My
own coming-out had not been hastened by
Alice ; indeed even at her instance retarded
by mother for a year or more, because I was
still so thin and awkward-looking, as they
both told me very kindly ; and the glass had
added this was then true. But Rose was
neither shy nor wanting in colour and plumpness,

so as I did not care at all to reign alone
as Miss Brown, like Alice, it was my secret
generous hope to hasten the emancipation of
the family pet.

CHAPTER XL

TT7HAT a merry walk  or rather, race  we
had ! The wedding afternoon that
had been so dull was now changed into one
of the merriest, most deliciously golden -
winged evenings imaginable  to me, at least !
With cheering halloos away went Bob, our
leader, past our tiny Stoke hamlet ; taking us
all a merry scramble through copses where
we startled the blackbirds ; out across corners
of broadly-hot fields ; diving into cool woods
again ; plunging through fern-forests ; scrambling
up stony paths, and always surmounting
innumerable fences.

And at all big fences, though I could
jump like a bird, St. Leger sedulously begged
of me not to risk a sprain, but to allow him
to lift us down carefully. He did take exceeding
great care certainly. Indeed, each
time I found ?myself in his arms full two
seconds longer than was strictly necessary;
and felt relieved, with an inward flutter, that
Bob was ahead  he was so severe in someways,
was Bob.

At last, when we had gone a mile of a
chase through the country and were just reentering
Stoke woods again, after clambering
over a last and easy enough stile, at which
with real decision I rejected unnecessary
help, St. Leger, who had nevertheless insisted
on catching my hand, held it fast and quickly
said : ' Thank goodness ! . . . The others
are out of sight now ; they are going straight

back, and won't wait. Bo let us sit here a
few minutes . . . ; you will talk to me just
for a little, won't you  Pleasance ? ' It had
come to that word from him once or twice
already ; no further. But this time my
name from his lips frightened yet delighted
me as with dangerous sweetness, for I fairly
trembled. And yet, with the lightning speed
of thought, I asked myself, why be so fearful,
when Alice had been assured enough ? Oh,
mine, mine should be a very different marriage
from hers ! We two really, surely did
love !  I trembled with happiness and dared
not think more. ' Come !  sit down beside
me,' murmured St. Leger, inviting me to
share the topmost rail of the stile. It
was a perch more airy than easy; but no
matter ! 

For some little time, neither of us spoke.

His arm was round my waist, and I, being at

so young and blissful a stage of my life, be

it remembered, felt all my mind lulled in a

delicious strange day-dream of which Clair St.

Leger's presence and embrace were the living

fancies. The spot was a true lover's tryst

too. They called it the Wishing-Stile in the

country-side, for all the love-lorn maidens

repaired here at sun-down to wish for their

heart's desire; and every lover and lass in

the parish had worn the cross-bar smooth

before us. Behind stretched a gorse-sprinkled

common, bordered by wood, to the sky-line.

Were lovers surprised by any figure coming

across it, they easily escaped unseen by

gossips into the steep wood through which

a little path led, overhung by brushwood; its

track leaving an opening among the branches

through which we now seemed to look down-vol.
I. p

Awards into the sunny glories of the opulent
western sky. St. Leger's arm became
tightened round me ; with a little namur
of dissent I ventured to beg release, yet alas !
not with a whole heart.

Then you must call me Clair. Let
me hear you  Will you?'  he caressingly
urged, bending his head nearer mine.
Come ! I must go away to-night ; and
that dear voice has never yet called me by
my name.'

Going away !  to-night ! ' The ejaculations
fell like snowflakes from my lips, as if
my happiness had been frozen on them.

Ah ! you are sorry ?  Say you are  !
No ? Well, selfish wretch that I am, I hope
I believe you are, dear child. Did Beau
not tell you? He got a telegram asking
us both up to shoot in Scotland, so he

wants me to start with him by the nightmare


*Ah!'  was all I murmured. But it
seemed enough. For with a little flash of his
eyes back into mine, and a tender exclamation,
Clair caught me to him.

/ should have been so glad to have
stayed ! ' he uttered passionately. And then
before I knew our lips met in a kiss that
seemed to me the first one ever given on earth.
A few seconds only, but not another
word between us two, had passed, when
there came the sound of an inquiring  halloo'
in the wood sent up after us. Clair made
a gesture of impatience, and tried still to
delay me.

'We must go now and join them,' I murmured,
trembling with new-born love, but

much troubled, too.

p 2

Then this is our last meeting, darling ? '

I  I  suppose so,  Good-bye.'

He caught my hand. ' No ; au revoir. I

am asked back for your mother's ball herein

September. Till then, don t forget me, . . .

promise you won't forget me, Pleasance . . .

though I am such a miserable pauper.'

CHAPTER XII.

rpHE sun was down ; the moon rising slowly
up ; the stars were beginning to twinkle
forth overhead, and the world of nature to be
hushed in sleep.

I had stolen out in the warm night-air;
past the pebbled court under the house-eaves,
to where beside an ivied-corner of the furthest
of our many cottage-gables, with its splashing
little fountain sounding loudly in the twilight
stillness, was niche a small hot-house. Stoke
being built, or rather having grown, with such
indescribable irregularity, it is hardly surprising
that little gardens and glass-houses

were likewise dotted hither and thither
about its bower-like precincts. It might
have been imagined the woodland home of
several big children, who had played at
having each a rival half-acre of Paradise ;
whilst their cottages seemed merely approaching
each other for necessary protection, as the
old Saxon hers were once grouped round
the central hall in the homestead.

Into this little glass-covered arbour I hied,
looking eagerly round its blossomed walls.
Not that I expected to meet any one !  No,
he was with Beau, who for some inexplicable
reason seemed mortier than ever, and hating
his own company, gave it to his friend.

No ! we could not now meet again ; indeed
I felt still too agitated with this bewildering
love almost to wish it,  and all I was now
seeking was a white rose-bud. Nothing

more ; but then Clair (how I loved just
breathing the name low within myself !) had
besought me, as we left the stile and were
following the others within frequent ear-shot
down the winding path, to give him some
keep-sake  till we met again. ' What shall I
give you ? ' I whispered back, reddening, being
indeed the veriest novice in love.

He smiled, glancing admiringly at my coils
of brown hair; just touching them with
his finger in the soft mischievous way that
made women allow St. Leger more such
small liberties than other men, perhaps
because he was so light-minded and playful
that to take him to task seriously seemed
to make too much of the matter ; or perhaps 
simply because he had a certain charm ;
privileging him to steal with laughing
effrontery while others might not look over

the hedge. There are such people; and
they have these inexplicable gifts we can all
recognize, it may be with private envy,  but
dare not copy.

But this time I had drawn back, slightly
wounded and affronted. A lock of my hair !
What right had he yet to ask so sacred a gift,
as that should be, between lovers? Oh, of
course, I trusted him, if with a vague and
troubled sweetness of trust, yet most confidingly.
Had he not said, aii revoir. and
though now he could not well say more with
Bob and Rose sending us jeering outcries
through the bushes to know why we tarried,
ilten, I knew lovat more lie would say I But
as I drew back, shy and frightened, he said
soothingly, 'What is the matter? You are
so sensitive, Pleasance . . . Well ; will you
give me another white rose-bud ? '

So I was searching now for one, since by
ill-luck all those of our former bush were
dead ; it seemed almost an ill-omen as I
saw a few ghostly petals glimmering in the
dusk. But here, up overhead in the greenhouse,
was an exquisite bud, all I or he
could wish. As I stretched up to it, my
father's voice sounded through the open
glass-door. His favourite stone seat was
just outside, in a recess of the house-wall;
so promising myself gladly a few
minutes' pleasant chat with his dear old self 
a pleasure stolen from his guests' rights, I
still reached with difficulty for my bud. With
more of a shock, came mother's voice in
unexpected answer:

'I have come out, my dear William. I
slipped away from the other ladies, knowing
you wanted me ; as  as this is a matter  '

Of serious importance,' said father with
great gravity ; for she had seemed to hesitate,
even be troubled in her speech.

My hand held the bud now; but even
as it broke under my fingers 1 stood rooted
to the ground, while a great expectant thrill
of shame, pleasure, fear, and hope tingled
up to the roots of my hair. For  it must
be confessed  I thought, perhaps Clair has
spoken to father about me ; and unable to
move, speak, or think, though innocent of
eaves-dropping, I could not help standing
motionless, and overhearing my parents.

Next instant, mother's voice entreating
gently sent a cruel shiver of disappointed
counter-shock all through my being.

You loll pay the poor boy's debts, will
you not, William ? He should not be so
extravagant, I know ; but, after all, it is in

such a gentlemanlike way ; and really it is
so hereditary in him, I believe he cannot
help it. All my family did the same, and
he is such a thorough Beaumanoir.'

'Ada, Ada! is that all you can say in
your son's defence? At least, he might
remember, I think, that he is wasting plain
William Brown's substance : all that his
father earned with hard toil,' said my father
very sadly.

I turned noiselessly to flee by the other
glass-door, and hear no more of what was
not meant for me ; but it was locked. My
mother's tones, a little sharpened beyond
their usual low clearness by a sudden access
of emotion, pierced my ears.

'Don't think I mean to depreciate your
worth, my dear husband. Ah,  I only wish
that in some ways Beaumanoir was more like

you.' (This, of her idolized son, the image
of her own ancestors! She could not have
said more. I stood in despair, not knowing
whether to show myself, to their annoyance, or
stay still in the darkness and never reveal my
unwilling presence.) Then mother added in
beseeching feeling : ' But still ; say you will
help him once again, for my sake if not
for his. These losses in the business you
told me of cannot be so very great ; and
I could not endure the feeling that my son
did not pay his debts of honour.'

Dear ; the business losses are severe,
though I would not trouble you before by
saying so, and trade is depressed. Then there
has been Alice's marriage portion now, and
the London house ; besides that, this place is
expensive to keep up,' returned father, more
in deep grief than anger. ' It comes to this.

that as I dare withdraw no more money
from our firm, to pay this frightful, this
exorbitant sum of Beau's, T should have to
touch what I had laid by for the other girls'
fortunes.'

There was a moment's silence.

'Father,' I cried, my whole soul in my
voice as I darted out to his side, ' I am here !
I was gathering' flowers in there, and heard
what you said without meaning to listen.
Oh, yes ; do take our fortunes,  at least take
mine!  don't trouble your dear self about
that,' and putting one arm round his neck, I
kissed his head.

You here, Pleas an ce ! ' ejaculated mother.
Her vexation, I had foreseen, at being overheard
was softened by quick satisfaction at
my sympathy wdtli her great heart's wish.

Still she added : ' I am glad you show such

a good feeling at once ; but you ought not to
have listened, or have been out in the hothouses
so late. Now go, dear. You need
not be so impetuous about this matter 
as if your opinion or consent could influence
your father.'

Pardon me, my dear wife ; but this last is
precisely where you must allow me to differ
from you,' said my father, in his slow, rather
old-fashioned tone ; whenever gravity made
his natural courteousness preponderate over
jollity. ' In a matter like this, it almost seems
to me, I would not dare to dispose of the
future of Pleasance and Rose without their
leave ; for money might make or mar their
lives. In any case, it would be an inexpressible
relief to know they will not hereafter
blame their old father.'

Then putting his arm round my waist, he

drew me closer to him with great fondness ;
saying : ' Come here, my tall daughter. So
you really think you could face the world without
fortune, do you ? Ah ! child, little you
know yet. Well, well, well ; still, if God gives
me leave, I hope to earn as much and more
for you, darling. I am not an old man
yet.'

No, indeed ; ' thankfully murmured mother,
who sat beside him. Then laying her white
hand, flashing with diamonds through the
dusk, gently on his  *And remember, dear,
what the world thinks if such debts to friends
are not paid ! It is sad and foolish in young
men, T grant ; but still how many other sisters
have to suffer likewise ! Your business habits
and inclination to divide more equally between
the children, and to think less of your eldest
son than is generally the hereditary feeling

of other landed proprietors, makes you too
rigid, dear William. Believe me, it does.'

There was a pause. All the time, my
father had never taken his eyes off my
mother's face vrith its pleading and still
beautiful features. He smiled rather sadly ;
against himself, as it where, for she had ever
been the central object in life to him, and
could move him as she wished  and, she
knew it,  in almost all things. She added
with a little sparkle of gaiety :

Who knows ? Pleasance and Rose may
both marry rich men who will want no
portion with them : in fact, I count upon
it. No doubt Sir Dudley would not have
expected any with Alice, had he but
known.'

Father wagged his head with slow dolorous
humour.

Don't be too sure of that, my dear. Sir
Dudley, like all rich men, knows money's
worth ; " nothing for nothing " is a very safe
motto in this world.'

My heart at this moment began to feel
suddenly heavy and heavier, the elasticity in
my body to relax ; for in my generous heat
and haste it had not struck me till now that
Clair was not a rich man I My mother's
laughing prophecy brought it to my mind.

You are silent, pet,' said father, laying his
head against my shoulder; trying despite
himself to be sportive, for he could not bear
money matters to weigh heavily on us. ' Are
you repenting of your offer ? '

No, father,' said I stoutly, which was
true ; then added  ' only I have nothing more
to say. You know all about it'

Quite true. And now you had better

VOL. I. Q

really let her go indoors interposed mother ;
for,' with a little sound of impatience, ' who
is there else to see after Lady Paw4ett ? '

As my father slowly freed my waist from
his lingering clasp she added, moving nearer
him and assuming quite a bright, businesslike
air :

Then  I have been thinking this afternoon,
that my ponies could be sold ; for, now
Alice is gone, there is no one else to drive
them for me.'

At any other time, as I turned away, this
last proposal would have given me a little
stab in the heart; for / had been looking
forward to driving mother, in my turn, in
that same pony-carriage with secretly quite
absurd elation. It was one of Alice's many
privileges, which fond hope had confidently
whispered would be part of my future

promotion ; as more my mother's companion
and a being of consequence ; one of the
small consolations to set-off against real
sorrow at losing my sister.

Still  as I went indoors, holding my hand
involuntarily over the precious bud hidden
in the lace at my bosom, the ponies did not
so greatly seem to matter. The glow of
sacrifice had not yet died away to grey ashes
within me 1  only first ardour was cooling.
And then I shivered, for the night air seemed
chilly, as if some dampness had come up
from the lake. I was troubled ; but far
nearer and heavier than Beau's debts, pressed
the thought that Clair St. Leger was going
away before an hour. The other was a
greater burden, but it might be laid aside
for the present, at least ; it was on my brain

even now, auguring unknown evils for the

Q 2

future ; but this other smaller trouble lay
close on my heart.

'Whither in haste, fair lady? You come
flitting out of the twilight eerily said Clair's
voice.

In the deepened darkness, I had not seen
three figures smoking in the porch, as I
approached.

Yes ; she comes like a ghost. Pleasance,
you're uncanny for the first time in your life.
Let me turn you three times the wrong way
of the sun,' chimed in Bob, seizing me by the
shoulders.

Ought you to be neglecting your guests,
by straying out alone in the gardens ? '
So said Beau; carelessly knocking off" his
cigar-ash, and just looking at me with
momentary criticising superiority from under
his drooping eyelids.

1 was with father and mother ; they were
talking to me,' I answered, with a flash in
my eyes and a little rush of colour to my
face, as I looked at him straight. In my
heart I was fond and proud of Beau, and
believed he really cared for me too after his
fashion, but he seldom deigned to speak tome
except to notice some defects in my
person or behaviour; and just now this
lordly air of infallibility from him was
irritating. He was silent a moment ; then
said :

Are they out there now ? I will go and
find them. St. Leger, the trap will be round
in ten minutes : ' so left us.

What is this posy ? ' vulgarly demanded
Bob ; snatching at my precious bud with the
freedom of a favourite brother, and the
gambolling manner of a big dog. But he

received a slap on his poor ear from my
open hand.

Go away ; you shall not have it ; you are
such a rude boy.'

May I have it ? I am really a very good
boy,' asked Clair behind, in his most mellifluous
accents.

Perhaps . I have not quite made up my
mind, yet,'  in shy withdrawal ; ' not really
coquetry, but a doubt whether, after all, I
ought yet to give him a token so lightly,
although this afternoon he had  '

By all that is highly proper ! ' observed
Bob, execrating at this instant, ' we ought
to be going indoors to wait dutifully on
the lordly will of our new relations ; eh,
Pleasance ? '

Sighing acquiescence, I followed the good
lad. But as we were going through the

inner doors of the hall, I felt Clair gently
possessing himself of my hand; a moment's
pause, then he took the bud  he kept it ;
that was all. A few minutes later, before
my giddy head had got accustomed to the
bright lights in our drawing-room, and whilst
I was still forcing myself to oflPer agreeable
little attentions and remarks to Lady Pawlett
who evidently thought it waste of time to
answer, and was straining her eyes and ears
waiting for Beau  there was a crash of
wheels on the gravel outside.

Next came the little bustle of farewells.
Our parents had entered with Beau, in whom
I detected a suppressed air of relief; nay,
almost intense thankfulness, I could fancy.
He kissed me with light graciousness on my
forehead, to my no small surprise (it was in
thanks for what I had done for him). Then

they were off, the servants catching the last
sound of their voices ; whilst I would have
given so much to have been out there, and
to have strained my eyes down the drive
after them in the darkness.

Gone ! Yes ; Clair St. Leger was gone.
But still, I felt so sure that when he
came back in September, he hould ask
me 1

In the days that followed, when the last
wedding-guest had left us, we were somewhat
dull. To be dispirited in fine summer days
has always seemed to me double dreariness ;
a shameful robbery of our due happiness of
existence in the mere sunshine, which last is
rare enough in Britain !

Bob had gone back to his army tutors to
make gaily unwilling efforts to squeeze in

among the lowest candidates at the next examination.
The ponies had silently vanished.
And Rose, too, had made a smiling sacrifice
to Beau's debts. (This is worth recounting,
as showing my little sister's practical character,
for which we already admired her in
our family.)

One day, after a long private interview in
mother's boudoir, the nature of which I
vainly guessed at, she came tripping out ina
transport of joy; and giving me a quick,
small kiss on either cheek, exclaimed : ' Listen
what I've done, Pleasance, dear; you'll be as
delighted as myself. I'm not to have a
governess any more ! '

Then, in answer to my astonished inquiries,
Miss Rose explained, that  meditating over
the reductions which were being effected as
privately as possible by mother  she had

thought that her expensive governess might
very vell be parted vith.

'She would only have stayed six months
more, at any rate, as mother promised to
bring me out next season ; so it saves that
much ; besides keeping the school-room maid
to wait upon us both, and the separate meals,
which must be a considerable expense 
mother quite saw that,' added Eose, wrinkling
her firm little brow with the air of an
old housekeeper. * Then, as I said, I can
read two or three hours a day, French and
German and things with you, Pleasance ;
because you are the cleverest of us all. Now,
I know you'll be as glad as myself to have
me at liberty,' executing some small hops
with a most sprightly air, I could never have
imitated.

Glad !  of course I was glad. With Rose

as my dear, little, daily companion, although
I should certainly not reign in chief supremacy
as Miss Brown, there was no longer any fear
of being solitary. Perhaps I may have
thought rather enviously a few moments that
such a grace would never have been accorded
me ; and that, on the contrary, for more than a
year after the time when I might reasonably
have been presented, my mother and elder
sister had caused me (certainly under the
kindest representations) to languish in schoolroom
captivity. We all do have these sort of
thoughts at times. It was wrong of me, but
I was not at all perfect any more than most
people ; still being really properly ashamed of
myself, these ideas were soon stifled. For
Rose was the youngest, and had always
retained her privileges as my mother's last
baby and pet, whilst we others received

justice and affection ; the latter seldom outweighing
the former, except perhaps in Beau's
case,  and then he was the eldest son.

So Rose soon had the school-room converted
into a private morning-room for herself
and me ; and surreptitiously bribed my maid
(now hers also) to lengthen her dresses by a
sly extra flounce. When my mother remarked
it, Rose kissed and coaxed her, with
explanations that she did not wish to be
considered ' out ' any the more ; but that short
frocks made her feel awkward. Since the
affair of Beau's debts our mother had grown
somewhat silent, and unusually lenient or indifferent
in small matters like this.

For myself, Rose's company cheered and
kept me busy. Yet something was amiss.
How golden those few days of Alice's wedding
time had been !  but now I was always

vaguely troubled and sad. It seemed to me,
though I was still so young, as if there had
come 

a mist and a driving rain,

And life is never the same again.'

Nay, nay ! not a driving rain. I chid
myself for such morbid fancy. A mist, perhaps
 but who has not mists in their lives?
And soon in September it would lighten and
raise and brighten. For Alice had been
promised her wedding-ball then, before Beau's
troubles were surmised ; and then would not
Clair come to us once more, and all the world
seem full of music and sunshine and sweetness
again. And who knew  who knew then
what he might not say to me ?

CHAPTER XIII.

niO September came at last, with its time
of partridges and yellow stubble-fields ;
orchards heavy-hanging with ruddy apples ;
brambles glorious in all the hedgerows with
blackberries and bronze-tinted trails. It was
a time of year to me always beautiful but
sad hitherto, with summer's death  never
before so secretly longed for day and night.

Alice had come back to us. We had
looked anxiously to see what change marriage
might already have made in her, not saying
to each other our fears of the dulling effect
of Sir Dudley's companionship. She seemed

gayer than ever, however; or rather more
excitedly determined to be gay, for Paris she
declared had been too empty, and Switzerland
too full for enjoyment.

And now for my ball  who is asked to
the house ? ' she cried, throwing herself heart
and soul into the matter ; as if she was still
the most interested one of us all therein.
So, while Rose and I recounted the names
of the expected guests, she expressed satisfaction,
or pouted in criticism.

 What a dull set of men you have asked 
all either mamma's old beaux, or Bob's raw
chums ; or, at the best, Beau's friend Clair
St. Leger  and you seem to admire him so
much that no one else can get a word in
with him, Pleasance,' she ended very discontentedly.
' Why on earth did you not tell
Beau to ask them all for you, as unfortunately

I was not here. His friends are nearly all
of them afternoon-whist men ; and not at
all a marrying set ; but still they would have
looked better in the room.'

'We have not seen Beau for some time, 
and father wished poor Bob for once in a
way to ask who he liked I quietly answered,
not entering into further explanations.

'And besides, Lady Digges, it is pleasance
turn now, and mine, to play prime
minister,' interposed Rose with a bright little
nod.

Pleasance has not been troubling mother
for any favours yet ' (no, indeed ! knowing
Clair was coming), ' but I mean to assert my
rights soon.'

You chit ! I have no doubt you will,'
laughed Alice good-humouredly enough.

Well ; wait till you both come to stay

with me at Broadhams in winter, and then
you shall see what a country-house party
ril have!' Then turning to our grand-aunt,
who was sitting beside us in the old schoolroom's
privacy, but taking apparently no
interest in the conversation : ' Anyhow, Bee,
you will bring the duchess for me? You
promised us that ever so long ago.'

Yes indeed : you extracted that, and a
nice worry it has given me to keep my word,'
retorted the old lady with a sudden flaring
up of wrathful spirit, which showed her
silence heretofore had been only dudgeon.

'A pretty price I have to pay truly for
the freaks of you Browns. I wonder why
I take any trouble about you.'

'But, Bee  dear Bee  you so often have

the duchess staying with you alone for a

night or two ; so we did not think it would
VOL. I. R

have been any more expense to you we all
cried out together, aghast.

There followed m unanimous murmur 
'If it is only money, and that you are doing
it for our pleasure, do allow father '

(We all knew our old grand-aunt never
had a spare sixpence ; but at the same time
her horror of receiving help from any of
her nearest relations was quite a subject of
delicate dread to them when longing to aid
her.)

Good gracious ! do you think I wanted
alms, foolish brats. No !  the price I pay is
that of my pride, in bringing you a live
duchess ; for she instantly took a mean
advantage, and declared she would only
appear with me if I had a new dress. As
if my dear old lilac silk that I've had since
your mother's marriage was not good enough

for my friends, forsooth ! However, as I
cannot afford any such unnecessary garment,
the upshot of the matter is, that to please
both you and her, she has worried me into
accepting a wonderful patent gown invented
by a German tailor she patronises. So there
see what I've done for you ! ' ended our
grand-aunt, with a sound as of swallowed
tears in her sharp short laugh. Then, interrupting
our discreet murmurs of gratitude
and satisfaction she added in a quaint
grumble : ' But, if you think from that, I'm
more likely to allow presents from any of
you, you are all vastly mistaken. No, no :
what friends give one looks at as a token of
affection ; but from your kith and kin it
has at once an air of necessitous support;
and when I can't fend for myself it will be
time for me to go into my grave.'

E 2

'But what kind of dress is this new
one?' inquired Ace, judiciously avoiding discussion
on the subject of giving and taking.

Said Miss Beaumanoir with a sprightly air :

Oh, an excellent plan, and one that just
suits me. It's reversible, my dears. First
it's a heavy black silk by day, then at night,
turn it inside out, and there you are ! '

Yes, there you are ; but what are you
like ? ' I cried.

As fine as a jay ; crimson shot with gold,'
returned my grand-aunt composedly.

In a day or two Bee went back to her
tumble-down old country-house, to begin her
baking and boiling for the duchess, she said ;
but before departure she confided to us
in the privacy of the schoolroom that she
meant to have more guests than the ducal
lady only.

I've asked some old friends of your
father's, and his family ; I've asked Mrs.
Gladman and her son.'

The Gladmans  ! ' uttered Alice, parting
her lips and raising her pretty eyebrows in
undisguised astonishment.

The Gladmans ! We only ask them for
small family parties,' echoed Hose, pressing
her mouth into a firm little button.

Exactly so. I always liked them, and
thought they had been rather neglected
lately at your wedding, Alice. Yes, they're
coming: I've just told your mother so, and
she looked at me as if I was mad. But that
is not all. I've another surprise for you in
store  a young man is coming to me worth
all the rest of your partners. What d'ye
think of that ? '

'Well, if he is not better than that

good country booby, John Gladman, I
pity the duchess said Alice, rather impertinently.


He is of a great deal better family than
your own husband ; and let me tell you, the
Gladmans, for the matter of that, are a fine
old family, and far better than the Browns,'
retorted the old lady in a flash of wrath.
Pray allow me to decide who is fit to
be asked to my house, and to meet my
own friend

Afterwards I succeeded in soothing her ;
but in vain tried to extract the name
of the mysterious stranger, as Alice and
even my mother, in agony of apprehension
at Bee's vagaries, begged me to do.
For it is very odd that you seem
quite her favourite, Pleasance,' said my
sister.

But our grand-aunt shook her head and
was not to be cajoled.

Trust me  ' she only said ; ' I never make
a mistake about who are nice men ; and this
is just the sort of man I would like you to
like, Pleasance,  worth three dozen of little
St. Leger ; though he does very well pour
passer le temps!

Was that all, Aunt Bee ? However, I did
not think it worth while almost to heed
what she said, for in two days was not Clair
St. Leger coming ? Clair St. Leger !  most
musical of names. I repeated it over andover,
now and again, in my own mind; and
so by keeping my fancy always occupied with
the one image  the same person  fancying a
hundred ways of where we should meet,
and how he would look, and what he would
say  I fell deeper and deeper into the

foolishly day-dreaming, unpractical state of
girlish first love.

Then two days of nothingness, but that I
felt waiting, waiting . . . had passed 

St. Leger had come with Beau.

CHAPTER XIV.

A ND now it was night again.

In the solitude of my room that
alone knew so much of my fond, mooning
meditations of late upon my coming lover,
the dear old room where I sat idly looking
out of the deep lattices on high, down to
the lake, so many afternoons when they all
thought me busy as usual, embroidering or
reading or drawing  in this room I was once
more ; but now almost weeping !

So it fares in love. Clair had come this
evening, but only to be hurried upstairs by
Beau to dress for dinner. Then quite late,

after our solemn, smooth faced, fat butler had
announced dinner, he came in. One touch of
my hand, hardly a look,  no more. He had
sat beside Alice, after taking in iVmy Pawlett
to dinner  for Amy had been asked back tous
at my earnest request, I had so pitied her 
And he had devoted himself to my sister all
the time, hardly noticing my poor dull friend.
Rose and I sat together, and I feebly tried to
answer her bright little remarks sometimes ;
but my whole soul seemed occupied in trying
to catch fragments of the talk opposite. It
was all about Switzerland and Paris, where I
had never been ; and about people in town
whom I did not know.

In my heart I almost regretted my kindness
in getting Amy to stay with us ; for otherwise
he must have been with me, and surely he
would, as of old, have preferred me to Alice.

Or, if mother had not asked that poor old
neighbour of ours, who loved to call herself
Mrs. General Jones  who was staring at Beau
through her double eye-glasses, and talking
volubly over her double chin  then Beau
would have had Amy, Whilst Clair and I

No use thinking over all that now ! After
dinner, being a small party, we sat in the
morning-room, which was supposed to be
more cosy than the drawing-room, but was cut
in two by a great round table heavily laden
with flowers, lamps, and albums, against which
Alice had often protested in vain. On this
occasion fate played Lady Digges a good
turn. She was on one side of the table ; I on
the other. What should Sir Dudley ponderously
do, to my inner dismay, after dinner,
but come in first, and heavily seat himself
beside me on the very seat I had been secretly

guarding for St. Leger ! There was no more
chance for me. When Clair came in, he gave
one quick look certainly in my direction ; then
Alice beckoned to him, smiling prettily behind
her large feather fan. As he took the seat
beside her with that winning and pleased
look I knew so well, and had hoped was more
for me than any one else, my heart sank, and
I grew so dull and absent that even Sir
Dudley must have wondered at me. Presently
Clair took Alice's fan into his own possession,
as he had used to do with mine. It hid his
face so that I could only now see a wave or
two of chestnut hair on the top of his head ;
and yet I felt constrained to look again and
again at him by some fascination, though as
furtively as I well could.

Just before we went up-stairs for the night
I might have easily moved a little and spoken

to him. But my feet seemed rooted to the
ground ; my tongue at the idea clove to the
roof of my mouth; and after all our easy
unshadowed friendship, the most horrible
shyness came over me, as if he was an utter
stranger.

Now  up-stairs, I miserably reproached
myself for my cowardice, for had we spoken
together, I should at least have known
if he had changed. As it was, we had
certainly touched hands when saying goodnight
in the family group  but I could not
be sure Clair had even looked at nne !

What with the disappointment T would
have been glad to cry, but was too self-ashamed
to do so. After all, I had nothing
positive to complain of. It was only fate 
yes, yes ! that I reiterated to myself  only fate
that had been against me; and how school

girlish it was to imagine that Mr. St. Leger
would not talk agreeably to any one else,
when obvious little difficulties had intervened
to separate us. So trying to reason with
myself, I lay heavily down, but not to sleep
for long hours, and even then to dream only
of vague trouble and disappointment. After
such sweet anticipations, it was a sorry night,
indeed.

Next morning with daylight, my courage
returned marvellously. It seemed so weak of
me overnight to have succumbed to the very
first obstacles fortune had ever opposed to
my intercourse with Clair St. Leger.

Of course, things could not always go as
I exactly wished ; but one must be strong and
bear that. The time seemed very long to my
troubled heart, however, for the male half of
our guests were all out shooting most of that

day; and much as Alice tried, my mother's
notions of propriety forbade our being allowed
to lunch with them.

Once or twice, at breakfast and after, Clair
might have said just a word or two to me
aside, I fancied  but always some one or
other came between us. No matter; I was
still resolute to make allowances, and be wise
and patient.

By evening came my reward.

Passing through the inner hall, I met him
at last coming in, hot, tired, but well-pleased
apparently with his day's sport. ' Well, Miss
Pleasance,' he exclaimed, with the old voice
and smile ; coming slowly towards me, as
if weary-footed but still determined on a
talk, 'and what have you been about 
you have hardly given me a word since
I came ? '

That was not my fault, Mr. St. Leger
said I ; trying to smile as lightly as if my
heart had not been yesternight so heavy, and
so bitter against him.

Meaning it was my fault, I suppose  I
What an air of gracious haughtiness you say
that with,' murmured Clair, in half-soliloquy,
looking full in my face, so that I Alas afraid
my cheeks were growing warm in self-betrayal,
and returned eagerly :

I did not say so. I never said such a
thing.'

No ; but some people's looks are so
eloquent . . . Come, forgive me this once,
for it was really not my fault. Your sister
called me over to talk to her ; and she very
kindly asked me to stay at Broadhams next
month. You will be there, won't you ? "
His voice had suddenly become tender and

pleading, though he looked round as if
especially careful not to be overheard.

What could T say ? I tried to look down
and say nothing beyond the vaguest assent ;
but my heart was softening, and he must have
knovvn as much, for he went on hurriedly :

Last night we were too small a party !
Every word one said was overheard all round,
and I hate that ; but to-night you will have
more people, so then  Anyhow, promise
you will have four, no, five dances with me
tomorrow night at the ball.'

Oh, silly, silly girlhood ! That request
made me so perfectly happy, that with beating
pulses and a new warmth all through me,
I slipped up-stairs to be glad a few minutes
alone.

We were indeed a large party that evening ;

so large that Clair's prophecy came untrue,
VOL. I. s

for somehow we always seemed separated 
what with my duties as eldest daughter of
the house, and his being such a universal
favourite. But, nevertheless, this night I
lay down almost happy again in anticipation ;
even glad of those few words we had had
together.

It was very different. truly, from all I had
dreamt through the dying summer. Yes !
But the deadening disappointment of last
night had shown me how foolish had been
the exaltation of my former hope. Now, I
was sadder and wiser, but still resolved to
trust implicitly in Clair St. Leger.

CHAPTER XV.

Last night, as to the trembling lute,
The dance gazed thro' the crowded ha,'

/UR ball had begun ; oh, what a delightful
one it was !
To the first thrilling twang of the opening
waltz, played by the best band all over
west of England, Clair St. Leger and I had
skimmed away over the polished floor of the
ball-room that was like black ice this night.
<jThe guests were coming thick and fast, all
in best dresses and highest spirits. Eyeballs
were then rare around us, and much to
be enjoyed ; so every one came with a deters

2

carnation unto that same, which the hosts
helping meant ' go that communicated like
magnetism to the crowd. An old ball-goer
would have known at once that the night
would be a success. Bob's friends had indeed
come down to stay with us in force ! A body
of strong shy youths, who blushed and laughed
uneasily whenever one of our sex spoke to
them, but watched ladies steadily with big
eyes all the same. They one and all worshipped
the March hare as their leader ; and
after some awkward but ineffectual attempts
to divert my attention from Clair St. Leger to
their joint selves, chose Rose as their divinity
and type of a ' jolly girl,' rather to my Bob's
chagrin, who could not understand why I
did not get on better with his chums.

Too truly, as Alice had prophesied, mother's
contingent were indeed rather ancient lovelace,

somewhat dyed and padded, and well
aware what they were about. In consequence,
they devoted themselves to a man to Lady
Digges, the future ruler of the Broadhams' big
house and winter-shooting ; who, for her part,
merrily accepted their laboured devotion 
faute de mieux.

And therefore  and therefore  not to my
sorrow, I was somewhat less sought out tonight
than either of my sisters.

We danced in the great dining-room,
seldom used. It had been the old Saxon hall
in long bygone days, so that no ceiling intervened
between the dark oaken floor and the
arched rafters of its lofty roof, that sprang in
bold outlines above the fine later carvings
panelling the wainscoted walls. Lofty, severe,
and sombre in general though it was,
to-night the old hall was flooded with light.

There were tapers, tapers, everywhere, in
Milky Ways and constellations of brightness.
There were stacks of hot-house flowers, and
beds of roses filling every window-niche and
carved nook. The old Brace banners meanwhile,
depending from the walls, frayed and
time-worn, lent a more solemn beauty to the
scene ; yet they were in keeping with the
traditions of the hall, where they looked down
on the festivity of this last human generation
into whose ownership they had passed.

Without doubt Stoke was a gem  an ideal
home this night. My heart swelled with just
pride as I gazed round at what seemed dream-rooms
of brilliance or shadowed delight  for
was it not entirely to my dear father's credit
that our ball was so beautiful ? He had
arranged it all himself, and no one had
better taste.

The same thought was in St. Leger's mind
too; for as we paused he exclaimed, with a
little genuine outburst of admiring envy :
What a charming old place yours is, certainly
! Your father is a lucky man. Look at
him now, receiving his guests, the perfect
picture of an English country Squire, and then
he is not troubled by having acres without the
money, like so many Ah ! any one can see
that he has everything wealth can get, and,
besides, all it so often does ?iot know how to
get. No lack of the golden showers here ! '

It was on my lips to say something in half-protest
against our supposed riches ; as the
remembrance of a summer night's scene in our
garden came vaguely back to my memory. But
I looked at my father standing up so straight
and broad, for all his short stature  ruddy
of face and silver of hair, without a trace of

trouble on his dear broad brow  and then all
shadow of possible coming care died away
within me.

This night was too happy a one ! I was
with Clair, and would be with him again and
again ; and all through my being was a
vague delicious dreaminess of satisfaction in
which thought happily died.

My mother stood queenlike at the door,
shimmering in diamonds and satin gloss, and
robed in costly lace. Every now and then I
could detect father stealing a glance at her 
and then round at some of us with such
fond, though partly-concealed, pride and
affection. Clair saw it too; perhaps his
eyes were guided by sympathy.

Yes,' he murmured. ' Few men have such
a charming wife at her age, two such good
fellows for sons, and such perfect daughters.

Or ' (lowering bis voice), * to say what I think
such a perfect daughter ! '

It was the old tone ; the old look ! I called
them old, and yet they had been but those
of a  happy hours last summer. Feeling
utterly blessed, but unnerved, I looked down,
trying to hide my happy smile and the blush
that was self-felt, I trusted, rather than
shown, while my heart quickened its beats.

At this moment, as the first waltz ended, a
sort of thrill seemed to stir the crowd near
us at the doorway. k. line of footmen's
heads, culminating in the naturally-frosted
pate of our sleek chief butler, could be seen
in a file down the outer hall to the entrance-door.
And though mother never stirred a
hairbreadth from her due post, yet by the
forward bending of the bodies of the meaner
folk around, making a wave-like movement

on either side of a Red Sea passage the
crowd reverentially left, I knew the Duchess
the glory of our countryside  was coming.

The Duchess of Western, and Miss Beau-manor
! ' was indeed sonorously announced
immediately ; some meaner sound then followed
as of the Gladman name, soon lost in
the ducal reverberations.

Whew ! the duchess, and the Queen of
Sheba ! ' exclaimed Clair, transfixed, while he
and I gazing from afar beheld a sight
advancing that outdid speech.

Oh ! glory, hallelujah ! ' whispered Bob,
as springing across the room he came to
pinch my arm fraternally in the most delicate
portion of its softness, that I might partake
of his secret joy. ' Come nearer, Pleasance,
my child, come nearer; I would not miss
this sight for a thousand pounds.'

In the twinkling of an eye, likewise, we
found Alice by our side ; her eyes as big
as saucers, and her mouth quivering with
laughter. Rose, too  peering with bright
determination over unkind shoulders that
were taller than her eyes, unless she stood
on tiptoe. We were all there to do Bee
honour, excepting Beau, who, as Bob disgustedly
murmured, with a backward glance
of his eye, was doing ' the grand ' in an
attitude of elegant expectancy in the middle
of the hall.

The duchess advanced, a ponderous figure
in dark-blue velvet, smiling around with the
affable condescension of her conscious rank,
and the good-humoured unction of all stout
people. But she was almost blotted out of
our visions next moment by the weird little
figure behind her in a blazing gorgeous

red dress of dresses ! It seemed to swallow
its small wearer in folds of flaming splendour,
and trailed behind in yards of wastefulness.
So old Miss Beaumanoir clearly thought,
for already she was giving the tail thereof
some spiteful kicks ; and with her shoulders
hunched up, and her black eyes searching
the crowd with a sort of angry defiance,
our grand-aunt looked really rather like a
witch at the stake.

Then two, large, motherly hands caught
one of mine, and a kind voice that I had
not heard for nearly three years whispered
in my ear :

*Pleasance, my dear child, how lovely
you look ! I had no idea you had
changed so from my pale, little, school-girl
friend.'
 ' Oh, Mrs. Gladman,' I murmured back.

meeting with deprecating pleasure the kind
glance of my good godmother. ' No one else
thinks so, I am sure ; at least, hardly any one
else

Perhaps not every one ; it might be a
matter of divided opinion ; but 1 think so,
at least.'

I am so glad to see you again ; it seems

such a long while since ' (Thereupon, an

uncomfortable pause might have suggested
that it was our fault as a family we had not
seen Mrs. Gladman of late.)

But that most forgiving of dear women
comfortably answered :

'Well; it is some time, dear! But once
Alice came out, that was quite natural ;
for your mother has had to begin a gayer,
more fashionable life, and you had to be
strictly finished in the schoolroom  while I

have been leading my usual existence of a
country vegetable.'

It gave me real pleasure to see that,
although she so miscalled herself, hardly one
of our company, not excepting the duchess,
had a better air or presence than Mrs.
Gladman herself. Dressed very handsomely,
though quietly, she still enjoyed a large fair
comeliness. It gave a charm as of surprise
at seeing such beauty of health.

But where is John ? I want you to dance
with him, dear ; if only to give my eyes the
pleasure of seeing you both together she
went on, looking round.

She had only a very little way to look.
Standing bashfully behind some strangers 
among whom he had allowed himself to be
entangled, having drifted from his party  was
a well-fed looking and handsome, countrified

young man, steadily gazing at both rae and
his mother through round black orbs.

Mrs. Gladman started at once to recover
her son from his captivity among the stranger
skirts he seemed afraid to tread on. Meanwhile
I found Alice energetically stabbing
me in the side with her fan (a little attention
she would have loudly protested against,
had I ever dreamt of returning it).

Who is that other man Bee has brought
with her ? He is the only man in the room
I am dying to dance with ; such a good air,
and so fine-looking. She is bringing him upto
oa, the little wretch ! Pleasance, like an
angel, pass him on to me.'

On the other side of me, Bob had
also suddenly begun renewing his friendly
pressures of my elbow, this time so excitedly
that I winced, feeling convinced that all secret

pride in the whiteness of my arms would be
mined for the evening.

Pleasance, I say !  don't you remember ?
Doesn't something remind you of  ? '

Bnt I could neither attend to him nor
AUce, for at that moment my grand-aunt
advanced upon me, and snatching at my
hand as if her fingers were talons, exclaimed
 energetically holding her prey at
half an arm's length  and turning towards
a tall, fine-looking man behind her :

'Here she is, Fulke. Here, Pleasance,
is a partner for you. Many a time I have
nursed him on my knee in this very house ;
where he had then a better right to be than
even you have now.'

The new-comer said, in a deep pleasant
voice which somehow seemed not quite unfamiliar,
bringing some vague memories as of

a pleasant dream : ' This is not quite the first
time that I have had the pleasure of meeting
Miss Pleasance Brown ; though '  looking
at me with a kindly smile lighting up good
grey eyes  'I daresay, you have quite forgotten
me and Dartmoor, as I should hardly
have recognized you in the change of finding
a grown-up young lady

I stammered over an answer, puzzling my
memory tantalizingly but vainly, when Bob,
who had been craning his long head and neck
forward to examine the stranger inquisitively,
suddenly thrust a yard's length of arm and
hand between us, exclaiming with a cry of

joy 

I knew it  I thought I knew you from
the very first. Shake hands. How are you,
show are you? Why, Pleasance, don't you
remember Mr. Fulke ? '

VOL. I. T

'Mr. Fulke! of Clifford?' I repeated,
in a maze.

*I don't know what you and Bob mean
with your Mr. Fulke/ interposed our grand-aunt
brusquely, as if she thought us both
crazy creatures. ' But, anyhow, his proper
name is Mr. Fulke Brace, the last of the
Bracys of this very house of Stoke-brace.'

CHAPTER I.

rpHE night was half-spent. But our ball
was not flagging at all ! rather, as
supper began in the lighted-up conservatories,
the dancers sped round with fresh
vigour in the clearer space of the great hall.

Every one seemed happy : all amused.

As I was resting beside a pillar with Mr.

Brace, after our first dance together, we

detected Mrs. General Jones and another

old busybody carefully threading their way

down the side of the hall ; their eyes fixed
VOL. II. B

on the walls with curious intentness, though
discreetly ; and their lips moving. ' One
hundred and eighty-nine,' we heard murmured
sagaciously as they passed us. 'Are you
taking that chandelier on the far side, my
dear Mrs. General? One hundred and
ninety-five already, I do declare, and real wax
every candle of them.

'Well, well. No one can better afford it
than dear, good Mr. Brown Sugar, as they
call him ; and a very good name too, considering
his sweetness of disposition,' placidly
returned the she-general.

Mr. Fulke  as I still secretly called him in
mind -met my eyes, and we both laughed. It
was now the middle of the ball, but this was
the first dance I had in honesty been able to
give him, to my regret. Alice, however, had
unscrupulously thrown over her other partners

to dance three times already with him ; assuring
every one she talked to that night, in her
impulsive childish fashion, that he was the most
fascinating man she had met with /or ages I

There certainly is a different regime here
from what I remember in my young days, of
our troubled fortunes. I can truly assure
you that I am glad the old traditions of Stoke
are so delightfully revived, for your family's
sake, as well as that the dear old place is so
well kept up,' said Mr, Brace, with an earnest
tone running through the well-bred easy
lightness of his speech. It told me he was
keenly sensible of the feeling that he was
here, a stranger, dancing in the home of his
forefathers ; but would not allow himself to
weigh on our sympathies at all, for that.

It would have given me real pleasure to
have said a word or two, showing him I

B 2

could enter a little way into the mingled
crowd of memories, regrets, and associations
I felt certain he must feel ; but foolish shyness
weighted my tongue. The thoughts were all
in my head. 1 could have almost spoken them
with my eyes, loving Stoke's every stone and
tree and grass-blade as I did, and so intensely
pitying him ; my heart was so soft and wide-set
this night with my own vague gladness I
would have had all the world as happy  But
not a word of what would have been graceful
to utter would come, though I did look up at
him. At last, after a pause, came merely the
blundering question : ' I beg your pardon 
but why was it you called yourself only Mr.
Fulke on Dartmoor ? '

Did I call myself so ? I think rather that
it was Mrs. Gladman who used to address
me so by my Christian name, having known

me very well ; whilst with Jack there was no
mister-king, but he called me " plain Fulke " 
as a mother once said with pride of her ugly
son, when the neighbours called him Johnny
or Jack, " His name is plain John."

My old friend laughed at his simple tale
himself  it may have been to hide some
amusement at another thought  but that did
not strike me at the time, so I answered,
staidly :

It was my mistake, and Bob's then.
How silly you must have thought us ! '

Fulke Brace turned quickly to look at me,
and my good faith seemed to beget his, for
he immediately apologized.

Not quite so ! To confess all, since you
look at me in such an intensely truthful way
yourself, the mistake once begun, I rather
wished to encourage it. I own (being now

cured, and ashamed of the feeling) that at that
time the memories of Stoke were still so sore
and dear to me, that though it was a delight
to hear you both constantly praising and
describing it, there was a relief in your not
knowing me as its unfortunate exile
Oh, Mr. Brace, I am so, so sorry  '
Thank you very much ; you may be sorry
for me now, since it gratifies without grieving
me. I do assure you, it quite gladdens me to
see Stoke in the possession of such a man as
your father, whom I had never met before.
We have just had a long talk together; and
he has taken me so kindly round the rooms
to see his few changes. He did it with a
thoughtfulness I shall never forget.'

Dear father ! that is so like him,' I cried,
lighting up with animation, and a flush of
pleasure.

Why, there ! Now I recognize you again
as the excited young Atlanta of our otter-hunts
returned my old friend with the new
name, his face brightening and his manner
unbending also. Now I remembered how
handsome I had thought him; and was not
surprised at Alice's present infatuation, for he
was a very good-looking man. He went on : '
Do you remember that morning when I found
you water-bound on a rock in the Teign  ? '

Yes, yes, Mr. Brace ; and do you remember
how you brought me back to Wheat-field
Parm on the pony, and the mornings
we all three Event fishing, and  and  '

How eagerly we went on chatting together,
each rousing the other to fresh pleasant
recollections ! When at lasts in the first
pause, we both succeeded in securing ourselves
another dance out of the pencilled

imbroglio of my card, it was with the most
mutual good-fellowship and genuine gladness
at having, as it were, found again our old
friendship intact though so long forgotten.

Then came John Gladman. He lumbered
round the room holding me in a hot tight
grasp. This only grew tighter and tighter, as
I found it more and more difficult to move.
He, too, said : ' How awfully this reminds
me of our jolly days down at the old
farm  eh, Pleasance ! '

Does it ? ' I just let fall from my lips,
glancing rather primly round, for mother
might be near ; and Clair was ! And both in
their several minds might think strangely of
hearing John Gladman call me Pleasance in
his big-baby fashion. Besides, my toes were
pounded to a sore jelly, and my beautiful white
dress  a Parisian dream, over which Clair had

just raved  was being ill-used if not absolutely
torn by John's plunges into battle, as his
dancing resembled. So I just added, my
words unconsciously freezing to ice-drops : ' I
am greatly surprised, you remember me so
well at all

'Oh, but come now!  that otter-hunt! I
don't forget how splendidly you took your
fences that day. There never was a girl more
after my heart than you were then. Besides,
if even I had been likely to forget you,
mother would have kept me up to the mark.
And I say, Pleasance ' (blushing considerably)
how awfully pretty  no, not that, but something
more  you've grown. You don't mind
my saying that ? Oh, come, for auld langsyne's
sake, you know  and I've been watching
you from a distance all the evening ; on
mv word of honour I have. You're so like

some of those quiet madonnas, or nymphs, I
used to see in the galleries when I was
abroad

John had once been ' abroad,' as he called
it, from Paris to Dresden ; and would probably
remain contented therewith, and refer
to that time of vast experience all his life.

Now, to my annoyance (much as I really
liked him), he pleadingly ended : 'And look
here, Pleasance, you will give me another
waltz, won't you ? A square ?  I hate them !
This next one, now . . . I'm certain there
was nobody down for it on your card when
T tried to take a peep a few minutes ago.
There is nobody else  is there ? '

The next is my dance, I believe ; is it not,
Miss Brown ? ' said St. Leger's voice just then
quickly, with a flash as of jealousy in his eyes,
as passing he bent them on me.

And I knowing it was the last one unappropriated
on my discreetly-guarded card
(having refused dozens of ineligible suitors),
and one more than Clair had even ventured
to ask at the beginning of the evenings 
acquiesced by a silent gesture with inward
tremulous joy. How glad I was then that
Bob's adoring satellites  all the athletic young
wet-bobs' and ' dry-bobs ' who followed him
as their leader with hero-worshipping eyes 
had chosen Rose unanimously for their bright
little goddess rather than my colder, paler self.

Instead of dancing, Clair led me straightaway
through the conservatories to our
fernery ; and I went as if in a dream. In
the distance among palms, flowers, and lights,
we saw all the earthlier mortals supping 
father, mother, with the duchess and her
nearest in rank, at a larger one among many

cleliglitfal, mushroom-like tables for two, that
were dotted fairs-fashion about the glasshouses.
My sister, Alice, and Mr. Bracj were
at one of these latter, tete-d-tMe ; and, as we
softly passed by, I was aware  without much
heeding it  that my old friend looked up
and saw me.

In the same way, I seemed to know that
Clair was watching his opportunity to avoid
my mother's quick-eyed observation ; but
neither did this trouble me. He must be
always right in my love-bewitched eyes,
except, indeed  when he neglected me too
much. The fernery was the greenest, coolest,
stillest of retreats. Hidden, as it was, far,
far away at the end of a suite of hot-houses
which made quite a small winter garden, we
found nothing and no one there save ourselves
and the goldfish swimming in their dimly-seen

basins. Tree-ferns, whose great fronds
drooped in feathery screens ; groves of small
up-springing palms ; smaller ferns fringing the
walls in close luxuriance on all sides of us ;
creepers trailing, twining, and hanging down
overhead and on all sides of us. It was
green, dim, everywhere around !

Only two lamps softly half-lighted our
bower ; showing us, however, all wee then
seemed to care for  that was, each other.
The atmosphere was lulling and fragrant.
Only our two selves ! and the plash of tiny
waterfalls for all sound, babbling unseen
amongst the foliage. We sat, side by side,
on a low couch (I can remember still the
Indian gold-worked cushions on it) ; and fora
perceptible time neither of us spoke.

I could not think, could not find a word
to break the strange silence, but felt only

happy ; in a dream ; and waiting. Clair's
eyes were bent down, too ; and supposing he
was dreaming like myself, I was satisfied.

To my surprise, when he looked up and
spoke, it was with an entirely new tone 
partly deprecating anger as of one who has
no right to be angry ; partly a kind of
tender jealousy.

 Who is this new swain of yours, this Glad-man
who calls you Pleasance !  and whose
mother seems to consider you her especial
property, by the way she watches you ? He is
an only son, I believe ; and rich, no doubt 
lucky dog ! '

'What is that to me? They are only dear
old friends of long ago '

Only ! Is that all, are you sure ? Ah,
Pleasance, Pleasance, you were not so ready
to let me call you by that dear name ; but

then / am  a genteel pauper I So society
would say, at least.'

He looked away with such a thoroughly
miserable expression, that in the tenderness of
my heart, being still a mere child in such
experience, it pained me almost as much as
himself to see him suffer. In my eager impulsiveness
to comfort him, I hotly explained :

Listen, Clair ! you are altogether wrong.
Mrs. Gladman is my godmother  and John
Gladman, and Bob and I, were all three of us
together down near Dartmoor at their home.
Oh ! it is years and years ago ; it must be
three or four years. That is all.'

St. Leger looked at me softly, as if intensely
relieved ; and then, despite some protesting
efforts on my part, possessed himself
gently of my hand ; and keeping, caressed it.
Dear little hand ! . . Then he is not my

favoured rival yet? Ah, Pleasance, if only I
dared hope that no one else would be ; though
I am a selfish brute to wish it,' he murmured
lovingly. My brain seemed on fire : I did
not understand him. Surely, he felt strongly !
Yet he spoke of what seemed death or life tome
 and of his own love and misery  always
in the same light-touching tone of graceful
joy or gentle regret.

He will never be your rival, unless you
wish it ! ' burst unawares from my lips. Then
I did not know how I could have said such a
thing; scarcely knew indeed what I myself
really meant.

Never ! . . promise me that, Pleasance !
So you do really care for me, after all, darling
my own darling,' exclaimed Clair, with a
sudden excitement which he had hitherto kept
well in hand.

And then the memory of the Wishing Stile
last summer seemed to steal over us. Clair's
arm drew softly round me once more ; and
for some little time ' the beating of ' our two
hearts ' was all the sound ' we heard. When
at last my lover spoke again it was to bewail
his lot. All that was in his heart was
uttered ! . . He was passionately in love with
me  and yet and yet  it was with intense
self-pity, and towards me lamenting fondness.

I am the most miserable wretch alive I
If only I dared ask you to have me, Pleasance
; but it would be downright folly at
present. . . I could not do it, as things stand.
Ah ! if only I were like that fellow Gladman ;
well-off, and with no cares or trouble. It is
a wretched world ! . . Why have such good-natured
boobies always the best of it in
life?'

VOL. II. C

You are wrong. John Gladman is little,
if at all, better-off than yourself,' my tremulous
lips framed with difficulty ; * only he is
content with what he has ! '

Yes, yes : any man is rich, I suppose,
who has next to no wants. But, Pleasance,
dearest, is it my fault that since I was a mere
boy I have been thrown into society, where I
ma?/ say ' (with graceful deprecation) ' I am a
favourite ? And now all the extravagant habits
one learns from the fruit of the tree of knowledge
have become my second nature. What
is it? . . . don't move! You shall not go
away. No, no, you are fast held; I defy you
to leave me now. And  and, look here, my
own Pleasance, I am ashamed of being such
an idle drone. I must work  I will work !
As soon as this winter's shooting is over, I
will reat/j/ try and get something to do.

Besides, you would not have me miss the
party at Broadhams, for you aud I are to
meet there again' (playfully). 'So now, you
are more willing to stay with me, my white
angel. What tyrants some women are ! and
fond of making us slaves, aren't they ? '

It was true, those last words had made me
more willing to stay. Willing !  as if my
heart was not all too traitorously willing ;
whilst pride and discretion kept tormenting
me for having so fallen away from my old
allegiance, whispering that it was all wrong
and foolish  the self-lowering of my womanhood
 to have so let this man gain assurance
of my love from my own lips, and yet to be
no more to him than before.

Yet what could I say  never tell him how
gladly I would marry him, poor as he was.
Why ! . . he did not want to know it !

C 2

And till now, how could I have found
inward strength to send him away, believing
in his true attachment as I had  as I did !
But now I really felt again a frightened
child ; bewildered by new problems, new
views of life, in which this my lover alone
offered himself to my troubled mind as
philosopher, confidant, and guide?

So I was wretched in my happiness, yet in
pride could not reveal it. Ah ! still trustful
of Clair, though troubled ; mortified, yet proud
of his love. It was all like a heavy, sweet
dream  of which one knew the wakening
must be bitter disappointment, so would not
break the soft-enthralling spell. Nothing
was real but the present ; the future a chaos
of doubt  a quicksand of hope. My lips
smiled in fond trembling at Clair St. Leger,
lovingly obeying the unspoken command of

his smile ; yet I gazed past his dear head
miserable-eyed. Since summer to have hoped
so much  to have so longed for this meeting,
day and night, and night and day ; and now,
what had come of it ? With hope deferred
till December again, my heart was sick.

All I vaguely knew was, that Clair was trying
to explain his affairs to me. But indeed
these seemed so involved to himself, no wonder
they confused me. He once had good interest,
 had been offered very fair openings
in life, in his first youth, so he said; but in
boyish love of his liberty refused them all,
thinking then he had enough to live on and
enjoy himself. Would there still be a chance
for him in this or that line of life, he wondered
? There might ; or might not. Then
there were other things ; but these required
examinations  and whether such a lazy blockhead

as he was could now acquire the knowledge
necessary in most situations ?  there
was the question I

All this I vaguely heard him say, perceiving
with woman's instinct that he did really
love me ; yet that he had a deadly hatred of
the idea of work, as work. It made me sorry
for him, and half-ashamed that I should so
wish him to drudge, to fetter his free, merry
life for my sake ; yet I did wish it !

And so at last out of this whirlpool of
loves, doubts, and fears this only rose clear to
surface, that Clair  for my sake !  would not
ask me to engage myself to him ; but trusted
in my assurance that no one else should
have ' his place ; ' next we were to meet at
Broadhams and  be happy. In the meanwhile
he declared with a sigh he must, and
would indeed, look out for work in earnest.

Suddenly we started and drew apart, aware
of an unusually firm footfall approaching.
It was Mr. Brace.

To this day I cannot guess, well as I later
came to know him, whether he wished to warn
us or not. He was a man whose firm-set face
and close-locked large mind could hold many
secrets large and small, but would betray none.

All he said was, in a pleasant voice, ' I
am really sorry to ask you to come back to
the hot ball-room, Miss Brown ; for you must
be glad of a few moments' rest, after all your
exertions to make us all enjoy ourselves. But
this dance is mine  and what is more important
to you, no doubt, your mother has
been looking for you.'

At that, I started with a guilty feeling.
*My mother! Did she?  Did she ask you
to find me ? '

No. I only happened to overhear her
asking others. So, thinking I had seen you
come in this direction, I cane to search on
my own account ; hoping you would forgive
me, if you are tired and would rather stay
here.'

Oh no  yes ! I mean I am very glad you
came  that is ' (seeing that as we went away
he looked amused, but dubious),  I should
have been very sorry if you had not

Even as we approached the dancing-hall,
we heard the last ;bars of the music dying
away. How I had forgotten time in that faraway
green fernery ! But Brace would listen
to none of my hesitating apologies ; putting
them aside as an ancient man might those of
a mere child.

Stay, and let me look at these pictures
in the inner hall  I am quite glad of an

opportunity he said. * Ah yes 1 these four,
dear, old ancestors of mine ! They seem to
look at me again with quite friendly recognizing
eyes. See, Lady Betty there, by
Kneller ; now that you are grown tall, and in
your white dress to-night, I believe you have
a resemblance to her ; why, yes, you have.'

That is too flattering, Mr. Brace ; but it
sounds unlucky, she died so young.'

And in the height of her happiness ;
better that than to have waited for the
sorrows of life. Miss Pleasance  may I call
you that, for old acquaintance' sake?  it
always seemed to me such a pretty name
that it is a pity to hide it in Miss Brown.'

He was still eying the four, beautiful, full-length
portraits around, with such wistful
looks, though trying to talk lightly to me, that
I exclaimed with all the sympathy of voice

for the Mr. Pulke of former days which had
till now been pent-up in my heart :

What a shame it seems for us to have
them here !  And what a pity you did not
take them away with you, when you had
to leave the dear old house ! '

They are fixtures in the wainscot and
could not well be removed; besides, where
could I find room for them in my bachelor's
crib ? It would be a worse puzzle than the
Vicar of Wakefield's family panorama,' he
laughed, looking with renewed interest down
in my face. Then he added : ' Thank you
for your kind fellow-feeling all the same !
It has done me good ; though I hope you
are the only person here to-night who
knows, or fancies, I have any regrets for the
past.'

But I may be really sorry for you, as weare

old friends ; indeed you must allow me,
for I am so sorry I timidly entreated,
though pressing the point. For where an
old friend is poor and proud, one must
insist sometimes on giving sympathy.

Brace quickly put one hand a moment
lightly on mine which lay on his ann. ' The
same good heart as when you were a child !
. . If even we never meet again,  yes,
Miss Pleasance, I shall be very glad if you
will still think of me as an old friend.'

As he ended, an ebb-tide of departing
guests flowed out into the inner hall, where
we were. Seeing Tulke Brace with me,
one and all came up especially to shake
him by the hand. It was, ' My dear Fulke,'
all round  ' When are you coming back to
these parts ? . . . and next time will you stay
with me ?  And with us ! And with us ! He

could hardly answer them all. His arm was
nearly worked out of its socket by the friendly
old Squires, and his hand continually being
held in warm, prolonged clasps by the
Successes. Clearly Fulke Brace had been
the lion of the evening ; the one man about
whom all would talk tomorrow morning over
a yawning breakfast-table.

Father was standing in the far doorway,
watching it all with the kindliest of smiles.
Half the guests seemed to forget the host in
their warm adieux to the former owner of
Stoke ; but, if my father knew that, he only
noticed it by an amused smile.

It gladdened me to the heart to see his
unselfishness, when a little dash of cold
water seemed thrown on my mind by hearing
Beau's voice say in low disgust behind
me :

'Horribly bad taste I call it of Bee,
bringing that fellow here to-night, as if to
make the county look upon us d' parvenus J

I tvish she had not, certainly, my dear,'
murmured mother's voice in answer. Upon
looking round I found both behind me ina
doorway; and mother's lips were slightly
tight-pressed as if the scene was one of
secret mortification to her, though father
smiled so utterly free of guile or envy.

My mother beckoned me quietly to her
side. ' So you were with Mr. Brace, dear ;
stay here now  the duchess is just going
away.'

The duchess and grand-aunt Bee were
indeed engaged in making, those farewells
to their friends which mean, in each case,
a ten minutes' postscript talk after the first
good-bye ; but at last they disengaged themselves.

The great lady said now several
amiable nothings to mother, who smiled her
still answers, more stilly and sweetly than
usual. Mrs. Gladraan also came, and kissing
me warmly, was to my surprise very affectionately
greeted by my mother ; as was
John. Pulke Brace received only her most
frigid politeness, though I gave him a furtive
look and hand-grasp that he answered in
kind.

God bless you all ! for it has been a
great success ; ' uttered Bee devoutly in a
loud whisper, stopping behind a moment,
and adding, ' But I think my man was the
hero of the evening. Pleasance, child, I
expect you to be in love with him.'

My mother's brows contracted in dignified
disapproval ; Beau looked black.

Well, if she isn't, I am,' exclaimed Alice

gaily in the background, ' and he danced
with me half the evening.'

Yes ; I think he asked you rather too
often. He was not afflicted with shyness,
evidently thickly observed Sir Dudley, still
further in the rear.

My good old man, why should he be ? '
laughed Lady Digges. * Why, I told him
there was nobody else I cared half as much
to dance with !  could I have said more ? '

Well, no ; I don't suppose so, though
upon my soul I believe you are capable
of anything,' heavily returned her spouse.

And I have invited him warmly to Broad-hams
this winter,' ended her Ladyship
triumphantly. Several of us looked at her
in misgiving, but there was no lowering
of a storm on Sir Dudley's brow. She was
so pretty ; and still ruled him, by that and

her childish entrain, as entirely as in the
days before marriage.

So all ended well ; and not a departing
guest but assured us again and again that it
had been a most delightful ball. Our own
feelings on the subject were mixed ; but in
general disposed to accept the soft flattery
with self-gratification and to quench misgivings.
It often is so with the givers of
a feast.

CHAPTER II.

/UR guests mostly all left us on the day
after the ball ; all the young men at
least, since Beau would not  and Bob, poor
fellow, could not  stay with us longer to
entertain them. So Clair St. Leger said
good-bye, and till nearly December I should
see him no more.

Aunt Bee was reported to have still kept
on the Gladmans and Mr. Brace for a few
days ; but my mother gently put so many
soft objections in the way of father's proposal,
which had been warmly seconded by Alice,
that we should drive over to see them, that

VOL. II. D

the plan dropped. The only one of us from
Stoke who was determined to see its former
owner, and sturdily carried his point, was old
Joe Verity our gardener. He walked over
and back the full twenty miles' distance in
his Sunday boots, and was footsore for two
days afterwards. My mother gently chid
him, for not having waited on the chance of
finding some neighbour's spring-cart going
that way ; reminding him he was not so
young or strong as he had been.

Just so, ma'am said the faithful old man.
I thought if I missed seeing Mr. Fulke now,
I'd never see him younger ; " and he shut
up his mouth thereupon, with a reticent but
self-satisfied expression.

At last the time came when Rose and I
were to set off on our visit to Broadhams ;
for my father and mother only meant to

spend a few days there, and then to bring
us home with them.

During all the days since our ball, I only
seemed to have been waiting and looking
forward, almost living forward! It was a
strange feeling, for hitherto I had always
enjoyed my daily life more or less gladly ; or
at least, if any disagreeable days came, there
was unfailing hope with the morrow. But
now, nothing in this daily round seemed
worth existing for. My whole soul was as
if projected forward into the coming time.
Days, even hours, seemed either wearily blank,
or a heavy span to be perforce dragged
through; my usual occupations burdensome
or a shadowy dream. But at last, as I said,
we had packed up all our best dresses, and 
speaking for myself  having hardly slept the
night before, were off on our journey to one

D 2

of the flattest and fattest of the midland
shires.

Of course Alice will come to meet us at
the station said Rose with bright expectation,
as we drew near our goal.

Alice, to her, was still ' our eldest sister,'
whose pet she had especially been, rather
than Lady Digges, the admired mistress of
one of the greatest houses in the country.

I hardly think she will,' said I doubtfully.

Why, Pleasance ! how can you say so ?
Would not we go to meet her ? You have
got into a moping way of looking at things
lately ; what is the matter with you ? Father
remarked it the other day, though mother
told him it was all nonsense  he thought you
were not well.'

The blood stirred within me at that ; and I
moved uneasily to look out of the window.

Moping ! I should be so ashamed to bethought
moping after Clair ! and oh ! I had
been trying so hard to be as pleasant and
cheerful, to outward appearances, as ever.

At the station an enormous but empty
family omnibus awaited us ; no Alice. The
Digges footmen were powdered, ours were
not ; the first slight sign of the difference in
our respective households. On our drive I
praiseworthy forbore to observe on my
superior prescience, as Rose half-indignantly
began inventing excuses for Alice. Between
times she kept flattening her nose against the
window, declaring the country the ugliest she
had ever seen,  dreary straight roads with
hedges like dead-wood walls hiding all prospect
 save where an occasional gate showed
a glimpse of great sodden pastures, or turnip-fields
stretching to the dull grey horizon.

I should hate to live here ; shouldn't
YOU ! ' she exclaimed. Then, after ten seconds,

Why it is no more to be compared even to
the country round Stoke'

To Stoke ! I should think not,' was my
jealous interruption. ' None of us need ever
think, if we marry, to have such another
home as Stoke.' I was disappointed too,
like Rose ; but not on account of Alice. It
had been a half-hope in my mind that someone
else might have come down in the same
train with us. When was Clair coming? or
could he  not be coming ?

He had written to me, that he would try to
be at Broadhams at the same time as ourselves
; for, it must be owned, we had exchanged
one or two letters since we parted.
Very few  pride, or shyness, or both, had
prevented my writing oftener.

Presently, after being well wearied of the
landscape, we drove through a great castellated
archway, the gates opening mysteriously
as of their own accord. No laughing children
peeped past the solemnly drawn blinds of the
lodges, on either side ; not a flower, shrub,
or creeper broke the dead monotony of their
Avails or the sweep of grey gravel.

Then came a long damp drive, bordered by
iron palings, through a wide, flat park that
looked to us dull as desolation. Yet wintertime
at Broadhanis meant that then the great
flat-roofed palace Alas at its best ; itself full of
guests, and the coverts of pheasants. In
summer the park was hot and ugly, with its
solemn standard trees dotted too far apart
for any shade, but to a few fat deer that
looked dull and respectable like all else here.
The square great house seemed geometrically

set down in the very midst of this park ; and
by some whim not a rhododendron clmnp,
no shrub, nor flower, had been permitted to
invade the dead green of the surrounding
turf for a considerable distance.

From a quarter of a mile away on each
side, one could see every figure that went in
or out of the house. A broad gravel walk
surrounded it, with such painful greyness, to
my eye, that any weed would have been a
relief ; while dead-looking, greenish glass
windows inserted here and there by the
path's edge, made one sorry for the servants
down in the dim-lit basement.

The house-stables, as unsightly buildings,
were discreetly hidden out of sight in a great
mass of shrubbery a quarter of a mile away ;
and all menial communication with the house
was carried on by means of an underground

passage. As to the home farm, it was a good
morning's walk distant. For all its cheerful
animal sounds and sights had been presumably
thought too entirely vulgar by the heavy
Georgian minds of whatever Sir Dudley
Digges had planned Broadhams to his liking.

As we drove up and were ushered into a
Plutonian stone hall, meant only for cold and
coats, gloves, hats, and such small gear, we
looked forward expectantly ; but no smiling
Alice appeared among her many tall, properly
proportioned and powdered servants.
In a vast inner marble hall warmed by four
fires, and surrounded by statues, above which
ran a round gallery, we looked around once
more  as the chief of these splendid domestics
paused.

Her Ladyship is out driving in her pony-carriage,
with Mr. Brace,' he suavely explained,

as if sorry for our evident and
indeed murmured disappointment ; then respectfully
inquired would we prefer to be
shown at once to our rooms, or to go into the
morning-room. He believed Mrs. Jessop was
there.

Mrs. Jessop, who is she ? ' muttered
Rose to me half crossly, being tired and cold.

'The widowed Mrs. Jessop,  her Ladyship's
friend,' blandly reiterated our obsequious vice-host,
evidently pitying our profound social
ignorance ; ' and I believe Mr. St. Leger is in
the morning-room also

Let us go up-stairs first and take off our
wraps,' declared Rose at that, not caring a
fig whether she saw Clair St. Leger an
hour hence, or not. But I, trying to steady
my voice from any undue hurry, interposed.

We can go up-stairs very soon, dear, when

our luggage has been taken up, you know ;
but' we may as well just get warm .in the
morning-room first.'

So it was done ; for when I rarely did
decide on anything, my own way was curiously
always given me. We want down a wide,
carpeted and sofa-lined corridor, warmed to a
hot-house temperature with hot air  one leaf
of double mahogany doors, lofty enough for
giants, was noiselessly opened. We passed
round a heavy Chinese screen, placed to exclude
all possible but improbable draughts in such a
hermetically tight-closed, snugly kept, British
household. A square, heavily-furnished room
opened before us, giving an impression, before
my senses could rightly discern separate
objects, of long-established dull wealth. . .

But all I knew was, and not even this
clearly  that, just out of the direct heat of

an enormous fire, sat a high-complexioned,
black-haired woman in a deep arm-chair. And
on the fender-stool exactly at her feet, basking
enjoyably in the fire-glow  and it seemed
likewise in the glances of her bright black
eyes, from the way his own blue ones seemed
looking up in them  his handsome head
almost on a level with her knees, sat Clair
St. Leger, my lover.

We had come in so softly on the three-piled
carpet, they had not heard us.

CHAPTER HI.

T) OSE and I did not stay long down-stairs.
We were now in our two vast bedrooms,
opening one out of the other for companionship's
sake, presumably; nevertheless,
as Rose called from far away out of the
cavernous depths of her state apartment, it
required a day's march for us to visit each
other. It was a chilly walk, certainly, between
the fireplace and the dressing-table atone
distant window, and the wash-stand at
the other. Clearly, the advantages Alice
enjoyed as mistress of Broadhams were not
as yet appreciated by my younger sister.
I hardly knew, however, what Rose was

saying. I had heavily taken off my wraps
and bonnet, and let them fall rather than put
them on the huge bed, like unto that of
Ware. Then I came over to the fire, walking
in a dream. There, leaning on the mantelpiece
with my head bowed on my hands, I
stood lost in heavy thought. JFhat was
wrong ? Was anything wrong ?

Thus Rose found me  as she came in after
singing cheerily to herself in her own room,
as blithely but as unmusically, to own the
truth, as a sparrow's chirp ; whilst pretending
to help our maid to unpack, but in reality
being helped by the latter every three seconds
in the easy task of tidying her appearance
before five o'clock tea-time.

What ! not ready yet ; why, how you
have been dawdling ! ' she exclaimed with
sisterly honesty. ' Your hair is all rough.

and you look as if the journey had made you
in. A nice sight you'll be to come downstairs.
My clear Pleasance !  let me help you.'

And this barely eighteen-year-old Rose
flew to set me to rights, with the protecting
air of a wisely superior caretaker.

No  ? Do I look hideous ? ' I asked
nervously, hastening to study the glass ; a
movement which made Rose, who was pinning
some lace down at the back of my neck,
follow me in a run, inflicting small stabs and
apologizing all the way. My face was
certainly almost colourless  except for my
lips, that from nervous pressing together and
perhaps having been unconsciously bitten,
were blood-red ; while my eyes looked drearily
brown without a spark of Hight in them, and
were larger than usual, with rings darkly
defined underneath.

Well ; you certainly have not got as fine
a complexion as Mrs. Jessop clown-stairs.
Don't stand too near her, or she'll put you
in the shade,' laughed my easy little sister,
not knowing she was giving a worse dagger-thrust
to my heart than those of the pin to
my body, adding, ' How nice and friendly
she seemed, from the way she shook hands
with us.'

Oh, very  and offered to get us lunch
and everything, as if we could not ask for
what we wanted in our own sister's house.
She seemed certainly to consider us the
strangers, and to be quite at home herself,'
I replied, with unconscious bitterness.

Rose looked up in utter surprise.

Why  you must be ill, Pleasance. I
never knew you speak like that before.'

At this moment, Alice burst into the room.

 Oh, my dears, I'm frozen alive with the cold 1 '
was her first greeting, uttered with a radiant
face and preoccupied air, showing she had
enjoyed her drive. ' So you've come !  I'm so
glad '  lightly embracing us both. 'But now,
come to mi rooms. I haven't a moment to
spare before putting on my new tea-gown,
and as Lady Pawlett always wears smart
ones I want to cut her out to-night.
Pleasance not ready, do you say, Rose?
Oh nonsense, she'll do well enough, and
she never minds  do you, dear? Come 
come ! '

Away she swept us to her suite of rooms !
rapidly explaining on the way that these had
been settled according to her own taste  the
rest of the house being too hideous ! But Sir
Dudley was still obstinate about changes
there. ' However in time, my dears ; we'll

VOL. II. E

see  in time ! Ob, I mean to have my own
way.' Her rooms indeed were charming. A
Watteau like nutshell of a boudoir all hung
in ruby watered silk, with exquisite china
crowded everywhere ; fairy-like furniture ; all
kinds of most cunning and newest knickknacks.
We cried out in admiration, and
would have stayed to examine it more closely,
but Alice hurried us on to her dressing-room.
This in its own way was equally deligh,ifeful,
with crystal and marble shrines fit for Venus
rising from the Paphian waves ; while the
magnificent silver-mirrored and ivory inlaid
dressing-table was covered with such treasures
as Belinda's attendant sprites would have
toyed to guard.

That is a new gown  not one of your
trousseau ones,' uttered Rose, examining
with sharp eyes the exquisite garment which

Alice's maid was rapidly preparing to put
on her.

Yes, I had to get a whole new set in
Paris ; those mother Avould choose me looked
so plain laughed Alice. ' Half my next
year's allowance is gone beforehand already.
No matter ; I'll just have to coax my old man
for more. Well  and how do you like Jenny
Jessop, my great friend? I met her for the
first time a month ago, when we were visiting
in Hampshire, and she certainly is the best
company in the world.'

Has she been long a widow ? Is she 
well-off ? ' I slowly asked, not quite owning
to myself why I put those questions.

Long ? No ! she got out of weeds as soon
as decency permitted ; and you may be very
sure she will bear her single affliction not a
minute longer than she can well help it.' So

E 2

5S>T0'"'*'

saying lightly  and ignoring the latter part
of my sentence, which I had not courage to
repeat  Lady Digges hurried us down-stairs.
On the way she enumerated the names of her
guests, of whom it seemed a large party had
just come in after having gone, to please Sir
Dudley, for a dull, cold drive on his coach.
But I knew none of them, excepting the
Pawletts and Mr. Brace. As to the latter, I
said in a heavy, surprised way, ' I am quite
astonished that you really have asked him
here. Of course, you told us all how much
you liked him at our ball ; but still you
only knew him that one night, so  '

Just so, my dear,' nodded my sister with
an arch smile, and pausing with her hand on
the drawing-room door-handle to half whisper
to us. 'Poor old Dudley absolutely was
foolish enough to grumble at my having

danced so much with Mr. Bracj at Stoke.
So as I intend to nip all such little jealousies
in the bud, I never rested till I got him here.
Heavens and earth ! but it was a trouble ;
it cost me more letters to bring that man than
nearly all the rest put together.'

Knowing Alice's weakness for exaggeration
in such small matters, I took this last statement
for what it might be worth ; and as
she rustled with charming grace to join her
assembled friends, I followed quietly, feeling
like a blot on her brightness  though Rose
behind our dear fashionable beauty looked a
fresh country rose-bud.

We found ourselves in a different room.
A narrow drawing-room heavily draped in
gorgeous yellow, its great length broken by
pillars and separate fireplaces, its walls almost
covered with full-length Digges portraits.

Being rather superstitious in small things, I
was grateful for the change of scene from the
morning-room ; as if therewith might come a
change of circumstances for myself. It proved
so indeed.

There was a large, laughing group at the
far fire-place as we entered, among whom
was Clair ; also Mrs. Jessop. She, like Alice
and several others, had changed her dress for a
violet and gold tea-gown ; which might have
seemed loud, if she had not volubly assured
every one it was half-mourning. Mr. Brace
was the first to recognize and shake hands
with me, but he was immediately called away
by Alice.

After I had been shyly but warmly greeted
by poor Amy Pawlett, and received a brusque
hand-clasp from Charlotte, they were also
both immediate wanted by Alice to do the

honours of the tea-table, which she herself
found too much trouble.

Now that your sisters are here, won't you
give them that post of honour, my dear ? '
whispered Mrs. Jessop audibly, for my benefit,
with what she meant to be a very conciliatory
glance at myself.

Oh, dear no ! my sisters will want to
amuse themselves as well as the rest of us,
and Lady Pawlett likes those two girls to be
made useful,' was the merry reply.

Amuse ourselves ! Yes, every one else
seemed to be doing that around me. Not one
but myself seemed to have the least shadow
of secret care on their hearts. With the
tinkling of tea-cups mingled eager chat ; and
the rippling of laughter came as continuously
as that of little waves on a beach. The very
atmosphere seemed to convey the aura of

their careless mirth from their minds to mine.
But I, feeling myself  just poor Pleasance
Brown  plain and disregarded once more, sat
withdrawn somewhat in shadow, my eyes
only trying to watch unobserved one figure
there, being too strained and anxious to
amuse myself.

At last Clair looked round searchingly and
came straight towards me; though with his
usual air of gay carelessness.

Why are you hiding yourself here ? ' he
asked, scanning me with blue, wide-opened
eyes, and a merry smile ; whilst all my
own imperfections of pallor and careless
attire seemed to myself surely frightfully
evident.

I am a little tired, and had rather a headache
after our journey,' was my answer,
almost apologetic in its lowness ; and yet an

apology was surely not necessary on my
side.

Yes ; I thought by the very first glance I
had, that you did not seem quite yourself on
arriving this afternoon and so saying Clair
sat down and played with an Indian puzzle
that lay on a table between us. His tone
was now peculiar, forced, and might mean
reproach, that I had already misjudged him
in haste  (for indeed the situation in which I
had found him was mayhap harmless enough !)
or it perhaps signified embarrassment. I
only replied, however,

Can you be much surprised at that ? '
At this moment, Eulke Brace came up tome
with tea. ' I saw you had been forgotten,
and you must need some refreshment,' he
said. Clair exclaimed at his own remissness
in not thinking of my wants. Then the short

inteiTiiptioii over, as Brace left us, he quickly
bent his head and murmured, ' Don't you
think after this, that you might very well be
supposed to be taking some rest up-stairs
after your journey. Do you know the round
gallery over the hall ? No ?  Well, if you
don't mind waiting . . . That won't please
you, however; you would rather be waited
for, I know, so you will find me presently at
the head of the staircase, and I will show
you the gallery. . . Don't keep me too long,
before you come ; that's all.'

He was gone from my side before I could
make any inquiry or answer, and had
sauntered out of the room with a most
un-preoccupied air. What did he mean?
Tired, troubled, I felt anxious and half-ashamed
at the idea of a clandestine meeting ;
and that too so hurriedly after our arrival.

Why could not Clair have stayed here beside
me on the sofa, and said all he wished  and
that I should be so glad to hear  quite
unheard, and most likely unheeded, by the
others in this large room?

But his will was too much my law ; the
temptation too strong. So I found myself
going alone, presently, up the great dimly-lit
stairs, though with slow dignified steps that
sank inaudibly into the thickness of the
carpet. On reaching the head of the staircase
not a soul was to be seen ; and perfect
silence reigned through the long picture-hung
corridors before me.

ff

H

CHAPTER IV.

ALE indignant, yet almost relieved, I
stood to give one hurried searching
glance along the warmly-red perspective of
the broad passage ; to see that no figure could
be inspecting one of the many cases of stuffed
birds, butterflies, beetles, and what Rose
called ' stones,' that were placed museum-like
down its length. No one !

Why, I hardly knew  but, with a sudden
impulse, I darted like a loosed arrow towards
the heavy baize doors that led to the sacred
precincts of the young ladies' wing  the rooms
on either side of this great corridor, I was in,

being given to the chiefs and married
guests. But before I had vanished away
to the safety of my own room, a detaining
hand was lightly laid on my shoulder,
and a laughing voice said in my ear,

Why such haste, fair and faithless female ?
The round gallery is not there ! '

Where were you ? I did not see you,' was
my almost unwilling reply.

Clair pointed with a smile to the curtains
of a near window in the recess, behind which
he must have been concealed.

'It was worth hiding to see your "fair face
blushing with sweet surprise " at my supposed
rudeness. What a hurry you were in to
display your dignity ! This way, and  please
don't run away again.'

Pushing a swing-door that opened noiselessly,
we entered a round, shadowy gallery.

looking down on the softly-lit marble hall ;
the coloured glass dome of which was over
onr heads. Three other doors led to different
quarters of the house. Yet, as Clair explained
in a quick whisper, being surrounded by
corridors, the gallery was not very often
used as a passage-way ; although being
considered a lounge in the heart of the
house, our presence there was not remarkable.


Cushioned niches offered seats perfectly
hidden, in the dim light up here, from
any one crossing the hall below. But with
us, any person was easily reconnoitred if
coming from the craving-rooms, billiard-room,
or any of the reception-rooms below,
since they must needs cross this central
hall, on which even the tapping of the
lightest woman's heel made sonorous echoes.

Now that we were alone together, Clair's
outbursts of devotion on seeing me again,
were enough to allay all my fears on first
entering the house. There was no doubt
now in my mind of his fondness for me 
none ! Yet I was still ill at ease and nervous.
What was the matter with me? St. Leger
asked twice with reproachful gaiety ; for he
certainly had to guess at rather than elicit the
answering words of gladness that stood mute
on my lips. Ah ! could he not guess how
differently we seemed to have passed the
intervening time since our last meeting at
Stoke?  I in anxiety and waiting, that
now made me as timid and fearful ashe
was light-hearted and thoughtless of the
future.

A few brief minutes had barely passed
away when the feeling of shame lest any one

should surprise us, which had been on me
from the first, so grew that, suddenly making
a movement to rise, I said, ' I must go
now  I told Alice I was going to my own
room.'

What ! So soon ! when I have hardly
seen you. Nonsense ; it is not to be permitted,'
and he caught me by both hands
laughingly, for he was sitting beside me in
the recess, exclaiming, ' There. I dare you
to go now.'

'But please! please! indeed I would
rather go. What would any one say if ? '

At that instant footsteps were distinctly
audible crossing the hall below. At once I
started up, but as quickly sat down again ;
remembering I was otherwise likely to be
seen ; almost trembling with new fright. Oh,
if Clair did but understand that this secresy,

if sweet to him, was equally painful to me !
And if he only wished so, there need be no
necessity for it.

'Why are you afraid? It is only Brace,'
whispered Clair, peering cautiously down.
He is an awfully good fellow ; isn't he ? " If
he comes here"  do you say? Oh no; I've
never known him cross this gallery before.
What a capital meeting-place it is, to be
sure. I defy our natural enemies, chaperons,
to discover whoever has got first into this
watch-tower.'

You seem to know it very well ! '
How the quick jealousy leapt out, I do not
know  after my thinking it was all buried,
too  but something familiar in his tone may
have jarred on my almost overstrung, sensitive
nerves. Without reason, or logic, yeomen
sometimes seem to possess a gift of divining

VOL. II. Y

the truth. My chance shaft must have struck
home; for Clair looked up, then at once
dropped his gaze, with a slightly nettled,
colder air.

Why  what ?  what do you mean, Pleasance
? This is the second time this afternoon
you have made me fancy you were displeased
at something. I cannot imagine what.'

Before I could answer  though indeed in
my trouble it was unlikely that any clear
answer could have come  one of the four
swing-doors opened. And as my prophetic
soul had too truly foretold, Fulke Brace came
into the gallery.

Hallo !  what brings him ? ' muttered
Clair in a disgusted undertone, rising at once.
I had sprung to my feet on the first opening
of the door, and now assumed a careless
attitude leaning on the rail. Tor a moment

J

Mr. Brace appeared not to have perceived us,
and to be passing on the other side ; but
then, retracing his steps, he came and said
pleasantly, but I fancied significantly,

Oh, St. Leger, I believe the ladies downstairs
are sending messages round the house
for you. They have started the idea of
having a paper-chase (of all things in the
world !) through the passages, and want you
to be the hare. Will you come ? '

Will I ?  of course ! Is this the latest
brilliant thought of the fair Jessop ? ' answered
Clair at once, with an alacrity which  though
I knew how really disgusted he had been
a minute ago at the interruption  none the
less startled me by its apparent sincerity.
I was unused yet to such little deceits ;
and never did get used to them for the
matter of that.

F 2

A door below now opened, letting forth
a flood of feminine voices, laughter, and the
rustling of skirts. As the sound came nearer
beneath the gallery, I looked hastily round
for some means of escape.

You don't want to join them, perhaps ? '
said Brace quickly, who had been watching
me. ' You are tired after travelling ; I
thought you would be so. This way then,
before you are seized on. This door leads
you directly into the young ladies' gallery.'

So saying, he showed me an opposite door
to that by which we had entered, whilst
Clair rather slowly turned away. And as I
sped into the safety of our own passage
with a sense of some thankfulness, if of
confusion, it was Fulke Brace who quickly
closed the door again behind my flying footsteps,
ably covering my retreat.

CHAPTER V.

rpHE fun was fast and furious at Broad-hams
that evening.
Most of the guests had only preceded us
by a day or two, but had already worn off
any first stiffness, or doubt as to what manners
or customs might best please the reigning
spirit in the house. Besides, several of
them  of whom were Mrs. Jessop and Clair
St. Leger  had already met Alice at other
houses in the winter. Then jokes had been
made that were now perpetuated into secret
passwords; a shibboleth to the uninitiated
like myself; and fun had begun in the germ

that was to grow to its utmost riot at
Broadhams.

Rose came up-stairs, astonished and glowing
with her account of the mad paper-chase.
The trail had been carried, to the housekeeper's
desperation, through all the stately-kept
passages, excepting those near Sir
Dudley's study ; till finally Clair St. Leger had
]been run to earth in a bath-room, from which
it was impossible to dislodge him, he had so
fortified himself behind an army of water
jugs, which he threatened to discharge at his
assailants.

But  I must tell you, Pleasance dear ! I
do hope your headache is better ; for Alice is
quite vexed with you for not coming, too.
She whispered to me that she hoped you
were not going to play the prude, as it
was quite enough to have the Pawlett girls

I

looking prim. Oh, and you are not to let
Sir Dudley know by any chance !  Fancy,
Lady Pawlett was first and foremost in the
fun with us all ! '

Acting on Rose's hint, T tried to put away
all traces of heaviness of spirit ; as also, to
make a better impression, I dressed myself
in one of my prettiest gowns.

Down-stairs came my reward ; for as I
looked round at all the other ladies, especially
at Mrs. Jessop, who was beautifully dressed
in black and yellow, thinking they must
surely outshine me, Amy Pawlett came up
and said bluntly,

How nice you look, Pleasance.'

What a surprising fact ! ' observed St.
Leger sarcastically ; and, ' Is that anything
so very unusual. Miss Pawlett ? ' said Mr.
Brace, both at the same moment, as they were

standing by. But then with a pleasant smile
of making way, Brace, who was at my side,
moved away; and Clair at once took advantage
of the opportunity to say in a hurried
undertone,

*Do you know that all the ladies are to
choose who is to take them in to dinner tonight?
Look  they are all telling Lady
Digges now.' There was indeed a laughing
group surrounding Alice, round which again
stood a black outer wall of manhood, waiting
to be chosen with a more or less of ' 
' air of bravery, and smiles.
1 don't know, of course, whether you want
any one else ; but if not you might as well
ask for me,' continued Clair, just raising
his eyes in pleading sweetness.

Go and ask for you before them all ? . .
It is a dreadful idea ! ' I answered, hesitating.

Quick ; or it will be too late ; and I want
to have you to myself this first evening. All
the rest can do it, so why not  ah ! there  '

At that moment, Mrs. Jessop, detaching
herself from the group, made a little triumphant
signal to Clair, her black eyes dancing and
a smile of merry conquest on her lips. She
vas no doubt much older than himself; but
still she looked a comely woman, this rival
of mme  as my heart misgave me she was.

You are my property, so don't try to runaway,'
she exclaimed.

'Who would do so, even if they could,
Mrs. Jessop,' replied St. Leger, with a bow
and smile that / should have thought mocking
; but she seemed fully satisfied. And
now, to my surprise, a broad, rather round-shouldered
figure came towards me from a
group of gentlemen with a slightly rolling

gait, and John Gladman, for it was he, said,
smiling broadly,

How d'ye do. Miss Pleasance. I say,
haven't you chosen anybody yet at this game ?
No ; well I'm awfully glad, for you might
give an old friend a chance. Nobody else
will have me, I don't think.'

You don't recommend yourself very well,'
I answered, smiling, but sadly ; as Clair with
vexation in his heart against my slackness
moved slowly towards his widow.

Oh, I don't say but that some of them
might have me ; the Pawletts, for instance ;
but they're not of much account,' went on
the young man confidentially. 'And there
is a jolly-looking little sister of yours, too,
though I hardly know her.'

Rose : would you like to ask her ? ' I
answered in a state of absence of mind,

turning my neck, which was sicily as
flexible as it was long, to see if Mr. Brace,
Who was standing still aside, behind me,
was unclaimed. Por John Gladman was
well enough ; but my old friend was better.

But John was not to be treated thus, and
moving steadily round in front of me, explained
with a sort of good-humoured exasperation
at my supposed stupidity :

Don't you understand what I tell you,
that / can't choose a lady to-night ! And
if even I could, it would be you, not your
sister. It was you my mother told me I
was to be sure and ask to dance always,
and  ' The sentence ended in a sound of
confusion, but picking himself up gallantly
John went on : ' You know she's so awfully
fond of you, she'd like me to do you any
little good turn I could, you know.'

Dear, good Mrs. Gladman ! how sweet
of her to have remembered me all this time
And, so saying, I lifted my eyes unconsciously
to John's face, whilst they were alight with a
gleam of gratitude and love meant altogether
for her  not for him.

Well, yes ; she is a dear good soul, isn't
she? There are not many women in this
world like my mother ! . . . And as you've
always been a favourite of hers, she'd like you
and me to be great chums. Don't you see  ? '

Of course !  Yes,' I said, somewhat confused.
For at that moment Alice bore gaily
down upon us, while at the same time Mr.
Brace approached me too. If still a wandering
knight, that distressed damsel me
would so gladly choose him as my gallant,
instead of this poor John.

Now Pleasance ! Pleasance ! you deserve a

shaking for not coming like the rest of us
to choose your cavalier cried my sister.
So, as there is only Hobson's choice
left, you had better make it with a good
grace

But I shall be very glad, indeed, if I may
have  ' T murmured, forgetting what the
famous choice meant between the horse you
could hire and  none other ! Thereupon my
shy glance met Fulke Brace's kindly eyes,
that answered mine with friendly light.

You can't have Mr. Brace,' if you mean
that, interposed Alice. ' For, as this is one
of the few occasions on which the lady of
the house can be taken in by you, sir  I
claim you for my own self.' Turning to
confront him, she dropped an arch little
curtsey. He bowed gravely. I blushed
crimson at my stupid mistake. But John

Gladman came to my rescue, honestly unaware
that he had been recently snubbed.

Why, you're all astray, Lady Digges ! It
was me, not Brace, Miss Pleasance was
going to ask ; for we had just settled it
together.'

Oh, well ; that is all right then,' answered
Alice with careless grace. So we all filed
in to dinner.

During the interminable dinner-hours we
now spent in eating and drinking, or rather
on my part refusing course after course of
fine new dishes, and old wines, my ears
and outward attention seemed lent to John.
In reality, my inner self was given up to
Clair ; pleading, reasoning against his anger
with my shyness, till at last my mind quite
exhausted itself with the doubly effort. My
eyes, too, uselessly turned away from the

honest, smug face on my left, to look down
the long table to the right.

It was impossible to see Clair, for he sat
on our side. But still it required a constant
effort to keep gaze and thoughts from straying.

After a while I found John explaining
volubly, in answer to ray almost mindless
queries, how it was he had been asked to
Broadhams. It seemed Jj'ulke Brace had
before promised to spend this very time at
Wheatfield ; so declined Lady Digges's hospitality.
Then  having pressed for his reasons
she had conclusively gained her object by
sending a flattering invitation, likewise, to
young Gladman, as the son of her father's
old friend.

So I scored there, I rather think,' ended
good John, with a satisfied air.

'But I say, aren't you eating anything?

what a shame ! Why, Su' Dudley pays 300
a year to his cook

Catching his own name, my brother-in-law,
close to whom we were sitting, looked up.

John Gladman, with a genial air of certitude
that he was making himself pleasant,
bent forward to explain.

I was just saying, Sir Dudley, that I do
go in for a regular feed at your dinners. It's
really worth while being hungry for them !
And after our drive to-day I went off for a sharp
walk round the park by myself, till it was pitch
dark, and came in with a glorious appetite.'

Bless my heart,' returned Sir Dudley in
his thick, slow voice, with that magnificent
disregard of politeness one notices sometimes
in rich men. * One would think you were
talking of gorging on bacon and beans."

But why, Sir Dudley ? Aren't you

generally hungry yourself?' returned the
abashed John, staring with significantly round
eyes at his host's plate piled with crime de
volaille, succeeding mountains of previous
succulent dishes like Pelion on Ossa  Verily
it was no wonder he asked.

Never ! ' quoth my brother-in-law, quoting
Punch, with a self-glorifying smile at his own
happy memory. ' I'm never hungry, but thank
God, I'm greedy ! Hullo ! what's that  did
you say no ! to that dish ? '  And, to the
consternation of the Pawlett girls who were
nearest him, his little eyes, that, set in his
heavy head, gave him some resemblance to a
hippopotamus, transfixed Rose, who sat opposite
us, with displeased astonishment.

I did,' said Rose, bravely. ' I'll have

some plain meat by and by, thank you : I

don't care for entrees!

VOL. II. G

Plain meat !  Don't care ! '  ejaculated
the chief ally of our family in pious horror ;
then solemnly to the servants, whose circling
progress he had arrested as suddenly as if
they represented the sun, and he Joshua in the
valley of Ajalon. 'Bring back that dish to
Miss Rose Brown.' (By this time the eyes of
half the table were upon the luckless 
damsel who dared to beard the
greatest gourmet of five counties round, as to
what she should choose to eat in his house !)
How often have you been at a large dinner
since you left your schoolroom?' he next
inquired impressively.

Hardly at all, I am happy to say ; for
I like tea and bread-and-jam best,' saucily
responded Rose, trying some of the unknown
food on the tip of her fork with an air
of extreme suspicion.

Lord help you, child, your education is
hardly begun ; you don't know what to eat !
Thank goodness, you were sent to my house.
From henceforth you must sit every night
beside me, and I'll teach you.'

We'll see about that,' nodded Rose, with
a mutinous little smile.

The intense pity with which I regarded
our unfortunate youngest one can hardly be
described ; whilst John Gladman eyed her
with no less of astonished admiration.

Well, I say !  she has pluck ! I'd no more
think of cheering Sir Dudley like that than 
than  .' Failing in any comparison, he applied
himself to his dinner ; if with less
outward sign of enjoyment, yet still with
considerable suppressed satisfaction.

As we ladies left the dinner-table, Alice
archly gave orders, in a low tone, to several

G 2

of the younger gentlemen near her, not to
remain too long in the dining-room.

Accordingly they promptly followed, leaving
Sir Dudley, Lord Pawlett, and a few of the
old school over their wine.

And now ! let us all go to the billiard-room,
and have a gamble,' cried Alice, Mrs.
Jessop, and Lady Pawlett, who seemed the
leading spirits. Or rather her ladyship encouraged
them all with effusive good-humour
and gaiety, anxious not to let herself be left
behind in the race by the younger generation.
Yet she was cautiously discreet ; so that if
visiting later any Puritan household she might
be able to hold up her hands a little over
the Broadhams doings, insinuating she had
only gone with the tide.

Good night, Pleasance and Rose. I am
going to bed ; and if you take my advice you

will both go too,' grimly said Charlotte
Pawlett to us aside ; adding with a deep sigh,
Amy, I am sorry to say, is too fond of the
opinion of the world to do as I do. She has
ceased to be mitted with me in all things (as
we once were, heart and soul !).'

It is you who have changed and gone to
such extremes,' returned poor Amy in a like
undertone, nearly crying.

But if I can save !  (or perhaps I ought
to say warn) you young girls from being
drawn into the  the  the evil habits here (as
I feel they are !), it is only doing my duty,'
ended Charlotte. Her sentences sounded
oddly mixed to us ; all the main portion
being solemnly delivered, whilst her many
parentheses were weak and weepy.

All this about going to bed !  Not I,
thank you ; why, the fun of the evening is

just beginning quoth Rose decidedly, while
I asked, more far-seeing :

Why ! what do they do in the billiard-room,
that is so very dreadful ? '

'They smoke'  Amy hesitated, with a
frightened look at her sister.

Smoke !  you ought to be truthful, instead
of uttering such a miserable equivocation 1 '
Charlotte darted in, with a withering glance ;
then turning her back on us all, stalked from
the room.

'Really, though Charlotte is so good herself,
I wish she would not always accuse
everybody else of telling lies,' Amy complained
to us, looking miserable.

I was just going to tell you both that,
besides, they always play for money

Come on ; come on, won't you two join
us? I know you will!' cried Mrs. Jessop at

the moment with merry patronage, and an enticing
smile to us both as she passed, adding
in very audible tones of warm flattery to Alice :
What dear girls your sisters look ; so nice
and fresh about everything ; just what I love ! '
In the billiard-room, to our surprise, the inno-
cent-looking cover of a table was removed,
and a green roulette-cloth shown beneath it.

Now then  ladies and gentlemen, make
your game ! make your game!' cried Clair St.
Leger, installing himself as banker at the head
of the table and giving a preliminary spin or
two to the roulette with a lively rattle. ' Put
on your stakes ! Red and even has it this
time  come, pile on the money ! '

I mean to break the bank ; I dreamt
last night what number would win ; just
that of my own age,' cried Mrs. Jessop,
placing herself beside St. Leger by a decided

movement, and gaily putting five sovereigns
on 28.

There was an outcry all round, of mixed
dissuasion and applause, which I did not
understand.

I'll stand by you, Jenny,' cried my sister
Alice, and she put two half sovereigns a cheval
beside the supposed lucky number. In a trice,
the table was covered with notes and gold.

You are not going to play, are you ?  it
will be high to-night,' said Mr. Brace in an
undertone in my ear, making me start; for
standing shyly aloof, looking in a half-dream
at Clair and the Jessop widow, I did not
know who was beside me.

Shall I not ? . . I don't know, quite ;
not of course that I care to play high, you
know (confidentially), but as every one else is
doing so  '

The truth was, my heart hankered to stand
on Clair's other side.

You will find that every one will not be
playing. Some of the quieter spirits are sure
to have a game of billiards, which you could
easily join.' Then seeing I hesitated still,
he added, * Not that I meant for a moment
to force my advice upon you ; even though
you gave me the privilege of considering
myself an old friend

No ; but please do advise me, Mr. Brace !
I should be really glad; for you understand
roulette, and I know nothing  '

Pleasance, Pleasance ! are you coming to
play ? Comeput on your money, quick ! '
cried Alice.

Say you want to play billiards,' urged
Brace in a hasty whisper ; so acting on what
I guessed to be a warning, I thus answered.

On which Alice shnio-rred her shoulders
with a dissatisfied air.

YoQ see how much they are putting on
went on Tulke Brace, explaining the nature
of the stakes to my comprehension.

'What! Mr. St. Lester mio;ht lose all
that !  ' I exclaimed, horror-stricken ; then,
to cover my involuntary betrayal, added with
somewhat bitter playfulness, ' And so twenty-eight
is Mrs. Jessop's age ? '

She says so, and she '' ought to know ! " 
how one may be deceived, for I should have
imagined over forty to be nearer the mark
smiled Brace. But, at that moment, Clair
spun the roulette, and my foolish heart quite
leapt with anxiety for him to win. Rattle !
rattle ! rattle ! round flew the ball, leaping
spinning ; it settled, but the colours still
swam and shivered before my straining eyes ;

slower and slower the board revolved,
slackened  stopped  at number 28 !

There was such a burst of exclamations
at the surprising coincidence that they quite
deafened me. I could hardly get a glimpse
of Clair's face, as all crowded round him to
assure their eyes of the number having been
veritably hit. Then as I stood behind the
rest, heart-sorry at the result of this my first
spectacle of drawing-room play, Sir Dudley
put a heavy hand on my shoulder.

Come to the billiard-table, and don't
stand watching those fools. 'Pon my honour,
'pon my honour ! never saw such a thing in
my life. All chance  but now the women
will go staring mad trying to dream their
numbers. Humph ! St. Leger must be
rather sharply hit.'

Now I could see poor Clair, and for all

that he was trying to smile all round, and
laugh gaily whilst pencilling I U's to almost
everybody. It was forced, so sympathy told
me, and I took up my cue with a heavy heart.

Feeling in a dream, I played very badly, as
Sir Dudley did not fail loudly and repeatedly
to exclaim, vastly relishing his own bluntness.
I must have been lost to proper consciousness
of all around, indeed, that it never
struck me where Rose might be; though at
any other time I would at once have given
Brace's warning (for as such it seemed
meant) to our youngest  who in all serious
matters regarded my behests more than what
Alice might say, although calling me ' a dear
old goose.'

Conscience gave me a sharp rap when, after
nearly an hour, up came Rose to our staid
group. We were watching Sir Dudley

stretching his ponderous body over the table,
and puffing at an enormous cigar, whilst
making a few cannons with great deliberation
and tremendous difficulty. ' You have surely
not been playing ? ' I exclaimed aghast ; suddenly
waking up to the fact that her bright
little face was pursed up in a peculiar way.

I have though. Alice and Mrs. Jessop
dragged me over, and lent me some money.'

Well ; and what happened ? Did you
lose ? Egad ! little monkey, I kopje you lost,'
put in our big brother-in-law, listening.

I got,' said Rose slowly, with a quaint
little twinkle of ashamed fun, 'just ten
shillings worth  of experience.'

Then, as Sir Dudley, who had especially
made her his favourite, and showed it by
teasing, expanded his chest and laughed
boisterously, she proceeded.

I'm not one bit sorry I played, all the
same, for I wanted to know what it was like 
so now I know. John Gladman wanted me
to play just as he did; he's got some cautious
way of sticking on the dozens, and says he
never loses and often wins  but Mrs. Jessop
said it wasn't sporting, and pulled my money
off; so I lost.'

Well, you've learnt something to-night,
anyhow,' pursued Sir Dudley.

Yes,' said Rose impudently ; ' how bad
tobacco smoke is, when you are all smoking
like furnaces. If you are not choked,
Pleasance, I am ! ' Certainly I had been
feeling the thick atmosphere rather stifling,
not knowing what oppressed me so unusually ;
for it requires custom to like a blinding-tobacco
parliament.

Had you not better go to bed, dear ? ' I

said, in a slow, weary way, feeling disappointed
and dissatisfied. ' I'll go with you,
too ; that is, if Sir Dudley will not mind.'

'No, no, children ; go if you like,' answered
he, gruffly, but kindly, witli a sort of regretful
quiet ; adding, ' In former days, my old
mother never would have allowed this sort
of thing either, just like yours ' (he forgot
his age), ' but now Alice likes it, you see 
and so  '

We both retired, seeing it perplexed him
to finish his sentence. As we skirted the
gaming-table, my eagerly watchful eyes saw
that Clair, having relinquished the banker's
post, was now staking like the rest with a
subdued air ; so intent on the game he did
not even see me.

 What's the matter, dears ? why are you
slipping away ? ' asked Alice, affectionately

enough, disengaging herself from the rest.
She remembered it was our first visit from
home  and supposed us shy.

The smoke gives us a headache. Don't
be vexed, but we're not quite used to it, you
know!' I replied for her hearing only.
Rather to my surprise she answered kindly,
Yes, and you look tired too, poor Pleasance ;
there are black circles under your eyes. Well,
you had better not sit up ; for when Lady
Pawlett and Dudley and these other old
fogies go off for their beauty sleep, Jenny
Jessop is sure to have her cigarette and a few
more  so your heads would be worse. I've
not seen much of you yet ; but still I'm so
glad you've come.'

Let me get you some seltzer or soda-water,'
offered Brace with quiet attention, following
us to the door, where was a side-table

with all sorts of strong and weaker waters,
to quench thirst.

You played yourself after all ! ' I said,
looking rather reproachfully up at him.
There was no clear logic in my mind ; but
still it seemed to me he ought not to have
done so, and helped to fleece poor Clair (ina
way) after warning me.

That is quite a different matter. I am an
old man  and steady  compared with you,'
he smiled, with a rather protecting, fatherly
manner.

Has has Mr. St. Leger lost very much ? '
I ventured to add, dreadfully afraid lest I
should blush, seizing the opportunity whilst
Rose was thirstily drinking lemonade like a
school-girl. My old friend just glanced at
my face, and no more; then as quickly
looked down.

VOL. II. H

I believe he has got back a little of what
they won from him ; and probably before the
night is over luck may turn still more in his
favour.'

Upon that I went away, stealing one
lingering look unseen at the roulette-table.

CHAPTER VL

Sorrow may endure for a night, but
joy Cometh in the morning ! ' It maybe
so ; and often gratefully we do so feel it !
But how often again wee merely rise bodily
refreshed by the night's rest ; and so a little
stronger, but no more hopeful, buckle on
each our pack of daily worries and troubles
till nightfall comes once more.

Thus I thought, on rising; the next morning
at Broadhams  and for several following
mornings. Never had I imagined myself
such stuff as heroines are made of; but only
a poor human being, who must not expect
the sun to be always shining bright over her

H 2

head, when others around have rani often
enough, heaven knows !

If Clair neglected me, it was not my nature
to take it lightly as Alice might. Nor had I
beauty enough to attract other men immediately,
as she would, in revenge or consolation.
Neither could I accept my fate in a practical,
sensible way, like even our little Rose ; who
perhaps had more common sense than all the
rest of us put together.

No ; feeling myself only a goose in the
family ! for a little time admired by one man,
and too proud of his liking maybe then, I
now became again humbler and conscious of
my own small worth; not having it in my
heart to be angry, but only hoping that at
times I might be able to creep out of sight
if suffering very much  for it would have
been dreadful if other people had guessed it.

The pheasant-shooting was in full swing at
Broadhams now, and at several neighbouring
great houses. At least, these were all about
eight or ten miles away, for everything
seemed on a large and distant scale in this
shire. Therefore at home, the gentlemen
went straight out soon after breakfast in all
their war-paint ; their minds rightly full only
of guns, dogs, or perhaps tipping the keeper
as to getting the best posts ; and it seemed
to me natural and proper enough that what
they had to do they should do it with all
their heart. For, talk as some will, men are
essentially different in minds from women 
and cannot go brooding in this work a- day
world, but will even toil at play instead.

At lunch only, in the woods, we saw
them these days, in some of the picturesque
keepers' lodges. There, in the small best

parlours, hampers of good eatables and drink-able
would be unpacked, leaving hardly
room for us all to crush in and feed with
our elbows in each other's plates. Even this
concession Sir Dudley did riot at all like. It
was an innovation on the old immemorial
customs of Broadhams, which only devotion
to Alice could have induced him to make.

Once indeed Mrs. Jessop proposed, under
cover of Alice's suggestion, that some of the
ladies might also go out shooting ; she herself
being very proficient with a light gun. On
this, Sir Dudley lost his temper, and was so
rough that Alice  who could not have hit a
haystack herself at thirty paces  fled, holding
her hands over her pretty ears.

At nightfall these sportsmen would then
return, muddy and tired. Later, after dinner,
roulette still held its sway. Alice herself

now justified me and Rose in keeping aloof
from it  and in amusing her husband.

You can't afford to play high out of your
pocket-money ; and it only bothers the rest
to have sixpences and shillings among our
sovereigns she said. ' Besides, it would worry
dear old father with his old-fashioned notions ;
and as to mother  she'd have a fit ! ' (And
Alice held up her hands at the bare idea.)

Therefore, it will be seen, I had to makeup
my mind to few chances of seeing Clair 
And those few were all silently but vigorously
disputed with me by Mrs. Jessop. There
was no doubt about it  we were rivals !

During two days she had treated me with
effusive amenities, as Alice's sister. Then on
the third at luncheon, in the South lodge, she
had eagerly called to Clair, offering a seat
beside herself on the corner of a table.

No, thanks,' he replied in his lazy, almost
insolently pleasant way, from where he had
Jest established himself in a window-ledge
with me and a game pie. 'I am very happy
here beside Miss Pleasance Brown.'

A little glow of triumph warmed my heart
at his words. What woman would not feel
so ? But it almost died in a shiver the next
minute, as with a loud laugh and, ' Please
yourself,' the widow turned to those near
her, remarking with gay significance :

Let us hope want will not come in at the
door, to send love out of the windows'

There was a laugh over there around her :
but in a subdued way that seemed to say his
friends thought it near enough the truth for
them to fear hurting Clair's feelings. He
bit his lip  that I saw ! Ah ! I knew he
loved me, cared for me, liked best being near

me. But that widow followed him so ;
flattered, almost worshipped him ; and he did
not dislike the incense, seeing she was still a
comely and agreeable woman. What man
would, I asked myself in fairness of spirit ;
knowing it was impossible to me to go and
do likewise, I was too proud to 'run after
him.' And so, little wonder, in our bustling
eager parties I was soon pushed aside. All
I could do, and did, with my whole heart,
was to try and bear it lovingly, patiently ;
and trust, with some secret tears, for the
best.

But if Mrs. Jessop gave up ' cultivating '
my friendship, she was a thousand times the
more charming to Rose, whom she called her
sweet little Rosebud. And when often the
latter showed herself ' set about with wilful
thorns,' the merry widow still declared she

loved a high spirit, and commended the child
for not allowing herself to be snubbed.

Going to walk with Mrs. Jessop again
I said with a foreboding heart, on the third
afternoon this had happened. ' I wish you
did not go with her so much.'

And who else is there left to walk with,
I'd like to knows,' answered Rose, raising her
impudent little face saucily. ' You are never
without Amy Pawlett fastened on you ' (this
was true enough), ' and / think her tiresome.
Would you have me take to Charlotte ; for it
would be more penance than she even ever
did ! Then Alice has inveigled her dear
Mr. Brace away from the shooters to drive
in her pony-carriage to see some ruins. He
is crazy on old ruins ; and, as Mrs. Jessop
says, he is very like a well-preserved one
himself.'

Mr. Brace !  what a ridiculous idea ! '

'Not at all. Fine old family fallen into
decay, and patched up again pretty passably
with commoner rubble, meaning vulgar bank-cheques.
He looks it so thoroughly too 
with his quiet aristocratic air, and the way he
holds his head higher than all the other men.
Besides, he is getting bald ; part of his hair
was quite thin when I was looking at him
yesterday in the full light.'

No matter for that ! He is one of
those men who would look well, even a
good deal balder. They say it is from
thinking that people lose their hair,' cried
I, warming up in defence of my old friend,
Mr. Fulke.

Ah, Pleasance ! Pleasance ! that drew
you, as Bob says ! Why I thought the only
man in the house you ever looked at, (when

you do look at him,) was Mr. St. Leger ;
and he won't wear out that curly head of
his with too much brain work cried Rose
roguishly.

Then, after a few seconds as ray fiice must
have slightly fallen in expression at her
chance shaft that was only too truly double-pointed
 she added affectionately :

But you look rather odd to-day ; not
exactly moping or cross, but as if you were
nervous and out of sorts. Is anything wrong
with you, Pleasance dear? Look here, I can't
well throw over the Begun, but still do come
with us ! She's not so bad after all, really.'
Mrs. Jessop, we lately found, had been
christened the Begun in the smoking-room,
(m account of her reputed wealth and

gorgeous attune.

No, no ; thanks,' I answered, with indeed

some nervousness and haste, as Rose had
detected.

In fact I would have walked with Amy,
but that I  I would rather not now, and was
thinking perhaps you would take her off my
hands.'

 ' Can't, dear, you see ; but don't worry
about her. She can go with the rest of '' the
pack" for to-day,' finished Rose cheerily,
putting the last touches to her trim furry
toilette, and dancing out of the room.

The pack ' was an expression invented by
Mrs. Jessop for all the other guests who
ebbed and flowed in and out of Broadhams ;
whereas she had established herself evidently
in intention therein for even a much longer
term than ourselves, Alice's sisters. We were
always so large a party that I got to know

few of these three-days sojourners well; for

naturally, without meaning to be exclusive,
we, the nucleus of the guests, kept more
together. Besides, when Alice was speedily
weary of trying to ' amuse these creatures '
(which duty she fitfully attempted with an
air of graceful toilsomeness), Lady Pawlett
was always ready to take the task into her
own experienced hands. She would pat
Alice softly on the shoulder, saying, ' Silly
child ! but after all, young things will be
young things ; and it is quite natural you
should wish to amuse yourself, my love.
Leave the drudgery to me.' Certainly no
more amiable sister-in-law could now be
imagined. I hardly understood it at first,
having been admitted to a private view of
Lady Pawlett's character. But, presently, I
overheard her speeding one departing guest
(who had a big house of her own), with a

tender clasp of the hand, and the words, 'Well,
good-bee, dear ; and I hope (significantly) we
shall soon see you back here again.'

Oh, thanks, dear Lady Pawlett,' replied
the thus partly-invited one, with a flattered
air, 'but I hope we shall see you first with us.
Let us know when you can come, will you
not? Now, pray do  you will bring your
girls too, of course.' In this way Lady
Pawlett paid her debts of hospitality, without
being at any more expense than implying
some fibs ; whilst she also preserved the
appearance of playing still Lady Paramount
in her brother's house.

It was now Saturday afternoon. And since
the beginning of the week my movements,
or rather want of movement and quiescence
during the surrounding bustle, have been
faithfully outlined.

But this day only had been !  might still
be, blivssfully different !

Firstly, it was ordained at breakfast-time
by Sir Dudley that the sportsmen should
shoot a damp, dismal, outlying wood ; where
he was evidently delighted to tell us there
was no lodge, hut, or even logs of trees that
would give the ladies the slightest excuse
for joining them at lunch.

Alice had pouted on this intelligence.
Then the happy thought struck her that she
had been longing ' for ages ' to see an old
monastery well, with a bit of ruined wall and
some loose stones likewise belonging thereto,
which lay beyond the wood. And  as everyone
knew how troublesome her ponies were
to hold in  most reasonably some gentleman
must kindly leave off his shooting by afternoon
to take care of her; fixing on Brace

finally Avitli a pretty apology, as believing him
least selfish and with a fellow-feeling for all
that was old and beautiful.

Tor all that is young and beautiful, I
should say, eh, old fellow,' muttered Sir John
Dudgeon, a young brother baronet of Sir
Dudley's, who loved open-air sports, and could
only endure being indoors by help of practical
joking, gambling, and horse-play. He
nudged Clair with a suppressed guff'aw as he
spoke. ' There is no woman living for whom
I would give up my shooting, I know !
Come ; what do you say ? '

It would depend a good deal on the
shooting. This old wood is so deadly
swampy and full of brambles, I should not
have much minded giving up the fag end of
the day myself,' returned Clair lightly and
pleasantly enough, but moving away. For

VOL. II. I

though the Dudgeon dinners and coverts
were quite to his taste, their owner was
less so.

We were all in the hall watching them
start. Clair's eye had caught mine as he
spoke. Chance  no doubt !  had lately made
it so perversely difficult for him even to look
at me, but now he came close by me, apparently
occupied in examining his cartridge-case
; paused, and said in a quick and gaily-meaning
undertone : ' Where do you take your
walks abroad to-day, my Lady Penserosa ? '
Then murmured, *Do you know the old
quarries and the cave under the oak-wood ?
Could you be there, do you think, about
half-past three this afternoon  alone ? and
I shall manage to get away from the other

guns if I can.'

It took me so by surprise, after the past

three days, during which he had given not
the least sign of our being more to each
other than the rest of the world  that my
lips quivered, despite that I bravely tried to
set my face while answering, ' Do you really
want me ? '

Really  yes ! Of course, you might know
I always do ; only that of late things have
been contrary. Say you are coming,
Pleasance  at last' (this in a still .lower
whisper).

I mutely nodded ; then, with a heavy-hearted
smile, repeated, ' At last. It is sometime
since you really wanted me. But to-day
you seem quite happy. What is it ? '

Well, I won a tremendous amount last
night ; had the most wonderful run of luck,
for one thing. All the other nights I was
obliged to play in order to get back some of

I 2

my losses ; but now '  with a joyous air  ' I
am free a2:aiu, and this is the first use I make
of my freedom. You thought me a careless
brute lately, did you not, pet ? but if you knew
what I felt about it all on that first night you
came. . . Well, well ; this afternoon you
shall hear my confession, and will give the
poor sinner absolution, I hope.' He had said
it with a smile so tender, a tone so winning,
that my whole heart went out towards him
in forgiveness of what he had tacitly caused
me to suffer. And yet, Heaven knew ! I had
been miserable.

Therefore, now I was dressing myself to go
out in eager haste. Yet again I was slow of
speed, because in throes of doubt Which
of two feathered hats became me most ;
hesitating in agony whether a large spotted
veil or a small spot looked prettiest. Logical

people might have told me that Clair would
never care vhat I had on, so that my efforts
to please him in this way were nonsense.
But logic was no strong point of mine ; while
I was also convinced that men always know
when we look our best, though they
might not know how the general effect was
produced.

There was a knock at the door. How
unlucky.

Come in I said, in a very small voice.

I came to see what you were going todo

this afternoon, Pleasance,' said Amy
Pawlett, coming in. ' What, dressed ! Why
did you not tell me sooner, and I would have
had my things on too.'

*I  did not tell you, because  well, the
truth is, because I rather wished to go out
alone this afternoon. Amy ; if you don't

think it unkind of me to say so was my
answer, given rather hesitatingly.

Unkind ! no ; why should I ? ' said my
friend in her sensible, unemotional voice ;
then suddenly, with a gleam of intelligence
lighting up her plain features, 'You are
going out alone, you say, but. . . Well, I'm
no busybody, nor a gossip about other
people's matters, only  only, Pleasance, darling,
take care you are not trying to catch
a sunbeam.'

And so saying she left the room, and
was gone before I could say another word
to her.

CHAPTER VII.

Stow thick and red the leaves lay down
by the quarry wood !

I trod in them ancle-deep, and their rustle
and even their dying autumn smell pleased
my mood, that was low-tuned and plaintively
set, yet not without some gleams of wintry
sun and hopes of future brightness as of
spring. The quarry, as it was still called,
had never been much worked, and not within
living memory ; it stood out barely in sheets
of smooth natural rock here and there through
the downward hanging wood.

As I went along, with almost a guilty glad
feeling, hastening, yet wishing not to seem

in haste  in case a pair of laughing blue eyes
should be watching me unawares from among
the trees or brushwood on either hand, or
the quarry rocks  my own darkly dressed
figure was yet the only living thing to be
seen in the wintry scene around. It was
the wildest, perhaps the only natural spot
in all the Broadhams demesne. The sinking
sun just peeped through the tree-stems
to westward, and smote the quarry-top,
all fringed with ivy and bramble-trails, with
a warm glow.

No one here !

I looked all round, walked a little way on,
then back ; but there was no one to be seen.

It was lonely waiting there, but still T
did not like to leave the quarry and wander
further, for just beyond there were several
diverging wood-paths, where I might easily

miss Clair. That would have been maddening.
My whole heart was set on meeting
him face to face ; then surely he must have
something to say to me of his future, of 
ours !

At moments my heart, that had been heavy
and sick with disappointment these last days,
rose up in revolt, and cried dumbly in
reproach against him. Yet again I resolved
not to blame him. He had been misled
by others ; by circumstances. My fancy was
fertile in a thousand ideas to prove that his
heart was true. At any rustle in the
bushes, or other slightest sound, my pulses
beat so rapidly that T would gladly have
run away  though my lips tried to smile
a welcome with nervous gladness.

Alas ! there was so much pain mingled,
now, with what had been in summer my pure

happiness. Would that happiness ever bethe
same adam ? was a cold, ugly doubt
that crept into my mind perforce. No use
thinking of it !

There were some jutting rocks at the
quarry foot, a little hidden by the brushwood,
and on one of these I sat down to wait.
All sorts of confused images swam through
my mind; not that I did really think; for
what could I think ? All depended on Clair,
not on me ; and after these last three days
my head was troubled by my heart.

All at once there was a little trill of
music overhead. A few long inhalations
made the first sharply-sweet notes, .then
came a prolonged twitter of pure joy.
Looking up, the ashen-grey coat and redbreast
of a robin was visible overhead on
a bare twig, his whole little body quivering

with the effort and rapture of that gush
of gladness. Dear snnall songster, when all
the other feathered crowd are mute in chilly
weather, save for twittering and chirping
of recognition at eventide.

Listening to him, my heart softened imperceptibly
; I knew not how or why ! and
to my own great surprise a rush of warm
tears came into my eyes. Ah ! Clair, Clair !
If you only wished, I would follow you to
the world's end, would slave, pinch, toil, and
weary for you ; nay, more, be the brain-carrier,
the worker, thinker, the stronger
of two through all trouble  as your wife,
my heart whispered low  must needs be !

There came a hum of approaching voices.

My heart began to knock so against its
cells, that being still unaccustomed to any
such action on its part, I felt quite startled

with myself. Who could it be ? Some of the
outsiders no doubt. They would find me
here ; carry me off with them ; vex Clair ;
interrupt our meeting.

I looked round for some place to hide.
But  unless cowering down like a partridge
which my pride would never have risked
the indignity of doing, there was no sufficient
covert among; either rocks or bushes.

Next moment they appeared in sight.

Clair and Mrs. Jessop walking closely
side by side in the narrow path !  followed
at a little distance by Rose and John
Gladman.

The widow was chatting gaily, throwing
sweetest glances at Clair ; as if trying by
every means in her power to arrest his whole
attention. He came on, carrying his gun ;
seeming moody and ill at ease, and not looking

at her, but ahead under his lowered ,
so saw me first.

What, Miss Brown ! '  exclaimed the
widow with an affected laugh, but a gleam of
something more than mere surprise in her
vivacious eyes, as I made my appearance
among the wintry bushes ahead of them.
Why, what are you doing here, all alone ?
Or, excuse me  ha, ha ! are you alone ?
It looks very like an appointment, I declare.
Are you waiting for some one, my dear ? '

Taking one of your favourite solitary
walks ? ' said Clair, with contrasting studied
politeness ; banishing every other vestige of
expression from his face, as I did not deign
any reply to Mrs. Jessop and her brilliant wit,
beyond a cold smile. 'Won't you join us,
now that we have met you ? '

Yes, yes ; pray do ! \ chimed in Mrs.

Jessop, at once changing her tone to one of
friendly warmth. And as Rose and John
Gladman, coming up too, hailed me, of course
I went on with them all. But I was so self-conscious
of having really been found waiting
for somebody that I could hardly find any
words to say ; and never dared look at Clair.
As to the widow she kept up a lively fire of
banter, and her spirits seemed to grow higher
every minute.

At first Clair did not respond very warmly
to all these advances; but still he did respond.
And I inwardly envied his superior self-control
to mine, for his answering gaiety was
forced, I could see well enough. Presently we
heard a loud halloo behind : and Brace was
seen coming after us at a swinging pace, that
reminded me of the way in which he used
to go over the moors and hills on Dartmoor.

The plot thickens ! ' exclaimed the widow
with a loud laugh as he joined us. Then she
nodded her head significantly, first at him,
and then at me. 'This is most suspicious ! 
Miss Pleasance Brown walking alone in the
quarry wood ; and now you come this way
too. What have you done with Lady
Digges ? Oh, fie ! '

What do you mean ? ' asked Brace shortly
enough, in a way that would have made me
feel small, and ready to curl up like a sensitive
plant. Without being ever rough, he was
a masterful man ; and if he did not like a
speech or action could show his mind very
freely. But Mrs. Jessop had no oversensitive
feelings, and began to recount in
her own fashion gaily how they had met mee.
Brace's eyes just scanned my face with one of
those quick, kindly smiles I knew well ; when

lie looked so, it always gave me the impression
that he understood me thoroughly.

I have only just left Lady Digges at the
lodge he said. ' We met Sir Dudley there,
and, as he said he would be glad of a lift
home, I gave him up my seat. No doubt.
Miss Brown, you could account as easily for
your presence ; but I don't see why Mrs.
Jessop should catechise us all in this way.'

Neither do I,' cried I, plucking up a faint
spirit ; for if a lover troubles a friend encourages
one. So we all went on in a group.

'Now let us have a race,' cried Mrs. Jessop,
as we came out of the woods on a broad
gravel drive. ' Come along, you dear little
Roly-poly !  I'm sure you can't run '  (to
Rose, who was promptly indignant). ' Well,
then, your sister can't; she is too meek and
mild ever to do anything; so wild.

Can't she just ! why, she used to go like
a bird ! ' loudly interrupted John Gladman,
whilst I looked up astonished at my rival's
daring audacity of petty insult.

What, really! I beg your pardon, my dear,
but you remind me so much of Lydia
Languish this afternoon, I should never have
thought it'

Haw, haw ! Lydia Languish !  capital
name ! ' shouted that good goose John, understanding
nothing about it, but ready to join in
everything ; whilst Clair, with a man's impartiality
in such feminine tilting, looked away.

Are we all ready ? Now  one ! two !
three !  and away ! '

Away we started. Truly never had I run
with a heavier heart, fancying in my foolish
way that Clair had thought my new name
perhaps appropriate. Eose and I were running

VOL. II. K

easily and lightly ahead of the widow, whom
we could hear coming flop ! flop ! with heavier
footfalls behind us ; whilst the men amused
themselves as umpires, keeping midway 
when, after a few paces, Mrs. Jessop gave an
affected little outcry, and catching hold of
Clair's arm, declared she was desperately hurt.

Oh, my ankle . . . no, my foot . . . I am
dead lame ! don't laugh at me, you unkind
creature ! it is dreadfully twisted, and you
will have to support me home,' she cried
with mock grimaces of pain, pretending to
be hardly able to stand.

What a humbug you are !  you are not
hurt in the least,' I heard Clair say, as if
amused at her nonsense, as we paused.

'Indeed!  indeed 1 am though, a little!'
and with a clinging, helpless gesture, which tome
seemed in such a big woman intensely silly

even disgusting  lie clasped his arm with
both her hands, and looked up pathetically in
his eyes. For the moment, she was not aware
we had stopped ; or else did not care. But
then, perceiving our battery of stern or curious
vision fixed on her, begged of us in a soft
altered voice not to ' trouble ourselves waiting.'

You girls can run on and have your
race. Mr. Gladman and Mr. Brace will take
care of you both  won't you, Mr. Gladman ?
while we come slowly on.'

Brace to this never answered a word.

But we're so awfully sorry if you are
hurt,' returned John dubiously ; then regarding
Rose and myself, he added, ' As to the
Miss Browns  why, of course, I can take
care of them ; how " happy could I be with
either "  only we'd rather not leave you.'

Rose was looking rather oddly at her

friend. I could not say a syllable, there was
such a pain in my breast. I never knew till
then that jealousy or hurt love meant bodily
pain  real dull soreness of heart, lasting sickeningly
for a minute or two  after that woman
had clasped Clair's arm so, and given such
a look up in his eyes.

The first time !  happy that I was, without
knowing it ! Many a time in many months
that followed (though, thank God, not in later
years) did I come to know that same dull
ache only too well. To have a sore heart, is
no mere figure of speech as some people fancy.

Well ; though I said never a word, and
the widow persisted we must be sighing to
return home more quickly, but need not wait
for her, Rose declared we could not think of
being so unkind. She was stoutly echoed by
John Gladman, who was urgent to help Clair

to carry the widow, by making a ' lady's
chair,' clasping each other's wrists. The
scornful look with which she refused this
generous offer made him cross ; so that,
plunging his hands in his pockets, he turned
his back, muttering, ' We re not wanted ! Let
us walk on.'

We went on, therefore, keeping in front ;
feeling uncomfortable all the way. I dared
not look round  yet my ears seemed set
painfully to hear what passed behind, though
I hated myself for eavesdropping ; but honour
towards my rival seemed slipping away from
me. As to Fulke Brace, he came too, but
hardly said a word ; whilst John Gladman
and Rose alone chatted.

Slowly we reached the Broadhams door,
which was not, however, far distant. Tien
Bose waited for her friend, who came leaning

certainly heavily on Clair's arm, but I was
certain only shamming a little limp.

Gladman ! '  called out St. Leger as he
relinquished his charge, who assured him
with thanks, and no doubt truthfully, that
she was much better  ' Gladman, I want
to go round to the stables ; will you come?'

So that meant good-bye to me.

He met my eyes in passing ; then looked
away in a manner that, rightly or wrongly,
made me think Mrs. Jessop had rallied him
about finding me by the quarry. One makes
wild guesses at these things, and sometimes
comes very near the truth.

As the rest dispersed, Fulke Brace came
up to me.

You were going to say something,' T said
inquiringly, turning with aweary feeling as he
seemed about to speak, then stopped himself.

'Yes  no. Nothing  except that  won't
you have a glass of wine ? You are looking
quite pale ; that run was too much for you.
Do let me get you some.' He looked at meas
he spoke, with such real solicitude in his
handsome face and kindly eyes, that my heart
warmed to my old friend. Feeling nervous
and disappointed, it was with difficulty I
could restrain a gush of tears ; though trying
to laugh brightly at him while refusing.

Then my escape was hastily made ; but
glancing back from the inner hall, I saw Mr.
Brace looking after me with an expression of
only the more concern, undeceived by my
guile.

CHAPTER VIII.

Half-an-hour later, I was lying on my
bed, believing myself utterly alone in
the great lonely room ; and  what woman can
doubt it ?  weeping ! Weeping, not loudly ;
but as if my only wish had been to dissolve
myself, my pain, and all my troubled being
away in tears.

Oh, it was weary work, living and loving !
How much better it would be to care for
none beyond those of one's own family circle,
who never agonized us thus ! So it seemed
to me dimly in my sorrow. Surely it was
hard of fate that other girls should be so
happy in their engagements, and my love

bring me only mortification and sorrow. Then
two arms came round me, a shocked little
voice exclaimed, ' Pleasance, dearest, I never
saw you cry so before ! ' and Rose was kissing
me. She being younger, and the pet and
plaything, whilst I was graver and older,
our Rose had never come out in the light of
a comforter before ; but being such a sensible,
practical small soul for her age, few could
give consolation better.

What is it that vexed you so ? ' Rose had
asked ; and then as I only murmured, trying
to assure her it was all a nothing, she
answered herself  ' It was something about
Mrs. Jessop and Mr. St. Clair, wasn't it?
There was such a curious look in your eyes.
Dear Pleasance ! do tell me.'

So I told her ; though what I said I hardly
knew.

'Then you are engaged to him?' said
Rose in a rather awed voice, eying me with
immense respect.

No, no, no,' I returned impressively, raising
myself on my arm to enforce the true state of
matters upon her ; and explain what Clair had
said of his involved affairs, his hopes of some
congenial employment, and meanwhile reluctance
to bind me.

Oh, bother his reluctance ! I call that
horrid. I'd much rather be either on or off.
No wonder you cry about it,' exclaimed Rose,
with almost a sparkle of wet in her own
bright eyes. ' I declare it's a shame ; and you
ought to tell him you won't have it.'

He could not help it, really, it is all
the fault of his upbringing. He has always
amused himself, and never did work before,'
I pleaded. ' If we had only met to-day as he

asked me he would have told me all. How
was it you both met him ? '

Mrs. Jessop would go towards the wood.
They were shooting, and then we met him
coming alone away from it. I do not
think he wanted to meet us ; but you know
when people have to look pleasant it's so hard
to know. Then John Gladman saw us ; so
Mrs. Jessop chaffed him, saying three was
bad company ! And lie certainly was very glad
to come,' said Rose reflectively. ' I wonder
if she did guess. . ? '

Ah, that widow ! If she would but leave
him alone,' I moaned.

Yes ; but then, you see, she likes Mm too I
It would be very nice if everybody else would
just let us have things the way we want ; but
I suppose they think the world was made for
them as well,' said Rose, with a wise air of

seeing both sides of the question, but a soft
low sigh that made the reproving words fall
gently on my wounded spirit.

Her remark did me good. Why, how
true it was ! I had been lately wishing all
things to go just as I pleased, not thinking
of my neighbours, and their wants ; as they
knew not, or cared little for, my secret ones.

Rose and her loving consolation indeed so
strengthened me, that this evening I came
down-stairs with my face a little paler than
usual, and my eyes heavier  but my heart
resolved on patience and steadfastness.

It was all needed : for still things went
amiss ; and again my spirit grew heavier,
though not so weak as heretofore. Sir Dudley
was very sulky, and ate even four times more
than was good for him.

He's a perfect dog in the manger,' said

Alice with high temper and an excitable air,
signing to Mrs. Jessop to come near where
we three sisters stood together before dinner,
and then  only then to her new friend  disheartening
her mind of the evident grievances
Rose and I had already perceived.

It seemed enough to let us stand by and
listen to her confidences, yet we two cared
for her as this Jenny Jessop never would.
Dudley is so selfish, I am sure it would
not give /dm the least pleasure to drive with
me ; for I can hardly ever find a word to say
to him. He has absolutely no conversation ;
none ! And yet he is so grumpy because I
took Eulke Brace out to-day instead of him !
I like that; as if I might not have 9/?
particular friend ! '

Still, do make it up with him  do take
Sir Dudley out another day,' I pleaded ;

wincing slightly at the term, ' my friend
applied by Alice to Fulke Brace.

Don't give in, my dear !  If you once
begin that, there is no knowing where it may
come to. Nail your colours to the mast ;
and Vll back you up ! ' declared Mrs. Jessop,
clapping her on the shoulder, and speaking
in the same breath as myself.

There was a great enough contrast in our
words. There was as much, or more, in our
persons. Buxom, tight-waisted, merry-eyed,
with her high complexion and black hair, the
widow made me feel a slight, colourless,
shadowy creature beside her. She was so
much brighter, more amusing and self-confident
than me ; no wonder a man should like
her better, I grieving thought in fairness.
And yet surely, surely I might feel rightly
conscious of having more heart and brain !

Alice and Mrs. Jessop began whispering
together. I was roused to observe them by
seeing my sister nod acquiescing, with a
rallying air, to some eagerly urged request of
her friend. Then Alice called out, ' We are
all to draw lots for going in to dinner.
Somebody must write down all the gentlemen's
names on slips of paper (oh ! Amy 
Charlotte Pawlett  you two won't mind
doing it ? And Pleasance shall help you ').

We ladies all drew lots accordingly ; Alice
holding the hat. Mrs. Jessop drew out  Clair
St. Leger's name. There was a significant
smile on my sister's face as she looked at her
friend afterwards, that my watchful eyes
noted, but it did not make me angry now.
It all seemed just what must come, and had
to be borne.

And that night the play was higher than

ever; and Clair St. Leger lost back all his
winnings  and far more.

And all that night, nothing witting of
what was passing, I, fired by Rose's spirit,
made a resolve ; and waked and thought, or
dozed and dreamed, upon it with fearfulness,
yet determination.

CHAPTER IX.

IVrEXT morning I woke, or rather forced
myself to rise, with the weary feeling
that a troubled Sunday was before me.

We went to Church, that is those of our
party who were really piously or pharisaically
disposed. Of course Rose and I went, the
Pawletts, some of the short-stay visitors,
John Gladman, and Mr. Brace.

Are you going ? ' Alice hurriedly asked
as, when the carriages came round, she saw
the latter appearing with a churchyard air ;
and there was a quick light in her eyes.
I thought you would have stayed.'

No ; I'm going, Lady Digges,' responded

VOL. II. L

Brace, hardly looking at her, and in a rough
tone. Well, no ; not that. He was far too
good and kind to be rough to any one, but
still he never spoke to me in that curt voice,
or my easily hurt sensibilities would have
been mortified. He added, ' You are not
going to say your prayers, I see  '

Oh yes, yes ; I am. Only I am rather
late. No matter, the brougham must wait
for me. Will you keep the brougham back,
Mr. Brace, and send on the other people,
please?' And away Alice hurried to put
on her bonnet.

Brace coolly repeated her orders to the
servants near, and then started off to walk
alone.

I say, Fulke, don't you want me ? ' asked
John Gladman, rushing three steps after him ;
then halting and eyeing a waggonette in

which Rose and I were ahead seated alone
being the earliest dressed for our devotions
with a wistful eye.

Want you ; my dear fellow ! No. I
would not have you at any price. You had
much better stay and take care of the young
ladies replied his older friend, smiling on
his admiring and constant follower.

It was impossible to mistake Alice's look
of disappointment when she came down-stairs.
Likewise I noticed nervously Lady Pawlett's
lofty eyes upon her, and the sweetly-amused
voice in which that lady asked,

Who do you mean to have with you, now,
dear ; as your cavalier has deserted you ? '

Where is Jenny Jessop ? ' asked Alice,
sharply ; but the widow, as I knew beforehand
only too well, was not coming to her
devotions. And Clair St. Leger had not yet

L 2

appeared in the world down-stairs, when we
started.

How hard I tried to fix my mind on the
prayers that morning ; and, alas ! my foolish
heart, how difficult it was ! The whole service
was a struggle between my wandering thoughts
and the effort to get, to almost force consolation
from the divine promises which applied
to trials and temptations, suffered for religion's
sake  but not for love's sake !

And love was all that is worth living for,
it seemed to me then ; without thinking the
thought out clearly, or daring to avow it to
myself, weak, foolish girl that I was.

Afterwards, the carriages brought us back
to dull, grey Broadhams house. Hurriedly
taking off my bonnet in my room, I hastened
down-stairs.

All our little Broadhams world assembled

before lunch in the long saloon. There was
Clair  whom I had so longed to speak to
all morning ; but how do so now, and tell
him what lay so heavily on my mind, amongst
all these people ?

He looked dull and abstracted in manner,
and so avoided my wistful eyes that it
gave me a tightening pain around the heart.
I did not know of his losses at play on
the preceding night ; and so, not knowing,
misjudged him, thinking only he was vexed
with me  it might be because of our meeting
having gone wrong on the day before,
or because the widow had teased him. So,
never guessing he looked away because
ashamed of having played again, I grew wild
in heart and foolishly excited. My great
resolve formed overnight of seeing him, and
having some explanation, was so urgent and

hot in my heart, that it seemed unbearable
to be close to him and not dare to say those
words. How the free-and-easy atmosphere of
Broadhams must have influenced me, that 
after trembling the first evening at meeting
Clair in a gallery, used as a passage, and at
his earnest request  I now resolved he should
meet me, at my wish, and where we were
not likely to be disturbed ! It was not that
I felt careless of consequences like the other
people here, but desperate.

Moved by sudden impulse, I rose abruptly,
and went into a small writing-room. It
formed part of the saloon, being only
screened off by curtains looped back from an
open door-way. Here sitting down, within
hearing of the hum of the voices in the other
room, I dashed off a few lines ; yet they
seemed cold as if wet, not with ink, but the

still tears of pride and love. The very vords
I know no more now than if a stranger wrote
them ; but the matter  the outcry from a
woman's aching heart, which was being wrung
quietly but effectually  that memory remains !

I wish to speak to you a few moments,
in private. If even you were the most
ordinary acquaintance of mine you will come,
being a gentleman, at my desire ! ' This
was at least the sense of what was expressed ;
ending, ' I shall be in the observatory tower
this afternoon, soon after three ! '

Before the last words were finished, came
a voice from the doorway, which Mrs. Jessop
had entered, and which she fairly filled.

'What hot haste you are writing in, Miss
Brown ! I am so sorry, but are you aware
the post is already gone ? ' she asked, surveying
me with laughing, criticizing black orbs.

Murmuring that it did not matter  my
letter would keep  my pen faltered.

Fray don't let me stop you cried the
widow, leaning caryatid fashion against the
doorway, and giving a glance into the other
room. Then, mounting guard as it seemed,
she satirically hummed :

" Three little mice sat down to spin,
Pussy passed by, and she peeped in.
What are yon doing, my little men 1
Writing notes to gentlemen J '

Oh, horror ! The tell-tale blood rushed
to my cheeks, dyeing them hotly, agonizingly
crimson. 1 put up my hand to screen my
face, and leant my hand on it so ; trying to
seem as if meditating on how to finish ; buta
cold fear was on me that the widow was
not deceived by the feint.

Then, hastily blotting the wet sheet on

a virgin page of the blotting book, I thrust
the note into an envelope, and putting it
into my pocket, walked steadily into the
next room.

But  what was next to be done ?

To the end of my life, I shall never forget
the uneasiness of the few following minutes.
It was too daring to address Clair openly.
He was standing by a group, rather than
amongst it; listening abstractedly to Sir
Dudley in the centre, declaiming that lunch
was five minutes late and consulting everybody's
watches. I moved as near as courage
allowed, not knowing what to do.

Chance was kind, however. For as I stood
turning over an album of English scenery,
in doubt and trouble, a view caused me to
exclaim,

Mr. St. Leger, do come and look at this !

This lake reminds me so much of ours at
Stoke. . /

Before Clair had roused himself from his
air of graceful indolence, at my call, however,
Eulke Bracj, hearing the name of Stoke,
was at my side in a moment.

Where ? That ! Well, yes ; it lias rather
a resemblance,' he said with deep interest,
but some disappointment.

Ah ! you know Stoke too well. A comparative
stranger to its beauties, like Mr. St.
Leger, may see the likeness more than the
many differences.'

So saying, and needing the greatest effort
to keep my lips from trembling with nervousness
at what I dared to do  I who had been
the bashful, modest, and proud Pleasance of
a half year ago  turned to Clair, begging
pardon pitifully with my eyes, as T rather

awkwardly slipped my note upon the page,
holding up the book to hide it. Quick
as lightning, Clair's fingers closed upon my
missive, so dexterously that even I hardly
perceived the action ; then it was somehow
hidden, while not a muscle of his face moved
the while. Even with the feeling of intense
relief as I breathed again freely, came the
quick thought that he seemed well used to
such a method of delivering messages ; while
I was a shamefaced novice. At that moment
I raised my head  Mrs. Jessop was regarding
us with a steady inquiring stare : the only
look I had almost ever seen her give without
her laughing-mask on. She could have seen
nothing; but evidently she was suspicious.
No matter, the deed was done ! she could not
hinder it now ; and the feeling of shame had
passed away, for I believed my action was,

in truth, right. It was my firm intention to
offer Clair St. Leger again the freedom for
himself which he seemed  ah ! my heart he
did seem, in spite of all  to wish.

Then lunch was announced to Sir Dudley's
satisfaction, and most of us trooped in ; excepta
few like Brace who never so indulged themselves
; and the widow, who lingered behind.

Don't mind me,' she answered, as Alice
called to her to come with herself  for they
generally went in arm-in-arm now, like a
couple of school-girls.

This is fast-day with me ; you need not
laugh ! and I have got some writing to do,
besides.'

You are afraid of growing too stout,
Mrs. Jessop, that is the truth ! I suppose,'
said Charlotte Pawlett severely, in
passing, being shocked at the joke about

hastings. Charlotte became daily more and
more harsh with herself and every one else ;
therewith at the same time throwing off her
mother's yoke which had made her such an
un-individual being hitherto.

Well, thank Heaven ! I am plump, and
not scraggy. Ask the gentlemen, all, whether
they don't admire a woman with a figure
more than a drooping willow or a clothes-rail,'
retorted Mrs. Jessop with vulgar insolence,
glancing at Charlotte's severe outlines
and my slimmer person who was innocently
near. Sir John Dudgeon heard her and burst
into a horse-laugh, remarking,

That's it, Mrs. Jessop. Don't give in.
I'd back you to hold your own in a war of
words against any lady I ever knew ; ' adding
in an affectedly pathetic whisper, 'Poor
number one ! What a life ke must have led.'

The widow shook her head reprovingly at
this sally of the rich youth, and retired to
the writing-table. But after eight minutes
she appeared amongst us all in the diningroom
with some excuse ; where she was
persuaded into an excellent lunch, after
all.

That afternoon at the appointed hour, I
was waiting alone in the Observatory Tower.
This was a solitary building, like one of the
Follies ' created at view-spots by numberless
owners of country - places throughout the
land ; only this was the more foolish in that it
commemorated nobody and commanded no
view, but that of three drives cut through
the flat Brougham woods, now leafless  which
drives, narrowing in perspective, ended in
grey cloud.

One Digges baronet, of astronomical aspirations,

had erected it with a view to
becoming that rarity, a scientific squire. But
he died before his hobby had been completed,
and his successor turned it into a
dining-room for such pic-nicking neighbours
as did not care to sit tailor-fashion on wet
grass, and find grasshoppers in their champagne,
and other strange little beasties in
their food. It was in a solitary situation
about half-a-mile from the house. The basement
story was occupied by a worthy couple,
whom in my late walks with Amy Pawlett
we had already come to know ; but the upper
door, reached by steps and leading to the
visitors' round room, was always unlocked
by day to shelter any chance guest.

Here I was sitting on that gray winter
afternoon waiting with frightened expectancy ;
fearful of my own daring ; and so heart sick

that I should almost have snatched at any
chance of fleeing from the interview I had
sought vrith such difficulty. The room was
stiff", cheerless and cold ; so that, wrapped in
furs though I was, it seemed to freeze the
very heart and soul in me. The floor was
inlaid in wood, in a wavy pattern that
arrested my eyes perforce ; and it was worm-eaten
here and there. How distinctly I remembered
later every detail ! The furniture
consisted of a few chairs, rudely carved, just
enough so to be uncomfortable without beings
; an octagonal dining-table ; and
some stags' heads between the three, tall,
prospectless windows.

I was sitting away from the windows, too
proud to appear watching  yet with my heart
going pit-a-pat so often it would have been
an intense relief to do anything. Five times

already my watch had been consulted, put to
my ear in doubt, as it told, surely lyingly !
that only twenty minutes had crept miserably
by in the world's history and my small life 
otherwise, I forced myself to be still. Oh,
Clair, Clair, what a valley of trouble, misty
doubts and heart-aches, you had led my life
down into since last summer ; when it had
been so free of care, its horizon golden with
the fair hopes of my age.

The door below was all at once opened
and clanged to. There came the sound of a
man's step up the stone staircase ; and I
turned the more pallid and cold with apprehension,
for having forced on this interview.
Yes ! while meaning to offer Clair his absolute
freedom, the fear that all might be broken off
so filled me with trembling, that it seemed a
thousand times better now ! to have gone on

VOL. II. M

clinging to indefinite hopes  even so long
as he chose to let me suffer.

Into these few seconds, a world of agony
was compressed.

The door opened  and Fulke Brace
appeared on the threshold.

CHAPTER X.

That I said or did, on Fulke Brace s
unexpected appearance, I do not
know ; but my great surprise must have been
only too evident, since he stopped short 
came forward a few steps  hesitated, then
asked, ' Has there been any mistake ? I
understood that you were expecting me 
that is, that you wished me to come here and
meet you.'

You, Mr. Brace !  / never wished to see
you ! '

What ! Then what did Mrs. Jessop
mean ? '

M 2

Mrs. Jessop ! What did she say ? '
She told me  or at least certainly gave
me to understand  that yon were going to
walk by yourself to the tower here ; and that
when your little interview was over, yon
would no doubt like, she said, to have our
companionship home.'

My interview ! '  I stammered : then sat
down on a chair, feeling white to my very
lips, and absolutely incapable of standing if
I wished to preserve an appearance of self-possession.
A sudden intelligence lightened
Eulke Brace's eyes, and stepping near me he
uttered, almost unawares :

You we7'e coming to meet some one else,
then ? I beg your pardon for saying so 
but, indeed, you may trust me as a friend.
Miss Pleasance.'

What did Mrs. Jessop say ? What do

yoa mean by my interview ? ' were my faltering
replies  being so new to deception I
never dreamt of denial.

I don't know what Mrs. Jessop meant.
/ only thought you were bound on an errand
of mercy to the old couple below-stairs ; for
they told me the other day, when I came
round here and was chatting to them, how
good you were in trying to cure them of
rheumatism and other ailments. But, for
goodness sake, come outside now '  as I sat
still ; motionless ; and incapable of understanding
what to do, it seemed, in this
emergency  Come ! quick  command yourself
; make an effort, do ! It is impossible for
you to stay now, for Mrs. Jessop and Sir
John Dudgeon are waiting below-stairs for us.'

At his tone of earnest rousing remonstrance
I rose up hastily, and feeling turned to stone

followed down the staircase, whilst my good
friend of childhood's days led the way ; once
or twice turning to look rather anxiously
towards me.

Arrived at the outer door, which ended the
winding stairs, he turned the handle, but the
door did not open ; again  but still in vain !
next more violently he shook and tried it
in every way. It seemed to me then that
a suppressed laugh was heard outside ;
certainly, there was the hurried sound of
departing footsteps, for Brace exclaimed,

They have locked us in ! ' Springing upstairs,
he tried to see out of the loopholed
window that lit the stair,  but it was too
high ! Then he rushed back into the round
room, where I followed him. From the
window nearest the door, we just caught a
glimpse of the widow and Sir John Dudgeon

escaping across the open greensward around
the tower, evidently in convulsions of laughter
at the exquisite result of their joke. Mr. Brace
tried to throw up the window-sash to call out ;
but utterly in vain. Either damp or carpenter's
handiwork had hermetically sealed it.

Just then, a short active figure in a well-known
light-coloured suit was distinguishable,
emerging alone from some side path in the
wood, and entering the broad grass drive,
down which Sir John and Mrs. Jessop
were retreating. It was Clair St. Leger. I
should have known him even at twice the
distance. By his forward bending I felt,
rather than saw, that Brace beside me was
watching the result, too, earnestly ; but what
was that to my anxious eagerness of gaze ?
Yet, while straining my eyes, I still was
sufficiently aware of his presence to control

myself. The three figures met: there seemed
a short consultation,  next slowly, as with a
doubtful air, or so I fancied, although they
were too far off to distinguish much in
reality, Clair turned and went with them.
But it was not too far to see that he walked
alone, keeping a yard or so away from the
widow ; flicking at the dead brambles and
underwood with his stick as he went ; whilst
Sir John Dudgeon, on the contrary, went
gaily close by her side. Then they disappeared
into the wood.

When they were quite gone, and not till
then, Pulke Brace and I turned, meeting each
other's eyes full. Moved by a quick pitying
impulse, and forgetting T was no longer the
little girl he used to know, he kindly said,

This is too bad. It is a shameful hoax 
but don't mind, like a good child ; and it

will all come right ! St. Leger could not well
help himself; after meeting them. It would
have exposed you to all sorts of unkind
remarks. . . .'

'Oh, don't! for pity's sake as, utterly
breaking down at his words  first moved by
his kindness, and then conjuring up all the
scandal and evil speaking that might follow
I covered my face with both hands, weeping
and shamefaced, and leant on the table
beside which I had sunk down on a chair.

What have I said ? dort cry any more ! '
reiterated TulJe, greatly moved by my trouble,
and at once thinking himself to blame for it.
I only meant to say, they might have
guessed something  but they could not have
known anything, so don't make yourself so
unhappy.'

They will all know ; you knew ! That

woman, Mrs. Jessop, she will make a good
story of it, and tell every one ! ' I uttered in
desperation, raising streaming eyes to his face.

She shall not 1 I will stop her doing
that.'

You ! But how could you stop her ? Ah !
you don't know her. You need put no trust
in her good nature.'

Heaven forbid. I do know her well ;
even better than you,' was Brace's forcible
answer. ' For that very reason, I can make
her hold her peace ; as I remember certain
stories about herself she might not care to
have told.'

But indeed, indeed, I don't believe you
would blame me if  if only you understood all
about it ! ' I pleaded ; horrified at seeming
such a culprit ; ' for I have been so miserable ;
and it has seemed so impossible to meet in the

house. Still, I did want to know how things
really stood  if even all is to be broken
off , . .' and at that, unable to finish, my
head sank down again, and sobs shook me
like a reed in spite of strongest endeavours.

Blame yoii ! that I feel sure I never
should exclaimed Brace's voice nearer overhead,
in warm indignation. ' Poor child !
I thought there was some engagement, last
autumn, the night of your ball ; but why all
this secresy and trouble about it? Surely
your parents  Your father is so kind ; he
would consent, if you only tell him.'

But I am not to tell him ; at least not
just yet,' I replied low and small. Then, asa
murmur of suppressed astonishment came
almost equally low from Pulke Brace's lips,
I sat more upright, and hurriedly, in broken
words, explained the matter; why or in

what manner I did not think, except feeling
that now it was best he should know the
whole reason of my being here  and that
he was an old friend, and one to be trusted.
Although this last was a very woman's reason,
considering how little we had really met
since Dartmoor days,

I think ' him ' so, because I think ' hwi ' so.'

From impulse, or secret sympathy, or
whatever other hidden cause, I had always
looked upon Brace as my especial friend ;
and being a middle-aged man  quite an old
man, so I mentally phrased it  one to be
confided in. In fact, my feeling for him
was like what Hazlitt wishes for himself : ' I
would have my friends love me as I love
myself, without any reason.' It was not
that he had ever singled me out, or flattered

or admired me ; as had Clair, who thus
taught me first to love him.

So I am free, in a manner  though he considered
himself bound ! And he meant to get
some work to do for mv sake, as he was so
poor. But since we came here, he seems to
care as much for Mrs. Jessop's society as
mine I ended low, in bitterness of soul.

'Poor child !  For Pleasance' burst out
Fulke ; then remembering he had used my
name in his heat familiarly, and being a
very punctilious man on the score of invariable
courtesy, he reddened in a way I should
have almost thought impossible at his age
under my momentarily surprised gaze.

Looking out of the window, and with his
face sternly set, as he now sat opposite
me, he went on quietly ; but with decided,
if subdued, emphasis : ' Of course, it is

not my place to set myself up as judge in
this particular case. Still a man  in my
opinion  ought to know his own mind
before he commits himself so far in gaining
the affections of any girl. Surely St. Leger
is not so badly off either, if he only chose to
retrench ! . . I know (speaking more softly
and slowly) ' I should be sorry to do as he is
doing.'

'Don't abuse him. I will not have hai
spoken against like that ! ' I hotly cried,
flaring out in unreasonable wrath upon my
own defender. ' No doubt you have led such
a different hardworking life of business, that
you can't be expected to enter into his
feelings. But he was brought up to do
nothing at all ; in every comfort, if not
luxury, in his own country house and was
left his own master quite young. And he

loved sport, and  and everything of that
kind ; no wonder ! when he is so good at it.
So it must seem more hard on him now
than for others not to have the means to live
as he would like.'

No answer. My friend and mentor had
raised his eyebrows ever so slightly, then
compressed his lips, but did not speak.

Please, don't be offended with me ! ' I
continued in my foolishness, still excited, but
recognizing his goodness. ' Remember, you
are so much older a man. Perhaps at his
age, you might have felt too as he does about
his enjoyments.'

Brace turned round upon me and smiled,
as if despite himself.

What appalling age do you take me to
be? Why, I am only five years older than
St. Leger ! No matter for that ; but you

are a woman, a very woman ! asking sympathy
when you are hardly treated, and then  when
with my whole heart I am sorry for yon
and honestly say so  you turn upon and
rend me.'

Ashamed of myself, I began stammering
excuses and protestations. Verily, as the old
saying goes, lovers in their quarrels are like
the blades of a pair of scissors ; apart now,
but ready to close on whoever tries to interpose
between them. But Eulke Brace interrupted
me, to continue with a humorous yet
reproachful smile :

Wait, please, Miss Pleasance. There is
one more thing I never expected you to say,
after all your kind sympathy with my sentimental
feelings the night of your ball  when
I saw Stoke, my own former old home, again.
When you speak of the difference between

me and St. Leger, do you forget that I was
brought up in ray own country place too ?
I was led to expect an inheritance, which I
may say without conceit would have been
considerably greater than his ? And I cannot
believe, as to tastes, that any lad then, or
many men now, could care for a country
gentleman's life and all its pursuits and
pleasures more than I did  and do l

He rose, as if disturbed at the recollection,
and walked to the window. His tone was
so different from what I had been used to,
(because, for the first time almost since I
knew him, not occupied with others' wants
or wishes, but revealing his feelings about
himself,) that my eyes seemed opened as
they looked after him.

Only five years older than Clair, too ! My
old friend, Mr. Fulke  not so old after all !

VOL. II. N

My eyes seemed unsealed from their childish
silliness of judgment on our first meeting,
and from love's selfishness later. In this
new light, 1 took quite a new mental survey
of my friend.

He was certainly taller than most men, and
broader ; becoming just a little heavy in build
perhaps, which was pleasing enough as he
was not stout. He carried his head with an
especially high air too, although such a kindly
grey-eyed man. Truly  it must be confessed
his hair, that was fair or light-brownish,
was growing decidedly thin on the crown of
his well-shapen head. But with that same
excellent gift of a finely-outlined cranium,
what does slight baldness matter ?

Altogether, thus seeing him with enlightened
vision, I could not but own Fiilke
Brace did look the very type of an English

country gentleman. He was a true heir of the
long hne of Bracys who had been born and
bred at Stoke, ruling there as thanes from
the days of Athelstan till their fair Saxon
heiress married a Norman knight ; after which
an unbroken manly line of stout and proud
country squires had succeeded each other,
father and son  till the summer morning
when this last of them bade farewell for ever
to his pleasant home of Stoke. For, on the
evening before, we Browns had entered into
our new possession.

With the curious sympathy of thought
often experienced between two persons in
company, Brace a moment after raised his
head and uttered aloud : ' Yes ; it did seem a
terrible wrench to see the last of the dear old
place. Do you remember how I leaped the
garden wall, early that morning when you

N 2

discovered me? I shall never forget my
thoughts as I went away through the fields
and woods, where every leaf and blade of
grass seemed to know me. The most money-making
business seemed only vile drudgery
in my eyes that morning, except as a means
to . .' He stopped abruptly ; then said
after a short pause : * But, now, we must see
how to get out of this place. Cheer up ; it is
not likely yet to prove a Ugolino's tower,
and believe me' (kindly) 'you have nothing
else to fear. So, don't look so dejected.'

T am not dejected now, Mr. Brace ; you
are such a good friend to me.'

Then you must not look so woebegone
still. Yours is one of the most honest faces I
know ; for it tells all your thoughts in a way
you hardly dream of  to any one with discerning
eyes.'

No ; does it really ? ' I exclaimed in
dismay, involuntarily putting up my hands
to conceal the traitorous features. Fulke
Brace laughed.

Don't be alarmed. You have only good
and kind thoughts to show. There ! that
is a compliment for you, and what is more, I
mean it. But now, how to get out of this
place ? The windows are rather too high to
jump out of,'  and he measured the distance
to the ground with his eye.

Don't think of it ! You would be killed,'
I cried in horror. * No, no ; let us go downstairs.
The old couple below are gone to
afternoon service in the schoolhouse, but we
might find another key.'

Come then,' said Brace, glad to rouse me;
but alas ! in all the trim little kitchen, neither
in drawers nor dresser, among the brightly-scrubbed

coppers and tins, or in any of the
several old teapots, into each of which I carefully
peeped, was any key to be seen. We
were fast shut in.

I looked at Pulke without his being aware
of it ; and was almost surprised to see how
grave he was, his brows bent together, while
he gnawed the tip of his moustache.

After all, it does not so greatly matter.
They will soon come to let us out ; and they
cannot say much about my being here with
you,' was my next remark, by way of pretending
a cheerfulness far from real.

He grimly smiled.

Is that a tribute to respectable age or
my well-known good character ? However, I
quite agree with you, that it looidd be hard,
indeed, if any unkind remarks were made
upon us after being the victims of such a bad

joke. Well, at least you can be warm here
instead of shivering up-stairs. Won't you sit
down ? '

He placed a chair for me by the fire ; but
I had an uneasy conviction that he was far
from being as assured in his own mind ashe
tried to seem. For some little time he
moved restlessly around the small round
room, playing with the caged linnet hung in
the window, examining the thumbed Bible on
its sill. Finally, seating himself in the old
man's corner-chair, he eyed the coals silently.
For me, I was too oppressed with a returning
sense of my own frustrated plan, and all the
trouble and fears roused thereby making sick
turmoil in my brain, to care to speak. Half-an-hour
passed in this silence, each occupied
with our own thoughts.

It was a strange scene.

At last, feeling I must rouse, and that my
companion was respecting my preoccupation
of mind  I sat upright, saying in a tired
voice that would not sound light :

It seems too bad you should lose your
afternoon's walk, to be shut up here in
dulness with me

Don't say that  ' returned Pulke ; speaking
so fluently and immediately that, unless
his whole silence had been taken up in
thinking of my concerns, it would have been
impossible he should have answered so  as
struck me afterwards ; though at the time in
my selfishness it seemed natural enough.

Don't think so ! For I am only too glad
you should have thought me worthy of confidence
to-day ; although unfortunately there
seems so little chance of my being able to
help  and yet it might be possible This

slowly and musingly. Then rousing up :
 Well, where there is a will there is a way, is
nearly always true ; and if a man is in earnest
about anything, surely he ought to be so
about this.'

You mean  Mr. St. Leger ! '

Of course I do. Good heavens ! when
one thinks of it ! . . . Your happiness to be
perhaps sacrificed, at least trembling in the
balance, whilst some other men would be
so gladly in his shoes . . .' I looked up
utterly startled, and he went on almost
roughly :

Yes ; there is one honest fellow, at least 
you may think little of him because of his
plain outward appearance, but I can answer
for his real goodness of heart : and his mother
would welcome you with the greatest joy.
Pleasance!  As you are not really engaged,

will you not think twice of this ? With
John Gladman you would at any rate have
the assurance of a happy home. . /

John Gladman ! ' my voice echoed, in a
tone of intense astonishment. 'He want to
marry me ? What an absurd idea ! His
mother was always fond of me, certainly ; and
I love her dearly . so I suppose she has
advised him, and he has obediently made up
his mind to ask me. Or, no !  he is much
more likely to ask i/ou to do so for him.'

I had hit the mark. My old friend looked
so conscious, and played nervously with his
watch-chain. He only returned :

Would it be anything so very strange if
he had so commissioned a friend ? '

It would ! Imagine respecting  marrying
a man who had not courage to speak for
himself!' cried I, blushing and laughing.

It is all nonsense ; indeed it is, Mr. Brace.
He likes me in an every-day way very
likely ; but beyond that he cares for me no
more than you do.'

Who, I ?  oh, I am only your aged
counsellor, your venerable mentor and faithful
servitor. Pray don't speak as if I was
young enough for any woman ever to care
for me, novo', answered Brace, with a rather
forced, inappropriate laugh, as it seemed tome.
Then springing to his feet, he began
pacing up and down, like any lion in a Zoo.

Clearly my ' venerable mentor and faithful
servitor ' was offended. But how or why was
utterly dark to me, in the innocence of my
heart. Quite sorry and puzzled, I was
hesitating  ready to rush into apologies, but
really not knowing what to say  when the
noise of the tower - door being violently

opened was heard. Then Sir Dudley's voice
shouting, and himself following, came down
the stairs.

Brace, hi ! I say  Brace ! Pleasance !
Pleasance Brown, are you there? . . Now,
then,  what the devil is the meaning of
this?'

CHAPTER XT.

11 /FY brother-in-law's manner was so rough,
not to say churlish, that I shrank back
under his gaze ; being unhappily not conscious
of perfect innocence.

But Fulke Brace was not the man, and
less than ever in a mood now, to allow himself
to be treated in an overbearing manner
by any one  even by his host. He answered
in as high a tone as Sir Dudley's own, like a
masterful man, who simply cannot suppose
that his rightful actions are capable of misconstruction
; yet with a haughty gentleness,
in deference to my presence, as he turned

courteously to me twice while speaking, that
made me look up to him in admiration. My
brother-in-law only seemed to think of me asa
young woman towards whom he had a
family right to be rude if it pleased him.
However, being a little of a bully and easily
cowed by men  besides, not otherwise a bad
fellow at heart  the evident blame which had
been black on his brow subsided visibly as
Mr. Brace explained rather angrily  and by
no means apologetically  our presence in the
tower.

Then we went homewards. What an
uncomfortable walk it was !

Sir Dudley never spoke to me once ; showing
plainly I was in disfavour. And though
he certainly did converse with his other companion
on the subject of farming in general,
especially the top-dressing of certain poor

land we passed, it was in a dogged way 
as if lie forced his brief sentences out
through his bushy beard from no liking, but
only a difficult effort at politeness.

Fulke Brace talked to me as often as the
drift in the discourse would allow. But my
heart was too heavy to respond, and my
brain too full of fears that my secret would
soon be known to all Broadhams. If they
knew that I had gone to meet Clair  if  if
they did ! I groaned within myself. Oh the
laughter, the jeers !

Yet, with], I drew myself together to face
the worst of the gossip and malicious mirth
which might ensue.

'I think Alice is waiting in her boudoir.
She wants to speak to you,' muttered Sir
Dudley to me aside, as we arrived at the
door : though not so delicately but that Mr.

Brace overheard him, for he gave me a quick
look of real pity.

Yes ?  I was going to see her in any
case,' was my quiet reply, given with apparently
perfect self-possession.

Alice certainly was ' waiting for me ; ' for
she was sitting alone ; apparently busied
nursing her wrath to keep it warm.' Her
pretty cheeks were aflame as if they were
dyed dark red; while her glittering eyes
showed she was in such a rage  surpassing
far the little tempers we knew so well in
her as  made me at the door suddenly stop,
though keeping my ground.

Well, Miss !  so there you are ! Oh, sou
are hack  are you really ? Well, I should like,
I should very much like to know what you
have got to say for yourself ! ' she reiterated.
Plainly her anger was so impossible to put

into words, that she hardly knew what she
said, with an attempt at sarcasm that would
have been ludicrous but that to me it was so
painful. Then, as I began to try and
comply with her request for information ;
trying my best to be calm, she burst in
violently : ' Oh, dont talk to me ! . . . If you
imagine I mean to allow any such fastness
in m?/ house you are very much mistaken.'

(Oh, stern shades of propriety ! You to be
invoked at Broadhams !  and by Alice.)

All I can say is, Pleasance, that I am
thankful papa and mamma are coming tomorrow
; and then they may look after you,
for your conduct is, really, too disgraceful ! '

 Alice ! you have no right to speak m this
way to me. You don't  you cannot think
that it was my doing ! being  being  shut
up with Mr. Brace ; it was all Mrs. Jessop's

VOL. II.

trick I entreated earnestly yet stammering.
For the sense of being truly guilty of another
appointment was heavy on me, if innocent of
this one.

Yes, I do 1 ' retorted my sister with only
increasing vehemence. 'As Jenny Jessop
said, she was sure you wanted Mm; and so
she thought she would give you both a
dose of it. Pray ! would no other man in
the house suit you to flirt with, but my
friend ? '

Hush, hush, Alice  your maid is in your
bedroom, and she can hear every word,' I
hastily whispered, looking towards an open

door, horror-stricken at Alice's imprudence ;

and yet with my heart so suddenly lightened

of its greatest fear I could have laughed.

For Mrs. Jessop had not told  whatever

she knew.

I don't care ! You might have taken
any other man in the house, if you had
only left him alone cried Alice, with strong
symptoms of coming hysterics. Then stamping
her foot, as I rushed to her side with
consolation and sisterly caresses :

Oh ! go away out of my sight ! Go !  go
out of the room ! '

So I went She never had cared much
to have me with her when vexed, even informer
days ; declaring she could not then
bear persons who were calm like me, and
did not get angry too  but now what a
change for the worse ! I went slowly and
very sadly away, feeling that this marriage
had, in a few months, terribly changed our
still not less beloved family beauty.

That evening I did not come down-stairs
till the dinner-gong sounded ; shrinking from



possible jokes at my expense, for no doubt
Mrs. Jessop had told half the large house-party
of her practical joke. But as I slipped
into the drawing-room gently, Mr. Brace,
who was standing close to the door, made
way for me. Then he said with an impassive
face, and in an ordinary tone of voice, no
one else being near : ' It is all right ; I
have silenced her.'

Next instant Sir Dudley hustled me away ;
asking some unimportant question with a
most important face. But Clair, whom they
did not suspect, lounged past me, and never
even looking my way just murmured so that
I caught it : 'It was not my fault to-day ! 
you would forgive me if yoa knew.'

They guarded me at dinner between
Lady Pawlett and my brother-in-law, who
glanced at me occasionally, as if I was a

monstrous specimen of fast yomig ladyhood
that needed close watching.

Feeling sore and bitter against my natural
guardians and having been sent in alone,
I watched Clair furtively  whose hard-set
expression made my worst fears return. Rose
had told me, with sympathetic grief in her
pretty face, what ' a lot of money ' she heard
Clair had lost the night before. This was
after my return that evening, when I had
imparted to her the mortifying tale of my
imprisonment in the tower and Alice's wrath.
Dear child, we were both very young in our
troubles, but to whom should sisters turn
for consolation if not to each other ; and her
fresh unworldliness was as water to my thirsty
soul  conscious almost every one else in
this house would have thought my attachment
to St. Leger a sentimental folly ?

After dinner, Alice said sharply to the
other ladies ; being evidently still much out
of tune : ' There is no use in going through
that farce of going to the drawing-room.
The men will be out directly, and I suppose
some of you will be wanting your revenge ;
so let us go straight to the billiard-room.'

Most of her friends followed her ; but
there was a little ante-room before the billiard-room,
dedicated to newspapers, and here I
stopped short. Rose, who was singularly
silent and grave this wretched Sunday night,
stayed beside me, whispering :

Shall you sit here if they play cards ?
then so will I.'

For the first time, she seemed to consider
me her wisest guide here. Our schoolroom
child had had no London season as yet,
and was shocked at what she thought a

violation of the day ; much as she and I had
dearly loved stealing away from my mother's
rather pharisaical keeping of the Jewish law,
to have a romp, or a ramble in the woods
with Bob and the dogs. We were both
silently turning over the pages of the ' World,'
'Truth,' 'Whitehall,' and so forth, when
the Pawlett girls joined us  Charlotte with
some books, Amy with an uncomfortable
expression.

Is that what you are reading ? ' asked
the former in a .hollow voice, at which we
started. Charlotte had made gigantic strides,
almost past belief, in her religious fervour
during the last few days ; her soul vexed
by the new wickedness of Broadhams.

Rose and I felt meekly ashamed of ourselves.
At home our mother, certainly, went
round the house every Sunday morning

sweeping newspapers and all light literature
into grim cupboards, of which, as of the
library bookcases, she kept the keys, leaving
instead copies around of the Sunday periodicals
(in which wee, of course, only read
the moral novels). But, to-night, 1 felt so
revengeful, unhappy, and distraught in mind,
that anything to divert my thoughts was
a boon ; and by her unusually troubled,
small face Rose seemed to think so too.
Here is " Thomas a Kempis " for you,' said
Charlotte to me solemnly, ' and for you. Rose,
Keble's . . .'

Never could endure poetry ! The only
piece I remember, now, of all those my governesses
taught me by the hundred, is :

You may not love a roasted fowl,
But you may love a screaming owl."

It was called " Loving and Liking." Thank

you, Charlotte, but I'd rather sit here and
think responded Rose, shutting up her
mouth into a tight, little, red button, and
crossing her arms.

And where may not your thoughts wander
to, unless you discipline them; as, for instance,
by first reading and then meditating ? ' pursued
Charlotte still more severely, evidently ready
to begin a prolonged discussion.

Don't bother, please ; for I am too tired to
read, really  and besides I won't,' answered
our spoilt youngest one, as if that settled the
matter, adding with a roguish smile :

If you do want to preach, why not go
into the next room, where your mamma
and Mrs. Jessop are playing double dummy
whist to keep their hands in ? '

Rose ; how can you ? Charlotte, don't
think of such a thing as interfering with

mamma,' exclaimed Amy in prescient horror,
as well she might. Por, on hearing this
news, Charlotte started, with rather a stage
thrill that seemed to run up her spine and
end in a violent sniff  looked fixedly at the
open door, then at Rose, as if the latter had
been the unconscious agent of a divine command
!  again at the door  and finally, her
mind made up, went towards the latter swiftly
with a working face and clenched hands,
though her arms hung limply by her side.

With a little cry of horror, poor Amy
darted after her ; feebly trying to hold back
the resolved martyr. Rose and I, meanwhile,
waited for the result with appalled looks at
each other. In a few seconds, we were aware
of a lull in the feminine hum in the other
room, through which Charlotte's voice sounded
indistinctly and curiously  low and forced 

a self-frightened latter-day prophetess. Then I
came Lady Pawlett's voice raised in passion ;
with a loud jeering laugh from Mrs. Jessop.
A minute afterwards our unfortunate friend
reappeared led away swiftly by Lady Pawlett
; who, whilst Amy still followed with even
more despairing looks, clutched her daughter
firmly by the wrist. The contrast had never
been stronger between the handsome, splen-
idly-robed mother and the plain, skimpily-
skirted daughter  for whom nature, art, and
parents had done so little; and who passed
now with the resigned look of one who
suffers for conscience' sake.

It is a pity your new ideas don't teach
you to honour your parents, but I suppose
that is too old-fashioned ! ' said the mother,
with the glaring eye of a virtuous Roman
matron.

They do ; and that is why I warned
you in all duty and lovingness sighed
Charlotte.

Hold your tongue, and get to your own
room ! ' hissed Lady Pavvlett at the door ;
now thinking herself out of earshot and
becoming instantly a very virago.

They all began gambling in the next
room then, as soon as the gentlemen came
in. Sir Dudley, holding a short conference
with Alice in our little ante-room, did certainly
offer an objection. ' It seems not
quite the right thing on account of these
girls  eh ? '

The girls ! ! ' echoed Alice contemptuously.
Oh, if they never did worse than play cards
on a Sunday evening. . . ' She glanced towards
me as she spoke, curling her short
upper lip as if my depths of iniquity that day

had taught her more of evil ways than ever
she knew before ; and soon Rose and I
alone had the newspapers to ourselves.

Not quite alone, though ; for Mr. Brace
by-and-by lounged in from the next room
with a scientific-looking review in his hand,
and sat down in silence near us. He had
hardly done so, however, when Sir Dudley
followed close, looking as important as a
guardian of public morals, and very cross
at his self-imposed office.

Don't you smoke ? ' he surlily asked,
addressing himself to Brace as if growling
at him.

Not yet ; thanks,' returned the other,
perhaps from consideration for Rose and
myself.

If you do want to, don't mind the young
ladies,' politely continued our brother-in-law,

and then began puffing like a starting steam-engine
beside me, in silence.

It was very disagreeable ; that is, not the
smoke, though Sir Dudley tacitly insisted on
sitting glued to my side ; but the impression of
being distrusted, and of restraint. Rose and
I exchanged glances furtively, and by-and-by,
as soon as we could rise without seeming
offended, retired softly from the ante-room,
with a murmured good-night, to our own
rooms. Here  it must be owned  though
with a feeling of relief at being at peace at
last, I wept again a little over all the vexations
of this unfortunate Sunday.

Rose pitied me, consoled, and occasionally
in a most feeling way wiped her own eyes.
She hated Mrs. Jessop now as cordially as
I did. She would not leave me that night ;
but came and slept, too, in a small portion,

as suited her size, of my enormous bed built
for the Titans. We two felt so deserted, so
lonely in that great house.

Silently, not to keep poor Rose waking
longer, I grieved myself into fitful unconsciousness
through the long cold hours of that
wintry night. But then bad dreams roused

me to waking trouble of mind, that could not
free itself enough from shackles of sleep to do
more than go round and round, in puzzled
pain, thinking what Clair could mean  what
others might mean I  till with pure weariness
and turmoil the brain wandered back again
into the broken, objectless visions of sleep.

Chapter XII.

TN the cold grey morning a candle was
flashed in our faces. We both started
up, rubbing our eyes sleepily, and thinking it
was still the middle of the night.

To our alarm, Alice stood shivering in her
dressing-gown, with a light in one hand
and a long telegram in the other.

Do rouse up 1 and read this from mother,'
she sharply said. ' Father is ill ! and can't
come to-day, it seems. They gave me such
a dreadful fright just now ; waking mc with a
message at such an unearthly hour ; so, once
I was up, I thought I might as well let you

both know. And it's so cold ; ugh ! isn't it
too bad ? '

Alice crouched down upon our bed, shivering
as she spoke, pulling the counterpane
and what blankets she could get round her.
I had already snatched the telegram, and
was devouring it with confused, frightened
eyes ; Rose peering over my shoulder and
holding the candle.

At first, it did not seem so very alarming.
Father had had a bad attack on Friday ;
but fearing to alarm us, mother had delayed
writing. He was not well enough to come
yet. She herself had slight rheumatism,
so could not nurse him properly, and
had wired for Bob.' 'Don't wish to spoil
girls' pleasure by sending for them,' it
ended. But  as we remained silent a
few moments, except for interjections 

VOL. II. p

on studying the words closer I grew more
foreboding.

A " bad attack " ! Mother never would
say that unless it was really bad ; she makes
so light of all illness I mused aloud.

Yes ; and fancy her allowing any one else
to wait upon him 1 ' ejaculated Rose by my
side. For, as we all knew  upon the rare
occasions of old when father had any little
ache or ailment, and in the occasional tired
fits he could not always successfully conceal
from us since some months  mother
had always been strangely jealous of any of
us her children doing for him any of those
little loving duties she considered her especial
right. Rose added with the sapient air of
a privileged child, as she was :

'And mother has had rheumatism in her
arm all the winter. I know : for one day I

found her rubbing it, but she said I must
say nothing about it. Unless it was worse,
she would never send for Bob.'

Poor mamma ! Yes, she never thinks of
herself; and now that I am gone none of
you look after her. This is too hard on her ;
just when she was coming to me for her
first visit,' grumbled Alice pityingly. With
Alice and Beau our mother was always the
favourite parent ; but then these two eldest
were her swans, and Beaumanoirs.

Nevertheless, at Alice's assumption of
superior filial virtue, Rose and I felt nettled ;
for what had she ever done more for our
mother than we had ? Par, far less, indeed !
Like the son in the parable, saying, *I go,
sir she  on the rare occasions when mother
asked her to give a message, or any little
help, instead of us  went not ; though she

P 2

would indeed give answer a merry ' yes sure
immediately afterwards in a lazy laughing
way to bid one of us do it instead, averring 
It IS ail the same thing.'

Well, I'm going now. If you've nothing to
say, you need not keep me here in the cold
any longer,' Alice now ended, crossly enough,
rising as she spoke. ' I do declare it is too
bad. I thought we should have had a pleasant
party when you two came here ; and instead of
that everything has gone wrong. It is enough
to disgust one of having girls in the house ! '

'Well  I like that! As if we were to
blame for poor dear father not being well ! '
exclaimed Rose, hotly ; but I interrupted,
speaking almost in the same breath.

Hush, Rose, dear. Yes, Alice, T have
something to say : that is, that I will go home
at once  to-day.'

Well . if you think you ought, of
course . . . perhaps you had better  I would
hardly like to stop you. But there is no
such immediate hurry answered Lady
Digges, hesitatingly and more graciously ;
adding some few expressions of apparent
unwillingness to lose my society that made
me suddenly think, with a great surprised
flash of insight and anger, that she, my sister,
was glad I should leave her house ! Fired at
the thought, I sprang the next instant out of
bed, and began hurriedly dressing myself.

There is every need for haste,' said I,
trying to speak softly and not too coldly ; for,
after all, Alice had a right to choose her own
guests. ' When does the next train go, I
wonder ; and what o'clock is it now ? '

About eight, dear ; only with the shutters
closed it seems so much earlier, and it is

raining hard, and such a dark morning,' said
Alice, creeping to peer out and drawing
shivering breath. *Well, I'll send ray maid
to find out about your train, and order a
carriage if you think you must go ; so now I
may as well go back to bed again. Tell
mother I'm so dreadfully sorry; and mind
you write. . . . Why, Rose, what are you
dressing for ? '

I'm going too, of course.'

But of course you are doing nothing of
the sort ! You are under my charge here !
and without mamma's permission I shall
certainly not let you stir,' sharply returned
our elder sister.

In vain Rose protested with all her warm
little heart, and even cried. Alice was inflexible
; and I, being accused of selfishness
when venturing interference, was silenced.

We both had to submit ; knowing that
indeed all the maternal authority was considered
vested in Lady Digges's hands. And
we were somewhat afraid of meeting our
mother, even though we went home to help
her, if Alice wrote this was against her wishes.

What a hurried packing it was ! and what
hasty consultations Rose and I held in
whispers, not to be overheard by our maid I
The poor child promised to write me faithfully
everything that occurred in the house
of course, this entirely or almost solely
referred to Clair St. Leger. And then we
repeated often to each other, regretfully, but
still with hopeful assurance :

Of course father's attack cant be very
much ; oh no, of course not !  he will soon
be better

One has such a feeling in first youth that

severe illness, or great trouble, may come to
others ; but that nothing so extraordinary can
happen to ourselves.

It does seem so hard of fate that you
have to go now, my poor Pleasance uttered
Rose, looking at me as if such a martyr's
sacrifice was unprecedented in her short
experience.

Yes ; but it must be done,' 1 answered
with a heavy heart.

Surely, surely, if Clair cared for me at all,
my going home to do my duty would not
make him care for me less. ' Absence makes
the heart grow fonder.' He might be sorry,
then, that he had not tried more to talk to me
last night ; not that in any bitterness of my
own heart I wished him to be sorry  but that
as he had not been quite kind to me, it might
reunite us.

A harried breakfast was laid for me at a
side-table in the great dining-room. One or
two of the earlier guests, learning my departure,
came in a really kind way to express
their regret ; among these Lord Pawlett, who,
shaking me quite earnestly by the hand, said
he would go and tell Amy. He was sure
Amy did not know ; and  ahem ! Amy was
very fond of me. It was the first evidence he
had ever given me of having a soul of his
own or thoughts of his daughters apart from
his wife. Next, Pulke Brace hastened in to
say farewell with the truest sympathy and
friendly feeling both for me and father.
A few hopeful, earnest words of good speed
were all he said  what more could be said ?
but they so cheered and warmed my heart
that I felt quite strong after them. Afterwards,
when dressed for the journey, I came

into the outer hall a few minutes later with
Rose, I found him again waiting to seeme
off.

Just then Mrs. Jessop also appeared ; and,
giving a little feigned start at sight of him,
ther malice ou sly whispered :

Poor Miss Brown !  I thought it would
be so solitary if none of us came to say goodbye,
that here I am  but I hope I am not
de trop, my dear ! '

I don't know what you mean,' was all I
could say, looking full at her.

Oh, stupid, stupid Pleasance !  surely no
presence of mind or mother wit was ever
mine ; ten minutes later, too late, in the
carriage, what a number of brilliant answers
suggested themselves tantalizingly to my
mind.

She answered with a sly smile : ' Come here

aside, my dear, a moment till I say something.
. . Well, good-bye; I hope your father
will be better very soon  it hardly seems
necessary that you should run away in this
very sudden manner, does it? And  one
last piece of advice, if I may offer it as a
friend  don't blot billets doux in future on
fresh blotting-paper!'

She had sprung back as if afraid I
should tear her to pieces ; then ran, with an
affectedly girlish wave of the hand for such a
buxom woman, through the doorway, before
I could even utter the quick indignant
exclamation that was on my tongue. Rose
was at my side inquiringly in a moment.
Fulke Brace looked at us both questioningly.
Whether he had guessed, or overheard, I
knew not ; but anyhow he shook my hand ina
specially comforting, protecting way. Next

down rushed Amy, just when my foot was on
the carriage-step. She threw herself on my
neck literally, and wept in an ashamed,
ungainly way. Poor soul ! her eyes indeed
looked as if she had been crying all night,
and so beginning afresh was nothing strange.
Then I was off.

Putting my head out of the window to
look back at the dull house, in the dull damp
park, as I was driven down the ugly drive,
it seemed to me as if my time there had
been like a bad dream. All the way back,
it seemed to me so strange to have looked
forward for long weeks to our Broadhams
visit with such happy anticipations ; and now
to go home like this !

It was perhaps well for me that the journey
lasted nearly all day, for by afternoon I was
dulled and stupefied to deadness ; if my state

of thought and feeling could not be called by
the higher name of resignation.

It was evening when the train stopped atour
home station, and there was Bob's dear
face grinning in greeting,

It's all right !  the governor looks nearly
as well as ever again ; and, what's more,
he's outside there in the carriage.'

So he exclaimed, running along by the
side of the train before it stopped, putting
his head in at the window at the peril of
his neck, and jerking his thumb over his
shoulder in his usual free-and-easy style.
Then when I got out :

Oh, I say, isn't this jolly ? You and I
home again, and no cramming to do fora
blessed week  (week ! see if I don't
make it a fortnight)  nothing to do but
to coddle the dear old dad, and can't we

two just do that ! Eh ? . . . Here she is ! 
Here he is ! '

There was my father in the brougham ;
welcoming me in almost the same hearty
voice, and with just the same loving eyes, as
of old. It was only after an affectionate
hug, on sitting down beside him, that I
noticed the dear ruddy face was paler, greyer
and that his grizzled head hung slightly
forward a little heavily.

Let us be off soon, dear ; for I have
some important business awaiting me which
obliged me to come in to-day,' he said,
rather nervously, as if anxious for haste,
yet not wishing to spoil the kindness of our
first meeting again.

But, father, surely you are not strong
enough  I wonder they allowed you . . .'

Hush, my pet. Remember that I wanted

the pleasure of coming to meet you, as you
left your amusements to come back to the
old man. Let us suppose that business had
nothing to say to it. . . nothing to say toit.
. . nothing ! ' he answered, caressing my
hand, and repeating the words dreamily,
which was so unusual in him I looked up ;
but saw that, with his eyes fixed on the
houses we passed, he was evidently thinking
of the business in question.

Arrived at the offices where his business
agents always met him, he got out rapidly,
with a nervous briskness of movement that
surprised me. Indeed he never waited for
Bob, who had sprung out by the other door
of the carriage, and was running round to
offer his shoulder as a support.

There ; do you see that ! ' exclaimed the
March Hare, with admiring foolishness.

gazing after him. ' Talk of him being long
ill ; why, he hasn't walked as briskly as that
for months. Look at the pace he's going
up-stairs ! '

But it's not good for him, is it ? ' said I,
not much wiser than Bob in matters of
illness, yet more doubtful. But Bob reassured
me, plunging his head momentarily
into the carriage for conversation as he stood
outside, for closed vehicles were not greatly
to his liking. ' I came home this morning 
travelled all night,' quoth he. ' And he was
very cheery on seeing me ; not c[uiie so
lively as usual perhaps, you know. As to
mother ? well ! she did 'seem a little fretted
with her rheumatism, and with sitting up two
or three nights with father,'  which last Bob
thought was over-fearfulness on her part.
But she had been awfully good to him ;

treated him almost as if he was the grey-headed
boy himself (namely Beau). It had
been much against the mother's wish that
father had driven in to-day, but he had been
so keen about it, she had to give way. And
Bob had had time already to inspect the
dogs, which were looking grand ; and so
forth, and so forth, in outbursts ; with interpolated
questions as to the jolly fun Rose
and I must have had at Broadhams, hardly
waiting for my answers.

Then father came out.

He was walking very slowly now  very,
very slowly,  leaning on the arm of an old
trusted clerk in the house, who was looking
rather anxiously at him, I thought. But as
Bob hastened to give him his help down the
steps, father paused at the top in thanks,
and gently smiled at me.

VOL. II. Q

'You tired yourself going up-stairs so
quickly without help I exclaimed in solicitude,
settling the cushions and wraps comfortably
for him.

Yes, dear  that was foolish of me . . .
when I have two . . . such good young caretakers,'
he answered, taking breath between
each pause, and then turned to sign a farewell
to the old man who had helped him ;
not with his old hearty manner, seeming grave
and tired, yet with the same thoughtfulness
for inferiors that made him thank every
beggar woman who blessed him for giving
her a shilling.

Don't come inside, my boy,' as Bob with
secret rue, but composed features, was preparing
for that stuffy ordeal with his back
to the horses. Go on the box  you love
fresh air ; and Pleasance is enough for me.'

How glad T was he said that last !  to be
enough for him, was almost a full and
sufficient compensation surely for all my late
troubles. As if something of what was in
my mind passed into his, he roused himself 
after a quarter of an hour of silence during
which my thoughts, reassured for him, had
strayed back to late days, whilst his dear
eyes being closed I did not speak for fear
of disturbing him.

Tell me about Broadhams, my child.'

So, hastily deciding in my own mind to
tell nothing that might distress him, I began
repeating mere pleasant outlines and the
names of the guests.

 St. Leger ! '  he said, stopping me, and

looking in my face with a curious wistful

kindness in his eyes I had never seen there

before. ' St. Leger ; he was there  ah ! '

Q 2

Under that sympathetic loving gaze, and
because of something lingering and questioning
in the tone, somehow  I cannot explain
it better  the conscious blood told its secretin
my cheeks at once ; so that I turned my
face to hide it and the sudden little gush of
tears that suffused my eyes but must not fall.
Then I found myself caressed and my hand
drawn into his own and stroked, though
feebly ; as if he was too tired to move.

Darling,' he whispered, and as if even
that was an effort, ' I thought last summer
that you and he  had besun to like each
other . . . Well, if Clair St. Leger will but
work he is a fine young fellow . . . and I
can only find it in my heart to bless whoever
will make one of my children happy.'

I pressed his hand back closely, only finding
voice enough to murmur lovingly :

Thank you : thank you, father dear  but
you are so tired. We will talk about this
again. I see your eyes closing  go to sleep
if you can, now ; try, at least

What a sore pain was in my heart as I
thought Clair would never, never work ! Ah !
if he but would !

My father nodded and closed wearily his
heavy eyelids, his head dropping forward on
his chest so immediately that it had plainly
cost him an effort to give me his attention
for even those few seconds. Taking a pillow
that had been put in the carriage, I propped
it on my shoulder and made him lay his
head down upon it ; glad to be such a tall
daughter that he could rest so at his ease.

We had not gone far after this when in
the growing darkness a shower lashed the
carriage windows. He opened his eyes

again, no doubt, though from our positions
I could not see his face, as he said Hke one
waking out of sleep :

Call Bob in  he will get wet

Pulling the check-string I soon had the
moist March Hare in cover beside us, his
top-coat exhaling a mingled odour of stables,
tobacco, and pet fox-terrier, to my imaginative
but not unkindly mind.

Ah ! now all is right,' said my father, and
his head nestled more heavily again on my
shoulder. From time to time as the darkness
deepened I could hear his stertorous breathing,
which to my satisfaction grew softer
and softer.

How nicely he is taking a rest now 1 '
murmured Bob, and in guarded whispers
we congratulated ourselves on this blessed
slumber. We were now going homeward

along the familiar roads, but only by the
occasional flashing of the carriage-lamps on
some white, farm, gable wall or creep ere d
cottage-front could I tell where we were, it
was such a thick night. The rain poured
continuously down in close streams, and
white mist filled all the hollows and rose upto
meet it.

Father slept sounder and sounder. My
shoulder ached at last terribly with the
strain, but I would not have stirred the
thousandth part of an inch for worlds !  for
anything !

Ain't you tired? I should think so. Cheer
up, it will soon be over,' murmured Bob,
bending forward encouragingly, his breath
tickling my ear.

Now we turned in at the lodge-gate. The
horses' hoofs went plop ! plop ! with quite

renewed vigour up the wet drive. The bare
branches of the trees, hazily illumined before
us, appeared to bend and overtake each other in
welcoming grey arches. * Home again ! ' they
seemed to say. ' Loving hearts here, Pleasance
! Whatever your troubles and sorrow
and love, other love will help you to bear it.
We are all so sorry for you ; wee have known
you since childhood ; cheer up ! cheer up ! '
As the horses mounted the last hill and
turned round on the gravelled sweep, still all
the well-known, if hidden, objects in the darkness
around seemed to echo,  ' cheer up ! '

Out flashed a light from the opening door,
as our wheels were heard by watchful ears.
Out came mother ; her graceful figure shown
in dark relief in the doorway, against the
strong light in the hall behind.

At last ! ' she called anxiously, as we

drew up with a cruncli of the wheels. * How
is your father ? '

Well 1 well  couldn't be better called
back Bob cheerily. ' He has been sleeping
here on Pleasance's shoulder all the way
back ; and we have been watching him.'

How are you, William ? ' repeated my
mother with a tender inflection of her voice ;
as unheeding her rheumatism and the pouring
rain, she came outside to the carriage-door.

But my father did not answer.

Wake up, father, now ; you are at home,
dear,' I said in his ear, and took his listless
hand in mine that gave no response ; so
turning T said apologetically to mother, ' He
is so fast asleep ; how shall I rouse him ? '
With a stifled little exclamation, whether of
impatience or fear I hardly knew, my mother
snatched a light from one of the footmen

behind, who held it to show our invalid the
carriage-steps. Turning it full on the still
sleeping face, she looked a moment, then gave
a cry that rings through my ears even now
after years! 'He is dead!'  she cried.
*You have both let him die; and I was
not with him ! ' As she spoke, she staggered
backwards, catching hold of the side of the
porch to support herself.

CHAPTER XIII.

TT was nearly midnight. The old family
doctor who had been sent for in wild
haste through the darkness, though we knew
it was of no use ! had arrived. Out with him
came the trusty old clerk, on whose arm he
had last been slowly supported down the
office-steps.

How the ill news had so flown was a
marvel, as always in these cases, but to the
sorrowing it all seems so natural ! It seems
as if the whole world ought to know our
great loss, too; and feel that one has gone
from us, the like of whom we shall never,

never see adam.

T was lying prone on a sofa in the
deserted drawing-room, which was almost in
darkness but for the flickering fire-light.
Crushed, crushed  as if not able to stir a
finger, or think one thought. That was how T
lay moaning in a soundless murmur to myself
sometimes, or weakly clenching my fingers as
if longing for bodily pain to ease this intolerable
anguish of a sudden awful void and
blank in life. Then came voices near. There
had been many heretofore which seemed
whispering aud murmuring outside in the
awed confusion of the house ; but I had
never heeded. These came from the saloon,
the door of which stood open.

'Don't blame yourself, Mr. Bob  it was
this crash that broke his heart. Nothing
you could have done would have saved him,'
the old doctor's voice was saying.

I raised my head at that, with a sudden
start as the words thrilled through me ; next
moment I was behind them in the other
room. ' What crash ?  what broke his
heart ? ' The three men, who stood with
their backs to me, all turned, startled.

Oh, deary, deary me, Miss Pleasance,  I
almost took you for a ghost, with your whiteface
coming out of the darkness,' said the old
clerk pityingly and as if to gain time ; the
most loquacious of the three, like those in
the lower ranks of life. Bob simply looked
at me, not able, poor fellow, to speak.

What is it?  Bolt do tell me, some one!'
I asked again, beseechingly turning imploring
eyes upon them all ; and last on the old
doctor. He laid his hand kindly on my
shoulder.

Aiy dear child, it is perhaps better you

should know the cause of your good father's
death, which was most peaceful and painless,
as you saw. He had heard  ahem ! ' (the
doctor cleared his throat, and he who had
announced in his time so many deaths to
sorrowing mourners, was plainly unusually
troubled)  ' He heard some bad business
news to-day ; the fear of which had brought
on his late attack ; and so . . /

He heard we were ruined ! what does
that matter now?' said Bob, bluntly and
hoarsely ; and sitting down by a table near,
he bowed his fair young head down on his
crossed arms. I looked round blankly at
the others, but more in inquiry than moved
by the intelligence.

Is it true ? What does he mean ? '
The doctor looked at our old clerk. It
was his turn now. He stared on the ground,

and shuffled this feet uneasily. ' Well, I'm
afraid it is true. It's what often enough
happens, and many a man will make a second
fortune after it  but this time'  His voice
failed him huskily ; for this time the stout
patient heart we all loved so well would nevermore
work to wipe off the unmerited
disgrace.

There might be something saved out of
the fire yet he murmured.  But Mr. Beau is
away yachting in the Mediterranean, worse
luck !  not that he would be much help
indeed ' (this last in an involuntary soliloquy).
How is your mother ? ' quickly asked the
doctor. He wished to divert my stricken
mind from this second dreadful calamity, no
doubt, seeing I stood tearless, pale, cold, and
standstill. (As if one thought of mere money
was in my mind at such an awful time !

There was no room there for consciousness of
aught beyond the dear still form motionless
upstairs.)

She will not see me. She would not
allow me to go into her room. Only her old
maid, you know  is with her,' I said in a
wail ; feeling rather than knowing the awful
unspoken charge of neglect against me in the
mind of my only parent left alive.

She is better so, my dear,' said the old
man kindly. He knew us all so well, and
had seen behind the scenes in our household
as in so many others. ' Hers is not a nature
that can bear much sympathy in suffering.
You must let her grieve it out alone ; though
it seems hard.'

Lord help them all ! But we will try
to get all we can for the widow and the
orphans,' uttered the aged clerk. And somehow

at those words  making me feel for the
first time what ive now were !  the icy barrier
of my tears was melted, and my sorrow
streamed down like rain. As I hurried away,
the two old men stared after me aghast ; but
poor Bob, his honest heart unable to endure
the sight, was sobbing, too, like a big child.

When Rose came home next day (to the
home we already knew would soon be ours
no longer !) we clung closely to each other
for a few speechless moments.

Oh, Rose ! ' I asked, ' what did he say ?
Was he very sorry for me ? '

I suppose he was,' answered Rose very
slowly; 'he told me to say to you, that he
would write.'

He did ! Then it is all right. He does
care really for me ! I knew his good heart

VOL. II. R

would assert itself  and that if lie ever felt
for me it would be now, when I need it
so sorely,' I cried, feverishly excited.

Rose said nothing.

Bob and I, in the first dreadful days, had
to make all the agonizing decisions about the
funeral ; terrible, hourly questions that would
not let us mourn in peace. Some Frenchman
has said, he would like when dying post
to take off his hat with an unexpected adieu ;
turn the corner of the street ; and so vanish.
How it would spare those left the details
which must be cared for by some one !  of
our pompous funeral ceremonies, all of which
seem so to vulgarize our sacred grief ! For
the first time in her life, our mother had
broken down  and that all the more utterly.
The stricken wife seemed only to feel first
that my father was dead; next that Beau,

her idolized son, was fortuneless, almost homeless
 that no new-vomited and prosperous
county family would ever now be established
in the dear old west country of her forefathers,
through him !

But Bob and I were two bewildered young
souls. Old heads seemed now suddenly
expected on our shoulders, for even questions
on the business were submitted to us,
into which we plunged with the recklessness
of ignorance. Poor Bob insisted always on
asking my advice, deferring to it in a way
that frightened me, and saying himself with
tears in his eyes :

What does it matter what wee decide on ?
We might as well chuck it all up, or toss
for it ! We're so ruined, you know, that
it can't make any difference to us ; and
thank God, it makes none to Mm now ! '

R 2

If, by working with muscles and sinews
till he dropped, Bob could have helped
matters, he would have died for the rest of
us ; but his brains were of far less use than
his biceps. I, however, felt I must try to
choose the lesser between the two evils so
constantly brought before my faint and heart-sickened
mind.

Then Aunt Bee came, to our intense
relief. The old lady took all at once into
her vigorous management, bidding us 'poor
children ' rest. She seemed to have flown
to our aid on wings of the wind ; and how
she did it we never knew, for she was in
Spain when our news reached her. 'And
so your fine brother-in-law, Sir Dudley, could
not come to help you ! ' she said with a
significant sound, like a snort.

He said it would all distress Alice so

much, he would rather not leave her; but,
he will come to the funeral,' answered Rose,
in an ashamed tone, as having been last
at Broadhams.

Thank him for nothing ! ' returned Aunt
Bee in bitterness of scorn, but wiping her
eyes.

Then came my letter from Clair St. Leger.
Even as I tore it open, an ashamed thought
darted arrowlike through my brain accusing
me of forgetting, in my living love, the
dear spirit whose cold remains lay stilly upstairs.
But then my father would have
understood ; he always did. No one was
more nobly thoughtful, asking no extremes
of us.

So the scruple quieted, my eyes devoured
the small-written, clear lines, hastily turning
the page to see how much there was before

even getting the sense  Only two sides of
a sheet ! As I ended, then re-read it again
slowly  feeling my whole momentarily joyful
being changing, chilling, my features beginning
to quiver  Eose, who was watching me,
could bear her sympathy of suspense no
longer, and cried out, ' What does he say ?
Do tell me, dear Pleasance.

Oh, Rose,' I just managed to answer
before breaking down into bitter crying,
it is just a letter of condolence, and  only
polite ! '

Rose tried to comfort me with all the
love a sister knows how to give, but she
could sais nothing. There was nothing to
be said. At last, I raised my tear-stained
face to hers and asked beseechingly :

Did you hear anything more about him
and Mrs. Jessop ? If you did, do tell me

now, Rose ; I would rather know the
worst.'

Rose, poor child, answered unwilling and
slow.

Well ; I suppose it is better to say everything.
She told Amy Pawlett the day you
left, that you and she were pulling caps for
Clair St. Leger (you know she is often so
vulgar) ; and that she was sure to win because
she had the money. Besides, she knew on
Alice's authority that you had given up your
fortune to pay Beau's debts. She laughed,
as she said to Amy how crestfallen Mr.
St. Leger had looked on that Sunday afternoon,
when she took occasion to tell him
what a sentimental little goose you had
been.'

I gazed at Rose open-eyed, almost open-mouthed.
'She said that!  how could

she? It is just as well  oli, just as well he
should know it ! But how could one woman
act so to another, as she did to me on that
Sunday ? '

She is wicked ; that is it. And we never
met a wicked woman in our lives before,'
averred R-ose.

That whole night I never slept, but sat up
till the grey, late, winter dawn came. My
thoughts were dreadful to me, either sick and
sorry .companions, or else like the tormenting
of evil spirits ; but I dared not go to bed,
knowing I was too miserable to sleep, and
that with the body lying in enforced quiet,
the mind would have broken loose in all the
more maddened wildness of working. Weak
ravings, questions succeeded themselves in
my brain, over and over and over again.

Wien did he change?  extraordinary,

fickle ! Oh, how much kinder if he had
never admired me, spoken to me  ah, yes ! '

There was no faith left in me in humankind
; in friends, except my own few people ;
and bat little in God  though that 1 prayed
and struggled so hard to hold through those
small chill hours of the night. My old father,
so good, so religious ! to die ruined and
heart-broken, after all 1

Then Clair ! My life seemed a waste, a
desert, because I could never love any one
again  never know the old full trust. ' Oh
ray father ! ' I thought, and then the tears
came down so fast and salt I was sick with
weeping. What would he have said, had he
known I should suffer this ! How little had
his dear, dying blessing on the man I loved
been deserved !

The morning sun rose late through the

faint East, like a red fireball over the wintry
woods, and the lawns that were all white with
hoar-frost. It saw me kneeling in the room
of death, with my head bowed over the great
oak coffin, my tears bedewing the insensible
wood and silver mountings beneath which lay
the dear head I had so loved. Even this
consolation would be gone in a few hours.
It was the day of my father's funeral.

All that night, though so young and so tired,
I never once closed my heavy eyes in sleep,
sorrow still fought too hard with fatigue.
Then at dawn, unable to bear the strain
longer, I started up from my seat, drew a
wrapper round me, and crept down-stairs.

Kneeling there now, I knew the truth ;
letting myself be blinded with self-deception
no longer. My youth was a blank, my love
had been wasted, my hope and gladness of

life was a dead thing. I had lost father,
lover, fortune, all. . . !

Then I must have fainted and lain cold
and outstretched on the floor.

An hour or so later, when I returned to
consciousness, my mother's arms were round
me, and her tears  oh, blessed tears of love !
were wet on my cheek. After a long cruel
night vigil, spent like mine in loneliness of
sorrow, she too had stolen down to stand by
her dear dead once more  in grief all the
keener that her nature was so proudly reticent,
and even if longing for sympathy
seemed to repel it. ' Poor Pleasance ! My
child . . . my child ! ' she was repeating. ' I
have been selfish  I forgot, in my own
misery, how much you loved him too.'

'Ah, mother dear, you are very good tome,'
I sobbed, my brain unstrung and hardly

conscious of what I was saying ; ' but he cared
far more for me than you do.'

It will be different now. We shall be
more to each other in future murmured my
mother, low and broken. And so indeed we
drew together.

CHAPTER XIV.

/NLY a little month, barely more than
one month and some short days had
passed, and once more I was at Broadhams.

How in times of death and great trouble,
changes that in happier days would be
momentous events to us, come often so thick
and fast they seem but little things 1 Even
so my last days at Stoke  at Tome !  may be
hurried over in description. My poor mother's
first wish seemed to be only to leave all we
had to our creditors in the ruin that had befallen
us ; next to hurry away from the place
which reminded her so agonizingly of the
whole happiness of her life. She would have

gone the day after the funeral, I believe, if
she could. Her nature was not one like
mine, to cherish and brood over every little'
object and memory associated with her beloved
dead ; but rather to fly from the dear
scenes ; to put away from her sight anything
that by recollection increased the almost
unendurable pain she kept so proudly to
herself. To me, it was hard to understand.

But, womanlike, my poor mother learnt to
resign herself; perforce, she stayed on at
Stoke for some weeks, daily seeing all the
little home-treasures, which my father and
she had collected with such delight, going to
the auctioneer  to the four winds, it seemed !

It was Beau's wish : that was enough.
He had hurried away as soon as ever he
decently could, declaring the sight of packing
and bustle was too * horrid a worry.' He

went off to town  on business he said  and
thence to Broadhams : we, as women, stayed
to do his work which he disliked.

Even my mother must have thought her
idolized eldest-born was selfish in shirking
his duties ; for she said to me in a pitiful,
apologizing manner, quite new to her :

 His feelings are too much for him,
Pleasance. T knoic that is why he cannot
bear to stay ! Think of how much harder it
is for him to leave his own house, than for all
of us  my poor boy ! '

And I said nothing. Harder for Beau
than for us ?  for Rose and Bob and me, who
each in degree loved more and more intensely
every stick and stone and tree in our beautiful
home in the west !

It's a beastly shame 1 ' said Bob, nearly
sobbing, as he hammered and packed with a

neatness and handiness never expected of
him. ' Beau never cared !  He always used
to like going on his fine visits better 'than
coming home in vacation time ; and, last
summer, he said it was too slow a hole for
him to stay in.'

As for me, the words of a still living
American writer came home to me ; as his
laughing yet deep and tender thoughts have
done to so many more hearts. * A house is
never a house until we have crusted it with
the spoils of a hundred lives besides those of
our own past ; ' and on leaving home he finds
to his own surprise how many roots he had
struck therein, unknown to himself, each of
which, at the last wrench, seemed to shriek
aloud like those of the fabled mandrake. If
Holmes felt this, being a man, how much
more might I, a woman !  we who send

out SO many tender fibres and tendrils ; clinging
unreasoningly perhaps, but because of
our nature, to all the objects around us
among which God has ordered our lives
to be mostly passed.

Such a home as it was, too ! If the Bracys
had truly been no ancestors of mine, yet they
themselves could hardly have cherished the
legends and memories of their grand old
family and Saxon hall more reverently than
did I in heart. Their past seemed by
virtue of my love and admiration to have
been knit to my young life. Ah ! would
those w4io came after us, feel for Stoke as
I had felt?

And so Broadhams now received my
mother, Beau, and myself. (Rose was with
Aunt Bee for a little while at the Barn ; and
Bob was to make his home there.)

VOL. II. s

It was a change indeed from the last
visit, although I had always found that great
ugly house so dull. Now we lived in a few
small rooms, in Alice's boudoir, and Sir
Dudley's study. The great reception-rooms
were daily opened and warmed by the housekeeper's
directions, but Alice with a shudder
turned from the doors : ' they are dreadful
without a large party ! as quiet as the grave,'
she exclaimed.

Quiet as the grave ! It seemed to me 
going heavily through the marble inner hall,
where only my own footsteps now made resounding
echoes, and no laughing blue eyes
would greet mine in the round gallery above
any more  that thus it should be ! here and
wherever was one of his dear ones to mourn
our dead. As we three women trailed our
black dresses over the inlaid floors, or met

facti other wandering solitary in the lone red
corridors, the silence and even deathly stillness
of the great house was rest and soothing
to my sore spirit.

So it was also to my poor mother. Here,
though we were almost beggars, no sight or
sound of poverty suggested our future lot.
Alice, her darling, was here in a safe harbour
where none of our late ills would ever surely
threaten her to the end of life ; was idolized,
rich . . . !

It is my one great comfort, now, to see her
so happy ! ' murmured my mother to me one
evening, after we had been there two or three
days. We stood in the boudoir, where, inside,
clear firelight sparkled on the many pretty
ohjets de luxe lavished around. Outside, the
trees of the flat park to westward darkened
almost grandly in their heavy masses against

S 2

a dull red band of sky, where the sun had
set. * Yes : it is a blessing indeed to feel that
I have done so well, at least, for her' she
went on, thinking aloud unconsciously. My
mother's ways Avere strangely changed now in
such small matters ; also looking up I saw
tears standing in her still beautiful eyes.
Who knows, too, but that you and Rose maybe
just as fortunate ; and all through this,
my dear ? Por, though / can do so little for
either of you now, Alice will take one or both
of you out next year in London, of course. . 

Her voice died away in musing. Mine
was silent.

What use to cry out to her, with impulsive
affection, flinging my arms around her neck
as I would have done with the other dear
dead parent, who was no longer by to understand
all my ways and thoughts !

'Don't speak of London. Oh, don't think
of all that  I would far, far rather stay with
you.'

Yes ! we had drawn together, my mother
and I ; since the one supreme hour of our
mutual great sorrow. But still it takes a far
longer time to bring about that perfect
understanding, that mutual giving and taking
of opinion and wishes which is the basis of
the best affection, even though the superior
intellect must always lead. It may be
engendered by years of affectionate life
together, as between my father and myself:
or it may be lit, as it were in an
instant, between two souls who have only
just met.

And so my mother now looked on me fully
as her child, perhaps for the first time ; in
my life, not as a Brown merely, but as a

Beaumanoir also ; therefore her mind at once

turned to governing my Hfe for me  to

shaping my fortune so far as now in her lay.

So she had done with Alice, so had thought

to do with little Rose. All the caprices of her

idolized Beau were adopted as her own ardent

wishes. His changing fancies hitherto, now

for a seat in parliament, now for diplomacy,

art, music, were the secret ambitions of her

life. But as to me  having been my father's

child, he had let me grow up beside him as

might a flower, to which he gave love and

care, but to which God would send from

heaven the sun and rain and perhaps storm

as best pleased Him in its future life. Poor

mother ! Poor Pleasance ! How I longed

that she would only be content to do the

same by me ; but dared not tell her so.

Sir Dudley was very kind to us all the'

time we stayed at Broadhams, certainly  in
his own way.

He was moved by seeing his worshipped
Alice hanging round my mother's neck the
first evening we came caressing and pitying
her. With all his heaviness of mind he had
a good heart, and his impressions were very
slow to change. Therefore he and Beau went
out together morning after morning, shooting,
or passing their time round the farm or
home-stables ; while in the afternoons he
would take out Alice for a walk or drive. A
fortnight had nearly passed : and yet he never
showed by word or look that he wearied of
the quiet enforced on his household by the
presence of the widow and the fatherless
under his roof. Perhaps he was glad to have
Alice so entirely to himself, almost for the
first time since they were married.

But after a very few days, Alice's pretty
attentions to my mother began to wane and
cease.

It struck me daily more how my sister
grew quite dismal  just as we, whom she
had met with almost smiling consolations,
began to feel reasonably cheered by this
grateful rest after all our terrible late bustle
and grief. She was like a caged bright bird ;
and several times exclaimed to me privately,
while looking at her slender dark figure in
one of the many mirrors around us in the
magnificently dreary rooms :

How I hate black ! It never became my
complexion  we might as well be two nuns
here, I declare, with my poor mother for
abbess

This little outburst of impatience surprised
me slightly. But I was startled when, a day

later, Alice declared with sudden vehemence
as we were alone together :

Rain again ! It seems always raining
here since you came ; or if it is fine there is
nothing to do but drive with Dudley in the
pony-carriage. If it was not for mother and
you, we should be off to Cannes and get
some sunshine ! . . . Oh, of course I would
not be unkind for worlds  ' (I had only
looked up at her, too much taken aback to
speak.)  I'm sure, ever since my marriage I
have always been doing my best for you all ;
but one has to make such sacrifices always
to one's family.'

I am certain, Alice, that if mother only
guessed you wished to go abroad, she would
not like to delay you by our stay here. Por
myself, I should be dreadfully sorry to keep
you on our account  even for a day.'

Mj lips trembled a little and tears stood
in my eyes. Ridiculous !  but then her to?ie
more than the mere words had cut me to the
quick. So lightly careless of our poverty and
troubles ; so heartless as to her own due share
of grief! She might have been an utter
alien, instead of our adored beauty, our
family pride.

There ! you fly off in a temper at once,
Pleasance. I wish you combined a little
more sense with your sensitiveness. You
have so many fine feelings that, as Jenny
Jessop once said, she was sure I never could
help hurting some of them,' retorted Alice
flippantly; apparently half-consoled for her
ill-humour by her own smartness of speech,
and the sense of having roused me to see
her wrongs.

What is the matter, do you say, Dudley ? '

as her spouse, in his shooting-coat, came
heavily in at that moment, and looked at us
both in some slow wonder.

'Why, only that Pleasance here is in a
passion at my merely saying if it was not for
our duties to them I should be off enjoying
myself at Nice  which is perfectly true ! . . .
What  play chess with you, as it is a wet
day? My dear old man, you must be perfectly
MAD ! I drive with you when it's
fine, and try to play billiards with you
in the evening ; but, for heaven's sake, don't
ask me to become a still more exemplary
wife ! '

 It was only to please you, I thought of it ;
as you say you are bored to death lately, and
hate reading,' returned poor Sir Dudley, on
the defensive. Por, to do him justice, he
would have far more willingly snored and

smoked in his own den all afternoon ; and
also at nights he suffered slow martyrdom
from Alice's determination not to leave himself
and Beau the sole enjoyment of the
billiard-table, while she was so impatient
as to ])e a far more miserable player than
even I, in my mediocrity.

Well, any way, I positively won't do
anything now ; unless I make Julie pull
out all my dresses, to see if they are
worth keeping till after  or else I'll curl
myself up in the boudoir and go to
sleep,' yawned Alice, affecting a little mock-defiant
laugh, and she betook herself off
therewith.

Sir Dudley looked after her admiringly,
then turning to me, meaning to be kind 
though plainly his best sympathies had gone
out of the door.

'Come, Pleasance, don't be vexed. Ton
my honour, we are both only too glad
to have you all here; but it is hard on
Alice, poor girl! Just when she was expecting
to enjoy herself in town, don't you
see ? '

Exactly so. It was a pity my father did
not wait to die till after the London season,'
said I, low, but with razor keenness in my
bitterness of spirit. Sir Dudley stared at
me rather puzzled, but answered piously
with a reproving air :

Well these things are all in the hands of
Providence.'

When he left the room, my first thought
was anger that I had not made him/6'/more !
The next came remorse that I, who had never
said bitter things before in my life, should be
only sorry that my woman's play of tongue

was too rapier-like for Sir Dudley even to
see the attack. Some people only understand
words like bludgeons.

Then, I remember so well how my thought
strayed from the memory of my dear father to
that of the only other person (besides my old
friend Mr. Brace) who had ever seemed to
understand me thoroughly. Seemed ! Had
it been mere seeming? Surely, surely, for
however short a time, he had loved me !
Each day since we came, I had meant to ask
Alice after Clair St. Leger ; but always my
courage failed me.

This very evening  Why should it have
been this very evening? . . . why must
troubles always come together ? This very
evening, as we were gathered together about
five-o'clock in that little ante-room where I
had spent such a miserable Sunday night, in

came Beau with some letters for himself
brought by the afternoon post.

I say  here are two offers already for
Stoke. The old place will not be long in the
market he said. I looked up in agitation.

Oh, Beau, who wants to  to have Stoke ?
May I see ? '  Beau eyed me with languid
surprise. Plainly abhorring any prospect of
business worries as he did, my eagerness was
highly displeasing to him. He ejaculated,
Presently  pray do not worry, Pleasance.
I hate interference. Mother . . . Alice . . .
will oii read these ? '

Humiliated, my trembling fingers took up
a copy of the ' World ' a fortnight old ; and I
turned its pages hardly knowing what I read.
Suddenly the name ' Clair St. Leger ' caught
my eye with startling distinctness. A paragraph
stated, * We understand that a marriage

is rumoured as likely to take place soon
between Mr. Clair St. Leger and Mrs. Jessop,
widow of the late Josiah Jessop, Esq.' There
followed a short tribute to the charms of my
rival's person and mind, combined with her
laro;e dower of fortune.

Curiously, before my eyesight had caught
more than the one striking name, T seemed to
guess all that followed. Remaining very
quiet, without the smallest feeling of emotion
beyond long-held breath, I read it over andover
again, my eyes seeming glued to the
page. Nothing reached my ears of what the
rest were saying  although they were talking
with animation (and, as I afterwards heard,
about the offers for Stoke) ; but I rose and
slipped away to my room.

There, would even my rival, would any
woman with a living heart in her, have been

able to rejoice during that hour, could she
have guessed at its bitterness to me? Not
that I was sorry  I would have been really
glad to have it settled, at last ; to know that
the worst misery, uncertainty, was over ! 1/
only they would both be quick and end it ! . . .

Even here, at Broadhams, the power of
association had revived in my heart some
faint hopes, or rather thoughts ; as spring
flowers will sometimes put out a few mistaken
blossoms in autumn.

Oh, Clair ! Clair ! it may be best for us
two to part, I thought ; but was it well done in
the doing ? A letter  a few words of regret 
and the links that had bound us would have
been severed so much more easily, almost
without pain. Well, the one would have
been my woman's way : the other, no doubt,
was that of a man.

VOL. II. T

That evening, after dinner, I asked Alice
with an easy air of carelessness, while standing
by the fire with my back to her,

What is this about Mrs. Jessop and her
marriage in the " World " ? You never told
me any news about it.'

What nonsense you do talk, Pleasance ! '
she returned. ' You must have heard me
talking of it ever so often to Beau and
mother since you came.' (Never once ! ) ' All
I know is, Jenny wrote to me last week,
declaring she did not know how such a thing
had got into the papers ; it was too unkind,
and I was to tell every one so ! . . . Pretty
innocent ! I daresay she put it in herself.
She is quite capable of it  I'll answer for
that. Heigh-ho !  well, I did my best for
them both when they were here. Clair would
never have really suited  well, any one who

had not money.' Alice's voice softened a
little at the last words. Did she guess anything?
If so, after that slight sign of
sympathy, no other word ever more passed
between us two on the subject.

CHAPTER I.

rpWO days later, rather early, as I sat
alone in the morning-room, a visitor
was announced. I did not catch the name,
so next moment my work fell from my hands
with surprise; for instead of one of the
neighbouring squires come over to see Sir
Dudley about foxes or poachers, there entered
here, so far from London, or the dear west
countries, far even from a railroad station 
none other than Fulke Brace.

I am so glad to meet you again,' he said,

VOL. III. B

coming forward with the same firm, upright
bearing and kindly face I knew so well
But I cannot say how sorry I was for you
when . . .'

His hand had closed on mine while he
spoke. There it stayed as our eyes met,
and so for how long a space of time perhaps
neither of us knew  we stood silently looking
at each other. It was very strange to me
afterwards, thinking over it. The only explanation
I could give to myself being that
we understood each other ; and that in the
meeting of our eyes and clasp of our hands,
all that Fulke Brace could say of sorrow or
sympathy for my father's death, and all our
troubles, was expressed more fully than even
in words ; and Alas accepted and answered by
me in a like spirit of reverent, hushed sorrow
and with touched gratitude.

When next my friend spoke, it was to say :

But the person I have really come to see
here is your eldest brother, although I
thought and hoped you might be at Broad-hams,
too, I have some business with him
may I tell you what it is ? '

What he told me was, even in my sorrow,
such a gladdening idea, like a glinting of sunlight
through a dark rain shower, that though
I gave a little sob it was with a cry of delight.

Then he went away ; following a footman
who came to say Mr, Beaumanoir Brown was
outside in the pleasure-grounds with Sir
Dudley, He whispered, as he wrung my
hand in farewell, evidently with inner excitement
: ' Don't say to any one, please, that I
spoke to you first on this subject.'

He had hardly gone before Alice came flying
in, followed very gravely by our mother.

B 2

Pleasance, be quick ! "What has he coin
for  to stay ? Oh, we must make him stay ;
how delightful ! The house won't be like a
convent-cell any longer.

To stay !  ?into, m a time of such deep
mourning ! ' echoed my mother, very low, in
deep emotion. This was evidently why she
had followed Alice ; for, even putting aside
her own great grief that shrank from the
sight of strangers, her mind was so imbued
with the now somewhat old-fashioned ideas
of a long mourning in utter seclusion respectfully
due to the memory of the dead,
that it was sacrilege in her eyes to violate the
least of these rules in even the least degree.

But, just because she could not speak
louder at that moment, Alice either heard
not or heeded not.

'What has he come for, I say? To see

Beau on business? . . . But what js it
about ? '

That I don't  that I really cannot tell
you I replied.

Very odd. And how long is it since he
came ? '

About ten minutes  or a quarter of an
hour. Really, I hardly know,' I answered,
blushing guiltily, as my conscious eyes sought
the clock and saw the latter part of my
assertion confirmed.

Lady Digges stamped her little high-heeled
shoe on the ground. 'And you dare to tell
me that you kept my visitor, in my own
house, to yourself all this time  and never
sent to let me know ! ' she cried ; then pale
with passion went on breathless and witheringly
: ' But I might have expected as much,
after your disgraceful behaviour before with

him here ; trying to entrap him into clandestine
meetings he never made. Pray be
quiet  cease your excuses ! '  as utterly confounded
and feeling, indeed, somewhat to
blame, I began stammering apologies and
explanations.

Where is he now ? That is all I ask you

Outside, in the grounds somewhere near,
with Beau and Sir Dudley, I believe.'

Thank you. That is all I want to know
from you. If you had been a stranger, instead
of my sister, you would never have
dared so to presume upon my good-nature.
But I am utterly sick of girls and their ways.
Please goodness. Til have nothing more todo
with any of you henceforth ! It is only
with married women that one can have any
fun, in peace, without being worried.'

She went out of the room in a light whirlwind

of eagerness and anger. Left alone
together, my mother looked at me rather
aghast ; not comprehending it all.

'What is the matter, Pleasance? I must
insist on an explanation.'

I felt a 'vast disposition ' to weep, but

refrained. What could I say ? . . .

There was nothing to be explained.
Only Alice was always unkind to me about
Mr. Brace if ever he talked to me, or walked
with me, or  we did anything together. . . .
She called him her friend. She liked him
to be always with herself.'

My mother's face grew severe.

Pleasance I you forget yourself. It is
going too far, even in your anger, to suppose
that Alice, mi daughter, and a married
woman, could prefer the society of any
gentleman to that of her own husband.'

A married woman ! Almost the same tone
in which Alice had assumed infallibility for
those in that state. It struck me so bitterly
that I laughed in my own heart ; wondering
whether the fact of a plain gold hoop-ring
and vows made heedlessly at the altar, and
uncared for since, could alter and exalt a
woman's nature suddenly so much above that
of her former mere spinsterhood.

But I was sorry for my mother, too.
She had now no ambition more for herself in
life ; had centred all that remained in her
children. It ivas hard to see her secret hopes
so dashed that Alice would undertake the
charge of Rose or myself in future.

Some quiet tears did rise now ; for the
late scene had pained me very much, and
I thought my mother would not notice
them.

But she said softly in a broken voice :
'Pray don't, my dear  I have never seen
you cry before but once ! Alice was too
hasty with you, certainly, but it distresses
me to see you so unhappy. You used to seem
always so contented and cheerful, as your
father said  though you were often too quiet
even then, I thought. We all seem changed.'

We were so, indeed. My mother had
never hitherto in mortal sight laid aside her
gentle armour of calm self-control, sometimes
icy in its exquisite perfection. I had never
let her see the depths of my nature for woe ;
the nature she thought so serenely commonplace,
so happily Brown. And again she had
never seen any fault before in Alice, whose
light fickle moods, now tears now laughter,
had all been Beaumanoir qualities.

Presently the latter came hurriedly in.

wrapped in a fur cloak and wearing one of
Beau's hats in which she looked very pretty.
Just then, by assuming brightness, I had
again consoled my mother.

'I can't find them anywhere, though I
snatched up these things in the hall and
ran out as quick as I could,' she exclaimed
disconsolately. Next moment, as a figure
came along the broad terrace outside the
windows, ' Why there is Beau, I declare.'

At her eager call, the said individual
nonchalantly stepped through the window
which she hastily opened for him. 'Make
haste. Beau, do ! You are so slow, and
ugh, the outside air is so cold!'

Yotc seem in somewhat of a hurry,'
blandly replied our elder brother. 'What
may your Ladyship be pleased to want with
me?'

'Where is Mr. Brace gone?  and what
was his business with you ? '

He is gone either to the devil, or to see
Sir Dudley. I beg your pardon, my dear
Alice, for seeming to assume any comparison
between the two personages,' drawled Beau :
then his face hardened curiously, and ibis
voice took a sarcastic ring. ' As to his
business with me, it has not prospered, I am
happy to state. It was nothing less,
deuce take the fellow's impudence ! than
that he wanted to buy hack Stoke ! '

And what did you say ? ' ejaculated
Alice, amazed.

I said, I'd be d  d if he did ! ' responded
our handsome elder brother, with quite a
savage look of anger, languid though he
generally was in temper.

An outcry came from all three of us.

Beau ! how could you be so unkind ? '
from Alice and myself. And, ' Beau !  I am
glad you refused him ! ' from my mother.

We women "turned and all looked at each
other, then flushed  for even my mother's
pale cheeks had taken a softly pink tinge,
breathless with the warm thought in our
hearts at a question that involved the fate of
our dear house in the West.

Alice burst out in hot ejaculations of her
own friendship for Mr. Brace, and Beau's
brotherly ingratitude to herself, incoherently
expressed. Plainly the question was purely
personal with her ; she wished to please
Fulke that he might be the more pleased
with herself. To me, it seemed almost as if
Stoke was a living portion of earth that was
being cruelly withheld from one who had long
loved it, as had his ancestors who had been

reared on its broad acres Mother's flash
of bitterness had been the mere maternal
instinct of sharing her son's feelings entirely ;
divining that the thought of having to give
up his beautiful home and position as a
country gentleman to the very man whose
family we had supplanted, was gall to him.

She had guessed him rightly, though
quietly folding her hands she did not say
another word ; as if reminding herself that
Beau was now the owner, the family representative
(surely embodying to her that of Beau-manor
rather than our broken Brown stem) ;
and as she had always blindly worshipped the
future heir in her eldest-born, so now she
was prepared to accept his will as her law.

But disregarding Alice's angry expostulations
and questions showered upon him, likewise
my lower but far more earnest pleadings

and soft persuasions, Beau turned on this heel
with a gesture as if he shook us from him :
I tell you both again  and once for all ! 
that I never liked your dear friend, Mr. Brace ;
and rather than have him in my shoes, I
would sell Stoke for five thousand less to this
retired Jew tailor who wrote to me yesterday.
What do I care about the mere money ? ' 
magnificently. ' However, we are really exciting
ourselves most unnecessarily '  his drawl
denoted very little excitement  ' for after Mrs.
Jessop's letter to ms yesterday, I shall
promise to let her have the first chance of
Stoke. Wants it on her marriage with Clair
very likely.'

Mrs. Jessop ! You would not surely rather
sell our old home to her, instead of to the
man whose forefathers owned it and loved it
and lived on it since the old Saxon days ! ' I

uttered, my eyes blazing, and feeling the
wish to burn each word in my indignation
and anger into his memory.

Certainly !  Do pray, my dear Pleasance,
oblige me by no more words on this unpleasant
subject, if you are to make your
home with me henceforth.' Therewith Beau
left the room with the most bland superior
air imaginable ; stopping to deliver a Parthian
shaft at the door with a wickedly easy
smile. ' By the way, Alice, what a lady-killer
your friend seems to be !  Pleasance
seems dangerously smitten in that quarter,
eh?'

Not heeding his careless taunt, I hastily
left the room, hurrying away from them all,
with only a blind feeling that I must be
alone. Down a long ground-floor corridor
was the chapel, once used for weekly services

in former days, now I believed never visited
by any one save myself, who since coming this
last time to Broadhams had found out and
learnt to love this retreat.

Here, alone, and safe from all likely intrusion,
I sank down on a pile of hassocks
and covered my face.

Mrs. Jessop  perhaps Clair St. Leger's
life  that odious woman at dear Stoke ! It
seemed all too much to bear,  too much !

CHAPTER II.

TT was so still and peaceful in the little
chapel. The storied panes of the stained
windows high overhead, illumined with glowing
colour and rich with tracery, suggested
thoughts of beauty and holiness, far different
from the dull view of the Broadhams demesne
outside. It was a fit home of purposeless
lives spent therein in fat content.

I may have sat there half-an-hour, perfectly
still now, after the first pleadings of bitter
emotion and disappointment had subsided.
The sacred associations of the place had stolen
into my being and brought peace there.

VOL. III. c

To this last coming trial, as to those
now past, I once more said, ' What is the
use of fretting or raving against the fates,
the circumstances, that press down like great
forces shaping our lives against our desires ?
Only be still, be resigned ! The weight of
the burden is already lightened by half, once
it is no longer struggled under. . . With
men this may be more difficult. Thank
God, that women, whose task is to suffer
more and silently in this world, have the
larger share of resignation given to their
natures

Presently a low sigh from out of the
stillness fell on my ear. I was hidden from
sight behind a lectern, which was also
piled with coverings against possible dust ;
for who ever came here to pray now but
myself, and that unknown ?

Another sigh  a murmured word or two
as if of intercession. I started 1 . It was
my mother, kneeling a little way from me
on dL prie-dieu chair.

At the slight rustle I made in rising to
look, she raised her head and met my startled
eyes. Then, after a moment or two of
stillness and perhaps resumed self-control,
she made me a sign. I stole to her side
as if the place wherein we were was verily
sacred ground to us both, and that not in
unmeaning words.

Por a while my mother said nothing. She
stroked my hair once and again, as seating
herself, with the gentle superior tranquillity
of old, though softened now, she drew me
down on a hassock at her feet.

That caress was much, very much from
her. Nevertheless, it was not the silence

C 2

of perfect understanding passing speech :
our natures were perhaps too different. But
it meant closer union arising from the
rest of mind we had both found in the
chapel.

After a little, wee both spoke in broken
whispers; then feeling chastened yet comforted
agreed to go back, lest the others of our
little outer world might wonder at our
absence.

A long suite of reception-rooms opened
one out of another from the chapel till they
ended in the morning-room. Through these
we now returned, to avoid the direct long
corridor, where our presence might have
seemed strange. AVe went in silence down
the great rooms, the walls heavy with pictures
in floated Italian frames, the tables inknid
with beautiful mosaics, forbidding use, trio

splendid settees and vast arm-chairs, silently
demanding no happy family party, but a
magnificent assemblage,  a throng of gore
highly-titled visitors.

So, going softly, as became two women
who had been in spirit on the high hills
and solitary places of prayer, we entered
the small writing-room which was separated
only by curtains from the morning-room.
(The same little room in which my unlucky
note to Clair St. Leger had once been
written.) A subdued murmur of voices
came from the room beyond  then a woman's
sobs.

We both stopped short. Alice's voice
was heard exclaiming in vehement tearful
reproach :

You don't care for me any more ! Oh,
I see it; I know it  I am miserable about

it. And it is Pleasance, my sister, who has
come between us. Ever since she caius
here, last winter, you have only eyes for
her . . .'

My mother caught my wrist hard, and
transfixed me with an aghast look, utterly
bewildered. Then another voice answered,
deep and troubled it seemed, but stern.

Do not let your sister's name be mentioned
between us in this way ever again !
You have still, to the full, all the ordinary
friendship that ever subsisted between us.
Lady Digges, but whatever regard I may have
for her is not to be discussed. She is too
good and pure  it seems desecration.'

The blood in my veins seemed swelling
to painfulness ; my heart was beating ; for
even before hearing those well-known tones,
T. knew, as my mother did not, that the other

person inside there was not Sir Dudley.
And the disgrace of overhearing it all . !

Good and pure ! ' sneered AUce, bitterly
laughing. Yes. She was in love with Mr.
St. Leger all the time, and yet she was
designing enough to try and entrap you
too. She did not care for you  I did!
I am not happy here, whatever you may
preach to me. I am miserable,' . . . and she
sobbed afresh, in one of the lightly-come,
gusty passions we knew so well of old.

Oh Alice, Alice !

Good heavens. Lady Digges, this is a
most painful conversation. Good-bye  forgive
me for seeming abrupt, and I thank you
heartily for all your kind hospitality ; but
but I have to catch my train, and must
thank Sir Dudley first for having been as
good a friend to me as yourself. . . When

next we meet, may you be very happy, 
good-bye.'

A door closed : he was gone. Sometimes
perhaps the bravest thing a man can do is
to run away. Next instant, AUce, rushing
from the spot, pushed back the curtains

of the little room  and found my mother and
me like two statues, transfixed.

The scene that followed was terrible to me
then, is painful to me still in memory. We
two stood as if guilty, before the infuriated
woman for whom was our shame and sorrow.

Our poor Alice had always been giddy-headed,
as easily roused to tears or laughter
as a vane is blown about by every breeze.
Now she was wrought upon by such a variety
of conflicting feelings as to seem beside
herself. Even our very presence there hardly
seemed to surprise her, so hastily she grasped

the opportunity for pouring forth denunciations
and railings on my head. Words, words,
words !  as unreasonable, as unfounded, as
those she had uttered against me before ; not
one whose point could prick my conscience,
that was strong in innocence, but still I bent
before the shower of hurtling arrows. Then
my mother stood forward to protect rae by
interposing her authority. In vain. She had
always suffered Alice, as if in play, to turn
aside the gentle power to which the rest of
us had bent ; now it was disregarded in
earnest. With her face very pale and hands
trembling, but still in a firm voice, the mother
rebuked, besought, reminded her daughter of
her position, the duties she owed to her
husband  as a mother might.

Alice turned upon her in withering scorn.
Duties, duties ! You never talked about

them to me before I was married !  pray leave
me now to settle all that with my husband
for myself. Did you ever tell me of anything
then beyond Sir Dudley's fortune and
position ? '

Alice, Alice, my child, indeed I did, but
you would not listen . . /

With a well-known gesture, my sister put
up both hands to her ears ; a pretty trick she
had no doubt practised when the warning
admonition was given.

It is all your doing  yours ! ' and she
stamped her foot on the ground. ' You
would have me marry him, and now I am
tired of my life and miserable, and have you
to thank for it

Alice, for pity's sake, for shame's sake,
be quiet,' I expostulated, helping my mother,
who had turned deadly pale, into a chair.

For the first and last, the only time in my
life, I spoke in anger to my elder sister, and
that with my whole soul. ' It was your own
doing. Though I am younger than you, I
warned you last year when you were engaged,
but you would not listen to me. Now, if you
wish to live as a good and true woman,
there is nothing left for you but to bear
your burden in silence.'

Alice looked at me, perfectly silenced a few
moments.

Yes ; you are my younger sister, and this
is my house. As you have dared to plot
against me with your friend Mr. Brace, to
play the spy and now to insult me to my face,
I never wish to listen to you again as long as
Ij live. The sooner you leave Broadhams,
the better, I think.'

Saying this with a freezing air of suddenly-assumed

dignity, that would have been a
lauGfliahle turning: of the tables if it had not
been so terribly real to us, she walked out of
the room. She never gave one backward
glance at my mother's almost fainting figure,
at my pitiful appeal ; as, with one arm outstretched
after her, with the other I supported
the poor head that was bowed by the ingratitude
of a favourite child.

Ah, Alice !  bad all your light laughing
ways and soulless quick angers, which we
used to think as pretty as the passing tempers
of a child, come to this ?

That evening, as a yellow sinking sunlight
was making Broadhams look almost cheerful,
my mother said to me finally in her own
room :

Yes, dear ; you have been a great comfort
to me to-day, Pleasance. It is best we should

go away from here. Then perhaps Alice will
feel sorry . . .' My mother's still luminous
eyes, once so bright, were rimmed red with
weeping, her face was very pale, but the features
set with a hardness of sorrowful dignity never
noticeable there before. To make Alice sorry '
IIow little she could have believed in such
a wish but a short time ago. She went
on low and broken-voiced : ' As Beau says
he hopes to make a fortune by turning
artist, I must make a home for him in
London. I cannot desert my poor boy,
for I fear ' (speaking even lower) ' that
with his fine prospects so lately destroyed
he will become wild and ruin himself. For
you and Rose, dear, I lead hoped you
would both have been happy with Alice, but
now . . .'

We should be far more really happy on

crusts with you, mother. Here it would
never have been home.'

But we are almost besroiars, dear child.
I never told you the worst before, hoping
it was not necessary, but the bare tnith is, I
can hardly support one more besides Beau on
ray own poor little fortune, which is all left 
and your Aunt Bee has already adopted poor
Bob.' . . . Then after a pause, with a humble
tone, so new it was infinitely touching :
Could not you, dear, accept your godmother's
invitation ? It came down after
the funeral, I remember, and you seemed to
put away the idea with distaste at the time ;
but now . . .'

For dear Mrs. Gladman had written, on
hearing of our ruined fortunes, to offer mea
home, for as soon and as long as ever
I would accept it.

Oh, mother, I love her really and very
dearly, too,' I murmured ; ' but  but if I went
there, there is another person in the house . . .'

Who ? ' she asked, struck by my hesitating
manner.

John Gladman is  I mean  he is not . . .
I do like him very much indeed; but still
I never could like him well enough  or not
at all i?i that ivajj' I stammered, blushing.

John Gladman ! Did he think he could
have you then ? ' uttered my mother in a tone
of half-contemptuous surprise ; then more
slowly, after a few moments of reflection,
murmured : ' Well . . . after all  he has a
fair enough income for a country gentleman,
and they are of an old family.'

Oh, mother ! as if that was everything.'

My mother started, then with a quivering
voice :

Perhaps you are right. At least, henceforth,
I will never help m settling any
marriage again, that no more of my children
may have to reproach me. As to this, I will
not press you, child ; your Aunt Bee and I
will do what we can between us (she is
always faithful to me) ; and meanwhile Rose
shall go to Mrs. Gladman till this fancy of
the young man has blown over. In a few
months I hope to be able to afford keeping
my daughters with myself; meanwhile, poor
though we are, / loll not. stain on here. . . .
Now leave me, dear. Yes, I wish to be
alone,  it is best for me.'

So I went away reluctantly, leaving her
proud and gentle spirit solitary, and stricken
by the sharpest pang  that inflicted by a
favourite child.

As I passed through the round gallery, on

the way to my own room, I heard Alice's
laugh suddenly ringing out below  a laugh
so carelessly happy and childish, it seemed
as if she was not conscious of having given a
moment's pain to any one. I looked over
the balustrade ; and there in the hall below
she stood with Sir John Dudgeon, who had
ridden over from a neighbouring house where
he was staying.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER III.

"1 starch ! The bitter sting of winter has
vanished from the air, though it is a
cool evening. The daffodils are out in pale
yellow glory under the hedgerows. The rooks
are cawing on their homeward ways. There
are plaintive baas of tender lambkins to be
heard from the close behind the orchard, and
bigger lambs are frisking down in the open
meadow.

On this especial March evening, I was
rather slowly dragging my tired and muddy-booted
feet along the edge of a ploughed field,
belonging to the Barn farm ; for I was staying

with my grand-aunt. Bee herself was ahead
of me, quite active though bent very much.
How do you think this manhood looks ? '
she was calling out sharply to a third
individual. Which latter, seemingly as
much interested as herself in the growth of
the mangoes, went plunging into the sticky
wet furrows, and reporting progress in a
cheery voice. Said the individual then,
coming up to me, with kindly interest (as
if my likings or distastes could matter to
any one now !) :

You don't care much for merely walking
over a farm. Miss Pleasance ? You like fields
and woods in summer better.'

I used to like going round the farm at
home  at Stoke, Mr. Brace. But then that
was with my father.'

'Ah, yes. That makes all the difference

D 2

in the world, of interest or the want of it
answered Eulke Brace, for it was he, with
such a friendly ring of sympathy in his voice
that my heart ought to have warmed to him.
But my heart did not feel able to warm to
any one now. I looked at him, as \ifrom the
outside, at the outside. No inner light from
the soul brightened my vision, though it was
aware of meeting his all kindled by the
kindly warmth in his good grey eyes. Yes,
aware of it !  and duly grateful to him : that
was all.

We were on the top of a ploughed hill ;
a cool clear sky free of clouds bent around
us to the far, sharply-defined horizon. The
brawling of a river could be heard on two
sides as it skirted the hill, but it was hidden
from view by a wood, through which rose
up a thin  very thin grey smoke from the

chimneys of the Barn. Fires were not
extravagantly kept up by day in Bee's
family mansion. Every one was expected to
be out of doors in the fresh air, while daylight
lasted. In the evenings, we might burn
all the timber on the place, or the house
down, for aught my grand-aunt cared. Now
she looked round at us in her keen way.

'I'm going down to the hothouses by the
muddiest way there is, because it's nearest ;
and I want neither of you. I want to have
a talk with Tozer.' (Tozer was the steward,
gardener, coachman, butler ! on occasion,
frequent opponent, and only too trusted fidus
Achates of my grand-aunt.) ' Later I must
see what fresh mischief last night's spate has
done at the bridge ; you may wait for me
there, or not, just as you both please. Now,
Brace  I can open the gate for myself ! '

And therewith shaking a stout walking-stick
defiantly at our male companion, who
insisted all the same on unfastening a
dangerously rickety gate, which was darned
with thorn-bushes to make it do its difficult
duty, Bee plunged down a very Slough of
Despond between two hedges, and left us
alone. (By the way, my grand-aunt had a
trick of calling gentlemen by their surnames
in a full-flavoured, old-fashioned way. It
did not sound vulgar; only Addisonian.)

Well ; shall we go down by the road to
the bridge?' I asked, rousing myself up to
assume the part of agreeable hostess.

Whatever you like. Yes, certainly; I shall
be very glad,' replied the guest with a sort of
abstracted air suddenly come to him, as if
Bee had taken his wits oflp down the lane.

'What a lovely drive this one must have

been ! ' observed the agreeable hostess, as we
struck into the little park and came on the
approach winding downwards to the Barn.

I beg your pardon  yes ; very lovely.'
The visitor seemed waking out of dreamland.

But isn't it sad to see it in this neglected
state ? '

Oh yes, very sad ; very sad, indeed.'
If people answer like a dull echo at one's
elbow, agreeable conversation is impossible ;
best give it up  The hostess vanished in an
imperceptible shrug of the shoulders, and
only a slim, straight, yet dejected-feeling
young person in heavy, black, winter garments,
Pleasance Brown,  who once had
never felt heavy or dejected !  went silently
side by side with the abstracted guest.

The drive in question was so overgrown
with grass, groundsel, and such-like useful

herbs in their own place, that in open parts
its very existence was scarcely manifest ; elsewhere
it was almost overspread by stretches
of rhododendrons bordering it on either
side, while higher above laburnums and lilacs
made a dense coppice that would soon be a
glory of tender spring colours.

This was the most used approach to the
house, too : there where some fresh cart-ruts
on it.

The other drive that wound by the brawling
river, whose hoarse murmur we were now
approaching, ended in a bridge of larch-poles
and sods, and a roofless, cut stone lodge, with
the Beaumanoir crest over the empty door :
for the Baron's Stay (as was the pretty old
name which had now degenerated vulgarly
into the Barn), had always been the dower
house of that family. Now, leaving the house

itself hidden by uncared-for shrubbery, we
came by a wood path to the river, where a
picturesque Httle scene opened out before us.

Around were great glossy-hued Portugal
laurels, delicate acacias, and suchlike foreign
tree attendants outside an English country-house,
bending across the rushing water to
greet an abruptly rising background on the
opposite bank. Between these hurried a
brown, brawling brook, swollen with flood,
flecked with foam, as it dashed like a living
thing down among boulders, making here
little flashing falls, and there big dark pools,
all overhung with alder and willow.

Our path led up to where a bridge had
once crossed boldly the noisy narrow torrent,
but noir  only two piers stood tantalizingly
in the water, making one long to jump from
each to each, to cross to the other side. It

was plainly not in yesternight's freshest that
the old bridge had been swept away, for
some grass grew on the pier-heads, and they
had smouldered as low as the level of the
road.

I sat down on one of the two large stones
that had ended the bridge parapet, and resting
there idly, looked down on the ivy-trails
overhanging the water; and the gap below
my feet where the bridge should have been ;
and at the hungry, dark, amber-coloured
current, itself a constant delight.

Mr. Brace did not sit down. He leant
instead against the ruined wall, a foot or two
from me, and dislodged little bits of mortar
which he dropped with careless aim, but
restlessly, into the still-closing water. Why
could he not be still, like me ? He used to
be much pleasant, when his lordly reposefulness

of manner amused little Rose into
sarcastic remarks behind his back at Broad-hams
; and Alice would retort that he had
the true grand air, the manner of the race
of Vere de Yere. He first broke silence ;
speaking low in a constrained tone as if more
lay behind.

Where is your brother, Beaumanoir, now?'
He is supposed to be in London, where

he wishes to live as an artist, you know ; but
he is always going off for two or three days,
as he can never stay still long. My mother
wants to make a home for him, so she has
taken a little house in Camden-Hill, with a
studio at the back. Beau calls it the
maternal dust-hole.'

You never used to speak so bitterly. Miss
Pleasance.'

1 never had occasion to feel so, Mr.

Brace. Good heavens ! how my mother has
devoted herself all her life long to my brother
Beau  and what is the result ? '

Those who worship cannot expect to be
likewise the worshipped. Have you not found
out that, yet ? As the French say, " II y a
toujours I'un qui baise, et Autre qui tend la
joue." But I cannot imagine any man who
is not the better, at least, for a mother's
affection. Although he may not show much
outward sign of returning it, still, depend
upon it, he feels it.'

Yes ? . . Yes ! How much worse might
he not be, you mean, without that restraining
influence ?' I murmured; and then there was
renewed silence but for the babbling and
here and there hoarse chiding of the brook
below.

After a while I spoke again.

Mr. Brace, I have been thinking a great
deal lately. . /

I have noticed that, ever since I came
yesterday evening, lady fair. Yoii have been
thinking so much you have almost forgotten
speech  towards an insignificant mortal like
myself at least.'

'I am so sorry '  (in a polite even tone
that did not sound in the least truly and
inwardly repentant, though outwardly apologetic).
'But I should be so glad of your
opinion, as to what I have been thinking
about. What is to become of Bob ? '

To become of him ? What do you
mean?  Have you to do his thinking as
to his career ? '

Yes, that is just it, Mr. Brace. The dear
old March Hare never could think for himself,
so I must do it for him. He was always

meant for the army, by my mother, you know,
and he always hated the idea. Now he says
he can't go on with it, as his tutor was too
expensive  and there is all his cramming
wasted 1 That is a dreadful thought to me

I shouldn't let it distress you too much,'
said Brace drily. * I fancy that in the words
of the Psalmist, "the ploughed would have
ploughed long furrows on his back ; " and I
very much doubt whether all cramming is
not wasted material. But are you really so
anxious for your brother to go into a line
regiment, and live in affluence on his magnificent
pay ? He has perhaps some private
means besides ? '

Not one brass fartldncj ! '  uttered as
emphatically as if I had really ever seen
with my own eyes any such base metal coin.

Dear Bee always said she will leave him

this place, and he loves it. He loves it even
better than Stoke, I think ; perhaps because
he has looked forward to its being his  but
what is that for a prospect ? ' in a mournful
tone.

'I should think it a very lovely prospect
looking round admiringly on woods, river,
and the whole delightful early Spring scene.
Only  it might cost something to put into
order again.'

'That is it, Mr. Brace. Don't you see 
you know Aunt Bee of old, and how things
are, here. There is just enough to keep her
own body and soul together, and no more.
And Bob has a bigger body (I won't say
anything of the soul), and he eats more, of
course, than she does, and drinks  though he
only drinks beer; while she takes spring
water,'  turning off my melancholy discourse

with a little laugh. Then, still haunted by
the subject, and tempted by his air of silent
sympathy to disbmihen my mind, I resumed :
Bob talks of living happily as a farmer like
John Gladman, but Wheatfield Earm is very
differently managed. Poor fellow !  he says
if only he had some capital he might manage
to get things right here, for farming was
always what he loved best. Aunt Bee has
offered to give him up the reins, bless her
dear old soul ! but she has no ready money ;
and Tozer, as Bob says, is a regular old
Turk who hates any change.'

Silence for some moments. Mr. Brace
seemed thinking, but about what I could not
tell. Perhaps it might be that all this was
no concern of his  and on this idea I spoke
humbly.

However, I ought not to trouble you with

my private worries. I am quite sorry  we
ougrbt each to bear our own burdens. Leto



us. talk of something else.'

Not at all responded Brace, rousing
briskly from his reverie. ' I remember,
Pleasance, if you do not, our agreement to
be friends last summer. That gives me a
certain amount of right to hear about your
troubles ; besides, I like the March Hare very
much.'

I looked at him astonished. He had
called me by my Christian name, evidently
without knowing he did so ; and not lightly
either, but in an earnest, respectful tone.
Clearly it was not for the first time, in his
own mind.

Then, as I remained silent, he added in a
rather forced voice, and flushing red  to my
still greater surprise :

VOL, III. E

I wonder if Bob would take me for a
partner. I have long thought there was a
good deal to be made out of this farm and
place. Lately I have been wanting greatly
to have some country interests, and I could
advance. . /

A partner ? Oh, no, no,' my lips uttered
almost dismayed in intense gratitude, but as
strong refusal. ' How good you are, Mr.
Brace ; but such a thing is impossible ! As
well fling your money doAvn there into the
stream.'

*Wait a moment. Hear me out first.
During the many years I have visited here
since a boy, it has been impossible not to
see hoar your aunt has been  well, robbed!
There seemed no use in telling her before,
because she never cared for more than just
enough  and seemed so happy in her ignorance,

it would have been cruel to enlighten
her.'

Do you mean  Tozer ? ' in bewilderment.
Tozer was to my grand-aunt, that roc's
egg treasure which so many solitary ladies
believe themselves happy in possessing  a
perfect factotum, an infallible, trusty, tyrannical
serving-man.

I do indeed mean old Tozer. It has
been shameful ; but  well hitherto, as you
all seemed provided for, where was the use
in speaking? But now Bob should see
to it.'

'Thank you for telling me, Mr. Brace.
Poor Bob ! he will not find it an easy task.'

'Which brings us back to our muttons,'
responded my old friend, Mr. Tulke, with a
carious subdued smile. 'As I said, I love
the country ; and even knowing I had a share

E 2

in a patch of it when up in London, woiihl
be a consolation. Another liking of mine is
safe speculation, and, as I said, there is decidedly
something to be made of the Barn ;
therefore, if Bob will let me join him, I
may feel pretty safe in advancing some capital
on improvements, and we can divide our
profits accordingly. Miss Pleasance, you shall
see we shall make a small fortune out of it

This last was said with a prescient triumphant
emphasis, that ought to have carried
conviction straight home to my flutteringly
happy yet irresolute heart. Ought I  could
it be right to allow Pulke Brace thus to put
himself to possible loss for friendship's sake ?
And, yet, how refuse on my own responsibility
such a splendid chance and generous
offer for my best-beloved brother ?

I fairly stammered in answering.

It is too good. But, as you say, you
always did like dear Bob

Yes, so I did ; but don't mistake me,
Miss Pleasance, I am offering him this because
sou asked me to help you in thinking
for him.'

This was said slowly, and with a certain
amount of weight that made its meaning
unmistakeable ; yet he was again looking
down into the river with set features and
unseeing grey eyes. Clair St. Leger while
saying such a thing would have looked at
me full with a laughing blue gaze, and noted
every effect of his words in my conscious face.

'Because did  I am so sorry, then,' I
murmured.

'Why so?'

Fulke this time turned round slowly, and
looked at me straight.

Because you have laid a weight of obligation
on my friendship, I can never repay.'

The moment the words were said I regretted
them ; would have given worlds to
recall them. For I saw his reply in my old
friend's face, even before the answer came,
quick and eager.

Don't speak of obligation  don't think
of it as such ! I was wrong even to put what
I will so gladly do for your brother in the
way I did. Only it would be more than
repayment, if, in time, you could like me
better than as a friend. Don't answer me
now . I said in time, in time ! '

What I said I do not know ; but I seemed
to withdraw into myself with ap unconscious
gesture of almost dismay, and of putting
away the idea as an impossibility. He added
gently, but in haste :

Perhaps, indeed, I should not have spoken
now ; but that I fancied you might akeady
have forgotten a matter that pained you at
Broadhams, now that St. Leger has sold
himself, and given up his best chances of
happiness."

'Sold himself? How ? What do you mean ?
To  to Mrs. Jessop ? Is it true ? How do
you knov/ it?' I answered with a face that
was moved and lips that slightly quivered
despite myself. For I knew in my own heart
in the last three months that it would come to
pass ; but no one had ever as yet told me so.

Is it not true ? What I heard was
common report. But, if you have not heard
it, I am sorry I spoke  very sorry.'  So
saying, Fulke Brace drew himself up, and
half turning away looked back at the house
nestled among the trees. This part of our

conversation had now taken such a disagreeable
turn, he would fain have walked away from
the troubled questions he read coining in my
moved face and pleading eyes. But it had
gone too far for that. ' You need not be
sorry for telling me about huii/ I went on,
recovering myself. ' If it is not the case yet, it
will very likely be so. It cannot and does not
signify to me now, Mr. St. Leger has passed
out of my life.'

Have you given him up then ? ' asked
Brace.

Say rather that he gave me up,' I answered
cynically, in the bitterness of my spirit, as
if wishing not to spare myself every possible
mortification.

He could not afford more than a flirtation
with me  T am penniless, you know ! But
this much I have to thank him for, that

henceforth I shall never torment myself
more by caring for any one. I rather wish I
could ; for it would make me seem fresh and
young again, but I cannot.'

Hi, hi ! gee up, there  gee up ! Are you
two there ? Come and help me to drive this
calf back to the paddock. It has been eating
all the young shoots on my best, old, fuchsia-bush,'
cried Bee's voice in desperation from
a little distance, each of her words being
separated by audible whacks.

She was near the house, in what was
still called by courtesy the garden ; a weedy
spot among the shrubs backed by rank
laurels, half enclosed by ragged yews, all
spreading wildly where they should not.
In the centre of a plot of long coarse grass
was a broken-down fountain, and here a
healthy red calf was plunging sportively

amongst some neglected fuchsia bushes, the
only surviving evidences of culture.

As we approached to her aid, I said hastily
to my companion in an undertone : ' People
talk so much gossip, don't they ? One can't
always quite believe all one hears  can one ? '

Perhaps not. No : I suppose one cannot
always,' he replied in a guarded even tone,
and said no more, but promptly began
obeying Bee's excited requests.

As J stood still, it struck me that in my
eagerness to ascertain something more about
Clair St. Leger, my last remark had been
ill-timed and ungracious.

Feeling this reflection had come too late,

and with my mind full of new thoughts,

I went sadly enough homewards ; for the

Barn was now the only home remaining tome

worthy that name.

The said old house, or rather what now
remained of it, was exquisitely situated
a little above the river, down to which sloped
little terraces that the sheep closely nibbled.
Before the door was a curious hardly human
object ; seeming to end in a double head,
strongly suggestive of a pair of old boots
that rather needed re-soling.

Bob ! ' I exclaimed, recognizing that
individual, who was thus solitarily amusing
himself by standing on his head. ' What
are you doing?' The feet slowly swung
down ; and with a red mild face, and a half-ashamed
laugh, my brother resumed his usual
stand-point of existence, and looked back at
me.

I was taking the air, Pleasance ; that's
all It is my favourite way of doing so.'

Can you not find anything better todo

? ' I asked, almost sharply, inwardly
irritated by the contest between the troubled
sea of thoughts tossing in my mind and his
placid chewing-the-cud state.

What else have J. got to do ? ' answered
poor Bob humbly, yet with something
touching in his patient tone.

What indeed ! The offer of that money
and such a splendid partner on the farm !
Not knowing what to think,  whether he
would get the offer now, whether he ought
even to accept it,  I went still more slowly
indoors.

CHAPTER IV.

npHE Baron's Stay, to restore to the old
Barn its due honours, stood, as was
said, close above the noisy little river.

There was now only a small part of the
ancient dower-house left, that had not been
dispersed by the element of fire. This was
just the two-storied main body of grey stone,
containing the hall, a sitting-room or two,
and the rooms above this. On one side
this portion ended in a pretty gable, with
twisted chimney, carved eaves, and hanging
jessamine curtains ; but its opposite side
broke down pitiably but very picturesquely

into ruins, hung with ivy. Two more wings
stretched in roofless dilapidation at the back,
with eyeless window-sockets ; the whole surrounding
an empty grass-grown courtyard.
All this part of the house had been burned
down.

On the evening of the day last described
we were sitting in the dining-room. We
had all just partaken of one of my grand-aunt's
characteristic dinners. First came
caviare, sent by a Russian prince, met in
the Caucasus by Miss Beaumanoir. Next
followed a fowl, buried in rice and gravy,
its toes sticking out limply from the tomb
instead of a stone tablet to its virtues ; itself
being as tough as a brickbat. This my
grand-aunt called pillar,  and Bob and I
were in inward doubts whether, like the old
traveller she was, she would not have liked

to have partaken of it with her fingers.
Afterwards we had each been helped to a suet
dunipKng, supposed to suit our British taste.
Bee and I drank only fair spring water with
this ; but Bob had village beer (which our
guest insisted on sharing). There was also
a bottle of very old Beaumanoir Madeira
especially for Tulke Brace ; with strange
liqueurs bearing outlandish names, and each
supposed to have been brewed in some
mountain monastery, in wild fastnesses and
deserts, seldom visited save by such adventurous
spirits as our now aged hostess.

It was not a large meal, for our grand-aunt
was only used to eat very sparingly herself.
Bob, however, crowned the poor foundation
with a huge mountain of bread and cheese.
If Mr. Brace felt famished he manfully suppressed
all outward signs thereof; and when

Turkish coffee followed, very thick, black,
and strong, in tiny landless cups, I alone
seemed to my secret self still hungry, or
at least not satisfied.

Never had I given a thought before to
what I ate or drank, or how I fared : even
now it seemed to me that bread and water
served with bright silver and fine damask
would be delightful. But the change from
Stoke to the terrible dilapidation, the disorder,
discomfort, and even dirt of poor Aunt Bee's
home, notwithstanding her kindness, was
severe. I was already sick to death of a
month of this strange hand-monmouth life at
the Barn, where to-night reigned unwonted
cleanliness and order. My soul hankered
after the flesh-pots of Egypt ; that is to say,
for the elegance and quiet, the ease and
refinement, of my dear lost home.

The room we were in was wainscoted, like
the rest of the house, in dark wood to the
ceiling ; only relieved by some carving round
the panels. By day, it was dimly lit by one
deep window with heavy stone mullions that
left the further chamber in general obscurity.
Even this night, though we had a roaring fire
of logs on the stone hearth, and a paraffin
lamp on the carved oak table, little was to be
descried of the fine, oak buffet over yonder,
inlaid with mother-o'-pearl, and bearing the
date 1660. This was to be Bob's legacy:
it had been promised him since he was a
small boy. Upon it stood two very handsome,
but, alas ! grimy silver salvers ; last Beau-manor
relics, for the bailiff's had been herein
olden days. The rest of the furniture was
poor enough indeed, save, for my especial
pride and possession, an old inlaid escritoire.

VOL. III. p

This had been a never-failing source of
delight in my childhood's days, being fall of
the most surprising hidden drawers and nooks
all carved with rhymes round their edges ;
and having a little temple in its heart with a
Cupid, tiny mirrors, pillars, and pendant lamps.
There  I'll give it a present to you, child,
now and for always,' Bee had said in those
days. ' It belonged to your great-grandfather,
my father, and then to my poor brother, your
grandfather, who treasured it so much that
when this house was burnt down (he vas
staying here at the time with me), this was
the first thing he flew to save. They say it
is worth hundreds I it is such a fine old specimen
; and for that reason I never Avould let it
go, however hardly I was pinched  but, bless
you ! I'd far rather splash my ink over a
common deal table any day.'

Besides this cherished escritoire, there was
a great sofa apparently made of horsehair
and gridirons. On this Bob, dinner ended,
had flung himself near the fire-blaze and
was sweetly sleeping.

My grand-aunt and Mr. Brace had placed
a draught board on the table, immediately
after the Turkish coffee had been removed.
'Let me see  the last time you were here,
six months ago, you beat me,' cried the old
lady, sitting up straight, with great zest,  ' I
must have my revenge

Yes ; but the time we played before that
again, a year ago, you made an example of
me, Miss Beaumanoir, as I distinctly remember
; so that we keep even, you see,' returned
Pulke Brace, with no less eager earnestness ;
yet a minute before when my aunt had turned
her back, I had caught him stifling a yawn.

F 2

It struck me that he must be a good-hearted
man, who thus came alone twice a
year to cheer the solitary life of a strange old
woman. Certainly, as my grand-aunt bluntly
declared, he had come earlier this year than
ever before ; and she roundly taxed him with
finding my society and Bob's an attraction
beyond that of her own withered charms.
All the same, as he smilingly reminded her,
he had never failed to come before.

They had been playing some time, and
only the occasional click of the draughtsmen
was audible in their engrossed silence, together
with Bob's heavy breathing, and the
sputtering of the fire-logs. Meanwhile, I held
a large old book in my hands  ' Celebes in
Search of a Wife.' Bee's whole library offered
nothing more amusing to divert my heavy
thoughts, excepting ' Glover's Travels ' and

the 'Arabian Nights.' But gradually the
heavy volume slipped on my knee ; and
leaning my cheek on my hand, with my
eyes fixed on the fire-glow, I was wrapped
in a meditation sad enough. '

A slight sound as light as the tapping of
an ivy-leaf on the window-pane struck my ear,
but hardly roused me till the old lurcher.
Bee's favourite dog, lifted his head from
where he lay on the warm stone hearth. He
pricked his ears, and turned his eyes towards
the curtailed window, but that was from
force of habit, for he was almost stone-blind.
I looked round, too  and gave a little
gasp, but felt too startled to speak. From
the darkness outside a face, shadowy and
bodiless, seemed to look in upon me. If
there was a figure also, either it was hidden
by the thick ivy, or the light of the room only

showed a face like that of a ghost. Next
instant it had vanished into darkness.

It was the face of  Clair St. Leger.

The players went on undisturbed behind
an old Chinese screen, between them and the
window : Bob slumbered still : the old dog
laid down his head again. I only sat upright,
my eyes wide distended, my face and hands
deadly cold, feeling sure I had seen a vision.

The tall clock ticked slowly on and on, a
cricket chirruped several times ; still no one
looked round or took notice of me. I beoran
to recover myself now; my breath came
easier, and furtively with a trembling hand I
wiped the cold damp from my brow. Whatever
had happened  if this was indeed a
vision at the parting of soul and body such as
I believed, I was glad none should ever know
of it but myself. It was my secret.

After a while, one of the maids entered the
room in a she, frightened manner, and sidled
towards me as if looking for something. She
was the only young servant in the house,
nevertheless she was the only one I disliked ;
being a carrots-haired, muddy complexioned
girl, whose eyes never could look one straight
in the face. She was old Tozer's daughter.

What do you want here, at this hour ? '
demanded Bee sharply, taking notice for
once of this infringement of good household
rules.

Oh, please. Miss, I was only searching for
the cat. I wanted to shut her up for the
night, but she's not anywhere,'  and the girl
dived as if to look under the table beside me.

To my astonishment, there came a little tug
at my skirt ; then another. With my nerves
all on tension I started, not knowing what

this could be, feeling absolutely frightened
of I knew not what. A red hand stole next
from under the table holding a folded leaf of
paper, plainly torn from a pocket-book, and
laid it on my knee. This was so eerie, that,
although without speaking, I drew back and
involuntarily looked round, as if about to
appeal to the others who were again intent
upon their game. But the servant-girl
retreating from her plantigrade attitude under
the table caught my eye, and gave me a
warning look, putting her finger on her lip.
Then she left the room slowly, eyeing me
before closing the door with a peculiarly
beckoning glance.

Of course, I had known it was she who
pulled my dress, but was so dazed still with
the apparition at the window that I could
not understand the girl's conduct. Almost

trembling I unfolded the paper, and saw-pencilled
in Clair's writing :

 Come outside, and speak to me if only fora
minute, I must see you once more ; doit
refuse me, darling I

'Clair

Two minutes later, I stood outside the
dining-room in the cold dark hall, looking
round in the shadows fearfully. The only-light
came from a farthing candle in a tin
sconce botanist the black wainscoting; of the
passage down near the kitchen. My footsteps
echoed on the bare stone floor and up into
the high raftered ceiling as I stole along,
hardly knowing where to go. Then a figure
stepped out from behind one of the black,
big, wooden pillars supporting the staircase
gallery, and with difficulty I repressed a little

cry as it touched me silently on the shoulder
in the almost complete darkness. It was the
Tozer girl, who whispered with an impertinent
familiarity : ' He's waiting for you
among the bushes there. I've left the front
door open for you to slip out

Turning from her close breath on my ear,
with a vague sense of being lowered and
contaminated by such an ally, I mechanically
took a shawl she handed me, and drew it
closely round my head and shoulders ; feeling
more as if it hid me from myself than as a
protection against the weather. So mazed
as if without any will of my own, but
walking in a dream  I, Pleasance Brown,
found myself outside in the cool damp night
air of the Spring time.

I had not made three uncertain steps from
the porch when a presence stepped beside me

from behind a dark buttress, caught me
tightly in its arms, and drawing back my
shawl covered my face with kisses. For a
moment or two I was so taken unawares, and
still overcome with my late fear and faintness
besides the' extraordinary surprise of Clair
St. Leger being here' at the Barn, at night,
too  that I did not, or perhaps could not,
resist him. Then, with a returning flash of
pride and memory, in self-anger against my
momentary weakness, I endeavoured to push
him away, with very decided strength of
purpose in my action.

In vain ! Clair only tightened his hold the
more, and kissed me again on the cheek and
lips, with a force in which there seemed no
respect, but only passion left.

It was against my will now he did it. He
knew it ; I felt he knew it, and a sudden

almost hatred of anger took possession of
my soul, even when in his arms.

The dining-room window was so near, the
rays from the lamp inside falling on our very
path, that 1 dared not utter an exclamation,
for my own sake. Then, with a violent silent
effort, I stood beside hin free.

There had been, no doubt, in mind no less
than expressed action a struggle of will
between us ; till he must have felt mine
would submit no longer. Some sound of
whispered reproach or entreaty must have
escaped him, for inside the room the old dog
gave a low suspicious growl. We stood
turned to statues by the window.

A cold thrill ran through me, and quick
thoughts came of shame at the situation 
of bewildering doubt.

But Clair caught my hand, before I could

think more, whispering, ' Hang the dog ; he'll
discover all if we stay here. . . Come away
a little, where I can speak to you without
the walls having ears. I must speak to you
to-night, Pleasance : you will come, if ever
you loved me. You do love me, still ; don't
you ? You do ! . /

It was in my heart to say no and mean it
too ! he had so killed what feelings of attachment
still survived in me, by outraging my
self-respect. Yet my woman's pride, instead
of being lessened thereby, only grew and
grew with each moment. But, not knowing
in truth what I now felt for him, I did go
mechanically to hear what he might say. It
seemed to me, now, that he had come to
renew our lapsed engagement ; and, so strange
is tke human heart, I was sorry for it !  and
yet felt bound to listen if he desired it.

First love seemed to me sacred  and not
with honour to be put aside first by me.

So going side by side, though I would not
let him touch my hand again, we stole, two
silent shadows, across the rough garden-plot,
carefully beyond the radius of light, till we
stood under the old garden-wall. Here our
voices could not be heard in the parlour.
Wet grass was under our feet ; dripping
bushes, just opening in leaf under Sprig's
sweet charm, surrounded us. A little chill
shower came down from a passing cloud,
obscuring most of the few faint stars in the
night-sky. We stood shivering under the
partial shelter of a big cherry-laurel, and
did not speak for a minute.

Then Clair began first, ' Pleasance, come tome
! ' opening his arms. I stamped my foot
on the wet turf in hot indignation and impatience.

Was tlds what he chose to say first,
without apology or one word of penitence
after his desertion of me and cruel silence ;
after the terrible desolation of death and
the change in my life ?  no thought of anything
but his own present gratification.

No, I will not go to you. Don't dare to
touch me again without my leave. Tell me,
instead, why do you come to me ? '

You are not displeased with me ; not
surely, Pleasance  and because I kissed
you ? ' in the old soft, pliant tones that had
so wound themselves round my heart.

Displeased ?  insulted ! angered ! would
be better terms than that of mere displeasure,'
in bitter echo.

You used to think differently. You used
to kiss me back again,' he answered low,
with a poor attempt at imitating my scorn,

SO utterly ignoring all the right and wrong of
then and now, that only a fool or a man in his
selfishness but would have understood me
better. It came as a taunt to my sore heart ;
to me who had so waited and waited, for the
smallest such sign of affection in the bygone
days ; and now . . .

80 I answered : ' Then it was different
because I loved you, and that made it right ;
but ever since I have been learning to unlove
you. What you did just now was, to treat
me not as a lady, as the woman you love, but
as  as you might a bar-maid I '

He laughed, a soft uneasy laugh ; but not
one deeply moved. Or no ; was it not rather
with just so much emotion as his nature was
capable of feeling? The thought struck me
with a keen pang, as if I first knew him
as he really was.

1 suppose I ought to apologize for forgetting
that I was only human, and that you
were  Pleasance Brown.'

But once again, tell me what brings you
here to-night ? Clair, think of it ; I cannot
stay out here long  what would they say of
us ? and you have told me nothing yet !
Why, oh, why ! did you not write, or come
to see me openly ? '

He groaned.

Why ? Because I am no longer my own
master ; because I am in debt and desperation
; because I have no right to come in the
light of day to see you like an honest man.
Oh, my poor pretty Pleasance, forgive me 
;how pretty you looked to-night when I
peeped in at the window ! ' (He had begun
stroking my arm now; the man could not

exist, it seemed, without caressing or being
VOL. III. G

caressed.) ' I believe you never knew low
pretty you really are, did you ? '

'What can that matter to you now ! ' I cried
out, driven to a far higher pitch of desperation
than himself. ' I am penniless, remember,
and homeless nearly. They tell me you have
consoled yourself with Mrs. Jessop and her
fortune : is that true ? '

No answer. Clair had stepped back, leaning
against the garden-wall in the darkness.
I could not see his face, but some sixth sense
seemed to tell me he was at last greatly
moved.

 Is it true?' I pursued, still more excited.
You have come all the way out here to tell
me something. Is that it ? is that true ? ' In
my own heart, at the moment, I did not
believe it true. All along there was no time
for thought ; except a sudden quick flash that

if it were so indeed, he could not have come
to tell me it. So that, even while pressing
my questions, I inwardly rejoiced.

It is true ! ' said the unhappy wretch,
covering his eyes with one hand.

Good God ! ' I murmured. ' Then how
could you '  in growing passion  ' how dared
you come here to-night ? '

Because I wanted to see you once more ;
to have you to myself if only for a minute, for
the last time. So I came down to the hotel
over at D  (the nearest town) and drove out
to-night in a fly, as I must show myself in
town early tomorrow. And no matter what
you think of me, I am glad I have done it ;
I am more satisfied now.'

Are you ? ' came icily from my lips.
Some murderers I have heard feel quite
satisfied, too, when they have done their deed.

G 2

Let me congratulate you on feeling pleased
that you enticed me out here to be insulted ! '

Pleasance he pleaded, ' don't say that ;
you are so cold, so passionless, almost hard.
Any other girl who had been out in the
world as you have, would forgive me, and
understand that a few lucky men may marry
for love ; but that for a miserable pauper like
me, there is nothing but . . /

Then, I suppose Clair must have really
cared for me ; for to my horror he broke
down and sobbed out all his story. The
miserable tale of how last summer he had
honestly meant to work for my sake, but had
put it off awhile, and yet awhile ; then came
debts and difficulties, increasing like a gathering
snowball. He had hardly dared look mein
the face. Mrs. Jessop had been there too
he saw she meant to have him. No use

telling me ; of course I could guess, being a
woman, how it had all come about. He had
seemed each day caught closer in a net.
Perhaps, after all, it was the best thing he
could do for himself, under the circumstances.
And when  and when  ? ' I asked, dry-throated.
I was not quite able to speak as I
washed ; but wanted to know when he had
proposed to Mrs. Jessop, out of a burning
curiosity all women understand, even though
the small details they crave to know, each
sting and madden them like so many prickles
of poisoned thorns. He answered heavily :

 The day after tomorrow ! . . . We are to
be married quite quietly. It is her wish ;
as her husband is not very long dead, and
people are sure to talk.'

The day . . . after . . . tomorrow . . . !
married I Well, " happy 's the wooing that's

not long a-doing," Mr. St. Leger. And may
I ask when and where did you both become
engaged ? '

What does it matter now, as you said
yourself he answered roughly, almost rudely.
It was at Broadhams, I believe ; after you
left, anyhow ; that I can tell you, for certain,
if you care to know.'

Yes : that was well to know, certainly.
Por the Broadhams party had been broken
up suddenly, the day after I lefty by the news
of my poor father's death.

There followed perfect silence between us.
Only the cherry-laurel leaves hustled softly in
the wind; an occasional rain-drop pattered
down. Clair, it seemed, in the semi darkness,
was half-ashamed trying to recover himself
from the emotion into which he had been
betrayed. I stood by, feeling about as still

in body as Lot's wife, hoarse-throated, dry-eyed,
too, with burning eyeballs.

There seemed a double woman in me.
One looking on the man near with an
awakened sense that her love for him was
dead, and had been so for weeks past of
slow-growing contempt, without her knowledge
 yet still capable of feeling for his
unhappy state that tenderest pity akin to
divinest feeling. The other was a woman
whose pride was roused ; whose heart was
hot within her with anger and indignation,
that only did not leap forth in words to
shrivel up his pleas and pitiful self-excuses
but for scorn.

She would never feel the same fresh girl
again; and he had wilfully caused this.

There came through the silence the well-known
sound of the old door, that had

dropped on its hinges, grating on the stone
floor as it was flung energetically open.
Oat rushed a little posse of dogs, Bob's
terriers, yelping with joy to greet the night
and freedom ; while Bob's voice called
lustily :

'Well  I'm off to the stable to see this
puppy in distemper. You won't come,
Brace ? '

No, thank you. I think I'll stay here and
smoke quietly till you come back,' was
answered in unusually subdued tones.

Just then a cat must have darted through
the bushes somewhere, for away went half the
canine pack in hot pursuit, giving tongue
after their kind. Bob, with gleeful shouts of
Hi ! Hi ! ' at once joined in the chase.
Two laggards, however, blind Fowler, the
lurcher, and little Vixen, who Alas too fat to

run, but all the more inquisitive, not seeing
which way the hunt swept, had put their noses
to the ground, and so came straight towards
us. Next moment, the backs of both had
bristled ; and their growls, as they hastily
retreated with short sharp barks of defiance
and alarm, betrayed at once that here verily
was more than a pussy.

Go ! go ! ' I whispered in agony to St.
Leger, in vain trying my blandishments on
our over-zealous guardians. ' If you have
any caring left for me, go ; that old door in
the wall  push ! it is nearly rotten  then
you are in the lane.'

Brutes ! ' he muttered, looking hastily
round for the means of escape. ' I could
choke that old dog with pleasure. Just
say good-bye, Pleasance, once more, and
then . , .'

There!  As ever he had had no thought
for me, only for himself ; and now it was too
late.

Fulke Brace's figure stood between him
and the door, challenging us in the darkness.

Hullo ! Stop, you sir  stop. What are
you doing here at this hour ? '  then looking
with recognition in our mute faces in accents
of the extremest surprise. ' What ! St.
Leger and . . . Miss Brown ! ! I leg your
pardon. Forgive me for intruding, it was
quite unintentionally, I assure you.' And
with a tone and manner I should never forget
if I lived to be a dead withered old woman
in which sounded a hundred smaller tones,
pained surprise, nobility, regret, hurt self-pride
that strove not to think of self, all blended by
true manliest reverence for womanhood in
whatever situation, such as he could alone

have learned froDi humbly following the
example of

The first true gentleman that ever lived

he turned on his heel.

Stay, Mr. Braces I cried in hot impulse,
hardly knowing what I said. ' I want to go
back to the house with you. You are too
old a friend to be ever an intruder . , . Mr.
St. Leger, I do not want to be unkind, but
you must go now : and you ought to have
gone sooner, as I asked you. Good-bye  I
will wish you as much happiness in your
future life as  as is possible

My voice dropped, I was so sorry for him,
so ashamed ; and yet stood upright, conscious
of my own rectitude as a woman, and would
not stoop to seem otherwise.

'I am going. Miss Brown. Good night,'

said Clair bitterly, vouchsafing no word of
recognition to his former friend, whose lofty
tone he strove  with what a weak imitation
to echo. ' Had I known that Mr. Brace
was staying here, I should of course have
understood that you would not care for
my presence.' And therewith raising his
hat cavalierly, he turned away.

The rotten old door was violently shaken ;
there was the sound of a receding foot-fall
down the stony lane. He was gone.

I breathed a sigh of relief. Then turning
impressively to Fulke Brace, who stood with
eyes downcast on the ground, waiting my
pleasure, as it were. ' Whatever you may
have thought, seeing us together, believe me,
what I told you this evening was true. I will
have nothing more in this world to say to
Clair St. Leger ! I never knew he was coming

here to-night. You are a true man, I think.
There are very few left I care for in this
world, or who care for me, but you have
always been kind. May I tell you all about
it ?  only first say you believe me.'

I believe you utterly incapable of doing
anything that was not from right and good
motives, without the necessity of your saying
a word more : so why distress yourself by
doing so? ' answered Pulke softly but sadly.

But you could not understand otherwise.
I must tell you . . . indeed I must, as you
saw him here to-night,' was my trembling
answer ; then in hurried accents explained all,
ending, 'and he is to he married the day after
to-morrow ! '

My old friend remained very very silent.
At last he said, low, only this : ' What can I
say ? You yourself would not wish me to

blame or judge this other man, whatever I
may think.' (He was right there.) ' Only
this I may say, you have been severely
tried. God bless you, poor child ; and thank
you for telling me

Up came Bob cheerily. ' Well, we had a
rare chivy. It was a strange cat, and deserved
being: chased. The doss know better
than to hunt our own. Why, Pleasance, what
are you doing out here ? '

Looking at the stars with me. Let us
hope there is a very bright one for herself,
somewhere in the far distance,' said Brace in
his ever manly voice.

My secret was safe with him.

Chapter V.

T/'ES ! My secret was safe enough. But,
still, all that night I sat up by my
window till the solitary candle burned out
none other was to be had. There in the
bare, black-raftered room, where comforts
were little provided, I sat and shivered to
myself, though not from cold, being wrapped
in a shawl. But it was a terribly wild night,
dark as could be, stormy, whilst the rain
lashed the panes. How wet he would have
been but for that fly he brought, I thought !
It was so like him doing that. In such a case
Brace would have walked, rather than expose

a girl to possible village gossip by his visit
being known. But then he was different.

Pity some other brighter, happier girl than
myself could not be loved by and love him.
I could not, in the least ; much as I liked
him.

So I sat on alone, a white, miserable, lonely
figure, till through the rain and wind and
blackness came the chill stealing dawn.
The last page of my love for Clair St. Leger
had just been written in my heart or brain,
or wherever we keep such memories, and
while still freshly wet, as it were, 1 wanted to
brood over it. The heart put him out forever;
the mind tried him and judged him
again and again all through that night, admitting
every plea, extenuating, almost forgiving,
yet  yet worst of all despising this first,
this now old love !

But both were sick and troubled, whilst
my head burned with fever, and sleep seemed
only a possibility of dreadful dreams.

I knew myself ill ; yet Fulke Brace was
going away tomorrow, and if he spoke to me
again I must know what was in my own
mind. Almost till morning dawned, there was
a battle in my soul. 'For, verily, it was a
temptation. I hated poverty, the petty, grinding,
daily miseries of reckoning how many
half-pence in our altered circumstances I
dared feel justified in spending, and the loss
of so much that is pleasant and lovely in life ;
hated the thought of living on dear old Bee's
scanty hoard  and yet what could I work at ?
What can such girls as I work at, that is not
almost worse than struggling on at home.

Other people often marry without love,
and get on very fairly well. Why not I?

VOL. III. H

Nobody could like Fulke Brace better, no one
utterly respect him more ; and then good-bye
carling care for me and Rose and Bob ;
for our mother too, no doubt, if she would
accept his aid. (This last was thought in
the darkness of the later small hours, after
Clair St. Leger's ghost had been buried).

It drew towards dawn . . .

This man is so good and single-hearted, it
would be a shame and a sin not to give him
as much as he gives in such a bargain,' was
the thought that grew with the growing
light. . .

The cocks crew outside; the world
awakened; there came a rush of returning
vigour and life to all things with the rising
of the sun, even to my sleepless, weary,
troubled self. And then I knew ray own
mind.

But are you sure of this ? ' asked Fulke
later. We were standing together in the
porch ; the warm sun reviving and invigorating
grass and flowers and bushes,
and all that had been laid low and wet
with last night's storm.

How different a scene it was, such a soft,
fair morning ! How different a man this one
who had just now again offered me all he
had honestly earned, and himself who was
worth far more ; not pressing or urging, but
only kindly asking me to consider whether, in
the time to come, he might not be allowed
to care for me and for all my family.

No fine words. No ill-timed expressions
of his own inner feelings, which after last
night's scene might have jarred upon me.
After having urged his pleas in vain, he now
ended in a tone of manly regret.

H 2

I don't like to say much, now ; but it was
impossible to go away and say nothing.
Pleasance, my poor chill, you are not fitted
for a rough life : I know no one less so. Even
your little sister, Rose, would be far better
able to endure privations.'

*Mr. Fulke !  my kind friend of old  do
you know that you were tempting me todo
what my conscience declares would be a
great wrong to you, for the sake of  
money ? '

'No, no, no. For the sake of the care,
comfort, love, the happy life I would have
hoped to give you he returned, rather
huskily.

Till then, we had both been speaking
so calmly, dispassionately, any onlooker at
even a short distance would never have
guessed the subject of our discourse.

Say ; if I were to come back in six
montis, or a year ; or even two years ? ' as
I dolefully and slowly shook my head. ' No ?
Could you not like me any better ? '

I have always liked you 6v much, that I
don't believe it possible to like you any
better was my truthful answer.

Oh, why is it, I wonder, that one may
respect and like a person above all others and
yet, and yet  '

I know what you would say  yet cannot
give them any warmer feelings. There is
fate in it, I suppose. Well, good-bye, I will
trouble you no more. Here is Miss Beau-manor,
too.'

How well you are looking, Pleasance,
child. Quite a poppy painted on each cheek,'
said my grand-aunt.

I think Miss BroAvn is looking far from

well. Pray take care of her, or she will
be ill said Brace, almost roughly.

Then my graDcl-aunt's old gig came to the
door ; with Eob's yellow colt, Dandelion, his
only equine possession, harnessed thereinto.

Hope you've made your will, sir ? ' grumbled
old Tozer to the departing guest, ashe
kept Dandelion from making plunges
at the sky. Tozer was a very burly, bearded
old fellow with the slyest of eyes, and a
growl so rude it was given credit for honesty.

Oh, I'm giving him every chance of life
by driving him myself, and we'll help to bury
him decently if he does get his neck broken,'
cried Bob cheerily, scrambling up to his
dangerous perch. 'Now, Brace, come along.
. . Look out, man, for goodness sake !
One would think you didn't care if you were
smashed up.'

For Brace had got in as coolly and even
absently, as if the golden steed was not
endeavouring to spill both the gig's occupants
before bolting wildly down the drive.

When my brother returned, he found
me alone, lying on the hard old sofa ina
dark corner of the dismal parlour ; trying
to rest my sadly aching head on the horsehair
bolster.

What a terrible fool you have been,
Pleasance ! ' So said Master Bob, striding
up, and looking down upon me with a deep
frown upon his ruddy young face.

That was all he could find to say to me, he,
my best beloved of those now left on earth ;
and yet he saw me so disconsolate and
wretched.

Oh, don't. Bob ! I know  I know ! but it
would have been wrong to do anything else,'

was my utterly illogical and miserable answer ;
then weakly added, ' How did you guess ? '

Guess! Am I gone stark-staring mad
too ! ' replied he, Irish fashion, question for
question. ' As if he was likely to offer to go
shares in the farm with me for nothing. He
told me of it last night. Rather not  ! '

But you won't accept it, Bob ? You could
not now,' cried I, raising myself on my elbow.

Shan't I, though. He spoke again to me
this morning about it. Do you imagine
because you have thrown away your chances
in life, that I am to do the same ? . . . Not if
I know it,' slowly enunciated the youth ; with
a determination and purpose of manner that
the humble March Hare, standing yesterday
with his head on mother earth and his heels
to the sky, had certainly been devoid of
owning.

He added in a wildly explanatory manner,
making for the door :

'I did haggle about accepting him, on
your account ; hoping devoutly, with my heart
in my mouth, that Brace would not go and
take me at my word. But he's a grand
fellow. He said wee two had been such
friends in the old days at Dartmoor, that I
was to consider it a settled matter, for the
sake of auld lang syne

Auld lang syne ! Auld lang syne ! ' the
words haunted me and rang in my ears all
that day.

The next night I was so ill, that for many
a night and day afterwards I knew no one.
The burthen of sickness had been brought by
me upon my poor grand-aunt's little household,
strained enough in its resources
already ; by me who was so grieved before to

give her the burthen of supporting us. The
grief that I should have done this tormented
me in my intervals of returning consciousness
; and, maybe, the feverish longing to
recover quickly delayed recovery.

CHAPTER VL

"FVARTMOOE! Dartmoor! . . .

One year and four months have gone
by like an ill dream, since that strange visit
of St. Leger to the Barn, and my miserable
illness. I felt grown calmer ; more restful
in spirit ; and now thankful for small mercies
and daily petty joys perhaps before overlooked.
I, Pleasance Brown, had grown
thinner, and lost some of the former good
looks, those who loved me had seen in me.

I was shabbily dressed, in an old, old
gown of the Stoke days  had no prospect of
another ; no vague hopes either now of

indefinite work to be paid for substantially ;
no airy castles ; no golden dreams. Halfpence
and I had become intimately acquainted;
and how far they would go, or
how far one could go without them, was a
matter in which few persons of far greater
experience could surpass me.

And yet all this did not torment me now.
An older, poorer, plainer girl, in a worn dress
and coarse straw hat, I was lying full length
among the bracken on a Dartmoor hill-side ;
only troubling myself how to lay my head
more comfortably now and again on my outstretched
arm ; only thinking what a sweet
smell rose up from the warm earth that
summer afternoon ; idly and utterly drinking
into my soul the beauty of 

The sun, and the large air, and the sweet earth,
And the hours that hum like fireflies on the hill

As they "burn out and die, and the broad heaven,
And the small clouds that swim and swoon i' the sun,
And the small flowers.'

Away downwards, at some little distance,
if one just raised a sleepy head on one elbow
and blinked in the sunlight, could be seen
the brown thatched roofs of Wheatfield Parm,
and its comfortable barns, lindsay, and suchlike
outhouses. Without any effort, some of
its embosoming, thereto pertaining, oak-trees,
that grew up the hill-side, were visible cutting
the blue sky ; or a circling flock of its pigeons
would mount a little way above the friendly
eaves and gables.

But it was too' much trouble, generally, to
keep one's eyelids open this delicious lazy
afternoon ; so mine blinked and closed softly,
letting only a soft rosy light through on the
sight, till I was aware of a rustle overhead

among the fern-stalks, and saw the hem of a
familiar, dark-reel, cotton gown near my face.

Is that you ? ' said I lazily, as if it
could be any one else, looking up at Mrs.
Gladman ; adding, with a well-pleased tone
of thorough enjoyment, 'Are you come to
talk to me ? I am very glad of it.'

Down sank that most excellent of women,
as gently as a feather-bed, beside me. How
marvellously comely, and little changed she
still was ; one of those persons who grow old
imperceptibly and almost delightfully.

'Yes, Pleasance, dear. Now, what have
you got pleasant to tell me ? '

Well, that the air on Dartmoor is fresher
and sweeter than anywhere else in the world ;
and in summer Wheatfield Earm is the most
delightful spot on earth  except one  dear
old Stoke ! '

Come ! that is very nice said the dear
voice overhead in gratified tones. * But why
only in summer, Pleasance, my child ? I have
lived thirty years now at The Earm, and can
honestly declare to never having felt myself
isolated or dull in the winters ; and so would
you feel too, I believe, in the same position

The even musical voice which since childhood
had always seemed to me to breathe
the truest spirit of inotJierliness I could
imagine, laid no stress on the words ; yet,
though only back at Wheatfield since two
days, I knew the hidden meaning. In the
same position ? As wife and mistress down
at the old brown house !

How nice it is to feel so sleepy ; and
have nothing at all to do,' I murmured,
closing my eyes again with secret baseness
of evasion. For, mercifully, Mrs. Gladman

was too dear and kind to think me rude, or
to suspect guile.

Then sleep, my child. You came here
only to enjoy yourself; remember, when you
Awake up, you shall tell me all you have been
doing this past year and a half. Meanwhile,
I like to sit still, too, and think.'

So there was silence between us for a time.
The sun smote still warmly dovn on the
hill-side, but the giant bracken fronds closed
softly all round us two. The sweet breeze
on this little upper world tempered the heat
and was fragrant with gorse and heather
scents, wafted from hill beyond hill, op-heaving
their shoulders behind each other
to the horizon ; each crowned with some
strange-shaped out-cropping rocks  the tors
of Devon ; and forming a natural rampart to
the grand, unbroken, violet sweeps of moorland

that lay in solitude in the heart of the
hills.

But even as I thus lay dreamily, my
dear old friend's last words set me a musing,
and by-and-by there grew therefrom a sadness
almost akin to unreasonable bitterness
in my mind. Little she knew thereof,
sitting placid and serene above me, who
lay seemingly as untroubled as any mountain
nymph.

Tell Iter something about the past year and
a half of my Ife I

Could she guess nothing of what the past
months had been in bitterness to me and
my mother; or how unlike her own easy,
tranquil farm-life? Truly, my occasional
letters had told little of our struggles with
deprivation, penury, almost want. My
mother was so proud she would never have

VOL. III. I

forgiven me for so revealing our position,
even to my god mother, the old friend of
the Brown family, she had so sweetly patronized.
But, lying there, I felt inwardly
surprised that Mrs. Gladman did not seem
to understand it 2oitIioitt the telling. That
would be a true ideal friendship, which
should hioio by a communicated flash of
thought ; and sympathize without agonizing
us afresh to describe one by one all the
bleeding wounds or daily pin-pricks, the
soreness caused by friends who disappointed
our reasonable expectations, or the terrible
nothingness of our lives since some one of
our best-beloved has gone before us into
the world of light.

Yes ; it had been truly a bad year and
a half, which my mother and I had spent
together, in that mean little house on

Camden Hill. But this much had come of
it, that we had grown, if not into the perfect
and rare unison T had enjoyed with my father
ah ! that relationship could never come
on earth for me again !  yet to understand
each other. My mother was altogether
devoted to Beau, now ; lived, even pinched
for him,  and what a change for her was
there !  She toiled for him, sewing at nights
to gain a scanty pay at genteel ladies'
embroidery, till her lovely eyes were dimmed
and weary ; not that she ever would own
it. And I, though by no means sharing her
feeling of devotion,  for how seldom does
the idol of one human being seem worthy
of such worship to another!  yet admired her
beautiful daily self-sacrifice which, at times,
rose to unconscious heroism.

It was also an example to see how, though

I 2

greatly broken in spirit, from terrible grief
and change of fortune, she never once uttered
a complaint. How too, for Beau's sake,
she tried to have a smile always ready for
the wandering artist when he returned to
the poor home he scorned. And withal
how the former mistress of Stoke kept all
her old elegance of manner, trying always
undauntedly to disguise poverty under
refinement.

After my illness at the Barn, now a year
and a half ago, I had gone to London and
stayed with my mother. She had written
that she could now manage her purse, so
as to have me ; and would be glad that I
should come. It would make our little home
more cheerful for Beau. Good Mrs. Glad-man
had asked me at the same time down
to Wheatfield Parm for change of air. My

mother never knew I received and refused
that kind offer.

Truly, once with mother, she seemed as
self-recant as ever in her gentle, proud way,
asking no sympathy from me, only obedience ;
still ordering all our affairs without taking
me into her counsel or almost confidence.
To Beau alone she unbent, was as wax
to his wayward wishes ; steel to endure
without a frown or murmur what they
cost her. Thinking of Dartmoor and my
unknown sacrifice so apparently useless, I
had been secretly inclined to be morbid,
and pity myself that weary London summer ;
but as the days grew hotter and dustier,
I came to perceive my presence silently comforting
to my poor mother. ' By the world
forgot,' did not quite mean with her forgetting
it. She had expected more from

former town friends. Not for herself  no !
but some small kindnesses to me, lier child ;
touch warm patronage of Beau ; orders,
invitations even to her darling who had
been so sought after in society hitherto ; and
so little came. She never repined, but
wrapped our mourning as a cloak over our
poverty, and bore it in silence ; but then I
felt she was grateful to have me.

So the summer passed, and a cold pinching
winter came. Poverty must be less a trouble
in hot countries, where one eats less and
requires less of clothing.

Then came another spring, and another
hearty letter from Wheat field, inviting us
both. It was the time when swallows come ;
the time when all living creatures seem to
want change, and a life of joy ; oh ! how I
longed for the peace and plenty of the Farm,

its deep woods, and the exquisitely cold
brooks that came babbling and leaping down
from the moors. Bat money was not ; even
for that simple visit. My mother said in
her gentle way, covering inflexible resolve,
that it could not be done. Beau had been
extravagant in winter, what with fitting up
his studio and giving little entertainments to
his gay artist-friends. He had gone with
some of these at Whitsuntide on a sketching-tour
in Normandy ; it was a necessity for
him to have more than one trip a year, he
declared ; therefore we two must pinch yet
more to make up for it. And so we did
through the sweltering heat of June and
July ; bearing the close days, the stuffy,
small rooms ; and by my mother's express
wish, never betraying to Mrs. Gladman the
real cause of our excuses and refusal.

And to tell the truth, I did feel hard then
against poor Beau ; even dared to speak out
my mind, for once. But my mother silently
looked at me, and turned away with her
head drooped. She knew it ; she felt it,
too, yet would not complain. That melted
my heart, and so I overcame in that one
moment my old spirit of bitterness, being
lifted up by her example.

At this moment in my meditations, some
movement betrayed my wakefulness, and Mrs.
Gladman's clear voice said, as if pursuing her
own placid vein of thought :

Well, dear ; after all my efforts to get you
down here I am glad to have you at the
Farm once more.' Her large soft hand
covered mine that had sought it caressingly,
and she continued : * Yes, it is strange how
we plan things, and they all turn out quite

differently. Now I wished to have you herewith
us last year, and after all it was dear
little Rose who came.'

And made an excellent locum tenens in
your heart I smiled. For indeed Rose had,
without perhaps her own knowledge or that
of my good godmother, done more than keep
my place warm for me ; but had nestled
herself into the innermost corner of Mrs.
Gladman's affections. She had spent much
of her time here last year, alternating her
visits between Wheatfield Farm and wherever
Sir Dudley and Alice might be, whether
in London or at Broadhams ; and when two
days ago the coach set me down at Crawford,
jt was Rose who met me smiling and
crying,

At last !  how thin you look, and pale !
Why, we thought you were never coming.

I have been here three weeks, and it has been
so nice

You are not to imagine that even Rose
(much as I love the dear child !) could
possibly make me less fond of you, Pleasance
put in Mrs. Gladman with flurried eagerness.
No, no ; of course my god daughter can
never be quite replaced by any one. Only,
you see, dear, neither John nor I were quite
satisfied to have her at first instead of you :
but really the way she used to be up at six
in the morning to see the butter made
Devonshire fashion !  and she knows now
how to manage a large dairy as well as myself.
Then how well she made the jam last
year, and insisted on learning even to cure
the bacon.' Mrs. Gladman heaved gently
with inward laughter at the recollection,
remembering herself to add pointedly, however

: ' But, still, don't think for a moment,
dear, I could ever be really fonder of her
than of you. You must not be jealous.'

Certainly not.' Yet it struck me that
when people are so eager to disclaim a
supposition that nobody made, there must
be, as people say, ' something in it.'

Rose has been amusing us so much With
stories of the time she spent with Alice 
indeed, I ought to get used to saying Lady
Digges  in London, this season,' went on
Mrs. Gladman, smiling to herself; evidently
piqued thereto by the thought of little Rose
and her ways and sayings. ' She told me
she often felt like a brown sparrow among
fine canaries , and longed by way of change
to fly down into the street and look for her
own crumbs. And she said, too, the only
part of her London season she really enjoyed.

was when she had been able to sip off to
Camden Hill and see you.'

Bear Eose ! yes ; she came as often as
she could Even once or twice she gave up
some fine parties to see us, so that mother
was quite vexed With her on finding it out.'

But, Pleasance, it seems to me very hard
that you should have had none of these
amusements ; you are young, too.'

No, no ; it was quite fair,' I broke in.
'You know Alice had a perfect right to
choose between us; and it was quite as
much as we could expect for her to take
out one. Oh, she did ask me to some of
her large At Homes, but I did not care
to go in Cinderella's old clothes  Sir
Dudley insisted, you know, on providing
dresses for Rose ; and so . . . Yes, it is
best to keep to one's own line of life,

and not let oneself be tempted to hanker
after impossibilities

Mrs. Gladman's hand covered mine.

My poor dear ! You have had longings
lately then, and I had stupidly fancied that
a quiet life of culture and perhaps dulness
would quite content you. So natural  at
your age.'

'No; oh no. Don't mistake me I nervously
laughed, trying thereby to keep down
a sudden most incomprehensible weakness.
Only hankering after the old life at Stoke,
and my father and Bob  and Rose,' on which
the laughter broke utterly down into a fit of
sobbing. Mrs. Gladman caressed my head
and drew it on her lap, but said never a
word ; that was her manner ; but she made
it so comforting by the very way she held
one's hand.'

It seemed so lonely, sometimes,' I explained
apologising, as my best of friends
continued her soothing ministrations. ' But,
you see, my mother did not lois Rose to
come much to us. She said, and so did Alice,
that it was everything for Rose not to miss
any chance of being well settled in life.
Rose has always been my mother's darling,
you know, and so . . .'

I know.' To my surprise Mrs. Gladman's
voice sounded decidedly disturbed. ' Yes, it
must have been lonely. Well ! now you are
here, dear, I do hope my pleasant child
will have a pleasant tune. And to tell
you a shrewd guess of mine, Pleasance,
my pet, ever since last summer when she
was so much with us, it has struck me
that Rose is on the high-road to a good
match.

What do you mean ? Do tell me ! ' 
sitting bolt upright.

Has Rose never mentioned meeting any
old friend?' was the playful question.

Only  let me see . . . No old friend
excepting Mr. Brace. No  none.'

Well ! Don't you like him ? ' meaningly.

Down I sank suddenly again ; and began
plucking up little bits of grass. * Ye  es.
I always liked him very much indeed; but
you don't mean that . . .'

Why, yes ; I do,' nodded Mrs. Gladman
cheerfully. 'Pulke Brace sought her out a
great deal for Mm; and when one day I
praised her to him (judiciously, my dear, for
I would not meddle for worlds, though most
anxious to help if one could), he did tell me
he felt an especial interest in Rose and that . . .
Well, in fact, he said even more ; but as he

is rather reticent he would not wish me to
betray his secrets with a pleasant laugh ; for
what elderly woman doss not like being
taken somewhat into a young man's confidences?
And though middle-aged to me,
Fulke Brace was a boy to her.

Then, as I sat silent, she went on. ' Well,
dear ! You seem meditating so earnestly
over my little bit of news ; but I know you
are glad of it in heart, by the sweet expression
in your eyes, though your mouth
looks so grave. Ah ! Pleasance, you see how
well I know your thoughts ' (as a smile
despite myself broke out on my features).
You do think it would be a happy match.'

Very ! ' with emphasis.

'Then my mind is relieved,' said the dear
woman. ' Not to force confidences, or betray
any, Pleasance, I did know when Fulke went

to see you at the Barn, two years ago, what
he wanted. He only told me enough to
make me understand he was not trying to
supplant my son John in any underhand
way; after the poor fellow had enlisted his
services in vain at Broadhams  you coldhearted
child ! '

Oh, John did not much mind,' I laughed
awkwardly, yet feeling less confused with
John's mother than I might with any other
under such circumstances. ' He liked the
pheasant-shooting there so immensely, and
the cook ! Oh, you bad woman, you simply
talked and persuaded him into believing he
liked me. You know you did. He never
was in love with me one bit.'

My dear, indeed, John is one of those

men who would never seem violently in love

with any girl; never. But he has such a
VOL. III. K

fund of calm domestic affection, and steady
strong liking. Believe me, after marriage
with him the rest would follow. Oh, I wish
you would take a fancy to John ! ' urged
poor Mrs. Gladman, quite embarrassed by
my home-thrust, and looking at me rather
plaintively. On which we both with one
accord went off into a hearty fit of laughter.
Dear me, what good that laugh did me !
What a pleasure it is to be with people
who are light-hearted as well as wise and
experienced, and who don't go about the
world carrying their coffins on their backs.
I felt quite cheered again ; so seemed she.
We rose to go down-hill to the Farm ; for
at this evening hour she liked to be in the
farmyard and see all her animals well fed
and cared for before night. Then, as we
scattered a nibbling flock of sheep who had

apparently made up their minds we meant
to sit still all the evening there, and now ran
helter-skelter before us, she said :

We will say no more about this, my
dear Pleasance ; for you only came hereto
be made happy. Whatever your heart
tells you to decide on will always be right
in my eyes, and yourself no less dear to me.
Oh ! I would not tempt or persuade any girl
in such a matter for worlds  though of
course I do know my own son so well, that is
a different matter.' This was a saving clause
to her conscience, to which, secretly amused
(for I was growing wiser now in understanding
characters), I nodded acquiescence.
Good soul ! She talked so honestly and
seriously of not interfering in affairs of the
heart ; had she only lived more in society,
what a matchmaker she would have been !

K 2

Even now she returned to the subject of
Fulke Brace and Rose. 'You know when
he bought the Artist's Cottage last summer,
that his poor mother used to Ive in, and
fitted it up so exquisitely, I thought there
was more in it than met the eye. John
noticed it too (John is very sharp, my dear).
He said two of the rooms were evidently
meant for a lady, they are so beautifully
fitted up, but not lived in.'

Rose ought to be very happy,' said I
absently.

As we left the hill with its sweet breezes,
the short upland grass and grazing sheep,
I lingered to take a last look before descending
into Featherbed Lane. This was simply
a winter water-course whose bed alternated
in its steep descent between rocks and rolling
gravel, while the Devonshire hedges were so

high on either side that nowhere could a
view be had, except when one stopped
thankfully at a gate to lean thereon and
take breath. Said Mrs. Gladman, as I
gazed round, taking a last bird's-eye sweep
of gorge and glen, of hill and violet moor
outspread, to the rising of the horizon :

Talking of marriages, I always meant to
ask you about that ill-starred match of Mr.
St. Leger's. Is it true his wife deceived him,
and that she had no money ?  served him
right, after all, for marrying a woman who
might have been his mother.'

No, no,' I interrupted, anxious to speak
in all fairness. * But she was always fond of
gambling ; and so, as the most exciting way of
indulging the passion, she had invested her
all in a dozen wild schemes. Last summer,
when there was that great panic in the City,

you know (I don't understand it, but ever so
many people were ruined, and everything Alas
wrong in stocks and shares, I believe), well,
she was ruined, too ! They were just back
from their honeymoon, and had not even teen
at Stoke.'

And never have since, of course. What a
pity that Fulke Brace had just spent so much
money on this Artist's Cottage ; and  and 
on other things ! '

On Bob's farm at the Barn,' thought I
rather sadly to myself, knowing well enough,
why she hesitated. Aloud I added, ' Yes,
poor Mr. Brace ! He would so gladly have
bought Stoke, no doubt. Well, it is in the
market still, for they say times are bad for
selHng country-houses ; especially one so far
from any town or railroad, or what most
people think make a country residence " desirable."

Let us hope he may still make
money enough to get his wish, for it loss
tantalizing.'

'Was it not?  and yet he never complained
one word ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Gladman, speaking
of her favourite with such eager sympathy,
my heart warmed to her. 'Well, yes;
he is becoming rich certainly; still to buy two
places in two years besides his share in the
Barn Farm would be, I fear,  well, too nmch ;
not that I meant any pun. And I am quite
relieved, dear Pleasance, that you don't mind
giving up Fulke Brace to Rose ; for although
a girl may not quite wish to marry a man
herself, still when he has paid her attention
and all that, she often feels hurt a little when
he goes after somebody else.'

Which was a rather true remark, it seemed
to me, on the part of Mrs. Gladman.

CHAPTER VII.

rpWO evenings later, I was idling in the
untidy, picturesque Devonshire farmyard,
watching my god-mother's housewifely
figure as she dispensed corn among a fluttering,
cackling group of cocks and hens, grey
goslings, gains, and turkey-poults. How
pretty it was, as I looked around from my
seat on an old moonstone trough that had
rested under its tiny thatched pump-shed
while generations of Gladmans had lived in
the warm, brown homestead in front ! Grey
moonstone buildings of all sizes stood around,
with brown thatched roofs, each seeming
heavier than the other, and adorned with

various growths of coloured lichens, houseleek,
or tiny ferns, according to their respective
age.

One side of the court-yard was bounded by
a wall, whether originally made of mud or
rubble I never knew ; but it, likewise, was
topped by a funny little thatched roof of its
own, above which again rose cherry branches
delicately outlined against the evening sky.
Prom behind the wall came voices singing
together, that of a man and a maid, in a
measured slow lilt. Mrs. Gladman flung all
her corn down in a heap.

Why ! there are John and Rose. Come
and join them, Pleasance, dear ; they will be
glad to have you, I am sure.'

We picked our way among the swine-troughs
and the black grunting herd around
them, and down the rough slope of the yard

by the brown duck-pond to the garden-door.
Inside, among the hedges of sweet-peas, hiding
plots of humbler vegetables, the cobble-stoned
paths and straight borders of trailing nasturtium,
hollyhocks, pinks, and all such autumn
flowers, were set a few tall, spreading fruit-trees.
Under the largest of these, John Glad-man
was slowly swinging Eose back and forward
with an air of vast enjoyment, while they
trolled out together the old Devonshire song :

Oil, I went to the fair with a heart all so merry, 

Sing hey down, ho down, derry down dee ;
And I bought a gay ribbon as red as a cherry.

For the girl I loved best, and who vowed to love me.
I returned from the fair gaily whistling and singing.
My true lover' s-knot I in triumph was bringing.
But it was not for me that I heard the bells rinsino, 
Sing hey down, ho down, derry down dee.

I found she was false, tho' she promised me fairly, 
Sing hey down, ho down, derry down dee ;

For women, I trow, are like weathercocks, rarely
They fix on one point, so coquettish they be.

My true lover's-knot I away was now flinging,
I've done with the sex, I live single and singing,
Oh, it was not for me that I heard the bells ringing, 
Sing hey down, ho down. . . .'

John's voice, that had taken quite a pathetic
depth of sound at the last lines, suddenly
broke down short as both perceived us.
Eose sprang out of her seat as lightly as a
kitten.

Come along, Pleasance dear, and have a
swing : it's such fun,' she cried, her eyes
dancing.

Yes, do, dear,' urged my god-mother from
behind. ' John has given Rose a turn, so
now he weill want to give you yours.
Won't you, John ? '

Oh, yes : won't you, Pleasance ? ' echoed
the young man, blushing with an air of confusion,
to my surprise, and looking at me
with round pleading eyes.

I never did care to swing, thank yon,
John : it makes me giddy.'

Perhaps  would you  do you care to
come and see the pigs fed? No?' (as 1
gave a Kettle dissenting shake of the head,
much preferring the pretty garden and Mrs.
Gladman's stout arm to which I held).

'Well, Rose will come anyhow. She
always does ; don't you, Rose ? '

Not this evening, my boy,' interrupted
his mother with a sunny meaning smile. ' I
want both girls to go up the lane as far
as the stile and see what is coming ; or
whether anything is coming along the road
to Wheatfield Farm.'

You expect something important, then ?
No, some one !  I can see it in your face.
Who is it ?  What is it ? Oh, you dear
mysterious soul, do tell us,' cried Rose and

I assailing her with questions. But Mrs.
Gladman would not answer a w-ord ; but
fairly ran away, though scant of breath,
only calling back :

'Do as I tell you both now. Go up the
lane to the stile  and wait till you see something.'


Whereupon she vanished cleverly behind
the shipped, and Rose and I were left looking
at each other. Lo and behold !  John had
gone too. Marvelling much what this mystery
might mean, we both concluded it would be
best to do our good hostess's bidding, so took
our way up the steep winding lane between
the farm-meadows to the stile at the top.
The high banks of the lane were all thick-set
with flowers and ferns, and made still higher
by a wildly luxuriant growth a-top of holly,
mountain ash, with glorious clusters of

scarlet berries flaming from afar, all interwoven
with bronze trails of brier and bramble
and glistening green wreaths of bryony and
bindweed, flmig from branch to branch withall
Nature's almost wasteful prodigality of
beauty in happy Devonshire. Nevertheless,
as grumblers say, the only views to be had in
them is over every gate. Luckily, we were
bidden to wait up at the stile, where was a
lovely prospect of the valley.

I can't think who it could be, except
perhaps Mr. Brace. He might be coming,'
said Rose, with a rather conscious look, as
we wandered together.

Ah ! ' said I musingly, ' I wonder ; could
it be ? ' Then after a pause, with a careless
inquiring air, ' How do you really like Mr.
Brace, now that you have seen so much more
of him?'

Oh, very, very much returned Rose, with
emphasis. ' I am sure that the more you
knew him, the better you would like him,
too, Pleasance, dear. He is so kind, so true ;
he would never change.'

Yes, I daresay he is all that,' I answered,
in a dream.

How coldly you say it ! I declare you
don't deserve to be called a friend of his,' exclaimed
Eose pettishly. Shipping down from
her seat on the stile, being like a bright little
bit of perpetual motion, she began flitting
about to gather flowers for the sup per table.
I, less practical, still sat on the topmost bar,
inwardly ashamed of myself, for it was quite
true that all warmth and life had seemed to
die out of my voice in speaking of Fulke
Brace. Ah ! the truth was, that during the
year and a half of my dreary life in London, I

had been silly enough to think in that loneliness
of Fulke Brace's attachment as always
enduring : to turn to it in thought as the one
cheering point of light steadily shining over
the twilight waste marshes and lawless grey
cheerlessness of life. A year and a half! . .
How could I forget a man's fancy must
change? Nay, to be fair, his heart would
require something warmer than the mere cool
offer I had last made him at the Barn, of
friendship  at a distance.

Ay, we were fools, we Maries twain, and thought
To be into the summer back again,
And see the broom glow in the golden world, 
The gentle broom on hill.'

Then I tried to examine myself as to how
I really felt on this surprising new state of
things being so suddenly revealed. Without
doubt, I had not wished to marry Pulke

Brace when we parted at the Barn that wet,
sunny March morning : yet was assuredly
conscious of a secret dog-in-the-manger
feeing having so taken me aback, that I was
stricken dumb on the hill-side when Mrs.
Gladman told her news. Pulke and Rose !
It was the new strangeness of the combination
that had so affected me, now when I came to
think of it ; for it was impossible that I
should grudge my best friend to my dear
little sister, or her to him. But then, it
was almost irritating, in a small way, to
remember how Rose had laughed at him in
those days ; said he was too lofty for her,
with his gentle manner recalling a long
line of ancestors, and the rather haughty
carriage of his head suggesting the pride
of fallen fortunes. And in those days, too
he had never seemed to think of Rose at

VOL. III. L

all ; except, indeed, as my sister. While
now. . .?

What use, Pleasance Brown, in tormenting
oneself thinking over the all that was! Be
brave, and look what is in the face ! Therewith,
I swallowed a large sigh, and With one
supreme effort shut out secret thoughts of
Fulke, thenceforth with all ray heart renouncing
him to ray dear little sister, with
as ranch humble cheerfulness as may be
ordered at will.

Then, while so sitting, the calm beauty of
the summer evening stole into my soul with
peace ; and so, moment by moment, any
still jarring sense of discord was hushed
and laid to rest.

How fair it all was ! Above, the large,
cool, blue evening sky, and all around gorges
and hills, softly veiled in haze and shadow.

On the further side of the road, one gate in
the thick hedge gave a peep of a field in
which poppies flamed amongst dark-red clover,
making a perfect jubilee of colour. From
this other gate whereon I sat, was a view of
the river winding far below, between flat
buttercup meadows ; where midway the miller's
red cows were standing knee deep in the ford
by the stepping-stones. Now and again, some
of the villagers came down the lane, or a tired
farmer jogging home on his pony. And they
all wished us ' good evening ' in the friendly
Devonshire way. Presently Rose tripped
back to me, her hands, that had been busy
as usual, full of flowers and ferns; then she
suddenly exclaimed :

Look, look ! there is a little cloud of dust
far off" on the Moreton road. Don't you
see it ? '

L 2

No. I can't see anything at all. . . ,
Look again, Rose. This is like,  " Sister
Anne, Sister Anne, do you see anything
coming ? " '

Rose perched herself beside me, and gazed
at the stony road winding like a white ribbon
down an opposite hill, that was studded with
fir-trees and strewn with boulders.

Yes. There is certainly something coming
. . two something. . . two black specks.
Wait till they come down below us, into the
valley.'

Eor the road, after dipping into the glen
and crossing the river, wound by the Teign
side for a little way under our hill ; and so
any passers-by were visible till, on beginning
the steep zigzaging ascent of the lane, they
would be lost to view between its high banks,
until close upon us.

Now they are down at the bridge ! ' I said,
straining my eyes. ' What is it, Eose  a
dog-cart ? Yes, it must be a dog-cart : what
smart visitor can be coming in that? And
surely there is a rider behind

Eose, who had the longest eyesight I ever
knew, was silently looking. She burst now
into a strange little laugh.

What is it ? Don't be so impatient, Pleasance
! Why, it's a butchers cart, my dear !
That is all and nothing more," as the song
of the raven says,  ha, ha.'

Is that all ? ' said I indifferently, still
looking too, though my misty brown vision
could distinguish nothing clearly, albeit my
eyes were large enough. ' But who is the
man riding, do you think ? '

Well, he is keeping close company with
the butcher's cart, so birds of a feather

should flock together. Ha, ha ; fancy our
watching for a spring-cart.'

*ril watch no more. The Moreton
butcher and some farmer, no doubt. I
wonder they amuse you. Rose ? '

So saying, I began with dignity to arrange
our flowers into artistic bunches ; though
Rose, who had jumped down, kept watching
the nearest corner of the lane with head
outstretched and dancing eyes. Presently,
we heard the wheels grinding, and curious
ejaculations.

Hi ! Hi ! Let me pass you, I say. I
can see the girls sitting on the stile up there,
and I want to have the first of it with
them

 No, no, you bad boy ! The wheel is upon
the bank already ; don't upset us ; you'll
kiss them soon enough. Get up, Lazybones,

get up. Brace, dig my umbrella into the
old mare's ribs, will you ? Merciful powers !
what a lane ! '

Next instant, before I could collect my
scattered thoughts, being always slow in
speech and movement, even as I gazed with
expectation and wonder there was a clatter 1
and round the corner with a rush came a big
yellow horse on which sat a big young man
with a rosy lop-sided face and yellow hair.
Rose screamed aloud with ecstasy; most
likely I did too ; for with a scramble the
rider had dismounted, and I found my cheeks
heartily rasped by Bob's callow whiskers.

Oh, Bob, Bob ! ' was all I could ejaculate,
between laughing and crying.

Isn't it jolly, eh ? ' was all he could find
of wisdom to answer, whilst I patted his arm
and he continued the hugging process. Then

looking up I saw that the butcher's cart had
reached us and stopped, its occupants surveying
us with deeply-interested amusement.
I could not help laughing out loud at sight
of them, for surely a stranger pair never sat in
such a vehicle  my grand-aunt Miss Beau-manor,
and Mr. Brace ! Behind them, the
cart was piled with portmanteaus and a
significant-looking bag from which protruded
a shin of beef; in front of which they sat with
a calm air of proprietorship. Eulke was faultlessly
well-dressed as usual ; Aunt Bee perhaps
looking more wizened and witch-like
in her everlasting old garments, but her
black eyes as kind and quick as ever.

A right merry meeting and hand-shaking
that was in the dusty road ; while cross
question and crooked answers were interchanged
with lively fire.

Come for a real good visit, Pleasance ! '
cried the Marli Hare, waving his arms wildly
like a windmill. * Oh, rather  what a fool you
are !  be quiet, do (This was to Dandelion,
his horse, who had plunged; not inexcusably.)

But we're none of us going to stay with
you at the Parm, so don't flatter yourselves,'
put in our grand-aunt, eyeing us with an
amused satisfaction quite wicked in such an
old woman.

- ' Don't be distressed. They will only be
half-a-mile off" at my cottage. You know I
have become a landed proprietor down herein
a small way, Miss Brown,' said Fulke
Brace, laughing at our depressed faces.

Why, you'll want the spare rooms at the
"Farm for all the other guests. When are the
revelries to begin, Pleasance ? '

 Oh, who else is coming, Bob, dear ?

Not surely mother ? ' in a joyful tone, remembering
a curious restraint in Mrs. Gladman's
manner, when, on the coming of the last letter
from the poky little house on Camden Hill,
I had grieved myself over my mother's
inscrutable silence as to her plans for the
autumn; having hoped Alice would, have
invited her for country air to Broadhams.

'The mother? Of course she is coming,'
echoed Bob ; ' and so you knew nothing about
it all ; oh, glorious ! Why it's all been got
up for 1/016. Even your friend Amy Pawlett
coming too. Oh, my eye ! what a beauty of
a trout rose just as we crossed the bridge

Yes, child,' said my grand-aunt, breaking
in. ' Your god-mother, who is a woman after
my own heart, thought you bad been dull for
so long, that she settled this with us all, and
bound us over to secrecy. Now, good children,

march on to the Earm. I want some
supper.'

And what of Amy Pawlett ? ' I asked,
still bewildered, as we went chattering homewards
to the Farm.

That I can explain,' put in Rose. ' You
knoAV that Mrs. Gladman came up to town
last May, for a week, to see the Academy and
buy a summer bonnet. Well, she paid Alice
and me a visit one day when the Pawletts
were there, and Amy began talking so affectionately
of you that Mrs. Gladman invited
her there and then for August. Of course
she was delighted ; but Lady Pawlett would
never have given her so long a holiday (now
Charlotte is gone into a sisterhood), except
that her Ladyship wanted to be off to Homburg
with as little expense as possible, and
preferred taking her maid to her daughter.'

Poor Amy ! Yes, she came twice to seeme
in London ; Lady Pawlett was not pleased
about it. But why all this should be done
for me, is more than I can understand,'
I murmured, feeling really rather overcome
at such unexpected goodness.

No, very likely you can't ; but your
friends can,' said lulke Brace, with his old
kind voice.

Next moment Rose turned, and as her eyes
met his there was such a mutually understanding
glance between them that my heart
in spite of previous good resolutions  felt
quite sick. But only for an instant or two !
no more. Very soon I was laughing with
the rest, as we went homewards all crowded
round the butcher's cart, while Eulke Brace
led Lazybones, my grand-aunt's old mare.

'And where did you beg, or borrow, or

steal your triumphal chariot ? ' Rose pertly
asked.

*We hired it, Miss, at Moreton, where my
old gig broke down, and a very good conveyance
too, for a lady ought to feel herself
such if she rides in a wheelbarrow ; besides,
we obliged both the butcher and Mrs. Glad-man
by bringing over that beef for her,'
quoth my grand-aunt, with a grimace that
expressed defiance of formalities. ' But, Brace,
I still think it a great pity you would not let
me go two miles out of our way to see the
Walls. You are too proud, my goodman.'


Be both my judge and advocate. Miss
Pleasance,' said that proud man, laughing
as he turned to me. 'I assure you, I was
delighted to please Miss Beaumanoir by
visiting several local magnates, whilst we

were in the old gipj. But to drive up to
the door of a marquis, and the lord-lieutenant
of the county, in a butcher's cart ; that really
was a call I thought uncalled for.'

The Farm now came in sight, and Mrs.
Gladman standing by the gate, her whole
face and person exhaling a gentle aura of
welcome. Behind her, John seemed so brimming
over with smiles that his superfluous
satisfaction had to vent itself in extraordinary
contortions of the shoulders, as he held the
top bar with both hands.

Through the trim garden-plot we all
trooped, up the cobble-stoned path into the
cool stone entry of the old dwelling-house.
The doors of the pleasant parlours to right
and left where set invitingly open, as were
the windows ; so that moorland freshness
and heather scents seemed to pervade the

whole household. And what a glorious
supper we had together that evening ! How
pleasantly we chatted outside afterwards in
the summer dusk, till, later again, the three
new-comers went away to the Artist's Cottage
; as Fulke's little home had been called
since, thirty years ago, the first wandering
artist who ever found out the charms of
the valley, had stayed there awhile and
sketched, to the rustic wonderment.

Good night,' said he to me as we stood
together under the starry sky at the gate.
But why not come with us a little
way ? Your sister is coming,'  with a slight
emphasis.

Yes, Rose will go ; but I think I had
better stay at home to-night,' was my
evasively-murmured reply, withdrawing my
hand.

At home he echoed.

Yes,' said Mrs. Gladman behind me, ' I
am glad dear Pleasance looks on the Farm
as home.'

It is something to be ashamed of when
one sister cannot stand by, and see the
happiness of another, without heaviness of
heart ; and a wish to turn away and not
look upon it. Well, tomorrow ; yes, certainly
tomorrow, I would be stronger.
This one evening, at least, let me stay alone
and fight out the fight that must be won
against the selfishness and envy that kept
uprising in my soul.

The gay departing voices died away down
the lane in the sweet darkness. Mrs. Glad-man
had left me to go indoors and give some
orders to Mary Munch, her faithful coadjutor
and cook. I was alone and thinking.

Those few words of my good god-mother's
about my home being at Wheatfield Farm,
was food enough for many thoughts.

Fulke Brace's look at Rose, the meaning
in his voice when he said she would go
down the lane with them, was again before
my eyes, sounded in my ears. My brain
was in a whirl. How dreadful it is to
feel the dull first workings of that sick pain
of jealousy, affecting even the body through
the brain, which may grow at last to such
agonies 1 Who was it truly said, ' The jealous
are the damned.'

I laid my head down on the rail of the
gate, and could have laughed at my own
foolishness softly ; but then I would very
gladly have cried.

Well, well : recovering myself and staring
away into the darkness, with a renewed

VOL. III. M

wave of strength of purpose, facts must be
looked in the face.

My god-mother wished me to stay at
the 1'arm a long time ; she wished me to
think it my home. I should be indebted
to John Gl madman for bread and salt, and
ought to be glad he gave it me, my mother
being so miserably poor ; for though,
with the instincts of a lady, I longed to
work at anything rather than be beholden to
any one, what could the fingers of a lady
do ? Be a governess ; a companion ? I was
hardly clever enough, accomplished enough,
for either over-stocked class. A lady-help,
a children's caretaker ? One's heart sank
at the menial tasks, the terrible change of
daily life habits, companionship involved.
Sew for livelihood, and still keep my own soul
free ? Had I not sewn and sewn in London

till my eyes failed and my fingers were sore ?
and how little, alas ! how little had been
the gain to me, the ease to my mother !

But then in what a net the meshes of circumstances
and affections would have involved
me (with useless pain to all concerned),
if, in the days to come, John Gladman
were to come and ask me, in return for
his goodness, and because of his great affection
for his mother, and hers for me ? . . .
Up the lane at that moment sounded returning
voices ; those of good John and
my little sister. He was singing rather
pathetically, having a fine manly voice, 

But it was not for me that I heard the bells ringing ' 

while Eose followed in a merry twitter, void
of care, 

Sing, hey down, ho down, derry down dee ! '

M 2

CHAPTER VIII.

rnHE revelries at the Parm had begun.
The coach from Bedford had set down
in turn my mother and Amy Pawlett at the
trim gate of Wheatfield Parm. A healthy,
hearty spirit of happiness had taken such hold
of us all, who had been now for some days
regaled on home-made bread and Devonshire
cream, on junkets, and the glorious moorland
air, that our warmth of hospitable reception
made both late-comers enter easily into the
simple Arcadian life we had established : and
feel made free of the noble oak-woods and
brawling trout-streams in the valleys, the
miles of heather moors with their jutting tors.

the Druid cromlechs and stone-circles we
others had all known and loved before.

Amy was no handsomer ; still heavy and
shy in manner and conversation, yet with
such kindly gleams coming across her quiet
features, now and again developing day by
day into a steadily-increasing brightness
while we all tried to cheer her, as it was a
pleasure to see.

That girl Amy is positively learning to be
happy,' said old Aunt Bee, then, with one
of her keen black glances at me, whom she
had silently been watching a good deal in
the past few days. ' Being melancholy is
as much a habit as anything else, I believe;
don't let it grow upon sou, Pleasance.'

My dear aunt, I assure you, I try not,'
was my reply, rather startled.

Humph ! Yes, I believe you do try. I

am sorry you have to try. It's a pity you
could not have married Brace when he
wanted you ! Well ! I wonder at your taste,
child ; but there . I verily believe women
can't help themselves as to likings.'

We two sat alone together, though voices
and laughter a little way off, told where the
rest were fishing. But my old grand-aunt
had crept away with unusual, almost suspicious,
solitariness to this sunny nook,
sheltered among boulders and trees. Her
gait struck me as so lame and withered this
day that I followed her, though she reiterated
with a pleased impatience :

Go back, Pleasance ; go back to the other
young folk. All I want is warmth for my
old bones, and quiet.'

Now I said after a pause  it seemed a long
pause ; a grasshopper had chirped and a

bee gone by with a heavy-laden buzz : ' I
don't Avant to marry, Aunt Bee.'

'Well, child; . . . you may be none the
less happy for that. Look at me ; live as
I did

Another silence. My lips curved with
sorrowful amusement ; how could I ever
become like Aunt Bee?

A merry, mocking laugh sounded shrilly
towards us from the nearest thicket, by
which the river gurgled.

Oh, Mr. Brace, I've caught such a beauty ;
bigger than yours. John, come and put a
worm on for me. They wriggle so  I don't
like it.

That little chit. Rose ! How all the men
make much of her ! ' said Aunt Bee, with
a cynical glance at me.

Not only the men ; women too,' I smiled,

believing she was trying to rouse my jealousy
(and she had called up the tears indeed in
my mind, if not in my eyes). For I had
had such a cheery time of late, and dearly
though I loved my little sister, it seemed
hard it might not always be so. So I said :
Rose always was my mother's darling, and
even with Mrs. Gladman, too, 

Not with me, Pleasance,' suddenly said
the old lady, divining my thought, and laying
a withered hand, not unlike a bird's claw, a
moment on mine. ' Of course, I am very
fond of Rose ; but it is human nature for a
young soul like you to wish to be first
with some one. You are first with me, if
that is any consolation ; for I fear your little
sister has supplanted you. . . But there ! we
won't speak about it, and here is your mother

My mother moved gently towards us, picking
her steps over the broken ground with
dainty care. How much more fitted she
seemed to stroll in trim garden-walks, or
take a gentle drive for exercise behind high-stepping
horses, paying due afternoon calls, or
playing Lady Bountiful to the parish ! Graceful
as ever, yet her shoulders were now just a
little bent ; gentle as ever, yet her manner was
often a trifle indifferent, if not weary. Out
on the wild moorland, or lower in the pleasant
champaign country where the trout-streams
brawled merrily through oak-wooded gorges,
whilst we were all glad in the exhilaration
of the mountain air, she moved among us
like a being of another sphere. She was
pleased to be with us all ; no doubt felt the
change from penury and the mean little
London house to the plentiful hospitality of

Wlieatiield arm as grateful, even more than
was shown in her manner ; yet her heart was
far away, her mid absent.

She only really lived in the past ; at Stoke
with our dear father in the dead life once
more ; though all her present existence was
devoted to the duties she owed her children.
The one being; whose even edit dominoes or
wishes could still rouse her to lively interest,
was Beau, her idol  and now the pain of
that maternal affection must too often have
been greater than the pleasure.

As she came towards us at that moment,
holding an open letter, her eyes were shining
with pleasure ; her figure looked slim, almost
girlish again in her widow's dress. All the
fishing party followed her ; evidently she had
imparted some great pleasure to them, and
now came further to share it with his.

Beau is coming !  dear boy, he has
written, inviting himself to the Parm ; the one
being wanted to complete the happiness of
our party she exclaimed, looking round in
glad expectation of confirming applause.

We all tried to look pleased at her
pleasure :  otherwise, the expressions of
universal joy were awkward. Only Amy
Pawdett murmured, with a new light in
her eyes such as I had never noticed there
before :

I am so glad ! Is it not delightful ? '

And Mrs. Gladman, with that calm, welcoming
raotherliness of hospitality which
would .have made her glad to extend her
wings over, not only her friends, but her
friends' friends again, if possible  to the
extremest limits of both accommodation and
kindly feeling, answered :

Beaumanoir will be very welcome here,
first, because lie is this dear father's son ; and
he could have few stronger claims on us ;
and afterwards, when we know him better, I
hope, for his own sake.'

Yes ; you will like him ; every one does !
He is too much a favourite, perhaps, for his
own success in life,' my mother said with
pride, yet a sigh. ' He has been taking a
little trip in Brittany with some other artists,
but did not like to settle to work again without
running down here for a few days ; ours
seemed such a pleasant party, from my letters.
A few more days' holiday will do him
so much good,' apologising. ' He will be
here tomorrow evening.'

My mother moved away, as if treading
on air, since she had heard her good news.
Mrs. Gladman and Amy Pawlett, kind souls.

who both shared her gladness from different
motives, went too.

The rest of us looked at each other in
silence. Then said old Miss Beaumanoir,
tartly : *' Humph, so this fine London gentleman
arrives tomorrow evening, does he?
. Well, children, let us all go off tomorrow
morning, for a good ramble and picnic, before
he spoils our fun

We Browns, brother and sisters, gazed
at our grand-aunt with the admiring air of
guilty conspirators, who had not dared to
speak out, as she did. Both Fulke Brace
and John, as men and no relations, looked
discreetly away. But they, as well as we,
hailed the idea with suspicious alacrity, notwithstanding.


CHAPTER IX.

That a warm and balmy September
morning was that of our picnic !
We had gone into the great oak wood
which covered the steeply-rising ground behind
John Gladman's farm, and that spread
irregularly down into little gorges and valleys
in the heart of the hills. It was almost too
warm still in the open glades, but the sunlight
effects were charming; orlintino; through
the trees, on brake and brambles, and glorious
brown-gold bracken, in which the red Devon
cattle stood shoulder-high here and there,
chewing the cud, and staring at us with dark

eyes of gentle wonder. We all gathered
ferns or mountain-ash berries as we went,
to adorn the Farm on our home-coming.
This spoil was heaped high in the donkey -
chaise, which held the three elder ladies and
the provisions, and that soon looked like a
moving bower.

On one side of the chaise went Bob,
chaffing and teasing Aunt Bee ; on the other
side demurely walked Amy, talking to my
mother. Good girl, she was fondly and
touchingly attentive to her.

All morning I had eagerly led the way,
up hill and down dale, with John Gladman.
This one day, I had vowed within myself,
Fulke Brace and Rose should thoroughly
enjoy themselves ; for when Beau came he
was so ridiculously jealous of Fulke that . . .

Jealous !  that one word was a torch

lighting my own dark heart. For the miserable
truth was, that in the last few days I
had grown deadly jealous myself of my dear
little sister. Oh, I struggled and strove against
it, and yet could not help it. Each time my
own especial old friend showed his new liking
for Rose openly, it made me so sore-hearted
and sick, I longed to creep away and be
alone. With one great effort to be magnanimous,
I had now begun the fight against my
secret sin, never by word or look to betray
myself or vex them, and more  carrying the
war so far  that I even sought means to throw
those two together. ' Come on, John Let
us climb up to the Pixies' Rock,' said my
persuasive tongue. We had struggled for a
mile down the steep wood, pushing through
thickets, catching in brambles, stumbling
over roots and rocks, as I disdained the

cart-track ; and now at last a lovely bit of
sunny turf opened before us stretching upto
a rocky mound, rough with brushwood,
and crowned with great boulders.

Bless me, isn't it very hot ? ' meekly
asked my poor squire, wiping his brow,
*Ton my honour, it's queer that a slim pale
girl like you should have so much spirit in
her, Pleasance, when I'm nearly dead beat.
I say  Brace and Rose are not far behind
lis ; I watched them as we came along ;
don't you think we might wait for them ? '

No, no. They don't want us  and you
can rest up there when we have lunch.'
So on we went, scrambling, toiling, and panting
in the sun. How tired I was, and
inwardly tempted to look back and see those
others ! But it was much better for myself

to keep them out of sight. I was rather
vol III. N

sorry for poor John, too, who had tried occasional
awkward attempts at gallantry, all of
which had been promptly repulsed. To be
made do my bidding all morning, yet not
allowed to think himself favoured, was clearly
puzzling.

Arrived at the summit, at last. I sank
with a sigh of relief under the grateful shade
of the Pixie Stones. These were great rocks
cropping out from the greensward, seeming,
like most tors, a pile of huge irregular slabs,
placed a-top of each other, that seen from a
distance took grotesque outlines.

There is the donkey-cart coming up the
slope over yonder  the easiest way. They
mean to have lunch on the fairies' bowling-green.
U'onl I be glad of it, just, after this
climb ? ' Poor John was puffing still, as he
spoke with a sound of coming rapture and

a groan of manly pity for himself, after his
late exertions.

Cheer up ! You can sit and rest on that
stone, John. After all, if you have tired
yourself, it was to please me,' was my consoling
remark, purposely not uttered with
too much tenderness.

'Look here, Pleasance, I wonder now  
whether you really do like me to please you.'

I gave a start. What on earth was my old
playfellow, my good god-mother's son, my
kind host, going to say next ? He had taken
off his hat to mop his heated brows ; and was
now transfixing me with a gentle slow stare,
that on his flushed face reminded one somehow
of one of the red cattle down in the
wood. With a woman's first instinct in all
dangers, I tried to cover my confusion bywords.


Why, John, what do you mean ? Any
woman likes to be pleased in little things
like this by any man;  don't you know
that ? Besides, you and I have been such
good friends for your mother's sake. . .'

Yes, yes ; that is just it. But even a
mother's wishes ought not to be everything in
some matters. So when you asked me to
walk on to-day and leave the others, I thought
I would be glad to know what you really
thought, yourself, of me, Pleasance  don't you
see ? '

Hereupon, to hide embarrassment, John
began kicking the ground so heavily, that it
was well he wore the thickest of hob-nailed
boots. This was a pretty plight ; and all
brought about by my misguided self-sacrifice!

Oh, John, how can you vex me so?' I cried,
feeling my eyes flash with resentment of his

stupidity, yet my voice unable to sound more
than hurt, he stood so blushing and confused.
I simply and only asked you to walk with
me, because / thought the others didn't loan
us  there ! '

'Well, if that is so, I'm sorry I spoke.
I'm sorry, too, to have vexed you, Pleasance:
such was never my intention, but quite the contrary.
. . . However, I think I did the right
thing, for honesty is the best policy. But as
to the others not wanting us, I  don't  know
but what one man is as good as another.'
With which oracular sentence, John Gladman
slowly turned away and left me alone.

How mean and poor I felt ! To have
almost brought about a declaration from
John, and annoyed him ; annoyed myself ;
annoyed my good god-mother ! Well, well,
it was for the sake of Eose and Mr,

Brace. . . So I sat alone and thought what
a coil was here, and how would it end;
would it be better to go away?

Now, I liked John dearly, and the life at
the Farm, too. I should not have minded, all
the rest of my days, pouring out the good
fellow his tea ; cutting him bread and butter
off the big, home-made loaves ; or even darning
his socks of an evening. But to do this
of free will was one thing ; to accept ifc as a
duty to John, another. Besides, like other
imperfect ordinary men, he had his fits of
crossness, when his mare had a sore back, or
the farm-bailiff had put the sheep into a
wrong field, and in such moments of human
frailty he would speak surlily even to his
mother. Well! did Pleasance Brown love
good John, she could very meekly bear this,
knowing his honest brow would soon relax.

But  only liking him  and being a fastidious,
sensitive woman, might she not become
angered, too ? worse !  go on to pick secret
faults with his bluff country manners, his lazy
voice, and round good-humoured but not
much thinking face. All which traits, I well
knew, that given a little true affection, my
mind would soon, womanly fashion, train
itself into regarding, first, as formidably characteristic
; next, as dear to me personally ;
lastly, as pleasant, perhaps even adorable.

But then affection will not come at will ;
of all growths it is shyest and most capricious
in choosing where it will strike root.

So I was sitting, sorry and solitary enough,
when round the rocks came Rose, her eyes
alight, but not, it seemed, with pleasure.

Oh, Pleasance, so here you are at last !
Well, I do think you need hardly have gone

right away from us all the morning, as you
did  you must have heard us calling you
both, and I  I  I  call it really unkind, so
I do. Mr. Brace thought it very strange 
that I can tell you

But, Eose, I only did it fancying it
would please you. My dear ! you can't think
anything else ? '

Think ! I did think it was so ostentatious 1
Such a marked way of showing what you
wished,' cried Eose, fuming in a little storm
of strange anger. ' Oh, people may be very
fond of each other, still I, for one, would
always consider appearances, especially before
men. But then, thank goodness ! 1 never
was romantic or impulsive myself.'

Rose. . ' The tears were fairly in my
eyes now. It did seem too hard ; after my
secret self-sacrifice. But mv voice had 2:one

straight home to my sister's warm if hasty
little heart.

Forgive me, my poor patient Pleasance.
Don't mind what I said, dear  please  
please.'

But, Rose, you must know best. If you
think that for appearance' sake . . .'

Yes, that's just it : for appearance' sake,
you know,' echoed Rose, drying her own eyes,
though why she had quarrelled and cried with
me seemed hard to tell. Only our sex in
love, 1 reflected, are ridiculously ready to be
nervous and cry at anything ; witness myself
in secret.

I'll talk to Mr. Brace, then, this afternoon ;
if you wish it,' I continued, with a sudden
pleasing of my heart, yet feeling sad enough
next moment, heaven knows !

Pleasance, you are an angel ! If you

don't really mind, dear, just only for this one
afternoon. . . . I'll never ask you again, you
may be sure of that

Away went my sister, seeming unusually
subdued but satisfied, all her plumes smoothed
again. What a contradictory little mortal she
was ! But I concluded she had somehow
fallen out with that kindliest and best of men
my old friend, Mr. Fullest

is pleasant, after being healthfully tired,
to rest couched in the golden bracken that is
a glory on the hill-side, on a rarely beautiful
summer's afternoon.

Oh gift of God ! Oh perfect day :
Whereon shall no man work, but play ;
Whereon it is enough for me,
JSTot to be doing, but to be ! '

It is more pleasant still, dien close by on
the turf, enjoying the same large blue sky

bending over ns, and the fair violet hills
across the green valley, thinking with oneself,
speaking all to oneself now and again,
looking up in one's eyes, is the kindest, best,
truest man of men one has ever known.

What Fulke Brace and T talked of all that
long summer's day it were hard to say ; only
I know I was almost perfectly happy. There
was no treason to Rose. She herself had
ordained my stolen happiness. Strange
enough, that Pulke seemed to enjoy himself as
much ! But then, through relief of feeling, I
showed an undisguised pleasure in his society
that perhaps helped to beget pleasure : and a
man can be ' happy with either,' when a
woman can  not.

But, afterwards, I always remembered how
when we chanced to speak of his pretty
cottage, just visible two miles below us, near

one of the curves of the winding Teign ; and
in remorse I seized the long-looked for chance
to exclaim :

Ah, yes, it is pretty, as you say, and no
doubt endeared by associations of your
mother. But still it is not Stoke ! Oh, Mr.
Brace, I regret so bitterly you ever offered to
join Bob in farming at the Barn. It was
generous, self-sacrificing ; but if you had not
buried your money in the ground there you
could have bought back your old home.'

Such a gleam of friendship, of almost consolation,
from the kind grey eyes opposite
met my sorrowful glance, that I knew we
were both touched to full sympathy.

Don't think any more about that Fate
was against me ; that is all,' said Fulke
softly. Then smiling at me : 'And as to
burying my money, why I it is coming up

again in splendid crops. You should see the
Barn now  you would hardly know it again.
Bob and I will make a small fortune out of it
some day. He is a splendid partner ; always
cheery, always hard-working. No : I can
never regret having helped him, and I believe
that henceforth he will always be able to keep
himself well afloat.' Then musingly, after a
pause : ' I only wish for the sake of others
besides him, that the robbery and neglect of
your grand aunt's property had been stopped
years ago; or that she had more than the
Barn itself to leave to you and yours.'

That is hopeless,' I sighed. ' You know
when the fire broke out at the Barn, all her
fortune, which she had made over in notes to
my grandfather that very day, hoping to save
the family property  was burnt.'

'Was the money burnt, or lost?  that is the

question. Sir Reginald Beaumanoir, being in
ill-health, and harassed by difficulties, caught
a chill that night, they say, and died in a very
few hours of that and the shock. He had just
strength and sense enough left before death
to tell his sister he rejoiced her money was
safe, as her generous sacrifice was now useless.
Then he recommended his infant daughter,
your mother, to her care, and so he died.
But though he knew most of the Baron's
Stay was destroyed by that night's fire, no
thought of this money being lost seems to
have crossed his mind.'

*Why, you know all the story. It has
hardly been spoken of since we were
children,' I exclaimed, surprised.

Yes, I know it well. Indeed, for years,
I may own to having tried, by every possible
means, to trace that money, for friendship's

sake to your old aunt. It was in Bank of
England notes for five hundred each, the
numbers of which were known said Mr.
Brace, in a matter-of-fact tone of musing
regret at his failure, evidently considering
his self-imposed task quite an ordinary act.
Well, I had almost given up the idea, too,
when your grand-aunt revived it strangely
the other day, by hoping the money might
yet be found before she died.'

Good heavens, Mr. Brace !  You don't
think Aunt Bee is ill, that she is likely
to die?'

A very woman !  jumping at once to the
wildest conclusions. I don't think anything
of the sort; in fact, I believe I am beginning
to

Think that nought is worth a thought,
And I'm a fool for thinking.'

But, by the way, what o'clock do you think
it is?'

I haven't an idea. But it can't be late,
for there is John Gladman still picking
blackberries for Rose, and he is as punctual
as an eight-day clock, for his meals.'

It wants just three-quarters of an hour to
supper ! ' We sprang to our feet in dismay ;
and this time it was we who called the other
twain.

When we all reached the Farm, Beau had
arrived. But as Mrs. Gladman indulgently
remarked, she knew at lunch we had all had
such a pleasant morning that no doubt the
afternoon had been the same ! Dear soul 
not quite the same !

CHAPTER X.

fVF all the Dartmoor valleys, surely none
can compare in loveliness with Tingle
Gorge, that down at its lower end has even
a touch of the sublime ; where Cranbrook
and Glastonbury Hills rise and confront each
other grandly across the narrow pass, one in
naked brownness, the other darkly clothed
with wood.

Why this is very fine ! Really, Mrs.
Gladman, I had no idea there was anything
so fine in this part of the world,' cried
Beau, as Ave all went along the gorge by a
narrow path midway on the steep hill side.

Hang him ! Why he isn't satisfied with

VOL. III.

patronizing us all, but he must be patting
nature on the back now, too,' growled Bob,
who was close behind me.

Oh, hush. Bob,' I murmured. ' Don't
you see how happy mother is ; she can't take
her eyes off him? He cannot help his
nature after all. And we ought to be very
glad he is so pleased with himself always,
and with Dartmoor now  poor Beau ! '

Poor Beau ! ' mimicked my younger
brother still angrily. ' As if life was harder
for him than others ! But because a fellow
is handsome and idle, you women must
needs pamper and pity him  and make him
only a spoilt fine gentleman.'

Thus grumbling. Bob strode ahead, calling
out, .' I say. Amy, the rest are all so slow !
Won't you come on with me to the bridge? '
But Amy, who was walking demurely on

Beau's other side, in company with ray
mother, had hier eyes and whole stoutly
simple being so entirely engrossed by our
handsome elder brother, she did not even
notice his call ; till Beau laughing answered
for her with lordly lightness :

No, no ! go on by yourself, my good lad.
We can't spare Miss Pawlett.' And poor
Amy, becoming aware of her own absence
of mind, blushed over her brown plain face,
but looked so pleased at the idea of Beau
wanting her, it almost made her handsome.

I felt quite sorry, watching it all. Plainly

Beau was no fallen star of fashion in Amy's

eyes; but like an honest girl she liked bini

as much as when he was heir to his fair

western home, and was petted and courted

by far lovelier women, who now  forgot him.

Her humble incense was no doubt grateful at

o 2

this deserted shrine, for Beau now continued
all that afternoon to pay her extravagant
attention. It seemed to amuse him, thus to
flutter poor Amy, and madden Bob, who, no
doubt, disliked seeing his usual companion
appropriated and ' made a fool of.' It was
an Arcadian diversion, suitable to Wheatfield
Farm and moor-Kfe ; just as in London
he tried to put on Bohemianism,  poor
Beau!

As to the rest of us. Rose and I kept side
by side, as ever since the day of our misunderstanding
in the oak woods we had
silently done. What was her secret motive, I
felt shy of asking. Mine was the fear of somehow
again playing a wrong part in those relations
between Burke Brace and herself, that
were so inexplicable (as generally happens)
to all, excepting those most concerned.

As usual, John Blackman and this friend
Brace were beside us. The latter chatted
with Rose. Afterwards, I could not remember
that he ever directly addressed me.
Only if I said anything, however trivial, to
either of the others, I saw he took notice of
it even though they might not; and if I
coveted a special wild-flower by the path he
seemed to divine so, and would give it me
without being asked. His eyes seemed to
read the wishes in mine ; mine silently
thanked him. It was a strange footing of
tacit intimacy, a secret sweetness that
frightened yet allured me.

How beautiful that walk was ! Still I
remember it after the lapse of years, as I
heard the others chatter and went with them
strange and silent, but happy in the present,
not daring to think of the future  feeling

rather than seeing at times the look that
seemed to say, ' I understand you ; you have
a friend left in the world.' But he did not
understand me then :  no, no : not quite.
He understood Rose.

The bare hill, along the steep side of which
we went, was here at Sharpitor's rugged point
all a sweet flush of violet heather, shading
into soft brown. Across the gorge rose up
thick green oak woods to an equal height.
They seemed moving with us as we went as if
walking in air on our high and narrow path,
winding by curve and cliff  a curious feeling.
Here and there, as we peered down, shaggy
Dartmoor ponies could be seen grazing on
the steep slopes, burnt so slippery with
summer drought it was a wonder they found
foothold. And, still further below, the Teign
could be seen now and again frothing in

gleams through the alders and greenwood.
It could be better heard, now brawling
hoarse by its great Logan-stone and fallen
boulders, now tinkling with that gentle river
murmur that ears long attuned thereto, listen
for with longing as for a well-loved charm.

What part of England can compare with
Devonshire ? Its breezy, health-giving moors,
where the herds of red cattle and the half-wild
ponies are often the only living creatures
to be seen in leagues of yellow gorse and
sweet heather : the deep lanes, that as the
old song on them truly says 

With bud, blossom, berry are richly besprent ' 

the open glades where glowing red campion
and blue-bells mingle in masses of such
vivid colour as startle our eyes, accustomed
to the usual more sober English green and

grey hues of landscape and sky ; the streams
that brawl and babble doAvn the valleys ;
the solemn great rocks, once Druid altars.
Then here is the home of ferns, from the
fairy tribes fringing every rough stone wall
with delicate green, to the great and worshipful
lady-ferns growing in cool damp spots
in the deep woods, in such palm-like beauty
as is elsewhere undreamed of.

We had tea at an old mill, not far from
Single Bridge. Leaning idly afterwards
on the moor-stone parapet of the bridge, in
the niches built wisely, long ago, for foot-folk
to avoid passing pack-horses, or a
waggon broadly laden, (the bridge being
but narrow,) we watched the stream.

'What is the charm of running water, I
wonder? It seems to draw one's gaze, and
to keep it always.'

It is the movement of life in the earth ;
tha same as the secret of Spring. One seems
to see one of the pulses of Native beating
said Fulke Brace.

It's to watch for trout . . . aw, at least
that's why I like to look over here,' said
John good-humouredly and loudly at the
same moment from the other side.

It makes me think of all sorts of things,'
cried Bob ; * especially of our jolly days here
long ago. Eh, Brace  eh, Pleasance ? ' We
two named smiled at each other.

The March Hare was leaning with half
his body over the parapet, gloating in ecstasy
at all the sprite-like finny forms, that as you
watched would quiver and flicker over the
sunlit gravelly shallows, like little shadows,
disappearing from view in the deeper brown
water. Bless him ! he recalled to our

memory every sunny open, each clump of
willows or alders, all along the \vm cling
Teign from here up past Crawford bridge
with its village beyond the meadows ; by
Holy Street trees and rocks, with their
memories of the Druids, and old mill beloved
of artists ; to the woods of beautiful Gidleigh,
where the little river comes down from the
moor beyond through a pass so full of big
rocks, and little rocks, and trees, that it is
well-nigh impassable.

My eyes ! there rose a beauty,' cried
Bob, as a larger fish than usual sprang up,
showing his silvery side, and dropped again.
Somehow this makes me think of the last
good day's fishing I ever had, at home 
at dear old Stoke. St. Leger was one
of us, and you. Beau. I remember he
got tired of it very early, and went away

home like an idiot  though he was a good
fisherman.'

He got badly hooked himself. Eh !
Pleasance, have you heard the end of our
mutual friend Clair and the fair Jenny, his
spouse?' said Beau, with a jeering laugh.
'No; what is it? I have heard almost
nothing of them for a year,' said I quietly ;
though had there been a sore spot in my
heart left. Beau's tone would have been as
hot iron to it. Beside me, Mr. Brace looked
far away, as I was well aware : it was kind
of him, but he need not have done so.

The so-called Begum is a Begum no
more ; that you all know probably, and how
she lost all she was worth, in the most literal
sense (namely, her money). But the latest
news is, that she has become, at least, a
jrass toidow once more. Poor Clair found

her temper so unbearable without her income,
that they first agreed to differ, and then
finally to part. So, as she pleases to live
at his home, and that she drives him out
of his senses, he has scraped up all he
could, and joined some other fellows, for a
good time in the Rockies. Deuced hard,
to be done out of the old woman's fortune
in that way ! '

Serve him right, when he sold himself,'
cried Bob, flushing in indignation, while
John slowly added a * Yes ; just so,' and
Rose vivaciously echoed, with a eyes  just
so, indeed ! '

I don't see it. Every man is bound todo
the best he can for himself,' retorted Beau.
All I can say, is, if I get the chance of
marrying any woman with a fortune, that
would keep me as her lord and master in

ease, won't I just snatch at it  that's all !
Money, money, that's the main thing.'

There was a silence after this. Poor Amy
shrank into herself, as if lier short-lived joy
was withered. My mother looked pained :
she thought, no doubt, of Alice. We all
felt jarred, more or less, by Beau's tone and
words, as if among the gentle Arcadian he
thought us, had come a sneering cynic from
the great cruel world, where he had learned 

the hideous trick
Of laughing at whate'er is great or holy,'

Fulke Brace broke the uneasy spell by
telling Mrs. Gladman, in his pleasantly
masterful way, that it was time to go home.
My silent blessing was upon him, always
ready to help others in great troubles orin
little difficulties. To quote Charles the
Second's famous epigram, he was certainly

never in the waj and never out of the
way.'

On the homeward path, I said little to
any one ; yet, while my eyes strayed, as if heedful
of nothing else, now on the green gorge
below us with the ribbon of water half-hidden
in its heart, now on the breezy, honeyed,
heather slopes rising on our right, whence the
bees were taking their last heavy evening
flight, I was thinking and wondering to myself
on something nearer even than this fair
nature my own woman's heart. The old
refrain, ' How did I know I should love him
now, whom that day I held not dear ? '  the
wonder that so many other women must have
felt, who were loved, and loved others, through
the many bygone ages. How could one
have been so blind to this man's perfections
in the past ? And now it was too late !

None of the rest said very much either.
Even Rose's chirrup was hushed ; though,
like the ever busy bee she was, her little
hands were slowly arranging great bunches of
heather which John Gladman and Mr. Brace
vied in gathering for the self-elected young
housekeeper of Wheatfield Farm.

Only Beau was irrepressibly gay. As if
partly conscious of our different feelings, and
amused by his Mephistopheles role, with a
sense of evil-joy, he rallied most of us in turn ;
then laughing at our discomfiture, hummed
snatches of French songs. I caught the
words now and again of de Musset's ' Tout
sen va connie lafiiineej

Mais que dis-je 1 ainsi va le nonce.

Ferme tes yeux, tes bras, ton ane ;
Adieu ma vie, adieu Madame,
Ainsi va le monde ici-bas.'

At last Mr. Brace, coming up beside
me, said in a quiet under-tone :

What wild spirits your brother is in
to-day ! '

Yes. I wish he was not quite so much
so,'  with a sigh.

He vexed you ; I am so sorry This
was in a still lower, kindlier tone, through
which sounded a fine vein of such curiously-regretful
sympathy that I divined Avhat was
in his mind, at once.

You think I was hurt about Mr. St.
Leger. No ; no  what I told you before is
more then ever true now,  that he is quite
dead to me, and passed out of my life.
Thank you ! I saw you felt for me. But as
you have always been such a good friend,
look me in the eyes now ; and see for yourself
that I can say most honestly, I am sorry for

Clair St. Leger, but otherwise his memory
does not affect me at all.'

As he was bidden, Eulke Brace did look at
my face straight with his keen, searching grey
vision. We were alone for the moment at the
bend of a path  and my eyes unaccountably
fell.

Oh shame ! Yet I knew he was not thinking
of any past Clair St. Leger at that
moment of swift rushing change of
thought. Did he guess, too, that my flush
revealed consciousness of the fact ? In haste,
I added : ' But as to Beau, I have sometimes
a superstitious feeling that it is unlucky for
people to laugh so much ; that they are fey,
as the Scotch say, and it bodes misfortune.'

We will hope not,' replied my companion
absently, as leaving the path we came out on
the open hill-top of Hunter's Tor.

VOL. III. p

The sun was setting in widespread glory ;
the outgoing of the evening was praising its
Creator. Its sinking flame lit up the far
moorlands, and the cultivated vale stretching
below us, -the ' champaign country ' around
wild Dartmoor. It brightened the stony
hill-side of Hidden Park, With its strong-growing
Scotch firs and great white-bolted
beeches. It lit up the whole land with one
of those gleams of transcendent, but as
evanescent loveliness, that seem sent from
another world.

There is your cottage down yonder, Brace,'
exclaimed Beau; who, intoxicated with his own
high spirits and artistic delight in the beauty
of the scene, sprang on and on from grassy
ridge to rock of the steep tor that here overlooked
the junction of the gorge and wider
vale. ' Come, as your house is the nearest

here, we ought to draw you for hospitality.'
Prophetic words, could he but have known it !

Come back, Beau. Take care. Brown ! '
called both Bob and Fulke Brace in warning
tones. ' The grass is burnt as slippery as ice
there. We know Hunter's Tor well. . .'

Why, do you both suppose I can't take
care of myself? ' came back the jeering answer;
disregarding a slow-sounding piece of advice
just begun by John Gladman, who had only
now realized his guest's danger.

I can see Beau still! The handsome
figure outlined against the sky, dressed artist-like
in a light, easy-fitting summer suit; a
straw hat of strange Bohemian shape on that
handsome head which any mother's eye must
have fondly admired.

A moment or two I saw him, so ; then 

he disappeared ! . . .

p 2

There was a wild cry ; but it came from
us all, not from him. We rushed forward,
reckless of danger, to gaze over the edge of
the steep slope, where, down below sheer
rock and outcropping bushes that yet could
not give him friendly aid, lay  a something !

Will he live ? ' we asked the doctor some
hours later, with hushed breath and fearful
faces.

Yes ; at least we may hope so, with great
care. But still there is terrible injury : poor
fellow, poor fellow ! '

We were in the Artist's Cottage, to which
they had carried him as the nearest shelter :
Fulke Brace's home. And poor Beau, so
little while ago, had laughingly claimed its
hospitality 1

CHAPTER XL

IVrOW we felt poor, indeed.

Beau, our unhappy brother, was lying
incapable of being moved for weeks, it might
be months to come ; and he was under Mr.
Brace's roof. Under the roof of the man we
seemed thus to have twice dispossessed, once
at Stoke, now here again. He had generously
given up the little cottage entirely to
my mother and to Bob, who was, could it be
believed ? the most useful, gentlest-handed of
men-nurses.

Each day, by turns. Rose and I spent
hours watching by the sick-bed in the

darkened room. At night, my mother drove
us away, almost fiercely, to Wheatfield Farm,
when we begged to stay and share her toils.
We were young and wanted sleep, she said ;
nothing hurt her  she had little to live for,
now. In truth, with the strange selfishness
of love, she could not bear sharing the care
of her idol with any others.

A fortnight had gone like a dream. So
many slow leaden days ; and yet this evening,
thinking back, it seemed but yesterday we
had come up the gorge. I could smell the
heather again ; see the sunset !

Rose and I were sitting close together in a
little study at Wheatfield Farm. It only
looked out on the homely back premises ; outhouses
with brown thatched roofs, a little
courtyard where strayed some clucking hens
with their tender broods. A heavy shower

fell fast ; but what did the view matter to
lis ? We had come here to be undisturbed,
and were looking sadly at each other.

A cripple for life ! always on his back.
How terrible for him !  poor, poor Beau ! ' I
murmured, repeating the dread fiat of the
two, best west-country doctors we had sent
for, regardless of expense.

It is dreadful for all of us. The Cottage
is so tiny, only barely room for three persons
in it ; yet Beau cannot be moved, they say,
for months said Rose, knitting her brows
together in the endeavour to be firm and
practical,  our dear little housekeeper; but
looking to me as a master-spirit to shape our
future plans, which she would carry out.

Oh, Pleasance, what shall we do ? '

We will get rid of the " Dusthole," ' said
I, meaning the little London house that had

never been ' home ' for a day ; then, desperately
: ' And we must pay Mr. Brace what
rent we can, no matter what he so Idndly
says ! Then, let one of us stay with mother,
and the other one go elsewhere, out into the
world. Alice is fond of you still, Rose ; she
will never more ask me,' To my surprise,
the tears came up in Rose's eyes, that were
usually as bright-brown as a berry.

Anything but that ; ask me anything else,
dear Pleasance : I'll do whatever you tell me ;
I'll be a nursery-governess, or even a housemaid.
It was such slavery last year ! I never
told any one, for as we are so poor I knew it
was right to stay, but '  in a lower voice 
Alice Alas so angry with me about Sir John
Dudgeon. You remember him at Broad-hams.
The Golden Calf, we called him ; a
rich fool.'

And you refused him, is that it ? Come ;
tell me, Rose ? '

Yes ; of course. But it was not because
I said no, but because he had asked unexplained
Rose, dropping her voice and
speaking very fast. ' You see she likes him
so much ; and oh ! I wish people did not
hint and laugh about her.'

My own story almost repeated. Would it
always be so, to the end, with Alice,  poor
Alice !  once ours. But she had indeed
passed far out of the humble circle of our
lives. It might be we should never more
come together; never, at least, as we once
had been.

Dear child ; dear Rose ! And we did
not guess you had this to bear.'

Oh, what did it matter, you had far worse ;
and you never said a word after that time at

Broadhams. That helped me, when I remembered
it,' said my little sister bravely.

At this we drew close together and comforted
each other. The rain still came down.

We can't both stay on here,' mmniiured
Rose. Then, with apparent effort, she went
on. ' But Mrs. Gladman always expected
you for a long, long visit ; so send me to
the Cottage ; I'll  I'll promise not to come
up here too often.' Whereupon, to my
great surprise, she burst out sobbing.

Now what did this mean ?

Rose,' I cried, ' do you think  tell me
honestly, dear, as between sisters ! no other
living soul shall know of it  do you think
you will see less of Idm down there at the
Cottage than up here ? Is that it ? '

Oh, what is the use of talking about me ?
You like him, and his mother wants it : and

you know you will marry him some clay
uttered Eose with a little desperate cry.

His mother  whom do you mean ? ' I
exclaimed, a new light breaking in on me.

I mean John Gladman, of course.'

At the great sense of relief her words
gave me, 1 burst out laughing, from pure
nervousness. My sister looked at me utterly
astonished. Then she saw there was no
unkindness meant.

Oh, Eose, Eose ; and I thought it was
Eulke Brace all the time ! '

Well, then, you were blind. Why, we
were only great friends, because he told me a
little ; and I guessed more about you and
himself. Oh dear, I did so hope you would
change your mind, Pleasance.'

Whereat we two once more drew close, this
time even closer together ; and long-repressed

mutual confidences were eased from our hearts
like a load.

Remember, I don't how if he is still of
the same mind ? ' said Rose. ' Dear me, who
is that calling ? '

Rose, Rose, my pet, will you come and
help me to cover the pots of blackberry jam ? '
said Mrs. Gladman, putting in her kindly face
at the door a moment. ' What, Pleasance, are
you offering, too ? No, no, dear child, I only
want one of my daughters, really ; so I shall
carry off my useful Martha, and Mary is to
sit still there till presently I come to rest, and
then she is to talk to me.'

CHAPTER XII.

'pHEY had both gone and left me alone.
I sat with my hands lightly folded in
my lap, and thought.

The rain shower was almost over. The
evening sun with one last glorious outburst
lit up all the valley, and shone on the
rough-paved courtyard and the thatched outhouse
roofs before me.

Have you ever watched a newly-thatched
roof in the rain ? how the myriad drops run
pealing down it in thousands of crystal
globes, each minute but distinct, while every
straw-stalk holds a dewdrop at its tip I And

now with that ray of sun the wet eaves begin
to gleam ; and now again, when the rainbow
appears arching over the Single valley, each
drop flashes back a ray of light till the whole
thatched surface fairly glitters with diamonds.
It is exquisite ; it is a poem.

So I thought, and a voice said behind me :
Yes, how different from a commonplace
slated roof, down which the rain pours in a
dismal, even, grey stream.'

I started. Fulke Brace stood behind me,
his eyes having been quietly following the
direction of mine. ' Have I frightened yon ?
I am so sorry ; ' he Event on, ' only guessing
what you were watching I coidd not resist
looking too, a moment ; before saying what I
have come to speak to you about.'

How well he always knew what was passing
in my mind; and indeed he never startled

me  we were too much in sympathy for
that.

You have something to say to me, Mr.
Brace ? I am so glad you have come ; for I
wanted to speak to you, too. ~Foy these last
two days I have wished to talk to you about
the Cottage, but you have always avoided me.'

'Not avoided J/(9/ returned Brace quickly,
meeting my grateful eyes, and turning his
away.

May I speak first ? Your grand-aunt has
been telling me to-day that she feels unwell,
and is pining for home. Now 1 don't wish
to alarm you, but it seems to me that when
she has this longing, the sooner she is taken
back to the Barn the better.'

Aunt Bee ! What ? Oh, you don't think
her really ill, do you, Mr. B.acy ? I have
been uneasy myself, but . . .'

'But, as I said before, you need not be
frightened. Only she is really an old woman ;
though she has almost taught us all to forget
that. And  I do not think she ought to be
allowed to go back alone.'

1 see. You think I ought to go with
her?'

My friend nodded.

'And leave my mother and Beau?' He
silently nodded again ; then added :

Yes. They can do without you, but to
her it may make all the difference to have
you.' Then seeing me pale and wistful at the
new thoughts and fears thus opened up, he
tried to give me consolation. Still, I had
seen my old aunt drooping even before Beau's
terrible accident. That had withdrawn my
attention from her. But if she who had
hardly ever had an ache in her whole previous

life, and never flinched from our side in
trouble, now owned to feeling ill, and wanted
to creep away from us all to her lonely house,
it meant that age and health must be going
ill with the brave old lady.

Yes, yes ; I will go with her of course,' I
murmured. ' She has devoted herself to us all
her life, and now . . . But surely her own
fireside, her old associations, will all revive
her. Oh, they must ! dear old Aunt Bee !
When ought we to start, do you think, Mr.
Brace ? Please advise me.'

If you are not too hurried, I think we ought
to leave tomorrow. You know Miss Beau-manor's
restless ways. She has often started
on her travels at a few hours' notice.'

We ? what do you mean, Mr. Brace ? ' as
some inkling of his intention dawned on
my mind.

VOL. III. Q

That I am going with you. It is too
much for you to have such a charge alone,
if your grand-aunt were to get ill by the
way ; and she is my oldest friend.' Almost
a cry came from my lips in thankfulness at
the idea, looking up in his friendly, kind face.
It is too good of you,  it is too good ! '
I found myself repeating, all the thoughts
and words in my brain being so crowded
that only small and worthless ones could
escape. ' And for us, who have turned you
out of house and home ! Oh, Mr. Brace,
you know we will gladly repay you all we can,
but we can never give you enough gratitude
Pleasance !  gratitude ! '
The man I loved looked full at me, the
evening sun lighting up his features, that
were handsome enough in the eyes of all the
world, but to me were now the most beautiful

ever seen. He spoke in a full, deep
voice, with one of those vibrations of strong
feeling only heard a few times in one's whole
life.

Let that word be banished henceforth
and for evermore between yoa and me. But
for the fear that mere gratitude might move
you, which God forbid, I had come here
this evening to ask you once more  '

The door-handle turned, and my good godmother
appeared, smiling, with Rose in the
background.

Well, dear Pleasance, Martha has made
herself useful ; and it is Mary's turn to come
to the parlour and tell us all manner of
pleasant and pretty things.' Then, as her
eyes fell on our faces, and she must have
read the arrested interest there :

But I beg your pardon. You were both

Q 2

busy; talking business together about the
Cottage, no doubt. Yes, yes ; I know, Mr.
Pulke, how anxious this sweet, foolish girl is,
not to be beholden to you for the least thing.
She is too proud ; far too proud.' So my
good god-mother rambled on, making mischief
unawares, whilst I felt in agony, powerless
to stop her. She ended : ' Well ; we will
leave you now, unless indeed I can be of any
help as a go-between in your little money
matters ; the rent or  '

*No, no; thank you, Mrs. Gladman,'
exclaimed poor Fulke ; rising directly, in an
agony at the idea of our occupation of his
cottage being regarded in the light of a
business transaction ; we so poor ; he, by
comparison, so rich.

I had quite finished all I had to say
to Miss Brown ; all of any importance, at

least. If you are going back to the parlour
let us go too

Mrs. Gladraan of course acquiesced, but
looked at us with puzzled kindness. She
had seen we were in difficulties of some sort,
and supposed it must be the mere awkwardness
of discussing pounds, shillings, and
pence, between mends : hence her attempt
to set us at ease.

So my interview with Mr. Brace was over,
and  lovat had he meant to ash? Should
I ever know ? Perhaps not, perhaps not !
Such words once arrested may happen never
again to be spoken.

CHAPTER XIII.

T TOOK my grand aunt, therefore, back to
her home.

It was a strange journey : for she insisted
on returning in the old gig, now mended
again. For one-and-thirty years she had
driven in it, and it should carry her till she
died, she said. So this time, I drove
old Lazybones, and it was Mr. Brace who
rode beside us on Bob's horse, Dandelion.

Truly my friend had been right in saying
that I should need his help in my task; for
though on starting Aunt Bee revived into
almost her old vivacity, as we drove away
in the fresh morning air, and that she waved

a farewell cheerily to those at the Farm gate
who looked after us, it was only a momentary
spark of brightness.

At the first hill-crest, she looked back
into the pleasant valley with a little sigh ;
seeing the brown buildings of Wheatfield
Farm embosomed in trees ; and half a mile
away, where the beautiful gorge opened, a
white speck that was the Artist's Cottage.

 Well, we had all a pleasant time  while
it lasted,' she murmured to herself, not sadly,
but with a certain contented resignation, like
a fairly happy old Epicurean.

Then she let her head sink on her chest,
and altogether collapsed into seeming much
smaller and more withered than ever before.

All our long day's journey, she never
roused from her apathy or apparent stupor
as we drove up hill and down dale, only

resting at mid-day : and I watched her
anxiously, and Fulke Brace watched us both.
He never spoke to me, or hinted again, of
that interrupted subject ; but indeed on this
journey he could not, even if he would.

By evening, we came in sight of well-known
landmarks,  soon of more familiar
objects. Seeing these, my Aunt Bee began
to sit up, to my great relief.

Was this indeed the rack-rent, forlorn
demesne I once knew? Trim meadows,
will-ploughed fields, sound gates, and good
fences ; such was now Bob's Earm, as we
skirted it. Our dear March Hare seemed
to have a lucky hand, all had so prospered.
And as we drove through the once tumbledown
gateway and roofless lodge, now a
pretty entrance by the brawling river, where
no longer straggling branches of neglected

trees and underwood whipped our faces,
the old lady looked as keenly around as in
her good days. The old house with its
ruins still looked, truly, far more worthy of
being called the Barn than the Baron's Stay.
Nevertheless the inhabited portion showed
signs of care, too, in fresh paint on doors
and gable-ends, in nailed-up creepers ; and
then  to her it was home.

Out ran a maid to the door, as we
stopped.

Where is Tozer, to help me down ? '
asked Miss Beaumanoir sharply, looking
round as if with a presentiment of evil,
on missing her shabby factotum. There
was a silence. Then came the faltering
news that old Tozer had been taken ill
the night before ; he had fallen in a fit,
and was not expected to last long.

Mr. Bracj took my grand-aunt's arm
to support her, as standing on the doorstep
she heard this news. His eyes, meeting
mine, told how he understood my anxiety
on her account.

The old lady stood quite still for a few
moments ; then she only said, ' Like mistress,
like man ! '  and went steadily into the dark-wainscoted
hall.

That night, after as strangely nondescript
a supper as was usual at the Barn, we three
gathered round the wide stone fire-place,
which Eulke Brace heaped high with logs,
stirring up a cheerful blaze, otherwise the
dark, musty-smelling room would have seemed
dismal that night. He offered to play backgammon
with my grand-aunt kindly; but she
preferred to sit crouched over the fire warming
herself. Presently she said, breaking a silence :

Poor Tozer 1 . . . you were both surprised
I could take my old servant's coming death
so quietly, but to me it seems all for the
best. Perhaps, had he lived longer, I ought
to have looked more into his accounts and
all my affairs  for Bob's sake. . . . Well,
well, he was faithful to me in his own way
for many years. If he robbed me, as I
have often thought, he knew well enough I
never cared for mere money. Nobody is
wholly good or utterly bad, I believe ; and
he would have laid down his life for his old
mistress . all for the best, after all.'

After this, as neither of us dreamt of
uttering a dissentient syllable, she strayed
into old-world stories of her youth.

My attention wandered once or twice, I
must own; perhaps it crept after my gaze
that looked furtively at False Brace's handsome

head thrown into full relief by the
pale, old Chinese screen behind him. The
flickering flame-spurts showed his eyes kindly
watching the old woman's face ; his whole
bearing one of unflagging interest and
sympathy. Once or twice, only, came a
quick full glance at me, as instantly turned
away.

Oh, I knew what was in his mind ! His
old friend of years was failing, therefore he
redoubled his almost filial devotion, and
denied himself even one stray thought whilst
he still could give her pleasure. How good
he was ! how kind ; what a perfect friend !

All day, not a syllable of thanks to him
had crossed my lips, for my grand-aunt was
always beside me. Yet how I should ever
have brought her safely home without his
active help and gentle care, surpassing that

of a woman, heaven knows ! The very sight
of him riding beside us cheered both our
spirits.

I roused from reverie to find my aunt
saying : * Well, somehow, I always have
a fancy that money will still be found ;
sooner or later, Brace.'

I trust so . . . but is it not getting rather
late?' answered Fulke, with a covert glance
at me, who understood the warning.

As we said good night, I tried to ioo my
thanks just for once. But, the instant the
true man's eyes above met mine, my gaze
grew confused, and I looked down. My
grand-aunt was beside us.

Give me your arm up-stairs, Pleasance,'
said she. It was the first time in her life,
the first time even this dav she had asked
help.

Once in her room, she turned upon meas
keenly and quizzically as she would have
done ten years ago.

Look me straight in the face, child !
What is there now between you and Brace ? '

*What is there?  why, friendship, of
course,' was my weakly evasive answer,
trying my best not to meet those piercing,
old, black eyes.

Friendship  fudge ! Does he mean to
marry Rose or not ? '

'What he may mean, he knows best
himself; but Rose does not mean to marry
him.'

The old lady drew a long breath not
unlike a whistle, in its expression of meaning.
' I begin to believe you were all at
cross-purposes down at Wheatfield Farm,
and that certain young people are geese.'

'1 think so too. I always was called a

goose when I was a child,' was the meek
answer she received.

'Yes, you are a dear little goose. Goodnight,

Pleasance: sleep sound, my child.
I am very much pleased with you.'

CHAPTER XIV.

IVrEXT morning, we all three met at breakfast
as early as usual ; and that meant
with my grand-aunt desperately early.

Mr. Brace and myself, degenerate younger
mortals, only just scrambled down in time ;
whilst Aunt Bee had already been out and
about the premises.

Open the window, please,' she said
presently. ' Close air always oppresses me :
I should have been an Arab.'

I did as she wished, but in my own mind
thought the moist autumn air that entered
was heavy with the odours of decaying leaves.

In what was now a trim garden, outside the
windows, dying spikes of summer flowers
stood sadly up, or yellowing masses of
nasturtium lay dying together.

Heavily hangs the hollyhock,
Heavily hangs the tiger-lily.'

Autumn, in a garden, is to me the saddest
time of the year. Oh, to be up on the moors
then, when the heather is still alive in all
its beauty, purpling the hills in violet sweeps
for miles and miles !  and one feels invigorated
in the strong west wind that carries
with it the scent of the leagues of gorse
across which it has blown.

So I said ; and Fulke Brace heartily agreed
with me, against my grand-aunt, who defended
her beloved low-lying woods around the
Baron's Stay.

'Stoke is the only place surrounded by

VOL. III. R

forest land, where I never felt the oppression
of dying vegetation he said.

'Ah! at Stoke, no; but then it lies so
high, and all the air is so crisp and clear,'
I was eagerly joining in, our eyes meeting
gladly at last with full understanding.

When you two once begin to rave about
that old home of yours, both, it is time forme
to go away. I'll leave you to rhapsodize
together,' interrupted my grand-aunt, rising
with an air of haste,  the crafty old lady.

No, no, don't go away. Aunt Bee ; or,
if you must go, I have to be busy, too,
writing letters.'

Her secret wish to leave me alone with
Fulke was so plain to myself, I felt as if he
must guess it too ; and in confusion I turned
to the great escritoire, the same rare old piece
of furniture that had always been called my

especial legacy by my grand-aunt, and of
which indeed I kept the key. Why would
my face burn so with a quick foolish blush ?

What a perfect piece of middle-age workmanship
that is ! ' said my old friend, Mr.
Fulke, kindly pretending to believe I had
bent my head to admire the exquisite inlaid
flowers on the door-panels before me. ' Do
you know, that often as I have admired this
treasure of yours, the inside has always been
a forbidden sight. Miss Beaumanoir has
always said it was your especial property ever
since you were a child, and would allow no
one else to open it.'

Show it to him now, Pleasance,' directed
my grand-aunt, who stood bent witch-like
beside us, uncertain whether to go or stay, but
herself feeling the childish curiosity of an old
person in any sight not seen for some years.

This is how the strangest event in my life
came simply to pass.

So I opened wide the inlaid doors, and
showed with pride the interior ; all the drawers
and pigeon-holes were as finely inlaid as
the outside, with carved edges. They surrounded
a miniature temple with pillars,
mirrors, a mosaic floor, and swinging lamps.
The central object in this shrine was a tiny
Cupid, exquisitely carved in ivory, poised ina
niche, facing us.

How charming ! I have only seen one
that equalled it, and that was in Ghent, years
ago, when a great Burgomaster's heirlooms
were sold. What do you keep in there
behind the rail, where only the high priestess
of this little god may look ? ' said Brace,
smiling at me.

I did not understand him. What secret

drawers I knew, in my cherished possession,
had abbacy been displayed with pride.

That one of the Burgomaster's had a still
more hidden chamber at the back, I remember.
This bureau may not possess it,
of course ; still they are very much alike in
other details. May I try? '
He pressed one of the squares of alternate
ebony and ivory with which the mimic temple
floor was inlaid ; and lo ! to our astonishment,
the whole central niche and Cupid at once
receded sideways, disclosing a cavity, inside
which lay, unseen by any eyes for years, a
small roll of what seemed old and yellowed
thin papers.

A cry burst from us all three in our
surprise. But the most excited of us was
my grand-aunt, who quite gasped out :

Brace ! Brace ! do you see ?  Can it

be?' She bent forward, and with her own
withered hands lifted out and unfolded tremblingly
the bundle ; then in a tone that
thrilled through us, exclaimed, 'It is the
money !  the whole of my fortune, twenty
thousand, in Bank of England notes, just as I
gave it to my brother, the day before this
house was burnt, fifty-three years ago. . .
Oh, I knew it was not lost ; I always felt so,
though I had no more reason than a madwoman.
. .' She paused, still striving for
breath. 'And to think it was here all the
time ! ' Her figure swayed slightly ; she
clutched at my arm for support. Fulke Brace
caught her quickly before worse could happen,
and gently laid her down in an arm-chair
quite unconscious. ' Send for the doctor,' he
hurriedly whispered to me ; and though he
would not say a word then that would have

alarmed me more, I knew the same thought
was in his mind as in mine, that this money
might have come too late  for my dear old
grand-aunt.

CHAPTER XV.

TN the afternoon of that day, my Aunt
Bee sent for me.
She was sitting now, I was thankful to see,
bolt upright in her usual straight-backed
chair in her own sitting-room. This was a
strange den, so dark, dusty, and massed with
books and papers, sacredly barred from a
housemaid's sacrilegious touch, it might have
been supposed Faust's study ; though in fact
these were only the accidental accumulations
of thirty-one years' studious ','
ways of the old lady.
Hung on the walls were Eastern tapestries,

Japanese armour, and curios enough to stock
a small museum, all relics of travel ; whilst
mixed with these were various farm implements,
such as new-fangled hoes, and spades
bought on trial at Agricultural Shows ; and
tables and bureaus groaned with bottles of
cow-medicine and books on farriery.

Sit down there opposite me, Pleasance,'
said the old lady with a sharp nod, and a
satisfied gleam in the dark caverns of her
eyes. ' So you sent for the doctor, to-day,
little goose 1 as if he could do me any good.
I've doctored myself all my life ; and who
could have had better health, tell me that ? '
Then, as I tried to justify myself, she waved
her hand, and said, closing her eyelids rather
wearily for a second or two  'I know, I know;
it was right for you to do so, of course. But
I did better : I sent for my lawyer, and he

has been here with me for the last two hours.
The notes are perfectly good, he says ; their
identity cannot be possibly disputed, so now
you will be an heiress, dear.'

I !  how ?  what do you mean ? ' I stammered,
confused.

I made my will to-day, leaving the Barn
to Bob, and this money to you, child; so
consider it your own this minute. Take it,
and do what you like with it. What is
money to me ? '

What broken, astonished words of gratitude,
of representation and thankful dissuasion,
1 uttered, is more than my memory can
repeat. Only my grand-aunt ended them all,
I remember (only too well), by rising and
holding out her hand for me to support her
steps that tottered this day for the first time.

Give me your young arm, and take me

up-stairs she said, smiling ; ' I ain my own
doctor, and mean to go to bed now, and
sleep a long time.'

So I helped her up-stairs and into bed;
and recollect well how the smi was just
sinking redly through the yellowing damp
woods, and gleaming on the hurrying brown
water of the little river.

'Now good night, dear, and don't disturb
me till morning,' said my dear grand-aunt.
Sleep is what I want, sleep is best for me. I
never used to feel tired, but now I feel a very
tired old woman. Good night.'

Down-stairs, Eulke Brace and I dined
alone together that evening ; and together
afterwards looked out of the curtailed
parlour windows in the starry autumn night.
We spoke in hushed whispers of the strange
events of that day. Was I right when it

struck me my best friend's manner had
somehow changed as he offered his congratulations
on my being  an heiress ' ? Somehow,
imperceptibly, with a shade of manner too
delicate to express in words ; yet sympathy
made me feel he felt as if my sudden fortune
had pushed us a little apart. And we had
drawn so near, so near to each other in the
last two days !

Moment by moment, this feeling grew on
me as we stood in thought-weighted spaces
of silence beside one another ; only broken by
an occasional word from either of us about my
grand-aunt, or those we had left at Dartmoor.
My brain grew so troubled, I lost all control
over my own thoughts, and only tortured myself
trying to fathom and combat those of the
man beside me. Jf he thought . . .

The twilight was darkening ; we stood

alone in the window. The silence that was so
troubled might have been so sweet.

And yet 1 knew that this silent human soul
beside me had loved me long, loved me so
lately  surely, surely, despite my strange fortune
discovered that morning  loved me still !

Jf he thought that roll of faded notes need
separate us by an inch, oh ! I would gladly
have torn them then and there into little
pieces, and flung them out of the window for
the west night wind to carry them into the
hurrying brook, or whirl them through the
dying woods to play hide-and-seek with the
fallen leaves. And so it was, I cried out with
sudden impulse, that brought a sound like a
sob from my throat.

I don't want this money. I will not take
it. Let Bob have it to improve the Barn
with it, and make a home here for us all.'

Pulke Brace turned now, and looked at
me fall. There was a gleam lighting up his
good grey eyes, and a smile began dawning
round the corners of his mouth.

But Miss Beaumanoir wished you to have
it  does that go for nothing? Besides, the
Barn is improving itself, simply by being
taken care of, after years of neglect and
sheer barefaced robbery. Your grand-aunt
knows that ; and that Bob and I will make
a fair income out of it (for I have my small
share in your family fortunes, remember).
Your brother may marry, too, and your home
here would then be lost.'

Then let the others have it.'

You must remember that poor Beau will
want very little now, and may not even want
that little long,' returned Brace very gently ;
then with his voice brightening to a cheerfully

suggestion ; ' As to Rose, don't you
think that she also may find a comfortable
and happy home of her own ; perhaps, not
far from Wheatfield Farm ? Your mother ? 
yes ; but what is yours would be hers, for all
needful purposes while she lives. I thought
your grand-aunt was right, Pleasance ; for
she told me this afternoon of her intention
and wishes.' The last word was spoken so
small I could hardly hear it, though Fulke
was standing now quite close, and looking at
last long and earnestly in my face. It was
growing so dark, what could he see there ?

Frightened now at what I had wished for,
made happy in my secret heart when he said
Pleasance ' once more, in a slow, lingering
tone, as if he loved the name, I yet still
objected faintly, though trembling, not
knowing why. ' If you think so, it must

be right for me to keep it. But it will
give me no pleasure.'

My dear child, you might buy back
Stoke.'

The words were softly spoken, yet with a
playful touch of banter meant to show
Pleasance Brown what pleasant prospect
those odious bank notes opened up.

I stamped my foot, and cried almost with
tears of rage.

Yes ; buy Stoke indeed, and live there 1
after knowing that you have been longing for
the old home all these years ; after Beau
refusing it to you when you could have
bought it ; after my asking you to help Bob,
so that you sunk half your hard-won savings
in this farm and demesne. Heaven bless
you for your goodness ! And now when we
or, no, no, rather our unlucky fortunes 

make us turn you even out of your Dartmoor
cottage that you loved, because your
mother died there, you titinh I could live
happily at Stoke ! ' . . . My sobs followed fast
at his doing me the injustice of supposing
me so ungenerous ; and through hot, thick
tears, these words only made themselves
intelligible. * Never ! much as I love it !
For your sake, I could not do that.'

My dear Pleasance ! Remember that
there is the old home to be had, but that I
cannot afford  just yet  to have it.'

Then take it from me. Let me help
you. You helped Bob : it is only fair. He
will repay you, and you will repay me. Yes,
yes : say you will ! you must ! '

Pleasance, darling ! '

As I spoke in a flame of womanly love

and excitement hot from my heart, Pulke
VOL. ni. s

Brace caught my bands, his man's soul on fire
too. A flash in his eyes that lit his whole
face, as I could see even in the twilight,
answered the wet gleam in mine. And then
what followed never can be rightly told, or
even perhaps rightly remembered by me.

Only this, that he said  he declared  and
made me believe as fully in his words as in
gospel truth, that if I would not live at Stoke
without him, neither icoidd he without me !

What I felt, what I said, then what we
both said and did, all seem now a vague
dream, made sacred to mystery by happiness.
We seemed only to be conscious that we two,
we two were together  for always.

The twilight had become darkness, the
stars shone out ; but now as we stood still in
the window the silence was sweet, the trouble
all vanished.

At last hand unclasped hand, and I lifted
my head from Fulke's broad shoulder,
remembering my grand-aunt, and feeling she
must not be neglected.

What will she say to this, I wonder ?
We two at Stoke ! '

It was Miss Beaumanoir's own suggestion
this very afternoon  there, don't start, dear.
She knew my two great wishes, first to have
you, then the old home, and said nothing
could make her happier.'

We went softly up the black creaking
stairs together, and I slipped into my grand-aunt's
room. She was sleeping peacefully ;
breathing so low and regularly, it made me
think of an aged child at rest, and such
indeed she was in heart. So I came back
gladly to tell Fulke, who waited outside,
anxious about his old friend,

S 2

She is sleeping so well I said.

That is good news, for us,' he said in the
kindly tone that came so straight from his
heart, and warmed mine with fresh happiness
only to hear him. * And now good night,
Pleasance, my darling at last.' As our lips
met once more, and for the last time that
night, I thought how happy the true old
heart in there, who loved us both so dearly,
would be when she knew that at last we two
had come together.

She slept well, indeed, my dear old grand-aunt.


She slept so well that, though I stole in
several times through the night to watch,
there was no change in her peaceful breathing,
or sign of pain on the features that seemed
years younger, softened and ennobled by a

dreamy smile. And yet, when a new day
dawned, she was no longer with us. It
seemed as if, while her tired aged body rested,
the soul had slipped out and away, free to
undertake, it may be, a longer journey than
even she who loved travelling best of all
delights had ever dreamed ; free, at least, I
for one doubt not, to enter into a new
existence.

CHAPTER XVI.

rpHE winter had been with us and was
gone, and the time of the singing of
birds had come. The dark, drear time of
Nature was past ; the time too of our mourning,
and first bitterness of sorrow for the
kindly, brave, old soul we should never see
among us any more on earth.

Once more we were gathered together,
down in the well-known valley, under breezy
Dartmoor.

There in the pretty whitewashed cottage at
the opening of the Single gorge, the sunshine
and new life of the year had, alas ! brought no
fresh spring of health to our poor sufferer.

Sometimes, on a fine morning at the cottage,
Beau was carried outside carefully on a couch.
There he lay just able to look down the valley
at the lovely scene, helpless, hopeless. It was
all the movement he knew now ; he who had
been so fond of change, of pleasure and
society.

How my mother watched her darling firstborn,
her idolized son, with a jealous love so
engrossing, that all care for the present, all
sorrow for the past, seemed put aside out of
her mind. He was all hers now  no one else
could please him so well.

In former times. Beau used to be tempted
so easily from the home-hearth that even
at Stoke we hardly ever saw him ; though
there only love, luxury, and admiration
awaited the heir. He had roved still more
gladly, alas ! from the mean little London

home,  though a mother's heart he knew
was watching anxiously and lovingly for
his step and voice. But now, the only
being to whom his face turned, for whom
his heart yearned, whether with need or
from love of her, was that mother. It was
sufficient to her, for as near an approach to
happiness as her widowed heart could know.

One other person, indeed, waited upon
Beau with a devotion which such handsome,
selfish men do often strongly inspire
in woman-kind. This was Amy Pawlett.

A bond of sympathy had seemed to
link her and my mother to one another.
What this might be, was an open secret
to us women. But it was never spoken
of openly among us ; and so John Gladman,
and even Bob, dear fellow, who was constantly
at the Cottage, both apparently

believed it was by mere chance that Amy
had come back on a visit to the Farm.

How Amy came was this : Lady Pawlett
had, it seemed, grown weary of taking
her plain, simple-minded daughter out in
society. The world would believe now she
had tried to do her duty by both girls,
and  owing to their own fault  had failed.
She herself had gone off gaily with Alice
to Nice for the winter, having, to the surprise
of some of her acquaintances, established
a fast alliance with the young sister-in-law,
who had ousted her from being mistress
at Broadhams. The arrangement pleased
both ; at least, for the time being.

Sir Dudley could say little about doubtful
society, and improper, however delightful,
amusements, when his pretty wife was accompanied
everywhere by his sister; a matron

of such established fashionable virtue that
all Lady Pawlett did, if not quite right,
could hardly yet be wrong. (Indeed, she
strained at a gnat, and could swallow a
camel more unblushingly than any woman
I ever knew.) And her Ladyship, feeling
passee, was charmed to hunt, coupled with
the lovely young Lady Digges ; who attracted
crowds of admirers and was the reiofnins:
belle of the Elvira that year. Our poor
pretty Alice !

So Amy Pawlett had come to Wheatfield
Parm. Hence, I hardly know how, she
transferred herself by degrees, as it were,
to the Artist's Cottage, where she had now
wholly taken up her abode. She attended
upon my mother like a daughter, at all times,
with simple goodness ; but as to happiness !
she was gladdened all through her honest

soul whenever the invalid less often, and
perhaps querulously enough, allowed her
to wait upon him.

'That is a good girl, a fine girl said
Bob to me privately each visit he paid.
She tells me she is training herself now
to be a nurse some day, as her sister
Charlotte went into a sisterhood. But
she is too good for that sort of thing  isn't
she, Pleasance ? you tell her so.'

Dear Bob ! His heart was so with us
all whom he loved, that he could not stay
very long this Spring at the lonely Barn
by himself, without coming over to see us
for a day or two.

On his last visit, he and I went out together
one glorious sunshiny morning, fora
ramble ' to remind his of old times He
had been talking again, quite enthusiastically

this time, of Amy's goodness, and beautiful
daily devotion to both my mother and Beau.

In a stranger, you know ; that's where
the wonder of it is ! ' said the good fellow
simply.  And Beau is so thankless, too 
I declare if she did half as much for me
I'd, I'd ! . . well, I don't know that I ever
want to be married  not certainly for some
years at any rate  but if I ever did, that's the
sort of honest girl would suit me for a wife

Not for some years, I repeated silently to
myself. In some years the slender elaine of
life must have flickered out, that my mother
and Amy strove so tenderly to keep alive by
their ministrations. Who knew then, whether
the words of our dear, foolish March Hare
might not come true after all ; though
women's hearts and the ways of fate are
equally impossible to foretell.

Our steps had strayed down a primrose hill,
attracted (as was always a matter of course
with us all !) by the musical ripple of the
Teign. Here the river flowed shallow and
silvern, babbling among roots and rocks.
Birds were singing in the fresh green of the
thorn brake behind us. Young lambs were
bleating in the buttercup meadows, and the
cuckoo was heard from the depths of the
oak-wood. ' Isn't it perfectly jolly ! ' sighed
Bob in ecstasy. ' But I say  why  what 
you're not attending to me, Pleasance, but
always looking about as if you wanted somebody.
Oh, / see,' (as past some alder bushes
a tweed shooting coat suddenly came in view,
the Wearer whereof was, as saith Izaak Walton,
enjoying ' the most honest, ingenious, quiet,
and harmless art of angling')

Hi, hi, Brace ! here is some one wants

you ; at least I know she doesn't want me, as
she used, though she used to be glad enough
to coax me out with her.'

I like very much to be wanted in that
way, even without the coaxing,' and Fulke
smiled at me, looking very little older, and
just as handsome as when I first saw him in
my childhood's years, midmost of this very
stream, some miles away up yonder by
Gidleigh. It was where the trees overhead
darkened the water, while boulders and steep
hill-sides made the glen wildly impassable ; and
I was prisoned on a rock in the pool. So I
smiled back in his eyes, feeling, as when a child,
that his was a godlike form to me, the handsomest,
kindliest of men ever seen or known.

We were leaning on a gate, leading into the
meadow where John Gladman's great prize
bull and beautiful cows, the pride of his heart

and the glory of the Shire, were grazing. On
the other side of the hawthorn hedge voices
approached us, singing together :

Oh, I went to the fair with a heart all so merry ;
Sing hey down, ho down, derry down dee !
And I bought a gay ribbon, as red as a cherry,

For the girl I loved best, and who vowed to love me !
I returned from the Fair, gaily whistling and singing,
My true-lover's knot I in triumph was bringing.'

At this juncture the man's voice suddenly
shelled louder, obtaining fairly the feminine
treble, while, apparently delighted with his
own cleverness, he triumphantly changed the
refrain by one word ; shouting :

Eut it was now for me that I heard the bells ringing.
Sing, hey down, ho down, derry down dee ! '

Away up the valley the bells of the grey
moonstone church could be heard at that
very moment merrily ringing. ' Practising
for tomorrow,' quoth Bob. ' Won't they

ring up jolly well for this double wedding !
at least, I know I've promised them beer
enough for them to be all drowned in it.'

Just then, as if to complete the scene,
that only wanted her presence, came Mrs.
Glad man. She was walking gently along
the river's bank, from the direction of the
Artist's Cottage; an empty basket hung on
her arm that had, no doubt, been full of
delicacies made by her own hands.

We all turned to welcome that kindly,
most motherly being, who always seemed
chiefs among us all.

How happy you all look ; that is just as it
should be,' she said, smiling round upon us.

Well ! you look just as happy,'  we all exclaimed
in chorus, defying her to contradict us.

So I am,' confessed the good woman,
laughing as if half-ashamed of her own

beaming face. And then, coming aside tome,
she whispered, putting her arm in mine :
Certainly, I had settled you four young
people differently together in my own mind,
but there !  You will be happier with Fulke,
dear Pleasance, as I can see now for myself;
and Rose will be the best of little daughters
to me, now that I cannot have you.'

Later again, there comes to me, like a
waking dream, the remembrance of driving
once more through the woods of Stoke, all
green in their fresh spring bravery ; driving
home !

The lake, lying still under the embosoming
hills and woods, came in view, With the
swans on its surface still floating double

swan and shadow,'
as of old.

VOL. III. T

And there ! there ! was the old house at
last, looking no whit changed ; every window
in its western gables glowing crimson,
illumined by the setting sun in our honour
  ours ! Tulke and I silently turned and
looked in each other's eyes with full understanding
and gladness. Husband and wife,
we sat side by side in the carriage.

At the porch we stopped, alighted, and
there clasping hands by mute consent we two
crossed once more the threshold of our dear
old home in the West Countries  we two
together.



