CHAPTER I.

 AVE MARIA !

p The church-clocks in WestclifF were strike
ing ro:, one Christmas evening. These
g watchmen of day and night sounded their
I message to the busy world below from
out of a thick darkness of sea-fog and
night, that hid not only spires and towers,
 but also houses, footpaths, and even 
from human sight. It was as if Egypt's
vo three days' plague had come back on earth.
No star of Bethlehem, or any other candle

VOL. I. B

of heaven, could be seen this night. The
street-lamps showed only a faint, ghostly
glimmer, like farthing rush lights. The
smoke of the town, pressed down by the
mist, filled the nostrils and lungs of any
persons abroad with a choking atmosphere.
It was as dismal a Christmas as could be
remembered.

But inside the Roman Catholic church
of West cliff was a very different scene.
Vespers had begun, and the high-altar
was a blaze of lights, occasionally veiled
by incense fumes. From screened galleries
came the chanting of sweet voices, in high
relief against the grandly solemn background
of sound of the organ. The whole
effect of the Christmas service was the
more impressive and subduing to the
senses by contrast with the outside gloom.

So thought, at least, one spectator there
a man who watched all with the keen
interest of one somewhat a stranger to

I like the beautiful expressions they
use towards the Virgin Mary,' he said to
himself. ' House of gold ! Mystical Rose !
Star of the morning ! . . . Star of the
sea !'

Then he chuckled in himself with quiet
humour, remembering the faint horror of
the evangelistic and old-fashioned relatives
with whom he was staying, on hearing
whither he had been bound this evening.

'Not to the club?  even that would
have been better. People generally used
to think it right to keep their Christmas
Day together.' So it had been hinted to
him, neither austerely nor sourly, yet with
a sort of regretfully righteous shaking of
the head over the falling-oiF of good old
customs 'in these days.' He had, however,
mutely made it felt, without a word
of argument  was it by the gently weary

b2

expression of face with which he had looked
momentarily out of the window, stroking
his moustache (a rarely-seen sight in
that clean-shaven or feminine household),
or by the sigh changed to a smothered
yawn  that a man who has been roaming
the world must not be too much expected
to conform in these little matters. Then
he had answered, with sweet reasonableness,
that he would be back for dinner
and the evening. (The roast-beef, plum-pudding,
and all that now drearily, no
longer cheerily, reminded him he and
these good people were but the last odd
members of a once happy family circle.)
So, without more opposition, Christopher
Kenyon had gone on his way.

Most men would have done the same.
But it was slightly peculiar in him that
he never so much seemed to take his way,
or perhaps cared to have it, as that he
drifted thereunto. He would give in to

others' small foibles and tiresome habits
with most praiseworthy kindness and a
humorous resignation, although of all
thing's in life he dreaded  hated  could
hardly endure being bored! But in larger
affairs all the passionate vehemence of
people who were altogether set on influencing
him  and that as often for his own
good as theirs  and knew only his good-humour
and almost womanish tenderness
in some ways, was absolutely vain.

It was not, he used to aver, that they
could not stir him because his mind was
as a rock, but because it was as a fluid.
Their arguments seemed never able to take
a grip on his intelligence, nor the latter to
be arrested long by them. Then such
persons were angry, and said his heart beneath
the pleasant surface was hard as the
hardest kernel from selfishness. He knew
their opinion, and was grieved ; but seemed
unable to explain himself further. He

knew they meant the best towards him. If
they would only believe he told them the
truth about himself for, indeed, no cleverest
logic nor array of facts could hold him
from drifting towards what vaguely seemed
to be his fate, not his happiness.

Nobody did believe him. So clever a
man, such a brain, so well informed 
nonsense !

Few would have entered into his feelings
of disgusted effort that morning, as of one
told it was a duty to eat, and then who
tried duly to receive water-gruel administered
with a leaden spoon. It was during
a honos evangelists sermon he had attended
in kindness towards his old relations ; now
what a refreshment and consolation to him
was the present service. And yet he was
quite Protestant in opinion  only refined
and sensual in tastes. Neither would they
have understood the veritable pain that
Christmas days now gave him in heart.

The dreary efforts to be jolly: the many
happy returns of the day '  which onh
made him muse with melancholy that life
was dismal enough, so why need he want
much more of it ? He was so handsome ; so
agreeable ; so gentle ! Who would have
believed his so-called selfish heart ached at
the terrible efforts to be 'gay' of most
victims of habit on this anniversary? Relatives
pretending to join hands in a circle
where he remembered only too well the
gaps. His two sisters, now passed from
his ken, the ' dear dead women ' who had
best understood him of all living beings ;
so pretty and graceful, too, and he liked
pretty women even as such only (though
they had been far more) with a degree of
weakness beyond that of most men.

'- 1 am told this world is governed for
the best in these matters,' he now sighed
to himself 'I can't believe it is  can
only vaguely try to hope it may he. Butin

truth, it all seems to me to be topsy
For instance, I needed my
sisters. I am a worse man by far since
my brother died, who was my stronger,
better self, and yet I am told to believe
(which is to feel) it is all for our ultimate
good. Heigh-ho ! '

Very irreligious, some may say. After
all, this so-called weak man only said out
to himself what others felt; which, if crystallising
into thought, they virtually gulped
down again, and still felt and felt. It is
far better to face such problems and fight
them, and be beaten maybe to the ground,
an rise a truer Christian or an honest
unbeliever.

 But I don't fight them. I only look
them round and round curiously,' thought
Kit Kenyon, sighing to himself.

No pride in him. Yet the man was
called conceited, and vain of his looks and
qualities, by many other men.

'Ave Maria !'

Kenyon felt desolate and lonely in the
world this Christmas evening. A man
feels so more on coming back to England
after long absence, and having no one
left of the best-beloved, familiar faces to
welcome him. There were no smiles for
himself alone ; no ears always ready to
hear what lie had to say. He was looking
round vaguely at the stranger faces, and
his eyes had wandered to the Christmas
crib at the right side of the entrance near
where he sat. There his gaze was arrested.

A young girl was kneeling near the
door, with such a happy dreaming expression
on her face, that it was no wonder
if, having seen it once, one should
try to steal a second glance at her. Her
lips were slightly parted, her eyes raised
to the representation before her, but were
seeing far beyond it, away, away into
happy, vague regions of fancy. Before

her was the crib, railed in to prevent the
faithful approaching too near in adoration.
It was the usual scene of the stable  the
Virgin holding the Babe on her knees ;
the three magi adoring, and a horned head
or two of cows at either side. Above was
dark-blue transparency of night-sky ; a
twinkling star ; and a tiny angel hovering
from a wire. It was pretty but childish.
Yet, seeing that girlish face, Kenyon felt
half ashamed of his own amused late cynicism
when wondering how the crib would
look a month hence  thrust into a corner ;
rolled up anyhow ; the reverse of the canvas
seen ; and the holy stable housing
church-mice, spiders, and dust till next
year.

But to young Hester kneeling there, the
pictured scenery had so appealed to her
imagination, that she was wrapped in blissful
worship, not of the actual objects before
her, but of all they suggested. She

was away in Palestine seeing the shepherds
out on the hills in a starry night (all
remembrance of "Westeliff and the sos; forgotten).
The music in her ears was from
the heavenly spheres at that moment ; the
chanting was that of angels' voices, while
their forms, lo there ! were floating down
from the dark-blue sky  ' as they came,
we know they came !' So her fancy had,
as it were, appealed to her mind, which
had confirmed her flight of thought.

And now she was in the stable among
the gentle beasts, and realised before her
eyes no mimic Babe or Virgin Mother of
wood or canvas, but the most beautiful
thought that ever was whispered to mind
of man. The thought of the God-child comedown
to earth ; living, softly breathing
on a mother's lap ; the glorious life just
beginning, like an opening flower.

Ave Maria !'

Highly-strung persons are conscious

sometimes by a peculiar, uneasy feeling
of when they are looked at long and
earnestly. Hester felt constrained to look
round, she knew not why ; and met a
pair of dark eyes watching her from a
seat close by. As if roused from a trance,
she gazed back dreamily for a second
or so ; then, almost immediately recovering
herself, returned to her devotions.
She had seen a very handsome man's face,
a bronzed face, as of one come of late
from hot, tropical lands ; and. set in this
face, were those dark, glowing eyes that
had met hers with momentary intentness ;
for it had been, indeed, two moments,
no more.

That was all she had seen.

Hester sought to watch the crib once
more, and to fancy herself back into the
former beatitude befitting this Christmas
night ; but the subtle spell was dissolved.
So she tried to pray with bent head. She

tried most devoutly, and succeeded at
first ; but  but

Xow a splendidly-robed procession is
passing down the aisle. The bishop in
gold vestments, with his chaplain gorgeously
arrayed, and all the other priests
are coming down to ' visit the infant Jesus 
in his crib. Nearer and nearer. Surely,
young Hester thinks, she might look just
once more round. Solemnise. The little
acolytes swung their thuribles, a cloud of
incense filled the space around. And
through that cloud for one brief instant
Hester once more met the dark eyes again
watching her. Then the white incense-fumes
intervened ; she buried her shamed
face in her hands and saw the unknown,
no more.

Ave Maria . . . !

Such a terrible night as it was, when all
the worshippers streamed out. Yet Hester
stopped short at the nearest corner to

give a penny to a poor beggar-woman who
stood under a lamp, the light shining on
her wretchedly damp forlornness.

Oh ! miss  it is such a bad night to
stop ; best hurry back to your aunt,'
respectfully murmured the servant-maid
with her.

A few minutes later, out came Christopher
Kenyon. No thought had he of
stopping for the beggar. He shook his
head, raising his collar to his ears, and
hardening his heart hurried on. The woman
had not spoken, but given a mute
wistful look. Down two streets, half-way
across a square he hurried ; then, by fits
and starts, his steps slackened. Why had
that woman looked at him so ? It was of
no use trying  he could not feel happy
to-night. It was too bad ! Yes, her face
twould haunt him  plague upon it, such an
awful night to go back that long way !

Yes, Christopher Kenyon was trudging

now back along the square and the two
streets, shivering like an Eastern with
cold, and striving to pierce the fog and
darkness with his eyes. The beggar would
be gone, of course ! Just like his luck,
and he must feel remorseful for many an
evening, remembering the mute misery of
her face. No !  there she was !

He crossed the street rather miserably,
trying to pick his steps, although up to
the ankles in mud, and gave the woman
abruptly half-a-crown. The mud and the
extra money seemed to himself a just
punishment for his late hard-heartiness.

The beggar, an Irishwoman, stood amazed
a second, recognising him again. Then she
broke out in voluble blessings.

'Might the blessed Mary and all the
holy saints be good to him many and
many a long day, for the generous heart
he had shoAvn to her this night !'

It is such a gruesome farce trying to

be happy oneself at Christmas, once childhood
has fled. One ought only to try to
make others happy, I believe ; there might
be some success there,' thought Kenyon,
as he once more turned down the two
streets already passed and re-passed, pressing
his hat lower down and pulling hi
coat higher up than ever.

He was not sorry to have lightened hi
purse and his conscience, but wished he
had done so sooner. How dreary sea-fogs
were ! He would leave WestclifF next
week for somewhere else  anywhere.

CHAPTER 11.

CANST THOU SPEAK GREEK T

Easter liacl come, an early one that year.
And with Easter, and longer days and
Lent-lilies blowing shyly in bleak hedgerows,
came also an outburst of the mild
festivities at Westcliif after the still season
and penitential appearances of Lent.

WestclifF lay, as its name denoted, on
the western coast. It was a pretty town,
sought by invalids and old Indians for its
mild climate ; but it was not a large town,
and at times could be dull  every dull. So
thought mere sojourners in its walls, at

VOL. I. c

least  of whom was the girl already seen
at Christmas vespers. But just at present
the inhabitants all met each other once a
day at least, and stopped to say, ' Oh, are
you going to Mrs. Here's or Lady There's
this week ? WestcliiF is really quite
gay:

At one of these gaieties, a ' small and
early ' dance, beginning at eight and ending
at midnight, but which really was as
late as any other, and numbered all the
 best ' people in the town, Hester Armytage
was standing; against the wall.

Dear child, it quite vexes me, I declare,
to see you standing there ; you should be
dancing !  yes, whirling round with the
rest and among the best !' whispered a
large, pleasant-looking matron to her with
hearty, kindly emphasis.

Never mind, Aunt Bessie. How can
you or I expect it ? We are strangers in
the land, and look round now ; there are,

at least, twenty forlorn maidens to every
dozen of men.'

There was certainly a treble row of girls,
mostly pretty, young, and pleasant, standing
before Hester partnerless. They were
all striving by various little wiles to move
in front of their neighbours, to be seen, to
be chosen by their swains. Hester was
behind them all, perfectly aware of the
little stratagems around her, not blaming
these (she was too much a woman for
that), but simply indifferent to the prizes
coveted, even superbly disdainful of them
in her heart.

Her aunt, Mrs. Armytage, disdained no
one. She had too warm a sympathy for
all of human-kind, felt with their joys
and troubles. She liked everyone around
her, more  or less. And if she truly disliked
or despised anybody, which was rare,
she held her peace about them simply, or
might with close observation be seen betaking

herself away from their neighbourhood
with wonderful nimbleness and dexterous
quietness in one of her size. It
really grieved her kind heart now to see
her charge not enjoying herself, so she
fancied. This in spite of Hester's assurances
that she did not care ; that she was
well enough pleased.

sit all comes of having only an old vagrant
of an aunt to look after your interests !'
she sighed, with a merry twinkle in her
eye.  You see, I've been in WestclifF such
a short time, and been out so little since
then. But, if we were in India, now,
instead of here, ah P

Hester smiled back and held her head
up, conscious of being the ' tallest deer in
all the herd ' around. She could overlook
almost all round her, and had a well-bred
head beautifully placed on a very white
neck. Her shoulders, slightly drooping,,
were unusually broad, her waist wonderfully,

naturally slender. Her whole figure
and appearance, one of the country-bred
young Westcliff beaux had described as
game-looking.' Why was she not more
sought out, then? Simply because, though
several of the youths watched her with
admiring eyes, they were perpetually reminded
by conscience, and their mothers
and sisters, of the environing, really native
Westcliif girls whose parents had dined
them, given afternoon teas, garden-parties,
and so forth. Duty required that so many
waltzes should pay back these little civilities.


Hester knew all this perfectly well, being
sensible. A bolder-minded damsel,
with such beauty, might have spread
havoc among the AYestclifF proprieties,
and caused a rebellion against these petty
by-laws. Hester hardly gave such a poor
victory a thought. Like Gallic, she cared
for none of these things. The girl came

from a beautiful and most happy nest
of a home, up by the lakes of the north
country. There she had been born and
bred. Twice or three times she had sipped
brief draughts of London pleasures,,
in visits delightful to remember afterwards
in the lovely solitudes she inhabited.

Short as these visits had been, she was
vaguely looked on in Westcliff as a London
young lady, and therefore conceited, no
doubt, and proud. Poor Hester gave herself
no airs : she, a very child of Nature !
Only she ardently loved what was pleasure
to her, and here felt disappointed. The
good youths who led her out to dance all
 asked her how long she had been in West-cliff;
and how she liked it; and would
she stay some time ? If she began a few
topics of more general interest than the
weather or the local cricket, they looked
alarmed, and murmured that Westcliff did
not 'go in' for these sort of clever subjects.

Aunt Bessie, it is terrible for a girl to
be condemned as " clever " in this sort of
town, and it is especially hard when one
feels so innocent of the guilt,' murmured
the girl, in an amused, half-veiled voice.

It is, dear. It's a positive stigma in
Westcliff; and, though you may have
latent possibilities that way, I never found
you offensively learned. I really have
thought at times you were quite a pleasant
goose -just a slight improvement on an
old goose like me.'

Mrs. Armytage's warmth of manner and
drollery of quiet humour made her a most
pleasant duenna ; perhaps too sympathetic
to be worldly-wise. She felt with Hester
now, like any girl-friend, though she had
only lately seen her niece again after her
own long expatriation in India. She
knew Hester's feet were dancing secretly
to the music, that the girl's eyes were
watching; the dancers with a feelings How

I could enjoy myself, if ' Just so had

Bessie felt, not so many years ao;o. And,
eying her charge lovingly, the kind soul
knew also there were very few among the
WestclifF men there whom Hester, ' cared
two straws to dance with ; and, I declare, I
agree with the child,' thought the chaperon
to herself 'It is hard at her age, and
with her face, to be a wall-flower  dear,
dear, we'll hope it's good for her !'

This was Mrs. Army t age's way, with a
silent laugh, of trusting that some good
mio-ht be deduced from disagreeable circumstances.
She was practically a most
religious woman, always * visiting the
fatherless and the widow in their affliction '
with cheering consolation ; but she seldom
talked about religion. Although quite
ready to grant that many young girls (and
awkward youths, too) are apt to think
themselves of too much importance in the
world, so that her temporary neglect was

probably beneficial to Hester,  who was a
petted orphan, adored in her northern
home by her old grandparents,  nevertheless,
resisting the blandishments of a line
of dowagers smiling and nodding to her,
for she was a general favourite, Mrs.
Armytage's small merry eyes were roving
round the room, trying to relieve the
young girl from her (perhaps) salutary
chastisement.

Hester, herself, has not yet been described
in appearance. The girl had an
oval face, with a white, low brow, broad
and full over the eyes. It was a peculiarly
imaginative face, though she had shown
no especial powers of intellect in learning
nor genius in painting, music, or so forth.
At times she had a strange look of calm
resolution  strange, only because of the
great gentleness of her eyes and whole expression,
which showed hers would be a
resistance of endurance, not opposition.

Hester's golden-brown hair was very silky
slightly waved, and flecked with chestnut
lights. She wove it slightly brushed back
and loosely coiled, suggesting at times the
thought how lovely it would look, if it
Avould but fall down upon her shoulders.
But Hester's eyes were her chief beauty.
They were only bluish-grey eyes, slightly
touched with orange spots on close inspection,
but large, almond-shaped, and sa
softly, deeply liquid. Her eye-lashes and
brows were far darker than her hair, and
the eye-brows, which were strongly pencilled
and long, drooped a little on the
temples as if with a premonition of sadness.
A long nose, with a slight rise, and
delicate nostrils. A mouth, of which the
short upper lip would quiver and move (as
indeed did her eyebrows) with every shade
of passing emotion ; while the lower one
was more full and warmly rosy, as if ' a bee
had newly stung it.'

Hester's exquisitely clear complexion was
rather pale. But then  in a moment  at
the least gladness, surprise, or slight annoyance,
it would flush with a quick,
vivid, yet as easily fading colour. The
blue veins on her temples were very apparent.
A seer of such signs, or prophetess,
might easily have traced her supposed
future fate there. And at moments
two veins could be seen, joining like a V,
in the middle of her white forehead. Alas ita
mark she was fated to remain vowed to
virginity all her days, or to be a victim?
Aunt Bessie had noticed the sign, and
they had laughingly disputed over it. The
former now remarked, with an apologetic
sigh,

There is good Mrs. Thompson nodding
at me so vigorously, like a. Chinese mandarin,
I almost fear she will do her head
an injury. And Mrs. Brown Johnson
is patting the chair beside herself Oh,

dear! If you don't much mind being
left alone, my child, I must go to them
a moment. I'll tear myself away very
soon.'

So Hester stood alone in the crowd of
2:irls ; few of whom she knew. It was
dull, and she looked with a weary, slightly
disdainful gaze around.

A pair of dark eyes met her glance.
For a moment, with a little thrill that
was almost a visible start, Hester seemed
to notice only those eyes, but to recognise,
nevertheless, that the handsome face they
lit was that of the stranger she had seen
for a moment at Christmas vespers. Immediately
afterwards he had turned away.
Still Hester felt convinced that, for the
second time, he had been Watching her
unperceived, as he imagined.

Aunt Bessie !' she eagerly whispered,
when presently that lady came back to
her post. ' I have seen that handsome

man again  The one, you know, I saw
just once here, at Christmas vespers, and
never again ! You remember . . . There !
there he is to your right. Don't pretend
to be looking;  take care ! Oh, he has seen

'O ?

you!'

 My goodness ! I declare, it is Christopher
Kenyon.'

With both hands eagerly ready, and
beaming eyes, Mrs. Armytage seemed prepared
to burst, as might a large cushion
propelled from a cannon, through the
crowd towards the stranger. Meanwhile,
he, with as eager a gleam of friendship
in his face, was dexterously and rapidly
making his way towards her.

My dear Kit! Is it real yourself?'
cried Bessie Armytage, who was an Irishwoman
by birth, as her question betrayed,
and perhaps also the genial warmth and
slightly rolling r's of her accent.

'Really myself! There are doubtless

several other persons in the world whom
I should not object to being; instead: but
as it is, this is I,' he slowly answered,
smiling ; and feeling like one who wants
to enjoy a sudden unexpected pleasure,
tasting its relish at some length, and not
to gulp it down all in a sudden.

But that was not Mrs. Armytage's plan.
She almost bewildered him with a flood of
rapid questions. He had only time to insert
monosyllables of ' yes' or ' no,' till,
pausing for breath, she ended in a reproachful
voice.

'And so, I suppose, you are spending
your leave at Cleeve Court with your old
uncle. How could you never let me know
you were here, all this time ?'

I have only come down this very afternoon.
I was merely here before for three
days at Christmas,' uttered the accused, in
emphatic self-exculpation. ' Spare me !
If I had known you were here, it would

have been indeed an oasis in the desert,
and I might not have been so hasty to
shake off the mud of WestclifF from my
boots.'

Tut, tut ; you always had a flattering
tongue. Don't waste your compliments
on an old woman like me. Here, let me
introduce you instead to my niece. Hester,
my child, this is Captain Kenyon, one
of my oldest friends in India.'

What a Methuselah you make me out !'
returned her friend, in an amused murmur.

Then, as Captain Kenyon fully recognised,
looking at Hester, that this was the
girl he had twice seen before, wondering
who she might be, he took her hand. Neither
could ever afterwards rightly explain
to themselves how it was, but their first
mutual greeting was a strange one. Hester
had silently given him her hand, and
there they stood ! Hand in hand, simply
looking at each other, not speaking. No

doubt the situation was brief, for Mrs,
Armytage's voice roused them both, and
their light but sympathetic hand-clasp
seemed to dissolve asunder. It certainly
struck that good woman as odd, but for a
mere moment : no more. Kit Kenyon had
whimsical ways with women, and fancier
full of gallantry about them. This was a
brief homage on his part, no doubt.

But the two actors were secretly, vaguely
aware they had behaved strangely, and ina
manner unusual to their own ordinary
selves ; for  however shortly, still during
an appreciable number of seconds longer
than custom required  they had stood as
two kindred spirits might on meeting in
another world.

Kenyon thought to himself afterwards :

Can my mind have brooded in solitude

till now in society my fancies seem to

embody themselves in whomever I meet ?

A strange star-gazer this girl must think

me  and her eyes were like stars ! For
the moment, it seemed to me, I had met at
last that other half of oneself which old
legends say was created at our own soul's
birth in past eternity. The second self
that our longing is always to meet and be
united with at last ; man and woman, one
perfect whole.'

And Hester took herself to task in the
small hours of that night.

'What must he have thought of me?
What possessed me? Some curious feeling
came over my senses ; and, as he stood
and held my hand, there / stood. It was
well Aunt Bessie spoke, or while he pleased
to stay in that position I might never have
stirred.'

Kenyon roused himself, as did the girl,
however. Though it was only to offer
his arm to Hester, and say,

This dance is nearly over, I fear  still,
would you like to finish it with me ?'

VOL. I. D

Hester did so like. The waltz was soon
ended ; for which reason perhaps Kenyon
asked her briefly, in a very quiet voice,
as if under a subduing spell, to give him
the next one, and when she said eyes,'
with a simple directness, he took her for
some tea. But this did not explain why,
after two more dances had passed, that the
third still found them together. Hester
was not certain that Colonel Kenyon had
even formally asked her each time. They
had not talked to each other either with
any brisk mutual ball-play of questions
and answers, between the pauses of the
dances. And yet both had come to understand
that they knew little and cared little
about the people among whom they had
found each other I That last expression,
though unspoken, was felt by both. Kenyon
indeed seemed never to bethink himself
that Hester could wish herself with
some one else.

This meant by no means a veni, vidi,
vice ! assumption on his part ; he was no
swaggering soldier, always believing in his
own conquests. Nor was he one of those
very quiet prigs given to metaphysical
discussions with kindred souls, which is
simply platonic flirtation. It may be
difficult to describe his state of mental
being, seeing that even to himself no
clear thought illumined it now. He was
simply a dreamer of dreams ; a man fond
during long spells of time of humorous
melancholy tasted in his own company
and that of favourite books (no solitude
this to him). For feverish snatches of
existence, certainly, he would rouse himself
to do as he saw those around him
doing; strive to enjoy to the very utmost
their amusements, appearing more ardent,
eager, and gay than any. But very often,
and that soon, he would discover other
people's amusements failed to amuse him,

d2

and that because of the people, not the
pastime. The individuals to him were
everything : not their deeds, not their
circumstances.

Just now he was still utterly engrossed
with his own sudden pleasure in Hester's
presence, and vague dream from the first
moment of meeting that here was one
being, at last, in almost perfect sympathy
with himself  that was all. And he did
not try to awaken himself.

The sight of Mrs. Armytage's face in
the distance, suddenly recalled him to his
usual state of mind.

' I am afraid I have been very selfish
 no doubt a whole crowd of other
partners are eagerly watching for you?
Shall we go back? The music is beginning
again, ' he said, with flattering
reluctance.

Hester suppressed a sigh, and consented,
murmuring that she knew very little of

the male dancing element of Westcliff
society.

'May I return, then, presently, after a
few dances?' asked Kenyon, with eagerness
in his eyes.

He had no thought except just to show
naturally his real pleasure and wishes.
But one acrid-minded spinster, who had
known him from a boy,' and considered
such acquaintance privileged her to publish
all the faults she had ever supposed
herself to discern in him, observed to two
simple-minded and careful mothers,

Look at Christopher Kenyon ! What
a terrible flirt he is, when he does set about
it. That was always his way; pretends
hardly to notice any woman, though he is
civil to all who come across his path.
Then all of a sudden he singles one out,
and never leaves her.'

Kit saw the glances levelled at him, as
lie stood now in a doorway, and shivered.

Ugly ! They are holding a dissecting-room
lecture, I know, and I am the corpse
operated upon . . . Old acquaintances
who are not friends are sometimes worse
than enemies.'

He turned away to talk to Mrs. Armytage
and to watch Hester, solemnise.

Kenyon had, without knowing it, made
his late partner the fashion that evening.
Hester had been seen, led out, distinguished
by one of the ' best ' men in the room,
and was now beset by newly-sprung admirers.


She is charming,' he said to Mrs. Armytage
presently, as both watched this little
scene.

She is a dear child ; and I am so glad
you helped to make her enjoy herself tonight
; for she found most of her partners
dull before,' answered that good woman,
who was really very simple, but thought

herself on some occasions quite a diplomatist.


Feeling his conscience absolved beforehand
by such an implied indulgence, Kenyon
once more appropriated Hester, when
three dances had elapsed. For some undefined
reason, perhaps to tantalise himself,
he had waited, though he had noticed
her looking round before, as if not altogether
satisfied, he fancied, with her present
society.

It was difficult not to feel slightly
triumphant on seeing Hester's beautiful
eyes suddenly light up as he approached,
with a quick, soft gleam, that beamed
upon him thereafter and did not die out.
She somehow gracefully dismissed her
various other would-be partners ; and
they two were once more together. Kenyon
danced well, but somewhat slowly ;
his style being considered rather conceited

by many of the young Westcliffians,
who loved to dash into the sharp exercise
of what they called a-rattling gallop'
(or rather a race in couples), and then to
breathe hard when resting, and freely use
their handkerchiefs. Kenyon had found
a comfortable and secluded nook after the
dance, and felt that the place and hour,
and their nearness on the sofa, were propitious
for conversation.

 When are the fates likely to make us
meet again ?' he asked of Hester, with an
earnest inquiry in his eyes.

It struck her he might have said, 'When
shall we meet?' or else ; 'Shall I see you
at Mrs. Armytage's house ?' His question
was unconsciously characteristic.

There is an afternoon tea at Mrs.
Thompson's to-morrow she smiled softly
back. 'I should hardly think, however,
it will be a party you would care
for.'

But Mrs. Armytage will be there  and
3'ou ?' he queried, affirmatively. ' Don't
you think a place signifies little ; the perilous
everything ? I can imagine being
perfectly happy in the desert with some
people, and wretched in Paradise with
others.'

'Yes  T quite agree. But it will not
be a desert tomorrow ; on the contrary.
Except, indeed, in the sense that one is
never more lonely than in a crowd sometimes.'


'You looked lonely when first I saw
you this evening,' answered Christopher,
softly, with mischievous amusement.
 How delightful it is to be met half-way
in one's meanings ! Do you remember
what the chief captain asked Paul ? 
Canst thou speak Greek ?" Half of what
one says to many people is Greek to them;
for one's words seem to convey only sound,
sound, sound ! to their ears, without the

deeper understanding, which is everything.'


Hester looked down flattered, and played
with her fan ; the inference was plain that
she understood. Kenyon looked at her, a
fuller sense of her beauty growing upon
him.

Is it not a little vain to  take it for
granted that those who speak Greek are
so much more clever than the supposed
barbarians around them ?' she objected,,
with a most winning modesty.

Kenyon glanced up quickly, and, seeing
humour gleaming softly in the girl's eyes,.
they laughed outright together at their
own supposed pretensions. A woman
with humour possessed a rare charm for
him.

 Far be it from me to think myself a
superior being,' he hastened to apologise
with a mock sigh, beneath which Alas real

enough humility. ' I would merely explain
with an old Frenchwoman who once
said, " I don't pretend to say if I have
good taste : I only knoAV what is mis
tasted '

When Kenyon took the girl and Mrs.
Armytage to their carriage, Hester felt as
if she had seldom  no, never !  been more
happy with anyone than in his society
that night.

*Well, and hoi did you like my old
favourite, Christopher Kenyon ?' asked
Mrs. Armytage, in her warm, full tones,
when she and her niece were alone together.
She thought in her heart, ' I know
the lamb does like him already ; but, old
witch as I am, I'll pretend not to notice
anything.' Aloud, she went on : ' He
used to dance well, and he was always
very agreeable.'

 Yes, he is  he does, ' said Hester,

dreamily. ' But there is something
more  I don't know what it is  something
in his manner : he is different from
other men.'

CHAPTER III.

CHARACTER-SKETCHES.

When Hester said that Christopher Kenyon
was different from other men, it was
not entirely a mere girl's fancy, who, having
small experience, thinks each one Who
interests herself stands apart among his
fellow-kind.

Kenyon had led a different life in his
boyhood from that of most English-bred
lads. His father was somewhat distinguished
in diplomacy, and Kit had passed
the first and most of his school-years
abroad,' as we islanders vaguely express

it. Though afterwards lie was sent to
Harrow, it was too late to undo first impressions,
and make him believe England
alone habitable, our ways always best.
He was already a young cosmopolitan;
and pleasant vacations and later leave-seasons
spent as he grew older in Madrid,
Paris, and gay Vienna, where the beardless
boy-soldier was petted by charming
women in the most exclusive circles of
society, did not increase his fondness for
dull country quarters whilst soldiering in
England.

He had hardly ever had any opportunities
to wear a pink coat and ride all day
across country after a fox or hare ; though
he had gone on many a bear-hunt in
Russia, after wolves in the Carpathians,
and spent days among the Lapphunters on
high Scandinavian fields. When visiting
at manor-houses among his country uncles
and cousins, he had been detected suppressing

one continuous yawn whenever
grand runs ' were run again, and had in
malicious despair at last so shamed his
relatives by joining in the pretended
eagerness, and discoursing upon the ' dogs !
and how each barked ! of waving tails !
foxes' feet !' and so forth, that out of pity
for his (supposed) ignorance, and not to
expose him further before stranger squires,
the subject had been changed.

Worse still, the young man did not care
to take a gun in his hand every morning
and go out  to kill something.' He said,
he would much prefer knowing that the
woods were full of proudly crowing pheasants,
and that brown partridges were
stealing through the stubble in shy, happy
coveys, rather than the half tame creatures
should be slaughtered at battues or maybe
only wounded, and then, with their necks
Avrung, be piled in his bag, a mere mass
of feathers.

On the whole, Kenyon was well enough
pleased when he was ordered on foreign
service. Lately he had but just returned
from some years spent ia India, mostly in
remote stations. He had thought to like
so-called solitude and the different life ;
but trying hot climates and lonely hill-forts
satiated that ardour. Lately he had
returned to England on sick-leave, and
strayed down to WestclifF  because no
home was left him now on earth ; journey
as he might from Stockholm to Constantinople
to the well-remembered haunts and
ways of old. His dear and near ones were
all dead ; the Kenyonss were not a strong
family. It was to him as if the beloved
home-group had taken a longer voyage
to a further foreign home than any before
in their wandering lives, and had unkindly
left no address behind for him who had
always so gladly followed them hitherto,
yearned to hear from them.

At WestclifF, Kit was staying with an
old widower uncle whose sons, grown, busy
men, cared little to visit the quiet Court ;
and whose sister, also widowed but childless,
lived with the old baronet, and kept
the household well-regulated as to punctual
roar of gong, family prayers twice a
day, recurring dishes on especial weekdays,
and a Sunday sweeping into a locked
cupboard of all light literature, newspapers,
and even other inmates' letters. It Alas
not amusing for Kit, but it was thoroughly
comfortable  and he, being often unwell
still, had not much heart to roam.
His old aunt was fond of him, even indulgent
with all her sternness ; pretending not
to smell the constant incense of tobacco
from his room which she heartily disliked.
His old uncle was really glad of his
nephew's society ; for many years' weight
had not yet crushed out the original Adam
in him, and he liked to see an upright

VOL. I. E

form come through the hall and a man's
voice answer his quavering questions. Kit
eared for them both in his queerly contradictory
heart ; though a dozen times a day
he vowed to himself he was oppressed by
the solidity that became stagnation of the
slow easy life. At nights he played first
draughts with the one and then chess with
the other, because it amused them ; and,
though terribly bored, he was gently, pitifully
' sorry for old people.'

In the daytime he generally strolled
from habit into the Westcliff club. Cleeve
Court lay at a little distance from the
town. The Westcliff men hardly knew
how to regard Kenyon. They owned he
was a handsome man, and had seen a great

deal of the world ; but Well, in spite of

his agreeability occasionally when it pleased
him (poor Kit fondly hoped it had pleased
them f), yet very often their presence
seemed blotted out of his consciousness, so

engrossed was he with some magazine
article, or library books few else cared to
look into, all apparently with titles ending
in ology or ism. Besides, the fellow was
half a Frenchman ; some one had discovered
or heard say he spoke several languages,
though, to do him justice, he was not given
to 'showing off.'

But, what you ladies all see in him, we
can't tell !' was always the final verdict.
Women could not tell either; but when
lured out from his beloved den and smoke,
from his books or club, Kenyon had undoubtedly
a strong attraction for them,
and success over his fellows. He was
handsome  but so were others : of good
family  still there are plenty as good,
William the Conqueror and Burke's Landed
Gentry be thanked !

'And he's not well-off, and got into bad
health in India ; and, though we hear he
is so clever, he has never done anything f

E 2

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS
LIBRARY

This last objection was perfectly true.
Kit Kenyon had never ' done anything ' in
the world's opinion.

And now as to Mrs. Armytage. She
was a rather happy-go-lucky-minded Irishwoman,
who, having married a civil engineer,
found her lines of life laid down for
her along Indian railways.

Ah, well ! and there are many worse
places to live in than the Central Provinces,'
she would say, nodding cheerfully,
when acquaintances attempted to pity her.
It was of no use trying to make her look
on the dark side of things ; indeed, it was
secretly a great part of her inner religion
never to let her warm trust be shaken in
the belief that ' all things are ordered for
the best.'

'But the separation from your large
family of dear little children !' these comforters
would cry.

Yes, indeed. I may just be described

as the old woman in the shoe, who had so
many she didn't know what to do. But
you see it's such a good excuse to be often
coming home to see my brood here. If I
didn't, I declare they would all be mixed
up in my mind ; adopted chicks ; ages and
names !' she would laugh back. ' It gives
one such an interest in coming back, though
one does have to leave one's husband.'

The adopted ones were more Army takes,
mostly sent back from India where the
family formed a clan. Some had only
fathers alive ; some no mothers ; some, like
Hester, had neither. Aunt Bessie, when
in England, gathered them all at holiday
times under her wings. She had taken a
house for a short time at WestclifF, the
walls of which expanded elastically to hold
ever more. And she also seemed to have
room in her heart for any number ; and
a little time somehow and plenty of warm
words for each.

You are always so cheerful, dear Mrs.
Armytage !' people would say, admiringly,
and yet some with a lurking self-flattery
whispering that after all she could not
feel things i.e., troubles in life, as poignantly
as their own dear selves. Poor Bessie 1

there were times But, ah, well ! she

did not talk about those times : would go
away at such seasons to bed, pretending
fatigue, and cover her head nearly over in
the dark, and  come down smiling again
next morning.

Hester was an orphan, as was said. She
had early been sent as such home to the
grandparents of all the Armytagess, up in
the lake country. Here she was the pet,,
who kept the old nest warm. They were
always afraid the child would be lonely,
though they did their utmost to make her
happy.

Hester grew up, not disliking her solitary
life among the grand everlasting hills.

and by the shining lakes, at times loving
nature and seclusion passionately; at other
times longing, craving for excitement, the
pleasures of the world. All girlhood, with
promise in it, passes through as many
phases as a silkworm or a butterfly. She
poured her whole self, not so much ardently
as honestly, utterly, into what were her
wishes for the time. So she had twice
greedily delighted in every hour of two
snatches of London seasons, and then returned
wishing for more of society. Yet
she was ready to enjoy as intensely as ever
the glories around her of mountain heights
in loneliness and upper air. Here she
climbed to think over her late delights,
with perhaps increased pleasure in retrospection.
Then the shimmering waters out
on which she loved to row alone, alone ! and
live in dream-castles of Spain ; and be now
a great lady, bowed down to, beloved and
feared ; now happy on crusts and sweet

love in a little cottage ; now this  now

that

Then Aunt Bessie came back and asked
her down for the little Westcliff season.
Hester was with difficulty persuaded to
go, though she wished it, fearing the old
grandparents would be lonely. But they
themselves declared together they would
push her out of the nest, like a new-fledged
bird that must be made to fly. Tut !
change and pleasure were good for young
creatures. Miss her !  not they ; they
could quite well keep each other amused.
Had they not had time enough to learn
how to do that all their lives nearly. Certainly,
though they had married young,
both were still like a pair of old love-birds ;
grey and feeble instead of green plumaged
any longer, jQi always drawing together
with cosy twittering.

CHAPTER IV.

WANDERING THE WORLD.

The afternoon-party at Mrs. Thompson's
saw Mrs. Armytage and her niece arrive
almost among the first. The house was a
semi-detached villa on a hill-side, with a
gravel sweep in front, where few carriages
came  for people were not rich in West-cliff,
and said frequently, ' that they liked
some exercise : a little Avalk was good for
everybody '  and a pretty shrubbery belt
of winter-green bushes, haunted by sparrows
and cats. All the  good houses ' were
similarly built, and stood in terraced rows
on the two hill-sides of WcstclifF. Down

in the hollow, between the two opposite
heights, lay the town of shops and toiling
folk generally ; the beach, harbour, and
promenade. If the houses were much
alike, so were the afternoon teas.

Isn't it a little early, dear ?' Aunt
Bessie had doubtfully asked, on being unusually
urged by her niece  as the former
was aware.

Oh, no ; I don't think so. Our clocks
are nearly all slow,' Hester replied, trying
to look wise and punctual, and to
believe herself.

In consequence, they were perforce driven
on and on into the furthest recesses of the
Thompson drawing-room by ever arriving
new groups of ladies in twos, threes, and
shoals. They listened drearily to young
ladies playing ' pieces ' on the piano ; and
music meant at that date two or three airs
learnt with difficulty, and forming the
stock-in-trade of each performer. When

at last two men's coats appeared visible
through the throne: of ladies standing
the door  all smiling: and talking; fast
and loud, as if to persuade each other they
were highly enjoying themselves  Hester
felt uneasy, and tried to see who were the
owners. Only the sons of the house, who
were acting as male decoys with bad
enough grace, and confiding to their more
familiar lady-friends how they ' disliked
these sort of tea-fights.' Next, a few old
Indian military men appeared, grey and
precisely dressed ; or stout and genially
disposed, these last almost invariably 
and florid. At last another
black coat appeared, and alone. Hester
strained her neck round till it ached, but
could only descry a scrap of arm for

minutes till There ! he had come insight

at last. Only the evangelical curate,
weak, small, and hungry in appearance,
but who presently startled everybody by

ringing, ' If doughty deeds my lady please
in a great hoarse bass that seemed to come
from no one knew where.

Hester turned away, resolved to watch
no more ; self-shamed. At last she looked
up unawares, and there he was. He already
meant Captain Kenyon ; alas, silly Hester !
He must have been there some time,
wedged fast near the door; but making
himself as agreeable to all around as if he
asked nothing more. But he met Hester's
glance, and did decidedly begin edging
towards her, when just then the music
ceased. There was a movement towards
tea and coffee in another room. The
hostess pounced upon Kenyon, who, with
his imperturbably agreeable manner, gave
his arm to a most wearisome dowager of
local importance. Following at a distance
with a young Mr. Johnston-Brown,  who
admired her, but, being raw, beardless, and
too much flattered in West cliff, Hester was

inclined to gently disregard,  she observed
that Kenyon's manner to the other ladies
was different from that to herself last
evening. He talked fast ; brilliantly at
moments ; but with few pauses for equal
relies  no speaking silences.

Time passed. Still Christopher was in
thrall as a kind of gentleman-butler, whose
arm was required to escort many elderly
ladies in turn a few yards to get a cup of
tea. Aunt Bessie looked despairingly at
Hester, with a meek, deprecating smile.

You want to go home. Oh, I know !
it will soon be the children's tea-time,' said
Hester, heroically. eyes, it's quite late 
let us go. Xo, thank you ; indeed, I don't
care to stay any longer.'

'Please dont hurry'' said a low voice close
by Hester's shoulder, as she was threading
her way out.

She started. Kenyon's eyes met hers
with a quick glance of half apologetic entreaty,

and he turned hastily to seek his
hostess. The two ladies were hardly outside
before a quick step came behind,
and Kit, no longer apathetic or dreamy,
joined them.

What a perfect evening it is !' he said.
 It seems a sin to waste it indoors there.'

Bessie Armytage smiled and accepted
the apparent plea. They three went down
the zig-lagging, hillside road, overhung
with ilex and ivy trailing over terrace
walls to the beach. Here another acquaintance
joined them; or rather, joined
Mrs. Armytage, that universal human magnet,
who had so little heart to repel any,
indeed, with her large and kindly tolerance,
that she was often surrounded thickly
by the burrs, bores, and weaklings of
society while the brighter spirits whom she
loved best had, perforce, to stay aloof.

There was a glorious sunset that evening.
It rippled in a red, glittering path

over the waves that flashed dazzlingly on
either side the orleamino: track wherever
the low beams caught their lightly-broken
surface ; elsewhere the sea spread wide,
grey, and mysterious ahead.

The western sky was all a haze of glorious
amber, against which every twig of the
still leafless trees was distinctly outlined ;
and the smoke from some houses near rose
up straight through the still air in reddish-brown
wreaths.

 On such an evening I am glad to be in

England ; to be at Westcliff ; and to he !'

Kenyon said, looking away at the scene
with pure, almost perfect enjoyment therein.
Without turning his head towards
her, he moved nearer to Hester and
spoke low, in a voice meant for her ear
alone ; as if convinced she would understand
and share his sensations.

They had been talking ; yet, as before,
Hester could hardly have recalled what

each said. It had been not so much of
things as of thoughts  and she was strongly
captivated by Kenyon's voice and manner
; and the vague suggest! ness of hi
words, rather than definitely out-spoken
opinions.

Hester had already found out what she
liked in this man was that he unconsciously
seemed to help her to think. He never
presumed to think for her. Even young
Johnson-Brown would say calmly, if she
advanced a liking or idea, ' Oh, no. You're
wrong, I assure you :' or ' That's not it.'

This displeased our musing maiden :
Why should a mere boy like that think
he must know better than me?  It's his
way of arguing, but what right has he to
say I'm wrong till he has proved it ! (and.
even then, why say so)' She was glad in
her heart that Kenyon praised the beauty
of the evening, as if it were a new good
quality of enthusiasm in him ; and that he

was not ashamed (as would young )
to be thought sentimental over
a sunset. And so, being pleased  out of
pure contrariety, Hester proceeded to
laugh at him.

 How fickle-minded you must be, Captain
Kenyon. Who was it said, only last
night, that he had rambled too long through
the earth, which was called very good at
creation, to roll himself up tight like a
hedoehoo; in the belief that there was no
place in the world like England  and
WestclifF.'

Kenyon turned now, and noted the soft
brightness of the girl's eyes, a little dimple
that appeared mischievously a moment in
her left cheek.

'Out of my own mouth am I judged!
and yet that is different from saying, there
is no place like  home. I begin to believe
that our native air and earth, akin to one's
bodily house of clay, might have some

VOL. I. F

subtle influence after all upon the free
mind within. At moments like this I feel
it so.'

Kit had a way of looking, sometimes,
long and .dreamily at those he talked with
that could never distress and seldom failed
to please women  (perhaps much practice
had taught him to perfect the art). But
Hester, even under the gentleness of his
gaze, blushed slightly ; the least fluctuation
of blood being visible beneath her
clear skin.

Still, if you admire this scene, it is
nothing to a morning on the cliffs,' she
said, with slight awkwardness, to divert his
gaze. ' This beach is vulgarised with those
rows of wretched, saddled donkeys, and
the organ-grinders, and bathing-boxes, and
German bands. But what I love, is the
morning view upon the hills there. It is
so sunny, too, and so quiet ; no one comes
but ourselves. They don't half appreciate

the beauties of nature in WestclifF/

Up there !' said Kenyon, following her
gaze with quiet interest. ' So you and
Mrs. Armytage go there for your morning
walks. ' I shall ask her if . . .'

He stopped himself. Hester, hardly
perceiving it, said, lightly,

No, Aunt Bessie is too busy ; the mornings
are her time of daily labour. I take
two of the children, generally by turns, to
exercise them.'

'What are you two discussing there?'
said that good woman, coming up now.

We Avere originally admiring this sunset
view,' said Kenyon, who always changed
his conversation a little for everyone ;
and Miss Armytage can hardly comprehend
how strangers and sojourners in many
lands, like you or me, feel that we had
better never allow our roots to strike too
deep in English soil.'

Just so. I'm always feeling like a

f2

tramp whom the policeman orders to move
on, whenever one has settled down for a
while,' responded Mrs. Armytage, with as
cheerful an air as if she liked the life
described.

eyes,' murmured Kit, half to himself,
though Hester's ears heard it, being
watchful. ' I am always wandering the
world.'

On their further homeward way, Kenyon
then devoted himself to Mrs. Armytage,,
Avhom he had known in India well, and
greatly liked.

'Wandering the world !' Hester mused
in her own mind ; the phrase repeating
itself therein often. But it must be dreary,
lonely for a man to feel so. She began to
pity Kenyon.

CHAPTER V.

THE ladies' bay.

The headland which stretched on the right
side of Westclifftown sloped picturesquely
to the sea; and was rough with rocks,
copse-wood, and broken ground.

All the houses near this were nearly half-a-mile
away, inland, where the curve of
the hill sheltered them warmly in the
valley.

The morning after Mrs. Thompson's
party, Hester was slowly wending her way
through the winding paths of the said
coppice, enjoying the sweet freshness of

the sunny morning. One of the best
pleasures on this earth is surely to delight
oneself, thinking of nothing else, in the
perfect beauty of a spring day. The very
air around us seems all awakened, renovated
; the wind blows softly with whispers
of new life on its wings  and so the girl
felt now.

She seemed bathed in high, wide air
here, in tender sunlight. Her mind was
free to range at will over the wide, steel-grey
expanse of waters before her, voyaging
far away, as it were yonder  flitting
over the wave-tops and landing on the distant
Welsh shores which lay low as a cloud-bank
; to vaguely rove through sunny,
unseen lands on and on, dreaming of adventures,
meetings, strange fortunes to
befall herself.

All this, and far more, Hester loved to
imagine in spring-time and see such a far
outlook. Then in summer it was pleasant-est

to bury oneself in the woods and spend
long hours in stately pleasure-houses of
which she knew the very rooms, though
never seen by any but her eyes and built
by no mortal hands ; with different fancies
and favourite scenes of nature for autumn
again and for winter. She had to pick
her steps carefully along the narrow paths,
which more resembledrabbit-tracks, through
the growth of hollies and gorse. Hester
was bent on going far down to a spot she
knew of; and there, sitting at her ease, to
open the book she carried. But, ah ! the
girl promised herself a half-hour first, to
go in happy retrospection over all that
Kenyon had said to her these two separate
times they had met  she had such a
treacherous memory, and there were many

little things that already The girl

quickened her steps to anticipate the solitary
delicious enjoyment: crash! some earth
crumbled from the path's edge, and her

foot was only saved by some brambles from
slipping downwards. Then there were
glances too, to conjure up again; and a
sun-bronzed face to recall. She must
surely be deficient in appreciation, or inartistic
powers, or ' something,' for even
when she shut her eyes it was so hard to
outline those features again !

Hester almost gave a cry ! For heres
now ; only a few steps away from her, as
she turned a bend in the track, was the
man himself, Kenyon. He was sitting
perched on the topmost bar of a low stile,
placed there to guard some vexatious
rights of trespass ; and as the girl came in
full view he smiled in " recognition, and
lazily descended. Hester's eyes lightened
(she could not help it) with gladness, but
also a crimson blush swiftly throbbed up
from her heart to her cheeks, as she allowed
Kenyon to take her hand.

Oh !' she said, honestly, with a little

gasp, ' I had no idea you ever came so far
as this from the Court '

' I do not suppose you had,' answered
Kenyon, instantly divining her thought ;
and holding her fingers all the longer in
his quiet clasp, while he looked at her fair
face with very real admiration and an air
of most soothingly reassuring respect.
But it is not so far over the crest of the
hills . . . once one has climbed up to
them from the Cleeve valley . . . and I
am fond of solitary strolls. Where is Mrs.
Armytage or her children?  I thought
you always brought a couple of little possible
victims, to play unconscious of danger
among the thorns and pitfalls of this your
favourite spot.'

He was giving Hester time to recover
herself; and speaking with the long
pauses Which can be, in themselves, more
speaking.)

They could not come this morning.

Two or three of them have colds ; the rest
are at school,' explained Hester.

She was thinking, while she spoke, how
she had hesitated about coming this
morning alone ; and had only decided todo
so, because of the delicious opportunities
of remembering  all about him who
now stood before her.

How slowly you came across the hillside.
I could just see your hat from my
eyrie, and knew it wsLyou ; but was doubtful
about going to meet you lest I should
have missed you instead in the maze these
paths make,' smiled Kenyon. Then he
looked full in her clear eyes.

'And now, must I go away? Or may
I stay and have a delightful half-hour's
converse?'

*Why not?' asked Hester, with gay
frankness. At her own grand-parental
nest up in the north, she seldom met
strangers (no, new friends) in her rambles.

But, had she done so, would she not have
been free to follow her own sweet will as
to graciously bidding them stay or depart ?
She was never gainsaid ; it was not supposed
she could do wrong in these small
matters ; so, having only her own strong
and clear ideas of right and wrong to holdfast,
her young mind was vexed by no
fears of breaking society bye-laws. ' I
shall tell Aunt Bessie you met me ; and
were sorry not to meet her too. That is
true, is it not?'

 Most true. I like her " above the
lave !" ' Kenyon cheerfully assented.

Yes, it was true ; for Mrs. Armytage was
such a dear soul he was always glad of her
presence. She knew he never liked talking
to two persons at once, and so had,
how often ! in olden days, occupied herself
pleasantly lending propriety to his apparently
absorbed attention to other women,
who would confide all manner of things to

him from their new dresses to their sufferings
under general misconceptions. Then
he came in turn to her feet, and was scolded,
advised, and befriended in a motherly-sisterly
fashion. It would have been better
but no ! she was his tried friend, and
would trust him and not object.

 Where were you bound for ? Shall we
both perch on this penitential stile ?' Kit
asked, with a comically-rueful glance at
the rocks, brushwood, and thorns around.

Come with me ; and if you will promise
to be very good you shall be shown my
favourite seat,' Hester laughed, recovering
her frankness.

She led him squeezing past boulders,
bending under thorns, brushing through a
holly-brake to a smooth, flat slab overhanging
a descent fairly precipitous to the sea
below; and framed on all sides but seaward
with a tangle of bushes.

Here Hester sat herself down in royal

state, and gave a slight sign to her squire
to take place beside her. Kenyon demurred,
looking at the rock with a 
air.

I don't much like this seat. Should
you greatly mind changing sides with
me?'

Hester did so ; and only then perceived
that he had made her move to where a
rise of rock more comfortably supported
her, if inclined to lean back.

She settled herself and thanked him with
small, understanding smile, and an  Oh, I
see !' That pleased him ; it was a bore to
explain such little intentions or make
phrases.

Like an adopted son of the east, Kenyon
Adore a thick coat with furred collar, for
he generally shivered in shrewish breezes
of the young year, where surprised 
only noticed the mild sun. But
into Hester's nook all the morning; sunshine

poured down, and was reflected from
a cliff on one side ; a serried wall of holly
screened off draughts, and, looking through
a frame of brown clematis trails or ivy
wreaths that half smothered the thorn-bushes
around, one could see the sea shining
grey below and softly lapping the rocks,
while a white sea-mew would waver in
mid-air at times across their foreground,
flying high that day.

This is a delightful spot. How wonderfully
well you seem to know one's likings
and thoughts,' said Kenyon, after a few
moments of lazy contemplating satisfaction.

I am so glad you think so,' murmured
Hester, with shy gratified pleasure at his
praise. ' I think it would be so pleasant
sometimes  not always, of course  if persons
could know what was in each other's
minds without the need of words.'

Yes  it may be so with spirits,' answered
Kenyon, fixing his eyes musingly on

the play of the fair features so near him.
Let us hope there will be no objections to
full and delightful intercourse of mind
among them  no weaknesses and worse
evil of thoughts to hide. But, even here
below, have you not felt, at times, that the
aura invisibly surrounding some one in
sympathy with yourself seemed to convey
mutual thought ?'

Hester had indeed felt it  of late. Even
while she vaguely agreed, a wonder stole
into her mind whether there were many
before herself with whom he had felt thus.
But she could not allow such small chilling
surmises to creep now into her heart, on
such a glorious morning ; and with Kenyon
beside her.

It is beautiful ; is it not ?' burst almost
unawares from her lips, while her eyes
shone with such a genuine enthusiasm, as
she looked around, that her companion
fairly laughed.

 You are a very child of Mother Nature F
What would you do if you had to live
months in an arid desert with only three
or four sickly palms for vegetation ? You
would pine like a Northern larch-tree.'

'No  I should only shut my eyes, I
think.'

And dream by day. I know  that is
one of my sweetest ways of beguiling tedious
hours and peopling my solitudes, too.
. . What is your own home like ? It
must be beautiful scenery up by the lakes. '

Kit cunningly wished to lure again the
soft light into Hester's eyes he had seen
there before when speaking of whatever
she loved, and the bait succeeded. She
began to tell him of that beautiful northern
home where the great mountains lay couchant
around, and through hanging woods
of oak and birch the brooks leaped downwards
in a babble of running water or
white rush of falls-of the lakes and the

sunsets and sunrises ; of the changes of
storm and shine. Her own words warmed
her to still more rapturous description :
while Kenyon urged her on by playfully
teasing doubts of the beauties of Nature
she told of  till her eyes flashed laughing
reproaches at him and just the right
amount of colour glowed in her cheeks ;
and one hidden little dimple peeped out
beside her sweet mouth, which tried sensitively
now to control rising laughter, now
to smile away half-vexed curves.

A child of Nature. Yes, a child of sun
and showers, of swift moods all as honestly
shown in her frank face as the truth shines
up from the liquid depths of her eyes !'
thought Kenyon. But it did not seem to
him that there was any unusual strength
of mind under that changeful delightful
play of features. Rather the contrary.
Those who show so easily all they feel get
rid of just so much emotion, of joy or sors

I. G

rows in the action ; so lie philosophised inwardly
now. A neat axiom ; but too easy
of application to be the key to the curiously
intricate recesses of many feminine
characters.

You have had a happy life, so far !'
broke in Kenyon, suddenly, as Hester
paused with the satisfied air of having convinced
an opponent in argument. ' Be
thankful for it. I had a fairly happy
youth, too, as happiness goes on our globe ;
and, whatever Dante may say, I like to
remember it in my darkest hours. It is
always something to have had one's day 
and to look back.'

 But I don't care often to look back.
What I love is always to look forward, forward
!' the girl cried, turning to see
whether the man was in earnest, and then
giving a little gesture of her hand towards
the ocean of air before them, above the
ocean of water below, as if to signify the

mind should always be free as these elements,
however the feet cleave to earth.
I think it is so delightful to think of all
the glorious possibilities before one  of all
one can do with one's life.'

Do ! It seems to me that fortune and
circumstances make of us what we are,
mostly. Straws drifting down a stream,
no better !' said kenyon, with a despondent
sigh which startled Hester. ' Oh, I don't
say for a moment that all are equally
miserable. Many straws happen to be
drawn into some quiet pool and rest there
happy ; the others go floating helplessly
along the current and maybe sucked down
in many a whirlpool. Time and chance
happened to all men.'

But still men can fight against odds,
struggle bravely in the stream, carve out
their future as women never can. Oh !
how I have often wished for that reason
to have been a man,' protested Hester,

g2

with a sort of soft enthusiasm, envying the
daring she felt was not in herself

 Don't wish it. Men have their own
stronger passions, as enemies within the
gates, to reckon with. Women are at least
happier in this  that they are not utterly
selfish as we are in this world ; and that
most of them fully believe in another
existence where they hope " somehow " the
much wrong; here will be rioted.'

But do you not hope that, too ; believe
it ?' ejaculated Hester, with parted lips.

Don't ask me what I believe  I only
feel there is no rock under my feet now
when plunged in mental darkness. Hope !
I should wish to do so, but the anchor
drags, unfortunately, however often flung
out from the ship. No, at the present
moment I am hopeless ; with no point in
future to look forward to but only vacuum,
space ; and only the bitter-sweetness of the
past as certainty.'

Oh, I am so sorry ! But I call that
terrible,' murmured Hester, in dismay.
In her distress for Kenyon she bent her
slim figure far forward, clasping her arms
round her knees while gazing out into the
air before their faces, as if there was the
space he looked into and found  empty !
She had swayed fearlessly quite near the
cliff-edge that was steep below them.

Kenyon said, in a very quiet voice,

Please excuse me ; but is it not late,
and lunch time?  Let me help you to
rise.' He took hold of her as she turned
'smith such a] tenacious grip that Hester,
who had easily and lightly recovered her
feet, was astonished.

Forgive me ! but I have not your nerve
at any dangerous height,' Kenyon apologised
; and then the girl noticed his face
had turned pale. ' Another moment and
I thought you would have been overT

Oh, no,' she said ; now feeling nervous

too, 4t is all habit, or one's nature. I
never thought of being giddy.'

'- How deficient in the splendid animal
courage many men praise I must be,' said
Kit, grimly sarcastic against himself; as
they turned by mute consent through the
paths homeward. ' One of my favourite
consolations, is the story of the general
whose knees trembled so much in battle
that, when some epaulette bull-dog remarked
it to him, he said : " Yes  and if
you were half as afraid as T am, you would
run away." '

Hester's only reply Alas a mute look
straight out of her speaking eyes in his,
and a deprecating, small smile on her
sensitive lips. Kit found the answer
satisfying enough.

What o'clock did you say it was ?' she
presently asked, after some yards of silence,
as they passed amongst the overhanging
bushes.

He started.

I never looked ! Why, it is  how the
time has flown !  nearly one o'clock. They
will be sounding the big stable-bell at the
Court for me soon, thinking me strayed in
the woods.'

That is your shortest way back then,'
said Hester, stopping where two roads
met.

Kit took her hand silently, held it longer
than most people do, as if some connecting
medium must pass between them.

I shall come and see Mrs. Armytage
soon,' he said.

CHAPTER VI.

MY Live S LIKE A RED, RED ROSE.

Christopher Kenyon kept his word, and
came even the very next day to pay Mrs.
Army t age a visit.

Bessie received him alone, with all her
usual heartiness of manner, though indeed
her mind was greatly pre-occupied at the
moment. Three of the children were not
very well ; and a stout nurse-maid, ' one of
the best wheels to my family-coach,' asher
mistress declared, had been called away
to a dying father at a moment's notice.
So the coach was trying to run this day on

three wheels along household grooves made
just difficult enough by a little bother
about the gas ; a quarrel between two servants
; a suspicion of measles at school.

'Well, you are welcome !' Bessie cheerily
announced, holding out both hands with
that soft, comfortable clasp her friends delighted
in. ' Come and brighten me up !
It will be good for a person of my present
overwhelming domesticity. But I am
afraid it is like asking a bottle of champagne
to come and hob-nob with a bowl of
porridge.'

And, laughing, she motioned Kit towards
the most comfortable of the lodging-house
chairs.

I am so sorry. You have been worried
with some of the children being ill ?' said
Kenyon, with the sympathy that was partly
the secret of his great success in most
women's liking.

His voice was, at such times, especially

low, too, his manner quiet, so that no one
else present but the one addressed was
aware that his mind seemed for the
moment entirely given up to thoughts of
and for herself

Mrs. Armytage looked gratefully pleased.

Oh, Avell, I try not to grumble much,'
(' You certainly succeed,' put in Kenyon
but you are an old friend  so it relieves
a small mind like mine to empty itself.
As the proverb says, '' It never rains but
it pours :" but, after all, it is just as well,,
perhaps, when all one's small cares come
at once. One nail drives out another, and
one hasn't time to bother separately over
each little trouble. Never mind about
them ! Come and tell me what you have
been doing.'

'Well . . . for one thing I met your
niece. Miss Armytage, taking her morning
walk yesterday, so we had a little talk
together as well,' began Kit, honestly, butin
a rather subdued voice.

He was bound to Mrs. Armytage by old
ties of gratitude and friendship, and, did
she look vexed, would have regretted hi
impulse to seek the Ladies' Bay yesterday,
however delightful the recollection.

Yes, Hester told me ; and I was very
glad indeed that she had such a pleasant
morning. I could not go out with her
myself, and am sometimes afraid she has
not enough amusement ; but I shall trust
to you now, occasionally for that, I hope.
She is such a dear, unselfish child  quite
my right hand.'

Kenyon was delightedly astonished ; but
with self-flattery put down the implied
permission to Bessie Armytage's refreshingly
honest carelessness of some conventionalities,
and thorough belief in himself
She was a gem among women ; and had
always comprehended and liked him.

This last was partly true. But the
whole truth was that poor Bessie, being

nearly muddle-headed these two days, and
feeling  like a hunted hare !' as she cheerfully
announced, had entirely forgotten
that Hester was unaccompanied as usual
hy 'some of the many,' as the various
youths and children were termed. Hence
her bright look and emphasis of invitation,
given in a hurry and expressing more than
she meant ; while in her heart she was
thinking :

There ! I forgot the mixture from the
chemist for the other twins. What is my
head good for but a sieve.'

And vaguely lost at times, but again
appearing out of the darkness of her mind
into temporary light as her thoughts flashed
here and there, was a shadowy suggestion
that Kit was a dear, good fellow, with
all his so-called flirtations in the past,
which she had never known as blameable ;

and if he did take a fancy to Hester

She had to pursue present conversation

with Kenyon, however. Meanwhile, overhead
sounded a trampling like mild thunder,
rising at moments to distant uproar,
for which she heartily apologised.

Don't mind, pray ; I have often heard
of the soft patter of childish feet,' said
Kenyon, with a grin.

Every now and then, the door would
open softly, and a hesitating inroad of shy
Goths and Vandals upon civilisation,' as
Mrs. Armytage called it, occurred. Now
came two small dots of girls, her own
twins, about three years' old, looking like
round, white muslin pin-cushions tied up
with blue ribbons. They crept in hand-in-hand
and sat shyly at their mother's feet
on the same cushion, whence each by turns
rolled off with rosy, undisturbed gravity,
and was picked up and restored to her
perch by Kit. Then two fine cubs of
youths slouched in.

 This is the man of my household,

Two small urchins in sailor-suits peeped
round the door at times, with smothered
explosions of delight in their daring, and
then ran away till called forward by
Bessie's motherly voice. These were the
other twins,' who were neither her own
nor of other Armytage kindred ; but whose

mother, ' poor dear Jane Murray, you remember,'
wrote from India she felt happier
if Bessie herself looked after them.
Kit patted their round-cropped fair heads,
and held their small limp hands.

How innocent they look, like ideal
little choristers !' he said, as they gladly
stole away again.

Ah ! so you would think, but they are
such a naughty pair of little boys. I
assure you, it is very hard work for me to
keep them in order, often,' said a new
voice.

Kenyon started, and saw a very stout
little girl of about eleven or twelve, with a
mane of thick dark hair about her shoulders,
a broad, sallow-complexioned face,
and round, rolling eyes. The rest 'of the
many ' teased her by assurances that they
were sure if they might only pinch her
cheeks her eyes would jump right out of
her head.

snow, Uda, my dear! you must have
patience. The boys have only a little
mischief in them, and would not be worth
a pin if they hadn't. This is Gertrude,
our eldest daughter said Mrs. Armytage,
with an air of good-humoured maternal
authority.

I assure you, mamma, I am patient
with them ; I never say a single word in
haste,' answered poor Uda, solemnly making
her eyes look bigger, and feeling righteously
aggrieved at the reproof before a
stranger.

I know, dear  keep on having patience,
and you'll be all right. You must be their
little mother, you know. Now run away
and ask Cousin Hester to come downstairs.'


Uda did not run, but still gave herself
an air of great eagerness to obey her
mother's behests; combined with rapidly
shaking out her long hair and stealing a

side-glance at Captain Kenyon ; then she
walked off with all the dignity short skirts
and a wonderfully thick waist would
allow. Kit wished the little Pharisee
would hurry herself. Presently, as he
watched the door, she again returned, but
alone.

If you please, mamma,' she began, in a
magisterial though lowered voice, ' I am
afraid Cousin Hester has quite spoilt baby ;
for she has had her for the last hour, and
though I offered to take Nona instead, so
that Cousin Hester might come downstairs,
Nona nearly cried, and won't come out of
her arms.'

then ask Hester to bring baby down
here, too. You won't mind. Kit, will you,
for once ?'

Kit, as Mrs. Armytage often called him,
after she had nursed him as a mere boy
through a fever years ago in India,  would
not have objected to a dozen babies' pres-vol.

I. H

once, if Hester came with them. Part of
this feeling (which somewhat surprised
himself by its strength) he expressed reassuringly
to Bessie.

In a few minutes Hester appeared ; tall
and slim as a rush, graceful and pliant ;
carrying Nona, the ninth baby, aloft on
her arm. Hester was dressed in a trailing
dark-blue velvet that clung with added
dignity and softness to the almost too
slender outlines of her young figure, and
wound in picturesque folds around her
feet. She held up the little child on high,
looking like a snowy bunch of embroidery ;
whose wide blue eyes stared awestruck at
the stranger, and were soon shyly hidden
on Hester's shoulder.

It astonished Kenyon himself, when he
later turned over the scene in his own
mind with self-scrutiny, what a glory she
had suddenly brought into the room. How
Mrs. Armytage's always pleasant motherliness

and home-like ways were idealised to
those of a lovingly blessing and blessed
Alma Mater, The children became cherubic ;
while Hester herself, with the firelight
shining on her chestnut hair, and her fair
face gleaming with such exquisite young
happiness from out of the twilight that
duskily entrapped her royal robes, was 
was  unspeakably sweet ! Her face was
so loveable, so tender, so softly alluring to
him that Kit never afterwards forgot how
she had looked just then. He felt in peril,
and, after feasting his eyes a few happy
moments, began to laugh with an air of
trying to tease Hester, that was real
nervousness, as a safe outlet for his absurd
sensations.

You look like a water-naiad in this
beautiful trailing garment that winds
away in such sinuous suggestions of a
tail. An Undine who has stolen a little
mortal child.'

h2

Hester half-blushed ; and raised her
speaking eyes with a fleeting, smiling
glance such as Kit's soul already loved,
and had learnt to look and try for. She
did not say anything, because  she was
too confused and happy at sight of him
even in those early days, to have her usual
ready wit at hand ! but she raised baby
Nona now as if in excuse for pre-occupation.


 Oh ! Cousin Hester, Nona is pulling at
the lovely Mechlin lace round your throat,'
put in Uda, warningly, adding, with an admiring
yet sagacious air,

Mamma, do you know what Mrs. 
said the other day ? She said
Cousin Hester had very pretty dresses,
but they were quite extravagantly expensive
in her opinion.'

 There, Hester ! my poor eldest daughter.
The WestclifF mothers do not approve
of you as an example to their own

damsels, evidently,' laughed Mrs. Armytage.


Then they most certainly ought !' exclaimed
Kenyon, coming to the rescue.

When one has been years away from civilised
haunts, you can't think what a pleasure
it is to one's eyes to see a v/ell-
dressed woman. (And your dress the other
night,' he added aside, * seemed to me a
dream of delight. I mean, when one forgets
the details, but only knows they were
all that is bewitching round one central 
and remembered  reality')

I am so glad you liked it,' said Hester,
softly, bending down and laying her head
caressingly against the baby's downy pate.

The old grandparents spoil me dreadfully ;
I am almost afraid of wishing now, because
with them it means having.'

Her every movement was grace itself;
Kit fancied that a subtle delicate
scent from her laces, from even her hair

seemed to steal towards and around him.

Even Bessie Armytage was surprised

how long he stayed, and how lingeringly he

took leave that evening.

CHAPTER VIL

A MERRY HEART GOES ALL THE DAY.'

Several mornings after that first sunny-one
by the Ladies' Bay, Kenyon and
Hester met again. Sometimes the latter
would tell Aunt Bessie of their meetings 
sometimes not. Why should she tell when
she knew Bessie liked him so greatly, and
had praised his good qualities often of
late? But then also, when Hester herself
uttered only his mere name, the tell-tale
blood would rush up swiftly to her cheeks,
and her eyes would droop, so that even before
that beloved motherly glance the girl

was shamed. It would all  come right '
soon, Hester vaguely hoped in shy, dreamy
happiness to herself, and then  why, then
Aunt Bessie would be so pleased !

Mrs. Armytage's troubles, too, had come
still more thick upon her. Several of the
children were taken ill with an infantile
complaint, and she had to nurse them so
closely she could not go out for some days
herself. There were the boys for company
; but, like dancing sunlight on water,
Hester would smile at them if they offered
to go with her those mornings, yet was
elusively vanished when they sought her.

She Yeas so happy  so utterly, so deliciously
happy those days. There was a new
light in her eyes, a sweeter expression on
her features, a softer bloom on her cheek.
How well you are looking !' people would
exclaim to her ; and the old doctor always
smiled and said, 'Why, Miss Hester, nursing
agrees with you !'

For Hester was truly not selfish ; and
spent hours after hours beside the little
sick-beds, or in a stuffy school-room telling
stories, giving draughts, playing every
imaginable game from Noah's Ark up to
Beggar-my-neighbour. It was Bessie
Armytage herself who drove the bright
young creature out to seek fresh air by
main force,' she said.

Hester would hardly be persuaded
(though her pulses were tingling to go at
thoughts of the sea and the salt air, and
of a face waiting to see the first glimpse
of herself round the path's curve) ; yet, just
because it seemed going to meet him she
was so shy and reluctant, yet so secretly
glad, thankful to be urged ! and would kiss
Bessie in a rapture of gratitude of which
that dear soul only felt the sympathy, so
was grateful.

Then away Hester would dart with flying
feet that soon slackened, slackened 

while her face began to smile covert wise
happily, but her eyes to glance anxiously
around, and her heart to beat in muffled
but distinct throbs. Oh, it seemed so easy
to be good those days, when all the world
was so kind and the very heavens smiled
on her joy ! How could people who loved
who lived, say that this earth was other
than a blessed place ? Could they not
help each other in daily sorrows and
troubles, and yet  as Hester now felt  be
glad, glad, glad !

Once or twice Kenyon had failed the
tryst, having had attacks of illness ; then
Hester's feet seemed like leaden weights as
she dragged herself slowly round by some
other road, not their path, to get through
her appointed exercise. And that day
Mrs. Armytage would be anxiously convinced
that Hester was over-tired, in spite
of  the little witch's efforts to deceive her,'

she used to say. The girl lived by her
emotions ; was bright, or drooped ; as they
had power over her for the moment. But
she never failed in her duties towards
Bessie or the children, whatever her looks
might betray  and she tried her utmost to
control the latter, poor Hester, though her
face was too much the clear mirror of her
April mind.

Kenyon never left her long in doubt, if
such mischances happened. Either a
basket of flowers was sent from the Court,
with a little note to Bessie, regretting he
Alas not well enough that day to bring
them himself; or else, whether ill or not,
he dragged himself to Mrs. Armytage's
house that evening. Then Hester would
come downstairs, feeling subdued and chill
at heart from unspoken fears, enter the
drawing-room slowly, her footfall even
softer than usual, and orreet him with a

pale face and small set smile, while there
were often dark circles round her lovely
eyes.

But at the first syllables of Kenyon's
murmured explanations, at sight of his dear
face that showed to her shyly apprehensive
glance at once that he was weak and
feverish, Hester's eyes always flashed up
with a gleam of quick pity and warmth.
Her heart was sure to swell with tender
feeling and a faintly pink flush would
come and go with her every breath, so it
seemed ; as Kit watched her with a long
weary gaze of one feeling tired-out, but to
whom that sight was refreshment.

His illness confused his observation
those days ; his often too active reasoning
faculties did not feel able to exert themselves.
Much, perhaps most, of the shy
quick changes that flitted over Hester's
face and manner were lost upon him. He
only felt that she was glad to see him,

to talk to him  and lie was glad, too, very
glad.

Mrs. Armytage might not be always able
to leave the children for long ; but nevertheless
Kit and Hester would sit in opposite
corners of the long hard sofa, till the
twilight spring evenings that still lengthened
day by day grew dusk and chill outside.
What they two talked of those
evenings near the low fire-o:low, or in the

O CD -"

freshly sunny mornings by the sea, they
would have found it hard to tell. But little
of people or WestclifF gossip ; and much,
very much of their own musings, their
likings, their feelings, their past lives, too.
They were so much in sympathy that
neither seemed ever to forget what the
other had once told. Kit was like many
men in his profession, who seem to have
entered the army by mischance, in some
boyish phase of enthusiasm and immature
self understanding. His tastes seemed all

opposed to a rolling-stone life which must
deny itself the gathering of so many
pleasant lichens and mosses as so much
baggage ; only he had liked the excitement
and change at times.

He was a very good artist, understood
music well, with a fine classical taste ; but
beyond both was intensely, even passionately
fond of reading. It was desultory reading
too : ranging over so many fields of
thought and humour from old Elizabethan
dramatists, later half-forgotten humorists,
to every darkly-discerned new thought or
experiment in science, philosophy or religion
of the day  that Hester grew bewildered
listening to him. He would tell her,
'- You should read this, or that ;' and would
lend her old volumes from the Court
library, new pamphlets from London, over
which she used to pore, drooping her
pretty head with half-sighing, interested
attention. Sometimes the boys would

rally her on her new ardour for heavy
reading. Even Bessie smiled to herself at
this devotion  for Hester's education had
been most desultory indeed. Up among
the lakes and hills, she had learnt little
save to love Nature, and to be good and
patient towards the dear old grand-parents.

Then came a week of wild weather, when
the rain drove like pebble-showers against
the window-panes constantly, and wild
gales blew from over the Welsh hills across
the broad sea-channel. Indoors, windows
and doors slammed and rattled all day.
Outside, it seemed as if all the young
spring, with its tender vegetation of opening
leaves and yet shy blossoms, must be
drenched dead on the moist earth's surface.


At last came one blue day amid the
showers. The winds had suddenly hushed
one afternoon by magic, that very evening
the clouds rolled off, the sunshine broke

out, the earth began reviving  and scents
arose at once from dripping grass and
bushes and from armies of crocus-goblets
of purple and gold, from heavy-headed
daffodils, hidden violets, and yellow-peeping
primroses everywhere.

The . children were all well again and
clamouring to be allowed out. The two
bigger boys wanted to get up a family
boating-trip for the next day in honour of
the spring weather and the universal convalescence,
they said  to which Mrs. Armytage
had consented, after being buffeted
between them all with caresses as if she
ha no more feeling than a feather-bed,"
she declared.

Christopher was with them as usual when
the scheme was urged, and begged to be
allowed to go too. And Hester's eyes
danced, and she stood up straight and tall
tossing Nona high. She looked a young
virgin of Diana's train that day, strong

and hardy, a daughter of the woods and
hills  almost too self-reliant, shyly proud
with a touch of scorn of weaker humanity,
to be a perfect woman yet, mused Kenyon,
watching her outline and movements. She
caught his gaze after a few moments, and
some-why a rosier colour mantled in her
cheek, a softer look came on her bright,
expressive features, and she hushed the
noisily-crowing child.

The day of the boating-party was one of
those delightful ones when the sunshine
seems new. The sea was hardly stirred
by a ripple, and shimmered only a few
shades darker than silver, while a tender
haze of heat brooded over it.

The boys began pulling towards the
Ladies' Bay lustily, for their plan was to
row up further along the cliffs, land and
make tea, gipsy-fashion. But the tide
was running so strongly against them
that, with all their toil and best college

VOL. I. I

skill, the same rocks they marked on the
shore-cliffs still seemed grinning at them
like stone masks. They would not own
they were being beaten, so silently toiled
on with hot faces and determined grip of
the oars for half-an-hour. Meanwhile, the
rest were enjoying the scene too much to
note anything amiss.

Hester and Kenyon, sitting near each
other, were watching another boat or two
here and there in the mysteriously misty,
shining water. Each boat seemed moving
in air, its keel appeared not to touch the
glimmering surface that showed like haze
below, yet reflected the figures in the
boats.

We seem in a new element of neither
air nor water,' said Kit.

And Hester felt that he had expressed
her undefined thought.

You find words where I have only feelings,'
she answered low.

In lier simplicity she meant to thank
Mm ; it was he who silently thanked her
most by the secret, sweet gratification that
stole into his heart at even such a little
tribute from her young mind.

Words  words  words ! they signify so
little. Your golden silence is worth far
more !' he whispered back, partly suppressing
the smile of pleased vanity her unconscious
flattery often lured forth.

Mrs. Armytage was trying, with some
difficulty, it must be owned  having Eve's
failings of curiosity and all a woman's interest
in a love-affair  only to have eyes and
ears for ' the small fry ' of the children
meanwhile. Uda alone of the passengers
did not forget the rightful object of their
journey, in the momentary enjoyment of
the mere sea and sky. She said nothing
for a long time, much aware of her own
self-control, but pitying the desperate
efforts of the rowers. At last, however',

I 2

her small sensible soul thought it really
absurd to allow its own superiority of
perception to pass longer unnoticed  and
she announced,

I don't believe one of you has been
watching how far we have got  but I
have ! and we are not half a-mile away
from home yet. Look at that organ-rock,
and the old woman's head, and '

Oh, shut up !' gruffly muttered Bob,
who was as red as a lobster, from anger and
exertions. But the attention of all was
now aroused and the battle was plainly
decided in favour of the tide.

It is running like a mill-race ; if you
fellows had not been toiling like galley-slaves,
we should have drifted miles below
WestclifF by now,' put in Kit, good-naturedly.


A council was held, whether to land or
not; the little crowd of lesser children
being clamorous to boil the kettle.

We have been out nearly an hour,
mamma ; and you only engaged the boat
for two hours,' said Uda, with calm unimpassioned
discretion.

I know, dear !'  and Mrs. Armytage
whispered aside to Kit, ' It is an unending
wonder to me how such a harum-scarum
creature as myself came to have such a
wise child. Since I've returned from India
and had her handed back to me from
school, I've simply stared at her ever
since.'

At last Mrs. Armytage decided that it
was best to land at Ladies' Bay, and have
tea in the tiny cove. Would the elders
please not think it ridiculous being so very
near home? the little ones being quite
happy, imagining themselves on some distant
shore. Kit and Hester were curiously
void of opinion on the matter ; but did all
they could be expected to do in carrying
out the decisions of the rest.

The boat was beached. Some turf and
sticks they had brought were lighted under
the lee of a rock. The kettle was boiled,
and the appetising contents of a basket
spread on a cloth.

Tea over, the children began clambering
up the cliff-side by different break-neck
paths, shrieking with delight. After awhile
Uda, who had followed to * take care ' of
them, returned below to the rocks, where
Kenyon was smoking a cigarette, with
Hester near him in placid enjoyment,
while Mrs. Armytage was busy re-packing
the basket close by, and gaily refusing all
offers of help.

Mamma, the children have just found
such a nice seat up there. I mean to
take my German grammar to learn it
there every morning, if we may come
here instead of to the promenade,' she announced,
in her staid little voice, pointing

up to a spot some way overhead on the
cliff.

Hester, who was not addressed, bent
over a rock-pool suddenly and dabbled
her long white fingers therein, playing
with the pink sea-weed that spread in tiny
tree-shapes under water. Then as abruptly
she looked up, and a quick glance of
mutual understanding passed between her
and Kit, whose eyes seemed waiting for
hers.

Now, good people all ; it is time to be
starting !' called Mrs. Armytage.

As they rose to obey, Kit hastily
whispered, brushing Hester's sleeve with
his arm,

Come, not tomorrow but next day to
the church hill  will you, dear?'

Hester murmured an assent, but blushed
so guiltily the moment afterwards, she
was fain to turn away and strive to show

only a portion of cheek and rosy neck to
other curious eyes.

Shall I row back, boys ?' she asked,
stooping to handle the oars aimlessly.

Row !  why, we'll drift down all the
way, ray good girl. If you had offered to
help us coming up now, for you can pull
like the best of us when you please, but
your thoughts were too busily engaged,'
said Bob, with sturdy sarcasm.

No, no ; that's not fair ! We didn't
really want her,' put in Edward, who was
older, and more observant and romantic
than Bob.

How red you are, Cousin Hester. Don't
stoop  it makes the blood go to your face,'
said Uda, with a caressing protection of air,
who admired Hester much, but thought
her beautiful cousin somewhat wanting in
the ordinary common-sense of life.

Uda  I am surprised ! You should
not make personal remarks, especially in

public said Mrs. Armytage, almost severely,
giving her reproof, however, in a kindly
lowered voice.

Then they rowed home.

CHAPTER Viii.

DOWN, DOWN, THOU CLIMBING Sorrow.'

Not tomorrow  but next day !' Kit had
said. And he had added ' dear T The
sentence went rhyming on and on in
Hester's beating brain all that night and
the day after the boating-party ; then each
time it came to the last word again a
warm secret thrill stole through her. The
first word of regard, affection  dared she
think it love, that Kenyon had yet permitted
himself to utter to her. Yes ! it was
love . . . that look had been a mutual
revelation. She was so restless, though so

happy, lie could settle to nothing all that
day, and felt guilty of concealment towards
Aunt Bessie, and yet she loved keeping
that little word, deai\ all in her heart to
herself. Then by-and-by  when it was all
made clear and told to Bessie  how pleased
that kindest soul would be !

There was another ball that evening'  a
large one by WestclifF standard. Hester
felt, while dressing, feverishly anxious.

How will this coil of my hair please
him? and this dress  does it become me as
well as the one he saw me in at the last
ball  where we met?'

When they entered the ball-room. Kit
had not arrived. They stood some little
way from the door, but Hester's eyes kept
turning towards it, her breath fluttering,
while with various pretexts she tried to
guard herself from promising all her dances
for the evening to a host of admiring
young men who had somehow discovered-she

was the belle of WestcliiF. Amid her
perplexities, Hester yet became aware of
a plump little lady, a stranger to herself,
who was watching her closely whilst answering
some questions apparently addressed
by a tall pale gentleman bending over
her. She was a little woman, with pale,
almost bleached, fuzzy fair hair, as if art
had been asked too often to impart thereto
golden gleams ; a pink and white doll-face,
and grey eyes with large brown spots
curiously observable in them. Her waist
was almost as small as that of a young
girl, despite her plumpness and that she
had reached woman's middle stage. She
wore a very rich silk dress, slightly soiled,
it is true, but that was judiciously hidden
as well as might be under a mass of lace,
while many bracelets gleamed on her fat
short white arms.

 Who is that. Aunt Bessie ?' asked the
girl.

Mrs. Armytage looked round, and then
uttered, in a constrained voice,

'Why!  well, I am surprised!  it is
Emma Watson that was. We were at
school together, and she married a Frenchman
afterwards. I believe Mrs. Vignolles
is her name now. Perhaps she won't remember
me, however ! if not, I don't
think '

Next moment, however, the little woman
in question bore down upon the speaker
with an air of a small vessel under full
sail, ruffling itself with as much pride and
dignity as the best.

Eh, why  Mrs. Armytage, I think ?
How de do? Perhaps you've forgotten
me, hein ?  Emma Watson ; but I was quite
a little girl when we met last, and one
alters so much in growing up  heine

Oh, I do remember you very well
indeed. How are you ?' said Mrs. Armytage,
meeting the effusive greeting of the

other with the weighty dignity naturally
given by her own commanding, large presence
and imposing air, but brightened
by any of her usual sparkle of smiles and
merry raillery.

'And this is your niece, eh? I've just
been inquiring who she was  a very pretty
dress, my dear, hein P went on the little
woman, with a smile meant to be flattering,
but that Hester was almost inclined to
resent as patronising.

Mrs. Vignolles spoke in short sentences,
jerked out rapidly, and had a trick of
interspersing these with interjections, of
which ' hein ' seemed her favourite. Hester,
though her mind was far otherwise occupied,
thought, in passing as it were, she
disliked Mrs. Vignolles' habit of speech 
but what did it matter ? The latter went
on talking even more condescendingly 
what did that matter either ? Hester tried

to be civil, yet was secretly watching the
door.

At last ! Beyond a crowd of others, she
knew at once the first mere glimpse of a
dark head, hardly seen  dear head, most
shapely of all others! she would surely
know it among a thousand. And now
Hester could just see Kenyon's bronzed
face as he tried to work a slow way through
the throne; of people. Her heart had
begun, at the first sight of him, to beat so
painfully, strongly, she Avould have liked
to press her hand on her bodice to still
it.

Now Kit was here, Hester, like other girls
in love, could have almost wished he were
not ; with sudden fears he might not admire
her or talk to her as usual, or might
not alas ! have his ball-card free for those
dances she had so anxiously kept for him.
Oh, if he would but come quicEy !

Yes, my dear, young girls love to dance
everything, I know  just like teetotums !
Well, may I introduce my cousin, Mr.
Hungerford ? He likes violent exercise
still, too, ha, ha.'

Hester looked round, startled at finding
she was being addressed ; and saw the tall,
pale man she had noticed before bowing to
her, while Mrs. Vignolles was closely scrutinising
her face with sharp, grey eyes.

'Now, you two energetic creatures, go
and dance like dervishes. Ah ! there is
dear Kit Kenyon at last. I see him looking
about-so we two can sit out and
enjoy ourselves quietly together this dance
just as much as you furious waltzers ;' and
therewith the little widow sailed down the
room straight for Kenyon.

'Are you engaged for this dance. Miss
Armytage?' asked Mr. Hungerford, stooping
his head a little, tall though Hester
was, to ask with eager, restless glance for

some answer from this fair girl's absentminded
face.

this dance? I  I am not quite sure
Hester softly murmured.

She was watching, watching  there ! Mrs.
Vignolles had laid her hand on Captain
Kenyon's arm with quite an air of proprietorship
5 and  yes ! he had smiled, though
with rather a surprised air, but they were
going away together.

I had half meant to give this dance to
some one else  so excuse my keeping you
waiting, Mr. Hungerford  but, still, if you
wish, you may have it,' Hester now said
turning with a gentle suddenness her face
full on her new companion. He thought
her eyes lovely as she thus faced him,
dreamy, a little sadly tender, with a look
as if her mind was far away. Not so far,
Mr. Hungerford !  if you but knew where.

I consider myself very fortunate, indeed,'
Hester afterwards remembered Mr.

VOL. I. K

Hunger ford saying, after he had whirled
her off in a fast and fatiguing long
round of a waltz, while he looked admiring
thanks.

I saw a crowd of young men round you
when we came into the room.'

They are all such boys  they are not
very interesting,' said Hester, still in her
veiled, soft tone, as if what he said just
reached her ears, who was far away. Her
voice was so low because her heart was
faint within her  the man beside her
thought her manner tender with soft flattery
; with possible sympathy, by her own
confession as yet aroused. And he answered
her back in a singularly musical
voice, while his large blue eyes flashed
with pleasure.

Take care. Miss Armytage ! you will
turn men's heads if you say such delightful
things. For the first time since many
years, I feel glad to be an old man.'

Hester started, and, looking at him
wide-awake, suddenly perceived her partner
really was an elderly gentleman. He
had danced so eagerly, whirled her round
so breathlessly, she had vaguely supposed
him much younger.

This man, Mr. Hungerford, had a somewhat
strange appearance, which was apt
to mislead persons at a first glance. He
was tall in figure and slightly stooped, but
so spare and active of body he might well
pass for younger than his years. His face
was perfectly smooth, and destitute by
nature of either beard or whisker, which
peculiarity in itself gives a man a somewhat
boyish look ; and his thick hair was
of that pale reddish tinge which best hid
the grey streaks that plentifully interspersed
it. He had straight, cleanly-cut
features, but then Hester only noticed
absently the sweet-toned voice, and remarkably
blue and keen large eyes. Without

doubt a handsome man for his aoe, ina
manner !  the girl had a vague remembrance
also, later, as of pale features and
fine small wrinkles closely crossing a
parchment complexion. But they two
had paused a second time, and sat down
to rest near a curtained recess in which
Mrs. Vignolles and he, Kenyon, were already
seated.

Hester's breath came hard, she knew
little more of what was said to her,
of her own replies, with watching those
two. Christopher had seen her, for she
was aware of one or two fleeting glances
in her direction that seemed to avoid meeting
hers, at which the latter were as
instantly shyly and proudly withdrawn.
Mrs. Vignolles was rallying him gaily on
some subject or other, that was evident ;
his replies being given with the constrained
laugh and air of looking with interest
at the ceiling, floor, or furniture around

often attempted by men in such circumstances.
Hester wondered what the subject
might be. She caught one appraising
look of the sharp grey eyes opposite at
herself, she fancied  but, no ! the widow
had only just made her acquaintance a
moment. It could not be

If Hester could but have heard it, however,
this was a fragment of the conversation
in the recess opposite.

But I assure you, I'm not joking 
Jiein ! Quite the talk of Westcliff. Why !
I've only been here two days, and yet I
heard it.'

'Heard what? What is the talk of
Westcliff?' retorted Kenyon, thinking it
time to abandon the manner of careless
laziness he had assumed, which suited his
dark, almost Eastern handsome face. He
now tried the effect of suddenly turning
sharp round upon the attacking enemy
with a good-humoured air but glowing

look in Hs questioning eyes. He was
secretly goaded, absurdly so by such a
common thing as one woman teasing him
about another, but he must not show it.

Mrs. Vignolles did not flinch.

Why, they say that you are engaged to
marry this girl, there ! Fancy you a
Benedick  my poor friend, you sitting
down to cold mutton for lunch, you with
a house full of babies, ha, ha ! But, perhaps
 the young lady may have a fortune.
I hope so for your sake, I'm sure '

What nonsense ! The idea of my being
engaged to any girl!  a poor soldier in
these days, with little or nothing beyond
his pay,' retorted Kenyon, playing with
Mrs. Vignolles' fan in a dangerously
nervous way. He had to avoid her gimlet
glances evasively now, and was furious
with himself and her. Had he not had
long enough practice under such feminine
inquisition, and prided himself that he

could pass smiling through the ordeal and
reveal as little of his real mind as any
man ? But now he felt as shy as a schoolboy
quizzed about a calf-love, and horribly
afraid of betraying himself.

What a sad flirt you are  you always
were, Captain Kenyon,' the little woman
went on, with a mock sigh, but a tenderly
meaning glance, lost for once upon Kit.

'A flirt. I do hate being called that,*
he said, moodily.  I never mean to flirt
never. Certainly I like making friends
with, agreeable people  it is one of the few
real pleasures in this dull enough world.
Then, wiseacres call out "beware  a flirtation,"
and good-bye all pleasant converse !
It is always women, too, who raise this
cry. Now, will you  as a woman  tell me,
why should 1 riot like pretty women ?' And,
with the second nature of habit, Kenyon
turned a flatteringly appealing glance upon
his fair companion. She was conciliated ;

but not, as lie fondly hoped, to leave poor
Hester's name in peace. She tapped him
confidentially on the shoulder with her
(wisely) recovered fan.

'My poor friend, / quite believe you.
Ah, I know Avhat it is to need sympathy 
to seek some congenial spirit. But still 
ahem !  if you will take some advice, be
careful ! You may be caught before you
know where you are.'

caught!  what an expression, Mrs.
Vignolles ! Why, she is the most high-spirited,
delicately-minded girl  Let us
goth,

eh ; no, don't get up. What a rage
you are in. I didn't mean that. No, sit
still, do ; and don't be angry with a very
old friend as I am, after all, and a foolish
little woman, too  eh. Kit  only anxious
for your welfare. She is charming, I'm
sure  all you say. But then, you know,
there is her aunt.'

Another of my oldest friends  and one,
I believe equally interested in tiny real
welfare,' returned Kit, grimly.

Well, well  you should know your own
affairs best. And perhaps she has money,
eh ? Her dresses must cost a pretty little
fortune, if they are all like that, you
know.'

I never heard, and certainly never
asked, if she had a penny. Would you
like to go into the other room, now, Mrs.
Yignolles ?'

His poor Hester ! It teas a shame to stay
coolly there, criticising her, who sat so
gently unconscious just opposite; and how
dreamily still, and how lovely, how loveable
she looked.

'We need not go just yet, need we?
Well, if she hasn't money, she ought certainly
not to marry a poor man, for he will
never be able to dress her like that. How
extravagant some girls are !  a white

muslin and a real rose were always thought
enough for a young thing like me before I
was married. There is Mark Hungerford
my cousin  quite smitten, too, and rich
enough ; my goodness, yes !  she ought to
take him, ha, ha!'

Kenyon rose and offered his arm.

If you don't mind, Mrs. Vignolles, there
are some other partners in the next room
from whom I should like to secure a few
dances before it is too late.'

He was secretly at white heat, but outwardly
had recovered self-control now ;
though he brushed close by Hester without
trusting himself to look at her. He
never guessed that went like a stab to her
heart. They had gone a few steps in
silence, when Mrs. "Vignolles' plump, white
arm pressed his own tightly, and, as he
looked down surprised, she whispered, with
a sob in her voice,

'You are angry with me  oh, yes, you

are ! This is twice you have called me
Mrs. Vigriolles, and  and  it used to be
something very different. Ah, I have no
other friends here to-night ; and I had been

quite looking forward But I am so

foolish ; no wiser than when you used to
call me your silly little Pussy.'

I used to call you Emma said Kit,
who, to do him justice, had never heard of
her as Pussy ; and who, though aware of
humbug, yet could seldom resist a softening
feeling when it was practised upon
himself by a woman. 'We called each
other by our Christian names, but that
was long ago at Dresden, when you
where a little girl in short frocks ' (he forbore
to add when he had been in round
jackets), ' but now that you carry dignity
'

Well, well ! all the more reason, you
see, as we are such old friends !' the little
widow interrupted. ' And you will forgive

me, Kit, if I made you angry, eh ? oh, do
say you do; lieiii! You will be just as
nice still to me to-night ; a poor little
stranger in WestclifF ?'

Pathos went oddly with such jerky sentences,
and Emma Vignolles was an experienced
citizen of the world as Kit well
knew, feeling humorously tickled. But of
course he reassured her as to his forgiveness
not being needed, and their old
friendship's endurance ; and even somehow
found himself lured into promising to take
her to supper, and, later, to see her to her
carriage.

'- Dear me ! quite nice to have a quarrel
and make it up, isn't it?' she remarked,
so sprightly at her successful manoeuvres
her feet quite danced, and she leant closely
on Kit's arm, looking up in his face as a
little woman can. ' And well talk no more
about such nonsense as love, eh ? " What
is friendship but pining ?"  how does it

go on ?  '' but civilised man cannot do

without dining?'

Kit laughed, as he left her on a seat ; if
not clever she was sharp, which often
passes well enough for wit in the hurry of
society, when people have little time to
examine such small coin.

And Hester? she saw it all, entering

the room, languid and gracefully quiet,
behind them ; saw the little widow's stolen
pressure of Kit's arm, her looks so shamelessly
close, cast up into his very eyes 
but, hearing nothing, the girl drew her
own conclusions.

She felt a strange, sick feeling creep
over her, there was a dull, sore pain about
her heart, and her breath came heavily.
Then he or Captain Kenyon as she again
now stiffly called him in thought, approached
her with a newly grave, deferential
bow, as if he had not seen her as
yet that evening, and asked for a dance.

Very stilly Hester named one  one of
several lie had secretly so cherished for
him. Kenyon thanked her, hesitated.

You are so run after to-night, that I
ought not perhaps  still, will you not give
me one more?' he asked, slowly, heavily.
(One  one more !) Oh, yes ! as calmly,
feeling coldly, Hester gave that also.

She seemed dancing in a dream till Kenyon
came to claim her. And yet, somehow,
she had seen him talking to other
women, eagerly even excitedly with a frequent
almost nervous laugh and glitter in
his eyes very different from his quiet
times spent lately with herself Why, 
yesterday now seemed long ago ! He came
to her slowly at last, and at once his face
changed, his manner became very quiet,
almost dull. Did he not avant to come,
 then ? Still she would be patient and see ;
so they danced together.

You look a little pale to-night ; are you

perhaps already tired T Kenyon asked, as
they paused ; and though he said it more
reservedly than usual, yet the tone of
interest brought a faint warmth again reviving
in the recesses of Hester's heart.
Then, as she murmured she was very well,
he went on,

'You seem so calm, so unusually still;
why is it ? You are like the queen of night
in this lovely dress. Come  there, look and
see and appreciate yourself to-night as you
ought. I do not believe you have an idea
of how you look.'

He drew her near a long mirror, and
paused as if by accident. Hester saw
herself  and his dark eyes behind, admiringly
watching hers. She was more glad,
a little more glad, truly; and yet she
knew not why, but felt that between them
seemed a gulf to-night.

Hester did indeed look especially lovely
just then. Tall and slim beyond the rest,

her exquisite white shoulders rose out of
a dark blue dress Cling in fairy clouds of
gauze powdered with glistening dew-drops.
The mutinous waves of her golden-brown
hair were closely banded to her small
head ; her dark delicate eyebrows drooped
with a slight sadness that was a piquant
contrast to the exquisite youthful clearness
and brightness of her complexion.
She looked, indeed, a queen among her
kind  a nymph of sweet twilight.

Kenyon did not seek now to lead her
apart, but kept her always with a crowd,
chatting of nothings, sometimes interchanging
gay remarks with others. So
their first dance was spent.

It seemed to Hester as if the time would
never pass till their second, and last, dance
together arrived. Meanwhile she had
marked Kit going from one to another of
his lady-friends, always gay, agreeable,
always eagerly welcomed with smiles -, and

often, very often thus turning to, thus
welcomed by, Mrs. Vignolles. The girl
had never known before what torturing
strength of jealousy lay in her nature, and
was half-frightened at this pain of it she
felt.

She had no smiles for him, in her honesty
oh, she knew her wrongly-minded bitterness
!  when he came at last. She could not
raise them at will ; and he ! he had none for
her. His face had grown set and almost
stern on nearing her.

Again they silently started to dance together
y the minutes were passing so that
Hester could almost have counted the moments
aloud in her consciousness of each
but still she felt too humiliated, too
proud to speak. Kenyon did so, at last,
the first.

 My gracious Silence, hail !' he said,
smilingly ; then, as she opened her soft
eyes inquiringly, ' You do not know where

VOL. I. L

that comes from ; Coriolanus so addresses
a silent lady.'

 What lady  ?' mm-cured Hester, so
foolishly distraught she could say nothing
better.

His  he says it to Virginia.'

(Why did Kenyon not say, his luise ?)

Why do you accuse me ? you were as
silent yourself And yet I  I saw you
saying a great deal just now to  to Mrs.
Ignores.'

Oh, she  she is an old friend,' returned
Christopher, carelessly, yet annoyed.

He knew Hester was vexed, by her voice ;
and yet he was vexed she should be so,
since from her he exjDCcted only peace and
sweetness. All womenkind seemed leagued
to vex him this night.

'Do you like her very much, then?' asked
Hester, her syllables falling like small ice-drops
on her own ears ; sounding with what
he called gentle bitterness to Kenyon.

I like Mrs. Vignolles  she amuses me,'
he answered, with unconscious emphasis.

It was simply the truth, and  well, he
was sorry for Hester, and more sorry for
himself, for what could this young, happy
creature know of his older feelings and
cares ? Then, too, Emma Vignolles had
already worried him ; and, though he could
not have spoken to Hester even abruptly
as to the other, yet he was more worried
than either knew, even sick in soul therewith,
and this pale, sweet face was a mute
reproach.

'What a lovely dress you are wearing
to-night  it must have cost a great deal,'
he suddenly said.

Hester just raised her shoulders carelessly.


'Yes,' she assented, 'I believe it did.'

It had been a birthday present from
her dotingly-fond grandfather.

In almost silence the moments slipped

l2

away, were well-nigh gone. Hester's next
partner was approaching. Kenyon suddenly
turned and whispered in her ear,

'To-morrow, then  you will come out
tomorrow?'

I do not know. I am not quite sure.'

Her fine, upper lip slightly quivered; she
would have trembled but for a strong
effort.

'Forgive me,' he urged, beseechingly, ina
hasty whisper ; ' if you are not pleased
with me for any cause, forgive me. I
have told you I am only a mere feather,
blown about by winds of chance. / cannot
help myself ! but, try to forgive me.'

They were standing close side by side.
His passionate, pleading eyes met Hester's
in an imploring glance ; his arm pressed
hers very gently but nearer ; a thrill passed
through Hester's whole frame in answering
vibration at the touch, although he had
almost instantly looked away, fearful of

observation. She bowed her head, not
trusting herself to speak ; and so they
parted.

Take care. Master Kit ; Westcliif people
will talk more than ever,' said Mrs. Ignores,
archly, a few minutes later, coming
up as he stood apart, alone ; and she looked
significantly at a dark-blue dress.

I hate WestclifF and its gossip. I shall
go away,' he said, angrily.

Eh ? Oh, don't, Kit ! I mean to stay
here.'

For a moment Kit hated this gadfly, too,
with her reiterated ' Kit.'

Mrs. Armytage was especially tender to
Hester that night as they went home ; but
singularly silent.

'How do you like your old school-friend.
Aunt Bessie?' said the girl, with
forced lightness by way of easing her sore
heart.

Little wretch, I can't endure her  she

was always a minx burst out Bessie, with
astonishing vindictiveness.  And she was
ever so much older than me at school,
whatever she may pretend now. How she
runs after different men, too !  and I am
certain they don't like her in their hearts
one bit the better for it.'

Hester, poor child, was not quite so
convinced ; but was grateful for the warm,
unspoken alliance, and the motherly kiss
that accompanied it.

And yet the night she passed was dreadful
to her ; restless, troubled, oh ! so weary.
A sleep that seemed relief came at last,
but was a cruel mockery. Only a succession
of dreams in which Christopher Kenyon
always turned from her  and little
Mrs. Vignolles looked up fondly in his
eyes.

Then poor Hester started again, wide-awake,
and tossed and tossed, and would
have gladly sobbed aloud, but feared to

wake dear Aunt Bessie in the next room, 
the door between them being left slightly
open at nights. So her pillow was wet that
night with secret silent tears.

CHAPTER IX.

THE LITTLE GREY CHURCH.

Next day, though the sun shone out fitfully
at times, towards noon again a wild
shower was driving over Westcliff town
and the cliffs and downs around.

Upon a high grassy hill on the far side
of the town, Hester was nevertheless
standing, with nervously clasped hands
and irresolute troubled features. The
wind blew her dress tight about her figure,
as she stood on the cliff-edge; the wet
drops drove in her face mingled with salt
spray. The turfy hill rounded over and

then sloped sheer to the sea, that tossed all
grey and broken below, and grey and cold
the wind and rain came driving over it
straight on Hester's pale pretty face. She
pinched her poor fingers in pain of mind
and shame, she could have cried out to the
sea-birds that wheeled before the gale and
dipped their wings as they circled above
the turbid sea. Site had come to the tryst 
and her lover was not there !

Oh ! that she had followed her own
proud first thoughts that morning; that
Aunt Bessie had not, pitying her heavy
looks, kindly forced her outside ; that, softened
by that tender woman's embrace,
Hester had not weakly allowed secret love
to plead, urge, drive her hither, whispering
she should in fairness hear what he.
Kit, had to say in his own excuse. There
were no veiling self-deceptions left in Hester's
mind now, no maiden illusions of
friendship, soul-attraction. She knew she

loved Christopher Kenyon, and every hair
upon his dear head ; loved the very ground
he walked on, because his feet had passed
thereby ; loved for his sake the very air
that blew about him.

Hester loved utterly, entirely, with all
the depth and force of a most loving
nature. And, yet she was so proud, she felt
an intensity of anguish in humiliation and
womanly shame at being here to meet him
and he so careless, perhaps even utterly
forgetful he had urged her to come ! As
she dwelt on the thought, Hester's feet,
that had seemed magnetised to the cliiF-
edge, suddenly darted away with her over
the hill-top, down the rough grassy slope,
all wet, on the other side. She never once
looked around ; never heard aught of call
or cry from any other human being on the
lonely hill, though her flying form, with
only sky for its background, was plainly
visible to anyone up yonder.

She passed through a loch-gate set in a
low wall, entered a churchyard, where the
dead folk's beds were pleasantly turfed in
billows like to the sea beyond there, and set
about with living flowers and bushes : both
grave-grass and rosemary and brown wallflowers
dripping wet and wildly blown upon
by the spring rain and sea-blast, yet green,
wholesome, and sweet-scented.

Up a pebbled path Hester ran on and
into the old church porch, where she at
last halted, and sank slowly down on a
worn stone bench. It was an old Norman
church, built out there on the windy cape
as a landmark to passing vessels. The
low entrance was set round with toothed
stone-work, and there, over Hester's head,
was a dusty niche where an image had
stood, while the broken holy-water stoup
was by her side. Hester noticed nothing
of these lingering signs of her own religious
faith once reo-nant here. Five minutes

had passed  then more ! and still the girl
never stirred from the forlorn attitude
she had unconsciously dropped into, but
sat staring upwards at the rain-swept sky,
while large bright tears dropped slowly
from her softly brimming eyes.

She did not hear a footstep on the path,
did not know for a second or two that
some one was looking round the edge of
the porch, transfixed at sight of the fair
image of woe she presented. Then she
half rose with a low cry  as Kenyon
stood beside her. He looked into her face
quietly but regretfully, his heart sorrowful
swithin him.

My poor child !  Hester, tell me what
is the matter.'

In the self-same breath Hester's startled
lips had parted to gasp,

Oh, are you here ?  I thought you
were not coming.'

Then, understanding what she had revealed,

the red blood rushed in a wave upto
her cheeks, dyeing even the nape of her
soft white neck red to the very roots of her
hair. Sinking down again upon the bench,
she covered her face with her hands, vainly
trying to stop thick-dropping tears. Kenyon
could not bear the sight. His heart
seemed to go out from him to her in
yearning, his soul melted. And jet he
tried, tried hard to steel himself, to
look away out at the rain too, to remind
himself he could not, ought not to do
more.

A stifled sob Hester could not quite repress
was too much for his strength. He
turned and saw by her clenched slender
fingers how anguished was the struggle
for self-mastery. Then Hester felt his arm
pass slowly round her. Kit had sat down
on the bench, and was drawing her weeping
head to rest on his shoulder.

Poor darling, don't  dear Hester, don't

cry any more, for my sake. I cannot bear
it'

Hester gave one hasty swimming glance
up in Kenyon's face at that, and sav his
nether lip quivering under his drooping
moustache, while his features were pale
and very troubled in expression. With
a little murmuring cry of love, she
whispered,

Oh, I thought you did not care  I
thought last night you were so changed.
Are you sure, quite sure, you do care ?'

The tears were still swimming like liquid
light in Hester's wistful eyes, a very rain
of love, through which love's self sparkled
with reviving fire, ready to break out at
her lover's word into glorious shining.
Her face Alas irresistible. Kenyon could
read her whole soul there, gazing into her
true eyes, at the sweet quivering mouth
which tried to smile. He knew now Hester
loved him ; he knew too well that he

loved her. He bent his head, and his lips
softly met hers. After that kiss they still
remained closely side by side, but mute,
and there was long silence in that wind-swept,
grey church-porch.

A short while had elapsed ; like eternity
in that neither knew if the moments were
few or many, so overpowered both felt by
the tide of new thoughts and emotion that
had rushed upon them. Christopher at
last broke the silence with a low sigh, and
murmured,

Forgive me, Hester  I ought not to
have done it, I know, but I am so fond of
you. Forgive me.'

But do you not really care for me ?'

Hester half raised her head, and her
eyes, like those of a startled fawn, sought
his in innocent enquiry. Kenyon sighed
again and looked away; he loosened his
gentle hold of her. It cost him much to
slacken his grasp of her warm small hand,

which nestled in his own so confidingly,,
but he slowly did it.

 You do not know how poor a man I
am, dear child. You are so young, so
lovely !  life is just opening before you
and all the world's prizes would certainly

be laid at your feet if I ought never

to have let you know my feelings . . .
your aunt will blame me for this, most
justly, but not one half so deeply as I
shall blame myself.'

for what? because you are poor?
What do I care for that?' exclaimed
Hester, with quick, generous fire in her
eyes and voice. ' Look at me in the eyes !
Please ' (pleadingly), ' if I ask it, you
must look at me and see how little I heed
all that  so long as you do really . . . like
. . me.'

Kit looked her in the face, but trusted
himself only a moment, his own face all the
more troubled.

You do not know the world yet, or
what it is to struggle on in existence, not
live! It is not alone that I am nearly
penniless, but worse ! . . . debts . ill
health . . .' his voice died away so that
Hester could just catch the words, and he
almost groaned. Then, with a nervous
laugh,  Poor, dear child !  I do not believe
you hould care ; nor more, that you Avould
ever even reproach me in your own heart
for being a pauper. The self-sacrifice, the
nobleness that women are capable of puts
men to shame. And we are so utterly
selfish by comparison !  Oh ! Hester, I feel
myself worse than the worst, for having
been so thoughtless towards you.'

Poor Hester ! she had slowly paled. In
how few moments after tasting extreme happiness,
gall may mingle in the cup ; human
joy is so short-lived. But then with a
new determination underlying her gentle
manner and soft voice, which Kenyon

VOL. I. M

noticed with surprise even in this preoccupation,
she demanded,

tell me only one thing. Let us put
your poverty and everything else out of
the question. There is only this I ask
and have a right to ask. Is it true that
you care for me as you say ?' her eyes
flashed proudly with blue light. you
sought out my society, you seemed to like
me ! Were you only laughing at me in
your heart; or on your honour as a
gentleman did you care, however little,
for me ?'

It was a cry from a true woman's heart.
Soul appealed to soul, so Kit felt and answered.
His dark eyes glowed in quick
response, his features quivered, the mask
of control thrust aside ; but he looked up
at the grey heavens above.

On my honour as a man !  it is true
not only that I did, but that I do love you !
. . Oh! Hester  well, well, poor child, I

ought never to have said so, but it will
give you less pain to know it now than to
believe it could be otherwise . . . You are
so young and happy you will forget all
this and me soon enough, or only laugh at
it ; but me most miserable ! 1 shall remember
always.'

His voice dropped as he felt Hester
softly drawing near to his side. She stole
her hand again into his ; she herself almost,
if not quite, drooped the dear little
head he loved so well on his shoulder.

Listen,' she whispered, half-shamed, ina
broken voice, but bravely, ' you are
grieved about this only because you are so
poor, is not that it ?'

It is,' came from Kit's lips, with effort.

Will you quite believe me, if I tell you
most truly that I forgive you  that never
even in thought will I reproach you?'

'Yes '

Kenyon could utter no more. Each one

M 2

of Hester's tender words fell like fire upon
his poor heart, tortured with cares, doubts
irresolution. But she went on, with soft
decision,

Then, to please me in return, you must
promise not to reproach yourself either;
never, never to accuse yourself any more,
for / cannot hear that in turn. It was fate
as you are always saying  do not blame
your dear self.'

'But, Hester, how can I help it? I am
and have been such a miserable, vacillating
creature ; and if I have given you a moment's
pain '

Hush, hush ; say no more. Only let
us be happy now together, as you love me
and I you ;' (her voice grew so low it was
almost inaudible but to his sorrowfully-gladdened
ears). 'Just this little while;
no matter whatever hereafter happens tous
both !'

Kenyon turned his head a moment aside ;

was there a suspicion of tears in his eyes ?
Hester was not sure, as for all answer he
drew clown her head to its former resting-place.


Then there was silence again for a time
in the old grey porch. After that came
more sweetly-murmured confidences ; fresh
broken accents of self-upbraidings, interrupted
by gentle consolation ; loving regrets,
as loving re-assurances.

Kit bitterly accused himself in heart for
having once more done wrong, allowed
himself to drift again on the tide of his
feelings. He had brought pain, he knew,
to this young, dear soul  for himself it
did not much matter, he seemed used to
ill-luck and sorrow  but for her he was
sorry, so sorry !

But, even while he sighed, Hester, as if
gifted with divining power, would soothe
him by a mere word ; comfort, cheer him
with hardly more than a least pressure of

her hand, the felt presence, like an atmosphere,
of her love. Then again there was
happiness for a time (ay ! as both felt, if
only for those brief, sweet moments) in the
weather-beaten tower of the little church.

At last Hester felt Kit shiver slightly,,
and looking up, startled, saw he was very
white.

Oh, you are ill again ; that dreadful
fever and ague !' she exclaimed. * How
could I not have seen it before. Why 
oh, why did you come out to-day ?'

Kenyon tried to laugh at her, though he
did feel very weak and unwell.

Would you have had me stay away
after asking yoii to come. It kept me late,
though ; and so it seemed tantalising to see
you flying from me over the hill while I
was creeping after you like a poor worm.'

The rain was past now. The strong
wind had swept a portion of blue sky free
of clouds, and the sun smiled out once

more. These two stood up together in the
church-porch hand-in-hand.

We mioht have ozone inside the church
for better shelter  but no, the door is
locked. Strange we should have met lieie'
remarked Kenyon, in his apparently inconsequent
way ; but Hester followed out his
broken thoughts nearly always. It seemed
an omen ; would it be for good or ill in
future ?

Then, still closely side by side, they
went down the pebbled path together,
looking often in each others eyes  the
knowledge of their mutual love so sweet
and new, however troubling, they could
not withdraw their meeting glances long
from such present, glad assurance, cost the
future what it might !

And the brown wall-flowers sent up
sweet odours fresh their heavy, rain-wxt
heads, while Hester stopped and pulled a
little sprig of rosemary, she knew not why,

from a bush near a heavy, flat-roofed
family tomb.

Do you know who lie under there ? 
all my kindred of Kenyonss for many generations,'
said Kit, smiling at her a little
sadly. ' It is our family vault. I love
this dear old church, and would like the
thought that what mortal part of me remains
might moulder into this pleasant
hill beside their bones. The future heads
of the family are not likely so to honour
such a far-away cousin and ne'er-do-well,
however ; room is growing scarce. My old
uncle is fond of me  he would not object
to my poor presence, but his sons would
hardly let me in there.'

 Ah, no matter ; I should prefer to lie
under the green grass and feel, as it were,
the sea and sky near me,' cried Hester,
quickly, with pitying sympathy. ' You
would at least be near your own people
too.'

Christopher thought it more likely his
paste of flesh and bones would be inexpensive
put under whatever alien soil he
might last draw his wandering breath on ;
but only answered with the low laugh
Hester now knew was forced, though she
had at first, like many people, thought it
merely carelessly agreeable.

This is too gruesome talk. Let us go,
just for a little at least, and see the sea
together from our appointed meeting-place.'


So they left the little green-waved
churchyard, lying lonely up there on the
hill-top, with its sleeping congregation
around. Newer churches, large and well-filled,
had sprung up down in the valley
and the town ; which last was new, being
Georgian, compared to this small house of
prayer that had looked out over sea and
land since the days when Norman builders
raised it in durable stone. Only the fisher-folk

from the old port, and the country
gentry around came here to worship now ;
such as the Kenyonss, whose head of the
family was lord of the manor of WestclifF.
But these loved well their old church on
its windy cape by the * broad water of the
west.'

They all yearned to be laid like their
forefathers up here in solemn solitude,
where from the hill-top was a wide outlook
over the rich inland valley and its smaller
wooded comes, while under the hill the
sea kept softly thundering in a grand,
continual dirge. Few feet of passers-by
climbed up here, those that came being
mostly led by love or reverence ; but the
sea-birds flew overhead, and the conies
played on the downs, and lesser creatures
came of kindly kind.

At noon the wild bee hummetli
About the missed headstone.'

Out through the loch-gate in the loose-built

Avail of piled stones, Kenyon and
Hester passed over the wet but short-turned
rolling down. Their steps crushed
the wild thyme underfoot as they went
up almost silently to the cliff-top. They
looked out together on the gleaming grey
waters tossing broken below (seldom blue,
but with a sober beauty of their own),
gazing down towards where Lund lies
and across to the dimly descried AVelsh
hills, and they felt the large air surround
them with a silent consolation. Up from
the wet grass sprang a lark, and, soaring
up in the gleam of returning sunshine,
battled its little wings against the fresh
gale, and sang of happiness in ever higher
trills. Was it an omen too ? They looked
at the same moment, moved by the same
thought, mutely in each other's eyes.

'What is it, Hester dear,' said Mrs.
Armytage, anxiously, when a while later

the girl returned, and, coming up to her
aunt strangely, looked her in the face,
then slowly pulled off her hat and flung
it aside.

I have been up to the old church.
Aunt Bessie. I went there to meet 
Christopher Kenyon. He asked me todo
so, and I went.'

'But  but . . . and what did he say
to you, my child? Surely ' 

I don't know what I have to tell you.
Oh ! Aunt Bessie, I don't know whether I
am very happy or most miserable.'

Then Bessie Armytage, troubled much
in her own mind, but deeply sympathetic
sand pitiful, listened to broken explanations
till little by little she understood
poor Hester's simple tale. And silently
she blamed  herself Why could she not
have foreseen all this? She, at her age,
ought to have been more wisely worldly,
if not worldly wise, for this girl she loved,

and for the man who was her friend. But
for these two she had only words of affection,
of regret.

CHAPTER X.

A FINE OLD HOME.

The day but one after Kit and Hester
met on the old cliurcli hill there was to
be a garden-party at the Court ; a solemn
spring party, to which all WestcliiF living
on the fashionable terraces was invited.
The Court gave three such state parties
in the year.

'Don't you think we had better go,
Hester? People might think it odd
otherwise, dear; and old Sir Christopher
and his sister have been so kind to me
always. But still, I'll just do as you wish.

my child  exactly. It is easy enough to
have a headache at the last moment.'

No, no ; Aunt Bessie, pray don't. We
ought to go, so we will go,' said Hester,
bravely, though her eyes had dark rings
round them. ' Besides,' in a lower voice,
he might think we were hurt or unkind,
and I could not bear that he should think
us less his friends.'

Bessie silently looked at her niece, seeing
by the rising light in the girl's eye
and awakening expression she would champion
Kit's cause without flinching, even
against her own heart and all the world.

Very well ; only take care. Oh ! my
dearest, don't try to catch a sunbeam ! 
And when men are moths, coming back to
a candle flame, they may hurt themselves
but don't die of it. They can grow fresh
wings after a while  women don't, always.
So be careful.'

Hester made a little acquiescing gesture

of her bead, and gently left the room.
What a delicious spring afternoon it
was ! The air seemed to smell of heat as
well as fragrance, all the year's new scents
pent in by the late cold and rain burst out
at once together. Earth's deep heart was
verily wide opened that day to bless her
children. The old Court lay deep in a
combe behind WestclifF between two hills.
A little village, perhaps as old as the great
house itself, in site at least,  for the Kenyon
retainers had most likely housed there
since Tudor days,  nestled in the cleft
close by the entrance gates of the old
manor-house.

It was a small, old-fashioned cluster of
cottages, all red-tiled and flowery, '- confused
with smell of orchards.' Apple and
pear-trees bore clouds of white rosy blossom.
Neighbours' tiny plots seemed overrunning
each other's domain with trespassing
branches of lilac and laburnum,

and intrusive lesser flowers, which poked
lovingly through the crazy wooden fences
that should have parted them.

As the Armytage party, consisting of
Bessie, Hester, and the elder boys, entered
the gates, they found their old hosts
Christopher himself, and most of the
guests assembled on the close-shaven lawn
near some magnificent cedars, the pride of
the country round, for generations past. Old
Sir Christopher Kenyon came up halting
on his gouty foot to greet them. He was
a snowy-haired octogenarian, stout of body
but feeble of strength ; yet Hester could
see traces of former good looks in his features
that warmed her heart, because resembling,
however blurred by time, those
of his nephew.

'Where is Kit?' said the old man, after
a few minutes' conversation. 'Why, he
ouo-ht to be entertaining; such a charming;
young lady instead of a lame old fellow

VOL. I. N

like me' (this gallantly to Hester). but
no doubt he is very busy saying something
pleasant to his old friends  my sister and
I look to him to do that for us, Mrs. Armytage,
as well as to brighten up our dull
lives when we are alone. He is a good
boy to us . a good boy.*

(It seemed strange to Hester to hear the
man she looked up to in girlish worship,
considered still as a boy by these old
people.)

Yes, Kit was making himself agreeable
to a crowd of ladies who, all admiring his
handsome face, or liking him from his boyhood,
were using their best endeavours to
each attract a special share of his general
attentions. There was Mrs. Vignolles, too
Hester was glad to see he did not stay
any longer with her than others. She hid
herself among a group of the dullest people
she knew ; for, in spite of her staunch determination
' to be as good friends as ever '

with Kit, the fear that he might be  the
knowledge he must be  different in his
manner from former days, and yesterday
chief of all, chilled her faint heart. She
could see him (Christopher) going about
rapidly from cluster to cluster of people,
always with a gay laugh so exactly the
same that Hester knew, with the fair right-judging
half of her mind, it was forced, if
not purely nervous. Then the other half
of herself, the femininely-foolish, jealous
portion, sighed against him for being so
mirthful and light-hearted, and she so sorrowful.
He looked round constantly with
hasty searching glances, all the while he
was exerting himself to escort some ladies
to tea in the dining-room of which the
glass garden-door stood wide open, to find
seats for others, to be the willing squire
of all.

He was looking for herself, Hester knew
and hid closer behind the shade of a

n2

large umbrella raised by one of ber elderly
lady companions to screen off the gentle
spring sun. And yet, whilst biding, Hester
was vexed with Kenyon for not finding
ber out, never attempting to come to ber ;
so inconsistent is a woman's heart.

Religious party feeling ran big at
Westcliff : good deeds were (as they should
be) the special vocation of many unmarried
or widowed women. Hester found
herself unknowingly in such a group of
right-minded but too narrow individuals.

'You are one of us. Miss Armytage 
you bave joined the great work I believe !'
said one of these.

Hester looked in helpless perplexity at
the limp black dress and dowdy black
straw bonnet of the speaker, wbicb garments
seemed to ber exactly alike to those
of all the other Dorcas around. Sbe did
not recognise wbo addressed ber, not having
a good eye for faces  nor bad sbe an

idea of what was meant. Then she discovered
that a visit lately to a sick fisherman
in the old town was signified as her share
in the great work : likewise a small gift
of a worsted comforter and some tea and
tobacco.

Hester was now eagerly pressed by
other owners of limp black gowns, and
bonnets that had no distinction in shabbiness
to her puzzled eyes, to join further in
the said great work. Grateful, yet bewildered,
she accepted, feeling dimly it would
be good to be taken out of herself now;
good to make other poor creatures happy,
though herself might not be so. Then
whispered a voice  she could not distinguish
whose, though she caught the words,

What are you asking ? She is not one
of us. Why, she is a Woman, and goes to
chapel regularly'

Wh-i-i-sh ! on a sudden the startled,
black-dressed sisterhood departed from

around Hester, and left her standing
alone on the lawn, looking blankly after
them.

Christopher Kenyon at last perceived
her, and came up straight, with no laugh
now on his lips, but a settled, resigned
inquiry rather in the dark, wistful glance
that, even while it sought Hester's sweet
eyes for answer, looked away again with
quick self-reminding that he ought not to
claim even her looks too specially. He
suspected Hester had been avoiding him,
having caught glimpses of her at moments,
only to lose her again when he made his
often arrested way to where she had been.
]Now he would not vex her an instant 
but it was best to see what she wished ;
that he would bow to in obedient submission.


I have been looking for you ever so

long ' he began, nervous and grave ;

but perhaps you are, or have been, too

pleasantly engaged with your friends ' (he
looked round at the vanishing good women)
' to care to speak to me.'

 Do I not always like to talk with

you ' answered Hester, quietly, indelicate

reproach ; no more  it was enough
for both. Then she Event on assuming
lightness to re-establish their old relations,
and rapidly sketched for him the late
situation.

Christopher smiled with faintly returning
humour.

Human nature ! it is the same everywhere.
If our good friends had not
chanced to be born as Protestants, they
would have been excellent Roman Catholic
sisters of charity. You are not
.hurt ?'

Oh ! no,' said Hester, heartily. ' I
suppose I am a Catholic because my
mother was one, and wished it.'

A very good reason,' said Kit, gravely.

It Avould keep me a Malioraraedan or a
Buddhist.'

'Besides,' went on the girl, 'they are
good women ! But why should they all
dress so very, very shabbily  it is not a
part of goodness, is it ?'

Kit looked her up and doAvn, amused,
admiring, but a little regretfully.

You cannot understand it : being
brought up more luxuriously  or, at
least, with your innate sense of what is
beautiful allowed free play. Now these
good women would be far happier in a
sister of charity's costume if they only
dared believe it ! Yes,' he went on, absently,
talking while hardly knowing what he
said, only feeling that he was beside Hester,
yet must not touch on dearer subjects,
instead of limping lamely after the fashion
they would be satisfied with their own appearance.
I believe much of the almost
painful humility of some good women

comes from the struggle between a rightful
wish not to spend time or thought on
clothes and the nervous discomfort of
feeling badly dressed ? . . . Will you come
and have some tea in the house ? . . .
Xow, you who spend a small fortune on
your pretty dresses could never be happy
in their gowns.'

You always insist I must care only to
be extravagant,' remonstrated Hester, very
low.

A silence fell upon them both, as With
steps so slow their feet seemed leaden-weighted
they moved towards the house.
There was a peep of the pretty red-tiled
Tillage through a break of screening trees
and underwood, and by mute consent both
stood still. The pause gave them so much
longer time together  without seeming
sought by either. So the two lovers
both felt with distinctly beating hearts
and tightening of the throat. Down lower

ill the hamlet was a blacksmith's forge,
whence the smiting clang of blows faintly
reached their ears like a rough music of
labour, while nearer and all around the
birds were singing in their spring carols of
gladness and idleness in woods and shrubbery.
Neither ever after forgot that picture
painted there and then on their
memories for evermore, as some scenes
linked with especial moments will come
back to our minds with sweet pain ; ay !
when one forgets the words that were said,
and when the love is long dead.

On one side of the Court rose a steep
hill, with picturesque bare cliffs, crowned
thick on the summit with noble airs. The
other hill-side close behind the house was
clothed with oak-woods, through which
zigzag grassy paths were cut, temptingly
leading upwards to the pleasant surprises
of ever varying view-points, sudden turns,,
projecting rocks.

What a dear old place it is !' said
Hester.

Yes, a true Sleepy Hollow,' answered
Christopher ; then, abruptly and low, ' I
shall go away from here soon.'

Why should you do that ?' retorted
Hester, in a like constrained whisper, feeling
a pain through her very soul. ' You
are not well yet, and this air suits you. 1
shall go away  yes, very soon !'

Silence again ; then, as if drawn against
their will, both moved on slowly towards
the rest of the guests. The Court was a
grand specimen of an old English house.
Long' and low, it nestled under the hillside,
with deep-bayed mullions windows
and walls mantled with old vines and magnolias.
Inside, though some of its oak-panelled
rooms and its wide, shallow
staircase were celebrated for their noble
carvings ; though it boasted a Charles II.
bed-room and a priest's hiding hole in the

thick walls ; yet it was as cheerful, Alarm,
and bright as any more modern mansion.
All WestclifF and the country
round took pride in the beautiful old
house.

You have never seen the Court before ?'
asked Kit, as they approached, and Hester
murmured an ejaculation of praise. ' It is
my ideal of a delightful old house. Pity
that my two cousins appreciate it so little !
or were born my uncle's sons, isn't it?
They hate the place, and come as seldom
as possible here.'

What ? not even to see that good old
Sir Christopher ! You are very like him,
I think,' said Hester, still with the small
voice that means so much more to attentive
ears than a louder, gayer one.

You think so ? I am glad of it  I am
fond of the dear old man. Do you remember
in one of Bacon's essays he says the
Italians make little difference between

children and nephews, because these latter
often resemble their uncles more than their
own parents ? But I forgot . you will
hardly have read Bacon.'

Not yet,' confessed Hester, humbly.

I must go to see after some of these
people : my time is not my own to-day.
But still  come one little moment with me
into the hall, and take just a glance upstairs
at the old picture-gallery.'

Hester did so. The dark-panelled 
was hung with portraits of
Kenyonss from Tudor days ; it was a long,
well-lit chamber running above the .


How many of these ancestors of yours
remind me of you !' uttered Hester, gazing
at cavaliers and Georgian beaux ; unconscious
that often her own eyes heightened,
or even imagined the likeness she saw
between all the handsome, broad-browed,
dark-featured Kenyonss who haughtily gazed

down from the walls and this their true
descendant at her side.

Kit looked well-pleased, however, for if
not vain of his looks, he was proud of his
family in his secret heart. He was certainly
a singularly handsome man, too.
Hester always seemed to see him long
afterwards as he stood thus that spring
afternoon, framed by a bay window ;
bronzed of face, a little weary or listless
in attitude, but with the winning look she
loved.

They could only stay there a few moments
; then together they descended the
black shallow stairs that were lit by a
beautiful stained glass window. Hester,
half pausing, looked back at the carved
Woodwork of the gallery, the bayed windows,
the portraits let into the wainscot.

 Yes ; I have never seen any old house
I liked so well.'

Kit sighed with a low nervous laugh.

'Ah !' said he, ' if it were winchester

started. They went on again
down the stairs, and, changing his tone to
one of light self-mockery, Kit went on :

'However, half-a-dozen people would
have to die first. What a topsy-turvy
world it is ! when those who have the
good things don't appreciate their luck.'

Now they joined the other guests, who
were admiring the hall, with its great fireplace
and raised dais at the upper end.
Mrs. Armytage quietly came up, placing
herself at Hester's side.

'What a delightfully shadowy and recesses
room this is !' observed that best of
women. ' Yet I thought I saw a stray
sunbeam just now, perhaps through that
great window over the stairs ; and it is
hardly a spot for seclusion to-day, either.
What a crowd !'

Hester felt the affectionate warning
tingle to her very finger-tips. She knew

now she had given fresh occasion for gossips
to couple her name with that of Christopher
by those few moments spent with
him in the gallery ; how few  how sweet !
She knew, too, that she heeded naught of
such petty merely social considerations :
that whilst Kit was near she must speak
to him, look at him, or secretly crave to
hear his voice meant for herself only, feel
his gaze on her through even her lowered
eyelids, with a sick yearning that grew
to almost intolerable strength whilst denied.


aunt Bessie,' she said, in a composed
voice, as they presently stood apart, ' don't
be vexed, please, but I do want to go home
soon.'

What, now ! Oh, yes : very well, dear !
we'll go at once.'

'No, no  I don't mean to Westcliff!
Let us stay this out to-day, please, to the
end. I mean only that very soon, immediately,

I had better leave you  better go
away up to the north.'

Some time later, Mrs. Armytage stood
in one of the glass houses of the Court
garden nth Christopher Kenyon. Not a
spot one would choose to talk sentiment
in, with rows of pots full of small plants
for summer  bedding-out ' around, though
overhead the vines were spreading a mantle
of tender green shoots. But when people
are in great earnest what do surroundings
matter ?

I am very sorry, Kit ; sorry for you
both,' Mrs. Armytage was saying. 'Are
you quite sure it must be as you say? 
you two seemed made for each other.'

Despite himself, Kenyon's face changed ;
a look of pain came into his eyes, his fingers
nervously kept breaking a vine tendril into
shreds.

I have told you all to the very root of
the matter. I trust you now as I always

VOL. I.

have, fully, utterly, more than my own
miserable, vacillating self. For her own
sake, I dare not ask Hester to link her fate
with such a penniless, hopeless, helpless
being as I am  I have been too selfish,
but that would be to spoil her life indeed !
Poor darling! to see her drooping, struggling,
and pinching, feeling herself clogged
by my existence, would drive me to insanity,
I believe His voice became husky,
and he turned away abruptly. ' There !
think the worst of me you will, but at
least believe that  that I love her with my
whole heart, weak though it may be.'

'But I don't blame you. Kit!' returned
Bessie, softly. ' The worst of you is, one
never can blame you ! I don't know
why.'

This was true of the many women and
some men who knew Christopher Kenyon
well, and were much attached to him.
They were aware of his failings, feebleness

of purpose, even this sins ! but the man
must have been very loveable, for they
always sought to excuse him, however
sharp justice they meted to the faults of
others, whom they should perhaps have
loved as well in all fairness. It is often
so ; the prodigal is somehow dearer than
his irreproachable elder brother.

The sun was sinking over the fir-wood
above the cliff, as Hester and her aunt said
good-bye to Kenyon at the gate.

Come and see me before I go away, "
will you ?' said Hester, her tone and manner
so quiet that Kit thought to himself,
part in bitter reproach, part relieved :
 She does not care.'

Of course I will come,' he assented,
looking at her with half-seeing eyes suddenly
invaded by inner visions, his thoughts
darting along the track of this new, painful
idea.

Come on Thursday, if you can,' she as

o2

calmly urged (inwardly resolving to leave
on the Friday).

On Thursday yes, if possible. I am
not sure but that Mrs. Vignolles asked me
on that day, but I will try,' answered Kit,
still absent, forecasting future sorrows
morbidly, in which she should play a happy
part.

Hester bit her lip.

Oh, Mrs. Vignolles '

Then she bowed in graceful farewell
again, and they went away. She could
not divine Kenyon's thoughts now ; the
sympathy between them was disturbed.

CHAPTER XL

GOING AWAY.

On the following Thursday, Hester was
in the school-room with the children towards
evening.

This was the hour at which Christopher
had been used to come and see her  see
them ! she bitterly corrected her own
thought. Better accustom herself henceforth
not to think back on those happy
visits as if she had any right to claim their
sweetness as a secret and delightful tribute
paid all for her own sake.

But the heart has two chambers, says a

German poet; one of joy, one of sorrow.
And the two voices of these keep calling to
each other, unless one sleeps. So the
fairer, more joyous spirit in Hester's mind
chid her now. Did she not now Kit loved
her ! Why should she rail against his
fears and cares born of his poverty ? Had
he not told all his mind to Aunt Bessie,
who, even while she sighed, did not quite
blame him ?

For Kenyon, that afternoon at the Court,
had come later to Mrs. Armytage, his old
friend, saying peccavi ! in genuine self-accusation
and contrition. Then, being received
by no stern matron, but a sympathising,
womanly heart, as of old, he had tried tolet
her know 'all about it;' the perplexities
of love and vain regrets and wishes
which tormented his poor heart. Only
broken fragments of all these he succeeded
in uttering in spasmodic bursts of genuine
feeling ; at other times he had simply looked

at Bessie miserable-eyed a moment and
then away.

But she contrived to piece it all out.
Kenyon was very poor; saddled, besides,
with debts of long-standing from wilder
days. His health had broken down of
late in hot climates, made worse by the
dread upon him lately of possibly being
unable to follow any profession. He had
no future prospects, no other outlooks :
hope and he had been estranged for years.
How could he ask Hester to share his
future, perhaps worse fortunes ; he who
might be glad enough some day to have
any lodging in which he might decently
die?

In vain Bessie Armytage tried to put
brighter hopes before him ; to hint that
Hester's love and companionship might
dispel such morbid fears and fancies.
Bessie herself and her husband had cheerily
started out in the world together with

less in their pockets than Kenyon now
owned ; and had never regretted their
hardiness. How many more of his or her
friends had done likewise  roughing* it a
while on the outset of their married
voyage, certainly, but a brave and loving
girl would not fear to face that ! But
this last was simply what Christopher
could not be brought to realise in his
own mind. To him, Hester was so far
more beautiful and born to be cherished
and lapped in purple and fine linen than
all the instances of Womankind whom Mrs.
Armytage could adduce, that the idea of
her roughing it, as they had, was to him
painful, ridiculous, iiivpossihle.

In truth. Kit's own up-bringing in
youth and the ideas he had unconsciously
imbibed among rich and beautiful women
at gay courts of what were the necessities
of life to such, were to blame. Mrs. Armytage,
who had gone gladly on the very

simple tenor of her way, could hardly
have even imagined all such wants. But
Kit, remembering well what even the
' dear dead women ' of his own family
had been accustomed to, could as little
believe Hester happy as his wife with less.
He looked on his own soldier days since
as a rude and almost ascetic existence,
which for a solitary bachelor was well
enough ; no more. And, while seeing
Bessie Armytage, and the other friends
she spoke of, struggling bravely through
temporary trials and discomforts such as
life must bring, but wealth may lighten,
he had  they not knowing  pitied them
intensely.

'No! to see her toiling and moiling,
always obliged to save and pinch, broken
down before her years !  it would make
me mad! I have thought it over constantly
in the dead of these past nights 
looked at it every way by day, and all

day long I believe this month past. I
Wonder that my hair is not grey ; it feels
as if it should be,' Kit had at last said, in a
despairing tone, with a sigh so deep, so
utterly hopeless, that Bessie pityingly
could have found it in her heart to caress
and comfort him as if he had been a dear
brother.

So now Hester sat in the school-room
waiting: cheating herself with the pretence
of being occupied with the children.
Some of them she was helping to prepare
their lessons ; others required her to nurse
their dolls whilst they where busied with
the heavy duties of feeding and stabling
all the animals of a Noah's ark. Half-past
four ! and she had been waiting since four
with outward seeming calm, though her
heart had given a jump at each knock at
the door. He must be here soon  Hester
tried to steady her pulses and correct an
exercise written apparently with a bludgeon

that smeared and blotted in an ink-thirsty
way painful to behold.

'Bertie dear  I don't quite understand
she said, puzzled, to the small sailor-dressed
writer, who stood beside her with
the air of a convict who has done his day's
spell. And Hester slowly began to decipher
through the blots, till at last these
words straggled to light :

Hard has a knew grate cote made of
agra cloth of witch he is very pride.
Busy has got blew ribbons in her bones and
a brown fever' (feather).

Patiently she began to correct, smothering
a sigh, because that a quarter of an
hour had passed while her small galley-slave
once more wet his oar sorrowfully ina
fresh sea of ink.

Oh ! he doesn't spell good enough.
Look at my copy. Cousin Hester,' urged a
second urchin, thrusting another scrawl
into her hands hotly. And Hester, feeling

like a decipherer of lost languages, went on
painfully to discover that,

 Woollen closes are for winter war,
contain and linnen closes are for the
sumer.'

Five o'clock struck now. Kenyon seldom
came after five, the walk out to the
Court being some distance, and the dinner-hour
here early. Hester was ready to cry ;
still it was yet possible he might come late ;
she AYOuld be very patient. So she sat on
among the children with a deadened sick
feeling at heart.

Hear me my lessons,' piped a voice at
her knee, that of one of the small fry
hitherto not described.

 Why, boy, you don't do any lessons,'
she gravely replied, her arms full of three
dolls, a woolly sheep, and a squeaking
rabbit she was desired to hold.

Yes, boy does ; Ishabess makes me,' he
returned, aggrieved.

What lessons does Elizabeth make you
say, dear?' asked Hester, trying to force
her attention to those who had a rightful
claim to it.

Payers P said the small man.

The minutes passed, passed ; then came
a loud ring at the door. Hester half
started up, and, whilst her heart was still
beating rapidly, the door opened to admit
Uda, just home from evening school.

Oh ! Cousin Hester, who do you think
I saw a little while ago?' she began,
coming up with an important air of
having an agreeable piece of intelligence.
Hester knew, even before Miss Gertrude
eagerly went on. ' It was Captain Kenyon,
and he was coming out of Mrs. Yig-
nobles' house.'

Hester turned sick with disappointment,
but contrived to ask, quietly,

Do you think he is coming here, then ?'

 Oh ! no  not here. He was going towards

the Court ; but he stopped, of course,
to speak to me, and said it was too late
this evening, but he would come and see
mother some day soon.'

Some day soon  and Hester was leaving
tomorrow ! Poor Hester ! she made a
dash at the baby, who was contentedly
crawling on the rug, and under the pretext
of carrying Nona upstairs escaped from
the room and Uda's sharp observation.
She covered the infant's soft head with
kisses mingled with bitter tears. Nona
catching one glimpse of her weeping face
began to whimper too, till soothed by
Hester with more caresses and kisses that
relieved her passionate emotion. Luckily
the baby could not talk yet  could not
betray the secret of that grief

Presently, while Hester was alone in her
room, came a knock at the door, and her
aunt's voice almost timidly asking, could
she help her in packing ? Hester let her

in, but even Aunt Bessie hardly knew
what to say, though she made that little
much. It was all a mistake to-day ; and
how many others had passed through such
trials as Hester's, and been happy ; the
future might be yet rich with blessing.
Nevertheless, after bravely facing the ordeal
of supper with the boys (all eager to
talk to her especially this last evening),
Hester passed a sleepless night that to
her, so unused to sorrow, was terrible.
Sometimes she accused herself; why, why
had her pride prevented her from letting
Christopher know she was going away,
and that they might possibly see each
other's faces no more ?

Again she tortured her jealous heart
with the surmise that he had driven out
one nail by another  that he had been
looking this evening in Mrs. Vignolles'
quick small eyes as he had used to do in
hers. And then again it was fate, fate, fate !

'How terribly sorry Hester seems to-leave
us, mamma. Isn't it quite trying
she feels it so much,' whispered Uda next
morning, looking at her cousin's pale face
and heavy eyelids swollen in spite of her
pains.

'Good-bye, Cousin Hester, good-bye,'
the voices of nearly all the Armytage
tribe were crying, as she looked out at
her group of relatives from the train.

Then Edward Armytage, who had gone
to buy some newspapers for their young
household goddess at the last moment
rushed back, and, jumping at his peril on
the carriage step as it began to move,
eagerly whispered,

'I say! hers just hurried into the station,
looking about him everywhere,
Kenyon ; you know" ! There he is  lookout
and say good-bye ; do, like a good
girl. Oh, too late !' For a porter

or two had caught hold of poor Edward's,
coat-tails, and his boyishly eager
efforts to right a romance he felt was
somehow ending wrong were frustrated.

Hester did look  she could not help it,
notwithstanding pride  and thought she
saw Kit pressing through a crowd : that
was all.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XII.

TO EVERY BIRD ITS NEST IS FAIR.

Some six or seven weeks later, when long,
long days of long spring hours had gone
slowly by, and May was in its sweetest
prime  when all the earth was gay with
new foliage, with flowers everywhere in
the glorious profusion that even summer
cannot boast, and when in the woods and
thickets were pipings and such small
sounds of young living creatures and
newly-fledged birds peeping out in surprise
at the world  Hester stood leaning
over a stile one afternoon.

It was far from Westcliff ; she stood ina
land of lakes and mountains up in the
North country. Great mountains lay
around her, that might have almost terribly
given the impression of shutting one
in, like huge earthen ramparts of a fortress,
but for the lighter airy ideas conveyed
by clouds sometimes veiling those
stern summits with rolling veils of whiteness
and brightness, at other times floating
down their sides in filmy wreaths.

Somewhat thus the anoel messengers
must have seemed to the seers' eyes who
iDcheld then coming down to earth in
patriarchal days ; or, as one might fancy,
did the form of a passing god or goddess
show, rising from Mount Ida's woody sides
to the realms of Jove.

Oh ! the free life, the happy days that
Hester had always known there from her
petted childhood  till now ! Standing
thus on some high rock point in those

p 2

bygone days, young Hester had often felt
tempted to cry aloud for pure joy like
one of the eagles sailing overhead, to dance
on the dizzy edge in ecstasy of spirit.
But now she stood there quite still, leaning
on the bar of the stile, as she had
leant just as motionless and heavily for
nearly an hour. Poor Hester . . . !

 If I could only go away and be among
new people and in new places, and forget f
she said once to herself, with a stir of restlessness.
Immediately she added, in self-reproach,
however, ' No, no ; the dear old
people would send me at once if they
guessed I had any wish ; but grandfather
is not well . . . If he stumbled again and
had a worse fall than last week  it may
have been giddiness, and no mere accident
. . Yes ; I must stay quietly and do my
duty by them.'

Hester looked paler by far than when at
Westcliif, with an almost appealing expression

in the slight droop of her long, dark-pencilled
eyebrows, in the soft, pitiful
curves her lips had newly learnt in place
of smiles ; very touching on her young
bright face, had anyone been there to see.

She was craving, wearying for news of
Christopher, but in vain. Letters came almost
daily from Mrs. Armytage, dashed off
in haste amongst her many cares, telling
of the children, of Westcliff gossip, of her
own plans for going to India in autumn,
and leaving her flock in various folds (at
which, no doubt, her heart silently ached
a little). But the only news of Kenyon
was, that soon after Hester's sudden flight
he had said he was tired of Westcliff,
and so departed to London. Not a word
more. With momentary bitterness Hester
thought to herself: Yes, gone to London,
and he is gay there, no doubt ! Of course
it was dull at Westcliff, now, with no one to
flirt with !  and Mrs. Vignolles went also to

town. Then her generous nature would
reassert itself and cast forth the evil, small,
intruding thoughts. Ah ! perhaps he was
restless and unhappy, too. At that thought
insensibly hope flickered again in her
heart, and fancy would vaguely conjure
up dreamy scenes of future happiness in
years to come. Years were so full of
possibilities, despite present harsh fate.

As Hester stood, the milk-white blossoms
of the May clustered close about her head,
its rich scent was heavy on the air. Beyond
the stile a small upland meadow
sloped steeply down, all speckled with
daisies and buttercups ; sheep were browsing
here with steady nibble, while their
lambs bleated and frisked. Hester knew
them each and all ; dumb creatures had
been her friends and playmates during
her often solitary childhood. A track led
downwards through the meadow to a pretty
cottage at the foot of the hill. Little more

than its gables and steep-pitched roof were
visible from here, it was so hidden by oak-trees.
But on nearer view, the Nest, as it
was called, was set in a tiny garden of
which the flowers seemed lovingly creeping
up to its walls in serried ranks of
such pansies and carnations as no other
house near or far could boast, while jessamine
and roses embraced the very eaves
with fragrant trails. This was the home
of her childhood, her grandfather's house.
Beyond the cottage and its trees shimmered
a wide mountain-lake, fringed with
little rocky capes, sandy bays, and reedy
margins. The view from the stile, framed
in branches, showed three mountains ending
the lake. One softly wooded for the
greater part in rolling curves of greenery ;
the next, that lay a little behind it. rising
in high lawns and slopes only broken
here and there by bosky ridges : while the
hindmost, seen between his fellows, raised

his huge head to the skies in naked granite
grandeur.

Then, through the sound of the cropping
sheep and the drone of bees and the birds'
chirping, a step approaching down the
path behind her fell on Hester's ear.
She raised her head and listened. A little
behind in the oak coppice was a path
taken as right-of-way by stray village-folk
passing; but this comer had left it, and
was approaching by a side walk through
a wild laurel shrubbery, used by few or
none but the inmates of the cottage. The
girl stood up straight and tall, expectant
strangely, she knew not why. A man
turned the corner of the path from behind
a great hawthorn bush  Christopher Kenyon
himself.

He gave a sudden exclamation and
stopped  Hester uttered a little cry.
Then both approaching, as if impelled by
some mutual strong power that made

their faces eager and set, but their feet
slow, they silently held each other's hands,
looked in each other's eyes, till, with a
long-drawn sigh, Kenyon uttered a strange
o:reetino\

I did not know if I should see you.'

 Then why  what has brought you hereto
this country ?'

I hardly know . . , you will think
still less of me, if I were to confess,' Kit
replied, with an uneasy, forced laugh;
then, in a subdued tone  ' But, you know,
I missed saying good-bye to you at West-cliff,
after all, and that was a lapse which
heeded reparation.'

Still you say, you have not come to seeme.'


'You unbelieving little Jew! I said 1
did not know if I should see you. But 
at least  I thought I could see the home
you used to tell me of; see your own self,
it might be, from afar, if only a glimpse

of you flitting through the trees . . .
And besides,' (went on Kit, changing his
tone to that of a would-be indifferent
admirer of scenery, while looking around),
this is a charming country and it seemed
a pity never to have seen it.'

Hester was not taken in, however ; in a
low voice full of emotion, she uttered,
reproachfully,

You ought to have written to tell me
we might have missed each other. I
should never have known.'

As troubled as herself, at that sound of
deep feeling in her tones to which inner
chords in himself vibrated, Kenyon humbly
sought excuse.

If you want to know the truth, the
whole truth, I did not know myself till
yesterday. I was travelling elsewhere, a
hundred miles from here. (I am due
there now.) All at once in the train the
thought seized me not to go on, but to

change and come up here instead. AVe
were nearing a junction in half-an-hour;
and I passed the time in such utter indecision
that it became positive agony.
(Irresolution is the most painful state tome,
and yet since I have been ill it is
almost worse to force myself to the task
of any conclusion.) Will you believe what
I did at last . / tossed up a shilling !
you are not angry ?'

Hester could not repress a soft smile.

'It is quite what I can imagine  angry?
no ; go on.'

'Well, there is little more to tell. At
the junction I jumped out  almost lost my
luggage, as the other train was just starting'
; had no time for a fresh ticket, and
nearly drove the porters and a guard wild
. . walked over this morning from your
little town beyond there' (pointing towards
the nearest mountain), 'and, behold, here I
am.'

Hester only said, with gentlest compassion
of feeling,

You must be very tired  it was too far
for you. We should not dream of anyone
doing it, but of course you could get no
conveyance to hire. Come and sit down
for a few minutes' rest now.'

Wearily enough, it must be owned. Kit
sat down as she desired. A fallen tree had
been made into a rude seat close by, and,
as in former days, they two were seated
.side by side.

CHAPTER XIII.

Good-bye, DEAR LOVE, Good-bye.'

For a delicious time, as they sat on the
log, Hester and Kenyon found it enough
to look at each other, or else to talk by
brief snatches  but not of love.

In the overwhelming happiness of seeing
Christopher, hearing his voice, breathing
the same air, Hester asked no more.
And yet in her heart's core was a small,
cold icicle; it was hope frozen there by
his words. She would not suffer the sensation
to appear on the surface, to chill her
reception of his dear self  after coming sofar

too !  but bravely tried to keep it
hidden away with the help of pride. Afterwards
it might have its way ; women have
leisure enough to weep.

But they talked of all both had done
and seen in the days past, since they last
parted. Hester always used to tell Kit of
the least thing she cared for, almost as if
he were twined with her own mind, and
must needs therefore care. Only of her
most inner feelings of all she said nothing
perhaps he knew. He had an almost
feminine intuition for what was passing in
the minds of those he cared for ; and now,
with his dark-grey eyes riveted on Hester's
speaking face, torment herself to the utmost,
she could not doubt he was intensely
interested even to hear of her old bullfinch's
death, and how her specially pet-flowers
were prospering.

And you  it is your turn now,' Hester
ventured at last, with prettily-apologetic

inquiry and pleading eyes. ' You have
told me what you did lately ' ( he had been
visiting other relatives and had not seen
Mrs. Vignolles ; the gods be thanked for
that !) 'but you have not told me what
your plans are now for the summer, the
good time of the year.'

I take no interest in this summer 
none Kit slowly replied, looking down at
the still lake, with further-seeing vision.
I shall not see this spring's fruition  I
wonder when, if ever, I shall pass another
summer in England ? . It seems a sin
to leave this fresh, green land, does it not ?
but I am going far enough soon.'

'Where  ?' asked Hester, turning very
cold now.

'To  I hardly know where yet. But
Barbadoes or Jamaica most likely, where
it will be hotter than even your summer.
To some place, any way, where existence
seems a vacuum, and, if thai palls, yellow

fever will kindly step in and end one'S'
querulous surmises as to that mystery 
why one was made to be.'

Shall we go down to my home ? . . . I
I should like you to rest, and to see my
old grandfather and grandmother. They
are very old, but still they would be hurt
if I told them you were here and  had not
gone to see them,' murmured Hester.

She was really swallowing tears : only
as yet she kept them down from rising to
their fountains in her dove-like eyes. Kit
rose to obey her wish, feeling mechanically
that to do any behest of hers then, if it
were plunging in the lake, to do her the
smallest pleasure would be a welcome relief
from this grievous joy of being so near
her, and yet  so far. Hester led him
through the shrubbery (the meadow path
leading too familiarly to the out-houses of
the little cottage), and preceded him down
some rough steps of soil and edging stones.

She had not come here for months (not
since before the Ave Maria of Christmas
had been sung in Westcliff), and winter
frosts had loosened the stones. Half-blinded
with mental pain, Hester never
heeded her footing till a stone rolled from
under her, and, with a cry, she fell some
little distance on to the path below. It
seemed the very next instant that Kit
(though he had been behind her) was lifting
her tenderly up, and holding her in his
arms.

'Are you hurt ? are you much hurt ?'
Oh ! it was such a relief to Hester to
cry ; to cry heartily and let the salt tears
pour down unchecked, whilst Christopher
imagined it was all for that aching foot.
She leant her head against the rough
brown tweed of Kenyon's coat and quietly
cried, whilst he petted her, and hardly
knew what to do or say for her comfort.
Then he kissed her  Kit meant it to be
VOL. ]. Q

just once ; but immediately after lie kissed
her again and yet again, calling her in
broken accents his poor darling, his little
love ! . . .

Oh ! Hester,' he exclaimed, in passionate
despair, his barriers of prudence and
self-restraint broken down. * Dear Hester,
if only I were a little better off  if only I
dared risk it to ask you to marry me, now
at once !  how happy our lives might
be.'

She answered him close and quick, with
warm vehemence in her breath, her true
soul going out to him.

I am willing to marry you now, Christopher
 poor as you are ! There, what woman
can say more?'

A groan was wrung from poor Kenyon's
very soul. That was all of gladness Hester's
words brought him, as his arms slowly
relaxed and bead-drops stood on his
brow, while his eyes quitted gazing on her

dear head and the tip of a delicate ear to
wander vacantly over the blue unfeeling
expanse of sky. He had known it !
Should he  should he not  bless her
generous words . to her hurt (never
mind his own !) No  no ! Dear child, to
her it all seemed so easy and happy ; love
in a cottage and the rest of it, despite
small means. But he who knew more of
the world, and wants of life !  he who
knew his own habits, if not extravagant
yet easy hitherto, and her girlish ignorance,
recklessness of cost  he stood appalled
at the miseries he might bring down
on that shapely small head, bow with care
those dear and lovely shoulders. Oh !
poor, poor child, why could he not have left
her sooner at Westcliff? The man impotently
hated his own vanity at the outset,
then bewailed his fatal irresolution,
nay, infatuation !

Almost doubtlessly he uttered,

q2

 I dare not, for your sake.'

Hester started from his side, passionately,
as if a hot iron had branded her.

'If you really loved me, you would not
say that.'

Christopher simply looked at her: his
nether lip twitched slightly.

'Very well,' he replied, in an altered
voice, ' we will say that is it. I do not
care for you sufficiently  you know I always
told you there was no reliance to be
placed on me.'

Hester trembled, not knowing what to
answer. She believed, nay, new he loved
her indeed sufficiently, ay, and far more !
Each ardent glance, every tender tone of
his voice had whispered it. But she could
not tell him so. Or was it indeed true
that Kenyon did not really rightly love
her? Was he one of those men, hard at
their heart's core, but with surface emotions
so easily stirred that they deceive

those who do not know them thoroughly
into pitying their sorrows, or expatiating
on their delightful joyousness ?

Why had he kissed her, then, at West-cliff;
owned his love? Her woman's pride
agonised, the girl leant for support still
against some clockwork ending the steps,
looking in misery at the drooping slender
boughs of a white-stemmed birch that
hung before her. This was the bitterest
moment of Hester's life. Whatever might
come afterwards, standing there doubting
Kenyon's honour and loyalty was keenest
pain of all. Ever after, to see such a mist
of tangled birch-branches brought thoughts
of tears to her mind, though memory often
failed to tell her for a short time why.
Then she heard Kenyon say, hoarsely,

Good-bye  try some day to forgive me
for paining you by this last selfish folly of
coming here to-day.'

Hester slowly roused at that ; and her

accents sounded softly loving as of old in
his surprised ears.

'The only pain you gave me, was by
maligning yourself just now Dear
Christopher, do you want me to forgive
you for giving me this day's gladness, or
or for your troubles that are my sorrow
too ? If there were anything, of course T
would forgive you to seventy times seven !
but all I have to say now is  God bless
you!'

Next instant Hester found herself once
more caught close to Christopher's breast,
passionately, despairingly.

My love, my dearest !  if I only could
do anything give up the rest of my life to
buy you an hour's joy ! My life !  pah,
that is not worth much. You are the
only person living who perhaps thinks it
of value, little dear one Oh ! if in
the years to come brighter days could dawn
for me, and that I might come back and

find you here ! But I am a fool ! they
never will. Be happy, Hester dear, may
you be rich and happy, and gladden some
better man's life  and forget me. I trust
you will.'

Kenyon, as he spoke, was battling with
a ridiculous lump in his throat that would
rise as big as an g it seemed. He vainly
tried to choke it with a cough, but failed,
and broke down sobbing. Hester was
frightened, but crept closer to him, soothed,
consoled him : till with a strong effort he
recovered himself

No, no ; but you,' she murmured, then,
' you may be happy some day with some
other.'

Never ! I shall never ask any woman
to marry me  you or none. Farewell,
Hester ; it is the only last kindness I can
do you, to go.'

Silently they stood there in close embrace,
Hester with her head so lovingly,

so sorrowfully resting for this once, this
last time, above Kit's beating heart. She
suffered far less than he ; her part was
but to accept, be resigned ; she only felt,
now, that she was in his arms, that they
loved and must part

But to him the struggle was still terrible.
A cloud of privations, miseries, fears
seemed to hang over his future. And he
did not feel strong enough in mind or body to
face them ! How could he do Hester such a
wrong as to ask her to share all this ; perhaps
to bear even more than himself in
future? With a tender but convulsive
movement he pressed her tightly to him,
feeling it the last time on earth, then
gently left her standing alone.

Will you not come to the house first?
you will be so fatigued with the long
walk back,' asked Hester, in a half dead
voice ; yet ever thoughtful of his health,
his wants.

Xo, thanks ; no  I would rather not
see anyone just now,' he hastily murmured.

Cramming his hat down over his eyes,
Kenyon went a few hurried paces away.
At the to]) of the steps he halted, hesitated,
looked once more round. Hester,
almost in spite of herself, made a little
entreating gesture with her hand, then
stayed herself in rebuke. Christopher
smiled at her with loving wilfulness :
gave a sorrowful shake of his head, as
slight as her own motion towards himself.
Then he was gone.

Gone ! and presently Hester found herself
walking through the narrow paths of
their hedged-in garden-plot up to the door
of the Nest. Out ran a trim maid to meet
her.

Oh ! Miss Hester, we have been looking
for you everywhere. Don't be alarmed!
but your grandfather '

'What, what?'

 He has had an attack of giddiness and
a sort of faint. It passed off, and he is
sleeping now quite nicely, but we've sent
for the doctor. We looked everywhere for
you; but your grand mamma quite scolded
us, and said it was nothing, and why
frighten you home. But Ave knew you
would want to know.'

CHAPTER XIV.

ONE WOE DOTH TREAD UPON ANOTHER'S
HEELS.'

Hester Armytage had heavy work on her
young shoulders that evening.

On going into her grandfather's study,
some time after she returned back, and
whilst he still slept, restlessly urged by a
desire to do something for him, if only to
see that his writing-bureau was duly
locked and the window closed before the
evening breeze came over the lake  and
his blind terrier Bus not too lonely  she
saw an open letter on blue business-looking

paper under the old man's arm-chair.
Hester picked it up, and was laying it on
the table, when some words in it caught
her eye. She started  read all, and stood
confused jet awestruck, vaguely seeming
to understand some calamity impending.
A North-country bank had failed, payment
was stopped what did it mean? Hester
knew so little of business matters, she wa
absolutely ignorant of what bank her
grandfather might have money in, or how
his income accrued to him. Still she put
the letter hastily in her pocket, and retired
to join her grandmother, who was
sitting in one of the pretty bed-rooms of
the cottage by the side of her husband.

The old man lay sleeping heavily, yet
apparently calmly. His old wife sat obstinately
resisting all attempts to coax
her away, yet placidly enough in an armchair
by his pillow. He was over eighty ;
-as was she. With a lace veil over her

white hair tied under her chin, a woollen
shawl knitted by Hester on her shoulders,
she sat a venerable picture all that afternoon
and evening; with her hands in her
lap, sometimes dozing, too.

It was sundown before the doctor,
riding over the hills from a distant dale,
had reached the little home by the lakeside,
where he was anxiously awaited by
the young girl. Later, taking Hester
aside and meeting her troubled eyes with
grave pity, he broke it to her gently there
was no hope. Her grandfather was suffering
from concussion of the brain, caused
by his fall.

The doctor and Hester were alone, for
the old lady would not leave her husband,
even then ; remarking with the feeble voice
and slow calm of age, that there was not
much amiss  and the child would take all
directions. Hester clasped her hands with
tearless awed dread in the gathering

shadows, whilst the great, coldest shadow
of all, that of the wings of Death's angel,
for the first time that she remembered,
seemed to draw solemnly and silently close
around that little household.

At last, struck by some thought, she
tremblingly pulled out the letter from her
pocket. Could this have been to blame in
her grandfather's sudden illness ? He had
fallen before, but that was a mere accident,

while this The doctor, an old family

friend, started.

God help you all, my poor child,' he
uttered in dismay, as he gazed blankly at
the letter and then aghast at Hester. ' The
bank failed ! and all my small savings in it
too  but that's little in comparison of what
this means to you, your grandmother, all
your uncles and aunts '

Is it ruin ?' asked the girl, bravely,
staring at him with a dull feeling. What
did ruin matter? what was it ? what mattered

anything but parting as in death from
those we loved in life ?

Well . . . well . . . well ! There need
be no such word as ruin, my dear, to anyone,
young and strong and blest with
gifts like yours. And the rest of your
family  anyhow, they've all got their professions,
or husbands, to support them.
But it's a sore blow !'

And so, trying to comfort Hester with
more hasty words, the old doctor hurried
away to see after his own business with a
sinking heart ; yet he would have stayed
could it have been of anv avail. As a last
kindness he promised to telegraph to
Bessie Armytage, the only one of the
numerous sons and daughters of the good
old people who was not far away scattered
in colonies or distant lands.

Weighted with her message of death,
Hester walked heavily back to her grandfather's
room, and there, kneeling down

beside her grandmother, silently caressed
her. The old woman slowly examined the
girl's features, and asked, in a hushed
voice, not to disturb her sleeping spouse.

'What did he say, dear?'

He said grandfather was very ill,' repeated
Hester, feeling choked ; ' but that  '

Eh, but what ? Speak louder, child ; I
can't hear.'

'That he Avould not suffer any pain j
none at all, grannie, and that is such a
comfort, isn't it ?' went on the girl, confused,
not knowing what to say indeed.

'Very ill . . .repeated the grandmother,
slowly to herself, shaking her snowy-haired
head. ' Very ill . . . well, well ; the will
of God be done . . . yes. Lead me away,
child  there is a buzzing in my head, and
I had better lie down, too.'

They gently helped the old lady to her
bed in the adjoining room; and there
without complaining more than that she

felt a little strange, she too became heavily
unconscious.

Through the small hours Hester watched,
feeling her burden of sorrow too great
to realise ; only aware she must watch the
clock, keep up the fire, have medicines and
cordials all ready for a change, and such
small details. Once her grandfather roused,
and, nth a gleam of surprised pleasure,
recognised her bending anxiously over him.

I seem to have had a bad dream, child
something about money lost. My head
is confused. I thought  thought it would
come hard on you all . all you children.
Eh, what was it ?' he asked, in bewildered,
broken inquiry.

It was nothing to signify, dear grandfather.
It will not hurt any of us, indeed.
Be quite happy  all is well with us, as all
things always are governed for the best,'
assured Hester, forcing herself to cheerfulness
as she soothingly replied.

VOL. I. R

The old man smiled at that, hardly
catching her words, yet reassured by that
brave young voice piercing the mists
which gently clouded his intellect, as cheerfulness
still kindly hung over his bodily
faculties.

'All is well  yes, well!' he murmured,
quite content ; then turned his face to the
wall, and so, before an hour had passed,
fell on sleep like a patriarch who had lived
to a good old age.

And Hester, while awe-struck, thought
to herself, in the first strange moments
afterwards, she was glad to know death
could come like that  most thankful he
had departed happy.

When the old grandmother awoke, she
asked immediately after her husband.
They had to tell her the truth ; but she
took the news most quietly, to their surprise.


He is gone a little before me,' she only

said. Then, after a while, added, with a
placid smile, * But I shall follow him very
soon. We never were long parted, and I
feel drawing near my death, too.'

After this she seemed again to relapse
into a half-sleeping state, whether caused
by exhaustion after the shock or from
sympathy with him who had been her
other self so many long years. This last
Hester was ready to believe ; herself seeming
stupefied and moving in some awful,
solemn dream in which all things Avere
crumbling away from around her  lives
and love and fortune  and she left standing
alone in the world. Death itself seemed
no longer terrible, however, and, as to
present pain, feeling seemed suspended, she
could only note facts. By that second
afternoon two aged, still corpses lay in
the little lake-side Nest ; two loving and
gentle spirits had gone together from earth
to the state they were prepared for.

B 2

That evening, when Bessie Armytage
arrived, Hester threw herself into the arms
that were outstretched to her with most
pitying sorrow and love, and then, on
that kind and comforting bosom, wept for
the first time during the late hours of
trial.

Oh, Aunt Bessie, Aunt Bessie,' she
sobbed, as both mingled their tears over
the happy dead whom yet neither could
wish back,  they were like what David
says, " lovely and pleasant in their lives,
and in death they were not divided." But
it seems so lonely now they are gone  and
he is gone ! Only perhaps that is for the
best for I am quite a beggar now, and I
should only have been a hindrance to
him.'

My dear . . . my poor, poor child !'
was all Bessie found to say, feeling acutely
herself the loss of the beloved old parents ;
knowing' vaguely she herself must be now

considerably poorer, and could help this
young creature, whom she soothingly
caressed, so much the less.

CHAPTER XV.

'yea oe nay?'

Some months had passed.

In the early spring of the next year a
young girl, dressed in poor but neat mourning,
was sitting lonely on a bench in
Regent's Park. Her eyes were fixed in
an absent glance on a sickly little girl
trundling a hoop, for this child was her
charge as its nursery governess. But Hester's
thoughts  for Hester Armytage it
was who thus sat  were troubling, bewildering
her; trying to reason themselves
out to some definite conclusion on a

very different matter. It was hard to
think it out, and see what was right ; for
every few minutes the child would stray
too far, or threaten mischief in all manner
of elfish ways  owning the unhappy combination
of being spoilt besides the peevishness
of ill-health. The matter to be considered
was such a great one, affecting
perhaps the whole of two lives in future ;
but the child was the duty nearest, and
that must not be neglected.

It was a cold grey London day in early
March. No blue sky or blessed sunshine
to be seen. Alone, alone in this great
town ! felt the poor young governess.
There was no living soul to care for her
in the numberless houses, the millions of
busy human beings all around her in London,
except For Mrs. Vignolles, her

employer  Hester's lips tightened a little
at thought of that lady  would little heed
getting another to supply a vacant place

in the school-room, nor would Louisa, the
child, regret the excitement of a change,
though neither disliked Hester more than
any such necessary household intruder.
Hester Armytage felt desolate, cold to her
heart's core, but still doubtful.

As to how the girl came here, that maybe
briefly told. After her grand-parents'
death, and the loss of her own small fortune,
together with that suffered by all
the rest of the family in their several
incomes, Hester had bravely declared she
would work for herself and be a burden to
none of the various aunts and uncles who
all would have willingly tried to give hera
home, despite narrowed means. In vain
Bessie Armytage, in especial, had begged
her to wait, if possible, and  ' next year,
yes ! certainly next year John and I can
well contrive to pay your passage out tous
in India. Oh, my child, I could even

do it this year, if you would but listen to
reason  I really could.'

Yes, but Hester knew too well how it
would be managed ; at what secret cost to
the kindly woman, and so refused. Then,
to put an end to further discussion, she
applied to some of her former acquaintances
in London to find her a situation.
These persons happening to know Mrs.
Ignores, the latter wrote some time later,
to Hester's surprise, offering (almost as if
Miss Armytage was a complete stranger)
the post of governess to her little girl.
It was the only situation to be heard of,
and  even without consulting her aunt 
Hester, in her generous eagerness to support
herself, accepted it.

Bessie Armytage was a good deal
troubled when she heard the news, but it
was then too late. Besides, she had no
good reason to give for refusing her consent.

Perhaps lie guessed, too, inwardly
sighing, that Hester had some faint hopes
of gleaning occasionally news of Kenyon
in her new home. Yet she had an uncomfortable
suspicion that Emma Yig-
nobles, her old schoolfellow, to whom she
had not been very warm during certain
doubtful flirtations of that little person's in
past days, was not sorry now to appear
condescending towards Bessie's niece.

There was a step on the gravel. Looking
up, the poor girl saw as she expected
(though yet feeling half afraid) Mr. Hun-perform,
who was Mrs. Vignolles' cousin,
standing over her. He has been already
described as being struck at first sight
with Hester's appearance at that Westcliif
ball where she and Kenyon for the first
time were unhappy together. Alas, for
the bygone days !

Mr. Hungerford looked at Hester with
an agreeable smile lighting up his pale,

clearly-cut face that appeared so beardless
juvenile at a little distance, but
elderly near. His spare, tall figure was
still very active, however, and he had
undoubtedly the whole appearance of a
well-bred gentleman. His voice had a
peculiarly sonorous and musical ring as
of a rarely excellent human instrument.
It was a really delightful voice when he
pleased, and he knew its power.

'Well, I have come for my answer,' he
said, with courteous kindness and an assured
smile, which Hester caught, though
it was quickly suppressed. Her spirit
rose against it. Yet, ah ! she was so
homesick, lonely, tired in body as in mind.
Her hitherto listless eyes suddenly flashed
at him : they were like grey brilliant.

You think I should be eager to marry
you, Mr. Hungerford, because I am almost
a pauper, now  a servant, at least, in all
but name. But remember, if you please,,

that I have taken a week to make up my
mind.'

Foolish child ! You have too romantic,
high-flown ideas,' he answered, looking
keenly at her ; noticing with amused interest
that was quite a new relish, almost
a pleasure, the expressive play of emotion
in her honest young face. ' By the way,
has anyone told you, I wonder  not that
you will consider it has anything to do
with the matter  that I am rich, Miss
Armytage ? Why, my cousin, Mrs. Vigo
would bless her lucky star'  (he
stopped himself abruptly, but went on so
glibly the break in the sentence was hardly
perceptible)  'if she had married as
rich a man in her deceased spouse.'

'That has nothing to do with it, Mr.
Hungerford. It ought not to have, and
therefore it has not,' retorted Hester, still
in a white heat of pure high feeling that
had flamed up within her.

And therefore it has not /' assented the
rich man slowly, in a tone that might have
been mocking or critical with the least
more emphasis. Secretly he asked himself,
while searching her face still more closely :
'Was it true? And, if so, would it last
long?' Then with kindling warmth, in
growing excitement of voice, he went on,
speaking by degrees faster and faster, though
each word was emphatic in that clear
enunciation. * Almost a servant ? Quite
so : more than one ! Have I not seen it
since you arrived, three months ago, at my
cousin's house ? You are harried, worried,
kept slaving from morning till night, and
for miserable wages ? Have you one bare
short hour that you dare call your own
in the whole day, or even night ? Ah ! I
suspect you do steal some from your sleep,
for the soft round of sour cheeks is beginning
to hollow  that I have noticed lately
and you used to carry your figure so

uprightly, with a springing ste that I
admired from the first  but you go slower,
yes, slower these days.'

soh, what does that matter now?' Hester
sighed, quite forgetting that the man beside
her admired the face and figure with
which she no longer felt as if she cared to
please.

She was only thinking he said truth
about the want of even a mere half-hour's
freedom, which she sighed for with resigned
helpless gentleness at nights when mending
Mrs. VignoUes' lace flounces after some
ball with dainty painstaking fingers, byway
of a pleasant, light evening employment,
said that lady. But the speech
sounded so strangely on Hester's fresh,
young lips that Hungerford looked at her
surprised ; its tone was so evidently sincere.


Poor girl f

Hungerford said the words so softly,

in a quiet pitying voice, that Hester felt
a sudden gush of tears rise as in former
days to her eyes. They did her good;
her heart seemed unfrozen : sympathy is
so dear to women. The man beside her
seized his advantage.

 Come, dear ; make up your mind to
marry me, and you shall leave all this life
behind you. I am not very young, but I
am not an old man yet ; and I can give
you everything that ought to make a woman
happy. You shall live a life of ease ;
and have as many dresses as you please ;
and may laugh at Mrs. Vignolles  who
will be green with envy. You need not
even ask her to your parties unless you
like. 1 don't care.'

He laughed himself, but Hester cried
out in pain.

No, no ; you won't see that I ought not
to do it for that reason. I must not marry
you because I am miserable, any more

than because you are rich. It would be
wrong.'

What would be right, 'then ?' said
Hungerford, knitting his brows a moment
unseen by her, and feeling, though the
contest had fascinated him by its apparently
somewhat doubtful issue, it might
be tiresome if protracted too long. He
had a restless secret wish to look at his
watch, for there was a deeply interesting
scientific appointment to be held about
this very hour, too, but he would not
leave without victory ; no, certainly not.
What would be right, little one ?' he repeated,
softly, with a sigh, resting his arm
on the back of the bench and feasting his
eyes with real admiration, and even the
light of passion, on Hester's lovely face
half averted ; desire growing hot in him to
possess her for his own. He dared not try
further endearments, she had shrunk too
sensitively from him on a previous occasion.

 I have not spoken much to you of
my love, it is true, hitherto ; but now I
will  ! I do love you, Hester ; I want
you for my own and must have you.
Why should I not ? There is nothing and
no one between us ? You are so young,
and have lived nearly always among your
beloved lakes and mountains, as you told
me ; you can have had few opportunities
of meeting many others . . . Ha ! you are
blushing ! What is it ? So there loss
some one, eh ?'

'There was ; but pray never speak of it
again ; it is over and done With,' said
Hester, firmly, though inwardly much
moved. ' Remember I did go out into
society, for at least part of two seasons '
(She did not remind him of WestclifF, yet
even while speaking wondered was it a
base prevarication). ' I was not always a
governess, you know.'

A nursery governess, yes ; and few men
VOL. I. s

now, let me tell you, would make such an
offer to a governess  hardly one in my
position,' exclaimed Mr. Hungerford, roughly
though honestly, his wide blue eyes
gleaming with passion, or was it mere excitement
? Hester was so inexperienced she
was not certain. ' But this man, who is
he? Where was he? Are you waiting
for him ?'

'Ask me no more about him. He is
dead,' said Hester, drearily. ' And I could
not have married him, Mr. Hungerford, for
he was very poor, and I would never be a
mill-stone round his neck. There, now
you know all . . . It is over ! but I can
never again love anyone quite in the same
way; never.'

Hungerford sprang from the bench with
a quick movement, so hasty it startled the
girl. He almost knocked over the child,
who was standing transfixed staring at
them both a little way off, holding her

hoop ; and, hardly heeding her, began to
walk up and down the grass with long
strides, his head bent. Louisa, having
scrambled on her legs again, stood apparently
meditating on her injured dignity.
Then, finding this affront horrible, albeit
she was unhurt, uplifted her voice in a
succession of short squeals, though Hester
had flown to console her.

After some minutes, the child being
hushed again, Hungerford returned, walking
determinedly up to where Hester again
sat in resignation on the bench.

I was too impulsive  forgive me. Old
as I am, I ought to know better,' he said,
in his clear, pleasing voice, though with
effort.

Poor Hester, who had grown meek
during many humiliations these past
months, her old pride and courage having
given place to a gentle melancholy,
felt almost abashed at having so

s2

moved a man of his years and position

 Oh ! Mr. Hungerford/ she murmured,
perhaps I should have told you before,
when you spoke first; but  I could not!'

'Why should you, child? You are
wonderfully, innocently honest. I only
wish it may last. It was my own fault
for asking  there is always a some one
first ' (he laughed rather bitterly) ; '- it
begins in the nurse's arms, I believe.
And, though disappointed for a minute,
now on the whole I am rather glad it is
so in this case. You will not expect too
much from me either, Hester  love is not
the whole of life to a man once he is past
forty. Yes ; we may live all the more
happily together for this.'

But you are speaking as if you still
wished me to marry you, Mr. Hungerford,'
cried Hester, her eyes upraised in soft
bewilderment, her lips nervously parted.

Yes ; I do. You told me of the only

shadow upon our future ; if your mind
was not such a white chamber, it would
not be visible. What you said, is no
obstacle to me. I look on you as my
promised wife.'

As he spoke with a clear, commanding
ring, his blue eyes lit as with pale summer
lightning, his whole expression showering
benignant, pitying fondness on penniless
Hester, her young heart swelled With
sudden gratitude. She had almost forgotten
anyone had ever thought her
lovely ; that she had been admired and
beloved and envied.

Mark Hungerford was standing quite
straight, for once, and looked much
younger, almost handsome, without his
stoop as of a life weary student. His hat
hid his bald forehead ; but even seeing it
nov, Hester, no longer associating his demands
with love, would only have remembered
the rare gifts of brain of the

scholar, the often passionate eloquence
with which  whether discoursing lately of
sciences, of arts, on many of which topics
he had new and marvellously clever theories
of his own, or on any other subject that
had caught his fancy  he had attracted
this young disciple's wondering gaze, and
found in the admiration of those lovely
eyes the sweetest praise he had known
for long years.

And so, the girl thought, here was indeed
a protector, a kindly guide and wise
friend for her in life. One who offered
so much  asked so little. Ought she not
to be glad of such a safe harbour after
being storm-tossed, though she might never
reach the Blest Isles she had once longed
for, like all young mariners setting out on
life's ocean?

I feel so old,  quite withered. Life can
hold nothing worse, nothing so good, as I
have already known.'

The thoughts darted like light-beams
from her brain as if out into the empty
plains of the future, yet each succeeding
former ones on well-known ways, as such
rapid thoughts electrically do. But yet she
did not hurry to say yes.

Louisa spoke up at that moment. Both
had forgotten the child's presence. With
a preternaturally sharp look on her wizened
infantile face, she asked, staring
hard,

'Why do you cry ; are you naughty,
Miss Armytage ? Cousin Mark is nasty,
I don't like him ! I'll tell mamma you
did talk to him, and she'll send you away
I heard her say she would, yesterday.*

Hester started guiltily at the accusation
made with vindictive triumph ; but, recovering
herself, said gently,

Run away and roll your hoop, dear.
Yes  you must go, you know, when I
really mean it.'

Left in peace for the moment, yet with
the knowledge that now, should Mrs.
Vignolles dismiss her from jealousy, no
other situation, no help more than for the
most friendless was left to her, Hester
rose, and, tall, straight and slim, gazed full
in Hungerford's face.

If you think I can really be of any
comfort, any help, or  or gladness to you
in life ; to you I mean, not thinking of
myself ! then I will marry you, Mr.
Hungerford. And  I will try to do my
duty, indeed.'

Hungerford smiled, almost laughed, with
a flash of triumph. Taking her by both
wrists, he drew her to sit down beside him
on the bench.

Obedience shall be your first lesson. I
want to look at my new possession,' he
said.

Hester sat humbly with her lovely eyes
half veiled, feeling no flush on her fair

cheeks nor beating of her heart ; but an
awed gratitude, and the vague fears of one
who was very tired of trying to please,
at thoughts of her new unknown responsibilities.


Child,' said Hungerford, suddenly, ' I
wonder if you know that you are beautiful?
I don't believe you do.'

Hester raised her slow lids surprised.
Then  then a recollection of some such
words said to her  it seemed, oh ! so long
ago now !  did rush to her memory. That
dyed her cheeks a sudden crimson. She
looked down again to hide the salt drop
or two that would rise ; it seemed wicked,
ungrateful of her to have remembered
then. Her affianced husband did not
understand her thought. He smiled,
pleased at her innocent confusion.

Do you know that I believe somewhat
as much as I do in most theories  in
the transmigration of souls, which Buddha

taught to millions of wise minds in the
East. If so, what animal were you once,
long cycles of ages ago, I wonder? Your
eyes remind me so much of a setter  a
silky-haired, faithful-eyed setter. Yes,
you were one, I believe.'

 What  a dog !' cried Hester, in quick
mortification.

'Why not?  better that than a tiger,
as I most likely was  or before that a
crocodile ; perhaps we may each have
been stones or plants in our time, too,
while moving through all stages of existence,'
said Hungerford, meditatively, passing
into a mood of abstraction. He had
almost forgotten in a few moments the
girl so still beside him ; he was another
person. He often seemed to himself to
be consciously two men in the same
being. Now he was the scientist, the eager
philosopher.

I must go home, please. Mrs. Vignolles

will be angry,' murmured the girl at last.

Hungerford, the middle-aged lover, came
back to himself with startled consciousness.


Ah, yes ! But, angry ? I should like
to see my cousin Emma presume to be
angry with my promised little wife. I
shall tell her myself  not a word, remember.'
(' Such a treat will be rare,' he
thought, smiling a little maliciously with
secret amusement.) ' Good-bye, then ; I
must keep an engagement. You are walking
back ? Well, soon you shall have your
own carriage, and  whatever else you
like.'

He ]3ktted her shoulder, and went off,
waving his hand twice with a kindly gesture.
With him seemed to depart an
atmosphere of ease, refinement, learning.
Hester suddenly became conscious of her
carefully-mended black gloves, old boots,
and the fact that she was too ignorant to-love,

THE PILGRIM.

teach more than the merest rudiments of
learning to small children. But now all
that, all fears of future sharp pinches of
poverty, would harass her no more. She
tried to kindle gladness in her heavy heart.
No matter. It will come,' she thought.

Out broke the chill coy sun, in a gleam
of noontide warmth. It was a good omen,
surely.

CHAPTER XVI.

I WILL SPEAK DAGGERS TO HER.'

Yes ; come in, Miss Hester Armytage.
Miss Hester Armytage, pray come here !
Oh, I am surprised at you ; disgusted. I
should like to hear what you have to say
for yourself. This is pretty behaviour,
miss. A girl of your age to go running
after an elderly gentleman, as I find from
my poor innocent babe that I foolishly
trusted in the care of such a flirting, low-minded
creature !'

Mrs. Vignolles was the angry speaker.
She was seated in her pretty little boudoir

the evening of the same day on which
Hester had accepted Mr. Hungerford's proposal.
The girl nov stood arraigned like
a culprit before her. In general the little
widow had been by no means actually
unkind, in Hester's opinion, towards her
governess. She was certainly foolish in
alternately spoiling or neglecting little
Louisa, her favourite child, whilst she
almost disliked her eldest, a boy at school.
Yet though she had a most ingenious
knack of filling up Hester's every spare
moment by beseeching her to fulfil small
duties and menial employments, which
spared herself keeping another servant,
Hester had in her simplicity believed much
of this arose from a careless, slipshod,
perhaps ' foreign ' way of managing her
household. But now Mrs. Vignolles' small
affectations of speech, her heirs and es,
and her would-be girlish frank artlessness
of manner were all gone. Her cheeks were

crimson, her eyes darting sparks of angry
fire, and her foot in its tight trim shoe
was tapping the floor in a tattoo to relieve
her rage.

At this moment the little widow was a
scheming woman whose plans were being
crossed, perhaps upset, and her rage was
as that of any shrew.

Hester stood with drooped head before
her, feeling like a willow in a blast, and
in vain trying to assure herself she had
done no real evil action.

'As Mr. Hungerford is your cousin, Mrs.
Vignolles, and one you think so highly
of, why should you consider it wrong for
him to talk to me once or twice out of
doors ? He was most kind,' she murmured.

Once or twice ! So you have met him
often then,' cried the little woman, her
voice rising almost to a shriek. ' Utter
depravity of conduct, that is what I call
it. Kind indeed ! Oh, you may cry.

and look innocent ; but mark my wordy
either you are a bad artful girl, or else
you will repent the day Mark Hungerford
made your acquaintance.'

Mrs. Vignolles, you shall not speak evil
of him to me. He is a good, noble-minded
man ; far above, far too clever for me.'

Hester made a step forward, her face
alight with honest indignation, all the
strength within her suddenly stirred. Asher
eyes met those of her mistress full, in
contest for the first time, their look of
utter candour and purity of high intention
convinced the other even in her anger,
and she became curiously silent for a moment
or two. Then she said, in an altered
voice,

perhaps after all you are too young
and inexperienced to know what men really
are. All I can say is, you make a terrible
mistake. Even old men like my cousin
are not to be trusted. And, though you

think him so good, Mark Hungerford has
led, even lately, a very strange, and I am
afraid a very bad sort of life.'

'That will do, my dear Emma. Pray
leave my future wife either in ignorance
as to my iniquities, or to hear them only
from myself

Both women started. Mrs. VionoUes
had thought herself safe from all intrusion
in her boudoir. But her cousin Hunger-ford
stood, with the heavy curtain that
covered the door raised in his hand. How
long he might have been there unseen,
neither could say : while his smile was too
quietly satirical to be pleasant, as even
Hester felt.

He turned to the latter.

Pray leave us, my dear, now ; while
I explain our little arrangement to my
cousin.'

Not at all. No one has a right but
myself to give orders to my nursery-governor.

I. T

ness in my house !' cried Mrs. VignoUes,
jumping up.

 She has left your situation, Emma, and
has exchanged her mistress for  me. As
to your house, excuse my bad memory.
You have so often told me (as a cousin) of
your attachment to it, in spite of the
pressure of hard times, it was strange I
should forget your ownership.'

He just gave one look at Mrs. VignoUes
as he said this  no more ! and that, with
one of his peculiarly courteous smiles. But
Hester, who could not see the full expression
of his glance where she stood, was
nevertheless astonished to see its effect.

Mrs. VignoUes quailed; turned pale,
almost faint, apparently, and sat down ;
gazing back feebly like a mesmerised subject
under the eye of the stronger being
who has subdued it.

Unreproved, the girl left the boudoir

timidly, and took refuge in her own bedroom.


There followed what seemed a long time
to Hester, who sat with clasped hands
imagining to herself vaguely some terrible
scene and passionate warfare of words
going on downstairs for her sake. Oh,
she hated to give pain as to receive it, and
felt as if she were somehow so wrong and
unworthy to cause all this !

And it dawned upon her mind that Mrs.
Vignolles, being a little widow who strove
very hard to keep up a good appearance
in society and yet make both ends meet,
was perhaps more straitened in means
than even Hester knew. Perhaps she had
hoped for some help from her rich cousin,
and, above all, to be asked to share his
fortune. Perhaps she had grown attached
to him  deeply attached ! for she was so
much nearer his own age, and had not

T 2

wrecked all her love in the death of her
late spouse (as she hinted, speaking of
deliverance from troubles, with sighing
sprightliness).

Thinking of all this  seeming to understand
her late enemy's springs of action 
Hester could generously forgive the insults
at which yet her blood still boiled. But
now what should be done ? Mrs. VignoUes
would surely turn her forthwith out of
the house. Perhaps Hester ought to begin
to pack her trunk and bethink herself
where she should find proper shelter for
some time to come, being so friendless
now.

Presently there was a tap at the door.
Mrs. VignoUes entered, her manner being
an odd mixture of attempted briskness
with an apologetic air. Her eyelids were
swollen and pink, and she avoided Hester's
gaze as she came up, and, to the girl's great
surprise, kissed her on the cheek.

Well, my dear, I congratulate you,' she
said, with a nervous little laugh. ' Upon
my word, I congratulate you. I never
dreamed of such a thing, as of Mr. Hun-perform
actually marrying ! But, of course,
all the family must be glad of it, though
really he has waited so long we had nearly
given up all hope. So you must forgive
and forget what I said when I was a little
flustered at first, my dear. It was only
meant for a kindly warning to so young
and pretty a girl ; and you know ' (tapping
her shoulder, playfully), ' you had never
told me it was all positively settled, you
sly, little puss.'

Hester could not yet speak, with that
Judas kiss still burning on her cheek. She
knew that this woman hated her at this
moment, for what she thought her artfully
achieved prospects, and would gladly have
robbed her of them. This was so natural
that a cold manner and averted looks, if

not harder treatment, Hester would have
made all allowance for as honest, however
unkind. But to be stroking her shoulder
at this moment dissembling fondness 
How could she? how could she? Mrs.
Vignolles, meeting Hester's clear eyes With
their wondering gaze, turned away flushing,
forcing an awkward laugh.

Don't apologise, my dear. I know all
about it  Mark wished to have the pleasure
of telling me himself. We have always
been such great friends ! and, indeed, I
hope that, as he says, his marriage will
make no difference between us in that
respect . . . But how cold your room is ;
why, you have no fire ! Pray ring and
tell the housemaid to light one directly. I
am sure yon might always have had one if
I had only known about it . . . And you
will dine with me to-night. Miss Armytage
Hester I must begin to call you  to inaugurate
your new dignities.'

But Hester shrinkingly pleaded to be
left to her usual school-room routine and
tea.

'Well; just as you please  but, there
are oyster patties and veal cutlets. I
wonder which you would like sent up on
your tray?'

Hester could not help marvelling at the
wonderful transformation in her small
daily life that her engagement had already
brought. Certainly, neither mistress nor
maids hitherto cared what came up on her
tray.

Please don't send me anything ; indeed,
I only care for bread and butter and tea
as usual,' she murmured, feeling as if a
cutlet would choke her.

What simple tastes ! But now, I have
promised to bring you downstairs with
me. Mark wishes to say good-bye to you ;
as he has an unlucky engagement that
prevents his spending the evening as he

generally does with me  with us I should
say, now.'

Hungerford was waiting at the foot of
the stairs, and felt an amused sense of
triumph as he saw Hester descending like
a meek sacrificial lamb, led by the bitter
little priestess whose hand he had restrained
from striking. He knew himself
to be not the good man this young creature
thought him, but all the best in him
was roused by her helplessness and patience,
her innocent clinging trustfulness.
With a keen glance at both women, he
satisfied himself that his cousin had obeyed
his behests ; he had conquered, what with
threats of open warfare and adroit diplomacy,
in that late most difficult battle,
that with an angry woman who thinks
herself supplanted by a rival ; henceforth
his promised bride was safe from her
attacks. Rich men can truly buy much,

seeing he had sealed such a bargain for
peace.

Taking Hester's trembling taper fingers
in a clasp of his own that seemed to her
all that was kind and protecting, he only
said, while Mrs. Vignolles made a feint of
retiring gracefully,

 Good-bye for the present, dear child ;
I shall leave you in my cousin's charge,
who has always been such a kind friend
of mine, she will be the same to you, I
trust. I shall see you tomorrow. Good-evening,
Emma Why, are you going

away without saying a word to me?'

That was all. Thinking over it that
night by the light of her newly lit fire,
Hester was most grateful to Mr. Hunger-ford
(so she called him respectfully, even
in thought) for his forbearance in not
demanding from her, as yet, any of those
outward tokens of affection she had feared

he might think it his right to claim. Boaz
was very good and patient with his Ruth ;
perhaps, after years, that former Ruth had
grown even to love (in a manner) her rich
old husband, at least to mingle infinite
regard and real affection with gratitude,
remembering only dreamily the dead lover
of her youth. Ah ! but it must have taken

years, long years, to forget . And, if

one could, hould one forget ? Still Hester
felt sure that Ruth had resolved to give
her duty ; her whole duty in pressed-down
measure ; as would she herself, God
helping her to fulfil that same !

Weepingly, with almost reluctant sadness,
the young girl's thoughts went creeping
backwards from this small little London
house of ease and oppression that washer
Egyptian prison along the iron ways
that had brought her hither from home.
Home ! The long-homesick lonely girl remembered
so lovingly that little house like

a complicated bird's nest, with all the odd
heaves of its thatched roof over unexpected
windows ; the creepers on its walls ;
the tiny rood of Eden before its porch ;
above all the love within doors that had
always greeted herself. Home  and the
wide lake in front and the great mountains.


And WestcliiF ! its sea, and the Ladies'
Bay, and the little grey church high up
there on the cliff-top Oh, why remember
it all now? Hester's heart was
sore and faint within her at those sad,
sweet memories, as one by one the past
days, that were no more, came up before
her mind.

Ah ! if only her dead could have rested
there ! If Christopher, her love, could
have been buried on that pleasant hill
among his own people, and in hearing of
the soft dirge of the waves below as he
had wished . . .

For it was now some four months since
Hester knew Christopher Kenyan was dead !

but all she knew was this. One

evening, whilst she was fulfilling part of
her manifold duties by building card-houses
to amuse Louisa (Alios pettish
small hand loved demolishing them) during
the half-hour the child was supposed to
spend with her mother daily, Hester suddenly
caught some words Mr. Hungerford
said to the widow, and her heart stood
still. Mark Hungerford was treated as
one of the family,' said Mrs. Vignolles,
and her cousin was welcome whenever he
pleased to come. In those days he more
often came, and, though, he talked to his
hostess, his eyes often watched the young
governess and child in the background.

So I saw poor Christopher Kenyon's
death in the papers the other day,' he
said. ' What did he die of?'

soh, some sort of fever, so I heard,'

returned Mrs. Yignolles, with a careless
enough air. ' He ought never to have
gone out to those West-indian islands,
pestiferous places  none of your foreign
climes for me any more.'

'Ha!  tired of it, Emma? Curious!
the fit is strangely coming upon me now
to roam. I have been too stay-at-home.
Well; poor Kenyon  what a handsome
family they all were !'

Hester contrived to coax Louisa away :
and so slipped out of the room before she
could hear more than the beginning of
some confused but elaborately-worded sentences,
by which Mrs. Vignolles sought to
explain that under certain circumstances
she would not object  nay, with an agreeable
companion she would even like  to go
'abroad' again.

When Hester was once alone, her first
agony of grief  later, her sleepless nights
and days of secret sorrow  need not be described.

Whilst Kenyon was still on earth,
there was always the faint hope that still
they might one day meet, however aged
both, and look each other in the face.
But that was gone  oh, how great a blessing
that mere possibility would now have
seemed ! And Hester was left, young, poor,
and hopeless, alone.

CHAPTER XYIl.

'to part and live!'

To pass over a part of Hester's life, there
came a spring evening, nearly two months
after her engagement to Mr. Hungerforcl,
when once more she stood at the old stile
above her grandfather's former home, up
in the lake country.

One little year had passed since, standing
at that very spot, she had last seen Christopher
Kenyon. It was the same spot, almost
the same time of year  then it was
afternoon, now it was a glorious evening.

Almost everything the same, the sheep
nibbling the grass, the brown roof of the
Nest peeping through the trees, the lake
shimmering a tender grey veiled by mists.
Only he was dead ; and Hester was married
! Rich Boaz had been kind to Ruth,
and had brought her here, at her own
earnest request, that she might say goodbye
to her loved old haunts, before going
to travel on the Continent with him for
the rest of the year. Mark Hungerford
had done more. Taking a fancy to the
cottage, he had bought it after arrival, as
it was still for sale, and he being a rich
man could gratify all his whims. And he
had given her old home and its little domain
of garden, shrubbery, and meadow
as a marriage gift to his young wife.
Hester was most grateful. She was glad
to have seen the Nest again  but, oh, the
pain of it !

No matter. It is for the last time,"

said the girl low to herself now. She was
no longer poorly dressed. During the
late weeks, indeed ever since she had
promised to marry Hungerford, she had
been lapped in ease, nay ! luxuries ; daily
waited on with the little attentions that
are so easily given and received by rich
people, but to which she had not yet become
again wholly familiar. Hester wore
a soft white India muslin now; simple
enough but trimmed nth very costly lace.
Her head was bare, though it was growing
late and the dew falling. Her bright
chestnut hair broke from restraint into
tiny curls and waves over her temples and
behind her ears, and so softened the rather
melancholy expression of her face. She
was again fair to see as at Westcliff, for
even her past year of comparative hardship
could not dim the soft whiteness and rosy
glory of her complexion and the fresh
ruby of her lips at that happy age. The
VOL. 1. u

poor governess's black gowns cast aside,
her beauty queened it again in befitting
dress. And yet, looking closely at her,
one might guess Hester felt not one but
several years older in mind. The little
dimple on her left cheek was no more
made visible by a smile. The small spirit
of humour that used to laugh out of the
corners of her deep grey eyes seemed
fled ; and her lips no longer quivered with
every passing emotion, but were calm
set as of one gently, yet only resignedly
content.

A sigh rose from the depths of Hester's
heart. She pressed her soft hands on the
old wooden bar that had known her touch
so often, and tried to still the risings of
regretful feelings by that clasp. The very
grass and flowers she was treading on
were the same, it seemed, as of old; the
bramble-trails, the dog-roses, and hawthorn

bullies growing thick and tall around the
spot ; the hour was well-nigh the same ;
the distant calls of children, the bark of a
village dog far off heard so distinctly in

the stillness of the evening All, all

was the same, only the one being wanting
and that meant everything !

Several evenings already, Hester had
thus stood here. To tell truth, here
she had stolen alone each day since
they had come. She had never yet been
disturbed in these minutes devoted to
the now sacred memory of the dead.
Now, however, she suddenly started, and
listened.

There was a step coming through the
bushes behind the stile, a firm step, along
the rocky bed of the path, though the
comer as yet was hidden. Hester was
half frightened ; so few persons ever passed
by there in the year. She drew herself

u2

up, listening intently, with the look of a
startled deer, her white dress showing
ghostly in the summer twilight, and the
growing shadows of the secluded place.
It was thus a man, coming from among
the hawthorn bushes close by, saw her 
stopped short, gazed, with a stifled exclamation
as of joy strangled by quick disbelief
But Hester was gazing too, with
wide eyes and blanched face  Another moment
 then a cry of ' Christopher ! Christopher
!' came from her parted lips. And,
with an answering utterance of her name,
the man rushed forward, caught her in
his arms, and was almost weeping in his
delirious ecstasy.

I have come back, you see  come back
as we two agreed, if ever things grew
brighter; and they are brighter! Then
to find you here, waiting for me, as it
seems, my Hester. Oh, this is happiness,
indeed !'

His kisses were so quick and close upon
her face, her lips, her eyes, Hester could
hardly speak, if even her fainting heart
had permitted her. But then, with a strong
effort, she freed herself.

Don't, don't ! Stand away, Christopher
. . . Don't touch me again  / am
married P

'My God !'

The blow was so great, so sudden, that
Kenyon was stunned. He stood still,
staring at Hester, with his dark eyes
fixed.

Even in that brief time she could think
to herself how handsome he was, with
his finely-formed features, where emotion
seemed arrested, and his eyes aglow with
the eager fire she knew so well of old,
but now intensified.

Then his lips quivered, and he began
to laugh very low, in a strange
way.

Ha, ha ! so you are married ! . . . Yes,
I can see the sign, the golden first link of
your fetters, Hester.' (The girl wore an
unusually heavy marriage ring indeed,
kept on her slight finger by another of
flashing brilliant.)  May I still call you
Hester, I wonder?' he went on. ' Ha, ha, ha !
To come back, the first hour I could
start, after being left a little income 
slender, certainly, but still enough for
two, as I hoped  to hasten here to your
home, and find you alone at this stile
as we parted, but  married! They are
grimly humorous, these sudden changes
in life.'

'Oh, Kit, don't r

Kenyon was silenced at that cry from the
woman's soul. His own mood changed at
once. Hester's lightest word was all-powerful
with him still.

In a few broken sentences she told him
all, with straining gaze and clasped hands,.

the expression of her white young face
saying all that failed when her voice was
mute.

'And so he is rich,' returned Christopher,
looking as hard away over the lake
as if his future lay far behind the mountains.
' Well, my story is only that it was
my cousin Christopher, my old uncle's
second son, who died  not myself, as you
see.' (Ah ! Hester tightened her lips in
self-reproach. Had she only had the courage
to have asked Mrs. Vignolles for particulars
! but she thought then to endure
that cold gaze, prying into the secret of
her love, would have been impossible.)
He had once been left a small fortune by
a relation of ours,' went on Kit, 'which,
in case of his death without children, wa
to pass to me. He had gone to the West-indies
on a trip for his health merely. It
took some time before the news reached
me at Aden ; more before I could get back.

And so you thought me dead  not knowing
Christopher was our chief family name.
Well, I begin to think it was a mistake I
am alive instead of him after all  I do
indeed, Hester.'

He spoke very gently, but with a deadly
quietness. Hester would far rather he
had even wept. But she was dry-eyed
herself; her tears seemed all spent long
ago.

Then, recovering himself, Christopher
roused a little and said to her,

He is kind to you, at least . he
must be when he brought you here to
please you. I heard in the village that a
rich man had taken the cottage for a fortnight,
and brought his servants and horses
and that he had a young wife. But I

little thought Oh, I shall at least

see you again sometimes  no ! as often
as we can ! Otherwise it would be too
terrible.*

No, no ; never again. Promise me
never to try, Christopher !' she cried, with
dilated eyes. ' I should die with pain if
we were to meet  often. No, no ; never
again ! Oh, believe me, it is far, far better
not.'

Christopher stepped closer to her, and
answered slowly, with a face almost as white
as her own,

'Very well, then; as you wish. But,
Hester, give me one last kiss. Even
Jamie in " Auld Robin Gray " had that,
you know.'

No, no, no ! You did kiss me at first,
Christopher, before I told you. Ah ! . . .
there he is ! down there by the lake. He
expects me and I dare not meet him just
yet. Oh, dear, dear Christopher, goodbye.
May God bless you.'

Covering her face with both hands,
Hester fled down a small, dry, winter
water-course among the trees, skirting the

meadow : a secret track known to her
from childhood. She was out of sight,
bending among the branches, in a few
minutes.

Christopher stood there wearily, feeling
as if a weight of lead within his body kept
him from stirring.

 Where have you been, Hester ? I have
finished my after-dinner cigar long ago,
and began wondering what on earth had
become of you,' said Mark Hungerford,
some time later, in a voice in which fretfulness
and kindliness mingled. ' Look
here, little woman,' he went on, gazing
round restlessly at lake, mountains, and
the cottage close by. ' I have begun to
get tired of this place. A fit of roving
sometimes comes over me when I must
have change, constant change. Should
you mind leaving this tomorrow,
eh?'

I ? oh, no  indeed, I should like
change, too, anywhere.'

What, like myself?' said her husband,
with a keen, surprised glance.
Well, evidently we are well mated, my
dear.'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

.vJi.:"

i.:. 

''r-y

>k

'AIM:

-f-'--'

LI B Mary

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS



A

' '.i:

;; ,, ; '''' ';,!

,', .: ''''; '

VOL. II

BY

MAY CROMMELIN

Actor OF

QUEENIE," " ORANGE LILY," " A Jewel OF A GIRL,

MY LOVE, she's BUT A LASSIE,"

&c., &c.

Every day a pilgrim blindfold,
When the night and morning meet,
Entereth the slumbering city,
Stealeth down the silent street ;
Ling'reth round some battered doorway,
Leaves, unblest, some portal grand.
And the walls where sleep the children
Touched with his warm young hand.

Love is passing ! love is passing !

Passing while ye lie asleep." ,

Hamilton Aide.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. XL

LONDON:

HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1886.

All rights reserved.

LOVE, THE PILGRIM,

CHAPTER I.

THE VILLA BEAUSITE.

A YOUNG woman was sitting with a little
child lying on her lap, in the verandah of
a villa at Nice.

She was almost a girl herself in point of
age. One might have thought her the
babe's elder sister, but for a certain look
of satisfied motherhood with which her eyes
would turn from staring wearily at the
view into the valley below back to the
rosy, small face hidden in lace ; a softened

VOL. II. B

look that came then over her own lovely
but sadly-set features, otherwise strained
in expression and pale.

The large villa behind her was one of
the handsomest on the Cimiez Road.
Freshly painted white, with its green
shutters, its verandah lowered in creepers,
with glass doors standing open into the
salons, giving glimpses of an interior furnished
in the most luxurious English
style ; its garden glowing with flowers,
yellow and red roses clustering on the
walls ; geraniums growing rank and wild.
The short drive wound under graceful
pepper-trees with their red seed bunches,
drooping like flowers ; while the blue-grey,
slender eucalyptus hung down their long,
tremulous leaves  the faint aroma of which
is said to cure colds and fevers. A line of
yuccas and aloes mingled with orange and
lemon-trees on the terraces that adorned
the hill-side, rising steep behind. Surely

the mistress of this charming home should
be a happy woman !

But Hester Hungerford was wearily
overlooking all her own possessions near
at hand. Her eyes saw only the olive-woods
here and there down the valley, and
loathed the chill, mysterious, blue-green of
their leaves. Hoary and full of tradition
though these trees might be, they said nothing
to her heart. Oh ! how it had leaped
in other days with joy, to see the fresh
green of the newly-burst hawthorns in some
of the beloved English glades she so well
knew ; and to smell the scent of the white
masses of May on such a hushed sweet
evening as this would have been  away
up there !

Clouds of dust were now rising in the
town of Nice below, stirred by the sea-breeze.
There was no dust up here, and
yet she quarrelled with it there for spoiling
her view of the sea, that in its width of

outlook to the horizon was her chief comfort.
Its glorious blue suggested such
depth to her, and therewith indescribable
thoughts of rest, of peace; without the
cold cruelty of greener ocean waves-then
it vaguely reminded her that these
salt waters girdled the earth ; and, while
hearing the distant thunder of the surgeon
the shingle beach, she thought how far,
far away the self-same tide-beats of the
mighty element might be breaking in lines
of foam on the reefs of the Madras coast,
under that hot Orient sky where

Hester broke off her thoughts abruptly,
and absently rubbed the plain gold ring on
her finger, among others gleaming of diamonds
and sapphires, all of purest lustre.

Mrs. Hungerford chid herself for beginning
thus to muse over the past. She must
not ! and thereupon her thoughts straightway
began creeping softly, and then hurrying
faster and faster back to this scene and

to that of the old, old time, while yet her
will cried out against the temptation as
folly now; as such useless, such bitter pain.
It is only the very happy people who
care to go voluntarily back to past sunny
days in thought, when to them all the
world was young and hope was high. The
rest  perhaps the most of us  dare not.
They are strong who can and will. Better
not ; better not, perhaps ! We have all
read that there is no such sorrow

Come recorders del tempo felice
Bella misery.'

It is wiser, after all, not to transport ourselves
back till we stand like ghosts beside
our past selves in those clays when we felt
so young, strong, glad ; ' so sure of God ';
when we thought our future lives, ours,
must surely be happy though so many
around and beside us died or drooped
under their burdens in the pressing march
of life ; the days when other lovers'

kisses burned on our lips, not those of the
present husband or wife.

My story is just that of Jennie and her
auld Robin Gray,' thought young Hester,
with a sadly humorous curve of her lips ;
but  I cannot say that my old spouse is
 a kind man to me." '

She tried, now, not to think back ; yet she
dully yearned with a sickening longing for
the days when she was yet a child up in
the north country. (She was so young
still, as she sat there with her almost two-years
old infant upon her knee.)

Hester tried not to think ! But still, whilst
struggling against thought and the arguments
it implied, of, whether she had done
right here and Wisely there in her past
life  which was all now so useless !  she
yet seemed to see herself, as one sees a
dream-figure, flitting down her father's
little garden, a light bright being, on some
dewy, sunny, June morning, when the

The little home-garden ! What a small
mean plot it might seem, placed in comparison
with this one, that was so duly
watered and gravelled, so choice and glowing.
That had been a mere tiny close of
pot-herbs and cottage flowers, but set ina
wider, most beautiful garden of nature ;
with the loveliest, deep, transparent lake
in all the north country rippling among
the tall reeds that guarded its shore with
their army of spears ; and the everlasting
hills lying couchant around in a great

barrier, with their heads among the clouds.

What would Hester not give now, in
this warm, enervating hot-house atmosphere,
to feel rushing around her as of
old the strong, fresh air that swept
the tops of the mountains when you
should have climbed one, with long and
panting toil, and had the reward of seeing
from its summit its great dark brethren
lying around and around, making one
giddy with sight of their diminishing host
stretching away towards Scotland; hills
full of legends ; land rich with song and
story ; since ever English rivers harried
the marshes, or blue bonnets came over
the border.

Ah ! on such a spring afternoon as this,
Hester had stood up yonder by an old
stile leading out of the wood on the hillside,
and had heard Christopher Kenyon's
footsteps approaching, quick and eager,
and then . . . She could not, would not

recall it all. ' Heavens ! how we loved
each other  and all that to be dead now,
quite dead,' thought Hester, as if standing
over the grave of her youth. Then her
mind rapidly skimmed over her married
life since. They had gone on the Continent,
but for no mere honeymoon trip,
like other couples. Instead of that, they
had no sooner seemed to settle somewhere
for awhile  at Paris, Vienna, Homburg,
in Italy, or Switzerland  but that her
husband had grown tired or dissatisfied
with the place, and hurried on. At their
next destination they should stay  tlieie
Hester could rest, if she was really tired,
as she said. For many months she had
not owned even to herself that she was
fatigued. Then her failing; strength had
suddenly said so for her. And this last
year, for the child's sake, she did allow
herself to remonstrate gently ; to beg for
less of this incessant travel and movement.

The little warm creature in her
lap stirred half-asleep ; and Hester bent
eagerly over Mark Hungerford's child. It
alone made her really glad to be alive.
Not that Hester was morbid now. On
the contrary, she tried to be brave, and
indeed was so. She was certainly very
tired of never being settled anywhere ; and
she did not delight any longer in the
brilliant whirl of society into which they
seemed to have made sudden ]Plunges in
various capitals  where the beautiful Mrs.
Hungerford had been admired by men,
and her dresses and jewels by the women.

But she was thankful for the blessings
she yet had ; for the child chiefly which was
all her own still. And her heart often
warmed at thoughts of Bessie Armytage
out in the Indian Central Provinces, and
all that dear kith and kin.

And here, too, coming up the drive
under the pepper-trees was another friend

the first Hester had made in these three
wandering years  and she rose with her
face brightening to meet a very pretty,
well-dressed woman who came gaily forward
with a brisk step and bright dark
eyes, that quickly roved over the front of
the houses the garden and verandah.
Hester in these three years had developed
a sweet stateliness of manner which had
become proverbial among her friends,
but she came quite eagerly forward, with
her child in her arms, to greet this guest,
exclaiming,

How good of you to come all this way
up the hill !'

Yes, isn't it ? But not so good as you
are, my dear madonna. I declare you look

quite like the ' (seeing a troubled look

on Hester's face and remembering her
religious feeling, her friend glibly substituted)
' quite like Saint Elizabeth with the
infant John the Baptist, in that long white

dress. Isn't it tiring holding the child ? 
I couldn't do it for hours like you.'

Oh ! I am used to it. Come and sit
down  you ought to be tired yourself,
Edith, with your walk,' said Hester, with
a still smile, as they settled down in luxurious
easy-chairs, when afternoon tea had
been rung for. Even to this friend she said
little, she hardly knew why, about the
pleasure her child gave her  perhaps because
Mrs. Fisher, as was her friend's name,
had none.

I am not tired at all ; and I have come
to rout you up. There is a dance to-night,

quite a ball at the Hotel C , and you

must come to it ; I insist upon it.'

A ball ! . . . After being out every
night (and day, too,) last week, I did hope
for one quiet evening,' Hester reluctantly
murmured.

What a stay-at-home you are becoming,
my dear ! Why, this will never do. Only

this very morning, as I was walking on the
Promenade des Anglais, the two German
barons we met last 'seek asked me where
my beautiful friend was. They think us
inseparable  les merveilleuses so they all
call us at the clubs. Now, come !' (pressing
Hester's arm affectionately),  promise
to come, and wear your white dress, and I
shall wear mine. I like strangers to take
us for sisters.' (Mrs. Fisher had sometime
aoo beo;oed leave to avail herself of
Hester's exquisite taste by ordering similar
dresses to those of her friend at their
dressmaker.) 'Your husband is always keen
for a little excitement, I know,' she added,
roguishly ; then, jumping up, * Where is
he ? in his own den ? I'll beard him, and
get him on my side.'

No, no ; he will say yes, I know, so
why find another ally against me. I had
better go, I suppose, for he likes excitement,
as you say. But I really am a little
tired, I think.'

Mrs. Fisher instantly sat down again,
and looked softly at her friend, with
musing sympathy. She was a very pretty
woman, as was said. Rather large and
full in figure, she had a creamy soft complexion,
shining dark round eyes that
wandered a good deal, yet could fix themselves
with much sweetness on anyone she
wished to please, a winning softness of
manner, and a warm clasp of the hand.

'And yet I remember when you appeared
at Homburg first, like a bright
comet passing  and I wished to know you
that no one seemed more gay. You
were never still !'

Never,' Hester assented. ' I have had
my full share of those sort of pleasures.
My married life seems like a kaleidoscope
of gaieties and people. Shake up the pieces
Paris ! Another shake  Rome ! Always
the same sort of thing put in a
different way. And we have gone moving

on and on, like the Wandering Jew and
his family  haven't we, Ada?'

Hester bent her face quickly after she
had spoken, hiding it on the child's soft
head, as if she had said something she
regretted yet did not wish noticed ; for a
faint blush came upon her tell-tale, 
cheeks.

I believe it is the child who makes you
so fond of staying at home,' uttered Mrs.
Fisher. (Hester had not ' stayed at home '
in her friend's meaning of the word more
than each Sunday, and that with difficulty,
ever since she had been at Nice.) ' I can
understand it, though. I was just as fond
of my little boy, only he died,' went on
the speaker, nth a genuine ring of feeling
in her usually merry voice.

 Poor Edith ! I am so sorry  you
never told me,' uttered Hester, with a
woman's sincerest sympathy.

Oh, my dear, there is no use grieving.

It's past  and now I'm just as glad not
to have any. It would not be so easy to
come out to Monte Carlo if I had,' Mrs.
Fisher rejoined, with a lightly reckless
laugh. But Hester told the butler  who
just then brought up afternoon tea  to
bid her nurse come for the child, and sentit
away, repressing any parting endearments
for her friend's sake.

Little Ada, as she was being carried
round the corner of the house, held out
her arms, with a babyish wail, to her
mother, in spite of her lionnes caresses.
She was answered by a louder sound, like
an angry human roar, from a room near.
Nurse and child vanished indoors as by
magic. Hester sprang up, as if to hasten
them, looking deeply vexed, and murmuring,


'They ought to have gone round by
the front of the house.'

Then she heard her husband's voice

calling, and she went to a wing of the
villa close by, a long, single-storied room,
approached by the side-door through which
the nurse and child had entered.

Her husband's head appeared at the
door of this room, which was his study.

'Hester! will you learn to keep that
wretched baby of yours from squalling,
or else I shall stop its noise ? Eh, why
don't you answer me? Do you hear 
do you hear  do you hear T

AOL. II.

CHAPTER 11.

HUSBAND AND WIFE  AND A FRIEND.

Mark Hungerford had aged considerably
in the last three years. His face, as he
looked now at his wife, was paler;
quite sallow, even hollow in the cheeks
and long-looking, while there were innumerable
fine wrinkles about his eyes
and mouth, and deep lines  but those
were of anger, at present  between his
brows. He seemed to have been running
his hands through his hair, and he wore
a dirty linen blouse over his other clothes.
Well, well ? Did you hear ? Did you
hear what I said ?' he reiterated.

'Yes, Mark. I am so sorry you were
disturbed,' said Hester, gently ; then, in a
quick, pleading undertone, ' Hush, please ;
Mrs. Fisher is here.'

Her husband started ; then quickly retorted,
in a whisper like her own,

Did she hear ? Why did you not tell
me before ? Well, go back ; and say I
am coming.'

He shut the door in her face, and Hester
returned to her friend with her former
calm bearing resumed.

'Mr. Hungerford is like all very clever
men : he hates being disturbed when he is
busy,' she said, with a slight excusing
air and smile, which seemed both to come
like an accustomed habit.

'What is his latest fad?' laughed Mrs.
Fisher, lowering her voice and glancing
towards the long room, the windows of
which were screened by thick green blinds
across the lower part, like an artist's

c 2

studio.  Let me see. You have told me
since you came here of your spouse's amusing
little fancy for dabbling in poisons,
just like the Borgiass, and lofty disregard
of blowing up house and family when he
is brewing those chemicals of his in a
mortar; and then there was painting
(when he painted me among the rest) ;
and modelling in clay' (checking each
off on her fingers, with pretty gestures).
And now it is  luhat T

 You would not care to know. A rather
disagreeable scientific pursuit,' Hester answered,
arranging the pretty Dresden teacups
before her, with an apprehensive feeling
that it was wiser not to talk about
her husband. She seldom, if ever, did so ;
being, indeed, intimate with no other women.
But Edith Fisher always would
question in this frank, yet softly sympathetic,
way about the difficulties she doubtless
guessed at existing between man and wife.

And then Hester was a woman, and one
who especially among such had needed
being caressed, and telling the joys and
sorrows of her heart to those she loved.
Edith Fisher was the only being she now
had to talk to thus, and  well, even to
her she said very little. But her effort to
evade scrutiny only roused her friend's
curiosity.

No, but do tell me. I am really dying
to know"  I shall ask your dear man himself,
if you don't tell me.'

Oh, don't,' entreated Hester, with an
apologetic laugh, but a shrinking look in
her lovely grey-blue eyes.

Mrs. Fisher, she was secretly afraid, disliked
Mr. Hungerford; at least, Edith always
spoke of him in this curious, playful, jeering
way, as if to hide the fact, while all
her warm sympathies were openly given
to Hester. And the latter, as a true
woman, did not wish to hear this possible

want of liking said  nor to have her husband's
occupations revealed in a disagreeable
light. So she hastily added,

It is only some medical studies, about
the human frame and so forth, which his
painting and modelling have led him to.
If you asked himself, you might have to
suffer the infliction of hearing the details
of bones and muscles, and so forth. It
is very interesting, of course ; but, if you
have weak nerves, you  might not like
the subject.'

'Not vivisection  surely?' asked her
visitor, assuming a look of inquisitive
horror.

'No, no. What made you think of
anything so horrible?' returned Hester,
reddening. (She knew why her friend
said so.)

I beg your pardon, dear, but your husband
was talking of the beauty of the
human frame and its construction with

such warmth, don't you remember, the
other night when we were all dining together
at Monte Carlo. Well, but now,
confess ; is it not something of the sort ?'

Well, yes. But it is only '

Hester's reluctant admission was broken
short by Mr. Hungerford's appearance, ashe
came with his still very quick energetic
step from the side door. He seemed a
changed man in the last five minutes, so
that involuntarily his wife glanced at him
with surprise, used as she was to these
swift alterations of mood and appearance.
His hair, that had been rough and wild
Avhen he met her at the study door, was
now becomingly covered by a flat velvet
cap, such as an old artist might wear, while
a black velvet coat and dark orange silk tie
were likewise almost jauntily worn, and
evidently with an eye to picturesque
effect.

Behold the painter, looking himself like

a picture. You have quite a Rembrandt
style, I declare,' cried Mrs. Fisher, holding
outlier hand with a little air of warmth-and
gaiety that Hester could see was
affected.  Your wife has just been telling
me what a clever man you are ; always
deep in studies  I only wish my spouse
would interest himself in the same way,
but then he is not a genius.'

He certainly did not appear so, being
undersized and mean-looking ; a little dark
man of whom no one knew much, beyond
that he was supposed to have business in
the City. But still people said he must be
either very clever, or more rich than was
supposed, to go about with his wife to the
places they frequented and live in the
style they did.

Mark Hungerford now glanced quickly
at both women's faces, and then, apparently
satisfied by Hester's clear eyes and untroubled
expression that she had revealed

nothing lie would dislike told about himself,
threw himself in an easy-chair beside
Mrs. Fisher and gallantly took up her
challenge of flattery, especially praising
her walking-powers ; and kindness incoming
up from Nice to visit them on
their height.

I delight in long walks myself, and
wander sometimes for hours and hours
over these hills ; but my wife does not
share my liking for exercise.'

'Why, I always ' began Hester;

then some prudential puzzled feeling, or
the effect of meeting Mr. Hungerford's
large blue eyes coldly glancing over her,
restrained her from adding, ('I always
understood you wished to be solitary')

Ah, but Mrs. Hungerford does not care
to roam from this little Paradise,' rejoined
Mrs. Fisher, looking round. Certainly the
Villa Beausite was a picture of the most
perfect comfort and luxury, both indoors

and out in the shady verandah, with the
brilliant flowers blossoming around. To
look at the beautiful woman sitting at her
English tea-table that was laid out with
the most costly little equipage of china
and silver, such a home and these surroundings
were only fitting for this queen
among her set.

Hester somehow reminds me always of
Marguerite', her friend audaciously added.
A Marguerite always perfectly happy, you
know ; because she has her Faust at home.
I declare '  clapping her hands  ' isn't it a
good simile ? You are j must like Faust, or
what I imagine him.'

Mrs. Fisher has just been asking us
to go to a ball at the Hotel C tonight,
but I did not much care for the
idea, and therefore she has been laughing
at me for a stay-at-home, ' Hester
rather hastily put in, by way of explanation,
with a little trouble in her breast

she tried to conceal at her friend's fun.
Mrs. Fisher 72?/; well enough surely, by her
former private remarks, that no such lovers*
devotion existed between Mr. Hungerford
and his wife ; so to pretend to assume it
seemed in bad taste. Or  did she not
really know; for Hester never complained.
In any case, the joke about Faust might
be taken by its subject in bad part. But
no ; on the contrary, Mr. Hungerford turned,
with his most agreeable glance, to their
pretty visitor.

Faust  I do not dislike the name. At
least, I had pretty well completed the
circle of the physical sciences, and dug
deep in most of the mines of knowledge
as a midnight student before I married 
to try what the emotions of the heart
would do for me, after exhausting the
pleasures of the brain,' was his complacent
remark, with an arrogantly conceited smile.

It was perfectly true, for he was a man

who only just missed genius. Hester recognised
that he had a right to be proud
of his learning ; yet she wished he had
not that boastful air at times. People
might judge it unkindly. But then, men
are so easily made conceited by a woman's
flattery. And Mrs. Fisher always good-naturedly
did her best to keep Mark in
good humour, otherwise he would have
summarily stopped his wife's intimacy in
that quarter, as he had nipped all her
other budding friendships with women who
did not please his fastidious taste. So
Hester was not ungrateful, yet had to
try to keep her delicate upper lip from
curving, with the slightest scornful feeling
in the world, when her easy-conscience
ally inquired, with the most interested
air of veneration,

How much you must know ! Do tell
me what some of your deep studies were.
I am terribly ignorant myself, but still

one can at least appreciate learning in
others  and you explain things so beautifully,
Mr. Hungerford. You are a perfect
orator.'

And thereupon, after some more adroit
questions, feebly parried by disclaiming
rejoinders from her gratified host, she
drew Hungerford out in explanations, till
he presently grew excited with the subject,
and talked on eagerly, volubly, almost
without drawing breath, for half-an-hour,
as was his wont. Mrs. Fisher tried to
edge in eager interjections where she could
at first ; but these flagged after a while,
and she contented herself with trying to
rivet her eyes on the speaker's face with
an appearance of attention, which it secretly
bored her a good deal to keep up.

Hester, meanwhile, somehow found her
thoughts wandering, and sat by as in a
dream. She was not indifferent, but she
had heard it all before so often. She had

always tried to take really just the same
interest as Edith Fisher now assumed in her
husband's pursuits, and knew beforehand
almost every word of the disjointed yet
brilliant lecture he was delivering. When
persons grow old, able though they maybe,
their thoughts run most easily in
accustomed grooves ; and in spite of many
new ideas he read of, or heard and appreciated,
daily, still Mark Hungerford was
ageing, and, when giving his mind its
natural bent and full freedom, he unconsciously
would repeat the same sentences
on the same subjects after months of interval.
Unfortunately Hester was young and
had a good memory ; but she was not unkindly
critical. She was only glad to be
relieved of her role a little while, and to be
lost in a day-dream while another was all
dutiful attention.

But Mark Hungerford's eyes had strayed
to her face, and he stopped short rather
abruptly.

There ! I have bored you long enough,
Mrs. Fisher. Even my wife' (with a
smilingly cold glance) 4s tired of me.
Well, three are no company, so I shall take
some exercise up and down here. Nothing
like exercise, nothing, nothing. Work the
muscles of the body as well as the particles
of the brain '

'But you are both coming to this ball
to-night,' intervened Mrs. Fisher, skilfully,
with a last entreating glance of her black
soft eyes. Hester looked down, being in
disgrace.

Yes, yes, yes. Of course we will go,'
replied Hungerford, eyeing her askance.
He had a terrible memory for small
slights and always avenged them. ' Wear
your black dress covered with jet beads,
Hester. (It is curious how all women,
especially savages, love beads)'

Oh  but I wanted the white dress,' Mrs.
Fisher begged. 'We were both going
alike, you know.'

Then wear your black dress, too  you
have oDe, I believe.'

And without vouchsafing more wordy
but giving a loud clearing of his throat
several times that was indeed a mild roar,
Mr. Hungerford went off, and began to
pace with quick strides up and down and
up and down the furthest portion of greensward
as if it was a quarter-deck.

Tell me, dear, why does your husband
make that booing noise? It reminds me
of a lion or something caged in a zoo ?'

He is an orator, as you said, and i&
letting off the superfluous sound of his
voice,' Hester smilingly answered, with
a humorous intonation ; then, a little
sadly, ' It is a habit that has been growing
on him more the last two years, I am sorry
to say.'

And does he often pace up and down ?
It makes me quite giddy to watch him.'

He has some idea that a certain number

of hours' exercise is necessary to his
health. But, come, you shall not be obliged
to watch him ; let us go into the drawing-room.'


No, thanks ; I must say good-bye,
really. What a pity about having to
wear the black dress, eh, dear ?'

Yes. It always gives me a headache ;
it is so heavy,' replied Hester, smothering
a sigh; she had complained of the dress
before, but only to this purpose, that it
had at once become her robe of penance, a
cutty-sark form of punishment. At first
she had thought this was her imagination,
but found it truly the case. Mrs. Fisher
shrugged her shoulders.

swell, I am stronger, and shall wear
mine, just to keep you in countenance.'

 Thank you very much indeed; but
still '

 No thanks. And look here, my poor
Hester, I think your good man is disposed

VOL. II. ito

play the tyrant a tiny bit towards you,
and that since our dear friend Emma
Vignolles has arrived she makes Mm worse.'

Hester tightly pressed her lips together,
and silently nodded.

'Well, then,' (with an apparent small
effort of magnanimity), 'I don't mind giving
up some dances to-night, to keep him
out of her clutches, the little cat ! And
who knows but it might do you a good
turn and get you more liberty. Men pay so
much more attention to what other men's
wives tell them : it's sad, but true, dear.
Your husband likes me, I think ; and 6 do
you V

Hester eagerly assented to both propositions.
The first as apparently true;
the latter a certainty she gave her warrant
unto with an affectionate farewell kiss.
This meant much from her ; for, however
sweet in manner, Mrs. Hungerford was a
very reserved woman now-a-days.

then, good-bye. What a comfort you
are not jealous of me, dear.'

Good-bye. I am so sorry you can't
stay. I had several things to chat over
privately with you.'

Mrs. Fisher went off, waving her adieux
with brisk gaiety, as she passed under
the pendant pepper-tree boughs, where the
yuccas made a spiky hedge growing out
of rock-work. Hester, watching her friend
a moment as their last words were exchanged,
turned, and saw their English
butler watching herself. He had been
with her husband as his own servant during
most of Mark's bachelor life, and since
then for the last three years, after Hester's
marriage. Yet she never could get rid
of a disagreeable impression when this
sandy-haired, red-whiskered, large man,
with his soft foot-fall, came near her.

What do you want, Russ ?' she asked,

D 2

rather sharply, feeling as if he were spying
on her privacy.

But he answered respectfully, alleging
some small household reason, with which,
though doubtful, she could not find fault.

CHAPTER III.

Sold AULD ACQUAINTANCE BE FORGOT.'

Hester went to the ball at the Hotel

C , as her husband desired, with him

that evening. She found the Fishers waiting
for them, in order, as Mrs. Fisher
eagerly whispered to Hester, that they
two should make their appearance together,
as it made a 'so much greater
impression.'

Certainly the two beautiful women,
dressed exactly alike, were most striking
to look at, and were followed by eagerly
admiring glances from a little crowd of

loungers as they crossed the wide black
and white hall, which had been a courtyard
apparently, and was now roofed over
with glass.

Edith Fisher let her dark eyes stray
around, as if by merry mischance, gathering
up all the looks of homage with secret
glee, and chatting over her shoulder to
Mr. Hungerford and some younger attendant
swains, with ' nods and backs and
wreathed smiles,' while little Mr. Fisher
meekly followed. Many eyes Avere attracted
to her, and yet more turned, as
by stronger, silent power, to the tall, fair-haired
woman at her side, who never
seemed to know or heed that she was
gazed at with such murmurs of swelling
praise ; never raised her heavy, white eyelids
to notice a single glance around.

Thus Hester did not see a stranger to
the hotel, who had but recently arrived,
and was looking down at the scene from a

gallery close by the white stone staircase
up which she came, moving beside her
friends with her gentle, stately air. How
lovely  but how pale she was ! The man
above drew his breath hard, stepped behind
a great vase of plants that partly
screened him, and gazed with straining
eyes unperceived. She was like a white
queen in that heavily gleaming black dress,
and yet the man above could only see her
sweet pale face as through a mist  some
foolish weakness seeming to rise up within
him.

Hester was very tired that night. Her
small head drooped on the white stalk of
her neck like a heavy, pale-tinged flower.
Almost her only colour was in the silky
halo of her hair, with its chestnut lights,
and in the liquid depths of her eyes that
looked much darker by night than day.
As in a dream she passed by ; a far-away
expression in her glance, as if all around

was unreal, and her thoughts in a distant
living world of their own, though she
moved and spoke in this one, and smiled
on those around her in her dreamily sweet
way. The music was sounding in wafts
of a delightful waltz upstairs in the big
hall. The folds of Hester's dress almost
touched the man hidden near ; a faint
scent seemed wafted from her, and a mad
impulse filled him to follow in there, to
dance with her, and hold her in his arms
once more. (He was in evening dress,
meaning to go to this ball, and see all
there was of amusement in the hotel,
though he knew few there.)

He waited some minutes in thought,
then collected himself and went down the
stairs rapidly. A friend overtook him.

Hullo ! where are you off to ? Why, I
thought you were going to dance like the
rest of us.'

No  I have changed my mind. I feel

more inclined for the Cercle and baccarat
to-night.'

What ? won't you stay to see our two
leaders of society, the beautiful sisters, as
they are called  not that they are sisters
either, I believe ; only bosom friends.
Come, I can introduce you to them both 
Mrs. Hungerford and Mrs. Fisher.'

'Thanks, but even that inducement is
not strong enough. Good-night ;' and he
was gone.

Rather abrupt,' thought the acquaintance.


The other man, walking aimlessly at a
tremendously rapid pace, went down the
quays lined with dusty date-palms, and by
the river-bed of the Pavillon, so wide and
almost dry, its long spanning bridges were
a mockery. Only after a considerable time
did his steps slacken, calmed by the cool
night air and the soothing influence of the
wide dark sky overhead, producing the

feeling that he was out here, unseen,
alone, free, and might give his emotions
full play.

But all he did was to sit down on a
bench in a small public garden where
oranges hung like golden lamps among
delicate-leaved acacias, which latter seemed
themselves trembling with finer sensation
than the hardy ilex and the spire-shaped
dark cypresses around.

 She is not happy /' he said to himself.
For an hour nearly he sat there ; then he
rose with an effort and went to where he
knew there would be lights and men and
play till dawn in the great card-room of
the Cercle. That would divert his mind
from useless dwelling on the past, keep
out, silence, leave no time for these haunting
memories  this feeling that was like a
possessing madness. It was once a good
spirit, like his guardian angel; but then he
had let it pass out of his rightful keeping.

as he owned with a groan. He had thought
it gone from him for ever, and, lo ! it
or its semblance had on a sudden aroused
again within him with tenfold strength,
but as an evil spirit now. What could
this pale, lovely woman  Mark Hunger-ford's
wife  be to him?

In the ball-room, Hester and her friend
were as usual the most sought after, admired,
envied of all the women there.
Hester Alas used to such social triumphs
everywhere ; she took them as naturally as
she wore her exquisite dresses and fine
diamonds, without much caring. There
was more pleasure certainly in them since
her friend shared her successes, and delighted
in ' talking them over ' afterwards.
Perhaps Mrs. Fisher felt equal pleasure in
having contrived that they two should not
be rivals. It was much more comfortable
not to Jcnoiv whether, if they raised adverse

standards, Hester's camp of conquered
liege-men would be the largest.

Meanwhile she kept her promise of
sacrificing two or three much better
dancers, and in their stead whirling with
Mark Hungerford, in some of the rapid
galops he loved, at frightful speed. He
was one of the rare examples of elderly
men who yet love dancing (and the same
often love hard-riding) for the exercise
itself. But this was in the beginning of
the evening, for presently Mr. Hungerford
came up to Hester, and murmured, in a
sharp, rapid whisper,

I am sick of this. I shall be off for a
gamble at the Cercle. Don't let the servants
sit up for me ?'

Has he really gone to the club ?' asked
Edith Fisher, presently, raising her pretty
eyebrows in condemnation. forgive my
suggestion, but in your place I should
keep him as much away from it as possible.

You don't want to find his substance
wasted in riotous baccarat ha, ha ! Why
don't you still persuade him ?  see, he is
not gone yet.'

But Hester, though she looked after the
tall figure now much more stooped in the
shoulders, did not stir.

You have more influence, Edith, with

she checked herself (she so often did

so now), it was disagreeable to her own
pride to say ivith him. She substituted,
slowly, ' With men, I think. You get
your own way with Mr. Fisher, wonderfully,
at least.'

Mrs. Fisher gave a slight laugh, but her
colour brightened, nevertheless.

Well ; shall I come up and see you tomorrow
to finish our chat, as you asked
me, I believe.'

Did I ?  Oh ! yes, I was disappointed
we had so little talk together to-day. Yes,
pray come : and come in the morning, if

you can, for Mr. Hungerford will not be
home till daylight, probably, so we can
have it all to ourselves while he is asleep.'
How provoking!' exclaimed Edith Fisher,
frowning her soft, white forehead. ' I am
afraid  well, not quite sure ; at least, if a
tiresome engagement will leave me free.
No matter ! I'll come, if I can. If not
still, I suppose it will be "better late
than never " ; and you will see me in
the afternoon. Unless ' (insinuatingly)
 we should all go over together to Monaco.'
Certainly not.' Hester shook her head
decidedly. ' The new study is all-attractive
at present ; and I am not sorry, for I
am tired of the tables.'

The following afternoon, accordingly,
the mistress of the Villa Beausite was
eagerly awaiting no crowd of visitors, no
Russian princes, or Hungarian nobles, as
those who merely knew her in society
might have imagined, but only  her one

friend, Mrs. Fisher. Hester was sitting
in her child's nursery the while ; for curiously,
in the opinion of some around her,
she preferred it apparently to her ,
that was all hung in white and
yellow striped satin, with stiff furniture,
gilded and carved, or her boudoir, that
was upholstered in turquoise blue, with
a shower of roses on carpet and curtains 
Mr. Hungerford's taste. Besides, here,
greatest boon of all ! she was not constantly
disturbed, for. her husband had
more than a man's usual horror of babies.

As Hester sat there, crooning to baby
Ada on her lap, who was in her turn
entirely occupied squeezing to her breast,
or dropping continually, a woolly rabbit,
which seemed her chief joy in life, Russ,
the butler, knocked at the door, then came
in, announcing, in his most formal tones,

'If you please, i'm, Mrs. Vignolles is
downstairs.'

 Mrs. Vignolles !  why, I expressly gave
orders that I was not at home this afternoon
to anyone but Mrs. Fisher,' uttered
Mrs. Hungerford, with displeasure, rising
with a slight frown on her oval brow,
and looking straight at him.

Russ gg,zed back, with his round florid
face nowise abashed, his red whiskers seeming
to rise in more aggressive bushiness
than usual, while his small blue eyes had
a piggish stolidity of stare.

*I understood that, mm, with regard
to visitors. But when Mrs. Vignolles called,
being a relation, T supposed you would
wish her to be shown in.'

The man's manner said as clearly as
words, ' My master's favourite cousin, who
might possibly have been mistress here,
too  he will not allow such a slight.'

Russ was an inimical power against
which Hester had secretly struggled in
vain during the last two years  and he

knew it. She diplomatically tried to conceal
her own knowledge thereof, however ;
and preferred often seeming to gracefully
yield a point rather than be openly defeated
in such small matters as the present
annoyance, which itself was plainly meant.
It was trying for a proud woman, and
Hester was as proud as ever, and even
more sensitive.

every well  it does not signify,' she
said, preparing to leave the room. 'And,
Russ, as Mrs. Vignolles is here, I shall beat
home to anyone else who may call.'

Others did call, truly. There were few
days when there was not a fair sprinkling
of neat copes and pretty victorias rolling
towards the villa. Presently there was
quite a little gathering of guests about the
verandah ; several of the best-known visitors
to Nice, the most fashionable women
and men whose faces were equally familiar
in London seasons, at Cowes, German water-vol.

II. E

iris-places, or here at Monte Carlo .


'Is this what you call receiving me
alone,' laughed Mrs. Fisher in Hester's ear,
as the former arrived, looking more plump
of figure yet tight of waist than usual, in a
new green costume braided with gold, that
admirably suited her creamy soft skin and
black hair.

You would not come early  I only
offered to be alone then,' responded Hester,
with frank composure that just had a
slight reproach.

For Hester was not quite blind to even
her friend's little wiles. All men and
women have their pet weakness, and Edith
Fisher's chief joy was loving 'meeting
people,' 2.., the male section of the human
element, more than holding the most intimate
chat with her dearest woman-friend.

Just then Mrs. Vignolles came towards
them, with the plump, pigeon-like strut

which distinguished that little person. She
was very fine always in dress (her nickname
being, indeed, the Ranee among her
kind friends). And this day she wore a
dress of violently-violet velvet, which was
-a splendour truly dazzling to the eyes (as
Mrs. Fisher whispered maliciously, though
her own dress was not modestly subdued
in tone either).

'Eh, eh  Hester,' began Mrs. VignoUes,
how very simple you are in your gown.
Dear me  did you not expect any visitors,
that you were caught in your robe de
chambre? You will excuse me, my dear,
as a cousin, I am sure,' rather impertinently
surveying young Mrs. Hungerford from
head to foot. Hester only drew up her
superb, though still slim figure, to its full
height, with negligent carelessness of the
sharp scrutiny.

 Mark  my husband, likes me to wear
this particular gown. It is a virtue to

,Ls Of \tUHOVS

please him, is it not? I am sorry you
disagree with him, but surely it is impossible
to satisfy everyone's taste ?'

She looked round with a slight smile
that was a little malicious, as if asking the
popular verdict ; for her own taste in dress
was considered exquisite amongst the leaders
of Nice fashion.

Oh, madame, your dress is perfect  it
seems designed all for you alone. No one
else could wear it,' exclaimed one of her
circle, overhearing her answer.

And then others took up the strain.

 It was charming. So distinguished but
so simple !'

She looks, indeed, like a lily in it,' muttered
an Austrian general, who was an
honest old soldier and admirer of pretty
women, audibly in his grizzled beard.

A Roman lady of olden days, nay, more,
an early saint,' murmured a young artist,
fresh from the eternal city.

A Marguerite, as I always say,' laughed
Mrs. Fisher, looking round. ' But where,
oh, where, is our Faust, the ever-young ?'

Hester looked unusually lovely indeed
that afternoon, as she stood there the
central point to which all eyes turned.
The gown so much discussed was of white
woollen stuff, stiffly embroidered in gold,
and it clung closely to the almost perfect
outlines of her beautifully developed figure,
her exquisite shoulders and rounded arms,
while the skirt fell in simply regal folds
upon the ground. It suggested the idea
of the drapery of a statue ; and this indeed
was its hidden meaning, as shall be seen.
But she looked truly like a lily  ' a white
flower among them, a star in their midst
yet apart from all,' thought a man outside
on the high-road, who for some time, unknown
to the various guests, had never
once taken off his eyes from gazing at her,
as if it were the last time, and that he could

not satisfy his eyes enough with that
sweet vision. He was standing quite still
to look through an opening between the
hedging aloes on the wall, at the bright
scene within on the lawn. A heavy hand
was placed on his shoulder suddenly, and
with a curious prefatory sound like a
tremendously loud, gruffly long-drawn
Hem! a voice said,

No peeping !  why stand outside armada's
garden?' Turning with a start that
was almost guilty, the man accused of
spying recognised Mark Hungerford, who
was returning from one of his rapid walks
and had stolen upon him unawares, a peculiar
grin upon his keenly sallow and elderly,
beardless face. Hungerford was much
delighted at his own cleverness in being so
soft-footed.  You must not look in therefrom
the road  I am the owner of the
house. Come in, come in, come in !  I
insist upon it.'

They had met playing at the same table
the night before, and some (few) words of
acquaintanceship had been interchanged.
The stranger hastily tried to excuse himself
 he was going up to Cimiez to try a
sketch in the Roman amphitheatre  he
hoped to come 'another time.' Yet he
hesitated, strong temptation stirring in him.
They had meanwhile approached the gate
in discourse. Several of the visitors inside
on the little lawn descried their host and
came to meet him, among them Mrs. Vigo
There were sudden outcries of recognition
to the new-comer, Who could no
longer escape.

Hester, seeing the gathering group,
moved towards them.

Here, my dear, I have brought you a
friend of mine, Major Kenyon,' answered
Mark Hungerford  ' he says he remembers
meeting you at WestclifF. I have had
some difficulty persuading him to come in,

SO now you must use your powers to keep
him.'

Hester stood as if rooted to the ground,
while she felt rather than saw the man she
had best loved in the whole world come
slowly forward. He took her passive

hand In this way Hester and Christopher

Kenyan met again I And Mark Hungerford
brought them together.

CHAPTER IV.

AFTER LONG YEARS OF ABSENCE.'

Before some dreaded ordeal comes in our
lives, we wonder how we shall ever go
through it. In the midst of the trial we
often find ourselves equally marvelling
with dull self-surprise that after all we can
bear it so calmly. A very few days later,
and our minds so easily adjust themselves
to new circumstances, we shall almost have
foro-often the old fear haunting us till a
week ago ! The dreaded clouds have burst
in no such terrible storm after all. Anticipation
of pain gives us far worse pangs
generally than the trouble we can face.

Hester had often agonised herself in
thought, imagining that somewhere in the
years before her she might come face to
face with Christopher. She had pictured
their meeting in ever so many different
places and surroundings. But always their
last passionate interview had coloured her
fancy, so that she was afraid with a faint
sinking of the heart. They could not meet
as ordinary acquaintance, surely ! She
might even faint ; or at least change colour
; lose her self-possession. And she not
alone feared such self-betrayal, because she
now unhappily knew too well certain
moods in her husband of fitful, utterly
unwarranted jealousy and sudden rage ;
but she feared almost more losing her self-respect
by showing some mere outward
bodily weakness. For in her inmost soul
Hester had striven to put the old thoughts
of Kit Kenyon utterly away. When she
once vowed to love her husband, she had

mentally interpreted that by resolving todo
her duty fully and utterly by him in
every thought. And though then she had
also certainly believed her former lover
dead, still her vow stood the same. However
greater the effort, whatever the pain
of knowing him alive and separated from
her by her own act, her resolve stood as
firm.

To part and die is a less evil, but to part and live,
There  there's the torment.'

Hester did not want to love the memory
of Christopher no longer  only differently.
She endeavoured to think of him still as
dead to her by a living death ; as so far,
far away they two might meet no sooner
than if he had preceded her to the silent
land. She erected imaginary barriers, as
it were, of distance and years between her
and himself in thought. But his name
was in her silent prayers each night and
every new morning that rose on the old

earth. There cannot be much amiss in
love that can dare to pray for the loved
one, believing in the power unto whom all
hearts are open, all desires known.

More things are wrought hj praj'-er
Than this world dreams of. Wherefore let thy voice
Rise like a fountain for me night and daj.

For so the whole round world is every way
Bound by gold chains about the feet of God.'

And always Hester trusted, should they
two meet, not in her own but in a higher
strength to keep her from failing in her
duty, even in thought, to Mark Hungerford.
But still . . . but still she was a woman,
though a good woman, and she would
have travelled miles to avoid seeing Kit's
dark-grey eyes, or hearing once more the
voice that had been music , in her ears
above all others.

And now  the dreaded scene was past.

Hester, some days later, standing quite
still in the verandah among the creepers.

where we first saw her sitting, was looking
down into the valley at the shimmering
greyish-green of the olives under the sun
and breeze, and the misty silver of the
sea, and was trying to recall every word,
tone, and glance of how they had met It
was all so strange. Was it really she,
Hester, who gave Christopher her hand
calmly, whilst her heart seemed turning
deadly cold,  but that was all the emotion
she was conscious of. Christopher had
been almost as, outwardly, self-possessed.
But, after the first few meaningless, cold
words, both mutually drew back. Then
her other guests had come between them
like a wave; and by-and-by Hester, playing
the hostess to all as in a dream, became
aware that Kit had been introduced to
Mrs. Fisher, who was making play with
her fine eyes, and smiling on him with
her most winning ways (and they were
very bewitching), whilst his old friend,.

the widow, Mrs. VignoUes, was less prettily,
but with determinedly constant, quick
little questionings, resolved on not allowing
his attention to be engrossed by any
other, if she could not monopolise it herself.


Kit had suddenly plunged from his shyness
into an eager flow of talk. Like
most nervous, excitable natures, he went
from one extreme to the other. Beside
them hovered Mark Hungerford himself,
who was as fickle and whimsical in his
likings of persons as of places. The gay,
almost reckless manner of this handsome
new acquaintance fascinated him.

'You must not leave us. Stay and
dine, and we will have some play afterwards
 there are three or four of our
last night's party here. We must have
sour revenge,' he urged.

Involuntarily Kenyon looked at Hester.
She saw the glance, but her eyes only

turned stilly to the ground. She hoped
he would go, but could make no sign.
She was surrounded by the various men
of the party  admirers, Kit bitterly thought
them in his heart. Then her husband had
urged, entreated, persisted again. Hun-perform,
when he took a whim, would move
mountains to have his "vvish gratified.

And then Kit, after visibly hesitating,
suddenly again accepted ; stayed and
dined, and played till late ; long after
Hester had received the adieux of her
lady guests, and had herself, shadow-like,
flitted from the rooms, leaving Mr. Hunger-ford
and some gentlemen who remained
still eager over their cards, and becoming
by degrees more flushed with play
and what they drank.

All that evening, Kenyon and his hostess
had, as by silent consent, avoided each
other, except for the merest exchange of
civilities. This in itself was significant

that both were afraid. The situation had
been forced upon the woman : the man
had allowed himself to be hurried into it
by his own feelings and partly by fate.

Once only, late that night, when even
Mrs. Vignolles and Mrs. Fisher  who generally
tried to outstay each other  had left,
Kit and Hester spoke a moment together.
They found themselves left alone somehow
at one end of the large drawing-room,
whilst most of the rest had risen during
an interval of play to refresh themselves in
the inner room where Mr. Hungerford,
who was proud of being able to drink
more spirits and yet keep his head clearer
for cards than most men, Alas playing the
liberal host With a loud ringing laugh, and
a keen almost sardonic grin. Hester and
Christopher's eyes met, and they stood
silently near each other some perceptible
time. At last she spoke first.

You came in here by chance to-day ?

You did not know but still, you met

Mr. Huno;erford last nio:ht at the club ?*
Why did she not say my ' husband ?'

It was a mere chance to-day. Forgive
me, if it has vexed you that I did come.'

Christopher was less truthful than Hester.
Had he not learnt where the Villa
Beausite lay, and meant just to look at
her home from a distance  no more ? She
Alas so utterly transparent in thought, in
his place she would have said so.

 There is nothing to forgive. You could
not help yourself,' replied Hester, gravely
but with no more sign of regret or welcome
than a woman of stone. He added,
abruptly,

But I did see you before  last night.
You were going into the ball-room. And
I  came away !'

Hester started slightly, and looked fuller
at him ; she understood. Christopher went
on, still speaking low and constrainedly,

VOL. II. F

yet with a slightly reckless air that might
be construed as indifference,

 It was fate  you see ! I did not try
to make friends with your husband last
night, but he has seemed to take a liking
to me for some utterly inscrutable reason,
and was certainly most hospitable and kind
to-night, in inviting me back to his house. 1
like play, too  and what a charming party
you had ! I have enjoyed my evening
very much.'

Then, as Hester did not yet stir, nor
respond, he went on ; an unworthy wish to
rouse her to some sign of feeling moving
him.

It was pleasant, of course, to meet an
old friend like Mrs. Vignolles, and how
pretty and pleasant Mrs. Fisher is.'

She is, indeed  we are great friends.
Then . . . you mean to accept Mr. Hun-perform's
invitation to come back ?'

Hester said the words with difficulty;

but so coldly, dispassionately, it was impossible
to know what was in her mind.

Not if you do not wish me to come '
returned Christopher, his dark handsome
eyes searching her face in vain for some
sign. Strange that those delicate emotional
features he knew so well could yet mask
her soul within from him. He remembered
vividly her passionate appeal to him last
time to come near her never more. But
now she was changed ; perhaps utterly indifferent.
Better so, truly ; far better,
poor darling, were she only happy.

But he had heard Hester's beauty so
praised by even strangers here, had himself
seen a crowd of admirers round her
this very afternoon, that jealousy suggested
his image was perhaps supplanted by
one of these. And so  unless Hester said
Go !'  the desire to stay and see and
suffer goaded his heart. And Hester,
slowly raising her sweetly-calm face, had

f2

just parted her lips, that Avould needs
curve, if not almost quiver sensitively,
beffinninof, ' You must do as you '

'&"""'"&?

when Mark Hungerford's voice interrupted
their meeting. How had he come down
upon them in that swift, noiseless manner?

What ! saying good-bye, Kenyon ? No,
no. Yoa must stay, and we will make a
night of it. Never mind formal adieux to
Mrs. Hungerford. You are booked to come
back to-morrow, you know. Come.'

And so Mark, as he had brought them
together, unintentionally, also prevented a
possible explanation and parting.

Is there truly a fate, yes, and a blind
fate, forcing us to suffer this or that we
have tried to escape, thought Kenyon ?

And so Christopher did come back the
next day and the next. He had been
appropriated and talked to by Mrs. Vigo
and had, when escape was possible,
found his way to Mrs. Fisher's side, who

always made room for him quietly, and
threw a world of sympathy and pleasure
into her blackly-melting orbs, when he
told her of his past life, or rather, exiled
existence in out-of-the-way Indian stations ;
or rattled on instead, in his most agreeable
vein, concerning the Nice general topics.

And then, though he never uttered an
unkind word of anyone himself, he would
in turn sit and listen idly, smiling to himself
with rather grim yet amused humour,
whilst Edith Fisher, bringing her soft
cheek rather near his, the better to whisper,
would recount all the naughtiest gossip
and most spicy on arts of scandal concerning
the best-known people of the place, at
whom she smiled her sweetest every day.

Nearly a week had thus passed, and
Hester stood here wondering to herself at
the strangeness of it all. And why did
Kenyon come so constantly to the villa?
Woman's instinct replied that the first day

he had yielded to the wish to stay and see-herself
again. But why since then ?  for
he now seldom spoke to her, and then
only when courtesy to his hostess required
it.

Was it simply that, having come to Nice
on leave, after landing from India, he
enjoyed the idle life here, and the free-and-easy
coming and going that Mark Hunger-ford
had lately and rather suddenly encouraged
among his new acquaintances ?
Or was it for the sake of the play ? Hester
sighed ; for all their so-called friends gambled
at home, at the circles, and at Monaco.
But stakes were highest at the Villa Beau-site
; she looked on, never touching a card
herself, but powerless to stop it.

Or, again, was he taken with Edith
Fisher's soft seductions, who openly gloried
in being a flirt ; while even Mrs. Yignolles'
more elderly, flattering looks might be
pleasing enough. Everyone has their

taste, and women always marvel how men
can be so easily gulled by others of the
softer sex, whose little pretences are so
glaring, so transparent to tJielr eyes.

Well, I do not know why he comes 
so there is no use in thinking about it,'
Hester wisely ended, with a sigh.

She was waiting for some one. Kit's
jealousy might have found its ground, had
he known it  Awaiting for no woman, but
for her greatest admirer, and one to whom
she gave more affection (ay, and caresses)
than to all the others combined.

A cautious step came round the corner
of the verandah.

'Are you there at last, Adrian?' she
said, eagerly, in a suppressed tone. ' I
thought you were never coming. Now we
will go off for a walk and chat by ourselves.'


'I am so sorry . . . but baby had
hidden or lost her rabbit somewhere in

the nursery, and she wouldn't come without
it,' replied her swain, in as eagerly
guarded a whisper.

This he was a schoolboy of about fourteen,
a rather thin, shy-looking lad, with
a face as covered with freckles as a turkey's
Egg. He had, otherwise, good features,
and the promise of being handsome, though
his blue eyes were evidently painfully
short-sighted. He carried Ada, the baby,
hugged tight to his breast, with her head
staring over his shoulder, as those of his
sex generally do carry an infant. But
this child seemed well-used to Adrian 
for he was indeed her cousin, being Mrs.
Vignolles' neglected son, and now sole
surviving offspring, as little Louisa, the
spoilt imp whose airs had once sadly tried
Hester's patience, was dead. He was now
Mrs. Hungerford's chief admirer ; and she
was his protectress, so far as lay in her
power, and, perhaps, only friend.

Well  let ns go quick now, before Ave
are caught.'

Both agreed ; and away they went down
a shrubbery walk, through a small wood
of old gnarled olives, and out by a path
along the edge of some fields, where they
slackened their pace. Hester made a
gesture, strongly wishful, of carrying her
child herself, but Adrian held back.

No ; but please leave her with me.
Aunt Hester. I am so fond of her, and
she loves me already ; don't you, baby?'

And Hester, rather loth, complied.

Adrian called her aunt from affection,
and because, his cousin Mr. Hungerford
having been left his guardian, Emma Vigo
had bidden her son give him the
title of Uncle Mark some time ago, a
familiar yet respectful term of endearment
she had invented. He was not like most
English boys in his ways, resembling his
French father more, and being somewhat

romantic and thin-skinned as to ridicule ;
perhaps what stronger lads might have
roughly called a ' molly-coddle ' in his tenderness
of others' feelings as well as his
own.

They passed by young wheat-fields, where
the wild anemones grew in patches of
scarlet that almost dazzled one's eyes to
stare at them, and

The wild tulijD at end of its tube, blows out its great red

bell
Like a thin, clear bubble of blood, for the children to pick
and sell'

They were happy together, those three.
The boy reminded Hester of happy days
with the tribe at WestclifF, and she had
always ' got on ' with schoolboys. She
absolutely found herself laughing, not loud
but quite gaily, in answer to Adrian's
confidences about the English private
school, from whence he had lately come
back in disgrace.

It was a hateful place. Aunt Hester.

They feci us on liver and bacon one day
and tripe the next, and lumps of suet
called dumplings . . . What about my
hight with the boy ? Why, he insulted me,
calling me a frog-eating Frenchy, and he
was bigger than I was, but after lessons I
caught him outside and knocked him
down and pommelled him, and sat upon
him. Then before I would let him rise
I obliged him to eat grass. He made
an awful fuss, but I held him by the collar
and grazed him a little over the lawn, and
then he pretended to feel sick. They
called him Nebuchadnezzar afterwards.'

Oh ! Adrian  no wonder they complained
of your way of fighting.'

And as Hester fairly laughed again, in
her low, sweet voice, they suddenly came
full upon Christopher Kenyon, who was
sketching; in a sheltered corner beside the
wood. All looked equally taken aback.
Kenyon had been busy trying a distant

sketch of the villa, which last could be seen
very well from here through an opening between
the ilex-trees.

'How pretty  it is exactly like it
uttered Hester, looking at the sketch.

Kenyon muttered something not audible,
as if he did not care to have his
work much noticed. Then his eves turned
to little Ada, unwillingly, and he said, with
something like a sigh,

So that is your child ? I have never
seen it before. It is very like  an Armytage.
Yes  it is very like Nona, the little
one you used to be so fond of.'

'It is. I see it now! though no one
ever noticed the resemblance before,' uttered
E ester, with quite a little delight in her
voice.

She is not one bit of a Hungerford, at
all events,' decided Adrian, with an approving
nod, as he hoisted his burden
higher to be admired. Then, in a suddenly

alarmed voice, ' I say ! Here's that
spy, old Ginger, sent after us, Aunt Hester.
What is wrong now, I wonder ?'

Russ, the red-whiskered butler, was
following them as rapidly as his regard
for his stout person and air of intense
respectability would permit him.

If you please, ma'am, Mr. Hungerford
requests you and Master Adrian will return
to the house immediately. And,
also, would you put on your modelling-dress,
and go to the studio at once.'

'What a beastly shame,' muttered Adrian,
angrily, as Russ departed, not Without a
calm stare at Kenyon and his sketching
apparatus, which the latter felt inclined to
resent somehow. The boy went on. ' Now
you will have to stand there for hours and
be as tired '

Oh ! hush, Adrian. We must go now ;
don't let us stay any longer,' returned
Hester, with quite a frightened look, as

Kit had quickly noticed, thouli lie tried
to steady her voice and manner as she said
good-bye.

I shall come and see you this afternoon
he said, suddenly.

And they parted.

CHAPTER V.

SAVE US FROM OUR FRIENDS !

Kenyon accordingly went up late that
afternoon, as lie had said, to the Villa
Beausite. He had a determined feeling,
since morning, to try and find out what
Hester's inner life really was like, with her
elderly husband. She was wearing a mask,
he knew ; and although his eyes and ears
had been secretly alert, watching her Awhile
she little guessed it with a jealousy that
was a dull pain in his breast, he had not
yet succeeded in marking the man who
might be her especial friend among her
many admirers.

During the last few days he had even
begun to believe the truth that there was
none  supposing now that she was perhaps
simply living a passionless existence,
surfeited with easily satisfied desires that
money can gratify, like so many women
in society, and dutifully content with,
though not loving, Mark Hungerford.
But this morning the boy Adrian's words,
and her own quick look of surely alarm
and Hester was so fearless by nature I
had puzzled him.

On the Cimiez Road, he met Mrs. Vigo
toiling slowly up the hill under
a large red parasol. She had come out
to Nice, and taken apartments lately ina
boarding-house not far from the Villa
Beausite.

The little woman had grown considerably
stouter since Westcliff days, plump
as she was by nature, and Kit had to
go slower than even his own lazy saunter

(when tie liacl no special object in
view), whilst she tried to conceal her
shortness of breath by stopping to admire
the view and pointing out the Mont
Boron, and where Villefranche lay, and
Beauties, whilst her many bracelets and
the jet ornaments on her rather ancient
black velvet jacket all jingled.

I suppose Mrs. Fisher will be here
too. We all seem to meet at the villa,'
remarked Kenyon, pleasantly.

The little widow stopped and looked at
him, with a rallying glance keen as an
auger, though she tossed her head (that
she now wore fringed, with carefully
arranged frizzy curls) in a manner like
a satirical female Solomon sitting in judgment.
(Kit, glancing at her prune dress,
her bonnet trimmed with grass and field-flowers,
and the famous parasol, thought
the Ranee more like the Queen of Sheba
returning from Jerusalem.)

VOL. II. G

Oh  is Mrs. Fisher your attraction ?
I own I thought it might have been an
older flame, the moth and the candle,
you know. Well, she is, and has been,
immensely admired, more perhaps than
has quite done her good, in being talked
about' (lowering voice and sharp eyes a
little) ;  but you are wasting your time,
my friend, unless' (most meaningless) 'you
care to compete with other and very rich
men in your little attentions.'

Kit, who really liked Edith Fisher, felt
an unmanly longing to shake this bitter-tongued
little feather-bed, his old friend,
for her insinuations about both the former
and  Hester. To hint even aloud at what
he only dared to say low to himself in
his own heart about his dear saint !

I am not a rich man, certainly, if you
think that a sine qua own to the lady's
liking ; though I must say it seems rather
a libel on her. In any case, however,

pray consider me as quite out of the
running.'

Eh  eh ? Now you are annoyed, Kit.
I know you so well.' (Did she?) 'As
to what I said about another person, you
must not mind tliat for it was mere nonsense.
Anyone can see, indeed, that you
are rather neglectful, you fickle man ! As
to your being not rich, however, why, I
heard you had quite a little fortune left
you.' This playfully.

Just enough to pay my debts and
keep my head afloat, without the waves
going over me as in former days  perhaps
a few sovereigns over to hazard at roulette.
Enough for one, in fact, but not for two,'
was Christopher's grim response.

0-h ! Well, it is not enough for two,
certainly, unless the other one had a little
something of her own  a sufficient, if nota
great, fortune,' murmured the widow,
very low but distinctly, while the red

g2

parasol was slightly lowered.  I should
not advise it otherwise, but you would be
happier so, Kit, with some one who really
cared for you, and perhaps had cared sometime
; you really would ! And, besides,
you are getting on in life, my friend. It
is time you should think of settling down.'
(This last came with airy lightness, but
was plainly half a joke and whole earnest,
as the Irish say.)

I am not a marrying man  in fact, I
have made up my mind never to marry,'
quoth Kenyon, with almost savage
decision.

Really ! . , . Well, no doubt you know
your own affairs best. But some few years
hence you may change your mind, and
not find it so easy a matter then to get
anyone who will care to have you,' retorted
the widow, with a forced, rather gibing
laugh, that hid a far more savage feeling
than he had seemed to show.

As Kenyon attempted no answer to this
pleasantry, they went on in silence. Then,
feeling that the situation should not appear
too abruptly retreated from, Mrs. Vignolles
tried to hark back.

But, seriously  you know  you do
come to the villa pretty constantly, and I
ahem !  cannot help wondering why ;
though you will not own to any especial
magnet, ha ! ha !'

'Must one always have an object? I
should have thought you might have
known me better, and that I come here
to-day because I came yesterday. In
fact, I may call myself an incarnate habit.
Besides, I like the life ; the dinners and
wine are unexceptionable, to begin on the
lowest grounds ; my host is most agreeable,
the company pleasant, and why not
play here as well as anywhere else ?' answered
Kit, indifferently, but more pleasantly,
switching off some bark with his

stick, as they went on under the plane-trees.


He was Avhat some persons might call
absurdly sensitive, and was more than
willing to get back to good if safe relations
with his companion again ; he hated being
left with the displeasing feeling of having
behaved perhaps unkindly towards a woman.
So, trying now a cheery laugh,

But, after all, you come here everyday.
It helps to make it all the more
pleasant, of course ; but I suppose you
have no more reason than myself.'

On the contrary, I am Mark's cousin,,
and have always been treated by him as a
sister,' said Mrs. Vignolles, shortly but
with emphasis. ' Poor old fellow ! marriages
such as his with a young girl are
rather a mistake, I am afraid, so I am
always glad to give him as much of my
companionship as formerly ; for, though he
assumes to be so gay and careless in society,

/ know what a keenly sensitive man
lie is under the surface. And it cannot be
pleasant for a man over sixty to see a
crowd of danglers round his pretty wife.'

You think Mr. Hungerford a sufferer,
then, gnawed by inward pain,' remarked
Kit, with a humorous gleam in his eyes
Hester would have detected at once, but
that was lost on his present hearer. He was
thinking of certain gay talk and wild almost
uproarious boisterousness of behaviour with
Which Mark Hungerford had tried to show
some young fellows the night, or rather the
dawn before, down at their club in Nice,
that he was as young as the rest of them
in mind, and that

Age was older once than now,
In spite of locks untimely shed
Or silvered on the youthful brow.'

 Oh ! I do not say but what on the
whole Hester is a good young woman and
not as flighty as most,' remarked his companion,

with a patronising, judicial air.
No, but what I mean is, she is so cold,
perfectly freezing in her quiet way that
men rave about.'

A snow angel  I have heard her called,'
put in Kit, quietly. The name was his
own.

 Well, she cares for nothing on earth
but dressing herself in the most extravagant
gowns, spending a fortune on her
person. How even poor Mark's income,
rich as he is, can stand it, is a mystery tome,'
snapped Mrs. Yignolles, with an angry
eye. 'And then her dear friend, Mrs.
Fisher, who has to be dressed exactly alike,
forsooth ; though that miserable little Mr.
Fisher, as we all know, hasn't got a brass
farthing to speak of. Site does not pay
for her own gowns, that I can assure you,
though Mark's own relations may want
enough.'

At least, then, Mrs. Hungerford must

be fond of one person, her friend. And, I
suppose, of  well, of her child, too.'

Oh ! Hester is infatuated about Edith
Fisher  there ! It is of no use trying to
open her eyes, so if she likes to be deceived
/ cannot help it, and have done my duty.
As to the child  well, yes, she is very fond
of it ; but she spoils the poor little thing
dreadfully.'

What a relief Kit felt it, as they entered
the gate of the villa. Just then came a
sound of wheels behind.

Oh ! there you both are,' cried Mrs.
Fisher's merry voice, as she drove up seated
alone in a pretty victoria. ' I am so
sorry, Emma dear! If I had only thought
of it, I would have come sooner, and saved
you toiling up that hill, you poor little
woman  there was a seat to spare here.'

Oh !  humph ! Thank you, I'm sure,
Edith. This is the time I always do come
up. But I rather enjoy a little walk ; I

think exercise is good for all of us. Thank
you, all the same.'

A walk may be very delightful if you
have a pleasant companion. It all depends-upon
that,' returned Mrs. Fisher, giving a
soft swift glance out of her black orbs at
Kenyon, and leaning audaciously with an
expressive though slight and secret little
pressure on his arm, as she signed to him
to help her from her carriage. ' Yes, I am
getting out, Major Kenyon. Hester is always
at home to me. And, when she is
out, you may be pretty sure I am generally
out with her for the day.'

Well, if Mark Hungerford is in, I had
better keep him company, then ; he is
always glad to see his little cousin, I
know, and has been for years, whoever
else may come and go at his house,' Mrs.
Vignolles put in for her part, with a
sprightly air, as they rang at the villa-door,
which was set in a crimson bower of

camellias that day adorning the glass outer
hal.

Where is that delightful son of yours ?
You ought to bring him out more, it is
quite a shame ! Really he is far more
amusing to talk to than many young men
who are a good deal older,' said Mrs.
Fisher, beaming with her most innocent
glance on her friend.

Oh, dear me ; no. You quite spoil him,
my dear. He is only a mere boy, you
know  quite a child,' replied Mrs.Vignolles,
rather annoyed, but yet showing her white
teeth in a little smile, and shaking her
frizzed curls reproachfully.

She was still comely and pleasant enough
to look on ; and Kit Kenyon's eyes roved
amused over both women as they endeared
each other. He liked to see pretty women
together ; they always set each other off.
And much of the by-play and undercurrent
of the remarks of these two was

lost upon him in this man's straightforwardness.


Russ, the ginger-coloured butler, appeared
at the door, and, with his most 
air, announced that Mr. and
Mrs. Hungerford were in the studio, and
Mr. Hungerford would be pleased to see
them there. They crossed through the
drawing-rooms, and Mrs. Vignolles went
ostentatiously in front to show them the
way, as one who was ' free of the house.'
Mrs. Fisher lingered behind.

Oh, do look at these flowers ! how exquisitely
they are grouped ; the colours
never mixed, but masses of the same flowers
altogether. Do you know, Mrs. Hun-perform
always arranges them herself. It
is one of her chief amusements,'

I remember,' said Kit, stirred by some
tender memory,  she was always so fond
of that. And she had such perfect taste.'

I did not know you had known her so

well,' said Mrs. Fisher, looking up under
her curling black eyelashes, a little inquisitively,
perhaps, having caught the idea
rather than sound of a faint sigh in his
voice.

'Are you two coming?' called back Mrs.
Vignolles, peremptorily, from in front.

Coming, coming ! What a fussy little
person she is. What between that and
her watkins: she ouoht to be thinner. I
nearly laughed outright to-day, Major
Kenyon, when I saw her panting up in
that dreadful old velvet jacket beside you.
Don't you know the joke? I don't
want to be unkind, but she has worn it
perpetually for the last week, and keeps
telling Mr. Hungerford that " she is really
ashamed of herself, but cannot afford
another," because one of his manias is
that he cannot bear to see ladies badly-dressed.'


'Has he many manias ?' asked Kit.

And at that moment they entered the
so-called studio, where an unusual sight
.awaited them.

THE SKELETON IN THE STUDIO.

There was a small platform, covered with
crimson cloth, in the studio, midway down
the long, narrow room, under the flood of
sunshine which poured down from the skylight.
And on this platform stood Hester
Hungerford in her white dress, motionless ;
its long draperies and gold-bordered hem
clinging about her, her hands lightly
clasped together in an attitude  to Kenyon's
quick eyes  expressive of wearied,
gentle resignation.

She never moved to meet them, nor even
stirred a hair's-breadth as they came in 

only smiled faintly and gave a mate welcome,
mingled with apology, by her eyes
as they stood still at the end of the room
gazing at her. Hester had a low voice,
and, with her gentle stateliness, one could
not imagine her raising it, even to greet
her guests, in any form of a loud welcome.
But Mark Hungerford came forward,,
with his most agreeable, well-bred air,
though prefaced by one of his lion-like
roars, holding a large hand outstretched
with which he wrung theirs. Pretty Mrs.
Fisher cried out with a grimace at his
clasp, and even Mrs. VignoUes winced
with secret anguish ; for he had, in his
effusive warmth, forced her rings into her
plump fingers. Hungerford was dressed
in his artist's black velvet, felt cap and
jacket ; his shirt open at the throat, and
altogether having an air of cultivated
disorder. The room behind him was a
curious spectacle, being filled, not furnished,

more than most studios any of
them had ever seen, with a wildly artistic
litter of pictures, casts, old armour, and
so forth, in the foreground, and other
unknown, curious or doubtful objects,
heaped over with hangings in the background,
or half hidden by tall screens.
Here and there the room itself was portioned
off by crimson curtains running
on light iron rods, and forming recesses ;
in one of which  apparently fitted up asa
laboratory  a sink, and a table covered
with bottles, mortars, and pestles could
be half descried.

To return to the platform, however, a
lay-figure near Hester stood up stiffly in
an attitude grotesquely mimicking her
own, and somewhat similarly draped in a
soiled white dress that had apparently formerly
been hers.

It was a hideous travesty that at once
struck Christopher disagreeably with an

VOL. ir. H

impression as of a wraith. But he had
no time to notice it long, for both his
lady companions, with out-vying exclamations
and small shrieks of pleasure, rushed
forward to examine the central object of
all  at which Hungerford had been working
as a sculptor, till just now his blouse
had been flung aside. It Alas a small
block of white marble, evidently meant
in process of time to take Hester's own
shape, in a statuette, as she stood there,
still motionless, above them.

A statue ! We never knew you were
1 sculptor before. Dear Mr. Hungerford.
what a genius you are !' cried both ladies.

Mrs. Fisher added, looking admiringly
up at Hester,

And what a charming statue you look
like yourself, dear. A perfect pose  may
I come up and kiss you, as you won't
move or come to us ?'

I must not stir ; pray forgive me '

said Hester, in a low voice, with a sweet
welcoming but weary glance. While Mark
Hungerford exhorted her, in the same
breath,

 Don't move! don't think of moving.
You will destroy the folds of that drapery.
Don't think of going near her, Mrs. Fisher
. . !' He added, in a lower tone, with
his most wickedly agreeable smile, as a
man of the world like himself (no old
fogey !) might presume to do,  but Kenyon
alone caught the whisper,  ' If you
want to kiss anyone here, better try me.'

Then, as Edith Fisher shook her pretty
head in laughing removal, but that Emma
Vignolles, who watched them both like a
little pussy cat, looked round, Hungerford
advanced to display his work.

This is meant to be  or rather, now is
a Galatea growing to shape under her
husband's hand, you see. The difference,
however, between the former Pygmalion

hand

myself lies in this, that he had the
ideal woman in his mind as his model 
ethereal, divine, not of this earth earthy
while I have the living, breathing Avise
of flesh and blood already beside me, as
you see; and know already the joys
he only was anticipating. Which of us
two was the most blest ? Hester, my love,
it is not for me to say, man and wife being
one.'

How like you, Mr. Hungerford ! What
a pretty compliment !' applauded Mrs.
Fisher.

'Yes, indeed. Any wife ought to be
proud of having such a talented husband,
who will spend hours a day in modelling
her,' chimed in Mrs. Vignolles.

But Kenyon, turning his secretly rather
contemptuous gaze from the so-called
statue, as yet an almost formless caryatid,
of which the head alone had taken any
shape, smiling in a rudely blurred outline

vith a sickly sentimentality no better thana
sixpenny plaster cast of a Madonna
hawked on a vendor's head, he, looking up
quickly to see now what impression Hun-perform's
words made on his wife, backed
by her friend's rather fulsome praises, saw
a little change on her face. Not much.
She merely smiled her sad sweet smile
alike on them all, but  surely ! yes, her
lips were growing white, while her face in
its creamy pallor, though always pale now,
almost seemed the same hue as her dress.
The rest disregarded it, having turned with
little screams of delight to peep at a pile
of canvases flung pell-mell apparently in
some fine frenzy by their master's hand,
who now with careless pride began displaying
them. But Kenyon quietly stepped
on the platform, and, standing before Hester
so as to screen her from observation,
but in an indifferent attitude apparently,
said, in a low quick voice, while his eyes

were bent on her with earnest anxiety
You are feeling faint  ill ! Let me
fetch you a glass of water or wine T

Hester's eyes, startled, met his ; and a
soft wave of faintly rosy colour made her
face tinged like an opal a moment or two
under that gaze of his which she remembered
so well. She stood,

Beautiful as a sculptor's dream, with brow
That wears amidst its dark rich curls the stamp
Of inborn nobleness.'

That flush, on meeting his eyes, made
Kenyon's heart give a quick leap ; but,
however lovely, that delicate colour told
of such weakness, or neglect of those
around her towards her state, that his
heart sank down again heavily, weighted
with new bitterness.

'No, no. But thank you  so much.
Please do not mind . . . me,' Hester whispered,
her breath coming in little fluttering
gasps.

But I do mind, I must. No one else
seems likely to do so, at least. How long
have you been standing here like this ?'
said Kenyon, peremptorily, catching his
breath.

She murmured faintly,

Ever since you saw me  this morning.'

It was several hours since then.

Good heavens !' exclaimed Christopher,
shocked. ' My poor Hester !'

Their eyes met again, this time at last
with no blinds of jealousy or reserve between
them. Great pity and honest, if
deep, interest and fondness was in Kenyon's
mind ; the old trust in him and
affection, though purified by suffering,
looked out of Hester's soul windows : her
sad gaze gladdening visibly under his.

Do not mind. It is all in my day's
work, and how many have worse to bear
in their lives Please go now ! . . .
Only  you ivill still be a true friend to me,

will you not?  a friend like a brother. If
you knew how glad I should be of that

God helping nie, I will !' murmured
Kenyon.

Hester's look and tone of subdued yet
almost piteous entreaty had moved him
strangely, as with a new, nameless, pitying
fear. She added :

Go now  leave me. It is the greatest
kindness you can do.'

As Kenyon stepped down, the picture-show
was finished ; and they were mostly
painful daubs, showing certainly a wild
fancy, almost genius, in the ideas, but utter
carelessness and want of teaching: in the
execution, at which Christopher, who was
really a good painter, inwardly smiled.

Oh ! what a strange, delightful room !
May I go round, for I should so like to
poke my nose everywhere ?' begged Mrs.
Fisher, with amusingly childish eagerness
and sparkling eyes.

:Neo no. At at least . . . Well, that
is, if you will solemnly promise by your
own little soul, or whatever else you do
hold sacred, not to look except where I
allow you,' hesitatingly replied Hunger-ford,
fascinated evidently by her prettily
beseeching face, for like March his speech
began as a lion with an angry growl, but
ended like a lamb.

I swear  I swear,' she replied.

He added, with a loftily tolerant smile,

Even my wife is never permitted to
pry into my secrets here.'

But still ' responded Mrs. Fisher,

low, with a roguish glance.

Ahem !' uttered Mrs. Vignolles, with an
ominous clearing of the throat.

Excuse me !' coldly interrupted kenyon,
' but is not Mrs. Hungerford allowed
to join our tour of inspection? She must
be tired, surely.'

'Dear me  I declare she does look

tired,' said Mrs. Vignolles, surveying Hester
through her eye-glass.

Tired ? nonsense ! It took me nearly
an hour settling the folds of that drapery,
and it was merely when I lost my temper
and pushed her dress aside with my foot
that, by some devilish chance, it took a
right sweep ! Besides, Mrs. Fisher wants
to see me do a little work before her,' tartly
replied Hester's kind protector, the guardian
and friend she had with humble thankfulness
hoped to find in her husband.

'But, poor dear!  If she is tired, do
not mind me' begged Mrs. Fisher; too
blandly for the pressing need of the occasion,
thought Kenyon ; but then ' women
never do feel for each other.'

He looked Hungerford full in the face
with his own eager, and now for once
determined dark glance, fixing the other
man's wide, restless, blue one.

Mrs. Hungerford's attitude is certainly

a charming spectacle for gods and men, but
decidedly productive I should say of backache.
In fact, if she stands there one
minute longer, I feel we should all be had
up for cruelty to animals  I beg pardon, to
our hostess.'

Kenyon was surprised himself at the
result of his words, or, still more, he could
not help fancying, of his glance. Hunger-ford
stepped back uneasily, hesitated ; then,
still looked at by 'Kenyon, Who felt sternly
in earnest, called out,

'Hester, come down here. D nit!

come this instant. Major Kenyon says
you are tired. He seems to know  he
seems to know everything, everything
under the sun ! Ha, ha.'

There was a momentarily shocked discomfort
evident on the faces of the other
ladies. And yet Kenyon fancied they did
not look so very much surprised. He himself
felt so angered he could hardly restrain

himself, as poor Hester stepped clown pale
and obedient.

 Here, my love, come and sit by me,'
cried Edith Fisher, drawing her down on
n long sort of sofa, then screamed in dismay
as she herself sat upon something
strange. ' Ugh ! what is that?  a scalp?
I declare, it is a horrid wig.' And she
held up one with long hair and of orange-brown
hue, which was the caricature of
Hester's lovely chestnut tresses, and that
was used as occasional model for a dreadful
attempt at a picture of Mrs. Hungerford.

Only some properties. 1 could dress
up in a dozen disguises, if I pleased, and
will wager half my fortune none of you
would ever know me,' said Hungerford.
Then, with malicious amusement, ' Perhaps
you would like to see some more of
my little relics. This  that you are leaning
your head so lovingly against.'

It was a short double screen of crimson

stuff apparently like the other curtains,
but narrow and divided in two parts,
hanging loose from a rod overhead. Mrs.
Fisher looked up open-eyed.

Hey ! presto !'

With a long mail-stick he caught up,,
Hungerford twitched off one of the coverings
from the rod, and exposed a skeleton
dangling beside them. Mrs. Fisher started
up with an outcry of dismay, real enough
this time, though Hester never heeded.

this is a splendid specimen. A man
who murdered his wife, and then poisoned
himself. I consider myself fortunate in
getting such a fine fellow,' went on Mark
Hungerford, grimly smiling. ' He beat
her to death, it was said. See what grand
pectoral limbs the fellow had. And wait  '

He pitched off the other cover, where
a smaller skeleton hung ; both with the
piteous, limp appearance appealing so
mutely to our living humanity covered

with flesh and muscle, and able to stand
upright without being suspended, that
makes these frameworks of ourselves far
more touching to muse on than the empty
shell of a deserted house, once a happy-home.


'This was his wife, it was declared tome.
But I can hardly believe it, because
she had no ribs broken. Anyhow, it was
a woman ; so they may grin at each other
as they please now. You will perceive
the difference between the two frames,'
went on the man of science, interested at
once in his subject. ' The breadth of the
man's shoulders, you will observe, is so
considerably larger than hers ; the base
of the bodily triangle in him being thus
shown '

Oh, my goodness ! Dear me  Mark
really! Do spare us these horrid details
about those nasty old bones,' ejaculated
Mrs. Vignolles, putting up her tight-gloved

hands before her face, with a horrified
little flutter of outraged modesty.

Hungerford brought down his stick on
the floor with an angry bang.

Upon my word ! one would think,
Emma, you thought it improper to have
any bones. You and Nature do your best
to cover up yours certainly' (ironically
circumscribing her stout little person with
a glance) ; ' but, for all that, you will come
to be like this some day, and your ribs
to resemble a gridiron . . . Why, even
Hester has less nonsense in her than you !'

It is really very interesting to know
a little about ourselves ; and Mark explains
how the bones fit into each other
like hinges, or else a ball and socket ; so
that it all seems quite wonderful and
beautiful,' Hester roused herself to answer,
in an almost soundless voice, yet with
earnest in defending her husband.

Mrs. Fisher changed the subject quickly.

'Well, I declare, it makes me think of
Bluebeard's famous room. And with all
these crimson curtains and carpets and
hangings, too, it quite makes one shudder.'

Ha, ha ! Suggestive of blood, eh? But
how am I Bluebeard, considering I have
only had one wife yet? No matter, I
may rival him still in that respect and
surpass you. Major Kenyon, unless you
begin about it pretty sharp,' laughed Hun-perform
in his loud, ringing tones, that
vibrated back from the skylights above ;
an unnatural laugh, because so much more
noise than soul seemed to go with it, and
yet many people praised its cheeriness.

He went on in his eagerly excitable way
of the Faust, as Edith Fisher called him ;
throwing off the philosopher, and playing
the lover of life and man of the world now.

'Do you hear, Hester? I may outlive
you all yet  everyone of you, here? I
mean to try, anyhow.'

Kenyon saw his look at his wife. It
seemed so gruesomely triumphant, that
the words struck like a knell of evil omen
on Kit's heart, to be remembered afterwards
only too well.

As Hungerford so spoke, with a cruel
sort of delight in the anticipation of outliving
his wife and the friends he held
dear, the light from above fell full and
blinding on his face. Hester felt as if
scales had fallen from her eyes, and that
she had wilfully not once seen her husband's
face of late as it now really was !
for he had changed much in manner and
appearance during the last year or two.
It was an old, powerful, but hungry-looking
visage she gazed at with a sort of
newly appalled fascination. A thin long
face, now pale yellow in hue and covered
thickly with fine small wrinkles that in
this full light seemed freshly revealed.
There were strongly marked vertical lines

VOL. II. I

between this overhanging eyebrows. The
philosopher's furrows, the signs of earnest
student-toil Hester had reverently thought
them once ; and former fitful but intense
studies for short periods had certainly left
traces on Mark Hungerford's forehead and
cheeks, for the important facial muscle
which passes upwards from the mouth to
the nose and brows, raising the upper lip
and nostril, and drawing down the brows
in intense study, had truly  lined his face
with thought.'

But rage, as she knew too well in the
last eighteen months or more, will plough
still deeper marks on men's faces. His
Avhiskerless long cheeks were hollowed of
late, and the jaw-bones and chin become
more prominent ; while his wide mouth,
thin-lipped and compressed but mobile as
suited one gifted with brilliant powers
of speech, drooped slightly, but decidedly,
more on one side than the other. And

his eyes  those large and rather prominent
light-blue eyes that had been, with his clear
voice, perhaps Mark Hungerford's most
pleasing features in the days when he was
considered a striking and distinguished if
not handsome man  now roved with a dissatisfied
expression here and there as if
ever seeking something; but, when they
did become fixed, it was with a disagreeable
gleam. Even under his black velvet
cap, his once light-fair hair could be detected
having turned by almost imperceptible
degrees snow white, in patches.

His tall, lean figure was stooped

Christopher saw this whilom successful
rival too, in the same moment and with a
like revealing glance. He himself stood
close by, dark-haired and upright, his
features bronzed by tropical suns, handsome
as ever, his mouth and eyes as kindly.
Oh, the contrast !  Had Kit known how
sharply Hester felt it, like a knife in

i2

her tired heart, he would surely have
moved away.

 Well ! if there is nothing more to show
us, perhaps we might go,' began Mrs. Vigo
who was evidently uncomfortable.

Nothing more ! Oh ! yes, plenty more,,
Emma, to show you. Yes, Emma. You
think it almost indecent to have a spine,
it appears ; but, never mind, you shall
see something that I consider uselessly
degenerate, but which will just suit the
proper ideas of an old-fashioned person
like you  Here ! Get up, Hester, and you,
will your beautiful presence be pleased to
rise, fair Charmer !' (this to Mrs. Fisher with
an exaggerated tone and look of profound
admiration that might be ironical, but was
at all events, slightly confusing even to her
seasoned mind). As both got up, Hunger-ford
took off the heavy crimson coverlet
on their seat, and displayed beneath  a
coffin ! It was made of ebony, and on the

lid was a handsome silver plate, engraved
with floated initial letters :

Hester Hiingerford,

the devotedly well-beloved wife of Mark Hungerford,

Died Aged

Two blanks were left. All three quests
stood mute staring before them.

Like it, ha  h ? Silver handles, you
see. My own design !' remarked Hunger-ford,
with the prolonged roar in his ha  h
they were accustomed to, but this time
there was a chuckle in its sound as he eyed
his cousin, ' Pussy ' VignoUes.

Before anyone spoke, he raised the
coffin-lid, which worked easily back on
hinges, and displayed the inside, which
was padded and lined with richest white
satin, and edged with costly lace.

 Pretty that  isn't it ? done after my
own directions. Gives one the idea of
spotless purity and innocence, doesn't it ?
Come, Emma  Hester is quite satisfied

with it. What do you say ? Would you
like to try if it fits you Get in.'

He took his cousin, in rather rough
play, by the arm. But Mrs. Vignolles,
who, with all her worldly wisdom and old-campaigner
tricks, was a hot-tempered
little woman, ruffled up all her feathers in
an instant, as it were, and tried to shake
off his grasp.

Pray leave me alone, Mark Hungerford.
Your wife may bear with these jokes of
yours, but all I can say is, I ivont  there !
And, what is more, I should like to know
the meaning of this ?'

The little woman's eyes were full of
fury, her cheeks in a flame of poppy-red ashe
held her; but she transfixed him so
vindictively with her angry glance, that
Hungerford stepped back sullenly, and
said, in a subdued but sarcastic tone,

Pray keep your temper ; you never
could take a joke, Emma. As to the

meaning of the coffin, it is a far higher and
more solemn thought than most likely you,
who love the world and the things that
are in the world, can appreciate. It is
simply that I have long felt that, as in the
midst of life we are in death, so the thought
of eternity should be ever present with us.
Therefore, because also I could not bear
the possibility of my dearest wife being
perhaps suddenly called away from this
world, with no time for me to prepare a
fit casket for her remains, I had this made,
and we shall always travel about with it.
At certain times, I think, it might be well
for Hester to sleep in it  hum  or lie
through a nio-ht and meditate on her last
resting-place.'

Charming, truly ! And may one ask
whether you have provided yourself also
with a similar help to holy thoughts T
demanded Mrs. Vignolles, like a little
virago ; while Kenyon admired her pluck

and anxiously watched Hester, who had
sunk down on a chair, seeming as pale and
no more able to raise her heavy lids than a
marble lady on a tombstone ; Edith Fisher
meanwhilelookingon,round-eyedandrather
appalled.

'Have you got your coffin, too, Mark?'
his cousin reiterated, still facing him.

And, whether her words  or more her
look, as Christopher fancied  made him
feel shame-stricken, Hungerford certainly
appeared abashed, almost humbled.

Mine . oh, I want none. True
philosophy should have nothing to do with
lead-lined coffins. They may put me to
rot in any ditch or cover me over with
leaves, that the little worms may have
their fill of me, for what comes of earth
should go back to replenish the earth,
hum !  ha!'

Pretty well for a man who has turned
the old chapel at his home into a perfect

bijou of a family mausoleum, all marbles
and new tiles, and, I shouldn't wonder,
warmed with hot air !' retorted Mrs.
Yignolles.

Really, madam . is that all you
have to say? Well  good-bye, Kenyon
I am off for my afternoon constitutional
; I can't miss that for any man. As
to the ladies, they have, apparently, all
lost their tempers.'

And, abruptly leaving them, next
minute Hungerford was seen crossing the
lawn with long strides.

'A joke, indeed ! I call his jokes
grisly and, what is more, now, I blame you,
Hester, I do indeed, severely, for giving
way to Mark like this ; and I consider it
quite your own fault,' burst out Mrs. Yig-
nobles, still terribly flustered.

And Mrs. Fisher found her tongue at
last to cry, with uplifted hands and eyebrows.


'Tell me, Hester dear, is your husband
mad T

Hush, don't trouble her,' expostulated
Mrs. Vignolles.

And Kenyon, in the same breath, exclaimed,
' She is fainting  leave her to me.'

As they both spoke, Hester had half-slipped
sideways from her chair and fallen
into Kit's arms out-stretched to receive
her. The other two ladies hurried to and
fro wildly and aimlessly at first ; finally
both ran out of the room to call for water,
her maid, brandy, smelling-salts. Kenyon
was left alone with his dear burden. Hester's
head lay once more on his shoulder ;
she Alas in his arms. He bent down, feeling
as if his heart was brimming over with
pity, love, regret ; and almost kissed her
pale lips. Then a sudden feeling of her
helplessness, and how when others oppressed
her it behoved him to be all the more
chivalrous, so touched Kit's woman-like

sensitive mind that he only laid his head
an instant softly, pityingly against her
dear one, so that his dark locks met her
silky chestnut hair, and a portion of his
cheek just touched hers. More would
have seemed desecration. Hester slowly
sighed, and opening her eyes heavily looked
up in his, that now eagerly met that
awakening glance of returning life.

It seemed the next moment that Mrs.
Vignolles had bustled back, and was standing
over them, followed by several servants.
Kenyon judged it best to retire to the ,
where he waited to learn how
Mrs. Hungerford might be feeling, before
he left the villa. Mrs. Fisher, with her
usual good-nature, came presently to tell
him she was better.

I knew you would be anxious,' she said,
very softly. Kit could hardly tell at the
moment why the dulcet accents made him
feel uncomfortable.

You are very kind,' he replied, uneasily.

'Not at all. I am her true friend, remember.
Major Kenyon. As to Mr. Hun-perform,
if I were his unlucky spouse,
which, thank heaven, I'm not ! I'll tell you
what I'd do. I'd buy one of those great
text-books, as big as a map, you know,
one sees in railway waiting-rooms and
those sort of places, and I'd pick out the
one about, "All flesh is grass . . . and
though man come to four-score years, yet
is their strength then but labour and sorrow."
And I should roll it out over the
end of his bed, where he'd see it every
morning of his life, ha, ha, ha !'

And, with a merry little snap of her
fingers, the pretty speaker departed,
laughing.

CHAPTER VII.

A LAND OF PALM AND ORANGE-BLOSSOM.

Again, a week or so later, Hester and
Christopher Kenyon were alone together,
side by side. The whole ' usual party' from
the villa, as they now called themselves,
had driven early that day, by the mountainous,
to where

Like a gem, beneath, the city
Of little Monaco, basking, glow'd.'

They were not at Monaco, itself, of course,
but at Monte Carlo, that loveliest small
Eden on its enchanted ledge between
mountains and the dark-blue Mediterranean.
And the serpent's temptation, the

gambling-rooms, were not a hundred yards
away. But they were sitting on a marble
terrace, embowered in orange trees and
myrtle, with palms outlined overhead
against the dark blue sky, here and there
some ' flat pine of the south ' standing out
lower down, umbrella-like, from where a
little shadowy cape was ' over-smoked ' by
the faint grey olive-trees.

It was a. glorious night, such, a night
when feeling seems enough and speech is
not needed; or truly not between two
beings whose souls understand one another.

A little while before, Hester had left
the gambling-rooms, alone, almost unnoticed,
save by one; that was Kenyon.
She was weary of watching the play ; the
eager faces grouped around the green
tables; of hearing the croupier's monotonous
cry, 'Faites le jeu, messieurs  mesdames
' ' Rien ne va plus !' and
hearing the rattle of the roulette. At

times she played too, as did the rest, just
not to excite remark ; dropped down her
five-franc piece, almost unheeding what
became of it ; and almost always it was
doubled, and then (left there) quadrupled
and, still more, if she pleased to leave
it, such her luck. But Hester was seldom
pleased.  Lucky at play, unlucky in love,'
was often in her mind. Mostly she would
carelessly gather up her small winnings,
but for no private purse, as even Edith
Fisher thought. She would glide away,
and if (as so often happens) some wife,
or sweetheart, was standing in a window-recess
of the grand rooms  her eyes filled
with silent tears, watching the man she
loved staking his last little all, and they
two with only the prospect of quick death
together afterwards, if held preferable to
starvation or parting  Hester's money
would be silently, gently pushed into her
hand, with a quiet, quick sisterly word

even for those whose skirts many other
women like herself would have disdained
to brush.

But Mark Hungerford, when the fit
took him, would play tremendously fora
week or ten days, risking enormous
sums and losing ; then winning back fitfully,
with apparent reckless carelessness,
and yet, if the paradox be allowed, intensely
eager sang-froid. This past week
he had almost abandoned the villa, and
day after day the same party we know
had come down to play. And Kenyon
had played almost as wildly as Hunger-ford
himself He seemed, those days, a
gambler to his finger-tips. Some demon
of excitement and unrest seemed to possess
him at the tables. Only at moments,
when he met Hester's gentle eyes  it was
as if a cool wind blew over the hot desert
of his mind, and he would perhaps come
near her, and stay silent, playing no more.

This night Mark was staking furiously,
as if a thirst of gold possessed him. Piles
he had gained were heaped before him.
Hester was sick to death of it all  had
come out here to escape seeing the wolfish
greed in her husband's eyes, the trembling
claw-like gesture with which his long
fingers caught up his winnings.

Alone she sat awhile Then a step

sounded near her; Kenyon had approached,
and, just saying quietly, 'I saw you goat
first I could hardly find you,' seated
himself beside her, but not even as near
as the bench and propriety allowed ; and,
formally and quietly, Kit put the old
query Hester knew so well 

 Do you mind my smoking ?' and he lit
a cigarette.

They two had not spoken really alone
since the day of the revelations in the
studio, and yet what a world of understanding
now seemed in their fewest words.

VOL. II. K

Hester just turned her head towards
him with a brightened possibility of gladness
in her expression she had not known
a short week ago, then leant back with a
friendly, satisfied look settling on her face.
Kenyon read it like an open book. He
knew that above all other needs Hester's
nature required some kindred spirit constantly
near to turn to, lean on with all
affection, and yet herself console and help.
Her affection was exclusive, and desired
some one to whom she should be first, who
would be all-in-all to her. Hers was a
tender, loving, sensitive spirit, needing
caresses as light and food and speech to
her soul. She had thus been petted and
beloved by her grand-parents, by Bessie
Armytage  above all, had found her
mind's highest longing fulfilled in the love
between herself and Christopher. And
now ! she had been so starved for lack of
love, he guessed, that merely to know she

had one friend by satisfied her ; more from
him Hester would not allow.

Ah ! Kenyon sighed, wishing he could
be so satisfied. He almost regretted his
own dead feeling the last two years ; now
he was roused, but this pleasure was woefully
like pain. Well, at least, Hester's
pure spirit was content  how little some
need to make them smile under their burden
of life ! She heard his sigh.

Have you lost to-night ?'

No  no,' with a slight start. ' I have
won a good deal ; not that I much care,
really.'

' Ah ! Kit, why do you play so terribly,
then ?'

Hester's tone was low, almost entreating.
Kenyon answered as low.

Why ? For distraction  to forget.' It
Alas a dangerous speech, as he knew the
moment the words were spoken. He added,
more lightly, puffing carefully at his

cigarette  ' And besides, I partly do it because
we all do, all our party ; and you
know I am a chameleon, whether in good
or evil surroundings.'

Yes; and these are not good.' Hester's
voice became anxious and hurried, and
she glanced round as she sat upright.
' The last few days I have wanted to warn
you, to entreat you to stop in time, but I
always hesitated. Mr. Hungerford does
play, as you say, and he has been urging
you on, tempting, jeering at you. He has
been egging you by every means, and

then Oh, Kit, he laughs afterwards in

his sleeve, and says he will see you ruined
yet!'

Good heavens ! why ? . . . Well ; no
matter. Wishing one ill need not be like
the evil eye, whatever Italians say ; so,
my dear Hester, why distress yourself?'

Kenyon spoke quietly, though secretly
startled by Hester's tone of heavy, fearful

resignation; it was no "hysterical utterance.

I trust and pray it may be so  but lie
has ruined several before  men he called
his friends. It seems to have a fearful
fascination for him to see others playing
desperately, risking their all on the very
brink of destruction. He is so rich, and
has, he says, the devil's luck, and he never
seems to lose. But oh. Kit, as we have
been  as we are friends ! I do entreat you
to spare me this pain. It may be not
only saving yourself from loss, but also
him from having another such sin on his
soul.'

Hester's words, coming straight from her
troubled heart, seemed suddenly to light
up, as with a flash, many little traits and
incidents that now came crowding on
Kenyon's memory. She added, with painful
effort,

It is a terrible thing to tell you this of
one's husband, I trust in your honour to

keep my confidence  given as much for
his sake as yours. It is a strange possession
that comes over him at times. He
does not really seem responsible, but as if
a demon forced him to try his power over
others.'

Hester, there is surely nothing you
need regret telling me. I will swear to
hold your warning sacred . . . and if it is
in me to profit by anything, it may yet dome
good.'

Kenyon's tone was tenderly earnest ; yet
he pulled a branch of roses down a minute
afterwards, and held one towards Hester,
as if in playful pledge of his half-assurance
to cease play. He did not wish her
to take this matter too greatly to heart.
Then he asked, in a subdued tone, with
meaning,

But, if you do not mind greatly my
asking . . . Has Hungerford any cause
for hating me ? . . . Does he know of any

possible former reason, or rather, what may
seejii such in his eyes ?'

No ; he knows nothing,' said Hester
firmly but sadly. ' Once, before our marriage,
I told him  because it was right
and honourable in my mind  there had
been some one . . . whom I believed

dead Oh, Kit !  it was right ; and

yet I have almost regretted it, and that
bitterly, ever since.'

Christopher sighed ; it was very like a
groan.

' No matter ; I have grown used to it
now,' Hester went on, eagerly. 'And then,
you know, it is not always dark weather.
Oh, we will not talk of our little several
grievances and troubles, everyone has
them ; but most of us have days of sunshine,
as I have  if one would only count
them. For instance, I have been so fortunate
these past months, in finding a
friend in Edith Fisher ; and then (if you

will not laugh !), even playing with Ada
and Adrian Vignolles amuses me for the
whole day ; and now you are here, and so
altogether '

You are altogether feeling happier these
days, Hester ; is that it ?'

Kenyon spoke with quiet interest, trying
not to allow tenderness and pity to mingle
too much in his voice. What a pale
happiness  with the platform at home, and
the statue and coffin awaiting her ! But
she replied, eagerly,

'Yes, I am, indeed,  I feel at last resigned
lately to knowing that life does not
mean perhaps for anyone, " and they lived
happily ever after." And quite a new
spring of contentment seems to have
sprung up for me lately with that conviction.
Do you ?  You do not think it
foolish of me to avant to be a little happy
in this way  to enjoy these roses you
have just given me, though those dreadful

rooms are close behind ? Everyone surely
has trials, too, but they seem to enjoy
themselves. And to-night, with such a
sky over us, and the sea there  and this
sweet, warm air around us. Oh, it is a
lovely earth !  Why should I not enjoy
it all, too? You understand '

'I do . . Yes, let us enjoy this evening.
You are right. I am glad with all
my heart you feel so.'

And Kit vaguely wondered would many
more such other meetings, on such exquisite
evenings, come for her and him.
But yet he, following Hester's example,
gave himself up to the sweet influences
of the Pleiades above, to the sensuous,
stealing scent of roses and orange flowers,
the soothing of twilight, the large consolations
of the wide sky, and the deep sea
belittling their petty cares,  and the secret
gladness of being; beside this beautiful
woman, the atmosphere surrounding whose

presence seemed sufficient to make the
veriest Sahara appear breathing of Paradise
to him; he knew not why. And
so, among the myrtle and pains, they
talked of old days at WestclifF; of the
house on the terrace, and the merry tribe
of boys and girls, and the dear presiding
genius, Bessie Armytage. They forgot all
else, and were happy  truly happy.

We speak of friends and their fortunes,
And of what they did and said,
Till the dead alone seem living ;
And the living alone seem dead.'

Until at last Hester, amused at something,
raised her head, to ease her heavy feathered
hat pressing her brow. A fall of rich
lace dropped back from her arm as she
did so, and Kit remarked a dark bruise
on its delicate surface.

'What is that? How have you hurt
yourself?' he asked. Then, even in the
dusk of the gloaming, seeing a red blush
rise to Hester's face, he suddenly added

searchingly, ' It looks as if Mr. Hunger-ford
had been ill-using you. Tell me,
Hester I am your only friend perhaps
here  and I must know.'

He did not mean to hurt me, I think
It was only that he was angry at my fainting
the other day. He reproached me, and
said mind should dominate matter, and
that if I did my wifely duty in a right
spirit I could not get tired. Certainly he
makes his bodily strength do wonders 
that is true enough. I give way to weakness
too easily,' said Hester, faintly but
pleadingly, as if the confession were forced
from her.

In truth, Hungerford had taunted her.
If it had been her lover '  he often spoke
so ; though none was clearly alluded to-beyond
the memory of the supposed deadman
that had ever since roused his jealousy
to bitter gibes. She could have done as
much and more gladly for him.

That settles it,' ejaculated Kenyon,
impulsively flinging his cigar away. ' I
shall leave Nice. I can never again enter
the doors of a man who could treat you 
treat any woman so. And I, who thought
him such a good fellow, agreeable 
pleasant ! Never '

No, do not go ; or, at least, if you stay,
come just the same, for my sake. Remember
 my friend  that I shall be the only
sufferer, for no one else will know why
you desert us.'

I will never desert soit '

'Then do not judge him hardly, either.
Of late I pity him, truly. Perhaps, if we
only knew all, he and many others should
not be judged at all by mankind. He
was born with a jealous, violent nature,
and almost too gifted and excitable a
brain. Remember how his different facilities
seem urging him this way and that,
how he has tried so many pursuits, and

wearied before he grasped success because
of Avant of perseverance ; then, feeling he
has brilliant powers, he becomes discontented
and restless. I have been told he
just missed distinguishing himself in his
youth at college; then in parliament ; afterwards
he spent years of middle life  sometimes
all alone  at his own country place,
studying deeply at what he calls the foolishly
forgotten wisdom of the ancients ; but
at other times spending a great deal, and
living  oh ! quite in the world !'

Kit nodded. He had heard that Mark
Hunoerford had run through two fortunes
before inheriting his last and greatest, that
he had been the wildest in his day among a
wild set.

And now he feels growing old and
lonely in mind. Perhaps he was disappointed
I did not prove a better companion to
him, although he knew '

Hester stopped short, confused. Kit

entered into her meaning that the rich,
elderly man having hoped to buy the young
girl's love (no doubt because of her charms)
Hungerford would not give her up even
on being innocently told that another image
had filled the first place in her heart.

If a man creates a desert round himself,
he has no right to complain of being desolate,'
said Kenyon, sternly.

This is the first time I ever knew you
speak harshly before. Believe me, '' Judge
not"  and Hope always is nearer being
right. Besides, I like best to think of you
as kind to all  you always were, Christopher,'
urged Hester, half piteously, half
coaxingly.

Kind  oh, yes, especially to myself,' he
laughed; enigmatically to the woman beside
him, who had forgotten in her forgiveness
he had any right to blame himself as regarded
her, in past days.

Now  it is growing chilly here. Let

us go and hear some music,' suggested
Hester, lightly again in her veiled musical
tones.

So they went and listened to a glorious
band, and the sounds of harmony transported
both into a land of bright illusions
once more. For Kenyon was an ardent
lover of music ; and Hester, though hardly
understanding it as he did, delighted as if
in being borne along on the current of
Ralph, the sacred river, by new shores of
Xanadu, where delightful beings of her
fancy trooped with welcome to greet her.
Her ambitions and air-castles had fallen
for herself; but for Baby Ada, for Adrian,
for all she loved, she raised the glittering
fabrics as eagerly as ever.

'You must have been enjoying yourselves.
Why ! Hester, you have quite a
lovely colour,' congratulated Mrs. Fisher
later, as they all re-assembled before starting
Nice wards again.

'A colour! Had lie not always a
lovely colour?' Kenyon thought within
his own mind, treating himself to a full
glance unknown to Hester or the others
as he stood behind them. Pale she was,
certainly ; paler than in the former spring
days of gladness ; and more ethereal and
fragile-looking. But it was

That paleness of the pearl that's fit
In a fair woman, so much and no more,'

as saith Dante in his ' Vita Nova.' Mark
Hungerford rejoined them, his eyes seeming
still to gleam satisfied at winning
numbers, for he had won largely. And
Edith Fisher with an almost too good-natured
airy whisper and laughing glance
to Kenyon, devoted herself to stroking
down the lion on their return journey,
Mr. Fisher having discreetly and creditably
betaken himself back by an early
train ; no one (except his wife, it was to
be hoped) cherishing much regard for his

society. Mrs. Yignolles was fussily flattered
by having apparently found some
favour in the eyes of a retired warrior,
General Doyle, whom she had recently
introduced to the Beausite circle. The
general was stout, reddish, florid, and, as
usually goes with such an outer man,
choleric but good-humoured, and had been
reported to observe that he liked the little
widow ; she had plenty to say, and seemed
pretty well ofl*.

 Capital entree that second one we had
at dinner to-night,' he was heard remarking
to her now.

Excellent ! I like a good dinner, I
confess, eh  don't you, general? As a
friend of mine, and indeed a great
admirer !' (and Mrs. Yignolles bridled here
consciously) ' used to say : " A friend lost
may be replaced, but if you lose a dinner
it is gone for ever," eh ?'

Sensible man,' quoth the general, lazily.

VOL. II. L

sand the Benedictine we had afterwards,
capital, capital ! wasn't it ?'

'Eh, yes, indeed ; I have a great weakness
for Benny  I confess.'

Mark Hungerford grinned with a sardonic
glance behind them.

Emma is a true Christian. All things
to all men. What will any of you bet
that she hooks him ?'

CHAPTER VIII.

CARNIVAL-TIME.

The carnival was approaching, and it was
carnival time also in the minds of the
inhabitants of the Villa Beausite, and
with their friends. While people at home
were suffering from nipping winds, and
dust and chilly glaring sun, out here the
roses and anemones and tulips were
glowing, little green leaves pushing out
everywhere, and the scent of violets
brought a rich message in the air each
morning, as one came downstairs and
met the sun and outer atmosphere while
standing in some marble en trance way.

l2

Kenyon, having overcome his angered
reluctance ever to cross Hungerford's
threshold again, now found himself up at
the villa more than ever. At first his
eyes had been like dark windows on some
watch-tower, behind which a defiant eager
sentinel kept a keen look-out ; jealously
noting Mark Hungerford's every word and
deed. Hester herself made him aware,
by a happily-conveyed hint or two, that
her spouse's late troubling mood had
passed, and all was ease and peace again ;
as in the outer world, gentle breezes and
full sunshine only pleasantly reminded
them of former cold mistral gales, and
snowstorms whitening the orange-groves ;
of treacherous sunshine tempting the
unwary to heedlessness. This was true,
for, watch as he might, Kit saw no further
evidence of Hungerford's wayward moods.
The change had come suddenly, even
to Hester, accustomed though she was to

Mark's variableness of temper  and in this
wise.

Look here, my dear girl,' he said to
her the morning after her visit to Monte
Carlo, described in the last chapter ; coming
with less of his usual abruptness into
her boudoir. ' Do not mind posing forme
this morning. Go off for a stroll with
that boy Adrian, if you like. I am perhaps
going to Nice, so don't mind me.'

If you are quite certain you don't
want me ' began Hester, doubtfully.

Quite ! quite. And ha  h ! the fact is,
I have been a little hard on you lately,
Hester . . . Ave must make it up, there's
a good girl.' And he stooped and kissed
her cheek, to her infinite surprise. 'Besides,
I really find I am wanting in knowledge
of anatomy, and have arranged to
study the muscles, and so forth, in a
thorough way. All my dry bones are so
many disjointed facts.' (This classifying

of bones had been the study alluded toby
Hester when pressed by Mrs. Fisher's
curiosity.) 'So, good-bye; enjoy yourself!
and, by-the-by, if you go up to the Roman
amphitheatre, you will find Kenyon sketching
there. Ask him back to lunch ; I like
him.'

Hester, in the amazing relief that followed,
which in the first few days she
was half-afraid of believing  or had almost
unlearned how to enjoy  resolutely shut
her eyes as to whether these new anatomy
studies meant the horrible word dissection,
that had once much dismayed Edith Fisher.
After all, doctors learned these things : and
no one shrank from them. She must not
shudder in wondering if her husband's
hands had been so employed.

Thus several days came when Hester
Hungerford and Kenyon took happy strolls
together ; but always with Adrian at their
side, generally carrying his petted charge,

the baby Ada. They went down valleys
full of wild-flowers ; or through pine-woods
where the ground was sandy underfoot,
and the air full of resinous odours. Or
they went by rocky paths past the eyeless,
glaringly white houses of the south, perhaps
rudely painted in frescoes ; and so
out over rugged hills where the rosemary
bushes grew, looking down at Nizza lying
under its sheltering background of hills
beyond hills, the near ones crested with
olive-woods, then a range of further blueish
wilder mountains, behind all a line of
snowy peaks. The great wooded rock of
the castle itself dividing the old, old
Italian town and the new cosmopolitan
one, seemed between the two valleys which
ran down from the heights above, like the
end of a moraine once slid down therefrom
a glacier. The white line of surf
broke against it in vain defiance ; while,
beyond, the Mediterranean was of turquoise

hue, and further still of deepest
glorious blue.

Again they wandered through miles of
olives, only olives, grey and mysterious.
Some so wide of girth, their age seemed
enormous, like a tree at Beauties, four
hundred years old, which saw the Saracen
rule on the Riviera when they castled
every crag. They would stop to talk with
Gaspard Scatena, the brother of little
Ada's nurse, who told them how each tree
is allotted by government, according to
the number of small human olive-branches
in a poor man's family ; how the trees
bear for two years, but rest the third ;
and how, when the crop was ripe and
bursting with oil in early spring, all the
people came out gaily to beat the trees
for the olive harvest. Then the barrels
of oil would be taken down to caves on
the coast, where the sea-air mellowed the
oil.

Scatena lived himself in a picturesque,
but dirty hamlet, in a hill gorge, surrounded
by the sombre evergreen of ilexes, the
road thereto being so rude that no other
vehicle could pass but the peasants' country
carts, drawn by mules with jingling
bells. And here Kenyon sketched, pleasing
not only himself, but Hester silently
watching.

And again, up in the crumbling Roman
amphitheatre at Cimiez, they would stand
and look silently, dreaming of the time
when spectators of those old days lined the
walls, and the deep roar of the Libyan
lions came from the wild-beasts' cells below.
But also Hester loved passing under the
plane-trees to the little Carmelite monastery.
Entering the cemetery, she would
stand and look with smiling sadness at the
fresh wreaths of white camellias and purple
violets that sweetened the spot.

'I should not dislike the thought of

lying here myself lie said once to Kit ;
though of all such spots I ever saw there
is none to my mind like the hill at West-cliff,
with the sea sounding below, and the
wild pansies and thyme and daisies growing
over one  what folly ! as if the spirit
far away need care  is it not ? And yet
one has such fancies that I should not like
to think of my body as laid in a cold, stone
vault? It would seem in death what the
existences of these men is in life, remote
from humankind.'

She glanced at the brown-cloaked monks
passing with sandalled feet.

It is a fancy I can well imagine being
yours,' replied Kenyon, smiling at her.
'And yet I doubt these men being unhappy.
If joyless, they are painless at
best. I have sometimes thought, of late
years, such a calm existence, without hope,
almost without thought, might mean peace
and could half envy them.'

At which Hester was, in a manner, dissenting
silent. But she knew how keenly
he felt pain.

Yes, those were happy clays. Hester's
colour grew daily rosier, like pale, pink
petals, closed in bad Weather, unfolding to
returning sunshine. Her step became
elastic again, her eyes brighter.

Oh, if this could only last !' she thought
once or tmce to herself

Then, made wise by experience, thought
no more but enjoyed. It was the brightest
spell since her marriage. The first
year she had been startled and troubled by
the throng of regrets and vain, hopeless
wishes that had come fluttering out bat-like,
as it were, from the empty tomb
whence Christopher Kenyon's memory had
been resurrected. Mark Hungerford had
been proud of his young wife, eagerly engrossed
then with his new toy. Yet he
reverted from the first to her humble.

child-like confidence ' that she could only
give him gratitude, not her best love,' with
a sort of angered gratification in asserting
his own ownership, at least, in demanding
subservience. And she was bewildered
between her pre-nuptial ideas of this guide,
philosopher, and friend of her life, and the
new man whose acquaintance was forced
upon her intimately after prolonged doubting,
in which lay her real mistake.

Then followed a time of madder whirl
of dissipations, when her beauty, having
been more widely recognised, received in
homage the brimming cup of society's
pleasures ; but cost her hours of suffering,
from unmerited jealousies Mark conceived
of men she hardly knew nor liked, while
her every possible friend was rigidly held
aloof Next, prostration, illness followed ;
restless travelling here and there ; a low
state of health, and then  at last  a halt
at the Villa Beausite.

'I am quite happy, now, only to rest
here. I do not want wings like a dove !
Rest, rest, rest, that is my cry ! The
world has had enough of me, and I have
been so tired of it,' said Hester one day to
Kenyon, as they had sat down awhile.

 There is no rest for me, it seems.
Every day I cannot but remember that
time is passing. This day three months
and I shall be on board some good ship of
the P. and 0., rolling as if it was rolling
right over, probably ; with the heat at
what I do not even imagine Gehenna to
be. Ah ! if this could but go on for ever,
it would be a fair approximation of a
happy life, Hester, as such go.'

'Don't think, my friend  just enjoy the
present,' she besought him. ' Oh, it takes
one such a long time to learn homo to he
happy! and, after all, the highest and
wisest philosophy is to be anxious for
nothing, but rejoice while we may. Hope

is always with us to the end, too. We have
more wisdom as children, and then we forget
it. Look at baby there ; perfectly happy
with her daisy-chain, not troubling whether
Adrian will make her another tomorrow.'
Miss Ada was certainly a fat, placid
cherub of the Armytage happy-minded
type ; more sober than her mother at the
same age, but resembling, so Hester declared,
her great-grandfather, who had lived in
the Nest, to a solemn screwing together
of her eyes, and a trick of rubbing her
tiny forehead with her left hand, Avhen
cogitating with miniature profundity.
Often Mark Hungerford, himself, would
join them unexpectedly in these excursions,
and be all good-humour; giving
them wayside lectures in his eager way
on botany, forestry, or geology. More
often he would be awaiting them at the
villa, where Mrs. Fisher was also always
seated among the roses of the verandah

(and under a crimson-satin parasol, that
exactly killed poor Mrs. Vignolles' cheaper
scarlet-cotton one), greeting them from
afar with the pretty pouting cry,

 Oh, there you are at last ! We thought
you were nevers ?2?;r coming !'

And then, stolen-wise, she would always
give a laughing, pleading invitation out
of her black eyes at Kit, too bewitching
to resist easily, and glance at the empty
chair which, somehow, was always beside
her. So Kenyon, going over to her perforce,
though he had been looking with
an appropriating eye at a chair just near
Hester's little tea-table, with the silver,
hissing gipsy-kettle, could hardly be vexed
when Mrs. Fisher whispered,

 You don't mind giving up a few minutes
now to amusing poor me, do you? Oh,
dear ! I deserve a little treat indeed. I
have been doing penance, talking to the
old man for half-an-hour.'

*Do you dislike that so much?' Kit
would murmur lack, ironically, with a
slight freedom he would never have permitted
himself towards Hester. But Mrs.
Fisher, looking him round-eyed and innocently
in the face, as many women do
when they wish to deceive, always answered,
deprecatingly,

 Well, he is very clever, you know, and
really kind ! Besides, I think, for poor
Hester's sake, it is as well there should
be some one to take him oiF her hands
.sometimes. But still  ugh ! One does
not pine to talk all the day to old fossils
even for dear friendship sake.'

So Kenyon sat beside her, well amused,
listening to racy little stories ; lazily answering
to the challenge of his pretty
companion, to a discussion of very earthly
flavoured metaphysics, with an amorous
dash. It was not his fault, he considered,
(when he did consider). She began it,

and 'any other man in his place would
have done the same.' Hester was the mistress
of his soul, and all his highest
aspirations and truest thoughts and feelings
were hers ; so he now told himself
with a secret pride, the thought seeming
to ennoble him, though saddened at the
same time. But  for her dear sake  it
was not well the world should guess he
thought of her as his guardian angel ; soit
was perhaps wisest to sit now by Edith
Fisher. The latter pleased him, too ;
though having the same effect upon his
being that a strong scent of hyacinths
might have in contrast with violets ; the
violently crimson glow of anemones compared
with a soft, red rose. With her
he always felt deliciously tempted to be
just a little worse than his every-day self,
not much perhaps, but piquantly enough.
With Hester, wandering all afternoon beside
her and the children through the

VOL. II. M

woods and valleys of the beautiful sunshiny
country, he had felt exalted, purified,
capable of great and good deeds.

But still, as they sat and talked a little
apart  having the appearance of a flirtation,
it must be owned, in the opinion of
the chance visitors who often strayed to the
villa  Christopher's eyes often turned towards
Hester rapidly with a sort of penitent,
eager look. It was as though one
were being pleasantly coaxed just a little
way down the primrose path of dalliance,
yet called back to some beloved spirit watching
anxiously from the narrow, higher road,
It is only for a little !' Hester saw the look,
and told herself proudly (for, after all, any
Avoman might be proud of having such a
true friend), if she wanted him, he was
ready as her vassal.

'And Edith loves flirting!  she cannot
help flirting with every man, I do believe,
if he were old enough to be her grandfather,

or boy enough to be her own son.
When even Adrian only is there, she will
make eyes at him . . . No matter, she is
very pleasant when I have her to myself
. . And it is wisest, for people might
talk ! There is Emma Vignolles always
watching to pounce down with her advice
and warnings, whenever she can find fault
With me, and already she tries pretty often
to send him to Edith when she can. Ah,
well ! no such little things annoy me now,
though if 1 wished to flirt like these other

women '

And  feeling calmly steadfast that all
such lightness was put far from being a
temptation by her strong sense of right
and wrong, and had never entered into
her mind since her marriage Hester would
gently let the benison of her gaze fall
fully on her two friends, as she passed by
them with her queenly trailing robes. She
felt inclined to ask their forgiveness for

m2

doubting their loyalty even an instant in
her heart. Kenyon, watching her, felt

Never was lady on earth more true as woman and wife,
prouder in manners and life.'

And Mrs. Fisher, wrinkling up funnily her
short creamy white nose, thought :

Really, Hester's goodness is exasperating.
It almost tempts me to wish she
might make a fool of herself for once, justa
little, about some man, like the rest of
us.' Then, to relieve her mind, she would
cry aloud, laughing,

Hester, you look like a saint. Come
and be wicked with me. We will play at
ball with Adrian against the blind side of
the studio there. What no ? hu-sh ! . . .
Must the lord and master not be disturbed
? Well, against the garden wall there
and we will cheat as much as we can.'

So Adrian was disinterred from the
downiest sofa in the drawing-room by his
aunt Hester, where, secure of her indulgence,

he had hidden himself from his
mother's quick, fault-finding eyes, and was
lost in the stolen delights of a novel.

Hester herself, light and graceful as
Nautical, played with keen delight, surpassing
them all : laughing unkindly at
Edith Fisher, who lost her breath, and
often begged for mercy; or at Adrian,
who in his short-sighted way sprawled
over the ball ; and at Kenyon, who was
handsomely lazy, and preferred standing
still, and just striking if the ball came his
way : that scientific once or twice counting
more than all the running hither and
thither of the womankind. This, as they
never considered, really balanced the
game, besides feasting his eyes with their
excitement and pretty attitudes. Once or
twice, in the pauses of play, Edith Fisher
had whispered to Hester ; feeling herself a
naughty little temptress, but that still she
would not be penitent, till afterwards, for

what came so pat on the tip of her tongue,

 Well, are you not very much obliged
to me ? Have I not kept the master of
the household quiet, and then thrown dustin
everybody's eyes as to your little weakness,
my dear?' giving an arch side-look
towards Kit.

I have no weakness,' Hester would
openly return, with the quick, rosy-red
flush of innocence, and an indignant flash
of her great grey eyes.  If you mean Major
Kenyon, he is only a very good friend of
ours  for Mark always asks him here himself
 and I knew him too as a girl, that
is aloof

course I know, child . . . don't get
hot over it ! I meant no more than that ;
but it is so amusing to see your virtue
fire up. My friendships always are little
weaknesses, I own. Come and have
another game.'

Then came the carnival itself in the

town, when they all sat together in a
balcony one sunny day, to watch the gay
procession filing past. Through showers
of confetti laughingly thrown and promptly
hurled back, they watched behind their
green wire masks, worn for protection, the
cavalcade of mock soldiers, of mummers,
giant shows, now a hutch full of long-eared
Brobdingnagian human rabbits,
now a cage of monkeys performing antics
on a level with the first-floor windows.
Anon came the gig of an English yacht,
then in the harbour, raised aloft on an
open vehicle covered with the union-jack
below, and made to represent blue billows
above with the aid of canvas. And again
a little carriage, on which Hester's eyes
always bent gloatingly, for it was a triumphal
chariot of violets, the linen-covered
wheels, the whole body of the
vehicle entirely hidden in violets, even
the shafts and harness of the tiny cream-coloured

ponies being apparently chains
of flowers, while throned in the centre
sat the baby Ada, like a rosebud smothered
in white laces on the lap of her
proud Artesian nurse, who wore the
national costume. This Cinderella's fairy
equipage was received with loud acclamations
everywhere.

It is really charming,' said Kenyon,
honestly, to Hester.

'Yes, and it was all Mr. Hungerford's
own idea,' she replied, quite pleased at the
frank praise in which she could concur of
her husband. ' Only I am so glad he did
not insist on his first wish of having Mrs.
Fisher and me to sit in it. I did beg off
that so hard, and Mrs. Ignores helped
me ; she was very good about it. I disliked
the thought of being stared at so
much.'

Tes,' murmured Kenyon, ' I am glad
you held out. Mrs. Fisher would not

have liked it either, I should think.'

Oh !' murmured Hester in return,
being a woman after all, 'she did not
much mind  she rather wished it, indeed,
but still I urged Mark so strongly, he
gave way. It was very good of him to
change.'

And then once or more (being a woman),
as was said, and very human, whatever
Mrs. Fisher might think, Hester would
utter, with a lightly reproachful look,

You two are great friends now. You
never come near me at all lately up at
the villa.'

And each time Kenyon only answered,
with a look of such dumb, earnest homage
that said, ' You how  I am always ready
when you want me,' that Hester told herself
she would never so steak more. But
Mark Hungerford was not jealous ; oh !
certainly not. With almost sardonic decision,
he always ordered the arrangement

of the party so that Kenyon should be at
Hester's side ; he seemed to have the fullest
careless confidence in them both : while
he made himself merry piquing Mrs. Vigo
by his own rather outrageously
forced compliments to Mrs. Fisher, or provoking
Emma still more by sly assumptions
of monopolising her himself, and so
diverting General Doyle's attentions, who
was promptly snatched at by Edith Fisher
as a blessed relief from Hunsferford's
cleverly caustic talk.

It makes one feel always on the tightrope,
don't you know ; it is constant fireworks,'
she comfortably sighed, and the
general, being a slow man in speech himself,
was vastly flattered.

Still Emma Vignolles had a new and
costly mantle to console her, a Parisian
creation which sheer gratitude forced her
to pay for in smiles to its giver, her cousin.

'How did she get it?' Kit privately

had curiosity enough to inquire of his
gossip-crony, Mrs. Fisher.

Just by the very way she scolded him ;
don't you remember that day we all saw
the horrors of the studio. Well ! he absolutely
gave it her immediately afterwards
to make friends again. And she had been
coaxing and hinting for days with little
fawning speeches in vain ! Plucky ? do
you call it. Major Kenyon ? I call it
lucky.'

Why have you not got some new and
wonderful dress like these others ?' Kit
asked of Hester idly enough, criticising
Mrs. VignoUes and Mrs. Fisher with appreciative
enough glance. Both were evidently
new and costly dresses. Hester
glanced down slightly concerned at her
own which was as costly, but had been
seen and admired already once or twice by
her friends.

Do you not like this ? . . . I really

begin to feel at home in my dresses, only
when the' have been worn a few times.
They seem to become more the outward
part of me, not merely an elegant costume
of which I am the clothes-prop.'

'Like it, of course I like it. No one
ever seems to me to wear such exquisite
dresses as you. That is the term which
expresses your appearance best. It was only
that you and Mrs. Fisher used generally
to dress in public alike, and I have just
noticed that she is reigning alone in glory
like unto a fire-queen !'

Only just !  and her dress has been the
talk of the town this last hour,' smiled
Hester ; then bending nearer, with a confidential
tone that made Kit's heart leap
up. He recalled former days when the young
glad girl at WestclifF had so brought him
a.11 her petty vexations and innocent }oj8 ;
like an unexpected gift of spring showers
and sunshine reviving the midday-aridity

of his own feeling. ' To tell you the very
truth, we had settled to dress alike in
white and gold, my favourite colours. So
this morning I felt as if Edith Fisher had
stolen a march upon me, and was vexed at
first. But she could not help herself the
dress was a surprise from Mr. Fisher, she
tells me. I am glad now to have spent
no more money on myself Mark likes me
to be so terribly extravagant as it is.'

'That is the devil's livery, black, red,
and yellow, isn't it?' remarked Kenyon,
reflectively, glancing at Mrs. Fisher's
radiant person, then coming back to study
Hester's cool, spotless presence beside him.
She seemed, as Cowley said of lilies,
'clothed in light.' 'I might call yours
that of a lily, or a saint, only for those
coquettish frills and furbelows of laces,
which make you delightfully human.
After all, I wonder if in a future state of
being: your white robes must be always

cut on the same pattern. If not  you
look quite fit to be in Paradise this minute
as a nineteenth-century spirit

You always did laugh at me more than
anyone else,' said Hester, blushing faintly,
with her old sensitively delightful quickness
to least impressions of pleasure or
dislike.

It does you good to be laughed at,'
decided Kenyon, smiling on her with
almost a feeling as if she was a tender
plant, which he seemed (for the happy moment)
to have the care of, and felt instinctively,
as one does of another being
that has become part of our mental selves
through ties of affection, what sunshine
she needed  and how much, and no more
of shade  what fostering influences and
gentle daily care.

Then came the Battle of Flowers, when
verily the air seemed a coloured rain of
pelting blossoms.

"- It was roses, roses all the way,

AVith myrtle mixed in my path like mad.'

And, in the lulls between the wild
attacks of bullets of little bouquets, and
bomb shells of big ones, one had time to
hear the gay outcries all around, the
streets echoing with laughter,

The house-roofs seemed to heave and sway,

The church spires flamed, such flags they had.'

Oh, it was a fine carnival ! that all the
people of Nice allowed. And, however
these were disposed to grumble at their
seasons, there were visitors enough this
year  foreign gold and sunshine in plenty.
Yes, it was a real carnival time, thought
Hester Hungerford ; thought Christopher
Kenyon. So few carnivals come in one's
short life, after all. Both, inwardly, had
resolved to be happy in the present; to
push useless thoughts of a dark future,
pressing ever nearer, out of their minds.
Kenyon knew that he must return soon

to service in a trying climate lie waa
already heartily sick of; part from 'all
here !' So his own mind euphemistically
phrased it. Hester knew it too . . . Yet
both were meanwhile happy. sufficient
for the day is the evil thereof.'

CHAPTER IX.

ADVICE IS OFTEN SEEN, BY BLUNTING US,
TO MAKE OUR WITS MORE KEEN.'

A FEW days later, Hester was spending
the afternoon at the villa, in company
only of Mrs. Fisher and Mrs. Vignolles.
The men of their party  which had now
come to mean daily, Kenyon and General
Doyle, as well as Hungerford himself, with
Mr. Fisher only thrown in as an occasional
fraction  had gone to some races. The
ladies also had been there the day before,
but Hester was suffering still from a headache,
brought on by the sun, and her
husband had declared, with freakish, new
ill-humour, he was glad of h  he liked
VOL. II. . N

to be free for a day, at least, of womankind !

I am sure none of the men are sorry to
be without us. I believe they all like to
get off by themselves sometimes,' commented
Mrs. Vignolles, with the air of a
wise widow who knew men's ways.

Speak for yourself, my dear. I cannot
say that men have ever yet made me feel
my society che trop though there is no
knowing what I may come to,' smartly
rejoined Mrs. Fisher, who was greatly annoyed
at not going, but had felt the truth
of her blackavised little husband's private
remark: 'Do as you like  but it won't
look well for you to be the only lady with
us. They talk enough already of you at
the club.'

Mrs. Vignolles bridled angrily, feeling
she had made a slip, and that her enemy
had given a neat thrust at that vulnerable
point of most women past first youth
her age.

Well, perhaps you could have afforded
a ticket again to-day. I'm sure, hem ' 
clearing her throat ominously, as for a
skirmish in words. I don't know how
some people manage. / couldn't be so
extravagant !'

(In her own mind she had felt that
Mark was ' queer ' to-day, and not likely
to repeat his generosity of paying her
entrance to the ladies' stand ; and to do
so herself was not to be thought of. In
reality, Mark rather liked ' little Emma,'
his cousin ; and it amused him to have
her purring round him, as he phrased it,
like a pussy-cat rubbing up against all
the chairs to attract attention, in hopes
of his flinging her, with reckless liberality,
some of the golden treasure he valued so
little and she so much.)

Hester, nervously dreading an altercation
between her guests, feeling there was
thunder in the moral atmosphere, and her

N 2

head aching badly, tried to intervene as-peacemaker.
She might as well have been
between the two blades of a pair of
scissors.

but Mr. Fisher, we all know, is very
indulgent to his wife,' she said, with a
pale effort at a smile.  I only wish Mark
gave me my own way as much.'

It was an unhappy remark, though
made in innocent good faith. Mrs. Fisher
felt two red spots rising absolutely visibly
on her cheeks, but before she could frame
a reply Mrs. Vignolles put in, her little grey
eyes wickedly bright,

 Oh, yes  we all know Mr. Fisher is
a model husband, certainly, certainly 
ahem ! His generosity as to your dresses,
my dear Mrs. Fisher, is something astonishing.
You have not had as many lately,
Hester, eh ?  how is that ? I don't understand
it, 'pon my word I don't ! Mark
used to be so lavish, too  quite odd of

Mm. Though as to not having your own
way in other matters,  well, really you
need not complain lately, I do think.'

'No, indeed!' chimed in Mrs. Fisher,
joining in the attack upon the poor neutral
between the enemy's lines. 'You need
never talk again of being kept in order
by your Bluebeard, Mrs. Hester  ha, ha !'

(Hester looked up open-eyed in amaze.
When had she ever so complained ? Had
she not often so longed to unburden her
feminine heart, but proudly always forbidden
herself?)

Really my husband is very good-tempered,
but still he would not allow me to
go rambling all over the country everyday
for hours with the companion of my
choice. Worse luck, I say !'

'Yes, really, Hester; and now, as Mrs.
Fisher is on the subject, I may as well
,say I have been meaning to give you a
little talking-to about this very thing for

some time,' rapidly put in Mrs. Vignolles,
before allowing their victim speech, and
assuming that familiar, almost sportive
tone, accompanied with a severe eye and
supercilious rise of the eyebrows much
adopted by the family lecturer  a relation
afflicted with the mania of offering advice,
which nobody asked for, and most only
take as a nauseous pill. ' These walks of
yours and Major Kenyon's attentions to
you have been getting quite  hem ! quite
noticeable lately. And Mark is a very
jealous man, my dear, I can tell you ;,
even more so than you think.'

Pray trouble yourself to say no more,
Emma,' answered Hester, straightforwardly,
with dignity. ' You know very wellbeing
here constantly, as Mark's cousin,,
that he himself not only allows but encourages
me to make a friend of Major
Kenyon. No one ought to be more aware
of my husband's disposition to jealousy

than I, after three years of married life.
Evidently  as you may both see  he now
Icnoivs he can trust me !'

She was also vexed with Mrs. Fisher,
who need not have turned upon her even
in play. Mrs. Vignolles promptly rejoined,


Oh, well  come !  I don't say but
what you have been really very careful
hitherto, Hester  yes, 'pori my word. But
still the day may come to all women, you
know, when their temptation at last appears.
Don't be too secure !  Kit Kenyon
is a very charming man, my dear, and
you are not the first woman who has
thought so by a great many. So don't
scorn good advice.'

Yes, isn't he delightful with that
dreamy look in his eyes at times  they
are like dark velvet. I do so love looking
into them. But I think he is a most
dangerous flirt ; he is, indeed, Hester,' cried

Mrs. Fisher.  And it is just the very-particular
women like you, my dear, the
wives who are patterns of principle and
draw-ons of virtue, who lose their heads
worst and go to the most outrageous
lengths, while we poor flirts find safety in
numbers. Really, dear  as a friend  your
iete-a-tete strolls with our fascinating friend
are becoming quite remarkable f

Pray remember that only you and
Emma Vignolles are here to remark about
them. It has always seemed to me, as to
flirtation, that some may steal a horse and
others are forbidden to look over the
hedge,' said Hester, bitterly, with great
difficulty striving for self-control. Her
whole soul had suddenly risen up in revolt
within her. These two women to rebuke
her, to c/ar judge her conduct   ! For
Hester had heard much  indeed, far more
than she was glad to knows  of her cousin,
Mrs. Vignolles' former life from Mrs.

Fisher in strictest confidence ; internal
evidence having proved to Hester it was
mostly true, but not the more creditable.
And Mrs. Vignolles had perforce snapped
out remarks concerning Mrs. Fisher, which
Hester, however inwardly unwilling, had
feared mild be true. For she was really
fond of Edith, though obliged to own to
herself that her friend's conduct was often
too impulsive ; while her principles, in spite
of pleasantness and good-humour, were, to
say the least, a little lax. And these two
to arraign her now with insinuations and
criticism !

Hester went on, proudly,

'At least I can say honestly, that 
neither hitherto, nor now  have I ever done
or said anything I should be ashamed of
hearing proclaimed aloud to the whole
world, if it were necessary. There !'

And she proudly eyed her accusers.
They sat silent, hiding their inward feelings

under the mask of a meaningless
smile. Both women in their hearts felt so
differently, very differently from her. They
did not know if she might guess at their
inner pricks that were caused by her proud
speech, but such a defiant challenge roused
real enmity.

Well, hem !  oh, well, my dear  as I
said, one iievei knows! And pride may
have a fall, and so I warn you,' was Mrs.
Vignolles' rather tardy and cold rejoinder.
Hester dreaded her when cold ; hot, she
was not so dangerous.

'Well, please don't be a Pharisee, dear;
you are much too nice, though we do know
you are most good and upright-minded
and all that,' Mrs. Fisher uttered, in
honeyed accents, which yet failed quite to
please Hester's fastidious ear. Edith went
on, with easy self-complacence, ' For my
own part they say " to the pure all things
are pure !" So that must be my case, I

suppose, for I confess that very often,
when ever so many prudish people cast
up their eyes to heaven, 1 cannot see the
harm /'

'Take care. There are none so bhncl as
those who will not see,' grimly returned
Mrs. Vinolles.

And even Hester suddenly bethought
herself of having found it true in the
world, that the most easy-going people
are often those who are conscious of not
wishing to be judged themselves. 'Tanto
burn che val niente, ' according to the
old Italian proverb. And again that, to
quote Lord Bacon's saying, ' Chaste women
are often proud and froward, as presuming
upon their chastity.' Perhaps she
herself was, as Edith hinted, one of that
class she had herself always most condemned,
a Pharisee ! Hester's thought
and memory passed rapidly on to the end
of the same essay of Bacon upon marriage

and single life : ' It is often seen that bad
husbands have very good wives ; whether
it be that it raised the price of their
husband's kindness when it comes, or that
the wives take a pride in their patience ;
but this never fails, if the bad husband
were of their own choosing, against their
friends' consent, for then they will be sure
to make good their own folly.'

Had not Emma Vignolles warned Hester
of Mark Hungerford before marriage ?

CHAPTER X.

IN THE LABORATORY.

What is the matter T Christopher whispered,
with low but insistent concern, in Hester's
ear.

They were in Mark Hungerford's own
strange den once more; and a few paces
distant he was explaining some chemical
experiments eagerly to the rest of the
usual party at the villa. His brain was

Like a rich kaleidoscope,
Stuffed with a brilliant medley of odd bits.'

Outside a soft shower was falling, with
gentle but apparently ceaseless patter on
the fresh small leaves, filling the coloured
tulip chalices, almost drowning the frailer

blossoms. Only for the rain, they had all
meant to go on an expedition to a grotto
that day ; but, finding themselves weatherbound,
want of other amusement had
caused Mrs. Fisher to laughingly beg fora
second visit to the ' chamber of horrors.'
It seemed to have a peculiar fascination
for her, and Hungerford treated her lately
like a spoilt child, cynically declaring
aloud against her faults, but giving in,
with a contemptuous grin, to her whims.

why should you think there is anything
the matter ?' Hester returned, weakly
fencing.

Think !  I know it, feel it. Your surrounding
aura is utterly cold to-day, freezing
as if a blast from the polar regions
had chilled you to the very soul. What
is it ?  that is, if you can tell me. You
know I like to know what concerns you.'

Kit's tone was gently persuasive. He
would have given much to have dared to

use a more masterful one ; to have spoken
in the old voice of commanding love which
Hester had so gladly heard, because she
loved him. But those days Avere past.

'You are right  I do feel changed.
Did you see that bottle Mr. Hungerford
Alas showing us just now, looking clear
as crystal, till he poured in a few drops
out of another phial, and the whole grew
discoloured and fizzed up angrily. That
is like me. I thought  feeling at peace
these last days, and now '

'And now?' echoed Kenyon, anxiously,
Hesterss manner being troubled and
hurried.

'Now a drop or two of acid  just a
few words from foolish tongues  have
turned it all to bitterness. And I am
afraid, my friend, that things cannot be
quite the same again for you and me.'

'Ah! . . . Who is it?'

A little flash lighted up the lazy depths

of Kit's eyes. He could speak and feel
briefly and alertly enough now. Hester's
glance indicated the ladies of the little
group near them.

 I am sorry to say my own sex generally
begin it she said, in bitterness of
spirit. ' They only pour in a few drops
of gall, half in jest, you know, just to try
the effect, and then will be immensely
surprised if the explosion I always dread
follows.'

Mrs. Fisher, at all events, cannot have
meant it. She is too good-natured,' said
Kit, soothingly ; aware of a weak spot in
the possible feelings of indignation he
might be called on to exercise towards
that fair dame ; beauty is such a help
towards condoning a woman's offences.

She is good-natured, but she vacillates,
and how can I trust to a reed as a friend ?
Oh, Kit, my mind has been full of doubt
and anxiety these last two days, and suspicions

will throng among my thoughts
like " bats among birds." '

Do not heed them, Hester,' Kenyon
murmured, With all the afFectionate interest
a man may use towards a woman when
he is a true friend, but nothing more.
'You are low  out of sorts. Is not that
it? And so you cannot easily shake off
this despondent mood. Women must suffer
so much more in this way than men, forby
doing something we can generally give
the tormenting part of our minds a rest.
You do not care for all the society gabble
here. Even, at last, I daresay it seems to goon
so automatically round you, that your
poor mind is as much working upon itself
as if you were in a solitude that might be
felt . . . Bessie Armytage would call you
a dear, foolish child !' (It was Kit's only
way of trying to caress Hester himself by
tender words. Poor darling, she needed

it.)

VOL. II.

No, no  my fears are not morbid,'
returned Hester, under her breath,
calmly, but with dull hopelessness. ' Remember
my real life, not the surface
bubbles. The statue there  the coffin 
they are both awaiting me. Have you
forgotten T

Kit felt a mental shiver as of sick dread
run through him.

But lie seems so changed lately ; you
have had a perfect calm, I fancied.'

'A calm  oh, yes. Come and look at
these curious old daggers on the wall here.'

Hester gaily smiled, speaking with the
most lightly unconcerned air. She had
just seen Mark's blue eyes gleam towards
them both from under his reddish white
bushy eyebrows. He had hardly stirred
his head, but his prominent eyeballs
seemed to turn swiftly in their sockets.

We are watched at this very moment.
Pretend to look at this,' she went on, in

an even tone, yet low enough not to be
heard, touching some sharp, deadly-looking
knives, hung in a trophy, with her
white slim fingers. ' Don't you know,
when the atmosphere is deadly calm, but
yet a few lightning flashes playing, there
is most likely a storm brewing ? And,
Kit, I have never done him wrong ; but I
am afraid''

Kit drew in his breath like a shivering
sigh, critically fingered a Toledo blade,
then an Italian stiletto, his brows drawn
together with pain. (Their backs were
towards the others.)

'Hester, can I do nothing?'

Yes. Throw ofi* their  his suspicion
of our saying anything special now. Then
don't think badly of me, but meet me tonight
in the lane by the little image of the
Virgin  you know  at ten o'clock.'

To-night  ,' trying rapidly to calculate
ways and means.

o2

eyes, Mark is going to Monte Carlo
and believes you always play too. Tomorrow
we are to see this grotto, and
Sunday I shall be only out at church.
Two whole days may be gone before . . .
I cannot hear waiting ! Oh, Kit, / must
ask your advice. And you know we are
never left alone now.'

I will be there.'

Kenyon suddenly seemed aware from
Hester's last words that they two never
had been able to interchange any private
speech during the past few days ; and that
the discomfort he had uneasily felt thereat
mioht not have been accidental. As a
man he turned to immediate action, however,
giving up meditation for the present ;
then, by common, mute consent, he and
Hester approached the others with a lingeringly,
idle air. And also, being a man,
and one desirous to avert more gossip
from himself and Hester, Kenyon at once

attached himself to Mi's. Fisher's side, who
welcomed him with a seductively searching
glance, and wooed him with little murmurs
and furtive smiles.

'Hush! we must not talk, Major Kenyon,
for Mr. Hungerford is giving us such
a delightful lecture.' (No one else was
speaking.) ' Why did you not come
sooner to listen?' with a prettily-reproachful
pout.

I saw no room for me,' was Kit's insidious
reply, with a survey of Mrs. Fisher's
immediate neighbourhood, as though to
imply there only he would have cared to
be.

Hester heard, and felt as if the muscles
round her heart contracted. Best women-friends
were thus, she morbidly reflected,
if they could draw the admiration of men
to themselves ; and men were thus, too !
Tell one, another woman has spoken jealously
of yourself and him  and ten to one but

to avert suspicion ' he will load her with
attentions, that is, if she be pretty

this minute Kit certainly seemed,
judging from glances and by-play, to be
flirting violently with Mrs. Fisher.

' Well, let them  what is it to me ? I
do not and will not flirt ! Yet dare I confide
in him ?' thought Hester, almost
desperately, feeling as if her one supposed
true stay, an oak, was bending like a mere
pitiless hemlock.

Mark Hungerford saw it all, too, and he
shook his head with a curiously quick
gesture, and raised his voice as he went
on demonstrating the effect of certain
coloured small phials he held up. His
voice, which had been magnetising his
group of hearers with its clear charm of
tone, suddenly deepened. He threw such
vigour into his words and gestures, Awhile
his eyes were bent piercingly upon them,
as if challenging any to dare wander inattention,

that all were awed, indeed spellbound
by his voice and look.

He was discoursing of the secret poisons
of the Borgiass, and those employed during
the ancien regime in France ; of rings that
gave death in a handshake ; of fatally-scented
gloves, flowers, bouquets ; of a
colourless drop or two that did its work, a
powder, a pastille. His eyes grew brighter
and brighter, his long, thin fingers made
violently emphatic gestures in the air, so
that some of those near him shrank back.

'And those arts were thought lost,' he
cried. ' The fools !  all that was known is

discoverable again, and this  this! ' He

snatched up a small, blue-glass bottle, and
eyed it lovingly, gloatingly; then, as if
bethinking himself, stopped short and
looked round on them all in a strange,
searching way. ' No matter  but there
are poisons, ha, ha !  take warning, ladies
that will leave no trace. How do you all

like the idea, ha li ? Or do you prefer
that of a poison-tipped needle, so fine that
it could be thrust into the heart in sleep,
and leave only so faint a small, blue wound
that the cause of death is indiscoverable''

Such a cruel gleam of delightful satisfaction
lit up Hungerford's eyes and features,
while he bent forward and gazed
close at his circle as if imagining them
writhing in death agonies, that Mrs. Fisher
gave a small dismayed cry like the squeak
of a mouse. Even Mrs. Vignolles flushed
visibly, and nervously drew out her handkerchief.
General Doyle muttered, discomposedly,
*

Oh, come, Hungerford, too good a
joke ! I say  you'll frighten these ladies.'
But Hester never quailed. Kit, hardly
daring to look at her yet, could see that
her face was no paler than usual. But its
expression was delicately stern and immovable
as a cameo, while her great grey

eyes sent an answering, steady gleam back
at her husband's gaze which arrested, then
.seemed to disconcert, confound him, for
his eyes dropped.

Christopher meanwhile, standing in the
circle close behind Mrs. Fisher, to whom
he had been apparently devoted, was yet
beside Hester. She felt his arm meet and
press hers gently but close, yet closer !
unseen by the rest, while not a muscle of
his face but seemed intent watching Hun-perform.
A mere touch of their arms near
the elbow, yet a living, thrilling signal,
causing the blood which had seemed frozen
in Hester's Heart to tingle again almost
gladly through her veins ; for it said to
her answering heart, ' I am here  do not
judge me by appearances  trust me.'

The same thought had been for a terrible
instant in both their minds,

Now that I, tying thy glass mask lightly,
jay gaze through these faint smokes curling whitely,
As thou priest thy trade in this devil's smithy 
Which is the poison to poison her, prithee?'

you are coming to Monte Carlo this
evening with me of course, Kenyon ? The
ladies are not, only because we shall appreciate
the charm of their society more
tomorrow,' remarked Hungerford, later.
And his tone had again an almost irresistible
entrain of a man who keenly enjoyed
life's pleasures, but liked them in
company, while towards the womankind it
was Grandisonian in clear-ringing courtesy.

So sorry,' came lazily from Kenyon, in
his most dulcet accents, while his eyes
became what some inquisitive woman had
once called ' inscrutable darkness,' ' but
I have to dine in Nice  promised a friend
to spend the evening.'

 Bring your friend ! Come along.'

Can't, you see. My friend hates play
wants me to give it up too,' murmured
Kit, with utterly expressionless features,
whilst Hester felt thankful to good General
Doyle, who just then drew her attention

to some misdeed of the government in the
paper. He thought he was nicely diverting
her mind from late discomposure,
women being weak-minded creatures, as
Hungerford should have remembered 
and she blushed a rosy red, unseen of any,
behind his burly person, and the Times he
held out, pointing to a passage with denunciatory
finger.

'Dear me, Major Kenyon, I am afraid
we should not care to have your friend
introduced to us. I was just going to
say we feel quite jealous of anyone who
takes you away,' said Mrs. Fisher, archly.

Better not,' responded Kenyon, with a
look she interpreted as full of meaning.
Jealousy is generally a mistake.'

CHAPTER XL

MEETING IN THE LANE.

Ten o'clock! Throiigli the darkness the
sounds struck slowly, solemnly from the
clock of the Carmelite monastery up yonder
on the hill's brow. A woman covered
with a long black mantle cowered against
the wall of living rock that rose on one
side of the lane behind the Beausite Villa.
There was a little wayside image rudely
carved above her head. The lane was inclosed
by this rock on one side, fringed
with cactus here and there, on the other
by a loosely-built stone fence. There was
a little gate near into the Beausite shrubbery,

by which she had stolen forth a few
seconds ago. Seconds !  they seemed hours
of fear and suspense.

Hester was vividly conscious, as she
waited there, of all her daily sins during
the past week. So short a while ago ! and
she had felt herself standing on the difficult
path of duty, with a calm almost
pleased consciousness of having after long
resignation and patience won the upper
heights ; there, surely, no small trials could
vex her more. And, now, how fallen from
that estate ! She had been jealous, suspicious,
curious ; she had harboured anger
against Mrs. Yignolles, and even Edith
Fisher, each day ; despite her nightly prayers
and efforts to forgive both fully before she
slept. Incredible as it seemed to herself,
she had lately lost her temper with poor
Adrian  because the boy, loving her awkwardly,
would hang on her arm or follow
like her shadow  and she so often longed

to be alone. And worse ! when even little
Ada was naughty, and had howled yesterday,
Hester had been cross, downrightly
cross.

This poor woman, waiting anxiously in
the night by the Virgin's image, felt herself
sinful. And this  this seemed the
most guilty deed of all, comines out to meet
Christopher.

It may be wrong  but no matter how
wrong, there is no help for it,' she murmured
to herself

A step came along the lane, doubtfully.
A stick sounded as if tapping the rock at
intervals like a blind man. Hester started,
and stood ready for flight ; but it was
Kenyon who came towards her ; she recognised
his figure though there was hardly
any light.

Forgive me,' he said at once, taking
her cold hand and holding it in his own.
I thought the place was lower down the

lane, and it is so pitchy-dark I have been
feeling about in desperation. You seemed
only one of the shadows too, but that you
moved as I came up . . . Now, Hester 
you ivill tell me all that has been troubling
you?'

For, although she had come out only to
speak with him, Hester felt suddenly
tongue-tied, agonised, and stood dumb asher
own stone semblance, the Galatea.

Oh ! it is so difficult,' she sighed. ' If
I did not believe you do care '

Care !' echoed Kit, with a sigh from his
heart.

You do ! You are my friend ; and
there is no one else on earth to stand by
me excepting my own people, and they
are all far away. And there is so much to
say, and so little time to tell it all !' the
poor woman cried; the words hurrying
rapidly from her now, as she realised her
position. ' Oh ! Christopher, I thought I

could bear on, and tell no one, but now 
my courage seems all going.'

Has he  your husband  been ill-using
you again ?' asked Kit, with a savage feeling
in his breast, and in a tone of authoritative
sternness, being determined to know
the truth.

What matter if he has  he cannot
help himself Kit, don't you remember
my telling you we must not judge him.
Think  ask yourself  if all he says and
does is like  other people?'

The last words came so low and pitifully,
one whose ears were less strained
to catch her every accent might have lost
them. Kenyon replied slowly, gravely,

I see. You think he is a little ois his
head.'

'Not always . . . but at times he is
mad ! . . . And, Kit  he is growing worse.'

'Are you certain? Have you consulted
anyone else  any doctor ? Some persons

have manias that are not dangerous,' was
all Kenyon could at the moment feebly
suo:o:est. In his heart he was instinctively
only too sure Hester was right.
And he seemed to have known it always
himself in a manner; though, in truth,
the thought had never fully taken shape
in his mind till now. Hungerford's clever
talk and flashes of brilliant intellect had
saved him from being thought more than
 very odd.'

I did ask a kind doctor in Germany,
who was attending me when I was ill.
I had just begun to guess it, about a
year after my marriage. He watched
Mark, and told me he was afraid I was
right, but to cheer up. All might still
go well, if I took care of him patiently,
like a good wife. I have tried to be
patient !  What woman would not pity
her husband in such a case ? Who could
blame him, when one knew the cause?

VOL. II. F

But, alas, things have not gone well,
but ill.'

Kenyon groaned. He quite understood
that Hester was one of those noble souls
of whom it has been finely said, that With
them, Out comprendre est tout pardonner.'
And he asked himself the query
that is as old as human existence : 'Whv
are good women so often ill-mated ?'

Hester went on, with pained, quick
utterance,

Then last year I made up my mind
to speak to Mrs. Vognolles, and find out,
for my child's sake, was it hereditary.
She was  very unkind ! But she said
no. And, in matters like that, she speaks
the truth.'

Unkind ! My poor, poor Hester. I
cannot conceive how anyone with a heart
could be unkind on such a subject ; least
of all, to you.'

'She said she had warned me before

marriage that Mark lead led a wild life :
that and drink often brings on madness.
It was true enough  but how should I
believe my unsuccessful rival ?'

I never knew before she was so.'

(It seemed to Kit as if he were being
suddenly introduced behind the scenes of
the painted show we call life ; and that
the sight of all the traps, pulleys, and
so forth, revealed there, bewildered him.)
Then he added, with fresh, tender solicitude
for her well-being,

You are shivering ; it is too cold for
you here. Is there no place else we could
talk but in this lane ?'

'No, no. It would be dangerous elsewhere
 there are no bushes here for anyone
to listen in. You don't know what
trouble I had in getting safely out of the
house. Esther Scatena, Ada's nurse, helped
me ; she is the only servant I can trust.
Even my own maid came to me from Mrs.

p2

Vignolles, and might tell her ; and lie
would tell Mark.'

'- Good heavens ! are you surrounded by
spies, then? Why do you bear it?  can
you not sweep them all out of the house T

Impossible. One of Mark's manias has
been his extraordinary jealousy about me ;
he has said the most terrible things to me
without a shadow of cause. Then, understanding
Emma thoroughly, he uses her
as his watch dog, and  well, she is not
very well-off, so it is a help to her to live
as much as possible with us.'

 But, Hester, has she no heart ? is she
pitiless ? I always thought her merely a
kindly, foolish little woman.'

'I do not believe she hates me at all.
I think, on the contrary, that, knowing
Mark's state, she is not sorry to have
escaped marrying him  and even prefers
seeing me mistress of his house to any
other woman,' said Hester, with a curious

intonation of the latter words which Kit
did not well understand.

At that moment a door in the villa
opened ; men's voices and steps approached
through the shrubbery, while a lantern
flashed at intervals. Kenyon put his arm
on the sudden impulse round Hester's
shoulders.

Darling ! . . . come up the lane with
me quick. They must not find you.'

But Hester did not stir an inch, and
seemed rooted to the ground.

Don't speak, don't move !' she murmured.
' I know who it is  the man-servants.
They will go down the other
way to Nice.'

In a fever of anxiety for her sake,
Kenyon was bound to stand there also,
motionless. The men swung the gate
open. The lantern's light described a
bright three-quarters of a circle on the
ground, within a mere few feet of where

these two stood in the shadow by the little
altar, just sheltered by a slight curve of
rock. One coarse voice said,

' We must look out and be back before
the guv'nor to-night. He may be up to
some of his larks, and steal in like an old
burglar to catch somebody tripping.'

Never fear. He doesn't try that game
with me' replied a deeper, pompous voice,
in which Kenyon recognised the butler's
tones.

The men, as Hester predicted, turned
down the lane in the opposite direction.
They were safe.

That was Russ and the footman. They
go down every night to drink at the
tavern, and only come back very late,
and sometimes tipsy. That man Russ is
my enemy,' murmured Hester, as the last
sounds died away.

He  why ?' asked Christopher. His
arm was still round Hester, as he was

aware through every vein in his body ;
and therewith a sudden glad, wild sense of
at last giving her at least some protection,
tenderness, affection, had taken possession
of him.

Hester had been, if differently, even
more sensitively thrilled by that touch,
too. To her it meant that one being on
earth would still stand between her and
cruelty, danger, or (who could tell?)
worse ! Nay, more, that he might still
care for her as of old, when she had been

so dear to him, he had been so to Jm !

Hester dared not feel so any longer : by
a slight abrupt movement she stood free.

You were speaking of Russ,' she said,
in a harsh voice. ' He is my worst spy.
He was Mr. Hungerford's confidential servant
for some years before I married ;
partly managed his affairs  knew most
about them, at least. He is not so mucha
bad man, I think, as that he is grasping.

I discovered him in a good many small
peculations, and naturally tried to stop
them and get him dismissed. His power
was firmer than mine, however,' (cynically),
he could not he parted ivith, and knew it
. . Why ?  Because he knows his master's
condition, and Mark in a strange way
has come to trust him with the secret, I
believe (for he is fully aware himself when
his attacks are coming on). He looks on
Russ as a friendly keeper, who for self-interest
will screen any outbreak, if possible,
from public observation, and nurse
him till he is well again . . . Don't you
remember how, some time ago, you were
all told he had gone off to Paris for some
days ? He was here, kept in his own room
by Russ.'

 But, Hester, how will all this end ?'
God knows ! who has appointed me to
bear it,' Hester replied, clasping her hands
convulsively. ' As I took him for better

for worse, I have tried hard to do my
duty ; and for the child's sake I hoped no
one would ever know the dreadful truth.
The doctor told me madness mostly passes
from father to son, and mother to daughter
; and so I pray and really believe my
poor little one will escape, for she is most
like me. But I have a new terror. Mark
used to be quite proud of her ; the baby
seemed the only creature he had affection
for, and now by some terrible freak he
seems to hate her at times. He struck me
this morning, and Ada cried out ; then
he turned upon her, and I verily believe
would have injured her in his passion, but
that her nurse snatched her away, and
that Russ interfered. Then you know she
has never been allowed out with us in our
walks lately.'

But why? I do not understand.'
We brought her at first, you know, for
three or four days. Then Mark said it

was bad for her, ridiculous  I imagine he
wished Adrian to stay the more closely by
us.' (Certainly the long-legged freckled
lad had always hung lately with rather
wearisome though sincere affection on
Hester's patient arm.)

But he, Hungerford, has been so markedly
civil to me  has never seemed jealous
! What does it mean, Hester ?'

Don't ask me. I am afraid to guess.
At first it all seemed natural to me. But
lately I have a terrible dread that he is
like a fowler who thinks his birds have
been fluttering over the net, and that at
last he will have them snared.' Hester
was nearly crying now. ' And, what is
worst of all, he has now threatened several
times lately that I am spoiling Ada ! that
he will take my own child from me because
I cannot bring her up as pleases
him. Kit, that is driving me mad ! Help
me  will not the law help us both? 1

have no one on earth to turn to now but
you. And he may do it: he may do anything
to us both, any day, any hour. Can
you not save us ? . . . Oh, for myself,
what does it matter ! but for my chairs
sake, lest it should be taken from me, perhaps
its life endangered  I may have to
leave him.' Hester moaned and wrung
her hands. ' Oh, what is right ? what is
best?'

Leave him, yes,' hotly exclaimed Kenyon
; his body seeming to take hire on a
sudden from a secret flame he had so long
lately tried to smother, with such pangs
and stings of hopelessness and regret. He
had tried to tell himself that he only must
only did regard Hester as the sovereign
lady of his mind ; the dearest of friends ;
a pure and blessed guardian angel. But
now he knew he loved her as a woman 
that his old love had always lived, and
was far greater than ever! 'Yes, there

are times like this, when not only life itself,
but the whole good of your life, its
whole enjoyment, is at stake. Hester,
even if this man spares your life, what is
it worth to you with him ? It is a mere
miserable existence. I have watched you
I see it, day by day. You must leave
him ! Your own soul is crying out not to
be deprived for ever of its due happiness 
why should you be sacrificed for ever ?'

*What do you mean?' Hester interrupted
him, dismayed. ' What happiness can
I have if even I go I am bound to Mark
while his life lasts. Enjoyment  we were
not born on earth to expect enjoyment,
but sorrow, schooling, as our due. That
is my creed.'

Kenyon heeded her not.

You shall have some happiness yet,' he
uttered, passionately, coming closer and
standing over her, while Hester trembled,
for she knew  ay, still knew after all her

pride of chastity, her scorn of weaker women!
that this man's touch, his presence
was more to her than all the world beside.
Christopher went on, ' I will make you
happy. If you once thought I could, believe
me when I tell you that, dearly as I
loved you then, you are a thousand times
dearer to me now ! Oh, heavens ! what a
fool I was ever to have let you go, through
fears and doubts. But come still to me ! I
will cherish you more than my own soul. We
will forget all this misery ; and, while life
lasts, we two shall never be parted anymore.'
Hester could not speak, for with one of
his quick impulses Kenyon had forcibly
imprisoned her in his arms, and was gently
kissing her hands, her hair, the black lace
wound about her head. He was so fond
of her he could not restrain himself from
that. And yet he dared not  even then 
against her will have allowed his lips to
touch her face.

CHAPTER XII.

OF TWO EVILS, CHOOSE THE LESS.

Kit started, relaxing his hold, on a low
cry coming from her lips as one in pain.
Hester broke from him shuddering, but
could escape only a step, being stopped by
the rock. She leant there, trembling violently,
covering her face with her hands.

'Oh, Kit! Kit! This from you! I
never thought you could have given me
such pain,' moaned the unhappy woman, intones
of anguish so poignant, they pierced
her hearer to the quick. That was all
. . Hester's voice failed, and choking
sobs followed.

Christopher  racked by her grief, yet
maddened by the hopelessness of the situation
 stood by, beseeching her forgiveness
: entreating her to be soothed ; only

to listen to him uroino; her aoain

with broken words of love's despair, not
passion. What he said it would be hard
to say. Neither knew afterwards, except
that he had persuaded himself, that because
his longing to shield, to guard, and cherish
Hester was so great, it must be right 
Right ! judged by wider laws than those of
human making, laws stronger than circumstances;
justified by her life irretrievably
spoiled, her trust in a protector outraged 
best for both.

Never !' she panted. ' Would you have
me blush before my child?'

It was the touchstone of her woman's
heart. Kenyon at once recognised the
fiat.

Forgive me . . . ' he said, humbly,

ashamed of himself; then, after a long
sigh, ' I ought to have known better  but
impulse sweeps away one's reasons at times
. . There is a last and rightful resource,
however, to save you. (But he did not
yet say what this was. He dared not  so
soon after wounding her most sacred feelings
 lest he should seem self-interested
still. And Hester's mind was such a sea
of storm-tossed conflicting emotions, she
hardly knew what he last said.)

Kenyon had indeed been beside himself.
Even then, he found himself wondering at
the inner unknown man that had suddenly
sprung up within his other self; the new
being who had spoken passionately, wildly ;
deaf and obstinate to the faintly dismayed
reproaches of the calmer man  the friend
of self-denying, patient resolutions  who
had held sway in his dual being for past
days.

'Heaven knows !' he said, now low and

truly, all his passion burnt to ashes. I
came here this evening without one thought
of saying all this !  only meaning to lay
my last service honestly at your commands
. . Still, Hester, will you not sometimes
think a little of me, too ? My life will
seem wrecked, if utterly without you.
You were my one star in a black, hopeless
sky. At least allow me in future to
stay near you  to help you. We parted
once before, at bitter cost to us both.
Must we part entirely once more  perhaps
never to meet again ?'

Yes ! It will be best.'

Hester, raising her bowed head, faced
him in such a flame of pure high feeling,
her tears seemed scorched dry.

Remember how I told you that evening
up by the lakes, three years ago ; it would
be far, far better that we two should never
meet. And I was right, if I cry to you
for help  the one being I believed in !

VOL. ir. Q

And you  you ! Oh, Christopher.
I trusted you so !'

My poor Hester. And now you know
that I am just as selfish and despicable
as the rest of men, only weaker and more
vacillating than most  we will hope, for
mankind's sake,' Kenyon returned, with
cynical self-bitterness.

'You are not. You always said the
worst of yourself,' Hester retorted; unable,
as in older days, to hear him vilify himself
without quick, pained contradiction.
Oh, dear Christopher, you are good in
heart, and try to do the best for everyone
round you, whatever you may say.'

And yet I would have done the worst
by you now, you think,' with a great sigh.
'Which of us is right? For I know of
no goodness in me, unless it be the faculty
of seeing and recognising it in some few
women, such as you  still fewer men.'

'But you do believe in your religion

still? You do feel that it is far higher
than all love, to hold fast by duty in this
hard world?' Hester urged, breathlessly.

'Don't ask me what I believe. There
seems no ground left under me these last
few years  my mind has no foothold, but
sinks in deep Waters. Duty !  there is a
natural duty of self-protection, which women
often forget in their too great eagerness
to martyrs themselves for others . . .
What good will they reap for their sacrifices,
if there is no such hereafter of
rewards, or remembrance of deeds, as you
believe in?'

If even there is none I should hate
myself, while life lasts, if I did not try todo
what I feel is right !  I can't reason.
Kit, but I know I should be miserable,'
Hester returned, with pathetic certainty
for herself, yet beseeching persuasion ; being
sorely troubled for this man, her friend,
whose tone was sorrowing without hope.

q2

Poor, dear child ! Yes, women live by
their feelings ! And yet you are miserable
now, though you have tried your
best nobly and bravely by your husband.
Oh, they say this world is governed for
the best, but to me it seems often a hopelessly
bewildering tangle . . . Hester dear,
confess you feel sometimes like me ! I
have tried to follow duty, too ; but sometimes
one does not know cohere it lies  ora
horrible misgiving dawns that all has
been a mistake, and one's best efforts

wasted. Look at yourself No, I

will not say another word to vex you 
but after these years of fruitless misery
you must leave Hungerford ! you must, in
self-preservation.'

No  it is not for my own sake. It is
for that of my child. It is a great evil
to leave my husband, when I swore to
keep by him in sickness or health, but
of two evils we must choose the less.'

You love him really, after all, then 
is that it ?' asked Kenyon, hoarsely.

I do not,' replied Hester, speaking
from soul to soul. ' I never did, and told
him he could only have my gratitude,
from the first  that and my duty.'

Gratitude f burst bitterly from Christopher.
' Yes : for blows, ill-usage, and
tyranny in private, however he may dress
out his slave in public. And duty ? 
Hester ! how does he keep his by you T

 We must judge no one. And he is
not even responsible,' faltered the Avoman
and wife who heard him, shrinking back 
as if some new blackness of trouble overshadowed
her. ' Kit  what is it ?  do
you mean anything worse ?'

I mean this, that by common report
you could be free from this slavery when
you please ; that you have the right to
divorce lira,' uttered Kit, gloomily, feeling
ashamed to be the first to tell her so ;

to seem breaking mute faith with the man
whose threshold he had so lately crossed.
And yet he had known and kept silence
some weeks  though indignation was hot
within him.

 Common report  is that all ? I have
heard enough, only too much of this
before,' Hester answered, with forced calmness,
to Kenyon's surprise. Yet there was
a tremor in her voice, and he could see,
even in the dark, the proud scorn with
which she raised her head.  If I fail to
raise him, at least he cannot degrade me.
Poor man  he is the more to be pitied.
But to seek a divorce ! no. Major Kenyon ;
never for me. It may seem right to
others, and may be right for them  not
to a woman Who holds my faith as firmly
as I have been taught it. Whatever law
may say and courts may judge, whatever
Mark Hungerford may do ! never can I
think it right that those whom God hath
joined men shall put asunder.'

Whom God has joined,' echoed Kenyon,
in saddest derision. ' It is the old tale,
Athens to a Satyr " . man's reason
bars the bans which God allowed." '

'Not so,' said Hester, gently. * He
knows that only through suffering we can
be made strong.'

But, Hester  if you have any belief in
me left, I implore you, do not think of meas
asking in mere self-interest !  but, tell
me, why, when other women deign to
accept a just deliverance from wrong and
neglect, you should reject it? '

Because what has been in a woman's
earliest teaching, what has grown into her
belief, and become a certainty of right or
wrong to her, is at last such a living part
of herself that she  that I, would feel
mangled, bleeding all my life long, if I consented
to it. In fact, as I have been taught
and hold, there is no true separation from
marriage to those of my belief but by
death.'

This is madness  pious madness,' reiterated
Kenyon, beyond himself, for her sake
it must be said. If she would but yield,
to save her from torment now, and possibly
gain her still, some happiness in future was
yet possible  the chance was trembling in
the balance. ' Hester ! dear, dear Hester,
you are crazed with too much brooding
alone, and straining at impossible goodness
on this earth. Forgive my words !  you
know my meaning. You dearest, best of
little women, other women, good too as
you ! take back their freedom as a sacred
right.'

Let them do so. It may be right for
them. I cannot argue ; I dare not try to
decide  only I know this, it will not be
right to me, unless I can unmake all my
teaching from a child,' uttered Hester, her
strength spent. All the straitness of her
straightest creed  the sense of indissoluble
bonds to which she had bound herself, and

the sacred force of such vows, however
violated  Alas strong within her. She
ended with ahiiost a wail, I have thought
of this possibility, myself, for a year back.
I have argued it out in every way, and
cannot do it. There is no more to be said
about it! . . . But, Kit  I asked you here
to-night to consult you about ways and
means, and my hour is almost gone '

'Tell me them,' said Kenyon.

So Hester told him.

One of her uncles, of the kindly, helpful
Armytage clan, was returning soon to
England. She thought of writing: to him
and entrusting her letter to Kenyon, asher
own letters, it seemed, always passed,
she believed, under the jealous eye of her
husband, or some servant. True, she
might attempt to post one herself, when
out in her carriage with Mrs. Fisher or
Mrs. VignoUes. But it was curious how,
with apparent liberty, she 3'et felt that

most of her smallest actions were somehow
eventually known to Mark. And she
could not reason about it, but she was
now afraid of every shadow, each leaf that
stirred  the thought of Mark's discovery
of her actions and vengeance seemed to
paralyse her. Then the answer must be
enclosed under cover to Kenyon. Her
own letters were all scrutinised, often
opened by Hungerford.

'Yes, I will do it said Kenyon. 'But
when did you last hear from Mrs. Armytage?
She should be coming home soon.'

Not for several mails. Oh ! no  I fear
she is not coming.'

So, having said and settled all of details
that could be done, their interview was
over.

'Hester,' said Christopher Kenyon, finally,
'is this decision of yours against a
lawful freedom irrevocable ? Will no persuasion

 no example of others  no proofs
satisfy your conscience ?'

none, none,' she answered.

Then, holding both his hands, as he had
grasped hers, she went on, looking so
near into his eyes he fancied, even in
the darkness, he could see the clear light
of highest love and noble steadfastness
shining there.

' Oh, my friend, if you are my friend,
if indeed you love me  I ask you with my
whole soul, never ask me more.'

'Never more!' said Kenyon, his lips
parting to utter, as if despite himself, and
with a sigh, what seemed a prophecy.

'Good-night,' returned Hester; and, slipping
from him, like a shadow passed into
the shrubbery.

CHAPTER XIII.

 FIDARSI E BENE ; MA NON FIDARSI E MEGLIO.'

The next day, the projected expedition
to the grotto, organised by Mrs. Hunger-ford,
took place in the afternoon.

It was a perfect day ; one of those when
the mere pleasure of being alive seems
exquisite. The party from Beau site Villa
were all driving along the level coast -
road. There were great hills rising abruptly
on the one side ; on the other, white
surf fringing the shore; then pale-blue
water, blue as turquoise, deepening suddenly
into the dark, gloriously blue, wide
Mediterranean stretching to the horizon.

Mark Hungerford had himself marshalled
his party before starting. He
drove Mrs. Fisher in a light, high-wheeled
trotting-cart, in which he loved spinning
along at a tremendous pace. Mrs. Vigo
General Doyle, Mr. Fisher, and
some others were more comfortably seated,
in their own opinion, in a large
waggonette. And Hester  who was driving
her own pony-phaeton  had been desired,
with loud-voiced authority, by her
-husband to take Kenyon beside herself,
while young Adrian sat on a small seat
facing them both. Hester and Christopher
were, of course, unable to hold any
private conversation in the presence of
their schoolboy chaperon. Nevertheless,
Adrian was friendly, and no conscious
spy ; also the sense of proximity helped
to rid both by degrees of the embarrassment
left by their strange meeting the
night before. Who could almost have

believed that these were the same two
people who, so few short hours ago, had
met and parted ? Parted after tears and
passionate appeals; fears  yet high-minded,
if despairing rejection of all help save
that which man may give, and woman take
with true faith and honour ? Now, they
were exchanging monosyllables upon the
sunshine and lovely coast scenery. And
yet  they spoke very little.

The scene, the day, the gay voices of
the rest of the party were enough to dispel
all brooding. There was a hot sun in
the wide sky, a gladdening, strong sea-breeze,
and the wide waters were laughing
in a thousand ripples. No thought of
danger seemed in place under that serene
blue vault of heaven -, no whisper of ill
to be fittingly borne by that soft, warm air.

Kenyon at last broke silence.

You feel still glad to be alive, do you
not, on such a heavenly day ?'

Yes ; oh, yes ! It is like one day of
one's true life ; what life should be, if
there were no cares or worries in this
"world. And you ?'

You are more easily made glad than I
am, I believe, with however less reason,'
replied Kenyon, evasively.

It pleased him to know Hester was still
capable of finding pleasure in her hard
daily life. But this was one of his own
grey days, when he could not have called
up a smile or laugh, even to please her ;
only the gentle look in his eyes reassured
her that she was not the cause. Hester
remembered his moods of deep despondency
at times of old.

Such a day somehow makes me think of
eternity,' she went on, in a confidential,
half-apologetic tone, wishing to rouse him,
with a smile that in Kit's eyes was seraphic.
' You must not laugh at me, but I
have a vague idea as if eternity were one

long blue day or a succession of clays, like
this.'

Like ihisf Well  I should not object
uttered Kit, looking at her. (He felt
secretly this day as if he could not look
stolen-wise enough at her pale, exquisitely
sweet features. For soon  too soon, he
must say adieu after doing her behest, and
who knew when  if ever !  he should see
her dear face more.

Do you imagine in the far future that
you will ever be driving with me again?
Almost thou persuades me to believe, oh,
prophetess ! that is, if you will really keep
me a place at your side.'

'For the driving, that I cannot say  
but that you and I will meet somewhere,
soiaewhen in that future happily, does
come into my mind as a certainty,' uttered
Hester, sweetly and gravely.

'And I say. Aunt Hester, I must be
there, too,' put in Adrian. ' You wouldn't

both go off ill eternity without me ; that
would be a shame ! I want to be with you
and him,' nodding at Kenyon.

You will have changed your ideas and
wishes long before then, Master Adrian,'
returned Kenyon, with kindly irony.
'You will have imagined quite a different
paradise for yourself; no fools' one either,
I hope.'

Why should I change any more than
you?' retorted the boy.

'Ah !' said Kenyon, as if speaking aloud
unconsciously, ' at my years a man does
not change much, I find, however he may
even try.'

Adrian (whom of late much study of
surreptitiously obtained novels had made
wiser, on some subjects, than his companions
knew) looked at both silently; certain ideas
that appealed to his romantic imagination
gathering force. For a moment or two he
tried to feel like a page of old, bound to

VOL. II. R

see all, and be a silent confidant. Then the
spirit of gabble in his tongue's tip could
not be restrained, and he blurted out,

Well, of course  you oughtn't care to
have three for company, all through
eternity.'

Hester, whose eyes during this short
dialogue had been fixed on her ponies,
blushed hotly. Kenyon felt even his
bronzed, weather-worn features show signs
of discomposure ; for it seemed as if their
nay, his secret  must be blazoned abroad
when even this school-boy had stumbled
on it. At this instant, however, came a
sudden and alarming diversion.

Hungerford, who had started behind all
the rest from the villa, now came driving
along the road with the high wheels of his
cart spinning at a tremendous rate. He
seemed unusually excited, and  shouting
that he and Mrs. Fisher did not mean to
swallow the dust raised by the other

vehicles  passed the waggonette in a flash,
with his fast-trotting Russian horse going
at full speed.

In a few minutes he had caught up
Hester, although her ponies were very
fresh that day. Hearing him close behind,
she tried her best to rein them in, but in
vain ! Mark tore past them. And as he did
so, with one of his jeering roars, he leaned
over and gave the ponies a lash of his
whip, that roused them to fury as he dashed
ahead. Another moment, and the strong
little Corsican animals, after a wild plunge,
were off" down the road at a break-neck
pace, tossing their long, crimson rosettes
madly.

A race ! a race !' Hungerford yelled
back, screaming in all the more savage
glee that Edith Fisher at his side, with her
face white with alarm, was clinging convulsively
to the rail of the vehicle.

For a few moments Hester, with her

e2

face white, too, but with no fear to be seen
there, only a scornful firmness on her
proud, calm features, tried her best to keep
control of the ponies. Then  she knew
her strength was ebbing !

They were approaching a sharp turn of
the road. There were low rocks on the seaward
side, upon which the ponies might dash
at full speed unless providentially the animals
could round the corner. Mark's wild
laugh came hideously on the air, as he
headed them still by a few paces. He
looked round

kit! Kits was all Hester could utter,
low ; as if she dared spare no more strength
in breath.

Then she felt the reins taken from her,
Christopher winding each round an arm.
He only feared to make matters worse by
interference before. But now, putting
out all his strength as they neared the
dreaded corner, he succeeded in guiding

the ponies safely round it. A little longer
and, while his arms seemed almost torn
out of their sockets by the effort, he had
pulled up the snorting little beasts  though
Hungerford was seen disappearing round
another curve just ahead.

'Jump out and go to their heads,
Adrian,' Kenyon ordered the lad, who
had been crouching down in the phaeton
half to give Kenyon room to saw the
ponies' mouths, half it must be confessed
in honest terror. ' There ! quiet
them a bit' Then, turning to Hester,
anxiously: 'You are not frightened?  it
was a near thing, but you behaved splendidly,
pluckily !'

Hester's face was lit up by an inner fire
of feeling that made her eyes shine like
suns upon him, and her features, though
pale, seemed transfigured by emotion.

I was not frightened when with you,'
she answered low. ' But I thought we were

both near death ; and  only that there wa
no time to remember Ada  I felt glad !'

Neither spoke another word to each
other after that. Adrian came back ; and
Kenyon, silently keeping the reins, drove
on to the grotto.

The rest of the party almost immediately
joined them as they alighted, and Hester
was surrounded by all her guests with
enquiries and expressions of surprise and
alarm at the late runaway.

As Kenyon stood a little aside, where
he had abruptly moved, on being greeted
effusively as a sort of hero by Mrs. Fisher
and some of the other ladies  a novelty
which absolutely made him feel shy, in
addition to his secret, sore greyness of
mood that day  Adrian came beside him
with the furtive, awkward manner he
always wore in company.

I say !' said the boy, impulsively, in a
whisper, laying his hand on Kenyon's-

sleeve, ' I say  don't you hate my uncle ?
I do.'

'Why?' asked Kenyon, slightly startled
by the melodramatic air with which Adrian
hissed out his declaration. The boy had
seemed to him hitherto a rather affected
but good-natured, queer specimen of the
hobbledehoy period of life.

I hate him because he is so cruel to
Aunt Hester ; and, please goodness, I'll
spite him for it in some way yet when I
am older,' returned Adrian, grinding his
teeth to relieve his feelings. ' And I love
her better than anyone else in the world,
and that's why I like you so much  because
I know you are so fond of her, too.
Besides, you both treat me as a fellow-creature,
as a gentleman. My uncle calls
mean oaf; and my mother scolds me all
day while her breath lasts, as if I was a
dog. But I tell you, there is nothing IworUt
do for Hester'

General Doyle, at this juncture, bore down
upon his comrade, and Adrian sidled away.

Ton my word ! 'pon my word ! that
little escapade of our host went too far fora
joke, eh?' observed the good warrior,
looking redder than usual in his sympathy
and indignation. ' Tell you what. Kenyon,
it's enough to put a man off matrimony
to see the way a brute like that 
a regular madman !  can treat any unhappy
woman, and such a charming one.
While as to some of the other couples
here  egad !' and he gazed significantly at
Mr. Fisher not far off, who could be heard
chaffing his pretty wife on her late terrors
with a mean, small laugh which always
had the effect of making women loathe
him, and men wish to kick him. The
general breathed hard. 'I was down at
Monte Carlo last night, and they were

there, too, and Hungerford I wonder

what society is coming to ?'

You should marry yourself, general,
and show them all a better example,' returned
Kenyon, grimly smiling : for his
worthy acquaintance's attentions to the
widow Yignolles were being freely discussed
in their circle.

Humph,  thank ye !  but 'pon my
word ! the hard-heartiness that women
can show to each other in a time of real
danger is  is enough to decide a man to
have nothing to say to the whole set of
them. Why, the light left my eyes, seeing
Mrs. Hungerford in such danger just now,
and  and '

The good man stopped, flustered. But
Kenyon, who had been much taken into
his confidence lately, soon elicited that
Mrs. Vignolles had, after the ponies were
stopped, absolutely sneered at Hester's
expense; sharply observing that Mrs.
Hungerford had only herself to thank if
she hould drive those ponies for the sake,

no doubt ! of having an agreeable iete-a-tetey
instead of joining the others in the waggonette.


The general had lately, in truth, been
championing Hester loudly as his ideal
of perfect womanhood. This had  riled'
the widow, who, by way of opening his
eyes to Hester's supposed failings, lost her
temper (as she often did) and opened his
eyes in a very different way.

 Mrs. Hungerford is an angel ; an angel,'
went on the general. look at her now
listen !' and he dragged Kenyon rather
unwillingly towards a group where Edith
Fisher, who was weakly laughing in an
excited, hysterical way, kept assuring Hester
how much the latter owed her of
gratitude.

 Yes, my dear I deserve a medal, positively
a medal, for my courage in risking
my neck beside your husband. And I was
in a horrible fright at starting, and only

did it just for your sake  to please you by
pleasing him.'

I know you did, Edith, and I "am
very sorry, dear, you should have been so
frightened  and for my sake, too,' replied
Hester, looking with her large, innocent
eyes sweetly in her friend's face.

See there,' muttered the general, aside
to Kenyon. ' She was so fearless herself,
you say, all the while, but compassionate
the other  And yet, if she only knew how
she is deceived, poor soul !  if she had
only seen all I happened to see down at
Monte Carlo last night. Oh, Lord !'

What do you mean ?' inquired Kenyon,
earnestly, seeing his companion was burning
to ease his mind of something important.


Come here  come, and I'll tell you.
Some one ought to warn her.'

Taking his arm, the general led Kenyon
away to the shade of some trees, where

they two became apparently only occupied
in smoking; together. In reality, eager
muttered sentences of startling intelligence
and excitedly rapid queries, were being
interchanged.

'You called him a madman just now,'
ended Kenyon, feeling his companion's
opinion by a query.

'Mad or not mad! the fellow has too
much method. She should make a bolt
of it, Kenyon, and get to her relations
in England, to the Armytagess. I'd tell
her so myself, only it would seem too
presumptuous. You tell her  and I'll
help, if I can. Bless my soul ! he's killing
her by inches.'

I never knew you knew the Armytagess,
General Doyle.'

Know the Armytagess ! Good gracious,
I should think I do  met them in India,
nearly everywhere. As to Bessie Armytage
 you know her f Yes !  Well, there !

I was very nearly marrying her myself,
once on a time  that's partly why I take
so much interest in her niece. Why, I've
got a letter from her in my pocket this
very minute, asking me to tell her all
about Mrs. Hungerford  hasn't heard of
her for ages, it seems, and hoped I might
meet her. She is in England.'

You don't say so  not really  ? Bessie
Army t age !'

*Why, yes; of course. Why not?'
testily.

 Simply this  that Mrs. Hungerford told
me, only the other day, that she had been
writing to her aunt every mail for weeks ;
but never could hear from her. She has
no idea Mrs. Armytage is in England  it
will be an immense, an unspeakable help
to her.'

 Come ! that is queer,' solemnly uttered
the general, slowly eying Kenyon,
who returned his frank look, and nodded

in mute reply to his shake of the head.

Some screw loose  behind-hand work
somewhere. Anyhow, here is her letter,'
said the good soldier. ' Better give it to
Mrs. Hungerford, Kenyon, eh ?'

 I will,' answered Kit ; and went off on
his errand.

He found Hester with, the most of the
party, admiring the grotto. It was a pretty
hollow of brown rock, deepening in obscurity
for some distance, till an opening
from overhead let down some rays of strong
sunlight. And all around this aperture
waved the pale fronds of maidenhair fern
in delicate green masses. The interior of
the grotto was only accessible along its
sides 'j because that a spring bubbled
up in the interior, and overflowed within
the cave's bed in limpid clearness. The
effect of light and shade in the interior, of
the laughing water, with the softly tremulous
sprays of the ferns against the rocks,

was altogether delightful. But it was spoilt
to Kenyon by the chatter and laughter of
the party.

He bided his time till later they all
strolled out and dispersed a little ; most
bent on gathering wild-flowers  or at least
the ladies said so, and impressed the men
of the party into the service. Kenyon and
Hester found themselves at last together.

I have a letter to show you,' he said,
abruptly enough, and, explaining how it
had come from General Doyle, gave it
Without more preamble to Hester. ' I will
gather flowers for you like the rest  please
read it quickly  our time may be short.'

It was but a very few minutes that
Kenyon spent in snatching with abstracted
mind at every wretched wayside weed he
found. Then Hester, who had sat down
apart on a rock with flushing cheeks and
eager eyes, rejoined him and said, low and
significantly.

My letters must have all been stopped
Aunt Bessie never got one, apparently !
Oh, Christopher, I thought things were
bad enough, but still to stop my letters to
her '

 Don't mind that now. You know you
have a true friend in her nearer at hand
than you guessed. Both she and her husband
will help you,' said Kit, soothingly.
(Why should Hester be too much vexed ?)
'Write to her to-night. I will send the
letter, and  don't worry. All will yet be
well,' he urged.

Yes,' assented Hester, musingly. ' Oh,
yes . if you only knew what a comfort
it is to know she is come back! There
is some one to turn to, whom the world
cannot speak evil of afterwards to my
child for my taking refuge with.'

She looked entreatingly at Kenyon,
craving his sympathetic understanding.

Quite so  you are always right,' he

replied. And then the remembrance that
once this same woman  as a young girl 
had believed hint always right occurred to
them both.

 Will you come back to the grotto and
see it in quiet with me ?' asked Kenyon,
with a constraint that kept back much
unspoken speech, which Hester yet believed
(with the soundless sigh of a brave woman
who has to battle inwardly and silently)
that she understood. She felt that her
friend, this man beside her, had taken her
words last night into the core of his heart.
Kit, however strange, silent, grey this day,
was manfully striving to place his truest
service at her bidding. And she was grateful
; and trusted him.

Both were quite silent, as they returned
to the grotto over the grass that deadened
their steps. Their minds were full. They
entered the mouth of the cave all fringed
with graceful pendant ferns, thinking to

VOL. II. JS

carry away the lovely little scene long after,
enshrined in their memories as seen together.
But both stood transfixed

Full under the light of the aperture in
the rock, Mrs. Fisher was standing, with
Mark Hungerford's arm round her waist.
Their faces were slightly turned from the
intruders, and the old man was looking in
the young and pretty woman's eyes with
insolent familiarity. He seemed so assured
she, though apparently uneasy, so little
surprised  that, in a moment's flash of intuition,
Hester seemed to know this was not
the first time. A thousand little memories,
of Edith Fisher's new dresses, flowers,
jewels, her frequent visits to the villa,
rushed into her memory all at once, seeming
to suffocate her. They heard Hunger-ford
say, with a fiendish chuckle,

Why so coy to-day?'

Then he kissed her.

Christopher found himself, he knew not

-svell how, walking away with Hester
silently as they had come. He dared not
look at her  dared not speak. Then they
reached a secluded spot among some rocks ;
where with a slight sign she sat down,
apart, and Christopher sat near her.

At last Hester found her voice, and asked,
with a concentrated bitterness in her
load tones which appalled the man beside
her,

Did you know officiis!  was this your
warning ?'

Heavens, no ! I only had a strong hint
of it, myself, this very afternoon  or I
might have been able to break it to you.
We have both been blind  / believed
in her, too ; if that is any comfort to you.'

If it had been mine enemy !  but she,
mine own familiar friend,' quoted Hester,
her mind turning by long habit towards the
Psalmist in his pain of bitterly wronged
trust and friendship. 'Yes, indeed; "we

stook

sweet counsel together"  and only-last
Sunday we went to church, she and I !
Hoi could she f , . !

There was another silence. Then Hester
suddenly uttered, with swift, fierce determination,


 Christopher  will you help me and my
child to escape from all this to England ?
My mind is made up. You will take us
to Aunt Bessie . 1 will trust you still
as my own self, though trust in other
people seems almost killed in me.'

You may trust me  T will do it ! And
whenever you are ready, you may know I
am,' replied he.

 The sooner the better P panted Hester,,
with decision.

Then she rose and left him.

The red sun was dropping down behind
Antibes, and the whole western sky around
was a golden haze, as they started homeward.

No more untoward incident occurred.
At least, no one else of the party
overheard a short dialogue between Hester
and Mrs. Fisher. The latter had approached,
saying, with her merry, easy
laugh and caressing manner,

Well, my dear patron saint  you may
expect to see me up at your shrine tomorrow.'


Hester, who had Awaited for this, not
willing to shame her so-called friend in
public, only gave the other one terrible look
straight out of her own deep eyes.

'You need not come to see fine ! I
will never receive you again  No, leave
me'  (as Edith Fisher, catching her hand,
attempted to fawn, palter, and question
tearfully). ' Your own conscience can best
tell you why ; don't make a scene !'

CHAPTER XIV.

THIS FLOUR OF Wily PATIENCE.'

Christopher Kenyon's experience for the
last three years had seemed to himself
utterly monotonous. He was only conscious
of a dead feeling, if such a passionless
state, void of pain or joy, can be
rightly described as a feeling. During the
weeks he had spent at Nice, however, one
emotion had succeeded another so rapidly,
one startling incident followed on its
fellow's heels so closely, from the' first
night when he saw Hester again till the
afternoon at the grotto, that he was bewildered
 almost exhausted in mind. For
Kenyon had fought many a silent fight

within himself; creed through clays of
inner gloom when he felt as if wearing
a Nessus' shirt on his mind because every
fresh thought stung with pain  when his
burden of bodily self and its surroundings
all seemed hateful to him ; when the
thought of Hester alone, her goodness
and pure friendship, could soothe him, and
reconcile him with weary life.

And this was the man whom many
others envied for his successes in society.
They wished themselves in his place, for
his gifts of brain, his good looks and
birth, and the fascination of manner he
undoubtedly possessed when he chose to
use it : which now, perhaps, was not
always.

Up in the villa, Hester, secluded in her
own room, was thinking not unlike Kit.

'All the whirl of these three terrible
racketing years was trifling, compared with
what has happened to me lately !' she

mused, feeling her brave strength ahiiost
worn out by a succession of trials and
fatigues. And yet she was resolved to
save up what was left for one last mighty
effort at escape for herself and the child.
 Would it have been easier, if Kit had
never come ?' she asked herself, with pain ;
just as we have a foolish craving to touch
our bodily wounds and try what amount
of agony they give us.

For Hester now knew  with shame she
knew ! and yet no ! again she held her
head high, and told herself truly she was
not to blame  that she loved Christopher
Kenyon still. And she had believed him
shrine in her memory as one once beloved,
but long, long gone out of her
existence . . . What then ? Rousing herself
from her morbid state, the woman recognised
rightly that, though her love was
there living still, it was such that she
need not be ashamed of acknowledging it

before God and even man. There had
been a moment of sore human struggle
the night before last, out in the lane 
But it was over, the victory won !

I will see him no more, when we are
once safe in England ! I can still remember
him  pray for him ! Oh, for peace,
rest !  rest !' she murmured. Then pattering
sounds, the baby voice of little
Ada. her pet plaything, changed the tenor
of these sad reflections ; and the mother's
face grew bright again almost unawares.

The child was a mine of happiness, from
which she trusted to draw ever deeper
treasures with each year.

Hester had 2:one through a terrible
scene With Mark Hungerford that morning,
when she with quiet scorn announced
to him, she refused henceforth to receive
Mrs. Fisher's visits. It was not the first
time, alas, such words had passed her lips !
But this time, because of her betrayed

friendship, Hester was far more moved.
Curiously, Hungerford was more roused
too. Mrs. Fisher had wound her pliant
graces more closely round his fancy than
had others before her. At first he seemed
unbounded ; but, by-and-by, recovering
his assurance, raved at his wife in a fury,
of which all the Avoids were delirious
sound, not sense. He reviled Hester herself;
threw her friendship with Kenyon
in her teeth. Then, white and shrieking
with the passion into which he had worked
himself, he accused her in turn of light
conduct, of barefaced and outrageous flirtation,
at the least. Hester loftily smiled
beautiful in her scorn.

Yoii know better !  although you have
tried to tempt me, to tempt us both, that
you might find some ground for accusing
your wife.'

Hungerford stared at her ; his jaw
visibly fell. In his insane cunning the

man had never taken into consideration that
his wife possibly understood his tactics.
But soon he recovered himself.

I say this  I say this ! this ! this !
That you shall receive Mrs. Fisher at my
bidding. Ay, and you shall be her slave ;
and I'll force your proud spirit to lick
the dust off her shoes, if I please.'

I will not receive her,' calmly reiterated
Hester, looking straight and steadily
at him.

Hungerford hated her doing that. His
shifting, wild blue eyes always fell before
her gaze.

'Then, madam !' he blustered, 'you shall
see no one. Prepare to be a prisoner till
your jade's spirit is broken  till you obey
me.'

Do as you please. T do not care to see
anyone,' replied Hester, without flinching.

Her manner was not that of daring him,
but perfectly calm. Her low voice was

even pitiful. She knew too well that only
by inflexible steadiness had she any chance
against his insanity.

That afternoon, therefore, when Kenyon
and General Doyle called in company at
the Villa Beausite, the footman, who at
first said that Mrs. Hungerford was in,
was, a moment later, curtly corrected on
the appearance of Russ, the butler. The
latter functionary, who had only just received
instructions from Hungerford, announced
solemnly that his mistress was
not ' at home ' that day. There was a
suspicion of a malicious leer in his eye,
though his full-fed countenance was immovably
stolid, which secretly irritated
Kenyon, whom the man specially addressed.

Well !  we are foiled for to-day. This
is the beginning of the play evidently,' he
said, gloomily, as they went together down
the drive.

(He little knew till later that the play

even that day  was not so much at its
beginning as, some might have afterwards
have said, nearing its end.)

Never say die ! There has been a bit
of a row, perhaps; but we'll hear from
her yet,' replied the general, whose maxim
seemed to be that keeping up a cheery
heart went a long way to winning the
day.

Kenyon had not felt himself equal that
day to facing the very different inmates
of the villa, knowing all he knew, without
an ally. The general, though originally
little gifted with acumen, had, however,
learnt some worldly wisdom while ' knocking
about ' through life, besides owning a
superabundance of natural kindness. Without
yet wholly confiding in him, Kenyon
found his comrade a trusty support and
willing help.

The next day and for several more days,
Mrs. Hungerford was still not  at home,'

however, to the visitors who called.
Naturally after this, Mark, who showed
himself even more in society than usual
with the Fishers and the rest of their set,
was asked if his wife was unwell. It was
a good idea, and he quickly encouraged it.
Even Mrs. Fisher, who knew the truth,
was startled at the secretly frantic joy Hun-perform
took in inventing equivocations,
then lies. Hester was, therefore, supposed
to be indisposed during a Aveek  ten days
a fortnight. Every day her ponies
fretted in the stall, her child called to
know why mother Avould not come out,
and the gardener regretfully watered the
blooming flowers round the villa, knowing
his mistress would not see and praise them
that day, either. Esther Scatena had told
him so  these simple peasant people loved
Hester.

Every afternoon, nevertheless, carriages
rolled to the villa door, and cards, flowers,

and kindly messages were left in profusion
for Mrs. Hungerford. Among the rest,
Mrs. Fisher always duly came.

 What a ridiculous fuss they make about
her !' she said, with vexation, to her husband.
There was no one else to whom she
dared so relieve her mind ; and at least he
was useful as a safety-valve. But he only
annoyed her more by his laugh, a cachinnation
of a petty chuckling kind that nearly
drove her wild.

'Yes, my dear. You might be dying
and most of the other prettiest women
here, too, and not half as much concern
would be shown for any of you.'

What is it in her, then ? It is only
because' the Hungerfords are so rich,' returned
his wife, hotly incensed.

'No,' said the little dark man, with a
veiled sneer under his quiet exterior.
They all say she is so good. Some of the
men were saying yesterday at the Masses

that at all events not a word had ever
been said against her conduct.'

She is not a bit better than anyone
else, then  if people only knew it, I believe,'
retorted Mrs. Fisher, with heightened
colour ; guessing her spouse was delightedly
bent on paying off some small scores
of which he kept due count.

Perhaps so, my dear. I never disagree,
but let me suggest yoa had better not say
so, for it is a curious fact that most of the
women here as well as the men speak well
of Mrs. Hungerford ; and you don't like
being remarkable. Of course we men can
all appreciate a lovely woman when we see
one. But your sex are generally supposed
to find out real goodness f

Goodness  well, Hester is good, but it
makes her quite dull at times,' said Edith,
sullenly.

But, as every day passed, so Kenyon's
anxiety grew till it reached an almost

desperate pitch. He haunted the woods,
the lane, the paths near the villa, which
Hester used to frequent. He gazed from
afar at the pretty house, embowered in its
roses, as eagerly as if his eyes by straining
could have pierced those white walls and
seen Hester within there  In vain !

At last one day, when he felt almost
reckless, and was turning over a dozen
wild and futile plans in his head for
forcing an entrance into the villa, and
learning from Hester herself what was
wrong  for he disbelieved in her supposed
illness  fortune was kind.

He was pacing slowly down the lane
which skirted the back of the Beausite
grounds, when he heard a whistle. Looking
up quickly, a head was discernible,
thrust out of a mass of laurels above the
wooden fence, and it was making grimaces
at him in a most ridiculous way expressive
of caution. Kenyon almost laughed, but

VOL. II. T

recognising Adrian VignoUes came up
rapidly enough.

 You look like the owl in an ivy-bush.
Have you  anything to say to me?' he
said, half lightly, yet feeling anxious and
cautious enough himself.

 Have 1 ? I've been waiting about these
two days to see you,' responded the lad,
indignantly. ' You never would come
anywhere I could have a decent chance of
speaking, without Uncle Mark prowling
near me. I say, come up closer, and don't
keep me long. This holly-bush behind me
is pricking like blazes.'

 How is Hes  how is Mrs. Hungerford ?'
asked Kit, eagerly. * She is not really ill,
is she?'

No, only worried. But she had some
row with Mrs. Fisher and won't see her,
and till she does !  why, she's a prisoner.
Uncle Mark says she must ; and goes about
telling lies that she is ill ; and is madder

than twenty hatters. And now she's not
allowed out of her own room these ten
days, and I've to look after Ada myself

 Why, in heaven's name, could you not
tell me all this sooner, Adrian ?'  It is too
bad. It is a burning shame ! And you
said you would help P exclaimed Kenyon,
reproachfully.

'There! just like everybody else  all
down upon me,' uttered the poor boy, his
freckled face protruding through a frame
of laurel leaves, looking a most dismal
caricature of a victor's countenance when
encircled by such a crown. ' And I who
have been ordered by my mother and
Uncle Mark not to stir beyond the gates ;
because I gave them a piece of my mind,
and said I cared more for Aunt Hester
than I did for both of them put together
(I wish I'd put it stronger, now!) and
they said it was gross impertinence ; so
here I am. Bu 1 say hiV and, as Kit

t2

came quite near, Adrian blew out his lips
like a trumpeter, whispering, ' Aunt Hester
told me to give you this and I'm to take
back an answer.'

He tossed out a tiny note which fluttered
into the dusty lane. Kenyon, in inner
great excitement, tore open the note, which
only contained these words :

To-morrow night, if possible, after ten
o'clock. Trust all to you. We shall be
ready.'

That was all. There was not even a
signature.

'She gave you this message?' said Kenyon,
slowly, looking searchingly at the
boy. 'Well, Adrian, can I trust you as I
would another man of honour, as a friend?'

'You can; you may, indeed,' sputtered
Adrian, his face reddening in eagerness,
his eyes shining. ' Oh, I'm not such a
fool as people may think. I can see a
good deal I and if once taro in there ' (he

nodded backwards at the villa) ' were
safely out of it, I shouldn't cry if Uncle
Mark blew himself and the whole place up
with his experiments. Aunt Hester said
to me, though, it was best for me not to
know too much  perhaps it's wisest ; so I'll
ask no questions and can tell fewer lies.'

Christopher drew out his pocket-book
and hastily pencilled an answer.

A carriage and pair has been waiting,
day and night, this past week, ready on a
word from you. Come down the lane towards
the tavern. All else is arranged.'

He twisted this up.

Can you faithfully promise me, Adrian,
that no living soul but your aunt herself
shall see this ? You and I are only trying
to help her and the child. We have no
need to be ashamed of the means we are
using ; but still !  if we are discovered, the
consequences to her might be terrible !
She will be worse treated than ever, and

her friends, perhaps, lose their last chance
of coming to her assistance, as the are
now trying to do.'

 I swear !  and, before anyone else
should get it from me, /'// eat it !' vowed
Adrian, stretching out a long arm, torn
and scratched by battling with the holly
bush behind him.

His face, to Kenyon's un discerning eyes,.
was little different from the faces of a hundred
other rather putty-featured, gentle-looking
schoolboys. But the enthusiasm
which now lit it up, together with his-romantic
fancies and tenderness of heart,
which a long course of snubbing had only
driven more inwards but nowise lessened,
made Adrian a more unusual specimen. Indeed,
this disposition of his, considered
with his awkward manners and ungainly,
long limbs, almost justified his mother in
calling her son ' a perfect oddity,' ' a
moon calf,' and such like names.

Meanwhile, at this very same time, a
different interview was taking place within
the villa's walls, whilst Kenyon and
Adrian were holding their consultation
outside in the shrubbery. Mrs. Vignolles
had obtained leave from Mark Hunger-ford
to try her powers as mediatrix ; for
he was beginning to grow impatient of
the situation, and greatly angered at the
dawning idea that, after all, Hester might
not mean to 'give in.' For some time
it had secretly amused him that his own
wife should be a prisoner, while he was
enjoying the lawless sweets of liberty.

He knew himself perfectly as not fit to
be at large ; for the madman was well
aware at times of his state, and exulted in
the secret thought that he was capable
of committing any crime, while none of
the fools around him in society guessed
as much. And Hester  who was the only
being he really feared, whose gentle eyes

turned upon him had a quiet, restraining
power he raved against, yet could not
entirely break away from ever  she was
shut up ! He now hated his wife causelessly.
It was nauseous to hear the constant
praises of her charm of manner, her
beauty of that refined kind which women
admire as well as men, above all, of her
sweetness and goodness. ' If I could hut
catch her tripping . Ho, ho ! my saint, my
Griselda,' he often thought, sardonically.
Then he would listen to sympathetic little
condolences addressed to himself on Hester
not being reported as yet well enough to
come out of doors, and unable to accompany
him into society  grinning the while
in his sleeve. Aloud he deeply regretted
his dear wife's indisposition, with a flow
of confused eloquence and mournfulness
of visage which overshot the niark, and
caused him to be looked at with polite
doubt, even suspicion.

mark is beginning to tell lies, I see,
for the pure pleasure of it. This is a new
phase, Hester. I am sorry to say so ; but
it is my duty to tell you  as I consider
it your fault,' announced Mrs. Vignolles,
who had long ago assumed the part of
telling her friends unpleasant facts, and
then praising herself for honesty.

 How is this my fault?' sighed Hester,
Who Alas lying on a sofa in her own room,
with an aching head and fearful heart,
the result of anxious midnight thought
and planning for her projected secret
flight.

How ! Why, because of this ridiculous
nonsense of yours in shutting yourself up
here, and leaving the field to Edith Fisher.
From what Mark has told me, I can guess
you have at last found out for yourself
what I tried to warn you of all along.
But to set up for a pattern of offended
righteousness, now, is really too absurd.

You should be more a woman of the
world, my dear. Come ! say you will
give a garden-party. Let this Fisher woman
be invited with the rest, and don't
make an open quarrel with Mark.'

I cannot receive her as my friend again
I never will !' uttered Hester, raising
her head now with sudden energy. Her
delicate face seemed lit up with a sort of
inner fire ; her cheeks became warmly
pink ; the blue veins on her white forehead
were clearly outlined. * How can
you ask me such a thing ?' she went on,,
indignantly, yet wondering. ' She is not
your friend. Why should you want me
so to debase myself in my own eyes ?
Emma, you are kind to me sometimes. I
believe you like me after all: and you
know what my life is  that of a slave. I
have only my own self-respect left ; let meat
least keep that.'

I ask you,' went on Mrs. VignoUes,

unmoved, and her sharp grey eyes quite
unabashed as she grasped her red cotton
parasol across her knees like a baton of
justice, ' because, if you don't take care,
this creature may get Mark to run oiF
with her ! And I shall leave no stone unturned
to prevent that. You have your
faults, Hester ; but still I know how highly
you do value the good opinion of the world
and the sanctity of the marriage relations.
You have brought all this on yourself by
your own very silly flirtation, my dear,
with Christopher Kenyon. Oh, yes  I
mean to have my say, now I have begun !
and there you have my opinion.'

That is enough,' returned Hester, trembling
in spite of herself. ' I did hope,
when you came here to-day, that it was
because, as a woman, you might feel some
pity for what you knoAv I have to suffer;
that also as a woman you would resent the
outrage my husband wishes to put upon

me. But no matter  We had better say
good-bye now; it is useless to talk further.'

And, pray, what is to become of me and
of my unfortunate son if Edith Fisher is
to flourish in her wickedness like the green
bay-tree, and poison my cousin Mark's
mind against us, as she will ? He has
helped us hitherto, as was only his duty
to a helpless woman and fatherless boy
who are his own blood relations,' almost
shrieked the little widow in her wrath,
which had been growing hot in secret, and
now boiled over. 'You are as selfish as
you can be, Hester ! You utterly disregard
the cause of the widow and the orphan,
with all your religion ; and yet I believe
it tells you to think of the good and happiness
of others as well as of your own.
We shall be ruined  and, as you talk of
being so fond of Adrian, perhaps that will
satisfy you ! '

What would you have me do, then ? 

what is your object? Pray speak plainly
How can my possible reception of this
person further your interests ?' asked
Hester ; the high-souled woman looking
with wonderment at this other before her.

Mrs. Vignolles was hot and flustered ;
her curls were disarranged as she twitched
her veil in angry excitement. And the
same glance revealed also that her gloves
were old, her silk dress shining at many
places, and the cotton parasol soiled down
its seams ; and Hester, seeing, understood,
and somewhat compassionate her.

It will do this,' said Mrs. Vignolles,
driven into a corner, ' that if Mark has no
more opposition he will soon tire of her
and fling her ofl* like a soiled glove. I
know him of old  that is his way. Then
all can go on happily again, and appearances
will be kept up, which in this world
is half the battle, my dear ; while otherwise
I dont know '

'

 Happily ! oh, yes ; happily ' interrupted
Hester, with intense bitterness.
So long as appearances are kept up, one
should be content in secret to sup sorrow
with a spoon, as the old saying goes.
Well  I must ask you to leave now,
Emma ; my head is aching badly.' (Hester
was almost exhausted.) ' In two or three
days you will know my decision. I shall
hope that neither you nor Adrian will
suffer for it, but I must do what I think
right.'

As Mrs. Vignolles reluctantly left the
villa, her sharp eyes caught sight of Kenyon
as she came out into the lane. But
her son, sharper still, had ducked his head
into the laurels before she could see him,
muttering to Kenyon,

My mother  we must vanish.' And he
disappeared.

hum!  Kit Kenyon, there! What is
he doing?' thought the little woman-stopping

still. Then she bit her lips,
moved by a sudden thought. ' Does she
mean to run ois with him  is that it ? That
would explain her proud coldness when I
talked of Mark and that Fisher creature.
She is good, but still  why should she
be better than the rest of us ? I will tell
Mark, anyway. It is best to make sure 
and he will be furious.'

CHAPTER XV.

MAN TO Main !

The next day, Christopher having a spare
hour or two, started up the shady Cimiez
Road on a sunny morning, with a vague
idea of reconnoitring the Villa Beausite
from a distance, and perchance seeing
Adrian, who had promised to meet him at
the same spot and report all's well, if he
could escape his mother's vigilance and a
new tutor. The boy's freckled face popped
up as before out of the laurels, but he
said, rather breathlessly, it was past his
time to be going home. He had only seen
his Aunt Hester with difficulty, as she

seemed quite a prisoner in her own room ;
and he brought a note. The note only
said  all was ready,' but Kit had best not
join them at first, as, in case of failure that
night, he would arouse suspicion if seen
waiting in the lane. Kenyon, therefore,
however unwillingly, agreed to wait for
them in the town.

After this, Kenyon, while rambling
somewhat aimlessly on the hill-side, found
himself near a little plateau of rock,
promising so good a view over the country
that his artistic love of scenery tempted
him down to it by a narrow track. Some
grey ancient olives hung from the rocks
overhead, and he paused to rest under
their grateful shade. Below nestled the
valley, and all around him lay hills beyond
hills, basking in the warm air, overgrown
with wild-flowers, and swept by cloud-shadows.
He could just see a white wall
of the Beausite Villa, and distinctly dis-vol.

II. u

cern the road and lane near it, with the
passers-by like black ants. Was it a
thought Hester gave him at that moment
sped like a good angel for his safety 
which made Kit suddenly look round ? He
started involuntarily, stepping back against
the rock behind him.

Mark Hungerford was close at his side,
with such a look of insane hatred gleaming
in his wild blue eyes, and stealthy expression
in his bent figure, as if caught in
the act of stealing on his enemy, that .no
sane man could care to see it and know
that they two were alone there. He had
evidently crept noiselessly down the path
after Kenyon, and now barred their only exit.

However, next instant, on being discovered,
Hungerford was standing upright
; and greeting Kenyon most agreeably
and volubly, as if their meeting was
purely accidental.

show d'ye do? Charming spot, this.

Glad to meet you, at last. Lovely view !
I often come here ;' and he waved his
hand towards the country round.

Did he dislike the steady gaze which
Kenyon fixed upon him? At any rate,
his whole attitude and look changed as
by magic. For a few minutes Hungerford
stood discoursing on the glorious view
which lay before them ; now pointing out
the steady descent by Brancola ; now
Monte Calvo rearing his head high ; again
the wooded heights near, shimmering a
solemn, greenish-grey with olives. Then,
his voice changing from its tone of expatiating
praise, he said, in a dissatisfied,
quick way,

'But it is all too green. Don't you
agree with me? It wants a dash of red
throve in -just a touch of vivid colour.
What do you think of the colour of blood
don't you like it? Hump  with his
usual sort of prolonged roar.

u2

He edged imperceptibly closer and behind
Kenyon, who, thrown off his guard,
had moved slightly forward from the sheltering
rock. In a moment, the latter
understood the position. There was a fall
of twenty feet below the plateau on broken
ground and bushes. To be hurled down
there after a conflict with a madman was
a dangerous enough idea. Kit smiled, and
looked tranquilly at Hungerford, whose
eye glistened now with evident exultation.

Like blood ! Of course  I am used toit
in my profession. If you had seen as
much of it as I have on battle-fields, and
faced death as often, you would think very
little of it.'

Hungerford shifted his attitude, and
met his bushy eyebrows together in a
discomposed frown.

Ah !  really. But have you ever washed
your hands in it  hah ?'

Washed ! We could have had a hath V

replied Kenyon, with easy scorn, secretly
wondering hoar many more Munchausens
he would be called on to imoo-ine soon.

o

Hungerford changed the subject, with
quick restlessness, inquiring, in a tone of
evidently evasive lightness,

are you fond of wrestling, I wonder?
Which of us is the stronger of the two ;
if we were to try here, now, for example ?'

you had better not, for your own
sake,' Kenyon easily returned, still keeping
his eyes fixed on his possible antagonist,
with a calm gaze as of conscious
power, and a smile. At the same
moment he measured Hungerford's bent
but tall and still powerful frame, and
mentally felt that, despite his own advantage
of younger years, the elder man
was still so spare and active, any opponent
might fare badly in his grip.

 You would be pretty sure to come off
worst, I am afraid,' he went on, courteously,

but resolved to out-lie Ananias.

He remembered to have heard that to
brag quietly more than a madman generally
disconcerts him. Kit went on.

'I have always been considered as one
of the best wrestlers, if you will forgive
my saying so, in my own country.' (Whereever
that mythical land might be !) ' And
I should most probably not only put you
on the ground very soon, but could take
you, if I liked it better, and just drop you
over the edge there.'

So saying, he slightly advanced upon
his companion, as if calmly ready. Hun-perform
receded a few steps up the path,
trying to assume a perfectly indifferent
air, yet evidently ill at ease.

*Will you try a cigarette?' he asked,
producing his case.

'Thank you  no,' returned Kenyon,
following him ; resolved not to be taken at
a disadvantage again.

Are you going to the Princess of Haute-ville's
party this evening ? I have not
seen you anywhere about lately,' went on
Mark, still going further up the path ;
sidling along as much as possible ; and
turning round continually, as if uneasy at
being possibly taken in the rear unawares.

 Yes, I shall look in at the princess's,
certainly ; very good parties. Are you
going ?  Yes ; that is all right,' answered
Kenyon, steadily following up the path, step
by step, and feeling the ridiculousness of
the situation, yet heartily thankful when
at last they both reached the open space at
the top. At the same time the jingling
of bells was heard, and a peasant's mule-cart
came down the road close by.

Well, our roads separate here  we shall
meet later, I suppose, Mr. Hungerford, so
good-bye.'

'We shall meet again  no doubt,' replied
the other, with a baffled look in his

eyes, though an air of courtesy. He walked
away, at a tremendous pace, with his
head bent and a sullen air about the stoop
of his shoulders.

That evening, Kenyon appeared early with
General Doyle at the princess's ' at home.'

 It is best to show yourself  Slip away
after a few minutes, and I will cover your
retreat,' said that wise and worthy strategist,
who was aware that a grand evacuation
of the garrison, as he termed it, was
to be attempted that night.

As they entered the brilliantly-lighted
rooms, which were as yet but thinly scattered
with guests, one of the first persons
they saw was Hungerford, the centre of a
little group to which he was talking with
animation. His roving eyes fixed at once
on them as they entered, but he went on
with his discourse, which was upon luck
and fatalism.

'Pon my word ! he must have been a
fine-looking man in his day  he looks
thoroughly well-bred still,' muttered the
general, eyeing the tall form towering a
head above the others, while the orator's
chest seemed to expand and his person
o-row grander with enthusiasm.

Yes ; and what a voice : listen !  He
could charm one into believing him not
only perfectly sane, but far more clever
and gifted than any of us,' answered
Kenyon.

They both stood listening whilst Hun-perform,
with power and flashes of mt,
advocated the doctrine of Kismet ; only
interrupted by laughter and applause.

Why, look at me  here I stand a living
example before your eyes of a favourite of
fortune ; nay, I might say more  under
the special protection of the Highest
Powers !' he ended, carried away beyond
himself by the excitement of the moment.

I have all that it was decreed on high
should be given to Mark Hungerford ! I
cast my horoscope long ago, and knew
what was unalterably ordained to me
above other mortal men. " A good wife "
who shall deny that I have one ?' (his
gaze wandered round with an air of challenging
pride). ' " A gold mine !"  Well,
am I not rich, as rich as man can wish ?
If I want more, I play  no luck can stand
against mine ! And, lastly, this has been
promised me, that I shall live as loncj as I
please ! Ha, Ha, Ha  h ! What do you
all say to that ?'

He seemed to rise to fuller height, as if
inflated with a demoniac sense of wild
superiority above them all. There was a
moment's general silence in the room.
Then the general whispered to Kenyon,

Well ! I say, he has said too much  we
shall have little difficulty in proving our
case hereafter now.'

 Yes, yes. But I must get away  there
is not a moment to lose,' hastily returned
Kenyon . And, with the skill of long habit, he
threaded his way out quickly, unobserved,
overhearing such remarks whispered around
as,

 Quite mad !  poor Mrs. Hungerford !
No wonder she stays at home. Mrs. Fisher
. . oh, she is preparing to throw him
over. Count Vichy is the favourite now

CHAPTER XVI.

FLIGHT From HOME.

Hester had spent the last days, whenever
she could escape from the watchful eyes
of her husband and those among the servants
who were his spies, in making her
preparations for a departure from his
house. She trusted it might be  forever
! That word, even as she thought it,
seemed like a knell.

But nevertheless, with a strong heart,
as a brave woman, she did her best, then
sat down to rest and wait, trusting to a
higher power for the issue. The warm
spring day was drawing to its close ; the
evening's hush had fallen on earth.

How strange it was ! Hester thought, to
be sitting here, meditating on how to leave
her husband, and what life might be hereafter
: she who had once thus mused on
what life might bring of tranquil enjoyment
when she should be married to him.

All the real or fancied small sins, too,
mostly of omission or misunderstanding,
Hester had ever felt guilty of towards
Mark rose up in her own mind. Little by
little, thinking upon them, her heart grew
tender. ' I might have been a better wife,'
she thought. ' Perhaps (who knows?) with
more tact and patience, I might have kept
him in comparative health of mind.' She
almost felt inclined to regret her decision
now. Was it right to go  to abandon her
post, even in danger? Hester's lips murmured
to herself, ' I would stay  yes, now
with him ! I would give up all hopes of
my own liberty, at this very moment, if it
were not for '

A little child's ringing laugh finished
her sentence. There was the fumbling of
small hands at her door-handle ; tiny feet
danced outside with impatience. Hester's
doubts and fears fled like night-birds before
the sun's rays as she rose quickly and
went to the door. Ada was her sunbeam.
Whilst she could hold that still fast, clasped
close to her bosom, her road in life could
never be wholly dark. Even were she
obliged to wander out, like Hagar into the
wilderness, there would be voices enough
in its solitude whilst she could hear that
baby prattle in her ears.

The night came on. All was ready for
the projected escape.

Hester had trusted none except Esther
Scatena with her secret. This peasant-woman
loved her with the faithfulness of
a dog, adored Ada, but had a strong dislike
to the English servants, who did not
understand her patois, and laughed at her

costume. Esther was only to help in the
flight, and then return to her brother Gaspard's
house. She was betrothed and soon
now to be married. The idea of going at
all to a land of strangers might have appalled
her, had she not understood that it
would be an awkwardness and shame to
leave madame to travel alone, without a
companion of her own sex. And who but
herself knew rightly how to manage that
angel of a child, when fractious ?

The only persons to be feared besides
Hungerford were Russ, the butler, and
Hester's own maid. Hester had lately
begun the habit, however, of going very
early to her own room, and soon dismissing
this woman's services. After ten
o'clock, therefore, she would be undisturbed.
The nursery, close to Hester's
own rooms, was a sanctuary where after
sundown no unprivileged person dared to
enter, or Esther's tongue was sure to give

them a rough reception. As to Hunger-ford
himself, he slept in his own room
downstairs, in the lonely little wing of
the house near the so-called studio. This
arrangement he had made for the last year
or more, as it gave him fuller liberty of
coming home at any hour, either at midnight
or sunrise, unobserved, from gambling.
Besides, with the love of stealth
and seclusion growing on him, he wished
to be as far removed as possible from the
rest of the household, doubtless fearing
self-betrayal in those periods when his
fits were upon him.

The slow hours ticked on. Almost ten
o'clock.

Hester's heart was beating so hard at
moments that to quiet her mind by action
she softly opened her window and looked
out. Some time before this she had extinguished
her candle. There was a glorious
moon shining outside, which made the

shadows of the olive and ilex groves, and
the graceful cypress spires, seem intensely
dark. Yet Hester wished the latter had
not reminded her then of funeral plumes.

The night air was indescribably still.
Hester fancied she could hear the distant
wash of the sea, like a murmur in a shell ;
but it was more likely the voice of the
woods stirred by the night-breeze.

And now, floating down in the darkness
with clear sound, ten o'clock struck
at the monastery above on the hill. Hester
breathed a short prayer  the last of
many that day. Then she rose up  the
time was come.

A moment later there was a low tap at
the door, and Esther Scatena entered,
carrying Ada fast asleep and muffled ina
shawl. The nurse was already cloaked
and veiled, as was Hester, ready for the
journey. They stole together, carrying
each a small bag, all their luggage, down

VOL. II. X

the stairs, every step of which seemed to
creak loudly, as surely never happened
by day. Holding their breath  their ears
strained to catch the slightest sound  both
women crept along the passages. What
would happen if Russ were suddenly to
appear from some of the several doors
leading from the back premises, they
dared not think !

The side-door was reached safely. It
was happily unlocked. Russ often left it
so, to facilitate his own coming and going
at night.

A few more moments, and they were
hurrying noiselessly outside along the
shrubbery path, with thankful hearts.
They felt the blessed free air blowing
fresh upon their faces. As the path
wound, they could see down the lane.
There, in the moonlight, a waiting dark
object was visible  it was the carriage :
they could hear the horses champing their
bits in impatience.

Hester's hand was upon the latch of
the gate, when !  she started violently
back. All the blood in her body rushed
to her heart !

Mark Hungerford stepped out from the
shadows in the lane, and looked her close
in the face across the topmost bar of the
little gate with an evil grin. Both remained
utterly silent for a few moments.

'It is a fine evening for a walk,' said
Hungerford ; ' but a little too cool  I
must request you to return to the house ;
the night air is bad for my daughter . . .
Your maid will take any message you may
have to the town.' And Hester's widely-distended
eyes saw in amazement another
black cloaked and veiled figure, not her
own !  nor yet Esther !  hurrying quickly
down the moonlit lane. It approached
the carriage, and seemed to speak ; then

got in ! Next moment the driver hM

started ofi" at a rapid pace, and was almost

x2

immediately out of sight; the rumble of
the wheels lessening in the distance.

The whole scene had taken place in a
few instants, during which Hester was
utterly unable to produce even a sound
towards speech. Her tongue was dumb.

A scuffling noise behind, and a rousing
cry from the child Ada, made her turn
round with new fear. Esther Scatena, on
the first sight of Hungerford's figure, had
tried to blot herself out of sight in the
darkness of the shrubbery bushes, hoping
to escape unnoticed; but the nurse was
now being grappled by a dark, burly form
which could only be that of Russ, who was
holding her fast.

Pig !  brute !  beast !' were among the
epithets Esther was freely lavishing on
him. Then little Ada, thoroughly awake
and frightened, began to cry.

Hester, whose mother's heart was roused
at once, bounded back like a deer, and

caught the child to her own breast, soothing;
it with caresses. But Huno;erford was
upon them immediately, with a savage
spring after her. The little group stood
still, all awed to silence, as he hissed,

Stop that noise  all of you. Here,
Russ ! take back this woman and child
to the house ; you know your duty. This
nurse has her clothes in her bag ; has
she? Well  by daylight send her off
with it to her own people, or to the
devil ! . As for you, madam, will you
be pleased to come with me  come ivitli
me !' with one of his usual strange roars
that could only be likened to the growl
of a tiger or other wild beast, such sounds
as one hears from the cages of a zoo.

Hungerford led the unhappy Hester
to his own room, or so-called studio. She
went quietly by his side, feeling that her
last chance was gone  nothing remained
now but to endure. The door opened

upon them both ; was closed.  In a few
minutes the last childish whimpers were
hushed, too, in the nursery. The silence
of night had once more apparently fallen
on the villa.

CHAPTER XVII.

GOOD-NIGHT.'

As Hungerford entered his sitting-room
behind Hester, he locked and bolted the
door, and put the key in his pocket.
Then he turned up a lamp that was burning
low, awaiting him ; lit coolly several
chandeliers round the walls, till the whole
red-hung room was a blaze of light. It
fell strongly on Hester's dark figure, standing
like a black blot motionless ; and on
the small white statuette, which smiled an
inane, foolish likeness of herself, from the
crimson-covered platform. Hungerford's
eyes turned on this little figure, and, with

an execration, he stepped up and felled it
by a blow of his fist.

As the statue tumbled down with a
heavy sound, Hester instinctively stirred
at last, glancing round at the windows.
They were closely blinded, and ah !  she
knew how strong were those bars  Mark
had boasted often of his defences against
possible robbers, saying he could withstand
a siege in his den. His gaze met
hers, returning disappointed, with a mocking
grin, that would not have misbecome a
demon of hell.

stake off that cloak, and your bonnet.
So,  now let your hair down on your
shoulders. I wish to see you looking
your best, my dear, before we have a little
conversation together,' he ordered.

Hungerford's voice was low now; too
low  it boded evil, indeed.

Hester, with slow, hesitating fingers,
obeyed; it might be best. The shining

veil of her fair hair fell around her, its
warm chestnut gloss lit up by the full
glare of the lights around. Her husband
folded his arms, and eyed her in the attitude
of a pitiless judge uttering his
sentence.

Kneel down now !  if you wish for my
forgiveness . It will be better for yourself
if you do !' he added, with a glance of
terribly threatening significance, as Hester's
face crimsoned and her lips parted in
evident indignant, womanly protest. She
knelt down. It was better to humour him
as far as possible.

The scene was a strange one. The lovely
woman kneeling there. The man with
the keen expression of a malignant mocking
judge, yet with worse in the cold
subtle gleam of his eyes. Hester had
raised hers in one appealing glance, but
quickly dropped them, shivering inwardly.


She had read murder in her husband's
look!

So, my pure saint ! you are beginning
to find that your straight path if hard,
was safest, after all. Our pleasant sins
bear Dead-Sea fruit, eh ?  Dead-ses
apples !'

'I have not sinned,' came with quick
pride of innocence from Hester's lips, and
she raised her head.

Hungerford cursed her with a terrible
execration.

Oh, no !  not as yet. You are not a
Christian for nothing, but know how to
palter and equivocate and quiet your conscience
with as many wretched subterfuges
as any other psalm-singing, canting hypocrite.
Oh, no ! You have not sinned as
yet But why are you on your knees
there, madam, but to crave my forgiveness
for attempting to elope with your lover
to-night ; with Christopher Kenyon ? What

does your Bible teach you of the sin done
in your heart, eh ?'

He gave one of his horrible human
growls.

Hester rose up straight before him, fearless
now, facing his accusation shrinking.

 Never ! I never meant to elope with
Christopher Kenyon, nor is he my lover.
It was only your unkindness, your ill-treatment
of late that forced me to think
of applying to my own friends in England
for the peace and protection I cannot find
under your roof. Go up to my room and
read the letter I have left for you, if you
can disbelieve me.'

Be quiet,' thundered Hungerford, ' or
I will strangle you with your own hair
round your throat this minute.'

He stepped forward threateningly ; then,
as Hester stood her ground, he burst into
a black flood of such curses and foul accusations
of her whole sex, above all of

herself as a whited sepulchre, vilest of all !
that Hester could not have made herself
heard. She could only stand helpless, but
innocent, cowering in her own mind from
indignities of words worse almost than a
shower of blows.

For a terrible half-hour this lasted.
Hester meekly hoped that after a while
the madman's rage might thus exhaust
itself. Hell could surely not be worse if
evil spirits use invective there. It was
hell on earth !

At last  at last, the storm seemed to
have spent its fury. Hester had sunk on
a low seat near (it was her own coffin,
covered with an Oriental rug) : her figure
was bent in unresisting hopelessness, like
a willow before the blast.

Mark, but for a few muttering, was
silent. After a while that she never spoke,
supposing it all in vain, the madman more
quietly asked.

'Well  have you nothing to say for
yourself? If you have, confess now, and
shrive your soul, for your time is short.'

Only this, that I am an innocent woman
both in deed and intention, as I
believe in God, and as I hope to go to
heaven!' cried Hester, desperately, stretching
out her hands in unconscious beseeching,
as calling a cloud of unseen witnesses
around her to attest the truth of her
declaration. Then, with bitterness indescribable,
' But, even were it otherwise, how
dare you  you \ accuse me. You, whose sins
have been my shame almost ever since I
married you : whom I have forgiven again
and again, only for our child's sake.'

Mark laughed easily.

'Oh, but I am a man, my dear. Weare
called milksops without a few pleasing
little vices. Caesar's wife  my wife ! 
must be spotless ; but Caesar himself, bah !
It is a law of nature, plainly : since the

world began, it has ever been so. Is that
all you have to say? Well, then, my
faithful and beautiful wife  (you have
vastly improved in looks since 1 married
you, Hester ! you are really a lovely woman
now; it seems quite a pity!)  we
must say good-night.'

Hester instinctively raised her hands a
little in self-defence, but immediately after
folded them on her breast, trying to quell
Hungerford once more by her eyes' steady
gaze. But in her heart she knew it was
now hopeless  he was past that. She had
long since exhausted in her own mind
every possible plan of escape or hope of
help. Only Russ could hear her scream,
if she had time to scream ; and most likely
Fuss  would not !

What do you mean to do ?' she simply
asked.

'I mean to kill you,' Hungerford replied,
with a courteous inclination and

studiously agreeable voice. Do not be
alarmed. You really look so lamb-like
and soft and white, I should be sorry to
hurt you unnecessarily. Death must have
come some day, you know. I have foreseen
this for the last many months, and
meditated carefully on the most painless
and quickest methods of despatching you.
But, really, your charms of person and
goodness of conduct on the whole have
been so great, that hitherto I have delayed
my purpose.'

This is childish folly,' returned Hester
as calmly, affecting easy scorn. ' Do you
imagine that you will not be found out at
once, if you murder me  a woman in
society so well-known, with so many
friends. Of course the traces would be
seen. And I hardly suppose that Mr.
Hungerford of Helston Priory wishes to be
hanged like a common felon.'

I have foreseen all that. Oh, mv dear,

don't trouble your mind. I shall do nothing
to disgrace my name  our name. If
you imagine that all such deeds of private
justice are found out, according to the
foolish old saying, allow me to correct you.
1 have carefully tabulated all the murders
which have not been traced during the last
several years alone, and their number is
quite sufficient for me, and really astounding,
considering how clumsily most men
go to work. Now, I have thought of it as a
fine art !'

 But this is mere melodrama,' rejoined
Hester, with a dreadful, pale smile. ' You
knoAv very well, Mark, that on the whole
you get on better with me (you have often
said so !) than any other woman who might
not know your ways. And you must have
a mistress of the house and some one to
bring up Ada.'

*Hum!  No. I have settled to travel for
some years. I have tramp-fever, you see ;

and women are an incumbrance. As to
Ada, I shall get Emma Yignolles to look
after her

Hester shrieked at that ! For the first
time the bitterness of death seemed to
come home to her ; the sharp iron truly
entered into her soul. What ? she herself
dead !  her body cold, and laid in a vault ;
while her spirit, with its mind, memory, love
would be gone, who can say whither ?
And Emma VignoUes, an untruthful
woman, one who had been careless, to say
the least, in her own conduct, whose shrewish
temper and little meanness were
Hester's private scorn, sie to have the
charge of Hester's own and only daughter.

You are mad, Mark !' she screamed.
What, take your child from me and trust
it to her ! Better kill it to-night, too.
Yes, I will take my child gladly with me,
wherever I may he going ! Better it should
die innocent, than be ill-treated in body

VOL. II. T

and taught evil that even you  you ! have
blamed in that woman !'

Hungerford, with a queer grin, shook
his head simply from side to side.

All foreseen, all weighed, most virtuous
mother ! Emma will not dare ill-treat my
heiress, because I shall pay her a large
sum if Ada keeps alive and well till my
return  otherwise nothing. Later  well,
if you have not poisoned Mrs. Armytage's
mind against me, I may give her the
charge as regards moral training. Yet 
no ! Emma Fisher will make her more a
woman of the world.'

At that, Hester, unasked this time, passionately
flung herself on her knees ;
reasoned, beseeched, at last raved for her
child's sake, not her own. She even clasped
her young arms round her husband's

knees ! But the sallow, aged face, as

if carved in ivory, never relaxed a line of
its tense muscles ; only at last broke into

a wild, short laugh that sounded hideously.
Hester stopped short  it was in vain !
Like a new thought, she fully understood
that she must really die now ; that what
so many millions on earth have met, all
shall meet, it behoved her to prepare for
also with dignity. Her life passed before
her, as in one drawn-out flash of thought.
She seemed to see herself again a happy
child in the little home-nest, so warm with
love, beside the beautiful English lakes.
Next, all lesser days forgotten, came those
at Westcliff  and her first great love there.
Then followed clouds, quickly darkening
all the sunny morn of her young years ;
bringing sorrow, death, loneliness  and,
lastly, this mad marriage.

'I am too young to die yet, and by
man's force  not called by God,' she
dumbly lamented to herself ' I want
some happiness, as a woman ! Only a
few short days, maybe; yet some  some!'

y2

This paroxysm of mind passed too ; and
in a few short minutes, rapidly as all the
scenes, and the emotions of the persons
engaged in them, had shifted that night,
Hester again composed herself to make a
brave end on earth. How many other
and nobler women had endured harder
lives, suffered crueller fates. This nerved
her  So Hester possessed her soul in patience,
and never repined more by word orin
thought during her last moments. She
even considered, as this maniac would apparently
allow his child to grow up unharmed,
that for its sake (not to have her
little Ada shamed as a murderer's daughter
!) Hester must not struggle to defend
herself, thus perhaps leaving marks of
violence on her body. Why should she ?
Mark's grip meant certain death. Her
child's father should never be hanged
through her.

'- How do you mean to kill me ?' she only

asked, with calm. *Be quick, at least  '
(To be struck down and stunned; or
dulled soon by poison, was better than
this lingering, slow torture. The minutes
seemed hours.)

'There is no hurry, my dear. The
night is young still,' rejoined Mark, with
a low, chuckling jocularity, as he sat
studying Hesterss face deliberately from
his chair, with his under-jaw advanced
and his protruding blue eyes fixed in a
gleam of gloating enjoyment, showing he
meant to taste fully all her slow anguish
in a prolonged interview which was sweetness
to his cruel blood-lust.

I have looked forward to this for a
long time,' he smiled to himself ' Ah !
my white piece of innocence, you little
knew how I have marked your steps, and
spread my nets, till I should catch you
at last ! And Kenyon, your lover . . .
Oh, 1 have guessed some time ago that it

was he you supposed dead, and he you
loved better than me. How I shall laugh
to watch his face when you are dead ! 1
Besides, I have exhausted all other emotions
except this ; and so I resolved to hill
some one . . . Hah, hah ! I am mad at
times, as you guessed ! Wretched woman,
how did you find out my secret ? . . .
But, Hester, it is a pity you have never
been mad. Let me tell you there is no
such rare delight as I have risen to ; such
heights of wild bliss defying all powers
under the stars to hurt me. Hah ! '

 Go on,' she said.

Hungerford glared at her ; then, slowly
rising, bent over the table on which were
ranged a crowd of phials, with jars of all
sizes, pestles and mortars, and fine instruments,
among which his long, lean, almost
fleshless fingers slowly groped.

There are delicate distillations here
which may have been used from the days

of Locusts to those of the Borgiass and Madame
de Brinvilliers in such little deeds of
necessity '  he uttered, word by word, as
if pouring out his philtre drop by drop 
 for, as you are so righteous, it is a necessity,
you perceive . . . yea, force is upon
me, to dispatch you to heaven, lest possibly
through later temptations you should
miss  miss the way, my dear . . . yes.'

Slowly, slowly, oh, so slowly, the murderer
was choosing out bottles ; replacing
them ; uncorking, and smelling contents 
rejecting them ; comparing long steel needles,
poising, measuring, hesitating  always
with a side glance of cunning
watchfulness upon his unhappy victim.

He was amusing himself.

In heaven !' echoed Hester, with one
last outcry of defiance like the shriek of an
overburdened soul gratefully seeing relief
n earing. ' Yes, there, there !  I shall escape
you ! At last, I shall be freed from

the torments you have caused me to suffer
in life.'

They were the last words she spoke on
that dreadful night.

It is true  you are right,' muttered
the madman to himself, slowly ; with keenly
annoyed regret. ' But how can it be
helped?' And slowly, slowly still, his fingers
moved among the poisons as he mused
on which to choose.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE LAST SCENE OF THE PLAY.

Helston Priory had long been deserted
by its owner, Mr. Hungerford. For years
the few neighbours of the surrounding:
county had not passed its gates with their
stone posts surmounted by crumbling
green-stained leopards, grasping shields.
The trees on either side of the gloomy
drive had been suffered to shoot downwards
long branches that almost impeded
the passage of any chance carriage.

But this day the budding tree-twigs
were forcibly brushed aside by a stately
funeral car, covered With a violet velvet

pall, which slowly passed under them. A
long mourning procession followed. All
the gentry of the neighbourhood were
gathered to pay the last respects to the
memory of Mark Hungerford's young and
beautiful wife. Few had seen her ; but
most had heard of her.

'Very handsome; and altogether a charming
woman !' observed one black-coated
squire, in fitting sepulchral tones, nodding
his head in panegyric of poor Hester's
qualities.

Was she ? But what a strange match
for her, then ; eh?' said another, who was
sprightlier, with an inquiring side-glance.
May and December, you know. Besides,
our friend Hungerford has been rather,
rather queer of late years, hasn't he ?'

'Humph  Avell  at all events, they
seemed a most devoted couple ; always
went out everywhere together in society.
She was tremendously admired,' said the

more proper-minded gentleman of the
two ; adding, with a reproving air, ' And
how Hungerford takes this to heart, poor
fellow; looks so old and changed  dreadfully
cut up, I should say

Ah, yes ; of course,' replied his companion,
feeling his levity snubbed, and
turning a yawn into an ostentatious sigh.

Everyone agreed as to Mark Hunger-ford's
showing all the outward signs of
deep grief. They spoke in whispers as
they slowly went ; of the splendid coffin
in which the dead woman was laid ; of
the lavish expense with which her remains
had been brought over from France ; the
wreaths of white hothouse flowers with
which the pall was massed. How haggard
and ill Hungerford looked, as he walked as-chief
mourner : so stooped from a tall,
active man to an old one ! He seemed to
creeps with hesitating gait, while his eyes
shot furtive glances from side to side towards

the pall-bearers and mourners, or
wandered restlessly over the crowd of spectators,
as if always on the watch for
something or some one.

No wonder he looked so dreadfully
aged! To have lost such a worshipped
wife, cut down in the flower of her youth
and loveliness by heart-disease ; so they
said.

The procession had left the church in
the neighbouring village, and was approaching
the family mausoleum. This
was once, in bygone ages, a small chapel
belonging to the old priory. At the foot
of a wooded rock, and embowered in evergreen
shrubs, and tall trees in which tender
green April buds were sprouting, it was
romantically situated. So what with memories
of a hoary past when pilgrims
flocked thither to pray, and a present
age when the dead of the oldest family
around laid their earthly bodies in hallowed

rest, it was a spot to be approached
with unusual reverence.

The massive wooden doors of the chapel
stood wide open. The funeral-car halted,
and the coffin was lifted down. Then came a
touching sight ; one moving many of the
women around who held their children by
the hand, or thought on their babies at
home, to tears.

Hester's child, Ada, was led forward by
the dead lady's former maid ; and staring
around her wide-eyed, with a bewildered
look, the toddling little girl, as she was
bid, held up some flowers and sprigs of
rosemary in her small hands, then dropped
them on her dead mother s coffin.

A stranger near the gate, who stood
watching, felt the tears rise to Ms eyes,
though a man. Then he ground his teeth.

After this, the coffin was carried inside
the chapel . . . When all the service was
over, and the mourners came out again

into the fresh spring air, Mark Hunger-ford
noticed the same stranger, standing
still on the gravelled walk outside. This
path Alas of olden right a public one,
leading past the chapel; therefore many
spectators had come unasked thus near
the family mausoleum.

Mark Hungerford stepped up to this
watcher and gazed at him closely in the
face, before passing back to the priory
with the funeral guests and neighbours.
As the elderly widower bent his head, no
one but the stranger addressed heard him
whisper, in strange tones that sounded
more like those of mocking malice, triumphantly
hissed, than decently hushed
-sorrow,

Hah  Christopher Kenyon  you here!
Very kind of you to come. And you
leave for India immediately, I believe, too.
Well, all is over, you see  the play played
out !'

 You are wrong.' Kenyon looked him
hard back in the eyes. ' There remains 
revenge P

He turned away, when Hungerford
called, ironically, after him,

 Good-bye ; good-bye. Remember, I
shall always be glad to see you.'

 Shall you ?' returned Kenyon, looking
back at him once more with still more
bitter sarcasm. 'Thank you. I shall
remember.'

And, in days to come, he indeed did not
forget it.

END OF THE Second VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY Duncan Macdonald, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

 '' >*V'

L I E) Mary

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS



CS79-t

v-3

f N 'i' '' '. r':

VOL. m.

Love, THE PILGRIM

BY

MAY CROMMELIN

AUTHOR OF

' QUEENIE," " ORANGE LILY," " A JEWEL OF A GIRL,'

MY LOVE, she's BUT A LASSIE,"

&c &c.

'Every day a pilgrim blindfold,
"When the night and morning meet,
Entereth the slumbering city,
Stealeth down the silent street;
Ling'reth round some battered doorway,
Leaves, unblest, some portal grand,
And the walls where sleep the children
Touched with his warm young hand.

Love is passing ! love is passing!

Passing while ye lie asleep. ' ,

Hamilton Aii>e.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. Il

LONDON:

HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1886.

All rights reserved.

LOVE, THE PILGRIM.

CHAPTER I.

HUNGRY HALL.'

Two years had slowly passed since Hesterss
death. The seasons had brought their
revolving changes with each month. In
the busy AvorJd great wars had happened ;
history had been made. And while it was
making, with victories and defeats, disasters
by sea here, famine there, good
harvests elsewhere, the small clusters of
families which make up nations had had
their own private, individual happiness
and sorrows, like drops in the great ocean.
In the group with which we have dealt

VOL. III. B

in this story, many little events had daily
brought their  petty dust' to cover up
the memory of Hester's untimely fate.
She was not quite forgotten ; at times
she was still mentioned regretfully as
*poor Hester.' That was all which remained,
it seemed, of her life devoted to
duty and her untimely fate.

Not quite all !

Once more, this second year, the April
buds were swelling on the bushy twigs
of the elm-tree boles in Helston Priory.
Here and there, through the rank grass
of the neglected demesne, daffodils nodded
their yellow heads in serried masses. Over
the crumbling garden walls, almond flower
hung in pink blossom against a brown-netted
background of bare apple and pear
branches. The spring was pale still, but
brilliant colours and warmer sunshine were
daily stealing nearer.

Helston, which was apparently a corruption
of Holystone Priory, lay in a

wooded valley, by a winding, sullen river.
The demesne itself included the whole of
the narrowest part of the gorge for a mile
and more. And here, in an open space
of grassy land, the present dwelling-house,
which had been in long bygone days the
priory, was situated.

This old house was all closed now. The
grass grew thick on the gravelled approach ;
dust, rust, and mildew doubtless reigned
within doors, for no caretaker lived inside
there. Only at times Russ, the former
butler, who had settled down with a wife
in a cottage belonging to the demesne,
came, on fine days, to let in light and
air.

Beyond the house itself, the garden lay,
running to waste between its walls, on
which the fruit-trees were never pruned.
The shrubberies and lawns were fast reverting
to a state of nature. The fishpond,
made by the old abbots in former
days, was almost stagnant from weeds, its

B 2

conduit-pipes choked. The woods were
sadly in want of thinning. The iron gates
between the grinning stone leopards down
at the entrance to the Priory were rusty,
and fastened by an iron chain and strong-padlock,
in additional security to their own
lock and bolts. They had not been opened
since the week after Hester's funeral, when
Mark Hungerford had left his countryseat,
and never been known to return there
since.

The whole gloomy aspect of Hist on
spoke of isolation, neglect, and one might
have even fancied of a place under a curse
for some sin of man. And the name given
it by the country-people once in sport, but
now as a by-word, was Hungry Hall !

So thought a fisherman slowly taking
his sport up the river's side on this April
day, pausing to look round at the shaggy
woods, the swift turbid waters of the
Stoure, as the river was called, and at the
decaying mansion, of which his path

allowed a peep. He murmured to himself,

It looks God-forsaken.'

The speaker was Christopher Kenyon.
He appeared much older than the two
years warranted, which had passed since
we last saw him. The elasticity of youth
and spirits had now apparently silently
stolen away for evermore from him. He
was indeed stronger than in former days
when invalided home at WestclifF; was
still as upright and no stouter. But his
hair was now thickly grizzled with white ;
his step no more knew sudden changes as
of old. They were then rapid, if his mind
was excited with any thought of stirring
action ; again aggravating slow to commonsense
persons Avhen he mused on
deeper things ; tried to unravel some
knotty point of science ; or recalled past
pleasant days; or simply revelled in
nature. At such times he would have
sauntered with Charles II. 'against any
man in England.'

Kenyon had ceased fishing, and reeled
up his line as he entered the Priory demesne,
by a small swing-gate abutting on
the public path. It was now growing
somewhat late in the mild afternoon, and
here he had ended his rights of rod upon
the Stoure, for through the Priory the
river was strictly preserved. Nevertheless,
he still went determinedly on his way,
with a slow step, being in no hurry, yet a
set manner, as if bound on a duty of some
customary kind.

This Alas indeed the case. Every day
during the fishing season last year, he had
thus steadily beat up the river from his
quarters some two or more miles further
down the stream, ' The Three Coughs'
inn. Already many days this year the
same track had known him never fail. He
went for nearly a mile through the Priory
beside the rushing brown river, edged by
slippery rocks on his right hand, while on
the left rose tall, close-set trees pining for

more light and air ; then crumbling banks
where foxgloves grew in summer time;
again wet marshy spots rank with determines
and patches of white garlic. For
almost a mile Kenyon pushed steadily on,
meeting no living soul. A few water-rats
dived into the darksome water ; some rooks
passed overhead. But presently the wood
grew less gloomy. Larger trees stood more
apart, and he came into a pleasant if narrow
strip of meadow-land where for centuries
the dry turf between the river and
rising background of wooded hills had not
been broken, perhaps since first the Cistercian
monks settled here by the Stoure, and
led the lives of austere, book-learned husbandmen.
Rabbits frisked into cover as
Kenyon approached ; he heard the cheery
challenge of a cock-pheasant in the woods
answered by another in defiance.

Some sleeky brown Alderney, graceful
almost as deer, were being driven towards
the home-farm, and Kenyon, rousing himself

unusually, absolutely hastened this
steps towards the man who was herding
them. The latter was only a labourer of
a slouching gait, and whose round ruddy
face would have looked stupid except for
being redeemed by a sly, twinkling pair
of eyes.

Good-day, Cowgill,' called out Kenyon,
with a sudden effort at cheery greeting.
 I have not seen you, yet, since I came
back this season. How is the rheumatism
?'

Zachary Cowgill grinned respectfully
and plucked at his cap.

Thank ye, colonel. It wur pretty badin
winter . . . and I missed you, too, so
I did. Glad to see you back again. Up
yonder in that there cottage they put mein,
below the old tower, though Mr. Russ
and his wife are hard by, never so much
as a "How are ye to-day?" do they care if
a man's joints was twisted into a crossness
with pain. Lord ! up in yonder wilderness

of our there is no satisfaction in
being ill

It must be very hard upon you,' said
Kenyon, putting all the hearty sympathy
he could command into his voice  more
than was quite natural, perhaps.

Zachary grumbled his assent, and added,
looking away with a sheepish gaze and ina
half mutter,

Besides, though I saint afraid of no
man, I don?76 care to be so near possesses
in this here place, if all folks says is
true.'

'Well, Cowgill, come down to see me
some evening soon at the " Three Coughs,"
and you must drink my health there to
help your pains. I shall expect you.' And
With an energetic nod, like his old self
when stirred to action. Kit went on his
path, whilst cows and their gratified herdsman
passed up a cart-road towards the
home-farm.

The grassy meadow-land through which

Kenyon now went swelled upwards to a
little rocky height, crowned by an old
half-ruinous tower overhanging the Stoure.
A small Avoid covered the sides and base
of the knoll for the most part, and here a
thin blue smoke rose from two cottages
half buried in the trees, one of which was
Zachary's damp if picturesque abode.
Christopher's path wound beneath this
wooded hill, through the trees, and past
traces of former shrubberies, now only
known by evergreen lanky laurels and
rhododendrons pushing into the path.

A corner of the old priory-house could
be seen at a little distance, half hidden by
great cedars, spreading wide their layers
of shade. But Kenyon's eyes cared not
for beauties of ruins or scenery. They
were fixed on the rocky end of the low
hill, which his path abruptly rounded.
There in the cliff face, framed by bushes
and weeping willows, was an old archway
of stone, ornamented rudely by some

dog's-tooth moulding, and closed by low,
massive old doors, studded with heavy
rusty nails. On one side of the porch was
a broken holy-water stoup ; on the other
an ancient stone bench, worn by generations
of pilgrims, for this had been a local
shrine of repute in former ages. It was
the Holystone Chapel, now turned into
the Hungerford family vault.

Kenyon stood looking at the doorvvay
some little while. Then, as if obeying a
habit so customary it had become mechanical,
he moved towards the stone bench
and sat down.

Still he kept his dark eyes fixed in sad
musing on the decaying, yet thick, old
doors. That damp, gloomy cell, overhung
with rocks and trees and tangled laurels
and bushes, to hold his dear, dead Hester !
She should have been laid rather on a
grassy, upland slope, speckled with daisies,
where the lambs she loved to see in springtime
would Lave frisked overhead, and the

wild bees fioAvn by with steady hum.

Ah ! Hester's gentle spirit was far away
in some bright and blessed land. It was
folly to think she would now heed where
her mere ' house of clay ' had been laid to
moulder back to dust. And yet, it had
been so delicately fashioned and beautiful
to look at (and, after all, our temples of
the divine spark within us call for such
reverence and care in life), that Kenyon
could not divest himself of an unreasonable
feeling that she  now Diis spirit-Hester
would be better pleased could her earthly
body be laid where heaven's dews and
sunshine, and even showers, might have
fallen gently on the grass above her gentle
breast. Had she not once told him so
herself? on that high sea-ness where they
two had met, and the dead lay around
under the pleasant clover-sod by the old,
grey Westcliff church. Oh, those lost
days !

Kenyon's heart ached, now, even to re-christopher

tried to imagine how her
coffin might be placed inside there. It
would be a satisfaction to call up its position
in his mind's eye. Going further,
that same inner vision strove to pierce
even the ebony and silver casket, which so
jealously guarded its secret within. Rumour
said the dead lady had been embalmed,
and looked so sweet in death, she still
seemed to smile as in her life.

Kit longed, with a craving that at
moments seemed madness even to himself,

to gaze on those clear features again. He
had read and heard of coffins opened after
long years by chance, or hy sacrilegious
hands, when golden hair was found twining
in bright masses over the shroud
within, and faces of noble, dead ladies
smiled out a moment once more on the
awed beholders, the next  crumbled gently
into dust. Even should Hester's loveliness
thus vanish before his eyes, Kenyon
had an unspeakable, terrible, longing tearing
at his heart-strings to see Iter once more.

Ay ! and further  a fiercer passion than
that of love had twined itself so closely
with the latter that the man hardly knew
which had the greater hold upon him. He
was thirsting for revenge ! Who could say
what dark secret might not be discovered
in yonder coffin, of Hester's sudden and
mysterious death, by loving eyes sharpened
by such terrible suspicion as his ?

Whatever might come of it, the thought
had so grown upon him that Christopher.

of late slowly resolved he must try

It may here be said that, on the fatal
night of Hester's attempted escape, Kenyon
waited anxiously in Nice as she
wished. When the carriage arrived from
the villa, he eagerly opened its door, and
saw  Hester's maid. This woman, whom
he knew as a spy on her mistress, said,
with an insolent smile, she was desired by
Mr. Hungerford to tell him that Mrs. 
was not able that evenings to make
use of the carriage so kindly placed at her
service by Major Kenyon.

After that, Kenyon hardly knew in what
a maddened fever of disappointment, rage,
and poignant fears for the safety of the
woman he had so long loved, he passed
that awful night. He remembered vaguely
good General Doyle's efforts at soothing,
and the latter's kindly companionship.
But when, with morning-light, the news
of the death up at the villa on Cimiez
came down into the town, first as idle

rumour told and doubted in the same
breath, Christopher might have lost his
reason for a time, blaming himself in wild
anguish, but for that kind comrade. Kenyon's
grief was intense  terrible to see,
as to endure ! Its first tortures over, his
mind turned with sudden violence to the
thought of vengeance. It was insensibly a
relief from the awful uselessness of sorrow
when nothing can be done! Now, having
only too well-founded suspicions of
Mark Hungerford, he thirsted for punishment.
He demanded to arouse the law ;
to arraign the madman. If all else failed,
he longed to do wild justice himself!

With difficulty, General Doyle, who
never quitted him those days, strove to
bring him to a quieter frame of mind ;
persuaded and reasoned. The good general
who was at first inclined to share in
Kenyon's fears  accompanied him in all
inquiries. But the first staggered him by
its results. The doctor had given a certificate

that Mrs. Hungerford's death was
a natural one, caused by heart disease.

Mio can we go against that?' asked
the general.  It would be difficult ; nay,
impossible to persuade the authorities to
doubt such an opinion.'

'The wretch was paid for his lie,' cried
Christopher, in gloomy despair.

Then the unhappy man relapsed into
such a paroxysm of hopelessness and dark
passion, that only his friend's comforting
presence saved his tottering reason.

General Doyle now himself believed that
poor Hester had indeed died of sudden
fright  many persons suffering from insidious
forms of heart disease died thus, he
learnt. He deeply deplored her sad fate,
acknowledging Mark Hungerford was, indirectly,
her murderer, yet that the latter
was safe from their hands. However,
in his honest sorrow, the general went
straight to Mrs. Yignolles, and relieved
his mind by roundly telling her of the

VOL. III. C

suspicions which were beginning to be whispered
among their acquaintances. Emma
Vignolles was feeling, for once in her life,
shocked to dismayed pity by Hester's sudden
death. Her own conscience, too, was
pricking her with secret terrible whispers,
that perhaps she had helped to bring this
about by her warning to Mark. Nevertheless,
only the general's strong urgings and
promise to bear her company could have
induced her to go to the villa, where she
saw poor Hester's body laid out in state.
The little woman returned pale and subdued,
but earnestly declaring Mark was 
must be  innocent ! In death, Hester lay
looking so peaceful, so sweet, no one could
see her and doubt a moment that her end,
however startling, had been painless.

The funeral followed ! After this,

Kenyon, who had only waited for it with
difficulty, was forced to leave England at
once on foreign service.

But he took out with him a resolution

in his heart to return the first hour that
was possible. While Hester lived, he
would have banished himself evermore at
her wish. Now  she, being dead, recalled
him. Kenyon sold out of the army with
the rank of colonel, and came back to his
native shores with a fire smouldering in
his heart that would not let him rest. It
was partly revenge, but also remorse, for
the idea had taken hold on him that he
himself was to blame for Hester's unhappy
marriage. Even, of late, by brooding his
mind had warped itself almost to believe
that his plans for her flight were perhaps
careless ; and that, had he been on the
spot, she might have been saved. With
it all, the love he had borne the dead
woman was by no means dead with her
death, or become a merely tender memory,
but had grown truly greater, as a thought
he now could face without self-doubts or
condemnation  was deepened, intensified
by melancholy.

c2

Soon after landing in England, Kenyon
made his way down here. And, in spite of
wonderment and protests from friends, here
he had since remained all the past summer
and autumn, on the pretexts of fishing and
sketching.

His daily visit to Hester paid  so he
now thought of his regular walks to the
chapel  Kenyon rose. Passing his handover
his brow with an unconscious sigh,
he gazed idly up at the square old tower,,
which from its wooded hill-top looked down
on the chapel below.

This tower had a vague fascination for
him : perhaps because it, too, was reported
to have had its secrets in bygone days.
It was now said to be half-ruinous. But
Kit had heard legends from some of the
country-people, with whom he talked ashe
fished, that the old monks had once
used the tower as a kind of prison. ' There
were old people ' could rightly tell tales of
dark deeds done there ; so the speakers

said. But the chief victim of the tower
was apparently a lady whose adjacent
lands had been willed to the priory should
she die without leaving other heirs. Some
said she was a young heiress, others a
widow whose husband died ' in the wars.'
She, rowing down the river one summer's
day, was said to have been enticed hither
by the monks, and then walled up alive.
Certainly, she disappeared mysteriously ;
and her estate became part of the Whetstone
Priory.

With one last glance around, Christopher
Kenyon turned his back, for that
day, on ' Hungry Hall,' which well seemed
to deserve its significant name. A sad
man, slow and solitary, he went back to
his only home  an inn.

CHAPTER 11.

OLD FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES.

When Kenyon had gone some distance
through the Whetstone demesne, on his
homeward way, he met its present steward.
This caretaker was a stout, burly
man, dressed in a rough tweed suit, with
a round hat, a big stick, and leather
leggings. Yet his sandy hair, aggressively
red beard, and florid face betrayed him as
our old acquaintance, the once solemnly
black-coated butler of the Villa Beausite.

*Good evening, Russ. How are you?'
said Kenyon. He tingled with dislike of
the man to the tips of his fingers on seeing
him ; and yet he greeted him with a cordial

air that did not betray itself as forced.
How was the handsome Colonel Kenyon
changed ! He to lie, to flatter a coarsely
overbearing, upstart menial like this one.
He said to himself, even that moment, in
self-excuse,

It is because, though I dislike so few
people on earth, I hate this fellow  for his
master's sake 1'

A strange reason.

Good-evening, sir, ' responded Russ,
slowly and very surlily. ' We did not expect
to see you back again in this part of
the country. There is not much attraction
here for a gentleman like you.'

There is the fishing, Russ  the fishing.
And then I like sketching here.'

If ever a face expressed dogged disbelief,
then that of Russ now showed it.

Oh, the fishing !  such as that is f he
uttered, with slow contempt, keeping his
eyes fixed on Kenyon with a beery stare
which strove to be searching. Our fisherman

moved his basket uneasily, Avitli an air
which apparently assumed it heavy.

Any news of your master, Russ ?' he
went on, lightly, but with directness.
 Where is he, now  travelling, eh ?'

'That I can?26> tell you, sir,' replied
Russ, more truthfully than his interlocutor
had spoken through their interview.

And, closing his mouth with a snap, the
man turned abruptly towards the Priory.

Brute !' thought Kenyon to himself.
Yet he holds that secret, I am convinced.
If he could but be got at  bribed, if it cost
me two-thirds of my income, or beguiled to
tell it in drink, then '

So, musing, he went onwards.

The valley debouched suddenly, after
leaving Helston demesne, into wide, flat,
dull meadows, through which the Stoure
flowed always brown, deep, and rapid,
but with little picturesqueness or none.

Here and there, stumpy pollards edged
the flood. Now and again came a bridge.

That, with some stray cows, was all to be
seen for two miles. And yet, along this
fisherman's track, Kenyon had faithfully
come like a pilgrim of love day after day
last year. So, day by day, he meant to
come this year ; and so on, it might well
be for many years, till he had either accomplished
his wish, or his end came !

Kenyon mused so intently as he now went
that he hardly noticed the sunset, striking
red on the ripples of the brown water here
and there ; saw, without heeding them,
many signs of the coming spring and small
secrets of Nature's beautiful machinery
which formerly would have delighted him.
He was now a true disciple of Melancholy.
As saith Burton thereof  Kenyon, in former
happier days, had found it true, that :
Most pleasant it is, to such as are melancholy
given, to walk alone in some solitary
grove, betwixt wood and water, by some
brook side . to build castles in the air,
to go smiling to themselves acting a variety

of parts, which they suppose, and strongly
imagine, they act, or that they see done
. . until at the last the scene turns upon
a sudden and they, being now habituated
to such meditations and solitary places,
can endure no company, can think of
nothing but harsh and distasteful subjects

And again, this passage was true of the
gloomy passion for revenge which now possessed
him  ' continually suspecting, no
sooner are their eyes open but this infernal
plague of melancholy seized on them
. . which now, by no means, no labour,
no persuasions they can avoid, they cannot
be rid of, they cannot resist.'

So, gloating on his bitter thoughts,
which yet were in a manner sweet to the
man, Kenyon went musing on his way.
His walk ended at a so-called village : in
reality a cluster of small houses, whitewashed
and comfortable, but far from picturesque,
surrounding three cross-lanes.
There were also a small old church and a

large modern rectory : the latter, indeed,
quite a handsome country-house, rearing
its head with assurance above a high wall,
suggestive of peach and cherry-trees.

The young clergyman of this fat living
was just then crossing the small village
green, among the geese and children, when
he caught sight of Kenyon rather wearily
returning. His face brightened, his strides
turned, and, with his black skirts flapping-round
his lanky, big-boned figure, he exclaimed,
with urgency,

Good-evening, Colonel Kenyon ; how
are you ? Pray come up to the rectory 
I was just going home, and it will be
quite a boon if you will enliven my solitude.
You will stay for dinner?' (persuasively).
'Really, in this great house you
were kind enough to exalt me to, I feel
sometimes like  like a mouse alone in St.
Paul's.'

A very clerical comparison, my dear
Armytage,' smiled Kenyon, feebly, as if

only rousing from his dreams to the waking
world around him.

He said neither yea nor nay to the invitation.
However, Edward Armytage (for
this was the former collegian he had first
met at WestclifF) took cheerful possession
of his arm and led him oiF, a not unwilling
captive. Kit had indeed obtained this
excellent living for the young man last
year, with infinite trouble. He had begged
the presentation from a county magnate
of those parts, a former comrade in the
regiment, and one of Kenyon's own few
men-friends (Kit had never had but two
or three in life, but these had been very
closely knit in soul to him). This friend
was now supposed to be dying in a foreign
health resort : ' Just my luck,' regretted
our colonel, mournfully, and then chid
himself, remembering, ' Men must endure
their going hence, even as their coming
hither : ripeness is all.' However, his
Jonathan, ' willing to pleasure ' Kit, as the

old saying goes, before lie should lose the
power thereof, gave young Armytage the
living, thereby incensing Mark Hungerford
into a day or two of fierce frenzy. Kenyon
had reckoned on thus angering his enemy,
with a secret gloomy joy : but also he had
exerted himself for Hester's sake, knowing
she had been fond of this formerly raw
young cousin.

All he now did, indeed, was done ' for
Hesterss sake.'

They reached the rectory ; and entered
a large and bright but barely-furnished
drawdno-room, where on a desert of boarded
floor was a small island of a Turkey
russ, a table littered with w'itino; materials,
and two arm-chairs. A modest set
of book shelves was filled with works of
theology, and college prizes.

'Just my college-room furniture, you
see,' apologised Edward ; adding heartily
Doesn't it all look desolate ? Why, the
house is so still sometimes  when my old

cook is nearly a mile off in lier scullery 
that I have shouted aloud here, to make
the ceiling ring, just to give myself the
feeling of having company.'

You will have to marry,' said Kenyon,
slightly amused, and watching him almost
affectionately, as he moved noisily about,
trying to tidy the general confusion with
shoves, and pushes, and bangs. No matter:
was he not an Armytage ?

Marry ! not I  I have a better plan
than that,' cried the young man, joyously.
' Who do you think is coming to spend
the summer with me ? Aunt Bessie !
(Mrs. Armytage, you know)  Yes, she
has signed and sealed the agreement, asher
husband has just got an order from the
Spanish government to go and do some
great works out there. So, meanwhile,
she is really coming here with all her
family  the whole tribe.'

*You don't say so,' uttered Kenyon,
almost too taken aback to be glad. ' She

was a great friend of mine; but I have not
seen her since  since Westcliff days.'

Edward Armytage coukl hardly forbear
looking at him a little inquisitively. He
knew of his guest's daily journey to the
Priory ; yes, even to the chapel (as the
mausoleum was still often called). In his
frequent visiting among the poor, he could
not stop his ears to scraps of gossip which
they hould tell. And he was sorry, very
sorry for Colonel Kenyon's growing melancholic
mania, as he termed it. Certainly
this man, so changed, reserved, and shunning
society, must have loved Hester very
deeply in bygone days ; but time should
heal these wounds, or else one's mind is
not in a sound and right state, thought
the young caretaker of souls. So he had
resolved some time ago to do what he
could in rousing his friend, in return for
the good offices done to himself by Kenyon.

They two now dined together ; and after
dinner, when men's tongues are unloosed

and bodily satisfaction makes minds less
guarded, they began to talk of bygone
days  of Westcliff.

Now and again Kit sighed heavily. It
must be owned that Edward drew him onto
talk with all the kind cunning in his
power, thinking it might ease his guest's
mind. This had at last the desired effect.
For, as Armytage spoke of poor Hester
frequently, with as natural an air as possible,
his affectionate remembrance of herby
its sympathy, thawed Kit's frozen reserve.
Like a long ice-bound stream when
spring suns come, at last his heart found
passionate utterance ; and he could no
more check his natural affection than the
rushing of a rapid river. Though his
words were few, they told much !

He spoke openly of Hester's martyrdom
of marriage ; the affronts, hidden sufferings,
and fears she had endured bravely,
smiling with a light upon her face as from
another and heavenly sphere.

Edward was startled. He had never
before heard such an authentic account
of ]\Iark Hungerford and his madness.
The young man's indignation and pity
so grew, as he heard the little details of
poor Hester's sufferings in the 'glittering
grief the world called a splendid match
that Kenyon, carried away by this rush
of fellow-feeling, thankful to share the load
on his heart with another at last, told him
all he suspected. And more

He confided in Armytage something
(not yet the actual whole) of the revengeful
passion in his heart : the longing to
hnoiu whether Hester's embalmed body
might not still show traces of foul play.

It might be done  we might contrive
somehow to see it! to get into the chapel,'
he ended, sinking his voice almost to a
whisper at the suggestion, and eyeing his
companion to see how he took it.

But . . but  ' Armytage replied, staggered
at the idea, and temporising so as

VOL. III. D

to gain more time for reflection. ' Even
if you  if one did succeed (which, mind
you ! is monstrously improbable, if you

think of doing such a thing secretly) '

sit must be done secretly,' burst in
Kenyon, impatiently. what right have
we to get the vault opened, you or I?
Oh, one knows enough of " the law's
delay !"  How could we ever get its machinery
put in motion on a private suspicion,
after two years ? I did try  out at
Mce  and failed ! The doctor's certificate
of a death from heart-disease was against
us. He was suborned, no doubt  paid for
his work ! but it is an enormous obstacle.
And the coroner of these parts, I have
found out after private inquiries, would
be an especially difficult man to deal with.
No, no . . . suppose we contrive it in
secret, and that our belief is proved groundless,
why, silence is golden, and no harm
is done. But if I am right! whj then '

Yes, what then ?' repeated the younger
man, earnestly.

Kenyon remained darkly silent: so
Edward went on,

I only want to see Adhere this will lead
us. There must be a public inquiry, a
nine days' scandal, and this maniac  if so
proved  will be locked up.'

'Where he can harm no more people,'
approved Kenyon.

True ; that is the one great benefit, if
he is really dangerous. Otherwise . . .
well, I have never seen Hester's little girl ;
but, for the child's sake, I should think it
was better to let the ashes of the past
remain stirred.'

Justice is justice !' cried Kenyon, firing
up.

There was a short silence ; then Edward
said, very gently,

Granted ! But . . . icoidd Hester have
tvisJied it T

Kenyon rested his head on his hand,

d2

and, with his elbow on the table, stared
at the blank wall opposite. They were
smoking together in the empty drawing-room
; and, as the days were not yet sufficiently
long to allow them to go out of
doors or dispense with light, they had a
reading-lamp on the table. The shadowy
twilight of the big room affected Kenyon's
nerves, keenly susceptible to all impressions,
so that what with the subject of
their talk, which had stirred all his deepest
feelings, the dead silence now between the
men, and the semi darkness around, he
could have fancied he saw Hester's own
self, like a pale vision, against the opposite
darkened wall  looking at him reproachfully.
He sighed heavily, and, rousing
himself, the dream-shape he had all but
conjured into a real illusion of his senses
vanished.

Once more Armytage cautiously entered
on the subject. It was, indeed, too grave
to be lightly dismissed.

I do not say justice should not be
done ; but let us look at this matter all
round,' he urged, taking a common-place
sensible tone that sounded strange as from
the younger man towards his elder. But
then Edward judged that a good blow of
fresh air on the idea as such a ' talking it
over ' might give, was the best remedy for
Kenyon's state of mind which had grown
like a closed and dark room of late. The
young rector reasoned, argued, and said
his best in the discussion that followed on
the side of forgiveness  even towards Mark
Hungerford.

'Oh, I can forgive injuries to myself
easily enough ; yes, the worst,' Kenyon
passionately retorted, striking the table
with his open hand. ' But injuries done
to her ; never f

It is far more difficult ; but that is precisely
what we ought to go on to do, I believe,'
Edward meditatively replied, studying
his pipe ; feeling an itching to preach

on the subject next Sunday, which he
promptly put a stop to. In his secret
heart, he believed that Kenyon had been
misled by his own .grief and indignation
and fears for Hester, till brooding on this
idea had encouraged it almost to fixed
hallucination.

His own view was, that Hungerford being
now absent nearly two years on lengthy
travels (no one now knew well where),
nothing could be done against him. On
his return, if madness again showed itself,
why, then proceed to shut him up, for little
Ada's sake !  but not for this most terrible
of old scores. That would be a blot forever
on the family scutcheon. And, therefore,
he strove to banish the idea of getting
access to the vault from Kenyon's mind.
It was a hurtful thought for such a solitary
man, he felt convinced ; but did not
say so. Kenyon was obliged to seemingly
give his assent to much, but yet  he remained
' of the same opinion still.'

'I will walk clown to the "Three
Choughs " with you,' said Armytage,
heartily, as his guest rose to depart. And
Kit in secret was glad of the young man's
company, as they strolled half-a-mile
further down the road by the river. ' You
said this evening that I was lonely, but it
strikes me you are far more so. I have at
least plenty of work,' went on the fortunate
rector of the parish. ' It seems such a
pity for you, if I may say so, with your
powers and  and all that. You know " it
is not good for man to be alone." '

My life is Avast. It has been of no
use to myself or to others, and it is too
late to begin over again,' returned Kenyon,
with a cynical laugh. ' But you
would never have made a hermit, and
loved sweet solitude, I see.'

I should not. The worst part of a
man comes out in isolation, I believe . . .
Ashy, one's heart becomes as dry as dust,
unless it has living joys and sorrows to

feed on  then misery of mind generally
follows . . . Certainly, a man of artistic
sensibilities may find solace in the beauty
of nature, but still '

but still! confess, my good preacher,
that men's lives are oftener a mystery to
themselves and to the wisest onlookers of
the game.' Kenyon sadly mocked. ' Here
was I, brought up luxuriously, all my
tastes for the vanities and delights of this
pleasant, hollow world of ours fostered.
Later ! I found myself turned out of Babylon
to toil among other slaves in. as it were,
the world's desert. And poverty seems
to have nipped all my best aspirations, and
even my efforts, like a bitter frost. Some
men in my place could and do struggle
bravely to better their fortunes  at least,
they may learn to lop off and prune their
tastes and wants for good and all. Many
don't, but are simply failures in life. I
have failed.'

Armytage did not know what to answer.

They readied the 'Three Choughs,' an
almost painfully white-washed, little inn,
with its sign swinging from an apple-tree
close by.

It Alas a quiet and clean old-fashioned
house of its kind. Yet Armytage wondered,
as he followed Kenyon down two steps
into the decidedly damp-smelling best-parlour
where the colonel lived  noticed the low
ceiling and the horse-hair-covered furniture
which vainly strove to redeem its character
for harshness by a profusion of snowy,
crocheted antimacassars, as objectionable as
their name. Then, as he eyed the sea-shells
and wax-flower ornaments on the
mantel-piece and side-table, the excruciating
coloured prints on the walls, he marvelled
more than ever, that a man with
tastes and habits like Kenyon could endure
to live here solitary for months, of his
own free choice.

Kenyon had asked Edward in to show
him a new invention in artificial flies. Ashe

came to the table with his candle to
display this, the light fell on a black-edged
letter, marked,  Immediate,' lying there
awaiting him, and bearing the West cliff
post-mark. There was no telegraph wire
then in that part of the country.

'Will you excuse my just seeing what
this can mean, Armytage?' he said, wonderingly.
 Luckily, for such news, I have
no near relations left to feel alarmed for.
Still, if one of the others is dead, I cannot
imagine why they should write at all tome
 a poor cousin.'

The letter was from the Kenyonss' family
lawyers, to say that a terrible accident had
happened to Christopher's first cousin. Sir
John Kenyon. (He had lately succeeded
the old Sir Christopher, his father, with
whom Kit used to stay at Westcliif.) As
Sir John and his two boys were sailing
together on the Lake of Geneva, they had
all been drowned by the capsizing of their
boat.

Christopher, accordingly, who stood
reading this letter in the parlour of the
 Three Choughs,' was not only Sir Christopher
Kenyon, Baronet, but the owner of
a large rent-roll and the fine old family-seat,
the Court, near Westcliif.

'Armytage!' uttered Kit, disjointed,
almost blankly in his great surprise. 'Read
this !  I  hardly understand it . / ama
rich man P

CHAPTER III.

Birds OF A Feather FLOCK TOGETHER.

The April sun, which had looked down on
Hungerford as a daily pilgrim to the lonely
chapel in the Helston wood, had now
changed to that of June. The London
season was at its height.

Two ladies were sitting together in the
Row one day, watching the stream of
passers-by, criticising the well-dressed women,
and wondering why so few of their
men acquaintance  at least those whom
they cared to see, this both repeated often
with disappointment  were here this morning.
Suddenly, the prettier and younger
of the two, whose dark eyes roved freely
around, exclaimed,

' Why, look there !  It is, it must be 
Colonel Kenyon. Kit Kenyon himself.'

'Where, where? eh?'

The elder lady half started up to see, fussily
dropping her parasol and fumbling for
her eye-glass. She caught sight of Kit fora
moment, passing by with a dreamer's unseeing
eye ; then he was lost in the crowd.

Yes  yes. I wonder if he will come
back this way ? . . . Sir Christopher Kenyon,
as he is now, my dear,' she said, more
slowly, sitting down.

You need not remind me, Mrs. Emma.
As if one did not always know it, when
one's men-friends have the luck to 2:et a
large fortune. It is a duty every woman
in society owes to herself, to be posted in
such news,' laughed Mrs. Fisher, for it was
she. She added,

As to his coming this way, don't distress
yourself about it. He is hardly
likely to take much trouble to speak to
either of us'

 Why not, pray ?  Eh, eh ! why not ?'
asked Mrs. Vignolles, who was the elder of
the two, with a frown and growing red.
Pray, explain yourself! I don't see, for
my part, why not,' she persisted, with
rather aggravating iteration.

Oh, don't get excited  it's too hot a
day !' returned Mrs. Fisher, with as annoying
easy good-humour.

Hoar were these two, formerly enemies,
now become outwardly sworn allies, if not
bosom friends ? It might be hard to tell.
Perhaps the old adage explains it best :
 Birds of a feather flock together.' Some
people ill-naturedly said of them, that
they could not afford to quarrel, having
been much thrown together in the same
set in society. Anyhow, their former
cause of rivalry at Nice being long removed
by Mark Hungerford's protracted
travels, and Edith having lightly shaken
off his admiration even before that date,
they had drawn together little by little, on

meeting again, by the magnet of mutual
need.

Pretty Mrs. Fisher found herself coldly
eyed by other jealous wives, because, as
she sometimes half-angrily declared, she
was not rich, nor a great lady.

Then I might go twice as far ; and so
long as I gave balls and dinners they
would fawn on me.'

But now that, however surrounded and
admired still by men, she often wanted one
of her own sex to keep her in countenance,
why !  there was Mrs. Vignolles ready to
hand.

And the latter, whose charms were
fading and purse was limited, grasped
eagerly though with simulated indifference
at this last chance of being asked to
little dinners and pleasant theatre parties ;
being taken to races (though she never
knew the winners), and on the river
(though she secretly was always fearful ina
boat).

As none of Mrs. Fishers men-friends
and admirers were to be seen to-day
(those her companion still separately
boasted of were fast becoming transparent
fictions), both ladies, their memories of
Nice stirred by Kenyon's sudden appearance,
began to talk of him and of his
strange life of late, buried down in the
country, near Helston, it was said.

 He was always a little strange in someways
; high-flown and romantic, I thought,'
observed Edith Fisher, even whilst taking
note carefully of a passing skirt, with lace-flounces
peculiarly arranged. She went
on abstractedly (thinking at the same
time she must see if her own Brussels'
lace would be sufficient to trim up a dress
for herself similarly). 'He was so handsome
and interesting, with that sad lookin
his eyes at times. I suppose it was
because he was so desperately fond of her''

Of Hester, do you mean ? Not at all
angrily rejoined Mrs. Vignolles. 'It was

a strong flirtation certainly; but I shall
always believe she Jed Mm on /'

'Well, I always take the part of our
sex, when I can ; and I don't believe it,'
said Edith Fisher, good-naturedly. She
said the truth in this ; for, though her
principles might be lax, she was hardly
ever ill-natured. 'No, I don't believe it
it was he who was in love. Now, I was
really fond of Hester; but, till he came,
I always thought her as cold as ice. It
was quite a surprise to me, when you told
me she meant to run off with him on the
night that she died. What's done can't be
undone, Emma ; but still-I think it a
great pity you stopped her.'

(Mrs. Fisher was a little annoyed this
morning, so was mildly revenging herself,
in a good-humoured way, on her friend.)

A pity !  Upon my word, I don't understand
you. I am surprised, Mrs. Fisher
. . I  I acted as was right and proper
in what I did, to help my cousin Mark,

VOL. III. E

when lie came to me ; for the family honour.
It wasn't moral  so it would have
been lorong not to stop her, when we had
our suspicions,' sputtered Mrs. Vignolles,
growing red again, and making ready apparently
for what Mrs. Fisher called her
fireworks.' The other much preferred in her
own tiffs, 'women's weapons  water-drops.'
Oh, don't get into a fuss, Emma,' she
entreated, leaning comfortably back. 'I
can't help saying what I think ; and all I
do say is, that I think it was unkind ! If
poor Hester wanted to run away from her
husband, I don't see why anyone should
have prevented her. She was very fond
of Kit ; and she hated Mr. Hungerford,
I am sure  at least, any wife ought to
have done so . . . Wrong!  not moral
or proper? Fiddlestick, my dear! Mr.
Hungerford would have divorced her; and
then, you know, you could have married
him r
Mrs. Vignolles forced her lips, at this

playful remark of her friend, into a very
bitter single. She could have boxed Edith
Fisher's ears with pleasure ; have even
scratched her. For !  in those days, at
Nice, as both well knew, Mark Hunger-ford
had been devoted to Edith herself
Was either woman likely to forget it ?

And, just then, our old friend Kenyon
came by where they sat, once more. He
had thought that morning he would just
2:0 to the Park for an hour, with a vao:ue
idea that he ought to try if the sight of
old friends, of pretty women, could anymore
give him pleasure. He had even
gone out a little in London society, as
much as his mourning warranted. But
how insipid, how hollow it all seemed !
Riches gave Kenyon a new sensation certainly,
but ever coupled now with the
thought, ' too late !' In society he had
always been a favourite; nothing new
there ! No  his solitude, and its help
towards gaining his darling wish, his revenge

: these seemed worth living for !
What were the ephemeral pleasures round
him ? shadows, bubbles !

How d'ye do, Sir Christopher : how
d'ye do ?'

Mrs. Vignolles' voice sharply arrested
his attention. The little widow almost
caught him by the arm as he sauntered
by ; she barred his progress. Kenyon,
though taken a good deal aback at sight
of her and of Mrs. Fisher, who very softly
greeted him, began expressing some vague
remarks as to not having seen Mrs. Vigo
lately, with hopes she was well  then
tried to pass on. But she would not suffer
him.

'Why don't you come and see me ?' she
asked. 'You know I have little Ada with
me, Ada Hungerford  I am so fond of the
child  would you not like to see her?'

Kenyon winced, and murmured something
half inaudible to the effect, 'If he had
time  if he could manage it.' In reality

Tie would have seen her child again with
melancholy gladness, but the sight of
these two women together was too much
for him just at first. He did not hate
Mrs. Fisher, being a man and fair  especially
to a pretty woman : only he never
wished to see her more in life. Still
Emma VignoUes went on, undaunted,

'Wei], you may prepare to see me soon,
however, if you happen to be fishing again
this summer down at Helston ; for I mean
to go to the Priory when the season is
over, and take my little charge.'

Kenyon started at this announcement of
his privacy being invaded, and ejaculated,
'Indeed! But Mr. Hungerford; where is
he?'

That no one knows. He went travelling,
and has never written a line home
during a year and a half! So I mean to
take matters into my own hands and go

down into the country It is rigid

that, as Ada's guardian I should bring

up the child in her own home,' uttered
Mrs. Emma, bristling her feathers, as it
were against some imaginary attack.

(' Quite right! and much cheaper than
to pay for lodgings at the seaside,' murmured
Mrs. Fisher, with careless amusement
; which, if heard, was unheeded.)

Kenyon excused himself with hurried
adieux, and hastened on. This was news,
with a vengeance, which might upset all
his plans  or yet ! (he must think it out)
might further his scheme for revenge.

Once gone, Mrs. . Fisher took up the
conversation in a changed tone, sensible ;
business-like.

Are you really going down to the
Priory for the summer, Emma, with the
child ? I thought he  Mr. Hungerford 
did not wish anyone to live there.'

 Yes, certainly. Mark has reposed so
much trust in me, by putting his child
under my sole care, that I feel perfectly
justified in acting on my own discretion*

now, as to what is right and best for
Ada's future interests,' virtuously responded
Mrs. Yignolles.

Oh, never mind the child's interests ; I
am thinking of our own. Emma ! you
must have me down at the Priory, too.
Come  one must be supposed to spend
August and September somewhere out of
town ; and, to tell you the honest truth,
now that Mr. Fisher has lost lately on the
Stock Exchange (it seems extraordinary !
but so it happens) we have nowhere to
go to.'

Mrs. Yignolles was considerably staggered.
She, who had hoped for some
months to reign as lady of the Priory ; had
dreamed of being invited out in the neighbourhood
and made much of; 770t any
longer for the sake of any younger and
prettier friend, who absorbed all attention !

She uttered some vague ejaculations as
to gladness; her own wishes; and yet some
hits. Nevertheless, with rapid mental

calculation she resignedly told herself, perhaps
it must be so. Edith Fisher gave
her kindnesses in town, often carelessly-flung,
it is true, but still tangible, substantial
loaves and fishes. And, when little
widows of a certain age like herself still
wish to make a figure in society, it is not
easy to do so when the money they would
gladly feel heavy in their pockets is more
heavy on their minds.

Yes : it must be done ! Like a prudent
general in these tactics, Emma Vignolles
gave her invitation now with a cheerful,
ungrudging air, by no means as if it were
a necessity.

'Well, I declare  really! you quite surprise
me. If I had known you would
have cared to come, of course I should have
asked you long ago. Empty house, you
know . . . well, eh ? if you don't mind
that, it will be very pleasant. We'll waken
up the county, eh?'

But what if Bluebeard himself were to

come hack T ejaculated Emma Fisher, pursing
up her pretty lips in dismay at the
rout that would follow such a terrible
visitation.

 Oh, nonsense  there is no fear of that !
unhappily,' retorted Mrs. Vignolles, angrily.
For she remembered very well how,
when Mark left, she had insinuated a wish
to keep the Priory aired till his return,
and he had furiously roared his refusal.

Was it not enough he should pay her
for lodging his child, without her trying to
wheedle herself into his house in his
absence ? By no means ! he utterly forbade
her entertaining any such idea.'

But now  Mark had not been heard of
since he was at Rio, nearly a year and a
half ago.

Xo, no !' she repeated, solemnly, bethinking
herself of proper appearances.
I fear he will never come back  never !'

Dear me ! How people come and go
in and out of this funny world,' said Mrs.

Fisher, lightly. ' Well, dear  it is a snug
little berth, at least, for you  Ah ! here,
thank goodness ! is a man to speak to at
last.'

CHAPTER lY.

A SOUND OF WHEELS.

When, near the end of July, the leafy
woods round Helston were at their darkest
green, their first freshness, like young
joy, gone ; when the summer was really
hot, and strawberries were blushing thickly
red under their leaves in the rectory
garden, and cherries were netted along the
walls ; there was a merry party gathered
in Edward Armytage's lately so lonely big
house.

Aunt Bessie had arrived some weeks
ago, and her numerous boys and girls were
already well-known through all the country
round about. The rectory party were

all sitting in the garden wliicli was ended
by the river.

There was Uda, Who was now a handsome
though rather moon-faced maiden of
about nineteen. And Bob, who was cramming,
hoping to get into the Indian woods
and forests ; a fine young fellow, whose
face was his mother's daily sun, to which
her eyes often turned. There were also
the little twin-girls, nearly six years older
than when last we saw them, but still
primly shy, pretty, always closely side by
side, and as like as two drops of water.
And, lastly, there was little Nona, still the
youngest and universal pet  not to mention
two or three intermediate school-boys
of uninteresting age, and a few odd children
besides, all cousins or young friends.

These were all amusing themselves, either
playing croquet, which had not then gone
out of fashion, or eating cherries ; laughing
and talking meanwhile, with Edward
Armytage's voice to be heard loud above

all the rest. He was ' making up ' for his
late comparatively dumb state in solitariness.


Mrs. Armytage herself was comfortably
seated on a low wicker chair, under the
shade of a large Portugal laurel that was
sweet with creamy flower-spikes. And,
equally comfortably, our old friend Kenyon
was lying at her feet, stretched on
an Algerian rug. (He had lately  escaped
from over-civilization,' so he said; and
appeared back in his accustomed quarters
at the ' Three Coughs')

 How they are enjoying themselves !' he
lazily said now, in a tone which was slightly
regretful, as if for himself; tilting his
hat so that he could the better see the
young figures flitting about the garden.
It does one good to see them. We old
people have still that left.'

 Kit P ejaculated Mrs. Armytage, in a
tone of the liveliest reproach, with a look
that said plainly, '7 all my teaching in

vain?  Are my sympathy and scolding
wasted?' lie went on, finding voice for her
indignation. ' Oh, it is really evil-minded
of you to talk in that way ; casting a slur
upon a poor woman's age, who in her own
conscience does not see why she should
think herself at all old ! Do you hear
that, sir ?'

You are not. Your heart will always
be young and fresh,' replied Kit, looking
at her with friendly admiration. 'But, as
to me, my life is played out, as far as
my own interest in it goes  from a fatal
date. If you had even such cause for
feeling yourself a dry tree, you would still
strive to live in your children's happiness ;
rejoice in their green shoots starting up
round the parent stem. But I have none
left to claim my sympathies  besides, I am
too hopelessly selfish.'

You always wronged yourself,' returned
Mrs. Armytage, softly. ' Hester used
to say so ; it often vexed her. I cannot

help thinking she would be grieved to
see you leading this hopeless, aimless existence.'


Kenyon was silent. The blood rose
darkly in his face, that was now less
bronzed than in former years.

Bessie could not have more cunningly
chosen a reason to make him pause, and
question what was fast becoming a religion
of melancholy with him. He was not
hurt ; for they two now often talked of
Hester, in sacred confidence  almost always
so, indeed, when alone together.

Kit felt as if he had just received a
message from the dead.

'What would you have me do, then?'
he asked, low. ' You know what my feelings
are. Even putting them aside, remember
I am at the top of the hill which
we all spend our youth in climbing up  we
gain it, and begin going down !'

You have still what a politician, what
all statesmen find the best half of their

lives before you. And I have somewhere
read a remark that profoundly impressed
me,' went on Bessie, most earnestly ; ' that
many great men Who had not been distinguished
in their youth, were ready to
give up all heart and hope when they were
approaching middle life; believing that they
were failures in the world. They had simply
never found their opportunity.'

I have neither the ambition nor the
capabilities to be a leader of men, though

put in Kenyon, humble under his

schooling. * Go on, please.'

 Then be a good citizen, a useful member
of the rank and file,' exhorted Bessie ;
inclined to laugh at herself secretly as
an old preaching woman ; yet trying to
make her person and good-humoured
face take the semblance of a stern female
law-giver. ' You have a beautiful place at
the Court. You are a large landlord, and
have many duties that make us poor
people just a little glad you have a penalty

for your riches. You must live for the
public and not for your private self, Sir
Christopher. What are you staying for lierCy
I should like to know?'

Kenyon, lying on the ground beside her
chair, made no answer for some time. He
bent his head so that his face was not discernible.
It was a tremendous home-thrust,
did Bessie but know the importance of her
question. What, indeed ? . . .

Kit dared not plead any small subterfuges
to this kindly searching mentor, nor
allege his real melancholy affection for the
place which seemed to him Hester's last
home. Bessie would have urged him to
rouse from this spirit of uselessly sad
dreaming, as she often had done before.
And he could not  would not tell her of
his secret plan of seeing his dead love's
face once more. The plot not yet matured,
but of which the germ was so dear to his
heart's core wherein it was growing ! No,
no ; he would not abandon it.

VOL. III. F

But, possibly, lie might never hear of
even the deed ; unless a full discovery of
Hungerford's crime resulted therefrom.

At last he said, as if dreamily, in reality
pursuing a train of thought she could not
follow,

I wonder if Mrs. Yignolles is really
coming to the Priory ? I heard some days
ago, from the herdsman at Helston, that she
wrote she was coming this week. Old
Russ was almost raving with rage, and
goes about swearing she shall not get even
through the gates. It will be Greek meeting
Greek, when those two have a tussle,
won't it? . . . . Well, / hope she is
coming !'

But why. Kit ? You say that to-day
as if you were really wanting to see her.
Yet when was it ?  only last week, you
told me you could not bear her any longer.
Now I don't like her, and never shall !  I
know I cannot even be decently civil to her.
Oh, what weathercocks are men ! . . . .

Here am I growing grey without understanding
their ways any more than when
I was a bit of a chit, like a half-baked piece
of dough.'

You understand them enough to be
another Deborah under a tree ; to judge
and advise all Israel,' smiled Kenyon, raising
himself from the ground. ' But what
is that sound of wheels I hear down the
lane ? Armytage, do you expect any visitors
? for surely a troop cometh out of
Gad.'

Now, it so happened, that the lane in the
hollow below the rectory went on nowhere
in particular, past a few farms scattered
between many fields. Therefore, when
carriage-wheels were heard, as now, it
surely signified that magic word in an
English country house, 'visitors.' The
sound of wheels grew louder, coming onward
at speed ; and not one only but two
or more vehicles were evidently following

each other in hot haste.

f2

Excitement at once prevailed \ everyone
behaved after their kind.

Bob, muttering as if the seven plagues
of Egypt were imminent, slouched with
good-natured grumpiness towards the
shelter of the shrubbery. This young
man was wont to aver he was not shy;
but that he hated talking to strangers,
especially ladies, until he knew them a
little.

Edward Armytage, on the contrary,
hurried with hospitable strides to the
highest spot in the garden, whence he
could gQi a glimpse of part of the lane
deep down behind the wall. Uda rushed
after him.

 Here comes a carriage  two carriages !'
he cried, cheerily. I say, Uda, who is it?
What shall we give them for tea ? Will
you, like a dear girl, ask Mrs. Doggett to
give us some hot scones and more cream,
and the twins will pick strawberries for
them ? I dare not go near her.' her

meant the cook, who indignantly believed
her master thought that cream came like
manna from heaven, and that he ought to
tie his cows at the village cross-roads for
the good of the parish.)

'Leave her to me. I'll manage her
quoth Uda, with an air of calm superiority.
'You should not allow yourself to be sat
upon by any woman like that, Edward.'

Mrs. Armytage and Kenyon, who overheard
this, smiled at each other.

'Mrs. Doggett is a most excellent person,
and I have much sympathy with her
trials among us,' laughed Bessie.

But A<? is born to be ordered in life by
some woman. And I believe he could not
have a better guide than Miss Uda ; she
is meant by nature to govern a man for
his good,' said Kenyon, more low, glancing
at the pair as they stood side by side, with
an almost envying expression.

Bessie noticed this  but had not time
to think further thereupon. For now the

carriages were passing below; and the
twins came running to her, calling,

 Mamma  mamma ! There is a lady
and a little girl and so many trunks ! We
couldn't count them.'

Quite twelve-teen of them,' announced
Nona, following on her elder's heels; her
education had been sadly neglected in
India, and Bob and Edward delighted in
even darkening her ignorance.

 Can it be she T exclaimed Mrs. Armytage,
bounding up as lightly as if her
considerable size weighed like mere feathers.

In a few moments, a carriage from the
distant station, the horses' sides reeking
with heat, had mounted the short drive
to the rectory porch. A fly laden with
luggage followed close. And Mrs. Yig-
nobles herself, flushed and excited (with
her curls disordered and wearing a most
juvenile bonnet adorned with a nodding
ornament that Bob afterwards called a
Hop-knot,' which gave her altogether

some resemblance to a hen who has been
in battle, and whose feathers are still
ruffled) came fussily towards them. She
drew a little girl on by the hand, who
pressed to her side as if frightened, and
lagged wearily. The child was all dressed
in white from her head to her small feet,
and, with her rosy cherub's face peeping
out shyly from under her pretty hat,
looked just like a daisy.

Oh, my dear Mrs. Armytage, you must
be astonished to see me  but such a
thing has happened ! ! You could never
believe it !' cried Mrs. Vignolles, with
flaming eyes. ' Only fancy ! . . . dear
me, I ought to say how d'ye do first to
Mr. Armytage; the rector, I hear . . .
Eh  really  my head is quite confused.

And Sir Christopher, too But here

we are come to ask you shelter, positively
shelter.' (She looked straight at Edward
during this appeal.)  I never knew such
a thing  but look at this child you know

Hester's child), Mr. Hungerford's daughter,
who is absolutely refused permission
to enter her own father's gates. In fact
most probably, for all we know now!
her oivn gates !' lowering her voice ominously
at the latter words, and looking
around on the silent group.

OA, me tired P complained little Ada.
Then, in a pitiful small tone, half cross,
and as if expecting sympathy from no one
else  but sure of it here,  she turned half
round towards a new-comer who followed
them. ' Adrian, I is so tired !'

Adrian, who was now a tall and handsome
but rather womanly-featured young
fellow, had now come up close. He started
violently as he saw Kenyon standing there
his old accomplice. They had not met
from that afternoon before the unhappy
night when their plans for Hester's deliverance
so terribly failed.

'Yes, you see. She is worn out, poor
mite : and no accommodation to be had in

the village ! And that brute Russ, instead
of being ready to receive us, kept the
gates padlocked, and had the impudence 
the  the insolence to tell me to my face
we should not get in, as it was against Mr.
Hungerford's orders ! To me  the child's
guardian. But I'll be his match. I'll
drive to the agent tomorrow, who is the
family lawyer, too  I intend to know the
meaning of this behaviour of Master Russ !
No doubt, he is busy feathering his own
nest so well he is afraid of being disturbed.'

You dear little child,' said Bessie,
stooping down to draw little Ada close
into her motherly arms ; folding her in such
an embrace as she might have given
Hester's self long ago.

Mrs. Armytage said afterwards, in self-defence,
that the child was so lovely and
had looked up in her face with such an
appealing little glance which seemed to
come straight out of Hester's own grey
eyes, she  could not help it ! Anyhow,

she gave the lead to what followed. For,
immediately, Ada was surrounded by all
the rest of the party, confused with kisses,
overwhelmed with admiration, pity, and
little questions.

Thenceforth Mrs. Yignolles had won the
day.

There could no longer be any question
of her returning to the station, near which
was a small market-town hotel ; nor even
to the  Three Choughs.' Edward Armytage
hastily whispered to his aunt ; and
then, calling on Uda, who promptly accompanied
him, set forth to break his orders
gently to Mrs. Doggett that the new
visitors were going to stay at the rectory.

However much cause the wiser ones of
the party had to dislike Mrs. Vignolles for
herself, Hester's child gained her guardian
all the latter wished. How could that
little one come to the Armytagess and be
refused, even did a Judas Iscariot lead it
by the hand. Impossible !

CHAPTER y.

Hester's little messenger.

After a while, Ulla came cheerfully back
with a small air of satisfied importance.

It is all right ! Mrs. Doggett and I
have made all arrangements. Only we
should like to know, please, does your
maid sleep in the room with Ada generally ;
or do you have the child in your own, as
mamma has Nona,' she said, addressing
Mrs. Vignolles.

Oh, my dear, thank you  but Ada
always sleeps with her maid, always ! In
fact, she is her nurse and only maids me a
little (I can't afford a maid, my dear

Bessie,' replied Mrs. Vignolles, with quite
a nervous flutter at the other idea.

Then, as Uda signified this arrangement
could be perfectly complied with, she added,
with a flattering manner,

 Ah ! what a good housekeeper you are,
I am sure, Miss Armytage. I can see you
are the sensible one, the right-hand of the
family. Dear me, Bessie, I wish, really I
do ! that I had such a helpful, wise
daughter. What is her name ?  eh ? Gertrude
; ah, very pretty, very nice, indeed !'

No one knew exactly whether the compliment
applied to the name or the maiden.
Nevertheless Uda, though a most comely,
pleasant-featured girl, could not justly be
called pretty  handsome, perhaps ; being
both tall and big, with a mass of strong,
brown hair ; bright, but rather too rolling
brown eyes ; and a healthily fresh complexion,
which now deepened and spread
blushingly.

Mrs. Armytage looked perfectly immovable

in countenance for a rare few moments
; a sure sign of displeasure With her.

Sir Christopher, who was only waiting
beside Bessie as a silent ally till Uda's
return, had been listening to little Ada's
childish talk, while the other children
made a worshipping circle round her.
He had a growing feeling that her face,
voice, little gestures were all so entirely
Hester's own, he felt more pained each
moment. And yet he was so fascinated,
and even sorrowfully glad to trace the
resemblance and revive his memory, he
could hardly take his eyes off her.

But now he abruptly rose, and, quitting
the rest, went mooning down the shrubbery,
on pretence of having a cigar.
Young Adrian furtively watched him,
whilst shuffling uneasily from one foot
to the other. Only a dread of Mrs. Vigo
suspicions restrained him from
showing his pleasure at sight of Kit,
and renewing their old friendly intercourse.

Now he looked frequently, with
inward longing, at the distant green maze
of paths hedged in by privet, and the
pleached rose-alleys in which his former
patron had disappeared. But he forbore
to follow, even when amply refreshed by
tea, scones, and fruit.

Uda, however, had no such scruples.
She disappeared immediately after performing
all the duties of tea-maker, which
she begged her mother to leave to her
entirely. Presently she was seen returning
up the central shrubbery walk, with
Kenyon by her side. She wore an unmistakeable,
smiling air of success ; as,
with a cheerful manner, she discoursed
to her companion upon the ' right way ' to
graft roses. Not that she had ever done
it herself, she truthfully replied to his
languid questioning, but she had seen it
done, and understood it thoroughly. Uda
liked knowing always how things vere
done, she said.

'Here, I have brought back a captive,'
she announced. 'Sir Christopher was wandering
all alone in the yew walk ; but I
have persuaded him to play croquet with
us instead.'

(Kit hated croquet.)

My child,' Bessie Armytage warned her
daughter that night, from whom she had
been so much separated that the mother
felt now the necessity of studying anew
Gertrude's developed character, ' I am
sorry you disturbed Colonel Kenyon today.
He was in a sad mood, and wanted
to be alone, I think.'

'But, mamma, I am very sorry indeed
if you disapproved ; only I heard you tell
Sir Christopher himself the other day (by
the way, do you know, you often forget
to give him his rank)  you said he was
too given to melancholy, and wanted rousing
up and cheerful companionship,' began
Uda, glibly, in a respectful torrent
of self-defence.

She added a long string of explanations
of how, therefore, she had believed she
was acting for the best for him, and in
accordance with her mother's wishes ; and
how she had only gone to find him after
she had duly given tea to all the children
and seen to everybody's wants ; and how
she had tried to draw him into conversation
upon gardening.

Bessie at last succeeded in cutting all
this short.

Very well, dear ; I understand ; that

will do But still, I fancied you

would have noticed, Uda, that the sight
of poor Hester's child rather upset him.
You know he was very fond of her.'

'But then she tuas married I  so, of
course, mamma, he can't have cared for
Cousin Hester after that,' objected Uda,
opening her eyes wide, and staring at her
mother with a most virtuous air.

My dear Uda ! people certainly should
care, as you call it, in a different way, but

still they may have some of the old feeling
left responded Mrs. Armytage, almost tartly
at feeling herself more romantic than her
daughter.

'But I always thought that was very
wrong persisted Uda, still keeping her
ground.

Once prove to her she was in the wrong,
and the good girl would humbly and
heartily ask forgiveness ; but, oh ! it was
so hard to convince her.

Mrs. Armytage, after a vague but slightly
severe remark that she had certainly
implied nothing wrong, gave it up with a
secret sigh. She almost could have wished
her sensible daughter had a little less of
this quality for which their acquaintances
so often praised Uda.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER VI.

A bird's-eye view of the situation.

In a few days, Mrs. Vignolles proved herself
a most successful strategist in her
operations at the rectory.

Even Kenyon, who had now altogether
ceased to like her, could not but be amused
seeing her manoeuvres. Nevertheless he
remained a perfectly passive spectator of
the situation (in spite of various blandishments
with which the lady flattered herself
she had revived their old friendship
a little.)

Mrs. Armytage had expressed a stronger
dislike than all the others at the rectory
towards her own old school-fellow, Emma

Vignolles. Yet very soon that clever little
widow contrived to throw dust in her eyes
also. She begged Bessie's advice about
Ada ; the child's health, education, character
; humbly owning she herself was perhaps
no very good judge on such matters.
And, what was more, in many points she
at once followed the advice given. Could
any flattery have been more judicious ?

Bessie, whose motherly heart was yearning
over Hester's child, whose hands were
itching, so to say, to get the control of it
and pour out the blessings of her love and
experience on that sunny little head 
well; she now daily had her wish ! During
ten days that the guardian and child
stayed at the rectory, little Ada began to
bloom visibly into a merrier, more independent
child. She had been rather overdressed
and over-educated in Bessie's
opinion , was a small hot-house plant, in
fact. But now, her smart clothes exchanged
for simpler country garments,

g2

she dug her own garden-plot in emulation
of the twins, who helped her and petted
her. Her clear laugh, recalling her dead
mother's sweet voice, seemed always on
the air, in some corner or other of the
shrubbery.

Kenyon, who now came daily to the
rectory, late in the afternoon (giving no
excuse for his presence, which was always
expected), would hear that childish treble
with a pleasure that was pain. But yet
he would not now have missed it.

After Kit's daily visit to the door of
Hester's vault, it seemed to him as much a
necessity of habit to visit Hester's child.
But, possibly, except Mrs. Armytage, none
of the others at the rectory guessed the
extent of his secret fondness for the little
one. Still he used to watch Ada silently
as she played on the lawn ; bring her dolls
and sweets. And the child was always
ready to come to him willingly, and even
sit a long time quite happy on his knee ;

instinct teaching her, like all children, to
know those who really loved her. (And,
without his ever knowing it, Mrs. Vigo
used to foster the child's affection
in return by talking to the little one of
dear Sir Christopher,' and encouraging
her to run to him prettily when he appeared
; with a hundred, similar, little wiles.
Had she not practised them on Adrian
and Mark Hungerford years before?)
On the whole, Mrs. Vignolles held a trump
card in Ada, and she played her hand
well.

The rectory stormed  a siege from it of
the Priory was now in successful progress.

Edward Armytage threw himself heart
and soul into the matter. He drove Mrs.
Vignolles, himself, in his pony-trap to seethe
lawyer and agent, a certain Mr. Smith ;
her smart bonnet nodding comically beside
his clerical attire. He explained her
cause and that of little Ada, when she 
confused with inward anger, and perhaps

recalling more than either men knew of
Mark Hungerford's stern commands on the
subject of the Priory  became slightly
incoherent and rambling in her statements.


In the end, the agent owned that failing
an express prohibition from Mr. Hunger-ford,
of whose death there were vaoue
rumours, he could see no reason why Mrs.
Vignolles should not live with the child
at the Priory.

It certainly seems probable, I own, that
Mr. Hungerford may have fallen a victim
to cholera or fever in some of the wilder
parts of South America where he was last
heard of as travelling. He was quite
alone, too, without any companion or
servant, which makes it more difficult to
trace him,' said the lawyer. ' However, weare
trying to do so  we are in hopes we
shall do so in time.'

'But  dear me ! why, A must he dead!
or he would have written back for more

money long ago. Mark used to spend so
extravagantly interposed Mrs. Vignolles,
discomposed at the implied doubts of her
cousin's decease, which she now much
more desired to be confirmed. The agent
coughed drily.

 Mr. Hungerford took a large, a very
large sum abroad with him,' he said.

'Then you may be sure he has been
robbed and murdered abroad for the sake
of it!' cried Mrs. Vignolles, excitedly.
Well, eh ! you may shake your heads.
Men are always slow to believe, but I am
sure of it. And, pray, how long is this
to go on ? If you clout hear of him, we
must presume he is dead, so I hope, Mr.
Smith, you will then make up your mind !
Because, well  of course you will let Ada
have the Priory painted and papered, eh ;
and all made tidy for her.'

]mr. Smith was tickled at the decisive
tone of this sharp but pleasant woman of
the world, as he thought her. He himself

had no liking and small respect left for
Mr. Hungerford, and would perhaps not
be very sorry if Mrs. Vignolles' suppositions
proved true.

My dear lady, the law does not allow us
to take the decease of anyone for granted on
their disappearance, till after seven years.
Meanwhile, Mr. Hungerford left me express
orders that not a penny was to
be expended on the Priory, whatever state
of neglect it might be in. " Let it rot !
let it be like a grave !" those were his
very words.'

Seven years ! five years more. Why, it
will be like a wilderness,' cried Mrs. Vigo
raising her hands in dismay. ' From
what I saw, looking through the gates, it
is utterly neglected already. Well, then,
after the seven years, Mr. Smith, what
will you do for us ?' (in a most coaxing
tone).

'Then ' returned Mr. Smith, with

business-like calm, though, being a very

plain, country-bred man, he smiled, rather
pleased at this London fine lady, whose
dress and bonnet much impressed him.
The will must be read, my dear madam ;
and we shall see what arrangements our
friend Hungerford has made for his daughter's
guardianship and bringing-up.'

Ah !' Mrs. Vignolles considered

within herself.

It suddenly dawned upon her, that she
might no longer have any paid appointment
nor free home at the Priory, when
that same will should come to be read. It
might even be no worse for her, but
rather better, if, after all, Mark came
home alive.

Nevertheless, she carried her point, as
was said. And Mr. Smith himself drove
over to the Priory to inform Russ that
the old house must at once be made ready
for Mrs. Vignolles, the child, and what
servants they might bring with them.

Russ was almost speechless with rage.

He grew redder than ever, alleged Mr,
Hungerford's express orders to the contrary,
and almost choked with passion at
this disturbance of his sluggard's reign
over the weeds, damp, mildew, and neglect
of the ghostly old Priory.

Mr. Smith, who was a thin-lipped stern
man with grey hair, and whiskers Which
made a neat frill from his cheeks under
his chin, was somewhat incensed at this
opposition to his orders. He insisted on
being obeyed, all the more peremptorily
that he had well-founded suspicions of
the steward's reluctance to be disturbed
by any invaders of those ivy-hung park-walls,
and the padlocked rusty gates of
which he so jealously kept the keys.

Therefore, after Russ sullenly gave way,,
and the house itself was at last opened to
receive airing and cleaning,  the Priories
reported ready for, Mrs. Vignolles'
triumphal entry.

Meanwhile, Mistress Emma had some

strange and confidential talks with Mrs.
Armytage. These were upon a very painful
subject to the latter  that of poor
Hester's death.

No, no  I don't wish to distress you.
Eh  I don't, I assure you, but still I  I
should like to have it out with you, Bessie,
I should indeed. I always believed, upon
my word, that poor Hester  (well, it was
formidable, perhaps, considering all things)
that she meant to run oiF with Kit Kenyon
that night . . .'

Mrs. Armytage indignantly but solemnly
denied the accusation : explained the
very different reason that moved her dear
Hester to flight  told of the letter she
herself had received, asking her to protect
both mother and child. Emma Vignolles
was truly penitent for having misjudged
the dead, she said. But she was careful
never to say that she herself it was, who had
ursed Mark Huno;erford to watch his wife
that night. Well, she thought in her

heart, slave was sorry ! so no more could be
said or done now!

But then Bessie Armytage asked her a
question in turn, relating to Hesterss
death. And as earnestly Mrs. Vignolles
assured her (fully believing her own words
were true) that it seemed to her to have
been quite a natural one.

I went up to the villa next morning,
immediately on hearing the news ; for I
was very frightened and horrified (and I
will own to you, Bessie, that, with Mark
Hungerford's violent temper, one did not
know what to think). A great friend of
mine came too, a General Doyle, ahem !'
(Mrs. Emma significantly coughed, and
made a downward look do duty for a
blush.) ' He knew Kit Kenyon very welland
they both thought it so strange,
and told me there were disagreeable
rumours flying about . . . Mark must
have heard of this, for he met me  I
was quite trembling. But still, with the

general  such a brave man  I felt more
safe. And he  Mark, I mean  told me,
positively ordered me to go into the room
and see Hester's body. I had hardly ever
seen a corpse ! and thought I should
have fainted, though her maid was with
me. Wasn't it dreadful ?  quite a trial !
but still, for friendship's sake, poor dear  '

We must all become corpses some day :
there have been as many in the world
as living bodies ; and I should never
shrink from that of one I loved,' declared
Bessie, who was grieved to think her dear
Hester had had no loving eyes, no reverent
hands by her fair body in those last
hours. * But how did she look ? What
did she die of?  tell me that !'

It must have been a sudden attack of
heart-disease, as Mark always said ; for she
looked lovely, so peaceful, and as if only
sleeping. I could hardly believe she was
dead,' returned Mrs. VignoUes, roused to
direct speech for once in her earnestness.

'There was not a sign of violence upon
her. Depend upon it, she was so terrified
at Mark stopping her escape that she had
a heart-attack, and simply died.'

(Oh, brave Hester ! She had loyally
kept her resolution. Her child should
never be shamed by being called a murderer's
daughter, could a mother spare
her.)

Bessie Armytage, with a sigh, hoped it
might indeed have been so ; from hoping
grew to believe it. She told Edward
Armytage all this, who agreed with her.
Only Kenyon  who of course heard it all
also, when alone with Bessie  gave a groan
and was outwardly silent. But he
utterly disbelieved in his heart.

Meanwhile, the rest of the young people
at the rectory went on riding and walking,
and rifling the cherry-trees, knowing little
or nothing of the undercurrent of thought
in the elders' minds.

To them Mrs. Vignolles' siege of the

Priory was simply an amusing incident.
They had daily jests upon ' old Russ,' who
was a badger in his den, according to Bob,
that must be drawn ; a bugbear to Nona
and Ada ; an impudent and no doubt
grasping steward, who ought to be cashiered
at once, according to Uda. And lastly,
in Adrian's still romantic views of all such
subjects, a grim old seneschal who had
been confided dark secrets by his master,
which he was trying to hide, being himself,
perhaps, a guilty accomplice.

Adrian was a great favourite with ' the
young people,' as Bessie generally called
her party, never being able to remember
in a hurry whether at that particular time
they were all her own or not. Bob certainly
thought him rather Frenchified ;
and Uda was inclined to be annoyed on
finding he calmly checked her whenever
the well-intentioned girl chid little Ada
 for the child's good.* Adrian only allowed
Mrs. Armytage's own interference, but

that he warmly courted as to his self-chosen
charge.

Really, mamma, one would think he
was Ada's nurse and tutor and guardian
all himself,' Uda complained, with some
vexation.

Dear,' said Bessie, soothingly,  remember
Mrs. Vignolles does not pretend to
understand children. So it is really a
comfort to think that Adrian was there to
be a big brother and playfellow to the
poor little orphan. He has kept her happy
since her mother died. Hester was fond
of him, and he returns it by his devotion
to her child.'

(' I cannot understand why they all
made such a fuss about Cousin Hester,'
thought Uda, inclined to grumble in her
heart. Her beautiful cousin was only a
dim memory to the fresh merry girl ; and
the living, she justly considered, have their
rights, too.)

But Adrian could not give so much of

his society to the young people as they all
wished, for he had formed almost at once
a most amazing intimacy with Sir Christopher.
The latter had never been known
to take a companion before in his long and
solitary saunters. But now he and Adrian
used to disappear daily together for hours.

I cannot think, really, what Sir Christopher
finds in my boy,' Mrs. VignoUes-
would remark, bridling with complacency,
fully believing she now held a second trump
card in her hitherto disregarded offspring.

' I quite wonder what they talk about
all day.'

Oh, Mrs. Vignolles, if you had but known
that, what a viper in your bosom you
would have considered that tall son of
yours ! what a rod you were laying up in
pickle for yourself through all these years
of neglect and scorn of him ! And yet
neither Kenyon nor the lad had anything
to reproach themselves with as regarded
Adrian's mother. It was as follows.

VOL. III. H

CHAPTER VII.

A PLOT IN THE WOOD.

On the second day that Kenyon saw
Adrian, moved by kindly remembrance of
the young fellow's former eager efforts to
help him, he took an opportunity of finding
him apart from the rest, and said, with
a melancholy but kindly look,

You and I ought to be friends, I think,
Vignolles  I have never forgotten your
help those last days at Nice.'

As he held out his hand, Adrian grasped
it gladly ; then, looking fervently in Kenyon's
face, the latter saw, to his surprise,
tears rising in Adrian's 
eyes.

Oh, Sir Christopher, I have been wondering
ever since yesterday if you hould
speak to me again as in old days. I  I
hardly expected it. I don't feel as if I
deserved it, but still I'm awfully glad.'

'But why? What have you done not
to deserve it?' asked Kit, surprised and
moved.

Oh, because I was afraid I must have
muffed it somehow so dreadfully. Oh, Sir
Christopher, how was it all found out by
him  that demon ? You can't think what
a relief it will be now, if I may talk it over
with you. It has haunted me night and
day ever since.'

Talk it over !  yes. Will you come
out with me tomorrow afternoon at two
o'clock  say we are going fishing,' replied
Kit, with an inward thought, that such a
talk would be also a solace to him !

 Come ? I will go anywhere and at anytime
you ask me. You and she were the
two kindest friends I've ever had in this

h2

world replied the young man, effusively.
He added, hesitating, ' But, Sir Christopher,
if I might ask you something  and
that is a very great wish. Will you take
me to her grave ? They say it is not far

from hers. Oh, I adored her so !'

Adrian almost sobbed. He was very
emotional. Yet Kit recognised, though
he winced, that the young fellow's feelings
were sincere and that  he did not
forget. Besides, Hester had loved him.

Very well,' he said, slowly. ' Say nothing
to anyone of it, Adrian ; but we
will go.'

Say  I say nothing, I know nothing of
what is past and what is now, but what
you wish me to say, or to remember !' exclaimed
Adrian, ardently. He was the
most loyal and romantic of confidants, and
Kenyon was really touched, later, to find
what a warm memory Adrian had kept of
little friendly actions towards the awkward

boy at Nice which he had long-forgotten.


So they two went alone to the chapel.
How those left behind at the rectory
would have wondered had they knoAvn.
Then Adrian recounted sadly but eagerly
to Kenyon all he had seen and heard of
Hester during those last days at the Villa
Beausite : of her goodness, her patience.

She was an angel ! She was too oood
to live ! But oh  I still wish we could
only know how it was she died,' exclaimed
Adrian. He knew no more about it than
Kenyon : yet he, too, so the latter found,
thought it meant foul play, somehow, and
demanded revenge.

Can we not still find it out, Adrian ?
If you will help me. Can youhe silent?' he
uttered, impulsively. At moments Kit
was impulsive as any woman ; though in
these days he felt as if he could plot,
scheme, conceal a dark design, and smile

and talk lightly the while, with the 
conspirator of his kind.

Help you !* Young Adrian swore he
would help Sir Christopher in anything ;
he would be silent, yea, as the grave, ashe
had been silent heretofore. ' I know
he killed her. Oh, I could murder him
with pleasure !' And he gnashed his teeth.

Poor Adrian, whenever Mark Hunger-ford's
eye was upon him, had been as
frightened as a mouse when a cat is near.
But he hated his elderly relative so heartily,
that Kit felt gloomily in this much they
two were akin. And then how Adrian still
worshipped Hester !

Later on the homeward path, where the
yew-trees grew wild in the wood and
made a solemn shade from the summer
sun, when no living ear was near them,
no sound heard but the wood-pigeons cooing
in the thick green heights of the oak-tops,
these two talked together

Yes, yes,' Adrian breathed, rather than

spoke, as they consulted in whispers, sitting
on a fallen and barked tree which
looked like a ghost of its kind. He was
frightened, though fascinated by the very
terror of the enterprise proposed. 'But
what will you do afterwards ? You cannot
put it back I It will be so difficult to
open the mausoleum, and the coffin, twice.
It is no place for her ; let us bury her
again just where we two will know of it 
in some lovely spot.'

It is extraordinary. You and I have
thought exactly the same, Adrian,' replied
Kenyon, in a hollow voice. ' I could have
said so to no living mortal but yourself.
I mean to take her to my own people ; my
own last resting-place, I trust ; and where
she once wished to be laid  high up on a
hill at WestcliiF overhanging the sea.'

So they two went back to the rectory ;
having discussed many details of a certain
most secret plot, and promising each other
to meet often thus. Adrian was happy in

being taken into the deepest secrets of a
man he had long revered in his boyish
fancy. Kenyon was relieved inexpressibly,
and helped in anticipation, by such a trusty
ally within the very fortress he designed
to attack by stealth.

I declare Sir Kit looks quite bright,
since he has begun taking out that son of
mine with him. He is a changed man,
and his old delightful self again,' quoth
Mrs. Vignolles, playfully, the last day of
her stay at the rectory.

Yes ; he looks happier, indeed,' returned
Bessie. But she did not add that, to
her discerning eyes, young Adrian looked
proportionately less gay and thoughtless.
It was perhaps an improvement, but still
he had almost too grave and pre-occupied
a look at times, when he returned from
those long rambles with his older friend.

'Well, good-bye. Sir Christopher. This
is my last evening in this hospitable house,
you know,' said Emma Vignolles, with her

most pressingly friendly manner, soon
afterwards. 'To-morrow I o;o to that
terribly lonely old Priory. Dear me ! what
stories the servants have picked up already
about it ; ghosts and noises, and I don't
know what. Ugh !  I quite shudder at
leaving this cheerful circle to be all alone.'
(Astute little woman. She never said she
expected Mrs. Fisher and the latter lady's
husband very shortly. But then she did
not guess Adrian had confided as much,
with hatred of both guests, to Kenyon ;
under solemn seal of secresy.) ' Promise
you will come and see me soon, Sir Christopher.
Come two days from now 
Thursday. All the Armytagess are engaged
to come.'

I shall be going away soon,' said Kit,
slowly. (He would not, could not stay to
see the Fisher couple near the vault where
poor Hester's body smouldered.) Then,
With a strong effort, he added, ' But, Mrs.
Vignolles, there is one great wish of mine

which you could perhaps gratify before I go.
It seems a strange one, but  could you have
the mausoleum at the Priory opened one
day, and let me see the inside of the
chapel?'

Then, as Mrs. Vignolles started and
stared, surprised, he added, hastily,

I believe Mrs. Armytage would like to
come, too. It would be a last token of

respect to Mrs. Hungerford We would

go very quietly together : she and I  and
you, if you wish it  and Adrian.'

Mrs. Vignolles recovered herself.

 Of course. Sir Christopher, I understand.
Yes ; really a beautiful idea  a
memorial visit. It shall be done ; I
promise you that.'

Kenyon smiled bitterly to himself. He
knew Emma Vignolles, and that she would
keep her word to a rich man, a baronet
like himself. He had not waited weary
weeks, worn a mask, cajoled, plotted
hoped in vain !

CHAPTER VIII.

SHADOWS FROM AN UNSEEN WORLD.

Helston Priory was, however neglected
and gloomy, a fine specimen of an old
house. It Alas long and low, built truly
to the cardinal points, and dated back to
Tudor days. One wing of the house,
which had veritably been part of the old
priory, and corresponded exactly in its
stones and manner of building to the old
tower, was, however, earlier.

The Armytagess could not but admire
it to some extent, as, on the day fixed by
Mrs. Vignolles, they made their way (for
it was no easy journey) through the gates
that were certainly no longer padlocked

but yet were so rusty the visitors inclined
at first to believe them bolted, till Bob's
vigorous onslaught forced them open. The
leopards grinned down hideously on the
intruders. The lodge under the thick
trees was empty, damp, and promised to
be soon ruinous. The straight drive before
them through the wood was erloomv, even
more overspread with straying branches
than when last we saw it at the funeral of
the late mistress of Helston. There Alas a
smell of rotting leaves and decay, for it
had rained heavily the day and night
before, and little pools lay in the path.

Even when the party came out into
clearer spaces near the Priory itself, the
desolation and stillness around were still
more oppressive. Here was a once pretty
.shell-house, of which the thatched roof
had caved in, and formed an unsightly
mass of ruin. There was a statue, so green
from damp one scarcely knew whether it
was that of a cupid or a satyr. Along a

garden-balustrade nearer the house, where
a row of marble vases should have been,
some were overthrown, all were dilapidated.
A fountain was choked ; the garden-plot
around it ran wild.

All the Armytage party uttered exclamations
of surprise and regret at these
signs of desolation as they came nearer and
nearer the house.

What a pity ! and it could be made
quite a nice place,' said Uda, looking round
as if counting the cost of paint, gardeners,
and workmen.

How solitary, how forgotten ! It seem
under a spell; as if witches and goblins
came out on stormy nights to hold a saturnalia
here,' uttered Adrian.

No, no,' put in Bessie Armytage, briskly.
' It is to me more like the enchanted
wood where the sleeping princess lay so
many years. I wonder which room she sin,
and who among you all is the prince.'

She smiled as she spoke, turning to

Kenyon, unthinking, as she spoke. He
shivered slightly, as a strange thought
passed through his mind that would have
horrified the kind woman. A few minutes
later they all reached the house.

The Priory had a most picturesque
porch (although this latter was weed-grown
underfoot, wanting paint, and
rusty). Beneath this porch was a low,
squat door, fastened by an enormous
lock.

Mrs. Vignolles' servant, who came from
London and looked depressed and altogether
out of place in this wilderness, led
them with a funereal air into a large hall,
panelled in black oak. A wide, shallow
staircase, also of the same solid blackwood,
rose from the further end of the hall.
They were ushered into a small sitting-room,
likewise wainscoted in black oak,
apparently only meant to hold very few
persons from its little size and the half
dozen oaken chairs and an old settle

arranged on its bare, polished floor. Here
Mrs. Vignolles met them, talking rather
nervously.

How d'ye do, all ?  eh, eh ! so glad to
see you . . . This is my own sanctum 
tiny quarters, eh ? But I like to feel the four
walls close round me . . . no gloomy corners
no shadowy places here. When my lamp
is lit at night, I can see clearly all round.
Upon my word, I never knew what an
advantage that was before in a ghostly old
house like this, where the servants tell such
stories Dear me !' laughing faintly,

one does not know what to think. I'm
not superstitious, thank goodness, however
; never was.'

Her son, who was standing behind her,
gave an indescribable look towards Kenyon
at this.

Well,' went on Mrs. Vignolles, regaining
a vivacity more like her late self

Would you like to see the house, now?
This room was said to be the old prior's

oratory (I wonder if they really said their
prayers here). I have taken possession of
this wing  the oldest part of the house ;
for really, we are such a small party, it is
cheerier to be close together and near the
hall. Upstairs there are so many long
passages, dreadfully troublesome to light
at night ; with steps down here and up
there  really, I declare one might break
one's neck before one knew.'

Then, lowering her voice, she continued
looking round on them all (having already
begged the twins and Nona to go outside
and play with Ada),

Would you believe, that idiot of a manservant
of mine, who showed you in, gave
me warning the very day I arrived here ?
He and the cook and housemaid were only
in the house two days, as you know, before
we came home from the rectory. Well ! 
he declares the house is haunted ; and he
won't stay. He told me that the second
night, when he was crossing the hall in

the dusk, the library door was suddenly
shut quickly in his face by somebody 
and he rushed into the room and found
it empty (of course !) so his knees shook.'

'What? is that all?' exclaimed the
hearers. ' Why, it was a draught of wind ;
or another servant.'

Eh, eh  no, I don't believe that. The
two maids say they Avere both in the
kitchen ; and, as they have as yet seen nothing,
they are staying; though they all
annoy me by declaring they hear strange
noises at night, and are often fancying
there is some one near them in the house
after dark; hear a sort of sigh in their
ears close by and see nobody  Rubbish !
Well  I have sent for Mr. Smith to come
over to-day. He will settle it, if my suspicions
are right.'

'But what or who do you suspect?' Bessie
Armytage asked, all being much interested.

Mrs. Vignolles grew red, and her eyes
lit up with angry flame.

VOL. III. I

Eh, who ? . . . Why, that man, Russ !
I believe, if there is anything, he is playing
pranks just to get us all to leave, as he
hated our coming in. But he'll find his
match !'

After this, Mrs. VignoUes showed them
round the house ; first warning them that,
as young Mrs. Russ was acting as housekeeper,
she had sent for her to open the
unoccupied rooms. Therefore they must
all be careful, in their allusions to ghosts
or unjust stewards.

The said Mrs. Russ, who was originally
a farmer's daughter from the neighbourhood,
proved to be a pleasant-faced, buxom
young woman. She had been married to
the steward when he came to live at the
Priory, after his late mistress's funeral.

There was not so much of interest to be
seen in the Priory, as might have been
supposed from its strange reputation and
its age. The library was, however, a fine
old room, darkly wainscoted, like all the

rest of this wing. It had bay-windows
embowered in books, and corresponding
recesses on the other side of the room
formed by heavy wooden screens that made
little gulfs and capes of literature, as it
were, being lined with works of every age,
beginning with black-letter tomes written
in Norman-french.

'Mark collected a good many of these
when he lived here alone. I believe the
people hereabouts were convinced he
used to dabble in the black arts,' whispered
Mrs. VignoUes.

'Why, anyone could whisk round in
these corners in a jiffy. It's a capital
place for hide-and-seek,' muttered Bob
Armytage to Kenyon, who nodded.

The rest of the house upstairs, being
unoccupied, was all closed up, and its
possible treasures of furniture swathed in
brown holland and old sheets.

The party soon grew tired of exploring
the low, wide rooms, and hearing their steps

i2

echoing on bare boards, while Mrs. Rus
undid half-sh litters and let in the light on
the mummy-like objects around. They all
willingly returned to the little sitting-room,
where Mr. Smith now joined them.

Bob, Uda, and the rest of the young
people all went gladly off, for fresh air
outside, without ceremony; having heard
of some foxes' earths and young cubs to
be possibly found in the wood. Adrian
stayed on some excuse, however, having
had a private hint of what was to follow.

Mr. Smith was now told of the footman's
pusillanimity, by Mrs. Vignolles, and
her angry suspicions of Russ. The careful
lawyer caressed his dry, grey face
slowly with a dry, withered hand. It
was a trick he had whilst reflecting ; and
the habit, as also the appearance of his
grey frill of whiskers, gave the worthy
gentleman an undeserved resemblance to
a cat washing its face.

 I do not think Russ is really to blame,

my dear madam,' lie decided, however,
after a due pause. ' I will confess to you
that I have found the man a little inclined
to be arrogant and difficult to deal
with at times, on account of being such
a favourite with Mr. Hungerford that, during
Ms lifetime, he is never likely to be
dismissed. Yet for these last two years,
Russ has, I really think  (It seems ridiculous
!)  but he has verily believed in some
appearances or oilier Itself!

Then / don't believe him ! It is all a
blind. Depend upon it, he has been robbing
my cousin Mark  yes, robbing him !
so thought it convenient to get up a
bugbear, to prevent our coming sooner to
live here and find him out,' cried Mrs.
Yignolles, angrily.

'It is strange  I do not myself put
credit in any apparitions that can hurt,
or need disturb anybody,' returned the
family lawyer, with a caution that gave
all present the impression (which was

correct) that he would not commit himself
to any opinion. ' But, in justice to Russ,
I myself offered to pay him higher wages
he and his wife would live in the house
and keep it aired, but he refused. It is a
most absurd idea, doubtless  but he has
some unreasonable fears, and said he would
not sleep here for any money. With your
pluck, my dear madam, however  and

your fine son  and In fact it is all

nonsense P ended Mr. Smith, in some haste.
The poor man was slightly confused ; fearing
that his sense of fairness was leading
him to indiscretion.

Shall we visit the chapel, now ?' he
asked, rising.  I understood, from your
letter, Mrs. Vignolles, that your friends'
(looking towards Mrs Armytage and the
young rector) ' were desirous of seeing the
interior of the mausoleum, where the
remains of their relative, the late Mrs.
Hungerford, were placed. Russ keeps the
keys  so, meanwhile, I shall take the

opportunity of sounding him further as to
your little household alarm.'

This last of his rather pompous phrases
was uttered to Mrs. Vignolles, Who somewhat
silently acquiesced.

Mr. Smith went outside to find Rusty
and give his orders on the subject of the
chapel. Presently the rest of the party
were summoned by him, and found the
steward looking redder than usual, if possible,
and even sulkier. The big man had
evidently been opposing the lawyer's wishes,
but was no match for the grey, quiet gentleman,
who appeared now mildly victorious
in manner.

As they went down the carriage drive
to the chapel, and then took the well-known
old path through the trees, which
had led thereto from the days Avhen all
was wood and wild around, Kenyon fell
behind the others. It was strange to him
so strange ! to visit Hester's tomb ; to see
her coffin for the first time ! and that not

alone, when his sacred sorrow might feel
free and unenvied, but as now, with this
party ahead of him. It seemed a desecration
to his own feelings, that Mrs. Vignolles,
the lawyer, and Russ should be by. But
Kit felt it must be so, now ; he must control
himself.

They reached the chapel door, low, and
seeming so old and dead, surrounded by
its fringe of living young birches and
green bushes. Kenyon looked silently at
the stone seat where he had sat so often,
and vainly wished to. pass that heavy
Norman portal. (Adrian stole one loyal
look at his older friend, as might a young
squire towards his knight, then dropped
his inquisitive eyes.)

The key groaned in the lock : the old
door swung heavily back on its rusty
hinges. And, as all went in, a little murmur
of surprised admiration came inarticulately
from the group. The rude rock shrine
of hermit days was now an exquisite

chapel ricci with inlaid marbles, which
gave hues of rose, green, and white, to both
floor, walls and altar. There were finely
sculptured bas reliefs also of the resurrection
of Lazarus and similar subjects. But
the eye turned chiefly to low niches in the
walls adorned by stonework canopies and
little pillars, within which recesses, as in
Roman catacombs, the coffins of the Hun-perform
family were placed.

One narrow lancet window beyond the
tiny altar looked out upon the river.
Perhaps Mark Hungerford had shown his
taste best by only filling the upper part
with stained glass, whilst below a charming
river-view was framed by the old stone
pointed arch. There was the Stoure
rushing deep and brown between its high,
wooded banks ; while, beyond a peep of
greensward, the Priory and its lawn were
just discernible. The chapel had once been
a cave in the lowest end of the hill on
which the old tower stood. And the river,

after washing the chapel walls, took an
abrupt curve round the little headland of
the tower.

But none of the visitors noticed the
beauty of the situation just then. They
were looking with solemn feelings of awe
and sadness at one niche towards which
Russ gruffly pointed. There lay an ebony
coffin, richly mounted in silver. How
well Kenyon remembered it !  and Mrs.
Yignolles too ; for the sight brought back
the scene of the Villa Beausite at Nice
with painful vividness, so that even Emma
herself felt her conscience uneasily stirred
and shuddered a little as she gazed. Kenyon
turned his head a moment aside. It
was terrible to him to see it thus, with all
these spectators (some so utterly indifferent
!) round him ; to imagine her thereunder
that black lid with her sweet face
hidden from him, though so near ! ah,
perhaps no longer sweet nor fair now. He
felt choking; and was just turning to go

hastily outside again, when a low murmur
of surprise from the rest arrested
him. They were examining a heap of
withered funeral wreaths lying on the
floor of the chapel, as if flung doAvn pellmell
from the coffin.

'How did those come there? They
were left upon it when last I myself saw
this chapel closed,' asked Mr. Smith,
severely, stooping to examine the mass of
dead moss and wires on which cards were
still legible as sent by Mrs. Ignores herself,
by Mr. and Mrs. Fisher, and so forth.

Dunno, sir ! I'll take my davy no
living soul has been in here since then  -
these two years, that is,' burst out Russ,
staring at them with a look of genuine
surprise, almost dismay, on his heavy
features.

'- Take care, Russ. Remember where you
are in speaking here,' went on Mr. Smith,
in a whispered displeased reproof. ' It is
very strange, but see here are some sprigs

left, and stray dead flowers on the coffin.'

Yes, sir. Those are what the child.
Miss Ada, was given to strew, as I believe,
there's nought left on it, you seehut them.'

And  why ! what is that on the coffin-lid
itself? by all that is strange ! The ceiling
must be unsafe.'

All, breathless, and excited they hardly
knew why, pressed nearer to look.

On the silver coffin-plate, just above
where the date of Hester Hungerford's
death was engraved, the letters were
hidden by apparently fallen fragments of
old carved stonework, arranged by some
strange accident in the shape of a rude
cross. There was a silence for a few moments.
Then Kenyon spoke the first in a
deep tone, surprising himself by its
strangely quiet sound, as if this event,
far from being a cause of wonder, was
something he had foreknown, or expected.

Nothing has fallen from the roof. That
is no accident.'

CHAPTER IX.

THE WHITE LADY.

The little group in the chapel looked at
each other, and then all around with inquiring,
puzzled faces ; but were at first
silent. Then, as they began to wonder in
murmurs, a low exclamation from Mr. Smith,
who was examining the chapel floor with
critical scrutiny made them start. The lawyer
had put his glasses on and was eyeing
the stone window-ledge overlooking the
river, and the ancient flags below it; for
this portion of the chapel, behind the altar,
had not been re-floored or altered in any
portion ; because it was the veritable old
shrine, the rest having been rather a rock
passage.

'Humph, Mr. Russ ! . . . some one has
been here  so much for your keys !' he whispered,
reverence for the place still weighing
upon him. 'I notice a foot-print, I believe,
in the dust there  and see, it has
been brushed entirely off this part of the
stone sill, while it is thick everywhere
else.'

All bent to see ; and certainly fancied
they could trace the impress of a human
foot. Mr. Smith, who prided himself on
his ingenuity in such matters, took out
his large, white handkerchief with a careful
air, his business-like feeling overpowering
the sense, upon all more or less, that
they were in the house of the dead. Slowly
he measured the mark ; then tried it
by his own foot.

Quite right ! Some of us have made
it since we came in,' muttered Edward
Armytage, with a faint approach to what
might be called reverential irony, while
Mrs. Vignolles, by her face, evidently tried

to commend the commonsense remark.

Mr. Smith shook his head.

This is too small for mine  a woman's
foot, I should say. And neither of you
ladies, nor anyone of us but myself, has
come to this spot since we all entered
the chapel.' This was the case. All
looked at each other. The interest was
at its greatest height. ' Russ,' asked Mr.
Smith, with a stern but perplexed impression,
' can any woman have come into
the chapel here, do you think ?'

Russ Alas standing watching the party
with a look which seemed to say, ' What
fools you all be !  I could have told you
so.' Xow he just unclosed his heavy
mouth to say, before he shut it to again,

Yes.'

Yes, do you say ? Yes, sir ? Then
pray, why do you allow it ? What do
you mean by leaving your key about 
not fastening the door?' demanded Mr.
Smith, working himself into a cool rage

at sight of the man's surly self-p( lessioii.

I can't keep her out.'

Because she is your wife, I oppose ;
but no matter ! Let me tell you-' '

'You need not tell me nothii as regards
my wife, Mr. Smith,' interrupted
Russ, with a gruff quickness anc turn of
the head, meant to deprecate ans illusion
to that young woman. * She's you 5, maybe
; lout she's a good girl, and does my
bidding. No ; it's not her.'

'Then, who is it ? I desire know.
Did you not say no living soul lid come
in here, to your knowledge, these t > years.'

I did  no livings soul, to my I nvkdge,'
repeated Russ, slowly. ' But th( i is one
that does come in, I have small doubt ;
and, if you can keep her out of wherever
site pleases to come by bolts or 1 jks, Mr.
Smith, you are a more able man han me ;
and so there is my key of the chaal, sir !'

Russ pointed as he spoke to le open
door, and strode towards it. Tl rest all

followed him like sleep after the foremost
wether, the steward's rudeness overlooked
in the indescribable discomfort with which
his manner and tone had inspired them.
They were all glad to come out from the
chapel ; despite its still beauty of marble
and stone ; and the deep shade and coolness
under its low roof which had seemed
so solemn and pleasing at first.

I feel chilled to the heart, somehow.
I could almost wish we had not gone 1
Does it not give you a foolish feeling that
it seems unkind in ns to leave Hester
behind there ?' whispered Bessie Armytage
apart to Sir Christopher.

 It does ' he answered back from

the depths of his heart. Strange ! that
Bessie, too, felt the same inspiration of the
very thought Which had now so possessed
him night and day, and day and night,
like a haunting presence. No : Hester
could not be resting peacefully, wherever
she might be, or thoughts of her would

VOL. III. K

not surely thus evermore possess him. At
moments in the dead of night, or in the
silence of the woods by day, Kenyon had
sometimes a feeling as if she was calling
to him  doubtlessly; and that, though she
must be far, far away, he was aware of her
thought of him.

Meanwhile, the sight of the green trees
and rustling branches aroused them, and,
what with the summer air and a gleam of
sunshine now after the morning's rain, the
spirits of the rest had vastly revived, and
curiosity now became uppermost. They
were all plying Russ with questions. And
though he now replied to these with the
evasive manner of nearly all of the lower
classes, when the positive facts about reported
apparitions or strange occurrences
are sought to be extracted from them by
less credulous superiors, still a new trust
as to the man's honesty of belief in what
he allowed to be implied, rather than to
be affirmed, began to grow in them all.

But who is it T repeated Edward Armytage,
inquisitively, for the twentieth time,
though Russ had as often muttered, 'Who
could say ? One said this  another that.'
Is it the white lady who was murdered
by the monks long ago ?'

If it is not, I don't know who it is, 
but there ! it's not a thing to talk much
about,' returned the steward, glancing
over his shoulder heavily with an uncomfortable
movement.

What's the matter ? You don't suppose
she can hear you  and it's daylight,
man ! Ghosts only walk at night,' laughed
Armytage.

Oh, do they, sir ?' retorted Russ, flushing
angrily. 'Then let me tell you that
them is by no means the worst kind.
There are some that is around you, as I
know too well, in as bright a day as any
man could wish, and this is one of them
Tve seen her !'

k2

But what was she like ?' they cried out
in chorus.

Russ seemed troubled. show could any
man tell, when you saw a things one moment
and it was vanished the next ? But
wait a while !  They would know soon
enough, maybe; just a sweep of a dress
by you, and a little cry that turned all the
blood in one's body to ice  No ! More he
couldn't and mustn't say.'

"The spirit that Avalketh in the noonday."
Yes, I have heard that was the
worst form of apparition of all,' declared
the young rector, quite inclined to rub his
hands with satisfaction. * I have long
wished to see if the old form of prayer the
church used up to the sixteenth century,
for exorcising ghosts, could not be put
in practice again. Let us look if it can be
found in one of the old religious books in
the library.'

Then we will have a service and you
shall lay the ghost, Mr. Armytage ; that is,

if I have not discovered what it all means,
as 1 trusty before then,' said Mrs. Vignolles,
severely, who seemed decidedly more ill at
ease than an hour ago.

Presently, however, as they explored the
Priory grounds and ate fruit in the weedy,
neglected, but still fairly productive kit-covent-garden,
the strange footprint was forgotten
for the time ; as Mrs. Vio-nolles did
her best to banish the supernatural from
the conversation.

Come,' she had said, with a little acidity
of briskness, ' after all my trouble in
getting into the Priory, it will be too bad
if you help to frighten me out of it. No,
no ; ghosts or no ghosts, it is a great point
to live rent-free  eh, eh !'

Everyone understood her point of view,
and tried to respect her wishes accordingly.

The afternoon had insensibly slipped
away while they were visiting the house
and chapel, and it was nearly seven o'clock
when they at last returned to the Priory.

The Armytage children were now sent
home with a servant ; for it had been already
arranged that the elders of the rectory
party were to spend the evening with
Mrs. VignoUes, and have a  tea-dinner,' as
she expressed it. Bessie had instituted
that pleasantly nondescript meal at the
rectory ; for ' cluck as the old hen would,'
she declared, it was impossible to gather
the various chickens she mothered always
back at any given time from fishing, sketching,
or boating.

As you all like it, I shall give you the
same,' Mrs. Vignolles pleasantly declared.
 I love country fashions.'

Yes,' Uda had replied, like a practical
maiden. ' And then it is really much less
expensive for a large party; besides, it
saves the waiting when one has not many
servants.'

Mrs. Vignolles looked at the speaker
sharply ; but then, seeing that there was
simple honesty in the remark without

malice, contented herself with tossing her
head, and remarking aside to Kenyon,
as she gave a short laugh,

Dear me ! how very tactless Miss Armytage
is, eh?'

*Is she?' returned Kit, rousing from
a reverie, into which he had fallen constantly
that afternoon after visiting the
chapel. ' I have not noticed it . . . She
is a good girl . . 1 like her.'

Oh, very good, most excellent,' agreed
Mrs. Vignolles, with suspicious quickness.
'And very handsome, too, many people
would think. She would make a goodwife.
Sir Christopher. Eh  really ' (with
her old assumption of archness and a
small succession of nods). 'You might
do worse, eh ? For, of course, everyone
expects you to marry, with the old family
name and the title and all to keep up.'

They were standing in the library as
she said this, waiting for the tea-dinner to
be served in the dining-room across the

hall ; and Mrs. Vignolles had come up to
Kenyon, who stood apart from the rest in
one of the book recesses beside the wide
stone-lined fire-place. Kenyon was not
surprised at her jest ; many persons had
told him of late, he ought to marry. Yet,
still being in a dream, he sighed heavily,
and, by way of excusing himself, said,

I am too old to marry her. A young
girl like Uda would scarcely care for me

now, I am afraid It is too late !' Kit

had turned his head towards the fireplace,
as though to examine the stone carving
of a coat-of-arms over the high mantelpiece,
and to evade perhaps Mrs. Vignolles'
further inquisitiveness. As he did so,
a faint whisper seemed to come to his ear
from he knew not where, ' Kit Kit  Christopher
Kenyon'' And, in the low accents
that had a pleading agonised sound, he
could have fancied it was Hester's voice
calling in his very ear. Kit started, in
spite of his scepticism of supernatural

occurrences, and looked quickly round;
lout he was now standing utterly alone.
The rest were talking and joking in a
bay-window opposite, and Mrs. Vignolles
was sailing; back to them with a smiling;
face. That entreating whisper could not
have been hers ? (Xo indeed ! if Christopher
could have but known, she was
triumphantly repeating in her heart, ' Too
old !  no young girl for him, eh ? Well,
then, there is a chance still) Kit moved
sharply away to rouse himself. How weak
he must be growing in mind that he could
so be overcome by a trick of his own
imagination. Still he had surely heard it
with his own ears, as any other sound !
And, at that moment, he was not even
thinking of any mysterious presence, but
planning a day's excursion with Adrian on
the morrow.

The gong sounded for their meal just
then, so Kenyon rejoined his hostess. Ashe
sat down beside her at the head of the

table, he put his late plans into execution
by saying,

Can you spare my friend Adrian tomorrow,
Mrs. Vignolles? I am starting
off early to sketch, and mean to spend a
long day ; and so I should be very glad of
his company.' He caught Adrian's eye a
moment, who immediately after looked
shyly down.

The poor lad was well aware that studies
he detested had been maternally ordered
for him as his portion for most of the
morrow, and many a long day to follow.
He was still treated by his mother as a
little boy. And she had recently announced
to him that his holidays of late at the
rectory were now ended, and he must
grind again for his last trial of examination
before entering one of the public-offices
having failed twice already. Now, Adrian
seemed entirely wanting in brains in this
necessary course of learning ; and furthermore
loathed the prospect of such a future

life as his mother had chosen for him.

Sketching Sir Christopher,' echoed Mrs.
Yignolles, in a high voice.

If it had not been for Kenyon's suave
tones, and the irresistible look he could
throw without effort into his dark eyes
when talking to a woman, a power for
which many men envied and some talked
against him, she would have instantly
refused. The little woman hated this
dawdling amusement, as she termed it ;
one her idle, long-legged son was most
reprehensibly addicted to. Still  still

Well, as you ask it. Sir Christopher  '
she replied, with her most fascinating look,
nodding her head so that her frizzy tower
of little curls quivered. ' But, pray, do
not mislead that son of mine, eh? He
actually once wanted to be an artist  if
anyone ever heard of such an idea ! Who
is to support him then, I should like to
know?'

I should soon support myself,' put in

Adrian, his usual drawling, soft tones
slightly sharpened now.

'soon!  and who is to do so for you
till that soon arrives ? (after years, if ever,
I should think !) Not I, certainly  after
this year, either you pass your examination,
or else you provide for yourself, my
friend,' retorted his mother, witheringly.
Then, as Adrian, with a little gasp of
annoyance at this speech being made
before visitors, seemed prepared to speak,
No answer, please  I cannot bear any
answering, and I always insist upon being
treated with respect by my son.'

Her son, who had a light nature, but
one easily stirred to anger on the surface,
might hardly have controlled himself
under the aggravation of his mother's
look and tone, but that he met Kenyon's
sympathetic, silencing glance, and was
comforted. Mrs. Vignolles would have
been angry indeed had she known that
in their frequent walks together Adrian

lead outpoured all his griefs, dislikes, and
vain longings on the subject of his profession
into Kenyon's pitying ears. And
the latter, thereupon, one day  moved by
the poor lad's disappointment on thus
going out into life without any natural
gladness or ambition, and feeling himself
a rich and lonely man, had sympathised ;
yes, more  had held out certain promises
of very material assistance, which now
caused Adrian to take his mother's threat
lightly enough. But Kenyon, sitting thereat
table, felt almost traitorously guilty
towards the shrewish, maternal little
woman who now smiled on, and tried to
wheedle him.

When they rose to leave the diningroom,
Uda and the two young Armytage
men stopped in the hall, urged by Adrian
to try an old bagatelle-table. Kenyon
stayed with them, declining to play, though
amused by their laughter and jokes, and
quizzing them all, especially his friend

Adrian, with a quiet, grim humour which
was now his nearest approach to the old
sudden tides of high spirits. It was rather
curious to see how much the younger
people liked always to have him among
them, though he seldom joined in their
amusements. Perhaps it was because
everyone could see how he silently enjoyed
himself watching them ; the cloud lifting
off his face, and a happier, interested expression
replacing the more usual resigned,
gentle melancholy there.

Mrs. Vignolles, having escorted Bessie
Armytage into the little, black-oak sitting-room,
looked back at the group in the
hall, and said, feeling elated in spirit that
night,

Eh, dear me ! your girl Uda and the
young rector are together again, I see.
She seems to have quite a fancy for him,
eh; and 'pon my word' (patronisingly)
he is a very nice young fellow. It would
be a capital match  hei?i! And I daresay

you have foreseen it already, my dear.'
I never make plans now for any of my
children as to marriage,' returned Bessie,
earnestly, slightly reddening ; for, even
though she was Uda's mother, she was
perhaps younger in her heart than her
girl. (Alas ! she had tried to make plans
for poor Hester, and that had failed.) ' I
mean to leave them perfectly free, so long
as there is nothing to disapprove of,' she
went on. ' But I do not think I should
like to stir even an inch to help them,
unless being quite sure it was a mutual
matter.'

Very right ! I think that is a very high
principle, Bessie,' nodded Mrs. Vignolles,
With irritating approval. ' It is so much
better to let young people be happy together,
I think, than for mothers to be
ambitious, and run after some greater
match for their daughters, which very often
never comes off, or turns out a mistake.
Like turns to like, after all  eh ? And 

Clever little Emma, she believed that
Bessie was too absurdly unworldly to go
contrary to the supposed wishes of her
child in such a matter ; and this would
help to clear the ground.

Shall we bring them in, and all have a
round game together?' she went on, rising
with alacrity.  I see Sir Christopher out
there does not care for bagatelle.'

Mrs. Armytage assented to this last indifferently,
with a feeling of annoyance in
her heart, which, strive as she might
against it, still grew. It seemed almost as
if her daughter had been accused of being
forward ; maidenly. Mrs. Vignolles had
overshot the mark in discussing Uda's
supposed fancy. For Bessie, knowing how
malicious she had been of old at times 
and believing that, if there was ' anything
between Edward and Uda,' her own eyes
would not have failed to discern it with

motherly instinct  feared her child did
make too great a display of being useful
at the rectory, and in ordering Edward's
household.

Edward, Edward Uda was exclaiming
just then, 'you mustn't play like that Let
me show you how.'

Quite right, Uda. I always make
blunders without you to look after me,'
returned the young rector, laughing.

Mrs. Vignolles carried them all off to
"Vingt-et-un," though it is doubtful if Sir
Christopher, for whom she effected this
manoeuvre, appreciated her kindness.

(' Gertrude,' whispered Mrs. Armytage,
as they broke up from bagatelle,  why do
you take your cousin to task so often ? It
does not sound well, my dear ; remember
his position, now')

Uda opened her eyes wide ; to be called
Gertrude was equivalent to a scolding.
Her mother's tone, too, was gently dignified
to severity, but Mrs. Armytage had

VOL. III. L

moved away so as to make explanation
then impossible.

The prior's little room was hardly large
enough to hold them all, as they sat round
the table. It was very hot, too, when the
lights were all lit, so Adrian was desired
to open the latticed window. He threw it
wide on its hinges ; and so, what between
the black wainscot walls so near all round
them and the moonless darkness outside,
they seemed almost sitting in the night
itself.

There was a little rustling sound of the
breeze in the bushes outside. A night moth
or two fluttered round like the grey
ghosts of butterflies, and now and then a
bat darted in and out again, startling them
disagreeably.

A sort of uncomfortable silence fell upon
the little party, after a while. Mrs. Vigo
in vain laboured bravely to make
jokes. Uda had become unaccountably
dull, and even Mrs. Armytage was not in

her usual spirits. Adrian hated having
his mother's eye immediately upon him, in
any pursuit ; and Kenyon, who was as impressionable
to surrounding influences as
any chameleon to colour, relapsed into a
dual state of reverie even whilst playing
his cards. Once he roused himself in a
pause to say dreamily, looking round at
the dark-channelled walls and ceiling,

'This makes one think of being in a
black coffin.'

'Oh, fie  Sir Christopher ! what a shocking
idea ! Don't you think it is very morbid
of him, Mrs. Armytage ?' cried Mrs.
Vignolles.

Bessie did not answer : she guessed
where Kit's thoughts had been.

A few minutes later, a sudden strange
noise, as of scuffling and running across
the hall outside, made them all stop short
and look at each other's faces. Then came
suppressed voices and a sort of sobbing in
the distance.

L 2

'Who is that  what is the matters
called out Mrs. Vignolles, pluckily, in
shrill tones, starting up in a fume.

One of the maid-servants came slowly at
her call, with a pale, frightened face.

Oh, if you please, i'm, Susan is in a
faint ' (Susan was Mrs. Yignolles' maid,
who attended also on little Ada). ' She 
she  oh it's awful! hut she has just seen the
ghost r

'- Seen it  where  how ?' all cried.

'In Miss Ada's room. Susan went in
there very softly not to wake the child,
and she saw a tall, dark lady with white
hair beside the bed. Susan saw her by
the light of the night-light distinctly
enough. She didn't wait to look twice
but just ran, and got out somehow, she
didn't know how  and now she's swooned
right off.'

Susan is an idiot,' declared Mrs. Vigo
hotly. *I shall go and see for
myself

She sriatclied up a candle. All the
party followed her closely across the hall,
as noiselessly as possible, into Ada's room,
which was out of a little passage, and
between Mrs. Vignolles' own room and the
library. The upraised candle showed the
child sleeping peacefully, like a rosy
cherub, in her cot ; though, at the sudden
light, she stirred, and then awaking 
startled on seeing the little group of
faces round her  needed to be petted and
soothed by Bessie Armytage.

There was not a sign of the ghost anywhere.
No trace of a strange presence
was to be seen, though they carefully
searched the room.

CHAPTER X.

ON THE BANKS OF THE Store.

The following day, Adrian was late in
reaching the ' Three Coughs where Sir
Christopher was waiting for him to start
on their sketching ramble.

 Oh, I am so sorry ; but there has been
such a jolly row at the Priory,' called out
young Aignolles, as he came up breathless,
What do you think ? but old Russ lost
his temper so awfully with Cowgill this
morning in the farmyard, that he knocked
him down. Then Cowgill got up and
fought him, they say  the two garden
boys told me  but Russ is the stronger
man of the two, and gave the other poor

fellow a tremendous thrashing, and turned
him out of the Priory demesne neck-andros
 all his cottage furniture was carted
down to the road, and shot out thereby
Russ himself. Luckily, it was left
close to the village, so he'll get put up ;
for they all hate Russ like poison there.'

Kenyon stood still, and drew a long
breath like a whistle. Little by little, a
deeper import of this news than most
people could have guessed seemed to come
to him. As he took-in the whole possible
results thereof, his face became a study
of anger and disappointment over their
foiled plans, while his eyes were set in
eager meditation.

 Gone  really gone !' he repeated to
himself; then he swore under his breath.
Tlw one man we trusted ! Adrian, how
are we to open the chapel now ? Besides,
he horus our secret !  and, if he cannot help
us, that is a terrible mistake.'
( ' But he dare not tell. You bound him

too solemnly never to breathe it while he
lived,' said Adrian, impressively, ready to
suppose Cowgill as sentimentally high-strung
as himself. ' And then you have
been so generous to him '

Ah, that is more to the purpose. He
may be silent while I make it worth his
while,' answered Kenyon, cynically, seeming
greatly depressed.  Come, shall we
go for our Avalk ?'

He started off so fast that Adrian kept
beside him with difficulty. Sometimes
the youth stole a glance at the gloomy
face of his elder friend, but did not like
to interrupt his thoughts. After an hour
or more of almost total silence, the rapid
pace at which he had gone seemed to have
relieved Kenyon's feelings. He had felt
at first like one who, after working at a
secret mine for weary days and weeks, is
suddenly confronted by an unforeseen
obstacle. The darling project hidden in
his soul seemed withheld from his grasp

just as he was on the point of realising it.
He stopped and threw himself down on
the grass almost as suddenly as he had
started off walking.

'Shall we stay here? We can talk
over this awhile he vaguely said. Adrian
assented by silently following his example.

The spot was very sequestered. It was
an open glade by the side of the Stoure,
surrounded by brushwood and backed by
some wild cherry-trees. Kenyon had
made it a favourite haunt, Wearying of the
dull meadows he so often fished, and glad
to feel here shut out from even the occasional
inquiring eyes of the country folk.

But, as he and Adrian lay on the grass
and talked over their plan in low voices,
they were disturbed for the first time. A
sound of some one pushing through the
brushwood startled both but then they
saw Zachary Cowgill emerge and come
towards them looking hot, scratched, and
sullenly excited.

I've followed you, mester  I made my
way here a purpose from the " Three
Coughs"' he said, bluntly to Kenyon,
looking like a faithful dog who has been
beaten by strangers and returns aggrieved
to his master.

Kenyon was really sorry for the poor
fellow, and at once inquired with kindness
and deep interest into the cause of Cow-gill's
quarrel with his employer, Russ. The
man told a rather strange story.

He was often employed in rough garden
work at the Priory, and the evening before
was desired by the steward to rake
and tidy a little space outside the library
windows. Mrs. Vignolles had complained
bitterly of the neglected state of this spot,
on which her eyes were always forced to
light. It was a square garden plot, consisting
merely of some flower-borders, a
sundial, and gravelled paths. On three
sides, it was enclosed by the house-walls of
the old wing. The fourth was guarded by

high iron palings and a gate of which Riissr
kept the key, for the old windows were
easy of access.

Cowgill declared he accordingly raked
and rolled the paths carefully, and dug the
borders, the last stroke of work he did
before sundown. This morning he unlocked
the gate again ; and was astonished
to see footmarks all over the fresh gravel
paths, while the newly-dug ilower-border&
outside the windows were trampled down.
It had rained last night and the ground
was wet, so the nio;htlv visitor had left
deep prints. Cowgill complained to the
servants of having spoilt his work, but
they all denied it. He then thought it
his duty to warn Russ that some midnight
marauder must have climbed the railings,
although the marks were small and narrow
as if left by a woman.

Russ was in a quarrelsome state that
morning, having only just recovered from
a heavy drinking-bout of the previous

iiiglit, SO Cowgill believed. He first
scouted the man's assertion, roughly declaring
that the key of the gate had not
left his own pocket from the night before
till Cowgill took it that morning. Then
he affected to disbelieve poor Zachary, who
he swore had been idling and had never
done his work at all. The latter retorted
angrily, declaring Russ knew as well ashe
did that strange things happened at
the Priory, and there were more inhabitants
there than folk knew of, and whom
most men would not care to face. Russ,
grown furious at this, taunted Cowgill asa
liar and a coward. From words they
soon came to blows  the rest Adrian had
correctly heard.

On further inquiries, Cowgill told that
Russ had begun drinking heavily of late,
while also his tempers were more violent
than usual. In fact, this year, since the
occupation of the Priory especially, he
Alas so savage it was as much as a man

dare do to accost him. He was also very-jealous
of his young wife, whom he hardly
suffered to keep company with any living
creature but himself. And she was a
pleasant young woman, too, and affable,
said Cowgill ; but, though Russ was really
fond enough of her, he kept her shut up
with her baby, as if the Priory was a
prison.

 Does she see no one else then ? Has
she no friends ?' asked Adrian, eagerly
For his imaginative mind went off on this
new track at once, ready to scent fresh
mystery.

'Well, I did go to her cottage once,
out of curiosity purely,' owned Cowgill,
with a slow, sly grin. ' Mister Russ was
gone to the town, being market-day, and,
thinks I, if he does hear of it, I'll take
the racket ! But I got little for my pains
she seemed frightened in a manner to
see me.'

There was another person with her 

Cowgill went on to tell in a rambling
manner. This was a woman, and an old
one, but rarely handsome in her day she
.seemed. She was strange, too ; for, whenever
Mrs. Russ turned her back, this
woman made signs to Zachary, and managed
to whisper once she had something
to tell  he Alas to 'come back.' But the
young wife seemed to suspect her, and
contrived to get rid of Zachary Cowgill
very promptly. She led him outside herself,
and, explaining that the other inmate
of the cottage was only a half-witted
relation whom Russ kept out of kindness,
begged him not to take notice of anything
the poor soul said or did.

'She did not look so crazy, neither,'
ended Cowgill, with a reflective air.

'We must go and see her,' exclaimed
Adrian.

Yes,' mused Kenyon aloud. ' If half-witted,
and that they are afraid of trusting
her with strangers, it would seem as if

there was something to hide. Who knows
but some of these midnight appearances
may be explained naturally, after all ?'

Kenyon was sceptical on the subject of
spiritual phenomena ; but did not like to
say so very distinctly, for fear of hurting
Adrian's feelings, who was an ardent believer
that there are many more strange
things in heaven and earth, 'than are
dreamt of in our philosophy.' Nevertheless,
being himself a dreamer by day, and
one who over-indulged in the opiate of
imagination. Kit could not get rid of the
strange fancy that he had heard Hester's
own voice speaking to him. Often, of late,
she seemed more near him in thought
than ever before during those two lonely
years. By the river-side, through the
woods, in his solitary walks, her presence
seemed to haunt him. Little Wonder the
hallucination had so grown in his heart,
that he fancied at last he verily heard with
his bodily ears her faint call  ' Kit ! Kit !'

Though almost ashamed of his own
weakness, Kenyon yet confided his strange
fancy to Adrian. The latter, in his boyish
eagerness and morbid enthusiasm, was
solemnly affected, but not surprised.

She is not happy. She is calling you
because she cannot rest,' he decided. And
Christopher sighed, tortured at the thought.
He preferred thinking of Hester as one of
a shining and blessed company of happy
spirits, among whom none could be more
beautiful.

They stayed and consulted together the
best part of that summer's day. Cowgill
retired discreetly and humbly to the background
of the bushes, in company with
the remains of the lunch brought by Sir
Christopher. At last, when his patrons
had agreed on the details of their plan,
long whispered over, he was signed to
approach and hear so much as was necessary.
Kenyon had settled to leave his
friends and fishing immediately ; pretending

business at his house near Westcliff,
the Court. Thus he would escape seeing
the Fishers, which last he sensitively
dreaded, and would likewise divert possible
suspicion afterwards. He was then to
return on a certain night, accompanied
only by Cowgill. Adrian was to meet
them at the vault, and they must force
the lock, having already discussed how todo
this best without discovery. But Cow-gill
forestalled them. He now, as they
explained their views, carefully and slowly
produced two lumps of wax from his
pocket, and with a dry smile handed them
silently to Kenyon. They were impressions
of the keys of the vault.

 But how did you come by these ?' exclaimed
Kenyon, wondering.

Well, he  old Russ, that is  was drunk
two days ago, so I stole the keys out of his
pocket. It seemed my duty to you. Sir
Christopher,' confessed Cowgill, apologetically,
adding in a cautious tone the assure

III. M

ance that in general his conduct was
honest, and that he had no experience in
such light-fingered practices.

All was therefore made easy enough.
Kenyon half shuddered to himself at the
means he had thus to employ on such a
sacred errand : stolen keys  a drunken
steward  poor Zachary for a well-meaning
but vulgar accomplice. He felt as if those
wooden doors of Hesterss vault ought to
open silently of their own accord, as if
touched by the hand of some angel, assisting
to set free her dear body from its prison.

Rousing himself to coarser realities of
life, however, Kit asked, still in a half-dream,


'And afterwards, Cowgill, where will
you go ? You would want to stay hereabouts,
no doubt. I shall never wish to
come back here then but I should like to
know you happily settled.'

To his surprise, Zachary shuffled his feet
and seemed uneasy.

If it appears I've not given no cause for
displeasure, colonel  Sir Christopher that
is  but, if there was ever any cottage on
your own estate, or a place for a man like
me ? I can turn my hand to most jobs ;
and I'd  well  I'd just be sorry to leave
you!'

The simple-minded fellow just gave his
patron a humbly reproachful look, and
then stared hard at the ground.

Kenyon felt, with a sudden astonishment,
how even such a mark of being
looked-up to and depended on, though
only by the meanest of our fellow-beings,
gave him a pleasure long unknown. He
promised at once to provide for Zachary
at the Court ; ' and we must keep your
future cottage tight against the rheumatics,'
he added, smiling.

'Ah ! if that was all,' Cowgill oracularly
responded, with a nod of his head in the
direction of the Priory. ' Rheumatism is
a thing o' nature  but to have possesses,

M 2

and corpse-lights, and 
! creeping about that old tower at
nights is enough to make the hair on
a man's flesh stand up, as Job said.'

Ghosts and corpse-lights ?'

Both hearers inquired into this. Then
Cowgill, with a mysterious air and hesitating
; but doggedly  as if afraid to be ridiculed,
though obstinate in his own belief
told them, he had often seen a strange
light in the old tower at nights. They
might see it for themselves, perhaps, if
they watched. It would appear, towards
mid-night, for a moment at one window,
and a few seconds later at another and
another lower loophole of the tower, flitting
downwards, then would vanish. What
it meant, he could not say ; but the tower
was empty and half-ruinous, he believed,
and Russ kept closely, moreover, the keys
of it.

*Then it must have been himself,'
suggested Kenyon and Adrian in a breath.

Nay ; that it is not,' said Zachary.

He explained that, on first seeing it,
the night being dark and the wood lonesome,
his hair rose with fright. He hurried
towards Russ's cottage, thinking to
rouse the latter, just for company's sake.
But, through a window, he saw that the
steward was sitting beside his kitchen fire.
Cowgill paused in some surprise that Russ
should be still up so late (after mid-night)
till he perceived his employer was moodily
drinking alone. This made Zachary reflect
that, if Russ happened to ask what
business took Cowgill out of the park at
that hour, it might possibly transpire that
his labourer had been visiting the ' Three
Choughs.'

For Zachary was indeed returning from
one of his secret visits to Sir Christopher.
So he thought best to be silent, and go to
his own house.

After that, he had several times seen
the same light, about mid-night, which

generally happened when he was coming
back from the same errand.

'Shall we watch to-night?' said Kit,,
suddenly, to young VignoUes.

So it was agreed between them to do so

CHAPTER XL

A LIGHT IN THE TOWER.

That night accordingly, both friends, the
elder and the younger man, met by appointment
near the chapel in the Avoid.

Adrian slipped, unperceived by his mother,
out of the Priory. But all the rumours
of ghosts and mysterious appearances
that had occupied his thoughts of late
made him feel uncomfortable. Being a
professed believer in supernatural occurrences,
he started now at every sound ;
and in the darkness was ready to take
every stir of a leaf for the soft footstep
of the white lady of monkish days. He

found Kenyon quietly sitting on the stone
bench at the door of the vault, and, when
the dark figure rose to greet him, Adrian
Alas secretly nearly scared out of his wits.

Sir Christopher, though as impressionable
a man as any, felt very different
emotions from his young companion. It
pleased his sadly gentle melancholy to feel
himself alone there in the hush and coolness
of the summer night, sitting at the
door of Hester's tomb. The clouds softly
veiling the moon, the murmur of the woods
answering the breeze, soothed his fancy ?
Instead of being startled, he would have
been glad could he have seen Hester's own
shadowy figure glide through the doors of
her vault, and come like her own sweet
self to look at him, if not to speak. Why
had he heard her that once ? why did she
never come to see him, though she called
to him?

The dreamer was half ashamed of his
own strange hope * but while alone there,

waiting for Adrian, he softly called twice,
under his breath,

Hester . . . Hester . . . speak to me /'

Then he listened long with painful intentness.
But nothing answered, save a
night-jar and the bark of a watch-dog far
iiway.

 It was precious hard for me to slip out,'
said Adrian, eagerly. ' I say, I have some
news for you ! Mrs. Fisher has come ;
she's staying up there at the Priory now.
It quite took me by surprise when she
arrived before dinner, for I believed she
wasn't coming for a few days, because my
mother was so vague about it. Mrs.
Fisher laughed at me and said she had
always meant to come to-day, and asked
was I still kept in leading-strings like a
little boy. That made my mother angry,
and she said, rather sharply, it could be no
possible business of mine when her visitors
came. It's a little ruse, don't you see ?'

'No,' answered Kenyon, deeply annoyed.

For each fresh arrival of intruders, as he
considered guests, at the Priory, made his
secret plot more difficult of execution. ' I
do not see.'

'Why,' returned Adrian, who prided
himself on having the finesse of the weaker
sex in understanding such household
intrigues, and delighted in unravelling
them. 'It is a case of wheels within
wheels. My mother knows Mrs. Fisher
will not be welcome at the rectory on
account of the past,' (he lowered his voice
at the recollection). 'But as we do not
want to lose our intimacy either with
country or town acquaintance  you see? 
why ! we shall pretend Mrs. Fisher took us
rather by surprise.'

Kenyon was not listening. His whole
mind was absorbed in a rapid calculation.
Whatever touched on his secret scheme,
the inmost darling, dark longing of hi
heart, that concerned him; otherwise he
cared for little that went on around. He

interrupted Adrian by uttering decidedly,

'Then I must leave tomorrow  go to
say good-bye at the rectory in the morning,
or they will think me uncivil, and
start for Westcliff in the afternoon. And
two nights later / shall come hack f

So soon ?' asked Adrian, awed.

Yes. Fate seems hurrying it on, even
against my own wishes. Strange, after
such a long weary delay ! . . . But '' there
is a tide in the affairs of men," you know,
Adrian, and ours seems to have set in now
strongly. May it carry us to success !'

Sir Christopher had only finished speaking
a few moments, when  as both stood
on the path through the wood, where they
had waited because the old tower was best
seen thence, rising up dark and square
above the trees on the hill  Adrian started.

He whispered, eagerly catching Kenyon's
arm,

 Look, look '

Sir Christopher only breathed low.

Yes, I see.'

Up in the topmost window of the tower,
a light showed distinctly though only fora
moment. Then it was lost again in darkness
; but presently a flickering gleam
shone again lower and smaller down the
tower ; then lower still. Then  they saw
no more. They waited some time, but all
was still and dark again as before.

There must be a winding stair there,
and whoever it was came down past the
old loopholes,' mused Kenyon aloud. 'Who
can it be ? Some one has taken up an
abode in the tower. But what is the object?'

Adrian made some murmured dissenting
remarks. How anyone could still be
doubtful after the apparition seen beside
Ada's bed , owned to by Russ himself with
fear; universally believed in and whispered
of among the servants and labourers ; how
any person could be so crossly obstinate
of persuasion passed young Ignores' comprehension
! Adrian almost loved yet feared

the ghostly atmosphere of this evil old
house, as he dimly felt it to be. To him,
the decay, neglect, and desolation of the
demesne around seemed to make the
Priory /zJ/ of ghosts ; for such he supposed
to be the thoughts of those who had lived
or suffered there, taking shape again in
semblance of their former selves ; embodied
memories rather than spirits.

Did you examine the wood and tower
to-day, as I asked you?' went on Kenyon,
keenly, taking command of the matter ;
his attention roused, and his mind at work
with the same interest he felt in puzzling
out an abstruse problem. ' I would have
searched myself, but that Russ might have
probably been disagreeable to me as a
trespasser.'

I did my best, but there was nothing to
be seen,' said Adrian, regretfully, who had
been on a bootless quest. ' One can't get
near the tower because of a high wall
round it, at some little distance. There

seems to be an old garden or enclosure beyond,
for I could see walnut branches. It
was impossible to climb the wall anywhere,
and I thought of getting up some of the
trees, then ; but they are all mere scrub,
and none were high enough. I tried to
find Mrs. Russ, and her cottage seemed
shut up too, for I knocked in vain. However,
where would be the use if even one
could examine the place ? You would see
nothing by day : nothing living.'

I am not so sure of that,' said Kenyon,
suddenly, after thinking for some minutes ;
then, breaking the silence in a quick, impressive
tone, ' Adrian ! A strange idea
has just struck me. What if Mark 
himself was hidden in there ?'

My uncle  here !' stammered Adrian,
in dismay.

It would be like a madman's trick,'
pursued Kit, gloomily. ' And, if so, our
plans will be ten times more difficult. It
may be himself who comes prowling about

cat night, and Russ is perhaps humouring
his fancy by hiding; him there.'

Adrian still demurred, for the strange
footprints in the garden, the vision seen
by the maid, all pointed to the female
apparition which had haunted the Priory
for centuries. It Alas easy to be mistaken
about footmarks, replied Kenyon, trying
to examine the evidence in his own mind,
yet almost ready to be convinced that his
own startling; surmise was rio-ht. That
would explain Russ's anger at the invasion
of the Priory, and resistance when
Mrs. Yignolles took possession thereof.
That would explain also the steward's
strange behaviour always, in fear of displeasing
his master's secret orders, yet not
daring to reveal his presence. Yes ; it all
seemed likely enough, as even young Vigo
owned. Kenyon ended,

He may spring out upon us at anytime,
now, Adrian. Be on the watch while
I am away.*

Trust me ! I shall hardly close an eye.
Old fox ! How I should like to pay him
back in his own coin,' hissed young Ignores,
with real hatred, in spite of his
gentle nature.

Christopher went back that night, often
looking about him vengefully if he saw
any darker shadows than usual which
might conceal the lurking form of a madman.
And, more resolutely than ever, he
still swore in his heart to carry off Hester's
corpse  should her own husband himself
stand in his path.

CHAPTER Nil

CUPID AT THE Rectory.

On the day when Sir Christopher and
Adrian lay and plotted by the banks of
the Stoure, Mrs. Armytage, motherly soul !
up at the rectory, did what she very much
disliked. She explained first to Uda her
rather abrupt little warning of the night
before, and then took her daughter to
task.

It is very disagreeable that Mrs. Ignores
should think herself justified in
making such a remark about you, my
dear child. Of course / know you only
look upon Edward as your cousin, and
have helped him in his household arrange-vol.

III. . N

ments out of pure kindness. But still,
this shows how careful one must be in
conduct, or people who don't know you
well may say unkind things.'

 It is p, great shame of Mrs. Vignolles,
I consider, mother  and I who was ready
to like her very much ! I shall never
speak to her again, and I hope you won't
either,' cried poor Uda, hotly incensed.

 Come, dear, it is no such unusual
matter,' smiled Mrs. Armytage, with her
benevolent and always most comforting
expression. ' One need not try to please
everybody certainly in life, or you would
be like the fable of the old man and his
ass. Up to this, however, you have only
thought of pleasing Edward. But, now,
you and I must try not to let anyone with
a tongue that's too lightly-latched have
an excuse for supposing my girl wants to
run after any young man ; least of all,
your cousin.'

Hereupon Bessie patted her daughter's

shoulder soothingly, her touch being soft
and benignant, as was her whole disposition.
Uda needed consolation, poor girl.
What, she ! whose secret aim was to be a
model of circumspection and propriety of
behaviour to her younger sisters, to the
whole of her family, and who would have
liked indeed to be admired for her excellent
qualities and sound sense by all the
world !  she to find unkind tongues was-owed
lightly about what she regarded, with
grave propriety of feeling, as the most
secret affairs of her own heart. She was
shocked  no other word expresses her
emotion.

Her face burnt crimson ; her unhappy,
round, dark eyes seemed starting out of
her head. Mrs. Armytage good-naturedly
pitied her good child, having now learnt
Gertrude's developed character thoroughly,
and believing, therefore, she understood
all about it.' Softly, though, kind Bessie ;
thoughtful though she Alas for others.



affairs of the heart never were that good
woman's strong point !

Nevertheless, when Uda exclaimed, with
unnecessary vehemence, ' I do not mean
to marry anyone ! I shall always stay
with you, mother ; always,' a faint surmise
crept into Bessie's mind that her daughter
had perhaps thought of some one. And
she wondered in her heart who it could
be.

Meanwhile, Edward came in breezy
haste to find his young daily adviser.

Uda, Uda, the black hen has brought
out her brood, five chickens. Will you
come and see what coop you think they
ought to go into ?'

Uda is rather busy with me this morning,
Edward,' said Mrs. Armytage, cheerily,
trying to help matters into a new
groove. ' I want her for an hour or so.
Don't you think you could see after the
chickens yourself?'

'Very well,' said the young rector, regretfully

; ' but, Ulla, I shall wait for you
to help me with changing last week's
young Brahmans to a new spot ; they seem
sickly.'

His fowls were Edward's latest hobby,
and Uda had taken the deepest interest in
them hitherto.

For an hour, therefore, Edward departed.
But it had no sooner elapsed
than he sought his cousin again.

'Uda, the gardener wants to know
where he is to put the new bee-hives.
There are two situations, he says, both
good. Do come and help me to choose
between them.'

Gertrude knew rather less about bees
than her cousin. But she always decided
promptly and upheld her own opinion,
which impressed him with her greater
sagacity : for he himself was so eager to
look at all sides of a question that he
distrusted his own judgment in matters
out of his experience.

I am afraid mother wants me to 
wants me not  that I can't well come,
Edward,' stammered Uda.

 Well, in half-an-hour  an hour then 
name your own time,' persisted Edward,
with good-humoured blindness to the
possibility of her being unwilling.

 Don't you think you had better . . .
really, Edward, I would prefer that you
chose for yourself,' was the humbly-sounding
reply, accompanied by an entreating
glance.

Edward went away rather perplexed,
and forbore to tease Uda more that day ;
though a dozen times he felt the wish
to come to her with some of his household
wants, or school and parish items of good
or ill news.

But on the morrow, thinking his patience
should now be rewarded, back he
came, more eager than before. This day
happened, unfortunately, to be that occasional
one which the young rector did

not spend in his parish work, but enjoyed
in a thorough over-looking of his garden
and farmyard with the delight of a boy
in a still new diversion. He had a dozen
questions to propose to his aunt and Uda
about the planning of a new flower-beds
the consequent change of a gravel path,
and the planting of some young trees.
Mrs. Armytage was, however, called away
for a time by some requirements of her
younger children, so could not help) Uda
in what now seemed to the latter a painfully
difficult position. She hesitated continually,
and in a new, meek voice kept
assuring Edward she had no opinions
worth giving; or agreed to all of his
contradictory suggestions in confusion of
mind  very different to her usual promptness
of judgment  till she found the gardener
and his master looking at her with
puzzled surprise.

You don't care much about the garden
to-day ; and we have been boring you

unmercifully said Edward, kindly smiling
at her.

Oh, no, no  I mean, indeed, yes, I do
care very much about anything that concerns
' Uda stopped short, nearly crying,
and more confused than ever ; then
substituted for the word  you,' that had
come almost to her very lips, ' that concerns
the rectory.'

Armytage saw there was something amiss,
but forbore to question her then. A little
while later, however, he came to her in
haste, full of a subject on which she was
always interested.

Uda, Mrs. Doggett is going to preserve
the gooseberries, and she wants to know
how many pots you think we shall require.'

Oh, please, Edward, let her consult
you herself. I  I don't know anything
about it.'

why, you always know about everything.
Come, Uda, nonsense  Mrs. Dog-get
positively says she won't give any

directions how much fruit is to be picked
till she has seen you.'

 But indeed, Edward, I would rather
not interfere,' cried poor Uda, feeling
driven into a corner, and getting hot.
I  I  have no business. Oh, please ask
mother's advice.'

'Aunt Bessie is busy,' returned Edward,
rather coldly. Then, a minute afterwards,
he changed his manner, and asked, with
affectionate solicitude, 'My dear girl, have
I offended you to-day? If so, tell me
frankly what is the matter, that I may set
it straight  for you know I would never
mean to do such a thing. Then, I hope,
we shall get back to our old relations.'

But Uda, who had nothing to say except
what she wished to conceal, rushed into
evasions so contradictory to her general
nature that she became quite unintelligible
and hot all over. Armytage was not to
be so put off.

I have guessed there was something

wrong since yesterday ; you have not been
like yourself. There is no use saying nothing
is the matter  come, Uda, tell me all
about it. You and I have never had many
secrets from each other,' he affectionately
persisted.

And, as they two had indeed been always
on the most intimate terms, Edward succeeded,
though with difficulty, in gaining
a glimmering that unkind things had been
said at the Priory ; that  that Mrs. Armytage
was afraid her daughter had seemed
taking too much upon herself lately ; that
she had, in fact, warned Uda against this.

'But surely my aunt knows my feelings
"taking too much on yourself" It is
impossible I could think such a thing, so
what does it matter what others say?'
uttered Edward, warmly.

They had walked on, beside each other
during this little talk, too engrossed to
heed where they were going. Now they
found themselves beside a low wall, enclosing

the kitchen courtyard, and overheard
a dialogue between Mrs. Doggett and
her kitchen-maid, which elucidated the
situation considerably. The maid was
calling to Mrs. Doggett across the yard,
saying a man had just brought some
chickens to sell ; would any be Avant in
the house ?

What is the use of asking fine T retorted
the housekeeper in Edward's bachelor
establishment, who was evidently vexed
with some press of work, though in the
main a good-natured soul, but too free
with her tongue. ' Go and ask Miss Armytage,
can't you? She's the young mistress
here, and I only wish Mr. Armytage and
she would be quick and get married. It
would spare a body having first to ask him
and then her for orders.'

Edward started, and in the twinkling of
an eye understood his cousin's late reluctance
of manner. He looked at Uda quickly,
who was biting her lips and turning

her head aside. But though there were
tears in her eyes, and that her cheeks were
dark red, she was evidently not much surprised.


'Was this what you meant, Uda?' asked
the young man, stopping short and
speaking low and very kindly. ' Yes, yes.
I see it was. But, still, don't let it vex
you.'

He tried to take his cousin's hand. But
Uda turned away, and, leaning over a
paling looking into the paddock, answered
brokenly, in hot grief and confusion, that
she was not vexed, not at all, but that the
people were hateful to say such things,
when Edward and she had been like
brother and sister.

'Not quite,' corrected Armytage, who
had for some time been contemplating this
very match in his own mind. He never
meant to speak about it, however, till
nearer the time of his aunt's departure.
Meanwhile Uda's interest in his house and

pursuits, the schools, and the parish made
hi 111 feel daily With growing satisfaction
that she would be the most excellent
young helpmate possible for him. And
Edward believed she was also unconsciously
taking root in what he hoped would be
her future home, by all the fibres of her
affections which in women cling so naturally
to the objects and interests about them.

So now he said,

Not quite like brother and sister  At
least when even the servants can see my
wishes, Uda, you might, I hoped, have
guessed them.'

To this Edward got no answer, however,
but a hot rain of sudden tears down
his cousin's cheeks. A good deal perplexed,
Edward came nearer, and as soothingly
as he could tried to find out wdiat it
meant, Awhile begging Uda not to cry, and
pleading for some reply. The one which
came surprised him, it must be owned.

Oh, ]please say no more about it, Edward

; don't speak of it ever again. It is
quite impossible  quite ! And, if you
would not mind, please say nothing of this
to mother either  For she would be so
vexed, and there is no use '

Army t age was a good deal taken aback.
He had counted on success as a tolerable
certainty. And if not violently in love,
yet he had a sincere affection for Uda,
and the probability of disappointment
stirred all his feelings now considerably.
He would not take his answer at first in
his surprise, believing shyness was the
matter, or that Uda had not time to know
her own mind. He pleaded, urged, offered
to wait for an answer.

No, no,' repeated Gertrude, still weeping,
' I have thought it over already, because
it seemed right ; and it is impossible !'

 Do you think you can never care forme,
then ?' asked Edward, greatly mortified,
yet very kindly. ' Or is there anyone
else. Uda, I believe that is it, from the

way you turn your head, Tell me, dear :
you may trust me.'

I shall never marry at all ; never,
never !' was all Uda would be brought to
say, however, though Edward, now pained
at the sight of her grief, forgot his own
trouble, seeing hers so much greater. He
still tried to console her, and to draw out her
confidence, with the most brotherly assurances.
But, though Uda would not deny
there was a ' somebody,' she allowed it to
be implied that it was a hopeless attachment.
She could never change, however ;
so was vowed to a single life.

This was the very time Kenyon chose
to make his farewell visit to the rectory.
Uda and Edward, being told of his arrival,
had to compose themselves to make their
appearance separately after a few minutes
in the drawing-room. Mrs. Armytage
also joined them; and Kit told her he had
come to say farewell, being obliged to goto
WestclifF.

' Well, you ought to go to your home, I
suppose, still we are all very sorry I am
sure,' cried Bessie, heartily. ' Well, when
are you coming back ?'

'Ah!' said Kenyon, feeling his own
equivocation. 'You will not see me
again for some time  perhaps a long time.'

'Why, Uda, Sir Christopher is leaving
us; do you hear this?' cried Mrs. Armytage,
in good-humoured dismay.

'Yes, mother,' replied Uda, in a very
small voice. Bessie perceived that her
girl looked dejected, and that a few minutes
later Uda slipped out of the room
without saying good-bye to Sir Christopher.
When he had left, the mother went
upstairs to see if any little matter was
amiss with her daughter. To her great
surprise she found Uda crying violently 
but evidently in such a horror at being so
discovered, that by no means, even the
most affectionate, could she be persuaded
to disclose the cause of her grief. At last

Bessie had to go away, for lie knew, however
good, Gertrude was obstinacy itself;
she, in fact, bore out Butler's lines,

The soberest saints are more stiff-necked
Than the hottest-headed of the wicked.'

So, drawing the blinds and persuading
her to lie down for an hour,  for the poor
girl had a bad head-ache, and was really
prostrated from her own emotion,  Bessie
slowly came away. As she did so, she
thought in her heart,  Oh, Kit, Kit ! I
am afraid you are the cause of this. First
it was Hester, and new it seems my own
poor child  are you fated to bring trouble
to me without ever meaning it ?'

Some one else came to the same conclusion.
Kit had warmly asked Edward
to walk back with him as far as the ' Three
Choughs,' that they might have a longer
talk before parting. The young rector
did so with apparent willingness. But
Kit could not fail to notice that his friend
was depressed, and tried to find out the

VOL. III. o

cause. With his usual open-heartiness,
Edward told of Uda having refused him.

Kenyon was all amazement at the result
of what, he declared, he had long foreseen.

My dear fellow, I thought it was a
certainty : you seemed to get on so capitally,
and to be meant for each other . . .
There can hardly be anyone else ?'

That is exactly what I should like to
speak to you about. I am inclined to
think that is the reason. But, if you have
no knowledge of it, perhaps I ought not
to say so,' said Edward, in a troubled
manner.

'I? What can 1 know about it?' inquired
Kenyon, bewildered. But he was
confounded when young Army t age explained
that, coupling Uda's half-confession
with her sudden retreat from the drawing-room,
he believed the unknown in question
might be  Sir Christopher himself

Kit looked quite miserable at the suggestion.


My clear fellow, I trust with all my
heart you are wrong. Nothing could
make me more sorry. What have I to
offer any young girl ; that is to say, in
the light of a companion, a husband ?'

A great deal, I should say,' returned
Edward, rather bitterly, looking at the
handsome elder man, whose air and manner,
however tinged with melancholy, were
always so pleasingly attractive. ' Besides,
as Aunt Bessie told you lately, you ought
to marry.'

Perhaps so,' Kit owned, with an involuntary
sigh. To himself this new idea
was only so disturbing he was glad to be
quitting the Helston neighbourhood for
awhile, at least ostensibly. If Bessie
wished this  if her daughter indeed cared
for such a broken reed as he felt  that
might be some inducement ! But, as yet,
the thought of giving a living successor
to the shadowy image which had so long
reigned in his heart was truly painful.

o2

At the door of the 'Three Choughs ' they
saw Mr. Smith, who had just driven upto
speak to the landlord on business. He
eagerly approached them to say good-bye
to Kenyon now. Then, drawing him and
Armytage beyond the hearing of the inn
people, said, with more vivacity than the
precise grey lawyer generally allowed
himself,

By the way, I have just heard a piece
of news that will interest you both, as
you, Mr. Armytage, are a relation of the
Priory family, and you, Sir Christopher 
well, you are very intimate, and were so
with all concerned. Mr. Rutherford has
returned!  I got a letter from him this
morning, giving me an address in London.
And, between ourselves, for the
little girl's sake, I had better tell you it
is a very extraordinary letter. He asks
me to send him an enormous sum  in
fact, a quarter of a million, at once ! That
looks bad. Don't you think so T Mr

Smith tapped this forehead significantly.
 Have none of you heard from him, too ?'

They of course knew nothing of Mark
Hungerford ; this news took both Mr.
Smith's hearers utterly by surprise. Kenyon,
in especial, felt tingling with a secret
excitement the other two men could not
guess. He controlled himself only sufficiently
to ask,

'When is he coming here, do you
think?'

But Mr. Smith could only look grave
and shrug his shoulders. He could not
tell.

Kenyon took his departure forWestcliff,
deep in thought.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE TOUCH OF A VANISHED HAND.

Meanwhile, Adrian had laid a little plan
on his own account, which gave him some
private satisfaction.

The young fellow went mooning over
to the rectory in the afternoon, missing
Sir Christopher's society, though the latter
was hardly gone yet, and feeling dejected
in consequence. He was kindly received.

Hullo, Vignolles ! you don't look very
bright. One would think that old ghost
at the Priory had been keeping you awake
all night,' said Bob Armytage, good-naturedly.


Poor Adrian forced a smile. A horrible

idea flashed across his mind for a moment
how that happy family party would all
hate him if they knew the dark secret that
lay heavy on his breast. What if someone
were to tell them aloud that he, sitting
so quietly among them, meant to help tomorrow
night to steal their dear Hester's
body out of the coffin wherein it had
rested two years ?  like the body-snatches
of horrible memory ! He was always in
extremes, and felt as if covered with guilt
and fearfulness, now Kenyon had left him.
Then, with an effort, Adrian remembered
there was another side to the question.
He had loved Hester as much as they;
and so  and far more, he guessed  had
Sir Christopher. She would never be
angry with what they two did, meaning
the best for her repose.

It does not take long to think all this.
So in a minute or two, after an evasive
mutter that Ice had slept all right (as, indeed,
was the case from pure fatigue, for

hitherto the poor wretch had hardly closed
an eye at the Priory with the pre-occupation
of his mind), Adrian burst out,

But, I'll tell you a queer thing that did
happen last night. The ghost was in Mrs.
Fisher's room !  and she is in such a fright
this morning that she was nearly leaving
at once. Though I can't bear her, I was
quite sorry for her. It was too bad of my
mother to put her in that room ; the one
Ada had near the library, where it was
seen before, you know.'

'But why don't you like Mrs. Fisher?'
asked Bob, plainly. He had heard little
of the secret history of his dead cousin's
life at Nice. ' I met her this morning
walking out in the lane, and she seemed
very pretty and pleasant, I thought.'

Adrian glanced in some confusion at
Mrs. Armytage, who looked severe ; and
this Alas so rare, he saw she understood
him. As Uda was present, he thought it
best only to say, hastily,

Oh, there were bygone reasons ! . . .
Yes, she's very pretty, but I never much
cared for her myself.'

Then, being further questioned by all,
he told what had happened on the night
before.

After her arrival, Mrs. Fisher, who was
all gaiety, found her spirits somewhat
damped by the lugubrious face of her
hostess. Adrian privately suspected (but
kept this to himself) that his mother
rather enjoyed having ill tidings to give
to the self-invited guest of this roof-tree
she had chosen. Besides, Mrs. Emma was
vexed because Mr. Fisher had stayed away,
alleging to his wife that he preferred
Margate to such country dulness. 'A
man's a man,' was the little widow's opinion;
and, however mean a specimen was this
particular one, still she preferred male
society, even of a feebler sort, to more
brilliant conversation with her own sex.
Also, should Edith Fisher attract the universal

homage as usual to herself, her husband
at least would be in duty bound to
devote himself to his hostess. Be all this
as it might, pretty Mrs. Fisher did not goto
bed that first night without receiving,
in confidence, vague intimations that the
house was uncanny, and the servants all
scared to death. Mrs. Vignolles declared
herself, however, as valiant as a lion ; and
vowed Edith was not to mind any such nonsense.
Nevertheless, though Mrs. Fisher
agreed to be brave too, she started visibly
at the least creak of a chair, and frankly
owned she felt 'just a little creepy.' Afterwards,
she went to bed, resolved to sleep
soundly, and no one knew anything had
alarmed her till next morning. Then she
appeared at breakfast, white and heavy-eyed,
in such a hysterical state, and so
indignant at having been put in what her
maid assured her was ' the ghost-room,'
that, if Mrs. Vignolles had not taken fright
and pacified her by a hundred assurances,

her excited guest would have departed for
Margate at once. (And then, adieu to all
little London parties for Emma Yignolles,
if her friend was once roused to shake off
the Priory dust from her shoes with such
indecent haste !)

Mrs. Fisher, really half-sobbing at the
recollection, told that, after going to body
she had slept well for some time, till it
seemed to herself that some slight noise
must have disturbed her. Listening, as
she lay awake, she then became certain that
something or some one was in the room.
She heard quiet steps approach her bed ;
and while she lay, too frightened to stir
or call out, a hand was softly laid upon,
her face one instant. At that, Mrs. Fisher
found voice enough to scream, however
faintly, and called on her maid and for Mrs.
Ignores. The touch of the hand vanished
at once. When the frightened lady,
in trembling fear, found the match-box
beside her pillow and struck a light, she

could see notliiiig in her room. Afterwards,
she lay awake for hours, she declared
 too alarmed to rise for help, or to put
the candle out, though light disturbed her
sleep. And it was only when daylight came,
and household noises began, that she had
closed her eyes at last after a night of
agonised fears.

On hearing this, Bessie Armytage was
of opinion that Mrs. Fisher's own terrified
imagination, worked upon by what she
had heard the evening before, would
account for it all. But though Bob railed
at the idea of the ghost's touch, in a
coarser and more man-like way, he seemed
in half-an-hour to have altered his opinion.
Adrian and he had gone out together fora
turn in the rectory garden, and young
Vignolles there in secresy confided to him
a rather startling suggestion.

Adrian never could help confiding in
some one, unless the matter oppressing
his mind was the secret of a friend. Then

honour would keep him painfully silent to
the grave. But, now, what could it matter
to Sir Christopher if he did impart a suspicion
regarding Mark Hungerford ? The
ghost was common property ; and, if it
were indeed a lunatic, the sooner it was
laid the better. Adrian was far more
frightened of Mr. Huno;erford than even of
any spirit unclothed from the flesh.

Mother,' said Bob Armytage, with the
affectionate manner of a big dog, or a
schoolboy ; plunging down beside her upon
the sofx, with an embrace out of which
Bessie arose half-smothered, and mildly
protesting,  ' I want to go over to the
Priory this evening with Yignolles, to
dine and sleep. This ghost needs your
son's investigation, with all the commonsense
he inherited from you.'

Bessie looked a little grave. Still she
had no good reason to give for dissuading
her son. He was a man, now, and she
kept her gentle power over him by a

judicious remembrance of the fact. Mrs.
Armytage distrusted Emma Vignolles, and
disliked all lie had heard of Mrs. Fisher.
But as Adrian shared the latter feelings,
so the young fellow had gained all her
sympathies. When he joined his entreaties,
and that she remembered how miserable he
looked this day, the good-natured woman
could not remain glum. For she believed
Adrian was really in need of a friend of
his own age, just like her Bob, to rouse
him, and make him more like everyone
else.

If Edward will spare you for one evening,
I can ; though it is a sacrifice of my
first-born. But, remember he is our host,
my dear boy.'

Oh, I'll settle it with him,' cried Bob,
with jovial confidence.

And, upon the young rector joining them
soon. Bob promptly explained as much of
the matter as he had told his mother,
gadding,

' You won't mind if I leave you for this
evening, Edward ? Uda will keep you
company, instead; won't you, Uda?'

The two persons he addressed felt inwardly
confused, a feeling Mrs. Armytage,
with her usual sympathy, quite shared
with them. But Edward Armytage answered
with the utmost outward heartiness
at once,

Go by all means. Bob. If you all like
to desert me, I shan't grumble, if only you
promise to come hack. You ought all to
consider yourselves at home here.'

Accordingly, that evening the two young
men dined at the Priory. Adrian knew
very well that his mother would forgive
such a daring indiscretion on his part, forsake
of the bridge it threw over what
seemed like a gulf yawning between herself
and the rectory. For Mrs. Armytage
had clearly made her displeasure apparent
at little Ada being brought into intimacy,
however young she was, with her mother's

false friend. Bessie had refused an artfully
apologetic, little note of invitation sent to
herself and Uda.

It was difficult to the kindly woman to
express herself thus, after Mrs. Vignolles
had eaten of the Rectory salt, and been
received in friendship among them  for
Ada's sake. But she had a little consultation
with Edward, her nephew. And the
young rector, fully entering into her indignation,
agreed that Mrs. Vignolles had
shown bad taste, if not want of right feeling,
in welcoming such a guest to Helston
Priory.

He himself undertook to carry his aunt's
answer. And, meeting Mrs. Vignolles in
some cottages where he now daily visited
a sick old man, to whom the little widow
also showed a wonderfully zealous charity
at the hour when the clergyman's visits
were usually timed, Edward delivered his
message. With a frankness quite heathenish,
in Mrs. Emma's opinion, the young

rector said that it would be painful to his
aunt or himself to meet Mrs. Fisher, on
account of the circumstances connected
with the death of their dear Hester, of
which they were both aware. Therefore
Mrs. Yignolles would understand that,
while her guest remained at the Priory,
the intercourse between the taro households
could not be so frequent as hitherto.

Mrs. Vignolles bit her lips, and tossed
her head, while assuring the young man
truly that Mrs. Fisher had invited herself.

 What could I do ? It is better not to
rake up old scandals, Mr. Armytage.'

Perhaps not ; but that is how we feel
on the subject,' said Edward, gravely.

And, bowing, he went away ; his coat-skirts
flying to his rapid strides.

An awkward, countrified young pedant,'
decided little Emma, in a rage.

And, in her own mortification, she did
not fail to recount the whole matter to
Mrs. Fisher ; with malicious satisfaction,

VOL. iir. p

that for once her pretty friend should find
she could not always have  things her own
Away,' but taste a bitter cup of retribution.
Edith made a wry face a moment, certainly
; the blood rose hotly to her cheeks.
Then she laughed it off in her easy way.

Dear, simple people ! Do they really
think I can possibly care a straw for their
good opinion. And what patriarchal memories
they must have, Emma. Why, you
and I have forgotten all we did ourselves,
besides the unkind stories we heard of other
]people as long ago as that.'

Nevertheless  or rather, all the more 
both ladies exerted themselves to be extremely
pleasant to Bob and Adrian that
evening. Mrs. Vignolles alone knew their
project, which she warmly approved. If
the Priory was to be her future home, the
annoyance of its being supposed haunted
was fast becoming too disagreeable to be
patiently endured.

Mrs. Fisher had been given a room in

the new part of the house, safely beside
that of her hostess. Adrian meanwhile
declared that he meant to try the ghost-room
on the ground-floor. None of the
servants even knew, however, that Bob
Armytage stayed there to watch through
the night with him. The young men had
pretended to go outside late for a stroll
and a cigar together. Then Adrian secretly
brought back his friend, and they prepared
to camp till the morning with feelings
of lively expectation.

First they locked the door, and then
made a careful examination of the darkly
wainscoted room and a small dress closet
opening off it : but with no results. Then,
having agreed to keep awake turn about,
Adrian took the first watch, while Bob lay
down prepared for a hearty slumber on
the bed. Adrian had contrived a small
dark lantern, a rather clumsy piece of his
own workmanship ; but he kept it beside
himself with huge satisfaction. Bob grinned

p 2

in silence, but secretly slapped his pocket
in which he had what he considered a still
better reception for the ghost.

Two hours had passed, when Adrian,
who had groan drowsy in spite of his
efforts to be wakeful, started to more
alert consciousness. He fancied he had
heard a slight grating noise. Listening
intently, though with his senses still
somewhat confused, he seemed to catch the
soft sound as of a trailing dress approaching
the bed. The blind was only partially
drawn, and there was glimmer enough
from the window to distinguish the shadowy
outline of a figure The watcher caught
at his dark lantern, and tried to pull up
the slide he had improvised ; but fumbled
at it vainly a moment or so in the darkness.
Meanwhile, he was electrified by
hearing a voice utter his name in low
and it seemed plaintive accents, ' Adrian \
Adrian !'

In his dismay he called loudly, rousing
Bob at once, and at the same time managed
to open his lantern sufficiently to reveal a
figure gliding towards the little closet.

Hi ! Stop there, or I'll fire ! Stand, I
say, if you are living,' challenged Bob,
springing from bed, and presenting a pistol.
The apparition still retreated. Bob rushed

towards it, and fired ! At that moment

Adrian succeeded in turning on his light
fully, and saw a dark female form one
instant, hidden by the smoke of the pistol
immediately afterwards. Both heard a
faint cry  and the figure vanished in the
closet. Adrian sprang forward with the
light, but the place was empty. They
examined the dark little recess, wainscot,
floor, and ceiling with astonishment, butin
vain. There were no means of exit to
be seen.

Here is my shot ; it has pickled the
woodwork. I was afraid of doing mischief
with a bullet,' exclaimed Bob. ' Well, I

would have sworn that was a real figure,
and yet how did it disappear?  and how
could I have missed it, so near, too ? That
beats my comprehension !'

sand I,' said Adrian, awestruck, 'saw
the very hem of her skirt curl up against
the doorway, as she vanished.'

The voice that had called him impressed
his mind strangely. It brought to his recollection
Kenyon's somewhat similar experience.
Could it be that a murdered
mother's spirit was wandering in the house
where her child lived ; that she had appealed
to him ! as to Sir Christopher?  and he
had repulsed her. Adrian was now greatly
grieved that he had not felt more presence
of mind, and answered the voice
when it came to him. He did not like to
reproach Bob. But the latter honestly
regretted his own harsh measures, for that
faint parting cry rang most uncomfortably
in his ears, also.

Having pacified some of the rest of the

household, whom the report had roused,
with vague assurances all was right, both
young; men watched till daylight.
But they saw nothing more.

CHAPTER Xii.

 ONE THAT WAS A WOMAN, SIR ; BUT, REST

The following night had come.

It was after eleven o'clock when Adrian
slipped out of the Priory by opening his
window and softly letting himself drop on
the grass below, so as to elude his mother's
vigilance. He found Kenyon, with Zachary
Cowgill in his rear, waiting in the
darkest part of the chapel wood. The
night was just such an one as was best
fitted for a deed like theirs. It was very
dark, with no ray of moon or starlight to
betray them ; at times it rained a Httle,

while the air was so heavy and close that
all sounds were dulled.

Zachary carried a dark lantern, a better
one than poor Adrian's clumsy toy of the
previous night. And now, as the three
men silently crept to the door of the vault
after cautiously listening that no belated
wayfarer was passing on the path by the
chapel-door, or through the wood  he
turned the lio:ht a moment on the arched
entrance. The key was tried, and fitted !
Slowly, and now in darkness again, the
massive oak portal of the house of the
dead swung back, and showed the obscurity
within faintly illumined by the far
window. A cold breath of chilly air met
them as they crossed the threshold.

Closing the door lightly, so as not to
attract notice should Russ by any ill
chance yet happen to pass that way. Kenyon
shook his head as Cowgill mutely
signed the question, ought he to lock
them in ?

 Every moment is precious  we must
hurry our best to go back through the
wood afterwards, to catch the train and
get clear ois,' he murmured.

Outside the demesne he had left a dogcart,
hired from a town at some distance.
It was hidden in a lonely spot of a wood
known to Zachary : the horse tied to, a tree.
Kenyon would not risk sharing the knowledge
of their destination with anyone.
Afterwards, he and Co vv gill were to drive
back to this town, and thence take the
earliest train for West cliff.

Zachary was now left on guard beside
the door, to listen for anyone approaching
from the outside, while his round eyes
stared wonderingly after the movements of
his master with some dull horror but more
of curiosity. Kenyon, closely followed by
Adrian, walked straight to Hester's ebony
coffin and turned the light of the lantern
full upon it.

The hour had come !  the moment he

had so dreamed of day and night for
weeks and months past. Kit's heart was
beating heavily, but yet he only knew it
was strange that he seemed now unable
to feel any overwhelming emotion, so he
thought. There was no time !

With hands shaking as he did so (but from
intense haste, surely ! not mere nervousness),
Kit at once took some tools he had
brought in a small bag and began rapidly
unscrewing the coffin-lid. Adrian tried to
help him, but was growing white, till as each
moment passed, and the dull sound only
broke the silence of the charnel-house, heat
last fairly trembled.

Are you ill?' whispered Kenyon, pausing
an instant in his task to glance at his
young comrade. He could feel for Adrian ;
though the latter noticed that Sir Christopher's
own eyes were full of eager light,
and his features set with a stern determination,
seldom seen there, that was like a
dreadful joy. 'Would you rather go

sway  or, stay ! I have brandy in a
flask here.'

No, no ! I will never leave you now,'
muttered Adrian, ashamed of his own
weakness.

Without another word, Kenyon went on
working at the coffin-lid. It was loosening
loosening !

A moment, Kenyon paused, and placed
the lantern nearer himself, so that its light
should first reveal to his own eyes what lay
below. A sickening sensation gripped his
heart with a dread pain of what was coming.
Would it be  ah, wild, darling hope !
the beautiful face of former days, seen
once more as some dear dead faces have
been seen, like a dream realised for a
brief few instants, snatched from the grave
and death? Or must it rather?  reason
told him it would, it must!  be, that corruption
to which all flesh comes at last,
returning to its dust, and gases, and ashes
that once built up the fair earthly tenements

of the spirits we loved. Bracing-himself
to meet this awful sight, Kenyon
pushed back the coffin-lid on its silver
hinges.

A white shroud lay underneath, as he
expected ; with the outlines of a figure
below those still folds.

What a small figure it seemed ! lying so
solemnly cold and motionless in the gleaming
white, satin-padded casket that Mark
Hungerford had once himself designed.
Do the dead shrink so terribly ?

The muffled head, lying under that covering,
appeared no larger than that of a
baby. It must be the embalming process

of which he had heard Kenyon felt

all his inner self revolt, shrink back with
fear and almost loathing, in spite of hi
great revengeful longing, from what he
must see next moment. It seemed to him
now, for the first time, an awful desecration
 a violation of the reverence he owed
the dead woman there. Cold drops stood

on his clammy brow. He felt sick at
heart ; yet with an inward groan that was
almost a prayer to the spirit of this dead
body, to forgive him  ' for love's sake,
Hester,'  his hand touched the shroud.
He forced himself to go on, while his fixed
eyes stared on the outlined corpse. Adrian
bent forward too ; so fascinated by curiosity,
he forgot his horror.

There were a few distinct moments of
awful silence, a: Kenyon moved the covering
shivly slowly hack

Then ! a muffled cry of astonishment
broke from his lips and Adrian's simultaneously.
They saw a white marble
statue revealed in the coffin ! A small
female statuette smiling up in their faces
with a simpering air. The very same
that Mark Hungerford had worked upon
at Nice, meaning it for a copy of his
wife, the 'Galatea!' Both knew it at
once. No corpse : naught else ! With an
exclamation, that was almost an execration,

Kit tore out the false shroud, and
glared at Adrian with eyes maddened by
dumb, impotent fury.

Fooled !  gulled  duped to the last!'
were the wild thoughts sur2:ino: in Kenyon's
brain. His brain was in a whirl 
He tried to speak, but could not.

Adrian and he stared confounded at
each other.

Well-nigh mad himself, Kenyon caught
up the dark lantern, hardly conscious what
he did, so that its light fell on his own
pale face and that of Adrian gazing still
stupefied at each other. Then the words
burst with low but intense passion from
Christopher's lips,

Oh, villain !  murderer !  madman !
He has hidden her elsewhere, fearing detection,
but I will find out his secret yet
I will never give up the search for
Hester till I die !' . . . .

In his excitement, in that moment of

interest disappointment  when the anxiety,
toil, constant hidden hopes and thoughts
of so many weary days, their dreadful task
of this night, with its secresy and danger,
were only answered by the horrible mockery
of that smiling stone face  Kenyon
failed, at first, to hear a stifled groan of
terror from Zachary Cowgill. Adrian did
not hear it either. But now it was repeated,
coming incoherently from lips that
were almost paralysed by fright.

Then they saw the poor labourer, half
crouched by the chapel door, a trembling
mass in the darkness, staring with starting
eyes before him.

Behind the altar, a shadowy female figure
had risen. A slight black figure, with
snow-white hair. As Kenyon and Adrian
saw it, a shock ran through their nerves,
too. But the woman held out her hands
in supplication. A voice that pierced
Christopher's very soul, to which every
vein and fibre of his body thrilled in
response, implored him,

 Kit, Kit, save me ! It is I  Hester I
Oh ! Adrian, help me !'

neither of the men could move or stir.
She glided hastily forward instead, murmuring
pathetically,

I am alive, Kit ; indeed I am alive.
Don't be frightened Dear Adrian
don't hurt me.'

She sank on the stone floor now, clasping
Christopher's knees, as if too weak or
too frightened herself to rise. But he
heard her voice  he felt her touch. And
oh, blessed, most blessed sign ! heaven-sent,
it seemed in his bewilderment, to show
him this was not all a dream, she caught
his hand next moment to her cheek in an
agony of entreating ecstasy, and he felt
his hand wet with a warm tear.

Kenyon caught her up, raised and held
her fast in that supreme moment of his
life, and gazed still half-disbelieving. He
saw snow-white hair, sadly white features,
sharp-set now, as if with some great terror

VOL. iir. Q

of apprehension, but still the luminous
grey eyes that met his were hers  were
beautiful as ever.

Hester ! Hester !' he babbled like a
child, forgetting Adrian, Cowgill, everything
else. ' Is this really you, really . . .
I must hold you fast ! . . . Hester dear,
ere you living again ?'

I was never dead ! Christopher, we
must not stay here. Listen !  you must
understand. Mark Hungerford has come,
my husband. He is searching for me now
he is quite mad, and will really kill me
this time. He has kept me shut up in the
tower these two years ; my funeral was alla
sham . . . Oh, I have tried so vainly
to escape ! But now  now  What was
that?'

The poor woman, who seemed come to
life again from the dead, had started at
some fancied sound and listened with such
a look of fear that Kenyon drew close to
her in protection.

Mark returned home this evening,' she
went on, in hurried, tremulous accents.
Mrs. Russ told me  she was kind, and
warned me he was quite mad and was
coming to the tower. I fled here to
escape from him . . . There is a secret
passage. Then I saw you both and hid
there ' (she pointed behind the altar) ' till
you raised the lantern, and, thank God, I
saw your faces . . Kit, Kit ! I am afraid
of my husband. You will not let him
hurt me. Keep them from locking me up
again . I want to live ! I want to live !'
she Event on, poor soul. After thinking
herself condemned to solitary imprisonment
for what wretched existence remained
to her, her dungeon door was burst at
last. Friends were by her side. She felt
crazed at seeing them, hearing their voices.

Hester, I swear he shall not touch you !
We will never ]et you go now, Adrian and
J  I promise you, Hester.'

Kenyon was repeating her dear name in

qa

very delirium of strange joy. Could it
be all true? Were they not in a dream?
And yet, in a dream, lie would surely have
taken her now into his arms, he would
have dared call her his poor darling  his
lost own love. But, now, that at least
he saw her again and knew her living, not
all the madmen that might people a town
should hurt a hair of her head : should
keep him from her side to rescue and defend
her.

As they three spoke again, exchanging
hurried sentences of question and answer
pregnant with life or death to Hester,

Ada  my child ! Is she safe from
him T she was saying, when suddenly her
voice stopped short, her gaze turned spellbound
to the chapel door.

Cowgill, amazed at the supposed ghost
having became a living woman, had slowly
left his post and advanced in stupefied
curiosity towards the group of speakers,
step by step.

The chapel door was meanwhile being
softly pushed wider open by some one
outside, and an evil face peered in at
them. The face was so aged, changed and
distorted by the expression of cunning,
hatred, and the passionate glare as of a
wild beast foiled in its bloodthirstiness,
that she alone at once recognised it. But
she knew too well who it was  Mark
Hungerford !

A wild maniacal cry rang with hideous
sound through the silent midnight chapel,
only lit by one lantern, of which the rays
revealed the little group standing by the
open coffin. It was a roar of baffled rage,
of irresponsible, reasonless hate.

'Villain! Have I met you at last?'
uttered Kenyon, as he rushed forward to
grapple with the madman in Hester's
defence.

But Mark Hungerford had turned, even
more quickly, and fled away into the darkness
of the night and the woods ; away,

away, blindly urged by fear of the retribution
of his sins ; by a thousand horrible
fears yelled in his ears by the evil spirits
he had harboured in his soul.

He vanished out of their sight, with
that cry as of a lost soul ringing in their
ears . . : . and they saw him no more !

CHAPTER XV.

BROUGHT BACK TO LIFE.

Kenyon hurried back to Hester immediately
on finding the pursuit of Hungerford
was useless. As the three men and Hester
came out of the old chapel, she seeming
like a woman resurrected from the dead,
they were met by a new alarm. The
grating of carriage-wheels sounded on the
drive close by, taro lamps flared through
the darkness, and an indistinct group of
persons came hurrying towards them with
challenging exclamations.

Sick with fear, Hester clung desperately
to her defenders ; unable to speak, but

dreading to see Riiss and her husband reappear;
or perhaps others in Mark Hunger-ford's
pay, who might declare her mad and
drag her away to some fresh, perhaps worse
confinement. Kenyon hastily told her to
fear nothing, utterly resolved to keep her
safe. Adrian was promising her, in a
rapture of devotion, to be cut in little
pieces for her sake. Christopher held the
lantern high at the same moment, turning
its rays on the new comers.

Heaven be thanked ! they were friends.
Mr. Smith came hastening first, with his
grey face unusually eager, and behind him
Edward Armytage and Bob, and Aunt
Bessie herself

 Halloa ! Who are you all ? What are
you doing in this chapel at this hour?
What  why  Sir Christopher Kenyon !
And  and  who is this?' the old lawyer
exclaimed.

But next instant a wild, rapturous cry
of recognition startled him, and indeed the

two Armytage men greatly, and they saw
the two women falling on each other's
necks. Bessie Armytage did not know
whether she herself was sleeping or waking,
alive or dead almost in her intense bewilderment.
She only knew that this was
Hester  her dearly-loved Hester  and that
they two had met.

Is Mr. Hungerford here ? Where is
my master, Mr. Hungerford, and who are
you all?' called a coarse, authoritative
voice from out of the darkness ; and Russ
hurst in among the group, which he could
not distinguish till within the small circle
of light in their midst.

The steward was out of breath from
having been running in hasty pursuit of
his master. He glared round upon them
all. as he suddenly recognised the faces he
little expected to see, having supposed
these were only some of the Priory household.
His eyes met Hester in their midst

standing a free woman, safe and glad, as
she gazed back at her gaoler.

Don't let him go,' exclaimed Kenyon,
impetuously. there, Cowgill, Bob  keep
this man fast.'

His own grasp was on Russ's collar, but
the man, seeing, with one glance round
he was caught in a trap, muttered,

The game is up !' Then, with an oath,
he sullenly added : ' You may let me go,
Sir Christopher ; I'll give myself up. What
I've done, was only what I was bid  and
I'm ready to answer for it.'

The strange appearance of this new reinforcement
of Hester's deliverers, was
owing to Mark Hungerford's arrival that
night at his home. Before reaching Hel-son
Priory he had gone some distance out
of his way to stop at Mr. Smith's house.
Driving up in furious haste, Hungerford
had demanded his agent and lawyer to
give him ' money, money !' He had written
for a quarter of a million  where was it ?

Give it him  at once ! at once ! Mr. Smith,
who was somewhat taken by surprise, thus
stormed in his own quiet country home,
yet was forearmed, therefore in a sight
degree forewarned. He tried to cahii the
lunatic, as he justly considered his visitor ;
promised but temporised.

'Thief!' Mark Hungerford screamed out
at him in return. ' You Smith !  You are
an old thief, thief! What do you mean
by having that gold watch and those rings
and chains of yours, sir? Take them off,
d'you hear ? They are mine, mine, mine.
The whole earth is mine, and all the gold
that is therein. You are an unjust steward,
sir, an unfaithful servant ! When your
lord comes home he ought to see piles of
gold ! mountains !'

Like Coriolanus, Mark Hungerford talked
'like a knell, and his hum was a battery.'
His roar of anger was so terrific that it
startled Mr. Smith's two clerks (who had
been hastily desired by poor Smith to be

on the watch during Hungerford's visit)
into hurrying to their employer's aid, if
necessary. As soon as he saw them, Hun-perform
rose to leave ; evidently dreading
violent hands being laid upon the liberty
of his person, as Mr. Smith would indeed
have greatly Ravished to do there and then,
if compatible with law.

Although frightened himself, the quiet
gentleman yet valiantly tried to urge
Hungerford to stay where he was ; fearing
the greater mischief he might do the women
and the child at Hist on Priory.

You had much better stay here, Mr.
Hungerford. Come, I will promise you
as good a glass of claret and a cigar as any
man can wish. And Mrs. Vignolles 
your cousin, you know  is just now staying
with your little girl at the Priory, fora
few days' change of air. You will not
care for a nursery life with them  better
stays here, ' he urged, with the blandest
of cheery manners, concealing considerable

anxiety. But Mark raved at him.

'What, Emma?  Emma Vignolles at Hel-son
!  She dared to disobey my express
commands ! . . .'

His fury broke in a storm of words uttered
with such breathless volubility, that
half was quite incoherent to the old lawyer's
ears, except the threat uttered with
horrible significance that they were all a
pack of rogues and thieves, and unless
Emma gave him money  all her fortune !
he would put her, too, where Hester
was. He should contrive to find room for
her ! As to Hester's child, a whining brat,
it would be best in heaven. He would
dash out its brains against the wall.

So shouting, Huno;erford broke away
from the men who vainly tried to restrain
him. Luckily the driver of his
hired cab refused to go further, alleging
that his horse had been driven like the
whirlwind and was lame too. In reality,
the man understood the situation on a hint

from Mr. Smith. Hungerforcl had then
execrated him and all of them, and started
off himself at a furious pace ; not indeed
running, but walking so fast and with such
gestures of anger as to convince anyone
that he was in a hopeless and even dangerous
state of unreason. This all happened
after nightfall. It was past nine o'clock
when Hungerford arrived. It was nearly
ten when he left.

Mr. Smith at once ordered out his own
horse, as the lily-man's jaded animal was
really tired, and with forethought had it
harnessed to the hired carriage which his
own bachelor establishment could not
equal for gloominess in conveying a large
load in case of need. He hurriedly drove
ois at once, hoping to arrive at Helston
long before Hungerford himself could
reach it on foot. Taking another road to
avoid passing the latter, his way led by
the rectory. On a sudden impulse, that
more help might be useful, he pulled up

there, and told his tale in haste ; explaining
that he meant to remove the ladies
and little Ada from the Priory that night
at a moment's notice.

Mrs. Armytage at once so eagerly begged
to go too, she could not be gainsaid. Good
Bessie, she felt as if Hester's child would
only be safe in her own arms. She could
trust none of the rest, however kind their
intentions, as she would herself. Her son
and Edward naturally insisted on going to
take care of her. In any case, it seemed
dangerous to them that an old man like Mr.
Smith should be left alone to face Mr.
Hungerford in his reported state, in case
the latter should succeed in finding the
helpless women and the child still at the
Priory. Adrian  most thought with a
kindly sort of pity  would be like a willow
in a storm.

So they all drove to the Priory in
anxious utmost haste. And yet  Mark
Hungerford arrived there first !

No one ever knew afterwards how he
had done so. He must have struck across
country in the night, despite no familiar
remembrance since years of its features.
He must have leaped deep ditches yawning
in the darkness to unseen width; have
torn his furious way through great hedges ;
stumbled onwards in the night over tilled
land and pasture, through briers and brambles.
But he got there first, with madness
and murder seething in his brain.

On reaching Helston demesne, Hun-perform
made his way first of all to
Russ's cottage. With cunning, amidst all
the wild confusion of passions that possessed
him, he knew it would be easier to
enforce his authority in his own house, if
his steward helped him, and was faithful as
in bygone days to keep his terrible secret
from the knowledge of the world.

Mad ! mad ! mad ! he had repeated
breathlessly to himself as he ran that
night ; he would have shouted it aloud

but for fear of the swaying black trees
hearing him, and the long serried hedges,
the rustling woods, and sleeping earth.
But he would yet have his wish ! He
would have gold  he must have blood !
He should kill Hester at last, after the
gratification of keeping her shut up fast
in solitary confinement so long. Ah ! that
was power  to hold the life of another
human being trembling in your hand two
years, and gloat playing with it ; hesitating
whether to destroy it or not.

But now !  he had reached Russ's cottage,
and thundered with his fists on the
door. In alarm the steward, knowing his
voice, rushed out very hastily, with his
coarse features unusually paled.

Mark Hungerford assailed him with
a storm of wild reproaches, uttered with
incoherent and almost incredible rapidity.


Behind, in the inner cottage-room, Russ's
young wife tremblingly clasped her baby

VOL. III. R

to her breast in the darkness. She heard
the madman say,

Have you got that woman safe in the
old tower? I must go and kill her tonight.
If there are people at the Priory,
they will be sniffing, sniffing, and smell her
out at last. I must kill her now.'

Come to the Priory first, sir. It is
your own house !  Come and tell Mrs. Yig-
nobles she must leave it, and do your
bidding, though she would not go away
at mine,' the steward urged.

To do him justice, Russ was temporising;
hoping that within half-an-hour he
might gain back his old power as a keeper
over his master. He was striving to divert
Hungerford's mood, that so, perhaps, the
worst of the paroxysm might pass. He
succeeded so far that he coaxed him out
towards the Priory.

Neither guessed that behind them young
Mrs. Russ had crept out, too ; and that she
hurried, with trembling footsteps, to the

old tower above on the hill. The silent
woman there, whom she believed crazed,
had been kind to her baby  had saved its
life when in convulsions by her knowledge
and care.

Save yourself  ' she cried out, panting.
 Hide from Mr. Hungerford.'

Meanwhile, Hungerford with his servant,
like a trusty bull-dog at his heels,
went on straight to the dark Priory, that
was closed for the night, and demanded
admission into his own house. Mrs. Vigo
roused by the alarm they made in
knocking, looked out from her upper window.
She was like a vigilant little dame
holding a fortress in trust, who would not
even let its lord in unless she was certain
of his identity.

'Who is it? What do you want?' she
demanded, sharply, leaning out in her flannel
dressing-gown, with a woollen shawl
wrapped about her head.

Mark assailed her with such a torrent

R 2

of abusive language for daring to be installed
in his house, that she quickly perceived
the fears Mr. Smith had confided to
her, as to his client's state, were justified.
She refused to unbar the door, therefore,
even to Russ's attempted persuasion ; and
she promptly denied Hungerford permission
to enter the house.

I am in charge here  It is quite impossible
for me to let you in at this time of
night, and without Mr. Smith's leave. Go
and tell him so ! It is much better to stay
the night at Russ's cottage, and go in the
morning to see Mr. Smith,' she reiterated,
resolved to stand a siege first ; being by
no means deficient in courage, and remembering
with some confidence the strong
bolts and locks behind which she was
entrenched.

Then Hungerford, changing his tone,
tried entreaties, persuasions, at last wept.
If Emma would not let him in, at least
would she shower him down gold. He

Avant gold gold!  it was all his own.
Worse and worse ! thought the little woman,
listening safely above, who remained
unpitying as adamant to his prayers.

Coming down rapidly from millions to
hundreds, and thence to even shillings,
Mark assured her he was starving beo-orar-
ed. He would be dragged to prison for
the sake of a pitiful five pounds ! Would
she not fling him that much down, she to
whom he had given costly dresses, trinkets ?
had lavished luxuries on in former days ;
his dear cousin  his dearest Emma ! Probably,
had she thrown down her purse he
might have been satisfied then. But no !
prudent, close-fingered little soul, she preferred
grasping its substance herself to
the shadowy chance of pleasing such an
irresponsible being. So Hungerford went
away loading her with such curses against
her ingratitude and treachery  shouted up
through the night air  they made Mistress
Emma's face burn even after she had closed

the window hurriedly, while she felt
inclined, but for strong curiosity, to cover
her ears.

After this rebuff, Hungerford reverted:
to his first demand of being given the
key of the tower. Faithful in some degree
to his own ideas of his duty, Russ refused
this. A terrible struggle ensued ; but of
which no one ever heard the details from
the mouth of the steward. Its nature
was only guessed by his severe bruises,
which were plain enough, though he bore
them in dos-owed silence. The madman,
getting worsted, burst away from the contest
and rushed into the darkness. Russ
with a curious fidelity, instantly followed,
lest his master should injure himself,' he
said afterwards.

The group left standing round Hester
at the chapel door, with the lantern only
to illumine the midnight darkness around
them, Avere all excited beyond measure

excepting, it seemed, herself. They
gathered round her as round some one who
had been buried alive and just rescued;
or a prisoner freed from the dungeon
of a Bastille. She alone stood bewildered
yet outwardly calm and still in her black
dress ; with the summer snow on her hair
that made them look and speak even more
softly, and hush their voices in a sort of
awe of pity as they addressed her, with
hasty, loving amazed questions. They
would have asked many more. But she
put all curiosity aside with a few sentences,
brief and low, and in a hurried
tone as if all that had happened to her
was past now : so what did it matter !

She was not dead. Hungerford had
carried out a strange deception, the
scheme of a madman's brain ! These two
years she had been shut up above there 
Hester raised her hand silently to the tower.

But now  now ! what ought hast to be
done ?' asked Mrs. Armytage, with apprehensive

dread of delay, gazing round nervously.
The men began suggesting one
that this, one that that course be taken.

But Hester interrupted them all.

My child, ray child ! Give me my
child first !' she exclaimed, in a low hoarse
voice of entreaty. And turning with her
hands outstretched, ' Aunt Bessie, help
me to get my little Ada ; now  this moment.
Then you will take us both away
with yourself to your home, will you not ?
Promise me ! say you will !'

They could not have withstood a word
or wish of hers that night, even had she
asked them aught wild or unreasonable.

Soon afterwards, Mrs. Vignolles, who
was just talking over her late exploit
triumphantly in Mrs. Fisher's bed-room
next door to her own, was startled once
more. She had spoken of Mr. Smith, and
now he himself demanded admittance.
Thinking that the party below in the
porch were all come from the rectory, as

friends, (which had indeed been wholly
true a little while ago,) Mrs. Vignolles and
her friend Edith Fisher hurried to dress
themselves partly and come downstairs.
They opened the door with a victorious
feeling. For already Emma Vignolles foresaw
that Hungerford, being mad, she herself
would be surely installed as guardian
and mistress at the Priory for years to
come. Mrs. Fisher, no less, though more
vaguely elated, meant to share in her
friend's loaves and fishes. Chattering
eagerly and excitedly, both ladies led the
way into the prior's little sitting-room,
without paying special heed to the group
which followed.

Then a sudden silence fell upon them
both. The words paused, seeming frozen
on their lips.

WJio ?  icJio was this that had entered, a
mute dark figure all muffled, but the gaze
of whose darkly-yearning eyes appalled
them ?

A sort of prescience came to both, as
they stood gaping and expectant in the
midst of the watching circle ; even before
the stranger dropped the shawl from her
head and showed her features.

Where is my child ? Give me my
child !' Hester only said, disregarding the
outcry of. startled horror that greeted her,
and not observing that Emma Vignolles
teeth were chattering in her head.

Hester seemed in a feverish dream, in
which she only panted and pressed forward
to catch a glimpse of the rosy face and
flaxen hair of her little one ; to hold it fast
in her arms and hurry away with it to
safety. Adrian had already rushed to fulfil
her wish. He entered that moment, carrying
the child, snatched hastily out of
her sleep, but not frightened, only drowsily
surprised at being in her big playfellow's
arms. Adrian felt a romantic, more intense
delight than the rest, as Hester caught
her child to herself He had brought her

Ada first. Hester would never forget that.

Will you not stay here to-night ? It
is your own house, you know,' stammered
Mrs. Yignolles, Avhite to her lips.

No : I never will stay another hour
under Ms roof if I can help it,' was all
Hester answered, with a stillness that in
itself was terrible ; as she heard, but seemed
unable to answer by a syllable, the faltered
words of gladness, of horrified, choking
surprise Emma tried to utter.

Out into the night the poor woman, restored
to life, went with her child in her
arms, and her friends around her. As they
drove through the blackness and rain, onward,
little Ada sleeping safe in her lap,
Hester at last seemed herself to wake.
Dimly she understood that she was free 
oh, wonderful thought, after those two
years of awful silence and imprisoning
walls !  that henceforth her life would be
warmly and safely sheltered.

CHAPTER XVI.

A STRANGE STORY.

When the next morning came, there were
already bands of men searching over the
country for traces of Mark Hungerford.
Mr. Smith directed these. The shrewd,
quiet old man, with his grey face, had
never before felt so excited in his life ;
though outwardly he strove to appear as
if such circumstances were by no means
so extraordinary to his superior experience
as they might seem to others.

They searched from dawn : they searched
all day  but none saw or heard tidings of
the missing man. It could not be found,
by any possibility, that he might have

reached some railway station far or near,
or have travelled by any other manner of
conveyance. The police were alert everywhere
: large rewards were offered for
news of him ; his description was advertised
as a missing man.

Yet neither all that day, nor the next,
nor the next was Mark Hungerford heard
of!

At the rectory, this day, they gathered
round Hester in an awed but very curious
family council, to hear her story. The
baptism of a great trial was fresh upon
her. They gazed at her wondering, as on
a rescued martyr. She was as beautiful
as ever, nay, more so ! in the eyes of
several there ; but so strangely altered,
with that snow-white thick hair brushed
off her forehead, which, joined to her
calm, steadfast nobleness of manner, gave
her the air of a great lady of former days.

Mother, is Cousin Hester powdered ?
She is just like an old picture of some

lovely duchess in old, old days whispered
one of the twins.

No corrected the other twin. ' Her face
has more the expression of the poor French
queen going to have her head cut off.'

All listened to hear Hester speak, almost
in silence ; hardly venturing to interrupt
her even by expressions of pity or sympathy.
Somehow, even these seemed
misplaced.

Hester began in her old veiled voice,
that had, however, become curiously
hoarse, from want of use and from being
no longer accustomed to hear herself speak.
Going back to that terrible night of her
supposed death, she recounted part of the
scene between herself and her husband.

After his tortured victim had finally
resigned herself to expect that her last
moments of life were come, and that she
was calmly awaiting to be released from
the agony of suspense by knife-stroke or
poison, Hungerford seemed to change his

intention. He sat, now, coolly reflecting
and watching her till sunrise dawned beyond
the far blue sea, and touched the
highest tops of the mountains behind
Nice.

Then, when the stealing daylight struggled
with the lamps in the crimson-hung
torture-room, Hungerford rose and approached
his victim. Hester was by this
time almost insensible to what was around
her ; all acuteness of her senses mercifully
dulled by, as it were, a mist. She saw,
feeling mesmerised, how Hungerford carefully
chose out a phial from a locked case,
and slowly mixed what she dully supposed
to be poison. She drank the draught he
brought her, unresisting  then knew no
more !

When Hester again came to consciousness
it was night-time. She found herself
lying on her bed, dressed in a white gown
which she could not remember having
ever seen or worn before. Her husband

Alas standing over her. He forced her to
rise and dress herself differently and in
haste, desiring her with terrible imprecations
to be silent and do his bidding, or he
would have no mercy upon her. Hester's
tongue seemed dry and clove to her
mouth  she could not have cried out even
had she wished it. Feeling drugged,,
faint, and stupefied, it was with difficulty
she could obeys She was even hardly
astonished to find herself alive.

Then E-uss knocked and came into the
room. Between him and her husband she
was next half dragged, half carried out of
the villa and thrust into a carriage. Russ
only went with her ; and then she started
on a journey that seemed to her like a
frightful dream.

Sometimes, when Hester was put into a
train, she tried to attract the notice and
help of other people ; but though some
seemed to look at her pityingly, they
removed themselves to a distance. It

dawned, even upon her enfeebled mind,
that Russ made it supposed lie was in
charge of a lunatic.

But could you not call out ? Could
you not make some sign ?' asked Bessie,
pityingly.

I tried to do so once or twice, especially
when we went on board the steamer,' said
Hester, in a resigned tone, as if the helpless
hopelessness of that time were coming
back upon her, in recalling it. ' But each
time Russ, pretending I was ill, put something
to my face. Perhaps it was chloroform
: at any rate I was drugged too much
to resist any more, though I never lost
consciousness of what was passing around
me. Besides, Russ was not uncivil, to
give him his due. He even tried to coax
me, like a child, into keeping still by reminding
me, that I had had a narrow
escape of my life ; but that now I was
going back to England, where I should be
quite safe, if only I went quietly and made

VOL. III. s

no disturbance. So a slender hope dawned
in my mind : I was perhaps being sent
back in supposed disgrace to you all, my
own people ; and I was almost happy.'

A sigh came from Kenyon. He was
thinking how little contented her, who
had suffered so much. Hester looked
round at him gently. He had been admitted,
without a word spoken, to their
family circle that day, as they listened to
Hester ; but hitherto she had not looked
at him once specially, or seemed to notice
his existence since he had held her in his
arms, in the chapel, the night before. Now
a little more light came into her starry
eyes, though the stillness of her face never
altered ; as if perforce she answered his unspoken
thought.

It was a reprieve. And life was still
sweet when I remembered all of you, my
friends and dear ones.'

She went on to tell how, after a long
mid-night country drive  ending some

travelling in England, she knew not
whither  being too exhausted, then, even
to hear the names of the few stations
at which their fast train stopped  they
halted at last in a wood. Her heart beat
faster with fears, yet expectation, as she
Alas made to get out and walk to a
tower she saw dimly rising above through
the trees. Russ unlocked the door ; and she
believed herself brought into a dungeon,
for they entered a bare stone room, cold
and utterly comfortless. A key was turned
upon her, and there till daylight she
remained ; without fire or light ; and in
solitude.

The next day, Hester knew indeed her
abode was a prison, if not so terrible as
she at first feared. Her gaoler reappeared,
and brought her food, fire, and some common
articles of furniture and coarse necessaries
of life. Changing his tone of rough
persuasion to one of stern authority, he told
his mistress his orders were, to keep her

S2

always confined to the tower. She could
never escape : all attempts would not only
be useless, but lead to worse captivity. It
was best to make up her mind to it. For
himself, he was paid well to carry out Mr.
Hungerford's orders ; so she need not try on
prayers or tears, as they would be wasted.

Hester was stupefied at first. Then,
rousing as she found herself at last alone,
she began to examine where she was.

It was a square, very old tower, of
which the entrance was barred by a massive,
oaken-panelled door, secured by an
enormous lock. Two low steps descending
into a sunken stone passage denoted antiquity,
and led to the bare chamber where
Hester had passed the most of her late
miserable night. This was by daylight
seen to be a hall, floored and walled in
heavy stone-work, with a wide hearth for
logs, and a door ojDcning into a small
neglected garden, which Hester hurried
out to examine, but found it was enclosed

on all sides by a high wall. A shallow,
vvooden staircase, with a heavy topped
balustrade, the whole dusty and somewhat
crazy with age, led upstairs, ending inside
a second room of the same size as the hall
below. Here a surprise awaited Hester.
This, though almost bare of furniture too,
had evidently once been a handsome ;
being all wainscoted in dark
wood-panels, divided by pilasters, the
whole surmounted by a carved frieze
running round the walls under the ceiling.
The chimney-piece, likewise of carved
wood, bore two female figures in rude
design. Beneath the one was cut, in old
English letters, Jf aitlj ; beneath the other,
"som. Hester said that  as she stood and
looked at these  all on a sudden the
words appeared to her as a sign. She remembered
that she was still alive ; as a
little while ago she had not expected to
be ! Tears gushed from her eyes, and
seemed to clear her heavy brain. Hope

had revived in her heart. She promised
herself she would seek to have faith.

The latticed window was heavy barred,
and the trees outside grew so close that,
though Hester had flown to it, no view
could be seen any more than from the
loop-holes on the stairs. She now mounted,
with fresh curiosity, still higher up
the stairs, which wound round in flights of
three or four steps together and square
landings between, till they ended inside a
third room. This was even more handsomely
wainscoted than that below ; and an
ancient four-post bed supported on its
carved top a mass of dust and festoons of
cobwebs. There were a few straight-backed
oaken arm-chairs, as in the lower
room, and a mouldering table.

But the window! Hester saw at the
first glance that here was some view over
the tree-tops. She hurried to it ; and
though there was only part of a drive to
be seen  seemingly leading to a neglected.

great house  and the entrance to a building
which she could not discern well in
the hill below the tower, she felt rewarded.

Returning downstairs to search the garden
once more, she noticed that the doors
were so ancient they were pulled to by
an iron handle in the middle, while a
string passed through a hole worked the
latch. The garden, on closer view, was a
rough, grassy enclosure that had, however,
been grazed fairly well by a goat, which
stared in astonishment at the new human
visitor. Some old cherry and walnut-trees
grew here and there, and in the centre
Alas a really fine, old mulberry-tree. That
was all. A second search showed the
wall to be still higher, more impracticable
than even on first sight.

It was only now a sudden idea that
she was at Helston Priory flashed on
Hester. She had never been taken thereby
her husband. Still she remembered seeing
an old print of the house, in one

corner of wliicli some such tower as she
was immured in rose lonely among trees.
When her gaoler came again that evening,
Hester told him of her discovery ; and,
though Russ never answered a word, his
face seemed to betray his surprise.

Three days later, Hester, watching from
her upper window where she spent
almost all the daylight hours at first, saw
a long funeral pass down the drive and
halt at the building under the hill, which
was almost hidden from her view. Fascinated,
Hester gazed wonderingly with
strange surmises following: each other
rapidly in her brain.

I could hardly distinguish the figures
of the mourners, and yet  I fancied I
recognised some,' she now said. Her gaze
timidly passed round the circle, and
paused a little longer on Kenyon. He
gave her an almost imperceptible answering
sign of the head in affirmation, which
she understood.

After the funeral had gone, Russ surprised
his prisoner by an unusual midday
visit. She had not spoken to him for
two days, after he had obstinately persisted
in silence to her previous questions,
but now she suddenly asked him,

'Whose funeral was that?'

It was your own,' said the man, gruffly.
Now, you will see it is of no use to think
of ever getting out of this place while you
live.' Then while Hester gazed at him,
only half understanding, he explained all
briefly, adding, 'Mr. Hungerford is coming
to see you. Take my advice and don't
cross him. Be very quiet, or this job may
have a worse ending.'

Of the scene which followed between
herself and Mark Hungerford Hester never
told much. She only said briefly that it
was terrible. Her nerves already overstrung
from long tension, and her strength
exhausted, she trembled at sight of her
tyrant, and tried in vain to speak. He

seemed to think with surprise she was become
a gibbering idiot. At that, a hope
of deceiving his cunning came faintly to
the unhappy prisoner's mind amidst her
fears, and she strove to keep up the
delusion.

Hungerford  Hester never owned this
however  seemed moved with a secret
fearful joy at seeing her thus.

Nevertheless, he forced his victim to
take an awful, and it then seemed to hera
most binding oath, never to attempt
escape from her prison, nor to try to make
it known that she still lived. Then he
quitted the tower, and Hester fainted.

When Russ found her, she could hardly
speak intelligibly ; and then he too looked
at her strangely, and seemed to think her
intellect somewhat crazed. She had laughed
wildly in his face. He never did
thoroughly give up the idea afterwards ;
and, with the cunning which weak creatures
must use against the strong, she allowed

him to believe so. It was no great wonder,
verily, that even the astuteness of her
gaoler was thus deceived.

For days afterwards, Hester owned, she
sat motionless in the old walled-in garden,
under the mulberry-tree, neither stirring
nor it seemed seeing aught. Yet, little by
little, the influences of the summer air, the
quietness around, the peace from strife of
mind seemed to steal into her senses with
invigorating refreshment. She began to
notice the beauty overhead of the

Blue deeps ! magnificently strewn
AVith coloured clouds, large  light, and fugitive 
By upper winds through pompous motions blown.'

The twitter of the birds, the ripening of
fruit, the rustling of leaves around seemed
to arouse her to some new interest, fear no
longer her predominant feeling. A stray
butterfly coming over those high walls, a
droning bee were visitors. And then she
began also to feel a slow growing security
however brief it misrht be.

Fuss never molested her, beyond making
a rigorous daily inspection of the window-bars
and the locks of the tower. Seeing
her so quiet, the steward had reduced his
visits to a single daily one. And this,
with lingering distrust, he varied as to
hours, the better to detect his charge in
any attempts at plans of escape. For the
rest of the twenty-four hours the imprisoned
woman was free to cook her
simple meals, by such rude means as a
cotter's wife might scorn, at the wide
hearth in the old hall; or to clean the
wainscoted rooms which her fastidious
tastes soon took a care in keeping scrupulously
free from dust.

But, as to her mind, the lonely prisoner
did indeed fear at times to become idiotic
in her solitude ; when, towards the end of
that summer, Russ brought a young woman
into the tower. This was his wife, he
briefly said. It was fitter she should look
after Mrs. Hungerford than himself. Hester

roused to hope at hearing her own
name given her, with kindly pity, by the
young woman. Alas ! she soon found it
was regarded by the latter as a craze
under which the poor lady  a former dependent
and connection of the Hungerfords
was suffering. Nevertheless, after that
dav, Hester had at least a feelings fellow-being
near. Mrs. Russ showed her many
little womanly good offices ; brought her
sewing ; even borrowed books for her, unknown
to Russ, from the Priory library.

This first winter, however, Hester herself
found a strange means of access to
the desolate old house that should have
known her as its mistress. She was busied
at the hall-fire one day, when, having
accidentally pushed against one of the
sides rather heavily with a boiling kettle
she was lifting, the shock moved a large
stone slightly inwards. It was the entrance
to a secret passage leading to the
chapel, and thence further to the Priory

itself. The feelings with which she explored
this subterranean passage were
indescribable. It was almost choked in
some parts : it was difficult and disagreeable
to traverse in the last degree, and
many evenings she was obliged to economise
the scanty store of candles allowed
/

by Russ's parsimony, that enough might
remain to light her on occasional nightly
visits.

But to her, nevertheless, it was as a
path to another little world of comparative
freedom. The passage, Hester now
explained, had two outlets : one in the
library of the Priory, the other in the
small closet opening off the adjoining
bed-room. The rest of the house was
generally locked up. And all escape from
it was as impossible as in the tower.

But  however disappointed in hopes of
finding liberty  she had the solace of
carrying stores of books which she kept
hidden in the tower.

I seem to have been reading a lifetime
said Hester afterwards, smiling. And,
indeed, her mind, undisturbed by outer
distractions, had amassed a store of knowledge
and ranged through the choicest fields
of literature in those long; months : leaving
her almost as delightful in her intellectual
cultivation as she had been previously
merely in her beauty and womanly
qualities.

On one of these excursions, Russ surprised
her unawares, though she escaped. Afterwards,
Mrs. Russ came to the tower with a
confidential tale of how her husband had
been frightened by a ghost. Hester resolved
to profit by this superstitious weakness
of her gaoler, and even bravely lay
in wait at times to alarm him more as the
supposed White Lady.

At one time, only, Hester was allowed
outside her tower. This was when, his
wife being ill, Russ churlishly refused to
allow anyone to come and nurse her ; no

doubt fearing that the secret of the tower's
inmate might be betrayed ; and dreading
the consequences of justice, and also the
loss of the large reward promised him by
Hungerford, in addition to his already
high pay for carrying out the maniac's
wish. The poor prisoner, longing for a
change and occupation, however, begged
with such zeal that she at last obtained
the steward's permission to nurse the
young woman herself, promising faithfully
not to escape. On one of these occasions
Zachary Cowgill came into the cottage, and
saw her. Hester had by this time (she
owned to them) reasoned out with herself,
that the oath exacted under such cruel
circumstances by her husband was not
really binding upon her conscience.

An exclamation of surprise from most of
those who sat round, interrupted the speaker.

You surely did not ever consider such
a promise need be kept ?' cried several of
her hearers, in much surprise.

'The remembrance of that oath was a
horror to me for months,' said Hester
sadly and gravely, with a shudder she could
not repress. ' You see, I had a choice
given me  of preferring to die or keeping
my word ! Perhaps some persons Avould
have taken your view of the question, at
once. I have come to do so. at last  but
it was a real agony to my mind for long.
Yet, once that I found by chance the
Priory was inhabited again, I made every
effort to let any of my friends know of my
existence.'

But lucy did you not appear boldly before
Mrs. Vignolles  among us all at the
Priory when we were there?' asked the
Armytage men. Kenyon and Aunt Bessie
did not ask questions ; they sat very still
and listened.

Hester explained, with a pitiful and
apologetic look at having failed in accomplishing
what they all thought so easy.

*It is only a week or so, I think, since

VOL. III. T

Mrs. VignoUes has come to the Priory.
Neither Russ nor Mrs. Russ let a hint drop
to me of anyone arriving there. He had
always told his wife that any news or talk
about the Hungerford family excited me.
One evening I went for books as usual,
when the man-servant nearly surprised mein
the library. I supposed him to be Russ,
at first ; but then I saw, from my upper
window, people passing by the drive to the
long-deserted house. You can imagine
my startled wondering ! When Russ came
to the tower I asked him in terror, was
Mr. Hungerford come back? He would
not answer directly, yes ; but led me to
believe my fears were correct. I was in
hourly, momentary terror then !  my life
seemed again in the balance. I questioned
Mrs. Russ repeatedly, who, though forbidden
to speak on the subject, let out
that "little Miss Ada," my child, was at the
Priory with Mrs. VignoUes. I felt I must
see my little one at all risks, and made my

first attempt that very evening. The
secret gallery in the library has a pierced
air-hole, hidden by the carved stonework
above the fireplace. Stealing past it, a
hum of people talking came to my ears,
and I fancied  yet could hardly believe it
that I recognised your voice, Sir
Christopher.'

Kit started.

Then it was you. you yourself who
called me ?  it was no trick of my imagination
?' he cried.

Yes ; I tried to whisper your name,
low, in fear,' explained poor Hester. ' For
if only Mark Hungerford and Mrs. Vigo
were there, 1 feared  / feared '

She stopped, seeing the colour rise hotly
to Adrian's fair forehead, like a girl's. The
young fellow had come over by cock-crow
to the rectory, though as yet Mrs. Ignores
had neither appeared nor sent a
message there.

Hester hastily resumed.

t2

When I listened again, all was still. I
crept out, and found the library empty.
I meant to search the house till I found
Ada, hiding myself as well as possible,
meanwhile. And chance favoured me at
last ; for she was in the very next room.
But a maid surprised me ; and, hearing
the hue and cry, I escaped, believing Mr.
Hungerford was in the house  and, without
some one I could trust, I dared not
face Mm''

But you could trust me. I was there,'
burst out Adrian, impetuously.

Oh ! if I had been sure you were,*
answered Hester, half playfully. 'But it
was a mere wild hope. The next night,
hearing from Mrs. Russ the stir about the
ghost, I went back ; but found the child
removed and the doors mostly locked. Then
I haunted the plot of garden enclosed between
the house walls, and went back again
and again to that same room, hoping to
find you, Adrian ; for Mrs. Russ brought

me the gossip that you meant to sleep
there and dare the ghost. The first time
I crept back to the bed-room, Mrs. Fisher
Alas there ; and her voice gave me more
fright than any she could have felt herself.
It was like a horrible mystery how all
these people could be at the Priory. The
next night, Adrian, I came and spoke to
you. But Bob fired at me; and then,
believing myself on the point of falling
into Mr. Hungerford's hands again (for, in
the darkness, I could not see either of
you), I rushed back to my tower.

There is hardly any more to tell. Russ
watched me like a dragon those days. I
only escaped at nights. Then, last night,
Mrs. Russ came running to the tower,
imploring me to hide for Mr. Hungerford
had come. She guessed long before, I used
to go to some secret nook, having often
missed me ; but, as I had implored her
not to tell this to Russ, she had kept silent
out of good-nature, thinking it, no doubt,

a mere harmless freak. Then I fled to the
chapel. And you both saved me !'

Hester rose, and held out a hand to
both Kenyon and Adrian, with her old
fascinating manner that seemed to them
both, as always, (nay, to Kenyon a thousand
times more than ever !) infinitely more
regal, yet gentle, and altogether sweetly
unapproachable than that of any other
woman either ever knew.

'Thank you !' she said, simply, with the
smile of an angel.

Christopher bent and kissed her hand.
Adrian promptly did the same. Uda gazed
at them both, round-eyed, in surprise

CHAPTER XVII.

WHEN THE WICKED CEASE FROM Troubling

Three days and nights had come and
gone. Yet still no tidings were brought
of Mark Hungerford, though the country
had been searched far and wide.

Meanwhile, at the Priory its late regent,
Mrs. Vignolles, sat on thorns, fussing and
fuming, her plans wildly upset. For one
small thing at least she felt grateful in
heart, that her quondam friend, Mrs.
Fisher, was no longer there. That look
given from Hester's eyes the night before
had frozen the false-sweet traitress to the
heart. Not daring to face again the injured
woman who had called her friend

she went away very quietly and quickly
the next morning; and so vanished likewise,
for the most part, from the ken of all in
this history. Even Emma yi2:nolles virtuously
resolved to have 'nothing more
to say to her.' For the latter little person,
after some secret indecision, espoused
Hester's cause warmly ; and pitied her
wrongs with a real enough amazed horror.

I told you so,' she could not keep her
lips back from repeating, with many sharp
shakes of the head. ' You will remember
now. I warned you at the time, when
you hould marry Mark Hungerford. Well,
poor Hester, 'pon my word, it is the most
shocking story !  eh, eh ! I declare, I
don't know what the world will say of it
. . but at all events, my dear, I think
you will acknowledge I have done my
duty by your child, Ada.'

Hester replied, in her gentle tone, that
seemed to prove she viewed all things justly
and like one removed above earthly passions

(as if her thoughts still looked out on the
world afar, from her lonely tower in the
wood), that this was true. According to her
worldly woman's judgment, Emma Yig-
nobles had tried to bring up her charge as she
thought was best for the small heiress of
the Priory. Who could expect more of her?

And you see, Hester,' went on the little
widow, ' how hard my position is ! For
Mark had promised me a large reward for
my care of Ada when he came back ; and
now I shall get nothing but my bare
expenses.'

'In justice, you should get what he
promised you. I will do my best about
it,' Hester replied, in a calm tone, strongly
contrasting with her interlocutor's anxious
eagerness. In her long loneliness money
had lost its value to her mind except as a
means of giving help and joy to others.
What to her now seemed the prime good
gifts to be enjoyed were very different
objects  love, freedom, life.

So these two women became therefore
 friends ;' or so Mrs. Vignolles at least
warmly declared, extolling loudly thenceforth
the virtues and sufferings of ' poor
dear Hester  quite a saint, you know I
These very good people are so victimised
And the latter felt glad to be reconciled,
having amply lived out all grudges of
heart during her lonely two prison-years.
Now she only wished to be at peace withall
mankind, so far as in her lay.

On the third day of Hester's return to
the living world, Sir Christopher Kenyon
was-announced and came into the little
room at the rectory set apart for Hester's
daily use ; for she could not, as yet, bear
easily the voices and presences of many
persons near her. Kit and she for the
first time stood alone together since  two
years ago  they had parted at Nice. But
though both recalled this, and felt as if
they were looking strangely at each other,
Kenyon only said,

I have come to wish you good-bye.
Perhaps it is better for me to go back to
WestcliffV'

'Yes. Xo doubt it is best,' said Hester,
low, almost like a sigh.

Unless you should need me to help
you in anything '

If so, I shall send for you, my friend.'

Hester in herself felt like one long
blindfolded, who, set free, gazes round on
earth and sky and lately familiar objects
with dazed eyes. But Kenyon, watching
her with a joy like pain, was somehow reminded
of a statue of Memory he had
somewhere seen, with that same expression
sweet, steadfast, repining. Her still
features helped the resemblance, as did the
summer snow that would evermore lie
white on her hair, a sign of sorrow for
which he felt he could love her still more
dearly. And yet little Ada's laugh, as all
in the house knew, would send nev life
pulsing once more warmly through her

mother's veins. Kenyon felt maddeningly
how a far fuller, gladder life than she
had ever known lay yet dormant in the
fair woman whose eyes now met his ; as
if between him and her, though the
dearest of friends, there, lay a great gulf.
He had to put force upon himself to say
merely,

One thing more. Say you forgive my
intention in opening your coffin, as I supposed.
Adrian has told you why.'

A humid gleam, making the eyes that
had so long been his soul's stars still
more lovely, met his appealing, beseeching
glance. A faint colour, like some happy
yet half-shamed gladness of returning
youth, crept in a slow wave over Hester's
cheeks. With quicker breath she replied,
low,

'Yes, yes. It was a kind thought  it
was like you. If I had been dead, I
think I should have known and blessed
you.'

Kenyon, not trusting himself to say
moi-e, gave her hand a farewell pressure,
and was turning away, when she said,
rather faintly,

Stay  one moment.'

He turned eagerly at that, but with her
first words the quick roused expectancy
died in his glance. She said, faltering a
little at first, but then growing firmer,

'Edward  my cousin Edward  has been
telling me of something. He always used
to come to me honos ao-o with his troubles
as a boy ; do not be vexed, please, that I
know of his disappointment about Uda 
and the cause of it.'

Kenyon turned to look out of the window,
while actually a blush that seemed
guilty rose darkly under his bronzed skin.
However innocent he knew himself to
have been in intention, the horrible
thought sprang into his mind that Hester
might possibly be suspecting him of a
platonic flirtation with her young girl-cousin

; lie who had embittered, yes, spoiled
! her own young life. He answered
feebly, after an awkward pause, like a
chidden boy,

Army take told me the same . . . something,
I mean. I never thought of it,
never guessed  believe me, it was a most
painful surprise. But still, I hope he is
wrong.'

 And if lie is not ?' answered Hester,

slowly ; and, meeting her sad but gently
steadfast eyes, Kit read her thought therein
clear,  as pebbles in a brook.'

A long silence followed ; only broken
once or twice by a heavy, impatient sigh
from Sir Christopher. Then he uttered,
pleadingly,

Hester, I will try, so far as in me lies,

to do all you may wish But spare

me for a little while. Remember, / have
only just seen you again P

Hester trembled, but commanded herself

you and I are growing middle-aged

people now. Is it not time for us to live
for others, not for ourselves ?'

You have done so for years. It was
through me you were forced into that
hideous life of slavery,' cried Kenyon, impetuously.
'Do not you condemn me,
and through me another to the same, if
a less horrible bondage.'

You might make Uda happy. Surely
that knowledge, and a new life begun with
a young glad girl-wife, would go far to
make you as happy, too, as most of us can
be on earth ?' urged Hester, still gathering
firmness as she spoke.

But Kenyon mutely, mournfully shook
his head.

Even that could not make me resigned.
Ah, you know I can never care for another
woman. Hester, why will you ask me to
raise a new barrier between us two ?'

Because I wish to see you with different
hopes, new interests, with your children
about your knees. Because you must

not blind yourself with any false, utterly
hopeless thoughts of me,' returned Hester
quick-breathing; and turning pale, then
flushing again, while her pulses thrilled in
her emotion. She craved for strength, for
her woman's nature was weak, and well-nigh
failed in that moment. 'You and
I can never be more to each other than
we are now. Mark may be old, but he is
strong  all the stronger since his intellect
has weakened. There is no reason in
nature why he should not live to be a
very old man ; and while he lives I am
bound to him. But I may not have long
to live. Dear Kit  you and I must not
be selfish.'

'As you will,' replied Sir Christopher,
slowly and heavily. ' If you tell me todo
so, I will marry Gertrude Armytage 
after a little Awhile.'

He had hardly ceased speaking, when a
confused hum of voices both had been too
much preoccupied to notice till now, though

the sound lead been increasing for the last
few minutes, became nearer and louder.
The voices of Mrs. Doggett and the
other maids could be distinguished in
the hall. These were followed by gruff
tones of countrymen and a scraping and
shuffling of heavy boots. There came a
tap at the door, and a discreet hush fell
outside.

Oh, it is some news !  they must have
heard of Mm,' uttered Hester, springing up,
startled, to meet Aunt Bessie and the
young rector, who entered with a subdued,
strange expression on their faces.

Yes, dear ; you are right,' said Mrs.
Armytage, coming forward hastily. She put
her arms round Hester, whose whole being
seemed suddenly instinct with quivering
fear like a hunted creature, and drew
the trembling figure close to good Bessie's
broad comfortable bosom.

Oh, Aunt Bessie,' prayed Hester, ' what
new trouble is it? Tell me all  I can

VOL. III. IT

bear anything better than suspense. If
only he does not separate me from my
child. Oh! tell me!  I must have something
to love ! '

He will never trouble you more, dear ;

never more ! Don't be very much

shocked, my dearest, but Mark Hunger-ford
is dead.'

He was dead indeed. That morning,
although the search for the mad squire
had been almost given up, Russ and Cow-gill,
who had made up their quarrel, went,
by way of leaving no stone unturned,
through an out-lying wood some miles
from Helston Priory. The wood was
thickly planted with firs ; it vas not
broad, though of considerable length, and
was seldom frequented by anyone. After
going about seventy yards, Russ gave a
hoarse cry of horror, and stood stock
still, gazing up into the branches of a
tree, whence dangled a lifeless figure. It

was Mark Hungerforcl, as both recognised
at once.

The unhappy man had evidently hanged
himself in a most determined way. He
had taken off his braces, which he had
made so as to hang from one of the
branches, while the ends were formed into
a noose. Putting on his waistcoat and
coat again, he must have climbed up the
tree to a height of about sixteen feet,
and placing the braces on a short arm
of the tree, and the noose round his neck,
had sprung deliberately from the branch
on which he stood to meet death.

Zachary Cowgill  who had given the
alarm, and brought the news to the rectory
told how he was ' pure sorry for Mester
Russ, who had lain down on the grass,
and sobbed like a child.' Without doubt,
the steward's dog-like loyalty to his dead
master was unfeigned, and, in its rugged
way, even touching. When the body was
brought to the Priory, Russ begged that

he, and no other, might perform the last
offices to the dead. Mark Hungerford
must have exercised a strange power over
this coarse nature ; for while, when living,
Russ not only guarded him in his darkest
moments, but also was ready to lie, and
spy, and do a crime at his bidding, so even
in death the master Alas not deserted by
the servant.

Let me stay by him till he is buried,
and then do with me what you and the
law likes,' Russ gruffly asked, as a sole
favour, of Mr. Smith. ' I'll take my trial,
and expect no mercy from Mrs. Hunger-ford.'


But the steward's young wife, with her
baby in her arms, came in grief to the
rectory and threw herself at Hester's feet,
beseeching pity for her husband. She did
not plead long, nor in vain.

 I forgive him for your sake,' answered
Hester, seeming like an angel of mercy
to the weeping woman, who was half-blinded

by her tears. ' He must have
some good in his heart, for I believe he
really loves you and his child. I will not
let him be punished for what he did tome,
if I can help it. But it will be best
if you both go far away. I will help you
to emigrate.' And the poor wife, with
lightened heart, lifted up her voice, as from
of old women have done in strong emotion,
and blessed Hester.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE HUSH AFTER A STORM.

The inquest on Mark Hungerford was.
over, and his funeral had wound down the
Priory drive, under the long drooping
tree-branches, to the little chapel, where
he was laid. The service was performed
very early in the morning, just before
dawn, so as to avoid any curious crowd
of spectators. But few followed the coffin,
and of those only Russ the steward was
affected by real regret for the dead.

When Edward Armytage had ended his
solemn duties, he and Kenyon came out
together, and as the others slowly dispersed
they two were left in the twilight.

 What an awful mystery is man,' said
Kenyon, breaking the silence that lay between
them and over the yet sleeping woods
and earth. ' This one is suffered to torture
the lives of others, yet when he dies wee
utter words of prayer and hope over him.
Would it not be better, if we could think
in solemn forgiveness that for such there
is not pain nor punishment, but a resolving
into nothingness reserved ?'

Yet may we not rather hope that the
fire shall burn up the chaff of each individual
grain, and leave good seed-corn behind
to spring from every unit,' said Edward
Armytage, dreamily, gazing before
him far beyond the furthest visible horizon.

And just then the sun's rim rose above
the dark shoulder of the world, and light
shot broadening and brightening in vivifying
beams up the eastern sky. And the
earth awoke and was glad.

Mark Hungerford's will was read that
day. It was found that it had been made

at the time of his marriage and never since
altered. Hester was left the sole guardianship
of their child or children ; and the
little Nest up in the North country was
absolutely bequeathed to her as Hunger-ford's
wedding-gift. Perhaps, indeed, it
was the only one ever made by him to his
wife that she valued.

With a great sigh of relief, poor Hester,
who had been pale as lily-leaves till then,
caught up and clasped little Ada to her
mother's yearning heart. Each night
since Hungerford's death, she had suffered
from terrible dreams that she and her
child were forcibly torn asunder. Often
she awoke shuddering with the frightened
belief that her deliverance was all a mistake
!  that Mark loss alive ! Sometimes
she could hardly persuade her Awaking
senses that her dream was the false
belief, so painfully had the yoke galled
her shoulders and the iron entered into
her souL

The rest at the rectory did all they
could to prevent the now widowed victim
being pained by gossip, and the nine days'
wonder which was of course excited in the
country. Nevertheless, Hester said to them
that she felt it would be happiest for her
to go away. She would go with little Ada
up to the Nest ; and there, in the old home,
feeling her native air blowing over the
mountain?, she should more easily forget
the past, and learn by degrees how to be
happy again.

But, before Hester left, there was still a
trouble that lay with strange, new perplexity
on her mind.

Kenyon and she had not met since he had
last given her, with difficult pain, his
promise to marry Uda. But Hester knew
that, after hearing of Mark Hungerford's
death, he had not gone away. She alone
guessed, with a fluttering tremor, to which
her heart had long been strange, loliy he
yet stayed ; as she alone had been told of

his intention to go away. Mr. Smith and
others came and had interviews with her
continually, advising and consulting during
those few days ; of the funeral and
will ; and of future steps to be taken as
regarded the occupation, or not, of the
Priory ; of deeds, and trusts, and monies.

The talk seemed to flow around Hester's
ears ; although the men of business complimented
her on her calm of understanding
and her quickness of decision. But, all
the while, she was keenly aware of an
undercurrent, even a second train of
thought in her mind, that kept intensely
absorbed far the most part of her true
interest.

Kit was still here  and why ? That went
rhyming on and on in Hester's head, and
would not be banished, however hard she
tried. She felt ashamed of herself, troubled
and perplexed. For Kit's promise to
marry Uda, if she, Hester, so bade him,
was always in her ears ; the scene as they

two had last parted was always before her
eyes. She seemed disloyal to poor Uda,
to Aunt Bessie in heart, because that her
tongue had as yet refused to speak on the
subject that might give back peace to
them both, if she willed it. But now ! 
would it be right so to will it ? Hester
well knew such words would, in their
changed situation, be condemning Kit to
an unhappiness that might last for life.
Would he, indeed, now obey her? Or
was she merely a selfish woman, trying to
persuade herself that what her heart
whispered small and low in its inmost
secret chamber was right ?

Then Hester would pass quickly and
quietly, Avhen released, to her own room ;
and snatch up little Ada, covering her with
kisses.

No, I do not want to be selfish !' she
would say to herself ' I have my child at
least for a consolation. That, and the love
of all these other dear ones : freedom and

blessings richly restored to me. Why
should I wish for more  unless it be right
to do so ? I am  I would be content, if
needs be, even without his love.'

Thus several days had passed, till now
Hester felt urgent to go away, and said to
Mrs. Armytage, a little piteously,

You will forgive me, if the child and I
leave you very soon, perhaps the day after
tomorrow. It seems to confuse my head
to have so much life and bustle around me
just now  and it is so strange not to mourn
more ! that  well, I shall be better away up
at the old home. Then you will come and
see us soon there, dear Aunt Bessie?
Promise me that! though indeed you must
promise to come often, as I hope to live
there for always. I cannot bear the
thought of ever coming back to the
Priory, to be near the tower and that
wood.' (She shuddered slightly, yet the
wood was under sentence to be felled
near the fatal spot for two acres space,

that none might point out the suicide's
tree.)

Bessie Armytage only patted her niece's
shoulder, and answered, with a shrewd
little smile, to Hester's great surprise,

Well, and / hope you will not live so
long at the Nest, dear, but somewhere
still better  perhaps at the Court near
WestclifF.'

Oh ! no,' cried Hester, while a blush
hot as any of her most youthful days
flushed her face. ' Don't say that. Aunt
Bessie, Edward has told me himself of
Uda, and II  indeed I should be glad to
see her happy.'

 Not at your expense and Kit's  never !*
said Bessie Armytage, with dignity. ' Dearest
Hester, don't for a moment think of
spoiling your two future lives by attempting
any false generosity. I am sorry for
my own child, of course ; but, if poor Edward
is right, Uda must get over her little
trouble. It can only be a passing fancy,

without cause on his side ; let us do Kit
that justice.'

There was a moment's silence between
the two women ; but then, Bessie's heart
yearning a little, she said, rather weakly,

I can foresee the future for you, now,
and another with great hopefulness. Oh,
my dearest, at eventide it shall be light !
You and Kit have both suffered so much ;
and you have really been widowed these
two years, so there is no true need to
shrink from a thought of happiness. But
still . do you think you could just
give Uda a word of advice, Hester ? She
might be so truly happy, if she would only
take Edward, and my heart aches to see
my child looking so moping. She would
believe you if you gave her a wise word
or two ; but she rather thinks her old
mother a goose in such matters.'

So Hester, though much hesitating,
asked Uda to come by-and-by to her room
that evening, if she had a few spare minutes.

And Uda agreed with a sullenness
that tried hard to be humility ; so evidently
thinking her own lot the saddest and
most disregarded on earth that Hester
almost smiled to herself, thinking, ' Poor
child !' with amused pity.

Can I help you in packing ?' asked
Gertrude, coming in after a tap that had
some unwillingness in its very sound. ' I
would have offered to do it all for you
before ; only that you have so many other
people to help you, I thought you would
not want fine.'

The speech was rather jealously ungracious.
Yet Hester, looking closer at her
young cousin, forgot her own feelings, which
still thrilled sensitively at any roughness
of speech, and only noticed that Uda's
dark round eyes were dulled, while her
eyelids had a purplish tinge, and her fresh
colour was turning sallow. She knew,
too, how dearly Uda loved making herself
the central figure of the domestic group,

whether in directing or taking care of
some of the rest, as housekeeper, or nurse,
or general adviser. Poor Uda, under her
mother's wise rule, had found herself somewhat
a nobody lately. And, when Hester
re-appeared among them, all the rest were
so eager to surround their restored prisoner
with loving care that Uda, who would
have liked to be first with her cousin, felt
jostled, and so retired with a hurt feeling
into the background.

You can help me better than by packing
my box, dear ; for you can, I hope
make me go away with a mind more at
rest about your own self,' said Hester, ina
tone of such tenderly affectionate interest
in the girl she looked at, that Uda, a
little confused, and reddening with some
premonition of what might be coming, yet
seemed softened.

'You are not very happy, dear child.
I have seen it, and been sorry for it ; ever
since I came back among you all. And

poor Edward, too  don't start, dear  he
told me of his disappointment, and I am
so sorry for him, too.'

Uda, on this, instantly began dissolving
in tears.

Don't cry so, dear,' urged Hester, much
distressed. ' Some people viust suffer, you
know, and he will try to bear it bravely,
like a man. It is a great pity indeed for
both your sakes if it cannot be. Still even
a steadfast girl like you, Uda, may change
her mind with time ; and it is right that
men and women should so change with
good reason. So  I trust to see you very
happy yet, some day.'

No, no ; never,' came chokingly from
Uda, as she gulped down big, thick, following
sobs. ' And I think it most un-unMnd
of you, Cousin Hester  I do !  to talk of
my being happy, when Edward can't be.'

But be reasonable, Gertrude. Though
I meant to hope for my own part that
you and Edward would yet come together ;

VOL. III. X

still, if you feel you cannot really love
him, lie would not wish to prevent your
happiness with some other man whom you
may never yet have seen. And Edward,
too  seeing this wish is impossible  will
very likely form another attachment in
years to come. It is human nature, dear.
You would not wish him to be sad and
solitary, as Sir Christopher Kenyon has
been ; who because of one past sorrow
has had no heart left, even for any girl
who might care for him out of pity,' said
Hester, very low, anxious not to seem to
touch on the girl's secret love with the
least jar. But Uda, rubbing back her
tears, looked up in amazed indignation.

Oh, as to Sir Christopher  no, indeed !
I hope Edward would not be like him. I
beg your pardon, Cousin Hester, for perhaps
you think him perfection, like everyone
else, but I call him a most unpractical
person.'

 But, Gertrude, forgive me, dear,  for

indeed I only ask for your own sake. Was
it not then, because you cared more for 
well, some one else, that you refused
Edward?'

'No, no. But because mother . . . she
said Edward and I were too great friends,
we were talked about. She didn't like it !
And I would never go against her least
wish, never; I would rather die,' uttered
Uda, half-choked and almost washed away
in her sobs.

My dear child, it is all a mistake !' cried
Hester, so relieved suddenly she could
have laughed aloud at the absurdity of
the situation. ' Why, Aunt Bessie told
me yesterday there was nothing she would
have liked better than to see you and
Edward happily married ; but that you
had refused him, she did not know why.'

Uda raised up her face, which somewhat
suggested an anomaly in nature : the
appearance of a crimson setting sun
washed by violent rain. In her astonished



merit, she could only gasp an incredulous

'No  r

But yes ; yes, indeed !' cried Hester,,
kissing her. ' There  go and be happy.'

Gertrude rose slowly.

I hope that Sir Christopher will not be
hurt,' she said, with a solemn childishness.
'Will he mind do you think, Cousin
Hester?'

No, no : certainly not : not at all,' replied
Hester, with an almost unnecessary
measure of cheerful assurance in her tones,
as she had nodded her head with quite
the old lightness of her youthful days.
It was only poor Edward who supposed
it must be him, you see. And Edward
told me . . . There, dear ; do go and take
a turn in the yew-tree walk to cool your
cheeks. Just slip out here through this
window. No one will see you.'

No one did. But a few minutes later
the young rector might have been seen
going towards the same yew-tree walk

from the house with long strides ; as if
impelled by some secret knowledge or joyful
hope that hurried him forward in
more than even his usual rapidly awkward
haste.

That evening, after supper, Edward
Army take felt it would be so selfish to keep
all his new satisfaction to himself that he
hurried off to the ' Three Choughs,' where
Sir Christopher still lingered ; and told his
friend of the misunderstanding that he
himself and Uda had cleared up in the
yew-tree walk. Kenyon sprang up and
wrung his hand, so overjoyed he could
not control himself.

1 am so glad  my dear fellow, I can't
tell you how glad I am !' he kept repeating.


I think I can understand it,' said Edward,
with a dry smile. ' And when shall
sou go up to the lake country ?'

Kenyon paused ; and silently offered his

friend a cigar. After they had sat down
few minutes and smoked, he frankly
answered,

'Not just yet. She would not like it, I
am afraid  but I shall be counting the
days till then . . . Adrian Vignolles is
coming down with me to Westcliff ; and
helping him in his future as an artist will
pass the time ; though even so it will be
weary. Poor boy ! with all his ardour
now, I doubt that he will never be a
Royal Academician. But who knows ? 
He may marry Ada, though, in the
future, and live at the Priory.'

'Who knows ?' repeated Edward,

laughing.

So Hester and her little girl went upto
the old home ; the little cottage with its
crumpled thatched roof, and mantle of
flowering creepers, that lay near the shining
lake. The mountains, standing so
immovably as of yore with their head

communing with the clouds, but their
bases planted deep in old earth, were like
friends who had never altered. The
army of bulrush spears round the lake-margin
seemed to look on Hester as if
they knew no change in her since she was
a child. And, as she showed her own little
child where the water-lilies and the purple
loose-strife used to blow, and that they
played together for sunny afternoons
among the cushions of heather on the
cliff-side, Hester awoke by degrees to feel
herself still young. The past rolled back
from her mind like a dark curtain ; a
thousand, mute, little associations revivified
her thoughts and wishes, as the trees swell
and bud in April. Hester had not only
dared to be happy, while her laugh mingled
with that of her child, but she dared
more  at least, she almost invited other
thoughts of a delicious doubting trouble
to steal into her heart and suffuse the
sunlit haziness there. And yet she knew

all the while that it was only playing at
being sad  to make her present happy
time, that Alas like a peaceful rest, all the
happier ! She knew Kenyon would come
to her.

And so, one afternoon, he appeared. He
had only written a few brief words beforehand,
 I am coming ; will you see me ?'
But (without waiting an answer), on the
afternoon named, he was there. Hester
met him outside, in the cottage porch,
holding Ada by one hand, even whilst she
gave him the other in a welcome that was
perhaps a little more dignified because she
felt so tremulous. Kenyon, looking in her
face, saw and understood in a moment.
He lifted Ada in his arms, and kissed her.
And the child, who had learnt to love Kit
at the rectory, nestled close to him ; but,
with the imperious fondness of her royal
age, instantly remarked between her caresses,
You said you would bring me a little
bird that would sing whenever I did turn

a handle  Have you got a bird for me?
You were a very long time coming

Yes ; of course I have brought your
bird. I could not forget such a thing,'
said Kenyon, as he carried her in his arms
into the house after her mother ; and then
added, with a smile, to Hester, ' You see
what fast friends Ada and I are. She
even trusts me.'

She is quite right,' replied Hester, with
a smile that illumined her face like a ray
of happiness borrowed a moment from
heaven.

Then, as Sir Christopher, putting the
child gently down, stood looking at her
with a sudden flush of joy suffusing his
features ; the more so that his bronzed complexion
had been somewhat pale when he
had arrived, she went on, in gentle confusion,


'You are tired now  you must be so,
after your journey. You shall rest a little,
and have some lunch with us. Then 

perhaps you would like to walk round my
old home, and see it  aoain ?'

The last word came low.

Kenyon answered as quietly,
'Yes;

So, an hour or so later, they two left
the Nest together. And without hardly a
word said between them, silence being
sweetest, their steps strayed of mute accord
up the hill, through the wooded
paths, till they reached the stile overlooking
the cottage down below, and the lake,
and the far mountains. At this spot they
had twice met at, the most fateful moments
of their lives. Kenyon stood still.

This is the very place ; is it not T he
asked. Then, as she signed rather than
murmured that it was so, he came close to
her; and said, with deep emotion in his
voice, ' We have parted here twice, Hester,
as we thought for ever ! Now it is the
third time  Surely we shall never part
again while we both live?'

'Never more, I trust,' was all Hester
could find breath to say ; lout she looked
up in his face. Then, as they drew close
together with full mutual love, they felt that,
however stormy the mornings of their lives
had been, now blessed sunlight was around
them. In spring-tides, they had departed
almost broken-hearted. Now, in the
autumn, both had found peace at last.

