CHAPTER

I. TO INDIA

II. THE SHADOW OF COMING EVENTS .
III.  THE GREAT PYRAMID SAILS
IV-fire AND SMOKE
V.  HIS enemy's DAUGHTER .
VI. THE LIBERAL CANDIDATE IN DANGER
VII. THE NOMINATION
VIII.- THE TALK OF THE TOWN
IX. AN ADVENTURE

X, OTWAY MAKES A FOOL OF HIMSELF
XI.  THE NEWS FROM INDIA .
XII.- MISS DYSART-SMITH CATCHES COLD

PAGE

I

H



















i=;6

CHAl'TEK

XIII-the VISITOR WHO WALKS ON THE GRASS
XIV.  THE rector's HAT .
XV.  OTWAY IX CHAINS .
XVI.  A LETTER FROM JACK
XVII. NO. 200 (queen's GATE TERRACE
XVIII.  A Woman's FOLLY .

XIX. - Betty And Lier SLAVE .

XX.  ROSSITUR Again
XXI.  THE LETTERS IN CYPHER.
XXII.  THE STREET BRAWL .
XXIII.  MRS. FORSTER's CONCERT.
XXIV. Otway OBEYS ORDERS
XXV.  LETIY GIVES HER OPINION
XXVI.  THE Wedding-day .

I'AOK
















C H A P T E R I .

TO INDIA.

Everyone in the place was more or less
excited when the news got abroad that young
John Erskine's regiment was under orders
for India, and the excitement became quite
intense as soon as it was known, positively,
that Sir John and Aunt Louise, and little
Betty were actually going to Portsmouth to
see him off. It was the first event of any
great importance that had happened in the
rather sleepy little town since the young man

VOL. I. B

had joined his regiment, about a year before,
and it was made the most of ; people who
were not interested might have said that
too much was made of it.

But then everything connected with the
Erskiness was of importance in the town and
neighbourhood ; and their most private affairs,
in some unaccountable manner, got into the
air, as it seemed, and became public property
even while the family were still talking about
them in whispers and with closed doors. It
might even be said with truth that the gossips
somehow got hold of the vaguest rumours
and served them up as accomplished facts ;
and that sort of thing had gone on for ages,
and would, perhaps, go on for ever. A great
many years ago the facts, or perhaps to speak
more truly, the fictions connected with the
tragic death of a young Erskine at a gaming-table
abroad, were bandied about in the little
town before anyone had had the courage to
break the news of his son's death to a devoted

father. And in the same mysterious
way it was known that a sister of the present
Sir John Erskine, who had married young
and not in accordance with the wishes of her
family, was "running a rig," as it was called,
in London, and getting her husband into debt
and difficulties, while, by her friends, she was
supposed to be leading a quiet and orderly
life.

The good people of the small town of
Little Centre Bridge  so called because there
was a Great Centre Bridge some six miles
off  being gifted with this extraordinary
power of divination, or second sight, in
all matters connected with the families of
the lords of the manor  and the gift seemed
hereditary  there is nothing surprising in the
fact that when the doctor's wife, Mrs. Sumner,
and the lawyer's wife, Nlrs. verity, and Mrs.
Dysart-Smith who was "lady principal" of
the Erskine College for Younor Ladies, met at
little Miss ]\Iasham's for afternoon tea, they

should have talked of nothing but the fact
that John Erskine's regiment was ordered to
India.

And it was not such a wonderful or uncommon
event after all ; only sons go to India
every day and take their chance with the rest,
and young John was not such a paragon
that his absence would make a blank, or his
presence cause a sensation. But the fact was,
he was the first Erskine who had become a
soldier since the Erskine who fought and died
at Bannockburn, and his choice of a profession
had been canvassed, and talked over, and
wondered at, long after the slight surprise it
caused to his family and friends had died out.

The Erskiness were not a very prolific, but
they were a prosperous family ; now and then,
as was natural, and to be expected, an event
happened that seemed for a time to check
the steady flow of good fortune that followed
them ; a sailor lad would be lost at sea, a
daughter's husband would go to the bad.

or, perhaps, the daughter herself prove unworthy
of her name. But the eldest sons,
if not specially gifted in any way, were always
blameless and honourable young fellows, who
went to school and college, travelled a little,
and then settled down in contentment at the
Chase, shooting, fishing, hunting, and dancing
at the county balls ; then, when their time
came, they fell in love and married women
whose families and antecedents would bear
the closest inspection. If these women had
fortunes, so much the better, but no amount
of money would compensate for want of
breeding or levity of conduct.

When the first break in the regular routine
occurred, and young John Erskine's photograph
in full uniform was seen by visitors
upon a table in the drawing-room at the
Chase, it was immediately said, not by the
family, of course, that further innovations
might presently be expected. He would
never marry the " right woman," that is,

the young lady his father had picked out
for him ; he would choose for himself, and
there was no knowing what would happen
by and by. Everyone knew the sort of girl
that officers fell in love with in garrison
towns, and young John, although very
amiable and agreeable, was just the sort of
easy-going, unsuspicious young fellow to betaken
in. That was the talk of the little
town.

The family at the Chase, naturally enough,
had no misgivings ; John was going to be a
soldier, but, all the same, he would marry the
right woman when the time came. There
were people who said that his father, Sir
John, a fine, tall, handsome man of fifty-five
or sixty, would marry again and astonish
everyone' He lost his wife when John was
a lad at school and his daughter, Betty, a
baby of three or four years old. There was
an interval of over ten years between the
brother and sister, and when Lady Erskine,

whose health had failed soon after Betty was
born, died in bringing her third child prematurely
into the world, her maiden sister 
her senior by nearly twenty years  came to
the Chase and devoted herself to the widower
and his children.

Miss Lambton, or Aunt Louise as she was
called, was a pattern maiden aunt ; the very
essence of amiability, sensible, gentle, good-tempered
and refined; but she was absolutely
without even one strong point in her character,
and wholly devoid of a will of her own. She
would dance to any tune, wild or serious,
piped by any player, and she accepted any
proposition, no matter how preposterous or
unorthodox ; she never argued ; was never
known to utter a contradiction, and value
surmise was to her as satisfactory and conclusive
as testimony taken on oath.

With her brother-in-law she o-ot on admirably
; she was in every respect a striking
contrast to the wife he had lost. Lady

Erskine had been a very pretty, self-willed,
quick-tempered, loving and impulsive little
woman, nearly twenty years younger than
Sir John, who argued persistently and contradicted
flatly for the mere love of argument
and contradiction. She was fond of her
husband, but she took delight in teasing him,
and it is impossible to say what storms might
not have arisen to disturb the peace of their
joint lives had not all her faults and failings
been buried in her early grave.

When Aunt Louise reigned in her sister's
room. Sir John left the management of his
house and children entirely to her, and lived
the out-of-door life that suited him, and that
he loved. But Aunt Louise was, in reality,
managed by the household and children ; the
servants were her masters and mistresses ;
they complained to her if they had fault to
find with her arrangements, and she was
occasionally discharged, so to speak, by her
domestics, not her domestics by her. But

she was quite unconscious of her state of
bondage.

As for the children, they domineered over
her without mercy. They issued their imperious
commands to Aunt Louise, and Aunt
Louise meekly obeyed, although her nephew,
who was accustomed to school discipline,
would have bowed before authority had any
been exercised over him. Little Betty had
been spoiled from her cradle, and if she had
not had, by nature, the sweetest disposition
in the world, she would have been ruined by
the joint indulgences of father and aunt. She
was a pretty little brown-eyed maid of fifteen,
when her brother, to whom she was devoted,
joined his regiment, and she was the only
member of the household who really rejoiced
over his choice of a profession.

When his reo-ment was under orders for
India, and he came to the Chase to say goodbye,
he brought with him a young brother-officer,
and Aunt Louise was half-shocked

and half-frightened at the premature flirtation
that was carried on between him and little
Betty. He was a handsome, merry lad 
younger in years and in ways than his friend
John Erskine  and he asked no better fun
than to be carried off by Betty for a long
ramble across the country. The pair would
be out for hours, accompanied by half-a-dozen
dogs, but as they always came back safe, as
well as tired, happy and not too clean, Aunt
Louise had not the heart to scold her pet, or
to forbid the expedition that was planned in
her hearing for the next day.

There was not a trace of sentiment in
Betty's frank liking for her new friend ; her
brother was the dearest fellow in the world,
but Arthur Filmer was, if possible, a more
delightful companion than John. Everything
was new to Arthur ; he had never been in
that part of the country before, so Betty had
the pleasure of introducing him to all her
favourite haunts ; and then he had so much

to tell her of his own beautiful home in
Devonshire  legends and tales of wild Dartmoor
and Exmoor, that were far more thrilling
than any of the somewhat twaddling
kind of stories provided by the timid Aunt
Louise for the amusement of her niece.

'' You must come and see us at Brentford
some day," the young man said about twenty
times during: his short visit to the Chase,
when Jack and I come home on leave.
We can give your father lots of prime
shooting and fishing, and I'll show you every
place worth seeing for miles round. Remember,
it's a bargain."

Those were his last words as he said
good-bye to the girl at the Lite Centre
Bridge railway station, and Mrs. Sumner and
Mrs. Verity, who happened to be there
changing their library books at \V. H. Smith
and Son's stall, looked at one another and
smiled knowingly when they saw how the
handsome young fellow leaned out of the

carriage window to say good-bye once more
to the pretty little girl who gave him just as
hearty a kiss as she gave to her brother.

I think she Is too old to be allowed to
kiss young men at railway stations, don't
you, Mrs. Smith ?" Mrs. Sumner said when
she described what had taken place to the
principal of Erskine College.

Betty did not hear any of the comments
that were made upon her conduct, nor the
prophecies that were delivered upon her fate
In the future If some timely check were not
put upon her propensity to flirt before it was
too late. It was simply as a pleasant companion
that she missed Arthur, and she told
him so several times In the childishly effusive
letter she wrote to thank him for a copy of
Blackmore's " Lorna Done," which, by permission
of Aunt Louise, arrived at the Chase
the day but one after the young man left.

It was after dinner on the day of their
departure that a bright idea struck Sir John.

*' Why shouldn't we all go and see them
off at Portsmouth," he said. " Let me see ;
when does the Great Pyramid sail ? You
know, Betty, Til be bound."

Betty did know ; the troopship with the
99th Dragoons on board was to sail that
very day week, the 2nd of October.

*'A11 right," said Sir John. "We'll seethe
last of them. You write for rooms,
Louise, and Llll put off the fellows who are
coming here for the list."

Betty's eyes were sparkling. *rand I may
write and tell John ?" she said.

THE SHADOW OF COMING EVENTS.

It was in the middle of September that
Arthur Filmer and Betty Erskine were rambling
together about the country, and one
beautiful evening, just about the time the
party at the Chase was sitting down to
dinner, a young man and a girl were walking
side by side along a glade in a wood, about
fifty miles from Little Centre Bridge, and the
low sun that was streaming through the
open windows of the Erskiness' dining-room,
and playing upon young John's handsome,
boyish face, was glinting through the boles
of the Stillingfort oaks and beeches, and
throwing fantastic lights and shadows upon
the uncovered head of the girl and the

brown velveteen shooting - jacket of the
man.

As young John turned away his dazzled
eyes, and suggested the letting down of a
blind, he thought how many years he had,
young as he was, been half blinded by the
sun on late summer evenings in that very
spot ; and he wondered vaguely, as people
do, what would have happened before his
next long visit to the dear old home. Of
course he would often be there again ; it was
only a question of time ; in a few years he
would be in E norland on lone: leave, and
he would find the dear old governor and
Aunt Louise just the same ; they were the
sort of people who never grow old. Betty
would be grown up, of course ; but not
married, for he must be at her wedding.

The girl, who was walking through the
woodland glade with the sunlight glinting
on her fIr hair, had never heard of the
Erskine, and yet the mysterious power

we call Destiny was already drawing her
towards them, and was about to make the
name of more Interest and Importance to her
than any name she had ever heard.

Her own name was Bella Rossltur ; she
was the daughter of Farmer Rossltur, who
was one of the principal tenants on Lord
Stilllngfort's estate, and the man beside
her was Jem Hathaway, one of his lordship's
keepers. The wood was his lordship's
property, and It was part of Jem's business
to walk through It and about It continually
at all hours of the day and night with a gun
on his shoulder. But whether It was also his
business to be accompanied, as on this particular
evening, by Farmer Rossltur's handsome
daughter, may be left an open question.

Whether It was or was not she was with
him now, and, as a matter of fact, she had
been with him almost every evening for
nearly a month. She did not 11 at home,
for she was a lady's maid, and had come

from London to say good-bye to her friends,
as she was going to India the first week in
October with her new mistress, a very young
lady who was going out to join her father.

Bella Rossitur was a remarkably handsome
girl, and it was a curious fact that there was
a certain amount of likeness between her and
the young lady by whom she had been
recently engaged. It was only when those
who knew both of them saw them apart that
the likeness was at all remarkable ; put them
side by side and it seemed to vanish altogether.
In fact it was only what has been
called a reminding resemblance. Bella was
a much finer woman than her mistress, and
she was also a little older ; but they both had
a profusion of beautiful, light, almost tiaxen
hair, and very dark eyes. The eyes of the
maid were, in some respects, more lovely
than those of the mistress, but what they had
in beauty they lacked in softness and sweetness,
and they were also a trifle bold at
VOL. I. c

times. Her lips, too, were fuller and redder,
and her nose, although the same in shape,
was much larger and more pronounced. Also
she was taller by fully an inch, and her figure
was more developed ; indeed, at that time,
the figure of her young mistress, Miss Amy
Gordon, was rather thin and willowy, but
very pretty and graceful withal.

Bella was very much pleased with her new
engagement ; she loved change and excitement,
and she knew she was sure of the
one and hoped to have the other, not only
during the voyage, but also in India. She
had a vivid imagination, and it was already
at work. Who could tell what was in store
for her. With her handsome face and fine
figure and her opportunities, she ought to be
able to attain a good position in life.

At present she had an humble victim in
Jem Hathaway. They had been little children
and boy and girl together, and he was
desperately in love with her now ; but she

was not going to marry a gamekeeper, and
besides, Jem was such an ugly fellow, not
handsome and dashing like another old friend
of hers, who happened to be in the village
just then ; a young soldier he was, too, and
he looked so bold and manly in his uniform
that the very sight of him was almost enough
to turn a girl's head.

And was it not just the oddest thing in
the world ? George Frederick Porringer 
she always spoke of him by the two names 
was not only a soldier, but an officer's
servant, and he was going with his regiment
and his master to India. It was even possible
that she and her mistress mifht sail in
the same vessel ; but she was not Qfoinor to
tell Jem anything about it, he was so jealous
there was no knowing what he might say ordo.


He was not very talkative this evening,
and she was beginning to feel bored ; if it
had been George Frederick he would not

have let such an opportunity for love-making
slip through his fingers ! She was planning
what excuse she could make to get away
when Jem spoke.

'' India's a cruel way off, Bella," he said,
** I wish you weren't going."

'* And I wish I was going tomorrow," she
answered, briskly. '' I am tired of being
here ; the first week was pleasant enough,"
and she shot a saucy look at him, '' but now
you're always grumpy and cross. I am sure
you didn't speak more than two words to me
last night when I went to take tea with your
mother, and "

Jem laughed.

What are you laughing at ?'' In a
moment the girl's handsome eyes were blazing
with anger. *' Is it because George
Frederick Porringer came with me that
you're vexed ?" she cried, in a passion.
*' How could I help that ? He told me your
mother had asked him."

'' Like his cheek !" Jem muttered. Then,
after a pause, " I tell you what it is, Bella,"
he said, and he turned and faced her, " I
won't stand being made a fool of any longer ;
you must choose between him and me. You
know well enough I don't think there's
another woman in the world like you. Stay
in England and let's get married at once ; I
can keep you almost like a lady, and I'm to
have the head-keeper's place when old Stub-sins
is pensioned off in the spring. You can
do what you like with me ; you know you
can," the poor fellow added, for something in
her face told him he was not going to win
her, and his disappointment was very bitter.

'' Like a lady," she repeated, scornfully ;
'you couldn't do that, you know, Jem, unless
you were a gentleman."

You need never do a stroke of work
unless you like, and Llll buy you a silk dress
every year."

Much obliged to you, Lm sure, Jem," she

answered, *but I couldn't marry you. I like
you well enough, but I want to see the world
and amuse myself."

*' And are you going to marry Pottlnger?"

he almost shouted. " By ," and he

swore a great oath, " if you do I'll shoot
him, or myself, for I couldn't bear to live !"

'' But he hasn't asked me ; I'll swear he
hasn't, If you like. Oh, Jem, dear Jem, for
shame to be so cross and to talk of shooting
people !" She laid her hand upon his arm
and looked up Into his face, smiling at him.

I never saw anyone so pretty as you,
Bella," he said. "I can't bear to think of
your going away among those black people.
Didn't they break out once, and kill all the
women and children ? Don't go ; even If
you won't have me, don't go."

He laid his gun on the ground, and tried
to take her in his arms. " One kiss, Bella,"
he said, 'only one, and I'll not worry you
any more."

Remember your promise," she said. She
wanted to get away from him ; someone
might be coming to look for her.

'say," he said, "it's hard, but as long as
you don't take him I'll be patient and hope."

She let him kiss her, and then, without a
word, she broke away from him and ran down
a little pathway through the tress that she
knew would lead her to her home.

In about ten days from that evening Bella
Rossitur was to go to London to enter upon
her new service, and every hour as it passed,
made poor Jem Hathaway more and more
miserable. Her assurance that she was not
going to marry Porringer had had the twofold
effect of allaying his jealousy and of
buoying up his hopes. She was only trying
him, he thought ; she did not really mean to
go away, and when the day, which she had
named as her last at home, came, she would
tell him she had changed her mind and
meant to stay with him. His hopes increased

when he found out that Porringer had gone
away, but he did not know that he had simply
left for a day or two on business, for his furlough
had not yet expired.

It was very trying, however, to note that
Bella kept out of his way ; she always had
some excuse to make for not walking with
him In the wood, and for not visiting his
mother. He went to her father's house twice
a day sometimes, but although the farmer was
civil, and Bella apparently glad to see him,
she would not promise to meet him anywhere
out of doors and alone.

Her stay at home was now very short,
and his newly-born hopes began all of a
sudden to die out rapidly. That kiss  how
the remembrance of It was cherished !  meant
nothing after all ; and yet how freely she had
given It, and how beautiful she looked as she
raised her face to his. He felt sometimes
as if he would rather kill her than lose
her.

It was the 20th of September, and on the
23rd he knew she was to go to London.
Three times during the day he went to the
farm, and the third time she told him quite
crossly that she did not mean to go out at all
that evening, and that she wished he would
mind his business and let her alone.

Shouldering his gun he turned away disconsolately,
and tramped, his heart growing
sore and angry with every step, to a distant
part of the preserves. He was on his way
home about nine o'clock, and avoiding a
short cut that he knew, he went a 
round in order to pass the spot where
his last interview with Bella had taken place,
Perhaps something had impelled her to come
out, and that he mlorht find her waiting for
him.

He came out into the glade about two
hundred yards or so from the tree under
which they were standing when he kissed
her, and by the light of the full moon he saw

she was there, but not alone. Her companion
was easily recognised by his uniform,
even if the tall upright figure, and cap
perched on three hairs, had not betrayed the
good-looking young dragoon, Pottlnger. Jem
knew that he was unobserved, so, crossing the
narrow glade he disappeared among the trees,
and worked his way noiselessly through the
brushwood until he found himself within
sight of the pair again ; within hearing, too,
for they did not speak In whispers.

He crept nearer and nearer.

And so you never told Jem I was
going to India, too ?" he heard Pottlnger say.
"What a lark! And In the same ship!
Think of that, my beauty."

Poor Jem ground his teeth as he heard the
words. How cruelly she had deceived him,
and how happy and beautiful she looked
standing there in the moonlight, with the
soldier's arm round her waist ! Hathaway
placed his gun against a tree and felt In the

breast pocket of his shooting-jacket for something
which for ten days or a fortnight past
he had carried about with him. There were
gangs of poachers In the neighbourhood, and
armed with their guns only the keepers were
apt to be at a disadvantage."

I heard from master this morning,"
Pottlnoer went on. " He's home on leave
now, and I must go over to Little Centre
Bridge, to his father's place, tomorrow; I am
to take some dogs up to town for him."

**'\Vhat Is his name ?" asked Bella.

'* Erskine. Mr. John Erskine. His father
is Sir John. I'm glad Mr. Erskine has
engaged me to wait on him ; I shan't have to
wear uniform except on parade."

"Shan't you Indeed?" cried Bella, with a
shade of disappointment in her tone ; half the
young soldier's attraction for her, had he but
known It, lay in his scarlet coat and jingling
spurs. She turned the conversation by asking
the name of the ship.

"She's called the Great Pyramid," Porringer
answered. " You will be surprised when
you see her ; she's as big as a tower. And
now look here, Bella, If I catch you flirting
with anyone on board "

'' Oh ! If you're going to be jealous like
Jem," she Interrupted 

Jem !" was the contemptuous answer.
*' What business has a fellow like that  a
common gamekeeper  to raise his eyes to a
girl like you ?"

Before the words were fairly uttered there
was a sharp report behind the speaker, and a
bullet whistled past his ear, and fell harmless.
A loud scream from Bella was followed by a
second shot, and the noise of a heavy body
falling in the brushwood. Porringer dashed
in, followed by the terrified girl, and the next
moment they were both kneeling beside the
bleeding and apparently lifeless body of poor
Jem Hathaway. In his right hand was
grasped a revolver.

As Porringer raised him he opened his
eyes, and fixed them upon his hated rival ;
then, with an effort, he turned them upon
Bella. " Curse  my curse upon you
both," he muttered ; then his head fell
back upon the soldier's arm and he was
dead.

Goaded to madness by jealousy, the
unhappy man had fired first, either at Bella
or at his rival  it was of course never known
which of them he meant to kill,  and then
shot himself Pottinoer and Bella were both

o

examined at the inquest, and the fact that the
men were rivals naturally came out and was
made the most of ; but stories of love,
jealousy, attempted murder and suicide are
not so very uncommon, and a verdict of
*' temporary insanity " was returned.

The departure of Mr. John Erskine's
soldier-servant, and of Miss Amy Gordon's
new maid, was delayed for one day only; and
it was with the remembrance of poor Jem

Hathaway's dead face and dying words to
haunt her, that Bella Rossitur began her new
life.

THE GREAT PYRAMID SAILS.

Miss Amy Gordon was extremely interested
and excited at the idea of going to India in a
troopship; her ideas on the subject of both
troops and ships were extremely vague, but
she had an idea that life on board the ship
might possibly be made more agreeable by
the presence of the troops. She had the
ordinary and commonplace love of an empty-headed
schoolgirl for red coats and military
bands ; she also loved dancing, and was not
averse to flirtation.

She did .not belong to the advanced section
of young women, and she had not the
slightest desire for the higher education we
hear so much of at present. Books, unless

they took the form of novels, she never
opened, but in the matter of dress she was
decidedly an expert. The great question 
what to wear, would occupy her for
hours, and upon her elaborate Indian outfit
days, weeks, and even months, had been
bestowed. It was now finished and packed
away in tin-lined cases ready for embarkation,
and nothing remained to be done but
to make the most of the small space left for
the garments that were to be worn during the
voyage.

It seemed, to the pretty spoiled girl, that
those in authority might have afforded her a
little more room on board the Great Pyramid,
but her petulant grumbling was of no avail,
and the amount of time she, and her clever
maid, Rossitur, spent in the stowage of
numerous articles that, in all probability,
would prove quite useless on the voyage,
was really amazing,

'' Rossitur is a treasure ! I really consider

myself very fortunate to have got her." Miss
Gordon made that remark to her aunt, Mrs.
Cartwright, with whom she was spending her
last weeks in England, several times a day.

She seems to understand her business
very thoroughly," Mrs. Cartwright answered,
"but I cannot help wishing she was a little
older, and a little less good-looking. You
are so young and pretty yourself, my dear 
and, really, when she is dressed for walking,
a stranger might take you for sisters."

Miss Amy had heard that remark before,
and she did not like it. " I do not think it is
very complimentary to me, aunt, to say I am
like my own maid," she said. '' Rossitur is
not bad-looking, I know, but I cannot see the
likeness to me."

I do not think you need expect to keep
her long, my dear. She is sure to have
plenty of admirers, and I do trust she is
steady and well-behaved."

'' Goodness, aunt, what disagreeable things

VOL. I. D

you say. She may have as many admirers
as she Hies, but I am not going to let her
marry anyone, If I can help It ; but she has a
lover already, and  Isn't It funny?  he Is
an officer's servant, and he Is coming outwith
the regiment on board the Great
Pyramid."

'' Do you mean that his master Is In the
99th?" said Mrs. Cartwright.

Now Miss Gordon was going out under
the care of the wife of the Colonel of John
Erskine's regiment, and the young lady knew
already as much as Rossltur could tell her
of Pottlnger's young master.

Mr. Erskine Is the only son of Sir
John Erskine, of the Chase  somewhere,"
Miss Amy answered. '' Very rich county
people they are. I am thinking of setting
my cap at this John Erskine If I get the
chance ! Wouldn't it be fun to arrive In
India engaged. All the men In papa's regiment
would be so awfully disappointed. And,

oh, aunt," the young lady rattled on, " do you
know that a dreadful thing happened where
Rossltur's home is, just before she came upto
town ? A man shot himself because she
wouldn't marry him, and she saw him lying
dead. Wasn't it awful ? I said to her,
What strong nerves you must have ;'
and, do you know, she turned a little pale
as she was telling me about it, and I gave
her my salts to smell. I could not help
thinking, too, how dreadful it would be if
Fred Leslie were to shoot himself on my

account."

Mrs. Cartwright smiled. '' I do not think

you need be uneasy about Mr. Leslie, my

dear," she said, ''he has not taken your

refusal very much to heart."

'' Oh, do you think so r Miss Amy said ina

disappointed tone. '' I am sure I made it

plain enough that I was only amusing myself,

but he never seemed to see it."

But when he found it out no doubt it

helped to cure him. My dear Amy, you
must not be vexed If I say that you ought to
be more careful about encouraging men for
the pleasure of refusing them. It's the most
heartless and unwomanly trick a girl can be
guilty of."

But Fred Leslie was such a donkey,
aunt !"

He Is what you call a donkey, perhaps,
but I call him a sensible and clever young
fellow."

"Then I don't like clever sensible people,"
Miss Amy said, decidedly, as she got up
and began to examine the set of her skirts
In a long mirror. " There Is something
wrong with this drapery," she said, " I know
there Is. I wonder Rossitur did not notice
the way It sticks out In one place and
falls In another; I must show It to her."
She went to the door and called " Rossitur,
Rossitur."

Coming ma'am," a voice answered from

above, and presently the girl who had walked
with poor Jem Hathaway in the Stillingfort
woods came into the room, dressed in a neat
well-cut black gown, and over it a fantastic
little muslin apron.

Mrs. Cartwright looked curiously at mistress
and maid as they stood side by side
before the mirror. "They are not so much
alike when they are together," she said to
herself, "and I declare, I think Rossitur is
by far the handsomer of the two."

And now it is the 30th of September, and
on the 2nd of October the magnificent ship,
the Great Pyramid, is to sail for Bombay
with the 99th Dragoons on board. There is
business and bustle afloat and ashore ; the
last horse has been safely shipped, but the
baggage is not yet all stowed away. The
poop of the huge vessel is bright with ladies'
dresses, there is a buzz of conversation
mingled with gay laughter, and the sailors

are flitting about hither and thither as 
bees

A voyage to India now is more Hke a prolonged
pic-nic than an actual voyage ; and so
the men and women felt who were to make
their home on board the Great Pyramid for
the next few weeks, while those who were
left behind felt but a passing regret. It was
such an easy matter to go backwards and
forwards that it was absurd to grieve over
the temporary separation.

Sir John Erskine, Betty, and Aunt Louise
had arrived from the Chase a couple of days
before, and taken up their quarters at an
hotel, and Betty had already explored every
nook and corner of the big ship, under the
guidance of her friend Arthur Filmer. The
girl was wild with delight, and the excitement
and novelty of the scene ; and she asked so
many questions that it was fortunate for
her guide that she rarely waited for an
answer.

Sir John was the only one of the party
who was not in good spirits ; now that the
moment of parting with his son was so near
he felt sad and depressed, and unable to
shake off a vague presentiment of evil. But
he did his best to seem cheerful, and to laugh
and talk with the rest, and many times he
stopped short when he caught himself saying
to himself, as he looked at John: "Who
knows ? Perhaps I may never see him

adam.

The young man was touched and subdued,
too ; his father's low spirits infected him, but
he was determined not to break down.

There is one lovely girl on board," he
said, when they were all at dinner at the
hotel on the last evening. '' She came from
London late this afternoon with our Colonel's
wife, but they went to their cabins at once,
so I only caught a glimpse of such a pair of
eyes !"

"And, by Jove!" said Arthur Filmer, "the

maid Is as handsome as the mistress. You
didn't see her, did you, Jack ?"

'*No ; but Pottlnger, my man, knows her.
I asked him if he knew who the young lady
was who was going out with the Colonel's
wife, and somehow the fellow gave me to
understand that the maid came from his part
of the world, and I have an Idea that she's
his sweetheart. I don't envy her If she
marries Pottlnger. He's a queer fish, but a
capital servant."

'' And he has deuced good taste If he
wants to marry that young woman I saw
looking after the cabin trunks," said Filmer;
"she's a regular stunner and no mistake."

'' Remember, you must tell us all about
the young lady when you write. Jack," said
Betty. " But you must not fall In love with
her, you know, for we all expect you to marry
Lucy Knolls when you come home."

Be quiet, Betty," said her father. 'you
should not mention names."

Oh, Arthur knows all about It," said the
little lady, quite unabashed. " Don't you,
Arthur?"

The last evening passed all too quickly.
The father and son took a quiet stroll
together after dinner ; Arthur and Betty
played a game of chess, and Aunt Louise sat
near, as In duty bound, and fell asleep In her
chair. By noon next day the last good-byes
were spoken, and amid the ringing cheers of
friends and Idle spectators on shore, and the
strains of " God save the Queen " and '' Auld
Lang Syne," played alternately by the regimental
band on board, the Great Pyramid
steamed away from the dockyard jetty.

As long as the figures of the two young
men were discernible Aunt Louise and Betty
waved their handkerchiefs and kissed their
hands. Sir John strained his eyes after the
vessel, but somehow she looked all blurred
and indistinct to him. He felt, too, an unaccountable
lump In his throat, and It seemed

as if it was the face of the lad's mother he
saw before him.

Was it really a presentiment ? Was It
fated that he was not to see his son again 
poor Bonny's boy ? The mist before his
eyes grew thicker, and then he could no
longer hide that it was caused by tears.

He felt as if he must break down when
Betty touched his arm. " Oh, papa," she
said, "do take the opera glass and look at
the pretty girl who is standing beside Jack
now."

FIRE AND SMOKE.

It is the most insolent, the most audacious

thing I ever heard in all my life."

It was Sir John Erskine who spoke, and it

was to the Vicar of Little Centre Bridge 

Dr. Murray, that he addressed himself. But,

although he had but one auditor, the majority

of Sir John's friends and acquaintances in the

town would have echoed his speech with

emphasis.

The occasion, or rather the circumstance,

that drew it forth was this : The Conservative
member for the southern division of
Stoneshire, in which Little Centre Bridge
was situated, had died suddenly ; Sir John, a
sound Tory of the old-fashioned type, was

asked to stand In the dead man's room ; and,
after a little demur, he consented. He had
no great desire for public life, and, above
all things, he abhorred party strife, but he
thought It was clearly his duty to come
forward now. And, besides, It might be a
good thing to keep the seat warm for young
John. He might, perhaps, like to step Into
it when he came home.

Everyone said there would be no contest 
that Sir John would have a walk over ; but
suddenly a rumour began to circulate In the
town that the Liberals were about to start a
candidate  an out and out Radical, people
said  who was prepared to go all lengths,
and to promise anything and everything In
order to gain the seat. For a long time Sir
John scoffed at the Idea that the other side
really meant to oppose him. He was aware
that for some years past Liberalism had been
spreading in the country, and that In Great
Centre Bridge especially there were several

influential people who had deserted the old
Tory side ; but that he, an Erskine, should
encounter serious opposition was monstrous.

It was over three full years since John had
gone to India with his regiment, and he was
not yet complaining of the climate or thinking
of getting leave. On the contrary, India was
still to him the most delightful place he had
ever been in, and the three years had passed
with almost incredible swiftness. At the
Chase they had, naturally, been slower in
their flight and less exciting. At their close,
Sir John perhaps looked a little older, a little
more bald on the top of his head ; was a little
slower in his movements, and perhaps a little
more inclined to drop asleep over a book ;
but it was in Betty that the greatest alteration
was visible. The pretty, merry child was
now a lovely, high-spirited girl  healthy,
happy, and as light-hearted and full of mischief
as when she was but ten years old.

She had not been very carefully educated,

but then, as she was not specially intellectual,
what was the use of cramming her her father
said. She had had, since her brother went
away, the advantage of masters at Mrs.
Dysart-Smith's college, and ]airs. Smith was
very proud indeed of the fact that Sir John
Erskine allowed his daughter to attend select
classes  she took care that the classes were
very select  at her establishment.

The Erskiness were almost as sacred in the
eyes of Mrs. Dysart-Smith as the tooth of
Buddha is to his devoted followers ; so when
she heard that Sir John was to be opposed
by a Radical candidate, she was perfectly
furious, and she stirred up all the ladies of
the town into the most vigorous partisanship
of the Tory side.

The time seems favourable for a brief description
of the town of Little Centre Bridge,
novv- that it is about to be disturbed by the
turmoil of a contested election ; but it has not
many peculiarities to distinguish it from other

country towns of the same size and importance.
Perhaps the most notable thing about
it is the fact that the wide gates, with the
*' Erskine lion rampant" upon the posts, that
stood at the end of the long avenue, and shut
in Sir John's beautiful park, opened upon the
High Street, and that the picturesque old
red brick Manor House itself was visible
from all the principal parts of the town.

Opposite the entrance gate of the Chase
was the Parish Church  a beautiful old
building, coeval with the Manor House, and
scarcely less reverenced by the inhabitants
of Little Centre Bridge than the Erskiness
themselves, who. for generations past, had
had the presentation to the living.

The High Street was fairly wide and
imposing, and not unpicturesque from the
irregularity of the houses. It was plentifully
lined with shops, that put on at certain
seasons of the year quite the West-endows
London style in the dressing of their

windows. There were, besides, numerous
smaller streets, which were wholly without
the great pretensions of the principal
thoroughfare. But, notwithstanding their
rather humble appearance, there were people
who said that goods of a better class could
be bought in them than in the more showy-establishments.


Miss Lambton, it was well known, scarcely
ever shopped in the High Street ; but the
carriage and horses from the Chase were
often to be seen at Simpson', the drapers,
in Manor Road. To be sure the Post Office
was in High Street, and she was very often
there ; but then nothing was sold at the Post
Office except stationery and the London
weekly papers.

At the end of the High Street nearest to
the Church, stood the Young Ladies' College,
presided over by Mrs. Dysart- Smith. She
was a portly and imposing woman, who
swept up to her pew in church with as

majestic an air as If the eyes of Europe were
upon her ! Even the most ungainly of the
young ladies under her charge could not fail
to acquire some dignity of carriage from
the constant contemplation of Mrs. Dysart-
Smith's movements ; she was a living lesson
in deportment, and as she never, so to speak,
stood at ease, she could be studied every day
and all day long.

The Rectory was not where one would
expect to find it, near the church, but it
was very near Mrs. Dysart-Smith's college ;
indeed from the upper windows of that establishment
it was possible to look over the tall
hedge that shut out the road, and so right
down into the Rector's pretty garden. Even
the peaches could be seen ripening upon the
south wall, and the cook and the gardener
detected in a flirtation as they pulled the peas
for the Rector's dinner.

Dr. Murray was a bachelor, and the
gossips of Little Centre Bridge had grown

VOL. I. E

tired of selecting a suitable wife for him.
They had once started the idea that he was
in love with Miss Lambton and afraid to propose
for her. That delusion lasted two years
or more ; then It was suddenly dropped, and
the prevailing belief was that the Rector did
not know his own mind ; and, that being the
case, how was it possible for anyone to know
it for him ?

Dr. Murray was decidedly the most popular
man In the parish ; not perhaps because he
was clever; an excellent preacher, and a hard
worker, but because he was a bachelor. The
rector of any given parish may be obstinate,
dogmatic, self-sufficient and ignorant ; he
may mumble in the desk and roar in the
pulpit, but. If he Is a bachelor, or a widower,
his shortcomings will be overlooked. If not
wholly ignored, by every one of his parishioners
of the better class, if they have
daughters to marry.

It has already been stated that the people

of Little Centre Bridge took a great interest
in everything directly or indirectly connected
with the Erskine family ; indeed they were
considered as much public property as the
old town pump. But of late the family maybe
said to have distanced the pump, for the
supply of water yielded by the latter had
been condemned by the local officers of
health as unfit for use ; so the handle of the
pump had been removed by order, and the
occupation of the pump was gone.

But no matter what amount of decadence
moral or physical, a county family may suffer
from, it cannot be suppressed by any board
In the world, and It may safely be said that If
the Erskine family, or any member of it,
had fallen into evil ways, the interest taken In
them generally, and In the erring member in
particular, would have increased rather than
diminished. Everyone in the town, from the
highest to the lowest, liked to see Miss
Lambton borne about the streets lnjjl|}rge,' p ilhiqu



well-appointed barouche, drawn by the handsome
dappled greys. The meek little lady
always looked lost in the big roomy carriage;
even her little niece Betty, who fidgeted
about with her back to the horses, and
knocked her aunt's many parcels down into
the bottom of the carriage  Miss Lambton
always had a great deal of shopping to do 
seemed much bigger and more imposing than
the grown up woman, who would have been
more at home in a donkey chair.

Now that Betty was eighteen, and quite a
grown up young lady, she had a pretty little
pony carriage of her own. It was a tiny thing
drawn by a pair of animals scarcely bigger
than dogs, and called by their young mistress
by the ridiculous names of Fire and Smoke.
Aunt Louise was too nervous to trust herself
to the little pair ; she preferred the greys and
the steady old coachman, who had driven her
for years, and Sir John was too big, he said,
for the pony carriage ; he had no room for

his legs. So Miss Betty drove about alone ;
sometimes she took the smallest and lightest
of the grooms with her on the back seat, but,
as a rule, she went out by herself. '' I want
to meet with an adventure, if I can," she
often said, " but Fire and Smoke are much to
steady to give me an opportunity."

Betty was very much interested in the
coming election, and extremely angry with
the Liberal candidate who had started up to
oppose her father. When she heard that he
had actually arrived in Little Centre Bridge,
and taken rooms at the New Hotel, near the
railway station  it was not likely that he
would patronise the Erskine Arms, in the
High Street  she declared that, by hook or
by crook, she must see him.

'' What do Radicals look like, papa r she
said, when she told him the news of Mr.
Otway's arrival in the town. '' I want to be
able to know the man if I happen to meet
him. Are they always short and fat, or tall

and thin ? I saw a fat stumpy man, a
stranger, at the Post Office this morning, and
I was sure It was Mr. Otway, but they told
me he was a traveller In the paper line."

"Dr. Murray says Otway Is a good-looking
fellow of about thirty," said Sir John, "and a
barrister In very good practice."

"Then he Is a gentleman," put In Miss
Lambton. " I am glad they have not
brought down a soap boiler or a tallow
chandler to oppose you, John."

I do not see that It makes much difference,
myself," Sir John answered. " The
mischief Is In the opposition, not the man""

Days passed, but no one at the Chase had
seen Mr. Otway, although more than enough
had been heard. He had spoken at public
meetings In both Great and Little Centre
Bridge, but, of course, his own followers only
had been present, and the general Impression
was that he had disappointed expectation.
He had not said exactly what people wanted

to hear, and he had been very guarded In
the matter of promises. Betty was as much
disappointed as anyone ; she had been hoping
for a fierce attack upon her father, and Mr.
Otway had not once mentioned his opponent's
name.

About two days after the meeting she was
driving home rather late In the afternoon ; It
was early spring-time, and the lamps were
already lighted In the streets, and there were
a great many people about. There was a
fresh wind blowing In Betty's face, and It
gave her a brilliant colour ; she was also a
little flurried, for Fire and Smoke, who had
been left standing at a shop door much
longer than they liked, were rather out of
temper and inclined to be troublesome.

Betty, who did not approve of insubordination,
except In herself, touched them up
freely with the whip, and, as luck would
have it, just as she turned them Into High
Street, they nearly ran Into a German band

that was braying before the Erskine Arms.
There was a stampede and some profane
language. Fire and Smoke got restive, and
presently Betty found that they had left the
road and were cleverly backing the little
carriage up to the plate - glass window of
Mr. Carat, watchmaker and jeweller.

"And he is on the Radical side!" she
thought, as she shut her eyes and waited to
hear the crash. But no crash was heard, and
when she looked again she saw that a man
was leading the ponies out of danger. She
was so nervous she did not observe him
very closely, but she thought he was rather
forward, for, having piloted the little carriage
into the middle of the street, he quietly
stepped into it, seated himself beside her,
took the reins and dashed off at a smart pace,
saying as he did so, '' It is rather dark ; allow
me to drive you home."

He evidently knew who she was, for when
they reached the big gates opposite the

church  they always stood open in the daytime
 he turned in quite naturally, and
whipped Fire and Smoke up the long avenue
in fine style.

Sir John chanced to be standing on the
steps smoking. " Hallo, Betty !" he said.

"Oh, papa!" she cried, jumping out and
running to him. " I have had an adventure
at last ! Smoke has been so naughty. There
was a horrid German band, and he backed
nearly into Mr. Carat's shop, and this  this
gentleman was kind enough to help me. I
am so much obliged to you," she added,
turning to the stranger, who was in the act
of giving up the ponies and carriage to a
groom.

Sir John was not ungrateful, but, at the
same time, the fellow seemed rather officious.
Did he expect to be asked to dinner that he
was standing there? "My daughter is very
much obliged to you for your timely assistance,
sir," he said, with genuine British

frigidity. '' May I ask to whom we have
the honour of being Indebted ."

*' My name Is Otway," the stranger answered
; and, having spoken, he slightly
raised his hat and walked away.

"The Liberal candidate, as I live!" cried
Sir John. " Now, what am I to do ?"

And Mr. Otway, who was but a few paces
off, heard the exclamation, and laughed softly
to himself " Liberal or Illiberal," he said,
'' I mean to see that sweet face again."

HIS enemy's daughter.
I consider it a most unfortunate occurrence,"
said Sir John, 'most unfortunate in
every way." Again Dr. Murray, the Rector
of Little Centre Bridge, was the friend to
whom he confided his woes.

"To think," Sir John went on, "that of
all the men in the world he should be the one
to help Betty with her ponies. She declares
now that he saved her life. It is very unfortunate
!"

That her life was saved ?" said Dr.
Murray, slyly. "Come, come, Erskine ; you
know you would rather lose your election
than your daughter."

"But there was no question of lives at all,"

replied Sir John, who was rather matter-of-fact.
'there was no danger; he says so
himself. It's all that ridiculous child. She
wants to make him out a hero."

'' Oh, you have seen him since it happened
then ?"

'* I have just been to call upon him. What
a row there will be in the place when it gets
out, and it's sure to get out ; everything does
here. They never gave me peace or rest
until I promised to call and thank him." Sir
John had looked in at the Rectory on his way
back from the New Hotel. " Miss Lambton
was just as bad as Betty ; they said it would
look so pointed if I did not call. I don't care
a rap how it looks, but I do not want to
behave like a cad because the fellow has
set up for the county ; and now the
women want me to be civil to him, and
that means asking him to dinner ! What
do you say, Murray? Would you ask him
to dinner?"

I think you might venture ; he will
refuse."

I am not so sure of that. He said he
did not see why our opinions should keep us
from being friends, and that for his part he
was opposed in politics to some of his nearest
relations."

He said that!" said Dr. Murray, opening
his eyes.

'' And plenty more of the same kind. I
wish I knew what to do ; the man is a gentleman,
but it will never do for me to get into
hot water with everyone because he kept
those confounded ponies from backing into
Carat's shop. Who are the Otwayss ? Do
you know ."

''I do not think they are anyone in particular.
I believe this man's father was a great
railway-carriage contractor or something of
that kind ; he did not leave as much money
behind him as people expected, but still he
did not die poor. The eldest son went into

the army, I think, and this man is a barrister
in good practice."

'' Has he a wife?" asked Sir John. *' It
woukl make things easier if he was a married
man."

'' How ?" asked the Rector. " You do not
want to be civil to her, do you ? Oh," as
an idea struck him, "you are thinking of
Betty."

The next thing Dr. Murray heard about
the matter that so perplexed his friend and
neighbour at the Chase was contained in a
note from Sir John. It was really an invitation
to dinner, and he was asked to meet Mr.
Herbert Otway, the Liberal candidate for
Stoneshire.

Betty had carried the day, as she generally
did when her wishes and those of her father
clashed. She had made up her mind that, in
spite of political differences and the impending
election, Otway was to be asked to dinner
and treated as a friend instead of an enemy,

and Sir John, after a short struggle, succumbed.


'you must come and see me through it,
Murray," he wrote. 'you know I dare not
ask any of my supporters in the county to
meet him."

If he hoped to keep the matter secret he
was disappointed. In the broad day, of
course  for gentlemen do not make visits of
ceremony at night  Mr. Otway returned Sir
John's call the very day after it was made ;
and as he was turning in at the hospitable,
open gates, he was seen by no less a person
than Mrs. Dysart-Smith. She was on her
way to see little Miss Masham, a maiden
lady who lived all alone in a little cottage on
the London Road, outside the town.

"Quite true  perfectly true, I assure you,"
Mrs. Smith said, as she sipped her tea and
nodded at Miss Masham. " I saw him pass
through the gate and walk on towards the
house. Now, could he have been going to

make a call, or was he going to see Sir John
on business ?"

** Suppose we send to the Chase and inquire
?" said Miss Masham, In a dry way
peculiar to her ; and It was a way that perplexed
the gossips of Little Centre Bridge
very n'luch Indeed.

Mrs. Smith got very red. 'you are so
matter of fact, dear," she said.

Mr. Otway did not find Sir John at home,
but he boldly asked for Miss Lambton, and
was shown Into Aunt Louise's favourite little
sitting-room. Betty was with her aunt, and
the Radical candidate had, at first, only a
confused sense of a quantity of sweet-scented
spring flowers, of canaries In cages ; of a
pretty elderly woman, with soft white lace
about her head and face, and of the young
lady whose ponies he had taken In hand In
the street. He did not know what the ladles
said or what he replied.

Surely the girl was the prettiest creature

he had ever seen. Tall, but scarcely looking
her height, she was so finely proportioned,
with a singularly well-shaped head, set on a
beautiful full throat. She had sunny hair,
brilliant eyes, a matchless complexion, and a
smile that brought dimples in its train. Herbert
Otway, who called himself a sensible
elderly man at eight-and-twenty, felt, as he
looked at her, that his head and his heart
were both in peril.

"And she is my enemy's daughter," he
said to himself. "At least, I suppose Sir
John is my enemy."

He spent an agreeable hour with the two
ladies, but it was Betty who took the chief
part in the entertainment. Miss Lambton,
always rather shy, was unusually so in the
presence of this interloper who had come to
oppose her brother-in-law, who was never
opposed by anyone except his daughter.
And now Betty was chattering away like a
bird, and Otway listened and followed her

VOL. I. F

about to look at the hyacinths and the
canaries, and Aunt Louise thought how very
childish she was, and she was rather surprised
that a full-grown man could be so
attracted and pleased.

Had she known it, Otway was simply fascinated.
Never had he heard anything so
delicious as the soft babble that flowed from
Betty's pretty mouth. But, allured as he was,
he kept himself well in hand ; he never lost
sight of the fact that Sir John Erskine's
house was the last house in Little Centre
Bridge he ought to enter as a visitor, and
Sir John's daughter one of the few women in
the place with whom he ought to hold no
familiar intercourse.

And so it happened that Sir John's fear of
getting into hot water with his constituents
was unfounded. Otway sent a courteous
refusal to the Invitation to dine at the Chase,
and when he called again he simply left his
card. No one knew what It cost him to

refuse and to turn away from the door, but
he knew It was the right thing to do, and soit
was done.

There had been some unprecedented delay
In the Issuing of the new writ for Stoneshire ;
In fact the announcement of the sittlnor

o

member's death was premature, but now he
was really dead, and the date of the nomination
was fixed. Mr. Otway had been busy
with his canvass, and his followers were
certain of victory ; the only thing they had to
complain of was a certain lukewarmness In
their candidate. The news of his visit to the
Chase had got wind, and been duly magnified,
and he was reminded more often than he
liked that he was tampering with the enemy.
But although he had not been a second
time In Miss Lambton's sitting-room, he had
seen Betty very often. Indeed, It was quite
remarkable how often he contrived to come
across Fire and Smoke and their bewitching
mistress in the streets of the town. A word

or two might be exchanged ; perhaps only a
bow and a smile, and Otway would go about
his business with his mind full of the bright
eyes of his political enemy's daughter.

What would he have said had he known
the great project that was maturing in her
foolish little head ? She had actually made
up her mind to see Mr. Otway and to ask
him to retire from the contest for Stoneshire.
A more absurd idea could scarcely have
entered the girl's mind ; but there it was,
and she was determined to carry it out. She
saw that her father was worried and vexed,
and she thought if only Otway would give
up his canvass, all the trouble would be over.

But to carry out her project safely and in
secret was not so easy ; she could not talk to
Otway about it in the street, and he never
came to the Chase. Why should she not ask
him to come ? But then Aunt Louise, or
perhaps her father himself, would find out all
about it, and interfere with her plan and prevent

it from being carried out. Then she
thought of writing to him ; but she knew
that she could not express herself fluently on
paper, and she had, besides, a vague idea
that Otway might find it more difficult to
resist a personal appeal than a written one.

Suddenly it occurred to her, and how bitterly
she regretted the impulse when it was
too late, to go to him. She had not the
faintest idea that It might be considered a
bold step for her to take, even by Otway
himself. She was Miss Erskine, and If she
wanted to see anyone  even the Liberal
candidate for Stoneshire  on business, why
should she not see him ? It was a mere
matter of business, after all. Accordingly,
the day but one before the nomination was to
take place, she ordered the ponies and drove
away through the town to the New Hotel,
which was close to the railway station. It
was not a part of Little Centre Bridge that she
knew very well, and it was crowded with coal

trucks and waggons, and there were a great
many rough-looking and idle people about.

But Fire and Smoke were unusually well
behaved, and the people made way for the
dainty little carriage driven by the pretty
girl ; and, although she was not recognised
as she would have been in the High Street,
she created quite a sensation as she drove upto
the door of the New Hotel. She was not
nervous, but she felt a little confused when
she saw a group of men standing at the hotel
door, talking, laughing and smoking ; a sudden
silence fell upon them as the carriage
stopped  that was satisfactory so far  and,
also, one or two of them took out their cigars,
but they all stared and looked surprised.

Betty felt that the sooner she was under
cover the better ; so beckoning to a man, who
looked like a helper in the stables, to stand
at the ponies' heads, she got out and went
into the hotel. But it was not empty and
quiet inside as she hoped ; very unlike indeed

to the hall of the Erskine Arms. There were
more men standing about talking and smoking
; and how they did stare ! She began to
feel uncomfortable. A waiter came up, and
nerving herself for the effort, for she felt it
was an effort now, Betty asked If Mr. Otway
was in the house. She could not help noticing
that as she spoke, the men looked at one
another, and one man actually laughed outright
and tried to turn it off with a cough,
while a second asked, audibly, "Who is she,
does anyone know ?"

The waiter replied that Mr. Otway was
upstairs In his room, and, was It possible ? 
did he put his hand to his mouth to hide a
smile ? Betty flushed to the very roots of
her hair, and drew herself up. She was
afraid she had made a mistake.

"What name, miss ." the waiter asked.

Never mind my name," she said, " show
me up," and the next moment she was on the
stairs, and had left the staring men behind.

It seemed to her that she went honor miles

o

of corridors, but, at last, the waiter stopped
before a door, threw it open with a flourish
and announced, ''A lady for you, sir."

Betty passed into a sitting-room and found
herself face to face with a man she had never
seen before.

He was seated at a table, writing, and a
greater contrast to Otway could scarcely be
imagined. He was, perhaps, strictly speaking,
a handsomer man, but his good looks
were of the barber's block type, and he was
dressed in a flashy suit of plaid garments, the
like of which Betty had never seen before.
She halted suddenly when she caught sight
of him ; the light from the window fell full
upon her ; the young man at the table got up
in a great hurry, and uttered the ejaculation
"By Jove," in a loud voice, as he
advanced to the unexpected visitor.

Betty had never looked prettier ; a little
black velvet hat threw a most becoming shade

Upon her flushed face, and the perfectly-made
dark-green ulster showed her beautiful figure
to the greatest advantage ; but the youth in
the plaid suit had not perception enough to
detect that, in spite of the equivocal aspect
of the situation, she was not of his own kind.

Fine day, miss !" he said, with what he
meant to be a killing look.

*' Is Mr. Otway not here ? I want to see
him," Betty answered. She tried to speak ina
dignified and business-like manner, but her
voice trembled in spite of all her efforts and
she felt as if she was Qroino: to faint.

'' Oh, that's the lite Frame, is it ?" the
young man said. "We want Otway, do
we ? Well, he's out for the day, but I'm
left in charge to see anyone who comes on
business, you know. But you don't want
to see him on business, I'm sure. An
appointment, and he forgot the day. What
a blooming shame ! If it had been yours
truly, now ! Who shall I say called, miss ?"

Betty gave him a look that ought to
have abashed him, but he was too obtuse
to notice It, and she was on the point of
saying, " Tell him Miss Erskine called,"
when It dawned upon her, foolish as she
was and Ignorant of the ways of the world
that she ought not to give her name. In
turning the matter over In her mind, she
actually forgot her perplexity for a moment.
To mention her name would, of course, at
once reduce this Impertinent creature to his
proper level, but, then, It might also be
awkward for her father, or someone. She
knew now she was In a false position,
although she scarcely knew how false It was
and how full of danger.

But Otway's representative. If Indeed he
had that post, gave no time for reflection.
Here was a pretty girl In his chiefs room Ina
public hotel ; she had called to see him
either by appointment or on chance  which
was It? But, perhaps  happy thought

Otway had made an appointment without
intending to keep it, and he had meant the
temporary occupant of his room to make the
most of the piece of good luck that had fallen
ill his way ; and no one had ever been able to
say of him that he had failed to make the
most of his opportunities. He pulled up his
collar ; took a look at himself in the mirror
over the mantelpiece, gave a smirk at the
reflection, and advanced to Betty, bent on
conquest. Almost before she realised that he
was so close to her, his arm was round her
waist, but what happened mtxt she scarcely
knew ; she struggled to escape with all her
mioht, but he would not let her oo ; then she
heard rapid steps coming along the corridor,
the door was dashed open, and Otway stood
on the threshold.

*' You here, Miss ?" and there he

stopped. Betty remembered afterwards that
he did not mention her name.

THE LIBERAL CANDIDATE IN DANGER.

But the sudden pause did not strike her at
the moment, for she all but fainted, and, as
she lay in a state of half-consciousness on the
sofa to which Otway half-led and half-supported
her, she heard the sound of his voice
as he spoke angrily to the man who had
Insulted her. What the one said and the
other replied she did not know. He had
saved her by his timely arrival from further
contact with that vulgar, insolent creature ;
but she was not yet out of the scrape she
had got herself into by her thoughtlessness.
Presently she heard the door of the room
open and close ; she knew that she and
Otway were alone, and never In the course

of her short life had she felt so small or so
ashamed. Was the man laughing at her, or
pitying her, or did he think she had gone out
of her mind ? She glanced at him shyly ; he
looked very grave, or, as the silly girl put it,
cross. Now, no one was ever cross with her,
no matter how naughty she was ; and, although
in her heart she knew she had been
guilty of the most foolish act she had, up to
the present, been guilty of, she did not want
to be looked at as if she were a criminal. So
her red lips began to quiver ; her eyes brimmed
over with big tears, and Otway was instantly
vanquished ! He went to her, took her little
handkerchief from the breast pocket of her
ulster, wiped away the tears that were running
down her soft, round cheeks, and whispered,
Oh, please, don't cry. It was all my
fault."

But of course she sobbed the more. " I
came  I came  to  to ask you not  not to
go on with  with the election ; and you

weren't here, and that dreadful man
frightened me so."

Otway did not know what she meant by
wanting him not to go on with the election,
but he did know that he was desperately,
madly, in love with her, and that if he did
not keep a firm hand upon himself he must
betray what he felt.

How am I to get away?" she whispered,
presently. " Are all those horrid men still in
the hall ."

The question of getting her away was the
very one that was perplexing Otway at the
moment  or that would have perplexed him
If he had not been fighting a hard battle with
the passion that was struggling for utterance ;
and every glance from Betty's lovely, tear-washed
eyes made the victory less easy to
win. At last he resolutely turned his own
eyes from her face, and calmness came back
to him in a measure, as he began to walk up
and down the room.

*' How did you come ?" he said, at last, and
his voice was as matter of fact as if he had
been addressing a constituent.

''I drove the ponies. Did you not see the
carriage at the door ?"

No ; it wasn't there. Perhaps someone
was driving the ponies about. You brought
a groom, I suppose ."

'' No ; I told a man in the street to hold
their heads."

Oh ; it's all right then. What would
you like to do ?" He was back again at her
side, but he had himself well in hand now,
and felt that he might venture upon the
luxury of looking at her. He knew she
ought to go at once ; that every moment she
stayed added to the difficulties of the situation,
but he longed to detain her just a few
minutes more, in order that he might hear
why she had come. "You are a little shaken
still," he said. '* May I not get you a glass
of wine ?"

'' Oh, no, no, thank you ! I really must go

now ; but I want to tell you oh, don't

you want to know, Mr. Otway, why I came
to see you ?"

'' I want to know very much," he said,
smiling. '* It Is a great honour, and I cannot
tell you how grieved I am that I happened
to be out when you came. It was very, very
unfortunate, too, that young Brandon, who Is
acting as a sort of secretary to me just now,
chanced to be here ; but I made It all right
with him. He does not know who you are."

'' But he can find out. Everyone knows
the ponies !" cried Betty. " I told him I
came to see you on business ; but he did not
seem to understand. You know I came on
business, don't you, Mr. Otway ? What else
should I have come for ?"

I am quite sure It was on business you
came," he answered, gravely.

But you think I ought not to have come
even for that I" she cried, petulantly. ''I

never thought of anything but my business.
There was nothing else to think of; at least
there was nothing until all those horrid men
stared at me In the hall !"

"And will you not tell me the business
now.'" Otway said, quietly. " Sit down for
just five minutes and tell me all about It from
the beorlnnlno. You want me to do something
for you."

He made her sit down again, and placed
himself beside her, but he kept his eyes fixed
upon the buttons of her ulster, or upon the
little hands folded together on her lap ; anywhere
except on her face. He could not
trust himself to look at the sweet rosy mouth
and the brilliant eyes.

I came to ask you," she began, and she
heaved a great sigh as she spoke, " not to goon
with the election, if you wouldn't mind.
I am afraid It is a great deal to ask, but isn't
there some other place you could be a member
of parliament for ? A place that a per-vol.
I. 

son like papa did not want to be a member
for, too ?"

'ein short, you want your father to be the
member  you do not want me at all. I may
go back to London, and no one In Stoneshire
or Centre Bridge will care a brass button If
they never hear of me again !"

I should care ever so much more than a
brass button," replied Betty, 'for I should
say to myself every day that you were the
kindest and most good-natured man I ever
met.

"You would say that every day, regularly?"
said Otway. " I think you would get tired."

No, I am sure I shouldn't."

"And you think that would repay me forgiving
up the election ?" he went on. " I am
afraid I should want something more  from
you." For half a second he laid his fingers
lightly on the little, gloved hand, and looked
for about the same time Into her eyes, tiers
did not fall.

'' From me?" she repeated. " But I have
nothing of my own to give you, except the
ponies."

I do not want the ponies, thank you," he
said. " Neither can I promise all at once to
give up the election. I do not care so very
much about it myself, but 1 have promised
other people who have been working for me,
you know."

But they would all vote for papa if you
were gone," said Betty. "And then you
know," she added, *you could be such good
friends with all of us at the Chase, if you
were not the Liberal candidate ; you could
come and see the canaries again, and I would
sing for you, and "

"You would?" cried Otway. ''Oh, Miss

Erskine Betty Hallo! What is all

this going on outside ?"

The window of the room overlooked the
street. Otway went to it and glanced out fora
moment, half-relieved and half-vexed at

the sudden Interruption. Another second
and words Impossible to recall, and, under
the circumstances, dishonourable to utter,
would have fallen from him.

When he came back to her, Otway was
looking very grave. " Your father has just
ridden up," he said, " and recognised the
ponies."

Something in the speaker's tone struck the
girl. " Is he  Is he angry ?" she said.
What had I better do ?"

He may be surprised ; there Is nothing
to make him angry. Shall I "

Before the sentence was finished. Sir
John's voice was heard In the corridor, and
it seemed as If he were speaking loudly with
a purpose. '* I know Miss Erskine is expecting
me," they heard him say, "what
number Is it ?"

The next moment he was In the room, and
the door was shut behind him. His face
was livid with passion, and his eyes were

ablaze. But it was not at his face Betty
looked. She saw only the riding-whip so
firmly grasped in his right hand.

Papa ! papa !" she cried, and caught hold
of his arran.

But he pushed her from him. "You 
you infernal scoundrel !" he exclaimed. Before
Otway was aware of his intention, Sir
John had him by the collar, and, if the upraised
arm had not been deftly caught by the
young man, a stinging cut from the whip
would have fallen on him between the
shoulders.

If you were not her father," he said, ashe
wrenched himself free, " I'd knock you
down where you stand."

THE NOMINATION.

*' I KNOW I made a fool of myself," said Sir
John, " but what would you have a man do
when he finds his daughter tete-astute with a
fellow he knows nothing about ? I am sure
you would have horse-whipped him."

'' Not until I had asked him a question or
two," said the Rector.

To Dr. Murray, as usual, Sir John had
confided his troubles ; they were rather
serious on this occasion, and poor Sir John
was walking up and down the Rector's study
with a rueful expression on his ruddy face.
I suppose it is all over the place," he said
at last.

Yes ; I am afraid there is a good deal of

gossip, as usual, and many different versions
of the affair. One is that you belaboured
him to such an extent that he was carried
fainting to bed ; another, that you and he
fought it out there and then, and that you
are unpresentable with a black eye ; a third,
that you found him at the railway station
about to elope with Betty."

"Oh, confound it; that is the worst of
all !" cried Sir John.

"And that you kicked him from one end
of the platform to the other."

Sir John threw up his hands. "What is
to be done ?" he said.

I think you and Betty and Mr. Otway
had better be seen together in public as soon
as possible. To-morrow is the nomination ;
take her with you, and shake hands with
Otway before everyone."

But what will our side say if they see me
fraternising with the Liberal candidate ."

Very true," said the Rector. " And it is

the gossips here we want to silence. In all
probability the Great Centre Bridge people
will not hear of the affair. Suppose you just
take no notice. What matter what people
say ?"

' But I am afraid poor Betty will be talked
about."

'* She must live it down, too. And now,
would you mind telling me what she went to
Otway's rooms for ?"

She went to ask him, if you please, to
resign  to give up the election and allow
me to have a walk-over. Did you ever hear
of such a thing ? But he is a gentleman,
Murray, and no mistake about it. He
behaved so well ; made me understand, as
soon as I had the sense to listen, how it all
came about -and if Betty had been the
Princess Royal he could not have been more
deferential  more anxious to smooth over her
absurd indiscretion. By Jove," and Sir John
broke into a little nervous laugh, " I am

afraid the fellow has fallen In love with the
child."

''Oh, never mind that," said the Rector,
*ras long as she does not take a fancy to
him."

'but you never can tell ; girls are so
queer. She can't but see the way he looks
at her. It is very different from the way he
looks at me."

I dare say," said the Rector.

"And isn't it an odd thing ?" Sir John went
on, "I told you Jack had been writing a
great deal lately about some Gordon he
knows out there in India. Miss Gordon
went out in the Great Pyramid, under the
care of Jack's Colonel's wife, and now he has
come across her again. Betty and Miss
Lambton say they think he is in love with
this Miss Gordon, but I think not. He
knows I want him to come home and marry
Lucy Knolls by and by. Well, where was
I ? You know Otway's name was mentioned

a long time ago as a possible candidate If
poor old Mllner died, and I told Jack about
him, of course. Now he writes word that
Otway's elder brother married the half-sister
of this Amy Gordon, and I should like to
ask him about them. If only we were friendly
enough. Jack says Colonel Gordon told him
that Herbert Otway  that's our man  was-was
one of the best fellows he ever met."

All the same, I wish he had gone to
Great Centre Bridge Instead of settling himself
here," said the Rector.

''I suppose, then, the best thing I can dois
to show myself with Betty." Sir John said,
as he took up his hat. " She Is so ashamed,
poor child, that I cannot scold her ; and the
best of It Is," he added, slyly, "she fancies
our friend Otway thinks she Is a silly little
fool, and I would not undeceive her for the
world."

Dr. ]murray had said truly enough that
half-a-dozen versions of the affair at the hotel

were current in the little town. As a matter
of fact, it had ended peacefully. Sir John,
his bit of bluster over, listened to his
daughter's explanation ; he and Otway shook
hands, and the latter had the pleasure of
handing Miss Erskine into her little carriage.
She scarcely looked at him. however ; she
was grateful to him for having helped her to
explain everything to her father, but she did
not want to see him again. Sir John had
some difficulty in persuading her to accompany
him and Miss Lambton to Great Centre
Bridge on the day of the nomination. It
was very galling to her to be present, for, of
course, if Otway had retired from the contest
the fact would have been known by that time,
and so she had beoQed in vain.

Still she was but young, and her spirits
rose and her face drew bright as usual, as
they all drove up to the town hall, and were
greeted with loud cheers by their friends and
adherents. The dappled greys had the Conservative

colours streaming from their heads ;
the coachman and footman wore big rosettes,
and Aunt Louise and Betty were suitably
decorated. There was such a dense crowd
in the wide square or market-place before the
town hall that the carriage had some difficulty
in drawing up. A platform had been erected
for the speakers, with a flight of steps at
either end, and rival bands were stationed at
opposite sides of the square. The players
had ranged themselves and their music stands
round poles, from which flags showing the
party colours floated in the wind.

A group of men stood on the steps of the
entrance to the town hall under an awning,
and amongst them Betty recognised Otway.
She would not have been a woman had she
not been struck by the contrast he presented
to some of his companions. For one thing
he was remarkably well-dressed ; not in the
dark tweed suit and deer-stalker hat in which
he appeared at Little Centre Bridge, but in

the well-made frock coat and tall hat which
are considered indispensable for a man on
ceremonious occasions. The hat was taken
right off the dark curly head of the good-looking
Liberal candidate, as soon as he saw
the carriage from the Chase, and he stood
bare-headed as Sir John helped the ladies to
alight.

Sir John knew nearly all the men who
were on the steps. They were political foes,
to be sure, but, for all that, he shook hands
right and left, and in the most marked
and ostentatious manner with his opponent.
When the action was noticed by the crowd
it was received with mingled cheers and
hisses, and the Conservative band struck up
"See the Conquering Hero."

Premature that, eh ?" said Sir John,
laughing, and addressing no one in particular.


Betty did not look at Otway. Miss
Lambton gave him a timid little bow, and

as he put on his hat again and watched the
girl walking away with her father he was
foolish enough to feel bitterly disappointed.

There were not many ladies present ; the
Avise of Otway's proposer and some young
girls belonging to the seconder were the only
women on the Liberal side of the platform,
but a little group of county ladies surrounded
Miss Lambton and Betty. It was some time
before the business of the day began. Men
came up on the platform and went down
again ; the bands played, the crowd jeered
or cheered as friends or opponents were seen
passing to and fro, there was some rough
horseplay, and cries of " Bonnet him," '' Turn
him out," and every fresh outburst of cheers
or groans was louder and less good-humoured
than the last. By the time the candidates
and their friends appeared in front of the
platform the mob had become decidedly restless
and ripe for mischief.

The preliminaries were, however, gone

through without any serious interruption
from below, but, when Sir John came forward
to make his speech, and had just cleared his
throat and uttered the words " Friends and

electors of ," a well-directed rotten Egg

struck him on the cheek and cut him short.
And then a curious thing happened. Mr.
Otway rose, and, leaning over the front of
the platform, called out, *' Don't let us have
any more of that, if you please." But even
as he said the words he was obliged to duck
his head to avoid a dead cat.

He could not account for the impulse that
made him look at Betty Erskine as the unsavoury
missile fell at his feet. Her face was
all aoflow with excitement, and her lovely
eyes were fixed on him. What was it that
eager look was saving ? He fancied she was
mutely reproaching him for not having, as
she had asked, retired from the contest. He
glanced at her again, but her eyes were turned
away.

Sir John spoke for half-an-hour, but the
fates were against him, and scarcely a word
he said could be heard ; his friends in the
crowd were evidently in a minority. Confident
of a better reception, and half-angry
that it should be accorded to him, Otway
came forward. The uproar was at its height,
but curiosity had the effect of creating
silence for a little while. It did not last long;
something in the speaker's manner caused the
first note of dissatisfaction, and he was
assailed with rude cries of '' Shut up," '' Who
are you ?" and such like ; for, instead of
of expounding his political views, he began
by attacking his own friends for their want of
courtesy and fair play towards the rival"
candidate.

His proposer at last whispered, 'what

the are you about, man ? They won't

stand being lectured."

But Otway's blood was up, or some other
impulse may have moved him, for he went

on In the same strain. But the patience of
his friends was soon exhausted, and he was
silenced by a perfect storm of hisses and catcalls,
while rotten eggs fairly rained on the
platform.

Otway's friends and his own got round Sir
John to Implore him to demand a hearing for
his opponent, and he at once came forward
and tried to make himself heard ; but his
appearance was the signal for a sudden turn
of the tide. A shout of execration greeted
him, and the eggs flew faster than before.
Some roughs from Little Centre Bridge, who
had more than once been brought up before
Sir John In his capacity as a magistrate, had
pushed themselves to the front, and it was
from them the foulest language came. But
he never changed countenance until a bigger
bully than the rest called out, "What was
Miss Betty doing In the New Hotel with
Billy Brandon ? Just tell us that, Sir John,
will ye ?"

VOL. I. H

Otway gave one look round to see if Betty
had heard ; her face was very white now, and
she had risen as if to go to her father.
Catching her eyes for a moment, the young
man waved her back ; then, putting his hands
on the bar that formed the top of the railing
in front of the platform, he vaulted over into
the roadway below, and just as the ruffian
was about to repeat his insulting question,
Otway knocked him down with one well-planted
blow.

Before the yelling crowd quite realised
what had happened, friends and opponents
together rushed from the platform to Otway's
assistance, and not a moment too soon !
Maddened by the fall of their comrade, the
roughs closed in upon him, and attack and
defence became general. Some hard knocks
had been given and received, when a strong
body of police and military came upon the
scene, and a regular stampede ensued.

When it was all over, and one or two

arrests had been made, Otway was found
leaning against the door of the hall with
blood flowing from a cut upon his temple and
his right arm hanging by his side.

*' I am afraid It Is badly broken," he said,
and so It was.

THE TALK OF THE TOWN.

The local gossip caused by the numerous
versions in circulation about Betty Erskine's
visit to Otway at the New Hotel was extinguished
as effectually as a lighted candle is
put out by a sudden puff of wind, when the
events of the nomination day in Great Centre
Bridge became known. There was no need
for exaggeration in this instance ; what had
actually taken place was bad enough. But
even the news of the rioting and the free
fight, which brought the business to an
abrupt close, paled before the amazing fact
that Otway, the Liberal candidate, with his
head cut and bleeding and his arm badly
broken in two places, was taken, first to the

house of Dr. Endangering, Sir John Erskine's
own medical attendant In Great Centre
Bridge, where his wounds where dressed and
his bones set, and then. Sir John's carriage
being still used for the purpose, conveyed
to the Chase, and established there with a
professional nurse, while Miss Lambton and
her niece went home in a hired fly. It was
true that Otway had been badly hurt while
defending Sir John from the roughs, but still,
was it any wonder people looked at one
another and asked, " What next ?"

So much was known to everyone, but no
one knew how Otway had protested against
the arrangement ; vehemently at first, but
more feebly as Sir John insisted. He gave
in at last, not because he felt less strongly,
but his physical strength deserted him and
he was Incapable of continuing the struggle
when he was at length helped Into the carriage
with his bandages and splints In order.

The Chase was the last house he ought to

have entered under the circumstances ; he
was Sir John's political opponent ; he was in
love with Sir John's daughter, and honour
and honesty alike forbade him to take up his
abode under Sir John's roof. And yet, there
was a certain amount of satisfaction in the
knowledge that he was all but helpless in the
matter ; he had entered his protest, and had
been silenced ; so if anything happened, Sir
John must take the consequences. But
nothing would happen ; he was bound in
honour not to make love to Miss Erskine.
But as he lay feverish and restless in the
pretty bedroom which, with a sitting-room
attached, had been given up for his sole use,
he took all at once a great resolve. It was
not yet too late to do as she had asked him,
and withdraw from the contest for Stoneshire.
It was quite possible that he was not treating
his friends very well by retiring at the last
moment, but he could very well bear their
anger and ill-will. So he sent for Sir John,

who would not listen to him at first ; but
Otway had so thoroughly made up his mind
that he had to give in. Then letters, telegrams
and messages passed between the
Chase and the Liberal committee rooms in
Great Centre Bridge, there was much angry
remonstrance, and a few uncomplimentary
expletives were directed against the man who
had thus played fast and loose with his party,
but Otway had his way ; he was determined
to withdraw from the contest, and withdraw
he did on the very eve of the election.
There was no time to hind another candidate,
and Sir John Erskine was returned without
opposition.

Lying there on his sick bed, for excitement
and worry made him feverish and light-headed
for some days, Otway knew nothing of the
storm of indignation his conduct had raised.
The comments passed upon him in the
Liberal papers were the reverse of complimentary,
and it was pretty plainly hinted that

'petticoat influence" had been at work. One
very scurrilous "leader" in the Centre Bridge
Banner of Freedom said openly that " no
bribery was as potent as that practised by a
pair of bright eyes, and no corruption more
demoralising than the smile of rosy lips." A
kind friend sent a copy of the paper with the
above passage underlined to Sir John, but he
put it into the fire, and carefully avoided the
subject with Betty, who was under the impression
that Otway had been obliged to
resign on account of his broken arm.

About a fortnight after the memorable
nomination day, Mrs. Dysart-Smith gave
one of her select luncheon parties, and Dr.
Murray was, as usual, one of the guests.
Her only daughter. Miss Ethel Dysart-
Smith, had been for some time past designed
by her mother for the post of mistress of the
pretty Rectory, but, for some unaccountable
reason. Dr. Murray did not propose to the
young lady, and he was, moreover, much too

attentive to Mrs. Smith's English governess,
Mary Hamilton, in whom neither the mother
nor the daughter could see anything to
admire. She had a sweet oval face, lovely
soft brown eyes, and a figure that was simply
the perfection of symmetry and grace. But
it was not to be borne that the Rector's eyes
should have rested on her with admiration,
especially when Ethel was present.

Miss Hamilton never appeared at the
luncheon parties, but she occasionally spent a
leisure afternoon with the kindly maiden lady
Miss Masham, of whom mention has already
been made, and it was strange how very often
Dr. Murray happened to drop in to tea
when the young lady was there. As he was
on his way to this special luncheon, Dr.
Murray happened to meet Miss Hamilton on
her way to the post. A few words only
were exchanged but they where enough to
bring a pretty colour into the too pale
face, and to make Mary very absent indeed

about the number of postage-stamps she
required.

'' Now, Dr. Murray," said Mrs. Dysart-
Smith, as soon as she saw that her guests
were beginning to enjoy their luncheon,
what Is the latest news from the Chase?
Is that man ever going to get well and take
himself off? I never knew a broken arm so
hard to mend before."

"It was a bad compound fracture," said
Dr. Sumner. " At least, so I understood.
Personally, I know nothing about the case."

I met Dr. Wandering yesterday," said
Mrs. Verity  her husband, the lawyer, was
not present  "and he told me Mr. Otway
was recovering very fast now ; he was moved
into a sitting-room yesterday."

"Yes; I called at the Chase yesterday,"
said Mrs. Sumner, "and It was some time
before Miss Lambton came In. Miss Betty
told me she was in Mr. Otway's room, seeing
that everything was comfortable for him."

Betty was not overseeing his comfort,
too, then ?" said Mrs. Dysart-Smlth.

Oh, dear, no ; she has not seen him since
the accident, she says. She was telling me
about her brother In India, and, from what I
can gather, he Is very far gone about some
young lady out there. I forget her name ;
Amy something. What will Sir John say If
he does not come home and marry Lucy
Knolls ? Young John gave a very amusing
account of some private theatricals they had
at some place, and It seems this young lady's
maid, I forget her name too, took a principal
part and played so extremely well that
bouquets were thrown to her and everyone
was delighted. Depend upon it, the next
news will be that young John Is going to
marry this Miss Amy Gordon. That Is the
name."

Dr. Murray was eating his luncheon
silently. He had already heard the Indian
news from Sir John.

"Have you seen mr. Otway, doctor?"
Mrs. Dysart-Smlth addressed him direct
again. "And do you think he is in love
with Betty ?"

I cannot presume to say," the doctor
answered. " He has not confided in me."

"If there is nothing between them it is
most extraordinary. Why did she go to his
rooms, and why is Sir John so civil to him ?"
said Mrs. verity. "Depend upon it, there is
more in it than meets the eye. You know
they say she used to meet him in the park
every evening, and he used to send a young
man he employed as secretary with notes and
messao-es."

I am quite sure you are mistaken, Mrs.
Verity," said Dr. Murray. " Miss Erskine
is not the sort of girl to do things of that
kind ; and, besides, I happen to know that
she went to the hotel to ask Mr. Otway to
give up the election. It was a foolish thing
to do, but there was no harm in it."

"He need never think of setting up for
Stoneshire again," said Dr. Sumner.

"And I think." said Mrs. Smith, laughing,
"the best thing Sir John can do is to let
Betty marry him as soon as he is well. I
am sorry to say a great many things are
being said of her that would grieve me very
much if they were said of ??iy daughter.
Not that I believe them, of course, but

still Dr. Murray, you are not touching

your favourite claret. I never give that
wine to anyone but you. It is Ethel's pet
brand, you must know, but I always say,
Xo, my dear, we must keep that wine for
Dr. Murray.' By the way, my dear Ethel,
do not forget to show the Rector that
exquisite design you have for an altar
cloth."

That same afternoon, at the Chase, Otway.
with his arm in a sling, was resting in an
easy chair that kind Miss Lambton had
arranged for him. close to a window which

commanded a wide view of the park and
overlooked, besides, the Ladies' Garden, as it
was called. It was bright now with spring
flowers, and once that day he had seen Betty
herself, the sweetest flower of all, in his eyes,
racing about over the grass, with her fox-terrier,
Orion, in full chase. He had been
introduced to that wonderful dog on the
occasion of his visit of ceremony, and he
felt inclined to envy the little animal on that
bright spring day. Once or twice he fancied,
but he could not be sure, that the girl looked
towards the window of his room, but when
he got up and placed himself at it in the
hope that she would wave him a greeting,
he was disappointed ; she did not look up
again.

The day wore on ; he read until he was
weary, and then, in a somewhat fretful and
impatient mood, he threw himself on the
couch to try and doze away the rest of
the long afternoon, but presently the door

opened and Miss Lambton came in. She

was followed by a servant who carried a tea

tray, and after the servant who should trot

in, with his nose in the air, but the handsome

Orion ?

Otway jumped up, his head at once in a

whirl, and his curly locks decidedly untidy.

But he never thought of his hair, he was

filled with a delightful hope. Was she

coming ? Was he to see her again ; to touch

her hand ; to look into her face ? Yes, he

was. Orion rushed back to the door to meet

her, and she came in without a sign of flurry

or excitement in her manner ; she wore a

bewitching: tea-Qown of some soft creamer
o

coloured stuff, trimmed with ribbons of reddish
brown and pale apricot, and she carried
some flowers.

Betty and I are going to have tea with
you, Mr. Otway, if you don't mind," said
Miss Lambton.

*' And Orion too, aunt. Don't forget

Orion, please," said Betty's clear, unembarrassed
voice. " How do you do, Mr.
Otway ." she added and gave him her hand.

AN ADVENTURE.

Orion, the fox-terrier, did good service that
afternoon ; it was so easy to steer clear of
such a disagreeable topic as the election, and
to become chatty and friendly over his good
looks and accomplishments ; not that he had
many accomplishments, for he was much
too petted, and was not forced to spend too
much time over his lessons, but his young
mistress made the most of what he could do.
His repertory consisted of a few very common
tricks, and he did them very badly, but
Otway was prepared to swear, if necessary,
that he had never seen such a clever dog
before.

Betty was not in the least imposed upon,

VOL. I. I

but she allowed the invalid to believe that she
accepted his lavish praises of her pet In good
faith. She could not help feeling very sorry
for the poor fellow who was so pale and
gaunt, but rather picturesque, too, she
thought, with his arm In a sling. Betty felt
it was her duty to be kind to this man who
had defended her father so bravely, and as
she always did her duty fairly well when it
did not Interfere with her pleasure, she was
very kind to him that afternoon. In her way,
but It was a childish and provoking way.
Did Otway find any fault with it ? Not he,
indeed ; he was only too happy to be taken
any kind of notice of by the girl who had
never, for one moment, been out of his
thoughts for the last month or more.

He did not care whether she talked sense
or nonsense  and it was fortunate he was not
particular, for It must be confessed she gave
him plenty of the latter  as long as he could
look at her and watch the dimples coming

and going, and hear the ripple of her frank,
merry laugh, and catch the mischievous
glance of her lovely eyes.

No one who had ever seen Herbert Otway
at his work would have recognised him
that afternoon. Love had transformed him
more than pain and illness. Even his most
intimate friends called him cold and impassive
; a man not easilymcved, and not given
to express or even to feel enthusiasm. And
yet now he was the abject slave of a
girl of eighteen ; enthusiastic enough in all
conscience about her beauty ; hanging on
her words ; in the seventh heaven of delight
when she gave him a kind look, and absurdly
jealous when she lavished attentions and
caresses on her dog.

And was Miss Betty blind to all this ; was
she ignorant of the damage she had done ?
By no means ; she saw it all only too distinctly,
and exulted over it as any spoiled girl
of her age would have done. But she was not

disposed to fall In love In her turn, although
she liked Otway, and said he was a "delightful
man " for having given up the election ;
but then he could not have gone on with It
with a broken arm, and If he had gone on
she supposed, he could not have stayed at the
Chase until he was well again, so everything
had turned out for the best. That was the
way she reasoned.

But It was absurd of him, when everything
had ended so nicely, to look so lackadaisical
before her, and to stammer and stutter when
he could talk so well, and to gaze at her as If
he were never to see her again ; and indeed,
had he but known It, Otway was not taking
the right way to Impress Betty, and to touch
her heart. She did not want a slave, she
wanted a master ; and a little neglect and Indifference
would have won her more effectually
than all his deference of speech and
ill-suppressed devotion of manner.

But it was all very nice," Betty said to

herself, as she laughed in secret over Otway's
words and looks ; and as he was " making
such a goose of himself" he must submit to
be teased. By and by, when he got back to
London, he would "get over it."

But, as the days wore on and the afternoon
tea was repeated in Otway's room until he
was able to come downstairs to the pretty
boudoir, with the flowers and the canaries,
Betty began to think that, when he was back
in London, she should miss her captive  the
first who had fallen to her bow and spear !
Every day she liked him better, and everyday
she wished he would pluck up a spirit
and not allow her to turn him round her
finger, as she was in the habit of doing.

'' I believe I should fall desperately in love
if I were but a little afraid of him," she said
to herself many times, "but I cannot care
much for a man who never finds fault with
anything I say or do."

But there was no one to five him a hint,

SO he went on day after day metaphorically
prostrating himself before her, and enjoying,
with the keen zest of hunger, the few crumbs
of kindness she threw him now and then.

When he was quite recovered, she walked
with him In the park and drove him about In
the pony carriage ; but, although his opportunities
were legion, he never dared to speak
openly of his devotion. He saw, but too
plainly, that she did not love him as he
wanted to be loved. "Would it ever come?"
he wondered. "Should he ever have the
happiness of seeing her shy and subdued In
his presence ? Would those lovely, saucy
eyes ever droop before his, and the laughing
lips be still ?"

He was quite well now, and he had no
excuse for lingering on In the country, but
still he stayed. Sir John had taken his seat
in the House, and had then paired with a
member on the other side until after Easter,
which fell rather late that year. When Parliament

re-assembled after the recess, It was
arranged that Betty and Miss Lambton were
to go to town for a few weeks.

At the beginning of April, Otway was
obliged to tear himself away, but to his great
satisfaction and delight, hospitable Sir John
Invited him down to spend Easter at the
Chase. He showed his delight In the eagerness
of his acceptance, and he did not guess
that the very slightest show of reluctance or
hesitation on his part would have Increased
tenfold Betty's appreciation of his promised
visit.

As It was she simply put up her lip disdainfully
as she told Orion that the man who
thought him such a very clever dog was
coming again In a fortnight, and that he
ought to learn a new trick.

But when he was gone she missed him
sadly ; there was no one now to fetch and
carry for her, and to rush about hither and
thither to gratify all her whims and fancies.

No one except her father  and he did not
count  to look admiringly at her when she
appeared In a new gown or hat, and above
all, there was no one to listen to all her silly
chatter as deferentially as if she were uttering
choice words of wisdom.

During the fortnight he was away several
large packets of new music arrived from
town addressed to Miss Erskine ; also an
extremely pretty, but very unsuitable, collar
for Orion. Then came a thick letter for
Miss Lambton to thank her and Sir John
for their great, their never-to-be-forgotten
and wholly undeserved kindness to the
writer. He could say with truth that the
very happiest hours of his life had been spent
at the Chase, and the pleasure with which
he was looking forward to his return visit at
Easter was too great for words, but he contrived
to spend a great many upon it, nevertheless.
The chief part of the letter, however,
was taken up with messages to Betty 

Pray tell Miss Erskine that I have ordered
the song she wished for," or " Miss Erskine
may depend upon me to find the kind of
forehead band and rosettes she is anxious to
get for Eire and Smoke, if they are to be had
in London," or '' Let Miss Erskine know
that I have got the riding-whip she was good
enough to commission me to procure for
her."

I wonder how he is going to behave this
time ?" she said, as she buttoned herself into
a most becoming new, tailor-made gown, and
put on an equally becoming little hat, on the
day Otway was expected. Ashen she was
dressed she called Orion to accompany her
and started to take the short cut across the
park which led to the railway station. She
had given Otway an indefinite promise  or,
more truly, a conditional one  that on the day
of his return for his Easter visit, she and
Orion would meet him at a certain stile on
the outskirts of the park well known to both

of them, and walk back with him to the
house ; but he was not to be disappointed,
she explained, If she was not at the stile, for
she might change her mind, or forget all
about It. When she said she might forget,
Otway looked so dejected and prayed so hard
that he might be honoured by her company
that she laughed In his face, and said he had
done nothing to deserve the honour ; but
when he went on to confess his unworthiness
she lost all patience, and flippantly told him
not to expect her until he saw her.

And now, though she was actually on her
way to the trysting-place, she had almost
made up her mind to turn back before the
train arrived. '' But if he looks too pleased
to see me," she said to herself, '' I can
revenge myself by snubbing him all the
evening."

She had a book with her, and when she
came within sight of the stile she sat down
on the stump of a tree to wait, for the train

was not due for nearly half-an-hour. She
was in the shelter of a small but thick copse
of beechwood, and in the distance she could
see the signal posts on the railway line, and
hear now and then the whistle of a local
train.

Orion was very happy sniffing about for
rabbits, and Betty. with her open book on
her lap, leaned against a tree, and began to
devise some new modes of torment for the
expected guest. The only thing, she made
up her mind, that she would not give him
was encouragement. She had very early
been impressed with the idea by good Miss
Lambton that it was dishonourable for a
woman to lead on a man to make a declaration
of love and then to reject him. But
still, in spite of her excellent resolution,
Betty was longing to hear what he would
say and to see how he would look, if he were
to ask her to marry him.

'' He would spoil me dreadfully if I said

"yes ;' I know he would," she thought, " and
I am sure, although It would be very nice, It
would be very bad for me always to have my
own way. Mrs. Herbert Otway  Betty
Otway  they sound rather pretty, but I do
not think I want to be married just yet. Be
quiet, Orion ! What Is It, good doggie ?"

Orion was barking furiously, and presently,
to Betty's surprise, a man emerged from a
side path among the trees and came towards
her. She rose at once, called the dog to
her side, and stood looking at the Intruder.
Where had she seen that face before, and
that plaid suit, and scarlet necktie? The
face of the wearer was scarlet too, and that
puzzled her, for the person of whom he reminded
her had not had that flaming visage.
His hat was worn rashly and his gait was
a little unsteady. Yes ; there was no doubt
about It, It was unsteady, and as It suddenly
flashed across her where she had seen him
before, she knew that he was tipsy, and that

his condition made the difference in his
appearance. He was the man who was in
Otway's room at the New Hotel  the man
called Brandon, who had so utterly mistaken
the object of her visit to the young and good-looking
Liberal candidate.

Brandon was not very tipsy, for he spoke
quite distinctly, but she did not like his look
or his manner.

'morning, miss," he said familiarly, as he
made a bungling effort to take off his hat.
Hope I see you well, miss. You look
uncommon fit, I must say."

Betty was silent for a moment, then she
said, in a freezing voice, " Perhaps you are
not aware that you are trespassing. People
are not allowed to walk here."

Indeed ! Beg pardon, miss, but I have
an object ; I am not trespassing. I was on
my way to the house to see you, miss, when
I caught sight of you and the dawn "  he
drawled out the word in true Cockney fashion

"and I followed to have a word with you
in private."

'' I cannot speak to you," said Betty. ''If
you have any business you should go to Sir
John."

He was close beside her by that time, so
close that she had to move a step backwards
to avoid contact with him. He moved on,
too. " I'm down on my luck, miss, if you
know what that is," he went on. " I didn't
know who you was that day at the hotel, or
I'd have been less free and easy, but you
don't bear malice, I hope ; and, seeing you
there alone, I thought you was fair game fora
lark, if you'll excuse me."

Betty was crimson with anger and mortification,
and she tried to walk quickly on in the
direction of the house, but Brandon contrived
to keep in her path. " I used to do some
writing for Mr. Otway," he continued, '' but
he sent me to the right about after that day,
with a tenner in my pocket, which I took to

mean. * Hold your tongue about the young
lady,' and the half tipsy creature put his
finger to his nose, and, to Betty's horror and
disgust, winked at her. " And never a word
said I, honour bright, as long as the coin
lasted."

What is your business with me ?'' interrupted
Betty, haughtily. " I do not believe
you have any."

** Oh, yes, I have," he said ; " maybe you
don't know how folks are talking of you and
that swell chap from London. They say you
bought the election for your father, pretty
dear, but that if the old gent will only comedown
with a lot of cash, you'll be Mrs. Otway
safe enough, by and by !"

Now, the greater part of this speech was
unintelligible to Letiy, but nevertheless, it
was offensive in the highest degree. " How
dare you speak to me in that way ?"' she said,
stamping her foot.

*' I can silence ever* tongue in the place.

and I will, too," Brandon went on, quickly,
''if you'll give me five sons. I'm cleaned
out, that's the truth. I want to get back to
London, too, and I haven't the price of a
ticket. Just five, miss, and not a word more
about anything. I can square everyone for
that, and get to town besides."

Betty put her hand into her pocket and
took out her purse ; she had plenty of money,
and five sovereigns was a small price, she
thought, to pay for silencing the slanderers,
and she never suspected that Brandon had
made up the tale. She had turned and was
walking at a good pace back to the house ;
Brandon was close beside her, talking eagerly
as he walked. She took the pieces of gold
from her purse, and, without turning her
head, placed them in his eager hand and
hastened on ; but the sound of hurrying footsteps
and a sudden scuffle made her pause
and look round, to see Otway in full chase
after the frying figure of Brandon.

The race was a short one ; Brandon was
not sober enough to keep up the pace, and
presently Betty saw him being dragged to
her by his captor, and frightened and vexed
though she was, she all but laughed out at
the comical figure he cut, with his hat on one
side and his gaudy necktie pulled awry by
Otway's grasp upon his collar.

I saw Miss Erskine give you money,
you miserable cur!" cried Otway. "How
dare you speak to her, sir ? Give it up
instantly or I'll hand you over to the
police !"

Brandon sullenly held out his hand with
the money in it to Betty. 'there  take
it," he said, 'but I'm starving. I haven't a
copper ; not one !"

Then Betty looked at Otway, and in her
eyes he saw soft appeal and womanly pity.
Let him keep it," she said, gently, and the
next moment Brandon, the five sovereigns
safe in his pocket and his tongue in his

VOL. I. K

cheek, was hurrying away as fast as his legs
would carry him, and Otway and Betty were
left alone.

OTWAY MAKES A FOOL OF HIMSELF.

When she found herself standing face to
face with Otway, whose name had been so
freely and offensively used by her late half-tipsy
tormentor, Miss Erskine suddenly and
unaccountably lost her temper. Otway was
annoyed beyond measure that Brandon should
have obtruded himself and got money out of
her ; but, at the same time, he was so overjoyed
to find himself once more in her
presence that he would not let himself think
of the impertinent rascal who was already
out of sight.

He was also excited by the knowledge
that she had come to meet him after all. Ashe
was whirled along from London In the

express he kept telling himself that she
would not come, that he must not expect
her ; and yet she must actually have been on
her way to the stile when that fellow intercepted
her.

It was so good  so kind of you," he
said, breaking the awkward silence and holding
out his hand.

What was good of me ?" she said, and
she pretended not to see the hand. " I wish
I hadn't been so foolish."

His face fell. '' I do not call it foolish," he
said.

'then you are very inconsistent," she
retorted, " and if you do not call it foolish,
why did you make him give back the
money ?"

I was not thinking of the money," he
said. " I meant that it was kind of you to
come and meet me."

'' Oh," and she tossed her pretty head. " I
was just thinking of going back to the house

when that man came up. I came out for a
walk ; I never meant to go to the stile.
Why did you listen to me and allow him to
keep the money ?" she went on, pettishly.
*' You must have known that I was silly to
ask you. A man like you ought to know
better than to give in to a girl."

That was Otway's own belief as regarded
girls in general, but to this special girl who
had bewitched him by her beauty and her
pretty ways, he could refuse nothing.

'you think so?" he said, gazing at her
with that worshipping look in his eyes which
littered, while it provoked her. "All I
know is that I could not refuse you anything."

"Then I must say you are very silly," she
said, decidedly, and she walked away from
him. " That man will make a very bad use
of that money."

He is quite welcome," said Otway. " I
am afraid I do not care very much what
happens to him, but I do want to know what

he said to you. I hope he was not very impertinent
?"

Not for worlds would Betty repeat Brandon's
words ; some instinct told her that they
were very impertinent, although she did not
quite understand them. ''He said he was
hungry, and that he wanted to get back to
London," she explained.

'' He did not try to frighten you, then ?"

"Oh, dear, no," said Betty, 'but I hope
he will eo to London now ; I do not want to
have him prowling about here."

I am afraid he was insolent to you," said
Otway, with injudicious solicitude in his voice
and manner, 'you were looking quite pale
when I came up."

Oh, dear ! I wish you would not watch
one so. It is very disagreeable," was the
snappish rejoinder. " I really must beg of
you, Mr. Otway, not to notice whether I
am pale or red." She began to walk on
very fast as soon as she had delivered that

crushing rebuke, but he was beside her in a
moment.

'' I cannot help looking at you," he said,
quite humbly. "It is the only pleasure I
have when you are so unkind to me."

She o-ave her shoulders a little shrug, and
turned her head away that he might not see
she was laughing. " He is too absurd," she
said to herself. Then she walked on, humming
a gay little tune, and not a word did
she vouchsafe to the patient slave at her side.

I hope Miss Lambton and Sir John are
quite well," he said, at last.

Quite well, thank you," and she hummed

on.

'rand I hope you have good news from

India."

Very good."

'' And how are Fire and Smoke ?"

'every well indeed. They tried to runaway
with me last week."

'good heavens! I hope you were not

alone. Were you frightened ? You terrify

me.

'' Oh, not In the least ; it was great fun."
She hummed away at her song and took no
notice of his anxiety. The pretty profile was
all he could see, for she never once turned
the eyes he was pining to look Into towards
him. Was the walk he had been looking
forward to ever since he went to town really
to end In this way ?

At last a fallen tree in a tempting position
came Into view. Miss Betty sat down, and
Otway meekly placed himself beside her.
There was silence for a few minutes, then she
said, suddenly, " I am sorry I was so cross,"
and held out her hand.

It was unloved, white, soft and pretty.
He took it eagerly, and, in a tender but half-irresolute
manner, raised it to his lips.

You should not do that," she said, as she
tried to draw it away, but he would not let it



am very sorry to hear it," she answered
promptly, and with an irresistible smile
curving her lips. " We were such good
friends, and everything was so nice and
pleasant. Oh, how can you be so foolish ?"

Do not mock me in that cruel way," he
cried. " I was half afraid you would not be
kind to me, but you must not blame me for
what I cannot help. I can no more help
loving you than the sun can help shining. I
am not vain enough to suppose that you care
for me, Betty ; but let me love you, and by
and by perhaps I may teach you "

She broke into a merry laugh. " Xo one
could ever teach me anything," she said,
especially if I did not choose to learn, and
in this instance I do not choose. I do not
want a lover ; it is so ridiculous when I think

that about a year ago I had a doll. I am
sure when you think over It seriously, Mr.
Otway, you will be very glad I did not listen
to you."

'' Glad !" he repeated. '* Glad, when I
would give the world, if I had it, to know
that you even thought kindly of me. I love
you so dearly, so devotedly, there is nothing
I would not give up to please you  to try
and win you."

That is exactly what men say in books,
but I do not think it means much," she
answered, calmly. "We girls are very nice,
of course, and I suppose men cannot help
falling in love with us, but to talk of giving
up the whole world for us is simply ridiculous.
It really means nothing, if you think of it."

I mean everything by it," he answered,
'but I can see you do not love me, or you
would not laugh at me ; yet, for all that, I
am sure I could make you happy if you
would be my wife."

You would give me my own way in
everything, I suppose," she said. '' Let me
do exactly as I liked ?"

"It would be the study of my life to please
you in every way  to anticipate, if possible,
your every wish. I am glad to say I amin
a position to surround you with as much
comfort and luxury as you enjoy in your
father's house ; and in addition, my darling,
you would have the devotion of a heart that
has never known love for any woman before."

She looked at him with her frank eyes,
unabashed as usual. " Indeed," she said,
gravely, " I am not sure that it is such a
great recommendation to a heart after all.
I should not care if you had been in love
a dozen times. It must be rather stupid to
have no experience."

"You like making fun of me," he said,
but I do not find fault if only I may love
you."

There is no law against it, that I know

of." she answered, "but you must not expect
anything. I am very much obliged to you,
Mr. Otway ; very much indeed. I feel quite
proud that I have had my first offer of
marriage ; but I am quite satisfied with the
spring I get at home from papa and Aunt
Louise. Yours would be very nice, too,
perhaps, but still I might not like it as well ;
and then, you see, it would be very shabby of
me, would it not ?  to take everything and
give nothing in return."

'' You would give me yourself !" he cried,
*' and your sweet companionship in my lonely
life."

Oh ! I am not much of a companion, I
assure you," interrupted Betty, "you would
have to spend the most of your time amusing
me, and giving me new gowns, and taking me
to the theatres. If I lived in London with a
stranger like you I should want so much
amusement. It would not be like home, you
know."

' Home !" he repeated. " Oh, Betty ! It
would be Paradise to me with you."

'every Hkely," she answered, 'but I must
think of myself. But do not let us talk anymore
about it, if you please. I had no idea
you were foolish enough to fall in love, and
the sooner you get over it the better."

"You do not know what you are saying,"
he interrupted, mournfully. " You have
grown to be part of my very life. It is not
love I feel for you  it is worship  idolatry ;
see," and kneeling at her feet he stooped and
kissed the hem of her gown.

She rose in a great hurry, blushing allover
her face, and very nearly knocked him
over.

"I am surprised, Mr. Otway," she exclaimed;
" and and vexed. Do get up.
There is Orion staring at you, and no
wonder. I do not like to see a man on his
knees, and you will find that green mossy
earth very hard to brush off You should

have spread your handkerchief, as the old
men do in the free seats at church."

I should not mind kneeling there for a
month if I could hope to win you at the end
of it," he said.

She gave him a half-compassionate, half-contemptuous
look. 'you will never win
me by kneeling to me," she muttered.

I beg your pardon. Did you speak?" he
said.

No," she answered, crossly, " I did not
speak ; and I am not going to speak anymore.
I am going home."

And not another word was exchanged
between them until they reached the house.
Otway looked sadly dejected. Betty's cheeks
were on fire, and her heart was beating
wildly. After all, although he was so foolish
and so unmanned in her presence, he was
ardently in love, and that in itself was a
dangerous attraction ; an idea to fall in love
with if she could not love the lover.

In the hall they met Miss Lambton. ''Oh,
how do you do, Mr. Otway ? Very pleased
to see you back again. Will you excuse Sir
John for a few minutes ? He wants Betty in
the library. Will you go to him, dear ? The
Indian mail is in."

THE NEWS FROM INDIA.

Betty disappeared not altogether sorry to
escape for a time. Otway pulled himself
together with an effort and followed his
hostess into the morning-room. 'sir John
has not had any bad news, I hope," he said,
politely. He saw that Miss Lambton was
excited and nervous, and not much in the
mood for the entertainment of guests.

Oh, no ; not bad, really," she answered,
as she seated herself and tried to look at her
ease, "indeed most people would call it good,
I think  very good ; but my brother-in-law
Is just a little bit put out and disappointed,
I think. It is rather unexpected, certainly ;
at least Betty and I thought we might hear

something before long, but Sir John always
said it was nonsense, just because he did not
quite like it, you know."

"I suppose," said Otway, ''I am not wrong
in thinking that the news has something todo
with Mr. Erskine  your nephew  Miss
Erskine's brothers"

"With Jack?" said Miss Lambton, "you
are quite right ; it is all about Jack. There
is no reason why you should not know. He
writes to say that he is engaged to be married
to that Miss Gordon ; have you heard of her.-
I forget. The dear boy is very much in
love and very happy, but somehow I can't
take it all in. It would be just the same if
Betty were engaged ; I could not take it
in."

You told me when I was here before that
your nephew was very much smitten with
Miss Gordon, and I mentioned, if you remember,
that she was a sort of connection of
mine. Her half-sister married my only

VOL. I. L

brother. I never met Amy Gordon, but I
believe she Is very charming."

'' So Jack says, of course. How odd that
you should know anything about her. I
think it will please Sir John, as he likes you.
I suppose you met Betty and walked home
with her ? I am very glad you were able to
run down this week ; you will talk to Sir
John, and In a day or two he will be quite
reconciled to Jack's engagement. I want
him to write a nice letter to the dear boy by
the next mail."

Betty found her father waiting for her with
his son's letter In his hand. 'what is it,
papa ?" she said ; "a letter from Jack ? Is he
coming home ?"

No ; he's not coming home, but he's
going to be married "

''To Amy Gordon!" cried Betty. "Oh,
I knew he would. Aunt Louise and I always
said he was In love with her. What does he
say ? Has he sent her photograph ?"

No, the young idiot says no photograph
does her justice. Here is the letter," and Sir
John began to read: '"Mv dear Father and
Everyone,  I have only a few minutes to
save the mail, but I must send you a line
to tell you that I am the happiest man in the
world. I am engaged to Amy Gordon, and
we are to be married very soon. She is,
without any exception, the most beautiful
and the sweetest, dearest, darling in the
world.' Did anyone ever hear such bosh ?"
put in Sir John. " ' I know she loves me,
and I would give the whole world if I had it,
for her sake.' " "I suppose they all say that,"
murmured Betty, blushing as she remembered
Ot way's declaration of half an-hour
ago. '' * You must all write to her, and tell
her how pleased you are ; I have already
told her all about the dear old home, and
she sends her love and a sweet kiss to you
all.' There," said Sir John, 'what do you
think of that for rubbish ? Stay, there is a

Pes. : ' We are going to  to ' I can't read

the name, 'for our honeymoon  Amy and I,
and her maid, Rossitur. I have not made
up my mind whether I Hke that same maid
or not, but Amy says she is a treasure, soit's
all right.' "

*' Well, papa," said Betty, "what do you
say :

"What do I say? What is the use of
saying anything now ? The rascal has taken
the law into his own hands, and we must
make the best of it. I wanted him to marry
Lucy Knolls, but if this girl is nice,
and a lady, there is no great objection, I
suppose."

"And if they care for one another," put in
Betty.

Oh, Jack seems pretty hard hit ; and of
course she likes him, too, or I suppose she
would not marry him."

Do women ever marry men they are not
In love with?" asked Betty. She was fiddling

nervously with a paper-knife, and Otway's
passionate pleading was ringing in her ears.

Well, I don't know I suppose they
do sometimes," said Sir John, doubtfully.
'' Poor women, unfortunately, have very
often to marry for a home ; but I think a
woman might get fond of a man after she
married him."

I am sure I should hate him if I did not
love him very much before," said Betty,
decidedly, " especially if he where very fond
of me and did not order me about. I could
not endure a man who was always on his
knees adoring me."

*' Order you about !" cried Sir John, laughing.
'' I should like to see the man who
would order you about, you little tyrant. I
never venture to do it."

But a husband and a father are different,
you know," said Betty. " Quite different."

'' When did you find that out, you monkey
?" and Sir John took his daughter's

pretty chin between his finger and thumb and
turned her face towards him. " Hallo, what
does this mean ." as the deep red colour rose
again. "What are you asking about husbands
for, I should like to know ."

'' Mr. Otway wants me to marry him,"
answered Betty, speaking very fast. " I met
him in the beech wood as he was coming
from the train, and he asked me."

And what did you say ?"

I believe 1 laughed at him. He was
very silly and sentimental."

Then you don't care for him ?"

'' I do not think I do. I hate the way he
goes on  as if I were something too good for
this world. He is so sensible and manly and
clever until he begins to talk about love."

"And what happens then?" asked Sir
John.

He becomes perfectly idiotic," answered
Betty, calmly. " I know I am very pretty
and lively, and I might, perhaps, make a nice

wife ; but when a man goes down on his
knees and sees no fault in me I call him very
stupid."

Sir John burst out laughing. '' Poor
Otway !" he said. '* He has no chance, I
see."

Not unless he gives up all that nonsense,
and behaves like a man, not a goose," said
Betty.

Where is he now ." asked Sir John.
*' Did you leave him lamenting in the beechwood
?"

Oh, dear, no ; we came home together,
and he is with Aunt Louise, I suppose.
Please, daddy," and she wound her arms
round her father's neck and laid her pretty
cheek against his ruddy one, 'don't pretend
that you know anything about it ; and if he
talks to you, you must not tell him that I
should like him better if  if "

If he liked you less. Is that it ."

"Oh, no, certainly not. I like to be liked,

but I think a man is weak who goes on his
knees to a woman."

'ein short, you prefer a commander to a
beggar. Is that It? Well, I am not going
to tell him what to do, my darling, for I do
not want to lose my daughter just yet."

But he may change of his own accord,"
said Betty, saucily. "And now, daddy, you
go and tell him all about Jack, and if he
asks for me, say you do not know where I
am."

Aunt Louise slipped away as soon as her
brother-in-law came in ; she wanted to talk
to Betty about the Indian news.

'well, Otway, my boy," said Sir John,
heartily. " Glad to see you again. I have
just heard from my son In India; he is
engaged to be married. By the way, I think
you know something of the lady. Never saw
her, eh ? Well, Jack raves enough about her
beauty and her goodness ; but of course, she
is perfection in his eyes. Your sister-in-law

is her sister-in-law  is that it ? No, her
step-sister  same father ? Jack hasn't sent
her photograph ; says she comes out badly.
Pretty women generally do. I never saw a
photo of Betty that was fit to look at. She
met you coming from the train, she says.
She had a fright the other day, soon after you
left us, with those confounded ponies. They
tried to bolt."

"Why not get rid of them ?" said Otway,
anxiously. " I am sure it is not safe for Miss
Erskine to drive them, and "

As he was speaking, Betty came in.
Scandal about my ponies. I heard you,
sir !" she cried, and she shook her finger
threateningly at the infatuated Otway, who
the moment she appeared assumed the
vacuous expression of the longing lover.

'' I came to look for Aunt Louise's keys,"
Betty went on. " No, thank you," as Otway
came forward to join in the search. " Men
never can find anything, I notice. Please sit

down and talk to papa. There, now ; you
very nearly upset that little table, and you
frightened the bird. You see how she is
fluttering, and it is very bad for her to
flutter ; she is supposed to have heart disease.
Do be quiet and stand on the hearth rug out
of sight."

Otway obeyed like a dog, and Betty continued
her hunt for the lost keys and smiled
to herself in contempt at his obedience. " I
could not marry a man who did exactly as he
was told," she thought.

Presently the keys were found under an
open book on one of the sofas. " There,"
she said, " I knew I should find them if I
were let alone." She gave Otway a look
from under her long lashes as she left the
room and shook the keys at him. "If that
poor bird dies," she said, 'rit will be all your
fault."

The two men stood side by side for a few-moments
in silence ; then Otway put his

hand upon his host's shoulder, and said
earnestly, 'will you give her to me, Sir
John?"

MISS DYSART-SMITH CATCHES COLD.

At the moment Otway was asking this
momentous question, Mary Hamilton  Mrs.
Dysart-Smlth's pretty English governess 
was alone In one of the class-rooms of the
young ladles' college. She was seated at a
writing-table ; her elbows were on the table,
and her chin was supported on her hands.
A finished letter In Its addressed envelope
was beside her, writing materials were
spread out before her, but she was absorbed
in thought.

Not half-an-hour before she had received
her dismissal from Mrs. Smith, on the pretext
that her supervision of her pupils was too lax
during play hours. A long consultation had

been held between the lady principal and her
daughter just before Mary's discipline was
called in question and her services dispensed
with, and if she had known that such a consultation
had taken place, it would have given
her the clue she looked for in vain as she sat
with her elbows on the table and her pen and
paper before her.

She was convinced in her own mind that
Mrs. Smith had not given the real reason of
her abrupt dismissal, and she was naturally
not a little vexed at being treated in such a
curt and unkind manner. She put down her
elbows and scribbled off a note which she
addressed to '' Miss Masham, The Rosary,
Little Centre Bridge ;" then she got up and
began to walk up and down the room. No
matter how courageous and self-reliant a
woman may be, she does not like to be
turned adrift at a moment's notice without
sufficient reason, and before long Mary
began to feel angry as well as perplexed.

What does it mean ? What does It
mean ?" she said to herself as she again sat
down and began to scribble hieroglyphics
over her blotting paper. By degrees the
motion of her restless hand grew slower ;
the colour on her face, which was flushed,
deepened from rose pink to deep crimson.
It was only April, and the weather was by no
means warm, but Mary felt suddenly as if
she were stifling. '' It must be that," she
said. "He was certainly more careful to
keep the rain off me than off her. I wish I
had walked home alone." Then she jumped
up. feeling hotter than before, and put her
writing materials away in a drawer. 'what
a fool I am," she said, as she took up her
letters and went upstairs to her own room.

It was at the top of the house, and it was
not very large ; but it was a front room, and
from the window there was an excellent view
of the Rectory and the Rectory garden. Other
windows in the college commanded the same

view, but Mary's was the best of all. And It
was such a charming garden, too, with Its
gnarled apple trees and stately pear trees, its
walls covered with peaches and nectarines, its
row of beehives at the further end, and such
quantities of sweet old-fashioned flowers, that
even a busy housemaid in Mrs. Smith's employ
might be pardoned for lingering long at
a window just to look at it.

And it may as well be confessed that Mary
Hamilton never went to her room without
taking a peep into this modern Paradise.
She was much too high up to be noticed by
anyone who happened to be In the garden,
so she could admire to her heart's content
without fear of detection. Her cheeks were
very pink still, uncomfortably hot, in fact ;
her very ears burned as she stood at the
open window and looked out. And what
did she see over the way that made the
colour get deeper and deeper still ?

In the very middle of the garden there

was a fine old apple tree, and directly under
it, gazing up into its branches, stood the
Rector, Dr. Murray, without his hat. He
was a tall handsome man of about forty-five
or fifty. His clothes were always well made,
and there was always a very snowy line of
linen above his high waistcoat. Altogether,
he was a man worth looking at. His back
was turned to Mary, and she could see distinctly
a tiny bald place on the top of his
head. Clearly the doctors hair was beginning
to come off.

Much time, however, was not vouchsafed
to Mary for the contemplation of this phenomenon,
for Dr. Murray suddenly put on his
hat  he had simply taken it off to prevent it
from falling off when he threw back his head
to look in to the apple tree  and walked away.
She saw no more of him, and she did not
know that he went straight out of the garden
into the street, turning in the direction of the
church, which stood, as has been already

mentioned, in the middle of the High Street,
about fifty yards beyond the Post Office ; and
the Post Office was next door to Crump's, the
fancy shop par excellence of Little Centre
Bridge.

In five minutes after she lost sight of the
Rector, Mary went out to post her letters, but
she turned into Crump's, which came first, to
buy some knitting-cotton. She spent about
ten minutes over the purchase, then went
on to the Post Office to get stamps for her
letters, and there saw Dr. Murray writing a
telegram.

Mary started. It seemed but v minutes
since she had seen him staring up into his
apple tree. She could not exactly turn and
fly, although some unaccountable impulse
urged her to do so ; besides, why should she'*
He had as much right to be in the Post Office
sending off a telegram as she had to be there
buying stamps, so she stood meekly behind,
waiting until he made way for her.

VOL. L M

Even very stupid people know sometimes
by instinct when they are in the way, or
when someone whom they know and would
like to speak to stands behind them. Dr.
Murray was the reverse of stupid, so he not
only immediately became conscious that he
was in the way, but that someone whom he
knew and liked was behind him, and he had
the curiosity to turn his head to see who It
was.

And It was not a very remarkable object
by any means. He saw a pretty, neat little
figure, in a grey gown and a black jacket, and
a sweet face with shy soft eyes and very pink
cheeks. The Rector had never seen them as
pink before. He did not say a word, but he
shortened his telegram by at least three
words ; then, giving the paper and a shilling
to the clerk, he turned and shook hands with
Mary.

'' I have not seen you since the concert,
Miss Hamilton," he said. " I hope you did

not catch cold? It was too bad of the rain
to come on just then, and I did not find
it easy to shelter two ladies under one
umbrella."

'' I got no cold, thank you," said Mary,
'but Miss Smith has a sore throat. She
says the drip from the umbrella went down
her neck." She might have added, 'rand
that same drip has cost me my place."

Dear, dear, how very unfortunate. I am
very sorry. She ought to have gone with
her mother in the fly. I suppose I must buy
a larger umbrella before the next concert."

Mary, who was stamping her letters, made
no remark.

Where are you going now ?" he asked, as,
having followed Mary out of the office, he
saw her drop her letters into the box.

Home  to the college," she answered,
and, all unknown to herself, she gave a little
sigh as she held out her hand to her companion.


I am going your way," he answered, and
turned with her.

Now, although she had been nearly two
years in Little Centre Bridge, that was the
first time she had ever walked through the
High Street in daylight escorted by the
Rector. Two evenings before, a concert had
been given in the town hall ; rain came on
unexpectedly, and Dr. jNIurray had escorted
Miss Dysart-Smith and INIiss Hamilton back
to the college. He walked, not next to Miss
Smith, as he ought to have done, but next
to Miss Hamilton, with the disastrous result
already mentioned  the drip from the umbrella
went down ]\Iiss Smith's neck and
gave her cold, while Miss Hamilton reached
home without a drop having fallen upon her.
Then the mother and daughter held a consultation
; decided that ]diary's discipline during
play hours was too lax, and gave her notice.

This was all in her mind now as she
walked along beside the handsome Rector,

and it seemed to her that the always busy
High Street was unusually crowded that
afternoon, and everyone she knew abroad.
They passed little Miss Masham, in her
Victoria, and she certainly raised her eyebrows
as she nodded and smiled. Then
they met Airs. Sumner, and presently they
came upon Mrs. verity, who. with three or
four acquaintances, all women, stood talking
and laughing outside the pastrycook's.

Alary could not think of anything to say,
and Dr. Array was silent, too. At last she
made a stupid remark upon the beauty of the
young foliage on the trees in the park.

"Ah, October is the time for the Erskine
beeches," cried the Rector, who was great
upon autumn tints.

"I know it is," Alary answered, "but I

shall be one honos before October ; Airs.

Smith grave me notice this afternoon."

You are QToino- away !" cried the Rector.
00*

upon whom the word notice jarred disagreeably.

"This is very sudden; very sudden
indeed."

Not another word was said on either side
until the door leading into the grounds of the
college was reached ; then Dr. Murray said,
abruptly, 'how many afternoons have you
disengaged each week ?"

'two," she answered, looking, as she felt,
very much surprised, " Tuesdays and Saturdays."


"And I never met you out before. Goodbye."


As they were shaking hands the door was
opened, and Mrs. and Miss Dysart-Smith
came out.

THE VISITOR WHO stalks OX THE GRASS.

It was on a Thursday that Mrs. Dysart-
Smith found Dr. Murray shaking hands with
Miss Hamilton at the door of the college
grounds. On Friday was Miss Masham's
fortnightly "At Home," and the Rector was
the very first arrival. This was so unusual
that his hostess allowed her surprise to
appear in her greeting. "Are you going to
give us an old sermon on Sunday ?" she said.
You have never come to one of my Fridays
in good time before, and your excuse was
that you had your sermon to write."

Quite true," he answered, smiling. " I
am going to preach an old sermon on Sunday,
but not one you ever heard before."

'' Take care. I have a capital memory.
I shall find you out ; and if I detect even one
sentence I know, I shall cough loudly."

That will be awkward for me unless
you throw more originality into your cough
than I do into my sermon. There is so
much sameness in coughs that I may not be
able to distinguish your note of warning.
But I came early to find you alone If
possible."

You are not going to make me an offer,
I hope ?"

The Rector laughed. '' Then you do not
think I am too old to marry ?" he said.

On the contrary, you do not seem to me
old enough to know your own mind, or when
you have had encouragement enough to
justify you in proposing."

'' But have I received any ?"

*you let your umbrella drip down the
poor girl's back and she did not resent it. I
assure you everyone is talking of that umbrella

of yours, and I cannot make out which
of the young ladles it dripped upon."

'well, If you must know. It was upon
Miss Dysart-Smlth ; but I did not come here
early to talk about her. Do you know that
Miss Hamilton has been dismissed ?"

*eyes ; I had a note from her last night."

I want you to be kind enough to ask her
to afternoon tea here on Tuesday."

'* And what am I to do with her when she
comes?" asked Miss ]\Iasham, and she looked
at the Rector with an Inquisitive twinkle in
her kind bright eyes.

'task me, too, and I can help you to entertain
her."

If you are so anxious to see her why do
you not call at the college ? It Is just over
the way from the Rectory."

"I am afraid of Mrs. Dysart-Smlth."-

"And how are you going to entertain Miss
Hamilton if you meet her here ?"

"I do not know whether you will look .

upon it in the light of an entertainment or
not, but I am going to ask her to marry me."

Miss Masham uttered a long-drawn "Ah!
You are a wise man not to go to the college
on that errand," she said. " Depend upon it,
Mrs. Smith found out how that umbrella of
yours dripped the other night  hence the
notice to quit. I assure you I am very glad,
and I hope Mary will not be silly enough to
refuse you."

I refuse to contemplate that possibility at
all," said the Rector. " Of course, I cannot
force her to marry me, but it will be a terrible
disappointment if she says no."

Have you ever made love to her ."

Dr. Murray turned away with a gesture of
annoyance.

"There; don't be vexed," the indiscreet
old lady went on. " I suppose it would be
infra dig. for a Dad. to behave like a Bea.,
for instance. Now you just listen. By and
by I mean to have a bit of fun with our old

friend Mrs. Smith. I am going to tell her
that I have heard of a situation that I think
will suit Mary."

When Miss Hamilton reached the pretty
little villa on the London Road the following
Tuesday, she found her small hostess in a
state of flurry and excitement, quite unusual
to her. She insisted upon taking the girl
upstairs at once to take off her hat and jacket
and arrange her hair. She even dived into a
drawer and brought out a dark red bow,
which, with her own hands, she pinned at
Mary's throat, in order to lighten up the
girl's grey gown.

''I cannot bear grey gowns without a spec
of colour about them," she said ; " and I am
sure I hope you will not be allowed to wear
them by and by."

'rand who is to prevent me ?" Mary asked.

I can't say," answered Miss Masham
but I hope someone will."

Mary stood at the window  a front one 

looking out, while Miss Masham bustled
about the room. Presently the gate at the
end of the short drive clicked.

'' Another visitor ! Who can it be ?" and
she came to the window and peeped over her
guest's shoulder.

Dr. Murray, I declare ! Now what
brings him here to-day ? And he never
keeps on the gravel. He always will walk
upon the grass. There, you see he is on it
already. What an obstinate husband he will
make. Come down, child. I dare say he
has come to wheedle me out of a subscription
; I have not given anything towards the
new organ yet. I declare that red bow has
given you quite a pretty colour. We saw
you coming, doctor," she began, as soon as
she opened the door, " and, as usual, you
walked on the grass. I never saw such a
man as you are. You have quite a little path
worn between the flower beds. What am I
to do with you ?"

'* Put a veto on my visits."

Until you have someone with you to
keep you in order. Is that what you mean ?
Miss Hamilton arrived about ten minutes
ago ; I have not had time to ask her how
poor Miss Smith's throat is. But as she was
here on Friday evening she cannot be very
bad. What news is there in town to-day ?
Is it true that young John Erskine is engaged
to be married out in India ?"

Quite true ; I had it from Sir John himself."


Is he pleased?"

"Well, he makes the best of it; but I
think he would like his son to marry at
home."

"And I see they have got their pet Radical
staying with them again ; that handsome
young fellow who got all his bones broken at
the nomination. I saw him at church with
them on Sunday."

"He has come down to spend Easter,"

said the Rector. '' I met him there at
dinner, on Saturday night."

'' I suppose Sir John knows that the man
will very likely fall in love with Betty, if he
has not done so already. Mrs. Verity was
talking about it on Sunday; you know what
a gossip she is."

'' She waylaid me yesterday to try and find
out if I knew what fortune the future Mrs.
John Erskine has."

"We must provide them with a fresh
subject, or the poor Erskiness will be worn
threadbare," said Miss Masham. '' Set your
wits to work, doctor, and think of something
new. And now will you excuse me if I leave
you to be entertained"  she laid a funny little
emphasis on the word  ''by Miss Hamilton
for half-an-hour, while I finish a letter for the
five o'clock post ?"

THE rector's hat.

It would be untrue to say that clary Hamilton
felt altogether at her ease when she found
herself alone with the Rector ; she did not
think that Miss Masham was kind to rush off
in that abrupt manner. She might have
letters to finish before post time, it was true,
but somehow Mary did not believe it. She
was not very shy in general, but on this
occasion she did not know what to do ;
whether boldly to plunge into conversation
or wait for her companion to begin.

He was standing with his back to her,
looking out of one of the windows, and she
did not feel bold enough to address him.
Three minutes passed ; in desperation she

took Up a book, but she had scarcely opened
it when Dr. Murray left the window and
came over to her ; then followed a few
seconds of utter bewilderment, before she
realised that he was asking her to be his wife.

There was no ambiguity In his love-making;
he said very little about his feelings,
but his meaning was unmistakable. Mary
made more than one effort to speak, but no
words would come, and she felt like a simpleton
as she sat there, with the much-coveted
Rector of Little Centre Bridge standing
before her waiting for his answer.

You might say something to me," he
pleaded at last. " I hope you will say 'yes,'
but an answer of some kind I have a right to
expect."

'' Ah ! you would not ask me If you knew
my story !" she broke out at last. Then she
covered her face and began to cry.

*' I do not think your 'story,' as you call it,
can be anything so very terrible," he

answered ; " and I am quite sure there is
nothing in it that would make me think less
highly of you."

On hearing this, Mary's sobs broke out
afresh, and, made desperate by the sight of
her grief, Dr. Murray knelt on one knee by
her side and tried to get her hands into his.

''My dear, don't cry," he said, quite
piteously. "I cannot answer for myself when
I see you in trouble. Tell me what it is,
and let mesne if I cannot make it lighter."

You will not care for me any more when
you know," she said, mournfully.

'' I am not sure of that ; but you must let
me be the judge."

Mary gave a great sigh and began. " I 
I was not always poor," she said. " We
were well off while my father was alive, and
I  I was engaged to be married "

I am not surprised to hear that," put in
the Rector, smiling at her ; " but I am happy
to know that it was broken off."

VOL. I. N

'* But not as you think. He  he jilted me "
Mary whispered the terrible word. "When
papa died, and it was found out that he had
speculated and lost all his money, he went
away without even saying good-bye, and
married another woman directly. It nearly
broke my heart. It was such a  a disgrace
to be deserted In that way, and I cared for
im.

'poor child!" said the Rector, as he
pressed her hands fondly In his.

Oh, you must not pity me," she cried.
I can bear anything but that ; it hurts
me."

'rand I would not hurt you for the
world."

She gave one quick look at him, and then
her eyes fell.

You need not doubt It, Mary, for I love
you with all my heart. You do not really
think that I am going to let what you have
just told me come between us ? No, my

dear, If you are going to reject me you
must find some better reason. The question
is  can you like me well enough to marry
me r

Like you ?" she repeated. '' Oh, Dr.
Murray !"

'' Well, what does that mean ?"

'' It means  oh, how can I tell you ?"

Very easily. I am not particular about
the manner if the matter is to my liking-just
make it clear to me that you will be my
wife."

But are you quite sure you will not wish
tomorrow you had not asked me ."

"If any such ridiculous idea enters my
head I promise to tell you of it directly."

But do not people change their minds
sometimes when they begin to think over
things ?"

Well, considering that I have thought
over this for some time, I may be allowed to
say that any change is impossible. I wish I

were as sure of you, Mary, as I am of
myself"

''I am quite sure of myself," she answered,
softly, and on hearing the words, the doctor,
like a sensible man, without more ado took
her in his arms and kissed her. " You owe
me compensation," he said, "for having kept
me In suspense so long."

'' But it seems so strange that you should
want to marry me," said Mary.

I do not see that," he answered. " I am
sure I did my best to show you that I liked
you."

Did you ever think of me when you
walked in your garden ?" Mary asked, when
the Rector had enlarged at length upon his
state of mind during the past six months;
and she heard with surprise that she had
often come between him and the writing of
his sermon. There was something wonderful
in the idea that he had been in love with her
for so long.

' What do you know about my walks in
the garden ?" he asked.

Mar) blushed and laughed. The doctor
pressed the question.

'' The window of my room overlooks your
garden," she said, '* and I used to see you
nearly every day."

Very well, then if I confess to you, you
must confess to me. When you have seen
me in my garden did you ever wish to be
walking there with me ?"

That is a very hard question."

'' Never mind that. Answer it."

I thought it would be very pleasant  if
the weather were fine."

Dr. Murray laughed heartily. ''I do not
think I believe in the ' if,' " he said. " For
my part, ]diary, I can say with truth that I
thought of you, and you only, as I walked up
and down."

You remember the day last week I met
you in the Post Office ?" said Mary.

'' Perfectly. It was last Thursday ; the
day you told me you were going away.
What about It ?"

Just before I went out with my letters I
saw you in the garden ; you had your hat off,
and you were looking up into an apple tree ;
were you thinking of me then ?"

I am sure I was. I dare say I was
wondering if you knew how to make an
apple dumpling, you little sceptic. You
remember I walked back with you to the
college, and we met Mrs. and Miss Smith at
the gate. Did they say anything disagreeable
to you ?"

Not a word."

'' They were very gracious to me, and I
could not help wondering what they would
say had they guessed that I was meditating
writing to you that very evening to
make you an offer. In fact, I began two
letters."

"Oh! I should like to see them," cried

Mary. " I suppose you thought If you wrote
to me someone would see the letters and
make a fuss."

Well, yes ; I believe I did think a little
about the fuss, as you call It, but I wanted to
have the pleasure of hearing from your own
lips that you loved me and would be my wife ;
and now I want you to fix the day for our
marriage. It may as well be very soon ; we
have nothing to wait for."

A troubled expression came Into Mary's
soft eyes. "It Is all of no use," she said.
I may fix the day, but it will come to
nothing. Do you know that I was twenty-eight
my last birthday, and I have been so
miserable ever since my father died that I
feel very old . If you marry me, all your
friends will say you have thrown yourself
away."

'* I am a patient man, Mary, so I heard
you out. Come now, tell me honestly, do
you think I am throwing myself away ?"

I think if you really care for me, that I
can make you happy."

'' Then the question is settled ; and I hope
very soon to have you walking with me in
my garden, instead of looking at me from
a window."

Another hour passed before Miss Masham
reappeared, but the rest of the conversation
that took place between Dr. Murray and
Miss Hamilton is not worth recording ; the
sample already given is, perhaps, more
sensible than what followed. When Miss
Masham came in, she found Mary looking
out of the window, and the Rector on the
hearth rug, in the well-known John Bull
attitude.

'' If I did not know that you both took up
your present very unnatural positions the
moment you heard my hand on the handle of
the door, I should say you had quarrelled !"
the little woman said. " Turn round, Mary,
and let me look at you. Cheeks like peonies,

and that bow, I took so much trouble to put
on, all awry ! There is no change for the
worse in Dr. Murray, so I may take it for
granted that he has had everything his own
way."

'' Not quite," said the Rector, gravely,
*but I was getting on very fairly "

Do not listen to him, Miss Masham,"
interrupted Mary. "He has had everything
his own way. My most carefully guarded
secrets have been wrung from me ! No
inquisitor was ever more unmerciful "

She is not telling the truth," interrupted
the Rector, In his turn. '' It was nothing but
her Incredulity, her scepticism, that put off
the final settlement of a most Important
question. We were not engaged more than
five minutes when you "

"Oh!" cried Mary. " It struck half-past
five when you "

Pray spare me the details," Interrupted
Miss Masham. " I can Imagine what took

place at half-past five, and it Is now past six.
I dismiss Dr. Murray's statement as to the
length of your engagement, as unworthy of
belief, and I want to know. Miss Hamilton,
when you think of telling Mrs. Dysart-Smlth
that you have found a situation you think will
suit."

** I forgot all about her," answered
Mary. " 1 am afraid she will be very
angry."

I am sure she will. I do not know what
grounds she has to go upon, but I believe she
looked upon Dr. Murray as her future son-in-law.
However, you and he, Mary, must
settle It between you."

'' I am sure this girl does not think I am
to blame," said the Rector, as he put his arm
round Mary's waist. Nothing these women
say can hurt her now, and when she is my
wife "

I prophesy that before you come back
from your honeymoon," said Miss Masham,

'' the Ladies' College will have changed
hands."

I shall always feel an interest in the
place for the sake of one window," whispered
Dr. Murray ; and Miss Masham, although
she pretended to be very busy clearing a
table for the tea-tray, saw the girl look up at
him with a bright, loving glance. The
Rector could not resist it ; he bent down and
gave her a kiss.

'' I see that it is quite useless to expect a
man to be sensible, even at his age, when he
falls in love," the old lady murmured.

The servant came in with the tea-tray, and
Mary and the doctor walked away to the
window, and there stood talking in whispers
until Miss Masham interrupted them.

'' I think you might let that poor girl have
a cup of tea, doctor," she said. " Tea was
really what she came for, you know, and weare
nearly an hour late."

And as it was not what I came for, I

suppose I must not have any," he answered.
Then he went with Mary to the table and
helped himself.

Half-an-hour later, when he said good-bye
to Miss Masham, Mary would not allow him
to walk back with her to the town. " If weare
seen together again," she said, " everyone
will sav that I am traitor to ' catch ' you, and
I could not bear that."

Then the sooner everyone knows you
have caught me the better I shall be
pleased," he answered, as he stood with herat
the gate. "And remember, the moment
I get home I shall go out and look up at that
window."

But you will not see me," said Mary. " I
do not mean to look into the garden anymore."


'' Then you are very hard-hearted." He
was talking against time just to keep her
with him a little longer, but she broke away
at last, and looked round once only, to wave

her hand to him before she reached a turn in
the road.

As she went round the bend she came face
to face with Mrs, Dysart- Smith and her
daughter. They were on their way to call
upon Miss Masham,

*you will not get back to the college before
the tea-bell rings. Miss Hamilton," said
Mrs. Smith, severely. " I think when you
are allowed out in the afternoon you might
be home in good time."

Mary murmured an incoherent apology
and went on almost running in her excitement.
How fortunate that she had not
allowed the Rector to escort her ; but then it
was just possible that the Smiths would find
him still standing at Miss Masham s gate.

But he was not there; he was in the
drawing-room, holding forth to Miss Masham
about Mar) and his great happiness in having
won her when the two ladies appeared on
the avenue.

They must have met her, and I cannot
face them," he said. "Call me a coward if
you like, but hide me somewhere."

"That door behind you leads into the
morning-room. There ! Be quick ; the
Philistines are upon us ! Bless the man !
He has left his hat behind him !" and Miss
Masham had barely time to throw it  fortunately
it was a soft, clerical wide-awake 
upon the ground behind a sofa, when the
two ladies were shown in.

When the effusive greetings were over,
Miss Dysart-Smith, as luck would have it,
seated herself on the sofa that screened the
hat ; if she turned her head ever so little she
must see it. For half-an-hour by the clock
on the chimney-piece the mother and
daughter sat and talked volubly, and poor
Miss Masham was on thorns. She had a
keen sense of the ridiculous, and she did not
want anything absurd to happen in her .
And what could be more absurd

than the discovery of the doctor's hat, except
the discovery of the doctor himself, hidden
away in the morning-room.

At last the visitors stood up to go, and
there was a muslin antimacassar found entangled
by Its lace edging in the beaded
fringe of Miss Smith's mantle. Was ever
anything so unlucky ! She took it off, turned
to replace It upon the sofa, and, as she did so,
she saw the hat. She knew whose it was ;
there was not another exactly like it in Little
Centre Bridge. Now, in his own house a
man is generally not far from his own hat,
and in a strange house he must be very near
indeed, and Miss Smith peered down as if
she expected to see the Rector crouching on
the floor beside his head-gear ; but he was
not visible, and she had to go away.

Miss Masham gave a great sigh of relief
as her visitors disappeared ; then she ran to
the door of the morning-room, and, opening
it, called out, 'the coast Is clear. Here Is

your hat." There was no reply ; she looked
in ; the room was empty ; the Rector had
gone off without his hat.

OTWAY IN CHAINS.

When Otway asked Sir John if he would
give him his daughter, he did not imagine
that Betty had already told her father what
had taken place in the wood. Sir John
showed no surprise ; he said simply enough,
The child told me you had asked her, and I
think you had better be satisfied with her
answer. I could not give her to you against
her will."

But I do not think she knows how much
in earnest I am," pleaded Otway. *your
consent might have some weight."

"Humph!" said Sir John, remembering
Betty's comments upon her lover's manner.

'' But you have no objection to me per-vol.
I. o

totally, have you, Sir John ?" said Otway,
eagerly.

Not the slightest, my boy. I do not
like your politics, but, after all, they don't
count for much now-a-days, do they ? And
we can afford to differ. I know nothing

o

against you, and I believe you are fond of
the child; indeed, I may as well tell you that
I suspected your fancy for her long ago.
But she doesn't care a pin for you ; she
says she doesn't."

Poor Otway winced visibly. '* That is
hard upon me," he said; "very hard."

'but you do not want a wife who does
not love you, I suppose ?"

'' I want her," the young man answered,
and I mean to do my very best to win her
if I can."

I suppose," said Sir John, with an air of
the greatest Innocency, *you have done your
best already ? Gone the right way to work,
you know, and all that. Isn't it true that

some women are caught one way and some
another ?"

*' There is but one way that I know of.
If a man loves a woman to desperation, as I
do, he tells her so, and does all he can to win
her love in return."

"And all is very little, sometimes," muttered
Sir John, who felt bound in honour not
to give Otway a hint to be less meek and
submissive ; besides, although he liked the
man well enough, he did not want to lose
Betty just yet.

"She is very young," the lover went on,
"and very guileless and innocent; and it is
very presumptuous, perhaps, of me to think
that I could make her happy. To have her
for my very own would make me so perfectly,
so absolutely content, that perhaps I
do not think enough about her, and "

For goodness' sake do not get metaphysical
or logical, or whatever it is,"
interrupted Sir John, upon whom such

reasoning was utterly lost. '' A girl marries
a man because she loves him, and they
are bound to make the best of one another.
That is my idea of matrimony, and if you
and Betty agree to take one another ' for
better, for worse,' you have my consent.
What more can I say ? And now come along
with me to the stables ; I want to show you
a cob I bought the other day for my own
use."

During the next few days, although Otway
and Betty were very much together, and
often alone, he was silent on the subject of
his love. His visit was to last nearly a
fortnight, as Easter Day did not fall until
the Sunday week after he came down ; if she
again rejected him, he felt that he could
not stay on as her father's guest, and so he
waited.

His silence was In his favour. Betty
thought much of that fervent declaration In
the wood ; Indeed, she thought more of it

than of the man who made it, for when she
thought of him, his want of self-assertion
annoyed her. But it was very sweet to be
so worshipped and adored, and it would, no
doubt, be very delightful, in many ways,
to marry a man who was prepared to carry
on the worship and adoration ; she could not
feel any great amount of respect for him, but
then he could not expect what he did not
deserve.

I could simply turn him round my finger,"
she often said to herself, and she took to
practising diverse little arts upon him, and he
fell so easily into all her traps and pitfalls,
and let her see so plainly that any ill treatment
was better than neglect and indifference,
that she presently began to look upon him asa
puppet specially retained to dance to her
wire-pulling.

If I marry him," she used to say to
herself, "he must let me live here at home
more than half the year with papa and Aunt

Louise ; they would be so lonely by themselves.
We do not want him to be always
about, but I could run up to town sometimes
to see how he Is getting on. I should die If
I had to keep on ordering dinners every day
all the year round. What I should like
would be to marry him ; to have a very, very
short honeymoon  I suppose he would Insist
upon a honeymoon, but I am afraid I should
have lost all patience with him at the end of
a week  and then for us to separate. I
could come here to papa, and he could go
back to London. That would be delightful !
Yes ; I am very much afraid If I were too
much with him, and he behaved always In
that Idiotic way, telling me that I was an
angel and that he adored me, I should
dislike him, and I do not want to dislike
him."

With her mind full of these most absurd
Ideas, she was kinder to Otway as the days
went on ; teasing him less and less, and not

snapping off his admiring speeches quite so
short. But she did not fall in love with him.
His visit was coming to an end, and he resolved
to make one more effort. She walked
with him nearly every afternoon, and on
Easter Monday, accident having brought
them to the beech coppice again, he found
his opportunity and spoke.

Betty did not seat herself this time upon
the fallen tree ; she remained leaning against
an upright one ; Otway stood facing her at
a little distance.

It Is nearly your last day," she said, carelessly.


My last day of happiness," he said, " unless
you allow me to come back."

I have nothing to do with it. Papa will
probably ask you."

You have everything. Give me one ray
of hope, Betty ; only one."

How much is a ray ?" she asked, saucily.
How am I to measure it ?"

Say you will be glad to see me."

'' You know that already."

But I will not come back for that," he
protested. '' At least, I will not if I can
keep away."

I do not think you could keep away,"
she answered, still with her saucy air, "you
are very fond of  the Chase."

'' No, Betty, but of you. I did not think
It was possible to love you more than I did
when we talked on this very spot the day
I came back, but I know better now. Am I
to go to my work in London, miserable 
broken-hearted ? Do you not care for me
even a little ? You have been kinder of
late."

"How much would satisfy you?" she
asked, half-flippant. " I am afraid to say a
word lest you should ask too much."

Your will is law to me," he cried, passionately,
"try me  trust me! I swear to you
not to encroach upon your kindness. Let

me love you ; that is all I ask, until  until
you are my wife."

"And my will must be law then, too,"
she said.

"You will marry me, then ?"

On those terms."

"Oh, Betty ; my darling!" In his delight
Otway would have clasped her in his arms
and kissed her, but she would not allow him.

That is not the way to begin," she said,
and there was not a smile on her face, "at
least, it is not vty way. Come and let us
take a walk ; we have dawdled here long
enough."

As they walked she chatted to him upon
every imaginable subject but the one so
near his heart ; every attempt he made to
speak of his feelings, his hopes for the future,
his rapture at her acceptance, she either
laughed at or received with a stolidity of
demeanour that drove him to the verge of
distraction.

Would she not listen while he said once,
just once, how happy she had made him, and
how devotedly  how ardently he loved her ?

No ; she did not want to hear it all over
again ; she liked him very much better when
he talked about music, or books, or plays, or
even politics, which she confessed she did not
understand. There was nothing in the whole
world as silly as love-making, and she hated it.
Yes ; she had said she would marry him ; it
was not exactly a promise, but if she did not
change her mind she would marry him by
and by. No, he must not call her 'this own,"
or " an angel " either. She was neither the
one nor the other ; she was Betty Erskine,
and if he went on his knees to her, which he
seemed very well inclined to do, she would
not let him kiss her.

And while she thus tormented him, and
drove him almost wild with her banter and
rebuffs, she was saying to herself  " Oh, if
you only knew what a little audacity would

do. Why don't you say, ' Betty, you must,'
instead of ' Betty, will you ?' with your heart
in your eyes ? You could so easily take by
force what I will not give for beseeching."

An hour after the scene in the beech copse
when Betty, with her infatuated slave in
excellent order by her side, entered the
house. Miss Lambton came running to meet
them.

*' I have just been to look for you, dear'"
she cried, 'there is an Indian telegram. Jack
is married."

A LETTER FROM JACK.

It was the height of the London season.
Everyone was in town ; the weather was
fine ; the shops were looking their gayest
and prettiest ; there were attractive bills at
the theatres ; there was plenty of first-rate
music to be heard ; and half-a-dozen new
beauties were on view every day in the
park.

The Erskiness had a furnished house in
Halkin Street ; Sir John liked to be near
what he was pleased to call the " scene of his
labours at Westminster." He was a most
conscientious member ; would sit for hours
listening to most uninteresting debates,
Alas never out of the way when a division

was expected, and never opened his lips
except to speak to a friend.

There was a Drawing-room soon after
Easter. Betty was presented, and she had
the pleasure of reading a detailed catalogue
of her charms in one or two of the " society "
papers. It was not disagreeable, of course,
to know that her youth and peculiar style of
beauty enabled her to bear the trying ordeal
of Court dress by daylight, but it was not
so delightful to find it broadly hinted in
another paragraph that it was this "lovely
ddbutante who had won the Stoneshire
election for her father, Sir John Erskine ;"
or that it was " an open secret that the
Liberal candidate, who had so suddenly and
unaccountably retired from the contest for
Stoneshire, was engaged to the beautiful
daughter of the present member, a Conservative
of the old-fashioned type."

If Otway saw the objectionable allusions
to himself and his betrothed, he never

mentioned them. The enQfacrement between
them was really known only to a few very
old friends, for, although Sir John had given
his consent willingly enough, he did not wish
Betty to marry for six months at least, and
the girl herself would willingly have put it
off for a year could she have found any
pretext, save her own unreasonable caprice,
for the postponement. Otway, more in love,
if possible, than he had been when he asked
her to marry him, unconsciously did his best
to turn the girl's heart away from him by his
continued and never-failing patience and forbearance
with all her whims and fancies. If
she tried to provoke him by flirting with
other men, he would simply look at her in
mute reproach, instead of getting angry, and
scolding and upbraiding her, as she wished
him to do. It is quite possible that he felt
jealous, but he never showed it.

He submitted to her caprices, and they
were legion ; he endured her neglect when

she neglected him, with unfailing good-temper,
and was rapturously, absurdly grateful
when she noticed him with favour and
approval. His desire was to win her by
his dumb, dog-like devotion, and she never
for a moment imagined that it was only by
the exercise of his iron will that he kept the
passionate love he felt for her in check. It
was a terrible mistake on her part to imagine
that he was weak, and on his to hide his
strength ; and when they found out their
error, it was too late to rectify it.

The people of Little Centre Bridge had
been overwhelmed with subjects for gossip
when, almost at the same moment, it became
known that young Erskine was actually
married in India, that his sister Betty was
engaged to Herbert Otway  for, somehow,
It got out that she had accepted him,
although Sir John wished the matter to be
kept secret  and that the Rector, Dr.
Murray, was going to marry Mary Hamilton,

the English governess at the Ladles'
College.

And It was that extraordinary and unlooked
for bit of news that extinguished
everything else. Everyone wanted to know
how it had come about. Everyone said
what a " clever, sly little thing " she was to
*' catch " him, and everyone was curious
to know how Mrs. Dysart-Smlth and her
daughter would take it.

To all appearance, they bore It extremely
well. Mrs. Smith was too clever a woman
to let her disappointment be seen ; so, the
moment she heard that Mary was actually
engaged, she changed her tactics, overwhelmed
the bride-elect with congratulations
and kindness, and very neatly turned the
tables upon her own friends and acquaintances
 who were looking out for her discomfiture
 by telling them how delighted she was
that the " dear girl was going to have a good
husband and a happy home of her own."

It was now the end of May. Sir John, his
daughter and Miss Lambton were seated
at a rather late breakfast, and Betty was
looking as bright and as pretty as If she had
not been dancing until two o'clock that same
morning. She was the last to come down,
certainly, but her father had only just opened
the Times when she came in.

*' Good-morning, my pet," he said, as she
kissed him. 'there is a letter from Jack for
you. Let's hear the news ; we have had
but one shabby half-sheet from him, the lazy
rascal, since he married."

And that was all taken up with raptures
about his bride !" said Betty. " What are
you smiling at. Aunt Louise ? Who is your
long letter from ?"

From Jane Masham. The Rector was
married the day before yesterday, and he and
Mrs. Murray are off to the Lakes. She was
married from the Rosary, and Mrs. Dysart-
Smith's present was the cake, and she and

VOL. L P

Miss Smith were at the wedding. The
church was most beautifully decorated, Jane
Masham says, and the day was kept as a sort
of holiday in the town."

I see the marriage in the Times this
morning," said Sir John. " I wish we had
been there. I suppose, Miss Betty, yours
will be the next grand wedding in Little
Centre Bridge ?"

'* I mean to be married in London, if I
marry at all," Betty answered. ''I do not
want to be stared at." Then she opened her
Indian letter, and began to read. "They are
back at Meerut," she said, presently, " and
there are all manner of gaieties going on for
the bride. Jack says he is as happy as
possible, and his darling Amy is so much
admired, he is prouder of her than ever. I
can't fancy Jack married! Can you, papa?
I wish 1 could bring her home and introduce
her to you all,' " the girl went on, reading from
the letter, "but that is impossible, just yet.

Your old friend, Arthur Fllmer, is beginning
to knock up with the climate, and will probably
have to go home on sick-leave before
long. He will look you up at the Chase, and
bring you some presents we picked up on our
travels.' Now there are some more raptures
about Amy, which I am going to skip, if you
please," said Betty. "There is no doubt that
when men fall in love they become perfectly
idiotic. What is this ? This looks more interesting.
' You remember I told you about
Amy's good-looking maid, Rossitur ? I
forgot to mention in my last that she was
married just a fortnight before we were, to
my man, Porringer, who came to the Chase
for the dogs, you remember, before I left.
We knew she was engaged to him, but I did
not think it would come to anything, for,
between ourselves, she is the most outrageous
flirt I ever met. Lots of our fellows were
after her, and, to tell you the truth, I thought
at one time, Buncombe, of Ours, would marry

her. By the way, he is next heir, he says, to
old Wat Duncombe, of the Hermitage  the
governor knows him  the 'hermit," we used
to call him  so you may have Walter for a
neighbour some day. I don't like the fellow
myself, and I wish he was out of the regiment,
but that's neither here nor there. Well, I
was going to tell you that this Duncombe was
very sweet upon Rossitur, and Amy tells me
that Porringer threatened ''to do for him,"
more than once, but, as she is now Mrs. P., I
suppose it is all right. The absurd thing is
that Duncombe and Filmer, and a lot more of
the fellows, insist that Rossitur is like my
wife! I'm hanged if I can see it ; but I daresay
you will be able to judge for yourself
some day, when we come home, for nothing
would induce Amy to part with " Rossitur,"
as she is still called. I don't take to her so
much myself, but I would not vex Amy, by
saying so, for the world.' "

** There," said Betty, " I hope he has

written enough about that tiresome woman.
I cannot tell you what a dislike I have taken
to her, although I never saw her ; and I have
a most extraordinary presentiment about her,
too, as If she would do us some harm some
day."

''Oh, that Is nonsense," said Sir John.

I suppose It Is," said Betty. Then, after
a pause, '' I'm so glad Arthur Fllmer Is
coming home ; he Is such a dear nice fellow."

You must not let Herbert hear you say
that," said Sir John ; "he will be jealous."

''He jealous!" cried Betty, tossing her
head, "I do not believe he knows how."

Don't you Indeed ! You had better not
try him too far. Is he coming to ride with
you this morning ?''

No, I put him off. I would much rather
go with you, daddy. When he Is with me I
am simply bored to death. He Is always
staring at me as If he never saw me before,
and asking If I would not like to go to this

play or that concert. Why does he not
settle where I am to go, and then take me,
whether I like It or not ?"

'' Perhaps he does not think you would
like that style of thing, my dear."

Let him try it. I am tired of having my
own way. I should like a little coercion byway
of variety. But you must not tell him,
papa. Let him find out for himself, if he
can."

Sir John laughed. He thought It all a
good joke. '' Poor Otway !" he said, *' you
will lead him a life when you are married."

'' Yes ; when we are," the girl muttered, as
she took up her brother's letter again. " Oh,
papa," she said, presently, ''do you ever see
anything of that old Mr. Buncombe Jack
mentions ?"

'' No ; not now. He used to sit on the
bench sometimes when there was a poaching
case, but he hardly ever leaves the house
now, I hear, and no one visits him. He is

not a very reputable character, I am afraid,
if all accounts be true, and I suspect that
nephew or cousin of his, who is in Jack's
regiment, is not much better. But don't you
wonder that Jack's wife keeps that woman 
what's her name  about her, Louise ?" he
added, addressing his sister-in-law. "Flighty
maid generally means flighty mistress, I
think ; and they say she is like Amy, too."

But Jack doesn't, papa."

Oh, no ; of course he wouldn't see the
likeness, but I daresay it's there. I remember
that fellow Porringer very well  a
good-looking fellow  and I remember saying
to Jack that he looked an excitable sort of
chap ; and Jack told me he had had a great
shock just before he came to the Chase.
A gamekeeper shot himself on account of
some girl. He was jealous of Porringer, I
believe."

But that girl could not have been ,"
said Betty. "Could she, papa?"

I suppose not, my dear, if she was Miss
Gordon's maid."

'' But, remember," said Miss Lambton,
"Amy and Rossitur went out in the Great
Pyramid three years ago, with Jack."

"And what has that to do with it?" cried
Sir John, testily. " I am sick of the very
name of that maid of Amy's. I wish you
would tell Jack not to write about her anymore
"

NO. 200, queen's gate TERRACE.

Seated at his solitary breakfast that same
morning In his bachelor flat In Victoria
Street, Westminster, Otway worked his way
n a rather desultory fashion through his correspondence.
He was late that morning as
well as his friends In Halkin Street, and had
he been depending upon his profession for a
livelihood, he could not have afforded to
neglect his work as he had done since the
Erskine came to town.

It was now several days since he had been
at his chambers In the Temple, and he was
thinking of spending an hour or two In them
this very morning, as Betty had ordered him
not to ride with her or even to show himself

In the Row, and he always obeyed her Imperious
commands. And what a glorious
morning It was for a ride. It was very hard
that he could not enjoy It with her, and It
never occurred to him that she would have
secretly rejoiced over his disobedience If he
had ventured to appear without her permission.


He excused his absurd submission to her
whims by the plea that he was afraid of
frightening her away from him, If he showed
that he had a will of his own and could use
it. He did not deceive himself about her ;
he believed that she liked him, but to his
sorrow he knew she did not love him, and he
fondly Imagined that she could not long
remain Indifferent to a man who worshipped
her with such slavish devotion as he exhibited
day after day. And yet, somehow,
the slavish worship seemed to increase, but
the answering love did not awake. Then
he said to himself, '' She will love me

when we are married. I must wait till
then."

He was thinking of her now as he sat
alone over his breakfast. Twice only had
she danced with him the night before, and
other men had scribbled their names on her
programme for dance after dance with an
amount of effrontery that he envied but could
not Imitate. She had not been kind to him
the whole evening. The flowers he had sent
her were not pretty, she said, so she did not
wear them ; and he had no business to stand
where she found him, watching for her
when she came Into the room. It was bad
taste on his part. In short, he could not
please by word or deed. She flouted him ;
she teased him ; she said sharp things to
him ; but she could not provoke him to
quarrel with her, and she declared to herself
when she got home, that she could not and
would not marry such a good-tempered, submissive
man for the whole world.

His letters were numerous, but not very
interesting. Some of them had been forwarded
from his chambers, and among them,
as he turned them over, was one that arrested
his attention. It was eight years at least
since he had seen that bold dashing hand,
although at one time it had been familiar
enough. Of course, it was but natural that
the writing should recall the writer, and a
faint flush rose to his face as he turned the
letter over, and looked at the elaborate blue
gold and red monogram on the envelope.

How completely I had forgotten her," he
said. He opened the letter with the air of a
man who expected to find something disagreeable
inside, and read as follows 

No. 200, Queen's Gate Terrace.

'' My dear Mr. Otway,

I hope you have not quite forgotten
me, but I am afraid you have, as you
seem to have taken no trouble to find out my
address ; and yet you must know what a

pleasure it would be for me to see you ao-aln.
I am in great trouble, and T want your
advice. Can you come and lunch with me on
Thursday next at two o'clock ? My husband
is out of town.

'' Yours sincerely,

Caroline Ogilvey.'*
'' Mine sincerely, Caroline Ogilvey !" he
repeated. " No ; not mine, I am happy to
say, and not very sincere either, unless eight
years spent with ' Moneybags Ogilvey,' as
we used to call him, have changed you very
much. And eight years ago I fancied myself
in love with you, and I did not find out
how little I really cared until I heard of your
marriage. In trouble is she .' And she
wants me to help her. Well, perhaps she
is, poor woman. I am not vain enough
to suppose that she wants to get me
into her toils again." He went to his
writing-table and scribbled a hasty note, as
follows 

Mv DEAR Mrs. Ogilvey,

I have not forgotten you, and I
am sorry to hear you are in trouble. Expect
me to luncheon tomorrow at two.
Yours,

Herbert Otway."

He pushed the note aside, as soon as it
was written, and, opening a drawer, took out
a cabinet photograph of Betty Erskine in her
riding-dress, which, strange to say, she had
had taken to gratify a desire of his, and fell
to rapt contemplation of the sweet face he
loved. Needless to say, he knew every line
by heart already, but was he ever tired of
gazing at those saucy laughing eyes, and the
exquisite turn of the throat and chin ? The
likeness was an admirable one, as the artist
had, happily, caught one of his sitter's most
bewitching expressions, and Otway was such
a miser about the picture that he longed to
order the negative to be destroyed. How
Betty would have admired him, if he had had

the audacity to say that he, and he only,
should possess a copy of that particular
photograph ; but he did nothing of the kind,
and, with the most amiable liberality, she
dispensed them far and wide among her
admirers.

It was with his mind still full of Betty's
charms, that Otway at length put his reply to
j\Irs. Ogilvey into an envelope, and rang the
bell for his servant to take it to the post
without delay ; then he dressed and went
down to his chambers.

He dined at Halkin Street the same
evening. There was a large dinner-party, and
he hoped to sit next to Betty, but she was at
the other end of the table, laughing, talking
and enjoying herself with some man Otway
had never seen before. He had known her,
now in many moods, but he found her in a
new one on this evening ; she was in the
wildest spirits, but she scarcely spoke to him ;
he followed her about, as usual, and once or

twice she told him to fetch her fan, or her
handkerchief, or her gloves  anything she
chanced to miss  and she took them with
just a careless word of thanks.

At last, when he was about to say goodnight,
she suddenly became most gracious and
gentle ; laid her hand upon his arm, asked him
to ride with her in the morning, and then to
come to luncheon.

He accepted for the ride, but said that,
most unfortunately, he was engaged to lunch
with a friend.

Ah !" and Miss Betty arched her pretty
eyebrows, "I knew that when I asked you."

You knew !" he repeated ; 'you guessed,
perhaps."

No, I knew ; but you need not ask me
how I knew, for I am not going to tell
you."

As usual, he entreated, coaxed and implored,
but without success. Betty only
laughed In his face.

'you know I would give It up if I could,"
he said.

Of course you would," she answered, " but
you cannot desert old friends for new, can you?"

When he called next morning to ride with
her, he got a message to say she had changed
her mind and gone shopping instead, so he
had to spend another morning without her,
and consequently he was not in the best of
spirits when, shortly before two o'clock, he
presented himself at 200, Queen's Gate
Terrace, and asked for Mrs. Ogilvey.

He was shown into a pretty drawing-room ;
the light was subdued and the perfume of
flowers was oppressive. Otway felt half-suffocated,
and yet he had expected to find
Mrs. Ogilvey's drawing-room dimly lighted
and highly scented. He was left alone for
ten minutes, and, strange to say, his thoughts
went back, not to Betty Erskine, but to the
woman whom he had not seen for eight
years. He was one or two-and-twenty then

VOL. I. Q

and she was, at least, five years his senior,
and he had fancied himself In love ! How
vividly he recalled the bitterness of his reproaches
when she told him she was about
to marry the rich stockbroker, Christopher
Ogilvey, familiarly known as '* Moneybags
Ogilvey," and how little he had cared when,
after a month or two, he read the announcement
of the marriage In the Times.

He had made an ass of himself while his
fancy lasted, and Caroline was kind ; he remembered
the kindness well enough. The
woman herself was very handsome; he had
not forgotten that, either ; her figure was
magnificent, and her voice, if he was not
mistaken, was one of her great attractions 
rich, soft and low. Yes, it was all three ; he
heard it behind him now, when \}i\. frou-frou
of her gown over the carpet ceased. But
her address surprised him 

*' You have come," she said, "but why did
you not answer my note ?"

A woman's folly.

''I ANSWERED it Immediately," he said, "and
my servant took it to the post."

This is very odd, for it never reached me."
Otway thought it extremely odd. 'T must
inquire about it," he said, 'for it was undoubtedly
written, and posted so far as I
know."

Well, you are here, and that is the chief
thing after all," she said, as she held out her
pretty white hand to him a second time.
'* Sit down and let us see what we have to
say to one another after all these years.
When I saw you last you were a very charming
 boy ; now, I have no doubt, you are a
very charming man."

'charming or not, I am a man who is
sorry to hear you are in trouble," he said, ashe
seated himself beside her on a couch. " I
hope it is nothing very serious."

She gave a little impatient sigh, looked at
Otway for an instant, and then let her eyes
fall again. "You must judge for yourself
when I tell you about it   after luncheon.
Can you stay a little while with me ? We are
not likely to be interrupted."

*' Yes," he said, " I can stay."

"How do you think I am looking?" washer
next remark. " It is eight long years 
long to me, at least  since you saw me
last. Do I look much older ? You need not
be afraid to tell me the truth."

"There is very little change in you," he
answered, "but," and he looked round the
room and smiled, "you know I cannot see
very distinctly in this light."

"You are improved ; I have light enough
to see that," she returned, in the same

matter-of-fact tone she had used from the
beginning; "but then, as I said just now,
eight years ago you were Httle more thana
boy. I read all about your doings in
Stoneshire, and was disappointed when you
gave up the contest. I said at once, ' Who
is she ?' and before long I saw something
about a young lady whose life you saved. Is
she very charming ? But of course you do
not want to be questioned about her, and
I have other things to think of."

Luncheon was at the moment announced,
and Mrs. Ogilvey preceded her guest downstairs.
In the fuller lioht of the dinner-room
he saw that she was considerably altered ;
she had grown stouter, and her beauty now
owed more to art than nature, paint and
powder being liberally used. The face was
handsome still, but it was that of a woman
who led a restless and worried life.

But her manner was bright and animated,
and she made herself very agreeable, talking

of books, music and pictures in a light and
pleasant manner. She made more than one
attempt to bring the conversation round to
Otway himself, but seeing that he was not
disposed to be communicative, she let the
subject drop with some light remark that prevented
any awkwardness.

In his turn he tried to get her to speak of
herself and her husband ; but, beyond the
fact that she had no children and that Mr.
Ogilvey was then in Paris, he learnt nothing.
They went back to the shaded drawing-room
as soon as luncheon was over, and when
they were once more seated side by side,
she laid her hand upon his arm, and looking
into his face said, " Now, old friend, for my
trouble."

He thought it possible that he was about
to be asked to help her through some money
difficulty, but he soon found out his mistake.
Have you ever met or heard of Count
Henri de Flavelle ." she said.

*' I met him about two years ago at "

and Otway mentioned a country-house at
which he had been staying. " Is he a friend
of yours ?"

He was an intimate friend of mine ; but
do you not know that he is dead ? He committed
suicide last autumn at Monte Carlo.
We  my husband and I  were there at the
time."

I never heard of it. I knew he was a

reckless gambler, and also " He stopped

short and glanced at his companion.

"Yes ;" she said, putting her own interpretation
upon his sudden pause, "he was a
reputed * lady-killer,' as well." Then, after a
moment or two of silence, she went on ina
defiant voice, "He and I where very intimate
; he was a constant visitor at this house,
and I think he used to borrow money
from my husband. But, after a time, Mr.
Ogilvey refused to receive him any more,
and he desired me to hold no communication

with him. You probably guess I did not
obey him."

'eyes;" Otway said. ''I thought it probable."


'ewe met when we could, and where we
could, and I more than once lent him
money. It was not always easy for me
to get a sum large enough to be of any use
to him, but I am not easily baffled when I
make up my mind to do a thing, and on
several occasions I managed to give him a
tolerable amount. I can see plainly enough
in your face what you think of all this, but it
is quite possible that you wrong me. Henri
and I were friends  nothing more. However,
I am not going to defend myself or to
set up a plea of any kind ; the poor man
is dead, and it is only since his death that
I have had any cause to regret our intimacy.
He had a confidential servant, who for some
reason or other hated me, and this man is, he
says, in possession of all his late master's

private papers and letters. Within the past
few weeks he has begun a system of persecution
of me which threatens to become more
than I can bear. He says he will go to my
husband if I do not give him a large sum of
money, and I am afraid to put myself so
completely in his power."

"And suppose he carries out his threat,
and goes to your husband, what then ? Had
this Count Henri any letters of yours ? Used
you to correspond with him ?"

He had no letters of mine. Some
communications passed between us in cypher
  his to me are destroyed  on the subject of
the loans I mentioned to you just now, and
in one or two of those I sent to him I made
an appointment for a meeting. The very
last of those cyphers was written at Monte
Carlo, a few days before he shot himself,
and it is just possible that it was not destroyed."


I suppose this valet of his has no key to

the cypher  the Count would not have let
him into the secret ?"

Certainly not ; if he has any of my notes
he cannot read them, and the envelopes were
addressed by the Count himself. I always
had a supply of addressed envelopes by me,
and his to me were addressed by me. We
were very cautious on account of Mr.
Ogilvey's prohibition."

"Then, so far as I can see, you have
nothing to fear. If the cypher was known to
you and the Count only, you can let this
fellow do his worst."

"Ah! unfortunately it is known to one
other : the man who taught it to me."

"And he is ?"

My husband," replied Mrs. Ogilvey.
He gave it to me, and he can read it."

Otway looked grave. " There is only one
thing to be done," he said; "you must not
let this man see that you are afraid of
him. Do not give him any money, and

refuse to hold any communication with him ;
it is quite possible that a bold front will
dismay him, and he will make up his mind
that the papers in his possession are of no
importance."

"Nor are they, in one way. They prove
that I disobeyed my husband, and gave Henri
money that I got from Mr. Ogllvey for
another purpose, and if he should find out

that I deceived him " The fear of

detection was In her voice ; the shame of
detection was in her face, as she spoke ; and
Otway, although he felt contempt for her
weakness and folly, was constrained to feel
pity as well. Detection to her meant the
loss of her husband's trust; and yet, for the
poor gratification of helping such a man as
the Count, she had risked all that was most
valuable to her in the world.

He left his place beside her, and began to
walk up and down the room, and the question
he asked himself was this : " Why should

this woman be saved ?" But the thought of
Betty, the sweet pure girl he so passionately
loved, softened his heart towards the unhappy
creature who sat there before him self-condemned,
but not guilty of aught save
folly. He would save her if he could.

You despise me ! I see it in your face,"
she said, piteously, when he came back to
her. '' But, perhaps, if you knew all, you
would pity me a little as well. My husband
and I have nothing in common, and he is
very cold to me sometimes, but never
ungenerous. But if  if I can get out of this
scrape, I mean to turn over a new leaf  I
do, indeed."

There is no way out of it, but the way I
spoke of just now. You must put on a bold
front. Refuse to give the man any money ;
tell him that you know he has no letters or
papers that can compromise you, and then
wait for his next move. If we ascertain,
beyond a doubt, that he has the cypher In his

possession, we must, I suppose, buy them at
all hazards ; but my own opinion is, that he
has nothing to show."

The risk is something terrible," she said,
as she wrung her hands together. "I lie
awake at night and think of it, and then I
seem to see poor Henri's face before me.
Ah ! poor fellow, he loved me so hopelessly."

The face of her companion grew very
stern as she was speaking. If Betty had
seen him then, she would never say again
that he was always soft and yielding. " I do
not want to hear anything about Count
Henri," he said, shortly.

"And I was just going to show you his
picture," she answered. "Must you go?
Give me another half-hour ; I feel that I have
a great deal more to say, and one thing
I must tell you, as it is important. Soon
after we were married, my husband gave mea
very beautiful and valuable diamond star ;
it was so arranged that I could wear it either

J

as a pendant round my neck or in my hair.
On one occasion when I wanted money for
the Count, I had the ornament copied fora
few pounds in French paste, and when
it was done I gave the real stones to Henri.
I very often wore the sham pendant before
Mr. Ogilvey, and he never detected anything
wrong ; but more than three years ago I
either lost it or it was stolen from me, and I
am in daily dread of being asked why I
never wear it. I dare not tell my husband
it is gone, lest he should recover it through
the police, and find out the imposition."

You say it was lost or stolen," said
Otway. '' If stolen, of course the thief
thought the stones were real."

I suspect the maid I had at the time took
it  she did not know it was paste -but I
could not accuse her without letting Mr.
Ogilvey know, so I simply said nothing.
She was about leaving me at the time, too."

And where is she now ?"

She went with her new mistress, an
officer's daughter, to India, and she is
probably married by this, as she is very
good-looking."

"What was her name ?"

Rossitur  Bella Rossitur. She came
from Stillingfort, in Stoneshire."

Betty AND HER SLAVE.

It was past five o'clock when Otway left
Queen's Gate Terrace. He had certainly
not enjoyed his visit to his old love ; the
history of her " trouble," as she called it, had
revolted him, and the necessity he was under
to offer worldly - wise advice went sorely
against the grain. But he consoled himself
by hoping that her escape, if she did escape
the consequences of her folly, might be a
life-long lesson to her.

Refusing her offer to " drop " him somewhere
in her Victoria, he took a hansom as
far as Albert Gate, and then walked down
the Row towards Hyde Park Corner. Halfway,
he came upon Sir John Erskine, with

Betty beside him, seated in a mail phaeton,
which was drawn up close to the rails.

Betty's bright eyes were roving over the
crowd, and she did not see Otway until he
was close beside her.

''Ah, Otway!" cried Sir John, 'you are
the very man we want. I was wondering
what had become of you. Get up here and
take the reins, will you ? I see some people
I want to speak to over yonder, and you can
take Betty home when she's had enough of
this."

Nothing loth, Otway took the vacant
seat and the reins. " Shall we drive round ?"
he said.

"Certainly not," replied Betty, promptly.
I like to see the people. But I do not
object to one turn ; it is rather early. I
have not seen half-a-dozen people I know
yet."

Otway turned the horses into the road, and
they were soon bowling away towards the
VOL. L R

Memorial. " Well ?" he said, looking down
at her.

'' Well ?" she answered, looking up at him.
I hope you enjoyed your luncheon with
Mrs. Ogilvey."

Can it be possible," he cried, " that I
addressed the letter that she never got to
you ? That explains everything."

Except your stupidity," said Betty. " Is
this the letter?" and she took a note from
her pocket. " Outside is ' Miss Erskine,
Halkin Street ;' inside you tell some Mrs.
Ogilvey that you have not forgotten her, and
that you will lunch with her at two o'clock.
Who is Mrs. Ogilvey ?"

A lady I knew many years ago, when I
was about two-and-twenty."

Is she a nice person ?"

I don't know," said Otway.

"You are an old friend ; you lunched with
her to-day, and you do not know whether she
is nice or not. I call that absurd."

I do not admire her particularly," said
Otway.

Did you ever admire her ?"

"Very much," answered Otway, "in my
salad days  eight years ago."

"Eight years ago I was only ten," put in
Betty. " And have you not seen her since ?"

I have not seen her since her marriage
until to-day. She wrote and asked me
to call upon her."

Because she is in trouble," said Betty.
I am sorry for the poor woman. I am
not going to ask you what the trouble is
because I know if I did you would tell me,
and that would not be right."

I am afraid I could not tell you," Otway
was beginning.

Oh, yes, you would, if I insisted ;" Betty
interrupted, confidently; "you know you
never refuse me anything I ask, and if I
said I must know all about this trouble of
your friend, ]airs. Ogilvey, you would tell

me before we got round to the Memorial
again !"

"It Is very hard to refuse you anything,
my darling," murmured Otway, tenderly, ashe
gazed with all a lover's rapture into her
eyes. And yet, even as he said the words,
he was conscious of a bitter stab of disappointment,
for not the faintest trace of
jealousy could he detect in her manner. A
girl who was very much In love would surely
show some annoyance or pique at this sudden
renewal of intercourse between her lover
and his old friend.

You must really be more careful about
your letters In future," Betty went on. In her
sprightly manner, and Ignoring altogether
the fond words just uttered in her ear.
Suppose an epistle, with something very
secret in It, were to come to me by mistake,
what would you do ? And, when men meet
their old loves again, do they not generally
feel a little sentimental and unhappy ? They

always do in books, so if you want to be
sentimental or unhappy about this Mrs.
Ogilvey, I beg you will not hesitate on my
account."

'' As if you did not know that you are the
only woman in the world to me," broke in
Otway, with passionate reproach.

There ! Do not drive quite so fast, if
you please. Everyone is staring at us, I
really mean what I say. You must feel more
for an old friend than you do for a new one.
I know I should. Is this trouble of hers
likely to last long ? You will have to lunch
with her very often, I suppose ?"

Not oftener than I choose," Otway
answered.

As he was speaking, Mrs. Ogilvey drove
past them. She bowed to Otway, and stared
very hard at his companion.

Now you have seen her," he said,
'' what do you think of her ?"

'* She drives a very pretty pair of horses,

and she will probably known me again'*
replied Betty. " Did you tell her we were
going to be married ?"

*' Did you not desire me, on pain of your
severe displeasure, not to tell anyone ?"

Certainly I did, but I never expected
you to obey me," she returned. " I must
say you are the most oppressively obedient
man I ever met ; but perhaps you do not
want people to know you are engaged ?"

I should like the whole world to know
it," cried Otway ; 'that I might be envied
by the whole word for my good fortune."

Then, for goodness' sake, tell the whole
world directly," cried Betty, pettishly ; ''I
am sure I don't care."

*' And may I say that we are to be married
very soon ?"

*' If you like ; it is all the same to me.
No, do not go round again, and do not
draw up anywhere ; I am tired. Take me
home ; I want to show you Jack's last letter.

I had such a jolly letter from him this
mail."

The drawing-rooms at Halkin Street were
empty ; Miss Lambton was out alone. Betty
threw off her bonnet and began to fan herself.
'' Isn't it hot." she said.

'' Allow me," said Otway, as he took the fan
from her ; but instead of using it, he put his
arm round her and tried to draw her to him.

'one kiss, my darling," he said.

"No, no, no!" she cried, breaking away
from him. " How many times must I tell
you that I will not have any nonsense of that
kind ? I can't think what pleasure you find
in it. Do go away to the other end of
the room and be sensible. You have made
me a great deal hotter than I was before, and
I think you ought to know by this time that
I do not like to be kissed."

I know by this time that you are very
unkind to me," he said. " You treat Orion
better than you treat me."

*' Now, was there ever such a man ?" cried
Betty, appealing to the furniture. " I promised
to marry him simply because he said
it would break his heart if I refused him, and
yet he is not satisfied."

She walked away and sat down, looking
the picture of injured dignity. He followed
much too humbly, as was his wont. '' Say
you forgive me," he said.

She looked up at him with a glance that
was half-comical but wholly unresponsive to
the appeal in his eyes. " I declare," she
cried, " if you kneel to me I have done with
you for evermore. Have I not told you, a
hundred times at least, that I cannot bear to
see a man on his knees, and yet you will do it?
There ; go and bring me that little writing-case
from the table yonder. Jack's letter is
in it. Now, sit down at a respectful distance
and listen while I read."

Mastering his discomfiture and disappointment
as best he could, Otway sat down and

listened while Betty read her brother's letter
aloud.

As soon as she had finished, he said, " I
knew I had heard the name Rossltur before.
Is it not very odd ? Mrs. Ogllvey told me
to-day that some years ago  It would be three
or four, I suppose  she had a maid called
Bella Rossltur, who went to India. I suppose
It Is the same person ; Rossltur Is not a
very common name."

Common or not, It Is a name I am very
tired of," cried Betty. " Jack never writes
a letter In which she Is not mentioned, and
now your Mrs. Ogllvey knows her. Did she
like her ?"

Well  not particularly, I think."
She Is not connected with the trouble. Is
she ?"

No, not direct. Not at all, Indeed."

You look so frightened," cried Betty,

laughing, " I believe you are afraid I am

going to bribe you to let out Mrs. Ogilvey's

secrets. Do you think I could not doit?"


There Is nothing In the world I would

not do for you, Betty, If only " he

stopped short.

The door had opened to admit Miss
Lambton.

'' Here Is Aunt Louise," cried Betty.
** Now for some tea. And what's the news,
Auntie ?"

I have just met Dr. Murray and his
bride," she said. " They did not go to the
Lakes after all."

ROSSITUR AGAIN.

A FEW days later Otway was on his way
to call upon the Rector of Little Centre
Bridge at the Westminster Palace Hotel
when he met that gentleman at the entrance
alone.

Coming to see me, were you ? And I
was just going to look you up ; you are close
by, are you not? Our [friends in Halkin
Street have taken my wife off to shop in the
Grove, wherever that is, and I was told I was
not wanted."

*' Rather hard upon you, eh ?" laughed
Otway. "But if men will come to London
for their honeymoon they must take the
consequences."

We fixed upon the Lakes, you know, but
Mrs. Murray coaxed me to stay in London
for a few days to see the sights ; and if a
man does not humour his wife in the honeymoon,
when is he to do It ?"

every true," said Otway, absently.

'' Any time fixed for your marriage ?" inquired
the Rector, " I was in hopes it would
be this summer ; I hate long engagements
myself"

I do not want a long engagement," said
Otway, "but Sir John says the marriage is
not to be until next spring."

And what does Betty say ?"

"Oh, she says nothing!"

Is she not looking handsome?" cried the
Rector, enthusiastically. " I never saw such
eyes in a woman's head ! You are a lucky
fellow, Otway. Oh ! we go up In a lift,
do we ? I don't know that I fancy this sort
of thing very much myself, but I suppose
one Qets used to it. You must let me brlnof

my wife to see you. She would enjoy going
up in this thing immensely."

"You must bring her to lunch," said
Otway. '' I should like her to see where
I live."

Dr. Murray spent some time examining
the bits of fine old China and the few
admirable pictures that adorned Otway's
little drawing-room, and then the two men sat
clown for a chat.

And have you given up all idea of entering
Parliament since we treated you so badly
down in Stoneshire ?" the Rector asked. "In
the mere matter of talking, our friend Sir
John has not clone much to distinguish himself,
has he ? I believe in his heart he is
longing to be back at the Chase, pottering
about the home farm, and going into the town
to hear the news."

"He certainly does not care very much for
town life," said Otway. " None of them do,
for that matter."

"Oh, Betty likes it, I think."

'well, it's all new to her; but she
is very fond of the country. She has
never had a regular season before, you
know."

You will give up this little nest up here
when you marry, of course ?"

Yes. I am in treaty for a house she
likes in Rutland Gate. All places are pretty
much the same to me, but I want her to be
pleased."

I am afraid you spoil her, my boy. Take
care."

I feel as if I could not do half enough
for her," cried Otway. " She is the very
light of my life. I do not think it would be
possible for any man to love a woman more
than I love her, and she just likes me pretty
well, that's all."

Oh, never mind ; liking is a very good
thing to start with, and it will all come right
by and by. But don't you give up to her

too much ; for my own part, I think women
like a master."

My dear doctor, it is early days for you
to have found that out," laughed Otway.

Oh ; I knew it years ago," replied the
Rector. "But now I want to ask you about
this marriage of Jack Erskine's. Sir John
says very little, but I think he is cut up about

it."

Well, you see, he wanted Jack to marry
some girl at home, and he cannot quite take
to the notion of a daughter-in-law he has
never seen."

'' And, between ourselves, Otway," said
the Rector, " I am afraid Mr. Jack has made
a mistake. It may turn out all right, and I
hope it will ; but, I confess I have my
doubts."

'' Why ? Do you know anything of the
young lady ; anything against her, I mean ?
Her half-sister is married to my brother, but
I know nothing at all about /ler.''

'rand I know nothing actually against her,
but not much In her favour. It so happens
that a nephew of mine, Frank Murray, has a
very good post In Calcutta ; he came home
and married an uncommonly nice girl with
some money, just before Jack Erskine's regiment
went out. Well, you know, Mrs. John
Erskine's father, Colonel Gordon, had a staff
appointment In Calcutta when his daughter
went out to him, and my nephew, Franks and
his wife, being In the military set, saw a good
deal of Miss Amy Gordon, and heard a great
deal more. At that time Jack Erskine was
with his regiment at Lucknow, I think, and
he did not meet her until some time after her
campaign In Calcutta."

'' But he knew her," said Otway, "for they
went out In the same ship."

I know that ; but he had lost sight of
her. She was very much run after In Calcutta,
Frank told me, as she was pretty and
lively ; but I hear she was such an outrageous

flirt that before very long, men used to say
very hard things of her ; but still, they all
amused themselves. It got out, after a time,
that she was looking out for a man with
money, and that her father was at his wit's
end for fear she should get into some
serious scrape.

Poor Sir John !" said Otway. " I hope
he knows nothing of all this."

Not from me. I would not tell him for the
world ; but you have not heard the worst yet.
It seems this Miss Gordon brought out a very
good-looking maid with her from England,
and this girl, of whom, strange to say, I
know something. Is apparently as great a
flirt as her mistress, and the tricks these two
used to play, Frank says, were simply disgraceful.
He acknowledges that he does not
believe half the stories that were told about
them, but those he knows to be true are quite
bad enough. The maid used to dress up as
the mistress, and the mistress as the maid 

VOL. I. S

there is a sort of likeness between them, I
believe  and then the maid would make a
fool of some poor fellow, who fancied that
Miss Gordon was in love with him, and the
story goes that, on one occasion, Miss
Gordon, passing herself off as Rossitur, had
much ado to get away from some young
fellow who wanted her  the maid, you understand
 to run away with him there and then.
My nephew says he does not believe that
story, as Miss Gordon was always much too
cautious to run any risk ; but it only shows
how people have been talking about her."

Let us hope," said Otway, " that as she
has married a rich man she will turn over
a new leaf and make Jack a good wife. Do
you know that thebaid is married also, to
Jack's body - servant, a soldier in his regiment
?"

You don't say so ? Rather a come-down
for her, I should say, after all her flirtations
with his betters. Well, I should be sorry tolet

my wife keep such a woman in her
service."

'but Betty tells me that her sister-in-law
would not part with Rossitur on any consideration."


Exactly. I hope it is not wrong of me
to say that it looks very much as if the maid
had some hold over her mistress. I hope
most sincerely, for Jack's sake, it is not the
case, and that all the stories about her are
exaggerated ; but Frank says there is no
doubt whatsoever that Miss Gordon was very
much in love with a remarkably handsome
and charming young Frenchman, whom she
used to meet in the very best set in Calcutta,
and that she would have married him, poor
as he vas, if her father had not set his face
against the match."

And what has become of him ?"

I hear he succeeded, quite unexpectedly,
to a very fine property, shortly after Miss
Gordon's marriage, but where he is now I do

not know. My nephew says he Is as nice a
fellow as he ever met, and extremely handsome.
I forget his name."

*' I am sorry to hear all this," said Otway.
** It does not promise well for poor Jack
Erskine's future happiness, and he seems so
wrapped up In his wife."

*' Oh ; they may get on very well. Depend
upon It, she knows the value of her position
as the future Lady Erskine and mistress of
the Chase, and she will not make a fool of
herself."

But she may make her husband very
miserable, all the same," said Otway. '' By
the way, you said you knew something about
that woman Rossltur. It was only a few
days ago I heard that, just before she went
to India, she had been maid to an old friend
of mine."

She comes from Stilllngfort," said the
Rector, " and I was curate-discharge there a
good many years ago. The Rosslturs are

well known in the place ; for generations,
from father to son, they have held one of the
largest farms from Lord Stillingfort. When
I was there, this girl Bella was not more
than seven or eight ; she had a sister a year
or two older, and a baby brother ; the girls
used to come to my school. I had not been
In the place more than three months when
there was a terrible scandal ! Mrs. Rossitur,
who was a beautiful young woman, ran away
with a man who used to come down to shoot
at the manor  a relation of Lord Stillingfort
and the poor farmer was so broken-hearted
he talked of selling the place and emigrating.
But he stayed on, and who brought up his
girl I don't know, for I left the place when
Bella was about eleven or twelve. I do not
remember her very distinctly, but she was a
pretty child, and there was a sturdy little
chap in the choir, a boy about fourteen or
fifteen, who used to be always about with
her. His father was a bailiff, or something,

on the estate ; a man with a grand bass voice
he was in the choir too. I remember the
boy very well Httle Georgy Porringer."

'* You don't say so !" cried Otway. '' Why,
that is the name of the man she has married !
She is Mrs. Porringer."

THE LETTERS IN CYPHER.

A MONTH passed away. Dr. Murray and
his bride, having spent a fortnight In what
he called " wild dissipation " In London,
ended their honeymoon at the Lakes, and
were now settled at home In the Rectory of
Little Centre Bridge, and Alary Hamilton,
the ex-governess of the Ladles' College,
found herself of some importance In the
community among whom she had been a
nonentity before. Mrs. and Miss Dysart-
Smith had the pleasure of seeing all the
visitors she received, and of hearing of all
the Invitations that were sent to the newly-wedded
pair.

Mrs. Crump, of the fancy shop, who knew

everything, and, moreover, was good at inventing,
declared that the Rector was quite
another man since he married, and had
actually been in her shop twice since he
came home  once with his wife and again
without her  to match some knitting-silk ;
and it was nonsense for Mrs. Verity to be
positive that Dr. and Mrs. Murray had not
been invited to spend a week at Stillingfort,
for Mrs. Crump knew it for a fact ; and
the Rector was to preach, too, in the old
church that had been his when he was in
the parish as curate-in-charge.

Little particles of this local gossip were
blown to the Erskiness in town, through the
medium of Miss Masham's amusing letters.
"I do not know what we should do without
our special correspondent," Betty used to say;
*' I like to hear what is going on at home.
Yes, Little Centre Bridge is home, and
always will be home to me." This clause
was added when Otway ventured to hope

that another place might be her real home
before very long.

I have nothing In the world to say
against Rutland Gate except that I hate It,"
she continued, In her pretty, aggressive way.
"That Is, I hate having houses on each side
of me. But It does not really matter, as I
mean to spend nine months at least out of
every year at the Chase."

Otway flattered himself with the hope that
Betty did not mean all she said ; and he continued,
with the rest of her world, to pet and
spoil her to such an extent that she would
have been more than mortal if she had not
begun to imagine that her power over him
was unlimited. But there was more beneath
that gay, frivolous exterior than even he
suspected, and he never guessed at the
struggle  a struggle that ended memorably
for both of them  that went on In her mind
as the time fixed for her marriage drew
near.

Comparatively speaking it was distant still,
but now that the following March had been
named and agreed to by Sir John, she began
seriously to ask herself if she really cared
enough for Otway to be his wife. It seemed
as if she could not make up her mind about
her feelings towards him ; she liked to ride
or drive, walk or talk with him, but she
never felt in the least angry or jealous when
he rode or drove or talked with other women ;
and when he became the adoring and demonstrative
lover she was puzzled and frightened,
and sometimes a little ashamed as well of the
feeling of repugnance that cams upon her !

And it is not that I dislike him," she
would say to herself, " but he is too humble.
If he would stand at one end of the room
and order me to come to him from the other,
it would make all the difference. He would
soon get what he wants then ; but when he
trots about after me, begging with his eyes,
if not with his tongue, for a little notice, I

feel SO angry I am tempted to run away and
never to speak to him again. If he goes on
in the same babyish manner after we are
married something dreadful will happen ; I
know it will ; and yet, he is so very charming
in many ways, I could love him with all my
heart if he would but treat me a little worse."
This was how she argued with herself day
by day.

It was the middle of July before Otway
heard anything more of Mrs. Ogilvey and her
*' trouble." He had seen her several times,
and she said nothing had happened, and
that she hoped to hear no more of the man
and his threats. She introduced Otway to
her husband, and he dined at Queen's Gate
Terrace, and was present at a big "crush"
one evening. Moreover, Mrs. Ogilvey heard
of his engagement, and gave him very cordial
congratulations, but he did not, in spite of
the many hints she gave him, and the many
opportunities that were offered to him, keep

Up either very familiar or very constant
intercourse with his old friend.

He was surprised one morning to get a
letter from her, asking him for an appointment
at his chambers. " I have something
to tell you," she said, *' and we might be
interrupted here."

Accordingly he appointed a day and an
hour, and she was punctual to a minute.
He had not seen her for fully a fortnight, and
he was struck by the extraordinary change in
her appearance. In the first place she was
dressed entirely in black, and, as she generally
appeared in gay colours, he scarcely recognised
her at first. She was also very pale  -
almost haggard-looking  he thought, and her
eyes were dull and red, as if she had been
crying.

I am afraid you are not very well," he

said, kindly, as he placed a chair for her.

'why did you not let me come to you?"

I scarcely know," she answered, " except

that I have a curious nervous sort of feelings
me that would not allow me to speak
freely, even in my own drawing-room. Not
that there are spies about me," and she
laughed rather hysterically, 'but I simply
could not do it, that is the truth. You said
just now you were afraid I am not well ;
I suppose I look ill, but I feel well enough ;.
only dazed and stupid, as if I had had a blow,
or just escaped a great danger."

"Has that man been persecuting you
again ? Perhaps you had better let me take
him in hand ; those sort of fellows always
bully women." And then Otway was surprised
to see the face of his companion contract as if
from a spasm of pain ; she bit her under lip
and held it tightly as if she were forcing back
a cry, and two great tears suddenly rolled
down her cheeks.

*' You are very kind," she added, presently,,
but you need not take any more trouble.
He has done his worst  his very worst."

I am sorry " Otway began.

'' Oh ; he has not hurt me," she interrupted.
'eat least, not as he Intended, or as
we feared ; but he has given me a wound
that has cut me to the very heart, and taught
me a lesson I hope never to forget." She
sat up in her chair as she spoke, with a
sudden lightening of the gloom upon her
face, but she looked angry, hurt and mortified
all at once.

** But I must not stay here too long," she
continued ; "and it is but fair to you to tell
you all. You are aware that for some time
after his first threats I heard nothing of the
man, and I hoped my refusal to treat with
him had silenced him ; but, about ten days
ago, he called at Queen's Gate Terrace and
asked to see me. I refused. Then he wrote
a most Insolent letter, and threatened, if I
did not at once comply with his demand and
send him a large sum of money, to communicate
with Mr. Ogilvey. It was in this

letter he let me know, for the first time, that
the papers in his possession were my letters
in cypher to his late master. I sent no reply
as you advised, but I confess I waited in an
agony of suspense for his next move. He
soon wrote again, more insolently than before.
If he did not receive five hundred pounds
for the cyphers he would give them to Mr.
Ogilvey himself without delay. I replied
that I did not believe he had either letters
or papers of any kind of mine in his possession.
He wrote again, offering to show me
the letters in presence of any friend I chose
to name. I made no reply. Then he began
to hang about the house for a couple of days,
and once, when Mr. Ogilvey and I were
getting into the carriage on our way to a
dinner - party, he spoke to me and uttered
some insolent threat. My husband threatened
in turn to give him in charge, thinking, I
believe, that he was drunk, and he went
away, looking terribly angry and vindictive.

The next day he made no sign, but the day-following,
as I was dressing to go out, a
message came from my husband to say that
he wanted to speak to me in the library. I
went down at once, feeling that all was over,
and that nothing short of a miracle could
save me now, and the bitterness of knowing
that Count Henri, whom I had trusted so implicitly,
had died, leaving me in this wretch's
power, added tenfold to my misery. But a
worse bitterness was in store. When I went
into the room, I found my husband seated
at the table, looking pale and angry, and
opposite to him Count Henri's valet, looking
malicious and triumphant. He had a packet,
tied with ribbon, in his hand. It was not
large, but it struck me at the time that I had
never written enough letters to his master
to make a packet of even that moderate size.
My husband went into the matter at once.
This man,' he said, ' the servant of the late
Count Henri de Flavelle, who shot himself

at Monte Carlo '  as if I did not know it
already  'says he has lately been in communication
with you about certain letters which,
according to him, were written by you in
cypher to his late master, and that you refused
to buy them at any price. You may
suppose that I was very glad to hear you
had refused to treat with him, but, nothing
daunted, he now comes to me, and offers
them at a certain price ; if I refuse to
give it, he threatens to publish them and
ruin you. If you really kept up a private
correspondence with the Count, I do not see
that it matters very much to either of us
whether the letters are made public by him
or by me, but perhaps you will be good
enough to examine them with me in this
man's presence. I think I can tell whether
they were written by you or not.' And by
that I knew he remembered that he had
taught me the cypher to which he had the
key. I shall never forget what it cost me to

VOL. I T

appear calm and unconcerned, but, with ruin
staring me In the face, I said, ' Yes ; there Is
only one cypher I can write ; the one you
yourself taught me, and you have the key.'
'And perhaps I shall use It, too,' he replied.
Now then,' he added to the man, * open
that packet of yours, and let me examine
It.' The man untied the ribbon. About a
dozen letters fell out upon the table, and oneby
one he opened them and laid them before
my husband. I sat still, looking on. Something
told me they were not mine ; and If
not mine, whose ? ' Look here, Caroline,'
my husband said at last, ' I do not know this
cypher ; It Is not the one I taught you.' I
got up and looked over his shoulder, but a
glance was enough ; not one of those two or
three dozen letters had been written by me.
I took up one of them and opened the sheet.
A small enclosure fell out. It was a note not
In cypher, and was to the effect that the
writer was tired of that mode of correspondence,

and would not use it any more.
There was no address and no date, and it
was signed, ' Ever yours, Estelle.' Imagine,
if you can, my feelings when it was all over,
and the man and his precious papers went
away and left me alone with my husband.
*You were very wise, Caroline,' he said, 'not
to give that man money. If he can find
Estelle, let him levy black-mail upon her.'
That was all he said, and he has not
mentioned the subject since. I suppose,"
she added, after a pause, '' that I ought to
rejoice over my escape, and I do so  sometimes
; but it kills me to think that the man
for whom I did and risked so much was

not " Her voice broke, and she burst

into tears.

Good heavens !" thought Otway, ashe
watched her, '' what incomprehensible
creatures women are ! I believe this one
would have suffered less if her correspondence
with that worthless Count Henri had

been laid before her husband, than she
suffers from the discovery of Estelle !"

He let her cry on for, to tell the truth, he
did not feel In the mood to offer consolation ;
and presently, ashamed of her agitation, she
dried her eyes and began to talk on indifferent
subjects. He listened courteously,
as in duty bound ; but, at length, just as he
was becoming impatient and wondering how
long she meant to stay, he heard steps and
voices on the stairs ! Surely it was Sir John
Erskine who was speaking; and was it  could
it be possible  ? But no ; the second voice
was also that of a man, and he was simply
pointing out the way to the visitor. But
before Otway had time for any more conjectures,
and as Mrs. Ogilvey was in the
act of drawing on her long gloves, the door
opened and Sir John Erskine appeared.

''Oh! I beg your pardon!" he said, "I
was told you were alone."

THE STREET BRAWL.

*' I NEVER was SO surprised In my life ! Never !
If It had been any other man but Otway ;"
so said Sir John, when, not for the first time
by any means, he described the scene In
his future son-in-law's chambers to Miss
Lambton.

It was a quiet evening In Halkin Street ;
the ladles had no engagement, Otway had
made the fourth at dinner, and he was now
with Betty In the smaller drawing-room.
She had been singing to him, and they were
now having what was, for them, quite a
serious talk.

"I went In," Sir John continued, "expecting
to find my gentleman alone, and

there he was with a handsome woman ; a
monstrous handsome woman dressed in black.
'And is she a specimen of your clients?' I
said to him as soon as she was gone. Then
he told me who she was the wife of Ogilvey,
the millionaire. Otway knew her before she
was married, and she has been in a muddle
of some kind, and he has been helping her.
He's as good a fellow as ever lived, and
I wish Betty were a lite fonder of him.
There are times when I think this marriage
is a mistake ; but if I say a word to her
about breaking it off, she flares up, and
asks me if she did not say, 'yes,' with her
eyes open ? But I say, what is the use of a
girl having her eyes open if her heart is
shut ?"

Otway, as it happened, went home that
night as happy as a king. Betty had never
been half as sweet or as kind, and during the
first part of the evening she had neither
teased nor snubbed him, and he had abstained

from those demonstrations of affection she so
unaffectedly dished.

He told her all about Mrs. Ogilvey's visit
to his chambers, and of Sir John's sudden
appearance, but Betty had had the story firsthand
from her father, so it fell rather flat.
'* I tried very hard to do my part, and feel
madly jealous, as the heroine of a book
always does, when the handsome rival is
found with her lover, but it was all to no
use," Betty said.

One of her hands was lying passive in
Otway's close clasp. " I am afraid there
must be something very wrong about me,"
she went on, "or else I am very sensible,
for I should not care if you had dozens
of the handsomest and most fascinating
women in England in your chambers everyday,
one after the other. I could see that
papa was disgusted with me. Such a noble
opportunity for a scene, and I made nothing
of it. I have evidently no dramatic instinct."

*' You know you need not be jealous of
me ; that Is the true reason," said Otway,
fondly.

But I do not know anything about it.
You tell me so, and I take no trouble to put
you to the test. But I am sure it is much
better for people not to feel deeply. It
seems to wear them out. There is Jack,
now ; I can see from his letters that he is
terribly jealous of Amy. It comes out in
everything he says, poor dear, and do you
suppose it makes him happier"

*' But to love his wife makes him happier.
I should be madly jealous of you if you gave
me cause; but still, I should be much happier
than if I had never known you."

Should you indeed ? I think it is a great
mistake to be wrapped up in any one," said
this young and untried philosopher. " But
I must tell you, candidly, that I think for a
man of your experience  I suppose you have
experience  you make a great many mistakes

about me. I am not going to tell you what
they are, for I hope you will find them out
for yourself some day. It is not for a man
to learn from a foolish, ignorant girl ! Oh,
yes ; I am both foolish and ignorant, but I
know what I like."

So do I," said Otway, raising the little
hand he held and pressing it passionately to
his lips. " I should like life to be one long
summer's day ; and I should like to lie at
your feet and look into your eyes and tell you
how I loved you."

'' But unless you chained me down you
would not get me to sit still to be worshipped
in that ridiculous fashion," cried Betty. " You
might as well be that Pagan god  was he a
god, by the way ?  who put on woman's
clothes and spun the distaff. I should
simply hate you if you were always lying
about at my feet !"

But in spite of these very emphatic protests,
she was more loving and tender that

evening than he had ever known her, and he
went back to his bachelor flat feeling that
fate had been very kind to him. His had
been a fairly smooth and prosperous life upto
that time ; but still, he had never looked
upon himself as either specially fortunate or
specially happy ; and without defining his
position to himself in actual words, he might
be said, during the past half-dozen years of
his life, to be a man who was waiting for
something to happen that never happened,
or to find something that was not to be found.
He was not obliged to work for a living,
but he qualified himself to work successfully ;
and then, when he might have made a
position for himself, and perhaps a name
also, he suddenly stopped short and allowed
others to get before him ; others, he said,
who wanted success more than he.

He was never absolutely idle, for his mind
was not a frivolous one ; and, moreover, he
was somewhat disposed to take life seriously;

he was neither decidedly of an imaginative or
poetical turn of mind, nor yet was he decidedly
practical ; but he had an uncomfortable
trick of wishing that things that pleased and
charmed him were useful as well. Hence, we
may infer, that he was not a true artist. Had
he been born poor he would probably have
done some excellent work in the world ; and,
from his equable temper and genial manner,
no one would have suspected him of not finding
life inordinately agreeable. How sweet
it could be made by the subtle magic of a
woman's eyes, he learned when, yielding to
the solicitations of political friends  although
he was by no means an ardent politician himself
 he consented to stand for Stoneshire in
the Liberal interest, and met Betty Erskine.
Then he decided, as many a sensible man,
as well as many a fool, had decided before,
that he had found his true mission in life 
the philosopher's stone that turned everything
bare and ignoble to gold! He would

marry the woman he loved if he could win
her heart  have children about him  enter
public life, if another opportunity presented
itself, and do as much in his generation as
possible, by way of thank-offering, we may
suppose, for his great happiness. A low
and paltry ambition, some would say; but
do not those who aim low sometimes hit the
clouds ?

Philanthropy and the exercise of it, as
Otway had seen it, had not hitherto attracted
him ; but it might be possible, he thought, for
him to strike out some method which would be
free from all the objectionable cant and humbug
that so disgusted him. But, at present,
all schemes and desires were in abeyance, for
he could not flatter himself that the foundation
stone of his future happiness was laid,
or, in other words, that Betty's heart was
won ; his patience  what might be called his
subservient devotion, seemed all thrown away,
but still he persevered.

On his way home that night, he came suddenly
and unexpectedly upon that vulgar,,
brutal, and not uncommon sight in London,
a street brawl. If he had gone direct to his
flat in Members' Mansions he would have
missed It ; but, tempted by the extreme
beauty of the night, he passed his own door,
and strolled on towards Westminster. He
had just reached Broad Sanctuary when the
noise of angry voices reached him, and
presently, at some distance in front, he saw
a group of struggling men.

A faint cry for help rose distinctly twice or
thrice above the angry voices and the thud of
blows. Otway began to run, and a young
fellow who had been keeping pace with him,
step for step, on the other side of the street,,
set off too. But before they reached the spot
the brand was over; a cry of "police" had
frightened the roughs, and they dispersed in
all directions at full speed.

But, as it happened, they were scared by a

false alarm ; there were no police visible,
and Otway, and the young man, who had
also been startled by the cries for help,
halted breathless beside the prostrate and
apparently lifeless body of a woman.

Poor creature! Have they killed her?"
said Otway.

"The cowardly ruffians," cried his companion,
" I wish I had been up in time."
Something provincial in the youth's accent 
he did not look more than one or two-and-twenty
 struck Otway, and he looked up at
him.

I am afraid," he said, " you do not know
much of the London rough if you expect to
find him anything but a coward."

Then they stooped and examined the
woman ; she was bleeding from a wound on
the temple, and she had either fainted, or
been struck down insensible.

'' We cannot do anything for her, poor
creature, without help," said Otway.

"And here come two policemen at last,"
said his companion, 'but I could carry her
myself if f knew where to eo to."

When the woman had been taken to the
nearest hospital, and the men who had seen
the fight, and been first on the spot, had
given all the information in their power to
the officials, they found themselves once more
in the street together.

It is almost too late," said Otway, " to
ask you to come home with me for some
refreshment, but my rooms are not faraway."


The young man thanked him, but declined.
'' I must get back to my own diggings," he
said. He took off his hat, ruffled up his
thick, fair brown hair, and Otway was struck
by the remarkable beauty of his features, as
well as by the grace and symmetry of his tall,
robust figure.

I am afraid she will die, poor soul !" he
said, "and perhaps it is the best thing that

can happen to her. She had a wedding-ring
on her finger, did you notice ?"

"It was probably her husband who struck
her," said Otway. " Good-night ;" and he
held out his hand. '' I did not catch your
name just now, in the police office, he added,
*' nor your address. My name is Otway,
and I live in Members' Mansions, Victoria
Street."

'sand mine is Charles Rossitur, at your
service. I am lodging in Vauxhall Bridge
Road at present, but my home is at Stilling-fort
in Stoneshire. Good-night."

MRS. FORSTER's concert.

'rand where are we going to-night? I forget,"
Otway asked. As usual, he was dining
in Halkin Street ; Sir John was down at the
House, and Otway was to accompany the
two ladies to some evening festivity.

'' We are going to Mrs. Forster's concert
in Grosvenor Place."

Does anyone know why people give concerts
r Otway asked again.

To please people who love music, I
suppose," Betty answered.

"Oh, no! If that was the object they
would not ask twice as many as their rooms
will hold, and oblige them to listen to third-rate
amateurs murdering good music."

VOL. I. U

''A hint to me," said Betty. "You need
never ask me to sing to you again."

'' I wish I had a chance of hearing you
to-night ; you know I never tire of Hastening
to you, but I cannot take the same Interest In
Mrs. or Miss Brown, Jones and Robinson."

'* But you are bound to admire Lady Judith
Forster, for she can sing almost as well as a
professional. We met her the other day, you
remember, at the Botanic Fete, and you said
she was very handsome."

"You mean that tall, dark girl, with the
fine eyes and the Jewish nose ? Yes, she Is
handsome ; and she sings, does she ?"

She Is down for a duet with the man who
wrote that song you like so much  ' The
sigh of the west wind.' He calls himself
Guy Montague,' and Mrs. Forster would
not tell me his real name. The Stilllngforts
have taken him up ; Lady Judith is their
daughter, and her aunt, Mrs. Forster, Is going
to bring him out at her concert."

'' It is quite a little romance," said Otway.
'' I wonder what he is like. A clever-looking,
ugly little man, in spectacles, and with
wild hair, I say."

"Mrs. Forster told me he was remarkably
handsome," said Miss Lambton; 'rand that
if she had an only daughter she would not
throw her too much in his way."

'rand the Stillingforts are so proud," said
Betty. " Regular old-fashioned Tories, papa
says ; worse than he is himself."

"And, if I am not much mistaken," said
Otway, "their daughter has a will of her
own ; so let us hope that Mr. Guy Montague
is not too fascinating."

"Aunt Louise," said Betty, suddenly, "I
forgot to tell you that Herbert came across
young Rossitur last night."

"And who is young Rossitur, my dear?
Do I know him ?"

"You do not know him, but we think he
must be the brother of Bella Rossitur, Amy's

maid, who married Porringer, Jack's servant,
you know. He says he comes from Stilling-fort."


"And he is one of the handsomest and
finest men I ever saw," said Otway. '' If his
sister is at all like him, I am not surprised
that she has turned some heads out in India.
Oh ! must we be going ? I suppose I cannot
hope for a seat next to you, my dearest ?" he
whispered to Betty, as he put on her cloak.

"That depends," she answered, laughing.
I think you will probably spend the evening
standing in the door-way of the concert-room,
and in the dim distance you will be consoled
now and then by a peep at the top of my
head."

And that was exactly what happened.
They were a little late ; the room was nearly
full, and Otway had the pleasure of seeing
Miss Lambton and her niece conveyed round
to two vacant seats at the side of the room
farthest from the door, close to which, as

Betty had foretold, he took up his disconsolate
stand.

There was a duet for violin and piano
being performed when they arrived, and then
Lady Judith Forster came forward and sang
a solo in a rich contralto voice. She was a
grand-looking young woman, but Otway did
not admire her style ; the beauty of her face
and figure was striking, but the former was
rather too bold, and the latter too massive, to
please the man who had found his ideal in
Betty's slight, graceful, girlish loveliness. But
for all that, he could not help looking with a
certain amount of admiration at the dark,
flashing eyes, the finely-moulded throat and
bust, and round, white arms of Lord Stilling
only daughter, and he found himself,
moreover, waiting with some impatience for
the appearance of Mr. Guy Montague.

The duet between him and Lady Judith
was the last item but one on the first part of
the programme, and Otway made up his

mind not to move until it was over. There
was some clapping of hands when Lady
Judith appeared for the second time, but the
applause was evidently meant less for her
than for encouragement to the man by whom
she was led forward. More than one
whispered comment upon their good looks
was exchanged as they ranged themselves
side by side and prepared to sing, and Otway
looked and looked again, bewildered !

Where had he seen that handsome young
giant before, with the well-knit, pliant figure ;
the light brown hair curling all over his head,
and those large, deep, dark-blue eyes ? The
voice that came from the beautifully cut lips
was one of the sweetest and most ravishing
Otway had ever heard, but the song passed
almost unheeded, so absorbed was he in
watching the singer, who was no other than
the man who had run with him to the rescue
of the poor woman the night before  Charles
Rossitur, of Stillingfort !

When the duet was finished, Otway left
the concert-room ; he was bewildered by the
surprise of finding his acquaintance of the
night before in Guy Montague, the young
musician whose name was in every mouth,
who had thrown such impassioned fervour
into his song with Lady Judith that it was
no wonder some among the audience looked
at one another and smiled.

There would be nothing strange in it,"
Otway said to himself, as he made his way
into a dimly-lighted room, that looked like a
small library or study, " if I did not happen to
know something of his belongings. Would
Lady Judith Forster sing with him in public
if she knew that his sister was a lady's maid
and the wife of a soldier in a dragoon regiment
? I fear it would take a Radical like
myself to bridge over that social river," he
continued, as he went out through an open
French window, upon a dark and temptingly
cool balcony. " If I were beside Betty I

might endure another hour of that atmosphere,
but without her I have had enough.
I wonder what she thinks of Mr. Guy
Montague ?" He Halted a cigarette, took
possession of one of the cane lounging-chairs
he found outside, and smoked peacefully for
about ten minutes ; then he heard the door
of the room behind him open and close, and
the rustle of a woman's dress. Presently she
spoke.

No ; not out there ; we might be overlooked.
This is much safer. No one will
think of coming in here, and we can get
back to the others before you have to sing
again."

"By Jove!" said Otway, "I wish I was
out of this ! How can I let them know I am
here?" It was not possible without making
a scene, so he remained quiet. He seemed
to know by intuition who the woman was,
and also the man, who answered her in that
tender, thrilling voice.

'' My queen !" he said. " How can I ever
thank you ?"

After that no loud word was spoken, but
the murmur of the voices never ceased, and
had Otway been able to look into the room,
he would have seen the head of Lord
Stillingfort's lovely daughter resting upon
the shoulder of Farmer Rossitur's handsome
son. It was the old, old story that has
been told so many hundred times, and that
will be told many hundred more, as long as
the world lasts, and men and women have
eyes to see and hearts to feel. The daughter
of one of the proudest men in England had
given her love to the son of a man whose
ancestors had for generations earned their
bread by the labour of their hands ; and,
moreover, they were men who had known the
ups and downs of fortune, but who had,
through all reverses, been honest, sturdy
Englishmen, part of the veritable back-bone
and sinew of the country.

And what was the inequality of birth In a
man so well favoured by nature as Charles
Rossitur ? He was handsome, manly, gifted ;
and, with his voice and appearance, one might
excuse the absence of the repose that marks
the caste of Vere de Vere. But what chance
had he of winning this daughter of a hundred
earls ? Mentally, Otway decided that he
had none ; and then he remembered what
Dr. Murray had told him about the young
man's mother ; how she had left her husband
and children with a man who was nearly
related to the father of this beautiful Lady
Judith, and brought ruin and disgrace upon
a happy home. Did Charles Rossitur know
this pitiful story, he wondered.

Yes. Charles Rossitur knew it vaguely 
Lady Judith did not know it at all, and
neither Rossitur nor the girl knew that, at
that very moment in the accident ward of a
London hospital, the outcast mother of that
handsome and gifted man lay dying ! And

she, poor creature, would never know that
one of the two men who came to her rescue,
as she lay bleeding and senseless in the street
in the dead of night, was the son upon whose
face her eyes had never rested since he was
a toddling baby at her knee.

OTWAY OBEYS ORDERS.

It was Christmas week and real Christmas
weather. The water meadows outside Little
Centre Bridge were frozen, the Ice was firm
and smooth, and everyone had gone skating
mad. There had been a succession of
visitors at the Chase for a month or more,
and the house was full now, and would remain
so until the middle of January. The
end of that month would see the Erskine
again in town for the meeting of Parliament
and Betty's marriage, which was fixed to take
place directly after Easter, and Easter fell
early that year.

Otway was at the Chase for Christmas asa
matter of course, and his brother and sister-in-law

 the latter, It will be remembered, was
the half-sister of Jack Erskine's wife  had
paid a long visit. They were about to leave
England and settle in Florida, in America.
Mrs. Tom Otway was not very strong ; the
climate of Florida was said to be the very
thing for her, and her husband said they
would be able to "push their boys;" a feat
less hard to accomplish there than in overcrowded
England.

Tom Otway was charmed with Betty, and
Betty was charmed with him ; she could not
understand why Herbert was so sentimental
and yielding, when his brother was so practical
and obstinate, and it did not occur to
her that she had never, so to speak, seen the
real Herbert yet ; he had disappeared for a
time under the overwhelming waters of a
great passion for a beautiful, whimsical girl,
whose coldness, tempered by rare fits of
sweetness and gentleness, nearly drove him
wild.

Mrs. Tom Otway had naturally a great
deal to say for her half-sister Amy, but the
only photograph she had to show gave a
very poor Impression of her to her new
relations. " It is simply not even like her!"
Mrs. Tom declared. " She has the most
lovely complexion and beautiful hair, and
this thing makes her look black and ugly.
I have never seen a really good photograph
of her. But you must all come out and pay
us a visit in Florida, some day ; you, and
Herbert, and Jack, and Amy. It will be
delightful."

This was a favourite project of Mrs. Tom's,
and she was also never tired of telling Betty
that "Tom " thought his brother very much
changed.

'' Tom says he used to be the most obstinate,
masterful and self-willed man alive, but
you seem to have made a lamb of him. Tom
is amused to see how he obeys you, and how
afraid he is of vexing you, or crossing you in

any way." And Betty, as she listened, would
put up her pretty lip, and think to herself
how much nicer It would be to follow than
to lead. She was very tired of ruling over
a kingdom in which there was never any
rebellion.

When the Otwayss went away. Lord and
Lady Stilllngfort and their daughter came
for a few days, and Otway had an opportunity
of studying Lady Judith. He had
never told anyone, not even Betty, so sacred
In his eyes was the love secret he had surprised,
of the scene that had taken place in
the library at Mrs. Forster's, the night of the
concert. And apparently nothing had come
of it. He and Rossitur were called upon to
give evidence at the inquest upon the poor
woman who had been found by them half-dead
in Broad Sanctuary.

Otway, on that occasion, had been struck
by the young musician's manner ; he had
not the slightest clue to the identity of the

woman, the police had not been able to
unearth her history for more than a twelvemonth
back, and the son was wholly unconscious
when, with Otway, he contributed to
the expenses of her funeral, that she was
his own miserable, disgraced mother. By
all the laws that govern sensational romance,
he ought, by some subtle Intuition, to have
guessed who she was ; but, unfortunately. It
was not so ; and It was nothing but his fine,
highly-strung, imaginative and sensitive temperament
that brought tears to his fine eyes,
and a quiver to his mobile mouth, when the
story of the dead woman's wretched life, as
far as it was known, was related to him.

It was specially Interesting to Otway to
hear how freely Lady Judith spoke of the
young musician to him and Betty during
their walks and rides together at the Chase.

'' We have a musical genius at Stllllng-
fort," the girl said. " Charles Rossltur. He
has published several songs under the nom

de plume of Guy Montague. I tell him he
ought to put his own name, but he says
people would think nothing of him if they
knew he was only Charles Rossitur, the
farmer's son. His father is one of papa's
tenants, but he is not a nice old man. He
hates us for some reason or other, and papa
says he Is a terrible Radical. But you area
Radical, are you not, Mr. Otway ?"

But not a terrible one, I hope."

I think I must be one too," the young
lady went on, "for I do not care what people
are if they are handsome and clever ; and
Charlie Rossitur is just like a Greek god 
not that I ever saw one  he is so beautiful.
But you must have seen him, both of you, at
my aunt's concert ?"

Otway thought of the scene in the library,
and smiled. '' I thought he was one of
the handsomest men I had ever seen," he
said.

"There, now!" cried Lady Judith, with a
VOL. I. X.

rush of colour over her face, '' I am glad
other people see it too. You must hear him
play the organ in our church, when you come
CO see us It is something too beautiful to
listen to him. We have a very fine organ at
the Park, and when he came from Germany
he studied there for three years  I made
papa let me have some lessons."

"So," thought Otway, "that was how it
began."

I am surprised that he is satisfied to
stay in a little place like Stillingfort," said
Betty.

Again the wave of colour passed over
Lady Judith's face. *' It is his home," she
said, quite softly, 'rand he is fond of the
place. But I am sorry sometimes he stays,'
she added, presently, in a different tone, *' for
he cannot associate pleasantly with all the
farmers and people about, and our set look
down upon him. It makes me so angry
sometimes to see young men, who can only

ride and shoot, taking no notice of him, or,
what is worse, snubbing him ! Papa allowed
us to ask him to the Park once or twice
when we had people staying with us, and I
was ashamed of the way the men treated him.
The women were civil enough," she added,
with an angry little laugh, "but that was
because he is so handsome. It was not as
trying for him, poor fellow, at Aunt Forster's,
for people did not know who he was."

One day, when she was running on as
usual about the handsome organist, Betty,
somewhat to Otway's surprise, asked her
point blank if she knew anything of his
sisters.

Alice lives at home with her father,"
Lady Judith answered, "and I think Bella,
the other one, is married abroad."

"She is lady's maid to my brother's wife,
in India," Betty replied, "and she is married
to a soldier in my brother's regiment."

Is that really true ?" Lady Judith cried ;

and this time it was not a tinge of colour that
rose and passed quickly away, but her whole
face and throat grew scarlet.

Perfectly true," answered Betty ; ** and it
is really quite curious the number of times
we have heard of these Rossiturs since Jack
first mentioned his wife's maid. I dare say
she will be here with them some day, when
Jack and Amy come home."

'' Have you noticed," said Betty to her
lover, a few days later, " that Lady Judith
has never mentioned the fascinating organist
since I told her his sister was Amy's maid .'*"

1 believe she Is over head and ears In
love with him," said Otway, 'rand that her
friends are as blind as moles not to see what
Is going on."

'' She will never marry him ; she Is much
too proud."

"Then she ought not to break his heart."

Do men's hearts ever break ?"

Mine would if you threw me over."

'* Suppose I try the experiment ? To tell
you the truth, I am getting "

Too fond of me, I hope, to be so cruel."

Not at all. Tired of you was what I was
going to say."

Oh, Betty ! My love ! My darling !"

"Yes, honestly and truly. I said to myself
only this morning, and very seriously too, ' I
am getting tired of Herbert ; there is no
variety in him. He hung about me yesterday
; he will hang about me to-day ; and
tomorrow will find him hanging still.' "

What can I do when I love the very
ground you walk on ?"

"I am sorry for the ground if it bores it
as much as it does me."

My darling, say you do not mean it ! No.
It is of no use for you to laugh at me. Here
I kneel at your feet until you say you care
just a little."

And will you go, then, and not come
back for two hours ?"

I promise not to come back until you bid
me."

'' Well, then  I do care just a little ; but
I very much dislike that trick you have
of falling on your knees before me every
moment. Now go !"

And he went.

But an hour had not passed before she
was looking for him everywhere. " Herbert !
Herbert ! Has anyone seen Mr. Otway ?"

He was soon found when she wanted him,
and he came to her with a radiant face.

You look as delighted as Orion does
when he is coming for a walk," she said.
'' I have such charming news for you. Papa
has just heard from Arthur Filmer  he is in
Jack's regiment, you know. He has arrived
in England on sick leave, and he wants to
know if he can come here for a few days. Is
not that delightful ? He will tell us all about
Jack !"

But Otway did not reply.

Betty GIVES HER OPINION.

Bur, happily for Otway's peace of mind,
Arthur Filmer, when he came, showed no
decided inclination to fall in love with his old
playfellow Betty. He had heard of her engagement
from Jack, and he made Otway's
acquaintance with such evident pleasure, that
the latter could not but join the rest of the
family in their cordial welcome to the young
soldier. Betty's pleasure in his society was
frank and unaffected, but even her lover's
watchful eyes could find nothing in her
manner to supply food for jealousy.

Filmer's eyes were watchful also, but it
was not until he had been a week at the
Chase that he began to suspect that Betty

was not, by any means, as devotedly in love
with her future husband as he was with her ;
and, giving much thought to his discovery, he
fell to wondering why she should marry a
man she did not particularly care for. Had
Filmer himself been of a different stamp, the
next question would probably have been,
*' Would it be possible for her to like some
other man better ?" But he was not given to
covet the goods that would not by fair means
fall to his share ; and, conscious that Betty
was not for him, he did not allow himself
the luxury of falling in love ; yet, at the
same time, he knew full well that had there
been no Herbert Otway in the way, that
bright winsome face would have done its
appointed work upon him fast enough.

Not being able to indulge himself in one
way, he felt that he must do so in another,
so he set himself to find out why she was
apparently so indifferent to her lover. It
happened that Otway had to go to town on

business soon after Christmas ; during his
absence Betty and Filmer were very much
thrown together, and, one afternoon, while
they were out riding, he boldly attacked heron
the subject.

You may say what you please," he said,
but you cannot deceive me ; you are not
what I call in love with him, and I am afraid
you will both be very unhappy."

*' But if he is satisfied, it is all right," Betty
answered. " I like him very much, and if I
do not tear my hair, and turn my face to the
wall, and weep while he is away from me fora
few days, I think I ought to be complimented
for my good sense, instead of being
scolded."

No one wants you to tear your hair, and
behave like a maniac," replied Arthur, "but
surely there is something between the coldness
of an icicle and the fury of a lunatic. I
have watched you when you get letters from
him, and they might be from  well, from

me, or your father, or Jack, for all you seen
to care."

'* I think, oil the whole, I prefer Jack's
letters," she answered. " They are less 
what shall I say?  less monotonous. I know
exactly what Herbert's are before I open
them."

'' I wish you would tell me why you are
going to marry him," Fllmer broke In,
impatiently.

"Because I am! There Is a woman's
reason for you, and now I forbid you to talk
about him any more. Sufficient for the day,
yoii know !" and she gave him a saucy look.
"And I want to hear something more about
Jack and Amy. What were you saying to
Aunt Louise about her last night ? You
must not let the old lady or papa suspect that
she Is fast, you know ; please remember that.
But you may tell me, and I want to know
positively  Is she fast ?"

I should not call her exactly fast ; to tell

you the truth, I think she is too lazy ; but
she cannot Hve without admiration and flattery,
and somehow, she contrives to make
everyone  every man, I mean  do exactly as
she wishes. I think I was about the only
one who did not fetch and carry willingly,
and, the consequence is, I am not a
favourite."

** You do not like her, then?"

Oh, yes ; I like her well enough, but I
should never fall in love with her, she is too
selfish ; and I confess it vexes me sometimes
to see the way Jack spoils her. She winds
him completely round her finger."

'' And is he jealous of her ?"

'' I am afraid he is. I know there have
been one or two pitched battles already 
which she won  about her flirtations. I do
not think there is any harm in them, but she
likes to have men dangling about her ; and
there are women, you know, who do not seem
able to exist without writing and receiving

little sentimental notes that really mean
nothing."

"Oh! she can write, then?" said Betty.
'' She never wrote to any of us since she was
married."

Filmer laughed. '' I do not think she is
much of a scribe," he said.

I am sure I shall not care for her," said
Betty, decidedly. "I dislike women of that
kind very much. I do not think I ever met
one of them in the flesh, but they are very
common in books, and they generally make
mischief."

"Where Jack was wrong," said Filmer,
was in not getting rid, at once, of that maid
she is so fond of  or so afraid of  I don't
know which it is. If ever there was a bad
lot on earth it's Bella Rossitur  or Mrs.
Porringer, as she is now, worse luck for that
poor fellow Porringer. By the way, he had
sun-stroke not long after he married her, and
I think he is very queer in his head at times.

He and his wife lead a regular cat and dog
life, but somehow, after their worst quarrels
she gets round him again, and he Is ready to
kill anyone who says a word against her."

"Is she very handsome ."

Very ; remarkably clever too, and ladylike
In manner when she chooses ; and Jack
may say what he likes, but there Is an extraordinary
likeness between her and his wife ;
everyone sees it except Jack, and he gets
perfectly furious If It Is mentioned before
him, for Madam Rossltur Is not a favourite
of his. He would send her packing In no
time If he were not afraid of vexing his

wife."

I had no Idea Jack was so foolish," Betty

exclaimed, angrily. " And that Is what comes

of being In love ; this wonderful love you talk

so much about, but which seems to me to

turn sensible men Into semi-idiots."

'rand women Into  what .'" exclaimed

Filmer, much amused.

I have never seen a woman desperately
in love, so I do not know. Oh, yes, I believe
our Rector's wife, who is about three or four
months married, is supposed to be very much
in love with her husband. I can only judge
by the way she stares at him when he is
preaching ; I often long to throw a hymnbook
at her head."

Filmer laughed heartily. '' It is quite
wonderful to find a young lady so determinately
set against love and lovers as you
are," he said, "but, on the whole, I like the
good, old, silly fashion the best."

I suppose," said Betty, calmly ignoring
this last remark, "you never heard of the
wonderful brother this woman Rossitur
has ?"

Never. In what way is he wonderful ?"

'' As a musician ; he is organist of Stllllng-
fort Church, his native place ; he has written
some very pretty songs ; he is very handsome
 the handsomest man I ever saw  I

think ; and I am afraid Lord Stilllngfort's
only daughter, Lady Judith Forster, Is In
love with him."

*there It Is again," cried Fllmer. *love Is
not to be got rid of, you see."

"I do not object to it In this case," said
Betty. "There Is something romantic In
the Earl's daughter being in love with the
handsome organist, who is the son of a
farmer on her father's property. But you
should have seen Lady Judith's face when I
told her that young Rossitur's sister was
lady's maid to my brother's wife. Poor
thing ; I saw it was a blow ; and now suppose
we give up talking of love and lovers and
romance, and have a gallop. I know every
fence between this and the Chase, and Llll
race you home for a pair of gloves."

"A dozen if you like; but what would
Otway say ?"

"He would race, too, I hope, if he were
here  come along."

THE Wedding-day.

It was the eve of Betty Erskine's wedding-day
; long looked forward to, it had come at
last. They were all in town again ; everything
was ready, and Otway, scarcely able
to realise that his happiness was almost
within his grasp, went about during the
day that immediately preceded that fixed
for the wedding like a man in a dream.

Betty was restless, preoccupied ; strangely
uncertain in temper, and to her lover, if
possible, more undemonstrative than she
had been during the early days of her
engagement. She avoided being alone with
him, and her treatment of him, while it
gave him more than one pang of disappointment

and pain, made him long all
the more ardently for the moment when
the knowledge that she was his for evermore
would break down the barrier raised
by her coldness and reserve.

He never guessed how, as the hours went
by and brought him nearer and nearer to the
moment he anticipated with such joy, she
shrank from leaving her home with this man
to whom she had pledged herself, believing
that, by-and-by, she would care for him and
be happy ; and when she questioned herself as
to the cause of her repugnance to the marriage
she could find no answer, save that she disliked
him for being less manly in his devotion
to her than she wished her husband to be.

It was a strange objection for a girl to
make to a lover, and Betty made it to herself
in perfect good faith. She had at times a
dim suspicion that it was not a valid objection,
so she never spoke of it to anyone, and she
fought against it, and even laughed at it

VOL. I. Y

"Mv DEAR Mrs. Ogilvey,

'' I have not forgotten you, and I
am sorry to hear you are in trouble. Expect
me to luncheon tomorrow at two.
Yours,

Herbert Otway."

He pushed the note aside, as soon as it
was written, and, opening a drawer, took out
a cabinet photograph of Betty Erskine in her
riding-dress, which, strange to say, she had
had taken to gratify a desire of his, and fell
to rapt contemplation of the sweet face he
loved. Needless to say, he knew every line
by heart already, but was he ever tired of
gazing at those saucy laughing eyes, and the
exquisite turn of the throat and chin ? The
likeness was an admirable one, as the artist
had, happily, caught one of his sitter's most
bewitching expressions, and Otway was such
a miser about the picture that he longed to
order the negative to be destroyed. How
Betty would have admired him, if he had had

the audacity to say that he, and he only,
should possess a copy of that particular
photograph ; but he did nothing of the kind,
and, with the most amiable liberality, she
dispensed them far and wide among her
admirers.

It was with his mind still full of Betty's
charms, that Otway at length put his reply to
Mrs. Ogilvey into an envelope, and rang the
bell for his servant to take it to the post
without delay ; then he dressed and went
down to his chambers.

He dined at Halkin Street the same
evening. There was a large dinner-party, and
he hoped to sit next to Betty, but she was at
the other end of the table, laughing, talking
and enjoying herself with some man Otway
had never seen before. He had known her,
now in many moods, but he found her in a
new one on this evening ; she was in the
wildest spirits, but she scarcely spoke to him ;
he followed her about, as usual, and once or

At length it was over. The last goodbye
was said  the last handful of rice was
thrown, and the bride and bridegroom started
on their short journey to Richmond. Otway
was radiant when he set out, but when he
stepped out of the carriage at the end of
the drive, there was a look of perplexity
and keen disappointment on his expressive
face.

What had gone wrong ?

He led Betty, in silence, to the drawing-room,
and left her there, while he dismissed
the smiling and obsequious coachman ; but
even when he was free to rejoin his bride
he lingered for full five minutes before he
entered the room, and as he turned the
handle of the door he muttered, "It is very
hard."

Betty was seated by the fire ; there was a
brilliant flush on her cheeks and her eyes
were sparkling, but, without looking at her,
Otway walked to the window and stood looking

at the view over the river, beautiful even
under the cold sunlight of early spring.

It was nearly ten minutes before he suddenly
turned and faced her. " Betty," he
said, quietly, but his voice had in it a ring of
pain that was lost upon her, so absorbed was
she in her own view of the situation, " did
you tell me the truth as we drove down from
town, or were you only jesting, just to try
me ? For God's sake, my darling, let me
know the worst at once ; when you told me
you did not love me you gave me such a
blow that I was stunned by it ! I cannot
understand ! I cannot believe it ! I will not
believe it ! It is a disappointment so cruel 
so unexpected, that it unmans me  I cannot
bear it !" and he put up his hands as if to shut
out some hideous object. As he did so something
between a sneer and a smile passed over
Betty's lovely mouth.

He will cry presently," she said to herself.
Then she said aloud, quite calmly and

coldly, '* What I told you Is quite true. I
am sorry It hurts you so much, but of what
use Is It to say I love you when I know I do
not? I have been uncertain about It for a
long time, but now that we are married, I
know the mistake I have made. But perhaps,
If  If you would give me a little time to
get used to the feeling that what Is done cannot
be undone, I may not dislike you quite as
much as I do to-day. Just now, I feel that
there Is no one In the world so  so  I really
must say It, or you will not understand  so
obnoxious to me as you are."

If she had stuck a knife deep Into his heart
he could not have endured a keener pang of
pain. For a few seconds he looked at her
with half-Incredulous amazement, as If expecting
that a smile or glance would betray
the Ill-timed jest, but she looked at him with
such cold, unloving eyes, that he knew she
must be In earnest ; and being In cruel, terrible
earnest himself he put the finishing



Stroke to his discomfiture by stooping to
beg for the love he so ardently desired.

Betty ! Betty !" he cried, as he threw
himself at her feet and tried to clasp her
in his arms, "if you do not love me I shall
die !"

A great wave, not of love, but of passionate
contempt, swept over her as she heard this
abject appeal ; if he had but given back scorn
for scorn he would have conquered, but the
girl who had never known suffering herself,
and for whom the beauty of self-surrender
had no meaning, was deaf to the voice of
pain.

She drew herself away, and thrusting out
her hands to push him back, cried sharply,
"You call yourself a man and say such words
as those ? I not only do not love you, but I
despise you ! Go away and leave me to
myself."

Stung to the quick, he rose to his feet with
a bound ; a deep flush of mortification and

wounded pride was on his face, and his eyes,
had she but seen them, were flashing fire !
But not one word did he utter, and it was
only by the bang of the door behind him that
she knew he was gone.

When she saw him pass outside the
French window she gave a great sigh of
relief; then pressing her handkerchief to
her eyes, she remained motionless, save for
the quick panting of her bosom, which betrayed
that she was forcing back hysterical
sobs.

It was nearly two hours before Otway
came back. During his solitary ramble
among the leafless trees in Richmond Park,
he had fought a bitter fight, and won a
victory that was scarcely less disastrous thana
defeat ; but he was a different man when,
with the keen sharp wind of the March
evening blowing in his face, he re-entered
the cottage. In a short time, he and his
bride would, once more, be face to face,.

but if her mood was changed so also, was
his.

When she pushed him from her, he for
the first time, saw himself and his slavish
devotion with her contemptuous eyes, and
never again should she have the opportunity
given her to address "him as she had done
that afternoon. *' By Heaven!" he said,
she must kneel to me before one word of
love passes my lips again."

But there was another shock in store for
him. When, at eight o'clock, dinner was
announced, Mrs. Otway was nowhere to be
found.

CHAPTER

I. HUSBAND AND WIFE.

II.  MISTRESS AND MAID.

III.  JACK ERSKINE's wife

IV-the FATAL MESSAGE

V.  AT THE Loch GATE .

VI.  FACE TO FACE .

VII.  TRUE OR FALSE.

VIII.  MRS. ERSKINE FORECASTS THE FUTURE

IX. MISS MASHAM HAS HER SUSPICIONS

X. THE BEARER OF BAD NEWS

XI.  FATHER AND DAUGHTER .

XII.  OTWAY SAYS Good-bye .

PAGE
I










1





III



2,Z

CHAPTER

XIII.  THE farmer's SON .
XIV.-. MRS. JOHN ERSKINE's LETTER
XV.  LOVE AND PRIDE
XVI. - THE MEETING IX THE PORCH
XVII.  A Terrible TEMPTATION
XVIII.  A WEEK OF PAIN
XIX.  SAVED
XX.  HOW IT ENDED.
XXI-wheels WITHIN WHEELS.
XXII. - UNEXPECTED NEWS .
XXIII. MRS. MURRAY PICKS UP A WAIF
XXIV-taken AT HIS WORD
XXV.  MRS. JOHN ERSKINE COMES HOME
XXVI.  MRS. JOHN GETS INTO RAPTURES

















CHAPTER I .

HUSBAND AND WIFE.

When the excitement of the wedding was
over, the evening promised to be unusually-quiet
in Halkin Street. Sir John and Miss
Lambton dined quietly together at half-past
seven, and the meal was about half over,
when a sharp ring at the hall door bell
announced a late and unexpected visitor.
Someone came in, and Miss Lambton
whose ears were very sharp, turned first red
and then pale, and said, in great agitation 
VOL. n. B

** It Is very like Betty's voice, John. What
can be the matter ?"

Sir John burst out laughing. '' Betty,
indeed," he said.

The butler was at his elbow as he spoke,
*' Miss Erskine  Mrs. Herbert Otway  I
beg pardon, Sir John," he said, '' is Jn the
library and wishes to see you."

Sir John rose in a hurry and threw his
dinner napkin among the dishes. '' Bless
my soul!" he cried, "what has happened
now f

And In the library, sure enough, he
found his daughter ; not calm, cold and contemptuous,
but in a state of the most violent
agitation. ''Oh papa  papa!" she cried,
clinging to him, '' I thought I should never
get here. I have come back to you, papa.
I cannot stay with him I It is of no use to
ask me ; it would kill me ! Do not ask any
questions, please, but keep me with you
always! Do not let me be taken away !"

But you must be mad, child ; completely
out of your senses ! You marry a man of
your own free will at twelve and run away
from him before eight. No one ever heard
of such a thing. What in the world came
between you ? You went away like a pair of
turtle-doves !"

''Oh, I don't know, I don't know! It is
only that I dislike him so much." The girl
sobbed as she suddenly broke down, and just
then little Miss Lambton stole into the room,
and stood inside the door wringing her hands.
Oh, my poor child ! My poor, dear child !"
was all she could say.

Sir John began to get angry. " I insist
upon knowing what it means," he said,
sternly.

*rit has no meaning, except that I dislike
him too much to live with him," Betty sobbed
out.

'* But are you aware, you foolish girl, that,
as your husband, he can make you ?'*

Ill the middle of her sobs Betty laughed.
"He make me ! He will beg and pray," she
said, " but that is all he will do."

'' But the law gives him rights," Sir John
persisted. " You are as much his property
as his tables and chairs. I dare not keep
you when he comes here and insists upon
having you."

Indeed," she said ; 'ris that so ? Then
if he insists, I suppose I must go ; but you
will keep me for to - night, will you not,
papa ?

Well, for to-night, of course, you must
stay here. Oh, Louise, are you there ? Just
see who that is knocking at the door, will
you :

It was the butler with a telegram.

This is from Otway," cried Sir John.

It was very concise. *' Reply at once and
say if your daughter is with you."

'' And now I wonder what will happen
next," said Sir John, as he took a form and

wrote his reply. It contained but three
words, '' She is here."

Two days passed and the deserted bridegroom
made no sign. The runaway bride
shut herself up in her own room, and saw no
one but her aunt, who was a most consoling
companion, for she praised and blamed exactly
as she was expected to do-with her
father, Betty was in deep disgrace; but at the
end of the second day he relented a little,
chiefly because he was hurt and offended
with Otway for having taken no steps to
bring about a reconciliation.

The third morning, however, brought a
curt, but very polite note, to the effect that
Mr. Otway would be glad to see Sir John
Erskine on business. Betty was not even
mentioned.

*' He will probably want to see me, papa,"
the young lady said, indifferently, "and I
suppose I cannot refuse. It will be very disagreeable,
but of course, this kind of thing

cannot go on. You say that, having married
him, I must put up with him ; so If he asks
to see me, you can send him up to the ."


The Interview between Sir John and his
son-in-law was short and rather stormy. The
view taken by Otway of Betty's conduct was
so unexpected that It left her father absolutely
without a word to say In her defence ;
and at last, glad of an excuse to let the two
most Interested In the Issue of the affair come
together and patch up a truce. If truce were
possible, he told Otway that Betty was prepared
for his visit and sent him upstairs.

No greeting, even of the most formal kind,
passed between them when he went Into the
room. Betty's face was flushed, and she
was trembling with excitement ; Otway was
apparently calm, but when he saw her his
self-control was sorely tried.

"Your father told me you were here," he
said. He leaned with one hand on the table,.

as he stood facing her ; she was seated at a
little distance ; the light fell upon her, and
never had she looked prettier or more captivating
in his eyes.

*' I came  what do you suppose I came
for ." he said. She expected a torrent of
reproaches, and he asked a question in a cold,
measured voice.

The change In his manner was too marked
not to strike her, and she faltered out '' I  I
do not know." *

You may perhaps Imagine, judging me
by the past," he went on with a little laugh,
'' that I came to beg  to Implore of you to
come back to me ; perhaps you think I came
to kneel at your feet, to entreat for your love;
to beseech of you in your goodness to come
to my arms and accept me as your husband.
But do not be afraid ; the law gives me rights
over you, as perhaps you know. I could
compel you to live under my roof as my
wife, but I am not going either to beg or to

enforce. Having left me as you did, you
evidently wish to live apart from me ; besides,
you told me in the plainest possible language
that you did not care for me  that you
shrank from my touch and loathed my
caresses. If a man does not understand
such words he is a fool ; and, being a fool,
I did not understand at first, but I do now,
and we will live apart. I make no appeal
to your pity or your forbearance  love not
existing, I cannot appeal to it but Betty,
remember that you have outraged and insulted
as pure and true a love as ever man
felt for woman. No husband could love with
more passion and devotion than I loved you 
you cruel, heartless girl  when I put that ring
on your finger a few days ago. A few days !
It seems months, years almost, since I
stood with your hand in mine and believed
you were mine for evermore. But now I am
awake as if from a long sleep, in which love
for you debased my manhood, and made mea

puppet and plaything In your thoughtless
hands. Yes, I am awake now, ; my strength
has come back to me. I have not quite
conquered my love, for a passion like mine
does not die In an hour, but I can leave you,
for I despise you. I do not Insult you by
reminding you that my honour Is In your
hands, for It Is your honour also ; we are
man and wife, and unless you wish to have
the bond legally set aside, man and wife we
must remain. I shall take no step In the
matter, but neither shall I make any objection
if you wish to be free."

To say that Betty was amazed and confounded
at this unexpected address from the
man who had hitherto been swayed, like a
reed in the wind, by a glance from her eyes,
is to give a very inadequate idea of her
feelings at the moment. So bewildered was
she, that she would have liked to make him
repeat It all over again, that she might try to
understand his meaning clearly. Was it

really Herbert Otway who was standing
there before her, with those stern, unloving
eyes ? Was that his voice that addressed
her in those cold, measured tones, and
that uttered such contemptuous and cutting
words ?

She tried in vain to answer him, but not a
word would come ; she sat with her eyes on
the ground and a deep flush of shame and
intense mortification burned on her face.
And with these visible signs of perturbation,
there was a wild storm of pride battling in
her heart with another strange and perplexing
emotion, the very existence of which
she had not suspected until that moment.

I am glad to see you have the grace to
blush," he went on, mercilessly. " I have
blushed for you many times since that evening
at Richmond, when you left me to be the
laughing-stock of the men and women who
helped me to search the empty house for
you. But since that night I have blushed

more for my own folly In having loved you.
You will be glad to know, I am sure, that the
cure of my madness has begun ; indeed, you
showed me yourself how to begin, and for
that I thank you. But it might be a blow to
your vanity were I to tell you how I begin
to rejoice in my freedom."

After that she could bear no more. Anger
and mortification  and with them was still
that other feeling, as yet unnamed, which
prompted her to fling herself at his feet to*
implore his forgiveness  got the better of
her ; she rose and faced him boldly. " You
have said enough  more than enough," she
cried, hotly, 'rand I must beg to be left alone.
Everything you say only proves that our
marriage would be a most unhappy one, and
that it Is better to part in time, and that 
that  but I cannot answer you properly 
you have been very  rude." Words failed
her ignominiously, and she knew that tears
were coming to complete her mortification.

And had those tears but welled over, the
victory would have been with her ! As it
was, at the sight of her beautiful face, with
that unknown look of alarm and distress
upon it, his sternness was fast melting away.
'but suppose," whispered pride, 'you meet
with another rebuff; remember she does not
love you." And how glad he was that he
had resisted the passing weakness when,
raising her head with an imperious gesture,
Lett said 

I am sorry to be obliged to ask you, for
the second time, to leave me, Mr. Otway."

"I obey your command with infinite pleasure,"
he answered, with dignity equal to her
own ; and backing to the door, apparently in
order to make an effective exit, but in reality
to see, until the very last moment, the face
that was so lovely, and, for all his boasting,
still so dear, he bowed low and disappeared.

Betty remained standing where he left her
until the sound of his footsteps died away

Upon the stairs ; then she threw up her arms
with a despairing gesture, and broke out Into
passionate weeping.

And if the sound of those tempestuous
tears had but reached the man whose bitter
taunts had called them forth, he would have
learned that, just as he repaid her with scorn
for scorn, his wife's heart was won.

MISTRESS AND MAID.

A YEAR and some months subsequent to the
marriage and Immediate separation of Mr,
and Mrs. Herbert Otway, Mr. or, as he now
was, Captain and Mrs. John Erskine were at
Simla. Young John, as he was still called,
not at the Chase but at Little Centre Bridge,
had been appointed, soon after the birth of
his son, aide-de-camp to his Excellency the
Governor-general, and this post of honour
was a source of Infinite satisfaction to Mrs.
Erskine ; for In the first place, It took her
away from the " regiment," and for one cause
or another, known only to the women themselves,
she, and the wives of her husband's

brother officers, did not get on too well
together.

It is quite possible that Mrs. Erskine was
too popular with men to be liked by women ;
It Is also a fact that she gave herself 'hairs'*
traded on her popularity In fact, and made
enemies right and left. A fruitful source of
gossip and scandal at once dried up at Its
spring when the Erskine went to Calcutta ;

but stray rumours of Mrs. Erskine's triumphs



at Government House were wafted from time
to time to the distant station she had left
with such satisfaction, and when It was
known that she was enjoying the delights
of the favourite Hill Station, while many of
those she had so often eclipsed by her beauty
were obliged to swelter In the plains, envy
was the dominant passion In every female
breast, and much loud - spoken pity was
lavished upon that '' poor deluded Captain
Erskine."

But If John Erskine had any real cause for

unhappiness, he contrived to hide it from the
world very successfully. It would not be
absolutely true to say that marriage with
the woman of his choice had dispelled no
illusions, or even substituted, for the heartaches
of love, heartaches now and then of
a different kind ; but, on the whole, he and
Amy got on very well. Unlike her unknown
sister-in-law, Betty, who had quarrelled with
her husband on her wedding-day, for seemingly
no better reason than his excessive
fondness for her, Mrs. Erskine could not,
she affirmed, have lived with a man who did
not give way to her in everything, and whose
eyes were not so blinded by love that he could
see no faults. She held the whip and reins,
and woe betide her steed if he shied, or
showed the slightest desire to kick over
the traces, or get the bit between his teeth.
John Erskine was patient and docile to a
fault ; and if he erred in over-indulgence to
his beautiful wife, he had the satisfaction of

being envied the possession of such a lovely
woman wherever and whenever she appeared.

As soon as she arrived in Calcutta, and
was seen in what might be called the train
of the Governor-general, she laid herself out
for conquests more brilliant than any she
had yet achieved, and having learned by
experience how foolish she was to make
enemies of women, she struck out a new
line, and did her best to captivate her own
sex also. She succeeded fairly enough, but'
whether her heart was not really in the
work, or whether it is true that women
never take very kindly to women, she was
still the favourite of the men, and among
the men she had, of course, her special
favourites, although no one man could boast
with truth that he had been singled out
from among his fellows.

There was one who hoped that he was
first in favour, but Mrs. Erskine encouraged
his visits for the simple reason that he

VOL. II. c

brought her plenty of news and gossip, and
she was unkind enough to laugh at him
behind his back. It was very ungrateful of
her so to do, for he was always ready to
fetch and carry for her, and at a ball she
could always say she was engaged to ** Gus
Lewin," if an objectionable partner presented
himself.

Being also one of his Excellency's aides,
this good-looking, but not specially fascinating
or dangerous young man, migrated to
Simla with the rest of the Viceregal Court,
and he was a constant visitor at the pretty
bungalow inhabited by the Erskiness. Mrs.
Erskine could have lived in one of those
provided for the Government officials, but
she insisted upon a much larger and more
comfortable residence, that stood among the
rhododendron groves and pines which cover
the mountain with the double summit on
which Simla is built.

This roomy bungalow was perhaps somewhat

lonely, being, in a measure, isolated
and shut in ; but Mrs. Erskine was perfectly-satisfied
with it. Those visitors who were
anxious to enjoy her society thought nothing
of the ride from the town, indeed a longer
pilgrimage could be borne when it was
remembered that, at the end, was that
delicious verandah, cool and shady, with
chairs standing about to tempt men who
were lazy to lounge, or to teach energetic
men, if there are any in Simla, how to be
lazy. And the beautiful mistress, who either
reclined in a hammock or upon a heap of
cushions, was very charming to look upon, if
she was not strikingly brilliant or original in
conversation.

She was more often to be found upon her
cushions than in her hammock, for she had
not quite mastered the difficulties of getting
in and out of it gracefully ; this was a great
disappointment to her, as she had lately read
a well-known Indian romance, the scene of

which Is laid In Simla, and she thought It
would be very " fetching " if she could Imitate
the charming heroine of the book by appearing
In a hammock.

But on a beautiful afternoon, about a month
after the migration to Simla, the verandah
was deserted, and Mrs. Erskine was under
the hands of her maid. She had been for a
ride, and she was about to change her dress
for luncheon ; some men were coming outwith
her husband, for a polo match was to
take place between four and five.

'' You have not put out a dress for me,
Rossltur,"  she was always called by her
maiden name  the lady said, when the maid
appeared in answer to her mistress's bell.

*' I understood you were going to the polo
match, madam," was the answer, 'rand that
you would lunch in your habit."

I have changed my mind ; I am not
going. It Is too hot."

Rossitur's lips parted in a peculiar smile, as

she turned away to take out a dress to replace
the habit.

* You can go If you Hke," Mrs. Erskine
continued, as the maid began to brush out
and arrange her hair. " Porringer can take
you. By-the-bye, how is he to-day ?"

He complained a good deal of his head
last night ; but he seems quite well again today."


I saw little Georgy this morning," Mrs.
Erskine went on. " Your master says h&
wishes his boy looked as strong as yours,
Rossitur."

*' But mine is a month older, madam."

'' Oh, that is nothing. Jack is a very tiny
mite for his age ; but I am sure I cannot help
it."

No, madam ; you nursed him as long as
you could."

'' And are you sure you do not care to goto
the polo match, Rossitur ?"

*' Quite sure, madam. The mail goes

out tomorrow, and I want to write to my
sister."

*' And I have never written to John's people
at the Chase. Not one line have they had
from me since I was married. But I cannot
write to people I never saw, can I, Rossitur ?"

*' It must be rather difficult, madam.
Have master's sister and her husband made
up their quarrel ? You told me, madam, you
remember, that they separated on their
wedding-day."

'' No ; she is still living at home, and I do
not think they ever meet. How is that
brother of yours getting on  the musician ?
Oh ! you have but one, have you ? Well ;
how is he ?"

'every well, I believe, madam. He never
writes to me himself, but Alice, my sister,
tells me about him."

And she told you, I remember, about his
giving lessons on the organ to Lady Judith
someone. What has become of her ?''

*' She was at home the whole of last
autumn and winter, and Alice said in her
last letter there was a report in the village
that she was engaged to a very rich man."

And you were in hopes that she would
marry your brother, weren't you ?"

An angry flush rose to Rossitur's face.

If she liked him well enough to run after
him," she said, "she ought to marry him.
Alice says he thinks of nothing but her. He
may not have a title, but he's good enough
for any lady in England."

Mrs. Erskine laughed.

You used to think yourself good enough
for any gentleman in India, Rossitur ; and
yet you married George Porringer."

"And I was a fool for my pains!" Rossitur
broke out angrily  she was evidently not
much in awe of her mistress. " I put a log
round my neck I can never get rid of the
day I went to church with him."

Oh, you say so now," said Mrs. Erskine ;

but I always thought, and I still think, you
were a very lucky girl ; and when Captain
Erskine settles at the Chase some day  and
no one can tell what may happen ; Sir John
might break his neck out hunting any day
next winter  you and Porringer shall have
one of the lodges ; or you might set up an
inn in the town."

'' Thank you, madam," said Rossitur, and
this time she stooped to pick up a hairpin in
order to hide her smile.

Now I am ready," Mrs. Erskine said,
*' and you may take my crewel work and
those books out to the verandah and see if
your master has come."

In five minutes Rossitur came back and
announced that Captain Erskine and three
gentlemen were waiting for her to go in to
lunch.

Who are they, Rossitur ?"

Rossitur named the three, one after the
other, and Mrs. Erskine, having taken a

last survey of herself in the mirror, left the
room to join her husband.

'' She is expecting someone who has not
come," Rossitur said to herself, as she set
about to arrange the room and put away
the various articles that were scattered about.
And she says I may go and see the polo.
That looks as if she wanted to get me out of
the way ; and yet why should she, for there
is no more harm in having Mr. Lewin here
to-day to gossip to her on the verandah than 
there was in his being here yesterday ? But
then he was not the only one yesterday !
And Porringer and I can have one of the
lodges, or set up an inn in the town ! Much
obliged, Mrs. Erskine, I'm sure. Only for
you and your husband I might have married
a gentleman, and had a maid for myself.
Yes, and I'll have one yet ! I am as handsome
as ever you were, my lady, and I know
I have more brains. Who is there ? Oh,
it's you, is it ?'' as our old acquaintance, Pot-finger

appeared. " What business have you
here ?"

** I only came to tell you," he said, '' that
luncheon is over, and there's a fine row going
on between my master and your mistress."

*' Oh, you always have some story !" cried
Rossitur, derisively. 'rand half your time
you don't know what you're saying !"

Don't I ? I know you're a "

'that will do!" she interrupted, holding
up her finger. " You will call me a liar
once too often perhaps. What are they
quarrelling about ?"

Because she will not go and see him play
polo."

"The best thing he can do is to stay at
home and help her to entertain her visitor."

Does she expect anyone ?"

"She did not tell me; but perhaps if one
comes I might send a message to the
Captain."

"There will be murder if you do," said

Pottlnger. He was standing in the half-open
door as he spoke.

His wife laughed.

"Bella," he said, ''do you ever think of
the night poor Jem Hathaway shot himself
in the Stillingfort Woods ? Don't you try to
make master jealous of his wife."

Rossitur's dark eyes flashed angrily upon
him ; but, before she could speak he heard
Captain Erskine's voice calling to him, and
away he ran.

JACK ERSKINE's wife.

When Porringer told his wife that his master
and her mistress were quarrelling, he had
slightly exaggerated facts, even as he knew
them, for, in the vulgar sense of the term,
they never quarrelled. There were not infrequent
scenes, and occasionally they ended
in a fit of the sulks on the part of the wife,
and in penitence and a costly present to
make peace " with, on the part of the
husband.

This particular afternoon Captain Erskine
was surprised and disappointed when Amy
appeared at luncheon not in riding dress; but
then it was quite possible for her to put on
her habit again before it was time to start for

the polo ground, so he said nothing. But, in
answer to a question from one of her guests,
she said she was not going to the match, and
when pressed for a reason by another, she
answered, without giving a thought to what
she said, that her Httle boy was not very
well.

Erskine, who was devoted to his child,
took alarm at once.

'what Is the matter with the kid ." he
said. '' He was all right this morning."

Amy looked at him as much as to say,
'' What a dear old stupid you are not to see
that I am making an excuse," and answered,
In her sweetest manner, *' Oh, It Is nothing of
any consequence ; he seemed a little languid,
that is all."

"Languid ! But he oughtn't to be languid.
Have you sent for anyone ? I can't go and
play polo If the boy is not well."

*' My dear John," said Mrs. Erskine,
sharply, "the boy Is perfectly well. Do

not make such a ridiculous fuss about
nothing."

*then why did you say he wasn't?" Erskine
muttered ; and after that he left the burden of
conversation upon his wife and the guests.
He knew by experience Amy's little habit of
making false excuses serve the place of true
ones, and to be obliged to suspect her of not
being absolutely truthful always made him
angry.

He took his friends away after luncheon to
smoke on the verandah, and then, making
some excuse, he went back to the diningroom
to his wife.

What Is this about the boy, Amy r he
said. 'ris he 111 or well ?"

'' Perfectly well," she answered, readily.
** Could you not see that I had to say something
to put that man off."

I wish you had not said that'' he retorted.
I might have known It was only an excuse.
But why can't you come If Jack Is all right .

I thought you were looking forward to the
match."

*' Not I, Indeed! I am sick of polo. I
never Intended to go, although I said nothing
about It."

'you never intended! Come now; that is
a stretch of imagination. Why, all last week
you talked of nothing else !"

But, all the same, I never intended to
go," she repeated. 'you must allow me to
know what I meant to do better than you." '

"And what are you going to do all the
afternoons" he inquired. "I suppose you
expect a lot of fellows from town ?"

I expect no one. I am going to write
letters  probably. Do you remember that
tomorrow is mail day ?''

The day after, as it happens."

Rossitur told me tomorrow. But no
matter ; it is as well to be in time."

I wish you would write to some of my
people at the Chase. You are always

promising to do It, and you never do It. I
know they think It very odd that you never
send them a line."

*' Well, perhaps I may be able to manage
it this mall  If I have time. But I have to
write to my sister In Florida. By the way,
she said In her last letter that her brother-in-law,
Herbert Otway, had just left them and
gone back to England. Is there any chance
of a reconciliation between him and your
sister ? It must be very awkward for a girl
to be married and yet not married, as she
is.

"Yes; It is a rum business altogether; but
you know when Fllmer wrote to me he said
she didn't care a straw for Otway. I wish
she hadn't married him. And so you are
going to write this afternoon ? You will
please yourself, I suppose, but I think you
might come and see me play."

"But you are not such a wonderful player,
you know."

'* I know nothing about it. I am as good
as your friend Lewin any day."

"My friend Lewin, as you call him, is one
of the best players in India."

Erskine burst out laughing.

'so he says himself. He's not a bad
hand at boasting, everyone knows."

I would not sneer at him, Jack, if I were
you ; people might imagine you were jealous.
By the way, which side does he play on this
afternoon ?"

*' You know perfectly well he doesn't play
at all. Hasn't he had his arm in a sling for a
week past ?"

Oh ; so he has. I forgot."

And it was only yesterday you were
tying it up shorter for him ! You thought I
didn't see the performance, I suppose.
Beast ! I wish he was dead !"

"Dear me; how ferocious we are to-day!
But you need not be jealous of poor Gus
Lewin. When he comes to see me he either

VOL. II. D

reads poetry or recites it. It Is all the same
to me, for I always go to sleep. I assure
you he is not an atom more interesting than

you are yourself. If it were Victor de

Good gracious, Jack, what is the matter ?
Why mayn't I speak of poor Victor ?''
*' Because I hate him."
And I do not. What a rage you always
get into if I only mention his name ! Surely
you ought to be satisfied when you know I
refused him and married you."

He had better not show his face here."
** How can he show his face when he is
hundreds of miles away ? I am sure I don't
want to see the poor fellow, if his coming is
to rub you up the wrong way. I wish you
would contrive to keep your temper. Sometimes
I think you are as mad as Porringer.
Rossitur tells me he was very bad last
night."

** Any man would be bad with such a "

'* Hush ! She is nothing of the kind ; but

if that man breaks out some day and murders
us all in our beds, perhaps you will be convinced."


'* If he would begin with Rossitur I
shouldn't mind. I hate that woman more
and more every day."

'' She is probably at work in the next room
and listening to your compliments."

'' I do not care if she was in this room ; and
I'll be bound she's listening wherever she is.
I hate her, and I believe she will do us some
harm before she stops." *

'' What can she do ? Really, Jack, you get
more silly every day ! Isn't it time you were
going to your polo ?"

'' I have a great mind not to go at all."

Then stay by all means ; but, if you
stay, I go ; so please make up your mind
quickly."

'' Oh ! I am going ; do not be afraid. I
should not like to interfere with your little
arrangements."

And he went to the door.

'good-bye," she said, pleasantly. "Come
back In a better temper."

Perhaps I shall not come back at all.
Men have been killed playing polo before
to-day !"

"Oh, yes, you will !" she answered, smiling
at him. " Naught was never in danger, you
know. There now. Don't frown like that.
Can you not take a joke ?"

** Yes ; when it's meant!" he muttered.

Then he opened the door and called
'porringer! Porringer !" and, leaving his
wife, Porringer ran to his master.

An hour later, when It might be presumed
that the polo match was In full swing  for
the ground was not more than a 's
ride from the bungalow  Mrs.
Erskine was seated on a low chair in the
verandah ; there was a piece of fancy work
on her lap, and some books were scattered
about within reach of her hand ; but her eyes

were closed, and she looked the picture of
indolence.

Beside her was a man a year or two
older than her husband ; not bad looking,
but somewhat heavy in feature, and by no
means animated in expression. He was
stretched out at his ease in a lounging chair,
his left arm rested in a sling, and there was
an open book turned face downwards on
his knee. It was Captain Le win's highest
ambition to pose as a literary character ; his
pretensions were based upon a solitary contribution
to Punch, sent in when he was a
lad of eighteen, and inserted, much to his
surprise ! His friends declared that he had
never written anything but an advertisement
to the "Agony Column" of the Times, but
that was not true. He was the proud author
of an epigram In Punch.

Just to amuse herself, Mrs. Erskine had
pretended to foster his ambition, and the
result was, that when they were alone, he,

instead of carrying on a flirtation, as was
suspected by Captain Erskine, used to read
aloud if the lady were Inclined to listen. But
she was not always In the mood ; so, unless
she happened to be either pre-occupied or
too lazy to talk, he did not venture to do
more than produce a volume, and on more
than one occasion he had been known to
read her to sleep.

She was not in a talking mood this afternoon,
so the book was brought out and the
reading began ; but It had not gone on very
long when she felt herself getting drowsy,
and if she had not roused herself by a great
effort she would have been fast asleep.

'* It would be so much nicer if you would
talk, Gus," she said. All his lady friends
called Captain Lewin "Gus." "I have not
heard one word of that book for the last ten
minutes. Surely there must be some news.
Is anyone going to run away with anyone ?
I thought it was the correct thing for people

to elope when they came to the Hills ;
Captain Erskine never tells me any scandal,
so I have to look to my friends."

*' Nothing interesting has happened as yet;
everyone says it will be an exceptionally
proper dull season. There is only one
grass-widow in the place, and she is fortyfive
and very ugly."

Oh, dear ! what are we to do to get up a
little excitement ? Are there no new people
for one to go and see ?" *

There are no new women, but there is a
new man ! An old friend of yours, too, someone
said. That handsome Frenchman who
used to be in Calcutta  what is his name ? 
do you remember ?"

He was not looking at his companion or
he must have noticed the strange pallor that
suddenly overspread her face ; she caught up
her fan, and began to use it vigorously.

I remember him," she said, presently,
and in her own ears her voice had a strange

note in It. "Captain Erskine and I were
talking of him after luncheon to-day. Does
he make any stay in Simla ?"

Oh ; I don't know the man at all, so I
can't tell you ; but you are sure to see
him."

Mrs. Erskine made no reply ; her eyes
were fixed upon the short road that led from
the house to the entrance gate. A man, who
had just dismounted and given up his horse
to a groom, was approaching slowly, and, a
moment or two after he came in sight, she
rose hurriedly, and remained standing until
he reached the verandah.

He was young, of slender, graceful build ;
and when he took off his hat he showed a
closely-cropped head of dark hair ; pale,
olive complexion, and singularly beautiful
soft, dark eyes. There was in them now
an indescribable expression as he came forward
and took Mrs. Erskine's outstretched
hand.

** I heard just this moment that you were
in Simla," she said. "Captain Lewin, allow
me to introduce Monsieur Victor de Lou vain."

THE FATAL MESSAGE.

It might have been half-an-hour after the
arrival of the second visitor, that Rossitur,
coming suddenly into the drawing-room  it
opened into that part of the verandah always
occupied by Mrs. Erskine  found Captain
Lewin fast asleep on a couch. She was
so surprised to see him that she started
violently and made a faint exclamation. It
was quickly checked, however, for Rossitur
never betrayed herself unnecessarily ; and
her object jn entering the room at that
moment was simply to spy upon her mistress,
and to hear, if possible, what she and her
visitor had to say to one another. Hence

her astonishment when she found him asleep
on the sofa.

"He never did that before when he was
here alone," the maid said, as she stole softly
to the open window and looked out.

Mrs. Erskine, not half-asleep now, was
leaning back in her favourite chair, and on a
heap of cushions beside her sat the second
visitor, who was Immediately recognised by
Rossltur. The pair were engaged in earnest
conversation, but the man was the principal
speaker. Amy Erskine was looking brilliantly
handsome ; her cheeks were slightly
flushed, and the long lashes that rested on
her cheeks  her eyes were cast down 
seemed darker even than usual in contrast to
the soft masses of her flaxen hair.

Her companion's eager talk was nothing
but a short history of his life since he and
Mrs. Erskine had parted before her marriage;
there was not a word spoken by him to
intimate that she had been more to him thana

pleasant acquaintance ; but, In the hearts
of both at the moment there were sleeping
memories of by-gone happy days, and to stir
them into life would have been an unwise
enterprise for either. But there was no
danger. Victor de Louvain was, in every
sense of the word, a man of honour.

But Bella Rossitur was a woman to whom
the word had no meaning ; she knew, no one
better, how strong had been the attachment
between the two who were now talking
together so quietly, and, being base herself,
she was ready to attribute baseness to others.
Here was an opportunity to make mischief,
or, failing that, to make her master unhappy.
There was no love lost between Rossitur and
Captain Erskine, and it would give her infinite
satisfaction to do him some real injury ;
or, failing that, to make him suspicious and
miserable in his domestic relations. He was
but too well inclined to be jealous of his
beautiful wife, and he could not be ignorant

of the fact that an engagement of some kind
had at one time existed between her and
Monsieur de Louvain.

But how was the seed to be sown that was
to bear bitter fruit ? If she could in any way
convey a message to Captain Erskine to the
effect that the Frenchman had arrived at the
bungalow in his absence, the thing would be
done. And to send a written message to the
polo ground would be the easiest thing in the
world. There were always three or four idle
grooms about, and she could scribble a few
lines and send them off forthwith ; there was
not the slightest fear that her master would
betray her to his wife, and her mistress would
never suspect her.

As she was moving rapidly away from the
window the skirt of her dress overturned a
light chair, and, at the noise made by Its fall,.
Mrs. Erskine started and looked round.

*' Is that you, Rossitur .'" she said.

*eyes, madam," the maid replied at once.

I came In to see if you wanted anything ; I
did not know you were engaged."

Begging her companion to excuse her fora
moment, Mrs. Erskine went Into the room,
and, drawing Rossltur away towards the door,
she asked in a low, eager voice if she had
seen the gentleman on the verandah.

Rossltur answered briefly In the affirmative.

** Then I want you. If you please," Mrs.
Erskine continued, '' not to mention to
Captain Erskine that he was here to-day ;
he Is In Simla for a very short visit, and I do
not want your master to know that he came
to see me. You understand ?"

*' Perfectly," Rossltur answered.

*' Of course, there is no harm In his coming
to see me; but Captain Erskine Is so peculiar,
and dislikes French people so much, that It
Is as well not to vex him for nothing. I
know I can depend upon you, Rossltur."

'you can, madam."

'' Monsieur de Louvain asked If you were

Still with me, and wanted to know if you
were as handsome as ever. You might
bring us some coffee presently, and then he
can see for himself."

And shall I wake Captain Lewin,
madam ?" Rossitur asked, with a glance at
the sofa."

Oh, yes ; wake him of course ; but it
doesn't matter ; he is sure to wake up
presently."

But before Rossitur brought the coffee and
was complimented by de Louvain on her
appearance, she despatched a tiny note to
the polo ground, with directions that it was
to be delivered into Captain Erskine's own
hands. It contained these words 

*' If you come back at once, you will find
that your wife remained at home this afternoon
to receive Monsieur Victor de Louvain."

The third and concluding game of the polo
match was about to begin when Rossitur's
messenger rode up and presented his master

with the note. Erskine, thinking it was of
no moment  a message from Amy perhaps
to tell him to bring someone back to dinner 
held it unopened, while he eagerly discussed
the games that had already been lost and
won. He had mounted a fresh pony, and it
was already wild with excitement to be off;
but, reining it in tightly, he finished what he
had to say about the play, and then opened
the note and read its brief contents.

Those who were grouped about him
remembered afterwards that he turned
deadly white, a sure sign with him of
anger and excitement ; then he replaced
the note in the envelope, crumpled both
up in his hand, and jumped to the ground,
calling out, '* Someone must take my place.
I can't play ; I am wanted at home."

A dozen voices cried out that he must
finish the match.

** Is anyone ill, old fellow ?" one man
said.

Is it the kid or Mrs. Erskine ?" cried
another.

No ; there is no one ill  nothing the
matter," he answered ; '' but I want to be
off  there is someone I want to see." Then,
after hesitating a moment, he sprang upon
his pony again, calling out, *' I'm ready !
Come on, all of you !" and muttering to
himself, " An hour hence will do as well
for him," he threw himself headlong into
the game.

But more than one of those present
suspected that something had happened to
put him out ; always a bold and dashing
player, he was now reckless in the extreme.
He was now here and now there  the ball
seemed to fly under his dashing strokes, and
an ignorant spectator might have been
pardoned if he had thought that a fight was
going forward instead of a game.

At last, when the pursuit was hottest, there
was a sudden cry indicative of dismay and
VOL. n. E

alarm ! In a moment every player had flung
aside his club, and they were seen hastening,
one and all, towards a spot in the centre of
the ground. A pony was galloping wildly
about the field, but its rider, young John
Erskine, would never mount it again ! When
his comrades in the game came up he was
already dead. A sudden stumble of the
pony  it was going at full speed  had
pitched him clean over its head; his neck was
broken and he died instantaneously.

Several of his friends were on their knees
beside him, and one was trying to pour some
brandy through his clenched teeth, when an
excited figure broke through the group, and
Porringer, Erskine's faithful soldier servant,
flung himself beside the body. He seemed
almost beside himself with grief, as, forcing
open the mouth with a wrench the others
had not dared to use, he seized the flask
and poured the contents down the throat that
would never taste food or drink again.

Then they all watched for some sign of
life ; but the handsome young face seemed to
grow more white and rigid as they gazed ; and
at last, one of those nearest put out his hand
and gently closed the fast glazing eyes.

'' Poor Jack !" he said. " He played like a
madman ! I am afraid he had some bad
news in that note someone brought him."

*' Here it is in his glove," said another,
drawing it out.  .

The note was doubled together in its envelope,
and, having flattened it out, the man
who found it handed it over to Porringer.

'' Is that Mrs. Erskine's writing ?" he
asked.

Porringer hesitated a moment, and then
answered, shortly,

Yes."

*then she has the best right to it," said
the other. '' Its contents are sacred to us.
Take it, my man, and give it to her as it is."

Porringer touched his cap, and slipped

 lUlMOSr

 n t\l

the note Into his pocket. But, although
his action was quiet now, and his manner
respectful, they all noticed that his excitement
was only subdued, not conquered, as he
stood by and listened while they consulted
together as to the best means of breaking the
awful news to the widow. There was not a
man among them who did not shrink from
the office, and when Porringer said at last,
'* She knows me best, gentlemen ; let me doit,"
they sent him.

Mrs. Erskine was seated at the piano,
playing while Victor de Louvain sang.
Captain Lewin, still on the sofa, but awake
now and drinking coffee, listened. The
Frenchman sang with taste and feeling, and
Amy forgot, in the pleasure of the moment,
that the polo match was probably over, and
that Jack might appear suddenly and find her
with Louvain. But the chiming of a little
clock in the room reminded her of the lateness
of the hour ; and rising abruptly from

the piano, she was about, with some pretty
excuse, to dismiss both her visitors, when the
sound of a violent altercation, apparently on
the lawn just outside the verandah, arrested
her attention and that of her companions
also.

'rare you mad?" It was Rossltur who
spoke. ''I will not let you go! You will
kill her ! You know you will !"

Lewin rushed out. Amy, white and trembling
clung to Louvain's arm.

It Is something about my husband!" she
said.

AT THE Loch GATE.

Some two or three weeks, perhaps, before
the sudden and tragic death of young John
Erskine at Simla, the village of Stillingfort,
in Stoneshire, was en fete to celebrate the
return of Lord and Lady Stillingfort and
their daughter from a lengthened absence
abroad. Her ladyship's health, it was said,
obliged them to leave England the preceding
winter, and they went away directly at the
close of the season, without coming to
Stillingfort Park even for a few months in
the early autumn.

A short stay was made in London upon
the return of the family from the South of
France ; and when it was announced that they

were expected home, a rumour reached
the village In advance of the engagement of
the Earl's only daughter, Lady Judith, to an
enormously rich and childless widower nearly
double her age. He was a commoner, whose
father had made his colossal fortune In trade ;
neither envy nor calumny could find one' word
to say against him, but he would not have
been accepted by the proud Earl and Countess
of Stilllngfort for their daughter were It no]:
for the princely settlement he proposed to
make upon her.

The news of the engagement was widely
circulated In the village, and created an
unusual amount of excitement ; for the attachment
of the beautiful Lady Judith to Charles
Rossltur, the farmer's son and organist of
the parish church, was a sort of open secret
In the neighbourhood. It was whispered
how, last year when she was at home, she
used, three or four times a week, to go to the
church when she knew he would be found In

the organ loft pouring out his soul in music
at his beloved instrument. But whether the
maiden of high degree and the poor musician,
whose handsome face and noble form had
attracted her notice, met as mere acquaintances
who were interested in music, or as
lovers interested solely In themselves, no one
knew. The poor old fellow who so patiently
blew for hours while Rossitur played, was
both blind and deaf, and if he had any suspicions
as to the nature of the interruptions
that so often put an end to the organist's
daily practice, he never spoke of them to
anyone. He was one of Lady Judith's
favourite pensioners, and she was very kind
to him.

Early in the afternoon of the day the
Stillingforts were expected home, Charles
Rossitur and his sister Alice were walking
together not fifty yards from the spot where
their sister Bella stood with Pottlnger when
poor Jem Hathaway, her hoodwinked lover,

shot himself. Alice was in every way a
remarkable contrast to her handsome sister
and brother. She was a short, spare little
woman, with scanty dark hair, and a sallow,
sickly complexion, and in her eyes alone
was any resemblance to be found to the
handsome race from which she sprang. She
was not specially amiable in mind or manner,
and she had the reputation of being able,
on occasion, to use a shrewish tongue with-good
effect.

If she loved any creature upon earth with a
strong, unselfish love, it was her only brother,
and, from the first, she had seen his wild
infatuation for Lady Judith Forster with
sorrow and dismay. No good, she knew,
could ever come of such a love, and moreover,
she did not believe in the sincerity of
the high-born beauty. It was an immense
relief to her when the family went abroad for
an indefinite time, for she hoped her brother
would shake off the glamour of Lady Judith's

beauty, when he was no longer under Its
constant influence, and make up his mind
that he could never win her for his wife.
Before she had bewitched him the young
man had been well inclined to a modest girl
in his own station, and Alice looked back
with infinite regret to the time he had walked
in that very wood with herself and Ellen
Balfour, the village schoolmistress, whose
naturally beautiful voice had improved so
much under his training that she had several
times appeared at the local concerts.

Now, as far as Alice knew, he never spoke
to her except in the most formal manner, and
it was scarcely to be expected that the man
who gave lessons to Lady Judith Foster, and
sang his own songs in fine houses in London,
would trouble himself about the insignificant
person who taught the village children to
read. As the brother and sister walked up
and down the pretty woodland path, they
naturally talked of what was uppermost in

their minds  the home-coming of the family
to the Park and the rumoured engagement
of Lady Judith.

** If it were announced In fifty newspapers
It is not true," Charles Rossitur said, doggedly.
"You may think I am boasting, Alice, if you
like, but she loves me and she will be true tome
in spite of everyone. Do you suppose I
don't know ?"

*' I never said she did not love you, dear,"
the girl answered, in the slow quiet manner
peculiar to her, 'but I say again, as I said to
you many times before, that she will never
marry you. Her pride is far greater than her
love, and, besides. It Is not as If she was rich.
She Is a lord's daughter, but she has no
fortune, you know ; and what have you to
offer her In comparison to this Mr. Mllbanke?
He has about half-a-mlllion a year, they say."

"And what Is he with his half-million ? A
man nearly old enough to be her father."

Age Is nothing with such a fortune ; you

haven't a farthing but your salary as organist
of the church, and what you make now and
then by writing a song. There Is the farm,
to be sure, when father dies ; but do you
suppose his lordship would let you keep
that If you married his daughter against his
wish ?"

I can always sell my Interest In It."

"And live on that !" cried Alice, scornfully.
"" Why, your yearly Income would not keep
your fine lady wife In gloves "

'you do not know her noble heart,"
interrupted Rossitur, Impetuously. "If I
cannot get on in this country she will come
with me to America or Australia, and we can
face the world together."

My poor brother !" said Alice. " What
will become of you when your dream Is
broken up ? Oh ! If I could persuade you
that you are deceiving yourself about this
girl, and that she "

"Listen tome," Rossitur interrupted again,

and stopping suddenly he put his hand on
his sister's shoulder and looked into her
face. "You ask what will become of me if
Judith Forster plays me false. The bare
idea of It turns my brain ; so, if It happens,
remember that whatever I do will be the
act of a madman. May God help me, for
I cannot answer for myself!"

Oh, my brother !" and Alice, the cold,
undemonstrative Alice, flung herself weeping
on his breast. *' I wish you had never seen
her beautiful, false face. Forget her, dear.
Do not let your life be blighted by this love.
You are handsome and clever ; there is not
one of her fine friends, with their money and
their titles, to be compared to you. Perhaps
if she did not know you, or if her people did
not know you, she might marry you ; but
look at me, with my hands all red and rough
from common work at home. Look at our
father ; he can just make a shift to read and
write  there was little schooling when he

was young, and Bella, our sister, Is a soldier's
wife."

' It Is of no use to talk In that way," the
young man answered. 'judith loves me,
and she Is more to me than my life. And I
shall see her presently," he added, his face
flushing with rapture at the thought. ** She
will come to the church this evening if she
can, I know she will ; and if not to-day, then
tomorrow. I shall see her. My beauty !
my queen ! Do not look so solemn, Alice.
Treat me as a madman if you like, but you
must laugh over my folly until we see who
wins  the organist or the millionaire."

"I do not feel as if I should ever laugh
again," she said.

Nonsense, girl ! Come along with me to
the church gate and let us see the carriage go
past from the station. The train is due In
half-an-hour, and It will take us twenty
minutes to walk down."

But Alice would not go.

'' I do not want to see her," she said ;
"rand the less she sees of your relations the
better for you."

And if he had thought about making a
good impression, Charles Rossitur could
scarcely have been more picturesquely posed
than he chanced to be when Lady Judith's
eager, restless eyes caught sight of him,
as, seated beside her mother in the open
barouche, she dashed past the old church on
her way from the station. He was leaning
against the quaint old loch gate, and the
dark back-ground might have been chosen
by an artist, who wished to set off to advantage
the handsome face with the dark,
passionate eyes and the fair brown hair.

For one moment his glance met that of
Lady Judith as he bared his head to salute
the occupants of the carriage ; to two of
whom, it must be confessed, he was at that
moment the must unwelcome sight in the
world. Lord Stillingfort frowned, his wife

looked at the young man without making the
slightest sign of recognition, and Lady Judith,
as she slightly bent her head, lowered her
parasol to hide the burning blush that
mounted to her face.

After many months of absence she saw him
again ; and on her finger at that moment was
the almost priceless diamond ring, the pledge
of her engagement to Mr. Mllbanke.

She had now to choose between the two ;
and that evening Charles Rossltur's organ
practice was not Interrupted.

FACE TO FACE.

And Lady Judith knew well enough that her
young lover was waiting and watching and
hoping for her coming, but she was not bold
enough to run the risk of going to meet him
on the very evening of her return. The suspicions
of her father and her mother, which
had been aroused before they left Stillingfort,
would have been on the alert at once if she
had gone out alone within an hour or two of
her arrival at home ; and neither could she
venture to send Charles Rossitur a note ;
she had not a messenger whom she could
trust.

Alice asked her brother no questions when
he came home, looking sadly disappointed

VOL. II. F

and in miserable spirits, from his evening
practice at the church. ''He was a fool to
expect her," the girl said to herself

The next morning the young man, after a
sleepless night, was up and out wandering
alone in the woods soon after daylight. It
occurred to him that Lady Judith, on the
chance of a meeting, might also come out
for an early ramble ; but not a soul was to
be seen except a woodman going to his
work or a gamekeeper returning from his
rounds.

Rossitur was excited, jealous, and wild with
the desire that possessed him to meet Judith
face to face, and hear from her own lips that
the report of her engagement was untrue ;
and wild also with his ardent longing to clasp
her in his arms after their long separation,
broken once only by a precious letter she had
sent him early In the year. But she had
desired him on no account to answer It, and
he had obeyed. Night and day since he

received it, that letter had been his constant
companion, and he took it out now and read
it again as he walked up and down the woodland
path, hoping at each turn to see her
coming towards him.

Before he went home to the early breakfast
at the farm he had taken a mighty
resolve. He would go that very day to
Lord Stillingfort and ask him for his
daughter. It was the most honourable
and manly course to pursue, and if he
refused, as was but too probable, to listen
to the prayer of the poor and humble
suitor, Rossitur would consider himself free
to marry Lady Judith, if she loved him well
enough to brave poverty and estrangement
from her family and friends for his sake.

And, judging her by himself, he had no
fear. Had he been a peer's son and she the
farmer's daughter, he knew the difference in
rank would not keep him from her; but it did
not occur to him that the husband raises the

wife to his own social level, or pulls her
down as the case may be.

When breakfast was over he told Alice that
he might not be home In time for the early
family dinner, as, after the choir practice, he
was going to the Park to see Lord Stllllng-
fort on business.

*' Oh, Indeed !" she said ; '' and you expect
to be asked to luncheon, I suppose."

It was Impossible to tell by her manner
whether she spoke satirically or In earnest.

** I expect a great deal, I admit," he
answered, with a smile, 'but I do not know-that
I thought about luncheon. However, if
I come home hungry, you will give me some
food?"

He kissed her and went out, and she stood
for some time looking after him with tears in
her eyes.

** It Is madness !" she said to herself,
** downright madness! If she would tell
him herself that she is going to marry this

rich man, he would be cured ; but she will
keep him on and play with him until she
breaks his heart."

It was still very early, not more than one
o'clock, when Rossitur rang the great bell
and asked the powdered and supercilious
flanked who answered it, and who knew
him well by sight, if Lord Stillingfort was
at home. He was shown into the library,
and then, the footman, having announced tfae
early visitor to his master, went back to the
servants' hall and told his companions that
'* that 'ere organist chap had called to see
his lordship, and it was a wonder he 'ad net
come in the middle of the night."

Rossitur had to wait with what patience
he could muster for nearly a 
before Lord Stillingfort appeared ; the
fact was, that when he heard who was waiting
for him he went off in a great hurry to
his wife to beg of her to be present at the
interview, but she refused. *' I daresay he

wants money for the organ," she said. " Just
give him a cheque and send him away as-soon
as possible."

*sand suppose it is something about

Judith r

At that Lady StilHngfort laughed. " If it
is," she said, 'you can order him out of the
house. But I do not suppose he has lost his
senses, although he fancies himself in love
with her." Then as her husband was leaving
the room, she called him back and added,
If he says anything about Judith, just send
for her and make her tell him before your face
that she is going to marry Mr. Milbanke.
How unfortunate that he had to go to
America just now. If he were but here we
might have the marriage directly."

Lord StilHngfort met his unwelcome visitor
with polite urbanity ; but he contrived also to
make his greeting formal in the extreme.

"Good morning, Mr.  ah  yes  Rossitur,
to be sure, the organist. I did not quite

catch the name from Thomas. May I ask
you to state your business as briefly as
possible, as I am very busy this morning ?
After my long absence I have a great deal
to look into. What can I do for you ?"

He did not sit down or ask his visitor to
be seated ; so the young man stood, and he
looked like a young giant beside the spare
little man who stared at him so coldly through
his gold-nmmQd pace-nez. 

Lord Stillingfort," Rossitur began, and
it must be confessed that the hopes which had
buoyed him during his walk to the Park had
all died away, " it is now nearly two years
since I had the honour of giving your
daughter, Lady Judith, some lessons on the
organ, and I  since that time, I mean  that

is 1

** Oh ; you mean, I suppose, the lessons
were never paid for," interrupted Lord Stil-langford,
brusquely. " Really, that was very
remiss ; but why didn't you send in your bill ?

Then it would have been settled with the
other accounts. What is the amount, and
I'll write you a cheque at once !"

Rossitur s face grew scarlet. '* Pardon me,
my lord," he said. "It was an understood
thing when I gave Lady Judith lessons that
they were not to be paid for, and I am sorry
you think I came here for money. My
object is something very different. I came,"
and he raised his handsome head proudly,
and looked Lord Stillingfort straight in the
face, " I came to tell you that I love your
daughter, and to ask your consent to our
marriage."

Lord Stillingfort adjusted his pince-nez and
stared in his turn at his audacious visitor.

You love my daughter, and you ask my
consent to your marriage with her !" he
repeated. " Upon my word, young man, I
must do you the justice to say that you
are very frank, and apparently not much
troubled by any doubts as to the success of

your suit. When you talk of my consent
you Imply that you have already obtained
that of Lady Judith. May I ask If this Is
SO r

'' I have every reason to hope that If your
consent were obtained Lady Judith would
become my wife."

*' Do you know what, sir?" his lordship
broke In with a dry chuckle  he was too
angry to laugh  "It would serve you right
and teach you a timely lesson. If I were to
ring the bell and order my servants to turn
you out of the house ! Have you forgotten,
sir," and his voice rose angrily, "who and
what you are ? What right have you to
come and ask for my daughter ? How dare
you so much as think of her ? What Is your
position ? What are your means ? Your
father Is a tenant farmer on my estate, one
of your sisters Is In service, and you hold the
not very lucrative post of organist of the
parish church ! I have no wish to be unduly

hard upon you, but your proposal is simply
impertinent. And now, perhaps, the sooner
you go the better," he added after a moment's
pause, "and I must  "

I cannot be dismissed in this way, my
lord," broke in Rossitur, passionately. *' I
may not be the equal of your daughter in
rank ; but, although we are only tenant
farmers, the Rossiturs are every whit as old
a family as your own. For myself, I can say
that the one talent I possess has already
brought me some social distinction, and at
the present day people do not ask questions
about an artist's birth. I am not very rich
it is true, but I love your daughter, and I am
willing to work for her with all the power
of mind and body I possess. Cheered and
encouraged by her love, I believe I can
achieve greatness, and I am proud and
happy to know that her love is mine."

Lord Stillingfort at these bold words fairly
lost his temper, and in his passion he flung

the papers that were strewn upon the Library
table about, and all but overturned an inkstand.


"Your Insolence passes all bounds, sir,"
he almost shouted. '' Perhaps you are not
aware that Lady Judith is engaged to be
married, and that the husband she has chosen
is one of whom we cordially approve."

I heard a report of Lady Judith's engagement
to a Mr. Milbanke," Rossitur replied,.
but I do not believe it."

Perhaps you do not believe me' Lord
Stillingfort cried. "Very well." He rang
the bell. " Tell Lady Judith to come to meat
once," he said to the footman who answered
it ; and not another word was spoken until the
door opened and Lady Judith came hurriedly
in.

When she saw who was in the room she
stopped short ; the colour rushed to her face
and then as quickly left it again.

You sent for me, papa," she said. And

then she stood like a statue, with her eyes
bent on the ground, and the man whose heart
was breaking for a word or look from her,
feasted his eyes for a few blissful moments
upon her matchless beauty.

'judith," said her father, 'this young man,
Rossitur, says he has heard a report that you
are engaged to be married to Mr. Milbanke,
and he does not believe it even when confirmed
by me. Will you be kind enough to
tell him whether it is true or not ?"

Lady Judith gave one rapid glance at
Rossitur ; then her eyes fell again, and she
was silent.

"Speak! I insist upon it!" cried her father.
Is it true or false that you wear his ring on
this finger," and he took her left hand and
held it up, "and that you have promised to
marry him ?"

'' It is true," she answered, so low that
Rossitur barely caught the words. Then
she turned and rushed from the room.

I hope you are satisfied," said Lord
Stillingfort.

But the young man's pale and quivering
lips could frame no reply.

TRUE OR FALSE.

When he left the house, dumb with bitter
disappointment, and his wounded pride stinging
him sore, Rossitur struck across the Park
towards the woods, intending to make his
way back to the farm circuitous. The
whole thing had been so sudden that he
was bewildered and totally unable to realise
that, from Judith's own lips, he had received
the deathblow to all his hopes. There was
the hateful ring glittering on her finger ;
what better evidence could he have of her
perfidy, even if her own faltering admission
of the truth had not been confirmed by her
father's words ?

He walked on in a stupid, blundering kind

of way until he reached a little glade, so shut
in and lonely that he knew he should be free
from observation ; and there, flinging himself
face downwards on the turf, he gave vent to
his passionate grief How long he lay there
he never knew ; It might have been for hours
or only minutes, for In his abandonment he
was quite lost to the passage of time. But at
length he heard a light, quick step approaching,
and presently someone knelt beside him
and a soft hand was passed over his hair.

'' Look up ! Speak to me  to Judith,"
whispered the low, musical voice that had
been so hard and constrained when last he
heard it ; and instantly he sprang to his feet,
and she was by his side with her hands
clasped round his arm.

"Why did you say it?" he cried. '' Did
you want to drive me mad ? You told me
the truth just now, I suppose, and I do not
want to hear it again. Take away your
hands. I cannot answer for myself while

you Stand there looking at me with those
eyes."

** I take them away for this," she cried,
and flung them round his neck. " Do you
think I am going to give you up ." she
murmured, and for answer he clasped her
to his heart and kissed her as he had never
dared to kiss her before.

'' My love ! my darling!" he said, passionately,
" I cannot live without you !"

Then she told him how she had slipped
out, when she knew her father and mother
were shut up together, in the hope of intercepting
him in the wood, and she gently
upbraided him for having gone to her father
at all.

You knew he would never consent to our
marriage," she said, "even if there were no
Mr. Milbanke in the question. Perhaps if
you were to write some grand opera, and get
famous all at once, he might listen to you,
but as you are now, you have no chance.

You do not mind my saying this, do you ?'*
she added, looking at him with admiring
eyes, " for you know I do not want you one
whit different from what you are."

He Hastened enraptured. The glamour of
her presence was too strong to leave any
room for reason or commonsense, and not
one thought was given by him to the future
as he stood beside her in that secluded spot.
It was enough for him that she had come t
him there of her own accord, and had allowed
him to clasp her in his arms and lavish upon
her a hundred endearing names. He, no
doubt, believed that she would give up her
rich lover for his sake, and abandon father,
mother and home at his bidding ; but he
little knew the nature of the woman, who
certainly would have given all she possessed
in the world if she could have transferred the
money bags of Mr. Milbanke to this penniless
youth, whose noble beauty of face and grace
of figure would haunt her to her dying day.
VOL. n. G

The danger of the double game she was
playing was patent enough to her ; she looked
ahead after every cautious or incautious move,
but she trusted to the chapter of accidents to
see her safely out of the mesh in which she
had involved herself. She knew perfectly
well that marriage with Rossitur in his
present position, or indeed in any position,
was absolutely impossible, and that her marriage
with Mr. Milbanke was an absolute
certainty. To love a poor man and to philander
with him was one thing, to link herself
Voluntarily to his poverty was another. But
as the summer days sped on, and these stolen
meetings in the wood were continued, she
made much ado to persuade Rossitur that if
he would but be patient all would be well.
It would never do for them to run away on
the chance of obtaining her father's forgiveness
as soon as she was married. The only
way out of the difficulty was to temporise.

His proud spirit chafed against the secrecy,

but his Infatuation, which day by day became
wilder and less under control, forced him to
bend to her will.

His sister Alice, watching him narrowly,
saw that since the return of Lady Judith he
had some secret spring of happiness to which
he gave her no clue. He was in the gayest
spirits ; the light had come back to his eyes
and the elasticity to his step. He once more
took pleasure in his work, and it was at that
time that one of the sweetest songs he ever
composed was written and sent off to the
publisher. Love inspired him, and he wrote
as he had never written before.

What was the meaning of it all, the sister
wondered. He still heard Lady Judith's
engagement spoken of in the village ; it was
rumoured that Mr. Milbanke was expected
immediately at the Park, and that as soon ashe
came the wedding-day would be fixed,
Alice made up her mind to act the spy, and
find out when and where her brother and

Lady Judith met, for that they met and met
often, she was certain.

She noticed that four and sometimes five
times a week he went out, always at the same
hour, with a book under his arm, as if for a
quiet saunter In the woods. She at first
thought that Lady Judith would not be rash
enough to meet him so near home, but still
it was possible. So she followed him one
afternoon, and was an eye-witness to the
meeting between the lovers. It was ardent
enough to Imply not only devotion but constancy
on both sides, but Alice could not and
would not*' believe In the lady's sincerity; so
she made up her mind, at all hazards, to put
an end to this clandestine intercourse.

Her first attempt was made with her
brother.

'' It is of no use to deny to me that you
meet her," she said, " for I followed you
yesterday to Warleigh Copse "  the sequestered
glade in Stilllngfort Wood that the

lovers had chosen for their trysting-place 
"and saw you together."

I had no idea that I had a spy for a
sister," Rossitur broke in angrily.

I spy upon you," she retorted, " because
you are laying up misery for yourself in the
future and behaving dishonourably now. I
suppose you are fond of that woman, and she
likes you well enough to meet you in secret ;
but mark my words, she will never marry you,
and you ought to be too proud to let her
delude you into these underhand dealings.
If you were her equal in birth it would be
different, but your father's son cannot afford
to act dishonourably."

Rossitur winced. He had many scruples
about the deception he was carrying on, but
he silenced them all by the plea that he and
Lady Judith were driven to meet in secret,
as her father had practically turned him out
of the house and insulted him by asking if he
had come for money. But then the temptation

! He was young ; he was in love, and
willing to fling everything to the winds for
her sake.

Do you suppose I don't know all that ?"
he exclaimed ; '' but a man must fight with the
best weapons he has. Lord and Lady Stil-langford
are bent upon forcing their daughter
into a marriage she abhors ; she is obliged
to temporise to protect herself, and it would
be hard indeed if we were never to meet."

Alice said no more, but an anonymous
communication which reached Lord Stilling-fort
the following day was written by her.
It briefly informed his lordship that Lady
Judith and Charles Rossitur, the organist,
were in the habit of meeting almost everyday
at a certain hour in Warleigh Copse,
in the heart of Stillingfort Wood.

'rit is a curious revenge of fate," Lord
Stillingfort said to himself, as, having ascertained
that his daughter was not in the house,
he set out for Warleigh Copse to interrupt

the lovers' meeting. " When this young
fellow was an infant, my stepmother carried
off his mother from her husband, and now
the child is a man, and he makes secret love
to my daughter. Were it not for the horrible
wrong his family had suffered from a member
of mine It would go hard with him to-day ;
but, knowing what I do, how can I accuse
him of dishonour ?"

Disheartened by his sister's reproaches,
Rossitur that same afternoon urged upon
Lady Judith the necessity of making It
known without further delay that she did not
mean to fulfil her engagement with Mr.
Milbanke.

Every day you grow dearer and more
dear to me, my darling," he said, "and everyday
I hate more and more the false position
I am In."

*' I am glad you have the grace to acknowledge
that the position Is a false one," said
the sharp clear voice of Lord Stilllngfort at

his elbow  so absorbed were the lovers in
one another that he came upon them unobserved
 '' and, therefore, the sooner it is
put an end to finally the better."

Rossitur fell back mortified beyond expression,
and unable for very shame to utter a
word in his defence as the angry father drew
his daughter's arm within his own. Then
the thought that his too brief hours of
happiness were over, and that long months,
if not years, of weary waiting might be
before him and the woman who was so madly
beloved, overcame him, and he eagerly,
passionately entreated to be allowed one word
of farewell.

But Lord Stillingfort was inexorable. '' I
cannot trust my daughter out of my sight,"
he said, with a glance at her that said more
than words ; but, for some reason known only
to himself, he did not reproach the young
man.

'you must not blame her, my lord," cried

Rossitur, '' I am In fault throughout. I urged
her to meet me here secretly. I beseech you
do not visit my wrong-doing upon her."

Lord Stillingfort, who had turned away,
stopped short, and faced Rossitur again.
*' Judith," he said, addressing his daughter,
*' Is what he says true ? Did he ask you to
meet him here ?"

She raised her beautiful eyes to the young
man's face, hesitated for a moment, and then
answered, boldly, '' Yes, papa."

It was but the corroboration of his own
statement, but, somehow, the falsehood that
had fallen so glibly from her lips sent a
deadly chill of disappointment through him
and planted the first doubt in his heart.

Was the woman who had uttered it herself
true or false ?

MRS. ERSKINE FORECASTS THE FUTURE.

It was all over ! The tragedy, so awful in its
suddenness, which had left Amy Erskine a
widow and her infant son heir to the old
title and estates, was already, although barely
a month had passed, almost forgotten in
Simla, and life there went on as before.
Nothing came out respecting the communication
that was handed to the unfortunate
young man just before the last game of polo
began ; and the impression that his reckless
play had been caused by some information
conveyed to him by the few lines the note
contained died out at once as soon as his
servant declared that the handwriting was
that of Mrs. Erskine.

No one supposed that she had any news
of an exciting or agitating nature to communicate,
and not even the most censorious
gossip could make anything out of the fact
that when Pottlnger, the dead man's soldier-servant,
arrived from the polo ground in a
high state of excitement with the news of
his master's death, Mrs. Erskine had two
visitors, gentlemen, with her. She was
pretty and popular, and not a day passed
without bringing visitors to the bungalow
and poor Gus Lewin  a good - natured
creature as everyone knew  had been most
kind and efficient. He had broken the
awful news to the poor young widow, and
when she was sitting there in a sort of
stupor, dazed by the sudden shock, it was
Gus who thought of fetching the little boy
to see if the sight of him would rouse her.

Victor de Louvain's name was seemingly
not mentioned by anyone ; It was really his
ready arm that caught and supported Mrs.

Erskine when, on hearing from Captain
Lewin  who, with the greatest difficulty, had
with Rossitur's help succeeded in keeping
Porringer out of the room  that " Jack " had
met with a bad accident, she had reeled back
and all but fainted ; but, before she recovered
full consciousness, he had disappeared from
the scene. No one spoke of him as having
been an eye-witness to the young widow's
reception of the terrible news and no one
but Rossitur knew how the dead man had
hated him. She, putting always the worst
construction upon the action of her employers,
would have been the last to admit that the
jealousy of the husband was founded entirely
on the fact that the Frenchman had been
Amy's lover before her marriage. Until that
fatal afternoon they had not met since Amy
became Mrs. Erskine ; neither had they held
any communication by letter.

As so often happens, poor young Erskine's
death was but the beginning of misfortunes.

Porringer, whose brain had been more or
less affected since a severe sunstroke the
previous year, went clean out of his mind
before his young master was buried, and was
removed under restraint and finally sent to
England and placed in an asylum for treatment
; but the medical men who saw him
before he started gave hopes of his ultimate
recovery, and these hopes were, as a matter
of course, communicated to his wife.

During the first few hours that passed
after his return to the bungalow from the
polo ground, he lay tossing about on his
bed, and Rossitur, who seemed, when she
chose to use it, to possess some magnetic
influence over him, gathered from his low
and often incoherent muttering that he had
either heard of, or seen, the note she had sent
to his master. She had ascertained beyond
all doubt that it was not on the dead man's
person when he was brought home ; but she
knew that the utmost caution would be

necessary If she attempted to search for it
in her husband's pockets.

As night came on he grew rapidly worse,
and before morning broke it took the united
strength of three men to hold him, while he
shouted furiously that his master was being
murdered by that "devil ;" and all the while
he raved his wild eyes were fixed upon
Bella's white, determined face ! But she did
not care now what he said in his delirium.
She had found her letter in one of his
pockets, and it was destroyed beyond all
possibility or chance of resuscitation, so she
could afford to ridicule his frantic words, and
his agonised appeals for justice upon those
who had " murdered his dear master."

He got perceptibly calmer when his wife,
who certainly had not been watching him
from affection, and who, now that her object
was attained, made no attempt to soothe him,
left him to the care of others ; nor did she, it
may be added, take any further trouble about

him during the short time he remained at the
bungalow.

It was quite touching to see how her
mistress turned to her for consolation and
advice in her bereavement. Amy had never
really domineered over anyone except her
too indulgent husband ; she, herself, had
always been like wax in the hands of her
clever and unscrupulous maid, and it was
Rossitur who was her most trusted adviser.
It was Rossitur who instructed Captain
Lewin how to address and word the telegram
that was to convey the tragic news
to the family at the Chase ; it was Rossitur
who urged her bewildered mistress to dictate
the few incoherent lines written by the maid
in her own fine bold hand, and signed
as boldly, " Your afflicted daughter, Amy
Erskine," which left India for Stoneshire
by the very mail, respecting the departure of
which the husband and wife had talked an
hour or two before the death of the former on

the polo ground. And in that short epistle,
Mrs. Erskine, or Rossitur for her, promised
to write again more fully when she had
recovered somewhat from the terrible shock !
And It was Rossitur who saw the visitors
who came to Inquire for Mrs. Erskine ; and
she also designed the monument that was
erected over her late master's grave, and the
inscription upon It was really her composition,
although she so cleverly contrived to put her
own words Into the mouth of her mistress,
that Amy thought the graceful and touching
tribute to her husband's memory was all her
own. Letters of condolence too, were, for
the most part, answered by Rossitur ; sometimes
in the name of the widow, but as often
in her own ; there was but one, and one only,
that Amy kept to herself  but Rossitur contrived
to get a peep at it  and answered with
her own hand, and that was a brief note of
manly unaffected sympathy from Monsieur de
Louvain, written from Calcutta.

He was about to start immediately for
Europe, and any communication addressed
to him, " Poste Restante, Naples," would find
him up to a given time. There was not a
word in the letter that might not have been
printed and published to the world, but, somehow,
Amy could not bring herself to treat a
letter from him as she would have treated
a letter from Gus Lewin, or any of her
acquaintances in poor Jack's old regiment.
She felt as if she owed him some compensation
for the dead man's unreasonable aversion
to him ; and to herself also, just to prove, as
it were, that the friendship between her and
de Louvain was beyond reproach.

Poor Amy was perplexed beyond measure
just then at the complication in her feelings.
Her husband's sudden death had given hera
terrible shock, and she most sincerely
regretted that on that fatal afternoon she
had let him go without a tender and wifelike
farewell ! Rather with a gibe indeed,

VOL. II H

which was meant In jest, but which was not
pleasant to remember when he was brought
home to her, dead.

It is not too much to say that she missed
him at every turn. He had petted and spoiled
her so persistently that she felt lonely without
the attentions which had somehow bored
her not a little when they were offered.
Her social position, too, was now completely
altered. Her baby boy might be Sir
John some day, but she could never be Lady
Erskine ; and although, no doubt, her father-in-law
would give her a handsome allowance,
In addition to her post - nuptial settlement,
and a home at the Chase, she did not look
forward to life In a dull English house in the
country with much satisfaction.

So, although she grieved for her husband,
she was by no means broken-hearted at his
loss ; perhaps she was even more genuinely
sorry for herself, and for all the trouble and
discomfort her widowhood had brought her,

than for the man who had loved her but too
well.

Part of her trouble was caused by 's
insanity. It was very inconsiderate
of him, she thought, to go mad just as she
particularly wanted him to have all his wits
about him for her benefit and at her disposal.
She could have bought his discharge from
the regiment, and then he would have
travelled home with her and Rossitur and the
two children, and finally settled in England
with his wife and their boy. But, as he had
gone out of his mind, it was clearly her duty
to keep Rossitur and her son until he recovered
; and, if he never recovered. Sir John,
no doubt, would be able to get the child
into an Orphan Asylum, and Rossitur would
continue to act as her maid.

Thus did Amy Erskine forecast the future.

MISS MASHAM HAS HER SUSPICIONS.

*' And so he is back again from America ?"
That is good news, so far." The speaker
was little Miss Masham. She was in her own
drawing-room at the Rosary, and the visitor
she addressed was Betty Erskine, or Mrs.
Herbert Otway, as she had a right to be
called, and as she was always called in Little
Centre Bridge. It was true, and known to
everyone In town, that she and her husband
had parted at the church door, so to speak
but the marriage had not been annulled, and
to all intents and purposes the pair were man
and wife, although they never met, never
wrote to one another, and, for what outsiders
knew, never thought of one another.

But as to the thinking, only Otway for
himself, and Betty for herself, could speak.
But it is a fact that she believed firmly he had
forgotten her, and he had no reason to think
that the girl who had behaved so heartlessly
to him on her wedding-day had fallen desperately
In love with him three days later,
and would have sacrificed everything she
possessed  except her stubborn pride, of
course  to hear him say once more " Betty,
I love you."

In many respects she was very much
altered since the day, now more than a year
ago, that she and her husband of an hour
had stood face to face In the drawing-room
in Halkin Street. In person she was
more attractive ; her saucy, sparkling, girlish
beauty had gained some quality impossible to
define In words ; her pretty, slender figure
had filled out and matured without the loss
of an iota of her girlish grace, and if more
silent and thoughtful than of old, she spoke

to more purpose now than In the old days
when thoughtless words and gay repartee fell
in one continuous stream from her pretty lips.
She could not in the least understand
herself how such a change had come over
her since she began to love the man whose
affection she had scorned and repulsed ; it
seemed now that to think of him, and to
live over again in memory the days she had
spent with him during their engagement,
made up the happiness of her life ! How
kind he had been ! How tender ; how indulgent
to her absurd caprices ; how patient,
and oh, how loving ! And how had she
repaid him ? With stupid sarcasms she
was ashamed to remember ; with coldness
with indifference, and too often with unwomanly
displays of petulance and temper !
Oh, for the power to live that year over
again ; to undo all that she had done, and
bind to her for ever and ever the one man
in the world whom she could honour as well

as love ! That was how she put It ; she was
now as prone to exalt him unduly as, in her
blindness, she had debased him.

But, cherished in secret, it was but natural
that her repentance and love should grow,
the one more absorbing, the other more
painful in depth and sincerity. No one
suspected what was going on In her mind,
for the passion of pride was almost as strong
as the love and repentance put together.
Remembering Otway's outspoken scorn on
the day of their final separation, she would
have died rather than approach him as a
suppliant for love and forgiveness.

Her father and aunt, who had at first
taken the matter very much to heart, were
now resigned to what appeared Inevitable.
They had outlived the awkwardness of having
to explain that Betty and her husband had
parted on their wedding-day, and that there
was no hope of a reconciliation ; and she
lived on quietly at the Chase, and might

have taken up her old life and been happy
enough but for the cruel pain at her heart
and the daily renewed and fierce struggle,
which always ended in the same way,
between love and pride.

Betty had always liked Miss Masham, but
of late the two had become very fast friends
indeed. The reason was not hard to find ;
the old lady was the only one who ever spoke
to her of Otway. What she said was not
always pleasant to hear, but Betty would
have endured more disagreeable words for
the satisfaction of hearing his name. She
kept her secret most jealously guarded from
this candid and clear-sighted friend, but
nevertheless, Miss Masham suspected that
Betty was less indifferent than she seemed,
although to her the girl always dwelt upon
Otway's declaration that his bride's treatment
of him had given the death - blow to his
affection for her.

*' He is not the man I take him for, if it

would do anything of the kind," the old lady
used to say to herself; "but at the same
time, if women are capricious, men are fickle,
and it may be 'out of sight out of mind' with
him."

On this particular afternoon, Betty had
walked over to the Rosary to spend an hour
or two with her old friend, and her pony
carriage was to call for her about six o'clock.
Miss Masham was full of the news of Lady
Judith Forster's approaching marriage to Mr.
Milbanke, which she had heard that morning
from Dr. Murray, and he had had his information
direct from Lord Stillingfort himself.

And from what the doctor tells me, my
dear," she said, '' I am afraid they have had a
great deal of trouble on account of that handsome
young organist Charles Rossitur. It
seems he went to Lord Stillingfort and
proposed in form for the young lady, and then
it was found out that she and he used to
meet four or five times a week in the woods."

** I think It is very wrong to force her to
marry Mr. Milbanke if she cares for Charles
Rossitur," said Betty.

Dear me ! are you coming out as an
advocate of romance ?" cried Miss Masham.

And why should I not ?" asked Betty,
quickly. " Are not all women romantic ? I
believe Judith cares for young Rossitur ; why,
then, should not Lord Stillingfort do something
for him and let them marry ?"

Because, my dear, in the first place, the
Stillingforts are as proud as Lucifer, and they
do not believe that ' rank is but the guinea
stamp,' unless the commoner has plenty of
stamped guineas ; and, in the second, because
I believe that Lady Judith herself does not
love this youth enough to give up position
and money for his sake."

''A woman ought to give up everything in
the world for the man she loves."

Dear me ! now, is that so ?" said Miss
Masham, with her little head on one side like

a pert bird. " I thought love had gone out
of fashion ages and ages ago. But, no doubt,
you know more about it than I do."

Indeed I do not. I never was in love,
and I never mean to be."

'' That being the case, it is a pity you

happen to be married." And then came the

abrupt remark : " And so he is back from

America ?"

If you are speaking of Mr. Otway, I

believe he came back from Florida a fortnight
ago."

"And is there any chance of our seeing
him down here ? He is a man we all
like very much  at least, I can speak for
myself."

I should think Little Centre Bridge is
about the last place in England he would
come to."

"That is strange, too, considering that his
wife lives here."

Now, Miss Masham, you know perfectly

well that he and I would go a hundred miles
out of our way to avoid one another."

*' I know nothing of the kind ; and I think
if you did you would take a great deal of
unnecessary exercise. I believe if you were
to write to-day and say, ' Herbert, come ;'
he would telegraph to say, ' Betty, I am
coming ;' and when you met you would rush
into one another's arms !"

'' I am quite sure I shouldn't rush into

IS.

'' But if he rushed into yours it would do
just as well."

Betty shook her head.

*' Then, my dear girl, if you do not love
Herbert Otway  and if I were a young lady
and married to him I should simply adore
such a nice, handsome fellow  it is your duty
to have the marriage annulled, and to marry
someone else, and to allow him to marry,
too.

I do not want to marry anyone."

'* But he may have fallen in love with some
girl he met in America. You can't tell. The
American women are very fascinating, and it
is a shame to keep him gagged and bound
when you do not want him yourself."

'* I do not want to keep him, I assure
you," Betty answered, with some asperity.
''He may marry a dozen American women,
each one more fascinating than the other,
if he likes."

*' I have no doubt one would satisfy him
but he ought to be free to choose. What in
the world is the matter with the child now ?"

Betty's face had flushed suddenly from
chin to brow, and as suddenly the colour all
faded away again, leaving her as white as a
ghost.

"Look! look! Miss Masham," she cried.
'' Do you see who is coming up the drive ?''

Miss Masham ran to the window and
looked out.

'' Herbert Otway himself," she exclaimed.

Now, Betty, faint in his arms, and everything
will come right."

But Betty drew herself up stiffly. ** I am
not going to meet him," she said.

THE BEARER OF BAD NEWS.

But I do not see how you are to avoid
meeting him, my dear," said Miss Masham,
unless you jump out of the window ; for ypu
must run against him in the hall if you go
that way. I know the door leading from the
conservatory is locked, and  here he is,"
as the door was opened and the parlour-maid
announced '' Mr. Herbert Otway, from
London."

If Betty had been taken aback when she
recognised her husband  the man whom for
months past she had been pining to catch
even a passing glimpse of  in the unexpected
visitor, Otway was no less dumbfoundered
when, on entering Miss Masham's drawing-room,

he saw his wife  the girl still so
passionately loved in spite of all the determined
efforts he had made to forget her, and
to take up some absorbing work in which he
could lose himself gladly, and so prevent his
mind from dwelling upon the happiness he
had lost.

But the joy that thrilled through him at
the mere sight of her, more beautiful, if
possible, than when she repelled and mocked
him on their wedding-day, was not visible in
his face ; and the bow with which he returned
her stiff salutation, was as unbending and
formal as her own.

Mercy on me, what extraordinary politeness,"
thought Miss Masham, but It struck
her that Otway looked both sad and serious,
and she suspected that his visit had some
serious import.

And she was right. An intimate friend of
his had heard of Jack Erskine's death, in a
private telegram from India, and he had comedown

at once to break the sad news to the
family at the Chase. He thought It more
than probable that they would hear It first
through the Times on the following Monday
morning, unless It occurred to the widow,
or some of her friends, to send a telegram.
It did occur to them a few days after the
accident happened, and at that very moment
the message was near Its destination.

Otway's courage failed him completely a
soon as he reached Little Centre Bridge
station. How could he face Sir John with
the appalling news of his son's death '. How
could he stand face to face with Betty In the
first great sorrow of her life without betraying
that his love for her was not dead, and so
expose himself to another rebuff?

Then he thought of kind little Miss
Masham. He would go to her in the first
instance, tell her what had happened, and
consult with her upon the best means of
breaking the news to the bereaved father.

VOL. II. I

That he might come across Betty, or any of
the family at the Rosary, never occurred to
him, and never In his Hfe had he felt so embarrassed,
or so utterly unable to decide
quickly what to do, as when he found the
woman who was his wife, and yet not his
wife, seated with their common friend.

Miss Masham saw at once there was something
wrong. " I am very glad to see you,
Mr. Otway," she said, and she spoke In her
most matter-of-fact tone. " Strange to say, I
was just asking Betty If you were back from
America. It is very nice of you to come
first to me, but "

He interrupted her with a gesture. '' I
hoped to see you alone," he said, "for I am
sorry to say I am the bearer of bad
news "

Betty rose hurriedly ; he had glanced at
her as he spoke. ** Not from India .'" she
said. 'ris there anything wrong with Jack
or Amy ?"

She was close to him now ; her face was
still very white, and her hand was laid with a
nervous clasp on Miss Masham's arm. " You
will think me very silly, I dare say," she went
on, " but for a week past I have been expecting
to hear bad news. I never mentioned it
to anyone for fear of being laughed at, but
twice lately I distinctly saw Jack lying on the
ground as if he were dead, with a crowd of
men about him. " Has anything happened
to him ?''

He met with an accident playing polo a
few days ago," Otway answered, '' and he
IS

*Dead!" cried Betty. *'0h! I knew it!
1 knew it ! Oh ! poor papa !"

She was swaying on her feet, overcome by
sudden faintness. Otway sprang forward and
caught her in his arms ; but either she had
her senses sufficiently about her to recoil a
little when he touched her, or he fancied she
did, for he at once overcame his first impulse

to hold her while he sent Miss Masham for
restoratives, and half-leading, half-supporting
her to the nearest couch, he laid her gently
down and then stood aside.

She had not actually fainted, and a sigh
broke from her involuntarily as she thought
how irksome it must have been to him to be
obliged to do anything for her ; he had got
rid of her so quickly.

I am better," she said, presently. Then
she turned her face away and burst into tears.
Some of them were shed for the dead
brother, but those that were wrung from herby
the too evident coldness and indifference
of the man who had once loved her so well,
were a hundred-fold more full of anguish and
heartfelt grief! And how carefully it behoved
her now to guard the secret of her love.

As she wept silently, Miss Masham and
Otway talked together, and he told her all
he knew of the accident. But no particulars
had reached him ; the telegram to his friend

had simply mentioned the accident at the
polo match. " Of course, Mrs. Erskine will
write, or someone for her," he said ; " she
must have plenty of friends out there. At
Simla I think it happened."

*eyes; they went to Simla with the
Viceroy," Betty said, rousing herself with an
effort and sitting up. Otway involuntarily
glanced at her left hand as she put both
up to fasten a loose lock of hair, and saw
the wedding-ring, with its keeper, on her
finger.

Her badge of servitude, poor girl !" he
said to himself with bitter emphasis. " How
she must hate to look at it !"

It will break papa's heart !" Betty went
on. " He was fonder of Jack than of anyone
in the world ! Oh ! I hope Amy will
come home at once and bring the boy. He
will be a comfort to us and papa will like to
bring him up at the Chase. '' I suppose,"
and she glanced at Otway  he thought her

quickly averted look meant repugnance 
'' you heard nothing of my sister-in-law ?"

'there was nothing about Mrs. Erskine
in the telegram ; but excuse me for suggesting,
do you not think it would be well to
break the news to Sir John and Miss
Lambton ? A telegram might arrive from
Simla at any moment."

''Oh, certainly!" cried Betty, rising quickly,
"Thank you for reminding me. Has the
carriage come, Miss Masham ?"

Otway went to the window, and saw his
old friends, Fire and Smoke, the ponies,
stamping and tossing their pretty heads
about at the door. The mere sight of the
handsome tricky little pair in their bright
harness brought with it such a train of
recollections, that for a few seconds he could
not speak. Then he said, with perfect composure,
" Yes ; your ponies are here."

"He forgets the drives we used to take
together!" thought Betty. "I wonder if he

remembers even their names !" She threw
her arms round Miss Masham's neck for a
moment, and hid her face on the kind Httle
woman's shoulders. " Oh ! it is hard to
bear!" she sobbed, "so hard!"

"It is, my dear ; very, very hard ! But
you must not cry ;" and she patted the
girl's shoulder in a tender, motherly fashion.
Otway turned away ; what right had he to
witness the grief he could not soothe ?

Now if I could send them off together
something might come of it ;" thought Miss
Masham, as Betty put on her hat and gloves
and once more said good-bye.

Come over tomorrow," the girl said.

"Yes, dear, yes; good-bye. Don't fret too

much. Mr. Otway, will you see Miss 1

mean Mrs. that is, will you see Betty to

the carriage."

He put her in and she tried to take the
reins ; but her hands trembled so violently
she could not hold them, and she was blinded

by the tears that were streaming behind her
veil.

*' You are not fit to drive or to go alone,"
he cried. " Take the other seat and give me
the reins."

The authoritative voice, and the determined
gesture with which he took the whip
and reins acted like a charm. She moved
meekly without a word, and left the driving
seat empty; he stepped In, and to her infinite
surprise and pleasure. Miss Masham saw the
pair drive off together.

But the not very long distance between
the Rosary and the Chase was traversed Incomplete
silence. Betty could not speak,
Otway would not ; and he looked cold, stern
and forbidding enough to frighten any
timid and shrinking woman as he whipped
the ponies at a smart pace through the
town.

Mrs. Crump's was full of ladles shopping,
and for half-an-hour after the carriage passed

a hot argument was carried on as to who the
man was who was driving Mrs. Otway !

Betty jumped out as the ponies stopped ;
the great door stood open as usual, and
she ran into the hall. The house seemed
unusually silent ; Miss Lambton and Orion
generally appeared to welcome Betty when
she came back from her drives, but this
afternoon there was not a sound ; not even
the welcoming bark of a dog.

Perhaps papa and Aunt Louise are out,"
she said to Otway, who was following her.
She looked into the drawing-room ; it was
empty ; so also was the morning-room. She
went on to the library, and softly opening
the door, looked in. One glance was enough
to tell her that the terrible blow she hoped to
avert had fallen in her absence. Sir John
was seated at the table with his face buried
in his hands. The telegram from India was
on the floor by his side, and Miss Lambton,
in a chair close by, was gazing at him mournfully,

and every now and then putting her
handkerchief to her eyes.

Betty rushed forward and threw her arms
round her father's neck ! At her touch the
old man turned, and, hiding his face upon her
bosom, sobbed out, '' Oh, Betty, my darling,
I have lost my boy !"

FATHER AND DAUGHTER.

It was some time before Betty could soothe
poor Sir John's outburst of grief. The news
was so unexpected, and was conveyed to him
with such concise coldness by the telegram
that he was utterly prostrated by the shock.
But at length Betty's gentle caresses and
loving care brought him round, and he lay
on a couch in the library, and, with her hand
in his, talked quietly and naturally of his lost
son.

'' But how did you hear the news, my
darling ?" he said at last. '' Surely it is
not known in the town yet ?"

** No, papa." And Betty hesitated and
blushed painfully ; it cost her so much to

speak of Otway, and yet speak of him she
must sooner or later. '' I heard it from Mr.
Otway."

From Otway ! Do you mean Herbert
Otway, the man you married ?" and Sir
John, in his amazement, sat up and stared
at his daughter. *' Did he send you the
news :

*' He did not send it, papa. He came
down himself to break it to us. It was
mentioned in a telegram sent to a friend
of his. He did not like to come here, so
he went to the Rosary, and I was there with
Miss Masham "

'rand you met!" interrupted Sir John.
"Well ; and what happened?"

Nothing happened," answered Betty.
'' He drove me home, and he is here now."

' And do you mean to tell me you never
spoke to one another  that you have not
made it up ?"

'* I do not think we even shook hands,"

said Betty. '' Indeed I am sure we did not ;
and as to making up, as you call it, it is
impossible ! You know how I dislike him,
papa, and I should think he is now quite
indifferent to me ; his manner certainly implied
as much."

Sir John sighed. '* It is very odd," he
said; "a pretty girl like you, and a fine, handsome
fellow like Otway, and, although you
are actually married to one another, you
detest him, and he seems to have got over
any liking he had for you ! What do you
think, Betty  has he got over it ?''

'* I should say he has quite got over it,"
replied Betty, promptly.

"Then I think something ought to be
done to set you both free," said Sir John.
'' I know from what my poor dear boy said
more than once in his letters to me, that methought
it was an awkward position for you
to be in ; and, perhaps, now that Otway is
here it would be well to arrange with him to

have the marriage declared null and void.
What do you say ?"

'rit will be very disagreeable to me to have
the subject mentioned," said Betty, and with
great difficulty she controlled her trembling
voice. '' If he wishes to be unmarried, let
him say so ; I  I do not care about it one
way or the other."

But you will care very much some day
when you meet a man you like and who
likes you. There was young Harry Digby
last winter would have given the world to
marry you ! He thought you were a young
widow, and I had to explain to him how it
was. He asked me why I did not annul the
marriage, and said it could be done quite
easily."

*' If it were annulled tomorrow," cried
Betty, '' it would not help him, and I think
he was very impertinent to dictate to you !
I would not marry him if he were the only
man in the world !"

*' Then Colonel Probyn was very much
smitten with you ! Surely you like him ?"

** Yes ; I like him, but I do not want to
marry him."

** You must be very hard to please. Why
can you not make friends with Otway and
have done with It ?"

'rit Is not of the slightest use to talk to me
about him, papa ; and he cares quite as little
for me as I care for him. Please do not let
us talk about It any more ; we have so
much to think of. I cannot believe that our
darling Jack Is dead ! Oh, how I wish
he had never gone to India! Poor Amy!
What a terrible shock to her ! I wonder
how she Is."

''Ah ! poor child ! We must get her home
at once with the boy. This Is the proper
place for them. She must live with us, poor
darling ! What a sad home-coming ! And
next year he was coming back on long leave,
so proud, poor lad, with his wife and child !

But we must have her here as soon as she
can come. Eh, Betty ?"

'certainly she must come to us, papa. I
am sure she does not wish to stay In India,
and your grandson ought to be brought up
at the Chase. Amy may marry again some
day ; but she ought to leave the boy with us."

*' Marry again !" cried Sir John. '' Why
should she marry again ? You are very good
at marrying other people, my dear. It will
disappoint me very much if my son's widow
marries again."

'* But she is so young, papa."

Her age has nothing to do with it. Mrs.
John Erskine can take a very good position
in the county. But if she chooses to marry,
she must certainly leave the child with me ;
I am not going to give him up to the tender
mercies of a stepfather ! Oh, poor Jack !
My poor, dear lad ! To think that you are
dead ! I wonder if poor, dear Amy will be
able to write and give us some particulars."

She has never written to any of us," said
Betty.

** But she will now ; I am sure she will ;
and we must write by next mail and urge
her to come home to us at once. What has
become of your aunt .f She was here when
you came in."

'' She is entertaining Mr. Otway, I suppose.
I told you he was here."

"Here! in the house . He's not gone
then ? tow very awkward ! Is he going*
to stay, do you know ?"

He must stay to-night, I suppose," said
Betty ; "but I should think he will go away
very early tomorrow morning."

Oh, he had much better stay a day
or two now he is here, and cheer us up
a bit ! That is, if you do not mind, my
dear."

"It is a matter of perfect indifference tome,"
Betty answered ; and as she spoke her
heart was beating wildly at the bare idea of
VOL. n. K

being In the same house with him for a few
days.

*' Then I shall ask him," said Sir John,
"rand before he goes we might, perhaps, be
able to arrange something about annulling
the marriage. I mean, of course, that he
may make some proposition to me ; and
now, do you mind asking him to come and
talk to me here for a while ?"

Betty went without alacrity, and she found
Otway with Miss Lambton. *' Papa would
like to see you," she said, halting just inside
the door and not addressing anyone In
particular.

Otway smiled ; a most aggravating and
impertinent smile, Betty thought. " To
which of us does * you ' apply ?" he said.

** Does Sir John want to see me, my dear ?"
Miss Lambton cried in the same breath.

*' He wants to see Mr. Otway," Betty
explained, speaking stiffly, with her head in
the air.

I am at his service," Otway answered,
pleasantly.

As he passed Betty In the doorway she
and he exchanged their first direct look
that day. Her glance was cold and slightly
scornful and defiant! His was an enigma!
There was no warmth in it certainly, but
there was neither scorn nor defiance ; it
would have taken an expert in eye language
to read it aright ; and even if Betty had
been an expert she was by no means calm'
enough for analysis.

'' How well he is looking !" Miss Lambton
said, as soon as she and her niece were alone,
** and he spoke so nicely and feelingly
of darling Jack ! And to think that they
never met ! It was so odd his meeting you
at the Rosary, was it not ? He told me
all about it. I asked him how he thought
you were looking, and he said he really
hadn't noticed. If I did not know by experience
how very truthful he is I s hould

not have believed him ; should you, my
dear ?"

But, my dear aunt, you forget that he
and I find no pleasure in looking at one
another."

*' Yes, dear ; I know you dislike him, but I
thought he liked you."

Oh !" said Betty, and she laughed a
rather hard little laugh, '' that was more thana
year ago."

OTWAY SAYS Good-bye.

Miss Masham's friends at the Rectory had
an early visit from her the following day.
'' And were you not surprised to hear that
Herbert Otway had come down?" she said, as
soon as poor Jack Erskine's sudden death had
been fully discussed. " I was never more
astonished In my life than when he walked
In ! And there was Betty as red as a peony,

and looking I don't very well know

what she looked like, except very pretty !
Half-angry and halt-frightened, but If I am
not very much mistaken, not altogether Ill-pleased
to see him again."

'' But not exactly glad, I am afraid," said
the doctor. '* I ventured to talk to her

about him the other day, and to give her a
little bit of friendly advice about the
anomalous position they are both in, and she
fired up and asked me if I wanted her to live
with a man she detested  that was the word
so what could I say ?"

I have my suspicions about the detestation,"
said Miss Masham, " but, of course,
I may be wrong. One thing, however, is
certain ; the first move must be made by
him. She will not stir a step, and to tell
you the truth, I do not see how she can."

"He was desperately in love with her,"
said the Rector. " I wonder if he has got
over it by this."

*' He showed no signs of desperation yesterday!"
said Miss Masham. "If she was
cool, he was cooler ; but he drove her home
in the pony carriage from my house."

"I saw them," said Mrs. Murray. " I was
in Crump's, and I was certain the man who
was driving the ponies was Mr. Otway ;

but when I said so, Mrs. Sumner and Mrs.
Verity, who happened to be in the shop too,
contradicted me flatly, and said they were
sure nothing would induce him to come here.

Well ; you can have a crow over both of
them now, my dear," said the doctor, " for
you see he is here."

I want to know if they will have to be
married over again if they are reconciled
now," said Miss Masham. "What do you
say, doctor ?"

'' Oh, dear, no ! The ecclesiastical cement
does not rub off like that. I am surprised
Sir John does not get the marriage annulled.
He told me himself that young Digby
proposed for Betty last winter, under the
impression that she was a widow."

'rand that Colonel someone, who was
staying at the Chase in the spring, was very
much in love with her, Louise Lambton told
me. Well  who knows what will happen
now that they have met again ? But is it not

sad about young John ? To be killed playing
polo ! Poor fellow ! I suppose the widow

will come home at once with the " but

there Miss Masham stopped short.

Mrs. Murray had lost her baby boy when
he was just a month old, and she had not as
yet fully recovered her spirits.

*' Sir John will not be happy without his
grandson, we may be quite sure on that
point," Dr. Murray said, quietly, " and we
will all be glad to see the little man. Eh,
Mary ?" with a fond glance at his wife.
** By the way, I am curious to know If the
wonderful maid will come here with Mrs.
John Erskine. I should like to see If she
Is like her brother."

'' That reminds me," said Miss Masham,
** I have not seen either of you since your
visit to Stilllngfort Park. Has the millionaire
lover arrived, and when Is the wedding
to be ?"

"In October, I believe ; but It may be

put off until after Christmas. We saw the
millionaire's photograph ; you must ask Mary
what she thinks of It."

'' I did not admire him particularly," Mrs.
Murray answered, 'but Lady Stilllngfort
assured me he has a very taking face. He
looks tall and thin, and much too old for
Lady Judith."

'' How unfortunate !" said Miss Masham,
*' for young Rossitur, the organist. Is so
handsome, you tell me."

'' Lord Stillinorfort told me that Rossitur
actually proposed to him for Lady Judith ;
and that after he sent him about his business
she used to meet him In the woods everyday
! They telegraphed to America for
Milbanke, and the young lady is closely
watched for fear she should run away."

''If she marries Charles Rossitur It will
be the ruin of him !" said Miss Masham.
"What would become of him with such a
wife ?"

J

'' He would evidently like to try the experiment,
if all we hear be true," said the
doctor; "and now, ladies, I am going to
leave you to talk together while I go over
and see how poor Sir John is to-day."

By special request of his host, Otway
spent two whole days at the Chase, and as
long as he was In the house both he and
Betty were thoroughly uncomfortable. He
treated her with the greatest coolness and indifference,
although he was always courteous
and polite ; but whereas, in the past, he had
been wont to ask her opinion, and to uphold
it when given in defiance of every principle
of reason and logic, he now calmly ignored
her, and seemed to take every possible
opportunity of showing how little worthy of
notice were her remarks.

Neither did he fetch and carry for her as of
old, and she might leave the room and return
to it half-a-dozen times, and yet her movements
never seemed to attract his attention.

And another trick he had that was particularly
exasperating to her. He would survey
her with cold, critical eyes, and once he
actually expressed disapproval of the way she
wore her hair, and suggested an alteration.
But Betty did not adopt the, suggestion until
he had left the Chase.

On his part he noticed that she avoided
being alone with him ; unsuspected by her
he made more than one attempt to secure
a tcle-d-tete, but she always baffled him. He
was not very clear as to his object in getting
her to himself, but still he was deeply
wounded by her evident determination to
keep aloof from him. Merely by accident
on the day he was to leave they were alone
together for ten minutes. For a little while
they spoke quite amiably of the beauty of the
weather, and then he said  " 1 should like
very much, if it were agreeable to you all,
to come down for a few days to make the
acquaintance of your sister-in-law when she

arrives. You know she is a connexion of
mine by marriage."

*' I am sure papa will be very glad to
see you," Betty answered. " Shall I tell
him ?"

'' If you will be so kind."

'' I thought perhaps  is it not likely ?" 
Betty began  " I mean are you not thinking
of going back to America soon ?"

'' Certainly not," he answered, promptly.
' Why should I ?"

'* But you might  I thought it possible 
you know that  I mean  if you would like

to marry someone out there " She

blurted out the last words in an awkward
and shamefaced manner.

Otway burst out laughing. Betty thought
it was such an unkind and unfeeling laugh.
*' Oh ! I see," he said ; " but I assure you
I find that to be married once is quite as
much happiness as I can bear ; but if you
would like to enter into that delightful

contract a second time, pray do not let me
stand in your way."

'' You may be quite sure 1 shall consult my
own convenience in every way," she answered.

'' Without troubling yourself about me,"
he put in. '' You meant that, I know,
although you were too police to say it. It is
precisely what I should do myself, and it
is quite as well that we should understand
one another."

Glancing at her half averted face, he saw
by the scarlet cheeks and quivering lips that
she was hurt or angry, or both. '' Poor little
woman," he said, half-aloud.

She turned upon him like a little fury.
How dare you pity me !" she cried. " Can
you not understand that, although I might
wish to free you from an obnoxious tie, it
is a matter of perfect indifference to me
what you do with your freedom ? I am
perfectly happy and contented, and all I
ask is to be let alone."

*' And a wish so reasonable deserves the
utmost consideration!" he answered. "Allow
me to apologise for having intruded upon
you, and to say good-bye. I am going just
now."

She stooped suddenly ; took her dog,
Orion, in her arms, and held his face to
her own. *' Oh, good-bye !" she said. '* We
will let you know when Mrs. John comes."

'' Thank you," he answered. *' Good-bye,
Orion," and, before she could draw back,
he bent down and kissed the little smooth
head of the petted animal ; but, whether by
accident or design, his lips brushed Betty's
fingers as well.

THE farmer's son.

It seems almost needless to explain that the
doubts raised In Rossltur's mind of Lady-judith's
fidelity by her own words were
short-lived ; she was right, In every way,
he argued, to let the blame of their recent
meetings rest upon him. That they were
over was what was hard to bear, and it
seemed to the poor fellow that now there
was no hope left. It was Impossible for him
to struggle against the great odds opposed to
him, and Lady Judith would also have to
give way before the pressure that would be
brought to bear upon her. On every side he
was powerless. Handicapped by what they

called his plebeian birth, by his want of
money, and the probability  or rather, the
certainty  that if he ever became rich and
prosperous, he would no longer possess his
present advantages of youth and good looks,
what could he do ? In a less prosaic age a
man could carry off the woman he loved, and
marry her before her friends could Interfere ;
but such a feat was Impossible when a network
of electric wires intersected the land !
And loyal lover though he was, there was still
deep down In Rossltur's heart the germ of a
doubt, if the doubt itself did not actually
exist, that Lady Judith, much as she loved
him, would not do anything desperate for his
sake. He was a million times more romantic
than she.

But surely there must be some road out of
the dilemma, the poor fellow thought to himself
He could not sit passive and see her
married to his rival without making some
effort to secure the happiness that seemed

more and more alluring as it was slipping
from his grasp.

A few days after his stolen meetings with
Lady Judith were discovered, he heard from
his sister that Mr. Milbanke had come back
from America, and was expected at Stilling-fort
early the following week. The knowledge
that he was so near, and that the
marriage would now be hastened on, put the
finishing stroke to the young man's despondency,
and it was with a feeling half of fear
and half of relief that Alice saw him making
preparations for a journey. But he was only
going to London, he said, for a few days.
He had shown his ignorance of the world
once in proposing to Lord Stillingfort for his
daughter, and he was now bent upon a much
more unconventional and absurd proceeding.

In the library of a handsome house in
Grosvenor Square, John Milbanke, the future
husband of the beautiful Lady Judith Forster,
was seated, writing busily, a few days after

VOL. 11. L

his return from New York. He was a man
of about fifty, and he looked his age ; his
hair was turning grey on the temples, there
were a few crow's feet about his eyes ; and
the same eyes, although by no means as
handsome, or as fully endowed with the
power of passionate and pathetic language
as those of his rival Charles Rossitur, were
very sweet and kindly in expression, and
gave a decided softness and charm to an
otherwise somewhat stern face.

In figure he was tall and thin, but not
ungainly ; he was always well and carefully
dressed, and he could no more have ventured
to appear in the picturesque garments that so
well became the handsome young musician of
Stillingfort, than he could venture to attempt
to fiy through the air from London to Stone-shire.
His voice, in speaking, was strong
and melodious, and something in the clasp of
his strong firm hand gave confidence In his
sincerity and warmth of heart. Apart from

his great wealth there was much in the man
that was attractive in many respects, but he
had a shrewd suspicion that but for his money
Lady Judith would not have accepted his
hand. This thought gave him intense pain
when he allowed himself to dwell upon it, for
she had inspired him with the first great
passion of his life.

His first marriage had been one of convenience
solely, and he had lived a lonely,
conventional life ; but now that middle age
was past, and that by his wealth he could
make life attractive and luxurious to the
woman he loved, he longed to take to
himself this girl whose beauty was more
adorable in his eyes than the gold for
which he had toiled so long.

He had before him now a letter from her
father urging his immediate presence at Stil-langford
; he was not disquieted by anything
this epistle contained, and yet it left on his
mind an impression that in his case, the

proverbial delay would be dangerous indeed.
With it had come a gay, prettily-worded,
little billet from Judith herself. He had read
it a dozen times at least without being able
to make out whether the writer was jesting
or in earnest, and he was in the act of laying
down his pen in order to try once more,
when a servant came in and presented a
card.

What is it, Campbell T he said. '' I am
very busy this morning."

"A gentleman wishes to see you on
business, sir. He says you do not know
his name."

Stay  what is it ? Rossitur  never
heard of him. Show him in ;" and in a few
moments he had risen to greet courteously
his unknown visitor.

Pray sit down, Mr. Rossitur," he said, in
his kindly, affable way. " I have not the
pleasure of knowing your name, but if I can
do anything for you "

Rossitur looked at him curiously, and the
result of his investigation was not satisfactory.
This man was not a mere agglomeration of
money bags ; the woman who had chosen
him need not be ashamed of her choice, and
not even when he stood pleading with Judith's
father did his cause seem as hopeless as now
that he was face to face with the man she had
promised to marry ! He laughed to himself
as he mentally contrasted the homely room
in his father's house at Stillingfort in which
his work was done  the only spot on earth
he could call his own  with this exquisitely-fitted
and furnished chamber! And what
was he to say now that he was here ? Where
were all the fine words wherewith he had
meant to convince this man that he had no
right to come between him and his love ?
Apparently, there was not one of them left
upon his tongue.

He was not really many minutes silent
while these thoughts were passing through

his mind ; and while Milbanke waited for his
unknown visitor to speak he watched him
curiously. How handsome he was, and how
young ! And how gladly the middle-aged
millionaire would have given some thousands
if, by the sacrifice, he could have gained
even a little of the grace and vigour of that
supple and nobly-proportioned form !

Rossitur at length raised his eyes and
spoke. " Before I came here," he said, " I
thought you could do a great deal for me ;
now I do not think you can help me at
all, or rather, I do not think you will help
me.

*' I am sorry to hear I look so implacable,
or so ungenerous, or disagreeable." Mr.
Milbanke began to think that his handsome
visitor was a little eccentric, to say the least
of it. 'ras I said before, I have not the
pleasure of knowing you, but if I can help
you it will give me pleasure to do so. Pray
command me."

Rossltur laughed. '' I am obliged to you,"
he said  then, after a pause, he added,
"Perhaps the best introduction I can give
is to tell you that I live at Stillingfort."
Milbanke's surprise showed on his face. " I
am the son of a tenant farmer on Lord
Stillingfort's estate, and I am organist of
the parish church." Then came a longer
pause. '' I am a farmer's son," Rossitur
repeated, "and an organist ; and I have been
mad enough to fall in love with Lady Judith
Forster, his lordship's only daughter. Now,
Mr. Milbanke, do you know what I have
come to you for ?"

Milbanke, with his elbow on the writing-table,
was biting the end of his long quill
pen ; his eyes were on the letter he had been
writing. "That is not so very strange, is it .'
That you have fallen in love with her, I
mean," he said. He began to think that his
visitor was not merely eccentric, but mad.

Then you do not blame me ." the young

man cried. " You do not think I am presumptuous
?"

'' Pardon me  I did not say so."
'' I am told," Rossitur went on, 'that you
want to marry her, and what chance have I
against your riches ? I can give her nothing
but love ; but I thought if you were but
generous and unselfish you would not stand
in the way of our happiness. Is it too much
to ask, sir ? Are we poor men to have
nothing because we are too poor to buy ?
She would marry me  I know she would
if you would give her up."

The words grated sorely on Milbanke's
ears. Was it possible that the girl he loved
favoured this man  that he was in truth her
accepted lover ? But no ; she was too proud
to listen to such as he, and this wild talk
meant nothing ; it would be absurd to pay
any heed to it. He must just humour the
poor fellow, and get rid of him as soon as
possible.

'' Mr. Rossltur," he said, " I am sure
you will believe me when I tell you that, if I
thought you had any reason for supposing
that Lady Judith Forster was attached to you
and anxious to become your wife, I should at
once resign my claim to her hand ; but,
and I beg of you to excuse me for speaking
plainly, I think you have deluded yourself.
She has consented of her own free will
to become my wife, and until she releases
me I do not mean to give her up to any
man." 

You do not then suppose it possible
for her to be persuaded into this marriage
with you because you are rich ? You believe
she accepts you of her own free will ?"

Milbanke smiled. " You are very pertinacious,
sir, and not very complimentary tome.
Now, you must excuse me if I put this
question beyond all doubt by allowing you to
read a passage in a letter received by me
from Lady Judith Forster this morning. I

have only fully understood it myself since
you honoured me with this visit."

Rossitur took the letter. "You wish me
to read this ?" he said.

'* Certainly ; the passage I have marked by
folding down."

And he read it through with Milbanke's
eyes fixed upon his face ; but the meaning of
the words did not all at once come home
to him. The writer, in a sort of fable, related
how, like the heroine of a novel, she
was beset by the attentions of a handsome
rustic, who had actually been mad enough
to propose marriage to her through her
father. She described how he waylaid her
in her walks and told all his friends that
if she were a free agent she would choose
him for her husband ; she also playfully
cautioned Milbanke against the jealous rage
of this disappointed swain, and concluded by
saying " the poor fellow is very handsome,
certainly, but he is not a gentleman, and

of course, I never gave him any encouragement."


It would be Impossible to give any
adequate Idea of Rossltur's feelings as he
read this letter through. It stamped him at
once in his own eyes as the easy dupe of
a heartless woman's vanity and caprice, and
her object In writing It was as patent to him
as his own despised and insulted love. She
wanted to make herself safe in case any
rumour of her Intercourse with the " rustic
lover" should reach Milbanke's ears. Against,
such double dealing he was powerless ; the
only letter he had ever received from her was
destroyed by her desire  he kept it as long ashe
dared  so there was nothing left for him
but to throw up his cards and acknowledge
himself beaten ! She had fooled him all
round ; and to reiterate that, If he had been
presumptuous, she had led him on, would
but confirm the assertion made in her letter.

He gave It back to Mllbanke, and after a

Struggle of a few seconds to gain command
over his voice, he said, " I am not, It Is true,
a gentleman by birth, but I hope I have the
instincts of one. You meant to silence me,
and to teach me a lesson, by giving me that
letter to read, and you have done both most
effectually. I can but apologise for my Intrusion,
but before I go, grant me one favour.
Do not humiliate me further in my own eyes
by speaking of my visit to  to her."

"You may depend upon me," Mllbanke
answered. Then, as If struck by a sudden
thought, be rose hurriedly, and, laying his
hand on Rossitur's shoulder, said in a low
constrained voice, " I am not quite satisfied,
sir, and Lady Judith's happiness is very dear
to me. Tell me, as between man and man,
have you been under a delusion in this matter
or have you not ?"

I have been under a most complete delusion,
except as regards my own feelings,"
Rossitur answered, '' but I am fully persuaded

that Lady Judith's happiness will be
secured by her marriage with you ; she has
explained, in a manner not to be mistaken,
what she thinks of my pretensions, and there
is no more to be said."

When his visitor was gone, Milbanke sat
and pondered long. " I must keep my
word," he said at last, '' and not mention
this visit to her ; but I should like to tell
her that she is mistaken about her ' rustic
lover.' He is a gentleman."

MRS. JOHN ERSKINE's LETTER.

When Herbert Otway went back to London
after his short visit, a blank and sad interval
of waiting for news set in at the Chase.
Having brooded exclusively on his loss fora
week or more, Sir John naturally began to
fix his thoughts upon his grandson and the
young widow, and to plan for their reception
at their future home. A certain suite of
rooms must be refurnished for *' poor, dear
Amy," and within easy reach of them were
the long unused nurseries in which poor
Jack and Betty had played as children.

Someone suggested that Mrs. Erskine
would probably bring a native nurse over
with her, but Sir John declared that he

would not have the '* creature " at the Chase.
*' My grandson must have a respectable
Englishwoman, not a heathen, to look after
him," he said.

Miss Lambton, in her quiet way, wondered
whether Rossitur, the maid, would come with
her mistress to England, or remain in India
with her husband. Nothing was known at
the Chase about Porringer at that time.

'' Poor Jack said in one of his letters, I

remember," Betty remarked, " that when he



came home, Porringer should come with him,
as he was so clever about horses. Why
should not Amy keep Rossitur, as she likes
her so much ?  and Porringer might leave
the regiment and be our extra groom. We
must have a couple more men in the stables
if papa gives Amy a carriage and horses of
her own."

*' I think, dear," said Aunt Louise, " it will
be better to give up the barouche and the
greys to Amy, and to let me have a little

basket affair, with a quiet pony that I can
drive myself."

"Well, well," cried Sir John, "we can
settle it all when Mrs. John comes. Perhaps
she ought to have the barouche and the
greys ; but I am not at all sure that I want
that woman Rossitur here. I do not much
like what I know of her or her people. Her
father has lived the life of a hermit since his
wife left him years ago. He is a capital
farmer and all that, Murray tells me, but no
one ever sees him ; and then there is that
son of his  a musical genius, I am told  who
set his cap at Judith Forster ; but she is
engaged to Milbanke, the millionaire. I do
not fancy, myself, having any of the Rossitur
lot here ; but if we must, we must, I
suppose."

As. the days of expectation before the
arrival of the Indian mail went by, Betty got
very weary of conversations such as the
above. It was a matter of indifference to

her whether the widow brought a nurse with
her or not, or whether the famous Rossitur
continued to act as Amy's maid or remained
In India. She was prepared to welcome and
love her sister-ln-law for Jack's sake, and It
would be a sad pleasure to have his baby
boy ; but, of course. Amy's presence In the
house would make a great difference, and It
was Impossible to tell how she would get on
with them and they with her. She might bea
very agreeable Inmate and a pleasant
addition to their small circle, and she might
be the very reverse ; but such as she was she
must be endured and made the best of;
there was no possibility of escape.

As Betty made this rather querulous remark
to herself It flashed across her that there was
an alternative open to her ; that If the Chase
became an unhappy, Instead of a happy home,
she had but to humble herself to the man who
was her husband, and he would let her have
her proper place In his home. Humble her-vol.

II. M

self! The word and all that it implied made
her hot all over. Stoop to ask the man who
told her he was learning to despise her, to
assert his rights and give her protection even
if love were impossible! Never! She knew
she had acted like a vain, heartless, silly child,
and put herself beyond the pale of his forgiveness,
and that if she could but blot out
the few hours that immediately succeeded
the marriage ceremony, not only from her
memory but out of the history of her life, she
might now be the happiest of women instead
of the most miserable.

But effacement was impossible ; and, indeed,
it seemed as if every day her remembrance
of all she had said and done during
the drive to Richmond, and after, grew
sharper and clearer every day. No wonder
he was changed ; treatment less odious and
unwomanly might well have turned a man's
love to gall. But how amply he was avenged
had he but known it ! She had wilfully

O

blinded herself as long as she could, but
even before their late unsatisfactory and
most awkward meeting, she knew it was only
by lashing her pride into activity, by recalling
the words, '* I despise you," that she was
able to keep the love she now felt for him
within reasonable bounds.

At last the long expected Indian letter
arrived ; it was the short epistle written,
as the reader knows, by Rossitur for her
mistress, to catch the mail that left the day
but one after poor Jack Erskine's death.
Sir John was very much pleased with it,
short though it was, and he read it to his
friend. Dr. Murray, with tears in his eyes.

The poor dear girl is quite brokenhearted
; anyone can see that," he said.

A much longer letter arrived the following
week. Lying on a couch, dressed in a
loose white tea-gown, with her beautiful hair
streaming about her, and Victor de Louvain's
lately received, kind letter of condolence

service as a marker in the half-read novel
that lay near her hand, Amy Erskine had
dictated that letter to Rossitur, and Rossitur
wrote it fluently. That she did not adhere
strictly to the dictated words was a matter
of no moment, for her power of expressing
thoughts in language far exceeded that of her
mistress, and Amy never asked to see the
letters when they were finished.

This particular letter of course contained
details of the accident. " My poor darling"
this was what they read at the Chase, and
the father, aunt and sister got lumps in their
throats as one read aloud and the others
listened ; they were so pleased, although
so pained, to hear everything that had
been said and done by '' poor dear Jack,"
just before he died  ''my poor darling came
back to luncheon with three or four men that
dreadful, DREADFUL day" Rossitur put
the second "dreadful" in capital letters her
mistress laid such emphasis on it  " and

he was in such good spirits, and looked so

bright and handsome."  'rand how you and

he wrangled," thought Rossitur  *' We had

such a merry luncheon, and he scolded mein

fun, you know, because I would not goto

the polo ground. Just think how awful it

would have been if I had been there ! It

would have killed me to see him fall ! I

know it would. It was poor Porringer who

brought home the news ; but a friend of

mine who happened to be here stopped


him before he saw me, for, unfortunately, the

poor faithful fellow was quite out of his mind

It was all most terrible ! First to see my

precious Jack brought home to me dead, and

to know that I had lost him, and that our

darling boy was an orphan ! Then poor

Porringer  he is the husband, you know,

of my faithful Rossitur  he went quite mad

that night, and they took him away next day,

and by this, I believe, he is on his way to

England to be put into a lunatic asylum.

I do hope the poor dear fellow will get
all right again. My excellent Rossltur and
her little boy  he Is just a month older than
my one solace  are with me here, of course ;
and as soon as I hear from you, dear Sir
John, I shall make my plans. In your kind
telegram you say ' come home at once,' and
it is my most fervent desire to get to England
quickly, and to put darling Jack's boy into
your arms ; but I do not feel equal to the
long, lonely journey just yet ; and I very
much cjread an English winter. Is Stone-shire
very cold? I think sometimes I should
like-on my arrival to go to the South of
France, or to Sorrento, near Naples  I have
long desired to see Italy  live quietly
through the long, sad winter and then goto
the dear Chase  my darling so often
described his beautiful home to me  In
spring, when the east winds are over. This
plan may not meet with your approval, but of
course I should like as much as possible

to be guided by you. I know what my
precious husband would say If he were alive.
He would say, " By all means, my darling,
winter at Sorrento' but I feel that you,
being his father, have a sort of right to
dictate to me what I am to do, and where
I am to go. I shall, however, manage to see
something of Italy on my way home, as
I may never have another opportunity."

'' Poor darling ! Poor child ! How feelingly
she writes !" said Sir John, as he wiped
his eyes. She really bears up wonderfully ;
but, of course, she knows It is her duty for
the sake of my grandson. And that poor
man, Porringer, out of his mind ! Dear me !
Dear me ! That is very shocking. And
poor Amy will be hampered with his child as
well as her own until she gets to England."

She seems quite as devoted to Rossitur
as ever," said Betty.

'* And what do you think of her project of
wintering In France or Italy ?" asked Miss

Lambton. " I am sure Stoneshire ought to
be warm enough for anyone."

Oh, it is preposterous !" cried Sir John.
I cannot allow it. If she feels the cold she
must buy a lot of furs and wrap up warm. I
do not want the child to be taken to any of
those ill-drained, smelly places. I must write
at once and tell her I cannot allow it. She
says she will be guided by me."

I hope she will," Betty said to herself.
She was not as favourably impressed by the
tone of her sister-in-law's letter as Sir John,
and she was angry with herself for being so
critical.

It so happened, however, that something
occurred in connection with the letter which
made her dislike it even more than she did
at first.

LOVE AND PRIDE.

*' I WISH papa had not asked me to send
it," Betty said to herself. "He ought to
remember how awkward it is for me to write
to him ! I do not know what to say, and I
must say something. I cannot put it in an
envelope and send it without a word, and if
I make a fuss about it papa will be angry."

The 'rit" in question was Mrs. John
Erskine's letter, which Sir John had desired
his daughter to send on to Otway to read,
with a request that he would return it.

'' She is a kind of relation of his, you
know," Sir John said, 'rand it will interest
him to hear all about my poor boy's death ;
and I want to know what he has to say about

Amy's plan  you can tell him I totally disapprove
of it  of wintering abroad. As if
we hadn't as fine a climate as any in the
world. I am quite sure winter never lasts
more than six or seven months in Stone-shire,
and it is generally fine, open weather,
when the scent lies and a man comes home
well-splashed after his day's hunting. And if
there is any hard frost look at our skating.
What is there in those stinking foreign places
to make up for our hunting and skating ?
You send on that letter at once, Betty, and
let me hear what Otway has to say."

And Betty took the letter without demur.
It was not until she sat down to carry
out her father's wishes that she found how
difficult it was to perform a very simple task.

** Dear Mr. Otway," she began, "papa
wishes you to read the enclosed letter from
Amy  my sister-in-law. It came by last
mail. You will see all she says about poor
dear Jack. I wish she had told us a little

more. Please return the letter, but there is
no hurry about It. Papa wants to know
what you think of Amy's plan of wintering
abroad ; he does not like the idea at all, and
wishes her to come home at once.

Believe me "

She got so far and stopped short ; how
should she wind up her note, and how sign
herself? She was not Betty Erskine, and
she could not bring herself to put Betty
Otway ; '' Betty" without any surname was
too friendly and familiar ; and, besides, that
was the way she had always signed her
letters during her engagement. Many and
many time had she written 'always your
own Betty," or "Your most affectionate
Betty !"

Was it possible that she had ever thus
subscribed herself to him } And what madness
had come over her on that most
wretched day ? It must have been madness.
No sane woman could have behaved as she

had done. And in her misconception of
Otway's character how utterly wrong she had
been in her forecast of his action in the affair.
She had imagined herself yielding slowly to
his prayers and entreaties, and growing more
and more tolerant of his never ending
adulation of her many perfections. And lo !
she had wounded him with a blow so sharp
and cruel that he had turned upon her and
proved that the ardent, devoted lover was a
man with a will as strong and pride as unbending
as her own.

'* ' Believe me ' What am I to say ? I

know what he believes me to be  a heartless,
unwomanly little wretch, who played
with him for her own amusement ; stole his
love, and then flung it in his face. That is
what he believes me to be. If I were to
write, ' Believe me to be your own, loving,
sorry, ashamed, repentant and broken-hearted
wife it would be the truth." She wrote the
words as fast as her pen could move, at the

end of the note and then looked at them
with tears blinding her eyes.

'* Now I have spoiled that and I must
write another," she said, presently. '' What
a goose I am !" She took a second sheet,
copied out what she had already written,
and again stopped short at the " Believe
me." '' I am just as much puzzled as before !"
she said, and thrusting both the notes out of
sight into the leaves of her blotting-book,
she took a third sheet and wrote as follows
without any formal beginning or end  'papa*
wishes me to send you the enclosed, which
please return when you have quite done with
it. It is from my sister-in-law. Papa wants
to know what you think of her plan of
wintering abroad. He does not approve of
It.

'there; that will do capitally!" she said,
as she finished. " Why did I not think of
that before ? What have I done with the
other stupid notes ? I must take care not

to put one of them  the one, up in mistake.
I think I got out of my difficulty very
cleverly. I wonder if he will send an
answer, and how he will sign himselfe"

On the second morning the answer came ;
and Betty's cheeks tingled with mortification
and disappointment, and a little anger as
well, as she read  " Mr. Herbert Otway
presents his compliments to Mrs. Herbert
Otway, and begs that she will thank Sir
John for so kindly sending him Mrs. John
Erskine's letter. It is herewith returned.
Mr. Otway does not see anything to object
to in Mrs. John Erskine's desire to winter
abroad."

'' Mr. Otway sees nothing against Amy's
plan of wintering abroad, papa, and he is
very much obliged to you for letting him see
her letter."

He sees nothing against it ? Well, / see
everything ; you had a letter from Otway,
then  what does he say ?"

*' Nothing but what I told you just now ;
he wrote just a few Ones."

I thought he had too much sense to
advocate that ridiculous fad of wintering at
Sorrento ; but I have written to tell her what
I think, and I expect that she will be guided
by me and come home at once. I must
really stir them up about her rooms or they
will not be ready in time."

It had given Otway quite as much trouble
to frame a reply to Betty as it had given
Betty in the first place to write to him. If
is unfortunate in some cases that we have
no better grounds for the formation of our
judgments than what is actually before us.
Otway had no possible means of knowing
that Betty had spent more than an hour
trying to write what she considered a
proper letter to him before she concocted
the business-like epistle, which might have
been addressed to a tradesman with an
order for some goods ; and when she read

his business-like reply it never occurred to
her that he had dashed off a much more
elaborate letter, wherein, when he had commented
briefly upon Mrs. John Erskine's
Indian budget, he gave the news of the day
in a light and agreeable fashion. Otway
had a facile pen, and it pleased him to use
it for Betty's benefit.

Yet as soon as the letter was finished he
tore it up in such a determined manner that
it seemed as if he were venting a fit of anger
upon the unoffending paper.

'* She will probably look upon it as an
impertinence if I write to her in that way,"
he said ; and then he wrote the formal note
in the third person which caused poor Betty
such bitter disappointment.

He was engaged that very day to dine
at Richmond with his old acquaintances,
Mrs. Ogilvey and her husband ; it was to bea
farewell party, made up of the people he
was accustomed to meet at Queen's Gate

Terrace, and before he got back to town
he would be called upon to decide whether to
go with the Ogilveys in their yacht for a
cruise to Norway or by himself to the Black
Forest.

Mr. Ogilvey had taken a great fancy to
him ; and, although Otway was not specially
drawn to him, or prepared to look upon him
as an intimate friend, he could not, without
positive rudeness, refuse the hospitality so
perpetually offered to him ; and, by degrees,
he found that he spent more time with*
him and his wife than he did with other and
older friends.

Mrs. Ogilvey never alluded to the secret
she had entrusted to him when her acquaintance
with him was renewed in the early days
of his engagement to Betty Erskine, and the
affair was, of course, sacred to him. He was
glad to see that there was apparently perfect
accord between the husband and wife, and
when, after the manner of women, Mrs.

VOL. IL N

Ogllvey found out all about his sudden
separation from his bride, he could not refuse
the sympathy so abundantly lavished upon
him. But It was never agreeable to him to
hear Betty blamed, yet, as he had assumed
the role of the outraged and unforgiving one,
he could not consistently break out In her
defence.

Mrs. Ogllvey went very cautiously and
subtly to work to try and persuade him
always for Betty's sake  to have the
marriage declared null and void ; and sorely
against his wish Otway, as he replied to her
arguments, was obliged to admit that, sooner
or later, the only way out of a difficulty not
created by him would be to set his wife
legally free.

Mrs. Ogllvey had no clearly defined object
in wishing to bring about this separation, but
nevertheless, she wished It with all her heart.
She could not marry Otway herself, and
there was no one to whom she was anxious

to see him married, but she fancied that he
would be more absolutely her friend if the tie
that bound him to Betty was broken, and
she could not endure the thought that he was
still attached to her.

Her chance of success would have been
even less than It was could he have had even
a passing glimpse of one of the letters Betty
had hidden away In her blotting - book.
What a revelation and revolution there would

have been could he have read the words



'' your own loving, sorry, ashamed, repentant
and broken-hearted wife, Betty," If only she
had  as so often happens In books, and so
rarely In real life  slipped the wrong letter
into the envelope, and so have let It reach
him unawares. By the very next train he
would have started for Little Centre Bridge,
and, without waiting for the useless formality
of an explanation, have clasped the repentant
girl In his arms and sealed their reconciliation
with a hundred kisses.

But, all unknown to him, the letter that
would have worked such wonders lay between
the leaves of the blotter, and Betty herself
forgot that she had not destroyed it.

Otway was in the act of dressing for the
Richmond dinner when a telegram was put
into his hand. It was from Mrs. Ogilvey,
and contained bad news  '' My husband is
taken suddenly and dangerously ill. Come
at once. He has asked for you."

Before the end of the week Otway was
standing beside Mr. Ogilvey's grave in
Kendal Green, and under the dead man s
will he was appointed one of the executors,
and trustee also for the widow, to whom,
under certain conditions, the husband had
left the whole of his immense wealth.

THE MEETING IN THE PORCH.

Charles Rossitur went back to Stilllngfort
an altered man. Disappointed love, the
impotent rage of jealousy and shame at his
own weakness, were fighting a pitched battle
within him, and these foes of equal powei*
had no chance, the one against the other.
But as the contest waxed and waned, love
first gave way. It stung the poor young
fellow to the quick to know that the woman
he worshipped had simply stooped for a while
to his level merely to mock him. That
with his kisses warm upon her lips she could
calmly hold him up to the ridicule of the man
she meant to marry !

It was only by degrees that the utter baseness

of her conduct came home to him. How
certain she was that Milbanke would take
her explanation as the true one should any
hint of her Intimacy with the organist come
to his ears ; and If she had known that
Rossltur contemplated the folly of a visit to
his rival she could not have laid her plans
more craftily to checkmate him.

To tell the truth, Lady Judith was driven
to her last refuge when Lord Stilllngfort
suddenly appeared before her and Rossltur
in Warleigh Copse, and took her away without
allowing her even one word of farewell ;
she knew then that she must make her choice
between love and Mammon, and abide by
it. As a matter of fact she had already
chosen, but she wanted to keep her handsome,
romantic lover with her as long as
possible, unmindful of the anguish he might
suffer when at last it dawned upon him that
she did not mean to throw Milbanke over.

Her father put the risk she was running

before her in very plain language. " If you
loved this low-born fellow well enough to
marry him, I could find it in my heart to
forgive you," he said, " but you know you
do not. You admire his handsome face  
you like to show your power over him, but
if I were to say to you now, ' Marry him,'
you would not do it." And then he made
her give him a solemn promise, from that
moment, to hold no more intercourse with
him.

And she gave the promise with the
intention of keeping it, but she could not
understand why Rossitur himself made no
attempt to see her. She had neither heard
from him nor seen him, even by accident,
from the moment she left him standing alone
in Warleigh Copse ; he was at home, she
knew, for amongst a hundred players she
could recognise his touch upon the organ
at morning service, and never had the
exquisite aria, " He shall feed his flock,"

played by him as the congregation left the
church on the Sunday after their last meeting,
thrilled and saddened her as it did that day.
Was it because he had taught it to her,
and many and many a time played it to
her himself in those never-to-be-forgotten
first days of their acquaintance ?

He was never happy now, poor fellow,
unless when seated at the organ. With his
fingers on the keys he felt the equal of the
best blood in England ; and yet his beloved
art had lost much of its power to calm and
heal the perturbed and sorely bruised spirit
within him, and his sister Alice, and one
other  a woman also -watched him with sad
and anxious eyes.

Milbanke arrived at the Park some two
or three days after his strange interview
with Rossitur ; he and Lady Judith were
to be seen together constantly, and it was
rumoured that he was pressing for an early
marriage. All her uneasiness had vanished ;

Milbanke was the most generous and devoted
of lovers ; and if she sometimes gave a sigh
of regret in secret for the man who in all
save birth and wealth, was an ideal husband,
no one could have imagined from her manner
to her future possessor that there was a
thought of her heart unshared by him.

The news had come to Stilllngfort of the
sad tragedy at Simla. Bella Rossitur, or
Mrs. Porringer, as she was naturally called in
her native village, wrote a detailed account of
Captain Erskine's death, and described the
sudden insanity of her own husband, with the
zest of one to whom the narration of disagreeable
news is more or less a pleasant
occupation.

'' Bella was never troubled with much
feeling," her brother observed, when Alice
read the letter aloud to him. " Unfortunate
George Porringer might be a complete
stranger to her instead of her husband and
the father of her child, to judge by the way

she writes of him. Poor old George ! How
bewitched he was about her !" and Rossitur
sighed. But he often sighed now.

Presently he grew excited and angry as his
sister went on reading the letter. " I have
been expecting to hear great news about
Charles and her young ladyship," Mrs.
Porringer wrote. " Does he still give her
lessons on the organ, and what chance has
he of marrying her ."

How dare you gossip to Bella about me
and Lady Judith ?" Rossitur interrupted,
sternly. " Do you not know that she has no
respect for the feelings of anyone belonging
to her, and that it would delight her mischievous
spirit to hear that I had been disappointed
and made a fool of ? There ! Do
not read any more for me. Perhaps the next
news she hears of her unhappy brother will
startle her more than the news of his
marriage to the earl's daughter would have
done."

He went to the house door, which was
always open in fine weather, and stood there
looking out in the direction, of Stillingfort
Woods. " How beautiful they are," he
thought, 'rand what madly happy moments
I have spent in them. And they will look
as beautiful when she is married and I am
gone."

The sound of trotting horses along the
high road that led past the farm caught
his ears; he turned and saw a lady and
gentleman approaching with two grooms jn
attendance. The lady was Lady Judith ;
the gentleman, Milbanke. They were going
at a rapid pace, and now and then they
exchanged a gay remark.

She looked well in the saddle, and sat her
horse to perfection ; he looked to less advantage,
and Rossitur, who had ridden the
roughest and wildest of horses from his
boyhood, smiled, half with pity and half
with derision, as he looked at his rival's

ungainly seat and awkward grasp of the
reins.

It was impossible for the riders to go past
the house without noticing the young man,
who was leaning in dejection against the
door-post ; but whether they saw him or not,
there was no recognition. His eyes followed
Lady Judith ; the sight of her may have
given him both pleasure and pain ; it is
impossible to say which he felt most keenly,
for the smile raised by the horsemanship of
her companion did not leave his lips.

About fifty yards from the house there was
a gate which opened Into a field, and over the
gate there was a white-faced cow solemnly
staring. Mllbanke's horse caught sight of
what seemed to him a horrible apparition,
and swerving aside with a sudden jerk, for
which the rider was wholly unprepared. It
rose on Its hind legs, and after a struggle to
right itself, fell back, and lay kicking and
plunging on the road.

With a loud scream for help Lady Judith
sprang from her horse. She had but recently
heard of the death of young John Erskine
by a fall from his pony at polo, and how
terrible it would be if the tragedy of his sad
death were to be repeated now.

Ere her trembling limbs could carry her to
the spot where her companion was lying, the
horse was on its legs again, and Charles
Rossitur was on his knees beside the senseless
Milbanke. Not a word was spoken ashe
made a rapid examination, and before t
was over, his sister and several of the farm
servants came running up.

Is he  is he dead ?" Judith managed to
gasp out at last ; and either unconsciously, or
to give emphasis to her words, she laid her
hand on Rossitur's shoulder.

He shivered as he felt the touch ! When
last her hand was laid there he was allowed
to clasp it in his own  to press it to his
lips, and to gaze unchecked into the glorious

eyes that were now fixed in horror upon
Mllbanke's pale and blood-stained face.

You need not be alarmed, Lady Judith,"
Rossitur answered, quietly ; but he could not
wholly conquer the tremor in his voice. '' He
is not dead ; not even seriously hurt, I hope.
He fell on a sharp stone, and the blood you
see is from the cut ; but I am afraid his legis
broken just below the knee by a kick from
the horse as it was struggling to get up.
May I send one of your grooms for the
doctor ? And Alice," addressing his sister,
"get me some brandy."

But the stimulant restored only temporary
consciousness to the sufferer. At the first
attempt to move him he fainted again, and
then Rossitur declared that it would not be
safe to take him to the Park.

Our house is quite at his service and at
yours. Lady Judith," he said, in answer to
her faint remonstrances, as he helped his
men to place Milbanke on the hurdles that

were brought. 'rit Is only a poor place, as
you know, but we can make him comfortable."


She acquiesced in silence ; neither did
she make any remonstrance when Rossltur
despatched a man on horseback to countermand
the carriage that had already been
ordered from the Park.

Very quickly and quietly Milbanke was
conveyed to the farm, and then it seemed to
Lady Judith that everyone had forgotten her.
Left alone outside she wondered what she
ought to do . She could not make up her
mind to go away, and yet she seemed out
of place there ; for although no one had a
better right than she to be with Milbanke,
she had not the courage to take her place
beside him as long as he was under the roof
of, and befriended In his time of need by, the
man she had so cruelly wronged.

Half-an-hour passed, and still she waited ;
the doctor drove up In a hurry and disappeared

into the house, and she began to feel
at last so faint and weary that she went into
the rose-covered porch, and, taking off her
hat, she leaned against the wall and closed
her eyes.

Was it really anxiety for her future
husband that made her heart beat so loudly ;
that brought the colour alternately rushing
to and fading from her cheeks, and kept her
from going quietly home to wait there for the
next news? As the minutes passed and no
one came to her she felt oppressed and
humiliated by the neglect, which was after
all not unnatural under the circumstances.
She grew calmer by degrees as she sat in
the porch with her eyes closed. She forgot
to wonder what was going on inside the
house ; forgot her desire for notice and
attention of some kind, and lulled at last
by the stillness she fell into a sort of doze.

And it was thus Rossitur found her when
he came out to tell her that the broken leg

was set, and the patient once more conscious,
although he had not yet spoken. But she
did not hear the step, and on seeing her
seated there with closed eyes and the
slightly-parted, rich red lips, the only sign
of life as it were in her face, he stopped
short, and for a few seconds the love he was
striving with all his might to tear out of his
heart overmastered him, and he involuntarily
uttered her name aloud.

She started and looked at him, but her
self-control was perfect. " Oh, Mr. Rossitur,-"
she said, " how you frightened me. I am
waiting here for some news. How is he ?
Is there any dangers I know you will tell
me the truth."

He looked at her for a moment or two
with a curious, steadfast gaze ; then he said,
very quietly, *' I am glad nothing has
happened to shake your trust in me, Lady
Judith. You need not be anxious about Mr.
Milbanke. He is not in the slightest danger

VOL. II. o

as the simple fracture of his leg is his most
dangerous hurt."

Will you not shake hands and let me
thank you ?" she cried, impulsively, as she saw
that he was about to leave her again alone.
'why should there be this estrangement?
Mr. Milbanke will "

She stopped suddenly, and her outstretched
hand fell to her side. Rossitur had
not taken it. '' Pardon me, Lady Judith," he
said, " but I desire no thanks from either you
or Mr. Milbanke. I did no more for him
than I should have done for any of our farm
labourers in the same state. As to estrangement,"
and he gave a little laugh, '' I do not
know what you mean. I have simply fallen
again into my proper place, and I do think
I shall never touch your hand again."

He went past her through the porch as he
spoke, and, turning round the angle of the
house, he disappeared and she saw him no
more.

A TERRIBLE TEMPTATION.

'' And you refuse to accept any favour at
my hands ? I am very sorry  very much
grieved and disappointed, I assure you."

The speaker was Mr. Milbanke, now
quite recovered from the effects of his
accident, and it was Charles Rossitur whom
he addressed. It was Milbanke's last day at
the farm ; the carriage was expected every
moment to take him to the Park, and he had
sent for his young host in order to make him
an offer which he had been considering in
his own mind for some time past.

It was a handsome and liberal offer,
but Rossitur refused it without a moment's
hesitation.

Mllbanke, who had recently purchased a
princely estate and picturesque old house
In Dashshire, and had built and endowed a
handsome church to meet the urgent needs of
a rapidly increasing neighbourhood, offered
Rossitur the post of organist and choir-master,
with a salary of three hundred a
year and a furnished house rent free.

*' It is one of the prettiest houses on the
estate," Milbanke said, '/ and I could very
easily have one of the rooms enlarged so
as to take in a chamber - organ if you
wish "

'' You are very kind  very generous,"
Rossitur had said, *but I cannot accept anything
from you. A few shillings to the farm
labourers who carried you here after the
accident is quite enough ; but if you feel
heavily in our debt, and wish to discharge
your obligation, send my sister a newfashioned
churn for her dairy  she is fond of
new things  or our father that newly-invented

chaff-cutter he has set his heart
upon."

*' I have already ordered it for him, and I
shall add the churn for your sister. Also,
pray take this note and divide it among the
men as you see fit." He gave Rossitur five
pounds as he spoke, and then added, '' But it
is for yourself I wish to do something. Are
you so wedded to this place that you cannot
bear to leave it ?"

By no means. I have made up my mind
to go away." 

May I ask where ?"

That I cannot tell you, for I do not know
myself ; but it will be to some place a long
way off" There was a strange look in his
eyes as he spoke, but Milbanke did not
notice it.

Then I suppose there is no more to be
said," he answered, *' and I am very much
disappointed. I had set my heart upon
having you at my new church. You will

have everything your own way there, remember."


'* Mr. Mllbanke," Rossitur interrupted,
** why do you make this offer to me ? You
have never alluded to  and I am grateful to
you for ignoring, my folly  our interview at
your house in town ; but at the same time
you cannot have forgotten what I told you
then."

Why allude to it now ?" Milbanke
answered, with a touch of impatience in
his tone. '' Foolish things are better forgotten,
are they not ?''

Yes ; but you must remember that I told
you I loved the lady you are about to marry ;
and why you should go out of your way
to throw me into hers, is what I cannot
understand."

Milbanke's colour perceptibly rose. " I
do it," he said, " because I wish to prove
to you how little importance I attach to your
confession for love to Lady Judith Forster

There is nothing between you and her, and
there never has been anything. That you
admired her and that she noticed your
admiration is natural enough ; but what of
that ?"

Rossitur was silent. It was perfectly
evident that Lady Judith had successfully
thrown dust in Milbanke's eyes, and the
man she had first fooled was too generous
to betray her. " She has played her cards
well," he said rather bitterly to himself, "and
it is a pity she should not enjoy her winnings.
If I were malicious I could snatch them all
from her ; but she seems to know pretty well
that she is safe. She has not even asked me
not to betray her ; but perhaps it is best."
And yet, in spite of his philosophy, his companion's
words, *' but what of that ?'' were not
pleasant to hear.

He saw that Milbanke was expecting an
answer of some kind, so at last he spoke.
*' It was very absurd on my part, sir," he

said, "to expect you to look with anything
but ridicule at my folly and presumption. I
had no right to raise my eyes to Lady Judith
Forster ; but I hold the cure of my folly In
my own hands, and perhaps I shall use It 
who knows ? Now, allow me to thank you
once more and, believe me, I do so most
sincerely, for the offer you have made me,
and I am sorry that I cannot accept It. Here
is the carriage ; let me give you my arm."

If you think better of It by and by, you
have only to let me know," were Mllbanke's
last words as he drove off He was thankful
for his recovery, and for release from his
confinement ; satisfied with himself, also, for
his generosity to the "farmer's son," and
radiant with delight at the thought that in a
week from that day Lady Judith would be
his wife.

How admirably she must have behaved,"
he said to himself, as the carriage that was
taking him back to her turned in at the Park

gates. ** And how difficult It must have been
to show that very touchy young man how
presumptuous he was to aspire to her, without
hurting his feelings. But Judith has
good sense and admirable tact."

That same evening one of Lord Stllllng-
fort's footmen delivered a note at the farm.
It was addressed In Lady Judith's writing to
C. Rossltur, Junior." Time was when to
get a note from her made his heart leap for
joy. Now he took It and opened It quietly
enough. It was very short. *' Dear Mti.
RossiTUR," It ran, " Can you come over early
tomorrow, say twelve o'clock ? I want to
see you on business. Please ask for me.
Sincerely yours, J. F."

Punctually at twelve the following day he
was shown Into a pretty morning-room, and
he found there, apparently waiting for him,
Lady Judith and Mr. Mllbanke. 'what
does all this mean ?" he thought to himself ;
but he fancied he knew.

Milbanke rose and shook hands with him ;
Lady Judith bowed and kept her seat. She
looked a Httle nervous, and her colour kept
coming and going as it always did when she
was excited. Rossitur was not excited in the
least ; indeed, he felt as if he were looking on
at a performance in which he had no part.

Mr. Milbanke leaned over the young lady
and said something in a whisper. A look
of relief came into her face as she answered
aloud, "Very well. I think you are right,"
and raising her hand with old - fashioned
courtesy to his lips, he left the room.

The door had barely closed behind him
when Lady Judith rose hurriedly and went
towards Rossitur, holding out her hand.
You will not refuse it to-day ?" she said,
almost humbly, and he took it.

She kept it in her own, and looked at
him with an appealing half-frightened glance.
She was visibly agitated now ; her breathing
was rapid, her colour shifted almost every

moment, and the fingers that had closed
round Rossitur's were as cold as ice. " How
can I thank you enough for coming ?" she
said. " I have so much to say to you  will
you not sit down ?"

He drew his hand away, and said in such
a cold, matter-of-fact tone, " With pleasure,
Lady Judith. I am quite at your service,"
that the expression of her face changed ina
moment and she gave a little shiver.

I hardly know how to begin," she said,
as she nervously played with the lace trimming
of her dress. " If we were in the habit
of meeting every day it would be different ;
but you see  you understand "

'' I understand perfect. Lady Judith, that
when your father put a stop to our meetings
in the wood I had no chance of meeting
you anywhere. If I were a young gentleman,
and belonged to the county set, we
might have many opportunities of seeing one
another at dinner and tennis parties and balls,

but as I am only a poor organist and the son
of a farmer, I have had no chance. My own
feeling now Is that it would have been better
for me, at least  if we had never met."

Oh, do not say so !" she exclaimed, fixing
her beautiful eyes upon him. " You know 
you must know that If  If I could have
chosen for myself "

'you would have been sensible enough to
choose the rich man Instead of the poor one.
Why do you reproach yourself. Lady Judith?
I do not reproach you ; and pardon me
for reminding you, but you said you wanted
to see me on business."

'you are very much changed since our
last meeting," she broke in, with a touch of
petulance In her tone.

Our last meeting took place in the porch
of my father's house," he said, "the day of
Mr. Milbanke's accident, and I have not
changed in any respect since that day".

I do not call that our last meeting," she

retorted, quickly ; '* but we will not waste time
arguing. Mr. Milbanke told me of an offer
he made to you yesterday which you refused.
1 asked you to come here to-day in order
to beg of you to reconsider the matter. Mr.
Milbanke and I are very anxious to do something
for you."

At the words, Rossitur clenched the hand
that rested on the table beside him. That
she should want to do something for him in
conjunction with Milbanke was an affront
almost too great to be borne. But he mastered
his anger and she went on.

'*I have thought over every possible reason
you can have for refusing, but 1 cannot find
one that seems sufficient. Will you not give
me the pleasure of telling Mr. Milbanke that
you accept ?"

"No!" cried Rossitur, almost fiercely.
Not if I were starving ! Do you think,
Lady Judith, that I have no pride, no self-respect
? And that you should wish me to-live

at your husband's gate is past my comprehension
! Is it possible that you cannot
forego the pleasure  or rather the triumph 
of seeing every day the man whose life you
have blighted ? You can have what satisfaction
you like out of my most miserable and
contemptible folly, but I tell you now, as I
have told you hundreds of times already 
and you know best how you responded 
that if I were to see you constantly I could
not answer for myself Is not that enough
to justify my refusal ?"

She made no answer, but taking up a letter
that was lying upon an open book beside her,
she tore off a blank page, and wrote a few
words upon it rapidly with the pencil that
hunof from her waist-belt. In a minute or
two she had finished ; and then, with a colour
on her cheek and a light in her eye such
as Milbanke had never seen, she threw the
paper across to Rossitur.

He read what she had written, twice ;

looked up quickly, and met her eloquent
eyes fixed upon him. A third time he read,
and then, without looking at her, he flung
the paper on the ground as if it had stung
him, and rose. " No, Lady Judith," he said,
'* not even for that ! And I would give my
life if the inducement you hold out to me
there," and he pointed to the paper, "had
never entered your mind, or been put before
me in words  by  you." His voice broke,
and he put up his hands before his face to
hide his emotion. *

And as he stood thus, with, in his ear, the
voice of a subtle tempter urging him to give
way, he heard the rustle of her dress, and
presently the touch of her hand upon his
arm.

Look at me," she whispered. " You do
not mean what you say."

But once more she failed, and how he got
away from her she never knew ; but he had
shaken off her detaining hand, and was gone

without that look by which she hoped to
conquer. She made a step or two forwards
as if to recall him, but with a muttered
'' Too late !" she stopped short and seemed
to listen. " Am I safe ?" she said to herself.
"If he betrays me all is lost."

Then she turned quickly, picked up the
paper Rossitur had flung upon the floor, and
tore it into tiny fragments. But she scattered
them with such uncertain force that
the greater part fell in a shower on the
hearth-rug, and there she let them lie unheeded
; it Is even possible that she did not
see them ; her eyes were blinded with hot,
angry tears ; a stifled sob broke from her,
and for a moment or two she covered her
face, over which a deep, red flush had slowly
spread, with her hands. In all her selfish,
prosperous life she had never felt the pang
of such bitter humiliation before.

I wish he was dead !" she said. " Withall
my heart I wish he was dead."

And for himself, the man whom she had
failed to tempt to his ruin echoed the wish,
as, with his brain seemingly on fire, and his
heart cold as death itself within him, he
left her for ever, and found his way home,
walking like one in a dream.

VOL. II.

A WEEK OF PAIN.

During the week that elapsed between the
departure of Milbanke from the farm and
the day fixed for the wedding  it was to
be celebrated with great pomp at the Parish
Church of Stilllngfort  Alice Rossitur
watched her brother with great anxiety. He
went about as usual, but it was plainly to
be seen that, if not suffering mentally, as
was too probable, he must be physically ill.
His movements were languid ; his eyes
were heavy ; his lips looked parched, he
scarcely touched food ; and as each night
came on his head ached so intolerably  he
confessed to so much being amiss  that he
either lay on a sofa in his work room, with

his face turned from the light, or went to
bed.

But not to sleep. He admitted afterwards
that during the whole of that wretched
week he had not slept for more than an hour
each night, and sometimes not even that
much. Alice could not get him to speak of
himself, but It seemed to her as If he were
quietly making preparations to leave Stll-
langford.

While Mllbanke was a prisoner at the
farm with his broken leg, Rossltur made
a special request to Ellen Balfour, the young
schoolmistress, to resume her practice on the
organ ; he gave her a lesson regularly every
other day, and she played for him twice at
the evening service. He was with her In the
organ loft In case she broke down, but Alice
heard him compliment her on her nerve and
the vigour of her touch at the close of the
service.

The day before the wedding he went to

the school and asked Ellen to be with him
during the ceremony. " I mean to play,
myself," he said, ''if I can keep my fingers
on the keys, but I am so exhausted with
sleeplessness and pain that I may breakdown
at the last moment. You will not fail
me, Ellen ?"

The girl looked up at him wistfully as he
laid his hand for a moment upon her shoulder.
Fail him ! She would go to the end of the
world to serve him if necessary, and it made
her heart bleed to see how ill and worn he
looked. But even more alarming than his
haggard appearance was the dazed expression
in his eyes. One might imagine that he did
not actually see the objects at which he
looked.

*' I am always glad to help you," she
answered, '* but I wish we could persuade
you not to come to the church tomorrow ;
you ought to take a long rest. Do allow
me to take all the responsibility, and if

I should break down, no one will notice
it."

*' No, no ! We must not have any-breaking
down !" he exclaimed, in sudden
excitement. 'what may happen when allis
over no one can tell. Something more
than a break-down, perhaps, for I cannot
bear this horrible agony much longer. But
I must play the ' Wedding March ' for the
beautiful bride ! I swore to myself that I
would do it, and I mean to keep my word.
How magnificent she will look in her white
satin and orange blossom ! You and I,
Ellen, can see the ceremony from our high
perch in the organ loft. I count upon you,
remember, to be with me there."

"Choral service, I suppose?"

Yes ; full choral service. I was with
the Vicar yesterday about it, and we had a
practice last night."

You might let me take the service," said
Ellen, " and you can play the procession upto

the altar, and the ' Wedding March ' as
they go out."

*' ' The voice that breathed o'er Eden ' 
they want that for the processional hymn,"
Rossltur said, without answering her request.
What voice is it I wonder ? And will It bethe
same for the bridegroom and the bride ?
She will hear, perhaps, words of her own,
set to music, and he  but seeing will be
enough for him ! He ought to hear nothing
but the bride's ' I will !' I am talking great
rubbish, am I not, Ellen ? You are looking
at me out of those grey eyes of yours as if
you were afraid of me. Grey eyes are softer
and kinder than dark eyes, child. And more
pure and truthful; but not half  no, not
one half as lovely or as dangerous. Tell me,
Ellen," he asked, presently, " do you see
writing on the walls ? Everywhere I go I
see writing, and always the same. There !
Look there !" and he pointed to the wall of
the schoolroom. " I see five words written

in pencil in a woman's hand  ' Come to be
near me.' The farmer's son ought to have
been proud to receive such an invitation.
Now Ellen, look ! the letters are turning
red ! Oh, will nothing blot them out ? No ;
nothing but blood ! Nothing but blood !"

It was the beginning of October then, and
exquisite autumn weather. The woods were
a mass of rich and varied colour, the sky was
bright and clear, and the sun shone all day
long. The village of Stillingfort was gaily
decorated with triumphal arches and flags ;
the quaint old church, with its profusion of
costly white flowers on the altar and in the
chancel, looked a sanctuary fit to receive a
young and lovely bride, and the school-girls,
wearing white, were to scatter flowers before
the happy pair as they walked from the porch
to the carriage. The latter, drawn by four
greys, was likely to attract as much attention
and admiration as the bride herself.

The Park was full of guests; Lady Judith's

two brothers, Lord Warleigh and the Hon.
Rupert Forster, had arrived, and a host of
noble relatives on both sides of the house.
A dozen bridesmaids were to attend the
bride, and the beautiful and costly presents
she received were on view at the Park for
two days before the wedding. Among them
was a very pretty riding-whip with a quaint
mounting and monogram in richly - chased
silver. It was sent anonymously, and many
were the surmises as to the name of the
donor. Lady Judith alone suspected ,
for she recognised the monogram as one
he had designed for her in the early days of
their acquaintance, but she did not dare to
thank him for it ; and there it lay, a conspicuous,
beautiful and unique object among
the other presents, and the words ** giver
unknown " were on the paper attached to it.
Lady Judith had seen nothing of him since
their last meeting ; she told Mr. Milbanke
that she had used every argument in her

power to induce him to accept his offer, but
without success, and that a man so obstinately
blind to his own interests had better be left
alone. And there the matter dropped.
Milbanke felt that he had done all, and more
than all, that was required of him by gratitude,
and he would not subject himself to another
refusal.

When Dr. and Mrs. Murray came over
from Little Centre Bridge the day before the
wedding, the former was naturally very full of
the sad death of poor young Erskine, and of
the news the widow had sent home of his
faithful servant Porringer.

*' The poor fellow's people live in Stilling-fort,
I believe," the doctor said to his host,
and Lady Judith was present. " Do you
know anything about them ? Are they
tenants of yours ?"

'' No ; not of mine. I may have heard
the name, but I do not recall it just now.
Out of his mind, did you say ? But that had

nothing to do with John Erskine's death, I
suppose."

'' Oh, no ! It was the effect of a severe
sunstroke, I believe ; but It was the shock of
seeing his master killed that upset him. His
wife's people are your tenants, I know  the
Rosslturs."

*rand a very cantankerous, troublesome
fellow old Rossltur Is," said Lord Stilllngfort.
*' Nothing satisfies him, and I have done
more for him than for any other tenant on
the estate."

Lady Judith moved away soon after the
first mention of the name, and her father,
looking after her, said confidentially, 'ewe
don't talk about those Rosslturs much here ;
the young fellow  he Is our organist, you
know  had the presumption to fancy himself
in love with Judith, and gave me some
trouble. But, fortunately, he has the good
sense to keep quiet now. I must say these
fellows who are educated above their station

are a great nuisance, especially when they are
good-looking. Very sad for Erskine to lose
his son in that way. There is a little boy, is
there not ? And the widow is coming to
the Chase, someone said. Has she arrived
yet ?"

"Not yet," Dr. Murray answered. "I
believe she is going to winter abroad."

'' Oh, indeed ! We were abroad all last
winter. It did not suit me very well, but My
Lady liked it. Judith missed her hunting ;
but it was at Nice she met Milbanke, you
know."

Dr. Murray knew, for he had heard it
many times already.

Most generous fellow, Milbanke. He
has settled ten thousand a year pin-money
on her, and if he were to die next week she
would have five more. And when he got
that bad fall and broke his leg the other
day, he made his will and left her nearly
every penny he had in the world. I am very

glad he didn't die," his lordship added, " for,
I believe, if she were independent, she
would marry that organist fellow in spite of
everyone."

'' What an odd world it is," mused Dr.
Murray to himself as, his conversation with
Lord Stillingfort over, he watched the bearing
of the bride and bridegroom elect towards
one another. Her manner was as perfect to
him as his to her. '' Quite an ideal couple."
So devoted to one another." "A pity he
is not a few years younger." Those were
the general comments.

But in spite of their perfect accord and
mutual satisfaction on the eve of their
wedding-day, neither Lady Judith nor Mr.
Milbanke could forget the young man who
had so resolutely refused to accept any
favour at their hands. He was the skeleton
at their wedding-feast.

SAVED.

The marriage was arranged to take place
at half-past eleven, as the bride and bridegroom
were to leave by an early train in
the afternoon for London eii route for Paris ;
and soon after ten the streets of the little
town were filled to overflowing with sightseers
who had flocked in from the neighbouring
villages. The tenants on the estate,
with their wives and daughters, mustered inforce,
as they were to be regaled with a big
dinner in the afternoon in honour of the
event.

The high road leading from the church to-the
Park gates was lined on either side with
curious spectators, and soon after eleven the

carriages of the neighbouring gentry, who had
received Invitations to the ceremony and to
the wedding breakfast, began to drive up to
the church in rapid succession. Ellen Balfour
was busy long before eleven marshalling her
little flock of school girls ; they all wore fresh
white frocks and carried baskets filled with
flowers.

Ellen herself looked pretty and modest
in her soft gown of grey cashmere and
white bonnet, but she was very pale and
nervous, and her eyes were constantly
straying to the path across the church
meadows along which Charles Rossitur
would come from the farm. His sister
arrived in good time, and reported that
he was coming but that he would not
allow her to wait for him.

'' He is worse than usual this morning, I
am afraid," she said. '* I listened at his door
several times last night, and I could hear him
talking to himself, and even laughing, In a

way that made my blood run cold to hear, for
I was afraid he was going to cut his throat or
shoot himself. When he came out to breakfast
he said he was all right, but he did not
taste a mouthful and I am sure he will not be
able to play to-day."

While she was still talking of him he came
up, looking so handsome, but oh ! so woefully
ill, Ellen thought. But he was perfectly
calm and collected ; in good spirits, a
stranger would have thought, for he said a
gay word or two to Ellen as he shook hands';
laughed and joked with the little girls, and
took a white flower from the fullest basket to
fasten in the button hole of his black velvet
coat.

The villagers always said he was affected
in his dress, and he certainly did not look
very like the son of a farmer, in his loose
velvet coat, low turn - down collar and
carelessly knotted neckerchief of dark crimson
silk. Perhaps it was that picturesque

Bohemian costume that first caught Lady
Judith's fancy when he went to the Park
to give her lessons on the organ.

As soon as he and Ellen Balfour had
mounted to the organ loft, his mood changed.
*' I do not know how it will be when I feel
my fingers on the keys," he said, as he
unlocked and opened the instrument, " but I
do not think I can play a note. My headaches
so fearfully that I should just like to
knock it against the wall yonder and quiet it
for evermore. There ! That is better," he
added, presently as he seated himself and
began to play. " There is nothing like music
for chasing away or charming the evil
spirits and the ghosts of the past. I wanted
to come down here last night to try a
voluntary that came into my head as I was
lying awake. It went something like this."
He began to play, but presently wandered
off in a feeble, aimless manner and finally
stopped. '' I cannot do it," he said at

last. '* The Inspiration went with the
night."

"The choristers are coming In," said Ellen,
who was looking over the curtain that hung
in front of the loft. *'Do you want the music
of the hymn ?"

'' Of the wedding hymn? ' The Voice?' " he
said. '* Oh no ! I could play it In my sleep.
My sleep !" he said, dreamily. " I wonder If
I shall ever sleep again. Yes ; soundly tonight,
when it is all over and she can never
tempt me again, I shall sleep."

The words fell from him slowly, and In a
half-whisper ; but Ellen heard them only too
distinctly, and a great terror came over her
that he was going mad.

"Were you ever tempted, little Ellen?" he
asked, presently, looking up with his beautiful,
pathetic eyes. But there was something more
than pathos in them that day ; they were full
of inarticulate pain. ** Have you ever known
what it was to have the happiness you have

VOL. II. Q

dreamed of, and longed for with mad longing,
put temptingly before your eyes, but,
between you and it, a slough of mud and mire
you would have to wade through before you
could grasp it ? Not you, girl ! Temptation
is a word in your dictionary, not in your life.
A thousand times a day I call myself an idiot
and a fool for resisting, and yet the mire and
dirt would surely have choked me some day.
But I did not hesitate a moment, Ellen ;
remember that to my credit by and by. I
flung it from me and rushed out into darkness,
madness and despair !"

*' I wish you would let me play and
you go home and lie down," she said, persuasively.
" This dreadful pain is too much
for you."

Only half-an-hour more, Ellen," he answered,
'rand then I shall lie down and rest,
and sleep too. But I must play the wedding
march as she goes out of church  a wife !
See ; I am all right now. My fingers are quite

Strong and steady. Let me have a peep at
all the fine folk," he added, getting up and
looking over the curtain. "What a lot of
swells in pretty clothes ! Ellen, what would
they do if they had to walk through a pool of
blood down there to their carriages ? Or if
it dripped down upon them as they passed

out r

Oh, pray do not talk in that wild way!"
cried Ellen, now seriously alarmed. '' Where
is Alice'* I wish she was here."

'' Never mind Alice ; we do not want her.
She is not quite like you, Ellen, and I am
talking nonsense. My head is light for want
of sleep, and there is the signal for me to
begin. Tell me what you think of the bridegroom,
Ellen. He is too old for her, but
he is very kind and good. Now then." He
began the hymn *' The voice that breathed
o'er Eden," and the choir began to sing as
soon as the bride was inside the church.

Rossitur seemed calm now, and he asked

no more questions. Ellen stood looking over
the curtain, admiring, girl-like, the brilliant
throng, and the beautiful group formed by
the bride and her train of bridesmaids.

As soon as the ceremony began, Rossltur
left his seat and joined her ; not a muscle of
his face moved as he listened to the exhortation
; but when It came to the bride's turn
to plight her troth he turned away with a
gesture Incomprehensible to his companion,
and seated himself again at the organ.

*' Come and stand by me with the Prayer
Book, Ellen," he whispered, " that I may
know when the ' Amen ' comes In."

After that he went through his part of
the service without a mistake ; but, when
the wedding party went Into the vestry to
sign the register, he covered his eyes with
his left hand and sat motionless. Ellen
stood watching him, and she noticed that
his right hand was hidden In the inside
breast pocket of his coat. It was on that

Spot she kept her eyes ; why, she hardly
knew, but she fancied he was hiding something
there.

Presently she whispered, 'they are coming
out. Can you play the March ?"

For one moment he looked at her with a
puzzled expression as if he did not understand
what she said, then he drew his hand
from his pocket and began to play the well-known
Wedding March as it had never been
played in that church before. It was too fast
and much too loud, and the reverberating
chords echoed through the building. Lady
Judith Milbanke looked up at the curtained
gallery and wondered if he was alone there.

With a sudden break in the music the
March ceased, and soft and low came a few
bars of " With Verdure Clad." But that
also broke off abruptly, and the exquisite
melody " Oh, for the wings of a Dove,"
floated out and thrilled every ear with its
unexampled sweetness.

** What is the organist about ? Is he mad
this morning ?" said one guest to another
down below.

Yes ; what was he about, and was he mad ?
Entranced with the music she loved, Ellen
forgot her fears ; but she was recalled to herself
by a shock so appalling that to her dying
day she never forgot it. With the cunning
of madness  and he was mad, poor fellow,
that day  Rossitur noticed her preoccupation;
he continued to hold some chords with his
left hand, while his right glided again to the
pocket of his coat. The chords became
discords, and, with her attention partially
aroused, Ellen looked at him and at first
noticed nothing except that he was pulling
at his necktie as if it were choking him.

The next moment, with a cry for help
that rang through the building, she flung
herself upon him, and with all her strength
fought with him for the open pen-knife he
held in his hand. He had already given

one wild gash to his throat, and if her slender
fingers, nerved with the force of horror and
despair, had not closed upon his, he would
presently have lain dead at her feet.

At last, with one desperate effort, she
wrenched the knife away ; flung It high
above the curtain, and heard it ring as it
fell into the aisle below.

HOW IT ENDED.

Baffled in his attempt at self-destruction
by the courage and determination of Ellen
Balfour, Rossitur sank to the ground in a
half-unconscious state. The violence of the
paroxysm had passed, the terrible pressure
on the brain being probably relieved by the
flow of blood from his throat. It was not a
serious cut, for the poor fellow's hand was
nerveless, although when Ellen grappled with
him for the knife, he rallied all his remaining
strength to resist her.

The guests  men for the most part  who
were waiting in the porch for carriages to
come up, heard the cries for help, and before
the frightened girl imagined that succour

could reach her, half-a-dozen strange men
were in the loft. They found her leaning
exhausted against the organ ; her face was
deadly white, while blood from her fingers,
cut in the struggle for the knife, streamed
over her dress. She had shut her eyes that
she might not see Rossitur's agonised and
ghastly face ; but she could not close her
ears to the moans that now and then broke
from him. It was evident that he was
suffering intensely.

The doctor, quickly summoned, dressed
the wound, which he declared was superficial
and not at all likely to prove dangerous, but
he said that the poor young fellow was in the
first stage of acute brain fever, and would
require the greatest possible care if his life
was to be saved.

Ellen and his sister both testified to his
late sufferings from sleeplessness, and the
former added that his speech and bearing
throughout the time she was with him in the

organ loft that morning showed that his mind
was unhinged. It was useless to declare now
that he ought to have been kept away from
the church, and indeed all needless regrets
upon the subject were merged in the urgent
question of the moment  how to get him
home as quietly and with as little delay
as possible.

It was done at last with infinite difficulty,
and, as the speeches of congratulation were
being made at the wedding breakfast, and
the bride sat beside her husband, with her
eyes demurely cast down as she listened to
her own praises being sung, and to the
reiteration of Milbanke's good fortune in
having secured such a charming wife, poor
Rossitur lay tossing on his bed with delirium
coming on, and the fever increasing in
intensity every moment.

The news of his sudden collapse, and
the tragedy that had all but taken place in
the church, spread like wildfire through the

village, and was of course exaggerated by
every tongue that repeated the story. The
knife covered with blood, so one declared,
had fallen on the bride's white gown, and
left a great stain. She screamed at the
ill - omened sight, and all but fainted in
the bridegroom's arms. Another version,
believed by many, was that the organist
had fired a shot at the bridal party while
the ceremony was proceeding, and that
Lord Warleigh, the best man, would have
been killed if he had not bent his head
just in time to avoid the bullet. And a
second shot would have followed the first if
Ellen Balfour had not wrenched the pistol
away.

Everyone said that everyone knew something
dreadful would happen before long,
Charles Rossitur had looked so unlike himself
; and what had happened was a warning
to young men not to fall in love with women
who were above them in station. Was it

likely that the Earl's only daughter would
stoop to Farmer Rossitur's son ?

The guests who had waited to assist in the
removal of the unfortunate young man to his
home, brought the news to the Park ; but, as
it was such a horrible story for the bride to
hear on her wedding-day, everything possible
was done to keep it from Lady Judith's ears.

That something very unusual had taken
place was, however, so patent to everyone
that the bride's curiosity was aroused, and
getting hold of her younger brother she made
him tell her everything. And he did so in
the matter-of-fact and unconcerned manner
peculiar to a lad of about seventeen.

"Something happened after you left, you
say ? By Jove ! I should think so, rather !
That good-looking chap who plays the organ
tried to stab himself or something, and he
would have killed himself outright but for
some plucky girl who was in the organ loft
with him. She sang out for help, and seized

the knife and got It from him, and flung It out
into the body of the church. I believe it hit
old Mulberry, the pew opener, on the top of
his bald head and cracked It like a nut. I'm
not joking! By Jove, Judy, you do look
white ! Have some fizz or something. I
say, won't the mater pitch Into me for telling
you ' They wanted to keep It dark, for fear
you might think It unlucky !"

''Oh, never mind! I am all right," said
Lady Judith. " But I wish It had not
happened on my wedding-day. And they
took him home, you say ?"

*' Yes ; and the doctor says he's In for
brain fever, poor chap. He was off his
head, you know."

The bride was silent for a few minutes,
and busy with the buttons of her glove.
*' Do you know who the girl was?" she
said at last.

** No ; not I. Never thought of asking.
She is a plucky one, and no mistake."

No more was said, and when the happy-pair
had started, Lord and Lady StilHngfort
congratulated themselves that Judith knew
nothing of the catastrophe that had marred
the splendour of her wedding-day.

And during the weeks that she was enjoying
a luxurious honeymoon, with every wish,
small or great, anticipated by her enamoured
husband, and money at her command to gratify
every whim, Rossitur was lying between life
and death at StilHngfort.

Those only who watched him night and
day, and heard his incessant ravings, and his
wild appeals for help to resist some unknown
temptation  which was either the delusion of
a fevered brain, or one to which he had at
some time been exposed  knew a tithe of his
suffering.

Many and many a time did Alice and
Ellen, who shared the nursing between them,
wish that death would put an end to his trial
and theirs. It was so pitiful to see the

Strong young fellow lying there day after
day, either raving in wild delirium, or with
his mind wandering and his speech the
babble of a child. He recognised no one,
and the only thing that sometimes seemed to
soothe him was music.

Ellen used to play a familiar air softly on
the piano that stood at the far end of the
large room in which he lay ; but too often he
took no notice whatsoever, or tried to drown
the sound with his voice.

The days were growing short, and the
trees, those silent witnesses of secret meetings
between the false woman and her
too credulous lover, were bare, and the late
flowers in the farm garden were black and
sere with early frosts, when Rossitur was
at last pronounced out of danger. The
change for the better came, as it so often
does, in a long sleep, and the two women
who loved him watched eagerly for his
awakening.

And when It came, he was once more in
his right mind ; the storm of passion and
despair that had beaten him down, and
all but taken his life, was over, and he felt
and spoke like a new man. As he grew
stronger and better day by day he strove
to recall his last hours of consciousness ; but
his memory was treacherous and failed him
utterly when he tried to remember what had
happened before he awoke and found himself
lying on his bed in his own familiar room,
and so weak In body that he could scarcely
raise his hand to his head.

When they told him that It was six weeks
since he was taken ill he could scarcely be
made to believe It, and it was only by very
slow degrees that he was able to piece together
scenes and events which, when he first
began to recall them, seemed more like vague
dreams than actual occurrences. As soon ashe
was out of danger Ellen Balfour gave
up her share of the watching and nursing,

and went back to her work at the school.
She could not bring herself to wait for his
recognition, for it would indeed be hard to
bear should she see him turn from her now ;
and she was, besides, honestly afraid lest the
mere sight of her might recall the awful scene
in the church too suddenly to his recollection,
and cause a relapse ; so, as soon as he began
to address those about him by name, she
never went into his room, although she went
to the farm every day to inquire after him. .

If he remembered anything of the struggle
between himself and her for the knife, he
never spoke of it, and not once did Ellen's
name pass his lips ; but his sister noticed
that he used to watch the door incessantly,
as if expecting someone to appear who never
came.

When he was able to be up and about again
Christmas was at hand, and the very first
day he was able to walk as far he went
straight to the school-house and surprised

VOL. II. R

Ellen by walking into her room as she sat
alone in the gloaming.

*' Do you take me for a very tall, thin
ghost ?" he said, as he went forward into
the circle of the bright firelight. '' I am
afraid you do, you look so scared. You
would not come to see me, so I am obliged
to come and see you ; but I think you are
rather unkind to neglect your handiwork as
soon as it is tolerably well patched up and
on its legs again."

*' My handiwork !" was all she could
stammer in reply ; emotion was choking
her, and to hide her confusion she got up
and made him take her chair by the fire.

She stood on the hearth with her eyes
fixed on the logs that were burning so
brightly and cheerily with vivid blue and
yellow flames ; his eyes were fixed on her
pale, pure face.

'* Ellen," he said, at last, and stretching
out his poor, thin hands he took one of hers

between them, *' I want to thank you, my
brave, true-hearted, little friend, for having
saved my life. It has taken me a very longtime
to remember what happened on Lady
Judith's wedding-day, but I have got it all
plain and clear now, and I owe it to you that
I did not kill myself like a coward. I can
but hope that this strong little hand," and he
raised it to his lips as he spoke, '' has given
back to the world of workers a safer and
more sensible man than the man who tried
to play the organ that day. What do you
say, Ellen ? You have not much hope of
me, I am afraid, or you would speak," he
added, as he drew her towards him by the
hand he still held.

"It is not that  I always had hope of
you," she faltered. 'rit is because I am so
glad to see you well again."

"Yes; well again. Well in mind, thank
God. And it is not only the madness of the
fever that has passed  another and a more

pestilent fever has died out, and the wild
desire and mad longing of the past two years
have disappeared with it, and a desire that is
better and nobler, and more fit for such a man
as I am, has been born again. Ellen, I am
ashamed to remember that more than two
years ago, in this very room, and seated in
this spot, I gave you to understand, although
I did not say so in words, that I cared for
you, not as a brother or as a friend, but as a
lover ; and yet, from that hour until this, no
word of love for you has passed my lips. I
need not tell you how I was drawn away from
you, or by whom, for you know all ; and in
your heart perhaps you despise me for a poor
weak fool, but "

Oh ! no  no !" broke from her involuntarily,
and pulling her hand from his detaining
clasp she covered her agitated face and burst
into convulsive sobs.

In a moment he was by her side with his
arm round her. " Ellen  my dearest," he

whispered, *' Do not turn from me. I love
you  you will always be to me the noblest,
truest and sweetest woman on earth. If you
ever cared for me, oh ! care for me now when
I so sorely need your love. Be my wife, and
let us go away together out of this hateful
place. Will you  will you come ?"

I will go with you to the end of the
world !" she answered, as she threw herself
weeping upon his breast.

WHEELS WITHIN WHEELS.

The winter passed very quietly at Little
Centre Bridge. In consequence of their
deep mourning the family at the Chase went
nowhere and received no company. It was
rather a dreary and monotonous life for a
young girl like Betty, but she did not feel it
irksome or wish for any change. She read a
great deal, and the books she chose were not
chiefly novels, but standard works she had
heard Otway speak of when they were first
acquainted. She also got her friend Dr.
Murray to recommend her some improving
literature, while in fiction and poetry she was
careful to select those writers only whom she
knew Otway admired and approved. His

literary palate was very fine, and she could
not do better, she thought, than be guided by
his taste. It did not matter, or she told herself
it did not, that no opportunity would
probably ever offer itself for the discussion
with him of the various volumes, grave and
gay, that went backwards and forwards that
quiet winter between the Chase and Muche's.
Betty satisfied herself by reading books that
she knew were well known to him.

Then she and her father took long rides
and walks together. Sir John was not a
specially intellectual companion, but still he
and his daughter had many subjects in
common, and the subject of his little grandson
Jack, was a never-failing source of
interest and speculation to the old man.
Occasionally he recurred to the vexed question
of the relations between Betty and her
husband, and declared with great emphasis
that they ought either to come to an understanding
or else have the marriage annulled ;

but Betty generally contrived to impress upon
him that she was quite satisfied to let things
remain as they were.

Mrs. John Erskine had had her way, and
was spending the winter at Sorrento with her
Own child ; Rossitur the maid, and Rossitur's
boy. No one knew exactly how the thing
had been managed and Sir John's strong
repugnance to the scheme overcome ; but
the fact was, Mrs. John simply offered
passive resistance, and to all her father-in-law's
arguments in favour of her immediate
return to England replied that she thought it
was better for her and the child to spend the
winter in a warm climate.

A second letter had immediately followed
her first from Simla ; and in it she announced
that before an answer to it could be received
she should be on her way to Europe. A
letter addressed to her on board the P. and
O. steamer Cathay, at Suez, would probably
find her, but it might perhaps be safer to

write to '' Poste Restante, Naples," as she
meant to go there direct from Brindisi.

On receipt of this communication, which
showed that Mrs. John Erskine was by no
means a 'feckless' creature, unable to manage
her own affairs, and was certainly not disposed,
as far as her friends at the Chase could
judge, to let others manage for her, Sir John
telegraphed at once to Simla, and said she
was to look for a letter at Suez but not at
Naples, as he hoped his "dearest Amy"
would be guided by him, and instead of
landing at Brindisi come on direct to Southampton
or to London, where he and Betty
would meet her and escort her home.

And at Suez a long letter met her conveying
the same desire expressed at length.
Sir John was a diffuse letter writer, who
always gave his reasons m exteJiso, and often
many times over, for the course he meant to
take upon himself or to impose upon others ;
the pros and cons were minutely gone into,

and often repeated In another form of words.
He explained elaborately to his daughter-in-law
that, in his opinion, she ought to lose no
more time than was absolutely necessary in
bringing her orphan boy to the home that
would one day be his. 'you have a certain
position to take up in the county, my dear,"
he wrote, " and the sooner it Is taken up the
better. Indeed, I may say without exaggeration,
that you are being waited for in ,
and a warm and most loving welcome
will be given to you, not only by me, your
sister, and your Aunt Louise, but by all
the Inhabitants, gentle and simple, of Little
Centre Bridge."

Then he dilated at large upon the dangers
of ill-drained Italian towns, and declared that
it would be altogether against his wishes if
his grandson spent even a night In Italy.

What a tiresome, twaddling, old creature
he must be," was Mrs. John's comment as
she read the lengthy epistle aloud to her

maid ; it was the least she could do when
Rossitur helped her so cleverly with her own
compositions.

One would think that Jack was the only
child in the world, he makes such a fuss
about him. I think myself he is a very
ordinary child ; but of course, the heir of all
the Erskiness must be something extraordinary
to the Erskiness. If Sir John only
knew how I detest the idea of going to the
Chase he would be astonished. Fancy being
stared at and talked over by all the Little
Centre Bridgeians !"

You might get some amusement out of it
all for a while, madam," Rossitur answered ;
it was a matter of indifference to her where
her mistress spent the winter. '' I have been
told that the Chase is a very fine place, and
that everything is done on a liberal scale.
Sir John's servants always stay with him a
long time."

'rit is more than his daughter-in-law will

do," Mrs. John answered. " I mean to
amuse myself by and by, and I ought to
be presented next spring. Poor Captain
Erskine always meant to have it done " 
Amy spoke of her appearance at court as she
might have spoken of a surgical operation
to remove some physical blemish  " when
we came home on leave. I think I had better
telegraph as soon as we get to Malta "  this
conversation took place on board the Cathay
" to say I am not coming to England, and
that he must write, as I told him before, to
Poste Restante, Naples. It is very easy, if I
do not like either Naples or Sorrento, to goto
England overland ; but I am determined
to spend the winter in Italy if I can."

I hope it will not be too lonely for you,
madam," Rossitur said, "but you may find
someone you know at Sorrento."

Mrs. Erskine hesitated a moment before
she said, carelessly, " Monsieur de Louvain's
mother and sister have a villa at Sorrento"

Rossltur was quite aware of that fact 
*' and they seem disposed to be friendly,"

*' Indeed, madam ? That is good news.
Do they know you are coming ?"

** Oh! dear, yes. I had a letter at Suez to
say that they have taken an apartment for us
in such a charming situation, and Monsieur
de Louvain will meet me at Brindisi. It is
very good of him."

*' Very, indeed, madam," and Rossitur bit
her lip to hide her significant smile. 

And now, what do you think, Rossitur ?
Of course I do not want to make any unnecessary
mystery, but Sir John is so prejudiced
against foreigners and foreign places
that I think it would be just as well not to
mention the de Louvain when we write.
He need not know anything about my
acquaintances in Sorrento ; and if these
people mean to be nice and friendly why
should I not meet them half-way ? What do
you say ?"

'* Certainly, madam ; and there Is no
necessity for you to mention them. I am
sure I am very glad to know that you are
going to meet such an old friend as Monsieur
de Louvain again."

'* And his mother and sister as well, you
know. I am looking forward with quite as
much pleasure to meeting them."

*' Naturally, madam."

How do you think I am looking now,
Rossltur '. Do you know, I am afraid I
am getting stout. There is scarcely any
difference in our figures now, is there ? I
used to be always such a thin girl, and you
were always plump. But you do not think
I am disfigured at all, do you, Rossltur ?"

Not at all, madam. I do not think I
ever saw you looking better. A little tanned
by the sea air, but that will soon wear off at
Sorrento, and Monsieur de Louvain knows
how fair you are naturally. He many and
many a time talked of your beautiful complexion

to me when you were a young lady
at Calcutta."

*' Heigh ho!" said Amy, with a sigh.
"What gay times we had then! Hadn't
we, Rossitur ? I often think I was foolish
to marry so young ; but poor dear Captain
Erskine was so nice-looking "

'* And better off than any of your admirers,
madam," put in the maid.

'rand better off than any of them, as you
say ; and of course I could not tell that
another person would come in for a fine
estate just after I married."

'' Is that so, madam ?"

'eyes," with another sigh. "But then, if
my poor dear husband had lived, I should
have been Lady Erskine some day ; and
after all, an old English baronetcy is not
to be despised, is it Rossitur ? And Lady
Erskine is a pretty title; much prettier than
plain Mrs. John. I should not in the least
mind changing /la if I got a chance. By

the way, Rossitur, talking of husbands reminds
me, have you had any news lately
of Porringer ? We have to think about him
now, as we are getting near England."

"He was getting better when last I heard''
Rossitur answered, "and the doctor thought
that in a few months he would be quite well
again."

"Then we need not trouble about him for
six months, at least, need we ? When we
get home next year I suppose you will let
your own people have your little Georgy to
take care of. I am afraid I cannot ask Sir
John to take him in at the Chase."

Oh ! dear ; no, madam ! But if Porringer
recovers 1 suppose he will expect me to go
and live with him."

Oh, but I really cannot part with you
now, Rossitur ! You know all my little ways
so well I should be lost without you ! I am
sure I could not have written all those letters
to Sir John without your help, you are such

a famous scribe ! No, no ! Pottlnger must
go back to the regiment and leave you with
me. I know you will not break your heart
about him. You see now the folly of
engaging yourself before you left England.
I might have come out to India engaged, but
I would not hear of it. It ties one down so,
doesn't it, Rossitur.'"

Certainly It does, madam."

I wonder what Sir John will say when he
hears I am not coming home for the wint.
We must concoct a very nice letter and
smooth him down. I do not want him to
come out to Italy to look after me."

'* He is too much afraid of the smells,"
said Rossitur. '* But if he talks of it we
must find some way of putting him off"

** Yes ; we must indeed. I leave it all
to you, Rossitur ; you are so clever at
inventing !"

And at that compliment to her powers,
Rossitur laughed and made no reply.

VOL. IL s

UNEXPECTED NEWS.

Thus were all Sir John's plans and wishes
quietly set aside by the determination of an
obstinate and decidedly selfish young woman
to have her own way. He got her telegram
from Malta and her letter from Brindisi, such
a sweet, prettily worded, dutiful letter, for
the most part the work of Rossitur's fertile
brain. Composition was generally an
arduous task to young Mrs. Erskine, and it
was never more difficult than immediately
after her arrival at the Italian port where
she was met and welcomed not only by her
old friend Victor de Louvain, but also by
his sister who had accompanied him from
Sorrento

But In the letter that reached the Chase
announcing the arrival of the little party,
there was no mention made of their kind and
thoughtful friends.

Sir John was In a pretty fume when he
found that he must wait until spring to see
his son's widow and her boy ; and endless
were the woes he poured Into the ears of his
friend, Dr. Murray, on the subject. But the
Doctor, like a sensible man, contrived to put
Mrs. John's apparent wilfulness In a reasonable
light. He said It was not possible to
expect her to enter fully Into her father-ina's
Impatience to embrace his grandson,
and to welcome the widow of his lost son.

She naturally wishes to spend a few
months In perfect seclusion, poor thing," the
good Rector said. *' She shrinks, you may
rest assured that she shrinks, from the excitement
Inseparable from her home-coming
under these sadly altered circumstances. It Is
Just as well for you to humour her, Erskine

Just as well. Her heart must be sorely
bruised and bleeding, poor girl, and nothing
will help her so much as quiet."

But she will be so lonely ; and think of
the smells," Sir John persisted ; but he felt
that the ground was being cut from under
his feet.

Oh ! the smells are exaggerated, and,
believe me, loneliness is just what she is
pining for, or she would have come home
at once ; and the time will soon pass. I am
sure her rooms at the Chase are not ready
for her yet, although you are in such a hurry;
or those wonderful nurseries for Master Jack.
You are not thinking of buying a pony for
him yet, I suppose ? By-the-way, how old
is he ?"

"He was born a week or two before Betty
was married ; he will be two years old when
he comes home if she brings him in March.
I think, if I give in about the winter, I ought
to insist upon March."

*' What about the east winds after Italy ?"

"Oh  bother Italy! I wish there was no
such place ! And, you know, we hardly ever
have the east wind in Stoneshire. Oh, no.
I must insist upon March, and then we can
have a nice quiet summer here. Amy will
not care to see any company, of course,
except just a few old friends ; and Herbert
Otway, I know, wants to make her acquaintance."


I saw him, by the bye, when we were \p.
town last week," said the Rector. " He
wanted us to dine with him at Rutland Gate,
but we had not time. That is where he took
the house when he married, I suppose ?"

*' Yes ; that is the place. I wonder," after
a pause, " what could be done to reconcile
those two?"

'Tam afraid the thing has gone too far
now," answered the Rector. " I cannot help
thinking that if he were in love with her still
he would not go on month after month in

this way. It Is unnatural, to say the least of
it. By and by, you will see he will propose
to have the marriage annulled. A friend of
mine whom I met In town, and who knows
him very well, told me the other day that he
has lately been left trustee to a very handsome
widow who is supposed  mind, I only
say ' supposed '  to have jilted him for the
rich man she afterwards married, and who
has now left her with a pot of money."

Is her name Ogllvey ." cried Sir John.

*' Yes ; that is it. Do you know her ?''

I surprised her once in his chambers, and
he said she was a client ; it was before he
was married, of course. Now, Murray, nota
word of this to Betty. Let us wait and
see what happens."

During the winter there were letters once
a fortnight, and sometimes oftener, from the
Villa Lucia at Sorrento. They were not
very long letters, nor were they specially
interesting, for, by her own account, Mrs.

John Erskine led the quietest and most
uneventful of Ives. The weather was
charming, but still the climate of Italy did
not quite come up to its reputation ; and it
was curious, and rather provoking, too, that
the winter In England should be so unusually
mild that year. There were no English
families at Sorrento that season, with the
exception of a consumptive clergyman from
Yorkshire called Beauchamp Jones and his
wife and two very plain daughters. IVrs.
John understood from Rossitur, who had
picked up a little Italian, and had heard all
about the family from the laundress, of all
people in the world, that the Joneses, poor
people, had left seven other daughters at
home in the Yorkshire Rectory.

Little Jacky was growing very fast, his
dear grandpa would be glad to hear ; but
he was not like either his darling father or
her, and he was slow at speaking ; and so also
was Rossitur's boy, little Georgy Porringer.

Mrs. John wondered If being born in India
had anything to do with It.

Just after Christmas there was rather a
long break in the correspondence, and when
at last a letter came It was full of the tragedy
that had all but happened at Lady Judith
Forster's wedding. Alice had written to her
sister Bella, and told her all about their
brother's attempt upon his life in the church
while he was In the act of playing the
wedding party down the aisle, and of his
illness, recovery and engagement to Ellen
Balfour the schoolmistress.

' Rossitur Is in despair," Mrs. John concluded,
'not only at the commonplace ending
to it all, but also because he Is throwing
himself away upon such a girl ; and they
have actually made up their minds to go to
Australia. He has got the post of organist
in one of the Melbourne churches."

'' I think," said Betty, when the letter
was read, " that Amy might not treat us to

the Stilllngfort news. Does she Imagine
that we do not know all about Judith's
marriage ? By-the-way, the Mllbankes were
at Naples the other day, and they are in
Rome now."

The end of February came, and then Mrs.
Erskine, of her own accord, fixed the time
for her arrival in England, and Sir John
could not contain his joy. Betty and Miss
Lambton did not anticipate the coming of
the young widow and her son with sich
lively satisfaction, and although they did
not speak of their doubts to one another,
each was convinced in her own mind that
Mrs. John's presence would have the effect
of breaking up once for all the quiet home-life
of the Chase.

Another letter somewhat quickly followed
the one wherein Mrs. Erskine announced
that on such and such a day she meant to
start for England ; and it contained news so
unexpected, and of such Importance to all

concerned, that It will be given in the writer's
own words.

'* What do you think, dearest Sir John,
Betty and Aunt Louise ? Can you believe
it? ROSSITUR HAS LEFT Me!! I
can scarcely believe it myself although I amon
the spot, but she is gone ! Actually
GONE ! ! ! And what I am to do without
her I do not know. I never expect to have
my hair properly dressed again, and as to
finding any of my things  it is hopeless !
We had a disagreement and she said she
wished to go, and of course I could not ask
her to stay, and so she went. I consider that
she has treated me in the most heartless and
ungrateful manner after vcvj years of kindness,
and the way I stood by her, I may say fought
for her, when she nearly got Into a serious
scrape just before her marriage to that poor
Pottlnger. And what a bad wife she made
him  but that Is neither here nor there, is It .
My poor darling never liked her, I must say

that, and if he had had his way she would
not have been with me very long after I
married. But he saw how useful she was, so
he never interfered about her a second time.
Oh, my darling husband ! If I only had you
now ! Well ; it all came about in this way.
I had my Ayah here all the winter, and she
took the entire charge of the two children 
mine and Rossitur's  but when she went
away (I sent her back a fortnight ago) I
proposed to Rossitur that, as soon as we got
to England, she should settle her boy with
her sister at Stillingfort, and then come back
to me and act as my maid and little Jack's
nurse. Now, was there anything very unreasonable
in that ? She could have done
the double work perfectly, and I did not like
to arrive at the Chase with two servants in
my train. But my lady was highly offended
at being asked, and said she would attend
upon me as usual, but that she did not like
taking care of children and would have nothing

to do with my darling pet. I got a little
vexed, perhaps ; but she was really very impertinent
 as she can be when she likes 
and the upshot is that she went the very next
day. But where she went to I have not the
faintest notion. I am afraid she is up to no
good, for I noticed a curious change in her of
late.

'* Now, as soon as I get to London, I am
going to look out for a nice, steady girl, who
will act as my maid and Jack's nurse. He
is getting bigger and older every day, and he
will soon be past nurses ; besides, I am sure
dear Betty or Aunt Louise, would not mind
looking after him sometimes when the girl
was engaged with me ; or there might be a
housemaid without much to do that was
what I said to Rossitur  and I really do not
want so very much done for me, as you will
see. I am very curious to know if that
woman has gone home. Could you find out
quietly by and by ? I am sure she has not.

She is very deep. My darling Jack always
said she was very deep, and I am sure now
he was right. As soon as you get my telegram
from the Grand Hotel to say I am
there, come up at once and take me home.
I feel / shall never be happy until I have seen
yon air

Sir John looked quite radiant as he finished
the letter. " I must go and tell Murray," he
said.

" What do you think of the latest new ?'"
he exclaimed, as he walked without ceremony
into Dr. Murray's study. 'amy writes to
say that Rossitur is gone. Think of that.
Rossitur is gone !"

MRS. MURRAY PICKS UP A WAIF.

*' Mrs. Murray is going to London to shop
tomorrow, and she wants me to go with
her," Betty announced one afternoon when
she came in from her drive. It was now
nearly the end of the first week in Marchand
Sir John was in daily expectation of a
telegram from his daughter-in-law to say that
she was in London.

The Doctor went to town this morning,"
he said.

Yes ; he had to go up on business, and
he is to meet us tomorrow at Blanchard's at
two o'clock for luncheon. We expect to get
back here by the 8-15 train. Aunt Louise,
have you any commissions ?"

*' Oh yes, dear; I want a few little things
if it will not bore you. Shall I make a little
list ? And then If you cannot get what I
want, never mind. But you are sure to be In
Bond Street and Regent Street. If you
could get me a pretty mourning-cap at
Ludlow's ; or two, If you see any that will
suit me."

All right, auntie. You want to look
your smartest when Amy comes ?"

I wonder If she would be hurt to see
a little bit of lavender on my head ? But
perhaps It Is better to have all black just at
first. One never knows how people will take
things."

Do you want anything, papa?"

"You might look In at Jackson and
Graham's, and ask them when I am to have
that writing-table I ordered for Amy's room.
I want It to be here when she comes. And
you might get some of those Indian rugs
and mats and things at Liberty's. They will

make the place look home-like to the poor
child."

'* I notice that people who have been in
India hate those things," said Betty. '' But
never mind ; if Amy does not care for them,
Auntie and I will be very glad to have them,
so let them come. Is that all you want ?"

*' Perhaps you will not object to take that
to spend on fal-lals for yourself," said Sir
John, as he pulled out a five pound note and
gave it to Betty. " I'll bet a guinea you are
hard up."

I am not hard up as it happens," answered
Betty, laughing, "but I am very glad to get
this, all the same. I do not expect to have
as many presents now that Amy is coming."

'' I am astonished we do not hear from
her," said Sir John, " Poor thing ! I am
afraid she finds it hard to get on without that
woman, Rossitur. By the way, did I tell
you that I asked Murray to find out through
the curate at Stillingfort if she was at her

father's, but nothing has been seen or heard
of her ?"

'' I am very glad she Is not coming here,"
said Betty. " I took a great dislike to her ;
I believe, because poor, dear Jack had no
faith In her."

It was a bright, and for March, a warm
morning, when Mrs. Murray and Betty left
by an early train for London, and they
had finished the greater part of their shopping
before two o'clock, the hour fixed for
luncheon at Blanchard's. They met punctually,
and sat down a merry little trio,
but Betty's gaiety was suddenly and utterly
quenched by the unexpected appearance of
Otway, who came In accompanied by a lady
In the dress of a widow.

Dr. Murray, who was speaking to her at
the moment, saw the bright colour rush Into
the girl's cheeks, and with a quick movement
she drew down her veil. Glancing at his
wife, the Doctor saw that she was attracted

VOL. II. T

by some new arrivals, and looking over his
shoulder, he saw the pair who had just
seated themselves at a table in the middle
of the room, and heard Otway asking for
the menu,

Take no notice, please," said Betty,
quietly. " We can finish our luncheon and
go out without being recognised."

But If she had had any enjoyment In her
luncheon before, she had none now ; she said
a word at random now and then, and did her
best to understand what her companions were
talking about, and as she tried to listen toto
them, she made a series of most determined
efforts to keep her eyes from
straying to that other table, and the face of
the handsome woman who seemed on such
friendly terms with /nm / She was not
young ; Betty felt an almost spiteful satisfaction
In the conviction that she must be at
least forty ! But then, what young girl was
ever so dignified In manner  so perfectly

self-possessed, and with that unmistakable
stamp upon her that marks the woman of the
world.

'' How well she seems to talk," thought
poor Betty to herself. She could not but
note the fact that Otway listened attentively,
and laughed now and then as if he were well
amused.

I could not entertain him as she does,"
Betty went on with her unspoken comments.
'the twaddle of a country town must seem
very tame to him after that sort of thing ;
and yet, he said to me once, that to hear me
calling my chickens to be fed was like the
sweetest music in his ears. Ah ! he was in
love then !"

All this time Otway's back only was
visible, and he seemed to be enjoying his
luncheon and the conversation of his companion.


Are you going to speak to him ?" Mrs.
Murray asked, addressing her husband, as

they all rose and were about to leave the
room.

*' Oh, no ; I think not, my dear. He will
probably not see us. But perhaps Betty
would like "

** I would rather not, thank you. Much
rather," was Betty's prompt reply. " Let us
get out. It is so hot here."

The Rector led the way ; his wife followed,
and they both passed close behind Otway
without being seen by him. Betty came
last. Her heart began to beat very fast
as she got near that special table, and found
the eyes of the handsome widow fixed upon
her glowing face. How far away the door
seemed. Should she never reach it ? The
fates were against it apparently. First she
tripped against the leg of a chair that
was a little tilted, and too far out. The
man who occupied it was in the act of
drinking, and, feeling the jar, he began
to choke, and coughed violently while he

rose and tried to apologise for being In the
way.

Betty, wishing him at Jericho and herself
in the street, hurried on ; but fearing that his
chair might be In the way, Otway had risen
also, and she found herself suddenly face
to face with him.

** Are you alone ?" he said, as he held out
his hand. She was obliged to give him hers
and he held it while he waited for her
answer, and held It firmly too. 

"Oh, no!" she said. "I am with the
Murrayss. They went out this moment, and
they are waiting for me downstairs."

He dropped her hand at once. " Remember
me to Sir John and Miss Lambton," he
said.

She passed on and he sat down again.

Do you mean to say that you were
speaking to your wife ?" Mrs. Ogilvey said,
across the table. " She Is scarcely as pretty
as she was. Is she ?"

** I really do not know. I did not notice
particularly," answered Otway, carelessly, and
turned the conversation.

*' Well, dear," said Mrs. Murray, as Betty
joined her. '' What kept you so long i"

Oh ! I knocked up against a chair, and
the man who was on It nearly choked himself
with his claret, and Mr. Otway saw me, and
asked if I was alone ; that Is all. Who Is
that lady who Is with him, Dr. Murray, do
you know ?"

I think her name is Ogilvey, my dear.
Fine woman, is she not ? She lost her
husband lately."

Ogilvey ! Betty remembered the name
well enough.

*' I do not admire her," she answered,
shortly. And then she and Mrs. Murray
began to discuss their plans for the afternoon.


'' By six o'clock the two ladles reached
Victoria Station, where Dr. Murray was to

meet them In time for the 6-30 train to
Little Centre Bridge.

'' We are too soon, of course," said Betty.
'come Into the waiting-room and let us try
and put our parcels together or something
win be left behind."

When they went Into the ladles' room they
found the woman - In - charge and several
ladles In a high state of excitement. The
former held In her arms a child of about
a year and a half or two years old. .It
was neatly and comfortably dressed, and
it did not seem In the least put out by
all the strange faces about It. It held out Its
little arms now to one and now to another,
and said ''ma-ma," and then, with the pretty
coquetry of a baby, It would hide its face on
the attendant's shoulder, and give a little
peep out now and then.

'' Oh, what a sweet little boy !" Mrs.
Murray exclaimed. She was a baby-worshipper,
pure and simple, and never

as happy as when she had a child in her
arms. " Look, Betty ! Such a little darling
! Whose is he ?" she added, addressing
the woman. "Yours*"

"Oh, dear no, ma'am. He is nothing tome.
About two hours ago a lady, at least
she seemed like a lady  she had a veil on so
I could not see her face, but I am sure she
was young  came in with this child in her
arms, and she carried a good-sized bag, too.
She put the bag down on the seat over there,
and then put the child beside it, and after
talking to it for a bit, and feeding it with
cake, she says to me, ' I am just going into
the refreshment room for a sandwich and a
glass of ale, will you have an eye to this little
fellow until I come back? He's very good,

and I shan't be long. Bye-bye " I

think she said some name, but I did not
catch it rightly, and off she went. Well, I
kept an eye on the child, and he did not cry
or fret, but at the end of a quarter-of-an-hour

I began to wonder his mother did not come
back. I wondered more at the end of half-an-hour
what had become of her, and I just
took the child in my arms and went to look
for her. But she was gone, and they told
me in the refreshment room that no one
answering to her description had been therefor
a glass of ale, and my belief is that it
was all a trick to get rid of the child."

"Oh, what a horrid woman!" broke from
some of the ladies, and with great emphasis
from Mrs. Murray. *' Such a sweet little
boy! How could your mother desert you,
poor little darling ?" she added, as she kissed
the little fellow.

* But what are you going to do with him ?"
Betty inquired. " Keep him until you see if
the woman will come back ?"

** Oh, she won't come back no more, she
won't, bless you !" the attendant answered.
*' She's not the first of the sort I've seen.
But somehow, I wasn't thinking of a trick,

or I'd have dodged her. I've been talking
to one of the Inspectors, and he's going to
fetch a policeman to take the poor little chap
to the workhouse. Seems a pity, doesn't
it ? That's his bag there, as I looked over.
There's a tidy lot of his clothes In It, and a
little comb and brush and a sponge, but no
name or address or anything."

'' Oh, It Is dreadful to think of his going to
the workhouse !" cried Mrs. Murray. '' Let
me take him home with me."

"My dear Mary," cried Betty.

/'Yes, dear; why not? I am sure the
doctor will let me. I can leave my name
and address with the station-master, and then
if the mother comes to look after him she can
get him back. We will pay her expenses,
of course. Just let me find my husband ; he
must be waiting for me outside."

Dr. Murray, who would probably have
allowed his wife to bring a young elephant
home had she wished it, gave his consent

after a few trivial objections ; and the more
readily as he was sure, If none of the women
were, that the child's mother would re-appear
and claim It the following day at the latest.
The arrangement took trouble and responsibility
off their shoulders, so the officials had
nothing to say against It, and Mrs. Murray
had her way and carried off the child In
triumph.

And during the journey home she was
never tired of calling the attention of hgr
companions to his many perfections. 'rand
I am quite sure he Is not a common child !"
was her refrain after every remark.

I wonder what the people will say when
they hear you have brought home a baby,
my dear !" the doctor said, as they were
steaming into Little Centre Bridge Station.
*' I am glad Betty can bear witness that he Is
a waif picked up at Victoria Station. I do
not want a sensational paragraph to get Into
the Stone shire Mercttryy

A waif Indeed ! As If waifs had ever
such well-kept hair, and such dear little
hands. I am quite sure he Is not a common
child !"

Betty, of course, was the first to carry the
news to the Chase that the Rector's wife had
gone to London to shop and had brought
back a baby. She made very merry over
the incident, but she was in a somewhat
cynical mood at the close of that eventful
day.

TAKEN AT HIS WORD.

Not since Betty Erskine had come back to
her home, a bride but not a wife, had the
gossips of Little Centre Bridge such a treat.
It was known at "Crump's" very early the
following morning, that Mrs. Murray had
brought back a little boy from London ; and
Mrs. Sumner, who chanced to drop into the
shop for a set of knitting pins soon after
breakfast, heard from Mrs. Crump herself
that Dr. and Mrs. Murray had some time
ago advertised for a child to adopt, and out
of half-a-dozen or more babies submitted
for their approval they had selected this
particular boy.

When Mrs. Verity told her husband about

it, that excellent man and shrewd lawyer was
guilty of the extreme vulgarity of putting his
thumb to the end of his nose, and of giving
a highly suggestive wink with his left eye.
'* Very good story, my dear," he said, '' but
my friend, the doctor, cannot bamboozle me!"
It was extremely difficult for the Murrayss
to get the true version of the story believed
in the town, although they had Betty's
evidence to back it up ; and poor Mrs.
Murray was quite weary at last of exhibiting
the child to her visitors, and of reiterating
her conviction that its mother would soon
re-appear to claim it. But she did not
appear, and it was extraordinary how, in the
short space of four - and - twenty hours, the
little fellow had contrived to enslave the
household at the Rectory. Master, mistress
and servants were all led captive by his
pretty ways, and his sweet baby face, with
its big brown eyes, and the little head
covered with fair, fluffy curls. Mrs. Murray

was sure If her own baby boy had lived he
would have been just such a dear, pretty,
gentle, good-tempered little fellow, and she
had already extracted a promise from her
indulgent husband that, if the mother did
not come back, she might keep the child
instead of sending him to an orphanage, or
to be "boarded out" with a farmer's wife in
the parish.

Three uneventful days passed after the
visit to London. Betty was unusually silent,
if not sad ; she could not banish the remembrance
of that handsome and fascinating
Mrs. Ogilvey ; but neither could she forget
the close, warm pressure of Otway's hand,
although she could not understand why he
held it so long. It must have been done in .
a fit of absent-mindedness, for, of course, he
could not have cared to hold it.

Sir John during those days of waiting was
very fidgety and impatient ; giving orders
and countermanding them in a breath, while

Aunt Louise, as usual, sympathised with and
listened to everyone In turn.

At last the long-expected news came.
Mrs. John Erskine was In London. She
wrote as follows from the Grand Hotel 
*' You will be glad to hear, dearest Sir John,
that I am actually in England with my
precious boy. We arrived from Paris early
this morning ; had a most charming crossing.
I was not the least ill, and the little man
behaved beautifully. I travelled alone the
whole way, and I am very proud of myself
for having got on so well. I was sorry, when
I found myself actually on my way, with
no one to help me, that I had not asked you
to send over a footman to escort me ; or I am
sure Herbert Otway, who Is a sort of brother-in-law
of mine, you know  his brother
married my half-sister  would have fetched
me. However, here I am all right, and I
hope you will come up at once and take
me home. I have nothing to keep me here,

except to get a maid who will act as Jacky's
nurse as well. One of the chambermaids
here Is very kind In looking after him for me.
I want the address of Betty's nodiste, for
I am really so shabby I am quite ashamed to
show myself ! You were kind enough to say,
dearest Sir John, that I might take carte
blanche for the replenishing of my wardrobe
when I got to London, so I have already
ordered a black silk dress for the afternoon,
at Jay's, elegantly trimmed with crape ad
jet, and a charming mantle to go with It.
I desired them to send the bill  forty-five
pounds  to you. Forty-five for the two. I
am so much obliged to you, dearest Sir John.
I enclose In this a bill for a set of beautiful
jet ornaments I gave myself In Paris with
your love. I knew you would like me to
have them ; and as soon as I finish this I am
going out to get a present from you for your
little Jacky. He Is so shabby, poor little
mite, and he must look very smart when

VOL. II. u

he gets to his dear grandpa's, where everyone
will look at him. In fact he wants
everything ; and I must get a couple of
pretty bonnets for myself, and something very
sweet in hats to travel In, and for country
wear ; and I want you to come with me
to your tailor and help me to order the very
newest thing in summer ulsters  something
I can walk about In ; and I must get a pretty
travelling-cloak at Refer's. That is the
best place, is it not ?

'* This hotel is charming ! I have such a
pretty sitting-room off my bedroom on the
first floor. I knew you would not like me to
go into the coffee-room, and I have arranged
with the manager for a carriage by the day.
He is most civil and obliging. He seemed
to know your name quite well."

'' I do not think he ever heard It In his
life !" growled Sir John, to whom, It must be
confessed, his daughter - in - law's letter was
rather a startling revelation. But he was not

going to admit anything of the kind ; he had
a suspicion that both Betty and Miss Lamb-ton
were disposed to criticise Mrs. John's
proceedings rather freely if he gave them an
opening ; and, as he had made up his mind
to uphold her in everything, it was far better
not to raise any discussion.

*' Now I like a woman who has the sense
to take a man at his word. I told her she
was to get everything she wanted for herself
and the child, and to have the bills sent tome.
There are plenty of women who would
have been shy about ordering things, but I
am glad Amy is not one of them."

She does not seem very shy, I must
say," remarked Betty. " And I hope she
is not very extravagant."

"Extravagant!" cried Sir John. ''I should
say certainly not. Of course, as my son's
widow, and the mother of my heir, she is
entitled to have everything she wants, and
everything of the very best. She is entitled,

I say, and I beg, Betty, that neither you nor
your aunt will throw out the slightest hint
about extravagance ! She must not be made
uncomfortable just as she comes to us, poor
girl. I am going to get the family diamonds
out for her. They have been at Courts' ever
since your poor dear mother died, Betty.
My poor boy always said, ' Keep them for
her until she comes home.' He would not
let me send them to India."

She cannot wear them while she is in
deep mourning," said Betty.

*' Never mind, she can have them to play
with and to look at. And they are worth
looking at, too. They were given to a Lady
Erskine in the time of Charles the First as a
wedding present, and the necklace alone is
worth over a hundred thousand pounds."

** I think you had better keep them yourself,
papa, when they come here. Amy may
not care for the responsibility."

'' Oh ! but I have got a fire and burglar-proof

safe put up in her bedroom," said Sir
John, *' in which they will be perfectly safe,
I mean to give her one key and keep the
other myself And now I must send off a
telegram to tell her to expect us soon after
three this afternoon, and she had better
engage a couple of rooms for us for a night
or two ; we must stay with her until she has
all her shopping done."

'' I think I had better stay here to receive
you all," said Aunt Louise. '' You will not
want me in town."

So it was arranged, and a telegram was
despatched to announce the arrival of Sir
John and Betty that same afternoon.

'' I begin to feel quite nervous !" said
Betty, as she and her father were on their
way to the Grand Hotel from Victoria. " I
wonder if I shall like her ?''

*' Of course you will like her. Why not .'*"
said Sir John. *your poor brother's
widow ?"

When the waiter threw open the door of
Mrs. John's sitting-room and announced "Sir
John Erskine and Mrs. Herbert Otway," a
young lady rose slowly from the couch on
which she was reclining, and came to meet
them. She wore a perfectly-fitting gown of
some soft material that fell in long, straight
folds from the waist and showed her beautiful
full figure to the best advantage ; her
abundant soft and very fair, it might almost
be called flaxen hair, lay in fluffy curls on her
forehead, and made her dark, bright and very
beautiful eyes look even darker than they
were. On her head was the daintiest and
most becoming little apology for a widow's
cap ; the ruffles at her throat and wrists were
black, and they made her beautiful, pure complexion
seem almost dazzling by the contrast.

A pair of small, black earrings, and a
rosary of black beads, with a large cross
attached, were her only ornaments, unless a
pince-nez, which was singularly becoming to

the form of her very beautiful face, could be
considered one.

'' At last, dearest Sir John !" she said, as
the old man folded her in his arms and
kissed her warmly. "How I have longed for
this moment ! I feel now that my many
troubles are over for evermore !"

That night Betty wrote to her aunt 
'' Amy is a little taller and very much stouter
than I expected. She is very handsome, and
she walks in a stately manner that is most
imposing. Papa raves about her, of course,
and I feel very insignificant, I assure you 1"

MRS. JOHN ERSKINE COMES HOME.

A WEEK had gone by before Mrs. John Erskine
announced that she was ready to leave London
; but if Betty was tired of dancing attendance
upon her, not so Sir John. From the
moment of their meeting he was her most
devoted admirer ; and to his regard for her
as the widow of his only son was added the
most enthusiastic admiration for her beauty
and her graceful appearance. The fascination
was completed when, with her boy in
her arms, she knelt before him as though to
ask his blessing on the child ; and even
Betty, who was for some reason or other
disposed to be critical, could not deny that
the graceful mother and sturdy little fellow

who clung to her, and hid his face upon her
shoulder  he was too shy to look at the
strangers  made a very pretty picture. His
hair was of flaxen fairness like hers, but
his eyes were almost black, and Sir John
declared he was the first black-eyed Erskine
he had ever seen. " Our eyes are always
either blue or brown," he said.

But he Is very like his dear father ! Do
you not think so ?" Mrs. John said. '' Betty,
you see the likeness, I am sure. Darling
Jack always said baby had the Erskine nose."

'' I think It must be the Gordon nose,"
Betty answered, " for he Is much more like
you than poor Jack."

** Does him hear what his Auntie Betty
says ?" the picturesque young mother cried,
as she danced the child In her arms. " She
says you are like your own mummy ! Oh !
my angel, you do not care who you are like,
do you, now you have got home to your dear
grandpa ?'' Then, as the little fellow made

a clutch at her cap and pulled It off, she
added, " Is it not strange ? He always does
that. I hope, dearest Sir John," and she
suddenly set the child on his feet and knelt
again by the old man's side, '' I hope you do
not think I ought to go on wearing my cap ?
I put it on to-day that you might not be
shocked, but I never wore it at Sorrento."

My dearest Amy, you must do exactly
as you like," and Sir John put his arm round
her, and drew her to him fondly. " And I
really do not know whether I admire you
more with it or without it."

The lovely dark eyes, that were neither
blue nor black, but something between the
two, which were fixed upon his face, grew soft
with emotion. '' Oh, Sir John," she said, and
her lips quivered, " I have not heard such
sweet words as those since I lost my darling."
She flung herself on the old man's breast and
hid her face. " And to think that I have
come home to you without him," she sobbed.

As soon as she had recovered composure,
Betty, who had taken Httle Jacky upon her
lap, glanced at her curiously. She looked
even handsomer than she had done before
her little outburst of sorrow ; there was a
slight flush on her cheeks, and her pretty
hair was a little ruffled ; but the flow of
tears, if they had flowed, had not reddened
either her eyes or her nose, and Betty was
angry with herself for the suspicion that the
display of emotion was less genuine than, it
seemed.

But Sir John's captivation was complete,
and the first moment he was alone with his
daughter, his admiration broke Into words.
He had expected to see a pretty woman,
but she was dignified and graceful as well ;
indeed, he had rarely, he might say never,
seen a woman who walked so gracefully
across a room as Amy did, and her appearance
In the street was really most striking.
He was not at all surprised to see the way

men turned about to look at her. Certainly
his poor, dear boy had shown great discrimination,
both as regarded appearance
and manner, when he chose Amy for his wife.
The week she spent in town was not
an agreeable one to Betty. Her father was
entirely taken up with Mrs. John, and,
whether by accident or design, Mrs. John
made a point of never consulting her sister-in-law
in any way. She made her plans ;
told Sir John what she wanted to do ; he
always agreed without comment or objection,
and nothing was left for Betty but just to
make a third in the carriage, and to sit in
it patiently for hours, while Sir John, always
with his cheque-book in his pocket, attended
upon his handsome daughter-in-law, going
with her hither and thither and paying her
bills without a murmur. It is quite certain
that by the time she graciously announced
that she had done all her business, he was the
poorer by at least three hundred pounds ;

and over and above that sum, there was
the by no means moderate hotel bill.

But he was one of the most generous of

men, and he paid everything without a

murmur ; and although he was devoted ta

Amy, he found time to pay sundry visits

to his lawyers which resulted In an addition

of .500 per annum to the i,ooo which was

already settled by post - nuptial settlement

upon his son's widow. But when telling her

what he had done for her, Sir John vas

sensible enough to Inform her also that, as

she would now make her home with him

at the Chase, all her personal expenses and

those of the child, were to be provided for

out of her very ample jointure. In reply she

bestowed upon him one of her emotional

caresses ; assured him that he was the

dearest and most thoughtful of men, and

that she had no doubt she could make fifteen

hundred a year suffice for herself and little

Jacky for the present.

She was an Inveterate talker ; but to
Betty always be it remembered, the only
critic before whom she had as yet appeared,
it seemed that in the stream of words there
was but little worthy of note. When she
talked about her winter abroad she had
nothing to say of the places she had visited
or the people she had met; everything turned
on herself; the impression she had made,
not the impression she received.

It was the same thing in London. The
shops she praised and patronised were those
in which her orders were received with what
she considered becoming deference, and if the
waiters and chambermaids at the hotel did
not fly to execute her orders she would
threaten to complain to the manager. One
afternoon Betty was not in the sitting-room
with her bonnet on when the carriage was
announced, so Mrs. John carried off her
father-in-law, and would not wait even five
minutes. Betty, rather relieved than vexed

to escape the dull round of shopping,
chartered a hansom, and went off alone to
spend the afternoon with some friends of her
own, a proceeding with which Mrs. John
professed to be much scandalised ; and she
even began a little lecture on the subject, but
Betty cut it short with perfect good humour.

*' As long as papa sees no harm in what
I did, Amy," she said, '' I do not think
you need trouble yourself." But from that
moment the glove, as it were, was thrown
down, and Betty knew that any real affection
between her and her sister - in - law was
impossible.

And now at last the big new travelling
boxes are packed ; Sir John has signed the
last cheque ; the smart servant who is to act
as maid to Mrs. John, and nurse to little
Jacky, is engaged, and Mrs. John herself,
dressed in the smartest and most effective
travelling-cloak that could by any possibility
be designed for a young widow, and on her

head a neat untrimmed black felt hat, leans
back, looking remarkably handsome and
placid. In the first - class carnage that is
bearing her to her future home.

Opposite to her Is Sir John, proud as a
peacock, and full of admiration for the lovely
young woman who does so much credit to
his dead son's taste ; and in the corner at the
other end of the carriage Is Betty, who is
trying to persuade herself that this fascinating
sister-in-law is not taking more than a fair
share of Sir John's love and attention, and
that she is not just a little neglected. And
feeling also that a somewhat changed life
may be In store for her In her old home, she
wishes that, without the sacrifice of her pride,
she could make some overture to her husband.

I am not at all unhappy," she said to
herself, as London, where he lived was left
farther and farther behind, "but I wish, oh,
how I wish "

'' Here we are," cried Sir John. '' Now,

Amy, my love, let me collect your things.
Where is the dressing-bag and your writing-case
? Betty, just pull that 'hold all' out of
the netting over your head like a good girl.
That's right. Now then." He bounced out
on the platform and gave his hand to Amy,
and then to the nurse who had the child in
her arms. Betty stepped out by herself;
delivered the 'hold all," which contained
Amy's wraps and umbrellas, to a porter, and
then walked after Sir John, who was stepping
along radiant and happy, and looking an inch
taller than usual, with his beautiful daughter-in-law
upon his arm.

The open barouche with the dappled greys
was in readiness, and Sir John's private
omnibus stood at a little distance waiting
for the luggage. Mrs. John stepped into the
carriage ; motioned to the maid to follow with
the child, and placed them beside herself on
the front seat. Sir John and Betty sat with
their backs to the horses.

VOL. II. X

And In that order they dashed through
the High Street of Little Centre Bridge.
They were seen by the Rector as he was
turning in at his own gate, and by several
leading ladies of the town who happened
to be in Crump's shop ; they all ran to
the door the moment Mrs. Sumner, who
was acting as scout, said, '' Here they
are !" And Mrs. John, leaning back in the
carriage ; saw them all, and smiled, being
quite satisfied that she must make a good
impression on those gaping strangers ! Sir
John sat bolt upright ; very much excited,
and very proud of the pretty woman with
the soft fair hair and the lovely dark eyes.

'* I wonder what they think of her?" he
said to himself, as he waved his hand to the
Rector, and took off his hat to the ladies.

The carriage turned in at the big gates,
and bowled up the drive at a smart pace ;
Miss Lambton saw it coming and shed a
few tender tears at the thought of the young

husband In his far-away grave, even as she
prepared to meet the widow with a smile ;
and before half-an-hour had gone by, it was
known throughout the length and breadth
of the town that Mrs. John Erskine had
come home at last.

MRS. JOHN GETS INTO RAPTURES.

The day of Mrs. John Erskine's long looked
for arrival was not very agreeably spent by
the inmates of the Chase, and yet it was
impossible for anyone, except a most captious
critic, to find fault with her. Miss Lambton
and Betty could not be captious critics, and
even when they were alone together they
carefully avoided comparing notes about her ;
indeed, so marked was the avoidance of the
subject that it could not be put down to
accident.

And it was not that there was any want of
sweetness and graciousness, and an apparent
desire to be well pleased with everything, in
the new comer ; but with the sweetness and

graciousness and the desire to be pleased,
there was '' a something "  that was how
Betty put it to herself; while Miss Lambton,
who was never very severe upon anyone,
mentally compared her nephew's beautiful
widow to a cat with her paws sheathed.
Sir John, who saw no flaws in his new toy,
took her himself, in the pride of his heart, to
see the rooms he had prepared for her, as
well as the nurseries for his grandson ; Miss
Lambton and Betty went also, and formed,
as it were, the tail of the little procession.

Mrs. John fell at once into raptures. "It
was so kind of you, dearest Sir John, to take
so much trouble ; everything is charming.
I am delighted with it all ; but if I had only
known that you were going to give me such
a dear little suite all to myself  it is so nice
to have it  I think I should have said, * Do
not furnish until I come,' as then I could
have had a voice  only a voice, you know ;
my darling husband always allowed me to

have a voice  in the arrangement. For
instance, I had set my heart upon a dado,
and they have not put one. I had a sweet
dado at Sorrento ! Really I got quite attached
to it. Of course, this paper is quite lovely,
and it doesn't matter about the dado ; not in
the very least ; but as it was being done in

the new, you know ah, yes ! those pretty

Indian things! As you say, they are very
handsome and rich-looking, and I would not
be without them for the world, but every day
at Sorrento I used to say, ' What a treat not
to see anything Indian.' You can understand
that one gets just a little tired of them
can't you. Sir John T

*just what I said when papa ordered
them," whispered Betty to her aunt.

*' My dear child," said Sir John, " you
must turn them all out, and get something
you like better. I want to make you feel at
home, don't you see ? You must say what
you would like instead of all these rugs and

things, and there is no reason why we should
not have a dado."

Oh, dear no ! Pray do not think of it.
A dado with that paper would never do ! I
must be satisfied, and I really don't mind
about the Indian things ; only, you can fancy
that, just at present, they bring back past
happy days too vividly. But I shall get used

to them, and to everything. The room

is really very pretty ; a shade heavy-looking
perhaps, but that may be only because everything
was so light and bright at Sorrento.
And this is my bedroom. Very pretty ! very
pretty indeed. I am charmed. But why,
dearest Sir John, did you not just write and
say, ' Amy, which do you like best, pink or
blue '. ' I have quite a morbid and ridiculous
dislike to pink. I think I must ask to have
everything blue."

*' Of course, my dear girl. Of course ;
anything you like. I wish I had thought of
asking you ; but someone said  Betty, I

think  that you would be sure to Hke
pink.

'' It was very sweet of her to decide forme,"
and Mrs. John gave Betty a smile.
** And nothing can be prettier than pink.
Everything was blue at Sorrento. The sky
and the sea, and my bedroom furniture.
Quite ei suite, as that horrid creature, ,
used to say. She was very proud of the
little bits of French and Italian she had
picked up. And now for the nurseries. I
am rather sorry they open out of my room,
do you know ; but, of course, I can lock myself
in. I had the nurseries at Sorrento as
far away from my bedroom as possible.
Morning sleep is essential to me, and I am
afraid I must ask for a double door here to
shut out Master Jacky's noise. I always had
a delicious morning sleep at Sorrento. A
double door will not be very troublesome,
will it, dear Sir John ?"

'* Troublesome ! Not at all ! And what if

J J

it were ? You must have what you Hke.
This is the night nursery," opening a door.
*any improvement you can suggest here ?"

No, this seems all right. There is only
one thing that I must mention. My precious
child must have his head to the north, and
with the cot that way it will be to the south.
And I am afraid I must ask you to have my
bed turned too ; I like to feel that I have
got the magnetic current all right. I always
slept with my head to the north at Corregio ;
and it makes the greatest difference in my
dreams. You have all got your heads to the
north, I hope ?"

'* I never know whether I am north, south,
east, or west," cried Sir John. '' But you
must have what you like, my dear."

They were back in Mrs. John's bedroom
by that time. '' Let's see  which is the
north ?" he added, turning round and round.
'* I'm hanged if I know."

With some difficulty the north was found ;

but the desired aspect proved a very inconvenient
position for the bed, and It was
finally arranged that It should stand In the
middle of the room according to the Indian
fashion.

How I shall miss my cosy little nest at
Sorrento," was the last thing Betty heard as
they all went down stairs again.

Aunt Louise had taken great pains In the
ordering of Mrs. John's first dinner at the
Chase, and the cook had taken great pains
in the dressing of It ; but, somehow, it failed
to hit the lady's fancy. She could not touch
thin soup, and '' salmon cutlets always made
her 111 ;" but although she had some objection
to make to every dish, she contrived to make
a very hearty meal.

In the drawing - room afterwards she
stretched herself on a couch, saying that
she always lay down for half-an-hour after
dinner at Sorrento ; but she did not go to
sleep as Miss Lambton fondly hoped she

would do ; she talked incessantly, and the
first subject she started was the estrangement
between Herbert Otway and Betty.

I really must try what I can do," she
said. "Has anyone tried seriously to bring
you together ?"

I do not wish to discuss the matter. Amy,
if you please," Betty rejoined. " No one
talks of it here, and I do not see why you
should begin."

But I mean to take it up very seriously,,
and as a matter of duty," said Mrs. John.
I am quite sure it only requires a little
judicious management ; and that it is not
likely to get from anyone but myself. I do
hope he will not take it into his head to fall
in love with me. It would be very awkward,
and I have the oddest fancy that he will, you
know. There was such a funny little man at
Sorrento who was quite wild about me. He
used to leave flowers at the villa. Was it
not romantic . I am not sure that he did not

go to Vico and drown himself. A man did
commit suicide there one day."

*' We must not let anything so dreadful
happen to Mr. Otway," said Betty, composedly
; but she felt far from tranquil
inwardly. '' Rather than run such a risk for
him, I should be tempted to come to the
rescue myself!"

*' Oh ! can anyone tell me if Walter Dun-combe
has come to the Hermitage ?" Mrs.
John changed the subject quickly. '* You
know he was in Jack's regiment. He got
the property, we heard, on the death of his
uncle ; but have you seen anything of him ?"

'' We have not seen him," Betty
answered. " I know papa called when he
came home, and he left a card, but he has
been away all the winter."

'' He is expected home this week," said
Miss Lambton. " So Dr. Murray told me
yesterday."

'' I must ask dear Sir John to call again ;

not that he was a very intimate friend  I had
many more intimate in India  but still, it
would be pleasant to see one of the regiment
again."

** Jack did not like him, I think, did he ?''
asked Betty.

* Well, he did, and he didn't," Mrs. John
answered. " He did not like the way he
made love to Rossitur ; but I cannot help
thinking that, if my poor darling had not
interfered, Walter Duncombe would have
married her. She got herself talked about a
little, and her marriage with Pottlnger was
all but broken off; then Jack said he would
not have any playing of fast and loose, and
made her marry. I do not think she ever
forgave him, for of course, she wanted to
marry the gentleman. I wonder what has
become of her ? I cannot help thinking that
she must have seen Walter Duncombe, or
heard of him, in Italy, and that she will turnup
in this neighbourhood before long. I

always said he was fond of her, and she used
to get great influence over people."

Have you a photograph of her?" Betty
asked.

'' No ; but she is really not at all unlike
me," and Mrs. John laughed affectedly. "It
used to make poor dear Jack so savage when
anyone said it ; but if you dressed her up in
my clothes you would take her for me.
Horrid creature ! I have lost all interest in
her, she treated me so badly ; but I should
like to know where she is. You mentioned
someone called Murray just now, Aunt
Louise. Is he your family doctor?"

*' Oh, no ! He is our Rector. A Doctor
of Divinity, and one of our greatest friends.
Mrs. Murray is sure to be here tomorrow to
call upon you. Has Betty told you about
the child she found and brought home ?"

'that Mrs. Murray found? What an odd
thing to find a child. What sort of child ?"

A dear little boy of about two years

old. His mother deserted him at Victoria

Station, and what is the matter, dear ?

Are you not comfortable ?"

*' Quite, thanks, auntie dear. Only there
is a dreadful pin pricking me, and it made
me start. Go on, please. He was found at
Victoria Station by Mrs. Murray, did you
say :

*' Yes ; she found him in the waiting-room,
and they were going to send the poor little
mite to the workhouse, when Mary, that's
Mrs. Murray, said she would take him home ;
and so she did."

'' And the mother has never come forward
to claim him," Betty added.

'rand Mrs. Murray has got him now?
How very good of her to take in a stray
child. Betty, my love, I must ask you to
look for this wretched pin. It has put me
into a fever. I am afraid my new maid is
not very expert."

Betty began to search among Mrs. John's

frills and laces, and presently found the
offending pin.

'thanks so much, dear." She lay silent
and still for about five minutes after that ;
then she suddenly raised herself to a sitting
posture, and said, as she arranged the curls
on her forehead, " Do you know, I cannot
help thinking that the unnatural mother was
Rossitur?" she said, "and that your friend has
brought home little Georgy Porringer ! "

*' But you will recognise him," cried Betty
and her aunt in a breath.

'soh, dear no; I scarcely ever saw the
child  not even at Sorrento," answered Mrs.
John, as she threw herself back on the couch
again.

CHAPTER

1, hetty's troubles

IL llELLA ROSSITUR REAPPEARS .

in.  THE SECRET COMPACT

IV. OnVAY MAKES A PROPOSAL

V-1-OR MUTUAL ACCOMMODATION

VL A PAUSE IN THE GAME .

VII.  MRS. ERSKINE HAS A FAINTING FIT

VIII. MRS. ERSKINE's HEALTH GIVES WAY

IX.- WHAT WAS THE MOTIVE .

X.  WATCHED

XL- MRS. ERSKINE DISCUSSES THE CHANCES OF Till
GAME

Take

I



6i






J 12


CHAPTER

XII. .MRS. Erskine HAS HER WAY

XIII-pottin(;er's search begins
XIV.  A madman's delusion . .

XV.  MRS. ERSKINE Delays A DESPERATE GAME

XVI.-LETTY GIVES UP ALL HOPE

XVII-betty SEES THE TRAIN START

XVIII.  SOMETHING BETTER THAN MUTUAL ACCOMMODA
TION

XIX.  IN THE GARDEN HOUSE .
XX.  THE MAN WITH THE BEARD .
XXI.  AN ASTOUNDING REVELATION .

XXII.- A madman's Revenge

XXIII.  THE CONFESSION

XXIV.  ROSSITUR PLAYS IIRR LAST CARD
XXV. FINIS

Image










CHAPTER I .

hetty's troubles.

"Well, my dear, It seems a long time since
you paid me a visit," said little Miss Masham,
as she ran to meet and welcome Betty, who
unexpectedly appeared just before luncheon.
Have you come to spend the day with me ?
That Is good of you. It Is ages since we had
a gossip."

I am afraid I am getting lazy," Betty
answered. " Every day for the last week, I
y VOL. in. B

"1

said, ' I am going to lunch at the Rosary ;'
but I never appear, as you know."

'' You cannot tear yourself away from the
fascinating Mrs. John, that is the truth !" said
Miss Masham, with a comical look. " Let
me see  how long is it since she came ?"

*' Exactly a month," replied Betty, "and it
seems to me like years. Never since I can
remember have the days seemed so long.
And yet I do nothing. I have no time to
read  at least I do not read, and I never
touch the piano, I cannot settle down comfortably
to anything I seem to myself to be
in a state of constant irritation."

"My poor dear child! You look rather
worried. Do you not get on well with her ?"

Oh, yes ; 1 get on well enough, because I
vowed I would not quarrel, for it would vex
papa. But it is hard," and tears came into
the speakers eyes, "to see him so absorbed
by that woman ! He does not seem to
remember my existence at times ; and I get

SO depressed and lonely !  and I am afraid
rather ill-tempered too, now and then."

'' She certainly has contrived to make
herself indispensable to 'dearest Sir John'"
laughed Miss Masham.

*' Indispensable! I should think so." cried
Betty. " He is perfectly bewitched by her!
I could not have believed it if I had not seen
it. I never ventured in my most spoiled and
petted days to say and do the things she says
and does with impunity. You know Joan,
that housemaid who has been at the Chase
for so long ? For some reason or other,
Amy took a dislike to her, and papa told the
housekeeper yesterday to give her warning.
Aunt Louise and I are so sorry. And, you
know, she said that Jacky's nurse was to
act as her maid ! But not a bit of it ; she
borrows Aunt Louise's so often that poor
auntie has, I may say, given her up altogether.
I mean to speak about that ; I do
not think papa would allow it if he knew."

'' Don't you wish she would get tired of
the Chase, and go away ?"

Oh, she will not do that ! She has got
papa to alter her rooms according to her
taste; and very bad taste it is, in my opinion;
but, perhaps I am prejudiced. The poor
dear man has gone to such trouble and expense
about it all ; but no one is allowed
to speak about that, and the way she
wheedles things out of him is too barefaced."

We must remember that she is your
brother's widow, and a very pretty woman
besides."

Yes ; she is Jack's widow, certainly ; but,
as to the prettiness, it is a matter of opinion,
like her taste. I do not admire her. She
has what I call a cruel face."

Perhaps so ; but it is very handsome.
Her eyes are beautiful."

*you should see the way they glitter
sometimes when auntie makes a remark she
does not like. I do not care about her veiled

insolence to me, but I cannot bear it to
Aunt Louise ! Do you know, she has taken
auntie's place at the head of the table ! I
cannot forgive papa for allowing such a slight
to be put upon her. And he shows Amv
all his letters, and consults her upon business
matters. Every morning after breakfast 
she never comes down, you know  he goes
up to her room for an hour, and talks to her
about the most private family affairs."

Does she never appear at breakfast ?"

" Never. ' I always spent the morning in
my room at Sorrento.' How tired I am of
Sorrento, and what she did there."

*rand about the child? Is she fond of
him ?"

'' Not particularly, I think. She pets and
fondles him before papa, but I have seen her
slapping him until he screamed. The other
day I happened to go into the day nursery,
and there she was, looking like a fury, and
threatening to whip the poor little fellow for

having broken some trumpery toy she bought
for him in the town. She did not look pretty
then, I assure you. The poor Httle mite held
out his arms and ran to me, and that made
her more angry still."

'' What did she do ?"

"Oh! she carried him off into the nursery,
and I suppose she punished him there, for I
heard him crying piteously as I went downstairs.
She is a heartless, selfish creature."

Did you tell your father? He would not
like poor little Jacky to be flogged, I am
sure."

** Yes, I told him ; but he said he was sure
Amy could be trusted to do what was right
by her own child ; that he had perfect confidence
in her judgment ; so there I left
it."

''Do you know you are looking ill and
worried, Betty ? You will lose your good
looks, child, if you do not take care, and then
what will  people say ?"

No one cares very much how I look,"
said Betty, sadly. "Oh, Miss jNIasham, if I
had not been a vain fool, what a happy home
I might have had now with my husband, for
he did care for me when we married."

"And he probably cares now."

"Oh, no! Not now," Betty repeated.
"There is someone he likes better. Not
that I want him to care for me," she added.
"Do not imagine that; but, of course, I
cannot help seeing now how foolish I was to
behave as I did, and a man like Mr. Otway
is not likely to forget or forgive such conduct.
I used to think he had no spirit, but I found
out my mistake."

"And you like him all the better for it,"
put in Miss Masham.

** There is no question of liking between
us," answered Betty, decidedly. " But I do
want to find out what is best for his happiness.
He may want to marry some other
woman."

*' Then the best thing you can do Is to ask
him, my dear."

'not for the world!" cried Betty. "Let
him speak."

I have no doubt he will in time," said
Miss Masham. " But I confess he is longer
making up his mind than I expected. By the
way, your aunt told me he was coming down
to be introduced to Mrs. John. Is that so?"

'' Yes, early next week ; and you have no
idea how much I dread seeing him before
her ! She threatens to make love to him
herself; to force us, or ridicule us, into reconciliation
; so you may imagine what I shall
have to go through ! And she can say such
ill-bred things when she is not on her guard.
She never lets papa hear them, but she is less
particular before auntie and I. She called
that poor little child such an ugly name the
other day, and when I said * Why do you say
that, Amy?' she said, ' Oh, for fun, of course.'
I was dreadfully shocked !"

'that reminds me  I always forget to
ask  she has seen Mrs. Murray's founding,
I suppose? Has she recognised him as
Rossitur's child ?"

'' No ; she says she cannot be certain ; but
I cannot help thinking that he recognised
her. He stretched out his arms to her the
moment he saw her, and said " Gib Dacky ;"
but Mary Murray declares he says it to
everyone! It is rather odd, too, when he
sees the gardener he calls out, ' Pot ! Dacky
go to Pot !' They make quite a joke of his
'going to Pot' at the Rectory. But, if he
is little George Porringer, why does he call
himself Dacky ?"

It may not mean his name."

But I think it must mean it, for that is
what our little Jacky called himself the other
day."

"And does Mrs. John know nothing of
Mrs. Porringer?"

She said, yesterday I think it was, she

had heard privately that Rossltur was Having
in Great Centre Bridge, and she meant to go
over some day  I am not sure that she was
not going to-day  to see if she could find
her. But why should she be in Great
Centre Bridge when her people live in
Stillingfort ?"

'' But is not her father dead ?"

*eyes; he died quite suddenly about a
fortnight after young Charles Rossitur and
his wife sailed for Australia. I am so glad
that poor fellow is over his troubles. Then
Alice, the other sister, married the eldest son
of Lord Stillingfort's steward, and she and he
keep on the farm. Dr. Murray told all this
to me, and he has ascertained that Bella
Rossitur has never been to Stillingfort. And
now I must go. Can I drive you into town ?
I am happy .to say that I have my dear ' Fire
and Smoke' still. The only thing that papa
will not allow Amy to interfere in is the
stable. He has his own way there. She

actually wanted him to put down auntie's
basket carriage, on the score of expense."

As the two ladies were driving through
the High Street, Betty suddenly exclaimed,
"Why; there is Amy alone in a railway-fly;
I wonder where she has been."

'' Perhaps to Great Centre Bridge, to look
after Rossitur," said Miss Masham ; "you said
she was thinking of going to-day. How
handsome she is looking ! You cannot deny
it, Betty ; she is a beautiful woman."

BELLA ROSSITUR REAPPEARS.

That same afternoon, Walter Duncombe,
of whom passing mention has already been
made In this story, was lunching alone at the
Hermitage. He had come Into possession
of the beautiful old house and fine property
upon the death of his eccentric and not very
reputable old uncle; but, with the exception
of a flying visit occasionally, Stoneshire had
seen nothing of him ; now, however, he had
made up his mind to settle permanently In the
county  to become known, and popular if
possible, among the country gentry  to entertain,
and be entertained, and, in due time, to
marry.

It may here be mentioned that the Hermitage

was the principal place, and the
Buncombe were the principal people in
Great Centre Bridge, as the Chase was the
principal place, and the Erskiness the principal
people of the smaller town.

Walter was a handsome dark man, tall and
well-made, but somehow horsey and fast-looking
 but all the Buncombe were the
same ; he had not introduced the traits into
the family. He was not more than five-and-thirty,
but in appearance he was ten years
older ; a man who not only knew a great deal
about the seamy side of life, but enjoyed his
knowledge, and would be in no way averse
to add to it if opportunity offered.

He did not look forward with very great
pleasure to the life of a country gentleman ;
he was aware that, before all things, he must
be respectable if he wished to be tolerated
and received as an inmate, or even as an acquaintance,
at the houses of his neighbours 
and to be respectable was to be dull. His

uncle had not been respectable, and he was
not noticed by anyone ; but then of late years,
owing to ill health and moroseness of temper,
the old man's life had been as dull as if he
had been a pattern of all the virtues all his
Hfe.

But in spite of his dread of the dulness of
ultra respectability, Walter Duncombe had in
his heart an unexpressed desire so to live and
conduct himself that the somewhat tarnished
name he bore might shine out with fresh
lustre ; and many and many a time he said
to himself, " Everything depends upon the
woman I marry."

And how often during the past ten years
he had been on the brink of marriage with a
woman who would drag him down instead of
raising him, no one knew as well as he himself.
He had unfeignedly rejoiced over his
many deliverance except on one occasion,
when Jack Erskine interfered to prevent his
marriage with Bella Rossitur, who was, at

the time, lady's maid to the beautiful Amy
Gordon, to whom Erskine was enofaofed,
Walter called himself an ill-used man.

Never before nor since had he seen a
woman like Bella in any rank of life. Something
in her to which he could not give a
name, over and above her mere physical
beauty, had attracted him ; she had so much
"go;" such pluck and determination; and
yet, in spite of it all, she had allowed herself
to be persuaded or bullied into marrying a
common soldier ! True, she was engaged to
him before she left England, but what of
that ? Walter never understood how she
had been talked into becoming George
Porringer's wife ; he might have found out
if he had not been so angry that he actually
went out of his way to avoid a meeting
with her by starting for England on sick
leave ; and, before the time came for him to
go back to India, his uncle died, and he left
the service without delay.

She must have been told by some meddling
fool  Jack Erskine, perhaps  that his intentions
were not honourable ; and as she
was not quite without foundation for any
doubts of him that may have existed in her
own mind, she was perhaps too strongly
tempted to resist the pressure that was put
upon her.

The episode in his Indian life connecting
him with Bella Rossitur had been brought
back to his mind by a rumour that reached
him of Mrs. John Erskine's arrival at the
Chase. He had heard of young John's
death at Simla, but not of Porringer's in-insanity
; so he did not know whether
Rossitur had accompanied her mistress to
England or remained in India with her
husband. If the latter, so much the better
perhaps ; but the chances were that Mrs.
Erskine would not part with her. If that
were the case he might see her any day,
and then  why, then he was Buncombe of

the Hermitage, and there could not be any
renewal of the old friendship and familiar
intercourse between him and Mrs. John
Erskine's maid. But he must find out if she
was at the Chase ; the knowledge might
prove useful.

He was waited on at luncheon by the
venerable butler who had been for years his
uncle's '' factotum'' and who was likely to
hold office at the Hermitage as long as he
lived.

'' Has anyone called lately, Ellis ?" Dun-combe
asked. 'rit was announced in the
StonesJiire Me7'cicry a fortnight ago that I
had taken up my residence here, and someone
may have looked me up on the strength
of it."

I left some cards on the library table,"
Ellis answered, "and Sir John Erskine rode
over the day before yesterday, and said he
would come another day soon."

"Anyone with him, Ellis?"

VOL. in. G

"No, sir ; ' he was alone. He is looking
very well now, Sir John is. He took the
Captain's death terribly to heart, but he's
getting over it now. He says to me, ' Ellis,
we must keep Mr. Duncombe at home now ;
it's a pity this fine place should be standing
empty.' "

'' Perhaps he would not enjoy being alone
in these big rooms himself," Duncombe
replied, with a laugh, 'rand he. may not like
all my friends when he sees them. By the
way, Ellis, is Mrs. John Erskine at the
Chase now ? The poor Captain's widow. I
used to know her out in India."

Oh, yes, sir ! She's there now," Ellis
replied, delighted to have some news to tell.
'' She came with her little boy  the heir he is
now  about a month ago ; and people do say
that Sir John Is very much taken up with her."

'' Have you seen her, Ellis ?''

'' No, sir ; but I am told she is a fine
handsome young woman."

*' Yes ; she's a pretty woman. Has she
brought any servants with her, do you
know ?"

''I do not know, sir, for certain ; but I
understand she has her own maid."

I must go over and call tomorrow or
next day."

'' Her own maid," he said to himself, as
for amusement after luncheon he set to work
to examine the condition of some half-dozen
guns he had taken from their cases and
put together. "Her own maid! Bella, of
course. Now, what had I better do ? Ask
Mrs. John for her boldly, and pretend I have
forgotten all the circumstances connected
with her marriage to what's-his-name, the
soldier ? That will be my wisest course, all
things considered ; but it will be awkward if
I stumble upon her anywhere about the
house or grounds. I could not be cad
enough to pass her by. And I was fond of
her in those days. Poor Bella! If she had

but trusted me I believe she would have been
Mrs. Duncombe now ! But, perhaps she
hadn't too much reason, for I kept shilly-shallying
and hanging back, and women in
her place don't like that sort of thing. I wish
I hadn't come home just now. I want to be a
good boy and marry one of the county ladies,
and keep up the old name if I can ; but if I
see her again I am just as likely as not to
make a fool of myself! I believe I would
marry her tomorrow if she were a widow.
So I hope with all my heart, the husband 
Porringer, that's his name  is alive and well.
Bella Porringer! What a combination ! And
how she hated the fellow ! She had a temper
of her own, too ! I think I must ask Mrs.
John how she is if only to make sure that she
is at the Chase. She may be in India with
Porringer and the regiment. Poor Bella !
How she cried the last time we met. I
should like to see her once more just to tell
her that she need not have believed everything

Jack Erskine said about me ; and I

liked her Well, Ellis, what is it ?

Anyone called ?"

'' Well, no, sir ; not exactly. None of the
gentry, if you please, sir."

Some of the townsfolk  eh ?"

'* No, sir. It's only a young person  that
Is, sir, I mean, a young lady  who wishes to
see you for five minutes on business."

A young lady ! What sort of a young
lady, Ellis?"

'' That is just what I can't make out, sir.
She speaks just like a lady, but then "

Young ladles In these parts do not call
upon young gentlemen, I understand ? Very
proper, too. Just go and find out her name,
Ellis, will you ? No, don't do that ; show
her into the library and say I am coming. I
must just wash my hands. I daresay she
has come for a subscription," he added, as
Ellis left the groom. "Well; if she's a
pretty girl I'll give her a fat cheque. If

not, a couple of sons. will do. Now then'*
He went up the long stone passage that led
from the groom to the great hall, whistling
a tune. The woman who was waiting for
him In the library heard him the moment he
came through the swing-door at the end of
the passage, and, with a rapid turn of her
hand, she threw back the thick veil that hid
her face ; then she stood still and waited.

The whistling ceased as Duncombe's hand
touched the handle of the door ; it turned
and he came in saying, '' I beg your pardon
for keeping "

But the apology was never finished. The
next words that passed his lips were 

In the name of all that's wonderful, Bella
Rossltur, Is It you ?"

'' Mrs. Porringer, If you please, sir," Rossl-
tur answered, as she dropped a little curtsey.

THE SECRET COMPACT.

Bewildered by the sudden and wholly
unexpected appearance of the woman of
whom he had been thinking more or less
all the morning, Walter Duncombe, after
his first exclamation of surprise and her
reply, remained silent, gazing at her. She,
on her part, looked earnestly, even gravely,
at him; and, by the flush on her cheeks and
the glitter of her eyes, it could be seen
that she was labouring under great excitement.


I was never more surprised in all my
life!" Duncombe said, at last. "But won't
you shake hands, Bella? What do you
mean by dropping your curtsey to me ?"

** Because I am only a servant," she
replied, "and you are a gentleman."

Servant  gentleman !" he repeated. " It
was not so In the old days In Calcutta, Bella ;
but perhaps you do not care to speak of them."

I did not come here to speak of them,"
she answered, quickly. " It is better not
even to think of them. No good can come
of it now."

'that is Impossible," he replied, quickly,
in his turn. " I was thinking of them and of
you, when I was told a lady had called to seeme.
You come from the Chase, of course.
How did you manage It ? Does Mrs. Erskine
know ?''

Rossltur smiled. '' I have nothing to do
with Mrs. Erskine now. I left her at
Sorrento ; she knows nothing of me, and I
do not wish her to know."

'' But she is at the Chase, I hear."

'eyes; she is there with her little boy.
Are you not going to see her ?"

I must call, I suppose. But now that I
know you are no longer with her I am in no
hurry. I was wondering if I should see you
when I went over."

"You will not hear much in my favour
from Mrs. John," answered Rossitur, quietly,
as she fixed her eyes upon his face.

*' Indeed ! Is that so? I am glad you
told me. What do you wish me to do under
those circumstances, Bella ?" And, as he
spoke, he tried to take her hand, but she
would not let him.

'' Under those circumstances it is as well
that you should know no good of me
either."

"All right! I'll abuse you up hill and
down dale if you like ; and with all the more
venom if you tell me where you live and
allow me to see you sometimes."

I came here to give you my address,"
she said, "but I do not wish to be known
at the Chase, of course. I came to tell

you more than my address," she added,
significantly. " I suppose I can trust you?"

*' What reason have I ever given you to
doubt me, Bella?"

'' What reason ?" she echoed, with a touch
of bitterness. " Every reason ; and yet I
am going to trust you more fully now, at
least in one way, than I did in the old days
we both remember. Did you not leave me
to marry a man I hated, and that, too, after
you swore I should be your wife ?"

And I meant that you should. I could
not marry you at once, but I swear to you
now I meant to do it ; you know I loved you,
and I "

Do not talk about it now," she interrupted,
again repulsing him as he tried to
take her hand. 'rit may be all true, but I
have learned not to put much faith in men
when they talk about love. I came to tell
you a great secret to - day ; but as soon as
you know, you will have it in your power

to betray me, and have me driven out of
Stoneshire."

"If you are not betrayed until 1 betray
you, Bella, you are safe for ever. Shall I
swear it ?"

*' No, your word is enough ; and if you
play me false I cannot help it." Then she
rose suddenly.

'' What !" he cried. " You are not going ?
I thought you were going to confide in me
now."

'eyes," she said, 'but not here. I never
speak within four walls if I can help it. The
last time we met in Calcutta our conversation
was overheard, so I am cautious now. I
am going to walk to Great Centre Bridge
station," she added, as she pulled down her
thick veil, "and if you come with me part of
the way I can talk to you without fear of
being overheard. No one knows me about
here, and you need not come into the town."

You must arrange it as you like," he said.

*' If you think it better for us not to be seen
together so be it. Shall v/e start now ."

He picked up a soft hat as they passed
through the hall, and they went out of the
house together. At the end of about twenty
minutes they might have been seen standing
at a gate which led from a plantation to the
high road not a hundred yards from one of
the Great Centre Bridge railway stations.
It was the station of what was known as the
local line.

He was holding her hand, for they were
about to say good-bye. '' You may trust me,
Bella," he was saying, 'but I have already
given you my word. I am even ready to
abuse you most cordially to Mrs. John
Erskine if you think well of It !" and as he
spoke he burst out laughing. "It Is a joke to
arrange it all with you beforehand."

*' Say anything except that you have seen
me. Or stay ; you may say you caught a
glimpse of me one day in Great Centre

Bridge, and that I disappeared suddenly.
And be sure you say I had my little boy
with me ; that is very important."

All right ; he is able to walk, I suppose.
Do you know, Bella ?" he added, suddenly.
I am awfully shocked to hear that poor
beggar is in a mad house."

My husband ? The worst of it is, that
he may get better, you know ; for when he is
at large again, the real danger begins. If he
finds "out where I am, lie will not hold his
tongue."

'' But remember," and Duncombe put his
left hand on her shoulder while, with his
right, he held hers tightly as in a vice.
No one is bound to believe what a madman,
or a man who has once been mad, says.
He may be under a delusion akuays, may he
not ?"

A sudden light came into Rossitur's eyes,,
and she looked as if she had heard the solution
of a difficult puzzle. '' I never thought

of that," she said. " A delusion ! That is it,
of course. But he may not think of coming
here to look for me ; he will not, unless he
hears that Mrs. John is at home. Now I
must go. Good-bye."

'' But not for long, Bella," he pleaded. " I
must have some compensation, remember,
if I speak ill-naturedly of you to Mrs. Erskine.
I must see you in this way  alone."

Leave it all to me," she said, '' I am
good at expedients. But I cannot come
here ; you must come to me."

'' Willingly, Bella. At any hour, morning,
noon or night, I am at your service. Goodbye."


'' I have played my most risky card and
won with it," said Rossitur to herself, as she
passed into the Great Centre Bridge station
alone.

Has Mrs. John Erskine come in ?" said
Miss Lambton to the servant who brought

in afternoon tea. Betty and Miss INIasham
were with her.

The servant replied that Mrs. Erskine had
come in just before Mrs. Otway, and had
desired him to say that she would be down
in a few minutes.

And in a very few minutes she appeared,
dressed in a becoming tea - gown of soft
ivory-coloured cashmere, trimmed with cascades
of creamy - looking lace, and pale
lavender ribbon ; over her pretty fair hair
she wore a small half-handkerchief of fine
black lace, fastened with pearl pins.

''Oh! I am so tired!" she said, as she
threw herself into a low, soft chair. " Aunt
Louise, why did you let me go to that horrid
place by myself?"

My dear, you said you must go alone !"

Did I ? I know I thought it very unkind
of neither you nor Betty to offer to come
with me. I was very plainly dressed, but
still, people stared."

I am very sorry, my dear. But did you
find Rossltur? Is she there?"

*' I believe I found where she Is living
under a false name. We are talking of my
former maid," Mrs. John turned to Miss
Masham to explain. " I heard she was In
lodgings In Great Centre Bridge, so I went
to look for her ; I want to find out what she
Is doing, and If she has her child with her ;
you know I think that Is her boy Mrs.
Murray picked up In London."

And you did not find her ?"

No ; and the lodging-house keeper was
very odd In her manner, I thought. At first
she said there was no one In the house called
Porringer, but when I said ' Miss Rossltur,'
she made a confused sort of answer, and I
could only gather that she had gone out
about an hour before with a thick veil on.
But, If she Is there, she has no child with her ;
of that I am sure."

'rand so you had your journey for nothing,"

said Miss Lambton. '' Dear me !
How very provoking."

"I do not feel comfortable, somehow,"
Mrs. John continued, " while she is in the
neighbourhood ; but I think it better not
to take any more trouble about it, don't
you. Aunt Louise ? Ah ! here comes dear
Sir John with the afternoon letters and
papers. Not any for me, I suppose ?"

'eyes, there is one from America  from
your sister, Mrs. Tom Otway. And I have
a note from Herbert Otway to say he is
coming down tomorrow for a week if we
can do with him."

Mrs. John was reading her letter. " How
odd !" she said. '' My sister and Tom want
to know if those two stupid people  meaning
you, Betty and Herbert  have made it up
yet. I really must set to work and see
what I can do."

VOL. III. D

OTWAY MAKES A PROPOSAL.

Before Otway had been two days at the
Chase, Betty's life was made so unendurable
by her sister-in-law's behaviour, that she felt
as if she could not remain in the house until
the close of his visit. And it was intolerable,
too, that he should sit calmly by while Mrs.
John talked at her, if not to her, and indulged
occasionally in innuendos that were
neither very kind nor very lady-like. The
girl knew that It was of very little use to
complain to her father, for he always took
Amy's part ; but when at last, goaded beyond
endurance, she made a passionate appeal to
him to interfere and to desire Mrs. John to
give up her persecution, he simply laughed

at her, and said she ought to be very much
obliged to Amy for trying to bring her and
her husband together.

Poor Betty rushed away in tears to kind
Miss Lambton for consolation. '' He does
not care for anyone but Amy !" she sobbed
out, as she threw herself on the ground and
hid her flushed face in her aunt's gown, just
as she used to do in a fit of childish trouble
when she was a tiny girl. '' I was ashamed
to tell him that she tries to flirt with Herbert
before my very eyes ! Do yoic not see,
Auntie, the way she looks at him, and she is
always sending for him to go to her in her
own sitting-room ? Oh, Auntie, if I could but
go away somewhere ! I used to be so happy,
and now I am so miserable ! Who is that ?''
and she raised her head suddenly. " Someone
came in, surely."

"Yes, dear; Mr. Otway ; but he went
away directly. I dare say he thought we
wanted to be alone."

Oh ! I hope he did not hear what I
said, or know that I was crying," exclaimed
Betty. "He will go to her now and triumph
over me. I feel as If I could kill myself!
Oh, papa  papa ! to think that you can let
me be treated in this way by that odious
woman "

Hush ! Hush  my dear child "

"She is odious, Auntie! She cannot have
a nice mind or she would not say the things
she does sometimes."

But you are quite wrong, dear, if you
think Herbert Otway likes her. I know he
does not."

*' How do you know ? Did he tell you
so?"

"Well, not exactly; but I gather it from
something he said."

What was it. Auntie } Oh, please, tell
me."

"It was nothing very particular. He only
said he could quite understand now how it

was she had got the reputation of being
rather fast in India, that is all."

Then he must have noticed how she
talked to Walter Buncombe the evening he
dined here ; but then they knew one another
in India before she was married, so I do not
think much of that."

You were not at home this morning
when Mr. Duncombe called  it was only
last night he dined here, you know  and
Amy sent for him to go to her upstairs. He
was with her for about half-an-hour, and
when they came down together they were
in fits of laughter ! Your father was really
very angry, although he did not say much.
As soon as Mr. Duncombe went away, he
told her that he did not think she ought
to receive visitors, gentlemen especially, in
her private sitting - room. She was very
sulky, and said she did not see any harm

in it."

I do not think papa likes Mr, Dun-combe

; but did you notice, Auntie, how he
and Amy talked of that woman Rossitur, last
night ? Perhaps you were not listening.
Mr. Buncombe said he saw her the other
day in Great Centre Bridge with her little
boy, and Amy said she was sure it was
Rossitur's little boy Mrs. Murray found at
Victoria Station, and that if she was in the
neighbourhood she was up to some mischief.
Then Mr. Duncombe defended her a little, I
thought, and so they went on for a long time;
but it did not seem to me as if either of them
was in earnest. I wonder if he really saw
her in Great Centre Bridge, or mistook
someone for here's"

Well ; you know Amy went there to look
for her, but she could not find her ; there is
something very mysterious about her and her
child. Don't you think so ?"

'eyes, very; and I think Mr. Duncombe
is inclined to fall in love with Amy ! I
wonder what papa will say to that !"

He will not like it. I believe he wishes
her to remain a widow."

'rand I dare say she will make him
believe that she does not want to marry
again. Oh, dear ! how I wish Herbert
Otway's visit was over ! But I am going
to drive over presently to the Rosary
and stay with Miss Masham until he is
gone."

It was useless for Miss Lambton to advise
and remonstrate. Betty was determined, and
when the party assembled for dinner it was
announced by Aunt Louise that Betty had
driven over to spend a few days with her old
friend.

Otway said nothing. Amy laughed. " You
do not manage that self-willed daughter of
yours very well, dearest Sir John," she said,
in the soft caressing tone she always used
when she addressed her father-in-law.

Louise, you must go over the first thing
tomorrow and bring her back !" he said.

angrily. '' I am not going to be treated with
such disrespect in my own house by a chit of
a girl !"

Miss Lambton, however, did not go over
to the Rosary next morning, but Otway did.
He was shown into the drawing-room, where
Betty was seated alone, with an open book
on her lap. She coloured up when she saw
him, and the stony expression of indifference,
if not of dislike, that always pained him so
deeply, settled on her face.

'*I am sorry to disturb you at such an
hour," he said, politely, "but I am glad to
find you alone, as I want to speak to you on
a matter of business ; and also, I have to tell
you that your father wishes you to come
home at once."

"Yes, he wishes me to come, but he does
not want me !" Betty broke in, " and I wish
to stay here. I am tired. I want to be
quiet for a few days. There is never any
peace at home now."

"The Chase Is certainly altered," Otway
said. '' I notice It myself."

*' We live In a sort of whirlwind since Amy
came !" said Betty. *' There Is no punctuality
no regularity! If there were a hundred
servants In the house she would want all of
them to wait upon her, and would drive them
all read. And papa Indulges her In everything
! She does exactly what she likes, and
what she says Is law. Poor dear auntie Is
quite a cipher, and as for me "

'she Is not very nice to you, I must say,"
put In Otway, '' but It would not be hard to
find a reason for It.

'' I should not care about her manner tome,"
said poor Betty, with difficulty keeping
back her tears, "but It Is hard to have papa's
love taken from me. She Is everything to
him now. Everything she does Is right ;
everything she says Is listened to."

I confess I am surprised to see the Influence
she has gained In such a very short

time ; but I suppose he was very much
attached to your poor brother, and that he
has transferred the affection he felt for him to
his widow."

*' I wish you would tell me what you really
think of her," said Betty, impulsively, after
a pause. " I know I am prejudiced. I
cannot like her !"

'' I think she is remarkably handsome, but
I do not particularly admire her. She will
create quite a sensation when she comes out
in London, I fancy ; for her beauty is of a
very uncommon type."

'' I was not thinking of her beauty," said
Betty. '' I think myself, sometimes, she is
lovely ! I want to know what you think of
her  whether you like her ?"

'* I do not think she is what one calls
'thoroughbred'" he answered, after a
moment's hesitation. '' She is not vulgar
in voice or appearance, but I am very much
mistaken if she is not vulgar in mind, and

also uneducated. She has a certain amount
of cleverness just on the surface, but it would
be very easy to get her out of her depth
if one were ill-natured enough to try ; but it
is impossible, you know, to be ill-natured to a
pretty woman !"

Naturally, Betty did not see the matter
from that point of view  she found very little
difficulty in being ill-natured to Mrs. John 
so she made no answer.

But I did not come here this morning to
discuss your sister-in-law's charms," Otway
continued. " I came, literally, to see you on
business. I emphasize the word lest you
should misunderstand me in any way, and I
am particularly anxious to make my meaning
perfectly clear. It will make it the more easy
for you to consider dispassionately the proposal
I am about to make, and I hope you
believe me when I say that I should be
very sorry to give you unnecessary pain or
discomfort."

Betty's cheeks grew very white, and her
heart for a second seemed to stop beating ;
then it gave a great throb, and the blood
rushed again to her pale face. Had it come,
then, at last ? Was he going to tell her that
he was about to take steps to have their
marriage dissolved ?

'' You are very kind," she murmured, ina
husky whisper, and he went on in a
calm business-like tone and unembarrassed
manner : 

I think you are aware that when I
married I gave up my ' flat ' in Victoria
Street, and took a house in Rutland Gate.
It is a large house ; too large for a married
bachelor, if I may call myself so. I go out a
great deal, and I am anxious to make some
return to my friends for the hospitality I
receive ; but I cannot entertain properly, or
pleasantly either, without a lady to take the
head of my table and to do the honours.
Besides, I want to be able to ask ladies to

Stay with me if I wish. Now, what I came
to propose to you is this  and I must again
ask you to remember that the arrangement is
purely one of business ; duty has hardly any
place in it, and affection need not be named,
as it does not exist. I propose that as you
are legally the mistress of my house, you
should come and take that position at Rutland
Gate. I want you to be good enough to
send out invitations for me ; to receive my
guests for me and with me ; to sit at the
head of my table, and to appear with me
sometimes in public. I promise you absolute
control over everything, and absolute freedom.
If I ask you to do anything you
dislike by all means refuse to do it, and you
need not give me any reason. In the same
way I am to do as I like without question.
You are fond of the theatre and the opera ;
you can go to both as often as you please,
and you can have any amount of pretty
gowns ; and if you will allow me sometimes

to ride or drive out with you, it will make a
good impression. I think you will be happier
in some respects than you are here, for I can
see that your sister-in-law does not make
things very pleasant for you ; but in London
I think you will find life agreeable, and I
shall do my best to make it so ; that is if I
find it possible, without intruding myself personally
too much upon you. I know a great
many people who are worth knowing. May
I hope for your consent to this little plan of
mine for mutual accommodation ?"

During this somewhat long explanation,
Betty's feelings went under a complete
change ! She passed so rapidly from misery
to happiness that she was now half-afraid to
look up lest he should read her heart. To
be near him  to see him every day! With
so much happiness she could bear to be unloved
! She could love on in secret, and
some day, perhaps, when she was an old, old
woman  she forgot that he would be an old,

old man  and there was no further need for
pride, she might tell him what he had been
to her for so many years. And above all,
she had now the certainty that, although he
was perfectly Indifferent to her, he did not
want to get rid of her in order to marry
again ! He wished her to be the mistress of
his house.

Her silence seemed long, but as she
was looking down he could feast his eyes
upon her sweet thoughtful face. " I am
afraid " he began at last.

Then she raised her eyes and looked at
him, and without a trace of emotion or
excitement, answered quietly, '' I think your
plan is a very good one, and I am ready to
go to Rutland Gate at any time you name."

'thank you, very much; the sooner the
better. Hoping for your consent, I ventured
to have a suite of rooms specially prepared
for your reception ; so, if you like, you can
come up to town with me. And now I must

go ; I may tell Sir John you will be home
to-day, I suppose ?"

And he was gone before she could say
another word.

FOR MUTUAL ACCOMMODATION.

I QUITE understand, my dear ; you need not
take so much trouble to explain it all. It is
a purely business arrangement. In fact, you
rather dislike one another than otherwise."
That was what Miss Masham said when
Betty told her what Otway had come over to
propose.

"He was most careful to impress upon me
that it was simply for mutual accommodation ;
he suggested the plan ; he sees I am not very
happy at home now ; he wants to entertain
ladies, and that he cannot do unless the house
has a mistress."

Quite so, my dear. I understand perfectly.
You are to make yourself agreeable

'' ' UIRS1TY OFiLL!r:c



to his lady friends, and I have no doubt you
will acquit yourself admirably. It will be
very easy for you to make the house pleasant
for women, because, no matter how attentive
and devoted he is to any one of the charming
creatures who come to your parties, you will
not be jealous. And if you should take it
into your head to set up little flirtations
on your own account, he will not feel
aggrieved. Decidedly, I think this ' mutual
accommodation ' is much better than being

in love and married in the common ordinary

I"
way !

I like it much better," said Betty,
decidedly. '' He is to do as he likes,
and I am to do as I like."

*' How delightful ! Why, my dear, you
will set the fashion ! Marriage on the
mutual accommodation system, which means
liberty of action and no questions asked,
will be the rage presently. I am curious
to see how it works ; but you must take

great care not to fall in love or It will
spoil everything ! I suppose there is no
fear of that ; he has got over his little
weakness for you, and you never had a
weakness for him, so there is no reason
why you should not keep comfortably Indifferent."


'' We are quite sure to do that," Betty
remarked. She was so ridiculously happy
she could scarcely keep her lips from echoing
the merry song her heart was singing. Miss
Masham noticed the light In her eyes, and
the glow on her cheeks, and she mentally
wished the mutual accommodation 'good
speed."

'' They will soon find one another out
when they are together every day," she
said to herself. " But, dear me ! the man
Is as blind as a mole not to see that she
cares for him."

And Otway was blind ; or rather, he was
perhaps afraid to believe that he saw. Nothing

Betty said, or seemed capable of saying,
could efface from his memory what she had
said on their wedding-day. As often as he
made up his mind to try again, that miserable
quarter-of-an-hour In the drawing-room of
the cottage at Richmond came back to him,
and he checked his ardour by the question,
What proof have I that she likes me better
now :

But the longing to have her near him, to
be able to show her to an admiring world as
his own, although in heart and in actual life
they were still estranged, grew too strong
to be resisted ; and when he saw how unhappy
she was made by the presence of her
sister-in-law at the Chase, he ventured to
ground his proposal upon her altered life at
home, as well as upon his need for a mistress
at Rutland Gate.

When he told Sir John that he and Betty
had made up their minds to live together, the
old man said, '' Come to your senses at last,

have you ? I'm sure I am very glad, for
Betty's temper hasn't Improved of late, and
she makes everyone, and especially poor dear
Amy  who has the temper of an angel, I
must say  very uncomfortable !"

Then he kissed his daughter when she
came back from the Rosary, and told her to
be a good girl, and In that prosaic fashion the
old home life came to an end.

Mrs. John took all the credit to herself.
*' If I had not just laughed at them and
bullied them as I did, they would have gone
on as they were until doomsday ! Don't talk
nonsense to me about your business arrangements,
Betty. Herbert Otway Is not a fool,
if you are," and with this refined and sister-like
little speech Betty took care the conversation
should end.

Aunt Louise cried bitterly at the thought
of parting with her darling. " But I am
glad you are going," she said, "very glad I
am sure he will make you happy. Oh,

yes, I know all about that," she added, as
Betty began to explain, for the hundredth
time, that it was not for happiness, but
'accommodation," the arrangement had been
made. " But I like to believe in my own
version."

And so it was that the two principals
alone had faith in their own complete indifference.


It was a very strange experience to Betty
to pack up all her little treasures, her books
and music, and to leave the Chase with
Otway. She could scarcely believe that she
was really going to make his house her home,
even when she found herself alone with him
in the railway-carriage, and listened to him
as he talked to her of how they were to set
about this new life of theirs. He suggested
that she should send out '' at home" cards,
"as if you had just come to town from your
wedding-tour," he said, with a little laugh.
"It is much better to treat the affair in a

matter of fact, business-like manner. Do
you not think so ?"

Betty said she was quite of that opinion.

'rand you had better be presented at the
next Drawing-room," he went on. ''I do not
care much for these Court functions myself,
but, as you were presented as Miss Erskine,
you had better appear a second time as Mrs.
Herbert Otway. As soon as people know
you are in town, the only thing you will
have to do is to keep your engagements from
clashing. By-the-bye, I think you would do
well to be at home one evening in the week ;
we will send out cards to everyone we know,
and those who wish to come will come. My
friends are chiefly among the literary and
the legal set ; I do not know many of the
'heavy swells,' but I assure you my set is
a very agreeable one. There is one friend
of mine," he continued, after a pause, " a
very old friend, who will be sure to call
upon you the moment she hears you are in

town. I think you know her by name 
Mrs. Ogilvey."

Do you wish me to be her friend ?" Betty
asked, coldly.

'* By no means, my dear child !" Otway
answered, briskly. " On the contrary, I do
not wish you to be more than civil to her.
She will probably try to be Intimate, but I
think there are many people you will prefer
to her."

The mention of Mrs. Ogllvey's name
brought the first cloud over Betty's satisfaction
in the arrangement for mutual accommodation
; but she would not allow herself
to dwell upon It.

Otway's carriage came to meet them at
Victoria, but Betty drove in it alone to
Rutland Gate. Otway took a hansom, and
he was at the house before her. His manner
had already grown colder and more formal,
and Betty, quick to notice the change, grew
cold and formal also. He took her to the

drawing-rooms and said he hoped she would
like the furniture and decorations ; and indeed
to find fault with either was impossible.
Betty thought she had never seen prettier
rooms.

'' I dine out to-day," Otway said, he did
not give her much time to inspect her new
kingdom, "and I have an evening engagement
also ; but I shall be home for half-an-hour
about ten o'clock, if you will allow me
to see you for a few minutes." Then he rang
the bell. " The housekeeper will take you
to your own rooms," he said, as if to explain
the action, " and be good enough to
remember that you are the mistress of the
house. Give what orders you like without
any reference to me."

As the housekeeper came into the room,
he left it and went downstairs.

The same night, at a few minutes before
ten, he let himself in with his latch-key, and
as soon as he had read one or two letters that

were waiting for him, he went upstairs. He
was more excited than he knew, or even suspected,
at the thought that Betty was In the
long-unused rooms he had prepared for her
with such pride before his marriage, and
probably expecting him. He must keep a
strict guard over himself, and not give her
the poor triumph of discovering that love for
her was still. In spite of all his boasting, the
ruling passion of his heart ! He had done
his very best to conquer it ; he had even
tried to devote himself to another woman,
but every effort to subdue the flame seemed
to make it burn more fiercely. ''If she were
but kind to me without loving me," he
thought, ' It would be less hard. But then
it would be the old story over again. I am
such a fool about her that if I once give way
she will despise me even more than she does
now ; and I gave her too much cause before.
No, I must be a man, not a milk-sop ; but I
know if I see her admired by other men, and

if it gets known that ours is a true marriage
of convenience, she will be beset by "

He was at the top of the stairs by that
time, and just about to open the drawing-room
door, when he heard a merry peal of
laughter within. That was Betty's laugh,
and he had not heard such a joyous ring in it
since her marriage. Indeed, he was not
sure that he had heard her laugh since she
became his wife. Following the laugh came
her voice ; she was speaking to someone, and
that someone was a man.

Otway frowned. He had told her to do
as she liked, and here, on the very first
evening she had a visitor. How long had
he been there, and who was he ? Had she
written to him to say she was coming to
town? If so, the fellow had not lost much
time. But he was not going to leave him
there ; if he could not turn him out he could
at least make a third.

Again Betty laughed joyously, and her

companion joined. They were at the height
of their merriment when Otway opened the
door and walked in. Betty, in a becoming
evening dress of soft black stuff which
harmonized to perfection with her beautiful
pure complexion and bright eyes, was seated
opposite to a young man who also wore
evening clothes. Never had she looked
more bewitchingly pretty ; more perfectly
happy ; more entirely at her ease.

She rose when Otway came in ; her
companion rose also, and went forward with
hand outstretched ; but Otway seemed little
disposed to take it.

'' Don't you remember Arthur Filmer ?"
Betty said.

A PAUSE IN THE GAME.

Being a gentleman and In his own house,
Otway was obliged to be civil, and to stifle
his desire to turn the Intruder out. It was
not very satisfactory to come back expecting
to find the partner of his mutual accommodation
arrangement alone, and perhaps a
little lonely and depressed with the strangeness
of her situation, and to be greeted
Instead with peals of girlish laughter. And
then to find her charmingly dressed, just as
if she expected a visitor, and quite at home ;
entertaining Arthur Filmer, of all people In
the world !

Otway had not any motive in hurrying
away so early from Mrs. Ogilvey's dinner-party,

for of course, Betty did not want
him, or expect him, or care if she never
saw him again. He had had too many
proofs of her utter indifference, if not of her
dislike ; but still, it was galling, to say the
least of it, to find her so happy with '' that
cub !*'

That was what he called poor Arthur in
his mind ; but his greeting of the unconscious
offender was cordial enough. '' Why, finger,
old man ! Where did you drop from ?
It's an age since I saw you."

'' Not since your wedding-day," Filmer
was about to add, but stopped short. ''No,
not for ages. I haven't been much in
England. I got a staff appointment in
Malta, and I am now on my way to Ireland,
to enter upon one there ; but I am
coming back on leave in a week or two todo
a bit of the season, and amuse myself,
before I pay my own people a visit in the
south. I called on the chance of finding

you In this afternoon, and Mrs. Otway was
kind enough to ask me to come back to
dinner, and here I am. She said you would
be In about ten."

*' And here I am," said Otway. " Mrs.
Otway and I came up from Stoneshire this
afternoon. Did she tell you T'

'* Oh, yes ! I heard all the news. I did
not know that Mrs. John had arrived. She
seems ' all there,' but I cannot Imagine her
without the great Rossltur. The maid always
over-shadowed the mistress, we used to say.
Never was I so surprised in all my life as to
hear the woman had left."

*' I do not think Arthur quite believes that
she is gone," said Betty.

*' Arthur !" She called the fellow by his
Christian name, while he, her husband, was
'* Mr. Otway." " Are you going down to the
Chase to see them all ?" he inquired.

** Well, no ; I think not. You see, Mrs.
Otway being In town, I have no particular

inducement. Mrs. John and I never hit It
off, somehow. I believe I offended her
mortally by being the first to discover, or to
speak of, the likeness between her and this
same Rossitur. Haven't you noticed it, Mrs.
Otway ? Oh, I forgot ! You have not seen
the maid. I caught her out in her young
mistress's togs one night  that was before
poor old Jack's marriage  and I pretended
to take her for Miss Gordon. The old
Colonel found us, and he thought his pretty
daughter was without a chaperon. There
was no end of a row, I can tell you. I was
only about twenty then."

'' She seems to have been a larky kind of
person for a young lady's maid," said Otway,
stiffly. " Betty, you look rather tired ; I am
sure Filmer will excuse you. I am going to
a ball at the Ridley', In Palace Gate," he
added, addressing Arthur. '' Can I drop
you anywhere ?"

'' I have a card for the Ridley', too, and I

suppose I had better go if you are going.
Aren't you coming, Mrs. Otway ?"

No. No one knows I am in town yet.
I hope you will enjoy yourselves. Goodnight."
She shook hands with Filmer, gave
Otway a friendly little nod and disappeared.

It was nearly the end of April when Betty
came to town, and by the end of May she
was fairly launched on the gay waters of the
London season, and the astonishment caused
by her sudden appearance had altogether
died out. Even the most intimate of her
husband's friends were too preoccupied with
their own affairs to interest themselves about
the husband and wife who, on account of
some silly misunderstanding or quarrel, had
separated on their wedding-day, and had now
agreed to live together, whether happily or
the reverse it was not the business of anyone
to inquire. Their dinner-parties were
delightful, and you always met the very
people whom, of all others, you wanted

VOL. III. F

particularly to see, at Mrs. Otway's charming
" at homes."

She was a very pretty and fascinating
woman. All the men admired her beautiful
face and bright, animated manner; the women
raved about her gowns and her exquisite taste
in dress. Neither men nor women looked
below the surface, or cared whether the
beautiful girl who did the honours of her
husband's house with so much grace and
tact, was happy or the reverse.

But among the indifferent majority there
were two, a man and a woman, who were
very much interested in the question of
Betty's happiness ; the man was Arthur
Filmer, the woman Mrs. Ogilvey. When
the latter heard that Otway's wife had consented
to live with him, she was so bitterly
disappointed at the downfall of her dearest
hopes that it was with the greatest difficulty
she forced herself to congratulate him upon
having at last succeeded in overcoming his

wife's Strange repugnance to him. She would
have given a great deal to know how it had
all come about. Otway had hitherto effectually
baffled her in every attempt she made to
find out whether he was still in love with
Betty or not ; and now that Mr. and Mrs.
Herbert Otway were seen everywhere together,
apparently as happy and contented
as any young couple in England, she was
naturally more in the dark than before.

But she suspected that the fair face presented
to the world, was not the face worn
in private ; something in Betty's manner 
her ignorance of her husband's likes and
dislikes ; of his engagements unconnected
with the mere routine of life at Rutland
Gate ; of any business in which he was
employed ; coupled with the fact of a certain
coldness and formality between the pair, not
visible, perhaps, except to a very close and
interested observer, raised a suspicion of the
real state of the case in Mrs. Ogilvey's mind.

It was Impossible for Betty to be always on
her guard, and the efforts she made sometimes
to retract a statement, or even to recall
a word, which betrayed too much, were not
lost on this plausible, and to Betty's mind,
too officious friend.

'' It is not my fault if I am more intimate
than you approve with your friend Mrs.
Ogilvey," she said once to her husband.
'' She forces her friendship upon me whether
I like it or not."

And his reply that she was a good-natured,
kind-hearted woman, simply served to set
Betty more and more against the handsome
widow, who was never tired of impressing
upon her young friend what a noble man her
husband was, and how happy she ought to
be.

Betty was far too proud to make a confidant
of her old friend Arthur Filmer ; but
naturally she was less on her guard with him
than with Mrs. Ogilvey ; and he was not long

In making the discovery that, although the
husband and wife had apparently come together,
they were in reality as much apart as
when she lived in her father's house.

This was a real trouble to the young man,
who was as fond of Betty as if she was his
sister ; but it was Otway whom he blamed ;
forgetting altogether that before the marriage
he had taken Betty to task for her indifference
to her future husband. But, with the keen
eyes of a man who would have fallen in love
himself had the woman he loved been free,
Arthur saw that Betty was by no means
indifferent now ; that every thought of her
heart was given to the cold, neglectful,
masterful creature, who had, seemingly, admiring
eyes for every woman he saw except
his own most lovely wife ! Otway's coldness,
and the calm air of ownership, which Filmer
chose to think his manner to Betty betrayed,
were so exasperating, that the young man,
who was in town again, doing his "bit of

season " as he called it, went very little to the
Rutland Gate house, except when he was
sure of finding its mistress alone ; and it
never occurred to him that his movements
were watched jealously enough by the
undemonstrative master.

It was by his avoidance of what may be
called the state festivities at the Otwayss',
that Filmer had not had any opportunity of
renewing his acquaintance with Mrs. John
Erskine. She was in town with Sir John
and Miss Lambton, and she persuaded her
father-in-law to allow her to be presented
with Betty, instead of obliging her to wait
until her first year of widowhood was over.
Sir John held out for a time, as he was
scandalised, and disappointed as well, at her
anxiety to appear in public ; but he soon
began to make excuses for her on the score
of youth ; so a house was taken, and the
beautiful young widow speedily made a
sensation.

But Sir John, who went about with her to
balls, receptions, flower shows and fetes of
all kinds ; who was proud of her beauty and
lavish of his presents in order that she might
be always handsomely dressed, would have
been surprised, wounded, and vexed beyond
measure, had he heard the comments that
were made upon her manner and conversation
in places where men do congregate ! It
would have been cruel to enlighten him, and
the more so, as in his heart of hearts he
wished that, to Amy's extraordinary and
uncommon beauty of face and figure, could
be added a tinge of the repose that marks
the cast of Vere de Vere.

Among the men who flocked about her 
and that she had heaps of admirers goes
without saying  not one was more devoted
than Walter Duncombe, and Sir John looked
upon the close intimacy which had so suddenly
grown up between the two with alarm and
disapproval. That Amy should encourage a

lover before her husband was a year in the
grave, was In every way to be deplored ; but
that, of all the men whom she knew, she
should choose the man who had in India
been known as the serious admirer of her
own waiting maid  Amy, herself, had often
said that he was in love with Rossitur  was
intolerable to the old man's pride.

But he was afraid to remonstrate with the
self-willed woman who, if she was beautiful
and charming, had also a sulky and obstinate
temper which he did not care to arouse too
often.

MRS. ERSKINE HAS A FAINTING FIT.

'' It seems rather odd, does it not, that I
have not met your sister-ln-law since I came
to town ?" said Arthur Filmer, one morning,
as he and Betty were riding in the Park. **I
called three times in Park Street lately, and
she was not at home. Yes, by the way, she
was at home one afternoon, but she had such
a bad headache she could not come down.
It seems fated that we are not to meet."

"But you will see her to-night," said Betty.
'* We all dine with papa, you know."

'' Is Otway coming ?"

'' No ; he is engaged. He has some men
to dine at the Club. We generally go out
to dinner-parties together," she added, " but

he does not stand on ceremony with papa."
She gave a little sigh as she finished, and
low as it was, her companion heard it, and,
looking at her, he was struck by the almost
mournful expression of her face. '* Poor little
thing," he said to himself, 'she is not happy.
How blind Otway is not to see that she cares
for him ; but it seems to me that he has
no eyes for anyone but that Mrs. Ogilvey."
The kind - hearted young fellow was quite
oppressed by the idea that Betty was unhappy,
and by his own inability to help her
in any way ; but he was afraid to touch upon
the subject with her. In the old days, before
the marriage, she had lightly scoffed at love
and lovers, and he had spoken his mind
freely enough ; but now he did not dare to
give his opinion as he had given it then.
He saw that, by some extraordinary fatality,
the position of affairs had entirely changed ;
now it was Otway who was, at least as far as
could be judged by appearances, absolutely

indifferent  and how was an outsider to interfere
between husband and wife ?

Betty treated Filmer with the frank familiarity
of a sister, and not for worlds would he
have hurt or frightened her by hinting that
evil-minded people who see harm in everything,
might draw, or pretend to draw, false
inferences from their free and cordial intimacy.
So he came and went day after day
to Rutland Gate, and Otway, when they met,
which was not often, gave him a hearty
welcome.

This cordiality on the part of Betty's
husband  such is the perversity of those
who can but judge from the outside  was
gall and wormwood to Filmer, and his worst
suspicions were aroused. "Is it possible,"
he thought, '' that he can be scoundrel
enough to hope to gain his freedom by
throwing us together? If I were certain
that was his object, I could kill him ! But
she doesn't care for me, so he will be bitterly

disappointed. What is the meaning of it
all ? I always looked upon him as one of
the most honourable and high - minded of
men, and unless I am driven to it I do not
want to think him a sneak and a double
dealer !"

'come back and lunch with me," Betty
said as they were about to leave the Park.
I am quite alone ; and you might as well
escort me to the Albert Hall in the afternoon
to the concert. Mr. Otway cannot come, so
I have his ticket to give away. Do come ;
it will be very good."

Thank you very much  but  "

Oh, you do not want to come. Then
by all means, dont r

I do want to come very much," he cried.
But I thought " again he stopped.

"What is it? You really must tell me,"
she said.

"Well, then, that Otway might not like
it," he blurted out boldly, and he wished withall

his heart, when it was too late, that he
had held his tongue.

Betty's face burned. " You are very much
mistaken," she said, in an icy tone. " My
husband will not even ask to whom I gave
his ticket." But Filmer's words were a
revelation to her ! Otway was certainly
indifferent, but perhaps other people made
remarks about her and Arthur. The flush
upon her face deepened, and a spirit of
defiance rose in her sore heart! " Let them
say what they like," she thought. "I am
not going to give up the only friend I
have."

They were riding slowly towards the
Memorial when the above conversation took
place ; Betty was looking straight before
her, and consequently she did not see
Otway on her left hand walking towards
Hyde Park Corner, and besides him Mrs.
Ogilvey.

There goes Mrs. Otway with the faithful

Filmer," the latter said, as she touched her
companion's arm to attract his attention.

'' Yes ; Betty told me she was going to ride
with him this morning," Otway replied, carelessly
; and then he added, " Nice young
fellow  Filmer! I like him."

But if Betty did not see her husband and
Mrs. Ogilvey, she presently caught sight of
the tall upright figure of her father, and with
him Mrs. John, most exquisitely dressed in
what she was pleased to call slight mourning ;
and at her other side walked Walter Dun-combe.


There ! There is Amy !" Betty cried,
now you can see her ; she is walking
between papa and Mr. Duncombe."

** I can see her parasol, but not herself!"
Filmer answered, laughing. *' I think she
has grown an inch or two since I knew her
in India! She certainly never struck me asa
tall woman before !"

'* She is taller than I expected to see her,"

said Betty, "but I do not know why I
thought of her as Httle. Jack never spoke of
her as small."

'' Oh ! no one could call her small,"
answered Fllmer, "but now she looks a
very fine woman. Are she and Duncombe
going to make a match of it ? He was not
one of her prime favourites in India."

I think he admires her very much,"
said Betty, " and he is undoubtedly a
prime favourite with her now. But papa
will never give his consent. He does not
like the man."

I should think Mrs. John will do as she
likes ; she always had a will of her own !
And yet she was easily led by anyone who
had influence over her ; that woman Rossitur
made her do exactly as she pleased."

I should say it was impossible for anyone
to lead Amy, or to drive her either,"
said Betty. "She has the calmest, coolest
way of ignoring what is said to her if she

happens not to agree with it ; and when
you think she is taking your advice and
being grateful for it, she is simply planning
how to have her own way."

'' I suppose people develop new traits
under new circumstances," said Filmer, "for
that was not exactly Mrs. John Erskine's
character when I knew her. She was very
fond of admiration ; very vain and not very
sensible, I am afraid ; but it was possible to
lead her if one only knew the way. For
instance, as I said just now, she was completely
under Rossitur's thumb."

And as I said before, I cannot imagine
Amy under the thumb of anyone," Betty
answered. *' She quite rules my father, and
if she does not get her own way, in her own
way, she either sulks and makes the poor
man miserable, or she coaxes and cajoles him
until he is so pleased and flattered he cannot
refuse her anything. Mr. Otway is the
only man she knows who does not bow down

and worship at her shrine, and she detests
him accordingly. She always speaks of him
to me as ' that husband of yours, Betty !' "
"Are she and Mrs. Ogilvey very intimate?"
Not at all. I thought there was going
to be quite a sublime friendship between
them ; but Mrs. Ogilvey is too intimate with
us to please Amy," and Betty laughed.
Here we are; and here comes Mr. Otway
in a hansom."

He helped Betty to dismount. " I saw
you in the Park, but you did not look at
me."

Where were you ? Were you alone ?"
No, Mrs. Ogilvey was with me. Filmer,
take my advice, never act as trustee to a rich
widow. It is the most troublesome and the
most thankless office under the sun. I am
going to lunch now at Queen's Gate Terrace ;
I just came here on my way to get some
business papers she wants to look over. Let
me see, Betty  you dine in Park Street,

VOL. III. G

to-night ? Remember we have a box at the
Haymarket tomorrow. You will dine with
us, Fllmer, and come too."

Betty never spoke. She had not seen
Otway since the previous evening, and now
he was going out again. Fllmer found her
but a dull companion, and he was not surprised
when she dismissed him after luncheon,
saying that she was too tired to go to the
concert. " But we meet at dinner," she said,
*' and I am curious to see how you and Amy
get on."

It was but a small party that evening at
Sir John's. The Murrayss, who were in town
for a clergyman's fortnight, came ; and a
couple of old cronies of Sir John's, who liked
a quiet rubber with him and Miss Lambton
after dinner, and Betty and Fllmer, made up
the number. Buncombe was also Invited
but he was engaged.

When Fllmer arrived, the first thing he
heard was that Mrs. John had been attacked

with sudden faintness while she was dressing,
and the doctor who was sent for said she
must remain very quiet, and not attempt to
appear at dinner.

'* I told you there was a fatality about our
meeting," said Filmer, as he and Betty went
down to the dining-room together. '' I hope
she is not very ill."

'' Oh, no ! I saw her for a moment ; she
looked rather ghastly ; but she said she felt
better, and she told me to tell you how sorry
she was not to see you."

It was nearly eleven o'clock, Dr. and Mrs.
Murray had gone away, and the last rubber
was being finished when Betty, who had been
singing for Filmer, rose suddenly and said,
'' I must go up and ask Amy how she is.
She will think I am so unkind."

In about five minutes she came back
looking half-amused and half-puzzled.

'' Well ?" Filmer said.

She has gone out !" Betty answered.

'' Hush ! do not let papa hear. He would
be very angry. Her maid told me that she
said she must have some fresh air  the house
was so hot  and she went out alone to the
Park. It is close by, certainly ; but still I
do not think she ought to be there by herself
at this hour."

Filmer presently said good-night, and went
away. The following evening, when he came
to dinner at Rutland Gate, he asked for
news of Mrs. John. " I ought to have
called to-day to inquire," he said, " but I
hadn't time. Did she come back before you
left ."

'' She did not go out after all," Betty
replied. " I found her reading in the library
when you went away. She got frightened,
she said, when she opened the door and
looked out."

And you will never guess who I saw at
Stanhope Gate, when I was going home,"
said Filmer. " Rossitur !"

Nonsense !" cried Betty. ** Are you
sure ?"

'' Perfectly. Hers is not a face one can
forget ; and if I am not very much mistaken,
the man she was talking to was Walter Dun-combe
! His hat was pulled down over his
eyes, but I am sure it was he."

I never heard anything so extraordinary!"
exclaimed Betty. '' I must see Amy tomorrow,
and tell her. She is always wondering
where Rossitur is."

MRS. ERSKINE's health GIVES WAY.

'* I MET your father this morning, Betty,"
said Otway, as the little party of three sat
down to dinner, "and he told me that he
and Amy and Duncombe are going to the
Haymarket to-night, and I fancy they have
the box exactly opposite to ours."
Did you tell him we were going ?"
** Yes ; and he said he hoped Filmer would
come round and be introduced. Amy was
dreadfully disappointed not to see him last
night."

** How is she to-day ? Better, I hope."
'* Yes ; I believe so. But she had a return
of the faintness last night or this morning.
She says London does not suit her. I do

not think there is much the matter with her,
myself. Perhaps our friend Duncombe is
not quite in earnest enough to please her !"
he added, laughing.

*' I think she ought to know that he meets
Rossitur," said Betty.

'' Perhaps she knows more than we give
her credit for," said Filmer. " My own
opinion is  I hope I am not too suspicious  
that she was going out to see the woman and
Duncombe together last night herself, and
that her courage failed her at the last
moment." And then Filmer explained to
Otway that he had seen Rossitur talking to
a man he took to be Duncombe, in the Park
the evening before.

How long was it after Filmer left that
you found her in the library, Betty ?" Otway
asked.

"Oh! half - an - hour ; or perhaps three-quarters.
Yes ; it was a quarter-past eleven
when Arthur went away, and it was striking

twelve, I remember, when I left Amy In the
library and said good-night. She was then
going upstairs to bed."

And she had not been out ?"

'' No ; as soon as she got outside the door
she said she was frightened, It was so dark,
and she came back."

'well one must take her word for It, of
course," said Otway. '' Besides, we have no
reason to suppose that she Is making a
mystery about It. It Is just a coincidence ;
nothing more."

I should just like to know what Rossltur
is about," said Fllmer, 'rand how she and
Duncombe have managed to meet again."

"Amy says she Is sure they kept up some
communication after Rossltur left India,"
said Betty, " but I think he Is In love with
Amy herself, and that It was some other man
you saw In the Park, Arthur."

Perhaps so ; but I never thought much
of Duncombe, and Sir John ought to keep a

sharp look out and watch what he Is about.
If he and that woman Rossitur meet in
private, there must be some understanding
between them."

"And In my opinion," said Otway, " Mrs.
John is in the secret."

''I do not see the Park Street people
anywhere ; do you ?" Otway said, as he
examined the opposite boxes with his
glass, when the curtain fell after the first
act.

Perhaps they are on this side."

No ; they were to be opposite to us ; and
there is one empty box, you see. I suppose
Amy is 111 again."

And I may as well give up all hope of
ever seeing her," said Fllmer, laughing. -

Oh, no !" exclaimed Betty. '' Papa Is
sure to ask you down to the Chase. You
are a great favourite of his, you know, and I
hope to be there in August."

You think of going to Stoneshire then.

when the season is over?" said Otway, addressing
his wife. " I have not made any-definite
plans myself yet."

The curtain rose again as he was speaking,
so Betty made no reply.

When they got back to Rutland Gate,
Betty found a letter from Miss Lambton.
"We were not at the theatre," she wrote,
'rand we are all off to the Chase tomorrow.
The doctors say Amy must not stay in town
even another week, or these attacks of faintness
may become serious. She had another
bad one just as the carriage came round to
take us to the Hay market."

I wonder what it is," said Otway. " Has
she taken to tight-lacing, do you think ?"

I am afraid it is very conceited of me to
say so," laughed Filmer, "but, upon my
word, I am beginning to think that she
wants to avoid me for some reason or other.
She never liked me in India ; but still, it
seems absurd to think that she would get up

fainting fits, and run away from town, rather
than meet me."

*' Very absurd indeed," said Otway, "and
very improbable besides. I think she Hies
her fun in town as well as any young woman
I know ! No, Filmer my boy. You need
not flatter yourself that you have anything todo
with it. But it may have something to do
with Rossitur and Duncombe."

Yes ; that is it, depend upon it," said
Filmer. " Rossitur is at the bottom of it ;
and in my opinion she is capable of anything."


The next morning, Betty paid an early
visit to Park Street ; she found the house
in confusion, the hall already filled with
luggage, and her father in the library flurried
and bewildered by the suddenness of the
move.

Oh, my dear," he said, as soon as he saw
his daughter. " Isn't this a pretty state of
things ? And I have the house for another

six weeks. Not that I care about that if
only I were not so anxious about that poor
dear girl. She Is very ill, Betty. Very ill
indeed. She made me feel her pulse this
morning, and I could scarcely tell whether
there was a pulse or not. It was so feeble. I
wish with all my heart we had never come
to town at all. But it was not my doing.
These late hours have done for her, poor
child. She was always in bed at ten, she
tells me, in Sorrento,"

'* Oh, papa. I am sure it is not the late
hours. She must have eaten something that
disagreed with her."

*but I assure you she did not. She is
thoroughly knocked up. The doctors say so,
and they must know. ' Very much below
par  great want of tone !' That Is what Sir
Dash Blank told me last night, in this very
room, and Sir Blank Dash said the same
this morning. She is to have chicken broth
and champagne, and cheerful society three

times a day. What are you laughing at,
Betty ? Upon my word, I am afraid you
have very Httle feeling."

Indeed, papa, I am very sorry for Amy ;
but I was amused at the cheerful society three
times a day."

"Oh! you know what I mean. And why
shouldn't she have cheerful society all day
long if she chooses ? We have been planning
what people we are going to have down by
and by. I am sure I would do anything in
the world to make the poor darling look
more like herself! You will find her in the
drawing-room, lying down ; I desired her on
no account to pack even a pocket handkerchief!
She took a turn in the Park this
morning for a quarter-of-an-hour ; Sir Blank
Dash said she was to have as much fresh air
as possible, and Buncombe, who called early
to know how she was, very kindly gave her
his arm. But she said she was too tired to
talk to him."

Betty found her sister-in-law on a couch in
the drawing-room ; the room was darkened
and a white handkerchief was laid on her
forehead. '' My poor head aches so, dear,"
she said. '' I cannot bear the light! Really,
I feel awfully ill, and I am so worried about
your poor dear father. It is very stupid of
me to knock up in this way. I hope he is
not very angry with me."

'' He is not angry at all," Betty answered,
'' only a little put out. I think you are wise
to leave town at once ; you will get all right
at the Chase."

I hope so," the Invalid murmured. " I
was so sorry to miss the theatre last night ;
and I did so want to have a nice chat with
Arthur Filmer ! Please tell him how vexed
I am."

By the way, I wanted to ask you," said
Betty, " has Mr. Duncombe said anything
to you lately about your maid Rossitur ?
Did he mention her to you yesterday or this

morning ? Oh ! Why did you not ask me
to give it to you ?"

This sudden question was caused by the
upsetting of a bottle of eau de Cologne
which stood on a small table beside the
couch. Mrs. John put out her hand to
reach it and knocked it down.

Oh, never mind !" said Amy. '' There
was very little in it ; you were asking something
about Rossitur  oh ! how my poor
head throbs !  and Mr. Duncombe ; I do not
think he mentioned her lately ; he knows
I do not like her now. Why do you
ask ."

'' Because, when Arthur Filmer was going
home from this house the night before last 
you were not well enough to meet him at
dinner, you remember  he saw Rossitur
standing at Stanhope Gate talking to Mr.
Duncombe."

A wave of colour mounted slowly to Mrs.
John's pale face. She pulled the handkerchief

from her forehead and sat up. " Impossible,
Betty ! He must be mistaken.
Walter Buncombe dined at Windsor that
evening, and the woman  oh, goodness
knows who the woman was, not Rossitur,
I am sure."

*'Mr. Filmer says it was certainly Rossitur;
that her face is not a face you can forget; but
he is not so sure about Mr. Duncombe."

'' I do not believe she is in London," said
Mrs. John, pettishly. '' That Arthur Filmer
is always making up stories. It is an old
trick of his. I wonder you like him so much,
Betty. If I had gone out that evening as I
intended, he would have taken me for that
woman. It was he who said we were so
much alike. Poor darling Jack never forgave
him. There is Sir John calling you.
Do ask him to remember my poor head, and
not to talk so loud. Everyone has been
shouting and banging doors ever since six
o'clock. Remember me to Filmer, and tell

him if he sees Rossitur again, to speak to
her, and ask her where she is Having."

Betty !" again Sir John called from the
bottom of the stairs.

Coming, papa!" and away she ran.

'rand so she was seen the other night."
said Mrs. John to herself. " I must write a
line to Walter and tell him."

This was what she wrote. " Young
Filmer says he saw yozc and Rossititr talking
together at Stanhope Gate, when he was on
his way home the night before last. Of
course he was mistaken about you, for you
could not dine here that evening because
you were going to a dinner and dance at
Windsor."

'look here, Betty," said Sir John, "you
will never guess who has just been here.
We must not tell Amy, for it might excite
her too much in her weak state."

"Who was it, papa . Not Rossitur?"

No ; but Rossitur's husband, George
VOL. in. H

Pottlnger. He has been discharged from
the asylum, quite well, and found out my
address, and came here to know if I could
tell him anything of his wife. I gave him a
five pound note, and told him to come down
to the Chase next week. Amy will be well
enough to see him then. Poor fellow ! The
tears came into his eyes when he spoke of
his dear young master."

WHAT WAS THE MOTIVE ?

Mrs. John Erskine's health improved rapidly
as soon as she left London ; and she expressed
the greatest delight when she found
herself once more at the '' dear Chase," with
her '' darling boy." How she could have
brought herself to leave him for so many
weeks was a mystery. London was hateful.
Everything there was so hollow and artificial.
The dinners and receptions, " at homes " and
flower shows and theatres, were all dull and
fatiguing. No ; the country was her delight.
If she could have just a few congenial friends
now and then, to break the monotony, life at
the Chase would be perfect.

Sir John was charmed to see her once

more in her usual health and spirits, and she
had, if possible, more of her own way than
before the visit to town; but in some respects
she was, perhaps, a little less exacting. Miss
Lambton, in her quiet way, made a good
many observations of her nephew's widow at
that time ; she had always been more or less
of a puzzle to the simple-minded, straightforward
old lady, and she could not now
understand her extraordinary restlessness,
and a certain amount of what seemed like
exaggerated gaiety in her manner.

In London, Miss Lambton suspected that
Amy was less ill than she fancied ; and now,
at the Chase, she was of opinion that she
was not as well as she wished to appear.
Was there any hidden motive in all this ?
Had she any object in leaving London so
suddenly ? But the motive was either too
well disguised, or Miss Lambton was not
shrewd enough to detect it, for she was
obliged to come to the conclusion at last that

Amy's health had suffered, and that she was
really glad to find herself back in Stoneshire.
Sir John never saw anything that was not
directly under his eyes ; Amy said she was
quite well again, and very happy, and of
of course she meant what she said. He had
a pleasant little surprise in store for her, and
he chuckled much over it in secret. How
delighted she would be to hear that her dear
husband's faithful and attached servant 
George Porringer  had recovered his senses
and was quite strong and well again. He
had been discharged from the army, it was
true, but there was nothing remarkable in
that ; and a clever, capable fellow, such ashe
was, would easily find employment  had
found it, in fact, for Sir John was going to
take him on as his own body-servant. There
was no one like an old soldier for such a
post ; and to have the very man who had
waited on "poor dear Jack" in India, completed
Sir John's satisfaction.

As luck would have it, just as he was
leaving town, his present valet expressed a
desire to leave ; but it was not until he was
actually on his way home that Sir John
thought of engaging George Porringer.
Fortunately he had his address ; he would
send him to Otway, and he would arrange it
all. It was just possible that Porringer himself
would prefer to go as groom  Jack said
he was clever about horses  and if so, a place
might be found for him by and by in the
stables. Sir John was determined to have
him in one capacity or another. It would
please Amy, and be a good thing for the poor
fellow himself. Having suffered from sunstroke,
and been out of his mind, he ought
to be with people who would be kind and
considerate to him.

Otway wrote a satisfactory account of his
interview with Porringer, who had expressed,
he said, unbounded gratitude to Sir John for
his kindness in offering him so excellent a

situation ; it was more than he had dared to
hope for ; and no effort on his part should be
spared to give satisfaction to his new master.
'' I see no signs of either insanity or weak
intellect about him," Otway wrote  Sir John
had asked his son-in-law to make observations
on those points  "but it is quite
possible that, having gone mad once, he may
go mad again, so you must be prepared.
But, at the same time, it is not very likely ;
he will have a quiet life at the Chase, and
quiet is the best thing for him. At present
he seems to have but one anxiety, and that is
to find some trace of his wife. She never
wrote to him while he was in confinement,
and he cannot imagine what has become of
her. I confess I thought it was better not to
encourage him to talk about her, for he
certainly got a little excited when he began ;
a rather wild look came into his eyes, and I
heard him muttering something that sounded
like ' reparation,' and the death of his master.

But I took no notice, and I simply mention
this to warn you not to let him dwell too
much on this woman, who seems to be a
most worthless, heartless creature, and, in my
opinion, he is well rid of her. I did not tell
him that Amy had spent the winter at
Sorrento, and that Rossltur was with her
there, for he might take it into his head to go
there to make inquiries, and get himself into
trouble. He is now full of the idea that
Mrs. John,' as he calls her, will help him to
find ' Bella ;' but, my advice is, talk about
her as little as possible.

''I have just this moment heard from Betty
that Arthur Filmer met Porringer as he
was leaving the house, and very foolishly
mentioned to him having seen Rossltur in
the Park the other evening, or someone he
took for her, for I do not believe myself that
she is in London. Filmer declares that he
could not be mistaken, she is such a 
woman. Luckily he did not tell

Porringer that she was talking to a man
supposed to be Walter Duncombe. I have
arranged with him to go down to you on
Tuesday next, and I hope he will suit and
go on well."

Now, whether Sir John had some vague
suspicion that his daughter - In - law would
object to Pottlnger's presence in the house
had she known of his Intention to engage
him, or whether he really wished to give her
what he believed to be a pleasant surprise, It is
impossible to say ; but, on one occasion, after
a very disagreeable episode, connected with
the abrupt dismissal of an exemplary housekeeper
at the caprice of Mrs. John, he made
her understand that she must not Interfere in
any way with the servants at the Chase.
Amy promised to comply with his request,
but she contrived to make herself so obnoxious
to any domestic who was unlucky
enough to displease her, that changes in the
once contented household were constantly

taking place, and the unanimous opinion in
the servants' hall was, that '' Mrs. John was
no lady."

Two days after the return of the family
from town, Walter Duncombe, who had,
apparently, no attraction in London after the
departure of the young widow, rode over to
luncheon, in the unceremonious manner that
had become habitual. When his visits to the
Chase began, Miss Lambton performed her
part of "sheep dog" diligently enough, but
after a time she relaxed in her diligence. If
anyone in the world was able to take care of
herself, surely Mrs. John was that one ! It
was absurd to think that she wanted a
chaperon on every occasion ; thus it happened
that she and Duncombe were constantly
alone.

The intimacy that existed between the pair
might well have puzzled the most observant
of lookers-on. She was alternately coquettish,
demonstrative, compliant or exacting ; but,

always ready  too ready   some said, to
follow his lead ; he, on his part, was prone to
assume airs of proprietorship which could not
be his by right, as there was no formal engagement
between him and her ; nor had heat
least openly, even hinted at the existence
of a desire to gain her hand. He was
deferential enough in some respects, but it
was an odd sort of deference at its best ;
at least, according to Miss Lambton's old-fashioned
ideas, there was in it as much
mockery as respect.

"I do not pretend to understand these
new-fangled ways," she would say to Miss
Masham, ** but I know if any man had looked
at me or my sister, when we were young, in
the way I have seen men, and especially Mr.
Buncombe, look at Amy, he would not have
had an opportunity a second time. But I
suppose if she does not object, I may as well
hold my tongue."

On the day of Buncombe's visit, Miss

Masham had also driven over to welcome
back her friends, and to hear the news ;
and after luncheon, when Mrs. John and
Buncombe strolled out together, the two old
ladies had the luxury of a confidential chat.
The sudden flight from town was of course
a subject of great Interest.

She does not look as If there was much
the matter with her," Miss Masham said,
"and she ate a capital luncheon. What
brought on those fainting fits, do you know ?"

*' Over fatigue, late hours, and want of
tone, the doctors said. I should have said
hysteria myself If she had not got well so
suddenly. I hope I am not a very suspicious
old woman, Fanny," she added, '' but I
cannot help thinking there was someone in
town she wanted to avoid."

Man or woman !"

'' I cannot tell. Sometimes I fancy it
was that woman Rossltur ; but I may be
mistaken. The first fainting fit came on

one evening we were expecting a few people
to dinner  just the Otwayss, and two old
gentlemen, friends of John's, and Arthur
Filmer ; you have seen him here  he was
in poor Jack's regiment you know. Amy
knew all of them, and she was particularly
anxious to see young Filmer, she said."

'' She said so, but who knows if it is true ?
I am the suspicious old woman now."

But the odd thing is," Miss Lambton
continued, '' that although she was not well
enough to come down to dinner, she went
out that evening. She told Betty she just
went outside the door  got frightened it was
so dark  and came back again ; but the butler
told me privately that she was out for more
than an hour. He saw her from the diningroom
window as she went out, and she let
herself in with a latch-key. I do not know
whether to believe his story or not, and I did
not ask him any questions or appear curious.
Servants always exaggerate about a thing

of that kind, and they all dislike Amy
very much. I wonder he did not say two
hours."

*' And when was the next fainting fit ?"

"The next evening, I think. We were all
going to the Haymarket Theatre, and just as
we were going to start she fell back on a
sofa in the dining-room and spilt her cup of
coffee over her gown. We were dreadfully
frightened, it was so long before she came
round."

*' And were you to meet anyone at the
theatre ?"

'' No ; we had a box to ourselves. The
Otwayss and Arthur Filmer had one exactly
opposite."

"Did Mrs. John know that?"

I think Sir John mentioned it at
luncheon, but I am not sure."

Now, one more question," said Miss
Masham, " you must feel as if you were in
the witness-box. What sort of gown did she

put on when she dressed for the evening ?
Anything very smart ?"

No ; it was rather a shabby, black dress
that I thought she had given away, or never
meant to wear again."

"And it was spoiled with the coffee, and
Arthur Filmer was to be in the box opposite
to yours ! I should say she wanted to avoid
him."

*but why?" said Miss Lambton, 'why?"

'' Ah ! my dear, that I cannot tell you ; but
of course she knows."

WATCHED.

"And so you think I managed to get away
very cleverly?" Mrs. John Erskine remarked
to her companion, Walter Buncombe. They
had left the gardens and wandered away into
the wood which had been the scene  told In
an early chapter of this story  of Betty's
encounter with Otway's ex-secretary. The
lady was looking remarkably handsome, and
there was not the slightest trace of Indisposition
or 'Lowness of tone" about her.
She was becomingly dressed, but her costume
was a little too elaborate for a country walk ;
it was the style of dress that the " leading
lady" on the stage of a second-rate theatre
invariably wears when she is going to pick

blackberries, or paddle on the sea shore.
Mrs. John very rarely studied the appropriate
in her dress, but she never forgot the
becoming.

'rand you think I managed cleverly .f" she
said.

Yes, very," said Buncombe. " But I am
sorry it had to be done ; it was very jolly in
town."

"Then why did you come away .' You
were not obliged."

'' No, not obliged," he answered, looking
at her, 'except by my own wishes."

"I am not sure that it was the wisest thing
you could do," she rejoined, after a pause.
Have you thought what is to be the end of

all this r

Certainly. I  we know what the end is
to be."

Do we ?" she answered, with a little
laugh. " I confess I do not."

And it is not my fault that the end is so

VOL. III. I

long delayed," he continued. '' Can you look
me in the face  Amy,"  there was the
slightest possible hesitation before he said
the name  " and say it is my fault ?"

'' No, no," she said, " it is mine."

** You had more courage when I first knew
you in India," he went on. " You were the
pluckiest girl I ever met  up to a certain
point."

'' I am not a coward now," she interrupted.
I am sure you cannot accuse me of it ; but
I do not want to make a mistake that can
never be set right."

If I do not consider it a mistake," and
again he looked full into her eyes, '' what
does it signify ? But you do not trust me.
Amy ; that is the truth. You will neither
run away with me and face the consequences,
nor let me go to Sir John and ask his consent
to our marriage."

'' I do trust you," she cried. '' But why
are you so sure of yourself? Some day  it

may not be for years  everything may be
known  remember she is alive as well as he
and then what would happen ? It might
serve your purpose to get rid of me ; I cannot
forget that, although I believe you care
for me now."

''Or it might suit you, Mrs. Erskine,
to get rid of me, although I believe you
care for me now," he repeated in her own
words.

If I care for anyone I care for you," she
answered, "but I care for myself too."

"Yes, you always cared for yourself; I
know that of old. But I think you care for
the boy a little, too, do you not ?"

Not much," she answered. " I am not
fond of children. I sometimes forget that he
is mine."

It is very strange," he replied, and he
smiled as he spoke, "but when I met Bella
Rossitur in London the other evening she
said almost the same words."

''I do not want to hear about Rossitur !"
Mrs. John broke in, with a flash of anger in
her eyes. 'rit was a mistake your meeting
her, and it did no good."

She islander to me than you are  Amy 1
Very much kinder. I believe, if I had
pressed her hard, she would have run away
with me there and then."

I do not believe it. I know Rossitur at
least as well as you do."

"She wished me well when we parted,"
Duncombe went on. "Poor Bella! And
she  she was not angry when I kissed her
as I said good-bye."

"It was because she knew it was her last
meeting with you."

And to think that Arthur Filmer saw us!
I told Bella she ought to have worn a veil.
However, 'all's well that ends well' As you
truly say, she knew it was our last meeting ;
and I say, just as truly, I do not think I want
to see Rossitur again."

And we both seem to forget," said
Mrs. John, with another of her odd laughs,
'that there is no such person in the
world as Rossitur. She is Mrs. George
Porringer."

*' I suppose he is alive  confound him."

Oh, yes ; he is alive and getting better.
The last news I heard of him was that he
would soon be discharged."

'rand then what will happen?"

"He will search everywhere for his wife
and child. He is afraid of Rossitur ; but in
spite of that she bewitches him, and he will
never stop until he finds her."

"And then?"

'* He will compel her to live with him."

I should advise her to go abroad out of
his way."

He will hunt her down no matter where
she hides herself! And," she added, lowering
her voice and looking round with a half-frightened
glance, "he will do more! He

will go mad again and kill her some day!
It was awful to hear him threaten her in his
ravings at Simla."

'' Well, if unfortunately he should find her
when he comes out, she should treat him asa
lunatic and have him shut up again ; but I
fancy, from what I know of her, she has
already made up her mind to do that. What
are you listening to? That is about the
sixth time you looked over your shoulder!
Do you hear steps ?"

Mrs. Erskine had seated herself on a fallen
tree, and Buncombe was half kneeling, half
reclining on the turf at her feet.

'eyes," she answered, "I am sure there
is someone watching us."

Oh ! it is only one of the keepers. They
feed the pheasants somewhere about here.
Why do you get so pale ? He is not likely
to take us for poachers."

*' I cannot bear being in a wood !" she exclaimed,
rising hurriedly. 'rand it frightens

me to death to think that a keeper may be
about with a gun. I do not know why I
came here."

'* There is someone over there, dodging in
and out among the trees as If he was afraid
of being seen," said Duncombe. He had
Angered behind her for a moment after he
got up ; she was walking on towards the
house. " Take my arm, dearest," he added,
hurrying after her. *' You are trembling."

'* I feel more like fainting now than I did
when those attacks came on in town," she
answered, as she leant heavily on the support
he offered. " Some horror seemed to come
over me. I cannot tell what it was or why
It came. Listen ! There are the steps
again."

Duncombe wheeled round suddenly. "Yes,"
he said, "3. man has just crossed the path.
Now he is standing still, watching us. Shall
I go back and ask him what he wants ? He
may be a stranger who has lost his way,

making a short cut to the station. He does
not look like a tramp."

'' Yes  go  I should like to be sure that
he is not watching us. I shall walk on ; you
will find me in the drawing-room when you
come in."

She went on, and Duncombe walked slowly
back. When he had gone about fifty yards
or so, he called out, " Hallo, you there !
What are you doing ? You cannot get to
the station that way."

The man he addressed came quietly
towards him  stepped into the path  drew
himself stiffly up and gave a military salute.

'* Who are you, sir ?" cried Duncombe,
angrily, "and what are you doing here?"

The man saluted again. '' No harm, if
you please, Mr. Duncombe. I am only
taking a look round."

** How do you know my name ? Who
are you ? Are you a soldier ?"

I was in your honour's regiment, and you

used to know me too, sir  George Porringer,
if you please, sir  Captain Erskine's servant."

I remember your name," said Duncombe,
and he gave a quick look round to see if
Amy was out of sight, " but I cannot say I
remember your face. Did you see me here
just now with a young lady ?"

"Yes, your honour."

Do you know who she was."

No, your honour. I didn't see her face."

*' She was your poor master's widow  Mrs.
John Erskine."

The face of the man grew suddenly livid,
and then as suddenly became suffused with a
deep dull red. *' Oh, Lord," he muttered
if I had only known !"

*' I remember all about you now," Dun-combe
went on ; '' you married Mrs. Erskine's
maid, did you not ?"

Porringer's eyes blazed with sudden fury.
"And it was you who tried to take her from
me, you  you vil "

** Look here," and Duncombe seized him
by the collar, '' none of that with me. It's a
lie that I ever tried to take Bella Rossitur
from you ! D'ye hear ?'' and with a shake he
let him go.

Porringer fell back a step or two, muttering
under his breath.

'* I shall tell Mrs. John Erskine I saw
you," Duncombe said, after a pause, '' but I
strongly recommend you not to come here
worrying her. Where are you going to from
this ?"

To Stillingfort, to see if I can find my
wife."

'' Good. I hope you will ; and then ?''

*' I have a good place waiting for me."

'ein town?"

*' No ; in the country."

*' Good again ; try and keep it, and you
had better be off to the station now if you
want to catch your train."

Porringer saluted again in silence and

turned away ; Duncombe stood for a moment
looking after him.

"It has come sooner than we thought," he
said.

MRS. ERSKINE DISCUSSES THE CHANCES OF
THE GAME.

Mrs. Erskine was alone In the drawing-room
when Walter Buncombe came in.
Something in the expression of his face
alarmed her, and she started up to meet him
with a very white face.

"What is the matter?" she cried; *you
look as if you had seen a ghost."

'' I saw something much worse than a
ghost ; you know the  the man we were
talking of just now ?"

*' Good Heavens !" and she staggered back
into a seat. "You do not mean to say that

the man who was watching us was  was "

she stopped abruptly as if choking.

'eyes," he answered. "It was George
Porringer. I did not recognise him, he is so
altered ; but he knew me well enough."

And what  what do you think ? Is hein
his right mind ?"

Yes  I think he is sane enough as far as
that goes ; but it would not take much to set
him off again. I asked if he saw the lady
who was with me, and if he knew who she
was. He said he had not seen your face, so
I told him you were Mrs. John Erskine."

Oh, do you think that was wise ? What
did he say ?''

"Well, he got rather excited, and said he
wished he had known."

But did he not mention Rossitur ? Did
he ask if she was here ?"

"He seems to know she is not with you
now," Duncombe answered. "And he remembered
suddenly who I was, and worked
himself up into a rage, and accused me of
having tried to take his wife from him !

Now, as I never saw her after she became
Mrs. Pottlnger, until the day she came to
the Hermitage, I was able to give him the
lie ! I wish he had shown fight, as I could
then have given him a rap on the head that
would have floored him ! But he didn't ;
he got cowed at once when I gave him a
shaking."

*' Well ; what happened then ? I am sure
you are hiding something."

'' Upon my soul, I'm not! I have nothing
to hide. I said you should hear that I had
seen him, and I desired him not to attempt to
come here worrying you. I do not think he
will ; he said he was on his way to Styling
to look for his wife, and you may be
very sure I said nothing to stop him, or to
put him on her track."

"And when he leaves Stilllngfort ?"

"He says he has got a good place ; I did
not ask him where."

I do not think it would be a bad plan,"

said Mrs. Erskine," after a pause, "to let him
and Rossitur meet, if it could be managed."

'' I think I could manage it," Buncombe
answered, 'but it might not be so easy to get
her away from him again. It might take
more time, you see, than we could spare," he
added, as he seated himself beside her,
*' and that would be ruin. No, my dear.
Take my advice, and do not let him get on
her track if you can help it ; but if he should
stumble upon her by accident "

' Well, what then ?"

'* He must be got rid of at all hazards!
Shut up for life in an asylum, if there is no
other way. As long as he is at liberty there
is no security for her, unless she is wise
enough, as I have so often advised, to go
out of England."

*' I am weary of the very sound of her
name! You do not know how I hate it,
Walter!" and Mrs. John broke down suddenly
into hysterical sobs. '* You were right

in what you said to me just now ; I am losing
all my courage, and the thought that that
man may come here any moment, and force
me to see him, is killing me ! What am I
to do ? Oh  what am I to do ?"

He put his arm round her and drew her to
him.

"Do what I have so often asked you to do.
Come away with me to-night  tomorrow.
We can be married in London, or abroad ;
you would like to send a certificate of the
marriage to the people here. Otherwise 
well, you know. Or let me tell Sir John
that we are engaged, and want to be married
as soon and as privately as possible. You
can make your short widowhood the excuse
for a very private marriage. Why do you
hesitate ? I give you my word of honour
as a gentleman that if, in twenty years
hence "

Oh, hush !" she cried, imploringly, " I do
not doubt you, but I dare not consent !

Something seems to hold me back ! The
announcement of the marriage will get into
the newspapers, and will be read  everywhere
! And then  and then "

That argument will apply any time within
the next ten  or the next forty years !" he
said, impatiently. " And in a game of chance
like ours, we can but play our best ! And
I think, my dear, all things considered, I
deserve better treatment at your hands." He
withdrew his arm from about her, and got
up, looking hurt and angry. " Yes, I repeat
it, far better treatment. It is not every
man "

1 know  1 know !" she interrupted. *' You
mean it is not every man who would have
taken a hand in such a game. But, after all,
you have something to win, and I have
lived long enough in the world to know that
if a man takes a fancy into his head, he
will go through fire and water to gratify it.
And a woman, too, for that matter. But

VOL. III. K

remember, I have something to think of
besides the gratification of either love or
liking ; and, unless I am driven into another
course, I mean to remain Mrs. John Erskine
while that man lives. If I lose one game, I
must try and win the other."

'' I quite understand your play," he said.
** But does it not occur to you that there maybe
limits to my patience ?"

'' I cannot help it. I am not fool enough
to suppose that, if it suited you, you would
not give me up tomorrow ! I do not think
you would play me any shabby trick !" she
added, looking at him with rather a poor
attempt at a smile ; and, as he passed before
her  he was walking up and down the room
she put out her hand to take his.

''Ah! You give me credit for that much
honour and honesty!" he said. *' Yes  and I
love you too !" he added, as he knelt beside
her and caught her hands in his. 'you are
the most beautiful woman I ever saw."

'rand If my beauty is to last, I suppose I
must not worry too much about that madman
!" she answered, with a hard Httle laugh.
'' Here is Aunt Louise, and that odious little
Masham woman is with her!" she added.
Do not let them find you here  go out by
that open window and come round ; you will
find us at tea."

When the two ladies came in, they found
Mrs. John alone. She was leaning back in
her chair ; her eyes were closed and her
arms hanging limply down.

'poor dear!" exclaimed Miss Lambton,
she has fainted again !"

But the attack was a very slight one ; it
had passed away before the restoratives,
hurriedly sent for by Miss Lambton, arrived.

I was walking in the wood with Mr.
Duncombe, and a man frightened me," she
explained. " I must talk to Sir John about it."

And the same evening after dinner she
asked Sir John to come to her in her own

sitting-room. She and Duncombe had had a
hurried consultation just before he went
away, and it was agreed between them that
Mrs. John was to tell her father-in-law of the
appearance of Porringer. '' I think I ought
to speak of him as an escaped lunatic," she
said, 'rand say I am terrified at the bare idea
of seeing him."

I hope you do not feel ill, my love," said
Sir John, in his anxious, fussy manner, as he
hurried into Amy's room and sat down beside
her. " I was quite frightened when I found
you were not coming to dinner, and Louise
tells me you had a slight attack of faintness
in the afternoon. You look very poorly, my
darling. Quite fagged ! That's what it is ;
fagged ! I suspect you want bracing. I
wish I had thought of asking those London
doctors what they thought of sea air for you.
We will send for Sumner  he's as clever as
any of them  and ask him what he thinks of a
month at Scarborough by and by."

"I do not care for the sea very much,"
Mrs. John answered, " I get so tanned ; but
I daresay Scarborough would be very nice
for a change. But do not let us talk about it
now, please ; I have so much to say to you,
dearest Sir John ! I suppose you have
noticed that Walter Duncombe has been with
us a great deal lately, and I thought I should
like to be the first to tell you that he wants
to be my little Jacky's stepfather some day!"

'the boy's stepfather!" cried Sir John.
Good heavens. Amy ! You do not mean
to say you want to marry again r

"Oh dear, no! Not for a long time, of
course. My poor Jack is not quite a year
dead yet ; but I could not say ' no ' to dear
Walter, could I . He is so fond of me, and
so  so  well  so anxious to be married.
But I told him every thhig depended upon
you, and that he must be patient and wait
for a while. But you will let us be happy by
and by, will you not, dearest Sir John T

There was such a lump in the poor old
man's throat that he could not speak at once.

I never thought of such a thing. Never !"
he blurted out. "I  I don't approve of
second marriages, and I cannot say that
Duncombe is a man I like. Not that I
know anything against him," he added
hastily, afraid of having given needless pain,
"and if your heart is set upon it, my dear
girl, I must give in, of course. I must not
let my old-fashioned prejudices stand in the
way of your happiness. But you will leave
me the boy, won't you, Amy ?"

Of course ! Of course," and she squeezed
his hand. '' He ought to be yours ! And,
dearest Sir John, you will not take my
little fortune from me when I marry again,
will you ? I know my beloved Walter does
not want or expect anything with me, but I
should like to have something of my own."

"My darling! It delights me that you
look upon me as a father. Do you think I

could be such a shabby wretch ? sly son's
widow must not be dependent upon any man.
You shall have your jointure for your life, my
dear ! Do not be uneasy. I believe my pet
has been fretting about it all this time."

No, no, dearest Sir John ! Yes  papa,
if you wish it," and she threw her arms round
his neck and kissed him. " It was only this
very day that Walter proposed to me. and I
want you, please, not to speak to him about
our engagement just yet, for nothing is
settled. It is a very different thing that is
worrying me, and I want you to help me.
You know that dreadful woman Rossitur, my
former maid, married darling Jack's soldier
servant George Porringer, and he went mad,
poor wretch, the day my blessed angel was
killed at the polo match. Yes ; you know
all that. Well, he has been discharged from
the asylum, or else he has escaped I  please,
do not say a word until I have done  for I
am sure he is as mad as ever  oh ! do please

let me finish. I hear he is going about
everywhere looking for Rossitur, and I am so
afraid of seeing him ! Mad people have such
an effect upon me ! You have no idea what
it is."

'' But my dearest girl, he is not mad now ;
I assure you he is not. Why, I have just  "

'' But I am sure he is ; and if he comes
here worrying me about Rossitur, I don't
know what will happen."

'* He will be satisfied when he knows you
can tell him nothing."

'' But when he gets one of those mad fits,
he always says I am his wife ." cried Amy.
He nearly frightened me to death In Simla!
I shall never forget it. Tried to drag me off
with him ! It took three men to get him
away from me ! He was perfectly mad, of
course, but If It happened again it would kill
me ; I know it would. Could you not have
him shut up again ?"

But he is coming here next Tuesday !"

exclaimed Sir John, driven to his wits' end.
And he is as sane as I am ! He will not
take you for his wife !"

Coming here on Tuesday  to this house !
What do you mean ?" and Mrs. John turned
a white startled face and frightened eyes upon
her companion. *' Do you mean that you
have engaged him as a servant ?"

"He is coming here as my own man!"
answered Sir John, his voice high pitched
with excitement.

As he spoke, his daughter-in-law fell back
on the couch in a dead faint, and he rushed
to the bell, and rang it violently.

MRS. ERSKINE HAS HER WAY.

The whole house was speedily in a commotion.
The maid-servants came flying upstairs
in answer to the vociferous ringing of
the bell ; Miss Lambton followed, looking
scared and anxious ; Sir John gave a dozen
contradictory orders In a breath, and a groom
was sent off for Dr. Sumner.

Less courtly and more suspicious than his
London brethren, he rather bluntly hinted
that tight-lacing might have something to do
with these fainting fits, as Mrs. Erskine's
heart and lungs were In a perfectly sound
condition ; but he acknowleged that there
was probably some mental anxiety at work
also. He also prescribed avoidance of

fatigue and worry ; plenty of fresh air and
cheerful society. And to Sir John's surprise,
he wound up by giving his opinion that life
in the country was perhaps too quiet and
monotonous for the patient. '' You should
have stayed in town a little longer," he said.
*' A strong, healthy young woman like you
could bear any amount of balls and theatres
without feeling the worse for them. I should
say dancing was very good for you."

'' But Sir Blank Dash and Sir Dash Blank
both ordered her out of London at once,"
cried Sir John. " It was killing her, they
said."

Then, of course I am wrong," Dr.
Sumner replied, blandly. " But let her have
as much amusement and variety as you can,
and, dare I say such a thing to a woman of
fashion, an inch or two more round the
waist."

"What a coarse, horrid creature," Mrs.
John exclaimed, as soon as he was gone.

'' Why did you send for him, dearest Sir
John ? Such men never understand a delicate
organisation like mine. I have been
subject to these attacks ever since that unfortunate
man went mad when my poor
daring was killed, and they will pass off as
soon as I am happy again."

'' My darling ! I hoped you were happy
at the Chase," said poor Sir John, plaintively.
'' I am sure I have done my very best to
make you so."

'you have Indeed, dear Sir John. Have
I ever reproached you with any shortcomings?
Perhaps I ought to have fought against the
thought of any new happiness apart from you
and the dear Chase, but we cannot always
command our feelings, can we ? And
although, of course, as an officer and a
gentleman, Walter Duncombe never allowed
himself to utter a word that your son's wife
might not listen to, I knew that he admired
me in India, and now that I am free "

Mrs. John pressed her handkerchief to her
eyes and gave a Httle sob.

My dear ! My dear ! do not agitate
yourself. You know I would not for the
world stand in the way of your happiness ;
but I hope you will allow the question of
marriage to stand over until my boy has
been a year dead. It is not too much to
ask, I think, under the circumstances."

But I cannot have that man Pottineer,
here," she exclaimed, suddenly. "It was
what you said about him that upset me.
I could not sleep if I knew he was in
the house. Oh ! dearest Sir John ! if he
comes I must go away at once. Nothing
would induce me even to see him. I must
marry Walter, and get him to take me
abroad."

My dear girl ! My dear Amy ! Pray becalm.
Do you for one moment suppose that
1 want to drive you out of my house ? What
is Pottlnger to me compared to you, my

darling ? I shall write at once and tell him
I have changed my mind about employing
him. If I send him a cheque for a quarter's
wages It will be all right."

** I wish you could persuade him to emigrate.
Perhaps If you offered to pay his
passage he would go to Australia or America."

'* But, my dearest girl, I have no right to
dictate to the poor fellow. Depend upon It
he does not wish to leave England ; he wants
to find his wife and child, and to make a
home for them, I suppose."

Rossltur will never live with him," said
Mrs. John, decidedly. '' Never. He need
not think of It ; and If he really wants to find
her he had better go to London. You do
not know, perhaps, that she has been persecuting
Walter Duncombe to engage her as
housekeeper ? She went to him at the
Hermitage, and he had the greatest difficulty
in getting rid of her."

*' Then he knows her address, I suppose.

Why not get it from him, and let me send it
to Porringer ?"

He would not give it to me, and I do not
wish to know it," replied Mrs. John, peevishly.
'' I take no interest in Rossitur since she
treated me so badly ; but still, I could not
answer it to my conscience to put that madman
on her track. I believe he will kill her
some day."

'' Oh, no ! He is not mad enough for
that, I hope. Your nervous state makes you
exaggerate a little. And now, my dear girl,
I think you ought to get to bed and have a
good sleep after all this excitement."

"And you will write to that man tomorrow
?"

'without fail, my darling. Good-night."

The events of the evening were duly communicated
by Mrs. Erskine to Walter Dun-combe.


'* Only fancy," she said, '' if Porringer had
come here before I knew anything of it ! I

tried to persuade Sir John to get him to
emigrate, but he sees no necessity for it."

But it will be all right now as he is not
coming ; and I am afraid you are taking the
matter too seriously. If you had anyone in
the world to deal with except that simple
unsuspicious Sir John, he would ask why
you worried yourself about that woman and
her husband    "

'' But I told him my reasons," interrupted
Amy. " I said I was sure Porringer was still
out of his mind, and that in his mad fits he
always took me for his wife."

Oh ; that is all right. My own opinion 
but I am afraid you will not agree with me 
is that you ought to let him come here. He
would probably go raving mad in a week,
and then he could be shut up  for life. "

''Oh; it would be too dreadful! I could
not bear it. I am perfectly certain I should
break down at the last moment. If I could
carry it through with a high hand it would

finish the thing for ever, as far as he is concerned.
I wish now I had stayed in London ;
I am afraid to go out lest he should be
prowling about."

"If I find him in the grounds I'll make
short work of him," said Duncombe, "but I
do not think he will come here."

The day but one after Sir John's promise
to his daughter-in-law that Porringer's engagement
should be cancelled, Otway went
to his wife's room after breakfast with a letter
in his hand. " Look here," he said; " I
suppose this is Amy's doing. Your father
writes to say that he will not have Porringer
for a valet after all. He does not think it is
safe to have a man in the house who has
been in a lunatic asylum. He has written to
him at the address he gave in London, and
enclosed a cheque, and he asks me to find out
if the poor fellow is there."

"And why do you think Amy has anything
to do with it ?"

VOL. HI. L

Because, for some reason or other, I
think she is in mortal dread of that woman
Rossitur, and Porringer being her husband,
she may be afraid of him too. I cannot tell,
of course, why she should be afraid, unless
Rossitur has some hold over her; and it
seems to me most unaccountable that Walter
Duncombe should be making love to your
sister-in-law, and keeping up communication
with Rossitur as well."

But are we sure that Amy knows of his
meetings with Rossitur  that is, if he does
meet her ?"

It is impossible to say what she knows
and what she does not know. If she is the
dupe of Duncombe and Rossitur I am sorry
for her ; if they are all playing into one
another's hands and throwing dust into your
father's eyes, I am sorry for him. I confess
her motive is a mystery, but that there is
something behind I am convinced. It was
not on account of her health alone that she

left town SO suddenly ; I believe she was
afraid of meeting Rossitur."

I have had news from the Chase this
morning, too," said Betty. '' Aunt Louise
tells me that Walter Buncombe has proposed
to Amy, but papa will not allow even a
formal engagement until poor dear Jack is a
year dead. They will not have more than a
month to wait. She does not say anything
about Porringer, but Amy had a very bad
fainting fit the evening before last."

'' I do not believe in those fainting fits,"
said Otway.

Papa sent for Dr. Sumner, and he said
the country was too dull for her, and that she
ought to hare stayed in London."

'We had better send her an invitation to
stay with us for the rest of the season," said
Otway. *' What do you say ?"

He was in jest, and Betty knew it ; but
she answered, quiet, '' If you wish it."

' You are very compliant, my dear child !"

how Betty hated to be called his dear child
'but I think you forget that, if I am
master of this house you are mistress."

But I should not presume to interfere
with your wishes."

"It is very good of you to say so, but I
am in the happy condition of a man who has
no wishes. I have lived to see the futility of
cherishing hopes of any kind, and to recognise
the wisdom of living without them."

And have you no hopes to live for now ."
she asked, half-involuntarily.

None worthy of the name. I am bringing
out a reprint of the Essays I contributed
at times to various magazines, but I cannot
even hope that it will set the Thames on fire.
May I have the honour of presenting you
with a copy of it as soon as it appears ?"

thank you  if you have one to spare,"
she answered, indifferently.

I have no doubt there will be one to
spare. By the way, have you sent out all

the invitations for our dance yet ? Mrs.
Ogilvey told me last night she had not got
one. I hope you have not forgotten her,"

Your hopes are not all dead, you see,"
Betty answered. '' But you may set your
mind at ease ; the invitation was posted late
last night."

'' I know she is not a favourite of yours,"
Otway began.

"If my favourites only were asked to the
dance, it would be a very small one," Betty
interrupted, quickly, " and I am very glad to
ask yours. Will you kindly allow me to read
papa's letter ?"

'' My experiment is a failure," he said
sadly to himself, as he went downstairs.
"And Caroline's perception is at fault; she
hinted to me last night that my wife loves
me, and I think she dislikes me more and
more every day.

It was strange, but true. All the better
part of Mrs. Ogilvey's nature had been

aroused by the sight of Betty's too evident
unhappiness ; with a woman's instinct she
guessed the cause, and after a short struggle
with herself, she resolved if possible to act
the part of good genius to the man who had
always been her true friend, by opening his
eyes to the fact that his wife loved him.

porringer's search begins.

After his short interview with Walter Dun-combe
at the Chase, Porringer took the train
at Little Centre Bridge for Stillingfort. His
one engrossing thought at that time was to
get some information as to the whereabouts
of his wife and child. It seemed to him,
with his poor, perplexed, excited brain, the
oddest thing in the world that he should have
any trouble in the matter. Two facts about
her he was aware of ; he knew she had left
India with her widowed mistress, and also
that she was not now living with Mrs. John
Erskine ; but he had no clue as to her movements
after she left her situation, and he was
not aware that some months had been spent

in Italy by mistress and maid before they
finally separated.

If Bella wanted to hide herself from him,
why had she allowed the news of her departure
from India to reach him through
the superintendent of the lunatic asylum ?
What had happened to keep her silent from
the time she reached England ? Was her
silence accidental or had it a motive ? And
why had she left Mrs. Erskine That was
also a mystery. But he knew his wife too
well to believe that any action of hers was
the result of accident. All her life she had
looked ahead, and her mistakes, if she made
any, were never the results of impetuosity.
Passion might lead her into trouble, but it
would be deliberate, not sudden passion.

Porringer was no logician, but only a simple,
honest, and by no means brilliant fellow ; so
he did not reason in this way, but he knew
without reasoning that his wife would, in
the events of her life, look well before she

leaped. That was the way he put it to
himself.

He was still doggedly attached to this
woman, who had never been a very goodwife
to him. How well he remembered
those happy days before they went to India
she as maid to Miss Gordon, he as soldier
servant to young John Erskine  when he
was "courting" her, and wondering at his
own good fortune in being allowed to "keep
company " with the finest and handsomest
girl in the village. He was not a bad-looking
fellow himself in those days ; and even
now, when he took a little care, he was
smart and soldier-like enough, but he seemed
to lack heart, or energy, or inspiration, or
something  he did not himself know what it
was.

It had come over him gradually out In
India, this carelessness and want of spirit,
for no matter how he looked, or what he said
or did, he seemed, after a while, never to be

able to please her. To be sure she had been
true to her engagement and married him, but
she was not the Bella Rossltur who had
walked with him in the Stillingfort woods ;
or, if she was the same, he had never known
her in her true colours.

But what was that dark shadow looming
upon him out of the past ? Did it belong to
the days that seemed, as he looked back
upon them, so bright and blissful ? The
man's memory was weak and unfaithful on
many points ; he was apt to confuse names
and dates, and even faces ; but, as he drew
near Stillingfort, he all at once remembered
poor Jem Hathaway, the young keeper, who
had been Bella's lover too, and who had shot
himself for love of her.

I suppose it did happen," Porringer said
to himself ''I did not dream that I heard
Bella shriek, and saw Jem lying dead in the
brush wood. Poor Jem ! As if Bella would
have married the like of he." The dragoon

soldier thought himself miles above the gamekeeper
in the social scale.

'' If I could find her," he said, '' I might
make her afraid of me by threatening to tell
that I know she wrote the letter to my
master that killed him. She stole it from,
me when I was mad, but I remember every
word that was in it except the name of the
Frenchman. But I will not be hard upon
her, if she will be good to me and not treat
me like a dog, as she did in India ; I was a
fool to give in to her so long ; but if she'll
only be a good wife to me now, I'll work and
slave to keep her like a lady, and speak
never a word that is not kind."

The Stillingfort people had by no means
forgotten Porringer. A man who had been
in India ; who had gone mad from sunstroke
and been in an asylum, was a sort of hero in
his way. There is something almost appalling
to the ignorant minds of those from
whom the sun is hidden for so many months

In the year, in the bare Idea that anywhere
in the known world he can have power to
strike men down and make them mad. And
when Will Somers, the best mower In the
county, reminded his mates who were discussing
with him Porringer's altered appearance,
over their beer at the '' Forster
Arms," that he had had a sun-stroke ' six
years ago, that hot summer when all the
ponds went dry,' he was asked contemptuously
if he had gone mad ?

Porringer had no relations now living in
the place ; but his wife's sister and her husband
gave him a fairly hospitable welcome
at the farm. But Alice could tell him
nothing of Bella. '' She wrote to us once
when your master was killed in India," she
said, 'but as I was in trouble myself at that
time about my brother, I never answered
her letter, and I dare say she was offended.
Bella had always a queer temper, and she
thought herself above her father and me.

She was proud of her brother Charles,
because he was clever at music, and she
hoped he would make a grand marriage.
The wonder to me," Alice added, as she
looked critically at her brother-in-law," is that
she married you ! Her great ambition was to
be a lady, and if you take my advice, George,
you will not try to find her. How do you
know she has not passed herself off as a
widow and married another man ?"

*' If I thought that," cried Porringer, " I
would search the world over until I found
them both."

More fool you ! What would you do,
then ?"

Kill her!" was the terse answer.

'' Then I hope before you find her you will
be mercifully shut up in an asylum. Can you
not see that if she did not want to avoid you
she would put herself in your way ?"

That is not enough for me. I am going
into Sir John Erskine's service next week 

my young master's father  and Mrs. John,
the widow, will be able to tell me something
about her. You do not think she went to
Australia to her brother, do you ?"

*' He is the last person she would go to."

** And you never answered the last letter
you had from her ?"

"Well, I am not so sure about it, now I
begin to think. I believe I wrote and told
her of my brother's illness, and that he was
going to marry Ellen Balfour, but I cannot
be sure."

But you know nothing of her since she
left India? You have seen no one who
knows her ?"

Alice hesitated and coloured. *'I heard a
rumour about her  nothing more."

** Let me hear it. I must hear it. For
God's sake do not excite me by keeping mein
the dark ! Come ; out with it, whatever it

is."

Well, then, this is what I heard, but I

warn you that it is very little. One of the
footmen at the Hermitage  that is a place
belonging to a Nlr. Buncombe near Great
Centre Bridge  is a Stillingfort man, and he
told me when he was at home last month,
that some time ago, the end of April I think
it was, a person called to see his master  a
very handsome young woman he said she
was, with fair hair and dark eyes. She
stayed some time, and when she went away
his master walked with her to the railway
station, and he says  but how he heard it I
am sure I don't know  that his master called
her ' Bella.' "

Porringer got as pale as death, and a wild
angry light came into his eyes. " She went
to elis house," he muttered. " Then she
must have been in this neighbourhood, and
only this very day I was speaking to him,
and he said he knew nothing about her.
The villain ! And he was walking with
my master's widow. I saw them together.

What is there between the three of them ?
What secret are they hiding from Sir John ?
But I'll keep an eye on them, and when they
are off their guard they'll let out where Bella
is and what she is doing."

Neither persuasion nor entreaty could induce
Porringer to remain at Stillingfort more
than one night ; but he spent part of a day
and a nioht at Great Centre Bridge, whither
he went in the hope of finding some trace
of his wife. It is almost needless to say that
he went back to London unsuccessful ; and
when he arrived at his lodging in town, he
found a letter from Sir John Erskine, informing
him that his engagement was cancelled.
A cheque for twenty pounds was
enclosed.

'' But I must see Mrs. John," said Pot-finger
to himself, "and tell her that Mr.
Duncombe knows where Bella is if she does
not."

A madman's delusion.

And to carry out this intention, Pottlnger
again travelled down to Little Centre Bridge
on the day that  If Sir John had not, to satisfy
his daughter-in-law, changed his mind 
would have seen him installed as a servant at
the Chase. The loss of the excellent situation
he had been promised was not a very great
blow to the poor man  he was scarcely in a
fit state of mind to realise the importance of
work  but he was disappointed at not being
able to make inquiries from his late master's
widow respecting the extraordinary disappearance
of his wife and child. Mr. Dun-combe
had lately been In communication with
Bella, or Bella with him ; Mrs. John Erskine

VOL. III. M

and Duncombe were on the best of terms,
therefore she must know something of Bella.
If they were all in a plot to deceive him 
and what was more likely ?  he must pit his
cunning against theirs, and never relax his
endeavours until he had forced, or surprised,
the secret they were so determined to keep
from him. The extreme improbability that
attached to his suspicions never occurred to
him ; he saw nothing anomalous or disgraceful
in the fact that Mrs. John Erskine should act
as a go-between in secret for her former maid
and the man who was received as a guest in
her father-in-law's house. Had it not been
whispered by the gossips in India that this
Duncombe was an admirer of Bella's ? But
when he left India the gossip died out, and
he, as Bella's husband, had tried very hard
to forget it.

It was very good of Sir John to send
him twenty pounds ; he could now afford to
engage a suitable lodging for his wife and

child ; he had not found them yet, it was true,
but discovery of their whereabouts could not
now be very far off. Mrs. Erskine would
not remain deaf to his appeals, and in a very
few days Bella and his little son would be
with him again.

With such thoughts as these in his head,
and such hopes in his heart, Porringer, not
unnaturally, became more and more excited
as he drew near his destination, and he
talked volubly and more or less wildly to his
fellow-travellers during the short journey ;
but they all put him down as a harmless
lunatic. He came down by an early afternoon
train, and it was about five o'clock when
he left the tavern in Little Centre Bridge,
where he meant to spend the night, and set
out for his short walk to the Chase. He
calculated that from a quarter-past to half-past
five in the afternoon he would find Mrs.
Erskine at home.

But in answer to his inquiry for her, he

was told that Mrs. John Erskine was out;
and the footman further informed him that
she was not expected home much before
seven, as she and Miss Lambton had gone to
a garden-party six miles off.

Porringer then asked if Sir John had gone
with the ladies.

No ; Sir John was at home. He had been
to a meeting of magistrates at Great Centre
Bridge, and had come back about half-an-hour
ago.

Ask if George Porringer can see him for
five minutes," the visitor said ; and the footman
carried the message to his master.

Bless me ! what brings him here ?" cried
Sir John, testily. *' Let me see. What
o'clock is it ? Oh ! only half-past five ! I
can get rid of him before Amy comes back.
Tell him I am very busy, Baker, but I can
talk to him for five minutes."

And presently, Porringer hurried in, and
shut the door behind him.

"Well, my man, and what can I do for
you ? You had my letter, I suppose ?
Nothing wrong with the cheque, I hope."

No, Sir John ; it is all right, and I thank
you kindly for it ; but, I hope your honour
did not think I wanted compensation because
it did not suit you to hire me. I am not
one of that sort, Sir John, although I should
have liked to wait upon your honour."

Well, the fact is, you know, Porringer,
you have not been quite right in your head ;
and, although I dare say you are all right
now, there are a lot of people in the house 
women, and all that, you know, and if you
were to have another little attack, or anyone
fancied there was one coming on, some of
them might be frightened, you understand.
In fact, Mrs. John didn't seem to like the
notion at all ; and as she is very nervous just
now, I could not go against her."

*' It was Mrs. John put you off?" said
Porringer, his suspicions on the alert in a

moment. " I shouldn't have thought she was
nervous ; she never showed no signs of It
when she was in India, in the poor Captain's
lifetime."

But remember, the shock of her husband's
death, Porringer, must have had a great
effect upon her ; she says herself, she has
never been the same since."

Porringer gave a sort of chuckling laugh.
'' Perhaps," he said. 'rit isn't for the likes
of me to say what fine ladies feel, and the
Captain made more of she nor she made of
he when he was alive. But, even if she's
nervous now, Sir John, it won't hurt her to
see me for five minutes, to answer a question
or two about my wife  her as used to be
Bella Rossitur, Mrs. Erskine's own maid.
It stands to reason that Mrs. John must
know more about her than anyone else,
for "

*' But I assure you, Porringer, she knows
nothing of her. I heard her say over andover

again, that since they parted in Italy,
she had seen nothing of Rossitur. Your wife
left her at Sorrento, and my daughter-in-law
has never seen her since."

'' That may be so," replied Porringer,
doggedly, and his growing impatience and
excitement showed in his voice and the
restless working of his hands, "but I know
for a fact that my wife has been seen in the
house of the man Mrs. John is keeping
company with, and if she doesn't know that,
it's time she heard from me or from someone
else !"

Do you mean to say that your wife has
been in this neighbourhood lately ?" cried Sir
John. " Let me see  now that you remind
me, I think Mrs. John knew in some way,
that she was in Great Centre Bridge in
the spring. Yes, of course she was ; I remember
now, Mrs. Erskine told me she went
over there one day to look for her."

''I knew it! I knew it!" exclaimed

Pottlnger, and he flung his cap away into a
corner of the room. " They are all In the
plot to hide her from me, and I must and will
see Mrs. John! And they think I'm mad!
That's what It Is, I suppose. They think I
am not to be trusted ; but, If they want to
set me mad, they are going the right way to
work." He put his hands to his head, as If
seized with a sudden pain, and cried out,
piteously  "Oh, my God! keep me  keep
me from going mad !"

"My poor fellow!" said Sir John, kindly,
"calm yourself. Depend upon It, Mrs.
Erskine will do her very best to help you.
You know she can have no motive for
keeping you In the dark about your wife ;
but you must not excite yourself or I cannot
allow you to see her. There now ! Go and
pick up your cap and sit down quietly for a
few minutes like a sensible man. You know
what will happen If your head goes wrong
again."

Porringer obeyed like a child. " God bless
you, Sir John," he said, " you are very kind ;
but you don't know the fear that comes over
me sometimes. I feel as If everything was
slipping away from me, and that I am going
down  down, I can't tell where. If I could
find Bella, sir. It would be all right. I want
to be sure that she Is not hiding from me. I
am only a rough Ignorant fellow, but no one
knows how I love that woman. I don't brag
of her as a good wife, your honour, but she's
the woman I married for love, and I love her
still."

*you are a good fellow, Porringer, and 1
am sure you deserve a good wife !" Poor Sir
John did not know what to say.

If you wouldn't mind. Sir John," Pot-finger
said in a changed voice, after a pause
of a few minutes, *' I should like to see my
poor young master's little boy. He's here, is
he not, sir? He and my poor little chap, who
may be dead for what I know, were babies

together. Bella was just able to be up
and about when Master Jack was born, and
the poor Captain and me, your honour, was
married the same week. Master Jack won't
remember poor old Porringer  not likely ; but
if I might see him, your honour ?"

To be sure ! To be sure ! I should like
you to see how he has grown ! He is the
image of his mother ! I see no likeness to
the Erskiness at all, although some people
will have it that he is like me." Sir John
rang the bell, and sent word to the nursery
that Master Erskine was to come down.

And presently the nurse carried him into
the room, and as soon as he was on his legs
the little fellow raced to his grandpa and
climbed upon his knee. Sir John put his
arm round him, and nodded to the nurse to
go. " Now, Jacky," he said, 'you are to go
over and shake hands with that man over
there, and say, ' How do you do ?' He knew
your own papa once."

My own papa!" the child repeated as he
trotted over obediently, and held out his little
hand to Porringer. '' How do do, man ?" he
said.

Porringer lifted the little fellow in his arms,
and looked at him earnestly ; and Sir John,
who was watching him, was struck by the
odd puzzled expression that appeared upon
his face.

Look at me. Master Jacky," Porringer
said, gently, but in an agitated tone. " Let
me see your eyes." Then an awful moment
followed, that Sir John never forgot. When
the child turned its beautiful, dark, serious
eyes upon him, Porringer made a sound
that was between a wild laugh and a subdued
cry.

What is the matter ." Sir John exclaimed,
as he made a rush to take the child.

But Porringer started back, and held the
little fellow fast. " He's not your grandson !"
he shouted. '' He's my boy ! My little

Georgy ! Do you think I don't know him ?
He has his mother's face  her eyes  her
mouth  he's her very Image. Who brought
him here ? Are you In the plot, too ?" His
voice rose higher and higher, and the now
terrified child began to cry.

Put him down Instantly," cried Sir John,
'' and leave the house ! Instantly ! Do you
hear ? You are mad ! As mad as you can
be ! If you stay here I'll have you shut up."

To his surprise and relief, Porringer put
down the child ; but his excitement rose
higher and higher. " I do not want the
boy without his mother," he said, "and she's
not far off. You are all in a plot to keep
her from me ; but you did wrong to let me
see the child. Ha ! ha !" and he laughed,
*' Mrs. John would have managed better if
she had been here. She would have sent
down the right one. I am going now, but
tell her I am coming back tomorrow to get
my wife."

He threw on his cap, and was gone
before Sir John could utter a word. "Poor
creature !" he said, as he watched him from
the window. " He is quite mad. Dangerous,
I am afraid. I wish Amy was here."

At the moment, Amy was driving home at
a smart pace along the Great Centre Bridge
road from the garden-party ; and on the
same road, chosen wholly by chance, Pot-finger
was rushing at full speed, impelled by
the restless tortured spirit within. He was
actually goaded to the very verge of madness
by the suspicions aroused by the sight of the
child he took for his own.

In a cloud of summer dust he saw the
carriage coming. The high-stepping greys,
the handsome liveries of the servants, and
the bright parasols of the two ladies, made
quite a brilliant show on the high-road. He
did not know to whom the carriage belonged ;
and he felt but little interest in it, as he drew
up panting under the hedge to let it go by.

But, as it went rapidly past, he saw distinctly
the beautiful face of Mrs. John Erskine.
She saw him, too ; and as her eyes
met his for a second, she quickly lowered her
parasol ; but, above the noise of the trotting
of the horses and the roll of the wheels, she
heard coming after her a wild yell such as a
madman might have given ! The footman
turned on the box. '' He is calling to us to
stop, ma'am," he said, touching his hat.

'' Pay no attention, but drive faster ! He
is mad !" Mrs. John answered, imperiously,
but her very lips had grown white.

The horses trotted fast and yet faster ; the
man tore wildly behind in pursuit ! He could
not overtake the carriage, but he saw that it
turned into the entrance gate of the Chase.
Some instinct told him that he might, perhaps,
be denied admission ; so, turning aside a little,
he climbed like a cat over the boundary wall
of the park, and reached the middle of the
drive, just as the two ladies were entering the

house. The door was still open when he
reached It, and a footman was carrying an
armful of light wraps across the hall. Pottln-
ger waited until he disappeared, and then
made a rush for the door of the room In
which he had left Sir John. Opening it
cautiously he looked in. Sir John was
standing looking out of the window ; he had
but just that moment walked over to It, so
Pottlnger's re-appearance was unknown to
him. He was therefore beyond measure
startled to feel suddenly a sharp clutch upon
his shoulder, and to hear the words shouted
hoarsely Into his ear 

'she's here! In your house! I saw her
go in ! Bella ! My wife ! She's here !" and
a wild laugh rang out through the open windows,
and reached the room above ! And in
that room, Mrs. Erskine was seated alone ;
her face was deadly pale, and there was a
look of terror in her beautiful eyes.

MRS. ERSKINE PLAYS A DESPERATE GAME.

Sir John, alarmed, not for himself but for his
daughter-in-law, by the sudden re-appearance
of Porringer, was at first too bewildered to
understand the wild words that the excited
creature repeated over and over again. That
the unfortunate man was demented there
could now be no doubt ; indeed. Sir John
had had no doubt on the subject from the
moment he declared that little Jacky was his
son! It was quite evident that he had now
seen Amy, and, deceived by some fancied
resemblance  people had said that there was
a sort of likeness between mistress and maid
he had rushed to the conclusion that she
was his missing wife.

But to a madman, a delusion Is not a
delusion but a certainty, and this notion that
his wife and child were at the Chase, in the
persons of Amy and her boy, having got into
Porringer's head, it would be almost impossible
to get it out again. The best thing
would be to humour him, and if he made a
row, and kept on coming to the house, and
frightening poor dear Amy out of her life,
Dr. Sumner must be called upon to interfere
and the unfortunate man sent back to the
asylum.

And Sir John did not forget that Amy
had said that, when Porringer's fits of insanity
were coming on, or had actually come, he
always mistook her for his wife, and here
was proof positive of the truth of her words ;
for not only had he taken one woman for the
other, but he had added to the worry and
complication by mistaking the children also.
Clearly, the only thing to be done at present
was to humour him ; so, taking no notice of

VOL. Ill N

his frantic assertions, Sir John exclaimed,
*' How you startled me, Pottlnger! Why,
man, I thought you were gone ! What Is It
you say ? You saw your wife ! Where ? In
the town ? Well ? What have I to do with
it?"

*' No ; not in the town, but driving in a
fine carriage ! Your carriage ! And she came
here to this house, and she Is in this house
now ! It Is of no use to tell me she isn't. I
saw her  saw her  saw her !" his voice rose
with each repetition, '' dressed like a lady, and
she looked beautiful ! A lady's dress becomes
Bella ! Why don't you say that she is stopping
here with the boy ? Why are you and
Mrs. John keeping her from me? She's not
afraid of her poor George, is she ?" the poor
creature added, piteously.

My good man," said Sir John, slowly and
distinctly, 'you are talking nonsense. Sheer
nonsense ! I never saw your wife to my
knowledge. Never ; on my honour ! And I

am ready to take my oath that she is not in
this house."

But I saw her drive up to it in a carriage.
I saw her go in at the hall door, and an old
lady with her. I was not asleep and dreaming.
She passed me on the road, and I ran
after the carriage and shouted to her to stop."

** Porringer, you are so far dreaming that
you are under a delusion. You have mistaken
Mrs. John Erskine, your poor master's
widow, for your wife. She drove up to the
house just now, and came in ; but when you
insist that she is your wife, what am I to
think of you ?"

Porringer looked bewildered. 'can I be
off my head again?" he muttered. "That
was not Bella, but her mistress ! There
were people in the regiment who said they
were like one another, but I never saw it.
Bella was the finest woman ; a full inch taller
than Miss Gordon, and more stately-like in
her walk."

"Very likely," said Sir John. "Mrs.
Erskine is not very little, and she holds
herself well."

And so does Bella. She's as upright asa
dart, and goes along so easy and so soft. I
always thought of the swans on his lordship's
lake at Stilllngfort, when I saw Bella walk."

I think you had better go now, Pot-finger,"
said Sir John, kindly. "You are
stopping In the town, I suppose. I must
talk to Mrs. Erskine about you this evening,
and you shall hear tomorrow what she says.
Perhaps, after all, she may be able to help
you to find your wife's address."

After some persuasion, Pottlnger went
away ; his excitement had partly subsided,
but he was by no means convinced that he
had mistaken Mrs. Erskine for his wife.

Sir John was Immensely relieved at the
way Amy took the news of Pottlnger's appearance
; she was already aware of his
excited chase of the carriage, and she laughed

heartily, if a little nervously, when she heard
of his sudden descent upon Sir John in the
library, to announce that he had seen his
wife going into the house.

I hope you are now convinced that he is
quite mad," she said. " His having mistaken
me for Bella Rossitur is proof enough ; you
know, I told you he always took me for her
when his mad fits were coming on. And
then the child, too ! That is a fresh craze.
He will run off with Jacky some day if weare
not very careful."

'' Good gracious ! do you think there is any
fear of that ?" cried Sir John, in great alarm
for the safety of his grandson. " And then,
if homicidal mania came on, no one can tell
what might happen. Really, I think I had
better get Sumner to act, and have him
taken care of. He must not be allowed
to be at large. What do you say, my
dear?"

*' My dearest Sir John, did I not say

from the first that he was mad, and madmen
ought to be shut up ? I cannot go on having
in terror of my Hfe, both on my own account
and the child's ! And yet it seems hard
upon the poor, deluded creature." Then
after a moment's pause, she added, suddenly,
'* Suppose I see him alone and talk to him
seriously ? I may be able to persuade him to
go away."

Sir John demurred ; he had fifty objections
to make, but ultimately he gave in, as he
invariably did, to the strong will of his
daughter-in-law ; one stipulation he made,
however, that during the interview he was to
be within call.

And accordingly the next day Porringer
was sent for, and when Sir John told him
that he must be on his very best behaviour,
as Mrs. John Erskine had consented to see
him, such an expression of rapture came into
his eyes, and upon his face such a look of
gladness and relief settled, that Sir John was

positively startled. " Now it will be all
right," he said, softly, to himself.

Sir John took him to the morning-room,
where Amy was waiting for him ; but he was
by no means easy in his mind as he shut the
door and left the two together. Amy did
not appear at all nervous, but she might
lose her self-command at any moment. His
anxiety and alarm would not have been
lessened had he remained to see Porringer
rush forward and fall on his knees before the
beautiful woman who rose as he came near.
But she was not quick enough to avoid
him ; he seized her hand, and pressed it
passionately to his lips, exclaiming as he
did so 

*' Bella ! Bella! Have I found you at last,
my darling ?"

Not a muscle of Mrs. Erskine's face
moved ; she looked down with an expression
in which contempt and dislike were
mingled, and pulling her hand away with a

jerk, she said in a cold, clear voice, '' So
you mean to keep up that farce ? Why,
you foolish man, you do not expect to be
believed, do you ?"

At the sound of her voice he got up and
fell back a step or two. "It is you who are
keeping up the farce," he said, in a low, half-frightened
tone.

She laughed, and seating herself with her
back to the light, she pointed to another
chair at a little distance, and said, imperiously,
'' Sit down, Porringer. I want to talk to you."

He obeyed, and resting one elbow on his
knee, he put his chin on his hand, and
looked with an eager, anxious, longing gaze
into his companion's face.

'' In the first place," she said, " I think it
is very impertinent of you, George Porringer,
to come down here, when Sir John told
you he did not intend to take you into his
service ; but when you came you ought to
have been more cautious. What do you suppose

people will say when they hear that
you insist upon taking me for your wife 
Why  that you are mad, of course."

"If you are not Bella, where is she?" he
broke in, and his eyes flashed savagely at
her.

''If I am not Bella! Really, Porringer,
you are too absurd ! Let me ask, do you
want to be shut up in a lunatic asylum for
the rest of your life, or do you not ?"

'* I want my wife," he answered, sullenly ;
and before Mrs. Erskine could speak again,
he rose, and bringing his hand down on the
table that stood between him and her with a
violent bang, he cried out  '' and I have
found her ! By the heavens above us this
day, I swear that you are Bella Rossitur, my
wife ! Deny it if you dare, woman !" and
before she was aware of his object, he had
pushed the table aside, and was standing
before her with her wrists tightly gripped in
his burning hands !

She did not quail or cry out ! Looking
into his excited face with calm, cold eyes,
she said In a tone of command, " How dare
you touch me ! Attempt it again, and I shall
ring for help! Do you suppose I am afraid
of you ? You may go and proclaim from
one end of the country to the other that I
am not Mrs. John Erskine, but your wife
Bella Rossltur, and I deny It ! You hear
I deny It ; and not a soul will believe
you. Do you hear me ? No one will believe
you !

'' Then where is my wife ? Find her forme
; or tell me where to find her."

I know nothing of your wife, and I want
to know nothing of her. Neither do I care
whether you find her, or spend the rest of
your life looking for her ; but I warn you
that if you persist In mistaking me for her
you will have reason to regret it. Come
now, Pottlnger, be sensible. Beg my pardon
and Sir John's, for all this annoyance, and

take this little present from me  for the
poor Captain's sake."

She took some gold from her purse, and
held it out to him.

Beg your pardon ! Take your money 
for the poor Captain's sake !" he repeated.
No, thank you  Mrs. Erskine. I suppose
I am mad and mistaken, but your money will
not cure me."

"No one will call you mad if you do not
go about the country saying mad things,"
she put in. "And you had better take the
money."

No  not if I were starving. And I am
not too mad to hold my tongue," he added,
'for I do not want to be shut up. I want ta
have my liberty, that I may be able to see
what happens. I am obliged to you, Mrs.
John Erskine, for letting me see you. It
shows your courage ; but remember "  he
turned back from the door just as he was
about to open it, and going up to her, he

put his lips close to her ear  '' remember, as
long as I am alive, my wife Bella Porringer,
cannot marry again. If you know where she
is, give her that message from me."

Mrs. Erskine drew back hastily, and passed
her handkerchief across her lips. " Anything
more ?" she said, with a feeble attempt to
laugh.

'eyes. Tell her if she forgets I am alive
and marries, I'll hunt her down and shoot
her as I would a dog !"

Not the faintest sign of fear appeared
upon Mrs. Erskine's face as the threat was
uttered. She may have turned a shade or
two paler, but she held her head erect, and
kept her beautiful eyes fixed with a steady
stare upon the face of her companion. '' Will
you go now, or must I have you turned out ?''
she said.

He took no notice of the question, but
broke out into a string of. the vilest and
most opprobrious epithets that ever assailed

a woman's ear. His face was inflamed and
distorted with passion, and he looked as if he
were about to fly upon her and tear her Hmb
from limb.

But with her eyes still fixed upon him,
she walked to the bell and laid her hand
upon it. " If any one sees you in this state,
and hears your language, you know the
consequences," she said.

He answered with a curse, and she drew
down the handle of the bell sharply.

The action seemed to sober him for a
moment. He put his hands together and
stretched them towards her in humble supplication.
"Bella! Bella !" he cried. "Have
mercy ! You loved me once !"

She laughed in his face. The footman
was already in the room in answer to her
summons. "Take that person away, Baker,"
she said, "and on no pretext allow him to
enter the house again. He is quite mad."

Yes, ma'am. Come ; clear out, will you ."

At the door, Pottlnger wrenched himself
free with a sudden twist ; turned, shook his
closed fist at the woman, who, with her hand
pressed to her side, now stood leaning for
support against the table, and said in a voice
that rang sharp and shrill with the fury that
was raging within him, the one word, '' Remember
!"

Betty GIVES UP ALL HOPE.

Herbert Otway and Betty rarely dined
alone, and the night of their dance at Rutland
Gate, Filmer was their guest. Betty
was looking unusually pretty in her ball dress
of ivory satin, draped with clouds of soft lace,
and for ornament, a diamond and sapphire
necklet and pendant, which Otway, with
much ceremony, had presented to her that
morning. That is, he had sent the case
containing the jewels to her room, with a
polite request that if they suited the dress
she had chosen, she would do him the favour
to wear them at the ball.

He looked at her with the coldly critical
glance she had begun not only to shrink

from, but positively to loathe, when he joined
her In the drawing-room before dinner, and
she felt as If she could have flung his costly
gift at his feet and rushed from the house
for ever. Her present life became more and
more unbearable every day ; for every day
the hope that some love for her still lingered
In his heart died out. She did not know
how eagerly he had been watching on his
part for some sign that she was less flinty,
and less unrelenting than she seemed. At
the slightest show of softness or womanly
feeling towards him, he knew that his pride
would take wing, and that even the fear of
a second repulse would not keep back the
declaration of his love. But she was like Ice
to him still, and she seemed to grow colder
and colder every day.

He knew nothing of the storms of passion
that broke when she was alone. He never
guessed that more than once  more than a
dozen times, she had stolen to his study door

when she knew that he was within, and
had stood there longing, but afraid to enter.
Longing to throw herself at his feet to beg
for the love she had once so scornfully
repulsed, but so frightened and ashamed of
her impulse, that she fled upstairs again,
and, by increased coldness of manner, tried
to prove how indifferent she really was.

As Otway looked at her on this particular
evening, seated at the head of his table,
beautiful but unhappy  he could not, he
thought, misread the expression of that
lovely pensive face  a feeling of rebellion
against fate which had so misused him was
mingled with a sense of remorse that he had,
perhaps, blighted that fair young life. But
for him she might have been a happy woman
now. His thoughts went back to the day
he saw her for the first time, driving her
spirited little ponies through the High Street
of Little Centre Bridge, and he could recall
at will the look, half of relief and half of
VOL. in. o

saucy defiance, with which she accepted his
aid.

A Hfetlme had seemingly passed since that
little episode ; he went back over his courtship
; his engagement ; his most miserable
wedding-day, and his life since the separation,
with the friendship of Mrs. Ogilvey to makeup
to him for the want of Betty's love. He
could have laughed aloud as he reviewed It
all.

Mrs. Ogilvey herself had been a puzzle to
him of late. There was a time when he could
not blind himself to the fact that were It
possible for her to do so, she would bestow
upon him herself and all her worldly goods ;
but now, he was by no means sure that any
such desire was In her mind, in spite of the
fact that she never lost an opportunity of
hinting to him that his happiness was In his
own hands, and that he was wilfully and
blindly turning his back upon it.

It must be confessed that he did not try

very hard to fathom her meaning, and he was
scarcely to be blamed If he interpreted it now
in one way and now in another ; or that he
sometimes felt an irresistible desire to cut
himself adrift by one bold stroke from the tie
that was so evidently galling to poor Betty.
Why should he keep her bound when he
knew she was an unwilling captive ? Once
free, she might find happiness with a man
more fortunate than he. And for himselfe
Well, he would most probably drift into a
marriage with Mrs. Ogllvey. He did not
love her, but she had been a loyal friend
to him ever since she had confided to his
keeping the grave episode In her life, already
known to readers of this story. That a
woman can outlive and overlive the folly
of youth, Is, in Itself, a recommendation to a
man who, like Otway, has endured one
deep and cruel disappointment.

Betty was very silent during dinner ; she
was making up her mind to ask Otway

to allow her to return to her father at the
end of the season, and her proposal would,
she knew, be followed ere long by a further
proposal for the annulment of her marriage.
But, unlike Otway, she was making no plans,
not even vague ones, for the future. She
was not likely to drift Into marriage with
anyone ; and as soon as Amy was Mrs.
Duncombe, the Chase would feel like home
once more.

Otway told Fllmer the latest news from
Stoneshire, and Arthur listened with the
greatest Interest to the account of Pottlnger's
re-appearance, and of his extraordinary statement.
" The fellow Is undoubtedly mad !"
he said. 'but I should like to have this
mystery about Rossltur cleared up."

'mrs. Otway"  he always spoke to
Filmer of Betty as "Mrs. Otway,"  "thinks
she has some hold over Amy ; but I confess
it seems to me improbable. I think the
woman simply wants to keep out of her

husband's way, and Mrs. Erskine and Walter
Buncombe may be helping her to do so. It
is very wrong of them, but we cannot
interfere."

As far as the arrangements were concerned,
Mrs. Herbert Otway's dance was one
of the most successful of the season. The
rooms were not too full ; the music was
delicious ; the supper perfection, and the
host, if not the hostess, attentive ; for poor
Betty went about among her guests with a
smiling face but a heavy heart. Otway was
always particularly courteous to her in public,
but on this evening he was inattentive, if not
neglectful. Indeed, he addressed her but
twice, and on each occasion he spoke rather
sharply, upbraiding her for her preoccupied
and listless manner.

The ready tears rose to her sad eyes
at his sharp tone and unloving words. From
the expression of his face, she could tell that
when he addressed Mrs. Ogilvey the voice

was gentle and kind ; and the words he said ?
Ah ! What those words were, who could
tell?

But, by accident, before the weary night
was over, she overhead part of a conversation
between him and this favoured guest. She
might have moved away from the seat Into
which she had thrown herself, tired and worn
out In mind and body, when she said goodnight
to the last guest but one. That one
was Mrs. Ogilvey, and she and Otway were
together on the balcony, upon which the ballroom
opened. Betty could see the two
figures distinctly enough in the shadowy
light, but, at first, only a faint murmur of
voices reached her ears. She was trying,
without any scruple, to hear what was said,
and she had fallen into a sort of half-dreamy
state, when she suddenly started broad awake!
She fancied she heard her husband's voice in
her ear. And it had come to her from
outside.

'* You do not know how happy you have
made me, Caroline." That was what he
said.

'' Your blindness has often surprised me'*
was the answer, so low that she barely
caught it. Her fingers tightened involuntarily
round her fan, and she made an effort
to rise ; but her limbs seemed powerless, and
with a low moan she sank back.

He spoke again. " Little knowing what
I should hear, I was half afraid to let you
know the truth," he said. " But I am glad
you guessed, and I wish now with all my
heart that I had spoken before. I have
been very, very unhappy, but my heart has
been lightened of its load to-night. I thank
you again and again for making my confession
so easy." He raised his companion's
hand to his lips as he spoke. " I was afraid
you would laugh at my weakness, and instead
Oh, Caroline ! I cannot tell you what I
feel."

And you will never know what it has
cost me to say what I said to-night," she
answered. " You know now, I hope, the best
as well as the worst of me, and I rejoice withall
my heart if it has been my good fortune
to put you on the road to happiness. Everything
now depends on " Betty did not

catch the next word distinctly, but she
promptly filled up the blank with '' ourselves."

But you will be happy, and  I " The

speaker put her handkerchief to her eyes,
overcome with emotion.

'' Dear Caroline," Otway answered  and so
tenderly, Betty thought  'believe me, you
will be happy too ; you took a noble resolve
to-night, and one you will never regret. It
would have been too cruel to leave me any
longer in ignorance."

Betty started to her feet. Why should
she spy upon them and wound herself to the
quick at the same time ? She walked hastily
up and down the deserted ballroom, with her

brain in a whirl and her heart throbbing
violently. The end had come sooner than
she thought, and she must face it boldly.
She went back to the window with the
intention of passing out on the balcony, to
remind the belated guest that the ball was
over, by saying " good night ;" but, as her
foot was on the ledge, she heard Otway say,
You may depend upon me. To-morrow
evening, at Charing Cross, in time for the
six o'clock train."

The rustle of his wife's dress behind him
caught his ear ; he turned quickly. '* Is it
all over, Betty ?" he said, and he laid his
hand upon her arm.

'' Yes," she answered ; and she drew back
so suddenly that his hand fell. "It is allover.
I came to say good-night to Mrs.
Ogilvey."

'' Good-night, dear. I am " she was

interrupted by the fall of Betty's fan. She
picked it up before Otway could stoop, and

then she turned away quickly to re-enter the
room. Her face was burning. Her soft
eyes were ablaze. '' Good-night," she said
again, and disappeared.

As she passed out of their sight, Otway's
eyes met those of his companion, and they
both smiled.

Perhaps it is all for the best," she said,

in answer to his look.

Betty SEES THE TRAIN START.

There was little sleep for Betty that night.
The final extinction of her long cherished
hope, that time might put an end to the
unnatural estrangement between her and her
husband, was, In Itself, a most bitter blow ;
but a million times worse was the certainty
that, at last, Otway  her hero  the man
whom she looked up to as the very soul
of honour, was about to free himself from an
obnoxious tie by dragging his own name, and
that of the woman he no doubt meant one
day to make his wife, through the mire. It
was intolerable. Why should he do this
thing ? He was not a thoughtless. Impetuous
boy, and Mrs. Ogllvey was not an impatient.

unexperienced girl. She must know that she
was about to forfeit her social position, and
blight her reputation for evermore. A little
time, a little patience, a few explanations,
some work for the lawyers, and then Otway
would be free to marry, and no slur could be
cast upon her.

It was not possible that they feared opposition
from her from the wife who was no
wife, but who, unfortunately for herself, was
now so much in love with the man she had
rebuffed and insulted, that the mere sound of
his voice, or of his footstep on the stairs,
made her heart beat fast with delight.

But he should not be allowed to ruin
himself while her voice could be raised to
prevent him. She would go to him, tell
him what she had heard, and implore of him
by all he held sacred to draw back while
there was time. If she prevailed, all
would be well  for him ; if not, why then,
it was the ignominy of failure added to

the load of unhappiness she had now to
bear.

But she was not able to carry out her
intention. Otway, she found on inquiry, had
gone out after an unusually early breakfast,
and he had left word that he did not intend
either to lunch or dine at home that day.
But it was possible, Betty thought, that sometime,
either before lunch hour or in the
afternoon, he might come back. Indeed, it
was certain that he would come ; he must
have some preparations to make for the
journey he was about to take that night.
Charing Cross, at six o'clock ! The place and
the hour were stamped on poor Betty's brain.

Slowly, very slowly, the weary day crept
on. Betty watched and waited and listened,
but Otway did not come, and she felt at last
that her courage was failing, and that she
could bear the suspense no longer ; so she
made up her mind to write a few lines and
leave them for him on his table in the study.

She sat down, and In a minute or two she had
finished a short but most passionate appeal
to him to break the appointment he had
made with his friend the evening before.
He had but to tell her  Betty  what his
wishes really were respecting the annulment
of their most unfortunate marriage, and in a
very little time he would be free. Meanwhile,
the best thing she could do would be
to go back to her father without delay.

She felt relieved as soon as her somewhat
incoherent epistle was finished and placed
where Otway could not fail to find it when
he came home, and with all her heart she
hoped he would come before six o'clock.
But if he should not come ? In the face
of that contingency, Betty made up her mind
to ascertain beyond all doubt whether he and
Mrs. Ogilvey left London together that
evening ; so she put on a dark dress, a plain
mantle and bonnet, and leaving the house on
foot, she walked a little way towards Knightsbridge,

and then took a hansom for Charing
Cross. She would have to wait a long time,
it was true ; but to wait in the bustle and
turmoil of the railway station would be less
trying to her than to wait in the empty
silent house at Rutland Gate.

She had barely got as far as Hyde Park
Corner on her way East, when Otway
reached home, found her letter awaiting
him, and read it with an amazed and puzzled
face. It was some time before the meaning
of the words dawned upon him.

Good heavens !" he said at last, *' She
thinks I am going to elope with Caroline
Ogilvey. ' I think 07t/y of your happiness.' "
He read the words over and over again.

The woman's hand had trembled as she
wrote. The man's heart trembled as he
read. " What does she mean ? I must
know. My happiness has been in her hands
any time these three years, and how has she
used me ? But this night must end it one

way or the other. Love and pride, or rather
the fear of another repulse more galling than
the first, have had a long fight, and love wins ;
or is it a man's desperate resolve to have by
right what he cannot win by love ? ' I think
only of your happiness.' " He pressed the
letter passionately to his lips. " My darling
!" he murmured. " If it were but true."

But it was getting late ; the timepiece in
the room had chimed the half-hour after four.
He rang the bell and asked if Mrs. Otway
was at home. No ; she was out. He felt
half-sorry and half-relieved to hear it ; he
had no time then for the full explanation he
longed for, as he had an appointment that
must be kept. He would just write a few
lines to disabuse her mind of the absurd idea
she had taken up, and then, when they met
later on

He ran up to Betty's own sitting-room,
and seated himself at her writing-table ; but
there was not a scrap of paper lying about

that he could use. He turned over the blotting
paper in the hope of finding a blank
sheet, and he was surprised to come upon
another note in Betty's handwriting. It
began " Dear Mr. Otway." But a glance at
the date told him that it was written some
months before. From the date he looked at
the signature, and this was what he read 
From your own loving, sorry, ashamed,
repentant and broken-hearted wise, Betty."
Could he believe his eyes ? She had thus
subscribed herself nearly a year ago, and yet
he well remembered the formal epistle that
had reached him instead of that precious little
note. Surely she had written those words
in irony or in jest ? ind if she meant

them, /ie7i /" His brain was in a whirl,

and Betty's little chimney-clock just before
him struck five. He put the letter into
his pocket and started up. He had not
time to write to her now ; in truth, if the
whole day were before him, he could not

VOL. III. P

write, and what did It matter if her delusion
lasted just a little longer ? By and by she
would stand before him, blushing and beautiful,
and with her own sweet lips speak those
words, "Your loving wife."

Five minutes later, with this enchanting
vision still before his eyes, he was bowling
along to Queen's Gate Terrace in a hansom.

At a quarter to six, Betty, from the post of
observation she had taken up at Charing
Cross station, saw, first Mrs. Ogilvey's maid
with her mistress's travelling - bag and a
bundle of wraps ; behind her came a porter
with luggage on a hand-truck : three boxes, a
portmanteau and a hat case. Presently Mrs.
Ogilvey herself emerged from the booking-office,
leaning on Otway's arm. Betty noticed,
with some surprise, that, although he wore a
light summer ulster, he had not got on a
travelling-hat ; but, no doubt, It was in the
hat-case, and he would put it on in the train.

She was surprised at herself for noticing

such a trivial detail at such a time ; but her
excitement had almost wholly died out, and
she seemed to herself as if she were looking
on at a pair of ordinary travellers in whom
she took no real Interest. That tall, handsome
man who looked so radiantly happy 
yes, there was no other word for it  was not,
could not be the Herbert Otway who had
loved Betty Erskine in the days that were
no more. He was some man whom she did
not know. But it was Otway's voice ; she
heard it quite distinctly as he asked his companion
what books and papers she would like
for her journey. A bitter little smile crossed
poor Betty's lips, as she thought that with
him to bear her company she had no need
for books or papers.

And now it wanted but five minutes to
the hour, and the passengers were passing
through the gate to the departure platform.
Otway, Mrs. Ogilvey and the maid went
through together ; and then Betty stationed

herself at the barrier, and watched through
the pang for the departure of the train. Or,
rather, she meant to stand there until it
steamed out of the station ; but when she
saw Otway step into the carriage in which
Mrs. Ogilvey was already seated, a feeling of
such utter despair, such blank misery at her
own impotence to hold him back from the
act he was committing, came over her, that
she turned away sick at heart, and so
physically weary that she could hardly stand.

How she found her way out of the station
and into a cab she never knew. Great throbs
of pain were shooting through her head, but
the agony of knowing that all was now over,
was even harder to bear than the racking
pain. At last she reached the welcome
shelter of her own room ; her maid was there
waiting to dress her for the evening, but she
was quite unfit for the exertion.

'* I am too tired to go out to-night," she
said. '' Put away those things and give mea

tea-gown. What o'clock Is it ? Not seven
yet ? Very well. I can rest until eight. Do
not disturb me again."

The girl went away, and Betty went into
her sitting-room and lay down on a couch
near the open window. She was too tired to
think any more just then, and besides, all
the thinking in the world would not undo
what Fie had done that afternoon. By tomorrow
the world  her world and his 
would know what had happened ; he would
be blamed  she pitied. But nothing mattered
now. A dead, blank wall of misery had comedown
before her when she saw him step into
the train just one hour ago, and through it,
or beyond it, she could not see.

And the relief of sleep, the sleep of exhaustion,
mercifully came upon her as she lay
there in her quiet room. The daylight was
beginning to fade and the room to grow
shadowy, when she suddenly awoke. A
noise close by, as if something had moved,

disturbed her. She started up, resting on
her elbow. She was not alone ; there was a
man leaning against the mantelpiece ; his
face was turned away, but his figure seemed
familiar.

"Who are you?" she said. "What are
you doing here ?''

There was no answer, but the man turned
and looked at her, and the fuller light from
the window showed her who it was.

It was her husband, and the radiant look
was still on his face.

SOMETHING BETTER THAN MUTUAL
ACCOMMODATION.

Surprise, and a not altogether unreasonable
sense of alarm, struck Betty dumb. Now
that she was awake again, was her brain
affected ?  was it a phantom and not Otway
in the flesh ? How came he in her room
when she had seen him step into the train
which was by that time forty or fifty miles
from London ? Was It all a dream ? The
appointment she heard made the night before
the miserable hours she had spent that day
waiting for his return  the scene at Charing
Cross  the drive back to Rutland Gate  was
it all a bad, horrible dream, or was she
dreaming now ?

She got up, pushed back her hair, and
passed her hand across her eyes, as if to
dispel the sense of unreality ; but Otway did
not vanish as a phantom is bound to do ; he
simply said in the most matter-of-fact voice,
"You look surprised to see me! Perhaps I
ought not to intrude upon you in this room
without permission ; we stand on such ceremonious
terms that an apology seems
necessary. But if I may stay for a few
minutes "

You are very welcome," she answered, ina
voice that sounded strange even in her own
ears. '* I  I did not know you were at
home."

Yes ; I know. I left word that I was
not coming back to dinner ; I was due at
Gravesend an hour ago, and I meant to run
down from Charing Cross. I went there to
see Mrs. Ogilvey off to join some friends in
the Engadine  she sleeps at Dover to-night,
and crosses in the morning  but I changed

my mind and sent a telegram instead." Ashe
was speaking, he struck a match and
lighted the candles on the chimney-piece ;
then he watched Betty closely, and saw the
look of relief that gradually overspread her
sweet, haggard face, as she gave a deep sigh.

I was at Charing Cross," she said, so low
that he scarcely caught the words. " And I
saw you there with Mrs. Ogilvey."

You were at Charing Cross !" he repeated.
'' Why did you go there ?"

She did not answer.

"Betty! I Insist upon knowing," he said,
in a tone of command. " Remember, I am
your husband and I have a right to be obeyed.

She flushed deeply as she went a step or
two closer to him. "You forget, do you
not," she said, "the terms upon which we
agreed to live together ? Besides," she added,
if you got a letter I left for you, you can
guess why I went."

He smiled as he looked into her troubled

face. "And did you really think that Mrs.
Ogilvey and I were going to run away
together ? 1 should like to know how such
an absurd idea came into your head."

'* I overheard part of your conversation
with her on the balcony last night," answered
Betty, boldly. " I was not eavesdropping,"
she added, quickly, '* I was close behind you
at the open window ; if you had turned your
head the least bit in the world you must have
seen me."

*' I saw you as it was," replied Otway,
quietly, " but I did not think you could hear
what we said. Indeed, I am sure now you
did not hear all, or you would not have made
such a mistake. However  all's well that
ends well, you know. Mrs. Ogilvey is on
her way to the high Alps ; I am here at
home. Have you nothing to say to me ?"

She hesitated a moment before she replied ;
then she said, '' My letter explained everything."


*' Oh ! there are letters and  letters," he
answered. "What letter are you alluding
to now ?"

I know of but one," she returned, surprised
at the question. "We are not in the
habit of writing to one another, I think."

No ; but I fancy you could write a very
charming letter if you tried, and the one you
left for me to-day was not amiss in some
respects, although you were under a delusion
when you wrote it ; but there is one passage
in it that requires explanation, or it may be
that I am too stupid to understand it."

I tried to make it very plain," said poor
Betty. She did not understand the tone
Otway was taking ; he had seated himself in
an easy chair, and looked as if he meant to
stay for some time ; she stood by her writing-table
facing him, and idly fingering everything
within her reach.

I came up here this afternoon to write
you a note," he said, "and I am afraid I

tumbled the things about a little. I must
apologise."

I saw no note," Betty began.

No ; It was not written. I found something
very interesting  at least to me ; and
by the time I had examined it, it was too
late to write ; I had to be off to Mrs.
Ogllvey."

"Was It my new pen-holder that interested
you ?" Betty asked, as she looked about,
wondering what he had found.

Otway laughed. '* No ; something better
than that. Do you know, child," he went
on, after a pause, " I cannot help being
amused at your idea that I was going to
elope with Caroline Ogilvey ? Do you mean
to tell me seriously that you think I am in
love with her ?"

Betty made no answer and her eyes were
not raised.

*' Look at me," he said, "and tell me the
truth. When you heard us talking on the

balcony last night, did you think I was in
love with her ?"

*' Yes," was the answer, very low. Then
more confidently, as the beautiful eyes full of
wistful sadness were raised to his face, '' I
did not think it unnatural. Do not suppose
I blamed you ; but I was very sorry you did
not tell me you wanted to be free. The
delay would not have been very long, and I
I " her voice broke suddenly.

'' What did you mean by those words
in the letter you left for me ." he asked,
abruptly, and he rose as he spoke, and stood
before her. " You said, ' I think only of
your happiness.' What do you mean by
my happiness ' Did you think of it on our
wedding-day when you thrust me from you
with loathing and contempt in your face I
My only crime was to love you so well that
I was your humble, devoted slave. You
little knew the pain, the cruel, bitter anguish
you inflicted upon me that day, and yet you

talk of my happiness. The wound you made
has never healed, for only the hand that
inflicted It can make It whole. But the day
you left me at Richmond, I swore that you
should kneel at my feet and ask for my love
before I took you back to my heart again,
and a hundred times at least I have been on
the verge of breaking my oath. My love for
you would not  will not die. It Is thrust
Into the background of my life because I
dare not give It expression. I could not risk
a second repulse like the first. But Caroline
Ogllvey found out my secret, and she Implored
me last night not to let pride stand in
the way of my happiness; but I am a coward,
I am afraid to say, ' Betty, I love you !' "

He never took his eyes from her face ashe
poured out these mingled reproaches and
protestations, and, as she listened, she turned
from pale to red  her lips parted, and her
heart was beating so wildly that she could
scarcely breathe ; gradually her eyes, In

which the sadness had given place, first to
surprise and then to joy unspeakable, were
lifted again to his face. They met his, which
were speaking a language she never hoped
to hear, and glowing with a light she never
hoped to see again, and, with a faint cry, she
threw herself on her knees before him ;
covered her face with her hands, and, in a
voice husky with fast-coming tears, cried out,
'' Oh, Herbert, forgive me ; with all my
heart I love you ; and if you do not care forme,
I should like to die !"

To such an appeal, but one answer was
possible from him. The words themselves,
the tone in which they were uttered, rang so
true that they thrilled him like martial music.
He took her hands in his in a close imperative
clasp, and, raising her to her feet, he
clasped her to his heart in a long, silent
embrace. Truly the thoughts of both were
too deep for words !

Betty, is it true ?" he whispered at last,

as with one hand he pushed the disordered
hair off her forehead, and looked earnestly
into her beautiful shy eyes. " Does my wife
love me at last? Is my life to be at last
worth living, or am I dreaming one of those
happy dreams from which I have so often
wakened to find myself a lonely and disappointed
man ? My darling ! My own
precious one! Mine at last! Oh, say, with
those sweet eyes looking into mine, that you
love me !"

'' I say it with all my heart, Herbert. Oh,
do not doubt me any more."

'' Do you know, my Betty," he said,
presently, " I think I have been a great
fool "

'' I snow I have," she Interrupted. '' It
was not your fault ; you had but too good
reason to be angry with me."

*' And when did you find out that you did
not dislike me, my darling ?"

''Oh, a long time ago. The day you

scolded me so dreadfully in Halkin Street.
Don't you remember ?" He nodded and
laughed. '' You looked so  so handsome
and so angry, and you made so little of me.
You were so masterful and scornful, that I
longed to rush into your arms and ask you
to forgive my folly and love me again. I
was your wife, you know ; there would have
been no harm in it."

Harm! The harm was-in not doing it.
Why did you not ? Oh, you foolish Betty !"

Because you said so positively you were
learning to despise me, I was afraid you
would not like it."

My darling ! It was what children call a
big story. Despise you ! I may have tried,
but I did not succeed. I used to long, to
pine for you. I was weary for the sight of
you. Oh, if you knew what I felt the day I
found you at Miss Masham's ! But I was in
such mortal dread of a second rebuff that I
tried to be cold and proud."

VOL. in. Q

'' And SO you were. You did not seem
afraid of anything. You were satirical and
contemptuous and "

Desperately in love," he interrupted,
kissing her. "And now I want to know
why, when you wrote this letter, you did not
send it ?" and he took from his pocket the
note he found in her blotting-book and held
it before her. '' I found it to-day, and it
was heart-breaking to know that nearly a
year ago you signed yourself, ' my loving
wife.' Why did you not send it, you cruel
girl ?"

She nestled her head upon his breast while
his arm encircled her in a close embrace.
*' You know now," she whispered.

There was silence for some minutes ; her
face was half-hidden from him, and he felt,
rather than knew, that tears were stealing
down her flushed cheeks.

Betty," he said, at last. She looked up.
Now that I am on the high-road to happiness,

I begin to feel hungry. Do you think
there is any dinner to be had ?"

'* I never thought of dinner," she cried,
'' Please let me ring and order something."

And that was how the long estrangement
ended and a long honeymoon began.

IN THE GARDEN HOUSE.

I HAD an extraordinary piece of news this
morning," said Sir John, about a week later.
Herbert writes to say that he and Betty
are off to America in a day or two for a tour
in the States, to wind up with Florida, to
pay his brother and your sister, Amy, my
dear, a visit. Otway writes in the wildest
spirits ; never was so happy in his life.
'My darling Betty sends her love and a
thousand kisses.' Fancy a man writing that
rubbish."

"And I have a letter from Betty herself,"
said Miss Lambton. '' She writes in capital
spirits too. Says she is looking forward
with great delight to the American trip."

Does she call him her darling Herbert ?"
asked Sir John.

"No, but she speaks  of her dearest
husband."

'' That is all right," and Sir John laughed
again.

I consider that all the credit of bringing
those two together belongs to me," said Mrs.
Erskine. *' Don't you think it does, dearest
Sir John ?"

'' I think you deserve credit for everything
that is kind and sensible, my love," he
answered. " How do you feel to-day? Had
you a better night ? You begin to look more
like yourself again ; but you must go out
more ; it is very bad for you to be shut up in
this way."

She gave a little shudder that was not
affected. "Oh, no!" she said, "I cannot
go out ! I am so afraid of seeing that madman
again ! You do not know the half of
what I went through that day."

'' My darling girl, I think you behaved in
the most spirited and courageous manner,
and I shall never forgive myself for leaving
you alone with him. Good heavens ! I often
think if the fellow had been armed ! One
never knows, Sumner told me, when homicidal
mania may be developed in a diseased
brain."

Are you quite sure he has not come back
to the town ?"

I think we may be quite sure. If he is
there he is keeping very quiet ; but then, he
knows that if he breaks out again as he did
here the other day, he must be shut up.
There is one thing I want to say to you, my
dear girl. I think now, as I thought when
you expected Porringer to come and see
you, that if you have the slightest clue to
Rossitur's address, you ought to give it to
him. After all, she is his wife, you know."

'but why should I deliver the poor woman
over to the tender mercies of a mad husband ?

I believe he would kill her. I have no reason
to show her much consideration, for she
treated me very badly, but I could not do her
such an 111 turn. Besides, I do not know
where she Is now ; she was certainly In Great
Centre Bridge In the spring, for she went to
the Hermitage to see Walter ; forced herself
upon him, he says."

"Ah! /le says. I should like to know
what Rossltur has to say about It."

'' My dearest Sir John, why are you so
suspicious ? Rossltur Is not to be depended
upon. She would tell one thing to you and
another to me. And if I am satisfied. Is It
not enough ? She did force herself upon
Walter, just because he admired her, and
used to flirt with her a little, when she was
my maid in Calcutta. But all the young
men did the same. Rossltur has not the
slightest hold upon Walter."

And you do not think he knows where
she is, or that he goes to see her ."

I am perfectly certain that what he
knows of Rossitur I know also ; but I am
not going to betray the unfortunate woman
to her husband. Oh ! how weary I am of
the whole thing. I wish I had never come
to England to be so worried. Aunt Louise
says I ought to be able to tell whether that
child at the Rectory is Rossitur's or not.
How can I tell ."

'' Never mind, my darling. Of course,
you cannot tell. I must get you away to
Scarborough and brace you up."

"Walter thinks we might be married
quietly  very quietly  while we are away,"
she said, in a slightly embarrassed manner,
*' and then he would take me abroad for the
winter."

My dearest girl ! Must I lose you so
soon again ? I think he is very inconsiderate
to hurry you so. You do not want to be
married before next spring, do you, Amy ?"

I think spring would be time enough,"

she answered. " But I cannot think of
anything while that man is at Hbertv to
come and worry and frighten me. Oh, if he
were but shut up again I"

"And he must be shut up, if he does anything
outrageous," said Sir John.' "Make
your mind quite easy on that point, my dear.
I am not oroinQ to have you worried and
tormented while I have power to prevent it""

But, at the very time this discussion took
place, Porringer was living, it might be said
hiding, at Little Centre Brldoe. When he
was turned away from the Chase by Mrs.
Erskine's orders, he exerted all his powers
of self-control and restraint to keep from
violence, well knowing that any transport of
raoe or excitement would at once consign
him to the asylum he had so lately quitted.
And he was certainly on the verse oi insanity
when he found himself expelled with ignominy
from the presence of the woman he had
boldly claimed as his wife : but he was not

too far gone to be unable to think with some
amount of coherence over what had taken
place.

''If she Is not Bella," he said to himself,
'' let Bella be produced. I have been mad
for so long, I may be under a delusion ; and,
If she Is Bella, where Is my master's widow ?
That Is the puzzle. If she Is alive she would
be here ; If she Is dead, Sir John would know
It. I must be mad, and yet  and yet  If a
man does not know his own wife, or mistakes
another woman for her  well, he must be
mad."

He went back to London ; gave up the
lodgings he had taken for his wife, and went
back to Little Centre Bridge, with no definite
purpose In his mind, except that of watching
Mrs. Erskine and Walter Duncombe. And
the better to carry out that design, he disguised
himself, before he started, with a
bushy black beard that entirely covered the
lower part of his face, and dressed himself,

not like a servant, but a workman. And,
under the shelter of his altered appearance
he was, at the very time his conduct and his
whereabouts were being discussed by Mrs.
Erskine and her father-in-law, working in
the great kitchen-garden of the Chase, one
of the half-dozen men who were employed by
Sir John all the year round.

It was by one of those curious chances
which now and then take place that he got the
situation. An advertisement in the Stone-shire
3Te7c2cry, for a 'couple of handy men,"
appeared the morning after he reached the
town ; he applied at once ; was engaged, and
set to work directly. And there, under the
very eyes, so to speak, of Mrs. John Erskine,
he spent his days, keeping his mouth shut
and his eyes open.

During the first week he heard incidentally
that the "young mistress" was unwell and
confined to her room, in consequence of a
fright she had had from a madman, who had

escaped from a lunatic asylum, and the police
were on the look out for him to have him
shut up again. He was a lunatic and no
mistake, one of Porringer's fellow-workmen
said, for he wanted to claim the young mistress
and Sir John's grandson for his wife
and child.

Porringer listened, and said nothing ; indeed,
he soon became remarkable for his
silence, and went by the nickname of "Dumb
Harry." He had given the name of Harry
Millar when he applied to the gardener for
work.

The day after the last-mentioned conversation
between Sir John and his daughter-in-law,
Harry Millar, looking up from his work
at the sound of voices, saw coming directly
towards him, Mrs. John Erskine, and beside
her Walter Buncombe. They were engaged
in very earnest conversation, and neither of
them as much as glanced at the man with the
beard and the restless eyes, who touched his

hat in a furtive and half-sullen manner as they
passed.

Mrs. John was speaking. " I dare not
venture into the woods again," she said. "He
might be lurking about there ; this is the
safest place. There is no one to hear what
we say."

They walked on, and 'dumb Harry"
watched them until they disappeared into a
rarely used summer house at the top of the
garden.

And the following day, and for the rest of
the week, at the same hour every afternoon,
they made use of the deserted garden house
for a prolonged //--///6' ; certain there, if
nowhere else in the house and grounds, of
being safe from interruption. But an unsuspected
listener was close at hand. Everyday,
about ten minutes before the pair appeared
in the garden, " Dumb Harry " left
his work, and, while they remained in the
summer house, he remained undiscovered

behind it. And through the narrow chinks
between the boughs of which the house was
built, the voices were heard, sometimes distinctly,
sometimes the reverse.

And much that they said was unintelligible,
seven when the words were not lost ; and many
times he heard his own name, and a man
far more stupid and less interested than he,
could have told that the pair were lovers. If
they but knew who was so near. It seemed
to Porringer sometimes that he must unconsciously
betray himself. But his self-command
was greater than he knew, and
the man and woman whom he watched so
eagerly were too much absorbed in one
another and in the nature of their conversation
to suspect the presence of the one
eavesdropper In the world who was most to
be dreaded by them. Had It been otherwise,
one or the other, glancing aside, might
have noticed the wild and savagely gleaming
eyes that were glaring at them from

behind the refuge they thought so safe and
so unapproachable.

And while during those interviews he
lurked unseen, and the rage of a mad
jealousy grew to an almost ungovernable
height, Porringer gave up for ever the idea
that a delusion had turned his brain.

THE MAN WITH THE BEARD.

The summer was beginning to wane, and
the day was at last fixed for Sir John, Miss
Lambton, Mrs. Erskine and her boy to leave
for Scarborough. Mrs. John had opposed
the plan as long as she could find any
reasonable objection to make to It ; but she
gave In at last. It was but too evident to
all those about her  although she would
not admit It herself  that she was suffering
from extreme nervousness and restlessness,
and that change was becoming absolutely
necessary.

She made an immense effort, that was
plain enough also, to appear the calm, Indolent,
self-possessed fine lady who had, in

the course of a few weeks, usurped gentle
Miss Lambton's place in the house ; fascinated
Sir John ; made him the slave of her
whims and fancies, and set the tongues of
Little Centre Bridge and the neighbourhood
wagging, either in praise of her beauty orin
abuse of her haughty scornful manner.

She had not, it is true, resigned in favour
of Miss Lambton, nor relaxed in her efforts
to keep Sir John enslaved by her charms ;
but she was changed in many ways, and her
anxious and devoted father-in-law put it all
down to the way she had been terrified by
that "mad fellow Porringer," and he blamed
himself for having brought the man about
the house. But the bracing air of Yorkshire
would soon, he said, make his favourite like
her old self again ; and, if it would make
her happy to marry Duncombe, and to go
abroad with him, why  he must sacrifice his
own feelings and let her go. It was the
fate of old people to be alone and lonely ;

VOL. III. R

and he must not repine as long as he had
the boy.

Several of Mrs. Erskine's habits had
changed of late, and among them her habit
of late rising. She was now the first to
appear, and because she said it amused her
to give out the letters, Sir John allowed her
to have the key of the post - bag and to
distribute its contents. His correspondence,
good man, was open to all the world, and
Miss Lambton's was the same, and, for the
matter of that, so also was Mrs. John's, but
the state of feverish expectancy in which she
lived made her watch even the contents of
the post-bag.

It was a brilliant morning about the middle
of August. Breakfast was laid in a small
room In the front of the house, generally
used by the family when they were quite
alone, and through the open windows could
be seen three or four men, one of whom was
*' Dumb Harry," raking and rolling the gravel

outside, and for the first time Amy noticed
the man with the big beard.

'* What an odd-looking man that is' she
said to Sir John. '* Is he a new comer ?"

'* That is Millar, a man Campbell picked
up somewhere," Sir John answered. ''A very
good workman, but a morose, silent fellow,
they tell me. xA-h ! Here comes the bag at
last ! Now, Amy, my darling, where is your
key ?"

She gave out the letters and papers one by
one. There were two from New York : one
for Sir John and one for Miss Lambton.
These were eagerly opened, and the readers
of them were so absorbed in their contents,
that the sudden fall of the now empty letter-bag
from Mrs. John's hand was quite unnoticed.
As it slipped from her, she sank
down, quite unable to stand from the
trembling of her limbs, and her face had
blanched suddenly to a livid and alarming
pallor. In the hand that lay upon her lap,

she held a small envelope bearing a French
stamp, and the post-mark was Paris ; it was
addressed in a woman's writing, but not to
Mrs. John Erskine. She was grasping, as if
her life depended on the possession of that
thin foreign envelope, a letter that was not
meant for her. But she knew the writing
only too well, and not for worlds would she
hand the letter down the table to Sir John,
its rightful owner. Her agitation presently
passed away unnoticed ; the pallor lightened
on her face ; the trembling of her limbs was
less violent, and, looking up, she glanced
curiously first at one and then at the other
of her companions.

They were not thinking of her just then,
so she set her lips together, and, with a hand
that was firm and cool, opened the letter she
held and read it through ; and as she read,
she slipped the envelope into the pocket of
her dress. It took her about five minutes
fully to master the letter itself, for it was not

short; the four sides of the thin foreign paper
were covered, and when she had finished,
she folded it deliberately and put it also into
her pocket. Then she drank greedily, as if
her lips were parched, the coffee that remained
in her cup, and, getting up, she went
over to Sir John, laid her hand caressingly
on his shoulder and said 

'can you send a message to the Hermitage
for me directly ? I want to see Walter.
I  I have just heard of the serious illness of
a  a very dear old friend, and I must run upto
town by the afternoon train. You have
no objection, I suppose ?"

"What  what is it ? I beg your pardon,
my dear; I did not hear. You want to goto
town to-day ? My dearest girl ! You
must not go alone."

*' Now, Sir John, I knew you would say
that ; but I must go alone or not at all''
Then she made a long explanation to the
effect that it would be much easier for her

to give her time and thoughts to her poor
suffering friend, if she were not worried by
knowing that she was keeping Sir John or
Miss Lambton in town to look after her.

And he gave in presently, as he always
did, to her wishes, and it was finally arranged
that she was to stay in town for a week ; at
the end of that time, Sir John, Aunt Louise
and the boy would join her, and they would
all go to Scarborough together.

'' The poor old lady will be either better
or worse by that time," she said, as she
wrote down the address in town of her
friend's house, and gave it to Sir John.
** You may remember we drove there one
afternoon when you met me in town on my
way from Sorrento."

To be sure ! To be sure !" replied Sir
John ; but he did not remember it all the
same.

The note that was sent off by special
messenger to Buncombe by Mrs. John,

contained the words, " Come over at once.
You can catch a train that will bring you
here by one o'clock. Circumstances I did
not foresee oblige me to do what you have
been urging upon me for so long, and I
leave for London at 4-30. Be prepared fora
surprise when we meet for the last time
in the old garden house. I must indeed have
nerves of iron to be able to go through what
I must go through to-day ; but, so far, all is
well."

The men were still raking and rolling the
gravel sweep in front of the house when
the groom rode round from the stables to
get his instructions from Mrs. John. She
was standing at the bottom, of the steps with
Sir John, laughing and chatting in a gay and
sprightly mood, and twisting the note in her
fingers.

*' I am very sorry you have to go to-day,
darling," Sir John said. '' I cannot bear
parting with you even for a week. Take

care, my love ! The man Is coming with his
roller." It was "Dumb Harry" who was
working so close to them.

Oh ! But a week passes so soon," Mrs.
John answered. "You will not have time to
miss me."

When Walter Duncombe drove up from
the station soon after one o'clock, the gardener's
men were just leaving off work for
the dinner hour ; but when they came back
again to finish their work, the man with the
beard was not with them. He was In ambush
behind the garden house, waltlng.

And on that afternoon, If never before, the
pair for whose coming he watched so eagerly,
forgot their usual caution, and he was thereby
enabled to hear almost every word they said,
and what he lost was lost by reason of his
intense excitement ! He seemed to have no
power In his eagerness to catch the exact
meaning of what passed. But he heard
and understood enough to send the blood

surging through his brain ; for a few seconds
at a time he seemed almost blind, and, had
he moved, he would have reeled and staggered
like a drunken man. But he never
moved ; for over half-an-hour there he stood,
with his distended and bloodshot eyes fixed,
and the palms of his hands pressed upon his
temples, and his fingers buried in his hair, to
keep down, as it were, by sheer physical
force, the cry that was rushing to his lips.

i\t length Mrs. Erskine rose and Dun-combe
with her. Her face was deeply
flushed, and her eyes were troubled as she
fixed them upon her companion. He took
her hand in his and drew her towards him.
I cannot honestly say I am sorry it happened,"
he said, and there was a distinct note
of triumph in his voice.

But I am!" she broke out, passionately.
I hoped it would never happen. I thought
she was too indolent  too selfish. And do
you suppose I cannot see what the end will

be by and by ? Years may pass before
you can redeem your promise, and by that
time "

'* By that time the man who made It will
be unchanged."

And If you do change, what does It
signify ?" she answered, defiantly. " There
is always a way out of everything. I daresay,
all things considered, you think I am
over particular ; that I have done too much
to make a fuss about doing a little more,
and  Hush ! What Is that ? Is there anyone
about who could hear what we say ?'''
and she tried to run outside, but Duncombe
held her back.

*' Stay where you are and calm yourself,"
he said. '' Do you want to betray everything
? I must take you in now, or someone
will come to look for you. But first let us
say good-bye until tomorrow."

As their lips met in a farewell kiss, Pot-finger's
hand moved swiftly to his breast ;

but he withdrew it as swiftly, and it fell to
his side empty ; but, as in a vision, he saw
himself standing by Bella Rossitur's side in
Stillingfort Woods the night Jem Hathaway,
after trying to commit murder, shot
himself.

'' Not yet and not here," he muttered, ashe
crouched down in his hiding-place, until
Buncombe and Mrs. Erskine were out of
sight.

At a quarter-past four, the carriage from
the Chase drew up at the Little Centre
Bridge railway station. It contained Mrs.
John Erskine, Sir John, and Walter Dun-combe.
Mrs. John was going to London,
quite alone ; not even her maid was to
accompany her.

She talked incessantly! Charged Sir John
with messages to her boy and to Miss Lamb-ton,
who had promised to write every day tolet
her know how he was. She leaned on
Buncombe's arm, while Sir John took her

ticket and saw the luggage labelled, and she
kept on talking in a voluble and excited
manner.

Every moment I think he will rush up tome
!" she said. *' I am sure he is in the town
and that he saw the carriage. I wish the
train would come !"

What are you talking about?" asked Sir
John, coming up. 'who saw the carriage?"

I have such a nervous dread of seeing
that wretched Porringer," she answered.

But why do you think he is in the town ?
I saw that black bearded fellow, Millar, who
works in the garden, just now, and I asked
him what he was doing here, and he said he
had come to fetch a parcel for Campbell.
He was standing under the clock there, not
thinking of his parcel, but admiring you, my
dear, like the rest of us ! He never took his
eyes off you ! Here comes the train. Be
sure you telegraph from Victoria, to say how
you got up, and write tomorrow. Good-bye.

Take care of yourself." He put her Into a
carriage, and then stood back to let Dun-combe
have the last words.

You could not have done it better !" he
whispered. " Do not break down now. Tomorrow
will soon be here, and then "

'' Stand back !" shouted the guard, and
then blew his whistle ! The train was in
motion, when a belated passenger made a
rush forward, and, amid the shouts of
porters, one or two of whom tried to pull
him back, he scrambled Into a third - class
compartment and banged the door after him.
Sir John and Duncombe both saw him distinctly
as the train passed on.

'' Why ! it's that fellow with the beard !"
cried Sir John. He turned laughing to his
companion, but stopped short, struck by
the expression of his face. " What is the
matter ? What has happened ?" he cried.

'' That fellow with the beard Is Pottlnger !"
exclaimed Duncombe, in great excitement

*' I know him by his eyes  and she is alone !
What are we to do ? When is the next
train :

'' There is not another for three hours,"
replied Sir John.

AN ASTOUNDING REVELATION.

Sir John was not alarmed when Buncombe
declared he had recognised Porringer by his
eyes ; he thought he was deceived by a
fancied resemblance. Besides, even if it
were Porringer, the officials at Victoria would
soon interfere and hand him over to the
police if he molested Amy on her arrival.

However, as soon as he got home, Sir
John went to Campbell, the gardener, to
ask some questions about the man with the
beard ; but he heard nothing to corroborate
Buncombe's suspicion that he was Porringer
in disguise. Campbell was doggedly certain
that Millar was just what he said he was  a
workman. He had asked for a couple of

hours that afternoon after dinner, and if he
had gone off In the train he deserved a probation,
if not dismissal, for his pains. No ; it
was certainly, not true that he, Campbell, had
sent him to the station for a parcel. *' Parcels
for the Chase were always delivered ; they
were."

While Sir John was still In the garden,
a footman came out with a message from
Miss Lambton ; a lady and gentleman, who
had arrived half-an-hour before, were still
waiting to see him, and Miss Lambton hoped
he would come as soon as possible. Sir
John hurried in, and his sister-in-law waylaid
him in the hall.

''I do not know who they are or what
they want," she said. " They told Baker
you knew they were coming. The man is
French, but I think she is English, and she
has such a look of Amy ! Fair hair and
dark eyes, but a more babyish face. He is
very nice-looking. I only saw them for a

minute, for I had the Summers and Mrs.
Verity here until this moment.

''I do not expect anyone ; there must
be some mistake," said Sir John. '* Some
friends of Amy's, I dare say. Where are
they? In the drawing-room?"

He went in and found awaiting him a remarkably
handsome young Frenchman, and
a very pretty woman, charmingly dressed in
black. " By Jove !" he said to himself,
Louise is right. She is like Amy, but
smaller."

Neither of the strangers spoke. The
woman looked nervously at her husband ;
the husband looked encouragingly at his wife.
'' Courage, my angel !" he said at last in
French, and she immediately advanced a
step or two.

I hope you are well, Sir John," she said.
'' I got so frightened when you did not come.
I said to Victor, ' He will not see me.' "

Sir John was extremely puzzled by this

VOL. III. s

address. What did the woman mean ? ''I
am delighted to have the pleasure of receiving
you, madam," he said, " although I have
not the honour of knowing you or this
gentleman. I was not at home when you
came. I have been to the railway station to
see my daughter-in-law off to London."

The lady gave a little cry of surprise
and clasped her hands. " Victor ! Do you
hear ?" she exclaimed. " Oh, speak for me !
Tell him !"

Do we understand you to say that your
daughter - in - law has just left by the train ?"
The Frenchman spoke in excellent English,
and with very little accent.

'' Yes, sir. My son's widow  Mrs. John
Erskine. She is my daughter-in-law. Perhaps
your visit is to her ?"

'* No  no  no !" cried the lady, and running
to him she caught Sir John's hands.
''I am your daughter-in-law  your son's
widow ; and this gentleman  Monsieur de

Louvain, Is my second husband. We were
married at the English Church in Naples,
last January, and I just came over now to
see my little Jacky, and to ask you not to be
angry with me for marrying Victor ! You
were very angry, I know, because you never
wrote. But you do not seem to understand
what I am saying! Is not this the Chase?
Are you not Sir John Erskine, and have you
not got my boy ?"

''I am certainly Sir John Erskine, and this
Is the Chase, and my grandson is in the house,
but you are not my poor boy's widow."

But I am ! You must believe me ! I
can prove it in a hundred ways ! Oh, it is
cruel of you to call me an impostor just
because I married again ! And I let you
have the boy, too ! Victor, what am I todo
? Can you make him believe ?'' She
was beginning to cry.

My angel ! Calm yourself," and Monsieur
de Louvain took his wife's hand tenderly

In his own. " It will all be right by
and by. Sir John, I assure you, on my
honour, we are speaking the truth. This
lady, when I married her, was the widow of
your son. Captain John Erskine, who was
killed while playing polo in India. She was
formerly Miss Amy Gordon. I had the
great happiness of becoming her husband the
beginning of this year, and our marriage is
registered in the English Church at Naples.
Her little son she sent over to England to
your care."

While de Louvain was speaking, Sir
John's face was a study. Surprise ! incredulity
were there, but gradually they gave way
to an expression of blank bewilderment !
Then came a sudden contraction of the wide-open
eyes, and a deep flush of anger, as a
horrible suspicion that he had been cleverly
tricked and most cruelly deceived darted
through his mind !

'' But, good heavens, sir !" he broke out, as

soon as the Frenchman had finished, '* If this
is all true, who Is the woman who came here
from Sorrento last March, with a child ?
She wrote to me as Amy Erskine  the
widow of my son Jack ! And as his widow
I received her  settled money on her and
introduced her to the county ! She was even
presented at Court as Mrs. John Erskine,
and I  I loved her for his sake! It Is not
two hours since she left the house to visit a
sick friend In London, with * Mrs. John
Erskine' on the labels of her boxes! If
you are my daughter-in-law Amy, madam,
who Is she ?"

Has she fair hair and dark eyes like
mine ?" cried Madame de Louvain, In great
excitement. '' Is she like me, but taller and
larger? Has she beautiful feet and hands,
and does she like admiration ?"

"You have drawn her to the life!" exclaimed
Sir John. 'who Is she?"

"Rossitur!" and Madame de LouvaIn

clasped her hands together theatrically. " She
passed herself off for me and took you all in !
Oh ! The cunning, wicked creature ! And I
trusted her so completely ! Victor  do you
hear ?"

'' But I do not understand it all now," said
Sir John. '' I have your letter by me in
which you say you had quarrelled with
Rossitur, and that she had left you ! There
is not a word in it, or in any letter of yours,
about your marriage."

'' Oh, it is only part of the trick !" cried
Madame de Louvain. *' But let me try and
explain to you. It was Rossitur who always
wrote my letters to England after poor Jack
died ; she wrote so well and so easily, and it
was such hard work to me, that I let her doit.
When we came to Italy, and I met my
dearest Victor, and his kind mother and sister,
and I began to feel happy again, I let Ros-sieur
continue to write my letters to you. I
did not know how to say what I wished to

tell you. I thought you would be angry
with me for marrying again, so, when I was
engaged, I told Rossitur to write a very nice
long letter for me. She was to tell you that I
did not expect you to give me any of the
money you settled upon me when I married
poor dear Jack, and that you were to have
the boy ; and I asked her to explain that I
was to be married quietly in Naples, and
that she was to take Jacky to England, with
her own child, and leave him here with you.
I wanted her to leave her boy with her own
people at Stillingfort, and to come back tome,
but she refused ; said she was tired of
being in service. I was vexed with her, as I
thought she was ungrateful, and we had a
little quarrel, but we were soon friends again,
and I gave her a very handsome present of
money. I was surprised you did not write
when you heard of my intended marriage ;
but Rossitur said she was sure you were very
angry, and she advised me to take no notice.

Then Victor and I were married, and when
our honeymoon was over, I saw Rossltur off
to England with the children  while we
were away she stayed at Sorrento  and
soon after she arrived, she wrote to me to
say  I can show you her letter  that she
had left your grandson at the Chase, and
that you were so very angry with me she
advised me not to write any more, as my
letters would be returned. I took her advice,
but I have been thinking a good deal about
my little son lately, and Victor, who is always
kind, proposed an excursion to England. He
said if you refused to see me we could go
back again. But you knew we were coming,
for I wrote to you from Paris ; you should
have had the letter last night or this
morning."

I have had no letter from you," Sir
John answered. " You saw how surprised I
was to see you."

"Was it possible for the false Mrs. John

Erskine to get hold of the letter and keep It
from you ?" de Lou vain asked.

No  no ; I thnik not. Stay! By Jove,
you are right ! She always opened the letter-bag.
Yes ; that is it ; she got your letter
recognised your writing, of course ; and
this sick friend of hers in town was Invented

to enable her to get away. But " and

as he stopped his face grew very grave. He
was thinking of Walter Duncombe.

Can you tell me if Rossitur's husband
George Porringer, is alive or dead ?" asked
Madame de Louvain. "He was out of his
mid.

Sir John laughed. " Things are beginning
to look a little clearer," he said. " Porringer
is alive, and he was lately discharged as
cured from the asylum. He found me out
in London ; I thought him a decent civil
sort of fellow, and I engaged him as my
valet. But that cunning woman I took for
my poor boy's widow would not let him

come ; she said he would go out of his mind
again before long, and that in his mad fits he
always took her for his wife. Of course I
believed her, and broke my engagement with
Porringer ; but he came down here to try
and get some news of his wife. I got rid of
him with some trouble, but my carriage with
Mrs. Porringer in it  she had been to a
garden-party as Mrs. John Erskine  passed
him on the road, and he came rushing back
to me, like a maniac as we all said, to tell me
he had tracked his wife into this house. The
next day  it shows what courage she has 
she saw him alone. He got furiously excited,
she told me, and, as he had always done
when his brain was affected, took her for his
wife. Of course I had no suspicion, not the
very slightest ; although, when Porringer saw
the child  he was so anxious to see his poor
young master's boy, that I had him down 
he declared It was his. And good heavens !"
cried Sir John, with a sudden and violent

Stamp of his foot, ** what if he Is right
after all ? I never thought of that until this
moment. Oh ! this makes the thing a million
times worse ! Suppose that infamous woman
imposed her own child upon me as my
grandson ? It was worse than imposing
herself. Oh, sir !" he added, addressing
de Louvain, " your wife has a great deal
to answer for. She trusted that woman too
much."

Madame burst into tears. " But how
could I tell she was so wicked ?" she sobbed.

Sir John, my wife is not as much to
blame as you think, and when you are more
calm you will be just to her," de Louvain
said. 'the first thing we have to do is to-find
this woman Rossitur, and make her confess
about the children ; if she brought her
boy here, she must know what has become of
your grandson."

'' But how can I be sure that she tells the
truth ?" cried Sir John. " And where are we

to find her now ? You do not know one
half the complications. I believe she and a
neighbour of ours, Walter Duncombe, have
planned to run away together."

'walter Duncombe!" almost screamed
Madame de Lou vain. "If he saw her he
recognised her! Of that I am sure."

"Then he has behaved like a double-dyed
scoundrel to me !" cried poor Sir John, who
was now hoarse with passion. "How they
fooled me, the pair of them ! I never refused
that woman anything ! Nothing was too
good for her, and all the time she was your
maid Rossitur, George Porringer's wife ! I
can never hold my head up in the county
again ! Now I understand why she would
not meet Arthur Filmer ! She got a bad
fainting fit, and frightened me out of my wits
when she knew he was coming to my house,
and we left London at a few hours' notice,
she was supposed to be so unwell from overfatigue
! But Duncombe  I can't forgive

him ! He must have been in the plot all
through."

"Walter Duncombe was in love with her
in India! It was poor dear Jack who kept
him from marrying her. But dear Sir
John "

''Do not call me 'dear Sir John'" he
interrupted, furiously. " I think I can hear
he7% and see her too, when you say it, for you
certainly are very like one another in face !"
he added, half-spitefully.

De Louvain made a deprecatory gesture
with his hands, and shrugged his shoulders.

I was going to say," Madame went on,
"that I can tell at once whether the child
Rossitur brought here is my boy or not."

But you cannot tell me where to find my

grandson, if this is Mrs. Porringer's "

The furious pull he gave to the bell-handle
drowned the last word. .

Madame de Louvain could not be positive
that the child was Georgy Porringer, but she

was quite positive that he was not her Jacky.
He has a tiny little mark  a sort of dint it
is  on the right temple, just beside the eye,"
she said. '' I could not mistake any other
child for him ; I should know him anywhere."
And they were all so much excited and
perplexed that even Miss Lambton never
thought of the child at the Rectory ; they
even forgot for the moment that the false
Mrs. John had given It as her opinion that
It was Rossitur's boy ; and the news that
reached the Chase next morning put even his
missing grandson out of Sir John's head fora
time.

A madman's revenge.

Poor Sir John spent a miserable night. He
was a man who detested double-dealing,
mystification and chicanery of all kinds, and
he found himself suddenly surrounded by all
three! It was not possible for him to doubt
the statement of Madame de Louvain, but
very grudgingly indeed did he admit that he
had been grossly deceived by a clever adventuress
! It was the deception that galled him
so bitterly ; not only had he taken the sham
Mrs. John Erskine to his heart, but he had
imposed her as the widow of his son upon
the society of the county, and to the end of
his days he would be pitied and laughed at.
With his usual hospitality, he insisted that

the de Louvain should remain as his guests
for a few days. " You must stay until we
try to bring you and Rossitur face to face,"
he said, trying to be jocular, but his heart
was very sore, and he could not yet look
upon this new Amy, with her French
husband, as his daughter-in-law. She was
by no means the same Amy who had been to
Jack Erskine a somewhat imperious and
exacting wife. In Victor de Louvain she had

o

found her master, but he was a very loving
one, and one whom she loved ; and she had
in many respects altered for the better since
her marriage with him. Miss Lambton
liked her far better than the exacting lady
who was already spoken of in whispers as
*' Rossitur." How familiar that name had
been to all of them for years.

While de Louvain and Sir John had a
long and serious conversation together after
dinner, the two ladies chatted very amiably
in the drawing-room. It was a relief to Sir

John to be alone with the Frenchman ; he
could indulge In some strong language, and
relieve his feelings In that way.

They all breakfasted together the next
morning ; out of deference to English habits,
Monsieur and Madame de Louvain came
down at nine o'clock, and Sir John did his
best to be genial and agreeable ; but, under
the circumstances, It was hard work, and
Madame could talk of nothing but Rossltur's
misdeeds. Sir John opened his Tz7HeSy
glanced at the summary, then politely gave
the paper to de Louvain, who did not want
it, and unfolded the Daily Telegraph.

"Hallo!" he said, "What is this?" as his
eyes fell on a sensational heading in big print.
Tragedy at a Railway Station.

Desperate Attempt at Murder and
Determined Suicide."

He looked through the account that followed,
with a presentiment that it concerned
him very nearly, and this was what he read :

VOL. III. t

Victoria Station, Publico, was yesterday,
soon after six o'clock, the scene of a terrible
tragedy ! Upon the arrival of the 6-5 train
from a handsome and elegantly-dressed
young lady, followed by a porter with
her luggage on a barrow, passed the barrier
after the great crowd of passengers had
already gone through. The porter was In
the act of hailing a cab, and the lady was
walking leisurely towards the place at which
it would draw up, when two shots were fired
at her In rapid succession by a man who Is
supposed to have travelled In the same train,
as the ticket collector says he gave up a
third-class ticket before the lady passed
through the gate. After the shots were fired
the victim of this foul attempt staggered a
few steps and then fell In a pool of blood !
A rush was made to secure the assassin, but
with the rapidity of lightning he discharged
another chamber of the revolver into his
mouth and fell dead on the spot ! The

young lady, whose name has not transpired,
although, we believe, it is known to the
police, was conveyed at once to St. Michael's
Hospital, where she is unconscious and in a
most precarious condition, part of her jaw
having been completely shattered by one of
the bullets."

My God, how awful !" cried Sir John,
as the paper dropped from his hand, and he
fell back In his chair looking white and
faint.

Miss Lambton ran to him. 'what is it ?"
she cried, greatly alarmed. "Are you ill?"

He pulled himself together with a great
effort. "Look here," he said, "there has
been an attempt at murder at Victoria
Station, and I believe the unfortunate
woman who is shot Is Rossitur. Her train
was due In Victoria about six o'clock, and
she is described as young and handsome."

But who has done it ?" cried Madame de
Louvain.

'there was but one person likely to do it;
her husband  the wretched madman Porringer.
I believe now Duncombe was right,
and he has been working here in the garden
in disguise." Then Sir John described the
sudden rush of the man with the beard into
the train while it was actually in motion, and
the fancied recognition of him as Porringer
by Duncombe.

'' And have they taken him ?" asked Miss
Lambton.

No ; he is dead. He shot himself after
he fired at her. I wonder where Duncombe
is. He said he would follow her to town by
a train that left the Great Centre Bridge
Junction half an-hour after she left this
station. But he is not likely to communicate
with me if he knows from her, and of course
he does, that the game is up. What an
awful thing ! Bless my soul, how quickly
retribution has followed her ! Poor unhappy
woman ! I must go to town at once ; the

police probably know her by this as Mrs.
John Erskine."

"We had better accompany you," said de
Louvain. '' If there is any question of
identification, my wife may be obliged to
give evidence."

I see a fiy from the station driving up,"
said Miss Lambton. " It is not Walter
Duncombe, I suppose."

But the early visitor was a Police Inspector,
who had come from town to see Sir
John. In the injured woman's handbag 
she was carrying it when she was shot 
some visiting-cards with " Mrs. John Erskine,
The Chase, Little Centre Bridge," on them
were foimd. Her linen was marked with
A. E. ; there were two or three cases found
upon her containing jewellery, apparently
valuable. A diamond necklace and pendant
were undoubtedly genuine, and in the pocket
of her dress there was an empty envelope,
with a French stamp effaced, and the Paris

post-mark, addressed to Sir John Erskine at
the Chase.

She was still alive, and she had made
several efforts to speak, but owing to the
nature of the wound in her jaw, she could
not make herself understood. The second
shot had passed through her arm, breaking
the bone just above the elbow.

Sir John put the Inspector in possession of
the facts related to him by Monsieur and
Madame de Louvain, and the idea that it was
Porringer who had attacked her, was confirmed
by the fact that, on examination, it
was found that the suicide was disguised by a
large black beard.

'* If he is her husband, as I suppose, I can
identify him," said Sir John, 'rand also give
evidence that he was but recently discharged
from a lunatic asylum."

The mention of the jewel cases that were
found on the woman who had so lately passed
as Mrs. John Erskine, reminded Sir John

that the valuable Erskine diamonds had
practically been in her possession since her
arrival at the Chase. He examined the safe
in which they were kept in the presence of
the Inspector, and found that the beautiful
necklace was missing.

"The other jewels were presents from
me," he said, "but the diamonds are heirlooms."
Then he added to himself, " I hope
Duncombe did not know she had them."

Inquiry brought to light Buncombe's
arrival at Victoria, about half-an-hour or so
after the tragedy had taken place. " I saw
the gentleman myself," the Inspector said,
but I did not guess he had anything to do
with her, although he seemed scared, and a
bit uneasy, too, when he heard that a young
lady had been fired at and wounded in the
face. I took no notice of what he did, or
where he went, for I did not know he knew
her."

A strong instinct of self-preservation had

kept Duncombe from betraying to the police
his acquaintance with the injured woman ; he
was too late to save her, and It would do no
good to mix himself up in the affair. But he
reproached himself bitterly for allowing her
to make the journey alone, although it was
very doubtful that his presence would have
saved her from the mad vengeance of her
husband.

Pottlnger had discovered, from the conversations
he overheard In the garden house,
that he was not under a delusion when he
declared that the woman who called herself
Mrs. John Erskine was In reality Bella
Rossitur, his wife ; and he discovered, moreover,
that she knew she was about to be
found out, as the real Mrs. Erskine, now
Madame de Louvain, was coming to England
to Introduce herself to Sir John, and to see
her child, and that flight with Duncombe
was the only course left to her, as she could
not make up her mind to confess and take

the consequences of her imposition. All
this being made clear, Porringer, without a
moment's hesitation, resolved to murder her,
and then to shoot himself! To the madness
of his diseased brain was added the madness
of jealousy, and he had cunning enough to
lay his plans, and carry them out to the
bitter end.

And now he lay dead by his own hand, and
she, well aware by whom the deed was done
that had arrested her flight with her lover
and for ever ruined the beauty of which she
was so proud, waited in the sharpest agony
of mind and body for what the slow passage
of the days would bring.

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE CONFESSION.

Poor Amy de Louvain, the veritable widow
of young John Erskine, when she came to
England with her adored Victor, to introduce
herself to the father of her first husband and
to see her child, little knew what was before
her. It was trying and disagreeable enough
to find that an impostor, in the person of the
trusted Rossitur, had personated her successfully
for some months ; had substituted her
own son for poor Jack's boy ; had contrived,
also, to worm her way into Sir John's
affection and confidence. With a cool head
and steady hand she played her risky game
of chance ; scored several tricks, and divided
the honours, so to speak, every hand ! And

even now, to continue the metaphor, that she
had been detected as a cheat, the cards had
been so skilfully played that those whom she
had wronged could not blame themselves for
having trusted her ; there was nothing in her
conduct calculated to raise suspicion in the
minds of those who had no reason to suspect ;
and if Amy de Louvain had not been seized
with a sudden desire to see her child, the
imposture would probably not have been
found out for years.

Sir John and the de Louvain started early
for London, and it was only when Mrs.
Murray walked over to luncheon, and was
positively stunned when she heard what had
taken place, that Miss Lambton thought of
the child picked up by her friend at Victoria
Station. What more likely than that, in this
unclaimed little waif, Amy de Louvain would
recognise her son? There was some mark 
Miss Lambton could not remember what it
was  by which she said she should know him.

Sir John had a trying day before him in
town. His first duty was to identify the body
of the man who had attempted the murder
and then shot himself; and he had, as he
expected, no difficulty In recognising the
unfortunate Porringer. He was then summoned
to attend the inquest ; the murderer
and his victim being both known to him, his
evidence was required.

But his visit to St. Michael's Hospital to
identify Porringer's victim who was lying
there, to all appearance unconscious, with
her face shattered and her arm broken, was
the most trying and painful duty that had
ever fallen to Sir John's lot. He was accompanied
by his daughter-in-law, and they went
in together to the ward where Rossltur was
lying. The heart of the kind old man was
filled with the deepest compassion as he
looked at the maimed and disfigured creature
whom he had so lately seen in the pride of
her beauty ! He forgot how she had cheated

and fooled him ; he forgot that, even as she
kissed him and said good-bye at the railway
station, she had already made her plans fora
disgraceful escape from the consequences of
her daring impersonation, leaving to him and
to others the task of unravelling the tangle
she had so cleverly made. He forgot all
that ; he remembered only that the hand of
her maddened husband  the man whom she
had had the courage to face and defy  had
struck her down.

Yes," he said, and his voice was very low
and full of compassion, "that is the woman
who came to the Chase as Mrs. Erskine.
You can identify her, I suppose, as your
former maid Rossitur ?'' he added, turning
to Madame de Louvain.

"Yes," that lady answered. "She is
certainly Rossitur ; I could swear to her if
necessary. How horribly she seems to be
hurt ; but really, when I think of what "

Oh, pray do not speak of it here,"

interrupted Sir John, Imploringly. '' Her
punishment Is horrible, too ! I pity her
from the bottom of my heart."

The doctors said she was unconscious, but
as first one spoke, and then the other, her
eyes slowly opened, and, with an unmistakable
glance of recognition, she turned
them with an effort, first to the face of
her late mistress, and then to that of the
man she had so basely taken in. She tried
to speak, but could not ; and, with a moan
of anguish piteous to hear, her eyes closed
again.

The cover of the letter found In her pocket
was shown to and Identified by Madame de
Louvain, and some days later the letter itself
was picked up at the Chase ; it had fallen
under the drapery of the toilet-table in the
room occupied by the pretended Mrs. Erskine,
and In the confusion of her hurried departure,
she had not missed it. Of the jewels she
carried off Sir John claimed the diamond

necklace only ; the ornaments he had given
to her he left with her.

His next task was to try and put an end to
all the gossip, ill-natured and serious, about
the affair, that got into the newspapers.
Not a day passed without the publication of
some paragraphs upon the " Romantic case
of imposition in Stoneshire," or the '' Sad
end of a clever adventuress," or the " Clever
swindle in Stoneshire." One or two of the
Illustrated " Penny Dreadful " had a sketch
of the attempted murder at the railway
station, and a long descriptive account,
headed " The Baronet and the lady's maid."
In self-defence. Sir John at last wrote a
succinct account of the whole affair from
beginning to end, and sent it for publication
to two or three of the leading journals ; when
his letter appeared, speculative gossip ceased,
but he was obliged to read mortifying comments
in the society papers upon his obtuseness,
and sly hints as to the ease with

which pretty women Impose upon elderly
men.

Then news came of fighting In Afghanistan
or Africa, or the death of a Royal Prince or
Princess, or the sale of a big elephant to an
American showman, and the '' Baronet and
the lady's maid " dropped out of sight, and
were forgotten by the public ; but not for
months, or even years, at the Chase, or at
Little Centre Bridge ; and the puzzle and
uncertainty about the two little boys kept up
the excitement.

Madame de Louvain and her husband
came back to the Chase, In order that the
former might see Mrs. Murray's \\\.\\ protege,
and she was positive that the child was her
son. There was the dint In the right temple,
plainly to be seen by everyone except Sir
John, who could not be got to see It at all.
But, even setting aside that Infallible clue, was
not the child so his mother said  the 'every
image of his poor dear father ?" Victor said

SO, and Victor was always right ; while no
one could mistake the other boy for the child
of anyone but Rossltur.

Sir John was obliged to admit the likeness,
but he would not recognise the waif so
strangely picked up by chance at the railway
station as his grandson, unless the unfortunate
Rossltur would admit that she had left
her mistress's child there. So the little
fellow, who was called by some Jacky, and
by others Georgy, was left with Mrs. Murray,
and the little Imposter remained at the Chase,
but he was kept out of sight, and Sir John
asked no questions.

Victor and Madame de Louvain went to
London, and stayed there until the uncertainty
was at an end one way or another.
Sir John telegraphed to his daughter and
Otway to come home at once  he was
yearning for Betty ; and at St. Michael's, by
slow degrees, Rossltur recovered, but with so
sorely a maimed and disfigured face, that
VOL. Ill U

those who had known her before Porringer's
murderous attack had some difficulty In
recognising her.

Upon her discharge from the hospital, she
was met by her sister Alice, and taken down
to Stillingfort ; and Sir John, who in his great
kindness and noble generosity refused to add
one iota to the punishment she had already
suffered, gave instructions that she should
want for nothing money could supply. And
when she learned how good and forgiving he
had been to her, Rossitur's cold, calculating
heart was filled with something as like
remorse as it was possible for her to feel ;
and, in a sudden burst of repentance, she
resolved to confess everything to him, and,
as far as possible, repair the wrong she had
done. So he went to Stillingfort to see herat
her request, and at her request also, or,
more properly speaking, at her sister's, the
child she had passed off as John Erskine's,
accompanied him.

'' He is my son," she said in answer to Sir
John's anxious question, "and I am ready to
make an affidavit, if necessary ; or, if it will
satisfy you, that the boy Mrs. Murray found
In the waiting - room at Victoria is your
grandson. I left him there, thinking he
would be sent to the workhouse, and that
my son would be brought up as your heir."

Poor Sir John, torn between his horror of
her daring duplicity and pity for her miserable
condition, scarcely knew what reply to
make. '' I cannot think why you did it," he
said at last. " Did you not know that some
day, sooner or later, you would be found
out ?"

I did not think It very likely," she
answered, " and I liked the excitement of such
a game of chance. Of course I knew it was
possible, but I thought Madame de Louvain
was too indolent and selfish, and cared too
little for her child, to come to England to
see him. I was afraid that some day Mr.

Filmer, or someone who had known me and
my mistress in India, would recognise me ;
but I managed to avoid meeting Fihiier in
London, and I made up my mind not to
venture there again. My husband I was
able to silence by saying he was mad ; but I
ought to have been more cautious about him.
If I had only suspected that he was about
the place in disguise watching me, I could
have got away and baffled him. But he was
too cunning for me, and I am left like this !"
She clasped her hands with a despairing
gesture, and then pointed to her disfigured
face, while a gleam of hatred flashed from
her eyes.

'* He is dead," said Sir John, solemnly.

Yes," she broke out, "but that makes no
difference to me novo, for my life is ruined.
No one will care for such a hideous creature.
I may die in a ditch, or starve ; it is all the
same."

Not as long as it is in my power to help

you," said Sir John. "The wrong you did
to me was great indeed, but the wrong to
yourself was infinitely greater, and I  I
should not like you to fall lower. I suppose
I am right in my supposition that Walter
Duncombe knew who you were, and that
you had made up your mind to leave the
country with him ?"

'' Yes ; you are quite right. About a
month after I arrived at the Chase I went
over to the Hermitage to prepare him to
find me in Mrs. John Erskine ; I was sure if
he would not join me in keeping up the
deception he would not betray me. Miss
Lambton thought I went to Great Centre
Bridge to look for Rossitur," and she
laughed. " Walter wanted me to go through
the form of marriage with him, as your
son's widow, and then we were to live
abroad, as long as there was any chance of
our being found by Porringer. But I did not
trust Duncombe enough for that; as he helped

me to cheat, he might cheat me himself some
day. So I refused ; and it was not until I
was driven into a corner, by hearing that my
mistress was coming over, that I consented
to go with him ; it did not very much matter
what became of me when I was going to be
found out."

Sir John was silent, and pained beyond
expression at her reckless, defiant tone. And
it was of no use to preach repentance to her
in her present mood ; he saw but too plainly
that she was not grieving for her conduct
in the past, but simply for the loss of that
beauty which was so cruelly marred forevermore.


ROSSITUR PLAYS HER LAST CARD.

That was not quite the end of all. As the
winter grew darker and more drear, and the
bare trees in Stillingfort woods shivered in
the bitter winds, Rossitur took a desperate
resolve. Not one word, even of condolence
or sympathy, had she heard from Walter
Duncombe since the day she said good-bye
to him at the Little Centre Bridge station.
He was aware that her deception was discovered
; but the fact that she was a detected
imposter would make no difference to him, ashe
had known her as an undetected one for
so many months. He knew also that her
husband was dead, and that no obstacle now
stood between them, and yet he made no

sign ; and the truth at last forced itself upon
her unwilling mind, that with her loss of
beauty his love had died ! Was he the sort
of man to marry beneath him, if the woman
to whom he condescended were not possessed
of extraordinary personal attractions ? Bella
knew that he was not, but still she longed to
meet him face to face, and to make him
confess that he had no intention of allying
himself with one who was convicted, morally
if not legally, of one of the most audacious
frauds of modern times ; and, in addition,
disfigured almost beyond recognition by a
pistol bullet !

Poor Rossitur ! Instinct revealed to her
the nature of the man who had professed to
love her ; or, it may be, she recognised in
him traits of character akin to her own ; but
there was a spark of chivalrous good feeling
in him for which she gave him no credit. It
is even possible that the idea of good feeling
In the matter never once occurred to her; she

more than half despised Sir John for his
kindness and forbearance towards her ; she
had no conception of the noble humane heart
that gave it birth.

Duncombe had seen her, although she was
unaware of the fact. He knew when she
left the hospital, but he felt that he must see
her before he committed himself to any action
concerning her. Rumour told him that the
injury to her face was one that could not be
obliterated by any amount of surgical skill
but still, it was possible that rumour had
exaggerated, and that a slight scar only
remained of the wound.

Accordingly, as soon as he knew where
she was, he went to Stillingfort to see her.
But the meeting never took place. By one
of those curious coincidences that sometimes
happen, he saw her accidentally, and the
unhappy creature, being totally unaware of his
presence, had taken no precaution to conceal
the ravages of Porringer's murderous attack.

To do him justice, Duncombe was shocked
and saddened by the total destruction of the
beauty which had always struck him as so
perfect ; he turned away quite unable to give
a second look, and in that moment his love
for her died. Such love dies easily, without
a struggle. But he felt bound to do something
for her ; she should not be able to say
that he was a niggard as well as a scoundrel,
and a handsome provision for herself and her
son would go far to reconcile her to her fate.
He would not remind her, either, that everything
that had happened was her own fault ;
that she might have left England with him
weeks ago, and trusted to the chapter of accidents
to aid her in avoiding her mad husband !
But she, who saw no Immorality In Imposing
herself and her son upon Sir John Erskine,
refused point blank to accept his. Buncombe's,
protection during the lifetime of Pottlnger,
and this was the result. But It was always
the case with women such as she ; up to a

certain point they had abundance of courage,
and then, suddenly, they lost their nerve,
and stumbled at a comparatively insignificant
obstacle. That was how Buncombe reasoned.

It is impossible to describe Rossitur's
feelings as, for the second time, she went
on foot from the railway station at Great
Centre Bridge to the Hermitage. It was
nearly mid-winter now ; but the air was not
very cold, and the pale sun now and then
struggled through the clouds. She felt fairly
strong and well ; the terrible shock her
system had received was passing away, and
she felt more buoyant and hopeful, as she
became accustomed to her altered appearance.
Just at first, no doubt, Walter would be a
little shocked. Just at first. Alas! was not
the first sight what she had to dread ?

She had a little note in her pocket which
she meant to send in to him when she
arrived ; it was just possible that her name
and her story were known to the servants, so

she meant, if possible, to avoid giving the
former. She may have imagined it, but it
seemed to her that the footman, who answered
her ring, and showed her into a morning-room,
in which a cheerful fire was burning,
looked at her curiously. Could it be that
everyone who saw her poor maimed face,
knew who she was ?

But as soon as she heard that Duncombe
was at home, and knew that her note would
soon be in his hands, her agitation rose, and
quickly grew to such a height that she could
not dwell upon what was thought of her
appearance by his servants ! Five minutes
passed rapidly ; five more, more slowly ; the
quarter was reached, and still she was alone,
listening for approaching steps.

They came at last ! The door opened ;
she stood up, and turned her face a little
aside ; but it was the footman who came in,
carrying a tray of refreshments. These he
arranged on a table beside her, and with the

announcement that Mr. Duncombe sent his
compliments, and hoped she would excuse
him for a few minutes while she took some
luncheon, the man withdrew.

Rossitur glanced at the cold game ; the
preserved meats ; the delicate home-made
bread, the hot-house fruit, and the different
kinds of wine ; but she could neither eat nor
drink. A deadly fear began to creep over
her ; her nerves, ready now at the slightest
provocation to assert themselves, began to
tingle, and she fell back on her chair, white
and trembling.

Another quarter-of-an-hour passed, but she
was still alone ; then she heard a door open,
and voices. They ceased after a few seconds ;
the door was shut, and there were steps at
last. To pour out and drink off a glass of
wine was the work of a moment ; and the
colour was coming back to her face when the
door of the morning-room was opened, and a
gentleman, a stranger to her, appeared.

He was a little man, smart and neat in
fissure ; middle-aged, with hair and whiskers
that were partly gray. His bright eyes
looked shrewd as well as keen, but there
was no unkindness in their penetrating
glance ; in fact, he looked what he was  a
lawyer of experience ; and he was Walter
Duncombe's man of business. There was
no curiosity visible in the look he bent upon
Rossitur ; but, nevertheless, she was a person
of whom he had heard a great deal that very
morning:, and a letter written bv him to her,
was, at that moment, lying half-finished upon
the library table.

*' Mrs. Porringer, I believe," he said.

Rossitur was startled by being suddenly
addressed by that name, but she made a
movement that implied assent.

"Will you not sit down?"  she had received
him standing, "and," glancing at the
untouched food, " Mr. Duncombe hoped you
would have finished luncheon by this."

I cannot eat, thank you," she said, *sand
I  I am a little tired of waiting here for Mr.
Buncombe. I believe he is at home,"

'well  yes. He was in the house when
your note was delivered to him ; he and I
were transacting some business then, but I
fancy he is out now."

'' Does that mean that I am not to see
him ?" she cried. " Does he not wish to seeme
? Has he sent you to tell me so ?"

'' No ; he did not send me to tell you so ;
but, as you ask the questions, I must answer
them in the affirmative. You are not to see
him, and he does not wish to see you."

A low wailing cry of bitter disappointment
broke from her. " Oh !" she moaned, '' I
might have known ! I might have known !"

'that is just what we  my client and I,
feel about it ; you might have known. But
I must beg of you, now you are here, to
compose yourself, and to listen to me while
I make a short explanation. I am Mr.

Duncombe's lawyer, and I came here this
morning at his request, as he wished to
consult me upon a matter of business connected
with you. It Is not necessary for me
to go back upon the painful and unfortunate
circumstances that have lately taken place ; I
know everything, and I have told Mr.
Duncombe very plainly what I think of his
share In the deception that was practised
upon Sir John Erskine. However, let that
pass ; I assure you he feels very deeply and
acutely for all the suffering you have lately
endured ; 1 am empowered by him to tell you
this."

Please go on," she said, *' I do not want
to talk of my sufferings to anyone. I want
to know what Mr. Duncombe Is going to do.
As you know so much, I suppose you heard
that he and I were going to be married ; but
now that half of my face has been carried
away by a pistol shot, he Is probably not
very anxious to keep his promise."

'* What an extremely coarse-minded young
woman she is," thought the little lawyer to
himself. 'with the exception of a few
trifling errors in detail, you have stated the
case plainly enough, madam," he said aloud.
'' If I am not misinformed, when your impersonation
of Mrs. John Erskine was on the
brink of discovery, and you agreed to leave
England with my client, your "

'that is enough," she interrupted, "why
waste time telling me what I know? I
suppose you are aware that there is now no
obstacle to my marriage with Mr. Duncombe?
It was my mad husband George Porringer,
who gave me this mark," and she touched
her cheek, "and he then shot himself."

We know the whole terrible story,
madam ; and nothing could well be more
awful or more harrowing. My client, as I
said before, has the deepest pity for you, but
he does not consider himself bound to you,

or "

VOL. in.

Tell me the truth," cried Rossltur, and
she suddenly faced round upon her companion,
and revealed the full extent of the
terrible injury she had received. " Does he
know how disfigured I am ? I have not
seen him since the afternoon of the day it
happened, months and months ago !"

'* Mr. Duncombe has seen you," was the
reply, and I have his assurance that it was
a shock to him from which he did not
recover for days."

She laughed. '' I can quite believe it,"
she said. " I am a most hideous object
now, and he used to say I was the most
beautiful woman he had ever seen ! Well,
I am beaten again, the luck is against me,
and it is fortunate I am not the kind of
woman to break my heart because a man
throws me over! It would have been his
fate, you may tell him, if the cases had been
reversed, and he had lost his money as I have
lost my looks ! And now I may as well go

back to Stillingfort and take in needlework,
my last refuge against starvation !"

'' Pray stay a moment, there is more to be
said," the lawyer interposed. '' My client
fully acknowledges that you have a claim
upon him for compensation, although you
would not be able to enforce it legally ; and I
came here this morning to receive his instructions
for the settlement upon you, for life, of
the sum of five hundred per annum, and incase
you predecease your son, of one hundred
and fifty to him for his life. Neither of you
is to have any power over the principal, and
your annuity will die with you ; your son's
with him. I am further empowered to hand
you this cheque for the quarter beginning the
first of October last, and you will oblige me
with your receipt for the same."

With wide - open eyes and parted lips,
Rossitur took the cheque, and turned it over
and over as if in some doubt as to its reality.
There was no sentiment or romance in her

mind regarding Duncombe to make it impossible
for her to accept money from him,
and she took it willingly, greedily ; surprised,
but not touched, by the munificence of the
gift. But the place of such love as she felt
for him is admirably filled by  s. d.

*' You want my receipt?" she said, as,
satisfied that the cheque was genuine, she
put it In her purse. "Where can I find a
pen and Ink ?"

How did she take it T was Duncombe's
eager question when he and his adviser met
again. " She did not faint or cry, I hope ?"

Neither the one nor the other. She
turned the cheque over and over ; looked
what bank It was on, and then wrote out
a receipt. And there it is for you, duly
stamped and signed."

Duncombe snatched the paper and threw
it Into the fire. "It seems to me that she
and I need not waste pity on one another,"
he said, bitterly. "We are well matched."

FINIS.

Many years have passed since that afternoon.
The Hermitage was shut up for a long time,
and Buncombe Heed abroad. Then he married
a charming girl, and came back to Stoneshire,
but no notice was ever taken of him or his
wife by the family at the Chase.

Rossitur did not live long to enjoy her
annuity ; her health failed rapidly, and she
died in about three years. Her son, aged
then about six, was claimed by some relations
of his father's, but his career as he grew up
was not creditable or successful. He inherited
his uncle's talent for music ; but he
was vain, idle and wholly without stability,
and he finally enlisted in a Dragoon regiment

and joined the band. By his friends and
comrades he was always called '' Gentleman
George," because, with his life annuity from
Duncombe, he was richer than they, but his
money was far more of a curse than a blessing
to him. With the power allowed to the
story-teller of looking forward, we have
anticipated his fate ; for his contemporary,
young Jacky Erskine, a handsome lad of
sixteen, is still at Eton. The likeness to his
dead father is so strong that Sir John has
long ceased to doubt his identity, even without
the evidence of the dint upon his temple
upon which his mother laid so much stress.

His half-brother, little Victor Gustave de
Louvain, is at Eton too, and he and his
sisters, pretty, dainty little French maidens,
and a small brother, Gustave Victor  Amy
called both her boys after her husband, with
the position of the names reversed  are very
often at the Chase in holiday time, for their
father and mother pay an annual visit to

Stoneshire. Kind Sir John has room in his
large warm heart for all of them, and
Monsieur de Louvain is a special favourite
of his. The real Amy was the only one of
the family to whom he did not cordially
attach himself; whether it was that her
appearance and her name recalled too vividly
the daring imposter who had so cleverly
tricked him, and for whose miserable fate
he felt such genuine compassion, or that
there was something repulsive to him in the
woman who had not cared enough about his
dead son to remain his widow, even for a
twelve month, it is impossible to say.

And yet Amy de Louvain was a more
really attractive and lovable woman than
Amy Erskine had ever been. Her genuine
attachment to her second husband and her
children had awakened and developed the
best traits in her character ; love had conquered
selfishness, and she seemed but to
live for her beloved Victor. And it is quite

possible, also, that the removal of the baneful
influence of the artful and unprincipled ,
which had been so freely exercised upon
her at her most impressionable age, had had
an excellent effect upon her character.

A merry houseful gathers at the Chase in
the Midsummer holidays, for the Otwayss and
their children come down to join the party
from France. Betty's eldest son is the boy-lover
of little Adele de Louvain, and her tiny
twin girls  called by their father "Fire and
Smoke," not after the celebrated ponies, now
long superannuated, but because he says you
can never have one without the other  are
the pride and joy of their old grandfather's
heart. His sensitive conscience smites him
in secret for the way in which he allowed his
sweet Betty to be supplanted by the false
Mrs. John, and also for the way he himself
treated her from the moment the pretended
widow arrived at the Chase ; and he now,
by lavishing affection upon her and her

children, tries to atone for those months of
neglect.

In the whole of England there is not a
happier husband or a prouder father than
Otway, and Betty is under the blissful illusion
that such another man does not exist.
She is also under the delusion that she is the
most dutiful and submissive of wives, whereas,
as a fact, Otway has relapsed into the old
half-slavish devotion of the woman from
whom neither heart nor fancy ever for one
moment strayed, from the day he saw her
for the first time driving her ponies through
the High Street of Little Centre Bridge.
But, indeed, each is so anxious to give way
to the other, that it is impossible to say who
is the leading spirit of the house.

Charles Rossitur lived and flourished in
his Australian home ; and after an absence of
one - and - twenty years he paid a visit to
England, accompanied by his wife and children.
His only son  an unusually clever lad

of nineteen, with a mathematical brain and a
very decided bent towards scientific research
went to Cambridge ; became speedily noted
there as a hard worker ; and, once more
looking forward with the author's prescience,
we see him Fellow of his College ; and, when
his honest father's hair is grey, young .
Professor of Comparative Anatomy, is a
well-known man in the scientific world. His
two sisters  good, womanly women, like their
mother  marry happily and have no history.
What a flood of recollections, painful and
sweet, broke upon Charles Rossitur, as he
climbed the old familiar stairs that led to the
organ - loft of Stillingfort Church, and sat
down before the instrument he had so often
played on when a boy ! On the Sunday
following his arrival at his old home, he was
standing with his wife, at a little distance from
the loch gate, when the Stillingfort carriage
drove up, and out of it stepped a tall,
strikingly handsome, and rather showily-dressed

woman. She was followed first by
a pretty bright-looking girl of about sixteen,
and then by a tall, thin old man. Looking
neither to the right nor left, Lady Judith
Milbanke passed up the path, her fair young
daughter by her side now, and her husband
following in her wake, as he had done ever
since the day she became his wife.

As the congregation filed out of church
after the service, the beautiful and solemn
strains of ''He shall feed His Flock" rose
from the organ-loft, and Lady Judith started
and looked up, as she had done on her
wedding-day, and a flush rose to her face.

Who plays the organ to-day ?" she
inquired of the pew opener who was in the
porch as she passed.

Mr. Rossitur from Australia, my lady.
He arrived in Stillingfort last week, and he
asked if he might play the congregation out
this morning."

Pretty Sophie Milbanke saw her mother's

handsome brow contract as If in pain, but
she did not connect the sudden change in
the expression of that usually impassive face
with the name she had just heard for the first
time.

When everyone had left, Rossitur and his
wife emerged from the little door that led too



the organ-loft. " Come this way," he said.
*' I want to see poor Bella's grave. What a
strange fancy it was of hers," he continued,
as they reached the spot, to have those words
put on the headstone.

"What are they?" said Ellen, "I have
been trying to make them out."

At the bottom of the plain stone that stood
at the head of Rossitur's grave, was engraved
in old English characters 

"%iU ii a (amf of CJianre."

"No," he said, "it is not chance. Wee
make our lives or mar them, to please ourselves
and to gratify our own desires."

