incatiflK.v.

,.V' iW;; .A \/.-.\.

i1/tmmmmmmm'

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

QZ3>
C94t

V.I

Novels by the same Author.

MY BEST PUPIL, i Vol.

THE STOP V OF MEG, 2 Vols.

LEAP YEAR, 2 Vols.

Athos: THE STORY OF A
LIFE, 2 Vols.

REMINGTON & Co Henrietta Street Covent
Garden

IN TWO VOLUMES

M A CXJUTOIS

Author of " The Story of Meg " 6;c

The bridegroom sat at the table head,
And the lights burnt bright and clear,

who is that,' the bridegroom said,
Whose weary feet I hear ? '

'Twas one look'd from the lighted hall,
And answered soft and slow 

It is a wolf runs up and down,
With a black track in the snow,' "

VOL I

REMINGTON AND CO PUBLISHERS

HENRIETTA STREET COVENT GARDEN


[All Rights Reserved]

r

I. The Black Track in the Snow i

II. A Very Disreputable Family 8

III. Through the Night 25

IV. A Darker Night 49

V. Will at the Sunday School 62

VI. In Wait for the Wolf 77

VII. Will has Hard Times at Home 95

VIII. The Wolf is Seen . 119

IX. The Wolf is Hunted 145

X. Mr. Audley of the Hall 159

XI. The Phantom at the Window 178

XII. Elizabeth 200

XIII. Night in the Cottage 215

XIV. Elizabeth at the Farm 230

 XV. In the Drawing-room at the Hall . 247

XVI. The coming of the Spring 251

XVII. Ben Wilde in the Market-place 256

XVIII. The Wolf is Hungry 264

XIX. The Wolf finds a Prey 275

XX. Will has Hard Times once more . 285

XXI. The Home of Ben 317

\

THE BLACK TRACK IN THE SNOW.

The stars shone out at last, and the snow
had ceased to fall.

Through the whole day it had been snowing,
not at intervals, but ceaselessly, with
small, steady flakes, that filled the air  the
first heavy snow of the year, although the
spring had come. Already, before the evening,
the road to the little station had become
almost blocked ; now its red lights shone on
a white waste of a world, and the river, which
had been dark and still under its thin coating
of ice only yesterday, was as white now as
were the banks above. The stars had seemed
blurred and feeble when at first they shone,

VOL. L B

i

\

and there had been heavy storm-clouds in the

sky ; but these had swept away, and at last
the night was clear, and over the barren
whiteness the Swan spread her wings, and
there was the sharp glitter of Orion's belt.

The path by the river lay white and silent
under the sky and stars, with no traces of the
workmen who had tramped along it from the
town at noon. The snow which had fallen
in the evening had effaced the marks they
made ; and yet there was one line of footmarks
now, which lay there, effaced, in a
dark track beneath the sky.

These had been caused by a young man or
boy  he was of the age to which either title
can be given  who had come along in the
darkness by the river from the town, and who
stood now within the gate that separated the
path from the platform, leaning upon it, and
watchings the bustle that the arrival of the
evening train had caused. Perhaps the view
of the lights and movements pleased him
after his dark and lonely walk ; and perhaps,
also, he was himself in no great hurry to be
seen.

Yet, as he stood there leaning upon the

gate, he heir cr rct that night

have pleased an artic . 5 r t  such careless
grace was there in his position, so free and
supple was the appearance of his young limbs
in their attitude of rest. The frayed sleeve
gave more effect to the bending wrist and
hand, the rough cap to the dark cures from
which it had been pushed ; there was grace
er :-high in these things even without the
singular beauty of the lad's face, which jhiom
the position in which he stood could be but
dimly seen. Without moving, he stood leaning
on one arm upon the gate, watching the
movements in the station with dark, attentive
eyes.

Within, the arrival of the train had absorbed
attention for a time, and it was not till some
while had passed that he received a share of
notice too. A httie party of ladies had got out
on the platform, closely wrapped in furs, and
attended by a maid ; and the thoughts of the
s:?/" : :ester and porter were turned, of
course, cO them. It was not until the ladies
had exchanged a few words with t!e older
man, until their tickets had leer. : and

they had begun to cress : : s

that the stationmaster, with a mind received
at last, turned round to the porter and muttered
a word or two to him.

''Oh, there is Geoff Haldan watching us,"
he said. '' What new mischief has that young
devil been up to now ? "

The words reached the ears of the youngest
of the three ladies, who was behind the rest,
and she gave a little start and partly turned ;
and then, her eyes following in the same
direction as that which those of the two men
had taken, she looked with attention at the
boy who was leaning upon the gate. Something
appeared to move her  perhaps the
look of beauty in the lad's attitude, or perhaps
the ominous words that had just been said 
for though she had scarcely spoken to the
boy in her life she knew him well. She stood
still for an instant at the end of the platform,
and then took a few irresolute steps upon the
lines, and stood still again. The impulse that
was upon her was strong. She was a young
lady, and had been brought up in all the exclusiveness
of feeling of a country house,
such thoughts as these had never touched
her mind before.

No, the impulse was not to be resisted ;
she could not help herself. Turning round
suddenly, she went with swift, nervous movements
to the gate, and stood before the lad.

'' Geoff ! "

The boy let his arm drop in his astonishment,
but he did not touch his cap. The
gate was between them. She went on
speaking in nervous, trembling tones.

'' There is only one word  there is something
I want to say to you," she said. And
then there was a pause, for her heart was
beating so fast that she could scarcely
breathe. '' I have heard such things of you
lately  dreadful things ! Oh, are they true ? "

There was a pause again.

*' Very like, miss," said Geoff.

But don't you know that it is wrong,
terrible, that you will get into trouble if you
do things like these ? "

Her voice had gained strength with her
earnestness. Again there was a pause.

'' It's like enough, miss," he said.

His tone was not disrespectful or sullen ;
it was only very quiet. She raised her eyes
to him for a last appeal.

'' Oh, do you not think  have you never
thought?" she said. 'you are so young,
and wrong ways destroy people ; indeed,
indeed they do. Oh ! why must you spoil
your young Hfe  so soon ? "

where are you, Senna? Are you not
coming ? " called her companions from the
road, but without turning back to look at her ;
and, leaving the gate, she turned and ran to
them. Her light footsteps could scarcely be
heard upon the lines ; the little gate closed
behind her  she was gone.

And he stood leaning once more upon the
gate, looking after her across the lines. And
then he turned and looked back at the river
path along the track that his own feet had
made there beneath the stars. Seventeen
years old to-day ; the thought repeated itself
in a monotonous way within his mind.

Seventeen  only seventeen  and after the
deed of his this day had seen, what good thing
now was left to him of his life ? This only 
that there still remained for him one who
could be sorry that he had spoilt his young
life  so soon.

That night Selina was in no hurry to ring

for her maid before the time for dinner came.
She sat by her window, leaning dreamily
against it, looking out at the dark garden and
the stars. A new feeling of sympathy and
of pain had touched her heart  as if some
spell were upon her she kept repeating in
her mind the scene through which she had
passed, as she looked out with dreaming eyes
upon the snow.

But Geoff Haldan had gone onwards to his
home, his young footsteps leaving a steady
track behind him as he went ; and in his
heart, stirred only for a moment by the words
that had been spoken, was no stronger sensation
than a dim remorse and fear  a dread
of the future to which his own footsteps were
conducting him, and which lay before him
like the darkness of the night.

A VERY DISREPUTABLE FAMILY.

It might have been a little past nine o'clock
that night when stealthy footsteps were heard
approaching the cottage of old Jem upon the
waste.

Within, the gleaming fire made light enough
in the room, at least for the five men who
were assembled there. Old Jem himself sat
smoking upon the wooden settle, with a short
pipe in his mouth, and his rough beard falling
upon his ragged coat. By the table in the
corner two men were playing cards, as they
smoked, with a dirty pack ; another upon a
stool was mending a pair of trousers which
lay across his lap ; and by the fire, seated

upon the floor and clasping his knees, sat
Geoff, with the changing Hght upon his face.
The darkness and beauty of his young
features was only heightened by the lurid,
changeful glow ; but something more than
that varying light seemed needed to account
for the restless expression, like that of an
animal ready to be startled, in his eyes. He
had been sitting for a long time in perfect
stillness, but at the first sound of the footsteps
without he started to his feet; and,
going to the door, admitted a visitor with the
driving snow.

Before we learn more of that intruder, let
us linger yet for a moment upon that family
scene  the rough men, the clouds of tobacco
smoke, the room that no woman's hand had
touched, the dark-eyed, handsome lad who
bore no resemblance, either in figure or
features, to the rest. That mattered little,
the look of wild lawlessness was alike on all ;
and in the fitful light of the fire as it rose and
fell the room and its inmates made an apt
image of the den of wild animals to which
they had been compared. Let us consider
that matter for a little ; the story of God's

creatures should be always interesting, and
so the natural history of wolves must have
its interest too.

Old Jem's cottage  known as the Wolf's
Den for many years before he had inhabited it
was situated, as I have said, upon the waste ;
that is, upon a long stretch of uncultivated
ground about half-a-mile from the nearest
village doors. The stars, when they rose
over it that night, had looked down upon a
barren expanse of dreary sedges and half-frozen
water, broken principally by some
rising ground, on which a black, deserted
windmill stood. At some considerable distance
from this, on flat ground barely above
the water, were four much-injured trees, and
close to them a rough cottage with leaning
walls and disordered thatch, and a few bushes
and vegetables behind. There was no fence
of any sort to separate it from the waste land
around.

Here, then, for many years had old Jem
Haldan lived, peddling, poaching, snaring
rabbits, or cultivating vegetables as he
pleased ; and In this secluded place had he
reared three stalwart sons  Reuben, who

from his habit of lounging was called 
; Nicholas, known as Red Fickle
from the colour of his beard ; and a younger
one who in his early youth had attempted
suicide after. being threatened with arrest for
stealing plums, and who, though promptly
cut down, had been known ever afterwards
by the name of Bill-be-Hanged. These
young men, the dread of the village for their
strength and lawlessness, had attempted
various occupations now and then, but they
had always ended by finding their way back
again to their father's home upon the waste,
and for many years they were, with him, the
only inmates of the place.

A great deal becomes forgotten, or but
dimly remembered, in more than twenty years,
and it is not, therefore, surprising that few
people in the village were prepared to say
distinctly in what manner Jem Haldan had
first taken possession of his home. There
were one or two, however, who asserted that
he had once lived in a neighbouring village,
and that in those days he had possessed a
wife to live with him, a dark, gipsy-looking
woman, who had disappeared suddenly from

the place and had not been seen again. It
was said that she was dead, but there were
one or two who believed that statement to bea
convenient fiction devised in order to assist
the woman to escape from some unexplained
terror of the law ; and it was even asserted
that during Jem's frequent absences from
home he went to stay with her. However
that might have been, the years passed on,
the cottage on the waste became inhabited,
as we have seen, and nothing more was heard
or seen by anyone of Jem Haldan's wife.

And then, all at once, an unexpected incident
occurred, which revived immediately
the long-forgotten tale, and provided the
Wolf's Den with another life to rear.

On one gloomy evening in November,
when a heavy fog rested on the earth, a
woman, returning homeward to the village,
passed Jem Haldan on her way across the
waste. The fog was so dense that she did
not recognize him until they almost touched,
and she saw then that he had a knotted stick
in his left hand, and that he carried a large
basket upon his other arm. And then, as
she was passing by him without a greeting.

there rose from the basket one single waihnor
cry ; and, turning her head, she saw, thrust
upwards from the covering, a baby's hand.

If that meeting had taken place under
other circumstances, if there had even been
anyone near them in the gloom, she would
probably have stopped to express the surprise
she felt. But the loneliness of the
waste land and of the dreary fog, the little
hand, the sudden cr}% were all too much for
her  they 'give her a turn," as she afterwards
said herself  and she hastened onwards
with all the speed she could command.
Only, when she was safely at home by her
blazing cottage fire, it uas natural that her
tongue should be loosed at last, and amongst
her neighbours considerable curiosity was
excited by her words. Before the next few
days were over it became generally known in
the village that in the Wolf's Den there was
a baby now.

And then rose other stories more uncertain
in their foundation, and yet very generally
believed. It was said that on the night on
which the basket and its little occupant were
introduced into the place there had risen a

furious dissension amongst the dwellers in the
Den ; and that, in the dead of the night,
whilst all the others where asleep. Red Fickle
had risen, placed the baby again in its basket,
and put it outside the door, that his movements
had roused the others, and that a
violent fight arose. The truth of this story
could not be ascertained ; at any rate it was
certain that, even if there had been disputes,
the baby continued to exist within the Den.
Those who saw it reported it to be a little
creature of several months, with a head
' black as an imp," and added that Jem
seemed to have some '' care of it." And
then, one evening in the public-house, when
his heart was warmed with drink, Jem revealed
some facts himself. He said that his wife, who
had not been for ' many year" in the place,
had lately died, and allowed it to be understood
that the new inmate of his home washer
child, and his youngest son.

This story, agreeing well enough with the
tradition of which I have spoken, was received
at the time, both at the public-house and
elsewhere, with belief. As time passed on
some further doubts arose, but there were

none enough Interested in the matter to care
to track to certainty a doubtful tale. And
one conclusion at any rate remained  the
child had been brought to the Wolf's Den,
and within that shelter it remained.

And now let us think for a moment of the
influences that thus from its earliest times
surrounded that little life  the little life that
had cried out upon the waste as if protesting
against the home it had not reached. No
gentle education, no sweet, early instruction,
to bear fruit in after years, pervaded for it the
smoking and drinking that were the constant
amusements of the Den ; the hands that
surrounded it had been used to unlawful
deeds ; the lips that spoke to it were more
fond of oaths than prayer. The three young
men, indeed, had appeared to receive with a
curious, sullen unwillingness this intruder who
was thrust upon their care ; and, though Jem
looked after the child with an abiding interest
that belied his words, he was frequently heard
to declare that '' it was no matter to him if
the thing did live or die." The thing did not
die  it lived ; and some natural pity for its
condition, combined with an almost superstitious

interest arising from the story of that
night upon the waste, induced its neighbours
in the village to take some thought for it.
As soon as its childish feet were strong
enough to find their way so far, it was received
into many homes in the village, and there fed
and caressed.

And here let me wait for a moment, for
pictures are rising to my mind  a father
coming home in the afternoon to find a
lovely, dark-eyed child laid to rest beside
his own child in the bed ; a young woman
stopping in the street to give her bunch of
flowers into the hands of 'that pretty boy."
Slim, ragged, brown, with eyes dark and wild
like those of an animal, the little creature
made a singular plaything even then. As it
grew older it gained shy and sullen ways,
and preferred to play alone about its disordered
home, and shrank away from any
chance comer who tried to approach it there.
Some amount of ill-treatment at home might
in part account for this, as the speech heard
continually at home might be held answerable
for the broken words and oaths which sounded
yet more terrible when lisped by childish lips.

Alas, poor Geoff 1

Yes, before we return to the fireside of the
cottage upon that winter evening, we must
linger yet for a moment over those early
scenes. We shall need all the light we can
gain before we set out upon the journey that
is to follow a wolf track through the night.

But I fear we shall be mistaken if we are
led to suppose that Geoff could be thought a
nice little boy even in those early days, or
that the circumstances of his education could
altogether account for the peculiarities of his
disposition even then. Little Geoff, in spite
of ill-treatment and raggedness, was a lovely
child, and his beauty moved at once all eyes
that saw him first. But the boy was mischievous,
changeable, full of tricks and
mimicry, with a dangerous power of assuming
penitence when he pleased. When he was
not sullen or shy he was marvellously bright
and quick, with a sensitive instinct through
all his changing moods ; but there seemed
something dangerous in his varying nature
all the same. His three brothers and father
were heavy, stalwart men ; the pretty lad had
not the look of them and his dark eyes

VOL. I. C

suggested the thought of an animal even to
those who had never heard the title of his
home. Before he was seven years old Geoff
had been already called ' Wolf" by his companions
in the school.

Jem, who had provided a certain amount
of learning for his elder sons, appeared to
treat this, his youngest, with the most intense
neglect ; and nothing less than the dread of
a fine would have induced him to send the
boy to school. As it was Geoff attended as
irregularly as he dared, and got into all the
mischief that he could, preserving always a
demure demeanour that often saved him from
the suspicion he deserved. The other boys
dreaded him, though they admired him, and
he did not go much with them ; the teachers
always ended by becoming worn out with his
ways, in spite of their natural inclination
towards a scholar who looked at them with
such brilliant eyes. It seemed as if neither
at home nor abroad had the boy any real
companions of his own.

He grew up the handsomest, wildest lad in
all the parish, the ringleader in scrapes, the
best singer in public-houses, the swiftest

runner, and the most daring climber in the
place. On the whole, he obtained but little
punishment for all his deeds, though once a
farmer, whose nectarines he had stolen, and
to whom, moreover, Jem owed some money,
pursued him to his home ; for the man,
being good-natured, was so distressed at
being compelled to be a witness of the savage
thrashing that the boy received, and a hearer
of his wild screams and oaths whilst his
brothers held him down, that the result was
he never complained of him again, and Geoff
plundered his apples with impunity all the
autumn through.

If the boy was leniently dealt with abroad,
however, it was not so at home, and there
were many stories of the ill-treatment he
received. It was said, for instance, that his
three brothers had once chased him up into
a tree, and then watched by it in turns for a
whole day and night, until he made a
desperate leap from it, and hurt himself, and
was still further hurt by them. His father
never attempted to defend him, and Geoff
only received a severe beating for himself on
one occasion when he ventured to complain.

As years went on, however, it was observable
that a change took place at home ; the growing
boy became more able to defend himself,
and his brothers seemed, like his school
friends, to be almost afraid of him. His
resentment was so determined, his resolute
silence or fits of frenzied passion so unlike
their ways, that they became accustomed to
leave him to himself ; the lad, slender as he
was, could hold his own with them.

Let us add to these things that Geoff more
than once during his seventeen years of life
had been considered to be a ' spiritual-minded"
boy. He was, indeed, capable of
assuming a most devotional aspect now and
then, and various Bible-teachers had formed
great hopes of him. There had been one old
lady in particular who had given him private
lessons on the Catechism in her house, and
who had been rendered ill by the shock of
the discovery that he was accustomed to go
from her to the public-house and repeat his
lesson there. Geoff was very readily called
a hypocrite for such things, I need hardly
say ; and yet there may have been some
injustice in the accusation all the same. His

nature was very impressionable, and capable
of widely different moods, and some real elements
of superstitious terror lurked always
beneath the wildness of his life.

Well, we have nearly reached again the
scene of that winter's night, and yet we must
pause for another moment still; for there is one
element that is never wanting in a romance,
and that can find its way into a history as
well. And that one element had not been
wanting here, though the handsomest lad in
the parish was still a boy in years.

About two miles from the cottage on the
waste there lived a farmer whose only daughter
was said to look with favour upon Jem's
youngest son, and there were stories told in
the village of walks in the evening and of
gifts exchanged. But no one supposed for
an instant that Mr. Gibson would allow his
pretty Lizzie to care for such as Geoff.

And so there had been disputes between
Geoff and her brother Jim  young Jim, as he
was called  the only respectable associate
the boy had found. And Geoff, finding himself
cast out from friendship, and also crossed
in love, had chosen promptly another companion

for himself. This was Ben Wilde 
whom village wits named Wild Ben  the
worst company In the place, as all the sober
thought. Between this man and Geoff and
Geoff's father there had been an old dispute,
but he readily received all the boy's advances
now, and the result was that the village
gossips shook their heads anew, and whispered
that there was no longer any hope for
that mischievous Geoff Haldan and his ways
'' a swearing', smoking', gambling', drinking'
lad."

It was some such tale as this, probably,
that Miss Selina heard. And yet this tale,
too, was not altogether true, for Geoff did
not smoke, and did not even care to drink;
his young nature was too continually afire of
its own accord to feel itself in need of stimulants
as yet. The exaggerated stories about
him had been his misfortune often enough
before ; his disposition was wild and unsettled,
and the worst fears might be entertained
of him, but, though he was fond of the
public-houses of the place, and of the sort of
society they held, he had not as yet advanced
by many footsteps upon the path to ruin.

On the morning of that day of which we
have already seen the night he had started
off early for the town where he was to meet
Wild Ben, and then to do some work (for he
had odd jobs now and then), and then in the
afternoon to meet Jim Gibson, too. The
night had fallen before he reached his home
once more. His father and brothers were
seated round the fire. He lifted the latch
quietly, came in, and sat down upon the
ground, clasping his knees and looking at
the fire, without saying a word. Even to
them it was clear that something unusual
must have happened, but they did not speak
to him, and after a while fell to their cards
and work, whilst he remained seated on the
ground before the fire. One hour passed
after another, and then the footsteps came,
and Geoff started up and went straightway
to the door.

What had been passing through his mind
during those silent hours? Was it shame,
or remorse, or only a fear of pain ? Had his
young heart become too hardened for penitence
even now?

He had not spoken of himself, but another

would speak of him. The visitor stood In the
doorway, looking in upon the firellt scene.
Beyond, the snow was driving through the
darkness outside the open door. The young
men looked up from their cards and work ;
the older man silently laid down his pipe ;
Geoff sat down again, clasping his knees,
before the fire.

THROUGH THE NIGHT.

*' An' what brings you here so late, Mick
Ralfer?" asked Jem, as he laid his pipe upon
the settle by his side.

The two men who were playing cards in
the corner looked up with impatience at
finding their game disturbed. The young
man by the fire gave a kick to the logs that
started the flames afresh.

'' Shut that door, will you, Mick ? " he
growled ; " it's powerful cold."

He kicked the logs and started the flames
again. The light gave a changing look to
the motionless face of Geoff, who sat still in
his old position on the ground.

Mick Ralfer shut the door and advanced to

the blaze himself, with the alert face of one
who has some news to tell. He was a little
old man, with a bent form and legs, a face
like a red, withered apple, and little twinkling
eyes. Whatever the words might be he had
to say, it was plain that the task of messenger
was congenial enough to him ; and yet in
his manner there was the excitement of evil
tidings, too.

'' Ho, you're there, Geoff," he said, glancing
down as he spoke at the boy upon the
ground. '' I've come to earn the shilling' that
ye give me, as ye see. But I can tell ye, I've
nothing' good to say. You've done it now 
you've done It now, my lad."

There was a pause, whilst all were still to
hear.

And then Geoff spoke, very quietly, and
with his eyes upon the fire.

*ran' howls Jim?"

/' He's mortal bad ; they say he'll die tonight
! "

Silence. Not a man In the room had a
thought of moving now.

'' An' his father, he says ye shall swing for
this before the spring is out."

The ghastly words fell with distinctness
upon the stillness of the room. A slight
shudder had passed through the boy's frame
after the first sentence  not after the second
but he continued to sit quietly as before.
Old Ralf advanced to the low mantelpiece
and leant on that. His figure was black
against the firelight ; he moved his hand
like an orator ; it was evident that his mind
was full of the scene that he described.

'' I see him a-lyin' on a shooter wi' his hair
all a-sookin' like, wi' blood ; and his father
lean over him all a-sweerin", and he says, says
he, ' Geoff Haldan '11 pay for this.' An' they
was in the little tobacco shop at the corner,
an' the 'ole place where full o' men an' women
fro' the streets, an' there wasn't one of 'em
but had some words to throw at ye ; an' I
short, short I, it's true enough, I know  "

'  you," said Geoff, looking up now with
an oath. " You ! What have your thoughts
to do with me, I say? Tell me what I'm todo
; I'll thank you then."

' You'd best be off ; you'd best be off
m' lad. For I tell ye, Jim's fatherly ha' the
law on ye. He said as Jim was to be taken

all the way to his cottage from the town : ' For
it'll be better like for him,' says he, ' to die at
home.' And there was some as wanted to
call for the bobbies and ha' ye up at once.
But he says, ' No ; let him alone he says ;
I'll have him up for murder before the night
is o'er. If my son dies I'll die ten times o'er
but he shall swing for this.' And then he
swears he'll have ye hanged at the assizes
before the spring is done. He'll not rest day
nor night till ye be hanged. An' if Jim's
dead by now ye may look for the bobbies
soon."

There was an awful silence within the fire-lit
room. Geoff remained very quiet, and
did not move or speak ; but his eyes shone,
though his breath came more quickly, and
his young face was pale. He did not seem
in the least inclined to stir.

'' Ye needn't 'a hit him so hard across the
face, m' lad' went on old Ralf, in persuasive,
soothing tones. " It's that as'll go again' ye
at the end. His father's got the old bit o'
iron ye did it wi' to keep. They say as ye
allers meant it, as ye come up behind  "

'ran' that's a lie," cried Geoff, looking up

suddenly, with a dark glow on his face. '' I
never meant to hurt him ; it's not my fault if
he is dead to-night. I wouldn't a' touched
him if he hadn't said I stole ; an' then I only
took up the first thing that was near; I never
supposed he wouldn't save his face. He
went on so about Liz, an' he'd no call for
that. It's not my fault if I did kill him  kill
him "

His voice trembled with a passionate sob
beneath it. Again there was silence, whilst
the men gathered round the fire, their excited
faces dimly seen in the imperfect light. Old
Jem alone had remained upon the settle, and
it was his voice which came from the dark
corner now.

'' It's all very well what ye tell us, Geoff,"
said he ; '' but if ye hurt him, as ye say, the
lowell have a hold on ye, in spite o' that. An'
I'll not ha' one of ye ta'en to prison fro' here.
We'd best go an' hide wi' yer friends i' the
town a bit."

'' An' it'll be well if ye ever get back again,"
old Ralf observed.

The boy remained motionless, except fora
tightening movement in the fingers that

clasped his knees. There seemed to be on
him a dreary wish not to stir, in spite of the
sensation of terror or excitement that shone
with quivering Hght in his eyes.

*' We'd best be off, Geoff," said Jem, in
insisting tones.

But still the lad did not move till one of
his brothers pushed him with his foot. He
rose then very slowly, stretching himself as
if he had been asleep. His words came in
sullen tones, which would not have induced a
feeling of mercy in anyone who heard.

I must have some money. You owe me
two pound," he said.

'rand that two pound," said Jem, with
composure, " I take to pay your keep. I
can't afford to lose no mooney now. The
rest '11 agree wi' me, I'll be bound, i' that."

Geoff looked on them with wild eyes, but
against his father and brothers he had no
power to resist. He went to the card-table,
on which a heap of shillings lay, swept them
into his hand, and pocketed them without a
word. His brothers seemed for a moment as
if they would prevent him ; but, either from
good-nature, or because they saw the white,

contracted look of his face, did not think it
worth their while. Only Red Nickle, who
had pushed him with his foot a few minutes
before, growled out to him 

We can get more money's that by handing'
ye to the justices when we please, m' lad''

Geoff took no notice ; he moved across the
room.

*' Where art thou going ? That's not the
way to t' door," muttered Jem, as he raised
his pipe again.

'' I'm going to my room to get my things
fro' there."

Well, hasten thee, then, or I'll set my
hand to thee."

'' Ye'll want a light, mebbee," suggested
Ben, who was the most good-natured of the
three. But Red Nickle accepted the observation
in a different way.

Ay ; keep an eye on him  keep an eye
on him," he said. '' He's had our money, an*
he'll take our jackets, too." And, as Geoff
went forward towards the inner apartment, he
pushed Ben-o'-the-Gate, who had lighted a
candle, after him. Bill-be-Hanged, who was
of a more placid turn of mind, was still

occupied in thought with the clothes that he
wanted to wear on Monday at the fair. He
had seated himself again by the fire, and was
industriously threading a needle by its light.
Geoff took no notice of any of them ; he went
on into the inner room alone.

This was the room he shared with his
brothers and father, the only sleeping apartment
all possessed. A poor, rough place it
looked now, dimly lighted by the candle
which Ben held at the door ; small, close,
disordered, with a black sloping roof, untidy
beds and mattresses, and some clothes and
dirty blankets lying about the floor. Geoff
felt his way through these things to his own
mattress, which was at the further end
against the wall, with the sloping roof close
above it, and which, alone of all of them, had
been arranged with care. It was at a little
distance from the rest, and some strung birds'
eggs were fastened above it on the roof. He
had been accustomed to consider this corner
his own peculiar room ; and, after his own
fashion, he had been pleased with it. And
now, for one instant, he laid himself down
upon the bed, and hid his face upon the

pillow, and closed his eyes. It seemed to
him as if he wanted to forget ; to think only
that he had come in tired, and had lain down
to rest ; but Ben was watching him, and he
dared not sleep or cry. For one moment
only he let his eyelids close, whilst his fingers
were strained and twisted underneath ; then
he opened them to the dimly-lighted room,
and the sense of flight again.

And after that his movements were quick
enough. Still lying on his face, as if he had
placed himself in that attitude for the purpose,
he rapidly turned up his mattress and
took out some books beneath it ; for in this
manner, through the last two or three years,
he had kept his little library concealed. The
books made a curious collection, and were
much worn and soiled  a Bible, a hymnbook,
a Handbook of Logic, a book of Natural
History, an Arabian Nights, some penny
novelettes, a few Theological Discussions, and
some Eastern Tales. He turned these over
quickly, for a feverish feeling was growing on
him that he had no time to spare. The Bible
and hymn-book he rejected first, then held in
his hand for one moment the Arabian Nights,

VOL. I. D

and finally put within his coat the little volume
of Eastern Tales. The rest he replaced
rapidly, but with characteristic care, made up
a few of his possessions into a little bundle,
which he tied round with string, and then
turned to the door as if prepared to start.
Yet still for one instant he lingered, knelt
down by his little mattress, and, putting his
face against the pillow, kissed it softly as one
who leaves a friend ; and then he turned again
and went in to the rest, with his bundle thrown
over his shoulder, and a look of feverish hurry
in his eyes.

Bill looked up from the fire, where he sat
stitching still.

'' So you're ready now at last, are ye,
Geoff?" he said. '' We short the bobbies 'ud
have ye after all."

' I'll not be taken to prison ; I'll kill myself
first ! " cried Geoff, with his dark glance
blazing now. '' And look here, all of ye here,
this thing it's not my fault. If I was to die
tomorrow I'd say no less than that."

'' Where be going ? " asked Ben, in a slow,
good-natured way.

But the old father interrupted before any

answer came, taking his pipe quickly out of
his mouth and pulling at his beard 

'' Keep quiet tongues," he said ; '' there Is
no good In that. We're hear of him, sooner
or later, as a bad coin, I'll be bound. And
ye be off, Geoff, and don't stand fooling
there."

Geoff looked round on them all, and gave a
little scornful movement of his head ; then
arranged the bundle anew on his shoulder and
moved quickly to the door.

Good-bye, Geoff ! " called out Bill to him,
from the corner of the fireplace where he sat.

* God be wa' ye, Geoff ! " cried Red Fickle
after him, thinking perhaps to improve upon
the phrase.

Na  ay. He'll stay wi' ye, more like,"
said Geoff, stopping for an instant and turning
round his head. '' Ye and yer ways  I'll be
bound He likes the sort ! " The door closed
upon him as he spoke ; with that bitter profanity
upon his lips he left his home.

The snow and the stars were without, the
sound of the closing door was in his ears, and
he was alone. For one moment he stood
looking upon the dreary waste around, then

he let himself fall down upon the ground and
cried.

A long while passed before he raised his
head. There was a sound like singing in his
ears. He was confused with crying, and felt
almost bewildered ; but the intense coldness
of the night brought a reviving sense. He
dashed his fingers across his eyes, which were
still dim with tears, and sat down on the
ground, clasping his knees, upon the snow.

Where could he go now ? What must he
do?

Around him were the night and the waste,
and above him were the stars ; the trees were
near him, and from one window of the cottage
came a red gleam of light. Geoff looked up
towards that for an instant as if it were not in
his power to bear the sight, and then threw
himself on his face upon the ground in convulsive
tears again.
Indeed he had cause for crying, this lad of
seventeen, thus thrust out alone in shame and
guilt into the night, accused by his enemies,
deserted by all to whom he might have clung,
under the pressure of a doom that by this
time might have stained his young hands

with blood. So guilty, so deserted, so deserving
of penalties both from God and man,
the very agony of his sorrow might have
seemed the fairest hope for him.

If only It had been sorrow which had moved
him, or If a real penitence could have touched
him then ! Indeed, there was a horror as of
unknown guilt upon his conscience  a weight,
of which he dared not think, upon his mind.
But In the madness of his folly and perversity
he did his best to put repentant thoughts
away.

'jim was not dying  couldn't be dying 
he was so strong allays there was no need to
think o' that. And It was his own fault, too 
he had no call to say what he did  he might
a saved himself  * if I was to die tomorrow
I'd say no less than that.' " And then, though
he was thus already too hardened to weep for
his fault or for his ruin, or over the father and
brothers he had left within his home, he was
yet young enough to burst out crying again
like a child or baby at the thought of the
string of birds' eggs he had hung above his
bed.

Gone  lost  all the little possessions he

had valued once ; he might never return to
them or to his home again. And perhaps
even this grief  even this, since at least it was
sincere  bore witness to a nature not completely
lost as yet.

Only it was not in Geoff's disposition to goon
crying long. He sat up again on the
ground in a more determined way, cleared
his eyes with his fingers, and disposed himself
to think. There was time enough,
for he was not in the least afraid of being
pursued ; his clasp-knife was in his pocket ;
he was by a long way the swiftest runner in
the neighbourhood ; and he knew, moreover,
every path across the waste. One hasty
glance he cast on all sides of him to be sure
he was alone, and then he leant his elbows
upon his knees and thought.

The stars were above him, the lonely night
around, the trees looked black and strange
against the sky. There was coming on him
a curious feeling of intense loneliness, as if
the great black night were round him, enclosing
him, as if he must go forwards into a
darkness in which he would be alone. He
began to think what it would be like to be

alone for ever. Better that, perhaps, than to
have Jim's dying face  and he stopped himself
again.

He would 20 to Mrs. Rawson and ask for
shelter ; Mrs. Rawson would give it to him,
he knew. Or, if she would not. Wild Ben
would take him in ; for the last few weeks
Ben had taken '' such notice like " of him.
And he must see him, too, and ore him to
explain about the purse  that purse which
Ben had given to him to keep, and which
had dropped out of his pocket before Jim
said he stole. That miserable purse, which
had brought such ruin on him, he dared not
look at it, though it was in his pocket still.

With a long, weary sigh Geoff raised himself
slowly to his feet. He was cramped and
aching with cold, and a miserable fear was
straining at his heart, but the very pain of it
all seemed to give him strength to move ; he
was no longer utterly stunned as he had been
whilst he sat before the fire. If only he did
not feel so alone  alone ; but he must even
now make some effort for himself. The stars
would be a sufficient guide to him. He turned
his face in the direction of the town.

And then another thought seized him, a
wild and daring idea that checked his steps.
No, he must be going in another direction
first ; there was something that he must learn
before he could seek safety for himself. The
very desperateness of the idea made half its
charm for him. With renewed vigour he
grasped the stick that held the bundle on
his shoulder, and set off with hasty footsteps
on his journey through the night.

The waste land lay white and dim beneath
the stars, the frozen marshes made difficult
ground to tread. But Geoff had the instinct
that comes by long acquaintance ; he found
his way without stumbling amongst the sedges
and the pools. Once only he started with a
sudden terror that made his heart beat fast ;
the deserted windmill looked so black against
the sky. He left that behind him with rapid
footsteps, mocking himself inwardly for his
fear, and scrambled on through the marshland
towards the firmer ground. And now
before him there lay the village roofs, and
one or two gleams of light from sheltered

houses. He did not go on to these, but
scrambled through a hedge into the road.

And now it was not difficult to find the
way. He turned his back to the village, and
went straight onwards still. After a while he
clambered over a gate into a field, and having
waded through the snow to a hurdle at the
further end, he climbed over that again into
a lane. It was a rough, dark lane, with high
hedges on each side, and many ruts, but he
did not stay for that. He turned into another
lane, and after a time into another, which
was long and straight ; and now, straight
before him, as far as he could see, the roof of
a house made a black line against the sky.

He did not delay his steps, but his heart
beat faster now. Up the long lane he went
ivith rapid movements, his eyes fixed always
upon the black lines of the house. There
was no light even in little Will's bedroom ;
but, then, little Will might be in bed. What
should he do ? How should he rouse him ?
For he must be roused. There was difficulty,
danger . . . the fast beating of his heart
seemed to interrupt his breath, but his footsteps
still went on. And now he had reached

the wall of the yard that was behind the house.
And here, then, for one instant, he stood still.

He went back a little, climbed over a gate
into the field behind the yard, and then stood
still again beneath the wall. It was above
his head, but he grasped the coping stone
with his hands, pulled himself up by his
arms, and then dropped down easily into the
yard below. The little square enclosure lay
beneath the stars, beyond were the outlines
of house and stacks against the sky. Geoff
sat down in an empty wheelbarrow to think.

It had occurred to him that would climb
the wall at the further end, and from that
height tap upon little Will's window, which
was just above. But Will might not be
there, and he might only incur needless
danger by the act. He looked carefully
through the darkness at the house. There
was no blind down in the room of the little
boy ; and the window, as he could see, had
not been closed. That last sight decided
him at once. Will would not be sleeping
with his window open upon this winter's
night.

Perhaps he was downstairs with Jim,,

perhaps they were all with Jim ; the horrible
dread made his face burn in spite of the
bitter cold. Oh ! he must know more  he
would  yes, even if he had to go in and face
them all.

If he were to go to the back door now  to
steal there very quietly, and knock, and take
his chance. Will wouldn't call anyone, Liz
wouldn't, and if the old man came  Well,
after all, he could run quickly, and he had his
knife. Anything was better than sitting here
and thinking of the sitting-room, and the
wounded man.

He got up quickly and stole across the
yard. There was a heap of stones below the
wall at the further end ; it was not so hard to
climb. But there was a dread upon him that
made him noiseless now. Between the wall
and the back of the house was a narrow stone
passage, not two feet in width. He drew
himself to the top of the wall, let himself drop
by his hands, and fell silently on his feet upon
the stones below. The door was near him in
the darkness  he crept close to it  he could
hear footsteps in the passage just within.
With a fast-beating heart he put out his

hand, and knocked. The footsteps came
nearer, the handle softly turned, a little boy
stood upon the threshold of the door.

In another Instant Geoff had caught the
child up into his arms, had pressed a firm
hand over his mouth, and with his other hand
had closed the door. It was all done so
quickly the child had no time to cry, he lay
like a passive burden in his captor's arms.
Still holding him firmly, Geoff stole round
the house, crept beneath the stacks that rose
upon the left, and threw himself down beneath
them upon some littered hay. For the first
time then he allowed himself to relax his
hold ; but he kept his arms still round the
boy, whom he held upon his knees.

'' Will little Will don't you know me?"
he said.

Some instants passed before the panting
answer came ; the child had been frightened,
and had scarcely breath to speak.

'' It is you, Geoffie ; I thought it must be
you."

Geoff answered by soft kisses on the hair
of the little lad, and by taking the boy's
face gently between his hands. His small

acquaintance did not appear surprised ; Geoff
had been fond of the child, and had pleasant
ways with him. The Httle boy's breathing
had almost ceased to pant.

' I'm glad you have come to-night,
Geoffie," said little Will. He added, with a
small sob that caught his breath, ' We are in
trouble now  Jim is so bad.'

They sat silent, with the stars above the
stacks looking silently down on them. It
was the turn of the older lad to tremble now.
His voice came in a mutter that was scarcely
above his breath.

'' But he is better  he will gtt better."

There was no answer ; the child, perhaps,
had no certain reply to make ; he lay shivering
in his companion's arms.

'' Father says he'll kill you when he sees
you, Geoff," he said. ''He says he'll mark
your face as you marked Jim's for him."

There was silence from both, and they
shuddered with the cold.

'' But you don't want my face to be marked,
little Will ? " said Geoff.

His whisper was very low, but there was a
trembling anxiety in its tone.

'' Oh, no, Geoff," said Will, " you are allays
good to me." He added a childish sentence,
'' And you're so pretty, too."

Geoff laughed softly, and stroked and
Kissed his hair. In the midst of the anguish
of dread that possessed his heart this small
consolation of friendship had its weight; it
would have been a bitter punishment if
the child had shrunk from him. But the
innocent mind of the boy had no slightest
thought of that.

"You kiss warm, Geoff," he whispered,
' but it is very cold."

And, indeed, even Geoff was trembling,
although his face and lips were hot.

'' You shall go in directly, little Will ; I say
you shall. But tell me first, will they ask
you where you have been ? An' look at the
stars, Willy, they're strange and bright tonight."


'' They are bright," said the boy, with a
glance above the stacks. '' No, they donna
ask me ; they're a' ta'en up wi' Jim. Be you
going' away, Geoff? for fatherly sure an' hurt
you if you stay."

'i'm going' away, but not far," Geoff

replied, with some reluctance, as if he were
not sure how much he ought to tell; "an'
you mustn't tell no one as you've seen me tonight,
not even Liz  poor Liz. You'll remember
that ? But ril be sure to come again
tomorrow, and see you then ; an' you must
remember every bit I tell you now."

He waited here for an instant, and then
went on 

'' You must go to the school at Chasten'
the Sunday afternoon, as you allays do ; and
when school's ended you must get right by
yourself, and come to the stone-pit again the
church, and I'll be there. An' you mustn't
let no one see what you're about, and be sure
an' not tell father, whate'er you do, or he'll be
rare an' angered wi' you, an' whip you, too."

I donne as he will," said Will, in solemn
tones ; '' he's never beat me, not in all my
life. Day school master tell me he' d give
me the stick if I didn't learn my lesson for
the school."

'' Well, y' mustn't say naught, anyhow,"
insisted Geoff, without attending to this superfluous
information. " It's a poor lad that
canna hold his tongue. I won't ha' father

know that I've been here. And put up your
face now and gi' me a kiss, an' go  ye'll be
wanting to run in to the fire. An' tell me ye
don't hate  hate me" . he was almost in
tears.

But Will knelt at once and readily on his
older companion's knees, and threw round his
neck the clasp of his childish arms, and the
two lads kissed and clung together in the
darkness. It seemed as if Geoff could not
let him go at first.

And then, when he had released him, he
sprang up himself with a sudden movement
and caught him back, and lifted him in his
arms that he might hold him to his face,
though Will could feel in the darkness that
his face was covered with tears. It was so
strange  so unlike Geoff ; and then he had
put him down, thrust him away, in an instant
he was gone.

The little, bewildered boy crept round the
stacks ; but only darkness was round them,
though the stars shone above. The snow
lay everywhere ; it was bitterly cold, and
silent  very silent. The wolf track was
lost entirely in the night.

A DARKER NIGHT.

That night the firelight and lamplight were
ruddy in Farmer Gibson's sitting-room, and
the blue curtains that were drawn over the
window shut out all sight of the darkness
and snow without. But on the silent family
that was assembled there had risen an Impression
as of a darker night ; for they had
assembled to watch a struggling life, and to
our blind Ignorance there is no night so dark
as death.

The little sitting-room was a pleasant room,
and In its books and engravings showed something
of superior taste. It had also that look
of being lived in which does not always

VOL. I. E

belong to the parlours of its size. On the
round table was Mrs. Gibson's work-basket,
and a mat of coloured wools that had been
begun by Jim, and in the corner of the fireplace
was Mr. Gibson's chair. The horse-hair
sofa had pillows and coverings now, and thereupon
it lay the wounded man.

He lay unconscious, with interrupted, heavy
breathing, his eyes closed, his face scarcely
to be seen for bandages, and a wet cloth
swathed round his head to keep the fever off.
Even thus he had the appearance of a strong
young fellow ; the weight of his shoulders
pressed heavily down on the pillows where
they lay ; and the arm and hand that hung
languidly on the counterpane must have
possessed only that morning a true workman's
strength. From the moment in which
he had been brought into the house he had
not moved eye or hand. The relations,
of whose presence he was unconscious, had
arranged his bed ; and, leaving him covered
and supported, could only sit near his couch,
watching in silence the struggle that they
could not help.

The great clock ticked ; the silence was

heavy and oppressive ; the sound of the interrupted
breathing fell with painful distinctness
on the room. It is probable that those
who were present were longing to move or
speak ; but they where afraid of each other,
and had not strength of mind to stir.

Liz sat by the head of the sofa on the little
easy-chair that was always her favourite seat ;
and, leaning against the sofa, watched her
brother with anxious eyes. It is likely that
the attention of a stranger would have been
attracted first to her. A handsome girl, only
sixteen, but several years older in appearance,
with blue-black hair growing low upon her
forehead, and eyebrows and lashes of the same
darkness of hue ; the striking effect of her
colouring agreed well with the wilful, determined
expression of her mouth. Foresters
might have easily guessed at future troubles
from her appearance  there are some faces
full of promise of difficulties, and that possess
beholders always with an idea of storms  and
yet she was very simple-hearted, poor Liz, in
spite of that. At that moment the remembrance
of her fancy-work was in her mind,
but it seemed to her that such employment

would be wrong. She sat with her eyes fixed
upon her brother, as if she were counting
anxiously the breathing that she heard.

At a little distance Will was seated at the
table, more happy than the others, because
he was allowed an occupation ; and, in consideration
for his tender years, no one had
objected to the sight of his lessons for the
school. He sat bending over them, and
moving slightly his pretty eyebrows as he
learned, a little, fair creature, of ten years
old, too slight and delicate in appearance fora
boy. At his right elbow all his books were
piled, and in front of him was a flat, short-necked
inkstand, too heavy to be easily
overthrown. Nevertheless, in spite of his
innocent appearance, little Will felt himself
in trouble too. The rapid visit of Geoff had
been disturbing ; and though he was too
young to understand his brother's danger, he
was sensitive enough to be bewildered by the
grief that was round him in his home. Under
these circumstances, his poetry lesson was a
great relief ; and he had said a little prayer
at his bedside for Jim ('' An entry prayer,"
as Will told himself with pride), so that he

was quite confident he had done the best
he could. His mind wandered now and then
to some thoughts of bird's-nesting and the
spring ; but then, poor child, it would be
hard to blame him for that.

The clock ticked ; the silent moments
passed.

Mrs. Gibson was on a low wooden chair
apart from the others, leaning her elbow upon
the arm and her head upon her hand. Now
and then some quiet tears fell down her face,
and she put up a withered hand to them.
The attitude in which she sat had pushed
her cap from its place  the afternoon cap
with purple ribbons that she put on always
when her rougher work was done, and which
she had been wearing, seated quietly at her
knitting, when she first heard the footsteps
of the men who brought back her son. A
faded woman, worn and quiet, with timid,
nervous movements, as if she were always
afraid of being blamed, she retained few
traces of the long-past beauty of her youth.
Life, and work, and the strong wills and
tempers of her husband and her daughter,
had been too much for her; and yet in her

own fashion she could bear resentment too.
As she sat now, stunned and silent, under
the pressure of the grief that weighed on all,
she was telling herself that she did love Jim ;
Jim had been good to her.

Farmer Gibson, alone by the fire, with his
broad back leaning against his broad-backed
chair, and his pipe resting unfilled on the
mantelpiece above, might be supposed to
be unconscious of the implied judgment
of his wife. And yet he felt something  a
certain absence of sympathy  that prevented
him from so much as desiring to turn his face
to her. He sat looking in front of him, with
his thick grey eyebrows drawn more closely
together than usual, and a look of stern
suffering upon his face  a man of notable
presence, not to be quickly forgotten by those
who saw him once. A large man, with a
large head that yet seemed to promise more
of strength than brains, with a great, hard-set
figure, and thick, firmly-closing lips,
there was something formidable in the look
of him. ind since the day when he had
thrashed Painter Robson's 'prentice, years
ago, his neighbours had been more willing to

believe that there was danger in him than
before.

He sat now, looking before him, with that
stern appearance of suffering upon his face,
listening to the laboured breathing that
oppressed his heart like pain, whilst the
thoughts that worked in his mind were like a
wild joy of which he dared not speak. 'jim
lad Jim always so good to me," so moved
the tenderer feeling of the father's love ; but,
with the almost unbearable pain of that,
moved the vision of a writhing figure and
an ignominious death. For our fierce agony
cries out for relief, and wee lay hold on our
hatred for comfort if wee cannot on our
love.

Farmer Gibson had been strongly advised
by those who assisted him in the town during
a dreary hour to take out a warrant against
his son's assailant there, but he had rejected
the advice with all the obstinacy of an untrained
mind ; for in his heart there remained
a clinging belief that since no charge of
murder could be established until his son was
dead, it was necessary for him in consequence
to wait for that event. It should not be said

of him that he had brought a lesser charge ;
he was possessed with the notion that the
culprit might possibly escape ' wl' that."
This Ignorance of the farmer's saved Geoff, as
we have seen.

The clock In the passage ticked on, the
silent minutes passed, and still the heavy,
interrupted breathing was the only distinct
sound within the room. The stillness seemed
endless, oppressive, but no one dared to
move.

And then little Will closed his poetry book
with a prodigious sigh, and looked up in a
piteous manner at the rest. His eyelids were
heavy and burning with the desire to sleep, a
wish that comes naturally uppermost in a
childish mind.

'' I want to go to bed ; please will you let
me go to bed?" said Will; and, disturbed
from their meditations or their silence the
rest looked round on him.

' You wish to go an' sleep," said his
mother, in a low, fierce whisper, '' wi' your
brother so 111 as this ? "

'' I want to go to bed," repeated Will, with
a little wail.

He was very sensitive to reproof, but
fatigue was too much for him. That half-crying
tone from the family pet produced
some effect at once.

** Come, don't cry, Willy," whispered Liz,
in a caressing manner, as she got up from
her place; 'you needn't be frightened, I'll
make things nice for you. You shan't leave
this room, and then mother won't be vexed ;
I'll get you a mattress and some shawls, and
make a beautiful bed wi' them."

She left the room and returned as she had
said, but with quiet movements that did not
disturb the rest ; and arranged the mattress ina
corner of the room, whilst Will sat watching
her with Interested eyes. He was to
have two pillows, and his sister's beautiful
plaid shawl of blue and green, and he had
never slept out of his own bed before. The
sense of adventure and wonder was rising in
his mind.

Ought I to say my prayers, mother," he
whispered, timidly, '' when I do not undress
? "

His mother made no reply ; but Liz, who
had sat down by the table, held out her arms

to him, and he knelt down and hid his face
upon her lap. There was something of a
gentler silence on the rest of them as he
knelt ; the farmer with his consciousness of
fierce revenge, the silent mother, and the
poor girl, distracted by the remembrance of
her lover, had had no thought of prayer.

Then Will rose, and Liz took off his little
jacket tenderly, and unlaced his boots, and
stroked his soft hair before she laid him down
and wrapped him up in her shawl. It was all
very wonderful to Will.

Yes, it was strange to lie there with his
tired head resting on soft pillows and look at
the light on the walls, and the others, and the
motionless form of Jim across the room ; and
then there were moments when he felt inclined
to sleep, and his eyes would shut, and he could
see water rushing amongst trees  dark pine
trees  as he had seen in a book.

The soft breathing of the sleeping child
made another sound in the room. But no
rest came to the other watchers as they sat,
with the lamp burning dimly, enclosed in that
darker night.

No, there was no change. It seemed as if

no change would come. What endless hours
had passed since those sudden, startling
tidings which had called the farmer from
out of the streets into the carpenter's shop
to see Jim lying there ! And now by the
couch of his son the visions came and went.
The dimness of the room hid from the other
watchers the strange light In his eyes. Yes,
he could see himself giving evidence, proving
everything ; he could see the trembling culprit
at the bar. . It scarcely occurred to
him to remember that before he could realize
this vision his own son must have died.

And Liz  poor Liz  as she sat bending
forwards had her own dreaming too. Her
mind, released from the immediate pressure
of anxiety for her brother, kept slipping away,
against its will, to old thoughts and hopes
again. In her half-sleeping state it was so
natural to dream. Yes, she would be in
white  she ' allays" liked brides in white;
it wouldn't matter If people said she was only
a village-girl. And he  he was so handsome ;
there wasn't a lad in all the village that could
come up to him. She thought of him by her
side, smiling as he looked down on her. And

then that dream of the church, and the
people, and his face, suddenly passed away,
and she saw again the dark room, the dying
lamp, and her brother's altered face.

No, it was no good, it was all over ; and
yet it would have been pleasant. Her head
bent lower, and the dream returned again.

A sudden movement  a faint stirring of
the still figure on the couch  in another instant
father, mother, sister were all on their
feet at once.

'mother."

It was his voice  he had spoken, though
in the faintest whisper. They all held their
breath to hear ; they stood trembling together.
The dying light rose and fell.

'' Mother, where am I ? What's been tome?
I am so thirsty."

He could speak, understand, he was becoming
like himself. A sudden agony came on
Liz ; and, as the mother bent over her firstborn,
she rushed noiselessly from the room.
She fled upstairs with rapid, quiet movements,
and, closing her own door, threw herself
on her knees, and let the passionate tears
burst forth. Her eyes were hot with weeping

when she raised herself at last. She
went to her window, over which blind and
curtain had not been drawn that night. The
solemn mystery of the dawn was spreading
across the earth ; the sky had the first faint
flush of redness ; a dim white mist had
gathered upon the Fens, white as the bridal
veil of which her thoughts had dreamed.
Oh, surely Jim was better ! They might be
happy now.

WILL AT THE SUNDAY SCHOOL.

It was a beautiful Sunday afternoon that day.
The frost still lingered, and the air was keen
and clear, whilst the blue sky was bright
above the stacks, and all the ground sparkled
and shone beneath. When Farmer Gibson's
family had assembled at breakfast that morning
 all but one  they had been tired and
silent, with the look of those on whom a great
weight has been, but the sense of bright
weather mingled with their relief, and had
effect on all. It had been a strange, idle, and
anxious morning all the same.

Only now the feeling of familiar employment
was beginning to wake again. The

doctor had been ; the Sunday damer had to
be cleared away ; Jim was sleeping quietly ;
the farmer had lit his pipe ; and now little
Will had come to Liz to be prepared for the
Sunday School for regularly every Sunday
he was sent to that, though neither he nor
the others often went to church.

It was a lonely place, Rose Cottage, where
Mr. Gibson lived, reached only by heavy lanes,
and with a wide outlook on the Fens. It was
difficult even to get to it in times like this
when the lanes were deep with snow ; but in
the early spring it was not without its charm.
The wide view then showed the green hedges,
powdered here and there where the thorn-bushes
were white with may ; the bare commons,
separated by low, yellow lines of gorse ;
and the wide, enclosing blue and purple distance,
whose misty colour rested against the
sky. Then the great ditches, in which children
fell sometimes, would be bright with
golden flowers ; and Will would come home
with his hands full of marsh-marigolds, which
he called " butter-bumps."

Rose Cottage itself was a bare, straight
place enough, with a stiff garden in front, a

window on each side of the door, and without
any vestige of a rose-tree on the house to
give any meaning to its name ; but then,
after all, there were roses In the garden In the
summer-time, and It had always been called
by that name before it was enlarged into a
farmhouse, as all the village knew. It belonged
to Hanorth parish, where the Wolf's
Den also was, though Crasten village was a
mile nearer If you went to It across the fields.

And now Will stood In his sister's bedroom
 come to get ready for the Sunday
School  standing Impatiently whilst she
smoothed his hair and arranged the little tie
of red, which he was only allowed to wear
when Sunday came. He was very restless,
and would not let her spend much time over
him ; she thought he was longing for the open
air and for his Sunday walk, but on his mind
were the stone-pit and Geoff.

Yet he looked a dainty morsel of a boy
when he set out at last, very neat In his little
Sunday suit, and with a small switch In his
hand, which made him feel like a man. There
were no boys who lived near him, so he had
to walk alone. If there had been he would

have been in no need of company, for everyone,
old or young, made a favourite of little
Will.

There are a few lives that seem born to
affection in this manner from all they meet,
and that can receive it as naturally as it is
bestowed. Will had not felt what it was to
have hard times outside or in his home. His
father and mother said they had 'never
known such a boy." The old clergyman
patted him on the head whenever they
chanced to meet. His schoolfellows feathered
round him as soon as they saw him come.
He looked so fair always, so delicate and
clean, his eyebrows could express such pretty
perplexity, and he was always so childish-hearted
and ready to oblige. If you had returned
home after an absence of several
weeks, and Will had known you at all, it
would not have come more natural to your
dog to wag his tail than it would to Will for
his face to beam with smiles.

Yet, in spite of these things, it must not
be supposed that Will was a perfect boy ;
or that he was like those good children of
whom we read in books, whose relations

VOL. I. F

write biographies of them after they are dead.
He was accustomed to do as he Heed, and
not to trouble himself ; his schoolmaster
found him very idle, and much disposed to
play, and Will had before now, after many
offences, been more than once produced to
view mounted on a form, his face burnt with
blushes, and his legs exposed as an easy prey
to the pinches of his neighbours. No harder
penalty had been exacted yet ; no one, at
home or out of it, had dared to beat little
Will.

So much we have ventured to say of the
one pet of the wolf, for even Geoff Haldan
had made Will his friend. A dangerous companion
that, poor child, for you !  but withall
his childish heart did Will believe in Geoff.
And now one thought only was in his mind
as he made his way through the snow  he
must get to the stone-pit somehow and see
his friend.

It was hard work toiling to Crasten village,
but he could see its smoke at last, and the
tower of the church, and the dark trees of
the Hall. He would have liked to go to the
stone-pit and find out Geoff at once, but he

knew that he was already almost too late for
school. The vicarage was some way from
the village ; he made his way to that, avoiding
the village streets, with their lounging
boys and men. It was a still afternoon, like
evening even then ; the sky was grey and
heavy, as if more snow would fall.

And now he had reached the little church
and churchyard, where the snow of yesterday
was lying white upon the graves. And on
one side were the dark evergreens of the
vicarage, with the old house in the midst,
and red firelight through the window of the
sitting-room, where the boys used to meet.
And Will began to think again of the stone-pit
and Geoff. Only he must go inside ;
they gave cake when school was done ; and
he was cold and tired also, and could not resist
the fire.

Once in the little sitting-room there was
no lack of warmth, of noise and fun either,
and a sense of riotous glee. A dozen boys
were there already, of many ages and sizes,
an't in all sorts of clothes ; some very neatly
turned out in their Sunday best ; some of
a rough and patched appearance ; and one ina

torn jacket, which he concealed as well ashe
could by sitting in a dark corner, and remaining
there, in a sulky condition because
some of the others had made remarks on
him. The others were in high spirits, and
soon laid hold of Will, shook him, tumbled
his hair, and stole away his books. Will did
not mind, he was laughing with the rest ;
but it was curious how much he was disturbed
all the time by the constant thought
of Geoff ; he looked now and then at the
window, as if he could see him there.

'' How's your brother, little Will?" called
out the oldest boy.

*' He's better, thank you. Doctor says he
may get well."

'' Ah ! Geoff's a bad 'un," said the boy, ina
grave and thoughtful tone.

Will looked up suddenly, as if he wished
to speak, but even his instinct warned him
not to defend his friend. He would not have
minded the others if he had thought it best
to speak ; the delicate child had a courage
of his own.

.Oh ! how late school was to-day. When
would he get to Geoff ?

The other boys had also begun to find it
late, and had their own ready devices, of
course, for absorbing time ; they placed the
chairs in a line, and prepared to jump over
them. But at this moment the door at the
end of the passage was heard to close. In
an instant the chairs were in their places,
and each boy was on his seat, with his Bible
all ready on his knee for the reading to begin.
A solemn class they looked, all prepared for
Sunday School.

The door opened, and Miss Selina entered,
but she was wrapped in furs. Behind her
followed a young woman, quietly dressed in
black. There was no basket of hymn-books
to be seen, nor was there one of cake. Miss
Selina advanced a few steps into the room,
her fair face flushing a little with shyness,
and then she spoke. Will was alarmed to
see that she was in her walking things. Oh!
would he never be able to get to Geoff today
?

Let it be here explained that this class at
the vicarage, which was called a Sunday
School by way of compliment, had been only
started a few weeks before, and that Miss

Selina Horley used to come over from
Hanorth Hall to take it for the wife of the
vicar, who was ill. The young lady was shy
and pretty, and dressed always in silk and
velvet, which has an effect on boys. She
always brought a story-book too, and closed
the class with cake ; and the rough boys
were enchanted, and had been good with
her. She felt inwardly proud of herself for
the way she managed them ; it had not
occurred to her that she had hardly yet been
called upon to exercise any management at all.

And now she stood before them, rather
more shyly than usual, her face fair and soft
within the dark-blue buildings of her bonnet
(for bonnets at that time, it must be said,
were very round and close). And behind
her, like a shadow that has no power to come
forwards to the light, there stood the strange
young woman who was dressed in black.

' I wanted to say, boys,' said Miss Selina,
very softly, but looking on them with more
interest than usual, for the scene of the night
before was still within her mind, ' I wanted
to tell you that I cannot take the class today.
Miss Harte has kindly promised to

teach you all for me. Only there was one
question I said I would ask for her before I
went."

She waited again, with that soft light in
her eyes. '' Can any of you tell Miss Harte
where Geoff Haldan is to-day ? I saw him
yesterday, but I do not know where he
lives."

There was a pause, for the lads were not
inclined to speak. No doubt they could have
said a great deal if they had liked, but a shy
unreadiness is common enough with boys.

'' He lives on the waste, most-wise," said
the oldest, reluctantly, ' but he's not at home
to-day."

''Oh! not at home?" murmured Miss
Selina, '' but I suppose he will soon return?"

*' Very like," said the boy, still reluctantly,
and as if there was something behind his
words. They all looked at Will as if he ought
to speak ; but the child had no desire to tell
the story of his brother and his friend. Only
he fixed his eyes with some interest on the
stranger who wanted to hear of Geoff. She
was a young woman, she had a strange face ;
that was all he knew as yet.

In another instant he pulled his hair with
the other boys as Miss Selina rustled out,
confident that her good boys were going to
read the Bible quietly, and quite forgetting
that she had brought no cake that day. Alas
for those who forget that the goodness of boyhood
is an evanescent thing ! For ominous
murmurs were beginning to rise before the last
fold of dark-blue silk had left the room : 'that
one's only the new dressmaker ; we needn't
care for she I" Will had been impressed by
the question about Geoff, but he was becoming
alive for fun.

And now the young woman stood and surveyed
them all. She wore no bonnet, and
her hair was soft and pretty, but the delicate
features were irregular underneath it, and her
thin hands had been made rough with work.
Something of power in the look of her pale
grey eyes held the rough boys still for an instant
as she looked. But she was too evidently not
used to her position, and a nervous colour
flushed into her face as soon as she began to
speak.

'' Miss Horley told me  she asked me to hear
you say your Catechism' she faltered, with

visible efforts to overcome the timidity she
felt. '' Will you not try and say it to me now? "
A rude titter answered her from all the assembled
boys. The dressmaker's face flushed
with what seemed like anger. Without saying
a word, she beckoned to the biggest boy
to stand by her. He was a great, red-haired,
dull-looking fellow ; she addressed him with
that first question of the Catechism that is
familiar to us all 

What is your name ? ''

*A' donne."

'' You do know."

The sudden, sharp decision of her voice
quelled the boys to an instant's silence as she
spoke, and in that instant the boy who stood
next to Weill put a toy trumpet into his hand
without a word. Will was all alive with a
sense of play, as we have said, and it occurred
to him that if the school was broken up he
could go at once to Geoff. Without staying
to think further he put it to his mouth and
blew.

A complete silence followed ; the boys themselves
had become overawed at this, and Will
began to tremble immediately over the ill-advised

act that he had done. The young
dressmaker stood before them quivering with
indignation through all her slight figure, and
yet struggling for self-control. There was a
strange timbre in her voice that those who
heard did not forget.

' We have come here to speak about God 
to read the Bible  not to play. Is there any
boy out of all of you who will help me now'*

' I'll help ye, missis," called out the oldest
lad, the boy who had spoken about Geoff, a
dark, good-looking fellow, who was the most
steady there. The young teacher turned her
eyes on him, and then she spoke.

' Will you please tell the boy who blew the
trumpet," she said, very gently, '' that he must
leave the room." The ranks of boys opened
at these words and disclosed little Will, blushing,
trembling, almost inclined to cry. No
time was allowed him in which to make
amends, for stalwart Robin advanced on him
at once, put a hand under each arm, and lifted
him up, then put him outside the room and
closed the door. He had gained what he
wanted and could go now to Geoff.

Instead of that, however, he walked up and

down outside In shame and distress, and crying
softly to himself. For it was very certain
he had been a naughty boy, and not even the
prospect of seeing his hero could console
him for that. If the little scene had induced
him to consider whether the influence of his
hero was indeed the best for him, if it had led
him to mistrust these secret meetings as a
disobedience to his father and a deceit
towards his home, he might have spared
himself, poor child, more lasting disgrace
and pain. But in the innocence of his
heart he had no thought of that, and his
wild companion took no care for him.

An hour later two lads climbed up together
from the steep and snowy stone-pit, and
separated from each other in the evening
gloom ; the younger turning to the road that
led to the rough lanes and to the Fens ; the
elder striking across the dark fields towards
the town, with the fearless instinct of one
who is quick to find his way. The weight
of remorse and dread had been loosened at
his heart ; he could seek his ill-favoured
lodging-house without so much anguish now.
Mrs. Rawson, listening through the night,

heard the low tap at her door, and, opening
it cautiously as she had done on the night
before, received the wanderer into her house
again.

The doctor's carriage stopped once more
at Rose Cottage before that Sunday night had
passed, but his visit did but confirm the hopes
that his morning's call had raised. The whole
family stood at the door when he went to
see him go, and watched the two lights disappearing
in the night. Then they went in
again, and closed and barred the door, and
the stars shone out over Rose Cottage and the
snow.

IN WAIT FOR THE WOLF.

The snow melted away, and the warmer
weather came, but Geoff Haldan did not return
to his home on the waste again. From
the night on which he had fled in the darkness
there came no news of him.

But, though there was no news, both in
Hanorth and in Crasten there was much to be
said of him, in spite of that ; the village gossips
had a ceaseless topic now. His absence
his quarrel with Jim Gibson  the doubts
about his birth  the many tricks he had committed,
or was said to have committed  there
could be endless comments upon such things
as these. The wild lad's reputation for evil

became considerably enhanced, and loungers
at street corners took their pipes out of their
mouths to say '' he wasn't born to good 
they didn't think much to him."

And meanwhile the skies above Rose
Cottage had become blue and soft, and Jim
Gibson was advancing more steadily to
recovery than had been hoped. And yet his
recovery was, notwithstanding, very slow ; he
had been too severely and variously injured
for the strength of his constitution to be able
to assert itself at once. When he had partially
recovered from the deep wound on his
head it was feared that he had received some
internal injury from his fall that could not be
cured, and when this dread also was dispelled
there remained on him a weakness from which
he did not rally soon. He lay in bed, eating,
sleeping, paying little attention to anything
that passed ; and it had become quite certain
now that his face would be always scarred.

Alas for that fact! If it had not been for
that it is possible that Mr. Gibson's wrath
might have smouldered itself out at last ; for
he was not insensible to pleasure at his son's
reviving strength, and that feeling of a father's

tenderness might have overcome his rage.
In vain ! whilst there remained on him the
bitterness that every sight of his son produced
 that sight of the altered face which
would be always altered now. Jim had been
a personable young workman, with a strong
and healthy look ; the livid mark which
stretched from his temple to his lip had made
a difference that would last his life ; and
Farmer Gibson swore inwardly and outwardly
that he would mark Geoff for that.

It may seem strange, then, that he took
no measures to get his enemy arrested, since
he was certainly within the compass of the
law. And if he had possessed any notion
of the wild resolve of the lad to kill himself
rather than be put into prison, he would no
doubt have caused a warrant to be taken out
at once. But Farmer Gibson fell into error,
as so many of us do, for want of a due appreciation
of the humanity of those to whom weare
opposed. '' Why, he'd heard about prison
lately, that he had ! a place where they feed
men up as if they was pigs ; that 'ud just do
for hin. Disgrace ! it wasn't likely that such
as him 'ud feel disgrace ; he'd be glad to be

boarded for nothing, that he would." If his
son had died, and there had been any chance
of fastening a charge of murder upon Geoff,
he would have attempted that, because it did
seem possible to him that Geoff might not
like being hanged.

And so Farmer Gibson lived from day today,
brooding over his anger, sleeping with it,
eating with it, feeling it always present as he
spoke casual words to his acquaintances, or
gave orders and directions to his men. In
those days he smoked more, and drank more,
and lived with worse friends than he had been
used to do, lashing up his own anger perpetually
as the fierce wind stirs the waves. It
is a lowering, maddening atmosphere, such a
continual state of wrath  it is in this manner
that we who seek for vengeance on our neighbours
draw down a surer vengeance on ourselves.


However, the farmer was successful enough
in one way, it must be owned, for the sympathy
of the village was undoubtedly stirred
for him ; and those who had grievances of
their own against the Haldan family found
this a convenient time to remember them

again. At the street corners, and in that
room of the pubic-house where the village
club was held men with pipes in their hands
agreed that they would ' stand those pests no
more." Jim Gibson had been known as a
good and steady workman, and it was natural
that pity should be felt for him ; though there
were a few who put their tongues in their
cheeks and slily winked aside when the father
stated that if there was a lad in the village who
had not known a public-house, that lad was his
son.

Poor Jim, lying alone and prostrate in his
little room upstairs, with a dreamy sense of
the past mingling always with his pain as he
lay and watched wearily the white curtains of
the window or the changes of the sunlight
upon the pattern of the wall, would have been
honest enough perhaps to have disclaimed the
merit that his father claimed for him ; for
there had been episodes in his life of which his
father was ignorant  as he knew.

It was perhaps a remembrance of these
things that had drawn him somewhat towards
the wildest lad of the parish, an associate
whom he might not otherwise have been so

VOL. I. G

much disposed to own ; for virtuous Jim could
not but be conscious that he had known his
times of peril too. And such a remembrance
again arose in his heart as he lay dreamily
and watched the sunlight on the wall ; and he
thought also, as he had not done since years
had sone, of the hand that had stretched
itself out to help him in his need.

Let us pause for a moment, and think of
that story ourselves. To Jim, as to Geoff,
had come in his sorest peril the touch of a
woman's hand, and in this instance the hand
had sufficed to save.

The story is very simple, and can be briefly
told.

On one hot summer's evening, nearly seven
years before, Jim Gibson had turned into the
public-house, as he did often then. He had
met a few associates on the way who had
asked him to come in there with them, and he
had complied without hesitation, as he was
used to do. He was only sixteen at that
time, but broad and strong, and a good workman
even then. His father and his mother
believed in him so implicitly that they took
no notice of his coming in or going out ; he

had been brought up with a great deal of
severity, and was proud of being able to prove
himself a man.

He was proving that amongst his companions
in the public-house that evening, and
was hot and flushed with drink, and joining
loudly in the laughter of the others, when
an unexpected message was brought in 
there was a young woman outside who
wished to speak to him.

Now Jim knew no young woman, not being
yet quite old enough for that, and so he
became at once surprised and curious ; and
was flattered, moreover, by the obvious excitement
of the rest. He got up immediately,
therefore, and went out to see. Outside were
some boys and men, smoking and talking
beneath the light that was above the door ;
and at a little distance from them a young
girl stood in the street. She came up to him
as he stepped from the door, and laid her
trembling fingers on his arm.

'' I want to ask you, Jim Gibson, if you will
come to your home with me."

Jim knew her at once  the shabbily-dressed
girl, with an old grey shawl drawn round her,

and an old black hat above  a thin, silent
hardly-treated milliner's 'prentice who lived
close to his home, and with whom he had
scarcely ever exchanged a word before. She
stood now, with her fingers on his arm, looking
up at him whilst the men and boys drew round
them ; and from the very vibration which
that pressure caused he could feel what a
terrible effort she had made. In an instant
he understood how it had been. She had
been coming up the street to bring some
fresh needlework to her miserable home, and
had heard the men and boys outside saying
some words of him. He had always known
her absorbed and wretched, as if overwhelmed
by the hardships of her lot. From out of that
contemplation she had roused herself to make
an attempt to save.

'well, my dear," said one of the men
with a laugh, '' are ye going to the public
too?"

She paid no attention ; she only continued
to look up into the young man's face. But
her slight grasp had tightened upon his arm,
and he knew that without an effort he could
not shake it off.

'' Will you come to your home ? " she said,
and the trembling words ended off in sobs 
a sobbing breathing that found for echo the
laughter of the boys. Something there was
that stirred within Jim as he heard and saw
them laugh. He was confused, excited, half
tipsy, with a young man's false sense of
shame, but he had some real manhood within
him, and she had done this thing for him.

Don't ye cry, Lizzie," he said ; '' I'll come
to my home wi' ye."

There was an outburst and an uproar from
the rest, he felt that as he felt her clutch upon
his arm. He was pressing through them,
pushing, almost struggling  he did not quite
know what passed  only that the noise and
confusion were left behind at last, and that
he was walking up the village street with
her.

They went side by side in silence ; neither
spoke. Her fingers scarcely seemed to
touch his arm; she appeared to be satisfied,
and to need no more. And he  he dared not
look at her for another reason that was burning
in his heart ; he felt now in the silence
the reproach that there had been in her eyes.

Self-condemned  stained by the shame he
had chosen  he dared not even turn his head
to her. They went, without speaking, up the
village street, up to the garden gate of the
house that was then his home, and there they
stopped.

It was a hot summer's night ; the air was
heavy with the sweetness of the roses that
were below them ; they stood there by the
gate. And still he dared not speak, dared not
turn his head to her. She let her hand drop
from his arm ; she remained silent for an
instant, standing by him, and then she
spoke 

' I am going away with Miss Morton
early tomorrow morning. I shall not come
back again."

He knew from the sound of her voice that
she had raised her face ; he turned his slow,
awkward J confused gaze to her. And then
through the summer twilight he felt her eyes
burn on him.

* You will not go and drink at the public-house
again ? "

Her whisper was breathless, vibrating  the
tone of one who seizes a last hope or chance.

He answered softly, slowly, and as if against
his will 

'' Noa, I will not."

'' You will try to serve God ? "

Again there was a pause  a longer one this
time.

'' I will try if I can."

Her eyes still looked at him, but as their
glance met his own it melted into a tenderness
that she could not restrain; and, looking
down into them, he understood for the first
time what feeling it was that had given her
strength to do so much for him. For one
instant he looked down on her, silent and
fascinated, and then she turned away.

The next morning, when he came downstairs
after his heavy sleep, he heard that she was
gone. And from the date of that summer
evening, nearly seven years before, he had
seen her no more. But from the date of that
summer evening Jim Gibson had become an
altered man, and even those who would have
been least disposed to blame him previously
could not but see and own a change in him.
A steady lad, a good and honest workman,
there was no part of his life now that he was

ashamed to own. Do we say that such an
alteration is impossible after a scene so slight?
Life is full of such changes. We must keep
our eyes shut indeed if we will not own to
that.

And now, lying sick and helpless on his
bed, the scene of that summer evening often
returned to Jim  the girl was standing in the
evening by his side, and the red roses were
sweet in the garden underneath  it was a longtime
since he had thought so much of her.
Once, just before his illness, he had heard of
her ; he had been told that she had returned
as a dressmaker to the parish next his own ; and
once, after he had been ill, he had heard Will
say something of a strange teacher, a dressmaker,
who had come once to '' learn " the
boys ; but he had asked no question on either
occasion, though he had heard.

The memory of the summer evening, of
the garden, was strong within his mind. He
was' not sure that he wished to see the girl
again ; and yet throughout those years he
had driven to the remembrance of her a
strong, devoted feeling  the honour, at least,
that a man pays to the woman who has saved

him, if not that other devotion that is constrained
from a man by the woman whom he
loves.

And now, in his feverish pain, as he lay
upon his bed, that one dream moved continually
before his mind. They stood at the
garden gate ; he could feel her eyes on him ;
the roses were sweet in the evening . . .

And so Jim lay in his room with his visions
for company, whilst his father in the Hanorth
public-house was indulging fiercer dreams ;
for the words of Mr. Gibson against the
Haldane were taking effect at last, and it
was beginning to be generally believed that
*' summit " must be done.

Accordingly, on one starlit evening, a company
of people, headed by the village blacksmith,
found their way across the waste to
the Wolf's Den, determined to discover if
Geoff Haldan had returned. They found old
Jem alone, sitting and smoking in solitude
before a smouldering fire, with some gin in a
broken bottle upon the ground. He received
them peaceably  possibly on account of their
numbers  but they could get no news from
him.

No, he knew not o' Geoff ; had never
heard o' the lad sin' he had left, and didn't
want to, neither. Geoff might look after his
own skin an' bones himself. No, an' he
wasn't like to come back 'ere agen, he could
tell 'em that. If they wanted to wallop the
lad they must look elsewhere for him.

Some of the men who were present insisted
incredulously upon going into the only
other room, but they found nothing but
untidiness and desolation there. Old Jem
made no effort to hinder them ; he sat by the
fire and smoked. There was nothing remaining,
therefore, to be done but to depart, after
the blacksmith had delivered the caution
previously agreed upon to the old man who
was master of the house. They hadn't no
wish to be hard on him, not they ; but it
wasn't for him to harbour such a lad-o'-tricks
as Geoff. If they ever heard as Geoff was
in the Den they'd come to it by night and
burn him out.

The eyes of the oldest of the wolves
flashed somewhat as he heard this statement
of their views, but he continued to smoke,
and said no word to them. They left the

old man with his pipe and with his gin bottle,
a weird object in the light of the smouldering
fire, and found their way across the waste
beneath the stars.

After that nothing could be more natural
than that they should turn into the village
public-house to drink themselves into warmth,
and to meet Farmer Gibson too. For they
had not told the farmer of their errand,
rather dreading his unrestrained fierceness, to
tell the truth. It was an easy matter to exalt
their prowess now, and then each in turn made
a promise that if ever he met with Geoff 

Each one but one. They had been sitting
in their wooden armchairs with their pipes in
their mouths, and their chairs drawn round
the hearth. The blazing fire shone on their
excited faces, and on the jugs of ale. One
there was, lately come in, who had not spoken
yet. He had been sitting apart from the
rest, but he drew near them now. He was a
rough, red-bearded man, dressed in corduroys,
and with a furrowed, careworn face  the
farmer whose nectarines Geoff had stolen
years before.

'* Look-ee, masters," he said, '' I'll tell

some sense to ye, for ye talk an' talk till ye
almost lose yer wits. Ye'll ne'er get the
wickedness out o' a lad by flogging' him ; ye
may flog for ever, but ye'll never compass
that. Why, I spoke to his father about that
boy years agone ; and his father, he tore the
clothes fro' his shoulders, and scared 'em wi'
a rope  I can tell 'ee the lad knows what it
is to be chastised enow. An' it does na' seem
to 'a done him a mort o' good. Now, if I'd
my own way wi' him, this is the thing I'd do.
I'd say to him, ' Looked here, m' lad, ye don't
seem to get on very well just here. We've
been a bad boy ; we don't like the looks of
ye. Get ye off to America, or somewhere ;
make a fresh start, ye'll mebbe do better
there.' That donna mend your son's face,
Farmer Gibson, ye'll tell me that ! But
what's the good o' spoiling' another lad 'cause
one is hurt ? Ye'll mend no evil in all the
world wi' that. And now I'm dry wi' speaking',
an' I'll thank ye for the beer."

But Farmer Gibson passed him the beer
without a word, and the rest were silent too.
They had heard the man out, and let him
say his say. But in what council, public or

private, that is held within the world do the
words of mercy and tolerance easily prevail ?
As Mr. Gibson found his way through the
lanes that night with staggering steps, he
retained a fierce impression that he was being
hindered, but that he would have his revenge ;
and he had the satisfaction of knowing that
the rest agreed with him.

And yet there was a flickering memory
that now and then found a place in his heart
whilst he sat with the others in the public-house,
or lay still at night upon his bed  the
memory of the stormy day when he came
back to his home in the village, and saw in
the bed of his little Jim a lovely, dark-eyed
child looking up towards him with its smiling
eyes, whilst Jim slept by its side. The little,
outcast creature ! He had reproved his wife
for taking such care of it, and yet he had felt
himself drawn towards the baby all the same.
But he would have no mercy upon that outcast
now !

The hedges in the Fens were gaining a
look of life, that warmer look that comes
before the buds have opened. The lanes
were no longer so impassable, the light spring

winds were warm. There were prospects of
a good season, since the winter had been
short, and in farming work there was a great
deal to be done. But as Farmer Gibson
walked with steady steps about his fields, or
rode on his heavy horse on Fridays to the
nearest market town, the one thought of his
revenge remained ever in his mind ; and
now and then he heard rumours that Geoff
Haldan had been seen, but day succeeded day
and there came no certain news of him. And
then one morning unlooked-for tidings came.

'' Why, farmer, I seen Geoff Haldan only
yestreen," said a rough seller of early flowers
in the market-place. *' He wur standing' i' the
field by Hanorth stone-pit, an' basin' a crack
wi' that little Will o' yours. A shepherd as
wur' wi' me he did tell me as he'd seen the
two lads there often enough afore."

Farmer Gibson stood still for an instant as
if he were turned to stone. It was early in
the morning, and it was market-day ; but
without another word or look, and without
staying to attend to the business that had
brought him to the town, he turned his
horse's head and rode back to his home.

WILL HAS HARD TIMES AT HOME.

All was quiet there.

The bright sunlight was shining above
Rose Cottage, the front-door was open, and
there were sounds of stirring feet ; but
nothing was noisy or out of character with
the sweet peacefulness of the spring morning,
or the brightness of the Httle fleecy clouds in
the blue sky above. Jim had eaten a good
breakfast, and was dozing pleasantly, with his
blind drawn up so that when he woke he might
see the sky ; Mrs. Gibson and Liz were stirring
about their employments in the busy
morning hours ; the farm girls and boys had
their work to do ; and Will released by

the illness of his master and a Httle cold of
his own, was happy in an unexpected holiday
and in a picture-book. No, there was nothing
out of character with the spring brightness
and peacefulness, as I have said  nothing,
except the heavy tramp and contracted brow
of the master, as he flung his bridle to a
farm-boy and strode into the house.

'will!"

Never before since the birth of the family
pet had his name been pronounced in the
household in such a tone as that. It did not
wake Jim from his slumber as he dozed on
upstairs, but it startled Mrs. Gibson and Liz
in kitchen and dairy, and they came out to
hear. At the same moment little Will appeared
obediently at the parlour door, with
his finger keeping his place in the picture-book
that he held in his hand. Mr. Gibson
experienced a sense of choking relief at the
sight of him ; it had haunted his mind that
the boy would be at school.

'' Put that thing down at once," he said,
'rand come in here wi' me."

He closed the parlour door upon himself
and his wife and daughter, who followed close

after him. Will had put down his picture-book
upon the nearest chair ; he stood before
his father, pale, trembling, not in the least
understanding what was meant.

'' Come here an' tell me," said Mr. Gibson,
*' that this thing isn't true, that it's not a sono'
mine that goes an' harbours intimacy wi' a
lad that did his best to kill our Jim. Come
an' tell me that ye don't speak to Geoff 
that ye haven't seen him  that them tells lies
as says that ye spoke wi' him last night."

There was a silence that was broken
only by the panting breathing of the little,
frightened lad. Will understood now, and
entirely, but did not speak.

'' I won't have that obstinacy an' that
sulkiness," cried Mr. Gibson ; 'eye can't put
me off wi' that. Did ye go an' speak wi' Geoff
last night? Ye tell me that."

'eyes, father," murmured the Httle boy,
softly, raising his fair head, whilst his eyes
filled with tears. The next instant he hung
his head in terror as he met his father's
eyes.

An' ye're going' to meet him again tonight,
ye are ! " thundered Mr. Gibson, now

VOL. I. H

almost beside himself with wrath. 'ran' I
have lived to call ye a son o' mine ! "

He stopped, choked and breathless, so
that he could not speak. The women were
silent from astonishment and fright, and little
Will's panting terror turned itself now to
sobs. The sound of sobbing seemed to produce
an effect upon the father, for he fell
back a pace, occupied partly, perhaps, with
a new idea that entered and filled his mind,
and partly moved even now, it may be, by
that distressful sound from the little lad who
had been his pet and darling ever since he
was born.

'' Come here to me, Willy," he said, in a
gentler voice ; and, a little reassured. Will
drew close to him again. " I don't want to be
hard on ye," said Mr. Gibson, in curiously
breathless tones. '' I know as ye have
known Geoff for awhile, an' have e'en been
thick wi' him. I don't want to flesh ye if I
can help it, whatever ye deserve. Ye tell
me where Geoff is, so as I can get to him,
an' I won't hurt ye now."

There was no answer, but the child was
visibly shaking through all his limbs, and he

could not look up and meet his father's eyes.
That sensation of helpless terror was all that
Will could feel ; it never even occurred to
him as a possibility that he should betray his
friend.

'' Do you know where Geoff is? Tell me
that at least," said Mr. Gibson, and he spoke
in a louder voice.

'eyes, father," whispered the child, in
more trembling accents still. Indeed he
knew both where Geoff lodged and where he
would be that night, for they had arranged
with each other in what place to meet again.

'' Then tell me where to find him ; ye tell
me that at once."

There was no answer, but little Will was
trembling so convulsively that he had to lean
against a chair. His mother and sister drew
closer in their fear for him. But Mr. Gibson
grasped hold of his shoulder now.

"Tell me where Geoff is; tell me that at
once ! !'

There was only silence till Will broke
down into cries. In despair and fury Mr.
Gibson raised his hand; but it was an impotent
movement, he let it fall a-ain. A

sick revulsion came over him ; he could not
strike little Will.

He began to stride up and down the room
in impatient rage and despair. Another
feeling, too, was beginning to stir within
his heart  the business instincts of the man
were chafing against this impotent wasting
of the morning hours. There was an important
appointment he had made for that
day  if he let it slip now, wasting his time like
this 

'' Look here, Will," he said, stopping suddenly
in his impatient pacing of the room,
and letting his clenched hand fall heavily on
a chair, " ye needn't go for to think that I'll
spend my life wi' ye. I've got to go now,
and I donna stop for ye, tannin' there in yer
obstinacy and sulkiness like that. But I'll
be back early enough in the afternoon, an' ye
can tell me then. An' ye'll take me to Geoff
at once, and tell me right where he is, or I'll
flesh ye to some purpose, I can tell ye that.
Be wise in time, my lad, ye'll find it best for

He stopped only an instant to call his wife
to him, and command her to keep the boy in

her sight during all the day. " Put him i' the
corner, woman ; it's the only place for him ;"
and with these few words he strode with
great strides from the room, roared out to
the farm-boy outside to fetch his horse, flung
himself into the saddle, and left the place.
They could hear the sound of his horse's
hoofs as they went along the road.

Will stood still where he was, pale, trembling,
not daring to raise his eyes to the
mother and sister who were left near him.
These were both of them overwhelmed with
unexpected astonishment and fear, amazed at
the boy's secret interviews, of which for the
first time they had heard, and terrified at
the wrath of the father which had been called
down on him. Under the circumstances it
seemed the best policy to be much vexed
with Will. So Airs. Gibson addressed him in
severe and angry tones, and told him to go
and stand in the corner of the parlour, and
not to stir from there, '' a-disobeyin' all his
father asked like that I " She would have
told him to come into the kitchen where she
would be herself, but she was a true wife
after her fashion, though a resentful one, and

she feared that the sympathy of the servants
might be with the boy. So she returned
with Liz to the duties in which each had
been engaged, and Will went and stood in
the corner of the parlour as he had been told
to do. He was ten years old and upwards,
and did not, of course, consider himself a
child, and yet it would have been as far from
natural to him to disobey that command as it
is to a boy of a rebellious spirit to stand stilt
and quietly submit.

And yet it is a dull business, standing in a
corner. Do we remember, any of us, what it
is like ? Will had been in a corner, perhaps,
before that day, but it was the first time he
had felt himself in real disgrace at home.

And it was the feeling of that disgrace
that weighed upon him as he stood with tears
rolling slowly down his face, looking pitifully
at the angle of the wall. For he had been
'bad," and father was 'angered" with him,
and even mother had ' spoke so cross" to
him. He had a vague dread upon him of
father's return that day, but of what he should
say or do himself he scarcely thought.

The sunlight came and played upon the

pattern of the paper  it was a yellow paper,
with a diamond pattern, and his tears grew
dry as he looked. There was a little hole in
the wall where the paper had been torn, he
tore it more by putting his fingers in ; of
course any boy would be certain to do that.
And then he stood upon one foot and
counted twenty, and stood upon the other,
with a great effort, and counted a hundred
and forty. And after that he began to find
the corner slow.

He had been there an hour, for the clock
had struck eleven, when he heard his mother
outside the open door, and ventured to call to
her. He had become weary of watching the
sunlight on the paper, and there was nothing
else to do.

'' Mother, mayn't I go out? I'm so tired
o' tannin' here."

Go to your room, you bad boy," said
Mrs. Gibson, '' and stay there till father
comes. I'll lock the door on ye if ye try to
run away."

Will had no intention of running away ; his
conscience would not even allow him to take
his picture-book. But his little room upstairs

was larger than the corner, and he had
hopes of playing there. He did play there
accordingly for more than an hour, and in
many different ways ; for first he amused
himself with an extra toilette, and washed
his face and hands, and brushed his hair;
and after that he made a journey round the
room upon the furniture without touching the
floor ; and then he lay down on his bed, and
made a little fairy-story for himself on the
flowers of the counterpane. That effort of
fancy was fatiguing, he lay back and went to
sleep. When he awoke he found his dinner
set upon a chair, and he ate the bread and
bacon, drank the water, and was refreshed.
Then he sat down upon a chair by the
window, but he had no thought of playing
now. He looked down the road that led
towards the town, and wondered how long it
would be before father would come home.

Will was not self-conscious, and had been
brought up in an atmosphere of love ; it did
not come natural to him, even now, to feel
afraid. And yet he had a certain dread of
father's home-coming, to which he had never
yet been used, and that weight upon his

spirit was very strange to him. Would Geoff
wait a long while for him in the '' little wood "
that night ? Poor Geoff ! he would not be
able to go out and see him now. Father was so
mad-like " with him always, poor GeoflBe, he
must never let father know where Geoflfie was.
And then he rested his chin upon his hands
upon the sill, and wondered how long it would
be before father would come home.

Surely that could not be father, it was only
three o'clock. The horse's hoofs came clattering
down the road. Will started to his feet,
and felt that his pulses were beating, and that
he could scarcely breathe. It was father, it
was ; he had hastened to come home. And
there was no mistaking the tone of the summons
that rang now through the house.

Come down. Will. Come down at once
to me."

Will did not wait for the second summons,
of his name only, which came in his mother's
voice. Sick and trembling with terror as he
was, he slipped softly down the stairs, and
stole quietly into the kitchen where his father
was.

That would have been a strange sight If
anyone had been there to see  the little,
pale, fair-haired boy standing alone in trembling
terror by the door, and the great, rough
man, flushed and haggard with his excited
ride, who had flung himself down in the
wooden armchair on the hearth. Mr. Gibson
had not been passing calm hours, that was
plainly to be seen ; and it was evident also
that he had been drinking.

'' Come here to me. Will," he said, with a
savage laugh.

Will had never heard his father speak like
that. He came, trembling, and stood by him,
as he had done before that day. The two
were alone together, though there were others
near, for the women of the household were
alarmed, and dared not come into the room.
Will felt a longing for protection for the first
time in his fife.

'' I'll have no foolery from you. Will ; I've
had enough of that. Tell me where Geoff is
at once, and I will go."

The child raised his tearful eyes, and looked
in his father's face. He had no other answer;
and to him that seemed enough.

"D'ye hear me?" roared Mr. Gibson,
with a trembling in his arms.

But the boy stood silent, though tears
rolled down his cheeks. His eyes met those
of his father ; there was silence in the room.
And then all at once Mr. Gibson turned very
pale. His manner changed entirely ; he
became quiet now.

Look you across the room, Will," he
said, in a quiet voice. *' D'ye see what's
lying' there wi' my hat on the chair again' the
door?"

'eyes, father," murmured poor Will, with
a creeping in his limbs.

'then go across the room and bring that
back to me."

Will went at once, obediently, as he was
told, and lifted the heavy riding-whip that
lay beside the hat. His face was very pale
as he returned with it ; he kept his wide-opened
eyes upon his father's face.

'' Aha, this is summit like, this is," said
the farmer, as he took it in his hand. " Now,
Will, tell me where Geoff is  now!

'' Don't beat me, father ; don't beat me ! "
cried Will, in an agony of terror, as his father

raised his arm. The next instant his scream
of pain brought the others into the room.

"Tell me where Geoff is, or I'll kill ye,"
thundered Mr. Gibson, as he took him by the
shoulder and shook him to and fro.

But the boy gave no answer beyond his
tears and cries. In another instant his father
dragged him across his knees, and was flogging
him fiercely with his strong arm, from
which there was no escape.

'' Tell me where he is now, ye devil,"
thundered Mr. Gibson, as he thrust him
down at last, holding him at arm's length
that he might see his face. '' Tell me where
he is, and I won't flesh ye no more."

Will was writhing with misery, and beside
himself with fear and pain, sobbing only with
convulsive childish pleading : '' I will  I will
be good." As his father grasped hold of him,
however, he roused himself again.

"' Oh! I can't tell you  I can't," he cried
out, with all the strength he had. " You'll
kill Geordie if I tell you  I know, I know you
will ! "

Mr. Gibson dragged him for answer across
his knees again, and struck him once more,

again, and yet again ; and then his wife seized
his arm.

Go and murder Geoff if you Hke," she
cried, " but you shan't kill our boy ! "

And Will, released, but scarcely able to
stand, clung to his mother's skirts ; whilst
his father raved out in triumphant, broken
sentences that ''he wanted a good, sharp
whipping, and that's what he's had."

'' I'll take him upstairs," faltered poor Mrs.
Gibson, in her confusion, only too anxious to
get him from the room. But, even clinging
to her, it was hard for Will to move. And
meanwhile Mr. Gibson continued to storm
about the Board Schools. '' They taught
chiltern to disobey the Fifth Commandment,
that they did ; but he knew better himself,
and he'd have Will to know." It scarcely
seemed to occur to him that the severity of
his chastisement had not produced the
obedience he desired.

Mrs. Gibson was undressing Will upstairs,
and was very cross with him. ''He was a
bad, wicked boy not to do what his father
wished. He had better go to bed, that they
might have no more to do wi' him' Her

angry and troubled condition made her unable
to restrain her wrath, and the boy's violent
laughing and crying had the effect only of
irritating her more. But that violent distress
produced another result ; Jim was heard calling
from his room for " mother" to come to
him. He had raised himself up in his bed
upon his arm ; on his face was an agitation
that the doctor would have feared.

'' Mother, what is the matter? Who has
been crying so ?"

'' Father's been fleeshin' Will," said Mrs.
Gibson, shortly, as she stooped over him to
arrange the pillow as she wished.

What, father whip Will ! " called out Jim,
in an amazement that did not come from his
own experiences of his father's hand. " I
don't understand' it ; he's ne'er done like that
afore."

'' Your father's wild to get at Geoff ever
sin' he hurt you," explained Mrs. Gibson as
she tucked the bed; "and Will knows where
he is, but he donna choose to tell."

''Oh  oh!" said Jim, in two great, slow
sighs that appeared to exhaust his breath ;
and, without attempting to answer, he lay

back and appeared to think. *' Mother," he
said at last, '' put Will i' bed wi' me."

*' He'll wear you out wi' his crying' an' ways,"
said Mrs. Gibson. '' I'm so flustered myself'
that I donne what to do."

'mother," repeated Jim, ''I should like
Will i' the bed."

He was not strong enough to be asked to
explain his reasons, and his mother was afraid
besides to contradict his wish. She went and
fetched Will, who had worn himself out with
crying, but who began again when he was
required to move. He came in, clinging to
her dress like a baby, in the little white night-dress
that Liz had made daintily for him ;
and, still pale and crying, and beside himself
with pain and trouble, was laid down by the
side of his brother in the bed. Mrs. Gibson
was relieved to be able to leave them to each
other, and left the room at once.

The two lay together  Will sobbing softly
to himself ; Jim less able to speak to him
than he had believed himself to be, for the
sensation of intense weakness was still a new
thing to the young man who had been strong.
He lay still without a word, waiting for breath

to speak, whilst Will moved about restlessly
in his misery of pain ; and the failing of the
short afternoon sunlight began to make
twilight in the room. It would be better to
say what he had to say and get it over now.

*' So father's been fleeshin' of ye, little
Will," said Jim, and there stopped, as an
outburst of sobs and cries came as an answer
and an interruption to his words. '' Hold
that noise, will ye?" he commanded, in a
harsh voice, after a while had passed ; and
the child, who was always in some dread of
his elder brother, restrained himself at once.
*' I have some words for ye. Will," said Jim,
when there was silence enough for his counsel
to be heard, " andye'd best be still for awhile
and hear what I've got to say. Ye know
where Geoff is; ye're been meeting' him, it's
Hke ? "

He waited for an answer, but Will only hid
his face, and his low sobbing made all the
sound there was.

'/ Well, father wouldn't 'a thrashed ye, ye
see, if ye hanna met wi' Geoff. An' Geoff's
a bad, wicked boy ; ye manna go wi' him.
Do ye hear what I say ? We'd best attend

to it too. But there's one other thing still
I've got to tell to ye."

He went on speaking with more agitation
now ; some deeper feeling gave vibration to
his words.

Look here, Will, let father fieesh ye all
he can, but don't ye be tempted to go and
tell on Geoff. That may do more harm than
e'er ye know of now. An' Geoff has been
good enough to ye ; ye must always think on
that. Don't hart on your conscience as ye're
told on a friend. Stick to your friends, little
Willy, and the Lord's stick to ye."

He paused for want of breath, and Will
had no strength to speak. They remained
silent till Mrs. Gibson came, fearing lest Jim
should be disturbed, and took the child
away.

But there are words that fall on certain
crises of our feelings like the blacksmith's
hammer upon the red-hot iron  there is no
fear of their impress being entirely lost. The
elder brother's counsel had chosen such time
as that. Yet Will was not thinking much of
it as he cried himself to sleep, whilst the
spring night darkened over his home again.

VOL. I. I

The morning dawned peacefully on Rose
Cottage and its inhabitants, and there was no
renewal of the storm within the house. Yet
there was a difference within it, as every inmate
felt ; and, though the days passed on
quietly, life was not the same to them.

Indeed, it would be a hard matter to
describe in sentences the bewildered misery
of those spring weeks to Will. He was
physically ill and in pain as he had never
been before ; he knew himself continually
watched and in disgrace, and his sensitive
nature shrank as before repeated blows.
Through the bright spring weather he dragged
himself to school, but he could scarcely get
there or take his place with the rest ; and
the master, seeing he was ill, kindly sent him
home again. The story of his punishment,
however, remained a secret still, for neither
the members of his own family nor the old
servant, who had been the only other witness,
spoke a word to anyone else of what they had
seen and heard. His father was continually
on the watch for some mute complaint from
him, but Will only cowered away from him
as a guilty thing ; his child's eyes had no

more reproach for him than they had held
once for Geoff.

And so, whilst the bright earth became flecked
with April sunlight, Farmer Gibson hardened
himself more and more against the boy. . He
could not get out of his mind that the child had
defied him, and had been successful, too ;
he avoided his presence as far as might be
both during meals and work, and called him
openly " a disobedient snake whom all the
house had spoilt." It was almost incredible
to him that his little delicate Will could
resist his command like this. Alas ! and
Will was neither disobedient nor rebellious,
and was as miserable in his continued resistance
as his father could have wished  but the
motives that govern a sensitive nature are not
always understood. From the vaguely dreaded
torment of remorse he had saved himself at
least ; his father had not been able to meet
with Geoff through him ; the child's instinctive
heroism had been strong enough for
that.

What would have happened if that meeting
had taken place ? There were some who
asked themselves that within the house.

Farmer Gibson shrank from the inward
question with a dread he could not but own ;
he had tasted the wine of vengeance, and had
scarcely found it sweet ; and he was not quite
so determined now to meet with Geoff. And
for that sense of failing resolve he revenged
himself on Will, addressing him always with
severity and scorn, and forbidding his wife
and daughter to be '' foolish wi' the lad."
The servants knew the boy was in disgrace,
and were afraid to be kind to him ; and
Will believed always in a confused way that
he was wrong, and drooped like a delicate
flower that has been used to the sunlight
once.

That one day of martyrdom and retribution
could not be without its lasting effect upon
his life. But our victories are tangled things
of right and wrong. . . . Poor little Will !

So the warm April showers came to bathe
the earth into life, the hedges began to be
covered with yellow points of buds, and overall
the Fens was the mysterious growth of
spring. And Geoff Haldan had never returned
to the Wolf's Den on the waste, and
in all Hanorth parish was no certain news of

him. It was said that he had gone off to
America, and some believed it true.

And then on one dark, warm April night,
after some storms had passed, Liz Gibson
wandered out into the yard and leant there
against the door, crooning softly a little 
to herself. And then all at once a low
whistle came to her ears from without, and the
door opened softly ; and, as she bent to look, the
figure that entered took her in its arms. She
could feel an arm round her, and a hand upon
her eyes, and then some rapidly-pressed kisses
on her lips, mingled with a low sound of laughter
that she knew very well. And then in an
instant she was thrust gently backwards, the
door was closed, the intruding form had fled,
and without a word or cry Liz returned softly
to the house.

She sat down in her own room at her
needlework, and the light of the candle on her
face showed it was very pale. But she did not
speak, and she did not call the rest, though
the feet of the wolf had entered within their
doors again.

There were others in Hanorth parish who
were to remember that evening too. In the

darkness of that April evening, hot with
storms, a Httle company of men had again
left the public-house. A message had been
sent to them from a friend in the market-town,
and they had certain hopes of securing
the fugitive at last. They left the village
under cover of the darkness, and turned their
faces in silence towards the moor.

THE WOLF IS SEEN.

On that same evening old Jem Haldan saw a
light shining in his cottage, as he came to it
through the darkness across the waste.

It was about nine o'clock, and on that
stormy night the waste was entirely dark, and
he had been scarcely able to find his way
along. For the last few days he had been
staying near the town, disposing of a collection
of cheap articles of which he had become
possessed, for in such pedlar business he was
keen and skilful still. Yet the old man felt
weary, very weary, as he dragged his feet
towards his home, with the basket on his arm
that had held a baby once ; the few shillings
in his pocket were not enough to give heart

to him. He was dreaming only, as such old
animals dream, of food and shelter  such
miserable food and shelter as his lonely home
could give  the gin bottle in the cupboard,
the tobacco on the shelf, the fireless grate, to
which he would have to attend himself, for
his sons had dispersed and he was left alone.
He thought of himself sitting crouched upon
the hearth, and drinking till he was warm, or
till he slept ; there was a dull pleasure in his
old heart at the thought. And then, lifting
up his eyes, he saw the light.

In another instant old Jem had drawn himself
together, and his stick was clenched in
the hand that had seemed without strength
before, for at rare moments there would come
to his old limbs some power for action still.
There was someone who had been before him
at the Den  not his sons, for he believed
them far enough away  some tramp, perhaps,
who had been passing in the night-time, and
who had turned for shelter into the deserted
house. The old man began to tremble with
his fury  his old, wild nature had dangerous
fierceness yet. As fast as his trembling
steps and the aid of his stick could carry him
he. hurried on through the darkness to his
home.

The light of a blazing fire made the whole
room bright within ; as he stood peering outside
the window it was easy enough to see.
The grate had been piled with wood, the gin-bottle
had been taken from the cupboard,
there were bread and meat on the table, and
there on the hearth was Geoff.

He had thrown himself down on the ground
after his old fashion, and was caressing his
bare feet with his hands. His wet boots and
socks had been flung into a corner, his ragged
jacket was drying on a chair before the fire,
the light of the flames upon his face was reflected
in the brightness of his eyes. Undoubtedly
it had been pleasant enough to him
to be left alone in his own old home like this,
and he had taken advantage of his opportunities
to secure for himself every comfort
that he could.

For one instant, and during his first glimpse
at the intruder, Jem had experienced a sensation
of relief ; but, as he looked at the lad's
appearance of ease and comfort, his hands
began to tremble with wrath again. In
another instant he had burst open the door,
and at that sound Geoff started to his feet.

The firelight picture became too quickly
changed ; the dreaming boy had a wild look

of manhood now. He had snatched up the
rusty poker with which to defend himself \
he stood before the fire, grasping that weapon
in his hand, barefooted and almost bare-shouldered,
like a young robber stripped and
ready for the fray. The old man stood
quietly, without moving, and surveyed him
from a distance by the door, wet, ragged
bent himself, but with a strong clutch up.
the thick stick in his hand. So they confronted
each other in the home that the
both had shared  the fugitive criminal and
the father he had owned.

'' So ye're come back, m' lad," said Jem,
speaking very slowly, and with emphasis on
his words, and with a slight movement also
of his withered fingers on the stick. He did
not attempt, however, to advance any nearer
from the door.

'eyes, I've come back, ye see," replied
Geoff, with a little sound of laughter, and he
sat himself down in a defiant manner on the
floor, and clasped his knees. The light of
the fire was on his upturned head ; he kept
the poker resolutely between his fingers still.
The two men looked at each other for a
while and did not speak.

'' Come now, m' lad," said Jem, '' ye nun

clear out from here. I don' want to ha' to
lay this thing on ye, ye see'' Geoff made
a little movement with his head, but said no
more. *' Do you hear me, Geoff?" said
Jem, in a louder tone.

The boy raised his head still further, and
laughed aloud at him. This feeling of consist
was probably not new to both.

'"I shall stay here this e'en long, old Wolf ;
we may break yer stick upo' me if ye like,
i'm as good a man as ye, now ye're got so
old and lame."

The old man advanced on him without a
word, but keeping at a cautious distance all
the same. The boy sat in his former attitude
without stirring, but with his eyes fixed
on him, and with the poker between the
fingers that clasped his knees. It was
curious that in spite of the resolution of his
attitude there was an uneasy look, as of some
old terror, in his eyes. As soon as the old
man was almost near to him he stopped short,
and they looked at each other again.

'* Come, don't ye be a full, Geoff," said
Jem, in a more entreating tone, condescending
to some explanation now at last. 'T can't
ha' ye here to-night, or I 'ud do so ; ye mua
be gone fro' here afore the night has comes

The boy glanced slightly up at him, but
did not stir.

' I'll stay here this even long, at any rate,"
he said ; and, as if he were satisfied, Jem
sank into an armchair near the fire ; then bent
in a careless way over the boy who was reclining
at his feet, and gave him a savage
blow on the ear that knocked him down.

'' That's for not chusing to attend to me
when I spake to you," he said.

Geoff raised himself quietly, and reclined
on his arm again ; he had no wish at that
moment to quarrel with his father, or he
might not have received the correction so
indifferently as he did. He lay still on the
hearth, and Jem took a pipe and smoked.

The firelight room had become more quiet
again, and its dirty desolation appeared
almost peaceful now. The old man sat
smoking, with his tangled beard on his
breast ; the lad lay at his feet in an attitude
as if he were reposing, though with an uneasy
watchfulness always in his eyes, whilst
there was some mistrust also in the eyes that
looked down on him. The dreary experiences
of neMect and ill-treatment on one side, and
outbursts of frenzied passion on the other,
were not forgotten still ; and the young outcast's

mind could not feel entirely at rest,
though as honor as he could remember he had
called this place his home.

I've been i' the other room sin' I've been
back," said Geoff, turning a little to look up
in the old man's face. " I short as I'd see if
we'd left anything for me." A deeper glow
than the heat of the fire had kindled was
upon his features now. '' I couldn't find
much, that I couldn't ; ye're not taken much
pains to think o' me. We've sold all my
books, an' broke my birds' eggs, an' got rid
o' every scrap of a thing as I had left ; there
isn't even a bit o' my bed to show. I was
right enough to think ye didn't want me to
come back."

'* We didn't know as ye was coming," said
Je-m, smoking peacefully. '' We've made the
place a bit too hot for thee, m' lad."

It's hot enough, isn't it," cried Geoff,
to go wandering' out i' the cold and rain like
this, an' know that wherever ye may chance
there'll sure never be a bit o' welcome to be
found ? An' they say as the village here '11
chase me like an animal ; though, whatever I
do, it's no concern o' theirs. I'm sick o' my
life, I am, an' I've a right to be ; there's never
been any good in it for me."

The old man continued to smoke peacefully
above, without seeming to pay any heed to
what he said.

'' Ye s'ouldna knock honest lads o' the
head," he said, at last; 'ye'll sure to get into
trouble if ye play such tricks as them." He
had taken his pipe serenely out of his mouth,
and he held it in his hand as he looked down.
I have a word for ye, Geoff, as Molly
Brenton said ; ye remember Molly Brenton,
whose cloak ye tore one day. She come to
my door here on the waste on the e'en afore
I left ; she had her red handkerchief on her
head, an' an old crutch in her hand. ' How's
all wi' ye, Jem ? ' she says ; ' ye're left alone,
I see. I've a word for yer handsome lad as
is not got back again  I've told many
fortunes, an' I'll tell this 'un now. Ye may
tell Geoff Haldan,' she says,  what Molly
Brenton say ; she gives her blessing to his
pretty face that tore her gown  he's got
the light o' hell in his eyes, an' he'll feel its
scorch one day ! ' "

The old man muttered the words with some
enjoyment, but the boy shrank suddenly as if
something had touched his limbs ; and then,
unwilling, perhaps, for his emotion to be seen,

turned partly away and shaded his eyes with
his hand.

*' It's Hke enough," he muttered drearily,
** like enough."

The older man paid but little heed to him.
The religious training of Jem lay far away in
his youth, if he had ever received any religious
ideas at all. He sat smoking with a mind as
obscure as the risings clouds of smoke, and
the changing flames made a weird light in
the den.

Indeed, Geoff himself looked round without
difficulty after a while had passed, and a burning
glow had succeeded to the momentary
paleness of his cheeks. He was passing
through one of the sudden chancres of mood
that were peculiar to him, and there was even
more brightness than usual in his dark, dilated
eyes.

'' I think I'll get me a kitten," he said,
carelessly, as he lay upon his elbow, and
pulled with his other hand at a nail that was
in the ground. '' I feel to want a summit
that's soft an' warm, an' that 'ud creep round
my neck as little Will 'ud do. I've not seen
Willy for many a night an' oft. He's got
tired o' me, it's like, like all the rest."

 Will ye take the kitten to Mrs. Rawson's,
Geoff?" asked Jem, after a pause, with some
meaning in his tone.

He had spoken quietly, but the boy gave a
start.

'' An' how do ye know where I am ? " he
quickly asked.

They where talking' o' ye i' the village here
to-day. I think as they've gone, some o' 'em,
to visit ye i' the town."

' Then it's Will as has told on me," cried
Geoff then, with blazing eyes. ' I did think
I could trust little Will to be as true as anyone
on earth. Well, it'll go hard wi' me if I don't
half murder him for tellin' on me if I ever
come across his face again."

'' Hold hard yourself', an' don't be a fool,"
said Jem. '' It was the wheelwright's son as
saw ye i' the town. They do say as Farmer
Gibson's been chastising' Will himself, but that
he canna get the lad to tell a word."

He had spoken in soothing tones, but the
boy was wrathful still.

' If it wasn't for Farmer Gibson I could
come back," he cried. 'this is his coin', I
know that very well. Well, I've set his son
agen him, if that is true yer say  an' I kissed
Liz to-night ; I'll have his daughter too."

He spoke with a curious triumph in his
tone, so unworthy was he of the suffering
that had been endured for him. His words
must have sounded ominous in any hearer's
ears, but his older companion had no warning
to bestow.

An' how do ye Hke Mrs. Rawson's?" he
asked, when a while had passed ; but Geoff
only turned on his side with a long and heavy
sigh. It was not possible for him to explain to
that companion the effect that the ill-favoured
lodging-house had had on him, the confinement
and closeness of it, the necessity for imprisoning
himself there often in the daytime,
the talk of the men who shared the room in
which he slept at night. Indeed, his life had
not been such as to make him fastidious ; but
then, after all, he had been a village lad, accustomed
to the open air and to the sunlight, and
with more knowledge of wild, lawless mischief
than of vice. Already, in so short a time,
there had come a change in him ; the expression
of his face had grown worse and
harder since he had left his home.

It's as good as I can get," he said, in a
weary way. '' I wouldn't 'a left it, but I had
to speak to ye."

"An' what had ye to say to me?" asked

VOL. I. K

old Jem quickly, and in surprise, his face
growing harder as he pronounced the hasty
words ; for it occurred to him immediately
that the boy wished to beg from him. But
Geoff did not hurry himself ; he was not
inclined to speak.

' I saw Wild Ben last night, this last night
as ever was," he said with difficulty, plucking
away at the nail as if that concerned him
most. And then there was silence, whilst
Jem waited in vain for more. 'ran' there's a
question I want to ask o' ye' muttered Geoff,
with more difficulty still ; with such trouble,
indeed, that, even in the firelight, it could be
seen his face was pale. But his older companion
said nothing, and appeared even
amazed at him ; and the lad raised himself
aofain on his elbow with a determined effort
now. " I wanted to ask ye," he said, " whose
son I am."

The last words were almost inaudible, as if
he had lost them in his throat, and there
came a dull colour into the pallor of his face.
But the old man looked down on him steadily
and without an effort, and there was no agitation
in his voice when at last he spoke.

An' what's put that notion into your stupid
head ? " he said.

'' Am I your son ? '' asked the lad, looking
up at him, his dark eyes fixed as if he would
read his heart. But Jem burst into coarse
slaughter, and attempted no reply.

It's a wise son that knows his own father,
isn't it, Geoff?" he said. '' 'Am I your son,'
do ye ask ? Why, whose else should ye
be?"

They've allays said i' the village,"
muttered Geoff, turning restlessly over, "as
I'm not yere son. They say I'm not like
none o' ye ; I can see that myself'. It'll go
hard wi' me but I'll get the truth fro' ye."

An' howell ye manage that? " began Jem,
with another laugh. But Geoff started up
into sudden movement and excitement, and
with a quivering in the arms that his ragged
shirt-sleeves left bare.

Look here," he said, " I've come a' this
way to ask this thing, an' I'll not leave this
place till I've got some truth fro' ye. When
I was a little 'un, an' asked a question, ye
smashed at my head wi' the first thing ye
could find. But ye'll not do so now, I've
grown too strong for that. An' I'll have my
answer, if I have to fight for it."

His eyes had begun to shine with the
strange light of passion that belonged to

them sometimes, a most dangerous light, as
all who saw it knew. And even Jem, though
he continued to smoke, did not appear at
ease. For he had his memories, also, like
the boy, and he had not forgotten an evening
years before, when he had beaten Geoff
whilst his brothers held him down, and Geoff
had started up suddenly and set the house
on fire. Ah ! what a home-training for early
years was that ! What memories and unconscious
prophecies were these !

' So ye want to know more o' yersel',
lad ? " the old man slowly said. He seemed
to think it wisest not to provoke his companion,
and yet at the same time to be most
unwilling to reply. Geoff remained silent,
with an expression of feverish eagerness, and
appeared to wait with both eyes and ears for
more. " Ye want for me to tell 'ee what
woman yer mother was ? "

'* I want to know who my father was," said
Geoff. His hard abruptness quite altered the
tone of his voice.

I am yer father  that's good enough for
ye." The boy remained motionless, looking
silently up at him. '' Ye see there's been a
sort o' mystery in it, Geoff," Jem slowly said ;
*' I short as it 'ud be a pity as ye should be

called differ to the rest. My wife, she died
long ago, she did. I daresay the village
have learned of that by now. There wasn't
no need for me to tell 'em what woman yer
mother was."

There was still silence, but the boy was
breathing hard. Jem went on speaking as if
he liked his voice, heaping detail on detail,
with all reluctance gone.

'' I thomas I'd take to myself' another wife,
ye see. She was a very pretty girl, yer
mother was. Primrose her name was. She
used to sell butter once ; she had eyes as
black as a crow's, an' she could give a man a
straight look i' the face. I used to think
once as I could have fine times wi' her.
But then, ye see, she died when ye were
born ; ye were allays a trouble to me fro' the
first ; an' I short as I'd make no differ
between ye an' the rest."

He paused for an answer, but the lad
would not speak. He lay on his arm, with
his eyes fixed on the ground.

'' An' that's the truth, an' the whole truth,
Geoff," said Jem,

'' It's like enough," said Geoff, without
raising an eyelid now. His manner was that
of one who has received the tale he hears ;

but, save for a wan and dreary expression in
his face, he gave no sign of any emotion that
he felt. He lay looking downwards, his long
curling lashes resting like a dark shadow on
his cheek, the light of the fire upon his
ragged clothes and slender limbs ; and, as if
lost in some strange meditation, the old man
looked down on him. His voice came in a
dreaming tone when at last, after a longtime,
he spoke ; as if his thoughts had been
wandering far and he was answering to them.
'"'' / should a-liked to a-called ye my oivn
son, Geoff / he said. Geoff started suddenly,
a deep colour flushed his face, and the eyes
he raised were bright, his singular beauty
enhanced as if lit by that sudden light and
glow. Jem looked down upon him in a
melancholy way ; he went on talking as if he
were speaking to himself. '' The rest are all
stooped  so stooped," he slowly said ;
'' there isn't a grain o' sense in 'em, in
Nickle, or Bill, or Ben. I might 'a 'ad sons
as 'ud be more worth nor that. I could a-
done summit wi' ye if we'd only been my
own ; I'd a tried to make a gentleman on ye
afore I'd done ; but what's the good o' that
when ye're not to do wi' me ? An' yer own
father he's got no want o' ye, he's a gentleman,

they say, an' he'll not care for ye. It
'ud a' been differ for ye if ye had been mee
own."

''A gentleman ! '' murmured Geoff, almost
below his breath ; and then, looking up
fiercely once more, he spoke again. *' An'
what did ye mean by the story ye were tellin'
me just now ? "

That was intention," said Jem, with
modest pride. He went on maundering with
an old man's weakness still : " I wouldn't a'
beat ye if ye had been mee own."

Again there was silence, and the flames
rose and fell.

'' Were my father and mother  married ? "
asked the boy, in a low voice, as he kept his
face concealed. If his nature were being
torn meanwhile with its passionate hope and
fear, at least he made efforts to olive no outward
signs. He lay very still, but there was
a quivering in his feet.

*' It's like they were," said Jem. '' I donne
so much o' that."

Tell me more," muttered Geoff, looking
up with kindled eyes. But the old man was
being wakened to more practical answers
now.

An' what's ye gi' me for that ? " he asked,

with the expression of a fox. '' If I help ye
to yer father I must a' summit for mesel',
especial sin' I've brought ye up through all
these years."

'' If I gi' ye a penny on every blow ye're
given me," said Geoff, 'ye'll soon be rich
enough. I'll count 'em up if I get any good
fro' ye."

Jem looked doubtfully down at him and
made no reply.

"" Come, tell me said the lad, with still
more fierce impatience, and there seemed no
reason why the tale should be withheld. So
the old man told it by the dim light of the
fire, whilst the wind and the rain without were
beating against the Den.

And a stormy and broken tale it was that
he slowly told, confused by his want of memory
and of power to narrate, for his rough life was
sinking into an old man's weakness now  a
story of a dark night, about seventeen years
before, of the inn on the lonely road, where
he had wandered with his pack, and of the
sudden birth of the child of one of the
travellers who were there. Jem had heard
stirring and movements as he lay in his bed
that night, but though lights kept passing his
door he was too tired to move ; it was not

until dawn that he was disturbed at last. For
in the early morning he was awaked suddenly
a gentleman had come who wished to
speak to him. He went downstairs to the
dark parlour of the inn, and found there a
solitary candle on the table, and by its side a
tall man walked up and down, who seemed
'' very white like and scarce fit to speak."
He said at intervals, walking all the time,
that his wife, who had escaped from him, had
died that night ; and that ' ' as for t' babe
he didn't mind for that, he'd sure never see
it or hear of it again. He'd give twenty
pound to a man as 'ud take it quite away;
it might die very like, he didn't care for that;
he'd never look on it whether it lived or died.'
An' then he burst out a-laughing' like and says,
We'd have yer son an' heir, I'll make him
fit for that'"

The rest of the story could be very quickly
told. Jem took the twenty pounds and accepted
the charge at once ; and in the early
morning the gentleman departed without
having told his name to anyone in the house.
He left money, however, to pay the expenses
of the funeral, and orders also that
Jem should take the child, promising himself
to come back that same evening if he could.

But although he made this promise he did
not return. The young woman he had called
his wife lay dead upstairs ; she had been
delirious or unconscious almost the whole
time she had been in the house, and had told
her name to none ; there was no one who
knew who she was or whence she came. Jem
didn't see her, he had *' no mind to see a
corpse," but he could see the white sheet
they had laid over her, ' an' a taller candle o'
the table by her side." The landlady was
glad to get rid of the baby in any way she
could, and on the day its mother was buried
Jem took it away with him. But the newborn
infant was not carried far ; it began to
cry, and he brought it back again, for it was
a snowy day, '' fit enough to kill a child."
The landlady was most unwilling to receive it,
but he paid her doubts away, and set out
himself to return home to the Den. In the
cold winter, many months later, he returned
again and preferred his claim to receive the
child once more. But the woman and her
servant were unwilling now to part with the
baby who had been once so unwillingly
received. They had gained some notion that
the child belonged to gentlefolks, and professed
to forget that it had been left in their

charge by Jem. On his part he heard them
very patiently, and seemed even to be convinced
by what they said. He bided his time
until the evening came ; and then, when there
was uproar and merriment downstairs, and
the baby for a time was left alone, he went
upstairs quietly, put it into his basket with its
coverings, and stole out unperceived into the
night. Through the honor November niorht
he trudged, going southward, and through
succeeding days and nights, until that evening
when dense fog wrapped the waste and he
found his way through it with toil and
difficulty and brought the baby in safety to
the Den.

'This was his story, told as the firelight
rose and fell, and the lad lay listening to him
upon the hearth. Geoff asked one question
only when the whole of it was done 

*' An' he was a gentleman, an' he talked
about an heir? "

'Ah, yes, he were a frenchman, sure
enough' replied Jem, in dreamy tones ; and
then, looking down with a suddenly piercing
glance from under his bushy eyebrows at the
lad's eager face, he spoke again. " An' do
ye think any gentleman 'ud own ye Jioiv ? ''

The words struck hard  too hard. There

came an awful pallor into the boy's young
face, and his lips contracted as in some
mortal pain. After a while, with a low,
angry groan, he turned his head away,
and hid his face on his arm ; and then fora
long time afterwards there was silence in
the room.

Jem pushed his companion roughly with
his foot.

'' I want my supper, Geoff. Get up an' eat
wi' me."

'ran' drink yer gin," said Geoff; " I suppose
that's what ye mean. It's all I'm fit
for; ye're brought me up for that."

He raised himself, however, and sat up upon
the hearth, his dark hair all tumbled round a
face that still was white, and from which his
eyes looked out silently like those of an
animal that has been hurt.

Jem had never seen even his adopted son
in such varying moods before, and a rough
pity that could visit him sometimes was
stirred in him. He got ready his own supper
from the scraps on the table, and heated
some gin and water for himself, and then
prepared another plate and tumbler and
pushed them to the boy.

Geoff had been used to detest the taste of

spirits, but he ate and drank ravenously now,
and then laid himself down as if he wished to
sleep, only his eyes all the while seemed to bethinking,
thinking, as Jem observed by furtive
looks at him. The lad was fairly worn out,
however, by his stormy journey, and possibly
by his emotion too ; his dark eyelashes
dropped after a while, and his head sank as
well. Then Jem drew his own chair nearer,
and began himself to doze.

A long while seemed to pass, long enough
for wavering dreams ; and fields, and sunlight,
and light upon bramble-blossoms were before
the old man's eyes, although they mingled
with the sight of the slumbering lad, and of
the firelight on the bare walls of the Den ;
and then through the double vision there
came sounds from without, and in another
instant Geoff had started to his feet.

"What's that?" gasped Jem, who was
scarcely awake as yet.

"Don't you see?" cried Geoff, sharply,
they are coming across the waste."

Indeed, the gleam of a lantern without could
now be seen, and Jem rose slowly and cautiously,
and grasped his stick ; the lad meanwhile
thrusting on his jacket with the happiest
movements he could make. He had not

fastened it, however, when the old man seized
his arms.

'' What art thou going to do? Where will
ye go?"

Let me go, ye old scamp," cried Geoff, ina
frenzy ; "what d'ye mean by holding' of mean'
delaying' me like this ? I'll get through
the window behind, an' cut off across the
waste."

"An' leave m' house to be burnt and
mesel' to be thrashed for ye. Not if I knows
it, lad ; ye stay here until they come. Or, sin'
Tve got my stick now, ye may look to be
brained wi' that ! "

A violent struggle took place, for the old
man's selfishness was supported still by
strength, and Geoff could not at once free
his arms or get the stick. The language
that passed between them had better not be
transcribed.

But meanwhile the light of the lantern
drew nearer still to them, and footsteps could
be now more distinctly heard without.

I say, Jem," cried Geoff, who saw his
danger, and whose quick wit warned him not
to continue a worse than useless struggle,
leave go yere hold on me, an' I'll be quiet.
Ye Stan' still as if ye were holding' me, an' let

em see us so, and then when I tread on you
ye let go at once, an' it'll go hard wi' me but
I'll run an' get away. Or, if ye dare to hinder,
rU burn yere hut an' ye." .

Jem relaxed his hold cautiously on hearing
this, and Geoff stood quite still, as he had
promised, like a captured animal in his
adopted parent's grasp. The footsteps came
closer, closer. There were sounds of whispering
voices, and the tread, too, of a horse.
Outside the door of the hovel there was a
pause ; the two men within could not be
seen from the window, and the intruders
seemed afraid. They waited cautiously ; the
two men were still within ; the liorht of the
wood fire made a bright glow in the place.
And then the door was burst open suddenly
upon them both.

The were all there, standing darkly in the
entrance of the door ; the blacksmith, and the
blacksmith's boy, the young wheelwright, the
village carpenter, a farm boy with a horse,
and others behind who could not be so plainly
seen. They stood still on the threshold,
and those within looked at them. /\nd for
that instant also they had a sight of those
within, the old man with his arms round the bov,
whom he seemed to hold for them ; the lad for

whose sake they had come across the waste
in the night-time, standing there before them,
barefooted, with unfastened jacket, and dark,
tumbled hair, a visible vagrant and an easy
prey. For one instant only his wild eyes
gleamed on them. . . .

*' He's here," cried Jem. '' I've got him
fast for ye ! "

He released his hold that same instant, ashe
felt a touch on his foot ; and with a sudden
movement the lad burst from him, broke
through the rank of his enemies with a quickness
for which they were entirely unprepared,
struck the halter from the hand of the farm-boy
who held the horse, sprang and scrambled
on to its back, although it kicked and reared,
seized the halter as it broke, terrified, into a
gallop, and disappeared in the night.

They looked at each other with blank, confounded
faces, the blacksmith and the blacksmith's
son, the young wheelwright, the
farm-boy, and the rest. They had come prepared,
with their prey within their reach, but
the footsteps of the wolf had been too swift
for them.

THE WOLF IS HUNTED.

And Geoff, meanwhile? Let us follow him
through the night, though the trail of a hunted
creature is no easy thing to trace.

During those first few minutes he had been
sensible of little else but wild, overpowering
terror as he clung on to the horse. In spite
of the agility he had displayed he scarcely
knew how to ride ; and even if he had been
trained to such exercise from his early years
it would have been difficult enough to guide
a frightened animal through such darkness,
and on such uneven ground. He lay prostrate,
anyhow, on his face, as he had flung
himself, tossed and trembling, clinging to the
horse's neck, and to the halter, with a wild
singing of terror in his ears. After a while,

VOL. L L

however, though the terrible, plunging gallop
still continued, he was more able to collect
himself ; to draw himself together, though he
held still to the halter and the mane ; and,
with the instinct of a born rider, to cling to
the animal rather with his knees than with
his hands. But before he had time for any
thought or resolve, all shaken as he was with
the rapid movement and his own fear besides,
there came a more violent plunge, and then
a stumble, and he was flung far forwards
over the horse's head ; it came down altogether
in the marsh, and began to struggle
there.

Geoff felt lame and stunned, and sick, too,
with the force with which he had been thrown ;
but he got up at once, and ran to the assistance
of the animal, guided by the fitful light
of the moon between the clouds. But the
horse would not allow him to approach, as it
struggled and floundered in the marsh ; until
at last, by some desperate effort, it regained
its footing upon the miry ground, snorted,
flung out its hoofs in terror and in triumph,
and rushed off in a wild gallop across the
waste. The boy had been afraid that it
would sink before his eyes ; he sat on a stone
looking after it, with a mind relieved.

What strange shadows there were upon the
waste to-night ! The moon kept coming and
going between. the clouds. He felt sick and
giddy still, and kept shivering, although it was
not cold. Where should he go to find a rest
that night? His feet were bare, for he had
been left no time in which to put on his old
boots and socks, and one of them had been
cut badly by a stone when he fell off the horse.
He took it between his hands and caressed
it softly, and then tore his handkerchief
into strips and bandaged it as best he could.
He felt tired, cold, lame, utterly disheartened,
without the wish to rise. The moon looked
down on him at intervals, a young vagrant,
sitting homeless there beneath the sky.

And yet his father was a gentleman ; he
had been told that, at least.

A hot, burning sensation rushed into his
face. His father was a gentleman ; he could
be proud of that. Why, all the village boys,
who looked down on him, their fathers were
not gentlemen, they couldn't say they were.
They may talk as they like, they're not as
good as me." And visions of the great parks
of Hanorth and of Crasten, of galleries and
dark pictures, and Halted chandeliers, of all
that world of wealth and luxury, of which he

had been permitted but the bare and scanty-glimpses
befitting his condition, began to float
in array before his eyes. '' My father was a
gentleman, I may be proud."

'' Yes, truly, for it is permitted to me to sit
ragged and desolate, on a stone upon the
waste, homeless, fatherless, destitute, alone
here in the night-time without a shelter."
'* Homeless ! fatherless ! " The words seemed
to press with burning force upon his heart,
and he covered his face with his hands and
burst into tears. Oh ! where were they ?
Would he ever find them, his father and
his home?

Yes, homeless, fatherless ! So the thoughts
came still, or might have come, within his
mind. 'eyes, truly, without a father or a home.
But not because I have never seen the man
who gave me my existence, not because I
have been called an heir and have never
beheld my heritage : I have greater wants
than these. Fatherless, because my own
father has sold me to a life of want and
shame ; homeless, because I have never had
experience of the love of home and kindred ;
untaught, because the knowledge of God has
never entered into my heart or life ; unfriended,
because none care sufficiently forme

to turn me back from sin  I have been
left, indeed, homeless ; I am, indeed, alone.

*' If my father were owner of the richest
wealth in the nation, and I had power to
claim that inheritance from him, I should
have been bereft still of the highest gifts of
all. The starving child, creeping and clinging
to her mother's side in the wretched
hovel, would know more of the love of home.
The little village-boy, coming hastily home
after some success at school, that he may
feel how soft his father's rough hand can
seem as it strokes his head, would have a
richer heritage than mine." Some feelings
such as these, though unformed and without
expression, stirred within the heart of Geoff,
but they did not touch it, for he was excited
still, and a sense as of exaltation remained
uppermost with him.

And yet  where was he to go ?  what
could he do ?

Some sounds in the distance made him
turn his head. There was a light, there were
voices, they must be coming back across the
waste. He laid himself down on the ground
that they might get no sight of him. They
did not come near him  he lay and waited,
looking up at the moon which kept drifting in

and out amongst the clouds ; and as he did
so he thought what he should do if they did
come close to him. He had not even his
knife with him, and he was almost too lame
to walk.

No  they had gone by in the distance  he
could see the light now far on the other side.
What should he do ? He must try and
decide. It would be impossible to sleep out
of doors on the bare, wet ground on such a
stormy night. He raised himself, shivering,
and began to try to walk. As he did so his
injured foot began to bleed again ; he could
feel the blood soaking through the bandage
he had made. And then he thought of Ben
Wilde, and of the Gin-shop (as it was called)
within the town, and thought also whether
he should return to the Den and force
his adopted father to shelter him for the
night. But Ben Wilde, and the gin-shop
in the town, were far away, and he could
not rouse himself to strength enough for
any struggle now. Then should he go into
the village, which was not far from where he
was, and find some barn or outhouse into
which he could creep and sleep ? That
seemed the best thing to do, and he began to
move, limping painfully along as best he could.

What 1 a light in the distance ! They were
coming back again ; no doubt they were
searching the waste for some trace of the
horse or himself. If he attempted to enter
the village he might meet some of them ; he
must get on to Crasten, if he could, and
find shelter there. He turned once more and
began to walk again, though before he had
gone far he could have cried from fatigue and
pain.

How strange the waste looked to-night 
so black and shadowy  the few distant trees
made weird outlines against the sky ! It was
bad walking  if he could lie down and die.
. . And then he remembered what had been
foretold for him. " I'll be hot enough then'
cried Geoff, with wild laughter, that sounded
strange in the night.

No, the young life that was in him had no
thought after all of being easily resigned ;
the determination was strong in him to
struggle still. He reached a hedge at last,
and found a way through an opening in it
into a lane \ also he broke a bough off a
tree to serve him for a crutch, though even
with its aid it was hard to get along ; his
other foot now was scratched and bleeding
too. He sat down in the hedge upon the

trunk of a tree that had been felled, and began
to think once more. They might go on to
Crasten, and he might meet them there. The
clouds were gathering blackly above his head ;
there would soon be a storm, and he would
need shelter then. With a weary, aimless
movement he put his hand into his pocket,
and drew out a purse.

For the moment he was almost startled,
and a quick tremor shook his hand ; but that
feeling passed even as it came, and an even
deeper depression crossed his face. What a
fool he had been to think anything new was
here. For nothing new to him Indeed was
this  this purse that had been the cause of
his misfortunes  this present from Ben Wilde
which had dropped out of his pocket as he
stood talking to Jim Gibson in the town. If
it had not been for that ! He raised the
purse with his hand, intending to fling it aside
in his first impatient rage, but with another
sudden reflection he dropped his hand again.

Who did it belong to, after all, this purse
that Ben had given to him after a drunken
fit, empty, of course, but in good condition
still, and with '' E. Harte" worked in very
small letters In red silk Inside ? It had seemed
to him as if Jim had recognized the thing ; he

might not have called him a thief if it had not
been for that. There was a Miss Harte, a
dressmaker, who had come to Crasten now 
he might go this very night and give back
the purse to her.

What ! a light behind him ! They were on
the Crasten road. He forced himself between
the tree-trunk and the hedge, and crouched
in shelter there. Two men passed by with a
lantern on the path.

*' The boy and your horse," said one, '' maybe
miles away by now. It is more than time
to do something to stop Geoff Haldan's
tricks."

' Such a pest should be hanged," said the
other ; '' there is nothing else for him."

The lantern flashed for a moment, and then
they passed.

Geoff crept from his hiding-place as soon
as they had gone by, and sat down on the
trunk, rather pleased with himself because he
had been so well concealed. He sat resting
and thinking, whilst an odd smile curled his
lips.

'changing and hell," he said; "there's
nothing else for me ! "

And then he rose slowly, and crept on towards
Crasten with his wounded feet again.

Well, it was reached at last, the village,
dark in the night-time, lying amongst the
trees. He could see the lights in the cottages
in front of him, and the blackness of the great
trees of the Hall. But the house he wished
to reach was a long way from him still. He
began to limp more wearily, feeling his lameness
now.

He had got as far as the outskirts of the
village, and near him on the right were two
cottages, from whose open doors came two
short streams of light. There was a yard at
the side of the one nearest to him, with an
open gate, and within that were lights and
voices. As he passed by it he could not but
stop and look. A little group of men were
collected round a horse, tired, foaming, with
panting sides, and splashed and covered with
mud as if it had fallen down. He glanced
towards it with idle curiosity, and then suddenly
stood still. Was this the horse which
had carried him that day ? His desire to
know was too strong to be restrained ; with
cautious movements he ventured within the
yard.

The men there were all gathered round the
horse ; the light came from a lantern which
one held in his hand. A little boy was playing

about the yard. As he stole closer to
them there came a movement in the group,
and the light of the lantern fell upon his face.

'' Geoff Haldan's come ! " cried the Httle
boy, in a shrill piercing tone.

In an instant they all turned round and
looked at him. For that one moment, and
then Geoff turned as well. How he got out
of the yard he scarcely knew ; he felt only
that he was frying down the road. Voices
and shouting, they were in hot pursuit ; and
pain and fatigue were forgotten as he fled
away from them. He had taken the lane
that led from the village towards the dark
trees of the Hall ; he was the swiftest runner
in the two parishes, and neither pain, nor exhaustion,
nor darkness could keep him back.

For those few minutes the very pleasure of
the movement was enough. He could hear
their voices farther and farther behind him
in the distance with a throbbing sense of
triumph ; there was not one of them who
was able to gain on him. It was only when
far away from them he slackened his speed,
and then stood still at last ; when, leaning
against the wall of "the park, with the dark
trees overhead, he could feel his heart beating
as if it would burst his breast  only then

was he able for the first time to understand
how Httle real strength his fatigue and pain
had left.

He leant against the wall, faint, panting,
without the power to move. A light near
him shone into his eyes ; he was not able
even to raise his head to discover what it
was. And yet they were near . . . they would
be coming ; they would catch him at last.
With a great effort he raised his head towards
the light. It was a lantern hung over a green
door in the wall, no doubt intended kindly to
relieve the darkness of the lane. The sight
of the door gave a new thought to him. He
tried the handle, and it opened to his hand.
The dark trees of the park were within, he
would hide himself in them.

And then suddenly he started, with a sick
faintness that made his eyes grow dim. Oh !
they would not need a guide, they could trace
his footsteps to the door. But not by a
black track in the snow this time  for these
were marks of blood !

No matter, he must go on quickly, for they
would be coming soon. He closed the little
door after him, and stood within the park,
beneath the great silent trees that appeared
mysterious under the stormy sky. It seemed

to him that he could hear voices in the lane,
and with rapid movements he fled across the
grass. He ran a long way without staying
to listen or to look, and then threw himself
down on the grass beneath a tree. No, he
was still alone ; they had not followed yet.

How wild, and strange, and silent the park
looked in the night, with its dark masses of
trees lit by stray gleams of the moon, and its
one solitary light in the great house at the
end  as solitary as himself, all alone in darkness
here. Was that the light of the room
where the new master was ? He had only
come there for the first time  the new master
of whom he had heard. How curiously Ben
had looked at him when he had happened to
mention Mr. Audley's name.

A strange, starting fancy, as fitful as the
moonlight on the clouds, began to stir in his
mind as he raised himself from the grass ; he
had been conscious of it in the midst of his
excitement as he fled beneath the dark trees
of the Hall. Oh ! it was miserable here in the
grass, so wet and cold ; he would die if he
had to stay here all the night. If he could
find some way to see the master of the house.

He sat up in the grass, and clasped his
knees ; he was so stiff with pain and cold

that it was difficult to move. He began to
be afraid that he might die, that he had no
longer any strength to help himself. A
horrible fear came over him, like that of a
frightened child ; a loneliness that seemed
to enclose him, to be in him. He stretched
out his arms and wailed out to the night,
*' Oh ! I am frightened, I can't bear to be
alone ! ''

Alas ! there could come to his loneliness
no vision of fireside or of home. A drizzling
rain was beginning to fall ; he felt chilled,
wet, and sick almost to death. With weary
footsteps he dragged himself along through
the darkness ; the strange terror was on him,
and he could not feel like himself. He kept
his eyes fixed always upon the light. . . .

MR. AUDLEY OF THE HALL.

In the library of the Hall, meanwhile, a
blazing firelight shone ; the grate was piled
with logs and coals, and the flames leaped
up the chimney as if themselves rejoiced.
There was a bronze lamp on the table with a
pleasant softness of light ; a great carved
armchair had been drawn up to the hearth;
and in that rested the owner, with his head
upon his hand.

Above him, over the black marble mantelpiece,
that was a work of art, a dark picture
looked down from its gold frame on him. It represented
a boy of about sixteen, with his hand
upon his whip, fantastically dressed in dark
purple, with lace ruffles round his neck ; a

boy with pensive eyes and soft, full lips,
which were slightly parted, as if with pleasant
thoughts. It was a beautiful picture, and in
spite of its old-fashioned darkness, and of the
old costume, there was enough resemblance
to make it a likeness still  a likeness of the
man who sat now in the carved armchair
beneath, as he had appeared once when
dressed for a fancy ball some thirty years
before.

On the other side of the room, resting
carelessly on one of the bookshelves, was
another picture of a very different sort,
though the rough vigour of the few strokes
which composed it bore as clear evidence of
a master's hand as did the exquisite finish of
the boy with the lace ruffles and the dark,
pensive eyes. This was a snowstorm, a
fierce and whirling storm, one of those
tempests which tear the boughs and appear
to rend sky and earth. The heavens were
black with it, and deep snow lay beneath ; a
struggling ray of sunshine seemed like a lurid
gleam ; below a woman was crouching with
a baby in her arms. Besides the picture
over the mantelpiece, there was no other one
but this. And, indeed, it was one that might
well seem pleasant to the owner of the room.

because it is pleasant to sit in an easy-chair
with the warmth and comfort of the fire in our
bones, and think of fierce snowstorms, and
suffering, and cold, and the outcast feet that
are far off from our doors.

Only it is the attitude of our minds after
all that makes the real meaning of a room ;
an easy-chair may become a stool of penitence,
a soft rug like the stones on which the
criminal wears his knees -we can give our
own meanings to our surroundings after all.
And there is certainly no need for us to seek
far off for a confessional when we can judge
our own sins much more easily in our own
hearts at home.

Mr. Audley, lying comfortably backwards
in his luxurious easy-chair, in the little library
that had been fitted up for him, with the
sound of the flames in his ears and their
bright glow on his face, was, consciously and
comfortably, in his own confessional just
then. For it was with a very distinct purpose
in his mind that he had declared his wish to
be alone. That night he had come over from
Hanorth Hall, where he was an honoured
guest, to his great house at Crasten, which
had scarcely been prepared, and had informed
his servants that he would not be disturbed.

VOL. I. M

This one evening should be given to thought
and meditation ; it might be to a long-delayed
penitence as well.

And, indeed, it might have seemed as if
through the length and breadth of the kingdom
no pleasant nook for penitence could
have been found ; for this was not the great
library with its wealth of mouldering books,
it was a smaller apartment which the owner
had prepared specially for himself;, small
enough to give full effect to the fire's light
and warmth, and to the favourite volumes
which lined the walls from the ceiling to the
floor, save for the one recess over the mantelpiece
where the beautiful portrait hung.
There was a luxurious cosiness in the whole
appearance of the room ; and yet it was not
too bright for penitence either, it seemed
carefully subdued, and the half-drawn curtains
gave a glimpse of the blackness of the night,
and there was the sound of a beating rain
upon the panes. Mr. Audley, lying back
and listening, felt the pleasantness of that
dreaming sound of rain. He was a man who
liked to have such natural music in his ears,
of he could feel the suggestiveness of those
tones of nature that can be almost like
thoughts and memories to us.

And, lying back and resting now in full
view of the picture of his youth, it was plain
that life must have had thoughts and memories
for him. The dreaming boy had become a
melancholy man, with that look of older
gravity upon his face that means far more
than the sentiment of youth. And yet it was
not at all a harsh, repulsive melancholy that
years and time had left imprinted there, the
dark, pensive eyes had their old softness still,
the small, full lips had no hardness in their expression
when they closed ; it was the face
of a man of feeling and of culture, of a
delicate valetudinarian who yet had not ill-health,
a face on which time had inflicted few
grey hairs and wrinkles yet. And the undefined
shadow in its expression only added
a greater interest and charm ; the spoiled
child of fortune had his look of sorrow too.
Perhaps even to Mr. Audley there had been
a sense of poetry in that shadow of sadness
and perplexity which lay far back in the
recesses of his heart, so well concealed there
that it was known only to himself. And yet
he had never dared to wake the phantom, but
had let it exist undisturbed from year to year, a
mystery even to his closest chosen friends.
A determining motive, however, was at work

in him to-night ; that silent secrecy of his Lifetime
should still exist for others, but he
would dare, at last, to be open with himself.

And so Mr. Audley had come to Crasten
Hall, and the room that he called his library
had been prepared for him, for Mr. Audley's
penitence desired a fire and comfort, and an
easy chair, and all things pleasant round. It
was necessary to him also to have the luxury
of utter solitude that his mind might be left
entirely undisturbed.

And certainly there is some great mistake
in our ideas when we imagine that hair-shirts
and whips are necessary to penitence, or the
cold stones that hurt us when we fall upon
our knees. These things are old-fashioned
and unnecessary, and as needless are strained
hands and burning eyes ; it is far wiser for
us to learn not to torment ourselves without
reason  if we can.

Mr. Audley had ordered for himself a
delicate little dinner that his digestion might
have no reason to be disturbed. And he had
chosen to have this meal in the little library
in order that he might not have to change his
room to think. He was wise, for the little
library was the warmest, brightest room, and
the dainty meal added to it an extra charm.

When it was removed at last he drew his
easy-chair to the fire and resigned himself to
thought.

Only, after the young chicken, and carefully
made bread sauce, the little bunch of grapes,
and the pleasant glass of Hock, it was natural
to repose for awhile on pleasant thoughts.
The hours of the night were before him ; there
was plenty of time to think ; and his gentle,
ease-loving nature was afraid to begin too
soon. The book of the past was with him, he
need not turn its pages yet.

So he lay in his easy-chair, as we have seen,
and the beautiful picture above looked down
-on him. In the midst of such stillness it was
natural to dream.

Only it was curious that the feeling of the
picture should be with him in his dreams ;
the dark, pensive eyes haunted him as he
looked into the fire. The boy's face was with
him as if it had not been his own ; it was near
him, by his side, like a presence in the room.
And still with this fancy there moved a . remembrance
too  that night of the fancy ball,
so long ago ; the night on which he had first
heard that his uncle was engaged.

The boy's face  still the boy's face  there
was a strange dreaming persistency in that.

Only it would not appear with lace ruffles or
with a riding whip, it was poorly dressed,
with the look of a village lad. But it had the
dark eyes, and they looked entreatingly at
him. There was something that seemed to
stir in Mr. Audley, a feeling that had been
unknown to him through all his life.

'' He must be seventeen years old," he murmured,
''if it is really true that he is alive
to-night." And then he started as if he had
been revealing secrets, and tried hard to turn
his thoughts to the fancy ball again.

Yes, they were there, the lights, and the
faces, and the dresses, and he could hear even
the clash of the music in his ears, and he was
standing in the corner by the folding doors
how well he could remember it  and by his
side was the lady dressed like Queen Elizabeth,
who was telling him that he need no longer
hope to be his uncle's heir. And still, even
with the remembrance of his indignant pain
and scorn, there came the fancy of the poor,
dark-eyed boy again ; and, vividly as he could
see both himself and Queen Elizabeth, that
shadowy fancy made a third with them.

Oh, this was foolish, absurd ; he must not
dream ! He had come here to be serious,
to repent ; he would begin repenting now*

What a fool Captain Holt would think him
if he could know his thoughts. . . . But he
must repent.

The rain began to beat against the panes.
He cared less now to hear the sound of that.
He shivered a little, and drew closer to the fire ;
only first he looked in a furtive manner over his
shoulder as if some other presence were in
the room with him.

Oh, what an unsatisfied life he had owned
through all his days ; how lonely, and silent,
and without affection after all ! How much
he had been left to himself, even when he was
in his uncle's home at Langen, when he was
the heir, and spoiled, and the servants paid
deference to him. And after that there had
been such an ebb and flow of hope and fear,
the one great mistake of his life had never
been committed but for that.

The fire continued burning brightly always,
but through the half-drawn curtains the night
without was black, only neither darkness nor
beating rain could find their way within.

Oh, he was sorry, he knew he had been in
fault. In his own mind he had never justified
himself. But then it had become so wearing
that waiting from year to year  whilst the
sickly, miserable child seemed neither to live

nor die  his uncle's child which came between
him and his hopes. He had been brought upas
the heir to the estates ; it was not his
fault that he had been brought up like that.
And then in that angry, sickening revulsion
of feeling it was so natural that he should
take all the pleasure that he could. He had
cared for her, the dark-eyed pedlar's daughter
another man would not have married her ashe
had done.

(And here, before his eyes, came, for one
inconsequent instant, the remembrance of a
picture. It was one he had seen years ago
when he was travelling, a picture of a dark
night, and a mullions window all aglow with
the light within, whilst a poor ragged boy
stood without with a rough harp in his hand.)

For oh, it was true that he had intended to
be good to her, he had pitied her so much
after her father's sudden death  the poor old
pedlar who had dropped dead as he passed by
in the road. He had provided her with a home
and means to live, he had come to see her with
no thought but that of help. There had been
no harm in his visits, and he had meant none
to her. It was not his fault, that fierce and
sudden passion which mingled with his disappointment
and resentment, and demanded

to be gratified at once. For he had lost the
hope of all for which he had cared  the old
trees, and the old Hall which had been his
home  It was so natural that he should seek
some consolation after that. And he had
been honest with her; Indeed, Indeed he
had, for he had told her that if he had inherited
the estate she could not have been
his wife.

And then, suddenly, with fierce and startling
suddenness, there rose another scene
before Mr. Audley's eyes the poor room,
lighted by one tallow candle on the table, the
dark face of his wife set hard and still in
death. He turned away hastily from that
scene In thought and memory as he had
turned away from its reality seventeen years
before.

Oh, was it his fault that the poor passionate
dream had fled so quickly, that he had been
unable to forget what he had lost by indulging
In his love ? He had been so young then,
so young, only a little over twenty-six, so
afraid of offending the uncle, childless then
whose heir he was. Left childless a week
before his marriage, he would never have
married if he had known of that before.
And then it was so natural that he should try

to hide his folly ; it would have been such
ruin to him to have spoken ; he had not
strength enough for that. And he had loved
her  indeed he had loved her  he had tried
hard to love her to the end. It was in real
penitence he had visited her at last  that
one last visit so full of anger and of bitterness
! He shrank from the remembrance of
it even now.

Oh, if she had only never let him know of
that knowledge she had hid from him, or if
she had only told him before their marriage
of the death of his uncle's child. It would
have made no difference to her, it would not
indeed, he would surely have kept his promise
to her all the same. But to be taunted then
with his ignorance and her deceit, to know that
from their very wedding-day she had deceived
him, to feel that she had ruined him, and that
he was tied to her  the unbearable throbs of
anger seemed to thrill still through his brain.
He remembered how he had rushed out at
last into the night-time declaring that her
child should never be the heir. And then in
the frenzy of his passion he had returned that
night again, and had found that the lodging
was deserted and that the young wife had
fled.

And after that he dared scarcely remember
more, though the vivid, painful visions rose
too clearly before his eyes . . . the coarse, ill-spelt
letter she had left for him informing him
that she was seeking his uncle's home ; his
own frenzied pursuit of her through a day
and night of snow ; the dark, lonely inn in
which he arrived at length to hear the last
tidings he would ever learn of her. There
was a terrible picture of a room and a white
sheet . he turned away his mind from the
slightest thought of that. And yet he could
not remember any sorrow, only terror and the
thought that she had ruined him even then.
The one Hnk that she had left behind would
ruin him ; his uncle would never forgive him
for the marriage he had made. And then
Came the sudden temptation, and the sudden
yielding too, and he had left the place alone,
as he had come. He could seek his uncle's
home now without terror ; he had neither
wife nor child to vex him more.

Oh, he had been wrong, wrong ! No doubt
he had been wrong. He had intended to repent
of it, and he did repent. But then the
temptation had been so strong, so sudden, a
better man might have been tempted as he
had been. And he had often thought  so

often  that he would not renounce his child,
the child whom he had seen but once in the
lonely inn that night. He would make inquiries
after it ; he would do the best he
could  if he did not venture to claim it, he
might help its life at least. But the years
had passed by, and no inquiries had been
made. He had been so afraid, afraid of
revelations  such fear was in his nature 
there had been no avoiding that. It had
seemed to him so likely that the infant might
have died, it had been born so suddenly in
the lonely inn that night. Now and then,
when once or twice he had thought of
marriage, he had dreaded that shadowy
phantom which might rise up before him
still. But he had never married, and his
uncle had long been dead, and he was beginning
to feel himself an older man. The
years had passed pleasantly and luxuriously
for him but he was an older man  his heir
was aware of that.

Mr. Audley got up then and walked about
the room, a sign of irritation that was very
rare with him. But then the last few days
had known their irritation  those days which
had been-passed in the company of Captain
Holt. Oh, was it not hard that he must leave

everything to this young London exquisite,
whom his uncle had chosen as the next heir
to himself, this dandy who could not even
continue In the army, but preferred to amuse
himself with London life? There seemed to
be nothing about Captain Holt that was not
in some shape an annoyance to Mr. Audley,
who yet found himself forced by circumstances
to be polite to him  his contempt for Invalid
habits, and his want of taste In art, his constant
statements with regard to the management
of estates, his habit even of whistling
out of tune. And he was In no need of
money  the Horley estates would certainly
come to him  and yet It was only of Crasten
and Langen that he talked, as If his object
was to annoy their owner by his words. If
he had taken the smallest pains to be civil to
Mr. Audley  but he would not, he was too
sure of being the heir. And he Intended to
cut down the trees and alter everything at
once ; he would have no pity on old servants
or old timber ; he would spend his time In
London In neglect of the estates. It would
be different If Mr. Audley had a son.

And, suddenly startled again, Mr. Audley's
musings stopped. He drew a sharp breath
like a man oppressed with pain. Oh, had he

the right to hope that his wish might be fulfilled?


Why not ? Why not ? There was nothing
impossible in it after all.

He turned away with a decided movement
from the mantelpiece, against which he had
been leaning, and sat down by the table, and
drew his desk to him. And yet, irresolute
again immediately, he did not open it, but sat
with his elbows on it and his face upon his
hands.

Seventeen years old  the busy thoughts
went on, whilst his dark, dreaming eyes
rested upon the picture by the books.
Seventeen years, that is still a pliant age ;
it is possible to undo the effects of early
training then. And surely he could not be
hopelessly coarse or vulgar  this possible boy
whom he might own as his son ; he might
be good-looking, graceful. . . . Mr. Audley
paused and smiled. At any rate, there could
be no possible harm in discovering if it were
really true that he was indeed alive.

He paused for a moment here, and leant
harder on his desk. His eyes were on the
picture of the snowstorm, but he paid no heed
to that.

Oh ! how terrified he had been when that

anonymous letter came  the ill-spelt letter
that hinted darkly at a secret, that spoke of
a ''yung relation'* whom he might not
*' be pleased to know." It had seemed to
him for the moment as if all were lost indeed.
He remembered how he had wandered beneath
the Langen trees that night, and how the
wind kept moaning of terror and disgrace ;
how after those voices he had shut himself
in his room, and had locked his door before
he thrust the letter in the fire ; he remembered
the ghastly dreams afterwards, in which
it would not burn. And now times had so
changed, and his own emotions too, that the
ghastly terror had become a hope for him.

Yes, it was strange, indeed, that he should
be seated now at Crasten, the inherited estate
which he had never dared to see, because it
was so close to the town from which the
anonymous letter came ; strange, indeed, that
the postmark, preserved from the letter,
should seem now like a hope, like the dearest
hope that life had left for him. If it might
be fulfilled  fulfilled, indeed, at last.

And why not? Why not? There was
every reason that it should. It would be an
act of justice, and of justice long delayed,
an act of penitence in due time fulfilled, an

acknowledgment of past errors, and an attempt
to repair them too. For he had been wrong ;
he would dare to own it now.

'* I could not have told my uncle that a son
was born to me. It would have broken his
heart to know, the poor old man ! He would
never have forgiven me for the marriage
which I kept concealed from him. And yet I
was wrong  I was wrong ; I ought not to
have parted from my child. But it seemed
for the best, and I wished to do the best."

He let his head sink within his hands, and
fell slowly into a meditation too vague and
deep for words. The light of the lamp was
on his face, on the few grey hairs that were
scattered on his head, and on the soft,
thoughtful smile upon his lips ; his eyes
seemed to dream, and to be looking faraway.
And still his lips kept moving, though he did
not know what they said. The rain meanwhile
was beating against the panes ; it
seemed to him as if there was the chiming of
bells within his ears.

'' I have not gone wrong like others ; I
have always meant the best."

A sudden sound at the window  Mr.
Audley raised his head ; to the excitement
of his nerves it was like detection come at last.

He Started up with a shivering thrill of terror,
reached the window in two strides, and pushed
the curtain back, and flung up the glass, and
let in the beating rain. He had not been
mistaken  a boy's face looked in on him.
White, wan, desperate, with dripping hair,
and with fierce, despairing eyes, he saw it
only for one instant as it looked. With a
violent movement he flung down the panes
again, and pulled at the blind, and dragged
the curtains close, and staggered out, panting
wildly, into the room. The next instant
the sound of the bell he had pulled rang
through the house.

VOL. I.

THE PHANTOM AT THE WINDOW.

' An' if you please, sir, there's some men
that wish to speak to you."

Mr. Audley was still standing in the centre
of the room, trembling and panting, with the
violent clash of the bell within his ears. He
did not know why he had rung, or what he
had meant to say ; he had scarcely more self-command
left than was necessary to guide
the hand which he had laid upon the table
near him to support himself. But the feeling
that a message had been delivered to him,
the presence of this strange servant, whom
he scarcely knew by sight, for his own
familiar attendant had been left at Langen
ill, the very dread itself which had laid hold

of his heart, all urged him to do his utmost
to gain some self-command. And yet even
his utmost effort could not enable him to
speak.

'' Are you ill, sir ? " asked the man, observing
this at last.

Mr. Audley struggled for breath and regained
some power for words. They came
from him fiercely, as words will come sometimes
when the effort of speaking has taken
all our self-control.

Who are these men, and what can they
want with me ? "

He felt so ill that he could almost have
given way to tears, but he would not breakdown
before this strange servant who stood
there watching him. The man answered
at once, with the quietness of a trained
domestic who has been taught to observe
in silence, and to give no outward signs.

They have come to speak of a boy as
has stole a horse."

'' And what have I to do with a horse-steamer
? " asked Mr. Audley, laughing gently ;
unless they think I am sharing gains with
him ? " The man smiled in answer, again with
the trained manner of a servant who knows
when he may share respectfully in his master's

mirth ; but he was observing his master keenly
all the time. The Squire was beginning to
recover his composure, he was able to return
to his charming manners now. ' Ah ! well, I
suppose I must see them, even at this hour
of the night," he said ; '' it will never do forme
to give offence at first. But I have not
the least idea what they can mean. Though,
by the way," he added, with sudden fierceness,
as a new idea brought burning blood to
his face, ' there is a boy, a vagrant, who is
loitering about the place. It cannot be for
any good purpose he has come. I saw him
outside the window here just now."

*' Outside there, sir?" asked the man, in
amazement, that almost overthrew his respectful
manner for the time. ' You saw a
lad outside the window there?"

'' I told you so, I think," replied Mr.
Audley, irritably, for he had not quite control
over his manner yet. '' I should like some
search to be made ; he had an evil face. A
young thief, I suppose, who is seeking what
he can get. Be off with you now, and send
those men to me."

The man turned away, but after a few
steps stood still.

'* I ought to have mentioned, sir," he said,

respectfully, " that there is a young woman
also who wishes to speak to you. Her hat
and cloak are being dried before the fire.
She is Miss Harte, the dressmaker, sir, who
lives near here."

"Miss Harte, the dressmaker!" echoed
Mr. Audley, and then burst into laughter ;
she must think there is a lady here. Well,
send her to me and I will see her first.
Place ait dames always," he muttered, as he
turned away and smiled. In his heart he knew
he was glad to delay speaking to the men.

In the passage outside, James, the temporary
valet, pausing to ponder, and rubbing
his bald head meditatively, was of the same
opinion too. '' The new master's like the
rest on us," he said ; '' it's allays the lasses
first." And then he winked a little, and put
his tongue in his cheek. " He speaks very
pleasant like, but I don't quite make him out,
this new gent here," he said.

Mr. Audley, lying back in his chair, could
not at all make out himself. The physical
suffering occasioned by the fast throbs of his
heart, the agonizing throbs that beat in his
pulses and that stopped his breath, was
alone sufficient to absorb his thoughts at
first J in his whole bodily life he had never

suffered so much before, and like a man
unused to pain he became almost alarmed,
as if these new sensations must mean a real
danger to his life. And then, as by slow, too
slow degrees, that agonizing pulsation wore
itself out at last, and it became at length
possible again to breathe, to live, that bodily
terror became only succeeded by another
that made his limbs tremble, and made
his forehead damp. Oh, how could he bear
to be left alone like this? What could that
face be that had looked in on him ?

Rising suddenly, he went hastily to the
window he had left, and pulled back the
curtains and then drew up the blind. There
was no sign, no sound ; the rain had ceased,
the night was black without. Trembling
convulsively, and yet controlling himself, he
raised the window, and put his hand out into
the blackness of the night. But there was no
sign and no sound to disturb the night for
him. Still trembling, he closed the window,
and drew blind and curtain, and returned to
his seat again.

Oh, what had that face been that had
looked in from the night on him ? Had that
phantom at the window been an imagination
of his own ?

For an instant Mr. Audley found himself
confronted by an unexpected terror that
threatened him with a succession of ghastly
enemies, against which even the seclusion of
his home would be powerless to contend. He
found himself shrinking as before some unknown
illness for which no prevailing remedy
can be found. But for an instant only, and
his hope revived again.

*' I am a fool, indeed, after the message I
have had. These men are looking for a boy, a
vagrant, who is loitering about ; he has
rushed in here for safety, thinking they will
not pursue him here. If I find the young
scamp I will have him soundly horse-whipped,
and satisfy their vengeance and my own fear
besides. Only I wish that just at the time I
was thinking  "

He broke off here as there could be heard
a low tap on the door.

The next instant Mr. Audley rose with
instinctive courtesy as a young woman entered
shyly into the room. It seemed as if she
were afraid of intruding or had some special
cause for fear ; she closed the door softly,
and stood still. He did not know her, and
had never seen her before, the young dressmaker
who had been Jim Gibson's friend.

But there are certain times when we can be
grateful for the presence of a stranger, if that
has the power to save us from our too
familiar selves. Mr. Audley looked with relieved
eyes at the intruder, his terror of
phantoms was becoming more distant now.
She stood by the door, a slight figure dressed
in black ; the picture of the boy over the
mantelpiece looked down on both.

If you would please excuse me, sir'*
Miss Harte softly said.

She stood yet by the door as if she did
not dare to move, her black dress hanging
closely to her, her fair hair clinging to her
forehead from the damp. Mr. Audley saw
in an instant that this young dressmaker who
had lately come to the village was not exactly
what is called a pretty woman, but there was
something in her appearance that interested
him in spite of that.

' It's a cold, wet evening," he replied,
kindly, to her. '' You wish to speak to me,
my servant said. Come in, then, and sit
down by the fire."

*' I hope, sir, you will excuse me for one
thing," she answered, blushing; '' I have not

been able to put on my hat again. It is so
wet, and they are drying it by the fire."

'soh, never mind that," he said to her,
laughing. '' Come closer here, and sit by the
fire yourself;" and, a little encouraged, Miss
Harte advanced into the room.

As the light fell upon her he could see her
face more clearly, and even in the midst of
his own trouble and agitation he could not
help being impressed by what he saw. There
seemed, indeed, to most people something
unusual, at least, even if not attractive, in
Elizabeth Harte's thin and nervous face.
She appeared to be about twenty, or a year
or two older ; she was very thin, and her face
was strangely worn. Her black dress was
plain and simple, and her fair hair, save for
the loose, damp rings on her forehead, was
gathered tightly back. Perhaps that which
would impress most people at first sight of
her was the very sharp line of her forehead
above her eyes, which gave her expression a
sensitive, peculiar look. She had the face of
a girl or woman who has seen a great deal of
trouble ; the rude boys of the Sunday School
had not been able to recognize this fact, but
Mr. Audley did.

And there are times when we are grateful for

that look of trouble in the face of a stranger ;
it seems like an unspoken sympathy with our
own ; and in that presence of the lonely pain
of another our own loneliness becomes less
hard to bear.

'' Your name is  ? " asked Mr. Audley
looking at her in a kindly, interested way.
He scarcely knew why he seemed to feel relieved.


'' I am Elizabeth Harte, sir. I have come
to live near here."

'' You wish to speak to me, I think?"

'' Yes, sir."

She spoke very quietly, standing by the
side of the chair he had placed for her ; her
voice had a curious timbre that impressed
it on the ear. Her manner was girlish, and
not without a certain dignity, but the shyness
of it made it somewhat awkward too.

' Ah, yes. Sit down, if you please. Will you
tell me now what it was you wished to say ?"

He looked at her with a pleasant expression
in his soft, dark eyes : Mr. Audley had that
sort of gentle manner to all who came near
him. She appeared to feel its influence, and
replied to him at once.

'' I wished to ask you a question, sir, about
a boy."

Her shyness made her voice tremble before
her sentence was done, and the same cause
blinded her eyes for the instant that she
spoke. Mr. Audley sat looking in front of
him, sick, faint, unable entirely to speak.

'rare you ill, sir?" she asked, observing
him at last with some concern. She spoke
in a very different manner from that in which
the servant had said the same words to
him.

No  no  not ill  not that," he answered,
with impatience. " I am tired, overdone; I
should be by myself to-night." And yet he
was soothed to see her pitying eyes, pale
eyes with the strained look in them that the
eyes of women have who have worked too
hard, or who have felt too much, and with
something in them of a mother's tenderness
as well. '' Come, tell me what you mean,"
he went on, with an effort and a smile. "You
wished to ask me some question, about a boy,
I think? There is a young vagrant who is
loitering here to-night."

I know, sir," said Elizabeth ; " I wished
to speak of him." She went on in a low
voice, and with an effort that brought the
blood into her face. '' I was coming past
your gate in the very midst of the storm 

but it's a shame to weary you, sir, if you're
not well to-night."

'' No, no ; go on, and tell me," Mr. Audley
said.

' Then, sir, since you're so good as to hear
me, I saw by your door in the wall a lot of
men. And they were talking about a boy who
had stolen a horse, and they said he had run
from them, and had sheltered in the park.
And I asked what could make them think he
would dare as much as that, and they held
the lantern by the ground for me to see, and
there on the ground were his footmarks and
marks of blood." She waited an instant, but
Mr. Audley did not speak. 'rand so, sir, I
stood there a while and talked with them, for
the sight of the blood was there before my
eyes, and I felt in me a wish to learn more of
the boy. I thought it seemed bad that he
should be wounded and wandering alone ; I
felt afraid that he might be sorely hurt. And
then they told me it was old Jem Haldan's
lad. I had heard of that lad often enough
before their words. And it was that made
me think I must come and speak to you."
Again she waited for a remark, but Mr. Audley
did not speak. She went on with a still increasing
nervousness, as if she were not sure

if her words were acceptable or not. '' Sir,
it is now some weeks ago I lost a purse ; it
was my mother's purse, so that was a grief
to me. And then I heard a story  I do not
know yet if it is true  that the purse had
been seen in the hands of Jem Haldan's lad.
So when I heard the men here speak of the
boy this night I thought I would follow if I
might see him too. And I thought it might
seem good that I mentioned it to you, and
that you, perhaps, would ask him about it if
they brought him here ; for it is not the
money that I care for, there's little enough of
that, but it is my mother's purse, I have
nothing else of her."

Again she paused, with a longer pause this
time. Mr. Audley began to fear that he must
rouse himself and speak.

'' And I wanted to ask you, sir, not to be
hard upon the lad."

Not to be hard on him ! " exclaimed Mr.
Audley, rousing himself at last, ' a thief and
a vagrant who has stolen your mother's purse !
It's mistaken kindness to be too merciful to
such. I have seen the boy myself only this
very night ; a bad face he had, and he is herewith
some bad design. If I catch him he
shall be horse-whipped ; I have promised

that to myself. And if he has stolen your
purse he shall be put in prison too."

And here he stopped, as again there rose
before his mind that vision of the phantom at
the window  the face with the dripping hair
and the wild, despairing eyes. Oh, had it
been his fancy ; had he imagined that image
of the darkness ; or had he lent to the outward
features of its appearance some nightmare
imaginations of his own ?

The low voice of Elizabeth broke in upon
his thoughts, which were wandering away to
his fears and dread again.

'' Oh, sir, if you'll forgive me for being so
bold as to speak to you," she said, '' I've
heard so much of this boy, and been sorry for
him too. He's been brought up always to be
so wild and rough  brought up like an animal
without a chance of right ; and there's such a
feeling against him now in both the villages,
they say that they'll chase him if ever he
shows his face. And yet I've always heard
of him as quick and active, with so much in
him that might lead him to do well. His
father's been so unkind to him  if he is his
father  I can't help being sorry for him when
I think of that."

Mr. Audley Hastened to her as if he did not

hear ; her words made more Impression upon
his ears than on his mind. He lay back in
his chair with a face that was pale and worn,
and with eyes that appeared to be looking faraway
; and yet when she stopped he made an
effort, and roused himself again.

"" Ah, well, if it is as you say, and you want
to know more of this boy of whom you speak,
I may as well ring for the men and hear what
they have to tell."

His voice came with a low and dreamy
sound ; it seemed to him almost as if he
were speaking in a dream. But he laid his
hand on the bell and rang it as he had said,
and then lay wearily back in his armchair
again. His brain was suffering from a reaction
from excitement, and that absorbed
mood had even a charm for him. He made
no further efforts to address his companion
now, and on her part she made no attempt to
speak to him. They sat opposite each other,
and the fire shone on them both.

A few minutes afterwards there came the
sound of footsteps, of heavy, tramping footsteps
that were only too plainly to be heard ,
and then there was a pause, and then a knock,
and then the door burst open, as doors will
do when a pressure is bent against them

and the handle is not much turned. There
entered a great, brawny man in a coloured
shirt, and behind him followed a little crowd
of men. Mr. Audley was not fond by nature
of shirt-sleeves, or of crowds, or of rough
manners, or rudely-opened doors, but he rose
politely to receive them all the same.

'' Good-evening, my friend's he said.
' Will you tell me what I can do for you ? "

His courteous manner appeared to disconcert
them ; for a considerable time there was
silence in the room.

'well, ye see, master," said the foremost,
pulling his forelocks, 'we've come to speak
to ye concerning a boy. Ye are not ill ? " he
added, with sudden agitation, as Mr. Audley
winced despite himself.

Oh, what was it that troubled him, what
made him such a fool ? He turned away
his head that his face might not be seen,
and met the pale eyes of Elizabeth Harte
again.

No  no  I'm not ill," he said, with an
effort at composure. " There is nothing the
matter with me ; do go on."

The eyes of Elizabeth Harte were still
upon his face. " He is not telling the truth,"
she was saying to herself.

'' It is getting late," said Mr. Audley ; '' do
go on."

And the foremost man of his audience
took heart to speak again. The Squire
remained standing with his hand on his
armchair ; the young dressmaker had risen
also, and all were standing in the room.

'' Ye see, master," went on the foremost
man, whose brawny arms made him worthy of
the station of village blacksmith, which, indeed,
he owned, *eye see wee get a little flustered
like when we come to speak to ye ; but we
have to tell ye about this boy and all. It's an
hour agone since they brought a horse into
the yard agen my smithy as had fallen down
i' the marsh, a poor, lame creature, all
covered wi' mud an' all. An' the men begun
tellin' me o' this boy  Jem Haldan's lad  as
had run off wi' it sudden, like a devil's flash
o' fire, an' had thrown it down i' the very
midst o' the marsh ; an' I had been saying
I'd lick him if I were ye.' An' as we where
talking' on him there he stood by us, as he'd
been brought there by the wind, as one may
say ; an' we turned and we chased him right
away down the road, for we thought it a good
thing to drive such animals afar ; an' he went
wi' more than human swiftness, as one may

VOL. I. O

say, an' there wasn't a man on us could keep
pace wi' that. An' I said to 'em, ' Let be ;
let's try no more to run ; his master below
there he gives him feet to fly.' An' we'd
given o'er, an' was turning' home agen, when
one on us sets to hold his lantern low, an'
there on the ground was his footmarks an'
marks o' blood ; an' we tracked 'em up to
your doorway i' the wall. An' so  an' so 
ye'll forgive me, master, now, 'cause I've got
flustered, an' I donne what to say."

His face had become very red and very
hot ; he took out a blue handkerchief and
rubbed it down. Mr. Audley seized the
moment to sink into his armchair. The
silence had been prolonged before he spoke.

'' I am to understand," he said, 'that you
have not found the boy ? "

'' Why, no, sir, no ; Ave can't get a sight on
him. But he run in here, we're all on us sure
o' that. An' we wanted to ask ye to gi' him
up to us."

'' May I ask what 3'ou will do with him if
I give him up to you ? " There was silence
again, and some confusion in the group.
They looked at each other ; they did not
attempt to speak. The young dressmaker,
standing apart from all, kept her attention

fixed upon Mr. Audley's face. '' Because,
to prevent mistakes, I had better tell you
that you ought to leave him to be dealt with
by the law. If you attempt to take the law
into your own hands with regard to him you
will find yourselves in trouble before you have
done."

Ye mean ter say, master," said the blacksmith,
whom this appeared to perplex, '' that
if a man licks a boy he may be punished like
for that."

*' He may be, undoubtedly, if his offence is
proved."

*' Ah ! but it can't be proved; at least, it's
not like to be. There's not a man as'll speak
up for the lad ; not his own father, and them
as brought him up."

You can say that," broke forth the young
dressmaker, who could restrain herself no
more; "you can make that a reason for
being hard on the lad. Poor, friendless boy,
he has no one to speak for him ! "

They all turned round, and looked at her
where she stood, a black, trembling figure,
with her face aglow. Their surprise held
them silent till a full minute passed.

Ask your pardon, miss," said the blacksmith,
slowly, then, '' but ye don't understand'

these things as men can do. WImmin are
tender-hearted, they don't see straight like
men."

I can see as straight as some of you, at
least," Miss Harte replied, with indignation
in her tone. "Why did the boy you speak
of touch the horse ? There isn't one of you
says a word on that. It was because those
men there went to chase him, because they
have made up their minds he shall not live in
the Den. And what right have they at all
to turn him from his home ? Who gave them
the power to decide on things like that ? If
he did hurt Jim Gibson, as all the village
says, it isn't for Hanorth and Crasten to
punish him for that. Let Farmer Gibson
and each man look after his own affairs."

And I'll look after my horse, if you please,
missus," a burly farmer said ; *' an' the boy
as hurts that he shall be thrashed by me."

'' But there is some truth in Miss Harte's
words," Mr. Audley quietly observed.

His little speech seemed to irritate the
blacksmith, who burst out in a red-hot state
again.

" Ask your pardon, sir, again for interruption'
you, but it's not possible for you to
know this young 'woman as we can do. I

don't wish to say a single word again' a lass
as is quiet, an' is clever at her trade, an' as
all the village knows. But when a young
'woman has had visions it stands to reason as
she can't see so clear. An' it's true what I
say of her ; you ask her that."

'' Had visions ! " Mr. Audley echoed, in perplexity,
and looking, in spite of himself, at
the dressmaker's changing face. His two
words had been only the expression of his
astonishment, but she made a brave attempt
to answer them.

I  I," she faltered, and then her courage
failed, her eyelids drooped, the blood rushed
to her face ; she stood, a pitiable object, exposed
to their disdain.

Ah, poor Elizabeth ! too brave, not brave
.enough. So had she almost broken down once
several years before when she stood by the
public-house with her hand on Jim Gibson's
arm. Her lips began to falter, though she tried
for self-control, and her drooping eyelashes became
hot and wet with tears. Mr. Audley
wished to spare her, and did the best he could.
He rang the bell, and so turned away from her.

'' I will ask my servants," he said, '' if they
have found the boy." And to all the silent
assembly the words came as a relief.

But there was no news ; the boy had not
been found. In gardens and outhouses was
left no trace of him ; the beating rain had
washed away his footmarks if there had been
any, and no sign remained on the grass of
any mark of blood. To Mr. Audley this
came as a relief ; he could scarcely explain
the strange dread in his heart, and he experienced
a burning desire to be alone.

'' I will make more inquiries," he said, 'ras
soon as tomorrow comes. Meanwhile, it is
now nearly midnight, and some of you are a
long way from home ; I will tell my servants
to give you refreshments in the kitchen. I
am glad to be able to exercise some hospitality
on this first night that I have come to
the house. Take care of yourselves, for the
night is dark. Good-night."

The passage echoed again to the sound of
tramping feet. The men went off in tolerable
spirits, the refreshments in the kitchen
having some charm for them. Elizabeth
lingered behind them to make alone her
quiet, respectful curtsey ; she had been
standing apart from the others, like a
punished child. At another moment Mr.
Audley would have wished to detain her,
but the desire to be by himself was too

strong on him for that. She went out ; the
door was closed ; he was alone.

And then he went up immediately to his
bedroom ; he could not bear to be alone in
the Library again. The bedroom was one in
which he had never slept before  heavily
furnished, dark, old-fashioned, with sombre
corners, and with a haunted look. A longing
for air came over him as soon as he was
within, and he went hastily towards the
window ; and then stood still, whilst the
deadly terror stirred his nerves again. With
another feeling upon him, he threw up the
glass and bent out into the darkness of the
night. No, it was dark, the stars where
shining ; there was no sign, no sound. He
put down the glass, and drew blinds and
curtains close. He was alone amidst his
possessions ; he felt very much alone. With
weary, staggering footsteps he crossed the
room, and laid himself down on the great
dark bed, and cried.

ELIZABETH.

And, meanwhile, the dressmaker was finding
her way back to her home beneath the starlit
sky. The storm-clouds had swept away, and
the sky was clear, the wide distance lay black
and indistinct, the cottages had all closed
their windows for the night, and the roads
made faint gleaming tracks beneath the stars.
Above the sky was bright, though not with
the sharpness of a frosty night ; the stars
shone with a quivering radiance, and across
them, like a faint tremulousness, stretched
the Milky Way. Elizabeth left the sleeping
village behind her, and then turned off from
the road ; beyond a little gate was a small
ascent and path, above which a wood of fir-trees
was dark against the sky. She paused

before entering, for the wood was black ; and
then, Hke a moving: shadow herself, was lost
within.

And let us, too, pause once again before
following the wolf's track through the night,
and look back on this other story that has
been dimly shown to us. The life of a dressmaker,
indeed, should not be a visionary
matter ; but we cannot account always for the
emotions beneath the surface of the world.
And it is good for us sometimes to look
beneath the surface, and examine the stuff
of which we all, like '' dreams, are made ; "
it may be that in such knowledge, when carefully
considered, we may find some clue to
the outcast lives as well. It is certain, at
any rate, that she had not known an easy
life, this poor Elizabeth Harte, who stitched
so well ; who lived in a little house at the '' far
end " of the wood, surrounded with paper
patterns, and buttons, and breadths of stuff,
with scissors and work-basket always close at
hand. They had meant many things for her,
the troubled, stitching years ; she was not
the same in appearance, face, or form, as the
thin, very timid, not-to-be-noticed 'prentice
who had stood by the public-house with her
hand on Jim Gibson's arm.

I should like to engage you to come and
work In my house," a farmer's wife had said
to her some months before, '' but then I have
heard some stories that people tell of you.
They say you have dreams, and that you
walk out at night. My master Is very particular,
more than most men, I know. He
likes the lasses to be respectable In their
ways."

Elizabeth made no answer, no attempt to
defend herself. She trembled a little, and
her lips trembled more : she stood up and
curtsied as the farmer's wife retired. But,,
although she had been living there In that
large village or small town for several years,
within a week from that day she left the
place.

And yet the chance words had not been
unkindly meant, nor was It a definite reproach
that they Implied. The village in which she
lived contained some three thousand souls,
and out of all that crowd of human beings
there was not one who in real seriousness
would have spoken ill of her. No, she *' had
dreams;" she was 'half-baked;" that was
all  and these lesser Imputations she could
haVe found strength enough to bear. But
she had the sensitive nature that is scorched

by certain trials, and, in spite of her gentleness,
a silent pride : it was more easy to her
to leave her home utterly than to defend
herself. So she came to Crasten, to the
far end " of the wood, and her reputation for
"visions " preceded her, as we have seen.

How had she, then, obtained that most
unsought-for fame ? The life of a dressmaker
should be free from dreams.

Twenty-three years before the mother of
Elizabeth had died when she was born ; and
the child had been left, an orphan, to the
mercy of the world. She was adopted by an
aunt, who was a dressmaker, a hard and grasping
woman who had no love for her, but who
took her into her house out of ostentatious
generosity in order that she might win the
favour of the daughters of the Squire.

Elizabeth was brought up upon blows and
scanty fare, upon hard work and continued
harsh reproofs. She grew up a thin, colourless,
timid, shrinking girl, not often noticed
even by those who saw her most ; and as
years went on she became even less observed.
Her movements were so silent, her whole
appearance so little to be remarked, that it
was not any wonder she should almost not be
seen. Once, and once only, during all those

years did the feelings within her break into
sudden life ; a solitary and unconnected
occurrence in her existence that evening
seemed, but it was to be an earnest of
future years for her.

When Elizabeth from her Crasten home
looked back on those early days she shrank
from the memory of them as she had shrunk
once from her aunt. It was not in her nature
to bear easily the remembrance of pain, and
her long, sad girlhood was to her an enduring
fact.

Yet there had been some pleasant things
in the course of the dreary years  the blue
handkerchief that her childish fingers had
been so proud to sew ; the books that she had
won sometimes as prizes in the school ; the
sight of Jim Gibson in his young health and
strength, as he stood with her at the garden
gate on the night before she left. She had
been used to hide behind a bush in the early
morning light that she might watch him
passing as he went to his work.

And then her aunt suddenly left the place
with her, and then went to Australia and left
her to herself ; and in the struggle that followed
for work and life itself she had little
time left to remember what had been  the

schooltlme, the harsh reproofs, the dreary
years, or the first dawning of her girlhood's
love.

It was a very strange life that followed in
the town  for though it was more like a
village, it called itself a town  a very different
existence from the past. Her aunt was away
in Australia, where she soon after died ;
Elizabeth was left without relations in the
world ; she hired two rooms, took in needlework,
and kept herself. At first the delicious
relief of being free from restraint was almost
like a dream  when she woke up each morning
she was thankful over that  and even
when worse times came her surprise and
gratitude remained.

Worse times did follow, and were not slow
to come. Her little stock of money melted
silently away ; she worked beautifully, but
no one bought her work. The pangs of
starvation pierced through her relief ; she
tried to think she did not suffer, but she
could not but feel the pain, and she was in
danger of sinking into despair when another
comfort rose.

'' It was one morning when I woke up,"
said Elizabeth, "that I saw it first. I was
sleeping in my bare room, which had no

chair or carpet, only a wash-handstand, and
my wooden stool, and the bed on which I lay.
I lay with my eyes open, seeing the cracks
upon the wall. And then it came  it was a
bright light  it shone through all the room 
I was glad to see it  " and she broke off into
tears.

That was the beginning of her strange
experience, but it was not the whole. From
that autumn morning dawned a new life for
her. The bright light continued to shine
round her from time to time, and with it came
other manifestations too  soft, radiant colours
appeared before her eyes, the sound of low
music made chiming in her ears. She yielded
herself to these things with a new and strange
delight, as to some pleasures that had been
sent to her ; her eyes seemed to grow more
large and full of light ; for a week or two
she lived her inward life alone. Then a
chance sentence spoken to her landlady, who
had come in with a present of meat and beer
to her, and had found her sitting on her bed
with clasped hands and straining eyes, produced
some other results that she had not
foreseen. For the landlady told what she had
heard to one of the '' young ladies " in a
draper's shop close by, who came to Elizabeth

.as a visitor forthwith, and heard from her the
words that have been transcribed above. It
was not to be supposed that the young lady
would not tell others too : Elizabeth had
several visitors before many weeks had passed.
As a natural consequence orders for work
flowed in, and the thought of starvation became
no more to be feared.

There followed for her a month beset with
dangers, and yet one of more power and
popularity than she had ever known. If
Elizabeth had not been by nature conscientious
she could have made an easy trade out
of her neighbours' fears ; but then If her
intellect had not been so refined and pure she
might have disgusted some of those who
came to her. As It was, it was impossible to
have any doubt of her simplicity, of her simple
delight in her visions, and of her gentle heart.
The talk of her began to spread through the
breadth of the little town. A cancerous
pedestal was being raised for her ; in the deep
perils and temptations of the mystic and the
fanatic she would soon have been involved.

And then, on one of those summer days, a
doctor rode through the town, a celebrated
man, who had been a London physician a
year or two before, but who had given up his

practice as his Infirmities Increased ; and who,
happening to stay for an hour or two in the
little inn, heard of this dreamer of whom so
many spoke. At once the old instinct returned
to life in him. He gave up his
journey, engaged a room for the night, and
set out immediately to examine the case himself.
A fee to the dressmaker's landlady
secured all that he desired ; he stole up to
the little attic-room alone. The door was
partly open, and he entered quietly. The
room was bare and clean, and as silent as the
grave. On the bed sat a young girl with her
face white and set, and her eyes fixed on the
opposite wall, dilated, and full of light. He
stood looking at her quietly, and at the room,
then stole softly downstairs again, and left
the house. The next day he sent for Elizabeth
to come to him. She came, unsuspecting,
with a grateful, childish heart, thanking the
Lord all the way for her new life and light.
The old man received her with a severe, unbending
face ; he told her that he had treated
a case like hers before ; he told her that
her visions where a delusion of the brain, and
that If she would save herself from madness
she must submit to him. She listened quietly
though with trembling lips. She did not

oppose herself to his will by word or look.
But the shock of his words had been greater
than she knew, and her health had been
weakened by a life of want and toil ; the next
day she was unable to rise up from her bed.
Through the illness that followed he watched
over her With care, but she recovered her
consciousness to find her visions gone. No
light shone again upon her wall or bed ; there
was no more enchantment on heart or life for
her. If that had been all ; if that loss had
meant no more !

It was nothing to her indeed that the fame
which had spread so quickly had died away as
quickly as it came ; and that in back-parlours
or in corners of the streets she was now
talked of only as a sickly, deluded girl, the
folly of whose imaginations had been clearly
proved at last. Elizabeth had not cared
much for the money or the fame ; she cared
as little for the hard words that were bestowed
upon her now, or for the loneliness that surrounded
her once more. Her beautiful needlework
was becoming widely known ; she had
orders enough, and was not in fear of want
It should have been easy for her to take up
her life again, but, alas ! for her a deeper
loss remained.

VOL. I. P

Alas, poor Elizabeth ! With simple-hearted
faith she had received the light that had
shone upon her life, she had been glad of it
as a gift that had been sent to her. And
now it was gone  vanished  a simple delusion
an affection of the brain  a disease
that treatment and medicine could cure.
What if her other faith should prove also a
disease, if it should fail when she needed it
as the dreams had done ? She would have
once thought it enough to answer that she
believed, but she had believed also in the
light that she had seen. She grew better,
and began to work again ; but the haunting
sadness touched everything she did ; she had
lost her grasp upon all for which she cared.
In these shifting sands of life there was no
sure ground to be felt.

Elizabeth had never received an education
in religion, had never been taught to set her
emotions in order and make them sure with
facts. In this time of ceaseless depression
she studied the subject more ; but her learning
produced no result upon her trouble, she had
lost not the knowledge, but the power of
belief. And then she went to a Wesleyan
class meeting to gain some comfort there ;
but, though she listened humbly to the experiences

of the others, she had no voice for
herself  It seemed Impossible for her broken
life to speak and declare the manner In which
"the Lord had dealt" with her. And then
she went to church and tried to join In the
prayers, but they seemed to her to be words
without a meaning ; she could gain no hope
from them. And day after day she bent still
above her work and resigned herself slowly to
a life without a faith. In this slow, sad
manner there passed some lonely years ; she
cooked her own meals, and stitched, and sold
her work ; other people spoke little to her, or
she to them ; she bent over her sewing and
lived always alone.

And then one day she was going down the
street, with that lonely feeling, and with
some work In her hand, and she saw a child
standing before a general shop. It was a
dirty, fair-haired creature, with a forlorn and
wasted face, and it kept its eyes fixed upon
some toys in the window of the shop. Elizabeth
was moved by an impulse she had not
known before ; she bought a little coloured
ball and gave it to the child. The creature
did not thank her  for children never do 
but it looked at her and laughed with all its
eyes, and ran away ; and she went on down

the street with her work in her hand. But
there had stirred a new feeling in her heart.

From that day as she sat in her lonely
room at work she no longer felt so entirely
alone. She thought of the children playing
in the streets, the dirty children with babbling
voices and laughter ; she wondered if they
had pleasant lives at home, and if the masters
were kind to them at school. And then she
thought of the young workmen going out to
their work in the early morning as Jim
Gibson used to do, and on hot days she
wondered whether they felt the heat, and on
rainy days whether they were obliged to stay
at home. Her bare room had begun to be
full of images ; she wondered within herself
at the interest she felt. No doubt it was the
mother-feeling that had begun to stir in her,
that feeling which has power in some form or
other over the loneliest, hardest woman that
is upon the earth when once the youthful, passionate
craving for personal love has failed.

And, after all, when one is sensible of
failure, and has lost the help of prayer, what
can be better for us than to keep constant to
our work, and from out of the loneliness of
our lives to stretch out helping hands ? When
we have given a sugar-plum to a child we

have not relieved the world, but then it is
something gained if even a child is pleased.
And it was so that slowly, very slowly, as
most things grew with her, there came on
Elizabeth an interest in her neighbours' lives.
She was awkward, and timid, and reserved,
and had little intercourse with them, but she
thought a great deal about them as she sat
at her work ; and now and then she made
some little efforts to reeve, but she became
too easily disconcerted or afraid. Her many
troubles had affected her too deeply, she
did not find herself able to accomplish much ;
but an inward sympathy can count for something,
too. Meanwhile she was said to be
'half-baked," to ''be crazed, poor girl," to
'' be like to lose her wits ; " and her neighbours
in the town had no sympathy for her.
But she had begun to be able to pray again,
and that was a relief.

This, then, was the dressmaker we have
seen, with the worn and silent face, the young
girl who had once laid her hand upon Jim
Gibson's life ; and who now, through the April
midnight, after the storms had passed, was
finding her way through the weet, dark trees
towards her home.

She came quickly through the courtyard
after she had left the wood. The lamp which
she had lighted was burning in her window,
but the door of the cottage was open, though
she had left it shut. She went hastily up toit,
and then stood still ; a sudden terror had
seized upon her, and she could not move.
The room was as she had left it, in its quiet
order, but In the chair by the table a young
man lay asleep. As she stood there trembling
the clock within struck one.

NIGHT IN THE COTTAGE.

Elizabeth remained by the door with a
quickly beating heart. All was quiet ; the
intruder did not move, the sound of his
breathing came softly through the room. At
that hour of the night there would be no
passers-by, she would be left alone till morning
came with him. She began to think
how many hours must pass before the morning
came. She was but a woman, unprotected
and alone.

And yet how soundly he was sleeping, poor
boy ; how tired he must be ! If he had meant
any harm to her he could not sleep like that.
He lay with one arm on the back of the
chair and his head on that, and turned away

from her ; his breathing came softly and
regularly through the room. He must be
really asleep ; he had not stirred since she
came in. Should she wake him ? Dare she
do so, and ask him who he was ?

She came a little closer, with her eyes
fixed on him. He looked so tired and wet ;
the rain had dripped from his clothes, his
feet were bare, and his dark hair hid his face.
His feet had been wounded ; there were torn
rags round them ; she could see that now.
So this was the boy whom all the men had
chased, the wild animal whom two villages
had feared. Why had he come in here, poor
lad? He was tired with the storm; he had
come in to sleep. She went softly up to him,
and laid a hand on his shoulder, hoping to
rouse him so. But he was in a heavy sleep,
and even then he did not move. And then, as
she bent over him, she saw something else 
on the table before him lay her mother's purse.
She started and cried out with sudden surprise
and joy. And, as she did so, all at once his
eyelids stirred, and as her hand dropped from
his shoulder he moved in the chair at last.

It was strange to see him rouse himself
slowly from that heavy sleep, to see the first
faint movements that came as consciousness

began. For he was still very tired ; it was
hard for him to move. He shivered a little,
and then looked slowly round; his eyelids
drooped over his dark eyes as if he could
not wake. And then he caught sight of her,
and started, and tried hard to sit ; up and then
made another effort to rise upon his feet.
She came up to him, and laid her hand softly
upon his shoulder.

'' Your feet are hurt," she said to him.
'' Sit down."

He could not disobey her, but two sobs
caught his breath ; he seemed utterly ill and
overcome with fatigue and pain. She stood
without touching him, bending over him ; he
lay back with closed eyes as if he must faint
away. And then his eyes opened slowly and
looked at her again, and as if by instinct a
smile rose in them. They looked at each
other until a minute passed.

'' You have come here," said Elizabeth, not
knowing what to say.

He answered in a murmur as faint as that
of a dying child 

'eyes; must I go?"

She did not speak, but only looked at him.
And then she bent over him and touched him
with her hand.

*' You are Jem Haldan's boy ? "

His face contracted a little as if it shrank.
But still he looked at her.

'' I'm Geoff Haldane' he answered, in a
weary tone.

Her eyes would not let him go as she
spoke to him again.

'' You are the boy that hurt the horse today.
They call you a wolf in Hanorth and
Crasten too ? "

He made no answer by word or look to that.

'' Why are you here ? "

Tired, so tired," said Geoff, and then he
sobbed.

His state of fatigue, indeed, was terrible to
see ; his young face was haggard and drawn
with it, and he could scarcely move. Elizabeth
had quivered when she first heard him
cry ; she went hastily to him and laid her
hands on his head  it is a woman's instinct in
such moments to give some tenderness of
touch. He dragged his head from her hands
as if they hurt him, sobbing violently. She
waited until he was quiet before she spoke.

'' If I let you rest here awhile you will not
harm me  you will not steal from me ? "
But he only answered by the choking, tearless
gasps ; he could not speak.

'' Lie still a bit, then," she said, as if he had
spoken, *' and I will do what I can for you''

Without hesitating now she went to her
door and bolted it, as she did usually for the
night. And then she attended to the fire,
which had been laid, and lit it, and filled the
kettle with water, and put it on. He could
not move, but his eyes were watching her
silently all the time. She came up then to
him, and took off his wet, ragged jacket, and
put it by the fire ; and then warmed a shawl,
and put it round him, and took an old, soft
cloth and rubbed his wet hair till it was dry.
Then she fetched a pillow and put it behind
his head, for that was so heavy and faint that
he could not move it himself ; and heated
some wine, for she had a very little that
someone had given to her ; and gave it to
him in teaspoonfuls till it was done. And,
after that, she prepared some warm water ;
and, kneeling down by him, she bathed his
wounded feet and tied them up in some old
rags of her own. If any of her neighbours
had been able to enter they would have been
much surprised, but then Elizabeth rarely did
anything from their point of view. Geoff lay
entirely passive, and let her do what she
pleased.

Do you feel any better ? " she asked
anxiously at last, after she had moved him
and his pillow into the armchair near the fire,
and had supported his injured feet upon a
stool. He gave her a little smile with his
eyes, but would not speak.

'' Do you know me at all ? Have you seen
me before?" She was anxious to get some
sort of speech from him.

' No, miss," said Geoff, with an effort,
'' but I've heard of ye."

'' I gave you some flowers long ago ; you
were a pretty child." The last words came
with the memory of the lovely baby-face ;
they brought a slight smile into the dark
eyes of the boy.

'' I'm not pretty now," he murmured, as if
he were amused.

Elizabeth answered gravely, as she looked
at his burning eyes 

'' Not pretty, no ; " and with more anxiety
then, '' you are tired and ill ; have you some
fever, too ? "

'* No, miss," Geoff answered feebly. '' I'm
only very tired. I've the devil's fire in my
eyes ; they allays tell me that."

'' Oh, hush, hush ; that is terrible. You
must not speak like that."

*' I'm to feel it some day," he went on,
with some mischievous delight ; but he was so
feeble still that the few words took all his
breath. Elizabeth stood thinking  what
could she do with him ? He was wan and
pale, and was scarcely recovered yet ; the
rain beat on the window, she could not turn
him out. And yet there was suspicion and
dread of the strange vagrant in her heart, and
she dared not leave him' alone within the
room. She drew a chair to the fire, prepared
to sit down near him ; he lay against the pillow,
faint and weary, without the power to move.

'' I wish I could sleep here for ever  ever,"
he murmured to himself. The words just
reached her ears, and they touched her heart.
With an instinctive movement she bent over
him, as if to see whether his curling hair was
dry, and laid her hands again softly on his
head. He moved and quivered, and then
tears streamed down his face  Elizabeth
would take no notice ; she sat down by the
fire, and bent above her work. When she
had given him time enough to quiet himself
she looked at him again. There was a very
grave, intent expression of melancholy on her
face ; she had been thinking, perhaps praying,
whilst her head was bent.

*' Geoff  may I call you so ? May I speak
to you? " she said. There was the sound of
a very great effort in her voice. But Geoff
answered only by the peculiar listening
smile that could make his dark eyes bright.
'' You have come to me, to my house. I
may not see you again. It wouldn't be right
in me not to speak to you." Her words
sounded like pleading, there was silence in
the room. Fixing her eyes on him, she
spoke again. '' They call you a bad boy 
you have been a bad boy," she said. His
eyelids drooped, but he did not speak a
word. '' You have never tried, you have
never cared to do right." Her voice was
lower still.

'' I've been no worse than others," said
Geoff, in a sullen tone.

'' Do you know where the road on which
you are will lead ? " There was silence again,
but he kept his eyes on hers.

'' If you will hear me I must tell you, I
must, for this one only time. I have to tell
you that God has given you many gifts for
Him  young strength, and quickness, and
beauty  and you throw these things away.
You were speaking to me of the devil's fire
just now  it doesn't burn in your eyes, poor

boy ; It burns your heart." Her voice trembled
and stopped, and she took up her work
again.

I've not had a chance  not a chance 
I've not," cried Geoff. '' I've never been
taught like the others i' the world. If I do
try to be good they donna let me now ; they
hunt me and chase me as soon's they see my
face. I'll kill some of 'em some day, I will,
for that. I've not been so very bad  not yet
I've not. I knocked Jim Gibson o' the head ;
that's the worst I've done. They teach me
worse, an' I'll soon do worse nor that."

You will do worse," she said, low, as she
looked at him.

The murmur seemed like a prophecy, with
the glance of her pale eyes. Geoff shrank a
little, as he had done before that niorht.

'' It isn't my fault ; I'll not answer foret,"
he said. '' It's the fault o' them people as
brought me i' the world an' took no pains to
help me out when I were there. I've the sins
o' my father o' my head an' not my own."

The sins of the fathers," repeated Elizabeth,
in a low, dreaming voice. And then she
rose and took down a great book from a shelf,
and opened it on her knee. ' Geoff, you're
not wrong there j I do not think you wrong.

Will you allow me to read a few words to
you?"

Her low voice had a curious thrill as she
began 

'"'' '' For I the Lojd thy God am a jealous
God J and visit the sins of the fathers tip on
the children unto the third and fourth
generation of them that hate Me''  she
paused a little there  " ' And show mercy
unto thousands of them that love Me and keep
My commandments "

She closed the book and looked up again
at him.

You have never tried to earn that mercy,
Geoff. Poor lad," said Elizabeth, as she put
the book away, ' you have the sins of your
fathers upon your head  and then your own."

She sat down and took up her work again,
and there was a long silence.

*' Where will you go when you leave me ?
What will you do?"

'' I don' know," said Geoff, in a rather less
weary tone, *' I thought I should die when I
got here ; but I'm not so tired now. I think
I shall go to the man as give your purse tome.
Oh, and I meant to tell ye," with a fresh
life in his eyes, ' for that was the reason I
came to ye this night. It's now some months

since Ben Wilde give me a purse ; he said it
had been dropped by the station, and he didn't
know whose it was ; he said there was nothing
in it, an' it didn't matter much. There was
nothing in it when he give it to me ; but there
was yer name a-worked i' silk inside. I didn't
know, not for a long time, whose it was. He
was selling' oranges i' the station when ye
passed him by."

''I remember; there was a man there,"
Elizabeth slowly said.

An' Jim Gibson  he said I stole it,"
muttered Geoff, with a darkened brow. " I'd
like him to know as I didn't ; he's been good
enough to me. An' little Willy  have ye
ever seen little Will ? "

I do not remember him. I knew his
brother once."

He's just like a kitten, Willy," went on
Geoff, without heeding her. '' He's such a
little chap to climb about ye ; an' he's that
courage ye can take him anywhere. I'd like
to see little Willy, if it was only once again.
But I must try an' find out Ben after what
Jim said to-night."

'' Ben Wilde  who took my purse ? Is he a
good friend for you ? "

'rit's like he's not," said Geoff; 'but

VOL. I. Q

there's summit he can tell. He's the worst
scamp, they say, in all the town."

'' Then  Geoff  Geoff  have nothing to do
with him."

' I can't help it' said Geoff, in a sullen
tone again. '' There's a thing he can tell mean'
as no one else can tell, an' unless I'm a
deal wi' him he tells me not."

'' Unless you are with him. Does he care
for you, then ? "

'' It's like he hates me," said Geoff ; '' but
I don't care for that. I'll get the thing that I
want to know from him."

'' And he's a bad man, and you are but a
boy. Do you never feel a wish, Geoff, to be
good, to do what is right ? "

Geoff's dark eyelashes drooped, and he was
silent ; but there was a trembling movement
in his lips.

Do you think of that  do you ever mean
to think?"

' I don' know," muttered the boy, whilst
his lips trembled more, and slowly became
more pale.

Elizabeth was afraid of agitating him too
much.

You are tired to-night," she said ; ' I will
talk no more to you. I will trust you to dono

mischief ; you shall stay here all the night ;
and tomorrow, if you will, you shall have
breakfast with me, and then you shall go.
And now you must try and sleep, that you maybe
well and strong again."

She rose as she spoke and put her work
away. He lay and looked at her all the time
she moved, but he was too tired still to attempt
himself to stir. Only, when at last she
passed by him, after having set the room in
order, and turned the lamp low, and made up
the fire, he raised his head to look with
pleading eyes at her. Elizabeth remembered
afterwards the white face, with the look of an
inward struggle in it, and the dark, entreating
eyes.

My head aches very much  so much*
he said, and she laid her hands on his forehead
as if she were obeying a request. Perhaps
the caress soothed him ; he lay very still.

When she removed her hands she saw his
eyes where full of tears.

I will try  I ought to be better," he murmured,
very low, and then covered his face
entirely with his hands.

She thought it best to pass on and to leave
him to himself. Upstairs, in her room, she
desired to sit and think ; but she was too

utterly exhausted, she lay down on her bed
and slept.

That deep, intense sleep broke into painful
dreams at last. It seemed to her that she
was compelled to go on following, and following
some wild animal, some shadow, which
kept escaping from her grasp ; that she was
pursuing it into a valley full of shadows where
every footmark became a trace of blood. And
then the conflict became more visible and
more tangible, and she was clinging with her
arms to the boy she had seen that night,
straining to hold him back from something,
she knew not what, some invisible horror that
made her blood feel cold, whilst he tried to
break from her into the shadows and stains
again. It seemed as if she were straining
every effort to speak to him, to hold him
back, and yet no sound would come to her
lips, though she struggled hard to speak ;
and, as the agony became too great to be
endured, her arms seemed to loose their
clasp, and she awoke. She woke, hot and
trembling, with her forehead wet, although
the room was cold ; and, instantly rising, she
.went hastily downstairs in the dim light of
the dawn. It seemed to her that it would bea
relief to see the vagrant boy again.

Had there been, indeed, invisible wrestling
in the room that she had left ? It was very
quiet ; the door was open, and the morning air
came in, the morning light shone on the wet
leaves of the trees. The lamp was out ; the
purse lay on the table ; the shawl she had lent
had been folded carefully and placed upon the
chair ; everything was in order and as she
had left it, but the visitor of the night before
was gone.

That afternoon, with a strange sense of
trouble in her heart, and the scene and dream
of the night throbbing in her brain, Elizabeth
set out to walk towards the Fens. There
was a heavy presentiment on her, though she
could not tell what she feared ; she must
make one effort to save Jem Haldan's lad.

ELIZABETH AT THE FARM,

That was, indeed, an afternoon to be long
remembered afterwards, and for other reasons
also besides that which had drawn her from
her home.

For it was, first of all, a lovely day for a
walk. The April sunlight was bright now
that the storms had passed ; the Fens lay
blue in the distance, the nearer fields had
some warm spring colour, and there were
white clouds in the bright blue sky above*
When one has been accustomed to bend over
'' mourning orders," to take few holidays,
and to live alone, there can be something
truly refreshing in the splendour of the
earth ; and Elizabeth had been so busy all

the morning, had set her rooms in order, and
had patiently stitched for hours ; it was very
unusual for her to feel so free as this. Her
eyes were heavy from her late hours last
night, her bones still aching from the cold
and wetting then, but she was giving herself
a holiday for once ; and, though her errand
of mercy lay anxiously at her heart, it was
impossible not to have some disposition to be
glad. And yet she felt some inward trembling
she was going to Jim Gibson's home.

It was, perhaps, some thought of this that
had guided her, half ashamed, to turn back
again to the glass before she left the house ;
for there was a glass on the wall that her
customers used sometimes, though it was
not often that she looked in it herself. It
was a thin, worn face that gave her glance
back to her, with the look of mocking companionship
in the pale eyes with which a
lonely woman greets her own image now and
then  she made a Httle, sorrowful grimace at
it, and then she smiled. After all she had her
work to care for, and was not that enough ?
She turned the glass with its face to the wall
and left the house.

Wide, blue Fens, green, warm earth, the
sense all around of the bursting growth of

Spring  there is an uplifting feeling in such
things as these. Elizabeth stood on an
eminence, and looked at the country stretching
on all sides, whilst the air breathed freely
upon her tired eyes, and then thought with
renewed pity of the wanderer of last night,
who had begun to slip from out of her mind
again. He was so young, poor lad, and yet
so wild and lost ; she must venture to go to
Jim Gibson's home for him.

With determined footsteps, and yet with a
beating heart, she turned into the lane towards
the Fens. There were some birds singing in
the trees, and she stayed to hear them sing. . . .
Oh, would the Gibsons think it strange of her
to come ? Would he think it strange, think
her crazed as others did, perhaps ? Poor Jim !
his face was scarred ; it was so long since
she had seen him. . . . She went on for a few
steps and then stood still again, her face
burning as if on fire with memory now. She
had never seen him since that one night, long
ago. Had he thought her bold then, forward ?
Had he laughed at her folly since ? What
would he say to her now for seeking him
again ? She had never thought to see him
after that night had passed ; it was the
knowledge of her departure that had given

her courage then. Oh, was she doing right
to seek him now ? . . . One instant she waited,
and then went on again. In her dream of
the night before she had struggled to save
the boy; and Jim had been once his friend;
she must do her best with him.

Oh, beautiful lanes, and soft, warm air of
spring !  in spite of aching fatigue she could
not but feel revived. The great ditches, unguarded
by hedges, were full of water now ;
the sun shone in them till they seemed like
paths of light. And then on one side of her
was an enormous hedge, with points of buds
that were breaking into life, and the whole
wide country appeared almost to glitter with
the sunlight. Only the lanes were long and
were heavy to her tread, and the hours of
the daylight slowly wore away.

The light was beginning to sink in the
west when she stood by the wall that bounded
the yard at last. Before her rose the chimneys
and the back part of the house ; the evening
glow was already on the stacks, the yard wall
with its heavy stones was by her side, and
there on the top of it was a little boy.

Elizabeth remembered well afterwards the

appearance of the child. He seemed to be
ten or eleven, and was a slight, childish
thing ; his fair hair was distinct against the
brightness of the sky. He sat with his back
to her and his arms upon his knees ; he
appeared to be looking at the bright sky
beyond. As she advanced towards him he
began to talk ; the pretty, childish babble
came pleasantly down to her ; and, surprised
into interest, she stood still to listen. Afterwards,
when she remembered that evening,
she remembered the story too.

'' I will tell you a fairy tale," said Will, 'if
you are good." He was addressing himself,
and supposed himself alone. '' It is a very
nice story, and you must learn your lessons
well. There was once a boy  a nice boy  "
and here he stopped.

'' He was a very good boy ; he always learnt
his lessons ; he used to go to school wi' me.
(This is a story, so I needn't tell the tooth.)
An' he never got stood up on the form, he
was too good for that. An' every night,
after he come home wi' me, a little yellow
cloud used to come down for him : an' he
would go sailing', an' sailing' away into the sky ;
an' the sky it was always bright, like as it is
now.

' An' then, one evening, he told me all he
saw, for I said it was bad of him to go like
that, an' he says, ' Will, you don't know, I've
such fine times up there. There aren't no
lessons, an' no one has the stick ; an' the
mountains they're like gold, an' there are the
biggest woods ! An' it 'ud be like fairyland,
but there are no fairies now.' An' I
says, ' Is it heaven ? ' for I short it must be
so ; but he says to me, ' Oh, no, it can't be
that, 'cause heaven it's the place where the
goodness people go, an' boys as goes to school
they're not good enough for that.' An' then he
takes me with him  I did like that so much.

'' I had been a good boy that day, the
master said, an' then in the even' the cloud it
come for me. An' it was so nice up there in
the big woods ; an' I looked down an' saw our
house such a way below. An' there were
very nice boys up there who played wi' me.
An' they let all the people i' Rose Cottage
come up too ; and there were nuts, an' almonds,
an' cakes for all who were there, an' I did like
the games an' the cakes with sugar sweets.
An' father did love vie as he used to dos

His voice trembled and stopped ; it became
evident the fairy tale was done. Elizabeth
came up beneath him by the wall.

' Are you little Will?" she said, as she
looked up at him. But the boy was
frightened, for he had thought himself alone.
With an exclamation he slipped off the wall
at once, and Elizabeth was left standing in
the road. With a little sigh she went on to
the house.

The evening light was upon Rose Cottage
and the stiff beds in front ; the garden-gate
stood open, and she went in at that. A
girl's voice was singing inside the house.
And then the front-door opened, and a young
man stood there, a man who was broad and
strong, with a great scar on his face.

*' Will told me  " he began, and then he
stopped. He looked at her with half-recognizing
eyes ; they stood facing each other by
the door.

' I am Elizabeth Harte. Do you know
me, Jim ? " she asked.

She had no need of an answer, for his face
grew red at once.

' Surely, and I'm main glad to see you
again," he said, after that pause, as he put
out his hand to her. '' Come into the house
now, Lizzie, and rest a bit. The mother's
there, and you can have tea with us."

It seemed like a dream to Elizabeth in her
nervous state, the great farm kitchen with its
roaring fire, and the beam across the ceihngr
from which the flitches hung. And Mrs. Gibson
was there, in her cap with purple ribbons,
engaged in preparing tea ; and black-haired
Liz was knitting in the great rocking-chair,
whilst Will, in a dark corner, devoured a
picture-book. There seemed something
bright in this look of family life.

And then the father came in from his ride,
and Liz went at once to take off his boots for
him. He appeared tired and surly, and
growled that his horse was lame ; but on
being told of the visitor he came and held
out his hand : and then he turned to his
wife and discussed some things with her.
Elizabeth sat and watched from her corner by
the fire.

Jim had put her into one of the wooden
arm-chairs on the hearth after his mother had
received her and asked her to tea. He stood
close by, as if to look after her, but a little
behind her, so that she could not speak to him.
Liz had returned to her knitting, and seemed to
be lost in thought ; and Will's fair head was
bent over his picture-book. Elizabeth was
tired, and not sorry for a rest ; she sat and

looked at the firelight on the walls. It was
so pleasant to see this family life.

'will," roared the farmer, ''do you hear
your mother speak ? "

Indeed, Mrs. Gibson had not raised her
voice, so the little boy might have found an
excuse. He got up with a start, and dropped
his picture-book. Elizabeth was surprised to
see how pale he was.

"You've forgot the milk, Willy," his
mother gently said.

"Go, get it at once," roared the farmer;
we'll have no tricks fro' ye."

The blue milk-jug was high upon a shelf,
and the little boy climbed upon a chair to
reach it down. He seemed very nervous, and
trembled in arms and legs ; the seat of the
wooden chair was slippery, and his feet
began to slide. Elizabeth rose at once, but
her assistance came too late ; the blue milk-jug
fell with a crash upon the ground.

Oh ! the awkward, tiresome boy," cried
Mrs. Gibson ; " I can't think what's come at
him now, there's no good left in him."

The milk was flowing in a white stream on
the ground, and Liz want down upon her
knees to mop it up.

It's his conceit, an' his reading', an' his

disobedient ways "  Mr. Gibson, on his part,
did not seem at a loss. '' He's been brought
up too kind ; he ought to have had the stick.
Ye'll have no supper to-night, Will ; perhaps
ye'll attend to that ? "

'' Yes, father," murmured the little boy, in
trembling tones. He stood with his fair head
drooping, and tears upon his cheeks.

'ran' there ye go, crying' like a baby,"
called out his father then. " Be off wi' ye,
for I canna bear the sight. Crying' for supper,
to think o' the greed o' that ! "

Will slipped off willingly, and quiet was restored.
Liz went out of the room ; the farmer
and his wife continued their discussion ; and
Elizabeth remained in state in the arm-chair
by the fire. But she was no longer occupied
with the charms of family life; there was a
rising as if against injustice in her heart.

'' The child was not crying for his supper,
but for the angry words ; and those are hard
enough for all of us to bear."

'eye think that, Lizzie?" asked a voice
behind her chair.

Elizabeth had been scarcely conscious that
she spoke aloud, and she had forgotten that
Jim was near to her. She blushed deep red,
and for a moment could not speak.

'* Do you not think so, Jim?" she softly
asked.

' Me ? Not a bit on it," the young farmer
said. '' Men must 'a skins like leather if they
mean to fight in life. Will nun go out i' the
world and take the knocks he gets."

'' You say so because you are strong, and
strong people bear the pain. But your little
brother is weak, and he has not strength for
that."

Then let him go learn the strength,"
answered Jim, with contracted brows. '' We
don' want a bit o' sugar-candy for the first
shower to melt. Will '11 get no pity as soon
as he is old, let him do wi'out it now that he
is young."

'' But that is hard  it is hard," the young
dressmaker began ; but she could say no
more, for Liz called them to tea. As she
rose from her seat it came into her mind that
this was the first real talk she had ever had
with Jim.

The farmhouse tea was a warm and pleasant
scene. The light of the flames on the
big kitchen made a cheerful glow ; the great
loaves and dishes of bacon and eggs had a
look of plenty ; and there was a glass jug of
thick cream since a visitor was there. And

Liz looked so handsome sitting by the table,
with some yellow hairpins In her masses of
black hair ; and the farmer was cheerful, and
Mrs. Gibson quiet ; and poor Will was wise
enough to keep away. Perhaps they were
none of them disposed to pay much attention
to their visitor, but they included her In their
conversation on the past. And for Elizabeth,
If she was shaken in her views of family life,
there was still no question that voices can
have a pleasant sound. She would go home
and think of all this  in her lonely home.

"And so we'd be very pitiful always,
Lizzie ? " said Jim.

She was alone with the young man in the
great, warm kitchen now, and he sat in a
wooden chair near her on the hearth ; for
she had been advised not to start until the
moon had '' riz," and, though the others dispersed
to their duties after tea, Jim had
lingered near, and had then sat down by her.
He had begged his mother to take the lamp
away, and there was only the red glow of the
firelight on the walls.

Elizabeth looked down, for she felt that he
looked at her.

VOL. I. R

' I don't know," she said. ' I am sorry
for folk sometimes."

His voice was lower when he spoke to her
again.

'* An' are ye ever sorry, Lizzie, for yourself
? "

Elizabeth's face had a glow like firelight
now.

"' I don't know ; why do you ask ? " she
shortly said.

'* Ye look so thin, Lizzie. Will ye not tell
me more ?"

"There is nothing to tell," she answered,
after a pause. '' I have a quiet life now  you
know I always had. I have had my troubles.
I  keep them to myself."

''Ah 1" Jim said, quietly ; and as quietly he
smiled.

Her answer had been repelling, yet it
seemed to please him too. He drew his
chair closer, and anxiously spoke again.

"An' there isn't nothing, Lizzie, as I can
do for ye ? "

The honesty of his tone was unmistakable ;
no doubt he recognized that he had a debt
to pay. She had not thought he would
remember that so long, and felt her colour
deepen, for she was surprised and touched.

But a new idea made her speak more quickly
now.

** Oh, yes, there is, Jim, there is," she said,
quickly, Hke a child. " There is someone I
do want you to help for me."

*' An' who is that ? " he asked, looking
fixedly at her.

*' You know him," she said, with difficulty ;
'Jem Haldan's lad."

'' What, Geoff? " he asked, drawing his
breath quickly in. ' Oh, yes, I know him, of
course ; I know him well." He waited an
instant. ' / have reason to know him now'

And it is for that reason I have come to
you," cried poor Elizabeth, hastening to speak
again before her courage failed. " Oh, Jim,
he is lost and wandering ; they won't have
him in his home ; they drive him from the
villages, and leave him no place to rest ; and
he came to me last night, so tired and wounded,
like a lost animal that has been hunted
down. I couldn't but pity him." And then
she stopped.

"There's some animals," said Jim, 'folk
find it best to kill."

Elizabeth looked at him, and said no more.

'' Ye think me hard, Lizzie. Ye don't
know Geoff like me."

' But If you had seen him," said Elizabeth,
'' all wet and dripping, with more misery in
his face than a dead face can have ; if he
had come to your home as he did last night
to mine  "

An' if he had," said Jim, '' I might not 'a
felt like ye. But I'm not surprised as ye
felt so, all the same : the women all feel so
an' talk like that o' Geoff." He waited a
moment with a bitter smile. '' He's not
like me ; he's a handsome chap, he is. . . .
An' if that seems hard to ye," he went
on, after a silence, " I'll open my heart so as
to tell ye one thing more. When I see the
look in the eyes of our Liz sometimes, an'
know as she's fool enough to think o' that
fellow still, I feel inclined to ask God to send
him one like himself as'll do hurt to his face
as he did once to maine. I'm afraid of her
an' him  I can say no more 'an that. But
I won't stop ye speaking, Lizzie, if ye want to
speak to me. Ye shall tell me what happened
last night ; it'll happen do good to me."

So Elizabeth told him as they sat together
in the firelight, with its red glow upon their
faces as they talked. The kitchen remained
etnpty and no one interrupted them ; in the
great warm room was a silence that made it

less hard to speak. She told him of the
scene of last night, and of Mr. Audley's
trouble, of her lonely walk home, and of the
visitor she found. And she added a few-words
to describe his desolate condition,
until at the remembrance of that her eyes
grew dim. And then, in one final effort to
soften her companion, she told him the words
that had been said of himself and of the
purse. There was a long silence in the
kitchen after she had done ; Jim sat with
his scarred face on his hand looking straight
into the fire ; his face was thoughtful, but he
Would not speak to her. The sound of the
opening door made him raise himself at last.

''I thank ye, Lizzie," he said; '' I'll think
o' that."

And Elizabeth understood that he would
say no more. She rose to meet Mrs. Gibson,
and did not look again at him. For a while
she stood talking with Mrs. Gibson and
with Liz, and then got on her bonnet and
prepared to go ; and they stood at the door
to watch her as she left the farm.

The cold, streaming moonlight was on her
homeward walk, and there were dark shadows
on the wide expanse of Fens. In the kitchen
she had left Jim sat for a long while by the fire,

with its red glow upon his troubled face. And
Mrs. Gibson gave Will a private tea ; and upstairs
in one of the bedrooms, face downward
on the bed, poor Liz lay indulging in passionate
dreams of Geoff. Where had the wanderer
of the night before found shelter now ?

Alas ! in no sheltered home was that
needful refuge found. For bright lights were
burning that night in the club-room of the
*' Bishop," and with laughter and boisterous
singing its guests sat there and drank. And
there, in the midst of that fuddled, drunken
crowd, himself more than half-intoxicated,
with burning eyes and face, sat Geoff, with
the readiest tongue and the quickest wit of
all, and yet with the sense of shame eating
always at his heart; for he was ' the son of
a gentleman," he had not forgotten that.
Alas ! that the revelation had come too late
to save, that with the remembrance of it
burning in his heart, with the memory, too,
of the kind hands that had so lately touched
his face, he could yet be attempting here to
drink care and shame away. The touch of
those kind hands had scarcely delayed his
course ; the cold and the lonely night had
driven him here to rest, and the feet of the
wolf were in deeper darkness now.

IN THE Drawing-room AT THE HALL.

And meanwhile the great drawing-room at
the Hall was bright with lights, and there at
the piano Miss Selina sat and played. Her
fingers touched daintily the great instrument,
which had only arrived that day ; the wax
candles shone on her fair hair and face ; her
muslin dress and bunch of red ribbons had a
pretty, modern look amidst the antique
furniture of the dark, old-fashioned room.
And, whilst the soft music softly came and
went. Captain Holt, close by her side, would
whisper gentle words ; and Mr. Audley, from
his place by the fire, would praise her too.
There was a pathos in her music that it was
not wont to have ; the great dark room or
the presence of her lover may have been

unconscious spells ; she went on playing as
if hearing music in a dream. For it was all so
pleasant, and Wentworth was good to-night.

For, oh, Captain Holt had never told her
so much before, or confided so freely to her
his schemes and plans. As they drove together
In the evening to the Hall he had even
ventured on whispers about their wedding-day.
He was so pleased with this house,
which would one day be his own, there were
so many improvements he wished to make in
it ; and he was so clever always  knew so
much. And they might live together here
some day  some day.

Softly the dainty music came and went ;
the light of the lamps shone on exquisite ferns
and flowers ; and the dark portraits on the
walls looked down from their frames. The
long disused room had been set In order now;
it had once possessed a magnificence of its
own, and, though its colours were faded, it
had an ancient splendour still. Ah ! how
many young brides, triumphant bridegrooms
this place had known! What glowing hopes
there had been within its walls !

Captain Holt, reclining easily in a comfortable
easy-chair, with the pretty form of his
betrothed before his eyes, and with the ripple

of her music in his ears, felt disposed to
stroke his moustache caressingly and feel
content. This was really a fine place now,
and might be finer if only a little capital and
common sense could be brought to bear upon
it; he was so slow and behind the times, this
poor old Audley was. And yet it had been
pood-natured in him to ask them both to
dine ; but no doubt he found it dull here in
this great house alone.

And, no doubt, in this thought at least
Captain Holt was right. Mr. Audley had
found one lonely evening quite enough.

He lay wearily now in an arm-chair on the
hearth, putting up one delicate hand to shield
his face, without looking often at the others
in the room. And yet there was a sense all
the time of their presence in his heart, though
from that feeling he turned away his mind.
The sight of the young lovers conveyed no
joy to him ; a better looking, better educated,
better dressed, more cultivated, and more
refined human being than this man, who was
his heir, he could not but be sensible at the
same time of all the advantages that youth
and strength can give, of the fact that this
young captain, on whom he looked down,
could hold him in contempt. Therefore, Mr.

Audley preferred to sit where he could not
see Captain Holt, and to let his indolent glance
rest rather on flowers and ferns ; he dreaded
emotions, and turned from conscious strife ;
he had been used to drifting from trouble all
his life. Only whilst, almost dreaming, he
reclined still in his chair, with the sound of
the captain's whispers always in his ears,
there rose in his own heart a whisper that he
had not the power to quell  it rose like a
little murmur  ' My son, my son ! "

Oh, if he were to stand up now before
these two who claimed possession and tell
them that they need not be so secure  he
had a son. How overwhelmed and confounded
in the midst of their expectations
they would be ! Oh, he would begin to make
secret inquiries ; there was no need for haste.
The day might come when he could so stand
and speak to them  it might, it might. . . .

Mr. Audley lay back and dreamed with a
smile upon his lips ; the light of the wax
candles in the drawing-room shone on the
ferns and flowers ; far off the lights in the
public-houses of the town were burning too.

THE Coming OF THE SPRING.

Morning after morning succeeded to night
and the spring months slowly passed  the
hedges became sweet with violets, the woods
white with anemones, little blue speedwells
grew all over the fields, and children made
themselves happy with buttercups and cowslip
balls. And so peaceful looked the
villages of Hanorth and of Crasten, so softly
did they harmonise with the undulating
country, so gently did the blue smoke rise
from their quiet chimneys, that no stranger
looking at them and the spring beauty of the
land, could have believed that any wild
animal need be ever hunted there.

Farther off there was better walking than

before in the lanes towards the Fens, and
Will started willingly in the bright spring
mornings for school. For there in the ditches
grew the marsh marigolds, with their thick
stems and yellow, brilliant blossoms, and he
liked to fill his hands with his beloved
*' butter-bumps." Then from Rose Cottage
itself, whose site was high, the surrounding
country looked no longer bleak and bare ; by
slow degrees the hedges became powdered
with hawthorn blossoms ; and, though the
trees were not high, they were very green and
fresh. It was a fine spring, and the crops
were growing well. And Liz seemed more
 content-like," though she was quiet and
dreamy still ; and Jim was better and
stronger, and had gone out to work again.
If only, thought little Will, he could hear
some news of Geoff !

No, the spring days passed onwards, but
there came no news of him ; the warmth of
the early summer was on the Crasten lanes,
but he was no longer amongst the lads at
play, climbing for birds' eggs or leaping over
the stream, the boldest and swiftest in movement
of them all. The little lad lingered
often in fields where they used to meet, or
beneath the shade of Sir John Horley's trees

at Hanorth, or near the stone-pit after the
Sunday School ; he dared no longer attempt
to seek his friend, but in the spring brightness
it seemed as if he must meet him again. The
story of the chase by night had reached Rose
Cottage, and in Will's tender heart was a yet
more terrified pity ; whilst they spoke of the
lamed horse he thought of the marks of blood.
But Geoff was so quick and active, he had
been able to escape ; and, oh ! surely he
would be coming back some day.

No, there was silence now beneath Sir
John Horley's trees, and beneath the trees of
Mr. Audley, at Crasten, where Geoff had last
been seen ; he made no further attempt to
return to the villages again. There were,
indeed, stories that he had been seen in the
town ; but, though these murmurs reached the
people in Rose Cottage now and then, no one
in the town or country dared inform Farmer
Gibson of the fact. And, meanwhile, in the
village boys went to work and school ; and
careful mothers mended the clothes of their
offspring, which climbing for birds' eggs had
a tendency to tear ; and the workmen tramped
from the town in the evenings with tired
longings for their supper and their beds ; it
was not wonderful that the wanderer should

be forgotten. Only there were still a few old
companions who missed him at their play  it
was even now but a short while since he had
gone.

In the dark evenings a few lights shone
like stars through the thick trees of the Hall.
They shone from the windows of its master,
for he had not left the place ; he seemed unwilling
to leave it, though none knew why he
stayed. He kept much to himself, and
passed his time alone  his servants talked
of him in the village, but they had not much
to tell. And men coming back in the evening
from their work looked at the lights of
the Hall through the trees, and told each
other that the Squire had not departed yet.

Far off, across the waste, was another lioht
which no one cared to see ; only now and
then some belated wanderer, finding his 'way
with difficulty over the marshy ground, half-scared
by the dark windmill, which had a
ghostly look at night, would turn his eyes
towards the red point which showed where
Jem Haldan's cottage stood. He did not
care to go nearer, no one dared approach to
that. The young men had returned to their
father, so it was said ; excepting only one,
who had not returned again.

So the spring days brightened into Hfe,
and warmth, and beauty ; the sunlight flashed
on the streams, flowers bloomed in the
marshes and by the hedgerows, and even the
roads to the town were sweet with may. It
is in the town that we must wait for the
wandering footsteps now  the town with tall
chimneys, smoky streets, and red and dingy
roofs ; the manufacturing town, where men
had careworn faces, and women nursed babies
in narrow alleys, and dingy sparrows fluttered
about the black gardens, and heavy carts
moved with jolts in ill-paved streets, and
lights shone out in the public-houses in the
night, whilst over all the human work, arid
sin, and poverty stretched always the vastness
of the sky. Ah ! but in those who
wander with vagrant footsteps on the
thoroughfares there is not always the power
of looking upwards, whilst the downward
paths are many and are very quickly found.
Let us take one life from the thousands,
and look on it whilst we wait.

BEN WILDE IN THE MARKET-PLACE.

Ben Wilde stood on a Wednesday morning
by his stall In the market-place.

It was a bright May day, and above the
deserted market-place the sky was blue, with
a few little white clouds that a soft wind
drove across It, and a mellow sunlight that
made the roofs and houses bright. But Ben
was not one of those who pay attention to the
sky.

Nor could it have been said of him that he
was much of an ornament to the empty
market, as he stood leaning against his dingy
stall of gingerbread and sweets, a solitary
figure within the railing of the place. He
wore a crushed hat that had been pressed
hard down upon his head, and an old greasy

coat which wanted mending at the sleeves,
whilst round his neck had been thrust a
frowsy red handkerchief, which hung loosely
there, confined by a dissipated knot. The
face above was red and weatherbeaten, with
small eyes close together, and an unpleasant
scar, gained outside a public-house, which
had injured its left eyebrow ; in another conflict
he had lost one of his teeth. Ben had a
small figure, with very bandy legs, and he was
rarely able to keep steadily on those legs even
in morning hours ; for, in addition to certain
habits unfavourable to regularity of balance,
he had a little curious shiver and a continual
cold. No amount of stimulants had proved
effectual over these ; and if you had stood
watching him for the space of only a few
minutes at a time you would have observed
him get through more sniffs and shivers than
might readily be believed.

Such was Ben Wilde then, a well-known
figure there, leaning wearily in his greasy
coat against his stall, ready to put out his
trembling hands towards the sweets, and
looking with beery eyes upon the surrounding
town. And yet he did not see one of the
houses on which he seemed to look ; his
thoughts, such as they were, and heated by

VOL. I. S

beer as they were, were far away  like a
young, romantic girl, Ben was in the land of
dreams. He had drunk more than usual
this morning, which might, perhaps, account
for that.

And no doubt, also, the enforced idleness of
his condition allowed more time for thought ;
for the market-place, as I have said, was
empty then. In an hour or two more when
twelve o'clock came, and the children were
loosed from school, a motley crowd would be
swarming through the place, climbing on the
railing, and surging round the stall. Ben was
not fond of the children, though they brought
pence to him ; they bawled and were mischievous
and stole his sweets sometimes,
and he was glad when the men who passed
in carts cut at them with their whips. But
he depended upon them for his profits all the
same ; and, leaning against his stall, might
be said to wait for them.

The market-place opened from the High
Street, and formed a sort of square, in the
midst of which was a great piece of asphalte,
railed in, much worn, and with shallow pools
in it to-day from last night's rain. Ben
stood alone in this, leaning against the railing,
near where the High Street was. At the

other end of the enclosure was the Exchange
Arcade, a great building which had offices
above and shops on either side of its ground-floor
; an archway admitted those who
desired to see or buy. And, as you passed
leisurely through, the sound of music was
always to be heard, for there was one shop  a
collection of miscellaneous articles  which
possessed a musical owner and a small
American organ with a deep, rich tone ; and
by that the artist would sit and play for
hours, whilst behind him, and beneath a gas-lamp,
propped on a chair, was an old mellow
picture of the Madonna and the Child. On
this May morning, whilst Ben leant, half-drunk,
outside, the music came floating out
from the Arcade to him.

On either side of the square that was
closed by the Arcade where shops  shops not
so select, it must be understood, as those
that were within. These were chiefly in the
eating and drinking line, and rather more
specially in that of drinking, for the benefit
of the workmen who passed by at noon and
night. On the right side as you faced the
High Street were a public-house and a wine
and spirit stores, an eating room, a barber's
shop, and a public-house again. On the left

were a ' Food and Beds ; " a shop for sewing-machines,
chiefly of the Cleopatra order,
with an elaborate representation of the asp ;
another public-house ; a butcher's shop,
another public-house, and, nearest the High
Street, a shop devoted to chemical manufactures,
whose windows contained a ledge
on which were heavy bottles with great brass
tops, and full of a whitish substance, labelled
'' Bones." Crossing all these things at right
angles was the old-fashioned High Street,
which might be said scarcely to possess two
corresponding roofs, whose red tiles and
dingy slates, unequal in height, colour, and
construction, were alike only in their evident
marks of age. These things were there, and
had been there for many years ; and Ben,
leaning against his stall, whilst the ends of
his red handkerchief floated loosely in the
wind, was a familiar form as well.

What was he thinking of as he leant idly
there, sniffing and shivering, with his shoulder
against his stall, his little eyes peering
vacantly, and his lips twitched in a smile?
It was a curious expression, an evil look, he
had : if there had been anyone near him to
peer beneath his hat, the crushed hat that
had an evil appearance of its own, there

would have been something to arrest attention
in his face. And yet, old, shaken, broken-down,
drunken bit of humanity that he was,
in spite of his twitching lips and peering eyes,
it seemed scarcely possible there could be
any schemes in him, any visionary hopes
such as happier lives can have. He leant
against his stall, and sniffed, and shivered,
and smiled, and peered out into the distance,
and was still.

The morning wore slowly onwards ; there
were not many passers-by. Now and then
some old acquaintance would give to Ben a
nod or greeting as he passed ; some carrier
going down the High Street in his cart ;
some man out of work or idle, with a pipe in
his mouth, and an unsteady, lounging gait ;
some bold-faced girl of the factory order,
with a crumpled, faded dress. Ben appeared
almost too absorbed to attend to these ; he
seemed to be lost in thought  a most unusual
mood for him. And after a time even
these few greetings ceased ; a sharp shower
came on, and for awhile the streets were
clear. Ben had the solitude that he desired
at last ; he hung some sacking behind his
stall, and sheltered there.

Some minutes afterwards, when the shower

was over, and he had pulled down the sacking
from the green roof of his stall, and looked
around for customers now that his sweets were
again exposed to view, he became aware of a
solitary individual who was standing close to
him. He stood outside the raiHnor of the
market, leaning against it and looking downwards,
so that his long black eyelashes quite
concealed his eyes, a lad of about seventeen,
in ragged clothes, and with a wasted, hungry
face. A certain look of unrest in his features
and lips might serve to show that he was
paying more attention to surrounding objects
than might have been supposed from his
motionless attitude and downcast eyes ; and
though he did not look up at Ben he was
turned to him. The seller of sweets stood
still ; there came a change in the expression
of his face as well.

For a full two minutes they remained thus,
motionless ; and then the boy slowly raised his
eyes. It seemed as if he had known all the
time that he was being watched, for as he
lifted his eyes he kept them fixed on Ben.
The older man was quite still, observant, as
quiet as the serpent that seeks to fascinate
its prey. His steady gaze and his silence
appeared to confuse his companion. There

came a quiver in the lad's frame and then an
impatient movement of his hips ; and then,
as if he could endure no longer, he broke
out into speech.

' Well, why do ye look at me ? Can't ye
speak to me ? Have ye forgotten me, it's
like?" he cried.

*''Ee  ah  no  I ain't forgotten 'ee," Ben
answered, slowly, and with successive sniffs.
** I seem to a-know 'ee, altho' 'we've got so
thin  Jem Haldan's Geoff ! "

THE WOLF IS HUNGRY.

Well, an' if ye do know o' me, as ye say
ye do, what sort o' word ha' ye got for me
now at all ? " cried Geoff.

They stood looking at each other, the old
man and the boy : Ben blinking in front of
his stall, with some vain attempts to arrange
himself with composed dignity upon his trembling
legs; the lad leaning against the railing
with the instinctive grace of attitude that did
not desert him even now, even now when he
was so thin that his rags hung loosely on him,
and the bones of his face seemed almost protruding
through the skin. It was a hungry
face, with defiant, hardened eyes  the village
hero was strangely altered now.

'' Ah, 'ee are thin, 'ee are thin," murmured
Ben to him.

"An' what if I am, what's that to do wi'
ye?"

It hasn't aught then, laddie ; ye tell the
truth. An' now get out o' the way ; I want
to sell my sweets."

Geoff looked at him, and his dark eyes
flashed fire ; but he remained leaning against
the railing as before. There was a quiver
that was not to be controlled in his lip when
at last he spoke.

Ye diana treat me like this on the night
I saw ye last."

'' It's like I didn't, lad ; there 'as cause ensor
that. They liked 'ee I' the Bishop, and
let me stay for 'ee. An' I wanted to see an'
speak to 'ee myself', I did. But' ee thought
yersel' too gran' a lot for me, ye wouldn't stay
wi' me, so I let'ee go. Go then ; am yer living,
I'm quite content wi' that. Ye be so clever,
ye'll get no good fro' me. Why, 'ee be too
gran' a lot to speak to me, 'ee be."

Geoff remained leaning against the railing,
but his proud lips quivered more. The insulting
tone of his companion seemed to touch
him to the quick ; but he was so forlorn and
hungry, he had no power left for pride. And

yet there was a dangerous expression still in
his dark eyes.

*' I gave 'ee some boots," said Ben, " that
night 'ee came ; an' I took 'ee to the Bishop
an' introduced 'ee there ; an' I made 'ee a
good offer as e'er a feller made, an' told 'ee
I 'ud make a gentleman of 'ee an' all, I did.
But, no, 'ee wouldn't listen ; 'ee were too
gran' for me."

'' I'd have listened to ye fast enough if we'd
spoken fair," cried Geoff. '' I'll listen to
ye now if ye tell me what ye know. But ye
won't tell me a word, ye're a deal too sly for
that. I nun live wi' ye, and help ye everyday,
an' bind myself' i' writing, and I dunno
what beside. I won't bind myself' to ye, I
tell ye that. I'll know nothing rather; I'll
sooner starve and die."

There was a short silence, whilst their
glances met.

' 'We'd better do that then, m' dear," said
Ben.

He spoke with a twitching smile that rose
like triumph ; the young man's evident condition
gave meaning to his words.

'' If I could trust ye," cried Geoff, with
misery in his tone ; ''if I could only trust ye
to be honest Hke wi' me. It's not so pleasant

for me to live like this  I've gnawed my
fingers this morning' for I could bear the
pain. But what can I do ? There's none'll
gi' me work ; an' I won't go to the workhouse,
that 'ud kill me more. I've roamed the
country round, an' can get no work to do.
If I could only trusted ye ; but I know ye
too well of old. Ye mean to do me a hurt if
ye get me i' your power ; ye're not forgot
what ye got through Jem an' me."

It was a curious instinct that made Ben
hide his face ; he turned away as if to arrange
his sweets. The motion served his purpose,
it concealed his distorted lips ; and when he
turned round again his face looked as before.

'' An' why should I try to hurt 'ee, m'
dear? " said Ben.

Look here," cried Geoff, with an oath
that need not be transcribed, 'eye needn't
think as I'll bear that tone fro' ye. The day
'11 come when I'll take yer old throat atween
my hands, and throttle out from ye all ye're
got to tell. I'll warrant when that's the case
as ye'll speak fast enough. Ah, ye may well
shiver ; that day ye'll shiver more."

Ben had, indeed, retreated to his stall, as
if with some idea of finding protection there.
Leaning against its green post, and shivering

somewhat, he peered out anxiously and
poignantly at the lad. But Geoff did not
attempt to come close to him, he leant against
the railing in his old position ; and, moreover,
there was a cart going down the High Street,
so help was near.

Ye'll be ready enough to speak to me
that day," cried Geoff.

' ye," cried the old man, putting out

his trembling hands, ' I'll be withered
myself' ere I give help again to 'ee. Go an'
starve, an' be hanged, an' take yer face fro'
out m' sight  I'll see 'ee crushed under cartwheels
an' not put a hand to help. 'Ee
might be a gentleman, but 'ee's too low for
that ! "

Geoff leant against the railing, with his
eyes fixed and absorbed : Ben remained by
his stall, peering anxiously at him. The cart
going down the High Street was passing near,
and the driver shouted out to the boy to move
away. But he was too lost in his own meditations
to attend ; and the driver, enraged,
struck at him with his whip. Geoff felt the
cut of the lash on his neck and started up,
his face white, and his eyes blazing, and
'sprang up at the cart. He was too late, the
horse had been startled by the crack of the

whip, and had started off at once ; and,
moreover, the reaction from that momentary
passion came on him, and he was too weak
to bear easily the emotion that it caused.
Trembling, choking, and almost fainting, he
leant upon the railing for support.

'' Ah, 'ee sees what 'ee gets, 'ee sees,"
shouted Ben, in high delight ; too blind himself,
in spite of long years of evil and
cunning, to understand all the danger of
such madness as he had seen. Geoff understood
it better, he had known that torment
before ; and since he had struck Jim Gibson
he had learnt to dread himself. Moreover,
he was too physically weak to bear the pain
of wrath ; a wiser instinct than had been
governing him warned him to move away.
His companion would not let him go without
a parting word.

'' 'We'll be coming' to beg o' me some of
these days," he cried ; " but 'ee needn't be
hoping to get any crusts fro' me."

Geoff turned round upon him with a white
and desperate face ; and Ben, in his terror,
shrunk up behind his stall. When he dared
to raise his face again the lad was gone.

Yes, gone ; in the empty market no sign
was left of him. Ben peered timidly down

the High Street; and then at the asphalte, on
which the pools were deeper now, and then
glanced up at the chimneys, and even down
beneath his stall. There was a feeling of
perplexity and disappointment in his heart,
mingled with a strange terror that he had not
felt before. He hired a boy, who was passing,
to keep his stall ; and went into the pubHc-
house in the High Street, and had a dram.
After that he came back, and sat upon his
stool, whilst the noontide sun shone and
glanced upon the pools.

'' He'll come back to me, an' I'll ha' my
will," the old man said. 'ran' at least he's
sore pinched an' pined : I'm glad o' that."

The sun was bright, and many footsteps
were passing down the High Street, and
through them all he seemed to hear the tread
he longed to track. But Geoff had slipped off
down a side-street, past the Arcade, down a
dingy alley, and down some steps ; and thereon
the lowest step, with a bare wall on either
hand, he sat crouching, hungry and desolate,
whilst tears rolled down his face. And still
he saw ever before him the old man's trembling
hands, and those trembling hands seemed
to draw him back once more.

Oh, he had passed through such cruel,

bitter days since that early morning when he
had escaped from the cottage of the dressmaker
 such weary seeking after employment,
such lonely, hungry hours, such painful
trudging on his still wounded feet, such scornful
repulses when he dared to ask for work.
He had tried so hard to bear up against it
all, to attempt to believe that something
good must come at last. And now as he
sat with tears rolling down his cheeks he
seemed to himself to have no strength or

CD

spirit left.

Oh, he was hungry, so hungry, he wanted
so much to eat. He would feel so much
better if he could only have some food. And
yet he had no spirit left to go and seek for
that ; he could only sit still and cry like
a punished child. And then in the midst of
that prostration there was something left to
dread, the maddened feeling that overcame
him now and then, like the physical craving
that tore his breast sometimes.

And oh, it was needless to struggle, he
must put an end to that. He must pawn or
sell his jacket and get some food or drink.
He would beg, steal, attack someone, do
anything to get rid of this torture  he would
set rid of it ; he would never starve to death.

Only  only, if he could help it, he would not
go back to Ben.

Worn, hungry, desperate as a famished
animal, and almost as untrained, there could
even yet then be something that Geoff
Haldan dared not do ; could yet be one
action before which even now he shrank.
He dreaded to place himself in the power of
this man who was his enemy, in the grasp
of the old hatred that had been helpless for
so long ; he was afraid of the older cunning
which he had wit enough to feel, the very
quickness of his instinct only served to rouse
his fear. * He may speak me well, but he
means to turn on me. I'm not so old as him,
an' I donne all his ways." Since his interview
with Jem on that night, which seemed
far away, he had been confirmed in the belief
that Ben had some real information to bestow ;
but it was also upon his mind that this might
prove dearly bought. '' He can't do nothing
without me or he'd surely be working for his-self.
If I wait for awhile he'll come down
a bit to me." Cunning against cunning  that
seemed the best course to him, for the younger
man had his subtle devices too.

Oh, how nearly he had placed himself in
the power of Ben that night  the night after

the morning on which he had fled from the
cottage of Elizabeth, escaping by desperate
efforts from the only one on earth who seemed
to be his friend. It had not been better with
him in the pubic-house that evening, with
Ben's evil face so close to him, in the midst of
drunken men. And yet he had almost chosen
only once more he found himself afraid.
Geoff dreaded any constraint of good or evil,
as an untamed animal might dread to be in
bonds  he had refused entirely to make
promises " i' writing;" had quarrelled with
Ben in the morning on this subject, and had
find.

And now as he sat, desolate, on the lowest
step, with a bare wall on either hand, alternately
mad or depressed with pain and craving,
with tears standing on his cheeks that he had
not concerned himself to dry, there was one
remembrance still that came with a sense of
soothing, the thought of a gentle voice that
had spoken once to him. That was not the
voice of Elizabeth ; he seemed to shrink
from that ; it was the remembrance of the
young lady who had stood by him on the
snow. In his almost fainting condition she
appeared to be near him now. He could
see her, hear her whispers ; oh, she had been

VOL. I. T

good to him !  So good, so pretty  and tears
fell down his face.

''If I could only find anyone to care forme!"


He lifted his head suddenly as his ears
caught the sound of distant footsteps, and
raised himself on the step on which he sat.
A boy had entered the alley at the further
end, and was coming down towards him, a
small boy with a cap on his head and a little
switch in his hand. As he came closer Geoff
recognized little Will.

THE WOLF FINDS A PREY.

There are some moments that come to our
worst times with a soothing, healing influence,
that have the power to touch us when we
seem beyond the reach of help. And if anything
could be expected to have such power
upon the outcast, it would be this sudden appearance
of the child he had loved.

Geoff sat upright on the step, with his
heart beating so fiercely that his breath came
and went. With an instinctive movement he
put up his hands rapidly and smoothed his'
hair ; he drew his ragged jacket together,
and fastened such buttons as there were ;
and still, as he did these things, he kept his
eyes fixed upon the boy. No doubt it was a
tender instinct that was stirring his heart :

and yet, alas, poor child, that was a dangerous
meeting too.

Will had been given a holiday by his
father's wish that he might do some shopping
that was needed in the town, and he had
been driven into the town in a neighbour's
cart. He was full of his commissions and
his importance, and held his head very high,
and now and then he patted his pocket that
he might be sure the purse was there. The
sight of a vagrant sitting upon the step did
not affect him much ; he only put his hand
on his pocket to keep his treasure safe. He
looked well, and bright, and sunburnt, for he
had been much out of doors that spring, and
yet a little delicate creature in spite of that.
As he came onwards he was talking to himself.

'' I must make haste," said Will,  and get
my shopping done."

So he reached the steps, and began to
mount them without looking round.

'' Willy, don't you know me ? Will ! '

The little boy started, and looked round and
down. He had reached the third step now,
upon which he stood. Below him, and looking
up at him, was the vagrant lad.

'' So ye're forgot me at last, Httle Will?"
he cried.

It was Geoff, it was, this haggard, wasted
boy. These shining eyes and black curing
lashes could belong to none but him. Will
stood still, trembling, without the power to
move. But now Geoff raised himself a little,
and laid hold of him, and drew him softly down,
Will submitting to his grasp as if he had been
without any strength ; and then, when he had
drawn him to his side, threw his arms round
him and held him close and tight, and then
stroked all his hair and stroked his face.

Willy ! Will ! Will ! I've got ye again,"
he cried.

Willy, released a little, nestled close into
his side, with a contented look like that of a
kitten when it purrs. He possessed himself
of Geoff's hand and held it softly, and then
put up his other hand and touched his face ;
and then he remained quiet by his side, but
always leaning against him as before. And
after a time, in the softest tones, he spoke.

*eye don' look the same; ye look differ,
Geoff," he said.

'' I've been sore an' hungered," said Geoff ;
'' I be sore hungered now. But I've glad to
see ye, Willy, i' spite o' that."

He paused for a while, as a new idea
touched his mind.

*' Will, I be sick wi' hunger. Do ye think
ye're a coin or two for me ? "

'' Oh, I haven't, Geoff, I haven't," cried
poor Will, in distress. '' I haven't no money
of my own, or I'd give it all to ye. And I
haven't no money of father's ; it's all spent in
the shops. An' if I had I mustn't give it 
he gets so angered now."

Geoff said no word, but pressed the boy
closer to him ; and sat for a while silent,
holding him to his side. He was remembering
inwardly what old Jem had said, and he
had not the least doubt of the truth of the
words of Will. And yet, although he was
certain that the boy had suffered for him, he
was considering all the time if it might not be
possible for him to obtain Will's parcel now.
Alas ! for the cruelty and selfishness of pain
and hunger, for the pangs that kill affection
and drive gratitude away.

'' I'll sell the clothes off my back if I can't
do this," thought Geoff. " I must eat an'
drink summit, I must an' will."

Will," he began, in a trembling voice,
and then he stopped. And Will looked
round with his innocent eyes at him.

Oh, he could not do it, he could not, not
even to save himself ; he could not kill the

trust in the eyes of little Will. He dared
not propose anything which might make that
trustfulness less ; he was so afraid of seeing
a change in the childish face. And yet it
would be easy enough, after all, to devise a
tale  a tale of a lost parcel that no one could
suspect. Only he could not propose it 
dared not mention it to Will. He miorht take
it, perhaps, without the knowledge of the
child  but then that might be discovered,
even that he dared not do. As his thoughts
surged restlessly his breath came in heavy
pants.

'' Be you ill, Geoffie ? You do look strange
and thin."

'' I may well look thin," answered Geoff ;
' I've pined eno'. I've been amongst the
villages on th' other side the town ; and I've
tried all my might to get some work to do.
But it's no good, that isn't, they'll have
nought to do wi' me. I've shep' where I could,
an' ate what I could, an' then come back.
I'll not go in the works, an' be shut up an'
laughed at there ; but yet I donne what else
is left to me. I'd like to go back to old Jem,
but he's sold my little bed ; an' the people o'
Hanorth an' Crasten won't have me there
again.

'' There's Ben, he knows summit," he went
on after a while ; " but he donna deal fair an'
tell me what it is. An' I've been afeard o'
him sin' the day he stole fro' Jem ; altho'
he's a drunken creature as don't know what
he does. It was my evidence as got him i' the
prison, I be right sure he's never forgotten
that. He'll do me a hurt if he can, I'm sure
eno' o' that ; but he'd best look to himself,
I'll try be a match for him ; only I must get
summit to eat, or else I'll die. An' now we'll
sit an' play here a bit, Will, an' then we'll

go."

Will nestled closer, and Geoff pressed him
with his arm, looking hard at him with his
dark, shining eyes. It was a singular part of
his strangely mingled nature that he was able
to assimilate himself with those he met ; with
Ben he had been cunning, with Elizabeth
passionate and penitent, with this childish
nature he could be childish too. He pulled
Will's hair softly, and twisted his fingers, and
drew little faces with Will's pencil upon the
boy's thumb-nails ; and then, collecting his
imaginative powers, he told a fairy-tale to
him. It cannot be said that he told it very
well  Will possessed the gift of telling a
story in a greater degree himself, but this the

little boy was not critic enough to know. It
isoas good to be with Geoffie ; there was
nothing so good as that. They both fell
into silence when the fairy-tale was done.

'' We must go now, Willy," said the outcast,
with a sigh.

Oh, I must find Mr. Smith ; I be going
back wi' him."

Not yet, not yet for a bit ; bide you for a
while wi' me."

Geoff was not entirely influenced in this
desire by his affection for the boy. He had
a strange belief that he could secure some
food from him ; and he was not willing, therefore,
to let him go. The fact of the parcel
pressed still upon his mind, and he could not
resist the desire to keep Will in his power.
'M be so hungry," he said with a heavy
sigh''

An' what is it like to be hungry, Geoff?"
asked Will.

"' It's worse nor I thought it was, it is,"
said Geoff. '' It's like a pain an' a wishing,
an' it tears me so sometimes ; it seems to get
down to the roots an' tears you there. Oh, I
must 'a summit to eat  I must  I must."

He rose to his feet as he spoke, and Will
got up with him. The boy had a little red

tie ; Geoff noticed that. He beoan thinking
that it might be possible to. pawn that it was
new.

'soh, look, Geoff," cried Will; 'there's
gentlemen coming down."

Geoff never knew what instinct it was that
made him crouch down at once, and draw
down the boy with him. It may have been
the dislike to being seen that comes sometimes
with pain, but there was no definite
feeling at the moment in his mind. He kept
listening to the footsteps as he crouched, but
he would not raise his head. They came
nearer, nearer ; they began to descend the
steps. And then a gentleman's voice spoke
in sharp, commanding tones 

'' Come now, you lads, make room ; don't
idle there."

Geoff raised his head a little as he heard
himself thus addressed, and in that instant he
saw the man who spoke to him. He was
young, handsomely dressed, with the erect
carriage of an officer, and with self-assurance,
too. He did not trouble himself to look at
the boys again, but went hastily on, pushing
by. them as he went. A man who appeared
to be a groom came after him. It was just
as they passed that something seemed to fall ;

and the quick eyes of Geoff at once perceived
a purse, a handsome article, of sealskin, and
thickly clasped. He put out his hand and
covered the purse with that. And even as he
did so the men turned round on him.

My purse is gone ; they have taken it,"
the foremost cried.

Geoff started to his feet, and pulled Will up
with him. In that instant he was not quite
certain what he would do or say. But the
men had turned on him  they were advancing
 the impulse came. Without staying to
consider an instant he turned and fled. He
dragged Will along with him  they went
quickly up the steps. They could hear the
men behind, pursuing and shouting, too.
And then they became aware that the way in
front was barred : some men were collected
there, assembled from the street. An indescribable
horror laid hold on Geoff  the
dread of a prison, of contempt, and of disgrace.
He was afraid to keep the purse, yet
he dared not let it drop ; he was impeded by
his companion, and could not run very fast.
And then it came into his mind that Will was
well known in the town, that no one would be
willing to do much harm to him. The temptation
came in an instant, before he had a

moment in which to think. He thrust the
purse into his companion's pocket and let go
his hand; and then, released from all hindrance
and fear of being taken now, flung himself
desperately on the men who barred the way,
forced his way through them, and rushed off
down the street. If the wolf had escaped
from them his prey had not. A few attempted
to follow ; the rest laid hold of Will.

WILL HAS HARD TIMES ONCE MORE.

An' what 'a ye bin a-doing' on like, my
lad?"

He looks as whitish as if he'd sure be
hanged."

''Ah, an' he'll come to that too, he'll get
his deserts at last."

Will heard these words with a curious, unreal
feeling, and with the same sensation felt
the grasp of heavy hands. His heart was
beating so much that he could not think  he
had been with Geoff; they had been running ;
Geoff had left him alone. Oh ! what did they
mean by taking hold of him ?

This is one of the boys," a voice said,
who took my purse."

Who took my purse ! Oh, what did
that mean to say ? Will was all trembling,
panting, unable to understand. He was at
the top of the alley, some men were holding
him ; the officer and his groom had come up,
and stood close at hand.

'' We've one of the two of 'em. Captain,
sure enough ; an' no doubt he can tell us where
the other is."

'' I can't, can't! Oh, let me go. I want to
go home," cried Will.

His despairing struggle made the cap fall
from his head, and the sunlight fell on his
fair hair and upturned face. It was then that
a man near him called out in his surprise.

Why, it's Will Gibson it's little Will," he
said.

''Oh, Mr. Smith," cried Will, 'will you
take me home with you ? " He tried to stretch
out his arms, but they were still tightly held;
he was almost crying with the relief of discovering
a friend at last. Mr. Smith, on his
part, was impressed with the appeal ; he was
a village grocer, who had come into the town
that day.

There's something wrong here, I think,"
he said at once. " I know this lad, and I
know his father too. They're people respectable,

and well-known in the town ; I think as a
many 'ud answer for the lad."

'' He is a thief, or a companion of thieves,"
replied Captain Holt. '4 will have some
news of my purse before he goes ; or, at least,
he shall prove himself innocent, if he can.
Turn out his pockets, he need not object to
that."

But the men who held Will did not seem
inclined for further movements, impressed in
spite of themselves by his innocent, childish
face. Moreover they knew Mr. Smith, who
was visibly discontented ; they were beginning
to fear they had themselves made a mistake,
and but for the officer's presence would have
let go their prey. There followed a pause,
during which all stood in a group, the roughly-dressed
workmen holding the fair-haired boy,
the groom behind his master with a demure
and watchful look, the handsome young officer,
and the big village grocer with his perplexed,
good natured face. Mr. Smith, on his part,
was not afraid of Captain Holt ; his business
was flourishing, and he was in his Sunday
clothes.

If the lad is honest he needn't be held,"
he growled.

' I don't say he's not honest, confound

you ! I say my purse is gone. Let him turnout
his pockets himself, and prove his case."

Will's face was burning with hot, indignant
shame ; but he looked in a childish way for
direction from Mr. Smith. The grocer was
fuming, but he was a man peaceably disposed,
and his immediate wish was that the boy
should be released. He spoke in pacific
tones, though with great reluctance too.

'' Well, turn 'em out then, my lad ; there
aunt no harm i' that."

For all his gentleness Will was hot with
indignation, as well as confusion ; his father's
son was being treated as a thief. But his
first impulse, now as always, was quietly to
obey. He put a hand in one pocket, and
drew out his handkerchief, some bitten toffy,
a few marbles, and a piece of string ; he put
in his hand carefully again and produced from
its deepest depth his one big marble, which
lay secluded there ; and then he put his
hand into his other pocket, and with an innocent
movement drew out the purse. For one
instant he held it up that he might see what
it was, surprised himself, and wondering what
it meant ; and then at the sound of a sharp
exclamation from the rest he let it fall.

They all stood together at the top of the

alley ; no one spoke a word. The May sun
shone down on them ; the purse lay on the
ground. No one was even able to move topick
it up.

'' Well, I hope you are satisfied now' said
Captain Holt.

He was delighted, triumphant, his acuteness
had been justified, and he felt pleased
with himself ; and yet it must be owned that he
felt surprised as well. Will stood and trembled,
not knowing what to do ; the burly grocer
surveyed him, and scratched his head ; and
the groom came from behind his master, and
looked quietly at him.

'' It's a bad business that the lad should bea
thief and a hypocrite'' said the Captain 
*' so young a boy."

'' I am not a thief," said Will, with his pale
face scarlet now.

But how came my purse in your pocket ?
Tell me that."

'' I don't know who put it there; it wasn't
me."

He spoke with such childish earnestness,
and in such a simple tone, that there was no
one present who did not believe his words.
The Captain twirled his moustache and appeared
exceedingly annoyed ; the groom

VOL. I. W

picked up the purse and restored it once more
to him. And now, in a tone of relief, the
big grocer spoke again.

'' If you'll count your money, sir, I've no
doubt you'll find it right. And you'll let the
boy then, perhaps, go home wi' me."

His words were not well-timed, and did not
produce the effect he desired.

The money will probably be right, I have
no doubt of that. But that does not alter
the fact that the boy has had my purse. I
had better call a policeman ; that will teach
him his lesson well."

Will gave a little cry, and there was a stir
amongst the rest.

There was another boy with him, sirs
one of the workmen said.

That does not alter the fact that this one
has had my purse. Do you \i2,xyou? Do
you intend to accuse your companion of the
theft?"

Will remained silent, trembling, looking
round as if for help. He was beginning to
remember who had been his companion now.

'' Confound you, cannot you speak? Tell
me now, who was the boy ? You have had
some low companion whom you are ashamed
to own."

Will was still silent, trembling more visibly
now.

I vow you shall speak, or I will make you
soon. Am I to understand that you accuse
the other boy? "

'' No, sir," faltered Will, with an effort that
made him cry. He was thinking so much of
Geoff's danger that he could not realize his
own.

The officer seemed to be unmoved by his
tears.

It's a clear case, a very clear case," he
said. '' The purse was on this boy, and he
has no one to accuse. Ash, go down the
street, and see if the police are near."

But at this Will threw himself on the groom
and seized his hands.

'' Oh, don't put me in prison, don't put mein
prison, sir ! " he cried.

The man was moved by this appeal which
had been made to him. He had the look of
a superior servant, and had a grave, silent
face.

''Ah, sir," he said to his master, speaking
for the first time, '' you've got your purse all
right. Take the boy to his father, Captain,
or let him go."

Have the goodness to meddle only with

your own business," Captain Holt began ; but
was stopped In his remarks by a piercing cry
from Will.

''Oh! don't tell father; put me i' prison
first."

'' It would be a good thing," said Captain
Holt, '' for his father to be told."

Perhaps it would not be too much to say
that this remark was entirely suggested by
the distress of Will ; but there was a certain
fitness about it all the same, and those who
stood round felt more ready to approve.
Will had looked such a little fair creature,
alone in the midst of enemies, that the idea
of the police had roused the bystanders' feelings
; but that his father should be told, that
was quite a different thing.

His father, he lives a long way down,"
said the grocer, '' down I' the Fens."

''Oh! don't tell father; don't don't
he'll kill me ! " cried Will, in an agony that
made him unable to be still. " Oh ! please
don't tell him ; he be always hard wi' me."

The wretched Httle coward ! " said Captain
Holt, in scorn ; whilst Will, restless and sobbing,
clung still with despairing efforts to the
hands and arms of the groom. The servant
may have pitied him, though he gave no sign

of that. He knew his master too well to
interfere.

"The Fens are some way off, but I have
not much to do to-day. If you will put him
into the dog-cart we will drive him to his
home."

'' Oh, don't ; I've not done nothing 
don't ! "

Will's words were lost in tears. The officer
turned round severely, and addressed him
then.

' And will you then tell me who your companion
was ? "

But Will remained silent, though he was
sobbing still.

Do we say to ourselves that such silence
proved him indeed a fool, that his friend had
betrayed him cruelly, and was unworthy of
his regard, that it would have been no more
than reasonable to attempt to save himself?
Ah, but the children, they have not such
power of reasoning, they act rather upon
their instincts than from their brain. Before
Will's sensitive heart was always Geoff's
wasted face ; the wounded feet, and the flight
in the darkness, of which he had heard ; the
threats of his father, which rang still in his
ears. It had become like a part of his life.

that desire to shield his friend ; he had not
had time to consider how Geoff had behaved
to him.

So he remained silent, sobbing, clinging
always to the groom ; whilst Captain Holt
gave money to the workmen who had captured
him, and sent them away. They went
reluctantly, often looking back ; and with still
more reluctance the big grocer also retreated,
with doubtful looks at Will. After all he was
to be taken to Farmer Gibson ; and the
farmer, '' he had always looked the lad."

' But that young gent as calls himself a
officer, he do seem to me a hard un, that he
do. I wouldn't trust no one in such hands as
his."

Perhaps the grocer was right, though with
reservations too. Captain Holt, standing
now in the alley, a tall, handsome figure
by the miserable Will, had no idea that
fault could be found with him. He intended
always to be honourable and upright, and
had great belief in the superior sense of
justice that governed all his ways. For he
had not yet become aware of that singular
fact in life  that it is possible to mistake for
justice our pleasure in giving pain.

There is a beautiful, terrible justice to be

found sometimes in the world, a justice that
never strikes save with utmost reason, and
then strikes relentlessly, that may be accused
sometimes of hardness, but never of caprice.
But this very quality, so tenfold rare and
precious, is founded upon the sentiment to
which it seems to pay no heed  an unconscious
sympathy, it may be, but not less true for
that. For it is the clear-sightedness of
sympathy that we need to direct our blows ;
without it they fall untruly, and our sense
of law is vain.

The little group in the alley was fast
dispersing now ; though some men, passing
through the street, and moved by the sound of
crying, were lingering near at hand. The sun
shone down more brightly for recent storms ;
and Will clung still to the groom like one
pleading for his life.

'' The dog-cart is waiting down the street,"
said Captain Holt; 'take the little wretch
there, James, and keep him quiet. He had
better reserve his dancing till his father has
dealt with him."

'' Ah ! be still, my lad ; you'll find it as
well," said James.

But Will could not be still ; he was in too
much distress. The man was unwilling to

hurt him, and yet he dared not delay ; he
snatched him up at last into his arms, and
carried him down the street. Then, with a
bit of cord that had been round a parcel,
he tied him on to the back seat of the dogcart
; and took his own place beside his
master, and they drove away. And Will
could only be sensible of one agonizing
thought  as a convicted thief he was being
driven to his home.

They drove out into the country, between
hedges white with may-blossoms, through the
warmth of early summer that was upon the
lanes. They did not go by the usual way
towards the Fens, and Will began to have
hopes that they did not know the road. It
seemed to him as if every man in every cart
that passed must see that he was tied : he
felt himself disgraced and shamed for ever ;
he told himself that his father would never
forgive him now. Now and then he burst
into tears, but he was almost too miserable to
cry. They drove for several miles down
country lanes ; and turned in by a lodge and
down an avenue at last. There was a great
grey house at the end, with steps in front ; and
Captain Holt pulled up there, and flung the
reins to the groom, and told him he meant to

stay there to luncheon, and would drive afterwards
to the Fens ; and after these words he
disappeared into the house. And then some
servants came ; and they looked at Will, and
whispered to each other, and laughed very
much. And then the dog-cart was taken to
the stables ; and the horse was taken out, and
the folding doors were closed. Will remained
amongst the carriages, tied still to the seat ;
and there he was left alone, and hour after
hour went by.

And then at last that endless time was
over, and they opened the doors and took the
dog-cart out. And James was there helping,
and he seemed much annoyed, and said 

'the Captain didn't ought to have stayed
on so long like that."

And the grooms and stable-boys seemed
to think Will very small ; and they asked him
if he was not hungry, and seemed to pity
him, and one of them gave him a biscuit,
which he tried to eat in vain. He scarcely
knew what he had been doing during the
hours he had been alone. It seemed as if
he had been sleeping, though he had not been
asleep ; and he had tried to say his prayers,
but had not been able to do that. And now
the high dog-cart was hoisted up again, and

then the horse was in. And then Captain
Holt came into the yard laughing, and drawing
on his gloves, and laughed more than
ever when he caught sight of Will. And
then he had taken his place, with James Ash
by his side, and the yard-doors were thrown
open, and he flung some money down, and
out into the open country they drove again.
And Will's miserable heart began to beat
more quickly as they turned into the familiar
lanes at last.

And thenoh, the agony of it!  Rose
Cottage came in sight ; and he began to feel
burnt and strangled with the cord with which
he was tied. They would never forget it,
never !  the shame of that. They would think
him disgraced for ever in his home. He was
sick with hunger, but that he could scarcely
feel ; he could not attempt to reason, or to
think over what had passed. Child as he
was, and until so recently a spoiled and petted
child, he yet suffered as much as any man
could do ; his brain seemed to be bursting,
so that he could scarcely see the sunlight,
and he dared not look round lest anyone
might be near. There was no escape for
him  he had no hope of one. The horse was
pulled up before the garden gate.

It may be that the Captain himself was
not easy In his mind, and that In the wide
outlook of Fens were some vague fears, too,
for him. But he had the courage of his convictions,
and his self-assurance too ; so he
threw the reins confidently to a farm boy who
was there, and then jumped down. After
that he waited until James had untied Will ;
and then, leaving him to follow with the
prisoner, marched boldly Into the house.

'' I have come on an unpleasant business, I
am afraid," said Captain Holt.

He had entered the house without knocking
; had rapped boldly at the first door that
he saw, and then walked in at once. His
movements had been better directed than he
knew ; the door was that of the great
kitchen, and all the members of the family
were within. Mrs. Gibson was by the long
table, laying the cloth for a very early tea ;
her husband, flushed, haggard, with the appearance
of one who has been lately drinking,
was resting his great form In an armchair by
the fire. On a seat opposite, looking rather
tired and worn, sat Jim, making drawings of
machinery In his pocket-book ; and Liz,

whose dark beauty the visitor observed at
once, had opened the cupboard to get the
tea-things down.

The kitchen looked much as we have seen
it, and was very warm and bright, with a
great fire that was pleasant in the chill spring
afternoon, and that cast a ruddy glow on the
people who were there. These people seemed
all of them so very much at home, an entrance
there seemed so like an invasion of the territory
of others, that vaguely unpleasant sensations
again attacked Captain Holt. He
stood by the closed door without advancing
further, with his groom behind him still holding
little Will ; and Farmer Gibson, aware of the
presence of a visitor, slowly rose.

'' Is there anything we can do for you,
sir ? " he said.

He spoke with the instinct of hospitality
which, in spite of his roughness, always
belonged to him, but more thickly than usual,
for he had been drinking very much. To an
observant eye it would soon have been apparent
that there was something other than
brightness in the aspect of the inhabitants of
the kitchen ; in fact, the farmer had come
home after a drinking bout, and had been
disputing with his wife.

Alas ! that afternoon he had received vagueness
of Geoff, and such rumours seemed to
excite him to madness every time. Captain
Holt himself looked dubiously at the enormous
man, with his unsteady body, and his flushed,
haggard face.

'' I am sorry I have nothing pleasant to
say to you," he said. '' I bring you a story
that you will hardly like to hear."

'' Then, sir," said the farmer, with tolerable
clearness now, though he supported himself
against the armchair as he spoke, "' you'll
happen bring to us some news o' Will ; for
he's never come back fro' the town, as he did
say he'd do ; an' the missus, here, she's uneasy,
like, for him. But I say he's i' mischief,
an' I do know he is ; an' it's sheer waste o'
time to spend thought o' such a lad. You
didn't happen to see him, sir, when as you
came 

' I believe I did," said the Captain, '' and
I believe he is here behind me now." He
moved as he spoke, and revealed the groom
and Will. '' I am sorry to say that I must
speak of him."

There was one moment of silence and of
intense surprise. The inmates of the room
kept their places : Will stood still, looking

on the ground, with the groom's hand on his
arm. He was very pale, and shivered ; his
head sunk on his breast ; he longed to be
able to sink down through the floor. There
was not one in all the room who did not look
at him.

'' I thought it better," said the Captain,
addressing the farmer, '' to speak to you. I
have to accuse your son of taking a purse of
mine." And again for an instant there was
silence in the room.

"A purse  Will take a purse!" cried
Mrs. Gibson. And the farmer drew in his
breath with a loud, snorting sound. Liz
stood still by the cupboard as if she could
not believe her ears ; and Jim raised his head
with a quiet attention in his face. '' It's not
likely," Mrs. Gibson said, "as one of us 'ud
do like that."

You had better, then, listen to the circumstances
of the case." Captain Holt
spoke now in an irritated tone ; he was
seldom able to endure contradiction to his
words.  ''I was going down an alley with my
groom this morning when I first discovered
that I had lost my purse. There were only
two boys in the alley besides ourselves, and
when we turned round they immediately ran

away. We ran after them, and captured one 
sour son ; and in one of his pockets was the
purse that I had lost. He would give no explanation,
so I bring him here to you. If I had
not been told that he was the son of respectable
parents I would have given him over to
the police at once."

The police  our Will to the police 1 "
cried poor ]airs. Gibson, and she wrung her
hands. But now the farmer swunor his orreat
fist on the chair.

Isn't that what I told you, woman, though
you wouldn't hear?" he cried. "I said it
'ud be no good that 'ud be told us o' the
lad. He's never done no good to us in all
his life, an' now he's gone and been a thief,
an' has disgraced us all. If it wasn't for the
shame to the family like, I'd say  "

Oh, father, father ! " here interrupted Liz ;
and Captain Holt, who was beginning to think
the farmer '' a very sensible man," now spoke
again.

I have no wish to proceed to extreme measures,
for your own sake," he said ; '* though
it seems bad to see so much evil in a boy so
young. If you will engage to punish him, I
will be quite content. But you must punish
him as much as such a fault as theft deserves."

'' Our Will's not a thief," here cried poor
Mrs. Gibson, with a flushed face, and tears
rolling down her cheeks. '' If you've lost a
penny through him, sir, we'll restore it fast
enough ; but I won't hear my boy called a
thief, an' me a-standing' by. We're honest
people, sir, whate'er you've heard of us ; and
I won't hear us called  and called  " She
became too confused for words.

" You can, perhaps, explain to me, then,"
said Captain Holt, '' how my purse came into
the pocket of your son ? Or it will be better,
perhaps, for me to ask the boy himself."
He turned with cold seventy to Will, who
shrunk and shivered, and hung his head, without
attempting to reply.

'' Dost thou hear. Will?" roared the farmer;
'' the gentleman speaks to thee."

The child broke out into frightened crying,
without a word. Mrs. Gibson, almost beside
herself, made a hasty movement forwards ;
but the farmer caught her arm and pushed
her back.

Don' go near him, don' ye touch him, or
go for to speak to him ! " he cried ; " it's forme
to touch him  the boy as is our shame.
ril let him know what it is to bring disgrace
on honest folk, to bring down our heads wei'

shame, an' break our hearts. I'll make hun
smart for this  the boy as shames his kindred,
an' makes friends wi' them as means most
harm to us. Don't ye be feared, sir  I'll
murder him for ye."

Don't beat me, father, don't beat me ! '*
cried out Will, with such piercing agony in
his tone that the groom, who held his arm,
almost trembled.

But Captain Holt only shrugged his
shoulders slightly. 'the miserable coward,"
he muttered between his teeth.

'* I do not pity you in the least," he said,
aloud ; '' a liar and a thief, you deserve the
worst that you can get. Go now to your
father, and get what you deserve."

But with shrieks of terror Will clung hard
to his arm, as one who in mortal agony holds
fast in his despair. It was despair . . . the
officer's grasp was on him . . . his last hope
was gone. . . .

'' Hold hard, sir ! " said Jim, rising quietly ;
you shall not touch our Will." And with a
start of astonishment all turned round on him.

'confound you!" cried the Captain, in
wrath; "what right have you to speak?
The boy's father alone has the power to
decide."

VOL. I. X

He has the power, and he'll use it, er 
can  tell  yer," pronounced Farmer Gibson,
though his voice was thick. *' Gur  out 
m'way  let me atom  shan't  hanna  mer 
a' 11 do what  er  please  yer hanna stop 
mer  mer  "

By the Lord, but 1 will, though!" said
Jim, standing in front of him, excited into an
expression he would not have used if he had
been calm. *' Go ye back an' sit down, that's
all ye're fit for now. What ! do ye think
herself fit at this instant to touch a child ? I
tell ye, ye shouldn't touch one of 'em in my
presence here, much less a brother o' mine, anson
o' yours  not if I'd only three bones i'
my body with which to hold ye back. No,
nor this gentleman neither ; he shan't touch
our Will. The boy belongs to us, it's for us
to punish him ; I'll have no gentleman or his
servant to do our work for us. Come ye here,
Will, an' stand here fast by me."

He put out his hands and drew his brother
to him, whilst all present were too much surprised
to speak. Jim kept his Httle brother
enclosed still in his arms ; they stood in the
.centre of the great kitchen  the young man
and the child.

Look ye, Willy," said Jim, '' we'll have
no crying' now ; ye just be quiet an' hear what

I've got to say. I don't want to hear no more
o' this here unpleasant story ; ye're been i'
bad company, it's like, an' must pay for that.
This gentleman, he's not given ye over to the
police, although it was so that his purse was
found wi' you ; an' now ye must answer for
the purse that he did find. An' boys as has
purses that are not theirs, they're punished  
ye understand ? "

Yes, Jim," said Will, quietly, looking at
him with steady eyes.

From the moment that his brother touched
him he had been very quiet ; standing quite
motionless within his brother's arms. But it
is scarcely possible to describe the rest of
that strong touch to him ; the strength of the
big brother who had not been used to notice
him before. It was not like a relief from any
ordinary fear, it was a rest from terror, almost
release from death.

The others in the room did not come close
to them ; they stood silent, observing them in
mute surprise.

'' Oh ! Jim, don't let go o' me," whispered
Will, ''or father '11 come."

Will ye let me punish ye rested o' father,
Will?" said Jim.

"Yes . . . I will, Jim," faltered Will,
trying hard to control his voice.

* Take off your jacket, then ; I shall
know by that."

Without a murmur or hesitation Will
obeyed ; whilst Jim, moving away from him
for a single instant, took up his father's stick,
which lay near upon a chair. His face was
as none had ever seen it, white and stern,
with closely shut lips, and frowning, contracted
brows ; none moved or spoke, or
could have dared to interfere. Will had unbuttoned
his jacket and let it slip to the
ground ; he stood in the centre of the kitchen
in his little blue and red-coloured shirt, with
his eyes fixed steadily upon his brother's
face. He stood quite still, though his breath
came and went ; he was very pale, and there
was a strange light in his eyes. He looked a
little creature there in the midst of all.

'' Ye nun stand quiet, Will," said Jim,
looking steadily at him.

'' I will I will ! "

'' An' ye nun be quiet, too ; ye mustn't
cry."

*' No, Jim, I donna ; I donna cry a bit."

He did not look as if he were going to cry,
though he was so small, and his eyes were
swollen still. What Jim felt could be seen
chiefly in his left hand, which was hanging
down ; it was curiously clenched, and all the

veins had risen ; but the expression of his
face remained unchanged.

'eye needn't touch me," Will said; "I
will stand fast  I will."

And he did.

'' There  there ! " cried Jim at last, flinging
the stick across the room ; '' may the Lord
do worse to me if I touch a child again ! "

''I didn't cry, Jim, did I?" asked Will,
looking up in his face.

He was standing quite still with the
strange light in his eyes. Jim tried to speak
to him, and tried again, and then burst into
violent crying such as none had heard from
him before. He could not control himself,
and hastily left the room.

'' I didn't cry; not a bit, I didn't," murmured
Will. No one else spoke ; they remained
in their places. He was very pleased
with himself. Then Captain Holt called to
him in a strange, husky voice 

'' You didn't cry," he said to him. '' Come
out and talk to me."

They stood together in the prim garden,
the officer and the child. The evening light,
which was falling upon the Fens, was round
their feet ; if it had been higher, instead of

being very low, It might have found an unaccustomed
brightness in the Captain's eyes.

' By  ! " said the officer, with a muttered
oath  he was entirely amazed himself to feel
his tears  '' you are the pluckiest little chap
I have seen in all my life. And now, tell me
one thing only. Did you take my purse ? "

' No, sir," said Will, touching his hair to
show respect.

'' You did not ? Then, who did ? "

Little Will hesitated, and his colour came
and went ; an agitation, of which he had shown
no sign whilst he was being punished, shook
him visibly ; he seemed very much distressed,
and almost afraid to speak. Yet he did
answer after a while had passed.

*' I suppose, sir, it was the boy as was wi'
me."

'' You little fool, why did you not say so at
the time ? "

Again Will hesitated, and was agitated,
and his colour went and came. Yet he did
venture to whisper at last, though in a
trembling tone 

'' If you only wouldn't tell anyone, sir," he
said.

'' No, no ; I won't tell." Captain Holt was
curious now. ' Come, speak up, I must know
the truth of this."

But a little while still elapsed before Will
could speak.

'' If you only won't tell father, sir," he said,
raising tearful eyes ; '' I be so feared always
lest he should get hold on Geoff. It was
Geoff as hurt our Jim, an' father is mad wi'
him. He would kill him if he could feet at
him ; an' I do love him so."

Afterwards Captain Holt had a curiously
vivid remembrance of that instant, and the
uplifted face of the little fair-haired lad ; he
could even feel still behind him the prim
background of the house, and before him, and
far in the distance, the Fens in golden light.
Something had touched him unwontedly ; he
spoke in a gentle tone, with a touch of kindly
warning and seriousness in his voice.

'' I will keep my word to you, and will not
betray your friend ; you deserve that at least
after all that has been done. But, if this
friend of yours knows so well how to lie and
steal, I must call him a bad companion ; he
will lead you into wrong."

"I know, sir," said Will, sorrowfully, oh !
how sorrowfully ; "I know it now."

He stood with hanging head, pale still
from his recent punishment, and looking so
oppressed and mournful, so like one who
has for ever lost a friend, that the young

officer, in spite of his late anger and his
habitual indifference, was touched with something
Hke real pity for the child.

'' It was not you who stole ; yoii wouldn't
steal," he said, in a cheerful voice.

"The Bible says we mustn't," murmured
Will, in solemn tones.

'' I don't know much about the Bible," re-pied
the young man, with a laugh ; "I am
not likely to, for I have not one of my own."

*' Teacher says," observed Will, who was
obviously quoting now, " that every man has a
Bible through the whole breadth of the land."

' Teacher's wrong then," said the young
man, stroking his moustache. He was rather
amused at being spoken to like this.

'' Oh, haven't you got one, sir ? I've gotten
two."

'two, have you? That's one too many ;
you should give one to me." Captain Holt
said the words in jocular indifference, intending
only to be good-humoured to the child.
He did not understand the radiance that
lighted up Will's face at once ; the little boy
turned round and ran into the house.

A few minutes later, as the officer stood by
the side of his dog-cart, he felt himself lightly
touched ; and, as he turned, a book was put
into his hand. Will had hastened to fetch

one of his Bibles, and had brought it out to
him. And here let me add that Will possessed
two Bibles, one only of which had coloured
prints and maps, and that it was the one with
coloured prints and maps he had bestowed.

Thank you, thanks much," said Captain
Holt, confused.

Yes, experienced and self-assured as he
always felt himself, an officer of some years
standing, and the heir to two estates, at that
moment he did, indeed, feel entirely confused.
He was inclined to decline the gift, and yet
he could not do so ; an unusual compunction
made him fear to disappoint the child. And
after all there was no one looking on. He
put the Bible into his pocket (which it filled
uncomfortably, being rather large) without a
word ; and then, more uncomfortably still,
began feeling for his purse. For the poor
never do anything except for money, he knew
that of old. He looked down ; Will was looking
up with innocent eyes at him : Captain
Holt's fingers unclosed from the purse ; after
all, the gift was free. He could think of no
words that would not seem ungracious, so he
gave a little nod, jumped into his dog-cart,
where James already was, and started off.

Off into the evening shadows which were
falling on the Fens, off along the darkening

lanes, with their wide prospect around, and
their heavy ruts beneath. There was a long
drive before him, and he was not accustomed
to exchange words with his servant ; but he
did not feel lonely now. The events of that
afternoon had given him food for thought.

And if he found in those thoughts no food
for self-questioning or self-discontent, if they
roused in him no doubts of his own judgment,
no deeper sense of that spirit of mercy that
should lie deep with us all, if they left him, in
mind and purpose, very much the man he
was, it must yet not be supposed they had
no influence on him. That gift  the gift of
the Bible  had surprised him much. It was
so strange that a boy could make a gift after
being severely punished ; he could not have
done so himself. It is possible that Captain
Holt was not wrong in being surprised ; and
yet no one would have been astonished who
had been acquainted with little Will.

The Bible remained in his pocket ; he
could feel it as he drove. It was strange
that there seemed to be in his mind an unwonted
tenderness of imagination ; for he was
not given to visions in a general way, and yet
he could not avoid them now. As he drove
along slowly in the heavy lanes, on which the
greyness of evening fell, there kept rising

before his eyes a childish face  the face of
a little boy, with innocent eyes  an intelligent,
delicate face  pleasant enough to see.
It would be pleasant to own such a little lad
one's self  a little lad of one's own, whom
one could teach, who would climb up in one's
arms, with just such pretty eyebrows. . . .

Such visions can save worse men than
Captain Holt, touching them with the purifying
tenderness of the fireside and of home.
It was, perhaps, well for Miss Selina, sitting
alone then, and meditating by her bedroom
fire, dreaming of her wedding-day and her
lover with affection, and yet with dread  it
was, perhaps, well for her that her lover, in
the evening darkness, had such thoughts to
occupy his mind during his long and lonely
drive. For even such simple thoughts have
power to save. . . .

Little Will, meanwhile, feeling very stiff
and sore, had gone upstairs to lie down upon
his iron bed, and only his sense of heroism
kept him from tears and sobs. But his
mother came to him, and petted him, and
cried over him ; and Liz made a little tea-cake,
and brought it up ; and the old servant brought
her knitting, and sat by him ; so that, after a
little depression, he revived again. For the
terrible sense of disgrace was weighing less

heavily upon him  they were beginning again
to be kind as they used to be. And if he
had passed through more troubled times that
day than even before, those hours of suffering
were over, and he had not betrayed his friend.
Only he dared not think of the thing that
friend had done ; the dread of the wolf had
fallen now on him.

And of that friend, the betrayer, we may
say that he suffered too, and we may add the
condemnation that he suffered as he deserved.
That evening, whilst Will lay sleeping upon
his iron bed, with the light of the summer
evening upon his tired face, dreaming, though
with some feeling of trouble, that he was
playing again with Geoff  on that evening the
outcast was wandering with restless footsteps
up and down, choosing the loneliest alleys,
the narrowest, darkest streets, waiting with
feverish misery for the night to come at last.
He was no longer torn with hunger, as he had
been before ; he had pawned some clothes,
and obtained some food to eat ; but the satisfied
want left behind a deeper loss, he dared
not think of the thing he had done that day.
Oh ! he would go to Ben Wilde, and give
way at length to him  he felt detestable ;
there was nothing that mattered now.

THE HOME OF BEN.

And now it falls to our lot to descend into very
low society, an unfortunate necessity, but one
that is needful now and then. When a gentleman
sells his son to a wandering pedlar, and
leaves him to take his chance, it is just possible
that after long and anxious search he may discover
him again, but then that search should
not be directed to the dwellings of the rich ;
for our children must remain, to a certain
extent, what we have made them, and the
dwelling-place is the outward expression, as
we know, of the man. It is for that last
reason, at any rate, if not for others too, that
a certain knowledge of human abodes is desirable
in those who deliver opinions on
humanity from their own well-ordered homes.

Ben Wilde lived in the town which we have
mentioned so often ; and he lived, moreover,
in one of its oldest, poorest streets. He was
very well known indeed in the house in
which he lodged, the landlady of which was
accustomed to tell her guests that during the
fifteen years he had lodged there he had gone
each night drunk to bed.

That house was quite a character in its
way amongst its neighbours, and possessed
the reputation of being the oldest in the
street. The street, which was narrow and
dingy, went up a little hill, and the house
itself was upon its steepest slope ; it was at
the corner of an alley which led to a dingy
square behind, and thus had more room for
eccentricities of construction than its neighbours
had. Its staircase, instead of following
the rules of ordinary staircases, was outside
the house, and this made a peculiarity that
could be observed at once. The steps, which
were rough, and guarded by a railing, were
on the side that was nearest to the alley, and
for some distance went up straight ; then a
corner and angle of the house made a sort of
landing on which were two doors ; one, black
and rotting, leading to an unused room that
jutted out from the house ; another to the

bedroom where the landlady slept. Proceeding
further, but becoming now more like a
rough ladder, the steps still went on, and,
without making any difficulty about it, went
straight up to the roof ; though that was old,
shaken-looking, and so beset with smuts and
cats, that it could scarcely have seemed an
agreeable place to anyone for a walk. Below
the roof was Ben's bedroom-door, but there
was no landing-place for that ; you had to
stand sideways on the steps, and get in as
you could. This impromptu staircase made
the only means of reaching the upstairs
rooms ; no one knew what had been in the
minds of those ancient builders when they
constructed a house like that.

However, it had been built, and there was
this brood think: about it: that it made Ben's
room a difficult place to reach. For no one
who had ever been in that enchanted chamber
felt the very smallest desire to return to it
again. Foul with the fumes of spirits and
stale tobacco, dirty, untidy, chilly with the
winds that found their way through the
crevices and shook the crazy roof above  a
true drunkard's habitation and home of ill
was this. The tall, thin lad who lay in a
corner of it now, with some ragged clothes

thrown over him for covering, and a piece of"
dirty, doubled-up carpet beneath his head 
who lay there day after day, with aching
limbs, too ill to move  had, even in that
condition, something in him that seemed
superior to the place. No pleasant sickroom,
indeed, for an invalid was that.

The other inmates of the house paid very
little attention to those above, only coming
out upon the landing-place to shout when
Ben, in a drunken fit, disturbed the place.
The landlady slept below in a room at the
back ; and, whatever she may have said to
others of Ben's intemperance, drank almost
as much as he did every day herself. On the
first floor, which opened out upon the landing,
were two rooms, one within the other, and in
these two families slept, and one of these
families kept lodgers, finding the floor had
space to spare. In the front room below
lived a man and his son, old acquaintances of
Ben, and it was there that Ben's stall was
kept on nights and rainy days. The man
was a one-eyed creature, very dark, with a
sinister face, and a rusty black beard that
covered his mouth and cheeks ; the boy
(whom he called his son, though there was
no resemblance of any sort between them)

was a queer, crooked, comical sort of being,
full of ways and devices, and up to many
tricks, always being beaten, and seeming
none the worse. It was from this monkey of
a creature, who in the course of climbing one
day discovered him, that Geoff gained such
little kindness as was bestowed upon him
whilst he was ill.

But many long days had passed before
that kindness came. Oh ! the long dreary
days whilst he lay and ached upon the floor ;
the hot, endless nights whilst he tossed,
parched with fever, longing for water, and yet
too weak to rise. If the punishment for his
many faults were indeed being exacted then,
the penalty might almost have been considered
sufficient even by those who had
suffered from them most. Sick as he was, and
needing care and attention, Ben gave to him
nothing more than the scanty amount of food
and drink that kept him in life ; and left him
with only a few rags between him and the
floor, whilst he snored comfortably in his
own bed every night. Nay, more, he accepted
an invitation one night from a friend, and did
not return till nearly two days had passed ;
leaving Geoff, with his scanty store exhausted,
and just then in extremity of fever, to lie

VOL. I. Y

through a whole afternoon raving for water,
and in vain. If the lad had been seized
during that time with any positive illness or
disease, his reduced constitution miorht
scarcely have found strength to rally from
that again ; but he was only suffering from
the effects of privation, and from nights
spent out of doors ; he had always possessed
a wonderful elasticity that served for rallying
power, and after a time, though slowly, he
revived. If he had received only an ordinary
amount of attention it Is probable that his illness
would have been short ; as it was, it
lasted for nearly a month, and left him weak
and low.

And perhaps those days of convalescence
proved almost the worst, for whilst they
lasted he possessed more power to think.
During the endless nights whilst he lay in
the stifling room, too weak, as it seemed
to him, to move or sleep  during those nights
whilst his small Increase of strength made
him only more sensible of suffering and weakness,
whilst all old hopes and fears and even
resentments seemed like dreams and faraway
 the thought of death became more
present to him than it had ever been before.
Yet he found in it no relief, though he had

little hope in life ; it was like a dim terror
and shadow ; he would have turned from it if
he could. He had been educated in religion
at school and elsewhere, and had learned
many texts and hymns, but it was perhaps
natural that he should find no hope in these ;
he thought only of the burning punishment
of which he had heard as well  the doom
with which he had been continually threatened,
and in which, in some vague shape or manner,
he believed. And yet if it could have risen
before him in any tangible form, like that of
the burning flames of which he dreamt one
night, his wild courage might have risen to
the occasion, and he might have dared the
vengeance from his very despair itself. But
his nature was keenly alive, even in its
daring, to superstitious terror  the next
world was the region of the unknown, and
before the unknown he quailed. And since,
as will be seen, no thoughts of real penitence
or repentance mingled vvith his suffering, he
rose from his sick-bed at last with his deeper
ills unhealed. He recovered  older, weaker,
with a face more thin and pained, but still
with the instinct of life, for life and youth are
strong.

It need not be repeated that Ben had not

been a careful nurse, for no one who knew him
could have suspected him of such a thing,
and Geoff, in particular, had no reason to
expect tenderness from him ; but as his fears
for the invalid diminished it became still more
hard for him to conceal the dislike he felt. If
the sick lad had really developed some serious
illness, or If he had believed him to be
dangerously ill, it is possible, indeed, that he
might have summoned a doctor and lavished
care on him, for in spite of his brutal selfishness
it could be easily perceived that for some
reason or other he had an interest in Geoff ;
only with that interest much hate was mingled
too. And a man who drinks every day and
feels resentment is not likely to have much
power to control the resentment that he feels.
When Ben came home, drunk and stumbling,
and staggered through his room at night, it
was so dangerously easy to kick Geoff as if
he where lying In the way  a casual action of
that sort may be said almost to have a
natural grace  and the boy took no notice, it
seemed as if he could not feel. Ben could
not see him afterwards In the darkness,
sitting up upon the floor with clenched hands
and burning eyes : if he had done so he
might have been more inclined to practice
the self-control of those who reserve their

kicks for the animals whom domestic use has
trained. He did not know, he had no power
to understand ; in keeping close to him this
lad, whom he hated and who hated him, he
was haunted by no vision of a darkened path,
and a track of blood.

It has become time for us to hear the story
of this life out of the thousands, and yet we
might almost be led to believe that, like the
knife-grinder, the life had '' none to tell,"
so confused and beer-stained a record would
have been that formed out of the reminiscences
of Ben. He was the son of a gardener
who had drunk himself out of all his places,
and of a factory girl who deserted her husband,
leaving him their child to keep. He himself
had run away from his home as soon ashe
was old enough to run at all. Then he
had fallen into the hands of an old woman,
who took him round with her when she went
a-begging, exhibiting him as her interesting
son ; and then into those of a caravan with an
Abyssinian monkey, and then into those of a
man with a Punch-and-Judy show, and then
into those of many other owners too, all out
at armholes and pockets, scant in principles,
and with still more scanty means, depending
for the day's bread on the most precarious
employments, and content to give up the day's

bread if the day's drink could be had. Now
and then, once in particular, when he was ill
and for a few days sheltered in a respectable
workman's house, Ben himself felt some
yearnings towards that life of respectability
which he had never known  the Hfe that has
no need to sleep under hedges, or to prowl at
nights, to seek out the lowest lodging-houses,
and the most disreputable '' puts," to get into
illegal troubles, and to live in fear of gaol  the
life that has regular wages, and a comfortable
bed, that has well-brought-up children, and a
well-ordered home. And yet it !?> only too
probable that if every opportune had been
placed at his disposal he woul* lever have
found himself able to settle dokn o such a
life as that  your inbred vagrant is not so
easily reclaimed. However that may be,
Ben had drifted on through various employments
in a drunken or sober state (more often
drunk) from year to year ; and had arrived at
last at his fifty-seventh year, at the condition,
the habits, the stall, the lodging, and the
lodger whom we have known. And on that
lodger, now at length after long persuasion
-an inmate of his home, all such vague, confused,
intoxicated, and intoxicating hopes ashe
could form were centred now.

And yet it need scarcely be added thai he
disliked the lad, hating him always with a long-enduring
resentment which was almost as
strong as his ambition was. The cause of
this resentment we need not go far to seek.
Eight years before, in a drunken scuffle one
evening at a low public-house, Ben had
quarrelled with old Jem Gibson and had
struck him with a knife ; and there had followed
for him the only imprisonment that all
his Hfe had known. That imprisonment and
ignominy he considered due to Geoff ; to the
little Geoff who, alone of all spectators on the
occasion, d not been drunk, who had driven
his childish. . hence in such a delighted way,
and whojjhaa looked such a pretty lad as he
stood before the magistrates that all hearts
were won by him. It was an old joke, that
story of Ben's imprisonment, and he had not
forgotten it yet; he remembered it with the
poisonous hatred of a dull, malignant nature,
and for many years it had been in his heart
to ruin the lad ; he had tried to ruin him by
the persistently offered friendship that was
far worse than enmity from him. And now,
strangely and mysteriously, and from no
desire or expectation of his own, he found
his own hopes were linked with those of

Geoff ; the secret Information he possessed
would be of no value unless Geoff would act
with him. And yet, over and over again, he
told himself in his muddled, weakened brain
that he would not make Geoff a gentleman ;
he knew '' tricks more worth nor that."

What the information was that he possessed
we shall see before much more time has passed ;
meanwhile, we have to think of those two in
their lodging every night, in the crazy attic
room which was swept by every wind and
disturbed by the noise and tumult of the
lodgers down below ; of those two, so much
disunited and yet so strangely linked. There
is one picture out of those nights that rises
before me now ; the dark room with its low,
many-cornered roof, and an expiring tallow-candle
upon a broken chair ; and Ben, in a
nap, snoring heavily, though still dressed, upon
the bed ; and the failing light reflected in the
dark, glittering eyes of Geoff, as he sits up,
too feverish to lie, on his rags upon the floor 
like some wild animal watching in the gloom
of that miserable home ; or a lost being on a
dangerous pathway, with a still uncertain end.

END OF VOL. I.

186, STRAND, ><

AND AT THE RAIL>'a'

NOVELS ARE ISSUED TO AND

)XPN,
Stalls.

r'

feSCRIBERS IN SETS ONLY.

For ONE Volume at a

(Novels in more than One P'pll

For TWO Volumes

(Novels in more than Two you,

For THREE Volumes

For FOUR

For SIX

For TWELVE 

FROM A COUNTRY BOOKSTALL

6 Months. 12 Months.

0 12 1 1
'are not available /or this class o/ Subscription. J

17 6 1 11 6
ones are not available/or this class of Subscript! on.)

1 3 2 2
1 8 2 10
1 15 3 3
3 5 5

<>

i

j,*

OF THE
University
Of ILLINOIS

8>Z3

C94-i
v.Z

Novels by the same Author.

MY BEST PUPIL, i Vol.

THE STORY OF MEG, 2 Vols.

LEAP YEAR, 2 Vols.

Athos: THE STORY OF A
LIFE, 2 Vols.

REMINGTON & Co Henrietta Street Covent
Garden

mj

a i)toi:g

IN TWO VOLUMES

Author of ' The Story of Meg " ISjc

The bridegroom sat at the table head,
And the lights burnt bright and clear,
who is that,' the bridegroom said,
Whose weary feet I hear ? '

'Twas one look'd from the lighted hall.
And answered soft and slow 
It is a wolf runs up and down,
With a black track in the snow.' "

VOL II

REMINGTON AND CO PUBLISHERS

HENRIETTA STREET COVENT GARDEN


{ AU Rihti Rnnved]

BEN AND HIS FRIENDS.

The stifling summer nights passed on and
onwards, and the dreary prison of Ben's apartment
became still more hard to bear. The
long nights were so endless in their heat and
wretchedness, with their sounds of Ben's
snoring, and of the church clocks near and
far, that even the endless daytime, with all
their dust and glare, seemed but to prepare
the way for them and to be of no account
themselves. And yet Geoff, though knowing
himself a prisoner, made no effort to escape ;
he kept himself quiet, and allowed himself to
revive slowly from his illness, and waited still.
This delay was the result of weakness, but of
resolve as will ; he hoped to learn more of
Ben's meaning, and of his friends in time.
VOL. II. B

With one of the inmates of the house he
had become acquainted, as we have seen, but
from that acquaintance he did not hope to
gain much at first. That was the boy we have
mentioned as having down below, the queer,
crooked, comical creature with a monkey
look, the boy who was always climbing
about the roof and steps. After he had,
by looking in one day, discovered Geoff, he
became interested in him, and was always
to be seen ; sometimes hanging head downwards
from the roof that he might look in on
him upside down, sometimes swinging in the
air holding with one hand to the steps, sometimes
poking his head in at the window with
his tongue thrust in his cheek. But he never
performed these gambols when the black-bearded
man or Ben was near ; some previous
experiences had taught him to restrain his
spirits then.

Crawfish was the name of this youngster,
or was said to be his name; for his "christen"
name, if he had one, remained unknown. He
gave Geoff this information, along with a
great deal else, for he had a tongue which,
like his limbs, was never still. He talked of
his exploits, of which he was very proud, of
small thefts and rogueries, and practical jokes,

always of the roughest sort  of '' larking with
girls," and of getting ' screwed in pubs.''
There was a curious innocence in him, in
spite of his bringing-up ; the freedom with
which he related his small adventures gave
proof of that. To Geoff, lying and listening
upon his heap of rags, too sore in body and
mind to answer much, it seemed strange to
hear the tone of patronising wickedness
assumed by this younger boy.

And yet, after all, it was a relief to have
Crawfish so near  for any companionship was a
relief just then. It was not only that the boy,
after his fashion, was good to him, bringing
him food and drink, and strawberries now and
then  not only that he came and sat by him,
and talked volubly to him  the very sight of
a human being was a relief sometimes. In
the long, endless nights, whilst he lay awake
and ill, kept wakeful by the moonlight, which
threw the shadow of the ladder on the floor,
it was a relief to watch Crawfish pass the
window, climbing up the steps. For it was
one of the elfish habits of the boy that he
liked to do this at night ; to clamber alone
up the ladder on moonlight nights, and then
spend hours in crawling about the roofs,
much like the conventional goblin that one

sees In plates. When he got tired of play he
would steal quietly down again, and Geoff
would lie watching his figure as he passed
the glass.

It was from this boy, who came often to sit
by him on the floor, that Geoff learnt much
information about the people In the house, ashe
grew by degrees stronger and more fit to
talk himself. He was particularly anxious to
know who were the friends of Ben, regarding
them as people It would be best for him to
avoid ; and was glad to learn there were but
two In the place, the man whom the boy
called '' father," and the mistress of the
house. The boy was afraid of ' father,"
who seemed to treat him ill ; he was very
much stunted from being under-fed, poor lad.
But he did not appear to know much himself
of the guardian whom he feared ; or, perhaps,
he knew more, but was afraid to say. The
landlady was '' allers drinking' but ' not a
bad sort, not she ; " and she had '' rings an'
brooches as you never saw the Hke." It soon
became evident to Geoff's attentive ears that
there was some secret understanding between
this woman, and man, and Ben.

And he felt still more sure of this when one
day feet came up the ladder, and ' father '*

himself opened the window, and came Into
the room ; and sat down, moreover, on the
floor, and prepared himself to talk. The
man had a black beard, and dark, sinister
face, as we have seen ; he had also a rough
manner, which he tried that day to conceal.
It was the first time Geoff had seen him since
he came into the house. What his object
was In this visit the sick boy tried In vain to
discover, for he did not disclose it himself ;
on the contrary, he asked a great many
questions, to which the Invalid made short
replies. And after that day he often came
again, and seemed to take a peculiar interest
In Geoff, even telling him one day he ' could
make his fortune if he liked." But it was to
be observed that he did not appear when Ben
was there.

And then one morning the woman also
came  a swarthy woman with a red face, and
a gold chain round her neck ; and she also
talked to him, and observed him curiously ;
sitting down, for want of a chair, upon the
floor. Only, like a woman, she observed his
state as well ; and pitied him for his sickness,
and for the rags on which he lay, and made
many promises of comforts, which she did not
afterwards provide. And then, before she

went, she whispered to him to be sure and
not tell Ben  the man, with more insight,
had trusted him for that. Geoff lay and considered
a good deal when she had gone.

On the whole, it seemed to him probable
that these people whose acquaintance he had
so lately made had before known something
of him or of his birth, though he could not
tell whether they had gained their information
from Ben or had given it to him. And yet,
from their dubious behaviour, it seemed only
too probable also that they did not know
much, and were even uncertain whether there
was much to be known. With these vague
ideas floating always in his mind as he lay
and thought, he repeated again to himself the
story that Jem had told him ; and then he remembered
to have heard from Crawfish that
the woman had been a landlady of an inn faraway
 why not of that very inn of which Jem
had spoken once? In that case it was easy
to be surmised how much she knew. But did
Ben know more than that? Did Ben know
more ?

Lying, and thinking, and tossing through
the endless nights, it seemed to Geoff just
possible that he did, that the vague promises
he had held out might have some root in

facts. If not it was scarcely to be conceived
that Ben should be so much interested in
him, in the boy whom he hated and who had
injured him ; there must be some strange
hope connected with him somewhere in his
mind. And yet poor Geoff felt, and could
not but feel more and more, that Ben's
utmost desire for vengeance might not have
hurt so much.

Oh ! confused, burning hope, now come
still more close to him : oh ! vague, terrible,
disappointing hope, how it tortured through
the long days and through the stifling nights!
If it had not been for that he might have
been able to decide on something, some plan
of action that should take him faraway. But
now he could not  could not ; he must cling
to this merest shred of a possibility of learning
at length who his unknown father was 
the gentleman who had been so willing to sell
his son to ruin. Over and over again he
heard the words, a mocking whisper for the
night-time to repeat  *' You would have your
son an heir: I'll make him fit for that."

And meanwhile  with this possible heritage
still before his eyes, there was the stifling
room round him, with Ben's drunken fits at
night, and the secret visits of the black-bearded

man, and the gambols of Crawfish,
and the weird, moonlit nights, and his own
strange weakness as he lay upon the floor.
And mingled with these things, like a pervading
thought, was the strange terror of mind
he had never known before. The something
that lay before him was long in coming  oh !
would he be able to get to it at last ?

'' Why do ye think on Ben ? " asked Rolf,
the black-bearded man. "He won't help ye,
ye may be sure o' that. / know some tricks
for ye that'll be more worth yer while. Yeare
pinched and weakened now, but ye were
once a likely lad. Come ye to Lon'on, boy,
and set up there wi' me'

A PARTY IN LOW LIFE.

On the same night on which that invitation
was given that we have heard, Ben Wilde
was spending an evening in the midst of his
friends ; in fact, they were having a party
amongst themselves, a luxury in which Ben
indulged himself every now and then.

The party had assembled in the most old-fashioned
room of an old-fashioned public-house,
and it is therefore easily to be imagined
what kind of room it was  a low room with
broad window-seats and a beam across the
ceiling, and an enormous grate, and great
wooden chairs with arms and rounded backs,
and a number of glasses on the sideboard,

and some pictures of huntsmen and dogs
upon the walls. The party was a drinking
party, it must be owned, and therefore of
great advantage to the public-house where it
was held ; and at the same time of no great
cost to the entertainer, after all, for each
guest paid for all he drank himself. This
plan took something of the shine off the
hospitality of the giver of the entertainment,
we must confess ; but it had long been a rule
of the Gin-shop, and of those within its walls,
** Every man pays for his own drink himselfe
And this fact had occasioned the expulsion
of Ben from the club held in the place, so
that he had never been inside the Gin-shop
since the night when he had introduced Geoff
there some weeks before. He had an innocent
habit of forgetting to bring his cash,
and of then imploring piteously for mercy
when the end of the evening came ; and his
friends had supplied him with coins for a
while, but had got tired of that at last. It
was the sight of these maudlin entreaties,
accompanied by weak promises and streaming
tears, that had served amongst other
things to disgust the lad whom the Wolf
Den had reared, and had induced him to leave
his master when the next morning came. For

old Jem would not have been likely to entreat
for money, he would more readily have taken
it ; and his adopted son was more daring than
himself.

There had been then at the Gin-shop that
evening what is called a 'grow;" and since
that time Ben had not dared to frequent the
club, and was not supposed to be admitted
even into the public-house. How came
it then that he was to be found there that
night, in the midst of the select circle who
had hired a room ? I rather imagine that
Ben supposed his invitation due to his own
intrinsic charms ; but it is more probable
that it was wine to some curious rumours,
lately set afloat, concerning " that young lad
Haldan" whom he had chosen to befriend.

And keep ye still awhile, mates," had
whispered the wisest of the party ; '' when
he's got the drink inside him his tongues be
loose enough."

So behold Ben, some way advanced in that
road that produces looseness of tongue, in an
armchair by the fire, sniffing and shivering
continually even there, holding out a trembling
hand for his glass to be supplied, whilst his
red handkerchief, even looser than usual,
seems dropping from his neck. The room

has no candles, it is lit by a roaring fire,
and would be bright if it were not dim with
smoke j the guests, who are six in number,
excluding Ben, are gathered round the table,
smoking, and seem soberer than he. In fact,
they are very curious to hear the story of the
boy, of whom Ben has dropped various words
in an intoxicated state, and are prepared to
sit there, pretty quiet, till they have heard.
But their guest is silent ; he has not drunk
enough as yet.

At the head of the table sits the chairman
for the occasion, a big, broad-shouldered fellow,
in a loose coat, with his hat pushed back on
his head, and a pipe resting carelessly in his
great, shapeless lips. He is the husband of
Mrs. Rawson, who keeps a lodging-house,
and is celebrated as a convivial fellow, and a
good singer, in the town. There are queer
stories, very queer stories, about him, which
men whisper now and then ; and he has the
power of always keeping sober, or seeming todo
so, a somewhat ominous pict in such
company as this. But he is very popular,
and called a good fellow still. Next to him
is a young lad, respectably dressed, and with
a face that may be called respectable as well
a young clerk, the son of a grocer, who

has been a mother's daring in a strict and
careful home ; and who, freed now at last from
parental restraint, and left to guard himself,
is learning in such scenes and company to
know what '' Hfe is Hke." Next to him Rolf
is smoking, surly and silent, with a watchful
glance on Ben ; and beyond him, sitting on
the table, with his legs oddly bent, the little
Crawfish is one grin and tremor of delight.
The other two men are middle-aged, two
small tradesmen, with unprosperous shops,
who do not allow their wives much money to
feed the children with. All these, with the
exception of Crawfish, have their minds fixed
on Ben ; he is to be the joke of the evening,
and they are waiting to hear him speak. But
they must give him a little time yet  a little
time.

' Come, sing up, boys," shouts out Rawson,
who is their host. " You're dull to-night.
Gi' us a little o' your lungs ; sing now ! "

*' We'll all sing hymns ! " said one of the
unprosperous tradesmen, with a snuffle and a
sneer."

*' No, no," whispered faintly the young
clerk, becoming discomposed, amidst the
laughter of the rest. He had only been used
to singing hymns on Sunday nights at home.

'' I don't quite like that, I think ; we won't
do that."

We'll sing a political song," shouted
Rawson, with a rap on the table to enforce
his words. '' There ain't not a bit o' go in
hymns, they're dreadful dull. We'll have a
song about drink, and about the price o' corn.
And then we'll have one about the girls ;
that'll fetch us all ! "

** You be hanged for a fool," whispered the
oldest tradesman to him, bending across the
table to whisper in his ear. '' We've all come
to hear about this lad an' Ben, an' when once
the shouting begins there'll be no chance o'
that."

*you leave me to manage," murmured
Rawson, with a wink, and the offered objection
was at once withdrawn.

The youngest of the tradesmen had meanwhile
jumped on the table  it was a happy
thing that he was small and slight  and from
the depths of a husky throat was pouring out
that sort of melody that poor people like the
best, that peculiar combination of humour,
sentiments, morals, and music that is called
'' A Comic Song."

"And now for the chorus, gentlemen, if
you please."

And with raps on the table, and stamping,
and shouting, a chorus came at once : 

Come, Polly,
Let us all be jolly,
I pricked you with the holly,
But away with melancholy,
Let's have no more of folly,
But come and kiss me, Polly,
And drink, and we'll all be jolly."

'' Chorus again, gentlemen, if you please."

Chorus repeated, '' Come, Polly."

'* Come, gentlemen, there wasn't much life
in that. We'll try again."

Chorus repeated the third time with terrific
stamping and shouting that rang out into the
lighted streets beyond.

'' And now," said Rawson, settling himself
in his chair when the noise had ceased, '' we'll
have a talk."

*' Why, we've got little enow to say,"
answered Dolby, the older tradesman, to
whom Rawson had '' tipped," as he would
have phrased it, a private wink. '' We've
got our business to see to, we don't hear much
at that. It's Wild Ben as has all the wit, an'
all the stories too."

I say, Ben," went on Rawson, throwing
his enormous figure back, and taking his pipe
into his hand whilst he puffed out a cloud of

smoke, "" tell us what's gone with that lad you
brought here some weeks agone. There's a
many has asked after him  a likely chap ! "
The rest were becoming more silent over their
smoking now. It had been decided that Ben
was to be the joke of the evening, and they
wanted to draw him out.

'' He's got to your house," said Dolby, " if
all I hear is true."

The dark-bearded Rolf was becoming
visibly annoyed ; it almost appeared as if he
wished to stop the talk. From his armchair
by the fire, over which he crouched and trembled,
Ben answered with fearful asseverations
that the lad was far away.

"' Why, I seen him only this morning' ;"
burst out Crawfish from the table ; ''he came
an' sat wi' father an' me downstairs." Rolf
turned a dark glance upon him, but he did
not heed.

*' He's going' to Lon'on wi' us, he is," said
Crawfish, who could be seized with audacious
fits of recklessness sometimes ; '' we're going'
to make our fortunes, him, an' father, an' me.
There's lots o' money in Lon'on, an' fortunes
to be made. He comes an' sits wi' us, an'
then we talk to him." He caught his father's
glance, and broke off at once.

There had been a quiet, peculiar meaning
in the look Rolf gave his son ; but there was
some strange meaning too in the glance Ben
turned on him. The dark-bearded man
seemed unable to bear the look ; he drank off
the contents of his glass and then he rose.

'' Come you wi' me, Craw," he said ; 'ewe
must be off." He put out his hand, and drew
his son from the table, but gently, and without
hurting him, though the boy seemed
afraid. Then, without regarding the expostulations
of his companions, he threw down some
money on the table, '' to pay for the drink,"
he said ; and, still keeping his hand on the
boy, he left the room. He had not looked
again at Ben, nor Ben at him. Ben stretched
out his hand for his glass, and slowly drank
it off, but he was trembling more visibly now,
with anger or with fear.

'' E'er better not," he muttered low to himself
; " e'er better not." It was not of Rolf
that he was thinking then.

Oh, miserable, cowering wretch, shivering
drinking, and trembling by the fire, the mere
broken remnant of what had once been a life,
was it possible that any definite purpose could
still exist in you, that any power, even of
keeping a secret, could remain ? And yet a

VOL. II. C

purpose, a secret, had Indeed laid hold of
Ben ; and though he had long weakened the
springs of action In himself, they did not lay
hold of him with less tenacious force for that.
As far as he could be determined on anything
as he sat and drank, the determination to persist
In silence was in his mind.

Rawson, on his own part, had his reasons
for wishing to '' door him out," or else he
would certainly not have wasted much trouble
over him. He knew Geoff very well, for the
boy had lodged In his house, the ill-favoured
lodging-house of which his wife was head,
and he had certain private ideas of his own
about the lad. He imagined him to be connected
with gentlemen (In a left-handed way),
and supposed that Ben was desirous of extorting
money from the relations of the boy. The
big Rawson was, after his manner, a luxurious,
lazy being ; he left the lodging-house and Its
management to his wife, and was already himself
very heavily In debt. Therefore, this
notion of a secret out of which money could
be made had to some degree tickled his
imaginative mind, and he had determined to
set himself to worm It out of Ben. He possessed
considerable powers, and Ben seemed
to have no power left ; It did not, therefore,

appear difficult to get a secret out of him.
Only one meets with more difficulties than one
expects sometimes.

Nine o' clock.  There had been much
comic singing, varied by the '' Last Rose
of Summer," which the young clerk gave.
There had been also a good deal of smoking
and drinking, and Dolby had ventured on
some jokes. And Rawson had kept by the
side of Ben, and supplied his glass ; and Ben
had confided to him that Geoff was a miserable
orphan, whom he was going to educate
and befriend. He could not be said to have
given much information yet.

Ten d clock,  The young clerk was already
past any understanding, and the rest of the
company had determined to charge all they
drank to him. Also they had considerately
twisted some sheets of paper together, and
provided his head with a fool's cap to keep him
from catching cold. The rest were tolerably
sober, and talking and laughing still. And
Ben had been '* crores " by Rawson to a very
great extent ; and had informed him that
Geoff was the son of a duke, and had been
given to him to rear, in the belief, apparently,
that in such hands as his the heir to a dukedom
must indeed be safe.

Eleven o' clock.  The Gin-shop was about
to close for the night, and the guests in the
private room prepared to go. But Ben was
already more than ' half-seas-over," and
could not be brought to understand that his
absence was required. He clung to Rawson's
arm, calling him with streaming tears his
dearest friend  he kept rambling through
the story of the child's birth at the inn, with
such variations on the original narrative as his
state induced. Rawson charged himself with
the care of him, and the others with the clerk.
The lights were extinguished, the outer door
was opened, and the whole party turned out
into the night.

Half-past eleven.  In the moonlit street,
where shadows looked strange and weird,
Rawson wandered along, supporting Ben on
his arm. He was very kind to Ben, and promised
to do all he could for him, and
entreated him to be candid, and confide
everything to him. And Ben had been telling
a long, confused tale about the dying servant
of a gentleman, whom he had nursed, and
the gentleman's name was  was  was  
Over and over again he repeated this ; fifty
times over, with confused and broken accents,
did he say that the gentleman's name was 

was  and could say no more. And at last
Rawson let go of his arm, and he fell down
on the ground.

The dim light of the dawn was breaking on
the town when Ben roused himself, and raised
himself at last. He was still confused, and
could scarcely see the dimness ; the sense
of darkness and of lighted streets was in his
head, and he could not free himself from that,
or remember entirely what had been. And
yet withal he felt rage and terror, too, a dread
of having at last disclosed his secret, a frenzy
against Geoff, who had plans unknown to
him. He would go home and confront him
at once ; he would force him to confess.
Under lights beginning to grow pale beneath
the morning sky he made his way with this
purpose in his mind, tottering, trembling,
half-blinded, putting out shaking hands,
scarcely able with all his efforts to guide himself.
And beneath that morning sky and
those waning lights there were a few others
also in the silent streets  men and women
who crept along with stealthy footsteps,
skulking homewards in silence now that the
night was done.

Ah, wolves, poor wolves, so useless, so
dangerous, so fond of the night-time, with
such dark lairs, such unworthy, savage lives,
is there no kind Shepherd, then, to take you
in His arms and make a fold for you upon
His bosom ?

A TEA IN HIGHER LIFE.

On that same evening, whilst Ben Wilde and
his secrets made an attraction at the Gin-shop,
and Geoff lay on the floor of the attic,
revolving inward plans, the lamp of the dressmaker
of Crasten was burning brightly on her
table, and Elizabeth was pouring out tea for
Liz and Jim.

And certainly it was a pleasant sight, that
tea-table, and with more of nature and art
about it than one would have been prepared
to see ; for there were Gloire de Dijon roses ina
blue jar beneath the lamp, and the little teapot
was a genuine Wedgwood, square and
brown. Elizabeth had remembered to set out
her best things for her guests ; and had not

forgotten also to prepare a pile of buttered
toast, to get a little loaf that was new and
dainty, and some thick yellow cream that
added a flavour to the tea. Doubtless there
was not the look of farm-house plenty here,
but the little tea-table had Its own distinctive
charm.

Jim observed this with a feeling of trouble
that he did not quite understand. There was
something In these ways that was different to
his own. Liz did not observe them at all, or
observed with some slight contempt  the
dressmaker was very poor ; she felt quite sure
of that. Why, what a poor dress it was Miss
.Harte had on  a worn, black dress that
showed many signs of use, although fitting
perfectly, and of a stuff that was soft and
light. Indeed, Elizabeth might have put on
newer raiment ; It was her own taste that
liked this gown the best. And we may add
that she had not chosen 111 ; her dress suited
well enough the worn, thin face above the teapot
now.

Liz had been selling butter, so she was also
in working clothes ; but there were beads of
yellow filigree round her neck, and in her
classes of dark hair were the yellow hair-pins
she preferred. She looked exceedingly handsome,

and had an appearance of luxurious
beauty, though her mouth was closed in a
passionate, wilful way. In fact, poor Liz had
been having trying times at home. Her
father had been often violent and unreasonable
of late, and only that morning had indulged
In another outburst on that one subject
which had such fatal power over him. He did
not know the effect of his violence upon his
daughter's mind. Throughout that day, as
she trudged through the long lanes with her
butter, or exchanged greetings with acquaintances
in the village streets, the surging
trouble tossed ceaselessly through her heart.
 I will care for him, whatever they may say
I will ! I will ! "

Jim had been at work all day, as usual,
from the early morning hours ; and had
observed her flushed cheeks with some inward
discomposure when he met her in Crasten in
the evening, as he had agreed to do. Unlike
his father, who had few Ideas upon the subject,
and had almost forgotten that his
daughter had been acquainted with Geoff at
all, he had some real notion of the Influence
of the outcast upon his sister's mind ; for, like
many other honest men of slow perceptions,
such sight as he did have was tolerably clear,

and, though he was not much used to considering
the affairs of others, he did sometimes
give some of his thoughts to that. '' It
would be a good thing if she could leave
home for a bit, poor Liz ! -poor Liz ! "

He had that trouble on his mind, and he
was in the presence of Elizabeth, which made
him shy ; therefore he was even less than
usual disposed to talk. And Liz was inclined
to sink deep in that silent humour that has
passionate thoughts beneath, and she had no
great conversational power at any time. But
then Miss Harte had invited them ; it was
for her to speak.

'you have not brought Will?" said
Elizabeth, as she poured out the tea. '' I
was hoping to see him, and had bought a
cake for him."

Will's i' trouble again," replied Jim,
shortly; ''he's allays i' trouble now. I don'
know what's at the lad, I really don'. He
comes in late, or he breaks a cup, or he forgets
what he is told ; it doesn't seem possible
to him to keep straight through the day."

Poor child ! " said Elizabeth, gently ;
he is young."

He'll learn to be old soon," said Jim, " if
he goes on like this. There's father hasn't no

patience wi' him, an' sometimes I'm not surprised.
I don't know what's come to him,
indeed I don't."

Elizabeth would not answer, though she
had a troubled look. Perhaps she might
have ventured on a solution if she had dared.
There are certain conditions of atmosphere
which have a tendency to make objects
seem larger than they have appeared before.
Will was not, perhaps, more careless, not,
perhaps, more playful or idle than he had
been ; but from the present state of mind of
those surrounding him it was certain that no
smallest act of carelessness or of idleness in
him would pass unnoticed now.

' He may have my cake, may he not ? "
asked Elizabeth. '' I'll put it by."

It was an inward pleasure to her at that
moment to reflect that the cake she had
bought was rich and had comfits on the top.
The sister did not receive her proposal with
delight ; she told herself inwardly that Will
could have cakes at home. And then she
touched with some fondness a parcel on her
knee, for she carried about generally a piece
of work for him.

It's only a while ago," said Jim, after a
pause, '' as Will got in a fine scrape, an' I

don' yet know the rights. There was Captain
Holt, as is heir to Crastenhere, he came over
to us and said Will had stole his purse. Will
must ha' been i' strange company  I don't
know much o' that ; an' I thought I'd best
spare the lad if I held my tongue."

'* Would it not have been better," asked
Elizabeth, ' to have had the story out ?"

*' I was afeard Will might ha' been meeting'
Jem Haldan's lad."

He had said the words without thinking, in
his slow, good-humoured way ; but, as he and
Elizabeth chanced to raise their eyes, the
glance of each was held by the sight they
saw  for dark waves of blushes had dyed the
cheeks of Liz. Higher and higher they
mounted until they stained her forehead upto
her hair ; it was impossible for her to
conceal the agitation that she felt. Jim
continued to gaze, with his eyes round with
surprise ; but Elizabeth, with the greater
tact that even a nervous woman has, immediately
called to her cat, and gave some
scraps to that ; and after a minute or two took
it on her knee, so that Liz had a fair excuse
for bending down. And Liz drew closer to
her, though she had not been near before ;
one woman turns to another in certain times.

A little while later the table was cleared,
and they were sitting round the lamp, the two
women near to each other as before, and Jim
at a greater distance, and yet still close to
both. It was a pleasant, quiet scene on
which the lamplight shone  the young workman,
with his scarred face, watching quietly ;
the yellow and dark heads of the girls bent
close together as they compared their work ;
for Liz was making a nightgown daintily for
Will, and Elizabeth cutting out some mourning
with exquisite skill and care. Perhaps there
was more colour in her face because she felt
that Jim was near, though she took care
never to raise her eyes to him.

And Jim ? Leaning with both his strong
arms on the table and speaking Httle, he was
not able to keep himself from watching hers
whilst all the time a strange scene was before
his eyes  a dark night, the lights of a public-house,
a terrified girl with her hand upon his
arm. She had advanced by many years
beyond those days, this woman with the thin
face and nervous manner, and with speech
more cultivated than might have been expected
from her birth. It was he who was
shy, and he who was awkward now : she
knew more than he did ; she had got in front

of him. His gratitude mingled with a feeling
he did not understand, he could not but be
aware of a sense of pain. So they sat
together, with the lamplight on all three 
the handsome farmer's daughter, lost in her
dangerous dreams ; the young workman, with
his painful feeling of inferiority, now for the
first time understood ; the young dressmaker,
conscious herself of a difference she would
not stay to understand, and yet trembling
inwardly as a woman trembles when she feels
that close to her there sits her early love.

She would bend her head over the work
of Liz and admire her stitches ; there was
nothing hard in that.

MR. AUDLEY GIVES A DINNER PARTY.

The summer days of June had come now
with all their beauty to Hanorth and Crasten,
a warm early summer that filled all men with
hope. Already the lilacs and laburnums
were in their glory in Mr. Audley's gardens,
and Gloire de Dijon roses made creamy
blossoms upon the great grey house. In the
park the trees looked dark and ragged against
the deep blue of the sky, though white mists
rose amongst them in the early morning hours:
and in the evenings there were the loveliest
lights and shadows  mysterious shadows
stretching softly on the grass, with the evening
light as a golden glow between. From
the highest part of the park you could see the

smoke from the village chimneys, where the
cottages nestled close into each other's sides.
The great house was solitary, for gentlemen
live alone.

And yet not unsociably either, though with
due regard to rank. Mr. Audley gave a dinner
party in those early summer days.

He had left his newly-inherited house often
since that evening when he had first dined
there alone, and yet he had always, after an
interval of a few days, returned to it again.
Some secret attraction, either of love or dread,
drew him always back to the grey house in
the park, with the little lonely village and
the width of Fens beyond. It could not bethe
beauty of the place, for his old home at
Langen had more splendid scenery ; or Its
associations, for the place had none for him ;
or the pleasure of new arrangements, for he
disliked the toil of those ; or the county in
which it was situated, for he had never cared
for that. Some other, more inward feeling
must have been working In his heart. He
could not leave the place or resentfully settle
there ; he seemed to be lingering always, as
one who waits.

sand yet, perhaps, he scarcely told himself
what he was waiting for.

One thing there was he used constantly todo
as he sat alone in his study through the
lonely morning hours  that is, to take from
the secret drawer of his desk the piece of an
envelope that we have seen once before (the
fragment that bore the postmark of the town
near which he lived), and to sit, sometimes
for hours, with his head upon his hands, and
the torn scrap lying before him on the desk.
But he always took care, first of all, to bolt
the door. He was often attempting to remember
the epistle he had burned  the blot
on it, the dirty thumb-marks, the rude untutored
scrawl  it was a strange subject of
study for a cultivated man to choose.

And sometimes, as he sat thus intent
absorbed in thought, a wish to shape some
definite course of action would be present
in his mind ; and he would almost determine
to send for some member of the detective
force, or to employ his confidential
servant on secret work for him. That wish
came so strongly upon him now and then that
he even got out a sheet of paper, or laid his
hand upon the bell. And yet, he could not 
however much he wished  he could not lay
bare to others the secret of his life. Those
words of the '' young relation '' had jarred too

VOL. II. D

much on him ; he feared to make any movement
that should commit himself. No, he
would wait, he would be quiet till the summer
months had passed ; the writer of that
letter must have known something of him
once, he might seek him out and make himself
known at length.

And one other consciousness there was (it
was a consciousness rather than a thought)
which just stirred in the lower depth of Mr.
Audley's mind ; the servant who had shared
his secret long ago was dead, and the fact of
his marriage remained a secret still. He need
not, then, after all, be afraid to commit himself
; his son would not dare to expect too
much from him. In this manner, keeping one
most important fact concealed, he could retain
the guiding rein always in his hand. But he
would wait for a while, before searching for
his son ; at least he would wait till the
summer days had passed.

Meanwhile he liked to recline out of doors
in the golden summer evenings, looking down
from the terrace upon the trees and woods,
his great mastiff pressing against him with
its head against his knee, and a few strawberries,
some thick yellow cream, a quaint
paper-knife, and the latest periodicals upon

the table by his side. The golden light was
lovely between the trees, the evening air would
just stir the leaves upon the branches ; and
there was one vista through which, looking
far away, a glimpse could be caught of the
smoke of the distant town. No sound from
that penetrated the stillness in the midst of
which he lay. . . .

The days passed on in a solitude that was
almost unbroken. But before that month of
June was over an event at last occurred  Mr.
Audley gave a dinner party, as I have said.

And, indeed, that was to be a fateful night
for him. Mr. Audley had been allowed a longtime
of solitude, in which to arm himself for
all that might occur ; but it seems to be in
vain that we tell ourselves to get ready for
that which may lie before  forewarned, forearmed,
with every good intention towards preparation,
we yet may fail at last  the crises
of curves come suddenly, and find us unprepared.
And this man had drifted in golden
ease for many years  it is so easy to let our
difficulties rest.

So the summer evening stole gently into
the summer day with no token to mark it
different from all that had gone before ; and
then, with a force that had been gathered

through the years, it broke with its thunderclap
upon Mr. Audley's Hfe. And others also
were to make a date of that  the fourteenth
of June, 1 8  .

For on that evening, when the shadows
began to lengthen, in the quiet time for
dressing before the guests arrived, Miss
Selina Horley stood in the dressing-room
that had been set apart for her, and looked
out at the golden light upon the park. Only
a few hours before she had arrived, driven
over in her little pony carriage by Captain
Holt ; and at the park gates they had dismounted,
leaving the carriage to the groom,
and had wandered together to the house
beneath the trees. As she thought of his
whispered words her face was burning still.

Oh, no doubt it is a pleasant thing to be
nineteen years old, and to stand looking down
vistas of trees as if down your future life, with
thoughts as soft as the dreamy evening light,
or as the summer air which murmurs among the
branches like whispered words of love. Only
it was strange that as she stood there by the
open window, looking out at the evening light
upon the grass, there was another remembrance

also that moved vaguely In her mind
the thought of the railway station and its
lights, and of the stars above the snow, and
of the poor lost boy whom she had tried that
night to save.

Like an undercurrent of pity beneath the
rising of her own happiness that remembrance
moved ; it had never been so distinct within
her mind before : and with a little sigh at last
of mingled pain and bliss she turned from
the window to ring for her maid. She must
be dressed in her very best, and look her
prettiest to-night, for she had fixed the date
of her wedding-day at last.

And Mr. Audley also was alone within his
room, dressed for the evening, and pacing up
and down, with a sense of uneasy disquiet
upon his mind. For he had been talking
with his old friend. Sir John Horley, about the
young people and their plans ; and understood
very well that a proposition would soon be
made to him.

No, he could not leave Crasten, he could
not ; he would sooner give Langen up ; he
could not depart from this place with his
longing unfulfilled. And yet could that weary
longing bring any good to him ? There were
times when the hopeless waiting seemed to

torture like a pain, when he longed to fling-away
finally this shred of a possibility to
which he clung, to return to his old home
with his secret undisclosed, and to believe
himself at length a free if a lonely man. His
punishment was that he could not, he could
not, be at ease. Far down in his mind an
uneasy movement stirred ; he could not belike
men who have lived open-hearted lives.
And yet he dared not ask himself after all
what was his dread  the fear of some discovery
breaking out on him at length, or the
fear that there might be nothing to be discovered
now.

Oh, he would go down to his guests and do
his best for them. He had been a good
entertainer when he was a younger man.

So the mellow glow of wax candles made a
brightness in the drawing-room, and shone on
the old pictures, and the ancient, faded room.
And presently the guests arrived, and made
added brightness there ; an old lady in
brocaded yellow satin, who might have
come from a picture-frame herself she was so
entirely free from all modern ideas of
the fashion and its ways ; two young creatures,
her grand-daughters, in juvenile white
muslin, with sashes of blue and pink ;

Sir John Horley, enormous and ponderous,
taking the utmost care of his swollen,
rheumatic hands ; Captain Holt, handsome
and upright, stroking his moustache, with his
sense of personal superiority always strongly
marked ; two scientific gentlemen, who were
Mr. Audley's friends ; and an old lawyer with
a handsome wife. It was such an assemblage
as a host collects together in the country now
and then ; for in the country one is not driven
by necessity to such terrible crushes as
London imposes on its victims, but has
rather, out of a limited society, to select the
best one can. Pretty Miss Selina, in flowing
white lace and silk, smiled and whispered
amongst the guests like the young lady of the
house ; and Mr. Audley, from his station on
the rug, maintained an animated conversation
that was not on science with the young Captain
and the two scientific men.

The long, low room was full of creamy
Gloire de Dijon roses and drooping sprays
of fern ; and on some massive cabinets
that were dark with age Mr. Audley had
caused to be placed the exquisite china that
had been sent from his former home. Otherwise
he had not cared to make many changes
in the room, which was bright enough now

with the sense of life and company, with the
light of the wax candles, and the voices of
the guests, a dark setting itself which made a
convenient foil. A closer inspection would
have revealed the presence of many little
comforts ; its master understood how to make
an apartment habitable for himself.

He stood now on the rug, a graceful figure,
and kept up the conversation and surveyed
the rest with an inward pleasure to which he
had long been a stranger, for this sense of
social intercourse had its special charm for
him. And whilst he talked, and told anecdotes,
surrounded by his guests, the moon
had risen over the park outside ; and there
was staggering towards him a visitor whom
he was not prepared to see.

Oh, with what terrible suddenness our trials
descend on us ! If it were not for that we
would act better, indeed we would.

The rising moon made a faint light in the
park, but the shadows of the trees were not
even now distinct ; and, staggering amongst
them, unable to find the path, with his eyes
fixed always upon the lights beyond, Ben Wilde
attempted to find his way towards the house.
What was he doing there, a miserable creature,
in the midst of the peaceful stillness of
the sweet summer night ?

Let US leave Mr. Audley to entertain his
guests awhile, and accompany that visitor of
whom he was not aware as yet.

We left Ben in the early morning, staggering
homewards through the streets, in the
company of a few other such creatures as
himself, whilst the light of the early dawn
made the lamps dim. His long unconsciousness
had sobered him as far as he could be
sobered, but in the eyes of others he must
have seemed scarce collected even then.
And yet there were burning thoughts, there
was rage within his heart. He could not
remember whether or not he had revealed his
secret, and he remembered with distinctness
what the boy had said of Geoff. It seemed
that his prey was ready to escape from him.

His anger served as a distinct purpose in
his mind ; and in spite of his want of soberness
he was able to mount the steps, which
had a strange look in the dim light of the
dawn. Still shaking with rage and fear, and
yet more steadily than he would otherwise
have moved, he climbed in at his window, and
entered his room at last. There was one
thing to reassure him  the boy had not
escaped.

A tallow-candle, which was almost burnt
out, lighted the room ; and Geoff was lying
upon his heap of ragged clothes. He was
not asleep, and he did not look as if he had
been sleeping much ; he had rather the appearance
of one who has been thinking, and
who has been scarcely strong enough to bear
his thoughts. If he had looked well, excited,
with his wild temper ready to be aflame, Ben
would have been afraid of him ; but he appeared
only utterly weary and prostrated, and
the older man had not the restraint of fear.
He burst out on him with furious reproaches,
with broken words, and oaths ; he accused
him of breaking his engagement, and
threatened him with both foot and hand.
' He would gi' him something to learn him
like," he said.

'' Don't touch me," muttered Geoff, shrink-
ing, as he turned his face away. The spiritless
answer had the opposite effect ; Ben
seized a piece of rope that was lying on the
ground, and struck him across the shoulders,,
and then across the face. The boy gave no
answer, he only hid his face ; but by the
movement of his shoulders Ben could see
that he cried. Then something  could it be
pity ?  stirred in the older man ; he stood

quite motionless, whilst the rope dropped to
the ground. With pacific intention he then
bent over Geoff ; and, after a few instants,
touched him softly with his foot, and the
lad, who had been lying still, turned his face
round to him. A hard, set face, with its
dark eyes fixed into an expression that Ben
could not understand  it did not seem to
be the moment for reconciliation then. By
the light of the expiring candle Ben staggered
to his bed, and threw himself down on that, and
fell into a heavy sleep. He had accomplished
more than he had meant to do ; those two
blows, struck in the morning twilight, were,
perhaps, the first seed of a harvest that was
to be reaped that year.

But that day of reckoning was still some
distance off when Ben went staggering in the
moonlight under Mr. Audley's trees. It was
of another reckoning that he was thinking
then.

He had risen that morning with a raging
headache, but with a stronger purpose than
usual in his mind, and it was observable that
he took nothing but water with his mornings
meal. Then, before starting as usual, he had
addressed Geoff once more, and forbidden
him to leave the room throughout the day.

The boy made no answer, but only looked at
him ; and Ben climbed out of the window and
down the steps. And then a sudden idea
seized him, and he returned once more ; and,
taking the piece of wood that served as an
outside shutter, he bolted it carefully across
the window of his room, by this means
effectually securing Geoff within. The boy
had been quiet that morning, and had not
said a word, and it was characteristic of Ben
that he believed him to be cowed. He made
inquiries downstairs about Rolf and Craw,
and was told that they had left the place the
night before. With a mind, therefore, somewhat
relieved Ben departed from his home.

And then he did not go on to the marketplace
as usual, but wandered about the
streets, and even into the country and
amongst the lanes and fields. It was not
that he had anything in common with the
wild roses and the leaves, there were purposes
waiting to be formed within his mind.

For a very long time Ben's beery life had
been in possession of a secret, which, strange
as it may seem, he had for years contrived to
keep ; the years that had passed since the
day when he had stood by the bedside of a
dying man, and had heard his delirious

murmurs about '' the little 'un what was
sold." The man, who seemed to have been
a servant, had been taken very ill ; he was a
stranger in the town where he was, and no
one knew his name, and Ben, who was
lodging in the same house, undertook to
watch by him. Through the whole night
long he had heard a delirious story, which,
repeated over and over again, had impressed
his mind at last ; and just before the dawn,
which witnessed the parting breath, there
had come a murmur of Mr. Audley's name.
Ben had never thought proper to reveal what
had been told, and he continued to keep the
secret he had heard. But that broken tale of
a night-journey, a dead woman, and a forsaken
child had not moved him very much ;
after weeks and months it almost slipped
from his mind, recalled only once when he
came to live near Crasten, and heard as the
name of the heir Mr. Audley's name once
more. And then after that he had come to
know Jem Haldan, and had listened one
night to his drunken story of a forsaken
child.

Strange that there should thus have come
in his way two stories so like each other ! But
then there are many strange things within

this world of ours. Ben's fuddled brain was
not in a condition to trace connecting links ;
he had just sense enough to keep his own tale
concealed, and to let the two lie together
loosely in his mind. There followed his imprisonment
and his feud with Jem, and long
years of drinking and of attention to his stall ;
and it was not till one night, after a conversation
with Rolf and Mrs. Giles, who repeated
to him with minuter details the story that
Jem had told, that he remembered once more
the words that the dying man had said, and
it occurred to him with a significance that
had not seized on him before that the two
histories might have one common source.
By diverse ways, and without effort of his own,
the threads composing a secret might have
been placed within his hands.

Let us, then, pause for a moment, and think
what Ben could do, and what was the extent
of the knowledge committed to his care. He
knew from the dying servant (who repented
deeply his own share In the transaction) that
a gentleman named Audley had entered into
a secret marriage, and had afterwards parted
with his child. He knew, or supposed he
knew, from Mrs. Giles, that the boy was still
alive within Jem Haldan's home. He knew,

too, that the heir of Crasten bore also the
name of Audley, and that he was said to bean
unmarried man ; but of that gentleman he
knew no more. He had no money with which
to enter on inquiries ; he hated both Jem and
Geoff, and had no wish to bring wealth to
them : but at the same time it was strongly
impressed upon him that such a secret as
that of which he believed himself possessed
might prove a lucrative source of income in
careful hands, although in his weakened mind
there was not much strength to act. He contented
himself with writing to Mr. Audley
that letter of which we know, directing that
the answer should be sent to the post-office of
the town in which he lived ; and relapsed into
inaction when he found no answer came. Only,
from day to day, as he minded his stall or
drank, that vision of easy wealth remained
with him.

And, remembering the state of life in which
he always lived, the weakened physical conditions
with which he had now to contend, it
is not surprising that the vision, vague at
first, took more hold of him as days and
nights passed on.

The arrival of Mr. Audley at Crasten excited
him very much ; he believed himself to

have been told that this was the man he
sought, and supposed that it was only necessary
to introduce his son to him. But here
this feeling became crossed by another that
had power on his fevered brain  his suspicion
and hatred of Geoff were like insanity itself,
and he could not divest himself of the belief
that it was needful to watch the boy. With
this object he had attempted to get him completely
in his power, to withhold from him all
needful information, and yet, by vague promises
and threats, to attach him to himself.
There is a sort of low cunning in the world
that cannot choose open ways, not even
when open dealing might be an advantage
to itself.

Wandering about amongst the fields and
lanes, with the effects of last night's carouse
still ringing in his head, Ben wrought himself
on that summer morning into a state of fever,
from which came a great resolve. There was
a plot  a plot  to steal Geoff away from him,,
to take him to London where he could not be
found. But he would not allow it, he would
not ; he knew ' tricks more worth nor that's
He would go to Mr. Audley at once and tell
him all. Mr. Audley himself was going that
night  so he imagined  he must make haste

and reach him or he would be too late. With
such ideas rushing and sinofingr through his
head, he turned back again through the lanes
towards the town. And then on the way he
passed a public-house. The rest of the
miserable story need not be told  with a
mind utterly and hopelessly confused he set
out once more.

Ah ! poor miserable wretch, staggering
alon in the moonlight under Mr. Audley's
trees, what secret on earth would be safe
within such hands as yours ? The light was
round him  the pure and holy moonlight
the shadows of the trees stretched their
length across the grass, his only consciousness
was of the fever in his brain. Hurrying
and staggering, and knocking himself perpetually
against the trees, he pursued his
reeling way as best he could. In his
wretched condition lay Mr. Audley's chance ;
he was fast losing the power to tell a secret
now.

The garden was only separated from the
park by a paling ; beyond that the moonlight
fell upon the beds of flowers, and beyond
those again the house rose against the sky.
The dining-room windows were wide open, so
hot was the summer night, and the light

VOL. II. E

Streamed out from them upon the path, and
with that also the sound of voices came. Ben
leant against the paling, which he had reached
at length  at length  and stood looking with
a wavering glance towards the house. He
felt tired, sleepy ; it would be pleasant to lie
down.

No, he must go on, for there was a plot, a
plot ; they wanted to take his money, to steal
Geoff away from him ; they would get Mr.
Audley to London, and hide him there ; they
would do everything they could to keep him
from his rights. But they should not do it ;
hooray ! they should not ! he would see them
splintered first ! He tried to climb the paling,
but he was too far gone for that.

Feeling his way along the paling he discovered
an unfastened gate at last ; it gave
way to his touch, and he found himself on the
short-mown grass within. The house was
before him, the voices came out to him.
Avoiding the lighted windows, which gave
him terror, he staggered along the grass till
he reached the gravel-sweep. The front of
the house was before him, and the steps ;
above them the doors stood open to admit
the summer air. He had a very dim idea
what the meaning of this great mansion was ;

there were moments when he imagined it a
pubic-house. But he knew that he must go
boldly up those steps and assert his rights.
He staggered up them accordingly and found
himself in the hall. The great hall, with its
dim lamplight and dark pictures, did not surprise
him much ; only every now and then he
kept forgetting where he was. He passed
into an antechamber with faded couches,
on which the guests had left their wraps ;
and went on further into the drawing-room
itself.

The sound of the voices from the diningroom
came in to him ; he stood in the great,
low room amongst the flowers and ferns and
china, as horribly out of place as some strange
monster might have been, or as revealed sin
in what has seemed a gentle heart. Every
instant it became more difficult for him to remember
; he could hear the voices, but they
conveyed no sense to him. He stood, rubbing
perpetually his bleared eyes with his hands,
with his knees leaning against a bronze satin
ottoman, trying always to recollect what purpose
had brought him there. For there had
been something  something  only he could
not think what it was. The sound of voices
came and went, and seemed always to draw

him nearer ; he opened a door that was close
to him and went in to them.

The sudden hush and silence that was on the
whole room at once ; the brilliant lights, for it
was more lighted than the last ; the feeling of
confusion and terror that fell now on himself ;
the blank sense that something overwhelming
had happened, though he could not tell what
it was ; these things came with stunning
force, and he had no power to move. And
then the fever and delirium overpowered him
once more ; and, stretching out his hands to
the gentleman who sat nearest to him at the
bottom of the table, with a strange, overwhelming
instinct that this was the man he
sought, he poured out such words as were
prompted by his excited brain.

Misser Audley  Misser Audley  'ee must
speak to ye  'ee am yer son I "

THE END OF THE Dinner PARTY.

If a moment of agony is a just requital for
years of secret dealing, Mr. Audley had his
just recompense as those words were said.

He had scarcely seen the miserable wretch
who in this inexplicable manner addressed
him before his guests ; he had no means of
explaining the entrance of such a creature into
his house, he had no time to consider the
meaning of the words that had been said.
Blind, dumb, deaf, an awful horror upon him,
a singing and rushing like that of a torrent
in his ears, he had no power to grasp the
situation or to control himself. With a blind
sort of movement he rose up in his chair ;
and then sank down again, pale and breathing
hard. He had no power to observe the

impossibility of the statement that had been
made ; here in his own house, before his own
guests, in the fullest security that he could
command, he found himself confronted, as by
a delayed and horrible vengeance, with the
phantom of a son.

He had no power for action, and perhaps
that was not strange. But the guests, who
had been struck into silence at first by sudden
terror, recovered themselves more quickly
than himself. Lady Manners, indeed, who
had taken the head of the table, to which
her yellow, brocaded satin gave dignity and
grace, could not restrain herself from the
short, sharp screams that expressed her
feelings well; and her pretty grand-daughters
had turned pale with fear. But the two
scientific gentlemen appeared to be amused ;
and Selie looked with quick anxiety at
Mr. Audley's face; whilst Captain Holt, very
sensible of the absurdity of the situation, and
wishing to help his host and relation from an
awkward position, rose at once.

' Hallo, Mr. Audley ; what gentleman is
this ? " he said.

/' Some tipsy lunatic from the town asylum,
probably," the lawyer observed quietly, as he
stroked his chin.

Oh ! oh I oh I a lunatic from the asylum ! "
screamed the lawyer's wife ; '' oh ! don't let
him come near to me. Oh I keep him away.
Oh ! let us run upstairs and lock ourselves
up, he'll kill us all ! Oh ! why do they let
such horrid, horrid creatures roam about.
Oh ! take hold of him  take hold of him 
oh ! oh 1 oh I "

Ben. meanwhile, continued standing by
Mr. Audley's side, smiling with tipsy blandness
upon the assembled guests.

Come, look here, my man," said Captain
Holt, coming up to him, 'you get out of
this. What shall I do with him, Mr. Audley ?
You have but to say."

But Mr. Audley was panting too much to
be capable of speech.

Mi-seer Audley, V knows," announced
Ben, with tipsy dignity ; " there isn't no need
for you to try your games on him. He knows
as I were born . in a inn . . . where he
came that night . . .an' 'ee am his son . . .
his son ."

His voice was too thick for words.

Had you not better call yourself his
father? " asked Captain Holt.

Take him away ; call my servants, don't
listen to him," whispered Mr. Audley, faintly.

** I do not know him, he is a liar ; do not
believe what he says."

*' Believe it ! " burst out Captain Holt, with
a shout of laughter, that was even faintly
echoed by the other guests. '' He must have
strayed in from outside, this fellow ; and he is
too drunk to understand what he means.
Shall he be kicked out, or shall he be
detained ? "

By this time the footmen who were present
had gathered round ; so that Ben was almost
enclosed, though no one laid hands on him.
Ben, on his part, continued to offer statements,
though what these were it was difficult
to grasp. He stood in the midst of the footmen,
a ragged figure, with the ends of his
frowsy red neckerchief hanging loose. The
confusion that reigned in the room it is impossible
to describe ; the ladies were almost
crying, and the men were excited too. Only
the old lawyer, ceaselessly stroking his chin,
kept his quiet attention on Mr. Audley's face.

But Mr. Audley himself was recovering his
self-possession, which in those horrible first
moments had entirely deserted him. And he
was a man who, when occasion required,
could act with grace. The sense of peril
roused him, bewildered as he was, and

already beginning to be aware that there must
have been some strange mistake ; he must
stop this drunken man's mouth at any cost.
He rose accordingly, and with more calmness
now, though his heart was still beating
till he could scarcely breathe.

I am very sorry," he said to the company,
' that you have been disturbed. My servants
had better remove this fellow at once, and
keep him in safety till I can examine him myself.
And I must apologise for my helplessness
as well. The sudden surprise of this
visitor was too much, I am subject to palpitations
which disable me. The ladies have
been frightened, I am afraid ; but this is but a
drunkard's freak, there is no cause for fear."

He spoke with the assurance of a master,
in spite of his panting breast ; and his words
were successful in restoring calm. The
servants, without further delay, laid hands
on Ben, who became at once possessed by
excitement, and struggled hard, vociferating
that ' 'ee had come to tell Air. Audley what
'ee knew." Finally, and with much difficulty,
he was borne off at last, ejaculating indistinctly,
and struggling all the way. And Mr.
Audley fell back in his chair again, and closed
his eyes.

I must beg your pardon," he said, rousing
himself with an effort, and sitting up once
more, '' it is really true that I find myself 111
to-night, the intense heat of this summer has
tried my health. With your permission I will
go to my room and rest ; and Holt here, as my
relation and heir, will take my place. In a
little while I hope to be able to return to you."

"Oh, certainly  willingly, sir," said Captain
Holt, rising at once from his place by Miss
Senna's side. Mr. Audley cast upon him a
sick, despairing glance ; he was wondering If
this young man had his secrets too. The
rest of the guests were beginning to settle
down into calm, and the footmen had recommenced
handing the entrees round. There
could not be a more favourable moment for
retreat ; Mr. Audley rose from his seat and
left the room. Through the lighted passages
and up the great staircase went the master of
the house, as fast, in spite of his agitation, as
if he were being pursued ; he lifted the curtain
that hung before his door, and bolted himself
into his own room at last. There, In the midst
of the dark hangings with which he had surrounded
himself, he fell down on the ground ;
he lay prostrate, with straining hands, before
a crucifix on the wall, not for the sake of

praying, for he could not pray, but as the
mere outward expression of the agony of his
soul. And yet he must be firm, he must make
a decision now.

Half-an-hour later the guests had assembled
in the drawing-room, but Mr. Audley had not
returned to them. Miss Selie, intent on doing
the best she could, had sat down to the piano,
conspicuously like a bride in her white silk
and lace, a fair object in the great, faded
room. She had contrived to induce the two
youngest guests to sing, and they had grouped
themselves by the piano, a pair of doves in
white muslin, and cooed a soft duet, which
became slightly out of time towards the close.

'' You know, Mary," commented the elder,
in an audible murmur, 'you always hurry
there."

Then one of the scientific gentlemen, having
a tenor, and the other possessing a very
creditable bass, and Miss Selie and the
lawyer's wife attempting a contralto, the
whole party arranged themselves to sing a
glee. Captain Holt, meanwhile, whose vocal
powers were not extraordinary, and who, for
that reason, perhaps, considered the study of
music an '' awful waste of time," found himself
reduced to conversing with the old lawyer

upon the rug. The scene that had just taken
place was in the minds of both the men  they
talked about the affairs of the nation, it is
needless to say.

And, meanwhile, whilst the strains of joyous
music were uplifted by his guests, whilst the
light of the wax candles shone on bright
dresses and on flowers and ferns, until even
the old dark drawing-room looked bright,
while such gaiety and festivity took place in
one apartment of his house, Mr. Audley was
entering one of its back rooms alone. There
was a look upon his face that had never been
seen there since that day, years ago, when,
for the first time, in the lonely inn, he had
beheld his child.

You may stand up and speak to me," he
said, sternly, to Ben, who rose up, almost
sobered, from the floor of the empty room.
I have come here to see you, and to hear
what you have to tell. You may tell me the
truth, I will make it worth your while ; you will
gain in no way by telling lies to me."

Half-an-hour later, with a step that did not
tremble, Mr. Audley entered his drawing-room,
and was surrounded by his guests. He was
very pale, but he assured them that he had
quite recovered now. And through the

remainder of the evening his manner charmed
them all ; he seemed anxious to make up for
any discomfort they might have endured that
night. As for the man who had disturbed
them  oh, he was gone.

But it may be that when his guests had
departed he did not feel so much at ease.

And Ben, meanwhile, only partly sobered
by his interview, was staggering to the town
by the light of the waning moon, amidst
shadows not more fantastic than the visions
which he saw. His ill-timed excess and
excitement were ringing through his brain,
but a confused sense of drunken triumph
remained with him.

For, oh, he was going to be rich, he would
be a great man now ; Misser Audley 'ud pay
him to tell about his son. He had told
Misser Audley that he knew a secret; he
was to come the next day, when he was
sober, and tell what the secret was. As he
went staggering along the moonlit roads that
night he was not even yet quite sure what he
would say ; for with the drunken hope of
riches that was working in his brain his old
resentment mingled its confusion too, and he
kept on repeating with broken words and
oaths that it was not in his mind to '' make a

gentleman o' Geoff." And yet he clung to
the vision of riches for himself ; he 'ud be a
great man  'ud be ''wi' the princes now."
Alas, for the gentleman father and wretched
outcast son, whose hopes lay resting within
such hands as these ! What sorer punishment
could years of wrong have claimed than
such dependence upon a being like this ?
That penalty of evil was being exacted now,
the uncertainty of prospect that has nothing
sure beneath  as the tipsy, miserable creature
went staggering to the town the hope of two
human souls wavered up and down with him.

Still meditating, though in thoughts mostly
too confused for words, Ben reached the highroad,
and then the town at last. The moon
had been waning during the last hour or two,
and the short midsummer darkness was upon
the lighted streets. He began to walk more
wearily now and to falter more ; the public-house
he passed was closed, or he would have
entered there. So, faltering and staggering,
and dragging himself along, he reached at
length the steps that were outside his home.

The outside shutter was fastened as he had
left it ; he stood on the ladder, and drew the

bolt aside, and with fumbling fingers lifted
the window of his room. All seemed dark
and still within, and he was seized with
sudden fear. He climbed hastily inside, and
struck a match. The room was empty, save
for himself ; the boy was gone.

THE WOLF ESCAPES ONCE MORE.

We left Geoff lying on his heap of ragged
clothes, whilst the window was bolted upon
him from without, so that the light and air of
the morning were both shut out from him.
He did not struggle or speak, or attempt
once to resist ; the grating bolt had warned
him that to move would be useless then. For
on the ominous passion of his nature, which
we know, had been grafted, by hard experience,
a more ominous self-control.

In spite of that, and though he kept
himself motionless, he was in a state of
greater excitement than we have seen him in
yet. Through the whole of the long night
he had not slept, and during the last part of

it his nerves had been strained to a tension
that was scarcely to be endured ; it was Hke
a miserable, burning madness in his very
limbs themselves. And yet he kept himself
still ; he was too weak to move. He would
keep quiet through the next day, and would
both eat and sleep, and then he would be
strong when Ben came back at night. If the
old man had observed him carefully that
morning, which he did not, he would have
seen that look as of a watching animal in his
eyes : he was not aware of the danger which
that very quietness showed.

Only there is a limit to the self-control of
seventeen, and Geoff had not so much power
over himself as he desired. In spite of all
his efforts he could neither eat nor sleep ; he
lay with his eyes shut, and tried to rest in
vain. His mind kept looking on towards
Ben's return at night, and with his uncertainty
as to what he should do or say there mingled
a vague terror that he could scarcely understand.
For with the " I'll learn him, I will,
to lay his hands o' me' there came the
confused remembrance of another morning
too  the morning of the day on which he
had struck Jim Gibson on the face. If it had
not been for that day, and for all that followed

VOL. II. F

that, he need not have left the Wolf Den asa
vagabond on the earth, he might still be
climbing for birds-nests with the other village
lads. But Ben had bolted him in \ there was
no escaping now.

He might have been lying like this for two
hours, or rather more, when he heard a slight
moving of the shutter, and started up. The
room was dark, save where, through the
chinks of the shutter, the summer light
came in, and one of its larger holes was now
obscured. Through this hole, beyond which
the glass was broken, a whisper came.

' Hollo, my lad, are you at home here today
? "

'' Oh, I am  I am ! " cried Geoff, with
excitement. ''He has bolted me in to-day ;
just let me out."

He had not known who had spoken, it did
not seem that it mattered much ; but, as the
heavy bolt fell and the shutter was pushed
aside, he saw looking in on him the black-bearded
man.

'' I'm glad to see ye," said Rolf, as he
pushed the window up ; "I want to come in,
my lad, and talk to ye."

Geoff would not answer or appear to
welcome him ; he threw himself down on

his ragged clothes again. Accepting the
action as an invitation, Rolf climbed slowly
in. The boy lay reclining with his face half-turned
away, a sort of sullen distaste in the
attitude he preserved. Rolf would not seem
to be offended ; he sat down on the floor,
with his eyes drawn somewhat together and
on his companion's face.

'' I say, what's come to ye, Geoff, the
morn ? " he asked ; and, a little ashamed,
Geoff slightly moved his head.

In an instant the colour started to his thin
cheeks as he saw the expression on his companion's
face.

*' Why, who's give to ye that fine mark,
Geoff?" said Rolf.

The boy fell back into his old attitude
again.

It was Ben come last night an' beat me,"
he muttered below his breath, with some
effort, however, to keep calmness in his voice.

Rolf did not answer for a minute, but only
looked at him.

'' An' what did ye say to him at all the
while ? " he asked. There was an indifference
that appeared to be assumed about his tone.

'' I didn't say nought. I'll see him the
night again."

And again there was silence whilst both
men seemed to think.

*' Ben thinks that he's stronger than ye
now ye are weak. He thinks he can do ashe
pleases to ye now."

' It's like he can," answered Geoff, and
said no more.

He was lying quietly on his heap of ragged
clothes, with one of his arms hanging loosely
down his side. The man's glance was held
for an instant by the resting hand, and then
by the whitened face.

'' I say, boy," he burst out suddenly, as if
the words forced themselves, '' If ye have
that sort o' look often upon your face there'll
be something to reckon for on that hand o'
your some day." And almost as if he were
startled Geoff looked at him. It had seemed
a genuine impulse that brought the words,
but Rolf had the discretion to turn them to
account. " Look here, Geoff," he went on,
with great earnestness this time  he sat
always, clasping his knees, upon the floor 
'' I want ye to listen to me once for all, ye
see. We are starting for Lon'on this even',
me an' Craw, an' it isn't like as we'll get back
here agen. I'm going to start in the pawn-broken'
business there, an' I've such a chance

as a man has once a life. Such premisses 
swell premisses  ye never saw the like ; they
might be belonging' to a gentleman, they
might. . . . An' there's many a secret bit o'
business too. If it wasn't for one thing I'd
not dare to tell ye that."

He had evidently not intended to say the
last few words, and had added them on
account of the want of interest that the boy
displayed. They had their effect ; Geoff
showed more attention now.

'ran' the one thing I have to say to ye,
my lad, is this "  Rolf kept a keen gaze
upon his companion's face  '' come ye to
Lon'on wi' me, an' set up there. It's such
an offer as I'll not make once again : I
'wouldn't do it if I hadn't an eye for ye.
Why, just look here for a bit, my lad, look
here."

He took from his pocket carelessly a handful
of gold, which filled his fingers so that
some of the coins dropped through. Geoff's
eyes followed them as they fell upon the floor,
but he kept himself very still, and said no
word. And Rolf picked them up, and put the
gold back again.

'' Eve not had so much at a time, my
boy," he said. "' No, and ye're not like to if

ye go on like this. Why do ye stay wi' Ben ?
Ye'll get no good, he'll starve and beat ye,
an't happen do harm to ye. An' if ye get
mad wi' him one day  one day  There's
a dozen things ye could do in Lon'on
town  there's many an artis' as 'ud paint
a boy like ye. Yes, an' wi' me there's
a hunger things to do, a well-lookin' lad 'ud
be the making' o' the place ; wi' ye an' a pretty
gal rd be quite set up. I don't tell ye everything',
I donna dare just yet. Oh, ye are
thinking, perhaps, as I leather Craw too much ;
but ye're not the same as him, though he be
no son o' mine ; an' I'd not do the same to ye,
I'd be too feared o' ye."

So on and on, in a grating, monotonous
whisper, Rolf poured out the promises which
were persuasions too, sitting upon the floor
with his arms upon his knees, with his eyes
fixed always on his companion's face. In his
persuasions, in his promises, in his hints of
daring adventures, in his display of gold, in
the very mysterious vagueness with which he
invested both hopes and fears, he gave proof
of a skill and experience that were not to be
denied ; he knew how to approach the nature
with which he had to deal. And Geoff was
young and miserable, and possessed with

ghastly fears  there seemed no reason why
he should not comply at once. But he had
been too well trained himself to show easily
what he felt ; he lay and listened with little
change of face. And perhaps there was
something else besides eagerness in his mind.
He disliked and distrusted this man, whose
brutality he felt and knew ; he dreaded to put
himself completely in his power ; his very
quickness of intellect, as wee have seen before,
made him fear to adventure himself upon
unknown ground. And yet  to lie still again
and wait for Ben  he did not say anything, but
he did not refuse ; and when Rolf offered him
gold, '' for old acquaintance sake," he allowed
the coins to be put into his hand.

Immediately the man opened the window,
and whistled for Craw to come ; and the
crooked monkey, who had been climbing on
the roof, came down at once, and appeared
within the room. His father must have arranged
matters previously with him, for he did
not require a word, but, without waiting for
explanation, threw himself on Geoff, with expressions
of the most wild and vehement joy.

Rolf turned away softly, and stood looking
out ; and Craw held back Geoff, who was
about to rise.

'' You wait a minute, Geoff," he whispered
low to him ; ' I want to say summit to you as
father doesn't hear."

Then, as Geoff, startled somewhat, held
himself still to listen, he threw his arms round
him, and whispered In his ear 

'' I am glad you're coming' too, I really
am."

And then, hastily springing from him, he
went to his father's side.

The little, pathetic murmur had effect ;
Geoff no longer thought of resistance.
They all three sat on the floor and arranged
their plans.

These appeared to be more complicated
than seemed needful to the lad, who could
not suppose himself treated with the openness
he desired. Rolf had entirely determined
to leave the town that day, and wished to be
starting for London before noon, and yet he
would not ask Geoff to accompany himself
and Craw. On the contrary, he urged the
new companion not to start till night, perhaps
to avoid suspicion of their united plans. He
even said that he could not receive him in
London till the next morning came ; and of
his. London business he would still only give
vague accounts. It appeared to Geoff, who

asked little, but whose acuteness pondered
much, that he was afraid to trust him too far
as yet.

However, Rolf assured him they would soon
have their fortunes made, that they would be
'' rich as gentlemen," and " live like princes"
then. And Craw climbed about him, and
hung upon his back, and whispered that
father would not beat him now. And so they
climbed through the window again at last,
after Rolf had written his address, and the
London trains at night ; and the man turned
back with a sinister smile to him, and Craw
made a parting grimace of a most surprising
sort ; and so, like uneasy visions, they were
gone, and Geoff lay down on his ragged
clothes once more. A church clock close by
struck the last quarter before noon. He had
some hours before him, there was no need for
haste.

Slowly, very slowly, he raised himself, and
folded the ragged garments and laid them
straight ; and got his cap, and moved quietly
about the room as though there were any
good in setting things in order now. His
mind seemed to be in doubt, and as if he
were too tired to think ; he was not quite
certain where he was going, or what he would

do. There was one thing only certain to
him  he meant to escape from Ben, and loose
hold of the false hope that had tortured him
so long. He sat down on the floor, and
clasped his knees at last.

And then he got slowly up, and went to the
open window, which he had never passed since
he had first been ill. The hot summer air
came in upon his face ; the noontide sunlight
was glorious on the roofs ; a sense as of
young exultation touched his heart. He
pushed the window more open, and got slowly
out  his limbs had become stiff and sore,
unused to move, but there was a feeling as if
his old agility would return. He stood on
the ladder and raised the outside shutter, and
bolted it carefully across as Ben had done.
Had he bolted those miserable weeks within
with it ? He stood looking across the great,
wide view of roofs, all bathed with exultant
sunlight, like a new and brighter life. And
then, with footsteps that moved more quickly,,
he went down the steps.

A SUDDEN TEMPTATION.

He got down the steps, and went out into the
streets. He found himself moving slowly, for
his head was faint, though the warmth and
sunlight seemed to revive him as he went.
Where was he to go now? What could he
do?

Oddly enough, it amused him, this sense of
freedom ; it felt like a holiday, and as if he
could rest himself. For he had gold in his
pocket, he had not forgotten that ; there was
no thought of starvation now to give him
dread. Only he did not feel as if he wished
to touch the gold ; some strange doubts
about it lingered in his heart. And if he
went and bought food with it  a vagrant in

ragged clothes  it might cause suspicion,
and then he would be watched. It would be
good if he could earn a few pence for himself.


So thinking, and wandering aimlessly
through the streets, he found himself come
on the market-place at last. The first sight
of it roused him and made him start, but the
next glance informed him that he had no
cause for fear. The place was deserted, and
Ben's stall was not there.

He had been roused from dreaming, however,
and looked round now with care. The
headpiece of asphalte in front of the Exchange
was entirely empty, and dry and hot beneath
the midsummer sun. At one corner of it a
woman with a market-basket stood, leaning
against the lamp-post, with her basket upon
the rail ; and close to her, on a bench, a
young man was sketching, with his elbow
upon the railing and his head bent to his
work. Some carts were passing in the High
Street close to them ; it was all distinct
beneath the intense colour of the deep blue
sky above.

Geoff stood within the enclosure, near
where he had stood once before, with his
eyes on the woman with the basket, and on

the sketching man, and his thoughts upon the
pence that he had set himself to earn. At
first he thought of offering himself as a
porter, but he had small hope of success in
that ; a respectable woman does not employa
ragged lad. And, besides, even as he
looked at her she prepared herself to go.
The artist remained still where he was,
engaged upon his sketch ; and Geoff stood
near him with shyness, afraid to speak, for
he did not know what more cultured taste
has learnt  that even rags may be of consequence
in an artist's eyes.

It was so that it came to pass that as the
young man raised his eyes he found them
held all at once, and unexpectedly, by the
figure that he saw. He had been making a
vigorous sketch of the houses and the streets,
and had been so much engaged in dreaming
of a suitable model that he even now rubbed
his eyes.

'' Hallo ! " he exclaimed, after this, ' how
did you come here, my friend'' Geoff only
blushed, with one of the quick changes of
expression peculiar to him when in any way
disturbed, and the involuntary action supplied
the colour that was wanting in his face.

"Hallo !'' cried the gentleman, more and

more surprised. " What good thing have I
been doing to get such luck as this ? That
dark head, that attitude, and that blue sky-above.
. . . Why, it's a picture, a Murillo ; I
never saw the Hke. I say, boy, you just standstill,
and take off your cap, and let me draw
your head  I'll make a careful study of it ;
I vow I will ! Now, where is my charcoal ?
Oh, hang it ! I must have a go at this ! "

He was a man with a fair beard, who had a
young, engaging look, though there were
some careworn wrinkles beneath his eyes.
With a good deal of low, tuneful whistling, he
got a sheet of paper out at once ; and pinned
it rapidly to his canvas, and began to draw.
It would seem that he was pressed for time,
for he made most fearful haste, but his rapid
strokes had vigour, and even care. '' Oh,
ghosts of the Old Masters, that I should light
on a face like this ! "

'' There, that's something the sort," he
proclaimed, when a fine, rough sketch was
made. '' I'll take some notes of your colouring.
. . . What colouring you have ! Ever
been a model before ? You shake your head.
There, look at yourself ; you don't look
amiss, you see ! "

Geoff looked at himself, and then at the

artist who had drawn him, with the smile that
could rise in his dark eyes like light. The
young man seemed most unwilling to let him

go.

'just stand as you are, and I will sketch
your figure. Leave your hand on the rail ;
don't twitch it ; do you hear ? Confound
you, don't move it like that ; just try to keep
it still."

Geoff tried, and then tried again, but without
success, for the twitching nerves and
muscles refused to be controlled, his hand
continued shrinking, as if it knew itself
observed. The young man kept shaking his
head backwards in an irritated way ; he was
becoming excited, that was plain to see.
And, at last, as if he could control himself no
more, he spoke.

"Are you made up of moist toffy?" he
said. '' There's not much stuff m you'

I've been ill a good bit," answered Geoff,
'' or my hand 'ud never shake."

' III, have you ? Poor lad," said the
young man, with a smile. ''Ah ! well, keep
as still as you can, and I'll do my best.
There s an outline sketch for you," and he
threw it on the ground. It was done in a few
strokes, but was vigorous enough.

'' And now then, Pll have just another look
at you," he said slowly, as he rose and threw
down his canvas, and began to fasten his
easel up. '' You say you've been ill, you look
like it, and half-starved, perhaps, as well.
May I ask how you got that strange mark
upon your face ? "

'the man beat me as I've been living
with," said Geoff.

'' The man you live with ; have you relations
of your own ? "

'' No, sir, I've not, not as own me," said
Geoff, as his colour rose. The young artist
was looking very steadily at him.

And have you been a good sort of boy ? "
he asked, in a careless tone, but with the
direct gaze of his eyes. They were grey
eyes that might ordinarily have seemed careless
themselves, but they had a curious keenness
when they fixed themselves like this.

'' No, sir, I've not ; you'd not call me
that," said Geoff. He was very weak
physically, and his lips trembled as he
spoke. With a singular movement the young
man drew in his own ; his fair beard concealed
the expression of his mouth.

'' Not good, not respectable, not owned by
your relations, an outcast of the streets, and

all that sort of thing," he said. '' Ah ! well,
I don't know that I have the rlorht to be too
hard on you. Well, ah ! well, my own relations
are much like yours, you see ; I do
not think they would have much to say tome.
Ah, well, well, well, we people who are
not respectable ought to have some pity for
each other, don't you think that, at least?"
He looked at his companion, but the boy
could not speak.

'you have learned more than I have in
one or two things, you see ;" the young artist
went on speaking, with a strange smile on his
face. '' I have not been hungry, or beaten,
or on the streets as yet. That is to come,
perhaps ; I would not say it's not ; Heaven
knows we are punished sometimes for our
faults. And now, what shall I pay you for all
you have done for me?" He took out his
purse, and emptied the coins into his hand ;
and then, taking three of them, he held them
out. " I have only six shillings for the present,"
he said cheerfully; 'rand I give three
to you. Would you take my whole purse,
do you think, if you had a chance ? "

I took a purse once, but I was nigh
hemmed," said Geoff. His instinct was fine
enough to induce him to tell the truth.

VOL. II. G

'' And you don't look much else now,"
replied the young man, with a smile; ' well,
take them, and do the best you can with
them. I say, I don't like to leave you, and
yet I am going at once. Just wait a minute,
there is something I have thought."

He shaded his eyes with his hand, and
waited, and then he spoke.

'' There's a friend of mine who has done a
great d:"al for lads ; I'm afraid he's not been
able to do so much for nne. It is Canon Not,
in this parish ; everyone here knows the man.
You may go to him to-night, and tell him
you've met with me. And he'll give you
some work to do, or get you into a Home.
That'll set you up for life ; but you'll have to
be good, you know."

He tore a leaf out of his pocket-book, and
wrote down the address.

' There, take it, that is if you like, and
make use of it if you can. It's hard lines,
the path of virtue, but it may be worth the
trial. That is all I can do for you, or I would
do more." His eyes met the boy's almost
wistfully as he spoke, and he caught up his
easel and sketches, and hurried off. Geoff
remained where he was, looking after him,
lost in thought, with some new ideas in his
heart, and three shillings in his hand.

The kind gentleman, kind gentleman, he
would not see him again, the gentleman in
the loose brown coat, with the grey eyes that
fixed themselves or laughed. Oh, he could
not feel just as he had done when he had left
the steps ; there was sounding still in his
ears the kind voice of a friend.

The three shillings lay still in the palm of
one of his hands, and he turned them over
with the fingers of the other, with the
mechanical movement of one who is in
doubt. This was more than the few pence
he had hoped for; he need not be in trouble
now. Yes, and there was no present need
for him to touch the gold, the accursed gold
that seemed to burn his pocket, though he
scarcely knew why he hated and dreaded it
so much. Silver or gold, three shillings or
three pounds, one path or another lay indeed
before him now.

And with whatever feelings he might have
viewed the straighter path, whatever natural
distaste for it might have been in his heart,
the friendly voice had subdued him for once.
With rapid decision he made up his mind ;
he would go and buy food and satisfy hunger
first, and then walk out to Crasten and seek
Miss Harte, and in the evening return to the

town apaln. He felt too weak to arorue, and
let the matter rest.

So, moving at last from his place, he went
dreamily through the streets, leaving the
market empty beneath the deep blue sky.
There was a little milk-shop in a small street ;
he entered there, and drank a great tumbler
of milk, and felt refreshed. The shop was
small, but clean, and there were new rolls
and rusks, he was able to eat ravenously
after he had drunk. And then, when he had
paid the little maid in a white apron, who
seemed interested in him, he went out into the
narrow street again, feeling better and stronger
than he had done for a long time. He went
next to a barber and had the long hair cut,
which, not so crisp as it had been before his
illness, had been hanging in heavy masses
upon his head. And after that he felt more
trimmed and comfortable, and ready to walk
out into the country, as he had meant to do.
He went slowly through the streets and past
the villa residences ; at a small shop he
stopped again and bought some buns, and
then got out Into the high road and Into a
lane at last.

In a field near him some boys were playing
cricket ; he could hear their merry voices and

their shouts as he went on. He had been
famous at Hanorth last summer as a cricket
player ; he wondered if he would ever be able
to play the game again. He passed a little
cottage in a hollow, all embowered in trees,
with some fading lilac blooms on the bushes
by the door, and a little stream gurgling over
the stones close by. He got over a stile,
wondering to find himself so weak, and knelt
down by the stream and bathed his face and
arms ; and then sat down by it in a hollow
where he could be concealed, and took out
the buns and ate them, less ravenously now.
The grass grew long by the water, and there
were forget-me-nots in it ; he gathered a
number of the flowers and strewed his knees.
And then he rested, leaning against the bank,
with the flowers on his knees and the sound
of the water in his ears. There was no
thought of any want of decision in his mind.

No, for once more there had sounded in his
ears the warning that was emphasised by
every experience of these last few months of
miserable life ; the same warning that had
been little heeded by him when a child at
Sunday School ; that he had heard in the
whispers of the young lady who had pleaded
with him on that first night upon the snow ;

that he had felt in the thrill of the fingers of
the dressmaker, whose passionate earnestness
had seemed to drag him back from ruin. And
now this young man, who would not even
call himself respectable, had said the same
things to him again ; and had turned from the
midst of his own life, whatever that might be,
to show him the way to another and better
path.

This wretched, false hope of being able to
prove a gentleman his father  this pawn-bring
in London, or receiving of stolen
goods, whichever it might be  what good at
all were these things likely to bring to him ?
He dared not retract again ; he would try to
escape from wrong at last.

And yet, do we utterly condemn him, this
boy of seventeen, when we add that the path
of virtue had little charm for him ? Alas !
there could not be much hope of any steadfast
principle in any one of the lads whom the
Wolf's Den had reared ; and, susceptible as
Geoff was by nature to good as well as ill, he
felt the passionate, vagrant nature that lay
beneath. He dared not imagine how he
would be able to endure a life beneath control.
He would go and see Elizabeth Harte
instead of thinking about it  the artist's voice

was still in his ears, and he did not mean to
change. For he had only the alternative of
Ben or the hateful London life ; it did not
occur to him that any temptation might arise.

So he got up again, and set out towards the
Fens. He could only reach Crasten that
way by a round of many miles, but he chose
to go by the lanes that would take him
near the farm, because it seemed to him
possible that he might fall in with Jim or
Will; and he had the day before him, there
was no need to haste.

The summer sky was deep blue above his
head, the little pink Herb Roberts were on the
banks, and the hedges even yet were white
and sweet with may. He kept gathering
flowers all the way as he went, long blades of
grass to cool the forget-me-nots in his hand,
white, graceful stitchworts on slender, drooping
stems, and blue germander speedwells,
whose blossoms fluttered and fell, and were
carried away in a moment by every breeze
that blew.

There was not even a cart in the lonely
lanes, and the wide Fens lay round him, deep
blue beneath the sky. If anyone had met
him his appearance must have seemed strange,
this tall, ragged lad with his hands so full of

flowers. The lanes became heavier as he
went further on ; and then at last, although
in the distance still, he saw the chimneys of
Rose Cottage against the sky.

It was strange that he seemed to feel then
as if his work was done  he was hot and
spent, and was much inclined to sleep. The
road on which he was led directly to the farm ;
he had often played here on summer days
with Will. He was not quite certain if he
should go on or not. Close by him a great
oak tree stood in the hedge ; he laid himself
down, so that his back leant against that ; and
then, keeping the flowers in his hand, he let
his eyelids close. They sank on his eyes
with a delicious sense of rest. He seemed to
be once more by the cottage with lilac blooms,
to hear in his ears the sound of the little
stream, and then, through darkness grown
deeper, to hear voices calling him, soft voices,
like music, that sounded from far away.

The sense of a touch  with a start he
sprang up, awake at once. There was a sunset
glow over all the country now ; and there,
bending over him looking down on him, was a
young girl's face. He sprang up in an instant,
and caught Liz in his arms.-

Oh, that one long moment, straining, rapture
of embrace  was it wonderful that to the
outcast this should seem rest and bliss at
last ? He had not thought of her, he had
never meant to meet her ; and now, beyond
expectation, he held her in his arms. For
that one long instant he held her close and
tight ; and then, stooping down, he showered
kisses upon her forehead, taking her face and
caressing it between his hands. She did not
resist him, did not even let go her hold of
him ; and so, still clinging together, they
sank down on the grass.

"Geoff! Geoff! Geoff!" cried Liz, in a
sobbing, crying murmur; and, letting her head
sink on his breast, she burst out weeping there.
'' Oh, Geoff, I have wanted you, I have
wanted you so bad ; an' father's so cruel tome,
an' has turned me fro' the house ; an' I
never thought to find you, I never thought  "

The choking sobs allowed her no breath
for words.

Geoff did not answer, or even attempt to
speak. He had pushed back her shady hat,
and stroked her dark hair with his hands.
But he was almost alarmed himself to feel his
own excitement : the fierce beating of his
heart was like a pain in him.

'you won't send me away, Geoff? You
will take care o' me ? "

She raised her head from his breast to say
these words. Her hat and dark hair had
fallen on her neck, and her eyes were swollen
with crying, but there was a quivering smile,.
like that of a child, upon her lips. There was
something intensely pitiful in her look and
words. Geoff sat with his arms round her,
and her head upon his breast, looking down
with a devouring gaze on her.

'' It was father," whispered Liz ; '' he's
been mad wi' me to-day. He spoke o' you so
as I couldn't bear it, although I've bore it
long ; an' then I got mad, like, and I spoke
up myself' ; an' he struck me an' swore at mean'
said he'd ha' none o' me ; an' I threw
myself' fro' the house, an' said I'd go to ye."

'ran' now you need never leave me, never,"
whispered Geoff, in a murmur so faint that he
could hardly form the words ; and yet it seemed
to him as if those words sealed his fate.

I never thought as I'd find ye, never,"
sobbed Liz to him ; " I thought as I must go
home an' face 'em all agen. But I won't go
back to 'em, never, an' hear such things said o'
y.e. He's struck me an' swore at me ; I don't
owe nought to him. I'll never go back to him.'

Her eyes were blazing now.

*' No, never, Lizzie, my Liz ; ye'll stay wi'
me."

But ye look so poor, poor Geoff," she
murmured now, with a smile, the trembling
smile of a child that has heard some words of
love. ' I don't feel as if I daughter to burden
ye for me. LU go off away fro' home, an' do the
best I can ; Lve not been brought up to it,
but ril do my best ; an' we'll meet again,
maybe, some day  some day."

She raised the face he held close to him,
and looked up in his eyes.

Then something swelled up in Geoff, and
rose, and overcame  a fierce, overcoming
sensation he had never felt before ; the violent
passion of his unmastered nature ; the burning
resentment he had felt so long ; the lonely
months that had known no sense of fellowship
; the resolve to retain the beauty he held
within his grasp ; and yet none of these
things entirely, nor all of them combined, a
throttling, burning misery that gasped and
overcame !

'' I am going' to Lon'on, Lizzie ; I ha'
money, gold, an' hope. An' Ll marry ye
honest, I will ; an' ye shall come wi' me."

AN EVENING AT THE FARM.

The door of Rose Cottage was open to
admit the summer air; the sweet summer
evening stillness reigned without. It lay in
lingering light on the wide outlook of Fens ;
it bathed the trees in the garden with golden
glow, and touched Jim softly as he stood
by the garden-gate. Within, in the great
kitchen, the tea had long been laid, but Liz
had not come in from out-of-doors as yet.

The afternoon had begun with a storm that
had not been in the sky, but there had been
peaceful stillness through the long hours
afterwards. Farmer Gibson, indeed, had not
found himself able to direct his men ; he had
been helped to his room upstairs by his wife

and Jim, but there he had fallen into a heavy
sleep. And his wife had drawn blind and
curtain to keep the sun from him, and had
got out her mending-basket and come downstairs,
for on Wednesday afternoons she was
accustomed to mend the clothes. She had
the presence of Jim for once to support her
nerves to-day, for he had come home early
that morning from the town ; and, whilst she
mended shirt-sleeves and socks in her big
arm-chair, he sat and smoked on the other
side of the hearth. The hardest household
work had been done in the morning hours,
there was an afternoon leisure and peace
about the place. But neither mother nor son
seemed to be much disposed to talk. Once
only did she address him ; and though her
words were few, they had obvious reference
to the scene that had taken place that day.

*' Liz donna know your father, or she'd not
anger him like that. I can't think as she likes
the lad as did such harm to ye." Jim only
smiled, he was not so sure of that.

So the long, peaceful hours of the afternoon
wore away, and Mrs. Gibson's needle went in
and out, whilst Jim took out his pocket-book
and made mechanical drawings there ; and the
light slowly changed upon the kitchen walls.

It was scarcely possible not to feel a sense of
peace. And then Will came in, quite happy
and bright, from school, with some wild rosebuds
and a penny pack of cards ; and though
he asked at once after Liz and tea, was
quieted immediately by his mother's troubled
face. With his assistance Mrs. Gibson laid
the table, and then returned to her chair and
her work again; whilst Will, hid up in a
corner, played beggar-my-neighbour with
himself. Jim had drawn a long while, and
was stifled by the heat ; he went out and
leant against the garden-gate.

The evening brightness was round him,
bathing the trees with gold ; its peaceful stillness
was over all the earth, it seemed like a
rest even to the trouble in his heart. Above
his head little red clouds were floating ; the
sunset colours and light were beginning now.
And still there moved in his mind the scene
on which he had returned, his father's violent
clamour, and his sister's maddened face. Oh !
would they ever be happy within their home
again ? Or would he ever be able to make a
home himself ?  he had not been strong as he
used to be this year. Oh, what endless misery
Geoff Haldan had brought on them ! . . .

As he stood leaning on the gate beneath

the sunset light, it was natural that his
thoughts should turn to the cottage in the
wood, to the girl with the strange face, who
had been able to save him once. '' She
can't help me now ; poor Lizzie, she can only
trouble me : I'm a poor, rough working-lad,
an' feel dazed an' shamed wi' her. An' yet she
troubles me, an' I can't get her fro' my mind ;
I'd like to do a bit for her after all she did forme.
She looks a bit lonely often, poor girl 
poor thing ! I'll make a box some day or an
easy-chair like for her ; she'll not care much
for that, but there's nought else I can do ; "
and as if his mind were settled, he turned to
go. And yet he turned back again, and
lingered still, with the evening light round
him, on the garden and the Fens. Through
the miserable hours that followed, and the
confusion of his mind, that peaceful evening
light was always before his eyes. . . .

Some time later he was in the kitchen ; he
had been drawing again with his pocket-book
on his knee, whilst Will, still hid in the corner,
continued his game of cards, and by the table
Mrs. Gibson moved about. Every window
and door was open to let in what air there
was, and the red clouds of the sunset looked
in on them.

I can't think where Liz can be," Mrs
Gibson said ; '' she's not been i' the house
sin' she went out. It isn't like her to stay
away like this."

'' She'll happen come in sometime," answered
Jim, without looking up. '' Go you,
Will, an' see if she's in her room."

'' I want to finish my game of cards," said
Will, in whom some of the ways of a spoiled
child lingered yet. But as his mother made
a hasty movement he rose at once. He
stole in again quietly after a minute or two
had passed, and reported that Liz was '' nowheres
i' the house; " and, having said this,
hid himself with his cards again. Mrs. Gibson
kept by the table, moving restlessly
about.

'' It's getting' so late," she said ; '' I donne
what to do. I don't like to sit down to tea
till she come in."

'' She's happen with someone at Hanorth,"
answered Jim. '' Let's wait a bit for her,
mother, and then have tea."

They did wait a good while, till the sunset
colours failed, and the summer evening
twilight was upon the view without. The
farmer was moving above, as they could
hear, and presently his heavy footsteps came

down the stairs. But he did not come in to
them, he passed the door ; and they heard
him going by the back-door, from the house.
The tea remained on the table but no one
sat down.

*' Do you have tea now, mother," insisted
Jim.

Mrs. Gibson yielded reluctantly, and they
sat down. The meal was as plentiful as
usual, and there where scones and cream, but
Liz was not there to pour out the tea to-day.
Mrs. Gibson rose once, declaring that she
heard her at the door, and was cross then
with Will for asking when she went out.

** She'll come in when your father comes
in," "the poor mother said.

They'll have to meet some time or
another," insisted Jim.

And then the tea was finished in gloom
and silence ; and Mrs. Gibson lingered near
it, unwilling to clear away, whilst Jim went
to the corner and got out his hat.

'' Look here, mother," he said, ' I'm going
to see to Liz. It's getting' late now, an' time
she should be at home. You give father his
tea, and get him to his room."

And, without waiting to hear more, he left
the house. The twilight shadows were fall-vol.

II. H

ing on the Fens, and the light In the kitchen
was growing fainter now.

Mrs. Gibson went out and brought her
husband in ; the farmer had been Hungering
outside near the back-door. He did not ask
for Liz, though he looked round the room for
her, and then sat down to his tea in a silence
that seemed like that of shame. Alas ! how
many times he had found reason to blame
himself since that fatal morning when Geoff
Haldan struck his son. But it was the
fault of the wolf ; it was no fault of his. He
had been revived by his heavy sleep and the
sweet evening air, and Liz was not present
to confuse him n3W, so he gulped his tea
down hastily, and then went out on the farm.
And Mrs. Gibson called Will from the parlour,
and cleared away. It was getting later and
later, and Liz had not come in.

''I can't think what have come to her,"
the mother said; 'she'll sure not be angry
wi' your father all these hours. I did hope
as a daughter 'ud be some good to me ;
they allays say there's a differ 'tween boys
and tells. You get out your books. Will, as
soon as tea is cleared ; your father '11 be at ye
.well if ye're idle now."

And then, leaving Will to his books, she
went to her daughter's room.

And now let us imagine the poor mother
standing there, in the bedroom with the open
lattice window, through which the evening air
came in. With restless mother's fingers she
turned down the bed of Liz, and arranged the
sheet, and put the pillow straight. On a
chair at the foot a little half-made night-gown
lay, of the fine bleached calico Liz would
always have for Will. Mrs. Gibson folded
this, and laid it straight. And then, with a
restless face, she stood still by the bed, with
her arms hanging down by her sides, as if
she did not know what to do. She stood
quite still there whilst the light failed in the
room, and through the open window the first
stars could be seen.

Mother, father wants you," cried Will
from the stairs, and with a slight start she
moved herself at last : it had seemed to her
as if she did not know how to move. With a
long, weary sigh she went slowly down the
stairs. The farmer was in the kitchen, walking
restlessly about ; at the first glance she
could see that he was uneasy too.

Mother, how 's this ? Will says Liz has
not come in."

'' An' what do you go frighten' your father
for, you tiresome boy, when there's no need
for you to say naught to him ? No, she's not

in yet, she'll happen be coming' soon. She's
gone over to Hanorth for the afternoon,
maybe'

She had ought to be in by this' the
farmer said.

It was evident that he was not happy in
his mind : he kept walking always up and
down the room. And presently he burst outwith
fierce words and oaths on Geoff, his
footsteps coming still faster as he spoke.

"' And she cares for him, she does, an' it's
true she does, the fool ! . If ever I live to
get him atween these hands o' mine . . . An'
yet, if it hadn't been for that miserable
varmint there, as helped him, an' encouraged
him, an' wasn't ashamed to see him, she'd
not 'a thought o' him. . . . An' there ye go,
wi' your head bent o'er yer books, as if we'd
done nothing', an' wasn't ashamed at all. . . .
Ye get away, I can't bear the sight o' ye."

Will, take your books to the parlour,"
Mrs. Gibson said.

*' I haven't done no wrong now," faltered
Will, with starting tears.

But he gathered his books together with
trembling fingers ; and, clasping them in his
arms, prepared to leave the room. He had
not gone far when his father called him back.

'' Ye come here to me, I must speak to ye,"
he said. Will trembled so much that his
poetry book fell down ; but it was his instinct,
as usual, to obey. He came to his father,
trembling and shaking, with his books clasped
in his arms ; and the farmer, detaining him,
laid his strong hands on him. '' Ye listen tome,"
he said, in a voice that shook with
passion, '' for this is the last time I'll speak
to ye like this. Your sister has left the house,
an' I canna tell where she be ; an' all this
harm that has happened it's to ye I lay it
down. If hurt comes to her, ye shall answer
for it, I say ; the same roof hanna shelter or
hold us both. An' if ye dare to stay I'll know
how to murder ye. An' now get along wi' ye
afore I hurt ye now."

He let go of him with a push to make him
move ; but Will was too shaken with terror to
find the door, his knees knocked together,
and he almost dropped his books. His
mother took hold of him, and put him from
the room ; and put him into the parlour, and
closed the door. The room was dark, save
for the rising moon. He dropped his books
on the table, laid his head on them, and
cried. . . .

And, meanwhile, whilst terror was in the

parlour, in the kitchen there was gloom ; the
farmer continued always to walk about, his
restless footsteps having more speech than
words ; whilst Mrs. Gibson sat by the hearth,
absorbed in grief. After a time he went out ;
and then the mother rose, and began to walk
up and down as he had done, talking always,
fast and in a low tone, to herself. She said
that Liz had been a good girl all her life . . .
that she wasn't meaning to vex her father,
she did know that . . . that she might come
back ; it was getting late, so late . . . and
so on and on, in a ceaseless, chattering way.
The great moon rose in the sky, and looked in
on her ; the two farm-boys whispered together
outside the house, and now and then they
looked in at the windows too. She could not
bear it at last, and drew down the blinds ; and
then Ht the candles, and got out her work 
she kept on doing a few stitches, and then
starting up, and walking about, with her hands
clutching her sides, and then sitting down
again. She could hear the farm-boys talking
and moving about outside. The great clock
in the passage struck nine . . . and then
ten o'clock. . . .

And then suddenly the farmer burst in on
her once more : the noise he made in opening

the door echoed through the house. His
face was purple, the veins on his forehead
were swollen, his hands were clenched, he
could scarcely get out the words that gasped
with his breath. She rose from her chair,
feeling her face grow pale, whilst the bursting
words found way for themselves at last.

*' The lads are talking o' what she said as
she left the house. If she's gone to him,
indeed, I'll I'll "

He could say no more. She stood looking
at him with blank eyes and pallid face. And
then, more quietly, the door opened, and shut
again.

Please, master," said Evans, the labourer,
Mr. Jim's come back."

She could hear the strong footsteps, as he
spoke, outside the house. A sudden silence
fell upon all the place. She heard him asking
the farm-boys where his mother was.

** He's happen got summit to say," then
Evans said.

It seemed to her as if even her heart stood
still.

The kitchen-door opened, but Jim remained
without. The farm-boys pressed into the
kitchen to hear what he had to say. And
then the parlour-door opened, and Will came

in. It seemed to her as if the room were full
of men. And still she could see the figure of
Jim outside the door.

'* Is my mother here? I must speak to
her," he said.

'* Oh ! master," cried the youngest of the
farm-boys, *' don't say Miss Liz is dead''

The boy had caught hold of his arm in the
excitement of his words. Jim turned very
quietly, and looked round on him. . '

*' No, no ; she is alive. Is my mother
there? " he said.

It could be seen by his manner that a
weight was on his mind ; there was something
strange both in his appearance and his words.
The kitchen was full of people, but he did not
look at them ; he went slowly down to where
Mrs. Gibson stood. She stood with her back
to the fireplace, without the power to move ;
and everyone else who was present was silent
too. He went slowly up to her, and put his
arms round her. And then a full minute
passed before he spoke.

'mother, you've me an' Will," he said ;
'you've me an' Will."

It was over ; the words had been spoken ;
there could be no doubting now. And then
it was to Mrs. Gibson as if a great stream

surged in her head, as if mighty waters were
rushing in her ears ; the kitchen grew dark
around her, and she fell on the shoulder of
her son.

That night Elizabeth Harte sat up late with
a mourning order ; and, hot and tired, her eyes
dazed with sewing black, she opened her door
at midnight to let the moonlight in. On
something else than moonlight her startled
gkince fell at once  a child was lying, exhausted,
on the stone outside her door ; and,
as she stooped to raise him, she recognized
little Will.

THE MOONLIGHT ON THE ROAD TO
LONDON.

That moon, which shone in Its beauty on
Mr. Audley's trees, which bathed with glory
the Fens beyond the farm-house door, and
touched with Its silver the dark firs round the
dressmaker's little house, had risen, bright,
clear, and full on another scene that night  a
lonely country road, with dark hedges and
with trees, and a path on which two wayfarers
found their way, side by side.

They went along silently, without speaking,
or touching each other, or turning to look
round them as they went. They carried no
bundle, though they were walking in the
night ; but the young man had broken himself
a. thorn-stick from the hedge, and the girl held

her dress with care to protect it from the road.
And, although they did not touch each other
they walked always side by side. It was like
a dream to them to find themselves thus
together in the night, to hear the sound of
their own footsteps as they went along.

And was it all happiness, that strange,
dreamlike feeling, that unaccustomed closeness,
and that mysterious sense of change?
They did not look round on each other for
question or reply ; they did not stop to exchange
any word of hope or love. It was
almost strange to see two companions young
as these, in an intimacy as close as this night-journey
showed, who yet seemed to care
nothing for any look or speech  absorbed,
perhaps, in the thought of that longer journey
together which they had chosen now.

The unstained moon rose full in the clear
night sky, the shadows of the few trees fell
across the road, there was no sign of any
human being near. There seemed something
endless in the look of the silent road, as if
they had started on a journey that would
never cease.

'' It's a very long bit to the station, Liz,"
said Geoff ; '' but if you can hold out awhile
there's an inn where we can rest."

'' We had better get on as far as we can"
said Liz.

It was the first time she had spoken for a
honor time, and she did not Hke to hear her
voice ; there seemed something strange in it,
like an unaccustomed thing. And yet it was
good in him to have that thought for her. She
would have Heed to take his arm, but she felt
afraid : she dared not make any attempt to
get nearer to him now. Oh ! it all seemed so
strange  so strange to her.

'' Look ! what a great moon there is in the
sky," said Geoff, and for the first time there
was something of his old manner in his words.
She looked up into his face, and faintly smiled.
They drew a little closer, and walked on as
before. The moonlight was in front of them
the long, lonely road  already the hour of
the sunset seemed far away.

Liz tried in vain to soothe herself into
calm ; the sense of being a dream was the
greatest calm she gained. Already it was not
strange to think that they were without her at
home ; the old evenings at home were even
now far from her. She had given herself upto
this lad she had loved so long ; she must
dispose herself to the thought of spending her
life with him. She tried to believe she must

be in a state of bliss ; she knew she could not
endure a separation now. And yet there were
voices that whispered low down in her heart
that in a passionate moment she had cut her
old life away, and that there lay before her
an unknown, untrodden path. And it seemed
as if even he must be feeling constraint as.
well ; he appeared absorbed, and he did not
speak to her.

They had decided rapidly what to do during
those first few moments, whilst they still sat
beneath the tree with the sunset clouds above;,
or, rather, Geoff had decided, with his habitual
promptness, talking rapidly over all his plans
to her. They had money enough, plenty of
money, but they must be careful still, and fora
while, at least, save all they could. If they
where to start now, and walk on through half
the night, they would reach a station at a
more distant town than the one they knew,
from which a cheaper journey to London
could be made; and, if they started from there,
they would be less likely to be pursued, and
then, when they got to London, they could
settle what to do. He spoke, and Liz listened
to him and silently agreed, sitting by his side
on the grass, with her hands folded on her
lap. From the moment when, by her silence,.

she had agreed to what he said, there had
come a very great change, a great quietness,
over her. As soon as his arms relaxed she
had released herself from him, and though he
still held her hands for a while they lay
motionless in his grasp. And then, when he
let them go, she had put up her fallen hair,
and arranged her hat ; and then, seated
quietly by his side, had listened silently to
him. And yet, though she scarcely moved,
and though she did not speak to him, her
manner was not that of one who hesitates or
retracts ; it had the intense quietness that
comes with a formed resolve. Of the passionate,
weeping mood in which she had thrown
herself on his breast there seemed now no
traces left ; no doubt the reaction from that
had already come to her. And, perhaps,
although she was determined, and although
she did not repent, there was something in
her that trembled at the path she had chosen
now.

*' They may follow after us  they may get
me,'/ she said at last.

*' If they do they'll not get you," replied
Geoff, and she said no more.

He rose from the ground, and she followed
after him ; it was for her to follow his movements

now. Only when they had gone a few
steps she suddenly touched his arm. They
both stood still, and he turned and looked
down on her. Liz took hold of his arm then
with both her hands ; there was the sound of
a terrible effort in the faint tones of her voice.

'' Geoff, I've been brought up honest 
you'll remember that ? " she said ; it was the
last despairing appeal of her womanhood that
spoke.

He took both her hands without speaking,
and kissed her brow. In that moment Liz felt
that she had given herself to him. They said
no more words to each other, but went on side
by side. It was a familiar road to them, that
lane within which they walked ; they had
been with each other at sunset-time before.
They walked quickly onwards in fear of being
pursued ; and presently they turned into a
less familiar lane, but Liz would not look
back toward the chimneys of her home.
They went on walking in the summer evening
light ; the road was becoming unknown to
her, like a stranger's face. The colours in
the sky faded, the first stars came out above.
Geoff led the way across some fields and
stiles to the lane he wished to reach ; his
instinct of locality was keen, and she silently

followed him. The moon was rising when
they reached it at last.

And now they were there, walking onwards
in the moonlight, in the light that threw the
shadows of the trees across the road. They
seemed to have been there a long while ; it
was a strange time  strange dream. Liz
kept telling herself that it would last, that
she would not wake. She had a foolish
feeling, that kept always pricking her, that
she had not looked back once towards the
chimneys of her home. She kept feeling as
if she ought to go back and do so now, as if
the separation would not be complete unless
she did. Oh, what would they be saying and
thinking now of her? They would be "awful
mad " with her, of course they would. And
Jim, who pretended to be so good, he'd talk
of her. And poor little Will ; who 'ud finish
his nightgown now ?

'' I could make 'em so nice," thought poor
Liz, as her eyes filled with tears ; '* they
won't let him have 'em so nice now I have
gone. They won't let him have 'em white-now,
like a gentleman's son, not once agen.
I should like to be able to do stitching still
for him. If Geoff is good to me, and we
do well, maybe little Willy can come to live

with us. Oh, if I didn't feel so strange, so
strange ! Geoff," she said, suddenly, '' will
ye wait awhile ? " and she began to feel in
her pocket as he stood still. After a few
moments she drew out what she sought, a
little needless that had been her mother's
present once. One of the buttons of his
ragged jacket was nearly off ; she threaded
her needle by the moonlight, and sewed it on
for him, touching both it and his jacket in
such tender fashion as a woman can give
when her touches are her caress. '* Ye do
look untidy," she said ; 'eye want me to sew
for ye."

It was the happiest moment she had known
since she had left. He only smiled soberly
at her, and made no reply.

But as the girl walked on by him in
the moonlight her mind was busy, and
numberless expectations and plans flitted
through her brain, which, in spite of her
vague presentiments and of sadness too, was
beginning to be possessed with a woman's
hopes once more. She would be so good to
Geoff, and would do so much for him ; he'd
never imagine how much she could do. She
would work so hard  she had never loved
work, poor Liz  she 'ud keep his home

VOL. II. I

like a lady's home for him. She began to
have visions of stitches and of dinners, of
learning to sew and cook as she had never
done before, of the thousand little cares and
anxieties that a woman's love can make. And
then it seemed natural that she should just
take his arm ; but he gave no answering
pressure as he walked on by her side. A
terrible, passionate sob rose in her breast.
She stood still desperately, and raised her
face to him.

'' Geoff, let me kiss you," she whispered,
in choking tones ; and he bent his head, and
she clasped him round the neck.

In that instant she could feel his gasping
breathing, a short, quick sobbing like that of
a wounded animal ; and, alarmed at his excitement,
she relaxed her clasp, and, taking his
hands, she bent her face to them. He looked
down on her, and then stooped, and kissed
her softly ; and, taking her hand, he went on
as before. But their eyes had met ; she was
feeling more happy now. She had no means
of knowing the sense of desperate conflict,
the half-stifled anguish that kept rising in
his heart, like words of a dim remorse or a
scarcely conscious fear : ' They were good
to me once as no one else's been good, an'

I've marked Jim for life, an' hurt little Willy
too ; an', as if that wasn't eno', I'm going' to
ruin Liz." The words kept repeating themselves
over in his mind ; they produced there
no sense of repentance and no thought of
change, but still they lingered, and he could
not feel at rest. It did not matter, he would
keep her with him now. And still they kept
walking onwards in the night.

''Ah ! there's the inn," cried Geoff, speaking
aloud at last, as with a turn of the road a
point of light shone afar.

Liz heard with a relief that raised her
sinking heart, and tried to rouse herself to
walk with more vigour now. She was not
used to such walking, country girl though
she was, and her limbs seemed to sink with
the weariness she felt. It appeared still a
long way off, she was afraid that she might
drop. And yet she longed to withdraw her
hand from Geoff ; his touch seemed to burn
and throb in her till she could have cried with
pain. If she could only reach the inn !  that
would be some rest at last.

The inn was a small place, but bright with
lights and people ; it appeared that several
travellers were staying there for the night.
These were all in the kitchen, but there was

a. sitting-room ; and Liz, who had sunk down
on a seat by the kitchen door, was soon
escorted there ; the landlord going before her
with a light, whilst Geoff followed her with
her hat hanging from his arm. They had
to go through the kitchen to reach the
further door, and the eyes of all the travellers
were turned on them. For one instant Liz
saw them as she passed through the room 
the short man on a stool who was smoking by
the fire ; the two young fishermen with their
rods and bags ; the man who looked like a
preacher sitting by the table ; and another
man on the table, balancing his pipe upon
his chin. The room was heavy with smoke,
the great fire roared in the chimney ; she felt
all the eyes on her. And then she was left
in the sitting-room on the other side of the
passage, and she leant down her head on the
table there and cried.

But Geoff had returned to the kitchen,
being more eager for society, and he found
that his presence there seemed to be eagerly
desired, for the appearance of the two young
wayfarers had attracted great attention, and
during the moments of his absence there had
been surmises on them. In spite of his
ragged clothes, therefore, they made room

at once for him. He sat down on the table
by the man with the stubbly beard, and
balanced the pipe on his own chin, and
laughed ; he was in an agitated condition,
and his dark eyes flashed like light. The
handsome, excited lad gave diversion to
the rest ; they were pleased with his quickness
and beauty, and made ready sport with
him. Only the " method parson," who was
distinguished by shabbiness, observed him
narrowly, but did not attempt to speak. He
was a seedy-looking fellow, dark and sombre,
in a coat of rusty black, and he drank rather
more deeply than a parson should. Geoff
became disconcerted by his fixed gaze at
last ; he had himself been drinking more
than was good for him, and had found difficulty
in parrying the questions of the rest.
He flung himself from the table, therefore,
and declared that he must be going.

'' Why, surely, mate," cried the man on the
table, '' ye be not going' on so late."

I must be in Lon'on before the morn,"
said Geoff.

'* An' that young 'oman, be she a going' wi'
ye ?"

Geoff pretended not to hear ; he stood
leaning against the shutter, and with a sudden,

excited movement he flung the shutters wide.
The moon was beginning to wane, and looked
straight into the room.

' Look there," cried Geoff to the others,.
'' there's an eye looks in on us."

'"'' That is the eye o' God upon evil deeds,
young man." It was the parson who spoke,
in a deep, sonorous voice ; and for one single
instant there was silence in the room. Then
laughter broke out, and whooping, and Geoff
clapped the shutters to; and the parson settled
down to his draughts of beer again, and Geoff
flung himself down by the table, and drank
with him. And when he had finished his
draught he went to seek for Liz. A few
minutes later the revellers looked up once
more, as the two young travellers crossed the
room again. The girl's broad hat shaded her
face from view, and she kept very close to her
companion's side : the lad had taken her hand
in a protecting way. So they crossed the
room whilst the others stared at them ; the
doors closed behind them, and they went out
into the night.

They were not alone, there was one who
had gone before, a woman who had been
crouching in the passage when they came in.
She stood in the light from the open front

door which streamed out upon the road, a
tawdry figure wrapped In a faded shawl ; and
as the companions passed by she laid her hand
on Geoff. He turned round and looked at her ;
she had hollow eyes, and sunken cheeks on
which were remains of paint.

'' Gi' me a penny, master, I be going' your
road," she said, '' the road on which ye be
takin' the girl ye're got wi' ye."

Her wild laugh made Liz turn with a
shudder, though she had not heard the
words ; and Geoff flung a penny behind him,
and led her on. But the woman ran out
into the moonlight, and got before them
again.

Ye may gi' me another penny, for I go
my road alone."

'* What does she mean?" asked Liz of her
companion ; but he would not answer, and only
led her on. There was some enclosed ground
in front of the inn, and a gate with a lamp
above ; by the light that gave she could see
his face was pale. But she could not be
aware of the conflict and anguish in his heart,
of his sense of invisible hands stretched out
to thrust him back. It did not matter, he
would go on with her. They left the gate
behind them, and went walking along the

path, with the shadows of trees across, and
the waning moon above.

Oh, it was London that lay before them
with all its light and splendour, the great,
wonderful city whose sights she had longed
to see. She could hear in her ears already
the tread of crowds, she felt the uplifting
of excitement she had never known before.
And Geoff, he was conscious as she was of
thoughts like these, but they could not prevail
over the oppression that almost stifled him ;
whilst the great moon from above seemed to
watch him ceaselessly, the eye that looks
down on the evil deeds of men.

Oh, if it were darkness, dark, and he could
take her in his arms ; he dared not touch her
with the moon looking down above, he dared
not kiss her or say tender words to her. The
cold night air seemed oppressive as deadly
heat, the oppression at his heart was making
it hard to breathe. It seemed to him as if a
hand were upon his breast, a heavy hand
like a repelling weight on him, so that every
movement was against some restraining force.
The trees seemed to watch him, the shadows,
the oppression increased every instant that
he walked, the night time appeared to be
waiting for some decision to come from him.

It is in such moments that souls are lost or
saved.

*' Have we a long bit to go yet, Geoff ? "
asked Liz.

"Yes, wait an instant," he muttered below
his breath. They stood still, leaning against
a tree that stood out from the hedore. His
arm was round her, and for a long while he
would not move ; and then all at once he
began to walk quickly, dragging her on with
him ; and then again stood still. He stood
for a while without speaking, breathing hard ;
some terrible conflict seemed in him ; at last
he moved again. His voice came in softer
tones, and he gently took her hand.

'' We'll get to the turning, Liz, then we'll
see the town," he said. His hand held hers
softly, and he moved quietly onwards now.
They reached the turning, a corner in the
road, and could see, far beyond them now, the
pale glare of the town. There was a gate
close to the path there, near a tree. He
stood leaning against that ; he had let go of
her hand.

'' Liz, I want to speak to you ; I have a word
to say," he said. His voice was in a whisper,
but it did not tremble now. A branch of the
tree above had pushed the cap from his head,

she could see his face in the pale light of the
moon.

'' Liz, I have made up my mind. I'm
going to leave ye here." The words were
still in a whisper, as if he could not raise his
voice. And she stood still in front of him, as
if she had been turned to stone.

'' I know that I'm bad, bad eno' ; I always
was," said Geoff : " but I won't be so wicked;
I can't be as bad as that. I can't do it, I
can't," sobbing passionately ; ' it 'ud be too
bad in me. I've been o' the same road ever
sin' I was born, but I won't take you along it
I'll go my road alone."

Still silence ; still the girl remained standing
in the moonlight looking up at him. There
was no word or movement from her; she looked
up in his face. His words came in accents
that were more broken now.

*' I've give ye my money, I have . in
those minutes i' the inn . . . ye'll be able to
get back easy to the farm. . . . An' ye may
tell 'em, ye may, ye're broke wi' me at last.
. . I've hurt Jim an' Will, but I'll do none
hurt to ye."

Again after a moment, as if he could bear
no more : *ran I canna' stan' it, Liz, I'll just
turn my back an' go. I'll go back to Ben,

there's nothing else for me." He made a
movement, as if he would do what he said ;
and in an instant, with a cry, she had flung
herself on his arm.

"Geoff! Geoff!" the sound of the wail
rang far out down the road ; she was clinging
desperately to him with all her strength.
Ye won't go for to leave me now, Geoff, after
all. Ye won't take me fro' my home an' my
father to leave me alone, not after ye're chosen
me, an' I've loved ye an' all. Ye shan't do it,
I donna leave ye ; I'll stay wi' ye thro' all."

With the instinct of a woman she pushed
back her hat, so that he looked down into
the dark beauty of her tear-filled eyes ; her
straining hands held his arm with an iron
grasp. He did not move or speak, only
shivered and looked at her. They stood
alone together in the stillness of the night.

Ye won't be so bad to me, so wicked,
Geoff," cried Liz, " not after ye're promised
to marry me, an' be good to me. Ye won't
leave me to my shame, 'cause I've tried to
care for ye. I hanna part fro' ye ; we'll goon
together now."

There was an instant's silence, and again
she heard his voice ; it was so low this time
that it scarcely moved his lips.

*' Ye donna force me to use my strength
o' ye, Liz ?" he said.

' No, no ; but ye'll marry me, Geoff  ye'll
marry me, Geoff?" she cried. There was
the despairing passion in the cry of a last
a appeal.

'' An' if I did marry ye," he burst out with
violence now, ' what goodwill that ever do to ye
or me ? It's misery, the misery of the
torment; I'll go to the fire by myself' ; I
donna take ye wi' me. Get ye off fro' me
now, I canna bear the touch."

He wrenched her hands from his arm, and
flung her into the road. There was a
moment's intense silence, they neither moved
nor spoke. And then, with a sudden movement,
Geoff laid hold of her once more, and
strained her to his heart with the full strength
of his arms ; and then, clutching her face with
his hands, kissed her hair, her eyes, her face,
her lips, her neck, and, pushing her passionately
from him, rushed off into the night.
She could hear his footsteps, his rapid footsteps
; she was alone.

And afterwards she remembered that she
made two bewildered movements, and then
stood still, shuddering, with her hands before
her eyes. It seemed as if it was all a dream ;

she must wake in her bed at home at last.
She stood for a long while thus ; she dared
not move or think. And then, as her fingers
dropped, it all rose before her at once ; she
was alone in the lonely road, in the nighttime,
a long way from her home. She tried
to move, and then fell on her knees and
sobbed.

THE BACKWARD JOURNEY.

The night is dark, and I am far from
home ; " those words, so pathetic, and so
universal in their pathos, can be true enough
of each one of us at times. Long, long years
afterwards, when much had come and gone,
that one terrible dream of a night remained
still in all its force upon the mind of Liz, as if
there had been but one night for her in all her
life. The moonlight would be gleaming,
the lights of the inn would shine, she would
hear again in her ears the voice of Geoff ;
and then all the lights would fail round her,
and she would be alone, alone in the lonely
night-time, crying out for the help of God.

Less distinct were those other moments
when she dared to move at last, when she

found her way by the hedge in the darkness
before the dawn, writing her hands and
sobbing and not recking where she went,
cursing passionately sometimes the love that
had brought her to shame like this. In the
darkness of the night she seemed to hear his
footsteps near her ; she stopped sometimes
and started as if his touch were close  but
there was no word that came ; in the nighttime
she was alone  alone with streaming
eyes  in the darkness, without a friend.

And then there broke, far beyond her, the
pale light of the dawn ; and then rosy clouds
floated above her head, and she could see in
front of her the chimneys of the town. In
the stillness of that hour there were no carts
on the road, and yet she became afraid of
being seen, afraid of her disordered hair and
the dust upon her dress, of the forsaken look
that she felt on her from head to foot. And
still she went on walking, not knowing where
she went. And then a cart passed her, with
empty sacks inside, and the driver called to
her and offered her a lift ; and at first she
refused, and then felt she could walk no
more. And he helped her inside in a rough,
good-natured way ; and thus, seated amongst
the sacks, she was driven to the town.

And then she was wandering about
amongst the streets, with the Hght and the
mists of morning upon the roofs and roads ;
still wandering and troubled, and not knowing
where to go. She thought of offering herself
as a servant in the town, but she was faint
and tired, and could not bear the thought of
questions  and the farm was a long way off 
she felt ready to drop and die.

And then she was out upon the country
roads again, without having slept, or rested,
or tasted food ; she had eaten nothing
since those moments in the inn. A terrible
restlessness was upon her ; she could not be
still, and yet she could not decide what to door
where to go. Only with some confused
instinct, for she had no power to think, she
vaguely believed she had turned towards her
home. And then there came by a man with
a piebald pony in a little cart that was painted
red and grey, and he begged her to get up
there and sit with him, and she was too worn
out to refuse him when he asked. He was
going to a town that was not the town she
knew, but that was not by a long way distant
from the farm ; and, though she dared not
think of returning to her home, it seemed to
her that she must get there and rest. She

sat by his side ; her head was tired and faint ;
and he kept on talking and talking all the
while. He told her that his wife had been
dead just two years agone, and that he had
bought the pony when she died. He said
that the pony was a rare one to go, and that
he had called it Jane because his wife was
dead and that he truly believed it had been
in a circus once, and that he had two chiltern
now, a girl and a boy, and the lad was just
beginning to earn money, so he was. . . . He
kept on talking, and talking . . . and she was
tired, so tired . . . and the summer sky was
blue above the piebald pony's head. . . .

VOL. II. K.

THE RETURN OF THE WANDERER.

That evening the long table In the farmhouse
kitchen was laid out for tea with more
than usual care. There was a large cake in the
centre, with a dish of roses too ; there were
butter and cream of the newest, and fresh
eggs boiled and poached ; and there were
strawberries in a glass dish, heaped up upon
their leaves. Everything had a festive appearance
: Liz was coming home that night.

I hope as she'll like what's here," said
poor Mrs. Gibson, 'that I do. I don't want
for her to feel as we're angered with her still''

'' She can't feel that," replied Jim ; '' don't
you trouble over that."

Yet Jim himself had a troubled, anxious

look ; there was nothing festive in his expression
then. He had gone with a sore heart to
his morning's work that day ; and, although
he had found relief on his return, there was a
burden of anxiety still upon his mind. Only
he could not tell that to his mother, who was
in want of relief herself.

Not one at the farm liked to remember
what the last night had been, the delirious
anxiety of it, the unrest, the want of sleep 
to remember how Farmer Gibson had
wandered up and down, how Mrs. Gibson
had wept, and how Jim had kept by her side.
There was a sorer anxiety on all than the
loss of Will, though his disappearance had
made some stir at first, a deeper trouble
than the mere absence of Liz could cause ;
there was resting on all the burden of a
possible disgrace. For Jim had whispered
to the father and mother, when he was alone
with them, that a labourer had seen two
figures together in the evening gloom, and
that from the description they seemed to be
Liz and Geoff.

Heavily rose the next morning upon the
wretched farm, though it was as fair a
summer day as eyes could wish to see ;
heavily Jim departed in the morning for his

work, with his eyes tired and sore from what
had been a sleepless night ; gloomily the two
who remained tried in vain to sit down and
eat. Before the morning was over, indeed, a
message from Crasten arrived, which told
that Will was safe in the Crasten dressmaker's
care ; but it was not till noon had
passed that a more important message came.
It was brought by a boy from a town some
miles away ; it contained a few words only,
but they were in the hand of Liz.

'' Did I fright you very much, mother,
when I never came back last night? I am
staying here for a bit, but I will be back for
tea." Mrs. Gibson read the words; and then
sat down, and cried and sobbed. She showed
them to her husband, who was silent and
deeply moved ; and then to old Molly, who
loudly expressed her joy ; and the farm-labourers
heard of it, and they were relieved
and glad. For a while the general feeling
could be only of relief. She was coming
back  she had not meant to stay away  it
had never been in her mind to leave her
home. There were only two who knew the
story that Jim had heard, and that seemed to
belong to the night, they would not think of
it now.

By the time the afternoon came more
sober thoughts prevailed, and Jim returned
to find quietness in the house. For all were
beginning to long for the wanderer to return ;
the strain of waiting was becoming too great
for them. The farmer walked about restlessly,
and talked of going out that night ;
and Mrs. Gibson kept setting the house in
order, as if some distinguished stranger were
being expected there. Jim was not restless,
he was very quiet ; he had expressed his joy
when first he heard the news, and after that
had become more quiet still. It was not till
the evening was drawing near that at length
he spoke.

'' Mother," he said, '' Til go look after
Will." He laid his hand on his mother's
arm to stop her ; she was moving restlessly
with a duster in her hand. His words did
not seem to please her ; she stood still at
once.

Why, Jim, you'll never be going' to leave
the house to-night ! "

'ran' why not, mother? I do no good at
home. The lad'll be thinking' ye don't want
him to come back."

He's allays i' trouble now," the mother
said ; " but Liz 'ud perhaps be liken' to see

him when she come." It was touching to
see that her daughter was always in her mind.
Jim replied gravely, with some meaning in
his tone 

'' I'll tell him to come tomorrow; ye'll be
best alone the night." But at this Mrs.
Gibson broke out into tears and sobs, her
pent-up excitement finding a vent at last.
They none of 'em cared as she did, they'd
be all of 'em away ; and she did want . . .
Liz to think . . ." The sobs came too fast
for words.

*' Come, never ye mind, mother ; she'll
think it fast enough. Keep father at home
to see her, that'll be eno' for her. I'll
be coming' later on, I be forced to be going'
now." He did not tell her what forced him,
but got his hat and went ; an inward compulsion
was upon him, and he dared not stay.
He went out by the back-way, and stole
along the fields, without raising his eyes that
he miorht look down the road.

'' I can't help it  I canna stay, I would
stay if I could ; I canna be in the house when
she comes in this night. Sleeve met Geoff
sure eno', there's no denying' that; an' she'll
happen more easy speak if I'm not near 
alone i' the house wi' but father an' mother

by. I can't look her i' the face wi' such
thoughts in my heart. But I'll stan' by her,
I will, whatever's come an' gone. If he
have shamed and deserted her, I'll stan' by
her all the same : I'll be her brother, whatever
folks may say. The curse of God '11 be
on him, an' is upon him now ; it was an evil
day for us when we first set eyes on him."

So he thought as he strode along whilst
the evening shadows fell ; and, meanwhile, in
the kitchen at the farm Mrs. Gibson prepared
the tea, with such tender arrangement of
dainties as wee have already seen, for it was her
wish to make all things glad that night. Already
she had been to her daughter's room, and
had set things in order there ; had arranged,
and dusted, and had smoothed down the bed,
the bed in which no one had slept the night
before. She had even remembered to fill a
jar with roses, because Liz had "allays
been such a girl for flowers." And then she
had come down, and argued with her husband,
and had prevailed on him to stay in the house
for tea, although it had been his wish to
remain outside. For, in spite of the violent
anger in which he had lived for months.
Farmer Gibson was a loving man, and could
be a chivalrous one too ; he had struck and

suspected his daughter, and he was ashamed
to meet her now. His wife's finer tact, however,
prevailed on him ; she was determined
to take advantage of this tenderness of heart.
Oh, surely it was better not to let the moment
pass, far better that father and daughter
should meet at once.

But as the evening drew on she became
very silent too. The preparations had all
been made, the table spread ; in the succeeding
stillness there came more time for fear.
She got her knitting and sat down by the
table ; her heart was beating fast. The
farmer in his arm-chair on the hearth seemed
lost in thought ; he remained entirely motionless,
without turning his head to her. The
doors and windows were wide open, for the
summer night was hot ; every faintest sound
could be heard without the house. And then
one of the farm-boys came inside with hasty
steps.

'' Oh, master. Miss Liz be a-comin'' down
the lane''

Mrs. Gibson dropped her knitting on her
knee ; it was the only sign she gave. She
sat motionless, without moving head or eyes ;
the farmer remained in his attitude in his
chair. And so, through the stillness, the
daughter's footsteps came. . . .

Liz came in quickly, and opened the door,
and shut it, and came hastily inside ; and,
taking off her hat, swung it carelessly in her
hand, and then pulled out a chair from the
table, and threw herself down on that. To
the most casual observer there must have
seemed something defiant in her manner, as
of one who is not sure of the position that
she holds ; her face looked tired and flushed,
and there were dark lines round her eyes.
Her dress, too, had assumed an ill-arranged,
dusty look ; and her dark masses of hair
were disordered by her walk ; there was something
forlorn in her appearance, defiant as it
seemed. But Mrs. Gibson could only feel
that she had her child again.

*' I've come back in time for tea  you expected
me?" said Liz. Her voice had the
high, strained tone that comes from excited
feeling ; and she took out her handkerchief as
she spoke and fanned herself.

Yes, dear, yes ; you're in nice time,' the
mother murmured. She felt a longing to
take her treasure in her arms. '' You'll be
wanting your tea ; that is, if you've walked
from Scots."

I walked, of course ; how else could I
come ? " asked Liz, with a weary impatience

that was not all fatigue. They were beginning
to press like torments, these first
moments in her home ; she had not imagined
that she would mind them so much.

* Then you'll be tired, dear, you must bethe
mother said. ' Just sit down at once, as
you are, and have your tea."

As she spoke her eyes rested upon her
daughter's raiment, which, had a forlorn, ill-arranged
look, as has been said. Liz felt
them upon her with a feeling too deep for
words ; the tenderness with which she had
been addressed had pierced her heart.

'' Where's Will ? " she asked, in a trembling
voice, as she rose, '' and Jim ? "

'will's away with Miss Harte for a bit,"
the mother said, ' an' Jim have gone over to
Crasten to see 'em both. But your father's
here, in the arm-chair, as you see."

Liz had seen him, indeed, from her entrance
into the room ; but she turned her head very
slightly towards him now. And, accepting
even that slight intimation, the farmer rose.
He came up to her, though he kept his face
turned away, and laid his great hand on her
shoulder to keep her where she was.

'' I'm right glad to see thee, my girl  my
girl," he said.

There was something pathetic enough in
the trembling of his voice, the strong voice
that had never been used to tremble so.
Liz kept her face averted, but her eyes were
full of tears. They stood so, without moving,
father and daughter, whilst nearly a minute
passed.

'' If I've done bad to thee, Liz," the farmer
muttered, "if I've made thee feel as they'd
like to be away . . . thee mustn't think bad o'
me, or lay't to heart too much. . I won't
even speak o' him, though I hate him sore, if
it's so as'll give thee a bit more peace, my
girl. . Ye bear for a bit wi' us, an' we'll bear
w4' thee. . . . An' now let us sit down together,
an' be at peace."

Liz could not answer, for she was crying
fast ; but she got rid of her tears with her
fingers, and turned away, and sat down. She
had not looked towards her father ; he thought
she was hurt with him still, and that gave him
a gentleness he might not else have had. He
sat down to the table, and pushed the cake to
her, and made little jokes on the best roses
being picked, and advised Liz to take one
and put it in her hair. And meanwhile Mrs.
Gibson anxiously poured out the tea, and said,
My dear, you like cream, I know ; here's the

best to-night for you." Liz did not answer,
it seemed that she could not speak ; and
they all sat silent together, and tried in vain
to eat.

Oh ! how strange it was to be sitting
with roses and cake so near, in the old
familiar kitchen, with father and mother
there. Last night . . . the moonlight . it
seemed already like a dream ; and yet it was
already as if years and years had passed.
Oh ! was it true that she was already older,
years and years older, a passionate girl no
more ? She would never love anyone, she
could not love again. Her bones were aching
with weariness, her head felt tired and sore ;
it was scarcely possible to rouse herself to
eat. If they knew she had been with Geoff
they could not be kind to her. But they
were being good ; oh ! they were being good
to-night.

That feeling grew fast upon her when tea
was ended, and she was placed at once in
her mother's chair, her father saying that he
saw she was tired. It was a large wooden
chair, and the cushions of it were soft ; it
could not but be pleasant to sink in them
and rest. She lay watching dreamily her
mother's movements as she went round the

table clearing the things away ; she was so
entirely tired that she could not raise her
head, yet she dared not close her eyes, for
she saw the moonlight then. Oh ! how
pleasant and quiet, how safe it was at home,
how much affection there was, what familiar
ways ! And yet she had been ready to throw
these things away, to barter the father's love,
the mother's love, for a few passionate kisses,
and a mad, delirious dream. . . . She shuddered
inwardly as she thought of the touch
of Geoff, of the life that would have lain before
her if she had been linked to him, the wretched
life to which no relief could come, the life of
unutterable misery, if not even a life of shame.
Oh! she would never tell them, never; she
would keep it all concealed, she would go
through life always with the thought of that
peril in her heart. She would go away from
them now, go upstairs to her room. And yet
she could not  too wretched and tired to
move.

Mrs. Gibson was pausing near her now that
her work was done ; the farmer had seated
himself on the other side of the hearth ; she
felt their eyes upon her like a torment she
could not bear. With an effort at last she
raised herself from her seat ; the pain in her

head was so great she could have cried when
she moved.

'' I think I'll go an' lie down," she muttered,
wearily.

Her mother replied at once, looking at her
with anxious eyes 

'' Do, dear ; you'll be wanting a good long
rest to-night."

'' She looks a bit pale an' tired," the farmer
said ; ' she wants a good sleep to get her
flowers back. Do, mother, give Liz the roses
round the cake."

'' I've put some in her room already," the
mother said.

Liz had moved on a step ; but, hearing this,
she stood still. She could not tell what it
was that surged suddenly in her. Roses 
roses for her  waiting for her in her room.
With a sudden and violent movement she
turned round and back at once; she threw
herself down before where her father and
mother sat, and with a passionate impulse
flunof her arms across their knees.

Father, father an' mother, don't think
too much o' me. I'm a bad, wicked girl ; I
wanted to leave my home. An' he's give me
up, he has, and I've none left but ye ! "

WILL IN REFUGE WITH ELIZABETH.

That night Elizabeth Harte's lamp was shining
brightly, and she sat at her work with
little Will by her side. And unquestionably
the little room seemed different, brighter ; the
presence of the visitor made a change in the
place. Elizabeth bent still over the black
work that was the '' mourning order," and
her eyes were tired with the labour as they
had been before. But Will by her side was
bright, and not fatigued, though a little pale
still from the effects of last night's escape ;
and as she went on sewing he kept making
his childish comments, or bestowing his artless
confidences, as children do. They made
a strange pair together, the dressmaker and
the boy ; the thin, worn young woman, with

her tightly strained yellow hair and nervous
face ; and the little, delicate boy, with eyes
alight with intelligence, and with shy affection
too. For Will had a ready affection still for
all he met, only he was more reserved in
manner than before.

Elizabeth had been much distressed over
him the previous night, when in such unexpected
fashion she found him at her door.
For the child himself, indeed, It was easy to
provide  a blanket, a bed on the sofa, some
hot tea, and caresses supplied his wants ;
and, though surprised at his exhaustion, she
had little fear for him. She feared for the
home that had lost him, and must be anxious
over him ; the thought of the mother's distress
almost distracted her, and she would
have liked to send to her a messenger at
once. But the farm lay miles away, and it
was the middle of the night ; she was herself
worn out with work, and could not leave Will
alone, and in her lonely establishment there
was no one else to send. So she contented
herself with cares for the little lad ; and when
she had soothed and kissed him, and laid him
down to rest, she slept herself in the chair
near him all the night. For the vagrant lad
whom she sheltered once had escaped, and

there were haunting fears upon her for this
visitor as well. She need not have troubled
herself, Will had no thought of flight.

In the early morning she found a messenger,
a rough lad, who happened to be going near
the farm, and she charged him anxiously with
the message he was to give. Relieved on
this account, she could set her room in order,
could watch Will wake  it was pretty to see
him wake  and could get breakfast ready for
him and for herself. After that she determined
not to stir from the house all day, that
she might not lose sight of her charge till she
felt that he was safe.

A needless anxiety again ! Will had no
thought of giving trouble, but was as submissive
as a well-trained little dog could be.
He insisted on helping her to clear up the
breakfast things ; he brushed up the grate,
and made things tidy there; and picked up
her scissors instantly when they fell. When
she began to work he seated himself by her
side, and threaded a number of needles without
being asked, because '' mother, she allays
liked him to do like that." But she observed
that he turned very pale when he mentioned
his mother's name, and she did not venture to
speak to him of his home.

VOL. II. L

A little delicate creature he seemed, so
bright and fair, an elfin visitor in that narrow,
lonely house. Elizabeth, always shy, and
always reserved as well, had not found herself
at all times able to draw children to her side.
But Will's ready affection was like a perpetual
fount ; there was little need ever to attempt
to draw him out. He sat now by her
side in the evening, delighted to be there,
prepared to be silent or ready to make remarks,
to thread her needles or hand to her
scissors and tape, or tell her scraps of history
from the old books at home, of the ' big ships
that came to take England once on a time,"
or the "' Spartan people what did whip their
little boys."

Elizabeth let him talk without herself saying
much ; she was hoping always that he
would speak to her of his home.

'' And now I will tell you a pretty tale,"
said Will ; " I know ever such lots of stories,
and I talk them to myself. Shall I tell you a
story I have made up myself ? "

*' Do, dear," replied Elizabeth ; " that will be
very fine." She was stitching all the time,
for she could not leave off her work. ' I have
heard you once tell a story to yourself upon a
wall."

'' But this will be nicer," Will said, '' much
sincerer than that. That was a stupid story ;
it was all about me, you know. This is all
about  a river  " and here he stopped, for the
story did not seem inclined to produce itself
at once.

"It was a very nice river," Will said ; 'Mt
kept the sunlight so. You know when you
see a river it looks all nice and bright, and
then, when you come agen, it may be quite
black an' dull. But this one river it kept the
sunlight always, so as it was allays bright,
even when it was night ; and the daughter of
the king she came to see it one day ; and she
bathed her face inside, and her face got
the sunlight too. Oh ! I ought to have told
you," said Will, 'that she wasn't glad at
home. Her father was bad, like as fathers
are in books, and he'd actually told her
she must never come back no more. But
then, when he heard she'd the sunlight, he was
sorry he was bad, and he sent for to tell her
she might come back that day ; and the
court' hers all came to meet her outside the
palace doors, and they brought her inside,
and they all of 'em felt quite glad ; an'
then afterwards they  they didn't  " he
waited a moment here. 'ran' they didn't

never need to have umbrellas when It rained [
That is the story ; it's a nice one, isn't it?"

He looked up at Elizabeth to see if she
were pleased.

'' It's a very nice one, Will. Will you tell
your mother that ? "

'' I don't know' said Will, shaking his
head. '' I don't often tell her them. An'
besides," remembering himself, ' I'm not
going' back home no more."

He looked up at Elizabeth again, more
doubtfully this time.

'' Oh, how can you talk so, child ? You are
going home to-night."

Will continued looking up at her, as if
struck with dismay, with his lower lip dropped,
and with dilated eyes.

Dear Willy, you want to see your mother,
don't you ? "

But Will only looked pale, and trembled
and would not speak. His natural expression
was so bright and quick that it seemed as if
a light had been put out in his face.

Elizabeth, with her quick sympathy and
strange experience of pain, felt touched to
her heart to see such young distress. But
she was always slow of speech ; it was not
easy to console.

'' I like it so very much here," said Will, in
plaintive tones ; " I'd do all the work of the
house if you'd only let me stay. And I'd
give no trouble, an' always go straight to
school. An' I can soon earn some money,
Jim says himself I can. An' father he'll kill
me as soon as I get back."

'' Oh, Will, you mustn't say that ; it can't
be true, you know. And it wouldn't be right
in me to keep you from your home. You
must do like your lady, get sunlight in your
heart."

But Will paid no heed, absorbed in his
sense of wrong.

'' He's a bad, wicked man," he said, '' to
talk to me like that. If I knew where Geoff
was I'd go and live with him ; there isn't
anyone I love as much as Geoff. An' Liz,
she has gone away ; I think I'll go to her  it
was then I run away, as soon's they said she'd
gone. I won't try to be good ; there isn't no
good in that. They don't love me at home ;
they don't care for me a bit ; I have tried to
be good, and it isn't no good at all. I'll never
be happy again, now as no one cares for me."

His lips quivered, and his face was very
pale, as if with a weight of distress that he
had not strength to bear. It was pitiful to

see that expression on one so young ; and
Elizabeth, looking at him, felt the child's
pain in her heart. Many words of reproof
and of comfort rose almost to her lips  the
obedience-lessons that we always teach the
young, the story of One who was subject"
when He was once a child Himself. They
only rose to her lips ; she could not speak.
With a little sigh she laid all her work
aside ; and went to an easy-chair on the
hearth, and sat down there with her hands
clasped and her arms spread upon her
lap, and sitting in this attitude she looked
silently at him. Her look seemed to draw
him ; he got up timidly, and with doubtful
movements stole quietly to her side ; and then
climbed into the nest that her outspread arms
had made. She felt he was crying quietly
with his face hid on her arm ; but she put
her arms about him, and did not speak a word.
His breathing came quietly, and more quietly,
and then he slept.

The minutes passed on ; she did not like
to move. He was small and slight for his
years, yet a heavy weight for her ; her unfinished
work lay upon the table near her, but
she was still. The lamp was beginning to
burn low for want of trimming  she looked

towards it, and still she did not move. Will's
head lay against her shoulder ; he was very
fast asleep ; she could hear his soft breathing
as it came and went ; it seemed to her
that a very long while passed. And then
through the stillness the sound of footsteps
came. She could hear the gate shut, then a
tap upon her door.

With a heavy heart had Jim passed beneath
the trees. It was a dull and gloomy evening
with no moonlight above, and there seemed to
him little light within his heart. Through
the whole of his long walk he had been thinking
of his home, of his father's violent temper,
and his sister's wild words and ways. The
house was altered ; there was little comfort
there.

'the master be always asking me to come
an' live i' town ; I'm thinking that some o'
these days I'll do it, too. I'll be making a
home for myself ; that'll happen be best forme.
I'll maybe feel better when I am once
away ; an' I'll take little Will to be with me ;
he'll be like a child o' mine."

His hand was upon the door as he spoke.
He opened it, and stood still.

Oh, it all rose before him so quietly, peacefully,
the dressmaker's little room, with the

dim lamp on the table, the breadths of black
stuff lying everywhere about, and the face of
Elizabeth as she sat by the hearth. His little
brother lay in her arms, asleep and resting
there, with the remains still of recent tears
upon his face ; her arms were about him, protecting
him, her earnest face above. . . .

' And there," said Jim to himself, '' is the
mother of the child."

With a glow upon his face he came quietly
up to her. She would not rise, but she held
out her hand to him ; their eyes met each
other, and as they met they smiled. And
then Jim stooped all at once and kissed her
face ; and, even as he did so, little Will stirred
and awoke.

Will thought it strange that Jim should be
silent during their long walk home ; he might
have imagined his brother to be displeased
with himself. But he had been assured that
no one was angry with him ; that was good.

THE SUMMER PASSES.

The summer clouds floated softly above the
earth, the Fens lay as an intense blue colour
beneath the deep blue sky ; the corn began
burning like gold beneath the ripening sun.
All around the farm the deep blue distance
lay, with the yellow spaces of ripening corn
between, and here and there a shadow from
some trees, dark against the sky. The sheep
fed and enjoyed themselves in the field behind
the house ; the red cows found every branch
beneath which there could be shade ; in front
the prim little garden was very bright with
flowers. The summer radiance and peace
lay on every side of the home, and there was
greater peace than there had been within its
walls.

It was during that summer time that Jim
learnt to love the roses ; he had never paid
much attention to any flowers before. But it
was pleasant now in the evening to wander
amongst the flowers, to pluck them with
clumsy fingers that rather tore than picked,
and then with his hands full to set out on his
walk  the long walk that took him across the
fields and lanes.

Oh, how lovely Crasten looked now in the
summer-evening light, with the church spire
rising above Mr. Audley's trees ; how softly
the smoke rose up from many cottage homes ;
how pleasantly the sounds of the evening's
cricket came. With these things so near it
was more easy to forget  to forget the long
day's work and the thought of future toil  to
forget his own scarred face, and the saddened
look of home. Only he would not stay to
play cricket as he had been used to do  he
had often played with Geoff Haldan in Crasten
parish once.

Sometimes he lingered beneath Mr. Audley's
trees, for their shade was pleasant in the heat
of the summer's day. There was no smoke
now to be seen from the great white house
beyond, the master of it had left his home at
last. And apparently not too early, for there

were rumours about him, some vague reports
of a secret whose nature none seemed to
know, and a wonderful story of a dinner party
into which a drunkard forced his way. He
had gone away at last, there was no doubt
about that ; and it was said that Miss Horley
was to be married, and to come to Crasten
soon  the pretty Miss Horley whom Hanorth
and Crasten loved. Jim thought of these
things as he lingered beneath the trees, and
thought how the village people had chased
Geoff Haldan there. The loveliness of the
two parishes in their summer beauty had painful
thoughts for him ; there was always some
scene to remind him of the lad who had been
his friend. Well, at least, and at any rate,
there was some consolation too, the Utile
room with its lamp, and Elizabeth at her work.
He had never dared to ask her a certain question
yet, but she would raise her eyes and
would smile when he came in : he could
forget his sister's face and that other face
when she smiled. And then in the day-time
there was foundry work to do.

He stood at his work all day in the foundry
heat and draughts ; but away at the farm the
summer breezes blew, and sent trembling
ripples all down the ripening corn. And the

farmer was out all day looking after his fields
and men ; and Will, somewhat more gently
treated, went to and from the school ; and Liz
kept quietly to her work at home. A silent
presence, with a careworn, silent face, she
stood at the wash-tub or churn with her sleeves
rolled up her arms, her hands moving always,
though her eyes looked far away. Her mother
would watch her anxiously, but dared not
often speak to her.

Will, coming each day from Hanorth,
would bring back bits of news ; but there
were certain subjects on which he never
spoke, though, sooner or later, they reached
the farm at last. Men said that inquiries
were being made after Geoff, that a man had
written from London who seemed anxious
about him, but that none knew anything of
him in the place. The Wolf's Den was falling
in ruins, and old Jem lived there alone ; it was
said he was dying, and had none to care for
him, for his older sons were now scattered far
and wide, and the youngest of the wolves had
never returned again. Men talked of these
things to each other, but none went near the
place.

And yet it must have been dreary to lie in
the Den alone, in the lonely house, in the

midst of the lonely waste, with no human help
to support the last wrecks of an ill-spent life.
At night the thick mists would gather on the
waste, rolling up like phantom armies from
out of the marshy ground, whilst the deserted
windmill stood out from them like a spectre in
the midst. The loneliness frightened people,
and they dared not cross the ground ; or if
they ventured on part of it, crossed as little
as they could. New terrors became invented,
and old stories were revived ; It was said a
child's wailing was heard always on misty
nights, a low, ceaseless crying that chilled
the blood to hear. It was said that the wraith
of Jem could be seen far from his home,
going across the waste continually with a
basket on his arm. These stories gave fresh
alarm, and none cared to explore the place, or
dared to approach the old man who lingered
out his life alone. In the daytime a thread
of smoke would rise where his cottage stood,
the one sign to show that he must be living
yet. And so the white mists kept rising from
the marsh, and the waste was enveloped In
darkness night after night, and none thought
of going across it to give any human help,
until a final calamity brought the human help
at last. .

On that night Elizabeth Harte had been
visiting at the farm, and was returning back
to her home, across the waste. It was not
her nearest way, though she was going back
by Hanorth, but an irresistible attraction drew
her to the place ; she had been hearing about
the old man and his loneliness that day, and
the subject lay at her heart now that the night
had come. She thought she might pass by
the Wolf's Den as she went back to her
home, and might possibly even venture to
pause before the house, to look at the miserable
hovel that she had never seen as yet,
and listen by it to hear if the old man were at
home. And yet she was frightened, and felt
her heart beating faster ; the old stories of his
fierceness and lawlessness rose in her mind,
and she was quite unprotected, and was
entirely alone. It was nearly nightfall, too,
though there were no stars to be seen ; a
thick grey mist had risen above the waste,
and, unused to it as she was, she feared to
lose her way. She went stumbling onwards,
her feet sinking in the marsh ; the darkness
grew deeper, and she felt still more afraid.
And then in the distance before her she saw
a light.

In a few more minutes she discovered

whence it came ; a hovel of some sort stood
above the marsh, and from out of the open
door of it came the light. This must be the
Den, then, of which she had heard so much ;
it looked a miserable place in the darkness
and the mist, with a few gaunt trees, like
indistinct forms, above. There were voices,
movements within, she did not know what to
think. Without staying to consider further
she went on to the door, and in an instant
the scene that was before her held her eyes.
For there on the ground, upon a shutter,
lay a wounded man, with the men who had
carried him in standing by his side ; and at
the further end of the room an old man lay.
It is impossible to describe in words all
the weirdness of the scene ; the indistinct,
motionless figure upon the bed, the candle on
the floor which made strange shadows there,
the light on the bloodstained bandages round
the head of the wounded man. The wild
shadows made all appear like the gloom of
some nightmare dream. Yet it was no such uncommon
scene, after all, upon which they
fell.

Elizabeth entered, and spoke to the men
who had been the bearers, and who were both
of them glad and relieved to welcome possible

help in her. It appeared that they belonged
to some distant village, and had been
crossing the waste together when they discovered
the wounded man, whom they recognized
at once to be one of the sons of
Jem. He lay near a rude hovel, where he had,
perhaps, been sheltering, and he had been
attacked or fighting, for there was a deep
wound on his head ; he was entirely unconscious,
and could speak no word to them.
They carried him into the hovel, but the roof
of it was gone, and they dared not leave him
unsheltered alone in the evening gloom ; so
they tore down a shutter at last and bore him
to the Den. It appeared that they had felt
most reluctant to enter it, being afraid ; but
they need not have feared, though old Jem
was there alone ; he lay on his bed on the
corner, and seemed dying fast himself. The
whole place looked more than wretched ; they
could find neither food nor drink, nor firing,
nor medicine, nor coverings of any kind,
excepting only the blanket in which the old
man was wrapped, whilst an empty bottle lay
beside his bed. The two men who had lent
assistance were stalwart youths enough, but
the horror of the whole place had been too
much for them ; they declared that they could

not remain with the dying men alone. Elizabeth
Implored them earnestly to go and fetch a
doctor, and promised to watch by herself till
they came back. They looked on her with
wonder, but agreed to her wish at once  they
would have offered to stay, but they felt
*' appeared," they said. Before she came In
they had found a dip and matches ; that one
dirty tallow candle gave all the light there
was. They put it upon the table, and lifted
the wounded man, and laid him upon the
settle that was on one side of the wall ; and
Elizabeth rolled her jacket Into a pillow for
his head. When these arrangements were
made there was nothing more to be done.
They promised to send a doctor as quickly
as they could, and wished her a rough '' goodnight,"
and went out into the waste. She
could hear their retreating footsteps ; she was
left to watch alone.

VOL. II. M

THE OLD WOLF LEAVES THE DEN.

That was not a watch to be forgotten, that
night-time in the Den.

Elizabeth sat by the table with her head
upon her hands, and her eyes on the end of
tallow candle which gave all the light she
had. At a little distance from her, against
the wall, lay the wounded man ; she could hear
his heavy breathing, but he did not move or
stir. At the other end of the room was the
bed where the old man lay. It had been
placed across the doorway which led to the
inner room, as if with the intention of guarding
the entrance there ; but the young men
had explored there already and found it bare,
they said. Their movements had not been
able to rouse the old man at all, even though

they had disturbed the bed on which he lay ;
he appeared to be past consciousness, and
drifting on to death. Elizabeth could scarcely
see him from her seat, she felt that she ought
to rise and attempt to give some help, and
yet the horror that was upon her held her still.
The loneliness, the night-time, the desolation
of the room, the sensation of being alone with
these two wild, dying men, her only light a
candle that might not last out the night 
these things had a grasp of terror against
which she had little power, there was a horror
upon her pulses that seemed to tingle there.
She had never before experienced such sensations
of alarm ; in those few first instants she
could have cried out for fear.

Having overmastered herself to some
degree, she rose and went round the room to
see what she could do. With the candle in
her hand she paused by the wounded man.
He lay quite unconscious, and breathing in
heavy groans ; the bandages round his head
where soaked and stiff with blood. She touched
them with timid fingers, she gently took his
hand ; but he lay with his eyelids closed,
beyond the sense of help, the heavy groans
of his breathing never ceasing for an instant,
though his face looked stiffened and his

hand was deadly cold. A wild, coarse face
he had, on which a life's strange tales were
written ; the life would not wake from its stupor
to a late repentance now. Still holding his
hand, she sank upon her knees, and with
oppression at her heart tried to breathe one
prayer for him. Since her own strange experiences
it had been hard to pray ; it was
scarcely more easy by the side of the dying
man. . . . She rose at last, and went softly
round the room ; and, with the candle in her
hand, paused by the other bed at last.

Old Jem lay there, wrapped in a dirty
blanket, a more horrible sight even than his
son. His eyes were open, but they seemed
to look on nothing ; his face was fearfully
wasted, as if he had long been starving ; and
his breathing came always in a little babbling
way, as if his breath tried perpetually to form
itself into words. A limp, matted beard hung
about his mouth and lips ; it hung on a bloodless
face, with a senile, wasted look, and the
hand that lay on the counterpane was reduced
almost to bones. And yet, senile as he
appeared, in the last stage of age and want,
there were fewer signs of coarseness on his
features than on those of his son. Elizabeth
stood holding the candle, and looking round the

room. Alas ! what a miserable place ! what
a wretched home it seemed ! what oaths had
been here ! what drunkenness ! what low
living ! what profanity ! what a home for
animals it had been, rather than for men!
And yet these were two human souls who
were struggling here for life. If they had
been animals it might have been best for
them. . . . With a more passionate impulse
than had been hers for many years, she fell
down on the ground, and poured out her
heart in prayer.

A little relieved, she raised herself at last,
and went back near the table where she had
been, and sat down there. She had placed
the candle exactly in front of her ; her elbows
leant on the table, and her head was benton
her hands. The flickering candle made
strange shadows on the wall ; she could hear
the night-wind sobbing outside the Den, and
the heavy breathing was near her of the
wounded man. It was all like some terrible
dream  some nightmare in her brain. . . .
She knew where she was all the time, and yet
and yet 

Oh ! whence came that fancy of crowds
and crowds of figures, moving always like
phantoms before her on the wall ? She could

see them still moving onwards, crowds and
crowds, all wailing and wringing their hands,
and holding up their arms as if entreating,
and yet forced onwards towards the darkness.
She kept trying to rouse herself from the
fancy, and yet she could not ; the night-wind
outside wailed like voices in her ears ; the
phantom, despairing multitude moved always
in her brain, where ends of remembered verse
were ringing too ; and then that seemed to
form itself into despairing cries as well.

No light had we : for that we do repent ;
And learning this, the bridegroom will relent.
Too late, too late " 

With a start she roused herself, and stood
up upon her feet. She was utterly exhausted,
and the dreams were becoming real ; she
feared, if she yielded herself to them, that
she might sleep. No ; everything was as it
had been in the room. The flickering candle
made strange gleams on the wall ; the groans
of the wounded man were becoming fainter
now. Elizabeth looked towards him, and
thought his face more livid ; there was coming
slowly upon it the look of death. She covered
her eyes with her hands that she might not see
his face ; and, as she did so, they seemed to
rise once more  the old man, the young man,

the lad whom she had sheltered in her house,
the despairing multitudes of the haunting,
phantom crowd. Their cry seemed to raise
itself now, and to ring within her ears.

Have we not heard the bridegroom is so sweet ?
O let us in, tho' late, to kiss his feet !
No, no, too late " 

She started up once more, and raised by
that movement the head which had sunk
upon her arms. Had she, indeed, been dreaming,
and become awakened now ? The flickering
candle had almost burnt itself out ; there
was almost darkness, and there was silence
in the room. She listened, but she could
hear no faintest sound of breathing ; a terrible
silence seemed to possess the place. With
a trembling hand, and shuddering, she raised
the licht. The wounded man's head had
fallen backwards ; he was dead. Trembling
horribly, she turned towards the other bed
once more.

And then  it is scarcely possible to describe
what those next few moments were. The old
man was becoming conscious ; he had raised
himself in bed ; his eyes were open ; he looked
at her, and at the room. It was like seeing
life in death to meet his eyes. Her knees
were trembling so that she could scarcely

sit ; she feared every instant that his glance
would rest upon his son. With surprising
strength he raised himself in the bed : he sat
up there, with the blanket round him, a
wasted figure ; his eyes seemed to be searching
for something they could not see. They
looked round the room ; they fell upon her,
upon his son lying dead ; they seemed unsatisfied,
as if they were searching still. And
then, all at once, with a piercing voice, he
cried out, with the one last effort of his remaining
strength 

'' Where's Geoff Geoff ? "

The words rang like a cry. There was no
answer ; he fell back and died.

The candle flickered, and guttered, and
raised itself again and again, and went out at
last. Elizabeth was left alone, watching, in
the darkness with the dead.

If those words, that cry of a parting spirit,
could have reached beyond the Den, if they
could have penetrated to the heart of another
wretched, wasted life, a doom that lay yet
unfulfilled might have been even then delayed.
But in vain was it for the wanderer
and vagabond that his old home cried out

for him ; its miserable education alone was
bearing harvest then.

Let us take up again the story we have
deserted for awhile, and follow its track once
more through the darkness to the end. For
that passionate flight in the night-time had
brought the wanderer no rest ; its generous
impulse had owned no sure resolve, and his
restless, despairing footsteps had borne him
back to ruin  a more certain ruin that yawned
close before him now.

MORNING AND NIGHT.

A COLD, heavy rain was falling upon the
streets, on which had gleamed the pale light
of a September dawn. That light was obscured
now by rushing streams of rain, an
intense, heavy darkness had enveloped all the
town ; at that early hour there were but few
men abroad, but those few had sought quickly
all the shelter they could find. A little
covered alley had become full of workmen ;
beneath a stone portico a dirty child had
crouched ; and two young women had retreated
to a passage, and had thrown the upper
skirts of their dresses above their heads. A
black cat had got under an overturned basket,
and was peering out from there. In someway
or other, and with such quickness as

was possible, every animal, human or otherwise,
was sheltering as it could.

And, indeed, there is something imposing
in a real storm of rain, even in a Midland
county, where such a thing is rarely known ;
the darkness of it, the torrents, the sense
of rushing power, the reminder of mountain
scenery where all such tempests thrive,
these things can convey with them the
sense of a mighty charm. And at that
very early hour there were few sufferers
abroad, and those who had been in the
streets had found some shelter now.

There were two in the porch of a little
church of the town, whose lighted windows
made a pleasant glow in the gloom. Some
early service was being conducted there,
though no sound of an organ rolled forth to
greet those who stood without ; they could
only hear the faint sound of the clergyman's
voice in prayer. The waiters had climbed up
the churchyard, which stood high, alarmed
by the ominous darkness that gathered above
their heads ; and then beaten and lashed as
they climbed by the first pelt of the rain. In
the porch itself, where they were, was little
shelter to be found, the driving rain made a
rushing entrance there ; they were both of

them pressed to the door to gain all the help
they could. That door had been insecurely
fastened, it stood ajar ; and from the farther
end of the church came the clergyman's voice
to them. They did not attempt to enter,
wish to enter, as it seemed ; they had not the
appearance of people who wish to go to
church, though they had the look of people
who have not spent the night in bed.

It is wonderful what impression a small
scene makes sometimes ; a little, trifling
incident can abide with a man for life. On
the mind of one of the two that scene remained
impressed  the driving rain, the
darkness, the danger and loneliness without,
the feeling of warmth and comfort and of
worship in the church, like some ark of
refuge where those within were safe. He
was a gentleman of fifty, who had never been
fond of churches, who had never entered one
since he was a child at school. It was strange
how that old remembrance came back just
now to him ; perhaps because it was hard to
take up the superior position now, standing
now as an outcast at the church door itself,
with the sound of the prayers just floating out
to him, and the darkness without, and his companion's
face at hand.

That companion's face, how distinctly it
dwelt with him ! A young face  the face of
one still a lad  yet with haggard, wasted
features, and dark eyes wild with an expression
that appeared almost insane. A haunted
spirit this, standing now without the church,
kept without like the evil beings that haunt
the spires. The gentleman looked at him,
and a slight smile stirred his lips ; they were
speaking inwardly, although no sound came
from them.

''He has not been brought up to go to
church," they said.

And, as they said this, there came a gust of
wind, a burst of the driving tempest in all its
force on them. In an instant they seemed
overwhelmed with rain and darkness, as if
they could scarcely stand against the blast.
It was almost impossible not to lean against
the door ; it gave way before them, and they
stood within.

Oh ! what a scene of peace, what calm and
quiet were here ! The lights shone in the
chancel at the further end of the church ; a
row of worshippers knelt before the rails ; the
minister stood before them with the golden
plate in his hand. And then in the church
there were some who quietly rose, and prepared

themselves to come softly In their turn. The
gentleman of whom we have spoken stood
near the door with the lad. He felt that a
sudden thrill passed through his companion's
form ; the lad almost moved, then as suddenly
stood still. And then, with a sudden, startled
movement, he turned round ; and his eyes met
those of his companion bent on him. Some
words rose unconsciously to the lips of the
older man, a dreamy quotation from a book
lately read. At the instant he did not know
he spoke aloud 

* What dost thou here at the Lord's Supper
V\ with thy body's sins ? ' said he."

The words had scarcely passed, had
hardly stirred his lips, when he knew he
had spoken them by his companion's face.
They were enough ; the boy cowered suddenly,
and turned ; and, leaving the church swiftly
and silently, stole out into the storm. His
companion followed him quickly, but could
only find the rain  the darkness, and driving
tempest that were upon the streets.

That short scene, slight as it was, remained
vividly on his mind, but it was to be still more
impressed there by what occurred that night.

That very same evening he saw the lad
again.

He had himself been spending a well-considered
day, a day of considerably more toil
than he was wont to give ; and, moreover,
one of some decisions too. He had sat
writing letters through the whole long afternoon,
a very unusual sort of afternoon for
him ; until a burden of resolve had been lifted
off his mind, and he felt satisfied with himself,
and almost at rest. In the golden September
evening he strolled out of doors again ; he
felt as if he deserved some leisure now.
It was strange how that face of a boy remained
always in his mind, but it was not
very likely he would meet it in the streets. . . .

Before one of the houses there was a little
crowd ; a private carriage was waiting before
the door, and the crowd was waiting to see
who would come out. It was such a motley
assemblage as may be readily supposed, consisting
of nurseries with perambulators, and
of ragged boys, with a few young workmen
and errand-lads as well. They were waiting
there, and for an Instant he also paused, with
a slight curiosity for which he smiled at himself.
The door of the house opened, and a
young lady came down the steps, with a footman

In attendance, and a gentleman following
behind. The Hght of the lamps, which had
just been lit, shone on her head. She was in
evening dress, of course, and all muffled in a
cloak ; but the light gleamed upon her fair
hair and pretty face : the footman was holding
the train of a dress of white, dazzling
silk ; and upon her wrist, which was lifted, a
golden bracelet shone. And then, all at once,
a lad who was standing next the gentleman
gave a start, a half-smothered exclamation as
of one seized with surprise ; and, astonished at
that, his companion turned round on him.
And, as he did so, there seemed to rise before
him the dark, driving rain, and the lights
within the church  he saw these things as a
vision before he knew that they had been recalled
to him by his young companion's face.
Yes . it was the same face, the
same strange face again  the pale and
desperate face ; yet more white and desperate
now. But the lad was not paying the
slightest heed to him ; his eyes were fixed
upon the young lady's form ; there was a
wild and hungry expression in their gaze, it
appeared as if he recognized her, though he
had not been prepared for her. And then,,
suddenly, he stepped forward, as if about to

speak. But he did not address her, or even
attempt to speak, only with his hand he
touched the train of her dress as she passed.
It was a movement so slight that only one
had seen, and as his companion turned to
him he slipped back into the crowd. There
was a stir amongst them as the carriage
drove away  and the seeker was never able to
gain a sight of him again.

Alas ! poor despairing wretch, Involved
now in deepest tolls, what real help could
that instant give to you? What comfort the
poor boy expected from it is hard indeed to
say, yet at the moment it may have appeared
like some sole last hope to him, like one last
touch and glimpse of heaven in the darkness
of his life. From the despairing purpose
that had been growing in his heart he had
been called by the voice of prayer, by the remembered
face once more ; but these had
not turned him, he turned away from them.
As his hand dropped from the white silk robe
the darkness closed upon him, he went onwards
with that sensation through the twilight
on the streets.

VOL. II. N

BEN HAS MISGIVINGS.

And on the same evening Ben came too to
N  . He came there by appointment that
he might meet with Geoff.

It was about eight o'clock, and a dark
night, when he came near the town. There
were no stars, the night was enveloped in
blackness ; the outlines of trees were only-just
visible against the sky ; far off some distant
cottage windows shone like red points of
light. Only over the town there was a glow,
of course  that pale, mysterious glow that
overhangs the habitations of men. Ben
did not look much at these things as he
trudged along the road, with a small and light
pedlar's pack upon his back. He was not

more drunk than usual, and his legs did not
tremble much ; he had thought it needful,
indeed, to be pretty sober to-night. But in
spite of this needful precaution he did not feel
at ease. He was about to meet one whom he
had deceived and wronged, and there was in
him a feeling that he was afraid.

What had been the career of Ben since we
last saw his face, from the moment when he
staggered to his home after Mr. Audley's
dinner party to this night which beheld him
now on his way to N  ? He had been having
a prosperous time, the miserable old man 
he had been in receipt of a regular monthly
income, had possessed enough for food, and
more than enough for drink. And yet he
had not been happy  he had not felt at rest.
Compelled to endure a companionship which
continually frightened him, forced away from
his own old home in the town he had known
so long, obliged to keep up a deceit that
tasked his brain, he had felt that he paid for
the money that he gained. And yet, as he
found his way through the night-time to the
town, his principal terror was that he might
now deceive no more.

It was odd what fancies haunted him
in the stillness of the night, with the lights of

the town he approached In front of him  the
face of his factory mother, of the Punch and
Judy man, of many another vagrant he had
known long years ago. He thought that he
had fancies because he was sober, for that
was such an unusual state with him. But
always, over and above these things, the one
young face remained, the face of his chosen
companion, Jem Haldan's Geoff.

If Ben had been in a repentant as well asa
sober mood, a state that was an even more
unaccustomed one in him, that fancy might
have given reason for remorse as well as fear.
But it is not so easy for dead souls to feel
remorse ; and at least he might say that at
first he had not meant to deceive. When he
staggered home from the dinner party where
he had been an unwelcome guest, on that
summer night when he saw Mr. Audley's face,
he had not made up his mind what he should
'' do about the lad." He found that his room
was deserted, that the captive boy had fled.
And in the midst of the drunken stupor and
wrath that possessed him then, there was
something within him that could not but feel
relieved.

The next morning he saw Mr. Audley's
face again, but of that long interview he
never spoke a word, though its results

affected him to the last day of his life. He
seems to have found Mr. Audley alarmed and
ill, not yet entirely recovered from the horror
of the night, in deadly terror of what he
might hear from him. Ben imagined easily
what he might be most desired to say ; and
he had not, besides, at that moment, the
power of producing Geoff  he let Mr. Audley,
therefore, believe that his son was dead. But,
at the same time, with his drunken skill
and cunning, he hinted at darkest stories
of vice and crime, tales known to himself
alone, which he could publish if he would.
The miserable father heard these hints in
silence, but it was the silence that covers
deadly fear ; under these circumstances Ben
made easy terms with him. He left Mr.
Audley with triumphant hopes, though under
a promise that he would leave the town, and
took his departure that evening under cover
of the night. He went to a distant town, where
he had lived in-his youth ; and there, some
days later, was found once more by Geoff.

And now it might well be asked what Ben
wanted with the boy now that his triumphant
treachery was reaping full reward, now that
he had inflicted the injury of which he had
dreamt so long. Alas ! if that injury had
been the only one, but our evil spirits do not

SO easily let us go. Ben hated and feared the
lad as he had never done before ; there was a
possibility now of discovery from him, and the
remembrance of bygone resentment rankled
still within his heart. For ever was it in his
mind that he must keep Geoff in his sight,
that he must never let him return near where
Mr. Audley was ; and then, mingled with this
resolve, there came darker thoughts as well.
He had described Mr. Audley's son as one
sunk in vice and crime, it remained yet
possible to prove that story true. For Ben
kept the lowest company, and the lad was
wild and young ; and, as it happened, in a
despairing mood as well. . . .

It is surely not needful to describe the
summer farther, the first and last summer
that these spent side by side, a wretched inheritance
of guilt and shame to both. For a
few moments, as we know, during that one
moonlight night, the good angels of whom
we read must have laid . their hands on
Geoff ; he had proved himself capable of
self-sacrifice. But his passionate, untrained
nature had no principles to guide ; he had
fallen back into deeper guilt again, into
courses from which it might seem that
nothing more could rouse him now. His
nature, indeed, was rather wild than low,

and something of refined instincts lingered
still in him, but that feeling of conscious
despair could but wake his passion more.
Received into any society always with open
arms, and forced by his miserable circumstances
to consort always with the worst, he
laid himself readily open to influences of ill ;
and the sense of degradation, once gained, is
not lost again. It might well be supposed
that his case was hopeless now ; but for him
whose good angels are lost the scourge
remains.

And that scourge was to descend with all
its force on hlm on him who was still too
young to be hardened yet to sin. It took
the form of a false accusation first ; at one
of their lawless meetings a sudden skirmish
rose, and a young man fell, stunned and
injured, to the ground. Geoff had been
present, and close, but he had not joined in
the fight ; there were those, nevertheless, who
declared that his hand had dealt the blow,
and he had been drinking too much to
defend himself with skill. The next morning
Ben came to him and told him he must hide
he was ill and miserable, and without questioning
obeyed. From that time he had been
skulking in various hiding places, keeping up
a communication with Ben from time to time,

until at last he had sent for him to come. It
was to obey this summons the old man
trudged through the night. The lights of the
town were getting nearer now.

It may be asked why he obeyed his wild
companion, from whom he had much to fear,
and had nothing now to hope ; and why he
was willing to place himself within his reach.
There was an uneasy feeling, indeed, about
his heart, a weight of terror that he could
not quite explain ; he felt inclined often to
turn back from the town. But then the
peremptory message had alarmed him too
much, he felt that he must discover how
much his victim knew, for he lived in a
ceaseless dread of discovery from Geoff.
And how much there was to find out he
himself alone could tell  himself who had
not been ashamed to entice a lad to ruin,
who had lured him with the false hope he
did not mean to fulfil, had slandered him to
the father he professed to find, and had a
secret, principal share in the false accusation
now. He knew that Rolf was on his way
down from London, and was making inquiries
everywhere concerning him and Geoff ; a
secret mine might explode any moment at
his feet. The best way was to frighten the
Wolf, and he did not think that hard to do.

For so little, from first to last, did he understand
the lad, so utterly removed was he
from comprehending the nature of which he
had seen so much, that it remained his impression
that Geoff could soon be cowed,
almost that, though given to bluster, he was
timid and weak beneath. The wild, susceptible
character had impressed his mind like
that, a mistake that was not without danger
for himself.

Nearer and nearer  the lights were brighter
now  he could hear the distant rattle of the
carts within the town. There was not a
star above, and the night was strangely still ;
although in the autumn it was a hot and
breathless night. And every now and again
he experienced that wish to turn ; in spite of
his assurance there was a trembling at his
heart. Once he did even turn round, but
then he went on again. He had made up his
mind as to what he should say to Geoff, sofar
as his drunken mind could be made up at
all ; he had determined to renounce at last
the bait he had held so long, and, if possible,
finally to get rid of the lad. He had resolved
to tell him that the father he sought was
dead, and at the same time to threaten him
with the imprisonment he feared  in this
double manner to drive him off at length.

That by such words he might rouse him to
despair, that such desperation is to be feared
he scarcely thought ; for although he had a
vague terror, he did not define it to himself.
Only he said that Geoff was '' uncanny' it
was well to be rid of him ; ''a' wish it were
o'er," he said, ' ah, that a' do."

Once, and once only before he reached the
streets, he stopped, as a heavy rumble sounded
behind his feet. But it was only a passing
cart going onwards to the town. The night
seemed to grow every moment more dark
and still, there can be an intensified blackness
at that season of the year. But the lights
were shining brightly as at last he entered
the streets. As he stepped on to the pavement
a girl left it to cross the road, a factory
girl with a dingy red shawl on her head ; and,
as he stood to look after her, the fancy
occurred to him of his mother as he had
seen her on the night she left her home. He
thought he would enter a ' public " to drink
all such thoughts away, but there was not one
near, and he went onwards through the town.
He went on through dark side streets, and
through darker covered ways, until he stood
in the yard of the old inn at last.

An old-fashioned inn yard, with tottering
buildings round it, and one old doorway with

an ancient Norman arch, and a church tower
rising outside Hke a shadow against the sky,
and very few lights within to guide the stable
boys. These were gathered round a horse in
the midst of a spot of light, which shone
with the greater brightness where so much
else was dark ; the stables behind them
were shadowy, and the buildings ghost-like
around. Old Ben did not find himself treated
with the attention he deserved ; they would not
leave off their work to hear his words to them,
and turned him from one to the other with very
scant respect. At last a trim chambermaid,
who had come out from alehouse, remembered
that a young man had arrived some hours before,
and undertook to guide the old traveller
to the room where he might be. She entered
the house, took a candle, and went on.

Endless passages, turns, corners, unforeseen
steps in the darkness, sudden doors,
uneven flooring, dim lamps hanging occasionally
above  the room that they were seeking
seemed in the very depths of the house.
They reached an old staircase at last, and
went up that ; a very old staircase, whose
steps creaked to the tread  above all was
musty and lonely ; it was an old part of the
inn. Still proceeding silently, they reached
a door at last. Within, a wide, dark, old

parlour yawned dimly to their view, with a
faint red glow upon it from the embers of a
fire ; a tall, dark figure was seated beside that,
and was still. Ben knew in an instant he had
found the one he sought.

The chambermaid went to the window, and
carefully drew the blind, and lighted a little
lamp on the table of the room. She was to remember
next night every instant of the time
that she was there ; the wide, dark room, and
the red light of the fire ; the tall, lank figure
that sat so still beside it ; the old man who
stood, sniffing and shivering, in the centre of
the room, with his dirty, red neckerchief floating,
and his old, bent legs apart. She was to
remember even a certain place on the boards,
the place where her feet had stood whilst she
trimmed the lamp. But just at the moment
she did not notice much. She went to the
window, and shut the darkness out ; she
struggled awhile with the dimness of the
lamp ; and then, seeing no prospect of fees,
she went on to the door. As she went down
the passage she heard that the key was
turned ; she feared for herself, alone in this
lonely part of the house, and hastened to
quit the dark passages, leaving the travellers
alone  alone in the lonely night, with no
ionian presence near. . . .

An hour later, a man, who was working in
the inn, was finding his way through the
passages in the darkness, when he heard
suddenly the sound of voices in one of the
deserted rooms. They were angry, furious
voices, of an old man and a young ; they were
raised against each other as in violent wrath
and strife. And then, all at once, they ceased,
and the place was still. He was so much
alarmed that he turned away and fled.

A few minutes later he returned again,
accompanied now by a servant of the inn.
She carried a light for them ; they were both
of them afraid  their light went out, and
they went on in the dark. When they had
gone some way up the staircase they stood
still. There was not a sound, not an echo,
the whole place was still as death ; of the
voices that had been heard not a murmur
now remained. For a very long while they
stood listening, and then they turned away ;
they went down the stairs in the darkness,
and closed the door beneath.

The echo of that closing door could be
heard in the room above, in the wide, dark
parlour where deepest silence reigned, where
a dimly-seen, crouching figure sat brooding
by the fire, where there was the sound of the
breathing of an exhausted old man's sleep ;

into that intense silence there came that
closing sound. Then Geoff rose swiftly and
silently from the seat on which he sat ; there
was no noise in his movement, his face was
deadly still, his right hand grasped a hammer
beneath his coat. In that silent manner, as
if he did not even breathe, he stood still,
motionless, behind his companion's formi.
The old man's head had sunk forward on the
table ; he put out his left hand, and laid it
gently upon that. '' Ben  Ben," he whispered,
with a low, breathless sound ; and
though the words were almost voiceless it
seemed that they were heard. The old man
stirred uneasily, with a gasp as of one in fear,
and with a bewildered movement he slowly
raised his head. Then Geoff raised the heavy
hammer to the full height of his arms, and
struck downwards with all his strength upon
his companion's face.

He heard the blow, and he felt the hammer
drop ; he staggered backwards, and closed
his ears and eyes. A heavy figure was lying
across his feet \ his eyes were blinded, his
ears rang, and his brain ; in that moment he
knew there was on him the doom of blood.

THE NIGHT IX THE OLD IXX.

It was over  over  there was no repenting
now  there was no repentance ; the words
formed themselves in his brain. He could
neither see, nor hear, nor think, nor move
away : he removed his hands, but there was
no sight in his eyes ; they seemed to be
swimming, and his brain seemed to swim.
The physical feelings of those moments are
not to be described ; his heart was bursting,
his knees trembled beneath his weight ; he
knew if men came to take him he would have
no power to fly. He kept telling himself that
he had not known  had not known he should
feel like this ; he would not  would not have
done it if he had known. And then, slowly,

the sight was returning to his eyes, and he
covered them with his arm, lest he should
see ; and, as he stood thus in darkness, he
wildly prayed that when he removed his arm
the old man might be alive. And then, slowly,
slowly, he let his arm fall at length ; and he
saw the dark room, and the embers of the
fire, the dim lamp on the table, and the figure
on the ground. ,

And then a great quietness all at once came
over him ; with footsteps that did not tremble
he went to the place where the figure lay.
He turned it over as it lay upon the ground ;
he put his hand upon the wrist, and within the
clothes to feel the heart. There is no need
to give one word to describe the sight he saw.
Again and again he felt, as if longing to
believe, as if some faintest pulsation must reward
his touch at length. Again, and again,
and yet again he felt, and then laid the body
with care upon the ground ; and, dropping
his face on his arms, where his victim's head
had Vain, he broke into wildest sobbing  he
was only seventeen.

No, there was no use in crying, he must be
past that now. They would come to take
him ; he must be prepared for them. He
got up slowly, and began to pace the room ;

he sat down by the table, as if he wished to
think. But he could not rouse himself, he
was too much stunned for that. The pictures
were watching him, the dark pictures on the
walls ; he could feel that their gaze was fixed
ceaselessly on him. A murderer now by the
law of God and man ; he must expect watching,
expect detection now.

Oh, he did not deceive himself, it was not
sorrow that he felt ; he did not repent, he
had not had time for that. He had not
forgiven the old man for his sins ; the feelings
that had prepared the blow moved in
him still. But there was on him an awful
sense of something irrevocable done, of a
crushing weight beneath which his life lay
stunned. He had never tried to do right, he
had done evil things before ; but from these
he might have escaped ; there was no escaping
now.

He got up and began to walk, he sat restlessly
down again ; there seemed no power for
action in his mind. He seemed to feel himself
going on through his life with that ceaseless
weight resting always on his soul, with
possible detection in every glance on him.
A murderer now  a criminal  there was no
escaping that  there was no thought of any

VOL. II. O

excuse for himself within his heart ; he was
standing, condemned and helpless, before the
Judgment Seat of God.

'' Oh, if I had only been a better lad ! " cried
Geoff. '' I was taught better ; I need not
have come to this. It's no good to think. . . .
I can't do better now. . I might have
done better once if I had chose." . . . And
then, with his bursting tears, the old words
came again  ' If I had only once tried to bea
good boy, only once ! " Too late to think,
there was no escaping now ; there was no
raising his life from this darkest depth once
more ; he had done the one deed that makes
repentance vain. If there had been the least
noise or movement he might have been roused
by present danger, but there was no sound,
no footstep for his straining ears to hear;
he was left alone with his victim in the darkness
of the night.

Yet he must move, must escape, or he
would be taken now, taken on the very spot
on which his crime had been committed. They
would be coming . it was strange how
dull he felt. He took off his boots, and went
softly to the door ; he listened, but there
was not the faintest sound. A strange feeling
came over him that he would be left alone

for ever, that he would not see men's faces
or the light of day again. No . . . that was
all folly, they would be coming soon. He
stole to the door and softly turned the key ; he
took up his hat, which was lying on a chair ;
he went back to where the dead man lay,
and looked down on him. And then, putting
out his hand, he turned out the lamp ; the
room was all dark now save for the embers of
the fire. An awful feeling came on him, his
heart began to throb, he could feel the cold
sweat-drops falling down his face. With
staggering footsteps he reached the door at
last ; he opened it, locked it behind him, and
went out. He looked, but he could see only
darkness round ; he listened, but there was
not the faintest echo on the stairs. He was
holding his boots in his hand, that he might
not make a sound ; his own footfall was all
but noiseless as he stole along. He found
his way down the passage, and felt it down
the stairs ; at the bottom of those again he
once more stood still. No, there was not a
sound, not a human presence near ; the
passage before him was lighted, at the
further end was a door. If that should be
locked ! but it was not, it yielded to his hand ;
beyond was a dark side-street, with the night

and stars above. He put on his boots noiselessly,
and stole out from the house. So one
who for ever stands alone for his darkest,
deepest crime, went out from his Master's
presence, and it was night.

The lights from the old inn windows shone
out into the night, the dark yard was deserted
at last by the stable-boys, the servants were
gathered at supper, and were very merry
there ; there was no one to tell that jovial,
light-hearted crew that alone in the parlour
above their latest guest lay dead.

ALECTO.

There is always a considerable amount of
mystery overhanging a catastrophe, a brooding
gloom that is rather heightened than
dispersed by the inevitable noise and babbling
confusion that accompany such an
event, by the terror and horror of it, the
multiplicity of details and of unimportant
facts, the sudden springing to light of necessary
or unnecessary evidence from every
side. The smallest things, that none would
have dreamt of noticing, become of strange
importance then  the shutting of a door, the
sound of a footstep, the babble of maids or
men-servants, the putting out of a light  over
such little details or remembrances all
memories are tasked : and yet, while over

such common occurrences a lurid light is
thrown, the one greater mystery still recedes
into the gloom ; and, even should all be
discovered, remains mysterious still. For, in
spite of the countless evidence that is often
to be found, of the witness of history through
every distant age, of the innumerable tragedies
that each day brings to light, is there
one who, in spite of such possibilities, can
say that he has ever entirely probed the full
meaning of a crime ?

With such thoughts in our minds it surely
cannot be needful to repeat all the words that
were said when the morning's light had come,
to speak of the horror and chattering that
pervaded all the inn, of the gossip that rushed
to the very suburbs of the town, of the silence
that shrouded the room where the old man's
body lay. From the chambermaid who had
shown him to that room the night before, to
the carpenter who forced an entrance there
when they had become alarmed at last, and,
who, mounted on a ladder outside the window,
had seen the corpse, it is very certain at least
that all had enough to say. There were
precautions to be taken, and preparations
to be made ; a public inquiry had to be seton
foot at once ; the inquest was to be held

that afternoon. And throughout the whole
day, through the old inn's open doors, in
stables and stable-yard, in coffee-room and
bar, a stream of people and of people's gossip
flowed. Yet, in spite of the talk and the
drinking, and the wisdom of the town, in
spite of the interest that all took in the
event, there were only a few conclusions that
could certainly be gained  two men, unknown
to the town, had arrived in the inn at
night ; the older man lay murdered, and his
companion had escaped.

And that companion ? All thoughts were
turned on him, the stranger on whose young
head the price of blood was set. For not the
smallest doubt existed as to his part in the
crime ; the angry words were remembered
that had been heard the night before ; the
fact of his flight in the darkness alone might
prove his guilt. The blow might have been
struck in anger, there was likelihood of that ;
but it had been struck with a hammer that
had been left within the room, that must have
been taken up with the intent to strike ; and,
according to medical evidence, had been
struck too from behind. The event was
murder  murder  there could be no doubt of
it ; the jury did not delay to give their verdict

thus ; and before the night had commenced
the ponce-search had begun. But of the appearance
of the young man who had now
become distinguished in such terrible manner
there was Httle knowledge to be gained ; he
had arrived in the evening before the inn was
lit for the night, and had been little enough
observed while he was there ; the girl who had
taken him upstairs was called in to give her
evidence, but she declared that she had never
looked at him, and did not remember what he
was like. Long afterwards, in dangerous illness,
she confessed at last that she had been
struck with the wretched appearance and the
beauty of the lad, and had been not unwilling to
favour his escape. The chambermaid, who had
been within the room, also gave her evidence ;
but she had only observed a young figure by
the fire ; she could give no clearer description
or more definite words than those. The
police, however, had set themselves to find
the murderer's track ; and it was both thought
and hoped that he must be arrested soon.

And now, from out of the dubious search
that followed, from the unkempt mass of
evidence that every hour produced, from the
accounts of vagrants who fell under natural
suspicion, and the results of the watching of

travellers who left the town that day, from
out of these numberless reports, and fears,
and gossip, let us gather a word or two that
may mean something for ourselves. The old
man lay in the inn, a ghastly corpse  what
had been the fate, then, of one wretched living
soul, since the inn-door shut before midnight
had struck, and the young murderer
feed away from his crime into the night ?
From out of such dubious materials it is hard
to find the truth : let us collect, however, such
few threads as we can.

A carter, who lived in the town where the
murder had been committed, was driving his
cart the next morning through the lanes,
and was in a lonely country some twelve miles
from the town, when he saw a young man
who was seated upon a stone. He was driving
his cart so slowly that he had time to observe
the stranger ; and, as the youth looked
exceedingly weary, he offered him a lift, and
they drove along together '' for a one short
mile or twain." It was during that drive that
he further observed the youth, who seemed
to him in some strange excited state, and
kept muttering inaudibly to himself through
all the while. Once or twice he dropped
asleep, but woke up always with a start, and

would look backwards fearfully, as if he
thought himself pursued. The man became
gradually alarmed at his strange companion's
condition, supposed him to have some fever,
and was glad to put him down. He left him
alone in the road, and drove on some miles
himself ; and it so happened that in alighting
from his cart he sprained his foot. The
accident detained him for a fortnight where
he was, and he did not hear of the murder
until he got back to the town. The police
gave eager attention to this slender thread of
news, but it had come too late and did not
avail them much.

There was one other possible evidence that
was furnished later still ; it was supplied by a
woman who lived thirty miles away. She
said that she had been standing by her
cottage door that night, when she saw that a
poor lad was lingering outside. He looked
footsore, and wan, and famished, and as if he
were utterly cast down ; there was a look in
his eyes like ''a hunted beast," she said. She
pitied his youth and condition, and called him
to her at the door ; and then offered him milk,
which he feverishly drank at once. But,
before he drank it, he looked up at her and
spoke  he would not have done it if he had

not been forced, he said. She had not the
very least notion what he meant. Her little
child had been playing about her knees, and
now became interested in the stranger lad,
and held out her arms for him to take her up.
He bent down to do so with a smile upon his
face ; and then, suddenly starting back, he
*' just streaked out," she said ; he cried to the
child that she must not come close to him.
x\nd after that she did not quite know what
he did ; she believed she rushed into the
cottage, and drew in the baby too ; she was
afraid that he was insane, and that he meant
to kill the child. The idea had taken such
possession of her mind that she would
not stir till her husband came home from
work ; and then, without letting him rest, she
sent him out to search. He went seeking
the stranger for a while without success, and
found him asleep at last about half a mile
from the house. He lay by a little gate that
was '' close agen " a wood ; he kept starting
and crying out even whilst he lay asleep. And
then, when the man stood by him, he sprang
to his feet at once. Then he looked so fierce
at first that the labourer was '' seared ; " but
after a while he became quite ** gentle-like " 
he said that he did not know where he lived

or where to go ; he said that he hated sleeping,
for he had such bad dreams now. It
seemed to the man as if he feared the dark ;
and yet, though there was Hght on the road,
it was into the wood he went. And it was in
that darkness the man lost sight of him.

Yes, afraid of the dark, driven to the dark,
that is no uncommon tale. For they have
sharp scourges, the Furies, the daughters of
Earth and the Night-time, Alecto and her
sisters, from whose eyes drip ceaseless blood,
who keep an unwinking vengeance for the
criminals of earth, holding over their wretched
bodies the terror of the law, whilst they keep
their souls writhing under the more terrible
scourge of God. Under such condemnation
one miserable soul had. come; under such
doom of wandering, such helpless terrors now;
the track of the wolf had become a track of
blood.

FLYING RUMOURS.

The golden days of September were drawing
to a close, the corn had been carried, the
harvest festivals were past, the autumn evenings
made long twilight above the asphalte
market-place, and the lamps were lit more early
to light the streets before it occurred to anyone
in the town near the Fens to inquire for Ben.
The stall with the green roof could now no
more be seen, nor the familiar figure with the
trembling, bandy legs ; it was begun to be
supposed that he was not coming back. Yet
he had been such a familiar object, so well
known to each and all, the little old man
with the red neckerchief round his throat,
that it was hard to believe that he would not
be seen again. Some said that he must have

gone to distant parts in debt ; some supposed
that he had drunk himself into a fever or
into lunacy at last ; some imagined that he
was 'ein trouble," and was hiding from the
police. There were many remarks, but none
took the pains to search ; he had been too
disreputable a character to be owned now asa
friend, and only those to whom he owed
money felt interested in him.

Towards the end of September, however,
a startling rumour rose ; none knew whence
it started or what the truth could be. It was
confidently asserted that Ben had '' come ina
fortin' ; " that he had been seen elsewhere
to be living '' like a prince ; " and that he felt
himself now too grand to return to his former
home, that a house with an outside ladder fora
staircase might be considered too mean for
him. These remarks were received at first with
the most scornful incredulity, but by little and
little they became more and more believed,
until at last the rumour spread out into the
Fens.

'' They say that Ben has some money,"
said Mrs. Gibson to her son.

'' He'll kill himself, then, with drink," replied
Jim, and the matter dropped.

The days passed onwards and the autumn:

light grew scarcer, but the green stall was
not raised in the market-place again. In the
beginning of October, however, another
change took place, for Rolf returned from
London to his own old room once more.
And, from the questions he asked of everyone,
and the interest he displayed, it seemed
as if he had come back with the wish to
search for Ben.

The old house with the outside ladder had
once more a tenant now, though it had been
almost deserted, and appeared tottering to
ruin. Rolf looked older and greyer, and
more shabby than before ; there seemed to be
nothing about him that was too new for the
place. He would not say what had become
of the pawnbroker business, nor would he
give any information concerning little Craw ;
he appeared to be out of luck, and out of coin
as well.

But with regard to Ben at any rate he
displayed unfailing interest; it seemed as if
of the old drunkard he could not learn too
much ; and he even climbed up to his room,
and explored its rags and dirt. And then, after
that, he had tea often with the landlady, the
dark woman with jewellery whom we have
seen before, providing himself the tea and

brandy, too ; and patiently questioning her
from hour to hour. It was from her that he
learned of Mr. Audley's dinner-party, of which
strange story he seemed to have heard before,
but the interest he felt in it appeared to be
always new. By the fable of Ben's fortune
also he seemed very much impressed ; he
said that Ben owed him money, and that he
might hope to gain it now. And then for one
day he was absent from his lodging, and went
over to Crasten, and saw Mr. Audley's steward
there. And the day after that he suddenly left
the town ; and it was said by some, as a jest,
that he must have gone to search for Ben.

What had been his object, pursued through
all those weeks, to what secret or mystery
had he found the clue at last ? None knew
or cared to consider ; he had few friends in
the town, and each man had business enough
of his own to employ his thoughts. Nor did
any connect with him another change that
came. The damp and chill of October were
shrivelling all the leaves, and burning colours
were glowing in the woods round Crasten
Hall, when a carriage, whose lights shone in
the darkness, stopped before the door one
night. Mr. Audley had returned to his
deserted house once more.

MR. AUDLEY COMES AGAIN.

It was a strange, mysterious visit, to be long-remembered
afterwards, that last, short sojourn
of the owner of Crasten in his home.

Mr. Audley had arrived there quite unexpectedly
that night, having announced his
intention by telegram an hour before, and he
found accordingly only the happiest preparations
for himself. The great rambling house
was being prepared for Captain Holt, who
was to be married in the winter, and to bring
his bride there in the spring ; it was full to
the brim of workmen, and alterations, of
tools, and fresh paint, and scaffolding, and
incomplete repairs. It might have been expected
that Mr. Audley would have been
annoyed by these ; he was more sensitive

VOL. II. p

than most men are to sights and sounds, and
very fastidious always where his own comfort
was concerned. Yet he did not appear
discomposed, but perfectly satisfied ; he
accepted the hurried meal that had been prepared
for him, and selected two untouched
rooms in which to live. They were upstairs,
and small, and uncomfortable, but secluded
and remote ; with a certain amount of preparation
they could be made to do. And as
Mr. Audley had not brought a single servant
with him, our acquaintance James, who was
there, undertook to wait on him. Long afterwards
the man remembered what that night
seemed to himself.

He came at eight o'clock to receive Mr.
Audley's orders, having assisted previously to
prepare the room for him. The bedroom was
dark and small, with furniture that had become
almost black from age ; a great, red easy-chair
had been added for the sake of comfort,
and in that Mr. Audley was seated beside the
fire. The expression of his face could not
but strike the man at once  his eyes were
bright and absorbed, with the look of one
who dreams ; they had a full and dilated
appearance as they stared into the fire. So
lost was he in his thoughts that, although he

had answered to the knock, he allowed the
servant to remain standing at the door ; and
it was only after some while had passed that
he slowly turned his head. But then he did
not seem offended, his manner was very quiet
and gentle ; he appeared almost pleased to
have someone close to him, and detained the
man near him for some considerable time,
employing him in many little offices as if he
wished to keep him there.

Once or twice, after some long silence, he
seemed to wish to speak. '' It seemed almost
like," thought James, 'ras if he had something
on his mind." On such a subject a servant
is only allowed to think ; but it appeared
to the man that his temporary master was
feverish and ill, and with some hesitation he
offered to remain. Mr. Audley did not hear
the proposal till it had been repeated twice ;
he then received it with very much surprise,
but it was at once evident that he was not
displeased. For some while he hesitated, as
if, indeed, in doubt ; he appeared to long to
be lonely, yet to be afraid to be alone, and
he could not make up his mind to send the
man away. At last he inquired with gentleness
if the dressing-room had a fire ; and then
begged the servant to remain there for a while,

apologizing humbly to him for the trouble
that he gave.

James retired accordingly into the inner
room at once, not unwilling to show some
gratitude by doing all he could, for his own
master was never accustomed to apologize
to him. He left the door ajar so that he
might hear every sound, for he felt uneasy
without exactly knowing why ; he said afterwards
that he had thought it possible Mr.
Audley might 'shave a fit." So he seated
himself by the fire in the dressing-room, and
began thinking out his thoughts ; and so was
falling by degrees into a gentle sleepiness,
when a sudden sound aroused him, and he
started up at once.

It had seemed a noise as of someone falling
forwards ; he hastened quickly to rush
onwards to the door. Only, when he had
reached it, the fear of intrusion came ; and he
stood still by the open doorway, with his eyes
on the inner room. The lamp there was still
lighted on the table, the room was silent as
if there was no human presence in it, but the
table was covered now with some piles of
plans and papers ; a golden crucifix had been
fastened on the wall, and there, in front of it,
Mr. Audley knelt in prayer. He seemed to

have flung himself down as in some sudden
passion ; his head, which looked grey, was
bent, and his hands were strained. And then,
all at once and very hastily, he rose ; he went
to the table on which the papers were ; he
turned them over with feverish, restless hands ;
and then with a sudden movement he pushed
them all away, and drew himself up to his
full height, and spoke. It was strange to see
him standing there with moving lips. James
could hear the words plainly as he stood by
the door  strange words, Bible words they
seemed, though he did not know whence
they came.

'* Will the Lord be pleased with thousands
of rams, or with ten thousands of rivers of
oil ? shall I give my firstborn for my transgression,
the fruit of my body for the sin of
my soul ? " He pronounced the words passionately,
as one deeply moved ; and then added
below his breath, as if he were speaking to
himself, '' And Holt will have children."

He pushed the papers away ; he went to
the armchair by the fire and sat down there ;
he put one delicate, worn hand before his
eyes ; and then, all at once and passionately,
he broke out again. The man could hear his
words as he stood watching at the door ;

with even more vehemence these were muttered
now. As part of a sermon or of a
discourse they seemed ; and James remembered
to have heard a servant say that Mr.
Audley had 'turned real pious Hke." And
yet they seemed strange words, there was
no denying that.

'' Oh, men, Englishmen, and proud of the
honour of your nation, is there then no appealing
to you on behalf of the deserted children 
of the children left fatherless, yet with fathers
alive  more fatherless still for that ! Oh,
men, if you are men, and not animals more
contemptible than the meanest curs that
wander homeless in the streets, do not let
Inevitable suffering fall on innocent heads
alone ; have the courage to own your children
and bear the shame for them ! "

Mr. Audley's lips still murmured, but no
audible sound came forth ; he kept his hand
always covering his eyes, and James retreated
softly into the Inner room again.

About an hour later he heard some sounds
of moving ; and, knocking at Mr. Audley's
door, was admitted into his room. He was
received with a pleasure for which he had not
been prepared ; Mr. Audley seemed to have
been sleeping, or to have been almost asleep

and to be both glad and relieved to have
someone near him at last. He kept the man
with him for some while, talking very fast and
softly, as if he could not control himself. He
said that he had been obliged to come back
on account of some news that he had heard 
of some very good news that he could scarce
believe at first ; that someone, a relation, was
alive whom he had imagined dead ; that he
could now set something 'right that had
been wrong for many years ; and so on, and
on, in the same low, eager tone, until the
servant prevailed on him to lie down and
rest.

The man did not attach much meaning or
importance to the words, to the many words,
to which he listened respectfully, and he
did not connect them much with those he
had heard before  they all seemed to him
the ramblings of a weak, disordered brain ;
he did not regard them, and he did not weigh
them in his mind. But often, in after years,
the thought of Mr. Audley, seated, brooding,
with shining eyes, before the fire, the remembrance
of the watch he had held that night
in the inner room, would come back to him
as a strange scene in his life. He had no
remembrance of secrets himself to disturb

his mind ; he was happier in that than are
men of higher rank sometimes.

So Mr. Audley was happy and elated,
and possessed with the idea that he could
repent at last, that he could set in order at
length what had long been wrong, and could
gain a son of whom he might even yet be
proud. He was in communication with Rolf,
and Rolf with him, the idea of a discovered
secret held them' both ; they imagined themselves
on the track of some final clues at last.
Alas ! If they had but known, whilst they
sought and waited thus, to what darker secret
they were approaching now ; If they had
known of the miserable life that was hiding
now from men, they might have been
eager to fly from the very track they sought.
Alas for repentance, when repentance comes
so late ; when all that Is left of our sins Is
the deadly fruit they bear, is the shame and
the misery we cannot repent away ! Hunted,
degraded, fallen, In hiding now from men, insane,
half-starved, with seared mind and
writhing heart, the miserable criminal dragged
out his lonely life, and In lonely places hid ashe
could from view. The awful weight on his
soul through those days no words can tell,
the ceaseless terror and horror of his life

he only knows who has felt the doom of
blood. And yet he succeeded, and yet he
was not found ; and as autumn days passed
onwards the search went on for him. The
cold and damp days of the early winter came ;
he hid in woods and hovels, in such shelter ashe
could find ; he was pining with the want of
food, and pierced with cold ; there was a
feeling of endless darkness on his life. Let
us pass that unspeakable misery with such few
words as these, and turn to the one strange
ray that broke the darkness there.

GEOFF HAS A DREAM.

It was about this time that Geoff had a
curious dream, in this same cold month of
November, whilst fogs lay on the earth,
though, indeed, he was scarcely aware at what
time of year it was, for during the last few
weeks time had ceased to be for him. He
had ceased to think and had almost ceased to
feel ; he slept where he could find shelter, and
got what food he could ; he hid away, as by
instinct, in plantation or in shed ; he knew
that the cold was cruel, and that hunger was
bad sometimes ; and beyond such knowledge
as this he knew no more. He had kept on
him, indeed, a little money to serve in time of
need ; he was determined not to be taken withall
the strength he had ; he felt that his look

was strange by the way men looked at him ;
but these were but animal instincts, and they
were all. They had never taken him yet ;
they might never take him now ; but he must
be dying soon of the exposure and the cold,
and life and death were darkness, and he
scarce knew light from dark. The day and
the night had grown the same to him.

And yet he had observed something on
that November morning when he came out of
the deserted shed where he had crawled 
came out, half unconscious, with his limbs sore
with the cold, putting thin hands to his eyes
as one who scarce awakes. The landscape
had changed ; it was white with winter snow,
and some thin flakes were falling from the
greyness of the sky ; it did not look as it had
done the night before. Geoff stood and gazed
vacantly with some confused memories of a
track of footsteps ; it seemed to interest him
somewhat, this first snow of the year. But
even that one old remembrance could rouse
no thoughts in him. He went back to the
shed, and gnawed a frozen crust ; he clung
together and tried to warm himself; then he fell
into a stupor, and woke stupidly again. The
snow had altered to rain, and the earth was
changed once more. He wandered away

from the shed when the rain was done ; and
then, in the same heavy state, turned back toit.
And then, as the night was coming, he
laid himself out to rest, with his head on a pile
of sacks, and his limbs drawn in a heap. He
was cold  he seemed to see snow  he slept
and dreamt. And now, if any object to the
relation of that dream, I can but say that it is
my office to relate things as they came, that
the dream of that night takes its place
amongst the rest. If it is called wildest
delirium, that has not to do with me  it was,
at least, a delirium that affected the waking
life of the outcast till that life's last nioht had
come. I can only repeat again the former
words  he lay in the hovel that night ; he
slept and dreamt.

It seemed then to Geoff that he awoke
suddenly, that he became suddenly aware he
was not where he had been. He found himself
lying now beneath the sky, which made
an immense vastness of blackness above his
head ; there was no star in it, nor any light
at all. And yet he could see all round him
an endless waste of snow, which stretched
itself away from him on every side, an endless,
untrodden waste which lay white beneath
the sky. There was not an elevation or depression

through all those ceaseless miles,
there was not the mark of a footstep, not
even of his own : a heavy, unbroken silence
lay on both sky and earth. He thought that
he sat up where he was, and clasped his
knees ; and sat there, looking out on the
snow, beneath the sky. And then, slowly,
there came upon him the feeling of an eternal
loneliness ; he felt that he was left there
alone for ever, cut off from God and man ;
that no presence. Divine or human, would
ever touch him more. The loneliness seemed
to be in him, as it was in the earth and sky,
it seemed to be even more a part of him ; he
knew that for ever now he must remain alone.
He sat quite still there, without a wish to
move ; he did not complain or grieve, he was
motionless, in despair. A very long while
seemed to pass ; he sat there beneath the sky.
And then, all at once, through the silence
came a voice ; it seemed to come from far
off, it called him by his name 

'' Geoff ! Geoff ! "

There was not a movement in all the earth
and sky, there was unbroken stillness on the
great, wide waste of snow. But he had heard
the voice, and he had heard his name ; as
one who knows himself called he rose up to

his feet. There was not a change in the
whiteness of the earth, but the voice was
still in his ears, he began to move. And
then everything moved together, and he
awoke. . . .

He was lying in the hovel, with his head
on the piles of sacks ; his limbs were still
drawn together to get what warmth they
could. He was weary, and hungry, and stiff
with pain and cold ; the mist and twilight of
morning were in the place ; a bit of the frozen
crust lay beside him on the ground. It
seemed strange to wake like this, and return
to life again. With very much trouble, for
he was stiff with pain, he rose ; he sat on the
pile of sacks with his clasped hands on his
knees. The voice that had called his name
was in his ears  it was strange that he
seemed to feel that wish to move once more.

Yielding slowly to that desire, he got upto
his feet ; he went outside the shed, and
looked out upon the land, on the heavy twilight
and mists that lay upon the earth. He
walked on a few steps, but he could not feel
content ; he returned to the shed, and sat
down upon the sacks. The voice seemed to
call him still. What should he do ?

It was strange that, although the dream

was so present to his mind, he felt more like
himself than he had done for months  and yet
not like himself either, he could not understand
it. He got up and moved a few steps.
That was not it. He remained standing, as
one who thinks or waits. What ought he todo
with himself ? Where should he go ? He
had been a murderer; he could tell himself
that at last ; he had been hiding, wandering ;
he was wretched, fit to die. Another man
might be accused of the crime that belonged
to him. He ought to give himself up, and
attempt to hide no more  if he had done
wrong he should be punished now.

It was wonderful what a calm seemed to
fill his mind at once  a calm and a peace he
had never known before. Without doubting
further he sat on the sacks to think ; with a
decided end in view there was the next step
still to take. He thought at first he would
go back where he had been, and give himself
up in the town that had known his crime.
But the town was far away, and he had little
money left, and little knowledge besides how
to reach the place. He thought then he
would try to go to some gentleman close at
hand, but he shrank from the thought of a
stranger, and he knew not to whom to go.

And then it occurred to him that he would go
back to his home  back again to the Fens,
and the place where he was known  and give
himself up in the view of all men there. That
seemed to be more like punishment, and it
was punishment he desired.

' I shall see the old place agen  I be glad
o' that," said Geoff; 'ran' they'll see me
there, too, an'll know I've come to this.
They'll tell each other, the lads will as sees
me then, that for all I thought well o' myself
I've got low enough at last. An' they'll say
to each other they mustn't be bad like me ;
they'll say he's got to a prison in spite o' all
he said. I won't care; I'll tell every word :
they may hang me if they like. I know I
deserve it ; that'll make it do for me. An'
then, when it's come to that," said Geoff,
bursting into tears, " I may hear it speaking'
Geoff ! Geoff ! ' i' my ears agen."

He got up, still moving with difficulty, for
he was almost too cold to walk ; and felt in
his pocket to see if the coins were there.
Yes, they were there ; he would be able to
travel now. For a long while he had hid
himself from every haunt of man, but that
was all over ; he must come now to the light.
It vexed him to think that he might be

arrested in the station, before he had time to
give himself up at home, but he was resolved
to bear even that if it were so. He would
bear everything now, '' all this pain i' myself
an' all." If only he did not die before he had
time  had time  He forced himself to sit
down and eat the crust, for he remembered
that he had eaten little the last few days ; and,
when he had finished that, he took off his coat,
and shook off some of its dust, and put it on
again. It was strange to think that he might
see his home once more, the Den where Jem
lived, the places where he had played. He
would see them once  he would try to see
them once.

'' Poor Ben ! " he kept muttering to himself,
'poor Ben! poor Ben!" And then,
stooping down, he softly kissed the sacks.
'' I've been bad an' wicked," he said, " but
I'll be sore punished now."

He felt almost light-hearted ; at last he
had owned his fault. He was going to be
punished ; he need not trouble more.

As one who obeys a call he rose up from
his place, and went out beyond the shed into
the morning mists outside. Was it all a.
serious fancy, this new, strange will of his ;
or a desperate clinging to any comfort that

VOL. II. O

might even yet be found ; or the secret call of
a Hfe, obeyed at last? He did not stay to
consider ; he would doubt no longer now.

He was worn and haggard, exhausted with
cold and pain ; the wretchedness he had felt
had been straining at his life ; but his elastic
constitution had risen again once more  the
strange, new hope gave him strength enough
to move. With weary pain, but with courage,
he left his shelter and went out in the morning
mists to seek his doom. The fogs lay
heavy upon the wintry earth ; the road to the
station was thick with vapours  some carts
were passing with a sullen, echoing sound.
He would find beyond these things the voice
that called to him.

THE FARM HEARS STRANGE TIDINGS.

The November evening had not yet fallen on
the farm ; the sun was sinking, but there was
bright sunlight still. It had been a beautiful
day of misty sunshine and frost, and the pale
yellow of the trees was distinct against the
sky. There was a faint glow now over the
haze upon the Fens, the first sign of the sunset
that would be coming soon.

Liz had returned to the house with her
hands full of chrysanthemums, whose dark
red beauty made a glow against her dress : a
few that were mauve and white she had fastened
at her neck. They were all a present
to her from the gardener at the Hall. She
was bending over the kitchen table to place
the blossoms there  bending with quiet move-merits,

and a grave, unsmiling face  whilst
father and Jim were watching from their seats
upon the hearth, and Will, who had just come
in, pulled at her gown.

'' Lizzie, do go to the door ; there's a
strange lad there, ' he said.

'' You may tell him to go away," replied Liz,
without turning round, still bending over the
table with her hands amongst the flowers.

She was thinking that it was Robin, who
had begged these flowers for her  poor Robin,
the under-gardener, who cared for her so
much. But she would never see him, or thank
him ; that would make him think, perhaps . . .

' Lizzie, do go to the door ; he's such an
odd boy," said Will ; and she turned round on
him the grave beauty of her face.

Her dark eyes were vacant; she was absorbed
into herself, but her little brother was
in an eager, excited state.

''I went to the door," he said, 'when I
hear him knock like that ; an' directly he saw
me he did stand upon his head. An' then he
got upon his feet, an' said he'd good news for
us, but we must give him a supper before ever
he would speak. An' I said as father was
saying this very last night as was as we
mussel give suppers to beggar-lads as come ;

an' then he did turn me a healthful somersault"


*' What do ye mean by all this folly ? " called
out Farmer Gibson from his chair, disturbed
in his placid smoking as he sat there by the
fire. '' I won't have ye chatter wi' beggars at
the door, a-encouragin' of 'em to come here,
though we've no call for them. Just get to
yere books while Jim sends the lad away."

'' But he says he has news, he do ;" Will
persisted in his words, though he made some
show, too, of getting out a book. '' I do wish
Jim 'ud speak to him, an' ask him what he
means ; I think he has been in a circus, wi'
horses an' jumps an' all. An' then he did
talk a little "  the child's voice was lowered
now  'ras if there was something he did
know of Geoff."

Liz had been turning carelessly, with one
hand on the table, the other hand holding the
flowers to her breast  the attitude suited her
dark, blooming beauty well. She stood
now as she had been, and her hand still
grasped the flowers, but there had come a
strange pallor into the darkness of her face.
In another instant she swayed, and Jim hastened
to her side.

'' It isn't nothing," she panted : '' I'll go upto

my room  I'll He down  I'll lock myseV
in  I'll keep away fro' him. Oh, Jim, don't
let father get at him. I never knew he was
near."

The hysterical, sobbing words were distinct
through ail the room, but the poor girl possessed
no power to move away. The unnatural
calm in which she had lived for
months was disturbed and broken as it had
not been before ; and, trembling beyond control
through the young strength of her frame,
she let herself sink in a chair and hid her
face. Jim kept by her side for support incase
of need, but he looked apprehensively
to where his father stood. The farmer had
risen, and was standing by his chair; his
figure was trembling as that of his daughter
did.

There's a lad outside as has news o'
Geoff, ye say?" Go ye to the door then,
Jim, and bring him in."

But Jim remained as he was by his sister's
side, and Liz kept her face concealed always
in her hands.

'' Ye needn't be frightened," said the
farmer, with a laugh, a harsh, grating laugh
that sounded strangely in the room ; 'eye
think the wild beasts '11 be on ye, maybe, but

the wolf he won't come to the door while I
am here."

He made a slight movement as if he were
going himself ; and Jim drew himself up at
that, and left the room. He had looked for a
moment reproachfully at Will, and the boy
stood trembling, with his lesson-book in his
hand. The fire was blazing in the big
kitchen grate ; the room was in order, as it
always was ; but over the three people in it
was a stillness that was strange ; they had a
stricken look as of those who are in dread.
The next moment the kitchen door was
opened again by Jim, and he returned into
the room with the stranger at his heels.

A little stranger, indeed, with a queer and
crooked form, and ragged garments, and a
comical, twisted face. His clothes were so
old that they scarcely held together ; and
his little, bare, bony feet made quick movements
on the floor, for he had to make many
steps to keep pace at all with Jim. Yet he
did not seem shy or nervous or overwhelmed
in the least, and got in front of his companion
as soon as he was in the room. Liz raised
her face from her hands, with her eyes all hot
with tears ; the farmer stood on the hearth,
an enormous figure there ; little Will was

peering with interest behind a chair; they all
looked at the stranger, and then the stranger
spoke. His voice had a childish, cracked
treble, although his face was old ; he spoke
with an amount of assurance that seemed
surprising to them all.

' I'm Craw. I've something to tell you ;
and I want some food," he said.

The rest were astonished, and would not
speak to him.

"I'm hungered," said Craw; 'eye might
give a bit to eat."

He put out a hand like a monkey's to give
his words effect. But no one spoke or moved,
they were all too much surprised. Then Jim
went up to the cupboard, and took out a
piece of bread ; and the boy began eating
ravenously, as one well-nigh starved for want
of food.

The autumn evening was closing into
gloom, the yellow November mists looked
cold and dim through the uncurtained
window. With a quick twitching of his eyes,
as if he could turn them in his head, the little
beggar kept looking out at them.

'* He's out there, somers," he said, '' an'
starved wi' cold, I doubt ; we've been looking
for him a long time, Rolf an' me. There's a

gentleman as pays Rolf to try an' look for
him. But we don't understand' it, Rolf an'
me, we don't; we think as there's summit
wrong, or he'd never hide like this. We've
been looking for him "  he paused to munch
his bread  '' an' it's only just now as we've
heard of him at last. We've soldered him all
the day, and we've never found him yet. He's
got down to these parts at least, we're sure o'
that ; and Rolf he's sure as he's heard of him
near the farm. An' so we thought"  munching
 "as he'd happen come to ye, for it's
often I've heard Geoff speak of ye when he
lay ill on the floor. He said as there was a
girl as was very fond o' him, an' so I thought
it like as he'd certain come to her."

He stopped for a moment, but there was
silence in the room : Liz kept her head bent,
and no one moved or spoke. He blinked
round on all of them before he spoke again.

An' I short as we'd happen be kind  an'
there's Rolf, he'll pay ye well  if we'd only
just let us know if ye see or hear o' him.
He'll come wi' the night, most like; he'll be
near here by now."

As he said the last few words he looked
round on them ; but still no one spoke, and
there was silence in the place. A heavy

silence it seemed which no one dared to
break. Then slowly, and as if with an effort,
Farmer Gibson moved ; he took up the hat
which lay near him on a chair ; he took up
the heavy whip which was lying by his side,
and, as one who moves in a dream, he went
slowly down the room. He did not speak to
the stranger, or seem to think of him ; he
seemed not to see the room or the others who
were there ; his eyes were wide open, and
vacant, as if he were walking in his sleep.
He passed them without a word, and went
slowly from the room ; the outer door closed
behind him ; he went out into the mist.

Then there met for one instant the eyes of
Jim and Liz, full of deep agitation both, and
of a suddenly startled fear ; for one single
instant only their glances met, and then Jim
turned and followed his father from the
house.

FARMER GIBSON MEETS THE WOLF.

Jim remembered that evening afterwards with
strange distinctness all his life  the misty
November evening, chill, and dim, and grey ;
the trees and the Fens wrapped like phantoms
by the mist ; the clinging cold and the damp
that hung to eyebrows and to lips ; the
feelings with which he had followed his father
from the door. He had been ill all that day,
and had been resting in his home ; perhaps
that helped him to feel as if all this were a
dream.

They were out in the road, walking there,
his father and himself ; the grey vapours
hung round them and on the fields on every
side ; the road was lonely, and there were no
travellers there. The farmer took heavy

strides and went silently along ; it was not
easy for his son to keep pace with him. They
went side by side without looking at each
other, and neither of them spoke a single
word. The road was wet and heavy with
mud beneath their feet, but that mattered
little to footsteps strong as theirs. They
went down it for nearly half a mile, then the
farmer turned into the lane that led towards
the town.

And then Jim remembered afterwards that
he had tried to think, to consider what he
himself ought to say, and what to do ; but
that it was all of no good, he could not calm
his mind for that. All sorts of verses and
scraps kept floating always there, songs of
the foundry workmen, or bits of hymns taught
long ago ; or he could see the fireside where
he had sat that afternoon, or the little house
he was preparing in the town ; it seemed as
if he could not control himself, and could
only think of these. He had even to keep
himself from speaking now and then, as if
his mind, being disturbed, kept tossing up
thoughts and words ; he had to restrain himself
from saying that he was on half-time
now, or that he was glad that Elizabeth was
always good to Will. And yet, although all

these matters possessed the surface of his
mind, there was the feeling always beneath
that he might see Geoff again at last.

And with that there came ever the memory
of an evening long ago, a wet, chill twilight,
that was grey and damp like this, an evening
when he had brought his companion into the
farm to warm himself, and had observed for
the first time with alarm how his eyes met
those of Liz. . A year ago, even less thana
year from now, as it was less than a year
from that other morning on which the blow
had been struck that had scarred his face for
life. He could see the great kitchen now,
with the firelight on the walls, the slender lad
with his dark hair wet with rain, his friend,
his chosen companion. . . .

The farmer suddenly stopped short ; the
vision faded, the sense of dreaming fled, he
was standing shivering in the mist by his
father's side.

In another instant he heard the sound of
footsteps, too ; from round the corner, for
there was a turning in the road, another wayfarer
came along the path to them. For
that moment or two they could see him as he
came, a tall, bent form, with a weary, slouching
look ; he was coming along the path with

tired steps. He looked ill, and ragged, and
pale, with his long dark hair unkempt ; yet he
was not a beggar either, for he did not attend
to them. He had nearly reached them when
he suddenly stood still ; then he raised his
eyes to look at them, and Jim knew that it
was Geoff.

A terrible knowledge that, coming so suddenly
on him ; for that one dreadful instant
he could not control himself. His knees
knocked together, his heart was beating fast,
a sudden and sharp exclamation crossed his
Hps. Geoff himself had stood motionless,
paralyzed, from that single glance at them ;
but, on hearing that sound, at once he tried
to move. He moved on quickly ; he tried to
pass by them, but before he could do so the
farmer seized on him.

'' Aha ! an' I know ye now ; I know ye
now," he cried. ' Ye needn't hope to escape
me this time, wi' all your ways. I can see
yere face now  the boy as spoilt my Jim, the
lad as we warmed at our fire, an' as took my
Liz fro' me. Go back to our fireside now, wi'
this an' this."

The heavy blows fell with a crushing, awful
sound, distinct in the lonely twilight as strokes
of doom.

Geoff had not stirred, had not moved
hand or foot ; he stood with his arms hanging
downwards whilst the blows fell on his face.
For one instant after he had received them
he remained so, standing still ; then a sudden,
strange pallor overspread his face ; and, as he
swayed sideways, Jim caught him in his arms,
and, supporting him as he fell, sat down with
him on the ground. The farmer stood choking
with rage, with his whip clutched in his
hand, storming out "that he knew better, he
knew his tricks an' ways." At every moment
it seemed he would strike again, though his
foe lay before him, helpless, on the ground.

'' Hold hard ! " cried Jim, in an agony ;
don't hit a lad that's down." But at these
words Geoff roused himself, and feebly stirred,
murmuring that " It did not matter, he might
do what he liked to him."

With some exertion, for he was all trembling
still, he withdrew himself from Jim, and
stood up upon his feet. The sudden movement
had roused the farmer's terror ; he expected
the leaping passion he had known so
well of old.

"Aha! ye'll be on me now," he cried;
' ye'll be on me now."

He raised his whip  Geoff stood still with

hanging arms  he struck him across the
shoulders with all the strength he had. Geoff
did not move ; he looked at him, and faintly
smiled. The farmer stood still in his turn ; he
himself was trembling now.

In another instant Jim had seized the whip
from him, had bent It, broken it, flung it
across the hedge ; and with the grasp of his
strong young arm had drawn his companion
to his breast.

' Go home," he said, hoarsely, to his father.
'' Leave us ; go home." And as one moves
who is stunned. Farmer Gibson turned away.
He stood still again after a while, and looked
at them ; they were upon the ground once
more, and Geoff leant against his son. He
partly turned, as If he would come to them ;
and then suddenly, as If afraid, he rushed
away. The two who remained were scarcely
conscious of the fact ; they sat and clung to
each other, and Geoff gasped with weary sobs.
It seemed like a dream to Jim ; he was thereon
the lonely road, with the misty twilight
around him, and his enemy In his arms.

'' Be you very much hurt then, Geoff?" he
asked tenderly at last ; for that weary, terrible
sobbing seemed to tear at his heart.

But Geoff was beyond all power to stir or

speak ; he lay on the young man's shoulder
as one too weak to move. Jim kept an arm
round him to keep him where he was ; he
took the thin hand now and chafed it in his
own. And yet with these kindly movements,
and with these tender words, there was a
feeling that was not tenderness rising in his
heart.

'' Geoff, be still, can't you ? Try be still,"
he said at last, though speaking, however, very
gently yet  with one so weak, so prostrated, in
the protection of his arms, it was not possible
to be otherwise than physically kind. Geoff
did try, and try hard, and yet he could not be
still, after every moment of silence the sobs
caught his breath once more ; it was not till
he was exhausted that relief came to him at
last. That prolonged struggle with anguish
had been hard enough to hear ; there is something
terrible even in the crying of a child.

*' I can go  I am better," he murmured
at last ; and, withdrawing himself from Jim, he
sat up upon the road. For the first time Jim
was able to see him now  the wasted features
the strangely-altered form. Could thisbe
the village hero of a few short months
ago  this outcast creature with vacant, staring
eyes, with dark, matted hair falling all about

VOL. II. R

its face ? Jim was seized with wonder and
horror, and with bewildered sensations too, as
if that which had been familiar was becoming
strange to him.

'' Where be ye going', Geoff ? " he asked at
length, with a wish to break the silence at
any rate.

But Geoff did not answer at first or turn
his head ; he sat with fixed, staring eyes
looking out into the mist.

'' I'm going' to the Lord," he said, in a
voice that was not like his own.

And Jim almost started, so strange appeared
the words. And then, with another
effort to throw his feelings off, he laid hold
upon the thin shoulders with a not unkindly
grasp.

'' Ye be dreaming', lad ; do ye know me,
then? " he said.

And with a more sudden movement Geoff
turned and looked at him. There had come
a gleam of recognition like brightness in his
dark eyes ; for that one single instant he
appeared more like himself.

' Oh, yes, I know ye ; I know quite well,"
he said. '' Ye be Jim Gibson, who I struck
o' the face."

Jim thought he would now be expressing

some sorrow for the fact; but, having said
those few words, he sunk back in thought
again. It was only after awhile that he
began to speak once more, in a low and
dreaming tone, as if he were talking to
himself.

'' It has cut me a good bit," said Geoff,
' to see th' old place agen. I never short as
I should feel it quite like this. I wish it
wasn't November ; I should like to see the
spring, when the little flowers get out, an' the
birds ha' made their nests. But it isn't no
good saying' that, I must take what I can get.
I heard 'em say when I came as old Jem was
dead, an' as Bill-be-Hanged was dead, an'
the rest were gone. But I think as I'd like
to see the Den agen, though my little bed's
not there, nor the eggs and books I got.
It's taken me many days to get down to
these parts now ; I've been so ill like, and it
hurts my feet to walk. But I've seen Crasten
village, an' I'll see Hanoith too; an' then I'll
get over to Benson by the morn."

Again there was silence, but Jim waited
still for more. The low, rambling voice was
painfully strange to him, though there seemed
to be some connection in the sentences It
spoke. A few moments passed before the

next one came  Geoff sat as he had done
before, looking out Into the mist.

'' Pm going' to gi' myself' up; I've done a
sin."

There was a long silence.

'' I'm a wicked lad," said Geoff, " but the
Lord He cares for me. An' I don' care now,
I will go on to the end. There's one as
wishes to speak to me ; Rolf, he told me that.
I'm going' on now ; ye'll hear no more o' me."

Yet he kept in his place, staring out into
the mist. Jim had risen from the road, and
was standing now by him. His one word
came in a trembling murmur then 

' Geoff!"

There came no answer ; Geoff sat still
where he was. His eyes kept their fixed
expression ; they were staring at the mist.
It seemed as if he were scarcely able to
hear or understand, but his companion's
anxiety compelled him to speak once more.

'' Geoff, is it anything bad  maybe very
bad  ye're done ? "

There was still no answer at all, though he
thought Geoff seemed to hear. What occasioned
his reticence is hard enough to say 
the shame and horror, perhaps, of the feeling
of his crime, or even the mere desire not to

reveal that crime too soon. Jim waited and
lingered for tidings, but he could gain no
more ; that one dark tale remained always
sealed to him. Instead of that he heard
many words from his companion's mouth 
from the lips, so pale now, that had been
once so free of speech ; but what their meaning
was it was difficult to know. Geoff
rambled of angels, and music, and voices
calling, and the love of the Lord for him,
remaining still on the ground as if he did not
know how to move.

The cold was intense in the winter evening
gloom, and Jim became vexed and almost in
Wrath at last ; and yet he had gathered 
what was certainly the case  that cold, and
exposure, and misery had done their work on
Geoff, the poor lad's brain was almost past
reasoning now. But that did not make what
he said always possible to bear.

'the Lord loves me  He loves me!"
cried Geoff, with a light in his sunken
eyes.

Jim stooped towards him. and touched his
shoulder.

'' Geoff, come to the farm ; come in out
o' the cold," he said.

The Lord loves me," repeated Geoff, in

insisting, triumphant tones. '' He doesn't
care what I done, He cares for me."

"Ye must repent, then," said Jim, with
abruptness in his voice. *' It's all very well
to talk so, but ye must be sorry first."

'' He have called me," cried Geoff, with
the strange light burning now. " Ye don'
understand what I mean  Heave happen not
called to ye Himself."

Jim did not, indeed, understand, and was
much vexed to find himself displeased ; he
tried to tell himself that the lad knew not
what he said. And at any rate he must
endeavour to be kind, for his old companion
was sunk in trouble now. He tried hard to
persuade Geoff to rise and come with him,
promising to secure him shelter and to pay
for it himself ; he was much alarmed to
observe how weak he seemed. But he
entreated in vain ; Geoff would not hear what
he said. It appeared that he had met Rolf
who Rolf was Jim did not know  and that
he had promised to go to a certain place for
him. He told all this in broken words that
were hard to understand, and then he began
to talk once more about his arrest: 'chemist
give himself up ' the morn' next day,"
he said. He seemed to be greatly excited

over that. And then he became alarmed
lest anyone should be near, and Jim offered
to go to the end of the road for him. Jim
went reluctantly, troubled in his mind, uneasy,
uncertain what course now to pursue. He
stood at the end of the road with his arms
upon a gate ; it required an effort to make
himself turn at last. He returned with slow
footsteps, fighting with himself ; and found
the road lonely, and his companion gone.

It was late that night before the farm-door
opened, and Jim came in with slow footsteps,
worn out with fatigue and cold. He spoke a
few words to Liz, who had sat up hours for
him, and promised to tell her more when the
next morning came. Then he took a candle,
and went up to his room  the little room he
was used to share with Will. The little boy
lay there now in a happy, childish sleep : Jim
set down the candle, and beoan to walk once
more. Once he paused before the glass, and
glanced slightly at his face ; and then began
to walk again, with lips yet more hard and
stern. He had seen his old companion, his
old companion now ; he had always imagined
Geoff would tell him when they met. . . . Then
he heard his father moving, and went down
the stairs to him.

'ran' so ye couldn't find him agen, Jim,"
said Farmer Gibson to his son.

They stood in the great, dim kitchen, Ht
only by one candle on the table, side by side.

'' Ye looked for him through the lanes, an'
could get no sight o' him. I'm sorry for that
I be sorry like for that."

He stood silent for awhile, with his huge
hand on the table, and seemed to think. His
ponderous brows were deeply contracted ; it
was evident that something unusual was working
in his mind.

'' Jim, I be sorry," he burst out then at
last ; "I wish as I hadn't hit him across the
face like that ; but I .never thought as he'd
stand so quiet to me. I've been mad wi' the
hate o' him through all these months  I've
thought o' him allays as dancing' in his sins ;
it never seemed like to me as he'd get so low
as this."

'' There's a day that I'm minding, Jim,"
went on Farmer Gibson still, '' a day that is
years agone, though ye'll happen mind it too.
I came in the evening' to see ye i' yer bed, an'
there was a little dark lad as lay i' bed wi' ye.
The missus had put it there 'cause it come in
cold an' wet. An' I thought it did look so
pretty, a lying' there wi' ye."

"We'll do our best for him, Jim," the
farmer still went on, *' because he's eaten
and drunk wi' us often at the farm. He can't
never come here no more, for the sake o' Liz
an' Will, but we'll try an' help him a bit in
spite o' that. If he's given hissed' up, as you
say, for something bad he's done, we'll gi' a
bit money to get lawyers like for him. An'
then, when he's free agen, we'll try an' set
him up ; it may be across the seas, where he'll
do none harm to us. I feel a bit better when
I talk like this to ye ; I've had a big weight o'
my heart for a weary crowd o' days. . . . An'
then it'll happen come easier to be kinder like
to Will. . . . Well, good night to thee, lad, my
lad ; I'll not keep thee from thy rest. I'll try
an' be saying' ' Our Father ' by my bedside
to-night, it's many an eve since I've done that
wi' comfort like."

And he went off with heavy footsteps, and
left his son alone.

Alone in the kitchen, walking restlessly up
and down, in such insufficient light as the
tallow candle gave  alone, and tired, and in
conflict, discontented with himself. Oh !
what was the matter with him that he could
not be resting now ? Oh ! why must he tell
himself, as he still paced up and down, that it

was easier after all for his father to be kind 
his father's face was not Injured Hke his own?
He did wish to be good and generous, to forgive
with all his heart, but It seemed to him
that Geoff had no need of that  he felt forgiven,
and happy, and contented in his mind ;
he claimed rich spiritual treasures, and was
quite content with them.

'the Lord loves me  He loves me'"
Jim repeated to himself, and smiled with
bitterness at the persistent thought that,
miserable as he must be, Geoff claimed scantiness
at last. In whatever he did or attempted
he would always claim the best ; this
was now a new assumption, he would claim
to be best in this.

Alas ! It Is ever thus  It is ever thus with
us. The elder brother remains outside the
house, he thinks it a mistake in morality to
welcome the prodigal's return. The religious
frenzies of criminals have little sympathy
from us ; It Is the cant of their position, if
not Its delusion too; we think It would be beneath
us to be interested In them. We think
ourselves far more worthy, who have not
strayed from the path ; we are sure that the
fatted calf should have been reserved for us.
And yet, from the safer position of our securer

lives, can we grudge even these their consolation
 even these ?

'' I'll try an' be better," said Jim, '' I don't
feel right this night. I'll talk to Elizabeth,
for she knows more nor me ; she'll say where
I'm wrong, an' put me right, maybe. An'
there's little Will, too, he's not troubled to
forgive : I'm better than he is i' some things,
but he's the pull o' me i' that. I've home,
an' t' new home, an' Lizzie ; it's not for me
to be bad."

So he went up the stairs with a lightened
heart again.

And, meanwhile, whilst he laid himself
down by his brother's side and slept, some
sorer sins than his own were claiming vengeance.
For, whilst he had sought Geoff
through the cold and misty lanes, his old
companion had stolen silently away, and in
the increasing darkness had found his path
with care  the path that would lead him to
one who was waiting then for him. He
found it at last  the bare hovel that stood in
the misty field, the large, rough cow-shed
that he had known of old, for he had entered
it sometimes to play wild games with Will.
The night was dark now, but a lamp hung
from the roof inside ; it must have been

placed there on purpose, for it had not been
there before.

He entered, and closed the door, and
fastened it carefully. He looked all round
him with searching eyes for Rolf ; the place
seemed empty and silent, there was no sound
of life.

And then, all at once, from a corner, a
figure came to him  a tall, dark figure that
was not that of Rolf. It came forward
silently, and stood in the centre of the shed :
the light fell upon its head, on the brown
hair streaked with grey. It looked at the
wanderer, their eyes met each other, there
fell silence upon both. This was not the
meeting with an old companion  this. They
stood together at length, the father and the
son.

MR. AUDLEY MEETS HIS SON.

There was silence ; they looked at each
other. They stood close together  the
gentleman and the vagabond ; neither spoke.
Mr. Audley's lips moved now and then, but
no sound came from them. The light from
the lantern above showed the pallor on his
face  a ghastly pallor as of one who is
struck with death : his beating heart spoke
in the fluttering of his breast. Yet he was
making great efforts to control himself, and
at last a murmur came 

' Who are you, and why have you come
here to me ? "

*' Rolf said as you wanted to see me, sir,"
said Geoff.

His voice was low and clear, as it always

was, and he raised his dark eyes with firmness
as he spoke. At the very first tone of
his voice Mr. Audley seemed relieved, perhaps
because in his state of horror any voice
had a welcome sound, perhaps because of a
more refined accent than he was prepared to
hear. Yet he seemed still trembling, and
horror-struck, and his eyes wild with dismay ;
the sight of the figure in front of him must
have been too much for him.

'' And who are you, then ? " he asked, in a
low, hoarse voice : he could no more control
his accents than he could subdue his beating
heart. His companion answered with more
composure than himself, composed, perhaps,
by the sight of the agitation that must have
been visible to him.

'' My name is Geoff, sir ; they call me Jem
Haldan's Geoff."

He felt Mr. Audley's eyes were upon him
as he spoke.

Like one possessed with a nightmare Mr.
Audley looked at him  at the tall, lank
figure, the worn and ragged clothes, the
sunken face, the dark mass of tangled hair,
the eyes of feverish brightness that were
sunk in hollows now. It was not such a face
and form as he had been told to expect ; he

felt like one struggling in shadows who is
losing hold of life. Yet his voice came with
accustomed gentleness when he spoke again
at last.

' Do you know who I am ? Have you
seen me before ? "

He had been looking at his companion,
but the lad now looked at him.

"" Ye are Mr. Audley, of Crasten, sir," said
Geoff.

And his dark, strange eyes seemed to burn
as they sought his companion's face. This
was not like a common beggar, at least  at
least.

'' I have seen ye once. I've heard of ye
often whiles."

And then he was silent again, but as if he
wished to speak.

They stood still, facing each other, and
motionless and pale. Some consciousness,
common to each, seemed to hold the breath
of both  to judge from each miserable face,
some consciousness of pain.

The outcast lad twisted his fingers till they
looked strained and white ; the throbs of Mr.
Audley's heart could be seen even through
his coat. It would seem as if each was
waiting for the other one to speak. Geoff

had lowered his eyes once more, but he
raised them again at last.

' I short . I had better see ye . . .
afore the morn," he said.

Mr. Audley's eyes looked his question, but
he could not speak a word ; and his companion
felt that question, but he did not reply.

It was the older man who spoke, when
again a while had passed. He had first to
moisten his lips, so dry they were. The next
words required terrible courage, but he spoke
them all the same.

'* Do you know  why I wish to see you?"
he asked, very gently still ; he was struggling
to overcome all the repulsion that he felt. He
had come here to do this thing, to repair his
fault at last ; and this miserable creature, this
degraded creature was . . . With all the
horror and the loathing that he felt there was
something, unfelt before, that was struggling
now in him. It was strange that he could
not rest on the thought of imposture now ;
some mysterious feeling of likeness had laid
its hold on him. . . .

There was again a pause before Geoff spoke
once more ; he was more agitated now than
he had been before ; a weight seemed to be
on his eyelids, and the blood rose in his face.

As he stood, with hi -; i .;.j :.:::::::- , i :.d
that colour in his cheeks, there was 5:r.:e-
elinor at last of a look of wasted beau: :5

face, though the livid marks of the :. s
made it unspeakably vagrant st-'il. His v:i:e
came at length in a murmur that was low and
faltering.

'I short . . . there was only one gentleman
. as 'ud be cabin' to look at me," he
said.

He looked up as : r s-:i:r i i: c s :: rt
held each ::;":r:  ::-.i Mr. Auciey c:ir:i :j:
to him 

"I am :: father!"

It was G : ne  the words were spoken ; there
was no retracting now. The first step upon
the road of restitution had been taken, the
first and the hardest, the rest must follow
that. Air. Audley went on speaking in broken
accc:\:s :: :::m.

I know  you have reason to blame me,
I have long done you wrong," he s?}A : *' b'jt
you cannot know  my excuses  I v iii :ril
you all some day. And, indeed  I ar: :: :iv
prepared  to do my duty by you n v. I .,iil
help you  will educate you  will c: aii I can
for you. You must begin another life  you
must \.rj and help me too''

VOL. II. S

The broken murmuring of those agonized
tones had ceased ; but Geoff remained silent,
looking on the ground. He seemed lost in
thought, to be almost stunned with thought.
And then suddenly he looked up, and sharply
spoke 

'' Did ye wed my mother, sir? " he abruptly
asked.

Mr. Audley looked at him, and then answered


'' Yes."

Let us do the miserable man the justice at
least to own that, though he felt all that was
involved in the admission he had made, though
he knew himself to be cutting his last safeguard
away, a feeling of shame would have
kept him from a denial to his son. He waited
a moment, and then he spoke once more.
The words came with an effort, but he did
speak them still.

'' If it is only possible  possible  I will
make you my heir."

There was silence : Geoff looked on the
ground ; he appeared to be struck and
stunned. At the first moment he had received
the words with a long breath like an '' Ah ; "
then he stood with his head bent down as
one resting from a blow. And then, slowly, on

his thin face a dreadful pallor came ; and
with a slow, strange movement he raised his
head once more.

'' It's too late for that now, sir  it's late 
it's late," he cried.

There was silence between them until he
spoke again, but a silence so terrible that the
very air seemed full.

'* I'm going' to gi' missel' up the morn, I am."

Still silence ; the air in the hovel seemed
to be becoming denser now.

'' For murder, sir," said Geoff.

There was a long silence. Then Mr. Audley
stepped forward as if he could not control
himself. He was trembling all over ; his
breath came in a cry ; his face was quivering,
a dreadful sight to see ; as one in some
mortal agony he stretched out his arms and
hands. His words came with fearful rapidity,
but as if each one were a cry.

'' For murder . . . murder . at your
age. . It is impossible. . . . Oh, may
God preserve my reason. . It is impossible
. . . my son. . . ."

If we'd brought me up in your house,"
Geoff replied, with quietness, " we'd happen a
known a bit better what your own son could
do."

The words sounded like a reproach, and
Mr. Audley turned on him. He was past
control, mad with anguish, he could not
restrain his words.

'' You need not blame me," he cried out,
'' for all the vileness of your life, for the
degradation in which you have steeped my
name. Before God you are answerable for
your own sins yourself  I refuse the weight
of them ; you shall not lay it upon me."

'' Ye have let go the weight o' me through
all my life," said Geoff ; '' ye have left me for
seventeen year to the devil and missel."

They stood facing each other, silent, staring,
one and other deadly pale, the miserable
father and son ; the light shone down on
them. It was Geoff who took up the word
after some time had passed again. He spoke
slowly and sadly now, as one too worn out to
grieve.

'' rU go, sir, an' do what I said ; there is
nothing left for me. . . . I've been allays left
to missel' sin' the day when I was born ; I'll
go an' be hanged ; there is no one cares forme.
. . . An' so I'll not trouble ye more, ye'll
not hear o' me agen. . . . An' I'll look to
not slain' ye further, ye needn't fear for
that. . . . I'll not mention your name, for
I'm none so proud of it ! "

' Do you speak of my name," cried Mr.
Audley, in a fury, '' when it is you who have
plunged it for me into unredeemable disgrace?
And yet I am willing to help you, to do all I
can for you . for you who are wretched,
and criminal, and tried to ruin yourself.
There was no necessity upon you to sink so
deep in guilt ; the blood you have shed is
upon your head, not mine."

'' It's damnation on both on us," cried
Geoff, starting up, for such seemed the movement
by which he flung himself to his height,
' The Lord's be judge atween us when it gets
as far as that. He'll say if there isn't a
burden of all my sins on ye  on the grand,
fine gentleman as lived dainty by hissed'  on
ye as could care for yer dogs, but give no
shelter to yer son."

His words fell like sparks ; they appeared
to burn like fire  Mr. Audley stood silent as
one whom the thunderbolt has struck. Like
the movements of helpless paralysis there
came twitching of his mouth ; there came
Httle quivers in his hanging, trembling hands ;
but save for such motions as these he could
give no signs of life ; there remained no
power within him to speak or stir. What his
wretched son felt could be told only by his
breathing, the deep, heavy breathing that

quickly came and went. But his passionate
utterances had entirely exhausted him ; it
was in a changed manner that at length he
spoke again. The sound of his voice had
become low and broken now, with the weary
fatigue of a tired and punished child, or of
one who has given up life, and has become
too tired to care.

'rd better be going," whispered Geoff;
'' we'll not do no good at this. . . . There
isn't no use in our getting' angered now. . . .
It's like as it's right what ye say, sir ; ye
should know more nor me. . I reckon I'm
bad all through me, an' allays must ha
been. . . . But I donna trouble ye further,
ye'll hear no more o' me. . I ought for to
thank ye for all ye meant to do. . . . We
can't do no good to each other, you nor me,
but I'll get away now, an' I'll not hurt ye no
more."

He whispered these words, but continued
standing there, as if there were left in him
little power to move. Mr. Audley stood by
him, breathing heavily ; a feeling that these
were last moments had come to both. Then
there came over Mr. Audley a horrible sensation
 a sensation that it is far easier to feel
than to describe  a feeling of yearning fatherhood

such as he had never known before.
He longed to put out his arms, to speak, to
clasp his son ; and yet he could not, both
arms and voice seemed held. A black gulf
seemed to divide them, to part them each
from each ; he could not get over it by
voice or action now, could not even cry out
to relieve the anguish that he felt. And then
a strange dimness seemed to veil his sight,
though through that dimness he still could
see his son. Their eyes met ; they looked at
each other. And then, with a quiet movement,
Geoff slowly raised his hand ; he raised
it to his head with the motion of a village
lad who salutes a gentleman, and turned
away. . . .

When, within an hour afterwards, Rolf
entered the shed, he found Mr. Audley
lying senseless on the ground. He could
not revive him to consciousness with any
efforts that he made ; and was compelled, in
spite of utmost reluctance, to call for help at
last. Some men from a cottage near supplied
a shutter, and lent their strong help to place
Mr. Audley upon it. So, lying helpless,
inanimate, with no faintest sign of life, he
was carried away from the hovel into the
darkness of the night.

THE CLERGYMAN AT Benson.

Into the darkness ! and into deeper darkness
too ; they are not easy to bear with composure,
the chastisements of God. To no
soft and gentle repentance would the wretched
father wake, to no voluntary penitence, made
light with care and skill, the iron hand of
remorse has no grasp so light as that. One
scarcely dares to think what that waking must
have been, what ghastly phantoms must
have attended then, what remembrance of
horror, and what crushing sense of doom, of
life-long calamity that could be shut out no
more. But it is not with Mr. Audley that we
need concern ourselves ; the steps whose
track we have followed are hastening to their

close. With such information, then, as we can
gather here and there, let us follow the last
few actions of poor Geoff Audley's life.

It was on the morning after the night whose
strange story we have heard that the Rev.
James Colliner, the owner of Benson, a landed
proprietor, who was somewhat literary as welland
who possessed on his estate the comfort
of a large and profitable farm  a gentleman,
consequently, of some note in the district, and
very popular besides  came downstairs at ten
o'clock to take his morning meal. He was a
large and loosely made man of very comfortable
appearance, a widower now for some
years (not less comfortable, perhaps, for that),
with all the signs about him of a very easy
income, and with none of the wrinkles that
attend on work and cares. Indeed, in his
early youth he had once possessed a curacy ;
but he had resigned it on obtaining his small
estate, finding it necessary to devote himself
to the duties concerned in that. It would
appear that these duties had not been very
heavy, and no doubt that freedom from toil
had increased the comfort of his life. A clean-shaven,
portly, middle-aged, and comely-looking
man he was  for the rest, an honourable
gentleman, kind and generous enough.

The Rev. James Collier, then, such as we
have described him  it was better to give his
portrait before relating the morning's tale 
came leisurely down the stairs towards his
morning's meal. After a night of pleasant
sleep, and a not too hasty dressing, the thought
of coffee and sausages can produce a soothing
feeling, when accompanied, too, with the
thought of some other things as well  the
morning letters, agreeable to a gentleman
without duns, and the morning newspaper,
sent over from the town. The November
daylight, moreover, gleamed brightly through
the mists, through which, from the church
near at hand, came the chimes for ten
o'clock. The Rev. Mr. Colliner felt very
bright and hungry, and was coming downstairs
with a lazy, cheerful stride ; he had
reached the lowest step, and his breakfast
was very near, when his housekeeper came
with an anxious face to him. There was
such a very strange lad awaiting in the
study ; he had said he must see the master
on a matter of life and death.

And, meanwhile, whilst the owner of the
house stood arrested on the stair, a little
startled, and very impatient, too, the fire in
the study was burning cheerily, and the unwelcome

intruder was standing close to It.
He was trembling with cold, and was damp
with morning mists, but a tremor of conscious
excitement lay beating at his heart. To him
these moments were deeply fraught with
doom ; his toilsome journey was over, his last
sight of the Fens, the terribly painful Interviews
that had disturbed the night before 
these things were ended at length, and he had
passed through them all, and could fulfil the
one final purpose on which he had resolved
at last.

The fire burned brightly In the little, cheerful
room, and cast a bright glow upon walls
all lined with books. He stood by the fender,
and felt himself In a dream ; he was faint
with cold and hunger and with deep excitement
too. He could feel his heart beating In
heavy, steady throbs ; he had never known it
beat in that way before. His journey had
been so endless, he had almost lost hope at
length, but it was ended now, and he had
really come to this. . . .

Ah ! ah ! a footstep, the time had come at
last, the gentleman was coming, he must think
what to say. Only he could not think, could
not calm himself for that. He stood by the
fire . it was pleasant, being In a dream.

. . And then the door opened quickly, and
he advanced.

And now they stood by each other, the
gentleman and the boy  the comely, middle-aged
man, with his surprised and kindly
glance ; the lad with his sunken face and
feverish, hollow eyes. Geoff had tried to
prepare his appearance to the best extent of
his power, but his means were limited and
there was little he could do ; he had only
combed with his fingers and pushed back his
tangled hair. Yet he stood straight up now,
as one does who is resolved ; and met the
gentleman's glance with his sunken, burning
eyes.

' I think you wished to speak to me, my
lad," said Mr. CoUiner, with some not unnatural
appearance of alarm upon his face.

Geoff still looked anxiously at him, at this
man, his chosen judge ; a chair had been set
for him, but he would not sit down. He tried
to speak, but his heart beat  no words would
come.

'' I was told," said Mr. CoUiner, " there
was something you wished to say." He spoke
kindly to him enough, there was nothing
harsh in him. Geoff made an effort, but he
could scarcely speak even then.

' Are you a magistrate, sir ? " he whispered
faintly, the heavy beats of his heart giving his
voice a broken sound. Yet the effort had
greatly relieved him ; he felt in himself more
power to speak.

'' I was once a magistrate  what do you
want with me?" There was a shorter pause
this time before the answer came.

' I want to gi' myself' up," said Geoff, with
firmness now.

'' To give yourself up ? I do not know
what you mean."

' I want to gi' myself' up  I've killed a man."

Mr. Colliner never in all his life forgot that
moment, the terrible statement that was so
quietly made, the strange eyes and sunken
face of the criminal self-confessed. For one
moment, as he felt afterwards, it took all his
breath away ; then, recovering himself, he
spoke quickly, kindly still.

'' You have killed a man ? You are very
young for that ! "

I'm not very old, sir ; I was seventeen
last spring." He looked so young still inform,
in spite of his wasted face, that the
clergyman felt again that his breath deserted
him. But his duty called on him, he was
sensible of that ; for he had some impressions

of duty, this easy-going man. So, summoning
his severity, he told his companion to
sit down ; and, sitting down opposite him,
drew a Httle table near ; then, speaking again,
and in a severe manner still, he desired his
companion to tell his tale to him, so that he
might make a written statement when what he
had said was done. He had imagined that
this preparation would alarm and awe the lad ;
but his companion seemed only anxious to
collect and arrange his words.

'' Am I to begin with my name, sir ? " he
asked very quietly ; he appeared to be
desirous to do everything in form. Mr.
Colliner nodded to him ; and he went on,
pausing a little now and then that he might
select his words. The manner in which he
spoke made such an impression on his companion
that many years after that day he
could remember the words he said.

My name is Geoff Haldan. . I was
brought up near here. . . . This thing that I
did was in September last  it was on Tuesday,
September fourteenth, about ten o'clock at
night. . It was in the inn o' the Dragon,

in the town o' N , in shire. . I

had come there that night . . . they didn't
know me there. . . ."

His voice became broken, and his colour
came and went, his agitation was becoming
apparent now. But the calmness with which
he had uttered the first few words he said, and
the careful circumstantiality with which he
had given names and dates, dismissed the
idea of delusion from his companion's mind ;
he could only listen in growing horror to the
tale. He sat feeling the point of a quill pen
upon his finger ; whilst the low, broken voice
went on still with its words.

'' I was to meet a man, sir, that night, as I
had known, a man as had been coin' a deal o'
harm to me. . I had made up my mind to
hurt him i' some way if I could ; I'd got so
miserable I didn't care what I did. . . . An'
I got to the inn first, an' was left therein
a room alone . an' I'd seen a hammer
outside, an' went out an' fetched it in. . . .
An' then he come to me, sir, as I sat thereby
t' fire an' kept the hammer all hid neath
my coat. . . . An' he talked to me, sir, an'
laughed an' jeered at me ; he was a bit
frighted, although he jeered so much. . . .
He said as he'd made money by me, by
teUin' lies o' me ; he said as my father was
dead, an' I needn't seek him now  he said as
he'd known how to treat me, an' done what he

liked wi' me, an' I might go now to the devil,
for he wouldn't help me more. . . . An' he
said a lot more beside, sir ; but I needn't
trouble you. . . . An' then I kept thinking', it
kept working' i' my heart, as he'd left me
nothing but this one thing to do ; it worked i'
my brain till I couldn't keep myself, I kept
thinking allays o' the harm an' wrong he'd
done. . I'd made up my mind, like, but I
couldn't move my hand ; an' still it kept
working' an' tearing' at me then. . . . An' he
got tired, an' fell sleeping i' the chair ; an' I
got up fro' where I was, an' took the hammer
fro' my coat. An' then, as he moved an'
looked at me, I struck down on his face. . . .
I struck it as hard as I could, I didn't
want to strike him twice. He did not move
again, sir ; when he fell he was dead." . . .

'' You struck him like that, and a sleeping
man and all ! " Mr. Colliner had started in
his excitement from his chair. '' Why, help
and preserve us, boy, that's murder you
know it is."

'' I know, sir," said Geoff ; *' I did come
to tell you so."

With a curious instinct he had risen from
his chair, he felt that a self-confessed
murderer has no right to sit down. Mr.
Colliner was standing and staring now at him.

with a horror and repugnance that were not
to be repressed. His voice, when he spoke,
was hoarse and had sunk a note in tone ; he
averted his eyes from his companion now.

'' Are you aware of the punishment," he
said, '' that is provided for acts Hke yours'*

*' I know, sir," said Geoff, very quietly ;
I'm quite ready to be hanged." With a
sudden, sharp movement Mr. Corner turned
to him ; he had not expected that answer, as
it seemed.

'' Oh, come, now," he faltered, '' that's
rather strong, you know ; you have confessed,
after all, and they won't hang a boy like you.
And I suppose you had temptations, and all
that sort of thing. It will be penal servitude
for all your life, more like."

'' They donna hang me ? " Geoff whispered
to himself. His face had fallen, he appeared
struck with dismay. Mr. Colliner was rather
uncertain in what way to answer him.

'* They may do so, of course, I will not say
they won't. But they will take . . . into
consideration . . . the excuses that might
be made. . . ." He was divided between his
good-nature and the repugnance that he felt,
and considered it best to stop short his-answer
there.

VOL. II. T

'' I'm sorry for that's murmured Geoff.
'' I'd lief be hanged. But I'll take what is
given me, an' do the best I can." He appeared
very anxious not to seem to claim too
much. Mr. Colliner's sense of horror forced
from him one sentence more.

''I will not tell you," he said, 'that you
do not deserve the worst." He thought it
his duty to make that one remark, but he was
surprised at the quietness with which it was
received.

I know, sir," said Geoff, very humbly ;
'' I do think that myself'. An' will you please
to put it i' writing' now? " He seemed much
relieved now that he had confessed.

So the clergyman put it in writing, after
he had drawn his inkstand near ; whilst Geoff
stood still by the hearth, and looked in the
blazing fire. He tried to stand, but his knees
shook and trembled, and he was compelled to
sink into his chair at last. Mr. Colliner
watched him furtively during the minutes
whilst he wrote ; it all seemed to him like
some bad, bewildered dream. But he made
the statement, and made it exact and clear ;
and then gave the pen to his companion, who
signed his name.

'' What am I to do now, sir?" he asked,

getting up again, and standing with his
arms hanging and his eyes upon the ground.
Mr. Colliner stood to consider. What should
be done? He was not accustomed to such
an interview as this, and he felt entirely
miserable and perplexed himself. He had
been a clergyman and should have been a
spiritual adviser, but it was rather strange
that no spiritual words would come.

'' Do you wish to add anything to what
you have stated here ? "

'' No, sir."

'' Have you anything to ask of me before I
give you to the police ? For that is my duty,
as I must tell you now."

''I know, sir," said Geoff; 'i'm quite
prepared for that. . I should a liked to
a seen my home agen. . . . It's the place, sir,
I mean ; there isn't no people there. . I
wanted to get to it, but it was too dark last
night. . . . But I'll do what you please, sir,
it's just whate'er you like. . . ."

'' It is quite impossible that I should let
you go : I must shut you up in a room, and
send for the police at once. . . . And yet I have
a day's journey, and must leave home to-day.
I might keep you until tomorrow, and
drive in with you to the town. If I let you go I

should never see you again." Geoff made
no answer, he continued looking down ; and
yet there was something in Mr. Colliner that
smote him for his words. For he was such a
lad, this criminal . he began to pace the
room.

'' Is it very far off, this home of yours, you
know ? " He stood still abruptly by the criminal's
side once more.

It's a two-three mile," Geoff answered
sorrowfully ; ' it ud' take me a good bit to
get to there an' back. I don't know why I
want to see it, but there's the trees I used to
climb  an' I should like to get over to
Crasten an' see the cricket field an' all."

'' And if I were to let you go you would
not come back again ? " There was a little
pause, but the answer came quietly then.

'* If you tried me, sir, I'd come back unless
I died." Mr. Colliner began again to walk
up and down the room.

Well, go' he said ; stopping abruptly
short once more, '' I don't know if it is my
duty, but I won't refuse you that. And
come back to me in the morning, and I'll
take you to the town. Remember I trust
you, I expect you to come again. . I
suppose you repent of this fearful crime of

yours ? " A little while passed before the
answer came.

I don't know about that, sir ; I do the
best I can." And, very slowly and quietly,
he turned to leave the room.

Mr. Colliner could not but notice how
wearily he moved, as one who is faint or exhausted
and has scarcely strength to walk.
Through all the repulsion that he could not
but feel a sense of compassion rose still
within his heart.

'' You seem very tired. Have you had any
food ? " he asked.

No, sir, not this morning, not much for
many days. I spent the last bit I had o'
yester-morn."

'' Ah, really, sit down then, Til order some
for you." But Geoff shook his head, for the
first time with a sob. He sat down, however,
for it was difficult to walk, and Mr.
Colliner rang the bell and ordered wine. He
poured out some sherry as soon as the glasses
came, and set it with a biscuit by his companion's
side. Geoff ate and drank slowly,
for he was almost too tired to move ; but the
stimulant did its work, he appeared revived
again. Mr. Colliner had sat down, meanwhile,
and had watched him eat and drink.

and had thought that upon that hand that
held the glass  He was astonished to find
how strong that feeling was, for he was a
good-natured man who was not easily impressed.


*' There, there, that will do, you will be
better now," he said. * And now take these
coppers," which he laid down by him. '' You
need not hesitate, I mean you to take them ;
they will serve to provide you with the
food you want to-day. And now give me
the glass out of which you drank ; " and,
taking it from his hand, he dashed it down
beneath the grate. The ring of the shivering
glass made strange echoes in his ears ; but
Geoff only stood quietly, with his head hanging
as before.

*' And now you may go. I shall expect you
to come back."

The lad slightly moved his head, and then
went on to the door. But Mr. Colliner remembered
that at the door he paused, and stood
still, trying to speak with his white and trembling
lips.

1 do want  to thank you, sir," he whispered
below his breath ; and then turned away
to be seen in that place no more.

In after years, with that light of intense

wisdom which always Illumines for us an event
that has been passed, Mr. Collier, looking
back on this strange scene In his life, lamented
greatly the folly that had let the criminal
escape. But it is not so easy to judge
wisely at the time, our pity bewilders us, and
our surprise as well ; we are not always collected
enough to be masters of ourselves. I
suppose that the clergyman had been overcome
by the scene ; he certainly failed in discretion,
If not in duty too, and, though he was
never willing to own himself In the wrong,
it Is believed that he often looked back on his
want of caution with remorse. We will hope
the event served to teach him that men should
choose their steps with care, and that even
an act of pity may be an imprudence too.

.However this may have been, there was
something else it taught him ; a deeper, more
inward lesson, not so easily described. He
had been a man who had lived an easy life,
who had owned pleasant things all his days,
and been pleasantly content. I do not and
will not say there was harm or wrong In this ;
but it Is true that advancing time showed a
certain change in him  a subtle change that
was visible in his manner and his words, as if
a cry from outside had pierced to his life at

last. Once he told a friend that when he saw-november
mists the thought of ' confession
in extremis " rose always in his mind. And
those words  which the friend, by the way,
could not understand at all  must have
referred undoubtedly to that past scene in his
life, to that time when a miserable soul
poured its burden out to him  a soul that had
long been called suddenly to that Highest of
tribunals, before which it is well to stand with
no sin left unrevealed.

THE LAST EVENING.

Once more, for the last time, we must follow
the wolf's track through the snow ; the line of
the footsteps we have traced draws near now
to its end. But of that last day, till the evening,
we can gain little knowledge that is
certain ; and, after subtracting such evidence
as is undoubtedly untrue, must be fain to content
ourselves with the remnant that is left.

One thing on which all are agreed is that it
snowed that day, that it snowed very heavily
sometimes as if winter was come at last. The
mists that had wrapped the twilight cleared
off in the morning hours, and there was an
interval of white clouds and blue sky, after
which the rising wind brought up the snow.
It was a day of intervals, such as one sees

sometimes, of whirling snowstorms and bright
sunshine in between, a day of Hghts and
shadows, and of quickly moving clouds, keeping
thus on the whitened landscape a look of
continual change. And then as the day drew
to evening it cleared and softened, and the
mellow sun shone upon the November mists
with the golden glow that precedes a winter's
night. All this then is clear  so much as
this, at least  but we look for details that are
left vague for us.

In after days, when interest was awakened
and when parts of a painful story had been
held up to view, when, moreover, one lurid
night had shone in the eyes of all, and had
forced the abiding interest that a catastrophe
can bring  in those days men became more
disposed to seek and question, and to discover
how Geoff Haldan had spent the last few
hours of his life. In that day before an end
which was not the end he sought  there
were, indeed, a few who saw him even before
the evening came ; and under the influence of
remembrance and of fancy there were many
others who believed they had seen him too.
The result of this was, of course, that a great
deal too much was remembered, that he was
proved to have been seen conclusively in more

than one place at a time, and that out of the
eager bringing forth of facts it became more
than ever difficult to ascertain the truth. But
that interest died away, as in time such gossip
will ; men became no longer desirous to have
seen the wolf at last, and it became more
easy to gather the few facts that remained.
Placed side by side, and in order, these same
facts read like this 

At nearly eleven o'clock, when the first
snowstorm had fallen, Geoff was seen by a
countryman in a lane near the farm. The
man had but recently come in those parts; he
did not know the stranger and had not heard
of him before, but he was struck by his
singular appearance, which he afterwards
described. It would appear that, on leaving
Mr. CoUiner, Geoff, instead of going on to the
waste, had gone back into the Fens  he had
been haunted possibly by a desire to view the
homestead, and perhaps also to catch a
glimpse of Liz or Will. The homestead he
may have seen  we do not know that he did
not  but Liz lay ill in her room upstairs, and
Will was away at school. He did not try to
meet the boy as he had once been used to do,
he seems to have turned away from the Fens
towards the waste.

It must have been towards noon that he
entered a village shop, the shop of an out-of-the-way
hamlet that lay some miles away.
It lay so much on one side that it was out of
his way as well, but he seems to have taken
that trouble that he might avoid being known ;
through the whole of that day he must have
shrunk from view. He bought there some
bread, and also asked for milk ; he looked
wan and tired, ' fit to drop," the woman said.
She noticed his thin, sunken face, and the
marks upon his cheek. She asked him where
he was going, and he said '' up Hanorth way ; "
she asked then if he knew the way, but he
smiled and said no more. Standing carelessly
in the doorway, she watched him when
he went. A great storm of snow-clouds was
gathering in the sky ; he went with quick
footsteps down the lane towards the waste.

And from that moment at noon we know
very little more ; save only for one slight
indication from a very doubtful source, we
know not how he found his home, or how the
sight affected him. That indication comes
from the story of a woman, who was crossing
the waste that day when a heavy snowstorm
fell  a real tempest of snow that drove her to
seek shelter where she could, and forced her

even to the refuge of the deserted Den at
last. What occurred in that place she would
never exactly say, she had been terribly
frightened, and had rushed out in her fear
she declared that some animal lay in the
inner room, that it was crouched up upon the
ground, and that as it lay it moaned. And
yet it was not an animal  she would not say
it was. It appears that she thought it was a
spectre there.

Alas ! no spectre was needed in that dreary
home of ill, no wraith but the phantoms that
haunt a wasted life in that house where the
lessons of evil had been so aptly learned.
Let us leave its sole occupant to lie lonely on
the ground, the bitter remorse of that hour
needs no spectator's eyes. In the gathering
darkness of the winter afternoon a darkness
of deeper anguish must have lain within the
Den  we have nothing to do with that, we
will pass on, and let it pass.

For slowly the heavy storm wore itself out
at last, leaving the country white and the
roadsides deep with snow. It must have
been heavy walking for a wayfarer that day,
even to one who was helped by complete
knowledge of the lanes. But in the advancing
evening the sun came out at length, a

mellow glory of sunlight lying level on the
snow. It was a most radiant evening, as all
remember well, an evening that bathed
Crasten village in its yellow sunset glow, that
shone on the red tiles of the simple village
roofs, and was like a glory to the trees behind
the church. Was Geoff there to look once
more on the cricket-field again, to see the
trees he had climbed, the stone-pit where he
met with Will ? Had he gone through the
lanes in the glory of the evening, and felt
how much radiance even winter hours can
own ? We may suppose so, since we know
that he reached Crasten ; but the darkness of
night was on it before he first was seen. He
must have kept himself secret, and must
have shrunk from view ; the village people
had no thought that the wolf they had chased
was near. We may imagine his thoughts in
those old haunts of his childhood, but of his
movements no trace can now be found.

It was another surprise that startled the
village people, that forced them out from
their homes into the winter night again. The
winter evening had fallen peacefully on all ;
the villagers sought their cottages, and lights
gleamed out in the streets. And then, in the
midst of the night, a sudden rumour rose, and

spread rapidly through the village, till the
children woke in their beds, till the women
rushed in their excitement to the windows,
whilst the men poured out in a stream into
the street. It was towards the park that
rapid feet where hastening, towards the dark
park whose branches were black in the night ;
for behind those branches a lurid light spread
quickly, and already a reflected glow had
caught the sky. Already it began to be
known, even before the news found words,
that the great house of Crasten, Mr Audley's
house, was on fire.

THE FIRE AT Chasten.

That fire which alarmed the village on that
dark winter's night, how had it been able to
rise ? We must go back for a while. 
is not so easy to go back to first causes
when there may be reasons for concealment
of the truth ; for many an event that remains
still shrouded in mystery has been carefully
veiled at the time that it took place. That
terrible conflagration, long remembered in the
village, must have owned some origin to
which its rise was due. But the owner of
the place had no real means of discovery ; he
was away at the time, and there were only
servants in the house.

For Mr. Audley had not returned again,
and had sent word that he was coming back

no more. He had gone out on the previous
evening for a night-walk, as it seemed, and
had been taken ill when he was some miles
away. He lay now in a farm-house, at some
considerable distance, to which he had been
removed from a hovel where he lay fainting on
the ground. There was some talk of fever,
and of delirium too ; in some form or other it
was certain that his health had given way.
And he had sent word that he would certainly
not return ; he meant to go back to
Langen as soon as he could move.

No doubt there was talk over this, for servants
will talk and gossip ; it may have been
to that conversation that the great fire was
due.

For it chanced that there were many servants
at that time in the house, some servants
of Mr. Audley and of Captain Holt as well ;
for the Captain had sent an intimation that he
was coming with his bride. He was coming
with her and her parents, and with some
other friends, in order that some final
arrangements before the wedding might be
made ; and he had been very desirous that
before the ladies came the house should
appear to have been prepared for them. It
was for that reason that there were several

VOL. II. W

servants there, and that there were a few
workmen also in the house ; and Mr. Audley
had left it in the night-time, so that the servants
might be said to have the place to
themselves. Rolf and Crawfish had been
there, but they had also left ; they had left
on the night on which Mr. Audley went.

And so  we have said that the servants
were left entirely to themselves  and so it
might seem to be natural that they should
have some fun. Long after the night of the
fire a few confused stories rose, some stories
of eating if not of drinking too, some vague
tales of merriment, of a supper and a dance. If
the servants had thought that evening that they
would have a meeting, that they would discuss
their masters' affairs, and have some mirth
besides, and if, acting upon this principle,
they invited the workmen too, I will not say
there was anything that was not natural in
that. It does not appear, however, that there
was any hint at such doings in the account
that they gave themselves when the fire had
taken place.

On the contrary, it seems that they had
all been most decorous, that the evening had
passed as usual, and that they had retired to
rest. There were two of them, however, who

lingered late downstairs, a footman of Mr.
Audley, and one of the grooms of Captain
Holt. These men were passing along one of
the passages, as they said, when they became
suddenly alarmed by the sight and smell of
smoke. It would appear that they set themselves
to investigate the cause, but they could
not, indeed, remember very clearly what they
did. A workman, who came downstairs when
they rang the bells at last, found them
staggering and incapable, confused with
smoke, no doubt.

No matter, the alarm was raised ; and it
soon spread through the house, and aroused
the servants from out of their beds upstairs.
But some of the servants were sleeping
heavily, and others, although awake, would
not seem to understand ; it became a difficult
matter to rouse and collect them all. When
at last they were fairly startled there had
been long delay  the rooms below were
burning, and the passages filled with smoke,
there was no longer a doubt that there was
fearful danger near. Then there seized on
these men and women that sudden, hideous
terror which attacks human beings who are
in danger of their lives  a frenzy possessed
them, they flung open doors and windows,

they rang the bells loudly, and wildly screamed
for aid. At last, under the guidance of those
more self-possessed, they rushed in a body,
still screaming, down the stairs. The hall
was burning, and was filled with densest
smoke, but in one of the passages was a
door into the garden ; they pulled at the
bolts and lock, grasping, tearing at each
other, and, almost falling upon each other,
rushed out into the night.

It was time, for a few minutes later might
have been fatal, indeed, to them ; the flames
were fast gaining possession of the ill-fated
house. From the drive, upon which they
rushed, the red light was plainly seen, it
glowed in the windows, and was reflected in
the sky : the entire left wing of the house
had been caught by the flames, which were
rapidly spreading themselves over the whole
front part as well. From out of the windows
they had opened proceeded clouds of smoke;
and the leaping flames were curling round
the house. They stood on the carriage drive,
a half-dressed and frantic crew, with the
noise of the rushing fire within their ears ; too
stunned, too frightened, too excited by the
peril to consider how they might avert it, or
devise some means of help. It had all come

SO suddenly on them, they were not prepared
for It ; they could only stand wringing their
hands and helplessly watch its work.

But one of the workmen had rushed into
the village, and an excited crowd was gathering
in the park. There had come a cry for
ladders, but none had thought to bring them ;
and some men rushed back to get all that
could be found. There was no fire-engine
that was nearer than the town, but a man
volunteered to ride at full speed for that ; and
some had the courage to procure water from
the yard, although from the burning house
there fell showers of sparks on them. It was
useless  all useless  as if the buckets were
drops of water ; and the fire-engine was faraway,
too far off to come for help ; and,
meanwhile, above all the voices and the
movements of the crowd, was the noise of the
roaring and rushing of the flames. The quick
wind was urging them, they stretched towards
the sky, they raised themselves up and fell
back in showers and sparks. Not an atom of
property had been rescued from the house,
but the flames were so rapid that none dared
enter there.

It was at this moment, whilst all stood
still appalled, whilst the rushing destruction

proceeded on its way, whilst above
the flames and the gusts and bursts of
smoke rose the terrible glory of the fire-glow
in the sky  it was at this moment,
whilst the crowd of men stood helpless, that
another more dreadful idea found a voice and
words at last. It began to be whispered about
amongst those who stood and looked that the
burning house was not empty after all. For
two lads were missing who had been sleeping
there ; they had never been seen since
first the fire began.

It is not possible to describe in words the
horror, the violent excitement that this new
idea produced. The women cried out and
called frantically for help ; the men were
seized as with madness, and a tumult rose at
once. The groom, James Ash, who had been
sleeping in the village, and who had rushed
down, half-dressed, in the darkness, through
the park, after having helped vigorously in
the vain attempt for water, tried in vain row
to calm the excitement as it rose. It was
afterwards said of him that he was the only
man self-possessed, but his attempts at questions
produced little good result  none knew
of the boys or where they had last been
seen ; they had certainly slept in the house,

and they might be sleeping still. There was
a louder cry for ladders, but there were no
ladders near ; the flames were still leaping
onwards, and the two lads might be there.
The violent excitement now rose like one
great cry ; as that sunk into silence another
voice was heard.

'' Let me get to t' house, an' I'll get up
there to them." Then, as all turned round
in an instant, they saw amongst them Geoff.

There was no leisure for surprise or for
questions how he came, such moments of
peril have no time left for that. He was
standing amongst them as they stood on the
lawn  a surging mass of dark figures in the
red glow of the fire. His cap had fallen, and
his black hair was bare ; he seemed to be wild
with excitement, if not also with delight. The
very appearance of this too-well-known figure,
the supernatural reputation for daring he had
gained, his wildness of courage which seemed
allalive just then  in the agony of that terror
these things gave quick relief. All pressed
upon him, advising, urging too  he would
lose his life, there was no good in the risk ;
there would be no chance, he'd be lost in
smoke and fire ; there were no ladders, he
would never get in the house.

' I donna want 'em," cried Geoff ; '' I'll get
in the house wi'out."

He had flung off his jacket because it held
his arms ; his shirt sleeves were rags, and his
arms looked lithe and bare. It was impressed
upon all, his look of wild excitement ; he
appeared to be ready for any adventures that
might come. And that daring courage
revived and cheered the rest, it seemed that
the matter was not so hopeless now. He
rapidly scanned the house with a quick and
piercing glance; he advanced towards it, and
all pressed on with him ; they all reached the
drive and then suddenly drew back  it looked
so awful, that mass of smoke and flames.
Geoff had gone straight onwards, then suddenly
turned back too. For one instant he
stood quite still, and cried hoarsely out to
them 

'' Give my love to Will Gibson  to little
Will ! " he cried.

Before even the words were ended he had
flung himself on the house ; he had seized a
creeper and swung himself up by that. The
men on the lawn and drive held their breath as
they looked at him, the gusts of smoke kept
obscuring him from view, the light boughs
bent and gave way beneath his weight ; at

every Instant it seemed that they must catch
fire or break, but he left them no time for
that as he swung himself aloft, caught hold
of a pear tree bough that was underneath a
window, and in an instant was standing in
the red glow of a room. The room only
reflected flames, it had not itself caught fire ;
he stood in the window of it and waved his
arm. Then the sight of the room and the
lonely figure there, the glorious courage and
the quickness of the lad, produced their effect
on the multitude outside ; and, as they saw
him wave his arm, a ringing cheer arose.

In another instant another cry was started ;
the much-desired ladder had come Indeed at
last. A dozen strong hands seized on it as
it was brought near the house, and in the
course of an instant It was set up against the
wall. It was barely set there when a gust of
wind came quickly, and the top of the ladder
at once was wreathed in flames ; with a
sudden terror, for which they were not prepared,
the men who had grasped it retreated
back again. But the frames fell back, or
were swept back by the wind, and in the next
instant a voice rose like a cry.

'' I'll come to ye, lad "sit was old Mick's
voice that shouted  '' I'll come to ye thrust

the fire ; ye hanna burn up there alone*
We're do the best by yourself, when the two
of us are there  I know the young devil 
he'll Stan' the flame wi' me."

During all the while he shouted he had
been climbing up the ladder, quite hidden
from view by the heavy gusts of smoke. He
had just gained in safety the window-ledge he
sought when the ladder slipped sideways and
fell crashing to the ground. For one instant
those who rushed forwards saw him stand in
the room with Geoff ; then the thick smoke
covered the window, and the crowd saw them
no more.

THE WOLF IS TRAPPED AT LAST.

The account of the remainder of that terrible
adventure can only be given from the remembrances
of Mick ; and if those remembrances
are confused and broken it is no wonder  he
could not look for more.

It appears, then, that when the old man
found himself in the burning house with
Geoff the two set themselves resolutely to
work to find the lads they sought. No easy
task truly was that, in the midst of smoke
and flame ; but, though choked and half-blinded,
they did the best they could. By
the means of some stairs at the back which
had not yet caught fire they found their way
through the smoke to the servants' rooms

above, and began pushing their way through
these, shouting every now and then. They
did not speak to each other, could scarce see
each other's faces ; they had to crawl sometimes
to get a little air to breathe. There
was about them what Mick described as an
' awful " noise, the sound of the rushing
flames, and of falling beams and wood. Once
the fire caught the cord of a great picture on
a landing, and they had only just time to
avoid it as it fell down. But they went on
notwithstanding always ; they had not time to
be afraid. Into room after room they penetrated,
amidst growing heat and smoke ; the
rooms were so dark they could scarcely find
their way ; they scarcely knew where they
went or what they did. And meanwhile from
without came a surging cry of voices ; the
people were shouting, imploring them to come
back  to come back  come back at once ;
it would be too late for them. The voices
reached to them through the rushing of the
flames ; half-blinded, suffocated, scarcely conscious
of their actions, they turned at last
to get back where the voices came. They
reached a room that had still remained untouched
; they could hear the sound of the
pursuing fire without. Outside the window

the flame had caught the ivy, and was Hacking
and curing all round the window frame.
They crossed the room quickly and reached
the further door ; they opened it, to be driven
back by the smoke. The fire was there, in
the passage, between them and the stairs ;
they shut the door hastily lest it should get
in on them. Then, surrounded, enclosed by
flames, with no hope of safety near, they
stood by each other, and their eyes met at
last.

'' We'll be in kingdom-come in a ,
Geoff ! "

And Geoff replied 

We've been in worse places."

He had been excited, but he was quiet then
and pale. They spoke no more words to
each other ; they had not time for that :
they mutely resolved to make one effort more
for Hfe ; then they opened the door and let in
the clouds of smoke. Mick determined to
rush down the passage if he could, only just
at the starting point a new notion seized on
Geoff ; he grasped his companion's arm, and
he pointed with his own. It seemed from
his gestures that he wished to go back
upstairs, to go up to the attics, where they
had not been before, leaving his companion

to find his way below. The old man could
not remember exactly what passed then :
they had a kind of struggle, but Geoff got
away from him ; he found himself left in the
passage there alone. And then he got down
it somehow ; he could not tell how it was ; his
excitement was failing, and he was seized
with dreadful fear. He got into another passage,
where there was an open window, and
people were shouting, crying out to him to
come : they cried that there was not time ;
that he must come soon  at once. He
rushed back again through the passage, and
screamed out loud to Geoff. The passage
was becoming a gulf of smoke and flame ; the
people were shouting, calling . he tried
to get back to them. And then, as he
reached the window, a sound struck on his
ears  it was but the church clock striking,
but it seemed some call of doom. He lost
all his nerve, all his courage ; he reached,
fainting, to the window ; and, as strong arms
stretched out from the ladder, he swayed and
fell. For a moment there seemed a sight
like the burning in his eyes, and then all grew
darkness around him. . He knew no more.
That was old Mick's tale, told still now
that years have passed : there remains no

need that we should add many words to that.
The story that we have followed found its
terrible close that night, as all men recognized
who saw the charred and blackened
something, which was dragged with pain and
trouble from the ruins of the house next day.
The lads, whom that one last effort had been
vainly made to save, had left the Hall for a
spree on the evening of the fire ; and, as strong
men dragged out that thing beneath the ruins,
they knew that the young life it held had been
flung away in vain.

Ah ! too fit ending for the lost and wasted
life, for the life that, like its remains, had
been blackened and defaced. Yet men
buried reverently the little that was left,
remembering the daring courage that the one
last action showed ; and Jim helped to carry
the coffin with an uncovered head ; and little
Will stood by the grave, and wept and sobbed.
There was a quiet funeral, for which the parish
paid ; and the clergyman promised to raise a
simple stone ; and many there were who gazed
curiously in the grave before they all turned
away and left the wolf to rest. For, lost and
terrible as that last ending seems, it was yet
as fair a conclusion as could have been hoped
for Geoff. Some praised his daring ; some

reverently pitied him ; there were only a few
who murmured that "the devil had claimed
his own''

So the spring returned and brought new
life to the villages ; there would never be any
need to chase the wolf there again. The
wildest stories about him were spread from
mouth to mouth, but the feet that had been
so nimble would leave no traces more.

One story there was that did not find its
hearers, locked up in one miserable breast
from which it dared not pass. Mr. Audley
did not return either to Crasten or his home,
and he did not venture to visit the grave that
held his son. He went abroad for his health,
and abroad he chose to live ; Having simply
and quietly, and saving up his wealth. It was
said that he wished to endow a great home for
foundling children ; he was so absurdly given
to self-denial, men said. But one other
thing he did, which was to heavily portion
Rolf, and to educate little Craw, whom he
took away from him. There may have been
special reasons for that latter act of his, for
Craw had been one of the few who had been
gentle to his son.

Once, after some years, when he was taken
very ill, Mr. Audley sent for Sir John Horley,

his old friend, to come to him. He must see
him at once, there could be no delay, he
wrote ; there was something he wished to tell
him, that he must confess to him. Sir John
Horley came and went, and looked solemn
and portentous, but never chose to reveal the
secret his friend had told. If it was really the
life-long burden that had been committed to
his care we will hope that one miserable soul
had found some relief at length. For there is
some relief in confession, however trivial it
may seem ; it is those who are silent to man
who feel most condemned by God.

Mr. Colliner made in due course his statement
to the police, but very little public attention
was paid to him or it. The people of
Crasten and Hanorth continued to talk of
Ben, and they even got up a rumour that he
had been killed by Geoff ; but the rumour
died away, after the fashion of village gossip,
before any had taken the trouble to ascertain
the truth. There were many strange deeds
and wild stories that were fastened on the
wolf ; it seems strange that in this one instance
they should have stopped short of the fact.

And, meanwhile, all the summer beauty
had been ripening in the Fens, and the water
in hedgehogs ditches shone beneath the

VOL. II. X

summer sun. We must suppose Jim safely
married and settled in the town, with his
little brother at home with him, for his wife
had asked for Will. Elizabeth took up dressmaking,
for she could not sit with idle hands ;
and she persuaded Jim that it was needful,
since they "' must support the child." We
may add that she did support him withall
the comforts in her power ; and that
though with succeeding years many other
children came, and filled with bright faces
and voices all the corners of her home, until
there seemed to be light in every dark place
of her heart, and, moreover, though those
same children had no cause to complain,
she yet gave the most tender affection to the
one she did not own. Jim often observed in
reproof that she was '' fair spoiling Will ; "
but he brought up his brother himself with
severe though kindly care ; so, in spite of the
tenderness of Elizabeth for the lad, we have
reason to hope after all that Will will not be
spoilt. As he grew to be older, indeed. Will
had good hopes in life, for Captain Holt had
a great regard for him.

And so we return once more to our last
thoughts of the villages  of Crasten and
Hanorth as they lie in the summer evening

radiance, with the golden glow upon the
church tower or spire, upon the wide Fens,
which stretch far around them both, and on
the green graves where the grass grows
rank and long. A peaceful sight that makes
in the golden evening light. The dark
branches of the trees in the park cast a
shadow on the road ; beneath those dark
branches the villagers will chase the wolf no
more.

Have we then no parting words for
that one poor, wasted life, so deserted by
others, so hurtful in itself, so little favoured
with light to guide its steps, and yet still so
often faithless to the little light it had ? The
wild stories of farm and village give confused
memories of Geoff, his very tombstone bears
a name he did not own ; but we, who have
really attempted to trace his broken life, what
comfort have we to feel as we pause now by
his grave ?

Some comfort, perhaps the greatest, only
comfort, as we think in Whose hands such
outcast lives are left, into what clear light of
unerring, calmer judgment they pass when
the voices of earth at last are still for them.
For what does the world know of secret
resolutions, of delirious penitence, and of

Strangely formed resolve ? As little as it can
tell the vast excuses, the strength of inherited
evil, the temptations of a life. Let us pause,
and humbly, before such graves as this, with
renewed resolution, and yet with pity, too ;
with a strong resolution against the evil of
the world, and yet with as strong a pity
for the defeated Ives of men. It maybe
that sometimes the Greatest of all
Masters, finding in some of His poor
scholars no strength to do their work, and
yet pitying them for the punishments
that the lesser teachers give, determines to
end the matter by calling them to Himself.
That call of a violent death seems strange,
sad enough to us ; it strikes on our senses as
if it were some fiery doom ; and yet in some
cases it may be one of mercy, which, recalling
the sinner from a world once loved
too well, brings back the lost soul once more
to the feet of the Bridegroom. So may it be.

